

.'v
QUAL I T Y
•v-
-\
■
»
SINCE 1897
SRI E S
B A i
1
■ •
HOME LIGHTING
MADE FOR LONGER LIFE—LOWER
IN COST-PER-YEAR OF SERVICE THAN
ORDINARY BATTERIES AND BACKED
BY UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEES
made by
VESTA BATTERY CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
PERTH BRISBANE -- - MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • WELLINGTON - AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN
The Bulletin
Vol. 57.— N0. 2943.
Now Its Uncle Sam!
Wednesday, July 8, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Jm
m
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S 'CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Ktissell Street, Melbourne.
_ CUT MKKM \.M> MAIIv
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
tOpjK Illustrated PKNJrAXsnrp Prospectus explaining
i/n-ur Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin’.
My Name • • •'■
My Address ■ ■
S-. 8. 436
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION.
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services (o Australian literature ot the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this' annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
properly rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees, ~ ,
Any bona fide Australian resident or any pci son born, in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for thg competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a num cle plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry m a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will lie final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney reserve the right to withhold the Prize it: no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year's Prize.
The Red Page
ADVICE
ON MSS.
,A letter cheer-
fully proposes a
special Answers to
Con espondents
for the S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize ; a column or so
of comment on entries, to be published
each week in instalments. Readers of
The Bulletin would find this feature
diverting, competitors would be grateful.
So runs this cheerful letter.
Time is ,on holiday where it comes
from, and Eternity is down. Consider
brief statistics. Entries this year total
233 MSS., prospective books. To read
and helpfully advise on one of them,
days of work. Try it out for yourself.
The idea in “helpfully” rules out the
pithy comment that can serve to point
Parnassus to poets. Poets, too, are
sporting game. Not only fluttering what
the Muse brings them, they flaunt cover-
ing letters in the face of Answers To.
They write; “I felt in a foolish mood
the other day, and wrote the en-
closed” . . . “I woke up the other day
full of verse, and here is the result” . . .
“This is a poem about an orange-tree ;
it grew where my uncle coughed up a
seed 18 years ago at Easter” . . . “I often
scribble poems, but these are the first I
have ever tried to get published. Won-
derful what bad times will make one
do, isn’t it?”
Answers To is delighted. A fresh
flower rivals the “Bellerive” blooms of
his blasted heath. Or he thinks up a kind
reply; ‘“Flotsam- went out on the ebb-
tide. For God’s sake don’t call the life-
savers.”
The poet reads, and it is enough. By
his famous powers of intuition ne
gathers that the poem “Flotsam” is not
a success. From that terse message he
realises that metre is halting, idea piffling,
rhymes ridiculous. He sees it is merely
a watered version of the Herrick he was
made to memorise at school. He under-
stands in a vast burst of comprehension
that writing verse is one of the most
difficult things in the world to do well,
(hat poets achieve their ease through
concentration of mind, discipline of
thought, direction of purpose, examina-
tion of craft that he thinks would send
him mad in a week. He dismisses this
for the monstrous proposal it is, poetry
with it. He climbs back on the milk-
cart, is happy ever after. When Halley’s
comet is again in the skies you may get
up one morning early enough to see it,
and then you will hear him whistling at
his work, one of the many thousands
that Answers To has helped to happi-
ness.
These thousands, how do they com-
pose their poems? They wake up in a
foolish mood and write the enclosed. So
they confess, and it is not incredible.
They pinch the writing-pad off the
dresser and do a poem. I’ve been there.
Myself when, young did eagerly invent
Sonnets and so forth in the dripping tent,
When torrent kept us from the fields, and, 10,
t sometimes wonder what the hell they meant.
So is all this verse written. Literally
it is dashed off. It floats in the post, a
perpetual drift of poor poetry, doing no
harm to anybody. Pieces produced, per-
haps, in pains of the Throes of Com-
position, but pains of half an hour’s
duration at most; more often incredibly
inspirational, set down in the twinkling
of an eye, unconditionally delivered
gifts from the gods, for what they are
worth.
To call them mss, you have to speak
like that, in the lower case. But these
MSS. of books. By no extravagance of
term has any of these been dashed off.
Every one of them is eloquent of hard
labor. Sentenced to six months with
stone-napping or write a novel, who
would choose against gaol? If, then,
some of these are so bad that the answers
to them should refer to flames, who
heartless enough to say so? Bound, tied
up with string, numbered, they are a
couple of hundred MSS. Open any one
of them, there is a character, a person
exposed alive; angry, amused, tortured,
benevolent, genial. However dead the
work, that will come through. However
crafty the work, it is there. It is incon-
ceivable that you can like the lot of them,
but unless you are dried up altogether
you must have human feeling for them
all.
By now most of them have been
known in this way; faintly, of course,
but known. Handicapped out of the
event with the heavy double-No of two
judges, most of them bed together in a
high stack. A few, among them one now
half-read and waiting to be taken up
again, will escape the stack. Of this
MS. I speak tentatively. So far it is
splendid. It was put down to dwell on
a passage in which character, scene, idea
blended in a whole piece. Take this
passage out, let it stand alone, so it
would be a living thing. That is writing,
a kind of thing writers do.
No doubt in these days, than when it
was never easier to get a novel published,
it is heresy to suggest that some people
actually are not writers. We would be
poor fish if much that is published did
not flutter this vanity in all of us. So
it has got abroad that all who write are
writers. And this does no harm, either.
The writer still cuts up through this
amorphous mass, stands out like a tower.
The very badness of it all sets his work
oil: by contrast. He does not make a for-
tune? No? Why should he? Thousands
of milkmen, stokers, farmers, bankers,
drovers do not make fortunes. Why
should tower already be ribbed with
gold? Isn’t it fortune enough?
The writers dissent? Of course they do.
They’d be inhuman if they didn’t. Sur-
vival of the fittest, self-preservation, is
translated into terms of hard cash. Also,
writing has become respectable. A writer
is somebody now, socially speaking. Even
Genius looks more like lion than pariah.
It takes living up to. It is not to be car-
ried off with seat out of pants, seedy
elbows, holes in hat. But at the back
of it the writer knows that the living
thing he has made is the reward for
what went to the making. If this half-
read MS. should take the honor of the
Prize, the £lOO that is substance to that
honor, become a book, make more
money, still itself would be the sum of
its maker’s fortune.
A tidy sum, if it keep on as it has
been. As a complete work it may peter
out. They do. In the double-No stack
there are dozens of brave beginnings
that turn to nothing. Others have glints
of color: a character pretty well realised,
smothered in uninteresting matters;
good incidents embedded in pedestrian
narrative; in many the actual writing
good, considered as not being the writing
in a book. Others whose writers pos-
sibly have never, since they left school,
consciously studied structure of a sen-
tence, let alone structure of a work. What
earthly use to point out these things, even
if it were physically possible to treat
them individually?
Doesn’t it all boil down to disinclina-
tion to accept writing as craft? —allow-
ing the hypothesis that, given advice,
helpful criticism, encouragement, we are
all writers. Dismissing that, as it de-
serves to be dismissed, as fallacy, isn’t
there abiding in everyone who has the
stuff of writer in him a natural aware-
ness that gives him inevitably and from
the beginning an inner acceptance of
writing as craft, in which he must lose
himself utterly if he is to. save a little of
that which he wants to save?
This part-read MS., I have little doubt,
is not a Masterpiece. But whoever wrote
it is a writer. They are not so common
as they are made out to be, I think. Nor
so helpless, I hope.
CECIL MANN.
Maoriland
Literature
Blessed by the
Governor - Gen-
eral and com-
memorated by a
limited edition
listing the literary strivings of New
Zealanders, Maoriland has just passed
through an Authors’ Week designed to
stimulate interest in her home product.
It was put over by Oliver Noel Gillespie,
praised in the press, reinforced by radio
and photograph. And it left the inevit-
able impression that New Zealand
authors were a thriving, toiling lot.
M.L. was impressed; and it was im-
pressed, most of all, by the large num-
bers of books displayed in the various
exhibitions as by New Zealanders. On
the stands and tables those books jostled
one another, strangely different in style
and title ; books about mollusca, cookery-
books, volumes of verse. Sheer figures
still mean plenty to the Maorilander.
All through the demonstration it was
the same. The weight of emphasis was
not on the fact that the country has
turned out the raw material of some ex-
cellent writers who were polished up in
England and elsewhere; not on the
names of Mansfield and David Low (the
most literary of cartoonists) and Ruther-
ford, whose work at Cambridge reads
like something more imaginative than the
rest of his countrymen have managed to
produce. The emphasis was, all through,
on the number of authors whose works
were displayed. The extreme lack of
critical analysis in modern M.L.-, a lack
revealed in the careless coupling by
Bishop Williams in an opening night’s
speech of “Katherine Mansfield and C. R.
Allen,” was shown in the little attention
there was for the literature, as distinct
from the authors.
Why has M.L. no really distinctive
literature? The ablest of her latter-day
writers are almost completely divorced
from their soil; many of them are ex-
patriates. The answer, I think, is to be
found in two things: the timidity of the
Maorilander and the dominance of the
English tradition. The M.L. nation, out-
side of sport, does not exist. More im-
portant still, most modern art and litera-
ture and thought, for the Maorilander,
do not exist. There are those who think
that the nation is youthful in outlook
and adventurous. Nothing could be
further from the facts. The truth about
M.L., as revealed by all her history dur-
ing the last forty years, is that she wants
to be adventurous without stirring from
home, that she has her eye on her cake
much too firmly to do more than nibble
it. The volume of legislation passed in.
the last few years contains many experi-
mental measures which the country has
lacked the courage to put into force.
The faint stirrings of radicalism in the
universities brought swift action by
authorities who were outraged at the fact
that youth should be linked with revolt.
At a recent show by the New'Zealand
Academy critics referred condescendingly
to the “modern art” tendencies of two
pictures exhibited -pictures painted 40
years before! The protests of my friend
Dr. I. C. Beaglehole against the state of
panic into which the country flew after
the Auckland riots led to this eminent
historian, whose views are pure nineteenth
century Liberalism, being labelled by the
Government as a dangerous radical. Even
the voting of the Labor Party into power
resulted in stunned surprise on the part
of the Laborites themselves.
These things mean a lack of imagina-
tion, and lack of imagination has tended
to emphasise the link with Britain.
Completely without any national aware-
ness of her own outside of football, lack-
ing any stable tradition, even the tradition
of soil because of the desperate scramble
of land speculation which has followed
in the wake of the freehold, M.L. has
turned to England with increasing fre-
quency. From conversion loans to
public health practice the Old Country
is her model; what wonder if the disciple-
ship extends to the arts?
There is another factor in keeping the
country intellectually poor. It is one
which exerted its influence in the United
States for many years, reducing Ameri-
can authors, as Willis complained, to
“mere contributors of short papers to
periodicals.” This is the national habit
of lifting material from the British press
without payment, a safe, cheap and easy
way of filling up the giant newspapers
which M.L, produces. The inevitable
result of this has been to place a brake
on journalism, and to-day it is out of
journalism that most authors arise. A
further outcome has been the destruction
of any chance of a national point of
view, the emphasising of the British out-
look, Hence practically all M.L. writing
has been that of uprooted Englishmen,
wanderers in a new Celtic twilight. The
richness of the material that waits the
Willa Cather who will explore the Dal-
matians of the gum fields, the descen-
dants of the Norsemen in the Wairarapa,
the Italians of Cook Strait; the pano-
rama before a new Hergcshcimer who
will trace a path through the struggle
for central government, the conflict be-
tween French and English, the conquest
of the land, even the adventurous days
of native hostility calling for their Feni-
more Cooper-—these seem to be unrea-
lised.
QUENTIN POPE.
Cliches
lan Donnelly asks
(lI.P. 17/6/’36) “Is
there a better alter-
native for ‘fever-ridden swamp’?” But
what is this cliche supposed to mean?
It sounds like pure jargon founded on
mixed metaphor. Fevers do not ride.
Swamps cannot be ridden. There is
actually no direct connection between a
swamp and a fever. One does not con-
tract fever from a swamp. Fevers may
lly—per mosquito—but they do not ride.
And fevers manifest themselves in the
economy of animals ; they have no active
connection, as fevers, with swamps at
all. One might just as well talk about
a fever-ridden bowl of goldfish,
“Sorely-taxed strength” is a needless
redundancy. A tax means something
which is disagreeable or burdensome.
There is no such thing as a pleasant tax.
Similarly, no impression is indelible, be-
cause no impression is delible. An im-
pression is impressed, and nothing rubs
it out. It may get overlaid. It may be
forgotten, but it is still there.
All ordeals are trying, for the very
word “ordeal” originally meant trial.
How can there be a “trying trial”?
“Infinite pains” is also meaningless,
except, perhaps, in “flapper” English.
Pains are naturally exhausting, and so
could not be protracted indefinitely.
Same with “rude savages.” All savages
are, from their very nature, rude. They
are rude because they are savage, and
they are savage because they are rude.
(i Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN A OVER USING”—A Iways.
The Senior Store
defy
3
m
Si tii 1
0 V V
You’ll never notice the cold, bitter
draughts and biting winds when
comfortably clad in this Fleecy
Underwear . . . and these Warm
Overcoats offer more than pro-
tection—their smart, well-dressed
appearance stimulates confidence
and a feeling of happy satisfac-
tion in the knowledge that you
have spent to the best advantage
by buying at these keen prices.
V
/"
iiifrCttf-
— *****
torn
m.
3
IS*
* .
■y s ,
II
111
* m
m
mk
| ms
V,
79£-
65
HR
WHITE FOB OUR
SAEE CAXAEOOUE.
“While I Live I’ll Grow ’
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
The Sale of the Winter Season
D.B. Polo Style OVERCOATS
Smart well-fitting Overcoats, made for years of liard wear.
Tailored in Double-breasted Polo style from higb-grade English
Overcoatings and finished with rich Art. Satin Linings. Grey
and Fawn Herringbone patterns. Price, each 79/6
Sale Price, each 65/-
9 Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor , George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports
in the Commonwealth.
6/6 ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
Men like this soft, All Wool Under-
wear. It is warm and comfortably
styled and is most inexpensive.
Light weight . . . short sleeves
Underpants to ankle. Sizes 34in.
to 44in. chest or waist.
Price 6/6
Sale Price, garment
49
4/9
3/3 Fleecy Lined UNDERWEAR
We know you’ll be satisfied when
you buy this fleecy-lined Under-
wear. It is soft and warm ... a
medium weight. Cream shade.
Shirts or pants, sizes 34in. to 44in.
chest or waist. Price 3/3
Sale Price, garment 2/i 1
Fawn shade, heavy weight. Price
Sale Price
2ii
4/9
4/6
7/6 WINTER WEIGHT U’WEAR
Well-made Underwear, styled to
give you many months of wear.
Winter weight in a soft natural
Wool and Cotton Mixture. Under-
shirts are made with short sleeves
and the underpants come to the
ankle. Sizes 34in. to 44in. chest
or waist. Price, per garment .. . .
Sale P rice, garment
5*
7/o
3/9
10/6 ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
You men who appreciate soft, fine
All Wool Underwear will like these
Shirts and Pants. Made by I. & R.
Morley. Undershirts have short
sleeves. Underpants to ankle.
Sizes 34in. to 44in. chest or waist.
Buy plenty ... at this genuine
saving of 3/- on each garment. Price
Sale Price
7t
10/6
, 7/6-
7/6 Winter Weight PYJAMAS
Well-made Pyjamas of good quality
Flannelette. Striped designs. Full
fitting sizes in small, medium or
outsizes
Prices, Suit .... 7/6 8/6 9/6
Sale Prices, Suit: 5/6 6/6 7/6
Also in “Hordura” (Regd.) quality.
Price 10/6. Sale Price
9/6
22/6 Crimean Flannel ’JAMAS
Men’s Crimean Flannel Pyjamas.
They are an extra warm, All Pure
Wool quality. Assorted stripe
effects. Sizes for small, medium
and outsizes. Price 22/6
Sale Price, suit 21/-
2f
9 Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
Men’s CONSERVATIVE
M,
»r. v
■ ; %
"T
A \V\
i' y /
\\ ,71
Raglan O’COATS
m
Good - looking
Overcoats, in-
corporating all
qualities of fit,
style and work-
manship par-
ticular in e n
expect.
Tailored in conservative
Raglan style from English
Vicuna Coatings in Dark Grey
shade. Light weight quality,
these are coats which will be
useful the whole year round.
Price, each J79/6
Sale Price, each 69/6
D.B. GREY TWEED
Form-fitting OVERCOATS
-,,-Y
796
bQe
Years of hard
service and
cosy comfort
are incorpo-
rated in these
smart Over-
coats. Per-
fectly tailored
from Grey Herringbone
Tweed, selected for durability
and smart appearance. A
Double-breasted Form-fitting
style. Price, each .... 79/6
Sale Price, each 69/6
/K\
#1
79e
a o
>
m
Men’s LEATHER
OVERCOATS
m
Leather Over-
coats that
afford adequate
protection
against both
wind and rain.
Made from real
hide—a quality that will not
crack or peel. Well-fitting
Double-breasted style . . .
one-piece back . . . storm
collar and all-round belt.
Price, each . . .
Sale Price, each
79/6
72/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.,
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


There are no such phenomena as polite
savages. If savages become polite they
cease to be savages.
All that can be said of “endeavoring
to awaken his sympathy” is that it is a
sickly genteelism. It is perfectly nauseat-
ing. As well, of course, one does not
awaken sympathy. If it is really sym-
pathy of that sort, far better let it sleep.
You might evoke sympathy, of course.
You might also rouse it.
This writer also says “....it should
not be argued that frequent usage
deadens words.” Why not? We have dead
words lying all around us that have been
killed by frequent usage. “Pate” is one ;
“smug” (meaning adorned) is another;
and hundreds could be quoted. Further,
the following:
Through thick and thin (Spencer).
Cheek by jowl (Sylvester),
Tag and rag (Golding),
Highest by odds (Holland),
To save one’s bacon (Milton, prose).
Hang over head (Bacon),
Tooth and nail (Golding),
no longer belong to serious literature.
What happened? They were killed by
common usage. John Careless, in one of
the letters preserved in Foxe’s Martyrs,
announces that a persecutor who expects
a recantation from him is “in the wrong
box.” That phrase was used seriously
then, but has since been killed stone-
dead—by abuse.
GERALD DILLON.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
THERE isn’t the material in Australia
for anything half so rich as Stanley
Walker’s Mrs. A star’s Horse, but if such
a pale counterpart as our life offers did
get published the results would be ten
times more diverting to the ribald than
the book itself. Every society, organisa-
tion and individual represented in the
term “good Australian” would up on
hindlegs screaming about the awful ad-
vertisement it was for Australia. The
sort of people who complain about an
“On Our Selection” film going out of
the country, not because it is a poor
work of art, but because it is a bad ad.,
would throw fits in the streets. In pulpit,
press, political peroration and in public
plagiarism of. these it would be con-
demned. Efforts would be made to have
it suppressed. If it were written outside
the country, it would surely be banned
at the Customs House. The national
touchiness would get an airing on which
the kookaburras would kill themselves
laughing. Nobody else would smile —
except the ribald “bad Australians” and
the “foreigner within our gates.” The
author would find life too hot for him,
and Gap. And that would be the end
of him. Until, say, 50 or 100 years hence,
when the otherwise not contemptible
national sense of humor had included
this touchiness among its targets, where-
upon a statue would be erected to this
hypothetical contemporary of ours who
blew the gaff on Bodyline, explained
what the pickled heart of the great god
Phar Lap at Canberra really represents,
dug into Darlinghurst and exposed all
aspects of its life, gave chapter and verse
of the Americanisation of Sydney, and
dealt directly with sliding panels, barrow
races, newspaper deals —all such curiosa,
using, as he’d have to do, the great
national touchiness as his general theme.
But if he did his worst, his book would
still be a mere spavined creamy beside
the spanking bay of Mrs. Astor’s Horse.
* * * *
This book is itself an interesting piece
of curiosa, not the first of its kind to
come out of America, though one of
the most diverting. As its author ex-
plains, it is an attempt “to bring together
some of the more attractive examples of
curiosa Americana, particularly in the
field of the ornate and overstuffed.” It
describes the sentimentality of gangsters’
funerals, the American’s passion for
souvenirs (and the sort he collects), civic
welcoming in New York, a “troubadour
of the nude,” the death of Rudolph
Valentino, Mae West, Sally Rand, the
Hauptmann trial, U.S.A. politicians as
masters of invective (with examples of
their art), Hollywood parties—a parade
of ostentatious vulgarity that not only
Australia but all other countries of the
world might find it beyond them to equal,
or afford.
Americans seem to react in either of
two ways to these exposures. They enjoy
the whole thing as good fun, or they
read what is pilloried as proper objects
for their own emulation. It seems to be
about fifty-fifty. About half would see
nothing od^— they’d regard it as swell—
when Jack Dempsey, opening his new
restaurant, writes to the President;
Dear Mr. Roosevelt, —Your presence at
my opening would make it. I can't begin
to tell you how much I would like to have
you come. If you can, will you please let
me know so I can reserve your table. —
Sincerely, Jack Dempsey.
They’d regard it as swell if the President
accepted; not only swell, but proper,
it seems, in fact, hardly curiosa at all
that Walter Winchell, a leading gossip
writer, should have predicted, accurately,
that the wife of one of the Vanderbilts
was going to become the mother of
twins. Or that, when Otto Kahn ceased
to finance the Metropolitan Opera, those
who undertook to keep the institution
going in the interests of American cul-
ture did so by selling the broadcasting
rights to a mouthwash manufacturer. Or
that special excursion trains have been
run to some of the 5000 lynchings that
have been performed since fairly accu-
rate records of this amusement first
began in 1882. “Souvenirs of lynchings
always have rated highly. The rope is
valuable, and is usually cut into many
pieces. Fingers, shinbones, locks of hair
and ears also have been kept.” After
the Valentino funeral —one of the book’s
high spots—-the “mortician” gave each
reporter covering the story a personal
coffin plate, inscribed with the recipient’s
name, birth date and a blank space for
another date, the gifts carrying with them
a certificate promising a fancy funeral
“on the house.” The gangster Frankie
Uale was buried in a silver coffin re-
puted to have cost £3OOO. “Thirty-eight
automobiles were filled with flowers.”
Among the floral offerings was a clock
made of blue and white violets, with
gold hands set at 4.10, the exact time at
which Uale had been shot on a Sunday
afternoon. “The clock style became part
of the panoply of underworld funerals.
Apparently a gangster’s family and
friends are inclined to be sentimental
about the exact time he was shot down.”
Other floral items included a twenty-foot
cross,, a ten-foot lyre, a twelve-foot tower
of roses, and also a ponderous bleeding
heart of pink roses, with the drops out-
lined in deep-red roses and a dagger of
lavender and white violets plunged into
its centre. One tribute bore the mes-
sage: “We’ll see them, kid.”
Hi # ♦ *
The highlight of the book is the judg-
ing of Hauptmann. Other things, in our
pale and ansemic fashion, we might echo,
but we can’t hold the faintest candle to
that. Even the author is moved to de-
scribe it as
so spectacular, so bizarre, that in retrospect
it seems almost incredible that things could
have happened as they did. Everything
conspired to make the trial dramatic....
but that was not enough. It remained for
the press, the radio, the officials and the
spectators to make of it a fantastic extrava-
ganza.
The sideshow motif became apparent
early. The reporters —there were more
than 300, and they filed more than
10,000,000 words—were informed by the
sheriff when they came to get tickets for
their papers that there would be a £2
tax on main-floor seats and £1 fee for
balcony seats. The public could obtain
tickets for £2, £l, a pint of good bonded
rye or a box of cigars. The sheriff
smoked cigars. On Sundays the court-
house was thronged by sightseers. The
first Sunday they stole everything in the
place that they could lay hands on. When
the jury went out, and Justice Trenchard
had left the Bench and gone to his
chambers to read,
the floor was strewn with papers, cigarette
stubs and remnants of sandwiches. Some,
with paper-bags in their hands, ate sand-
wiches and cakes and drank coffee, milk
or applejack. The more sportive element
played checkers or tick-tack-toe.
The Attorney-Genera! sat in the jury
box; Rielly (Hauptmann’s counsel) and
a woman reporter stood up in front of
the Judge’s Bench and sang “When Irish
Eyes Are Smiling.” As soon as the jury
found Hauptmann guilty they were
rushed with offers to go on the stage —
£l6O a week for the foreman and other
members £lOO a week each. “Some of
them considered it seriously,” and a
county Judge expressed his opinion that
it was “a good idea.” The vaudeville
scheme collapsed, but the jurymen wrote
newspaper articles, and also a book, each
contributing a chapter. They gave them-
selves a dinner, at which they sang “Jingle
Bells,” put on paper caps and organised
a square dance.
“Life in America has been made vastly
more amusing by those who have
thumbed their noses at the bogus
decrees of the dull experts on ‘taste.’ ”
To that theme, with whip out and spurs
in, but “no hard feelings,” up and down
the tan track, the cinders, the course
proper (and who said improper?), Stanley
Walker (redoubtable equestrian) sits the
ribald canter of Mrs. Astor’s Horse. May
this enigmatic animal’s tribe increase,
migrate and get into the Australian stud
book.
C. M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Fly Away, Paul: Victor Canning
(Hodder and Stoughton ; from Dymock’s ;
7s. 6d.). Young American, heading to
England for a cheap holiday, changes
places with his double, a celebrated
crooner wishing to rest from Fame, and
finds himself wanted for embezzlement;
then dodges about and discovers his Eng-
land, aided by the crooner’s girl friend—
an aspiration-towards-ancestral-Englaud
motif that seems to tug at the heart-
strings of Americans. Of its light roman-
tic kind, a pleasant entertainer.
Sheba Lane: H. Drake-Brockman
(Angus and Robertson, 65.). Went first
rate as a serial in The Bulletin, with
the title “Men and Pearls.” Mostly the
story of a young girl’s love for an Eng-
lishman twice her age. He goes to the
pack, and the coast clears for the Aus-
tralian hero. Background is Broome and
the life of the pearlers, which the author
knows well.
The Vanishing Idol: George Gibbs
(Appleton ; 7s. 6d.). Tourists help ad-
venturer steal emerald Buddha, then ener-
getically try to restore if, meanwhile
dodging vengeful Cochin-Chinese priests.
Compares fairly well with yo-yo.
Career: Vicki Baum (Bles; 7s. 6d.).
Jealous sculptor gets 12 years for nearly
murdering his model. Waiting for him,
she becomes a prima donna. A dull
wallow.
CRIME AND DETECTION . . .
Murder on “B” Deck : Vincent Starrett
(Master Thriller; 7s. 6d.). Another
countess has been foully strangled, a
noble major’s in the vasty deep. Who
did ’em in and why is here untangled . . .
and, 10, the stubborn flesh declines to
creep!
POETRY . . .
archy does his part: don marquis
(faber and faber ; ss. net). Of course
composed by archy the cockroach, still
diving headfirst on to separate lower-case
letters of Marquis’s typewriter, but read-
ing as if written with a long chuckle
dipped in cheerfulness, though hardly up
to such forerunners as archy and mehita-
bel, mainly owing to archy’s increasing
tendency to moralise in the cornponish
avuncular American manner, which is
well enough from Dr. Van Loon and
other oracles of that great country, but
a bit starchy coming from archy. Never-
theless, it assays a grin a page.
GENERAL . . .
Mrs. Astor’s Horse: Stanley Walker
(Bodley Head ; Angus and Robertson ;
14s. 6d.). Uproar, with the roof off. See
Satchel.
What Are You Going to Do About It ? :
Aldous Huxley (Chatto and Windus;
6d.). Pamphlet in praise of pacifism.
Very angry Aldous.
A Camera on Unknown London : E. O.
Hoppe (Dent; 55.). Pictures of such
believe-it-or-not oddities as a wineshop
where they weigh their customers, in-
credible statues and so forth of histori-
cal London, wifh explanatory letterpress.
W. H. Hudson A nthology (Dent; 4s. 6d.
net). Reprint at much lower price of
Garnett’s deservedly celebrated selection.
Contents are not mere snippet extracts
but complete essays, however brief. Ex-
cellent browsing book, finely turned out.
The Origin of Pickwick: Walter
Dexter and J. W. T. Ley (Chapman and
Hall; ss. net). Brightly-done account of
the genesis of Pickwick Papers, how it
was written and illustrated and its early
publishing history. Interesting addition
to the Pickwick Centenary books.
“MASTERPIECE” LIBRARY . . .
International Literary Masterpieces
(Angus and Robertson ; £7). Issued over
the past 10 years or so in separate
volumes the “Masterpiece” collections of
stories, essays and plays of all nations
have been got together and done as an
eight-volume library edition in uniform
binding. Contents include, in separate
vols., great short stories, sea stories, folk
tales, travel stories, love stories, essays,
with a vol. of great English short stories
and a vol. of modern British plays. By
now the excellence of the series is well
enough known —a widely representative
collection.
Various Verse
Things I Want.
I want the brawn to brawl
And the strength to strike;
And I want the right to murder all
The people I dislike.
I want a girl to love,
And a bed to lie on;
And (with permission from above)
A bright young scion.
I want to be a wit
And extremely clever;
And (should I care to mention it)
I want to live for ever.
I want my voice to sound
Like the deepest thunder;
And twelve apostles gathered round
With eyes full of wonder.
1 want a queen to please
And a king to kick;
And if I’m not content with these
Then I’m a lunatic.
I want a bag of pelf
And a spark of hope;
But if I choose to hang myself
I want sufficient rope.
N.S.W.
LEON GELLERT.
Pallid Cuckoo.
O mournful minstrel, now for me
Through this mild-aired November night,
How thrills thy tremulous threnody I
While, fair from starred infinity,
The clear moon smiles so virgin-white,
O mournful minstrel, now for me.
And my dream says: “Can this be she
Who loved and lost on Latmos-height? ”
How thrills thy tremulous threnody 1
Ah, in those strains there seems to be
Life’s lorn lament for Love’s delight,
O mournful minstrel, now for me,-
As when, by some far Grecian sea,
Sad Philomel bemoans her plight
(How thrills thy tremulous threnody!),
Even while the waves sound mournfully
Where lone Leander sank from sight.
O mournful minstrel, now for me,
Love comes too late for Faith to free
My soul from lost love’s thraldom quite,
How thrills thy tremulous threnody,
As though Grief’s self were one with thee,
And Beauty’s star that seemed so bright,
O mournful minstrel, now for me
A marsh-light fraught with treachery!
O grey-winged ghost whose phantom (light
(How thrills thy tremulous threnody!)
Bears on from listening tree to tree
A rune which none may read aright—
O mournful minstrel, now for me,
How thrills thy tremulous threnody!
TASMANIA.
ERIC MOORE.
As the Waves Bring.
The things 1 go to seek,
The sights I go to see,
Dust and ashes, ashes and dust, these are all
They give me.
The things that come themselves
Ever please me more,
Even the old boot, the dead fish, the shark’s
egg,
Flung on the shore.
MAOKILAND.
A. W.
Cloud Arsenals.
Beyond light that floods or changes,
Within heart-reach at most,
Like mountains seen from hill-ranges
Lie things for ever lost.
Twas a gleam of far, white towers
Or of happy and homeless ships,
A shadow, a sheaf of song-flowers
From an old mariner’s lips.
I have seen far-off, when the thunder
Has broken a cloud’s white breast,
The arsenals of life-wonder,
Perfect and unpossessed.
Unmarred by dabbling fingers
The quenchless fountains rise,
Whereon the ray of Love lingers
Like truth in Beauty’s eyes.
The domes of the heart’s amazement
Tower in the sunset land
And out of a lonely, high casement
Flutters a lily hand.
Ships go on the moving water,
The gentle stars that come
Bring no light for the gods’ daughter,
And no ship brings her home.
Unmarred, unknown, undying!
One song Love heat;s, one sound:
The lonely Beauty’s voice crying
To be for ever found.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


StfEAT
STORIES
C: All
NATIONS
] 'OLK *
t ALES 'I
ail A?
;sAvsl
*\Oribs
WW! Sj AtionS.
. .
X
X
-
M
r-
«REAT
" ■
..
SOA!S|^
-
lSi|
JSHR
'•*2Sr
xxiAT
tNGLuSH .
■
'\S : s
N'
as?'*
a~
v ill
t'rS
: "Ma I ' .
\
GREAT
cT S » S
o\- AV*** ,t ;
N/KVtO^S
'V '•
Vi
o^VIIIV
N\Cv -;' >
-o' A>*'
•■^aST/*
Sill
Ti
.VS 4;
•X : l;
&aMI
R" ; 'l
•’ A&SIl
•Sr:
< ~ *
>
»
The volumes are bounuV
in rich red slain- and ■
water-proof rexine, with
impressed gold designs
on sides and back. Every
great author, from Con-
fucius to Aldous Huxley,
i s represented. T o
assemble these stories in
any other way would cost
you at least three or four
times the price of “Inter-
national ‘Literary Mnear-
pieces.” jMMm
8 VOLUMES
8646 PAGES
1168 STORIES,
ESSAYS and PLAYS.
SIZE OF EACH BOOK:
B|in. x s|in. and over
thick.
INTERNATIONAL LITERARY HASTERPIELES
/ A WEALTH OF \
/ ENTERTAINMENT \
Vin skott
dfiama cMau
J
Rarely is it possible to obtain such a compact
and representative collection of the literature
of all nations. The student, the teacher, the
writer, the speaker . . . everyone, young or
old, will find endless instruction and enjoy-
ment in this home library of travel, romance
and adventure, of sea lore and folk tales,
of great essays and modern plays. Here
are brief outlines of the contents.
Great Stories of All
Nations
158 of the world s great stories, by 158
authors, representing 34 literatures of all
periods! None of these stories has appeared
in any collection of similar scope. The
British section includes John Galsworthy,
H. G. Wells, Arnold Bennett, Joseph
Conrad, Katherine Mansfield, George
Moore, Aldous Huxley, D. H. Lawrence.
Great Sea Stories of
All Nations
Mr. Tomlinson’s long foreword itself is a
literary gem. The volume shows, in his
words, “how the sea has moved the wonder
of men, and has troubled their minds with
surmises which went beyond the edge of
the earth.” Among the notable authors are
R. L. Stevenson, Joseph Conrad, H. G.
Wells, H. M. Tomlinson, Sir Ernest Shackle-
ton, Anatole France, Pierre Loti, Giovanni
Verga, V. B. Ibanez and Johan Bojer.
. Folk Tales of All
Nations
Story tellers of ancient days, in camps and
forest huts, on village greens and in grim,
feudal halls, told these dramatic, simple
tales. They graphically epitomised the life
of the times . '. . wherever possible they are
here presented in the racy language of the
native raconteurs. Sixty-four races or
countries are represented.
Great Travel Stories
of All Nations
Nansen, Scott and Byrd, in the Arctic cold;
Lindberg and Bert Hinkler, flying alone
over the seas; Clavijo, making the golden
journey to Samarkand; Balboa, bearing his
ships across the mountains; Princess Cecilia,
of Sweden, with seasick passengers about
her, watching for the shores of Elizabethan
England as she sat upon the hatches singing
English psalms—all these we meet in Miss
D’Oyley’s comprehensive volume.
Great Love Stories of
All Nations
The whole world of romance, caught in a
single volume! , Tales of Aucassin and
Nicolette, of Launcelot and Guenevere . . .
all the most famous love stories in literature
are brought together. Among the modern
authors represented are Alice Meynell,
A. E. Coppard, E. M. Foster, Somerset
Maugham, Richard Hughes, W. B. Yeats
and Willa Gather.
Great English Short
Stories
Chosen as a typically English selection.
The editors, Lewis Melville and Reginald
Hargreaves, present 91 stories . . . the work
of 90 English authors, including 'Henry
James, Joseph Conrad, W. W. Jacobs, W.
J. Locke, W. Pett Ridge, H. G. Wells,
Arnold Bennett, John Galsworthy, W. B.
Maxwell, Ernest Bramah, “Saki,” G. K.
Chesterton, Rafael Sabatini, A. E. Coppard,
Lord Dunsany, R. H. Mottram, D. H.
Lawrence, Sheila Kaye-Smith, Aldous
Huxley.
Great Essays of All
Nations
The first attempt to illustrate the growth of
the essay by a comprehensive selection
drawn from the principal literatures of the
world. Many essays have been specially
translated for this volume, and several
experts have assisted the editor in dealing
with foreign works.
Great Modern English
Plays
Here’s the full text of the following nineteen
plays: Milestones (Arnold Bennett and
Edward Knoblock); Caste (T. W. Robert-
son) ; Trelawny of the “Wells” (Sir Arthur
Pinero) ; The Liars (Henry Arthur Jones) ;
Pygmalion and Galatea (Sir William S.
Gilbert); The Virgin Goddess (Rudolf
Besier) ; The Walls of Jericho (Alfred
Sutro) ; Strife (John Galsworthy) ; Hobson’s
Choice (Harold Brighouse) ; The Return of
the Prodigal (St. John Hankin) ; The New
Morality (Harold Chapin) ; The Circle (W.
Somerset Maugham) ; A Bill of Divorcement
(Clemence Dane); At Mrs. Beam’s (C. K.
Munro) ; The Man with a Load of Mischief
(Ashley Dukes) ; The White Chateau
(Reginald C. Berkley) ; The Likes of Her
(Charles McEvoy) ; The Young Idea (Noel
Coward); Outward Bound (Sutton Vane).
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME FOR
A FIRST PAYMENT OF..,—_
The books are • carefully
packed to preserve the bind-
ing from all risk of damage.
We guarantee receipt in per-
fect order.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Please forward International Literary Masterpieces,” 8 volumes. I enclose a deposit of
51- and agree to make fifteen monthly payments of 10]- each, totalling £7] 15]-. The cash
price is £7.
NAME
OCCUR A T/ON ’’ ’' ’’ [' ’' ’
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
Delivery free in city and suburbs. Elsewhere, freight is extra hut will not exceed 5/-.
1 _____ Buiil-KTix 8/7/’3(i.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■/ • "
;
■MM
■
H
n
-•*
m
■i
7X
m
m
u
■
I
m
I
■
If
f
*
I
im
m
Grape Picking in Seppelt’s Royal Purple Para Vineyard.
*


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2943.
July 8, 1936.
THE BOOMERANG ARTIST.
The U.S.A. is the latest to retaliate for the Gullett tariff,”
This'll knock the bird off its perch, anyway.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
NOW ITS UNCLE SAM.
In the jargon of Canberra Japan is “a good-customer
country,” the U.S.A. “a bad-customer country.”
Japan’s appreciation of the favors reserved for it as
“a good-customer country” by the Lyons Govern-
ment has taken the form of “a virtual total prohibi-
tion of our export trade to the Japanese empire.”
These anguished words were wrung last week from
Mr. Gullett, the putative author of the “Australian”
tariff which was improvised without reference to the
great interests concerned —though the Government
consulted (1) the sugar interest before it renewed the
five years’ sugar agreement seven months before that
agreement expired, and (2) the dried-fruits and dairy-
farming interests before it sent its Attorney-General
to London to argue on their behalf that inter-State
freetrade has no constitutional validity—and presented
to members about to stampede from Canberra as an
accomplished fact.
Mr. Gullett’s cry of agony was still echoing about
a capital empty of members when he was informed
by the U.S. Consul-General that he had another trade
war on his hands. The President of the “bad-
customer country” had satisfied himself “as a fact”
that “the treatment of American commerce by the
Commonwealth is discriminatory,” and had decided
“to exclude Australia from tariff benefits.”
Dazed, but affecting to be calm and.cool, Mr.
Gullett assured reporters that “the effect of the
American action will be purely nominal.” A New
York account is that “imports likely to be affected
include ores, sausage casings, hides and skins,” and
these commodities, together with pearlshell—for which
overseas markets are so scarce that the pearlers have
had to be helped out of public funds —account for
more than half the value of American imports from
Australia.
In 1935 Australian imports from America were
valued at £12,367,600 sterling and American imports
from Australia at £4,632,900. The difference is, of
course, far too great, but it is a matter for friendly
negotiation rather than for clumsy tariff warfare,
especially when the times are so unquiet. From the
political standpoint, it is crazy for Canberra to be
quarrelling with Italy, Japan and the U.S.A. at the
same time.
H. A. Currie, the Victorian M.L.C., estimates that
the Japanese withdrawal from the wool market has
already cost the grower £300,000. “Has the Govern-
ment any plan for disposing of the approaching clip?”
asks Douglas Boyd, president of the Graziers’ Federal
Council. He has not been answered by the Govern-
ment or the U.A.P. press, never more obsequious than
now; for, of course, the Government hasn’t the
shadow of a plan. It started its tariff war with the
fixed idea that the Japanese would have to buy wool,
though in the seven weeks that have elapsed since the
new schedules were slung into an emptying House
they haven’t bought a bale.
N. S. Wales Premier Stevens had a post-prandial
promise from Bradford that everything would be all
right; and so, no doubt, it will be —for Bradford.
Bradford is going to get cheaper wool.
What Australia may expect from Bradford is
indicated by tops prices, at this time of the year an
almost infallible guide to the prospects for the coming
season. When tops are low in May and June raw
wool prices the season following are low. When tops
rise in those months September prices rise.
On May 14 Bradford tops were reported “very
firm.” Merino 70’s were 35d. per pound, 64’s 33d.,
60’s 32d., crossbred 58’s 26d. By June 25 70’s were
down 3d., 64’s 2d., 60’s and 58’s 2d. The Continen-
tal tops market has been weak since May.
When the wool market was threatened by the
German position two years ago, the Commonwealth
Bank was willing to advance to growers against held
wool. Some such scheme will be necessary if present
conditions continue ; otherwise there may be some-
thing like a panic when the main season opens. An
oversupplied market is bound to bring the speculative
buyer into the field. Growers, afraid that their wool
jyill not be sold, and unable to face the holding of
it unfinanced, will be inclined to sell at whatever
price they can get in the shed. There will be inevit-
able reaction at the sales.
The situation is already serious, and may become
disastrous. Apart from awkward political compli-
cations, it is a threat to our greatest industry and
considerable related industries, and through them to
national recovery and solvency. It has been brought
about by Ministers who are obviously incapable of
handling it, even if capable of admitting that they
have blundered. And it calls imperatively for a
special session of Parliament, since new measures will
be necessary, and probably new Ministers as well.
INVITING JUDGE LYNCH.
Herbert Kopit, uncontrollable child, reformatory
graduate, torturer of animals, thief, social wastrel,
brutal and unprovoked murderer of two good citi-
zens, savage assailant of a third, has been condemned
in Brisbane. The sentence of the Court was that he
be taken to a comfortable gaol and maintained there
for the rest of his life —or until some Executive
Council may “consider” his case and turn him loose
again after 15 years or so, a proven human tiger,
and still under 40.
In the same month in which this wild beast was
given free bed and board at the public expense —it
appears that he is to learn tailoring—another wolf
in man’s clothing battered almost to death a helpless
woman in a Queensland railway carriage, the same
setting as Kopit chose. Obviously one crime had
suggested the other. Enough had come out in evidence
to show that, whatever deeds of horror and brutality
a criminal may wreak upon his hapless victims, his own
hide and neck are safe in Queensland. Kopit laughed
and made jocular remarks about stuck pigs when
the police took him to the still-bloodstained scene of
his crime. His demeanor in court showed that he
felt neither remorse nor apprehension. Why should
such as he? There is no risk of the rope.
In that same month two other murderers were
hanged in Australia. One of them made edify-
ing remarks concerning faults of character which had
brought him to the scaffold, and which might yet
bring some lads of his acquaintance to the same un-
pleasant place. Opponents of capital punishment
argue that it failed to prevent their particular crimes,
and hence is useless as a crime-deterrent.
The argument is obviously unsound. Such wild
beasts must not be permitted to prey upon a civilised
community. The citizens from whom they select their
victims are forbidden to carry arms for protection of
persons or property. The reward of obedience to the
law should be effective protection. The only really
effective protection is that which ensures that the
proven bloodthirsty beast shall be deprived of the
life of which he has callously robbed his victims. The
only safe man-killer is a dead one.
Lynch law has never appealed to British com-
munities, because the methods of British justice with
murderers are essentially dependable in respect of
sureness, fairness and certainty of ultimate application.
Queensland politicians have removed that certainty,
with the effect of converting assassins into a privileged
class. Queensland law in respect of them is no longer
traditional British law.
Even the most law-abiding must feel strong resent-
ment towards a bloody-minded wastrel who murders
defenceless, sleeping men merely in order to avoid
arrest, and who is punished for his atrocious work
by being taught tailoring. It is safe to say that it
will not require many more crimes like that of Kopit
to provoke public or private action to a point which
will ensure that their perpetrators shall not survive
to achieve freedom at the whim of politicians. It
was just thus, and for just such reasons, that lynch
law came into being.
There are now 13 well-treated murderers in
Boggo-road Gaol. Queensland will do well to
amend its criminal statutes before Judge Lynch accepts
the invitation offered by the memories of the victims
of those 13 well-treated murderers, and of others yet
to join them.
THE FUTURE OF NEW GUINEA.
Australia will have to give serious attention to
its responsibilities in what used to be German New
Guinea. That territory, the least-populated section
of the fertile equatorial belt, is held under permanent
mandate, subject only to conditions which are not
troublesome. Australia may not train natives for
military purposes, nor may it fortify harbors.
The area is 91.000 sq. miles. There are great
mountains and big rivers, along which there are mag-
nificent soil and immense timber resources. New
Britain, the biggest island of the Bismarcks (it is about
1000 sq. miles smaller than Denmark), is, for the most
part, so fertile that when coconut plantations are left
vacant for a year or so undergrowth soars over the
treetops. New Ireland is just under 4000 sq. miles,
the Solomon Island Territory about the same.
The non-indigenous population numbered 5215
last year; 1350 were Chinese and 379 German.
The enumerated native population—there must be a
hundred thousand or so unenumerated —was set down
at 401,000. An increase of 25 p.c, since 1930 in
the Europeans and Asiatics was mainly due to gold.
Java and Madura, of much the same fertility
as New Britain and New Ireland, carry 41.000.000
people on an area equal to that of England. Bali
and Lombok. 200 sq. miles larger than New Ireland,
carry 1,800,000. Java and Madura turn off annually
2,000,000 tons of sugar, 113,000 tons of coffee, 75,000
tons of tea and 250,000 tons of rubber. They have
8,000,000 acres under rice, 5,000,000 acres under maize
and 1,500,000 acres under cassava ; other crops bring
the cultivated area to 19,500,000 acres.
Instead of having 19,500,000 acres of cultivation,
or anything like it, Mandated New Guinea has tens
of millions of acres of big scrub. And, at the present
rate of progress, these will be among its possessions
for centuries —that is, if the Australian mandate is
left unchallenged.
Japan’s outlook is different; and Japanese man-
dated territory at its southernmost point is only 300
miles from the northernmost point of Australia’s. An
area of 830 sq. miles had a native population of
49.000 when the Japanese arrived there. There have
been added at least 20,000 Japanese, whose natural
increase is already greater than that of the indigenes.
Apart from gold production, there is not much
sign of material progress in our mandated territory.
In the early years of Australian occupation copra
exports were valued at £600,000-odd p.a. Last year
they were valued at £361,000. Certainly, the output
had more than doubled in the period ; but the immense
decline in value per ton—£2l before the war, £6 Bs. 6d.
last year—shows the danger of relying on such an
industry as a staple, even though the position has
improved considerably since.
Gold accounts for nearly three-fourths of the
value of exports. Total area under cultivation has
in five years increased from 220,000 acres to
230.000 acres. Number of plantations stands at 436,
which figure was reached half a dozen years ago.
Plantations employ only 328 whites (there are nearly
the same number of white officials) and 13,371 inden-
tured laborers, as against 16,671 four years ago.
Virtually nothing has been done with the crops
which are the mainstay of the East Indian islands —
sugar, rubber, cacao, cinchona, rice, tea. There is a
“Parliament” which passes floods of ordinances —
generally with an air of fatalism which acknowledges
that the official majority is acting under Canberra’s
orders —but none of these seems to aim at cutting
down more scrub, pushing more land into occupation
and generally justifying Australia’s right to keep
the territory.
By enumeration figures, there are nearly 150,000
male natives who are devoting themselves to their
own devices, such as lying under palm-trees and
watching their wives cut copra, in place of working
on white-man plantations or, as communal laborers,
developing their own villages and tribal lands.
Within the next generation or so something will
be necessary to replace gold. And the more firmly
Australia pushes its influence into every corner of
the country, the greater will be our justification for
holding it. At present we are merely hanging on to
it by the skin of a couple of gold-filled teeth.
SLUMS.
Melbourne people pride themselves upon their city’s
fine buildings and wide thoroughfares, and upon the
attractive homes in the garden suburbs to which visi-
tors are taken.
What the citizens do not boast about, and what
the visitors do not see, are dilapidated little houses in
suburban back streets or evil-smelling lanes in which
children are forced to play.
Newspapers and charitable bodies have lately
been running a campaign to awaken public interest
in the abolition of slums, and their efforts should
have the effect of making Melbourne slum-conscious.
At the same time it is doubtful whether news-
paper photographs and descriptions of living condi-
tions, or even shop-window displays of the “relics
of Port Arthur” type, although they show the enor-
mous handicaps under which slum-dwellers struggle,
really get beneath the skins of the people.
It isn’t that the public is callous, but the bulk
of mankind is lacking in imagination where others
are concerned.
The news that 100,000 people have been drowned
in floods in China or carried off by plague in India
brings no sense of personal loss. Yet the drowning
of even 10 persons in a Yarra tragedy would seem
a terrible calamity.
In the same way, to a man in, say, Toorak, a
cold or two in the family would loom more important
than an outbreak of diphtheria in, say, Fitzroy,
brought on by bad housing and bad drainage.
This is not meant as a reflection upon the
humanity of the Toorakian. The slum-dweller would
be even less interested in Toorak. and would probably
have not the slightest regret if the whole suburb
was wiped out by gout.
But the point is that pious expressions like “How
dreadful!” and “Fancy having to live in a place like
that!” are of no practical assistance. And although
the campaign tends to put municipalities on their mettle
the job is too big for local-governing bodies to tackle.
The slum problem has undoubtedly been aggra-
vated by five years of depression, unemployment and
doles, and it is not peculiar to Melbourne.
When, as in 1932, 29 p.c. of the workers are
unemployed and thousands of men are living in “tin-
and-bag” huts on public property (this happened in
all the cities) and many thousands more are occupy-
ing houses without paying rent, it is natural that
places ordinarily deemed unfit for human habitation
should be allowed to remain in use.
But with unemployment down to 13.4 p.c., it
is time for Slate Governments to embark upon
national housing schemes, together with a drastic
system of inspection of slum areas with a view to
condemning all houses which are not capable of being
made fit for human beings to live in.
The project would cost a lot of money—possibly
more than the swimming pools, park roads, footpath-
making and ditch-digging on which so much relief
money has been spent —and it might be urged that
Australia cannot afford it. Neither can Australia afford
a C 3 population such as may be expected if the slums
are allowed to remain.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Anniversary.
Almost unnoticed during last week passed an anni-
versary which might well be an annual object-lesson
to Australia. The Battle of the Somme began on
July 1, 1916. It lasted six months and cost the British
and Dominion armies 481,000 casualties. The French
toll was 197,000. Estimates differ about the German
losses. Some say 436,000 ; General Maurice placed
the figure at 558,000.
Not as part of the Somme battle, but as a muddled
reconnaissance in force or something, Australia’s sth
Division was ordered to attack at Fromelles on
July 19. It never had a hope, and came out short
of 5300 men. Australia’s Ist, 2nd and 4th
Divisions were in the Somme battle from July 23
onwards—they began with Pozieres and ended with
several doses of Mouquet Farm in September. Their
casualties in a little over seven weeks totalled 23,000.
During the first week or so round Pozieres, the
Ist Division lost 5285 killed, wounded and missing.
Of the 11th Battalion 18 officers and 511 men suffered ;
of the 2nd Battalion 10 officers and 500 men.
During the July-September period the British lost
about one-third of the men engaged ; the Australians
more than one-third. In less than two months an
Australian army exceeding the strength of the present
A.M.F. —if it could all be mustered—went under in
a campaign fought under conditions which, bad as
they were, belonged to the pre-whippet-tank, pre-giant
bomber, pre-mechanised era.
And the Britons and the Australians who fell were
the flower of their nations.
Yet Mr. Parkhill—who, of course, wasn’t on the
Somme —thinks the voluntary system is sufficient to
provide us with a sufficient army.
“He’s a Dear, Kind Doctor!”
Dr. Earle Page said au revoir to Australia early
in the year, having pinned a notice on his office door :
“Back in a fortnight, plus travelling time.” One of
his darling objects was to wrest more of the British
butter market from the Danes. So anxious was the
British Government for his counsel on this point
that it was announced the week before he arrived
that a renewal of the agreement with the Danes was
practically certain. This has been confirmed within
the past fortnight.
Then there were butcher’s-meat negotiations “of
the utmost importance to the Commonwealth.”
Last year Mr, Lyons did some meat-negotiating
in London, and Mr. Thorby, who accompanied him,
declared that his chief had “put the matter on a very
high plane” and “created a splendid impression.”
The P.M. “secured a quota” of 1,680,000 cwt. of frozen
and chilled beef.
So great a triumph was it that Australia could
not live up to the quota, though exporters tried their
hardest; and it is doubtful whether the 1936 quota
will be filled.
Nevertheless there has been another miracle of
negotiation. Last year Dr. Page was “prepared to
agree to a duty on Australian meat rather than hot
obtain a satisfactory quota.” This year he has
achieved what the Manchester “Guardian” (with a
broad Lancashire wink, no doubt) calls “a victory
over the British Minister for Agriculture.” There
will be a larger quota again and no levy on Dominion
meat. The other Dominions seem to have had no
influence. Alone Earle did it. As a result, it is now
hoped that exports of Australian beef to Britain
may amount to a whole one-twelfth of the value of
Australian wool exports to Britain.
The doctor is staying on in Britain till after the
grouse season.
Maorilancf’s Good Case.
Though Maoriland Labor professes to see in the
1935-36 surplus of £281,000 an assurance of national
recovery, it is beginning to have its troubles.
Prices are going up and the Arbitration Court
is crowded with applications for exemption from the
Forty-hour Week Act.
Then local bodies are finding it necessary to
provide for greatly-increased expenditure to meet the
cost of the new industrial laws, and that means higher
rates. It will mean higher taxes, too.
Meanwhile Mr. Nash, the Minister of Finance
and Marketing, has been instructed to go to London
to arrange, if he can, for reduction of interest on
the public debt. In the last Coates Budget the M.L.
debt was reckoned at £280,581,200, of which
£160,972,200 was held in London. On £72,000,000
of this Maorilanders pay A\ p.c. to 5| p.c. interest
—in sterling, of course. They would naturally wel-
come some relief, and feel that they are entitled to it.
Members of the Government put this aspira-
tion in perhaps ill-chosen words, and straightway
Britain’s “sanctionist” newspapers began barking at
them. The “Star” saw in a remark of Prime Minister
Savage “the intrusion of an ugly form of bodyline
into investment”; the “News-Chronicle” referred
bitterly to “the possibility of default” ; the “Times”
suggested that “New Zealand credit” had “been
injured by suggestions of interference with its con-
tractual obligations,” and the “Telegraph” observed
that to “ask British bondholders” to extend some
consideration to an honest debtor “would seriously
affect New Zealand’s status.” Why should it? It has
been done again and again by foreign countries, with
no great tradition of honesty—Rumania, for instance
and the consideration has been granted.
Mr. Savage puts the case for his country in
unanswerable sentences:- —
We have no_ intention of repudiating anything, but
'l must be realised that, measured in exports, we are
Paying double to-day what we were paying when the
loans were raised. If we cannot make the arrangement,
well we cannot, but surely it is no offence to talk
about it.
While the “sanctionist” press was throwing mud
at a country which supported “sanctions” throughout,
and intimated at Geneva that it was willing to go on,
the President of the Board of Trade mentioned in
the House of Commons that Britain had £435,000,000
invested in Argentina, £190,000,000 in Brazil and
£160,000,000 in other South American countries. In
dividends and interest it received last year £8,500,000
from Argentina, £3,500,000 from Brazil and £3,250,000
from “other South American countries,” Not 2 p.c.
altogether. And it is not recorded of any of these
foreign debtors of Britain that they lost 17,000 of
their sons and spent £80,000,000 fighting for the
Empire in 1915-18, as Maoriland did.
Recent Sydney Sentences.
The inconsistency of sentences imposed in N. S. Wales
criminal cases is nothing short of astounding.
Three months ago Street, J., gave a man twelve
months for manslaughter. Accused had virtually kicked
the victim to death on his own premises ; and the
jury, while finding him guilty on the lesser count, had
added no recommendation to mercy.
Last week in another manslaughter case Justice
Street bound the guilty party over to be of good
behavior for two years, that being the period of the
nominal sentence passed. According to his own testi-
mony, the guilty party had challenged his brother-
in-law to a duel. Brother-in-law had “grasped with
his left hand the rifle accused was holding, and it went
off ; accused must have pulled the trigger, although
not conscious of doing so.” There was “a strong
recommendation to mercy.”
In this matter, as in the other, the dead man was
said to be a bad egg; but on this point only one side
was heard. Deceased did not go into the box.
Between these manslaughter cases a bigamist came
up before another Judge. He got four years. Four
years was likewise the sentence inflicted by a third
Judge on a solicitor who had mixed clients’ money
with his own. His offences were pretty rank ; but he
was a Digger who enlisted at 15; he had helped the
police by making a clean breast of everything; and
he had blameless partners who have recompensed
all the clients he took in. They associated themselves
with his counsel’s appeal for mercy.
Four years for bigamy, four years for “defal-
cations,” twelve months for killing per boot, and
“released on bond” for killing per rifle.
Some people, once they get into the dock in N. S.
Wales, seem to have all the luck. Others have no
luck at all.
No Limit.
Labor-ruled Queensland in 1934-35 established, a
taxation record —£6,546,263, or £6 16s. 3d. per head
of the population. These figures do not appear in
the Budget story, and require somewhat intensive
search to discover, because unemployed-relief taxes
and motor-vehicle license fees are paid into Trust fund.
Thus in 1934-35 total taxation was divided in this
way: —-
Consolidated fund .. .. .. £3,458,201
Trust fund .. .. .. .. 3,088,062
£6,546,263
Which means that nearly half the taxation is omitted
from the Budget, and to some extent is obscured
from the public view. But there it is. The per-capita
taxation was the highest in the history of State Gov-
ernments in Australia, with a solitary exception—
N. S. Wales, £6 19s. 4d. in 1932-33, following a nasty
dose of Langism. Queensland taxation rose on the
year—as it always does, this time by 15s. 9d. per
capita. Value of industrial production went up 18s.
3d. per capita. So the Government collared 86 p.c.
of additional wealth produced, or 17s. 3d. in the £l,
leaving to the people who made it, the real owners,
2s. 9d.
Figures are now appearing for the year just
closed. The consolidated fund received this time over
£4,000,000, and when later on the Trust-fund tax-
receipts are known the total will certainly be
£6,800,000 or more—say £7 a head of the population,
plus the heaviest municipal and shire rating in the
Commonwealth. Plus also Federal taxation, which
seems to have ascended to a new altitude.
It is some years since Mr. McCormack, then
Premier, said that taxation had just about reached
its limit. As a fact, there is no limit save the exhaus-
tion of the taxable corpus.
The Brophy Case.
In Melbourne last week the Royal Commissioner
(Judge Macindoe) delivered his finding in the Brophy
case. His Honor accepted Superintendent Brophy’ B
account of the shooting as given in evidence, which
was to the effect that Superintendent Brophy had gone
to Royal Park to meet an informer and had there
been attacked by unknown and masked bandits ; that
it was due to a series of fortuitous circumstances that
he was accompanied by two women and a man, and
that there was nothing improper in their presence
there or in Superintendent Brophy’s conduct.
As Superintendent Brophy’s evidence was corro-
borated by the other three witnesses and no evidence
at all was produced to support any contrary sugges-
tion, it was not to. be expected that any other con-
clusion would be arrived at.
The only point now, as far as Superintendent
Brophy is concerned, is whether he was justified after
the shooting in giving instructions that any inquirer
should be told that “1 met with an accident.”
Of more consequence is a later part of Judge
Macindoe’s finding:
Having regard to the fact that Sir Thomas Blarney
knew the number and nature of the wounds, I cannot .
accept his evidence that he believed it was an accident.
I am forced to the conclusion that Sir Thomas
Blarney was told the truth and I believe that being
jealous of the reputation of the force which he com-
mands, he thought that that reputation might be en-
dangered if the whole truth was disclosed. That being
so, 1 believe Sir Thomas Blarney told Inspector
McKerral the truth, but to announce to the press that
Brophy had met with an accident.
These references to the Chief Commissioner,
following so closely upon the remarks of the Chief
Justice upon methods alleged to have been employed
by police in securing “confessions” from suspected
persons, are very unfortunate for the Victorian Police
Department, to say the least.
International Footbrawl.
Sydney’s “Labor Daily,” so keen a supporter of
Rugby League that it gives an annual cup with a
family of baby cups to encourage the game, published
a photo, of “play” in the first of this year’s Tests.
In it an Englishman has a headlock hold on an Aus-
tralian, one hand clutched over the nose and eyes,
the other round the throat. Another Englishman is
grabbing the man and another the ball.
It’s a wonder the photographers didn’t get a
dozen like it. They could have had an Australian
putting down his boot on the upturned calf of a prone
Englishman’s leg and grinding the sprigs in. Perhaps
that would have been best in slow-motion movies, with
sound effects. Another pleasant subject was an
Englishman bringing an Australian down with an
ankle tackle, then lurching up on the collared man’s
chest and kneading knuckles into his face.
Mere punching, for which two men were sent
off, is clean to that sort of thing. Still, it is scarcely
sport, and there was plenty of it. So much so that
at the interval, as the teams came off. men leant over
the balcony of even the members’ stand bellowing
“Why don’t you play football instead of fighting?”
The fact is that it’s a joke to use “sport” of these
big professional matches at all. They are contested
as grim struggles, and on our hard grounds are rarely
played without damage to a number of men. Dry,
the centre of the Sydney Cricket Ground—the best
Bulli—is like a rock ; other grounds are rough as
well as hard. That is right enough when the game
is played as a game ; this season’s casualty lists are
eloquent of how it is played.
While the crowd was waiting for the footbrawl
to begin there was a solemn presentation of a cup to
be competed for by England, France, Australia and
M.L. “in the interests of world peace.” The match,
with its episodes of vicious tempers and brutal actions,
was played in view of that ambitious offering. Instead
of world peace, it looks like lasting enmity that is
engendered by games played in this spirit. They are
mimic battles, in which “Play the man” is the. accepted
thing.
The Commonwealth as Pubkeeper.
The letting of a contract for some £ll,OOO to add a
wing to the Hotel Kurrajong, Canberra, involves a
scandalous waste of public money.
The addition is being made simply because when
the Hotel Canberra, a white elephant under Govern-
ment control, was handed over to private enterprise
the rales were put up slightly in the case of Federal
members, though still giving them a substantial
preference over the travelling public.
A number of members objected to paying another
Is. 6d. a day. An unsuccessful attempt was made
by the Administration to dislodge permanent resi-
dents of the Kurrajong to make way for Parliamen-
tarians. So much odium was aroused that it was
decided as quietly as possible to construct a new wing,
though the Government had long since gone out of
the hostelry business at Canberra.
In effect, about £lO a week will be added to the
accumulated losses on Canberra hotels and hostels,
which already exceed £500,000. To June, 1932, the
last date on which full figures were given to Parlia-
ment, the position, according to “Hansard,” was:
Accumulated Losses to June 30, 1932.
Capital Cost. Losses.
Hotel Canberra .. .. ... £160,980 £127,852
Hotel Kurrajong .. .. .. 91,718 49,216
Hotel Acton (closed since 1930) . . 84,280 31,953
Hotel Ainslie (closed since 1929) .. 37,151 18,388
Hotel Wellington .. .. .. 35,355 17,582
The Auditor-General’s report for 1934-35 (the
latest issued) shows that, after charging interest and
depreciation and allowing for liquor profits, the net
loss on Government hotels at Canberra for the year
was £25,304 9s. 4d. It is nothing to the people who
authorised the expenditure of another £ll,OOO on the
Kurrajong that two large private hotels are nearing
completion.
How Unemployed-relief Money Goes.
Queensland’s two unemployed-relief investigation
officers are finding some interesting examples of how
the taxpayers’ money goes.
For six months a well-dressed woman drove up
in an expensive car to draw rations for herself and
two children. Belated inquiry revealed that she was
a widow living with her well-to-do father, and elicited
her vigorous opinion that it was up to the Govern-
ment to keep them, as father didn’t want to.
A well-tailored young man in a sports suit and
a natty roadster explained—after several months of
rations —that, although he lived with his prosperous
farmer-uncle, it was the Government’s job to feed
him.
A married couple, both on relief rations, were
found to own a pub in N. S. Wales. In another case
the wife’s death revealed that she had £lOOO banked
and was drawing the old-age pension.
Single men draw rations for non-existent families,
married ones add on another three or four kids.
“Workers,” after their quota of shovel-leaning, drive
their families down to smart seaside cottages to picnic
for the rest of the week. Others are paid for days
when they are actually employed on other paid jobs.
But all will have votes at the next elections.


Society
"AMD ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE’S INKS"
“Dawn”: The keen eyes and quaint
outlook of modern youth! My nine-
year-old niece, who attends a Melbourne
suburban State school, came home the
other day in ecstasy over her new
teacher. “You ought to see her, auntie!
She's got everything—plucked eyebrows,
orange-and-pink nails, rouge, powder, an
engagement-ring and her own teeth.”
“Warren”: The
sight of a solitary
hansom stationed
in Bridge - street,
Sydney—there may
be others in the
city, but I don't
know where set
me thinking of an-
other amenity of
civilisation th a t
has, slowly but
surely, disappeared
with the march of
progress. It is a
long time since I
saw a street-corner bootblack, although
1 don’t doubt a few of them linger
where occasional customers are avail-
able. Even only 20 or 30 years ago
they had their recognised “possies”
in every city and plenty of large towns,
and you never needed to look far for
one. Is it the shoeshine parlors that have
eliminated them or the easier modern
methods of keeping footgear reasonably
lustrous, or both influences together?
•J* $ $ V
“Kimber Lee”: Friendly-like, the two
ladies were discussing a neighbor's hus-
band. “’E keeps ’er down all right,”
said one darkly. “Doesn’t believe in
women bein’ uppish, ’e says. Why, ’e
won’t even let ’er ’ave a bob on somethin’
at the dorgs on Sat’dee nights, not even
when it’s a good thing!”
sj: t- * *
“Elwood”: In Melbourne last week a
tiny Pomeranian dog provided a new
example of canine intelligence and quick
decision. He was standing on the parapet
of a four-storey building, pondering on
things in general, when he glanced down
to see his owner’s motor-lorry moving
off. Realising that if he rang for the lift
he would miss the bus, he just jumped.
When asked later how it felt to fall four
storeys, he intimated in his doglike way
that the only one he didn’t like was the
bottom one, which he blamed for his
only injury, a broken leg.
* $ *
“Sixenate”: Recent comments about
lighthouse literature remind me of the
deadly dulness which used to pervade
the N.S.W. gaol libraries. There was
very little choice; and even then prison-
ers had to take whatever volumes were
handed to them. Still, some entertain-
ment could occasionally be derived from
the marginal comments made by prison-
ers who, against orders, possessed pencils.
One I recall was a note in Lucy’s A
History of Two Parliaments (typical of
the fare provided) against a line running
“for a very long time.” It ran; “Yes!
Four years one hundred and sixty-six
days to go! My God! ” The controllers
of gaol literature have become merci-
ful in these days, and even light novels
are allowed.
❖ * * *
“C.P.”: At the close of this year the
Vic. Education Department will cease to
issue regular attendance certificates to
children who attend' school for three
years or over without missing a day. It
is a wise decision ; more epidemics have
been spread by parents allowing, and
even forcing, palpably unfit children to
attend school merely to break attendance
records than by any other means. The
official view of the matter is that “extra
incentives to attend school are no longer
necessary.”
* >S *
“Arev”: A Melbourne paper has been
publishing pictures of slum dwellings,
showing tiny backyards, with broken
fences, yard taps which supply the bath-
ing facilities of the home, rooms without
windows, kitchens used as bedrooms,
front doors opening on alleyways. The
publicity seems a trifle rough on the
slum-dwellers, when dad is featured per-
forming his ablutions at the tap, mother
doing the washing in a tub in the
backyard and baby playing hard by a
rubbish tip. There was an interesting
"You no savoy a bargain when you see one. Why , it's a TWO -bladed
penknife!"
sidelight, however, when a statement, evi-
dently in the nature of a correction,
appeared to the effect that little Mary
Whosit, taken in a slum picture, did not
live in the house shown, but resided with
her grandparents in a very different
place. Such disclosures would perhaps
serve a better purpose if the paper pub-
lished, beside the pictures of each slum
house and its tenants, the names of the
owners of such dens and snaps of their
homes.
* * * #
“J.G.”; In the Ballarat Fine Arts Gal-
lery you may gaze on the flag hoisted by
the insurgent miners on Bakery Hill in
1854, and later captured by the soldiers
at the Eureka Stockade. It is a blue flag
with a broad white cross and the stars
of the Southern Cross grouped in one
of the top quarters. But my father and
other old residents in and about Ballarat
assured me that Lalor’s flag was a plain
blue one, with the Southern Cross group
of stars on the fly. The Ballarat Gal-
lery exhibit has holes which may have
been made by bullets, but to me it looks
too clean to have been dragged at a
horse’s tail through the Eureka mud, as
is said to have happened to the original
bit of bunting.
* * * *
“L. 1.8.”: The war horse will continue
to sniff the battle as far as the British
army is concerned. The mechanisation
craze has not blinded the general staff to
the fact that lack of petrol will hold up
the most formidable array of mechanised
troops, and that it cannot always be
available. The horse can work quite a
while without liquid or other fuel, and
often he can find enough to satisfy him
wherever he may be. Also, he can go
where the tank and its brood cannot hope
to penetrate. So a proportion of cavalry
regiments is to be retained for co-opera-
tion with the “stinkers,” as Thomas Atkins
has learned to call his mechanical allies,
and the infantry, better armed and sup-
plied, will continue to be the foundation
stone of all forces.
*** * *
“Pitt St.”: It wasn't a rude merino
that interjected at the conclusion of the
P.M.’s Sheep Show speech (B. l/7/’36).
It was a large Corriedale, bred on the
Belubula’s banks. Its owner’s embar-
rassed look as he tried to hush the un-
feeling sheep is my most treasured
memory of the year.
“F.Y.7”: Though much exposed to
sheep, I never yet met one which made a
sound like the “baa” mentioned by
“Eureka” (B. 1/7/’36). The native wood-
note wild is the same with all jumbucks,
varying from the treble of lambs to the
hoarser note of the patriarchs of the
flock. As far as letters can express it
“me-h-h” ; —with the “e” as in “met” —
comes nearest the sound. Ewes calling
for their lambs are apt to introduce
tremolo effects, but the actual call never
varies.
* * * *
“Kip”: Two-up is often claimed to be
one of the fairest of gambling games.
Yet when some players, caught in flag-
rante, were being conveyed from Camper-
down (Sydney) to the police station last
week, it is recorded that one of them
discarded a double-headed penny, which
was later found upon the floor of the
van. As there is no likelihood of the
owner claiming his lost property, it will
doubtless go into the police museum.
I once possessed one of these interesting
coins. I didn’t acquire it on the field of
battle ; it was given me in change over
a pub. counter, and it was only by pure
accident that 1 noted its abnormality.
Such excellent craftmanship and loving
care had obviously been employed on its
production that 1 couldn’t but wonder
by what means it had got astray and how
much the bereaved owner would give to
regain it. But there are some lost articles
you can’t advertise for.
“Airy”; A farmer whose holding lies
directly beneath the Sydney-Mel bourne
air route has threatened to put a few .303
bullets about the ears of low-flying pilots
if they don’t cease from disturbing his
stock. The Civil Aviation Department
states that it deals harshly with pilots
who endanger ’planes and life by flying
low, but points to the difficulty of identi-
fication. The cocky suggested that a
bullet-hole through the prop, would serve
that purpose admirably. Apart from the
necessity of being a fair shot, it seems
drastic. Why not large registration num-
bers under wings or fuselage? Some such
means of identification is overdue. Many
'planes lost in strange country might
have been found much more quickly if
those who saw them pass over could have
reported a registered number, instead of
“a ’plane that answered the description.”
* * * *
“B.X. Act”; “Mcß.” has mixed up
two Adelaide statues in his paragraph
about Bobbie Burns (B. 6/5/’36). It is
the statue of John McD. Stuart, the ex-
plorer, opposite the G.P.O. towers, which
bears the inscription “Erected by public
subscription, and presented by the Cale-
donian Society.” The statue of Bobbie
Burns on North-terrace is wholly a
Scottish tribute to the memory of the
bard ; it was presented by the Caledonian
Society in 1904.
* * *
“Miro”; A stout lady in green entered
our office and, flourishing an um-
brella, demanded to see the boss.
Objections that he was engaged had no
effect on her. “He’ll see me! ” she de-
clared, and forthwith dashed round the
counter and barged into the head’s office.
Immediately sounds of fierce altercation
arose beyond the closed door. As the
boss is much given to good works, we sat
in stunned silence when shrieks arose
accusing him of having enticed a damsel
to the pitchers. The pore girl, it seemed,
having found him out (and a married
man, too), was now prostrate with a
broken heart. At this stage the accoun-
tant deemed it advisable to interfere, and,
staving off the umbrella, managed to
rescue the bewildered victim. Further
argument made it evident that it was a
case of mistaken identity, a flighty rela-
tive of the boss’s being the culprit. But
the lady was not apologetic. “I’m pretty
sure,” she said as she was thrust forth
by the head book-keeper, “you’d be as
bad as your relation if you had the
chance. Where’d y’say his office is?”
•K *!•
“V. Humana”; A curious controversy
is going on in Adelaide about
the appointment of a clergyman as
Anglican Cathedral organist. The musi-
cal profession, with John
Dempster as spokesman,
thinks that the one-job
principle should apply,
and that a professional
rather than a parson
should have this post of
honor. Dempster claims
to have dug up the odd
fact that, when the Angli-
can constitution was be-
ing framed long ago, the
then Bishop Short
arranged for himself
(and successors) to have
many of the powers which elsewhere
would belong to the Dean and Chapter,
this appointment being among them.
‘** * *
“P.0.M.C.”: The story of the hard-up
who detained 10s. from a £1 contained
in a letter meant for someone else and
forwarded the balance to the proper
destination (B. 1/ 7 / ’36) reminds me of
an experience of my own. In 1922 a
fellow-workman pinched £5 from the
pocket of my coat. For private reasons I
took no action ; after an interval of nearly
two years, the amateur “dip” voluntarily
made 50 per cent, restitution. To my
query regarding the balance came the
injured retort: “Hell! you're lucky to
get fifty bob —I could’ve diddled you for
the lot.” And since 14 years have elapsed
without further uneasiness to his con-
science, 1 am now prepared to admit I
was lucky.
* * $ *
“Kriz”: “Bully” Hayes had started on
his lawless career when he paid West-
ralia a visit in 1857 (B. 24/6/’36). He
arrived there from Singapore in com-
mand of a barque, the C. W. Bradley. At
Fremantle he sold a valuable cargo and
had a good time with the proceeds. The
ladies liked him, and shortlyafter a whirl-
wind courtship he became engaged.
Funds running low, he began taking pas-
sengers to Adelaide at £l5 a head, and
did well out of a couple of trips. When a
Portuguese vessel, the Estelle de Nort,
was stranded at Fremantle, “Bully” re-
floated her, got a cargo of jarrah on
credit, put the Portuguese skipper in
charge and sent her to Adelaide, follow-
ing in the C. W. Bradley. Months later
it was found that the cargo which had
been sold at Fremantle hadn't been paid
for at Singapore, whence Bully had sailed
without clearing the Customs. The mer-
chants who had filled up the Estelle de
Nort with jarrah found that they had
been swindled, too, for both the vessels
were seized at Adelaide and sold to
satisfy the Singapore creditors. Hayes
evaded arrest by disappearing. All the
foregoing was dug up from old records
by J. W. Hitchcock, who some years
back wrote a History of Fremantle.
A DANGEROUS CALLING.
‘‘The most dangerous of all occupations is that
of a barman.” — ‘'Kwakprak,” It. 1/71’SG.
Tis a perilous trade—no possible shirking
That patent fact —for the chap himself
Whose job is to keep the beer-pumps working
And whisk the bottles from off the shelf.
There is danger in it, I’ll say, likewise
When the lights that rise in a woman’s eyes
Shine out where the tots and tiddleys are.
But this is the time when the danger lies
For the blokes on the other side the bar.
My oath! ’Tis a hazardous calling, very,
Chock-full of pitfalls, I’ll be sworn.
For the bird who slings you a tom-and-jerry
Or a rum-and-milk on a winter’s morn.
But when feminine smiles and lures are shown
And fingers prone to brush your own
With the gin-and-bitters or old three-star,
I fancy it shifts, the danger zone,
To the blokes on the other side the bar.
Be sure ’tis a risky occupation
Whereby the drawer of pots is tried,
Beset with snare and with sore temptation
(In wood and bottle) on every side.
For Hebe, too, ’tis a perilous trade,
But it isn’t the maid may feel afraid,
As she plies her calling, of jolt or jar,
But those upon whom her spell is laid —
The blokes on the other side the bar.
There are thorny pathways and slippery places
For all who to shrines of Bacchus fare,
(Excepting, maybe, the Bonifaces;
You seldom see them the worse for wear).
There are grievous risks for the Ganymede
That he’ll need to heed, it’s well agreed;
But when maids preside in the drink bazaar
The perils and dangers—yes, indeed —
Arc for blokes on the other side the bar.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ex-Roundsman”: For the competi-
tion for diverting typographical errors
permit me to enter the latest performance
of our local Thunderer. Mr. Ivan
Menzies, the comedian, doing missionary
work in Brisbane for the Oxford Move-
ment, remarked that Brisbane was a
pagan city, because shop windows there
contained suggestive photographs. Mr.
Cooper, Queensland’s Assistant-Treas-
urer, rushed to the defence and replied
in the press that Brisbane’s shop windows
show nothing immoral. Our organ of
public opinion featured it with a double-
col. cross-heading of those last six words
—but left the N out of Windows!
■f * % *
“Goldgety”: Strictly speaking, that
bale of wool in the Adelaide weight-
guessing competition (B. l/7/’36) was
not a bale, and no woolbroker would
have regarded it as such with a weight
of 1581 b. Actually, it was a butt; to
parade as a bale it must have a minimum
gross weight of 2001 b., so there may be
a loophole there for disappointed com-
petitors.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The pavement photo-
grapher, persecuted in Sydney, was a help
to the police in “the wardrobe murder,”
The suspect had tossed aside a card
handed to him by a street cameraman ;
from this the police secured a complete
picture. Fingerprints found on a beer-
bottle in the room where the strangled
“ Sh' sh! I believe there's a burglar downstairs"
“You stay here , Agatha. I’ll go and find him!"
woman was slung into a wardrobe
were somewhat indefinite ; but, linked up
with the photograph, they left no doubt
on the question ol identity. And the
photograph provided not only an illus-
t rat ion for the daily papers to print, but
data lor the verbal description broad-
? a f. A reward for information lead-
mg to the wanted man s apprehension
was about to be announced when his
body was found floating in the harbor.
“Kiah”; The sea carriage of circuses
and the like (B. 17/6/’36) can be exciting
even in smooth weather. Years ago the
old s.s. Kyarra was steaming across the
Bight with some exhibits destined for
Melbourne Zoo, when a lion was found
to have escaped from his cage during the
night. The chief officer, armed with a
heavy revolver, led the search party aft
to a spot where Leo was last reported.
Glimpsing a fawn outline in the gloom
of the bowels of the ship, the mate sent
six shots at his target, which, on closer
investigation, proved to be a bag of
potatoes. Coming for’ard to reload, the
big-game hunter learned that Leo had
been found in another hold peacefully
coiled up among some cargo nets, and
had submitted quite amiably to re-
capture.
H« Hi Hi Hi
“S.G.”: Some recent shootings in N. S.
Wales have been unspeakably sordid;
but the case of the Assistant Director of
State Lotteries is touched with mystery
and romance. He was 53, of blameless
habits, and, according to a brother,
“the last man on earth” to destroy him-
self ; “he loved life.” Yet married on
Friday, May 22, to a widow of means
years older, he disappeared two days
later and was never seen alive again. He
left his affairs at the lottery office in
perfect order, and, just before he set
forth on what must have been his last
journey, he got two hotel employees *o
witness a will in which he left all his
possessions to a sister —a clause explained
that his wife (mentioned by her Christian
name) would be well provided for. Six
days later his body was found floating in
Sydney Harbor. There was a bullet in
the skull, but no other marks of violence ;
and a five-chambered revolver, with one
chamber discharged, was found “in the
clothing.” A Macquarie-street doctor
(and the coroner) could come to no other
conclusion than that the man must have
thrust the muzzle into his mouth and
pulled the trigger. But another medico,
who had known the Assistant Director,
quoted a passage from “Taylor’s Medical
Journal” to the effect that in cases where
persons had shot themselves through the
palate it was the rule to find the weapon
“tightly clenched in the hand.”
❖ Hj He
“O. I. Saye”: Unquestionably grey-
haired barbers (B. 17/6/’36) are rare.
This may be due to their extensive know-
ledge of hair dyes, but my own theory
is that they retire early in life enriched
by the racing tips with which they always
seem well furnished. Ships’ stewards
are another class with a knack of remain-
ing Peter Pans. The Karoola carried one
who had managed to grow up ; but him
Thomas Mcllwraith had bequeathed in
perpetuity to the steamers of his line.
H» H» H» H»
“Interpreter”: The trouble in Palestine
has brought to light -some interesting
news about T. E. Lawrence. Photostatic
examination of the Arab-Jewish treaty
signed in London in 1919 is said to show
that Lawrence deliberately mistranslated
the treaty to Feisal. When the thing first
came up for signature, Feisel added a
footnote in Arabic stating that he would
agree to the establishment of a Jewish
national home in Palestine “should the
Arabs attain independence ” Lawrence
translated this “If the Arabs are estab
lished as I asked... .1 will carrv out this
agreement.” The difference 7s an im-
portant one, and the treaty is now aues-
tioned both by Arab and Jew Vhe
reason given for Lawrence’s action is that
he realised that unless Feisal gave the
Jews what they asked his (Lawrence’s)
dream of an Arab empire would go up
in smoke, as indeed it did eventually.
* * * *
“Cossack”: The statement that the
first Kanaka laborers who “pioneered the
sugar industry” in Queensland received
“Seen anythin interestin' lately , Basil?"
a weekly wage of 2s. 6d. (B. 1/7/’36)
recalls that the Westralian abos. who
pioneered the pearl-diving business got
even less than that. Some records
recently dug up show that in the ’eighties
the native divers, who operated with no
artificial appliances in anything up to
eight or nine fathoms, received no money
at all. Their guerdon, in addition to
tucker and tobacco, was one shirt, one
pair of trousers and one handkerchief a
season. Seeing that the harvest of the
pearling-beds was only beginning to be
reaped and native labor was plentiful,
those must have been great days for the
lugger-owners.
* $ * *
“Bucks”: Our rabbit-oh, like “Kali’s”
bottle-oh (B. 24/6/’36), stays in his trap
and lifts his voice to the skies. But his
reason is more practical. “Wotcherthink
’d ’appen ter me bloomin’ rabbits if I
started runnin’ in and out with ’em till
1 found a customer? Rabbits is tricky
things.”
* * * *
“Fiona”: When I was awakened at
dawn by a mysterious sound on my
balcony room in a Sydney suburb,
my first thought was of burglars. But
the room was empty and still, until
the wastepaper basket b£gan sud-
denly to turn somersaults. I stared
in stupefaction at the basket career-
ing along apparently under its own
steam. But when it had bumped
through the open door and ended
up with a crash outside, investiga-
tion revealed a possum—sitting,
slightly dazed, on the balcony rail
while he recovered from his es-
capade. There are more possums
in populous localities than one
would credit; the last I saw in the
city was marooned on a lamp-post
in Elizabeth Bay-road. A hound lurked
underneath.
* * * *
“Yarragundry”: I knew a Digger who
was crimed and commissioned within
a couple of minutes. Detailed from his
regiment to Moascar, he was appointed
orderly sergeant. The two cardinal
military sins at Moascar were appearing
on parade unshaven and failure to salute
officers. Mac, who grew a fierce red
stubble, had not shaved since leaving the
regiment. After the parade he was placed
under arrest, brought before the adjutant
and reprimanded for appearing on parade
unshaven. The R.S.M. then escorted him
again before the adjutant, who, with a
grin, handed him his commission, won in
the field.
* * * *
“Devilboager”: Several dailies have
been recording that a 400 ft. flagpole,
presented to the Commonwealth by
British Columbia, is still lying in its
native forest. Ihe gift, it seems—or the
notification of it —was made to Parker
Moloney, a Labor Minister of Scullin’s,
who was then touring the Dominion, and
was doubtless acknowledged by that
gentleman in a few well-chosen words
about the ties of Empire and the cordial
relations existing between its far-flung
parts. But the trouble about the giant
flagpole is that it would cost at least
£6OO to ship it to Australia, and good-
ness knows how much more to get it to
Canberra, railway tunnels presenting
serious obstacles to the conveyance of
freight of such length. In short, the
Lyons Government’s attitude toward the
gift seems to be summed up in a remark
of the immortal Jorro'cks: “Confound
all presents wot eat! ”
sj»
“Col. B.”: Chittagong (B. 10/6/’36)
isn’t much of a place for comparing with
Innisfail (N.Q.) in respect of rainfall.
Perhaps Cherrapunji, in the Western
Ghauts, was meant, in which case Innis-
fail is not much of a place to compare
with Cherrapunji. This town’s yearly
average is something over 50ft. It rains
every day, and if you hang your water-
proof against a wall a few hours will see
it stuck there by a vigorous growth of
fungus. Boots burst into dense groves of
fungoid growths, cigars acquire a grace-
ful droop in the middle, and even whisky
grows *veaker. At' least, my ruffianly
bearer used to insist that mine did.
Jfc • $
“Chattis Pultan”: Additional evidence
that bagpipes originated in'mid-Asia may
be found in their popularity with the
Baluchistan regiments of the Indian
Army. Doubtless they first acquired the
taste from their next-door neighbors, the
Persians. The Baluchi regimental pipes
are lighter than the Scots variety, but
their effect is quite as perturbing. The
Chinese, who are connoisseurs jn torture,
used to flock in their thousands to hear
the 124th Baluchistan Light Infantry
pipers playing The Retreat once a week
in Tientsin, a year or two before the war.
The Chinks paid a similar compliment
to the pipers of the Cameron High-
landers, whereas the fifes and drums of
the usual county regiment would not raise
a flicker of interest. Some Sikh and
Rajput regiments are also victims of
bagpipes.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Another hazard for air-
men. Night flying near Broome a West-
ralian pilot was startled by the proximity
of a huge blazing meteorite which struck
earth with a thud audible a mile or more
away. Few meteorites reach the ground,
most being consumed by friction with the
atmosphere. Still, 10,000 or 20,000 feet
up, there may be quite considerable quan-
tities of these celestial visitors still un-
consumed. A direct collision would, of
course, mean obliteration, while it is
questionable whether, even in the case of
a miss, it would not be perilous for i
’plane to fly into an atmospheric pocket
heavily charged with incandescent par-
ticles. It is quite possible that meteorites
may have accounted for the disappear-
ance of more than one 'plane which has
vanished and left no trace behind.
I WONDER.
1 wonder if the crash it’s gone
Upon this sanctions biz. will leave a
Stigma indelible upon.
The League of Nations at Geneva.
How impotent was all its whoop,
How ineffectual its thunder!
Say, is it fairly in the soup?
1 wonder.
I wonder if a scornful oath
Reflects our pastoralists’ notions
On Lyons and Gullett —or if both
Retain a place in their devotions.
And when, as if this weren’t enough,
The amiable pair will blunder
Into another futile bluff.
I wonder.
I wonder if, when hearts are broke,
He suffers more who gets the glassy
Eye from his girl, or just a bloke
Like Jimmy Thomas —or Silassie.
And did the Negus do a get
With all the boodle and the plunder
Assigned to him? Perhaps. But yet
1 wonder.
I wonder if, when on the Hill
Assembles next the cricket-lover,
Invulnerable Bradman still
Will knock from off the ball the cover.
And now, with Garden and with Lang
Torn irremediably asunder,
Which of the twain will boss the gang?
I wonder.
I wonder. Oh, there’s lots of things
Provide this wondering material,
From spuds and artichokes to kings,
From local subjects to imperial.
But, most of all, this stings and sticks
And makes me think we’re coming under
The Puritanic role. Why fix
The closing hour for pubs at six?
I wonder.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
ii
20/<yl'6
10 for P a
J 855
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
CORK
P P E D
CIGARETTE
#•
i :
• @
■
.......
.....
Hi
m..
d
THIS
GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Mr. Casey proudly announces that
Commonwealth revenue for 1935-36 ex-
ceeded expenditure by £3,562,500. Allow-
ing that another million and a half or
thereabouts could have been advan-
tageously spent on work-giving defence
measures, it is obvious that £2,000,000
was dragged from taxpayers’ pockets
unnecessarily—more, since the Adelaide
and Perth Governments have shown that
the largesse they got from Common-
wealth tax-revenue was excessive. Mr.
Casey anticipated a surplus of £17,000.
He must be nearly the worst guesser in
the world.
“S. M. Herald” reports that the N.S.W.
deficit for 1935-36 was ' “reduced to
£1,680,000.” In plain English this means
that there was a loss of £1,680,000 for
the twelvemonth, increasing U.A.P.
deficits alone to £11,740,000. And, in
spite of all the U.A.P. cackling, it was a
very poor performance.
Joybells are ringing in Queensland —
the deficit is only £741.800 instead of
£1,162,000 budgeted for. The difference
is mainly accounted for by the fact that
taxation produced £417,000 more than
was anticipated, and £600,000 more than
last year. It would be unthinkable if it
were due to reduced expenditure, which
was up £386,000.
The joyful news comes from England
that the Old Man has promised to buy
a bit more Australian chilled beef at
some future period not yet specified. A
small increase in the chilled-beef quota
was arranged for last year, but it couldn’t
be supplied. In any case, for nine months
of 1935-36 British imports of Australian
chilled and frozen beef were valued at
£1,434,000 Australian ; exports of Aus-
tralian wool to all countries were valued
at £45,130,401.
Greater Brisbane Council, which under
Labor control is always borrowing, has
had to pay 4| p.c. and ss. p.c. brokerage
for £lOO,OOO raised in Melbourne. The
loan has a currency of 10 years, carries
a 1 p.c. sinking fund and is guaranteed
by the State Government. Middle-
class householders in good standing can
get better terms for a £lOOO three-year
mortgage.
According to Labor-leader Curtin,
“Transfers of wealth and income from
those deemed rich to those deemed poor
are an established feature of the func-
tions of the State,” but are “inadequate."
More must be done. Social services
must be expanded; taxation must be in-
creased.
In other days Political Labor aimed at
“the cultivation of an enlightened and
self-reliant community.”
It has been said in Westralia that ex-
Minister Kenneally, twice defeated for
East Perth, could have the London
Agency -job for the asking, but won’t
ask. He still cherishes Parliamentary
ambitions, and considers the London
Agency “a political graveyard.” Cole-
batch did not find it so, nor did the late
Lefroy. Colebatch returned to become
a Senator; Lefroy—after an interval of
some years certainly—a Premier. And
there was Moore, who stepped from the
London office into the House of
Commons.
The Commonwealth grant of £1,500,000
has enabled the Adelaide Government to
produce another surplus (£243,500 this
time), and to talk of reducing taxes again.
In the early depression period S.A. was
the unluckiest of the States: but the luck
has changed. The States from which
most of the £1,500,000 came report only
deficits and can’t get taxes down.
Before the financial year closed, Butler
calculated that his Government’s loan ex-
penditure for the full twelvemonth would
amount to £907,000. During nine months
of the year (Commonwealth statistics go
no farther), S.A. unemployment figures
fell from 16.3 p.c. on July 1, 1935 (they
were 20.7 p.c. on Jan. 1), to 12.2 p.c.
on March 31, 1936. This year the Butler
Government proposes to go through
£2,450,000 of loan money. N.S.W. and
U.S.A. experience is that the greater the
loan expenditure on “works” the higher
the unemployment rate, but in S.A.’s case
the upward tendency may be checked by
reduction of taxes.
Divided on most subjects most of their
long lives, Melbourne “Age” and Mel-
bourne “Argus” have been beautifully
unanimous the last few months—first
about “sanctions” ; now about the trade
war with Japan. In fact, if a leader on
either subject strayed from one office into
the other, and were published by inad-
DESIGN FOR A PAINTING.
“W.B. Mclnnes is to paint the Prime Minister’s portrait for the edification of
posterity.”
vertence, the public would never notice
the difference. And, of course, neither
Great Daily is in the slightest degree
impenitent for having misled the country
about “sanctions,” and each is positive
that it is right about the trade war.
Being free from rates and taxes, and
thus able to undercut competitors who
have to pay both and can’t charge up
their losses to the taxpayers,, the N.S.W.
Railway Department is working up a big
business in its restaurant at Wynyard
station, which caters for suburban traffic
only. So far there has been no orga-
nised protest on the part of competitors.
There has been in Melbourne, where an-
other Government Railway Department
is engaged in similar competition. Mac-
farlan, M.L.A., mentioning the matter in
the Assembly, suggested that any com-
petitor who can prove specific damage
through loss of business has a ground
of action. And Macfarlan was Attorney-
General.
Westralia announces a surplus of
£88,300, “the first since 1910-11.” With
an £BOO,OOO Commonwealth grant to
play with as well as massive contribu-
tions from Canberra for wheat, fruit
and fertiliser bounties, roads, interest and
sinking-fund payments, the Perth Gov-
ernment could have made it at least
£250,000; but, with a general election
coming on, it decided to be a good fellow
instead, politicians and Government em-
ployees sharing in the largesse distri-
buted. Incidentally, even the certainty
of a “small” surplus did not prevent the
party in office demanding a special grant
of £1,500,000 this year instead of
£BOO,OOO.
Very belated thanks for the Whiskard-
Gullett tariff were outpoured last week
by Lord Hartington, one of a score or
so of Parliamentary Under-Secretaries,
coupled with an expression of regret that
it had not “met with greater gratitude.”
Australia has imposed almost prohibitive
duties on American and Japanese goods.
It is wonderful that a Government 12,000
miles away should ask its people to
undergo considerable risks of losses in
order to help Lancashire.
One could almost, hear his Lordship’s
unspoken comment: .
There will be a lot more resignations
from the League if Litvinoff has his way.
Lit. proposes that all member-nations
shall take an oath to rush to the assist-
ance of the next member-nation that
gets into trouble, and impose military
“sanctions.” In effect, Lit.’s mob, hav-
ing inflamed national sentiment by sup-
porting seditious movements in Germany
and Japan, has become mortally scared
of both, and wants to be protected by
countries in which it has supported sedi-
tious movements also. It won’t wash.
As a rule Australian politicians scatter
when an income-tax bill comes on, but
when a section of the Spooner measure
was reached in the N.S.W. Assembly the
House filled up surprisingly. Somebody
was suggesting that the special exemp-
tion of £lOO allowed to members “for
travelling and incidental expenses” should
be increased to £2OO. It occurred to
somebody else that the thing had better
be adjourned to see if the public could
stand it. Adjourned it was, and after
what is called “a decent interval” the
House “agreed to the increase without
discussion.” Presumably it was satisfied
that the public will stand anything.
Australia’s League of Nations Union
has had a Sydney conference or funeral
ceremony at which the secretary, a Mr.
Raymond Watt, complained that Aus-
tralia had been “a very weak link in the
League chain” ; also that “some sections
of the Press” had been “definitely reac-
tionary” and had published articles which
“showed inadequate background infor-
mation.” Of course, the League’s
“background information” about Abys-
sinia has been perfect. The Bulletin
treasures the memory of a visit from one
of its officials, who assured it when the
Italians were on the last lap of their ad-
vance to Addis Ababa that they were
marching to their Sedan.
For once an industrial arbitration
award has snuffed out a strike. To add
to woolgrowers’ troubles, Reds started a
w'ages wrangle in N.S.W. pastoral dis-
tricts, holding up the shearing in some
places. The A.W.U., as it happened,
was applying to the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court for another award ; it
came out at the right time and granted
moderate increases all round. Saying
that arbitration was the policy of the old
union, the A.W.U. executive notified its
members that the award was accepted,
and the Reds could do nothing to stem
the rush back to work.
“Greece,” it is reported by cable, “has
reduced import quotas 30 p.c. to 60 p.c.
in the case of all countries except Ger-
many, whose goods will now enter un-
restricted.” Greece is one of the coun-
tries—Turkey and Yugoslavia are others
—with which Mr. Anthony Eden was
recently negotiating an alliance against
Italy—and may still be for all the Em-
pire has learned to the contrary. Our
gallant allies may be the ruin of us.
After a mockery of a debate the
Spooner income-tax measure which is
alleged to “secure uniformity” was
hustled through the Sydney Assembly.
Taxpayers who draw income from more
than one State will find a horseshoe in
the glove that smites them:
In future the assessable income of a
shareholder resident in N. S. Wales must
include the whole amount of all dividends
received by him, irrespective of whether the
profits were earned in N. S. Wales or in
other States.
Such is the “uniformity” of which so
much has been heard. Uniformity
should mean the substitution of one
simple and intelligible Australian income-
tax for 13 or 14 incomprehensible im-
posts, some of which tax tax-money.
But the people will never get that sort
of uniformity until they sweep away the
greedy and inept pack of provincial poli-
ticians or deprive them of all but local
powers.
From a believer in by-elections;
The cardinal weakness of the proportional
system is that it fails to provide for by-elections,
often necessary and valuable tests of public
opinion. The death of V. J. Shaw left a
vacancy in one of the Bass (Tas.) Assembly
seats, and, according to custom, the Bass can-
didates defeated at the general election were
invited to take another chance at a re-examina-
tion of ballot papers. Five consented, and
Shaw ballot-papers numbering 3355, and repre-
senting the quota, were gone over again. It was
found that 1698 prefs. were for J. L. Madden,
and he was declared elected. I suppose it is
all right according to P.R. notions, but to me
Madden seems to represent a minority, and m
my judgment such a method of filling vacancies
condemns itself. At all events it utterly fails
to show what the Bass electorate really thinks
of the Ogilvie Government, and a by-election
might.


THE WOMAN-TAMER.
“A horse loves anyone who can Impose his will upon him, and the same holds good about a woman.”— Tom Wall.


df
If you make 12 STARTS A DAY,
THE NOBBIER OF PETROL YOU SAVE
on each start with _ _ _ _ _
5H E LL
SAVES 2 GALLONS A WEEK
ITS ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU MONEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Charles James Melrose crashed in
his Heston Phoenix at South Melton
(Vic.) on Sunday morning. The mono-
plane was carrying as passenger Alex-
ander George Campbell, the mining
engineer and Digger; and in Melrose
and Campbell Australia has lost two
splendid sons.
Melrose came of an old South Aus-
tralian pioneering family. At 20 the lad
broke the round-Australia aerial record
in an 8000-mile flight of five days eleven
hours. He flew to England to compete
in the Melbourne centenary air race in
what was then the fastest time for a
solo flight, beating Mollison’s previous
figure by half a day. In the big event he
finished third in the handicap section,
landing a £lOOO prize. On his next journey
from England to Australia he stayed his
progress to return and join in the search
for Kingsford Smith, at such danger to
himself that only a forced landing on an
out-of-the-way beach saved him from
disaster. Since then he had made many
commercial flights, and had arranged with
the organisers of the South Australian
centenary to make a goodwill flight from
London to Adelaide. He was only 22 at
the end: a bonny, laughing lad who was
a favorite everywhere. None who ever
met him could speak too highly of his
modesty and his chivalry, as well as his
skill and courage.
Campbell was an old boy of Hailey-
bury College, Brighton (Vic.), and of the
Ballarat School of Mines. Broken Hill,
Mt. Morgan and Burma knew his ability
as a mining man, and the A.I.F. his
capacity and daring as a soldier ; he was
three times wounded, and returned with
the D.S.O. Transferring to the A.M.F.,
he retired in 1928 with the rank of lieut.-
col. He had commissioned Melrose to
take him to the N.T. to inspect mining
shows at Pine Creek.
Kuramatsu Murai, the Japanese Con-
sul-General, whose job it has been to put
his country’s case against the Gullett-
Whiskard tariff, was born in Aomori-Ken
48 years ago. In 1911 he graduated in
the special Consular course at the Tokio
The Japanese Consul-General.
Higher Commercial School, and three
years later passed the Diplomatic and
Consular Service examination. He was
stationed at Changshun, Harbin, Hono-
lulu, New York, Pekin, London, Cal-
cutta and Shanghai before being given
the Sydney appointment in August, 1932.
Brig.-General Price Weir was with the
S.A. Lands and Survey Department when
war broke out, but he was also a militia
officer, and he was speedily named an
A.I.F. colonel. He led his unit at the
Landing, through the Gallipoli campaign
and afterwards in France. Back in
peace-time Adelaide, he became Public
Service Commissioner and chairman of
various Welfare and Relief bodies. He
retired in 1931, but now at 70 he re-
ceives his strangest post —that of honorary
mediator between husbands and wives in
matrimonial disputes. If he does this job
as well as his others S.A. may expect a
drop in its divorce rate.
Stanton Hicks, Prof, of Physiology at
Adelaide, has brought off a good double.
In the week of receiving a knighthood
he earned M.D. from the University
for a thesis on ultra-violet and infra-red
rays.
At 18 Howard
Carr abandoned
the study of civil
engineering to be-
come a musical
conductor in
theatres. That was
in the last year of
the last century,
and since then
Carr has con-
ducted London
of flight
opera and many
Beecham opera
comique co. and
J.C.W. shows. He
has composed a
great deal of theat-
rical music, includ-
ing “In the Jungle ’
and “Master Way-
farer,” and was
part-composer of
“The Lilac Dom-
ino,” “Shanghai,”
“The Girl for the
Boy” and “The
Blue Kitten.” His
symphonic works
include “The Jolly
Roger,” “Three
Heroes” and “The
Jovial Huntsmen.”
A.B.C. has named
him its musical
editor, and it could
scarcely have got a
better man anywhere.
F. W. Thring was a sick man when
he left for America early this year. Re-
turning to Melbourne last month, he
went straight from the boat to hospital,
and was fated not to leave it. N. S. Welsh-
man by birth, he was associated with
Biograph Pictures in their early Tas-
manian days; previously he had had show
experience as a conjuror. Later he linked
with Hoyts, and became managing direc-
tor ; then he started a film studio at His
Majesty's, Melbourne, to produce “Dig-
gers” and “The Sentimental Bloke,”
transferring his Efftee to Mastercraft in
Sydney when N.S.W. introduced a quota.
In the meantime he brought out Alice
Delysia in flesh-and-blood shows. Thring
had a short life (he was only 53) and a
full one.
First prize of £lOO in Adelaide “Adver-
tiser’s” centenary play competition goes
to 28-year-old Max Afford with “The
Founder,” a play about Colonel Light,
Afford has more than 40 one-act radio
plays to his credit, produced from station
HOWARD CARR.
SCL. His “Merry-go-round” won the
last A.B.C. play competition, and Pas
de Six,” an operetta for which he, did
the lyrics for music by Spruhan Ken-
nedy, was the best of the entries in the
1935 A.B.C. composers’ contest. John
Long has accepted two thrillers from his
pen, Blood on His Hands and Death
Plays with Dolls.
Emeritus-Professor Nanson, affection-
ately remembered at Melbourne Univer-
sity, from which he retired 14 years ago.
died in Malvern (Vic.) last week at 85.
Cumberland-born, and a Cambridge
M.A., second wrangler and Fellow, he
became Professor of Mathematics at
Melbourne and held the post for 50
years, A great electoral-reform man, the
prof, invented a method of proportional
voting. He was twice married.
There is many a Ulysses of the A.I.F. ;
the latest of them went away in 1914
with the original 2nd Battalion, and has
returned on holidays as Major William
Trott, M.C., of the Indian Army. He
won his commission and his decoration
in France after service on Gallipoli, and
transferred to the Indian Army when
the war ended. It gave him experience
of fighting on the Persian Gulf and in
northern India.
Exit at 84,
Charles Jameson,
good adopted Aus-
tralian, keen but
kindly wit and bril-
liant raconteur.
Reaching Queens-
land in the 1870’s,
fresh from a Scot-
tish university, and
finding brawn in
more demand than
brains, Jameson
used his powerful
frame for navyying
on the railways.
With the money,
he qualified for the
Bar, and held im-
portant Govern-
ment law jobs.
Appointed a Dis-
trict Court Judge
in 1910, he reached
the Supreme Court
Bench 12 years
later, and was soon
afterwards retired.
His experiences as
Crown Prosecutor
and later Judge in
the Far North
would have made
a best-seller as he
was wont to relate
them, and many
friends implored
him to put them
into book form. He always declined
smilingly, and, if pressed for reasons,
would explain that, amusing or interest-
ing as they might seem, publication might
annoy or injure relatives or friends of
the leading characters. Such was the
man.
Young Earl Beatty, at 31, has followed
the tradition of his father by entering
into a marriage contract with a citizen
of U.S.A.; the late Earl, at 30, married
a Marshall Field, daughter of the owner
of one of Chicago’s biggest stores. The
younger Beatty followed his father into
the navy, and was here, a slight, dark, un-
obtrusive sub-lieutenant, with the
Atlantic Fleet in 1924. He retired from
the navy in 1931 and became an M.P.
for the Peckham division of Camber-
well. He has since acted as private sec-
retary to the Financial Secretary to the
Admiralty.
Canon Poole, dead ,c just on 91, was
a brilliant scholar who came from Cam-
bridge to Adelaide long ago, and, except
for a few years in Ballarat, spent all his
active life there in either church work
or school-teaching. He was helped in
the latter by a clever family. One son
became a Judge of S.A. Supreme Court,
but died in 1927. The veteran was very
deaf latterly, but never to the last missed
any big cricket match at the Oval.
W. E. (“BILL”) CREMOR, president of
the Vic. Legacy Club.
Fremantle’s Mayor Gibson brushed up
his rabbitskin preparatory to giving
G.-G. Cowrie a day at his State’s Golden
Gate. A very tall native of Ballarat,
Gibson has served half a lifetime in
municipal politics. He has entertained
Edward VIII. as Prince of Wales, the
Duke of York and the Duke of Glou-
cester.
“M.A.W.”: “Recorder’s” memory
must have played him false when he
stated (B. 10/6/’36) that Alexander Ken-
nedy had told him Alexander was 84 in
1919. As a niece of Alexander Kennedy,
1 can assure “Recorder” that Kennedy
died in his 99th year.
“Col. B.”: A long and well-filled life
ended when Mrs. Katherine Lewis died
at Kaimkillenbun, near Dal by (S.Q.).
Seventy years ago, as Cassie Morgan, she
was the acknowledged beauty of the
Dalby district. When she married Bill
Lewis, a hundred masculine hearts bled
beneath tartan waistcoats, twice the num-
ber of Dundreary whiskers drooped in
despair. At 80 she was still beautiful.
Among the victims was an uncle of mine,
who never forgot her loveliness and her
sweet nature, and talked of them in his
last hours, still a bachelor. In the mid-
’seventies Mrs. Lewis went with her hus-
band and young family to Moola Creek,
a beautiful spot under the Bunya Range ;
they lived there for 54 years. Bill Lewis
saw further than stock raising; he was
the first to grow wheat in the district;
the first, too, to use cultivating and har-
vesting machinery. Four sons and three
daughters survive. William Lewis died
two years ago.
A doctor’s warning;
The breakdown experienced in Sydney by
Forgan Smith (B. 1/7/’36) impels me to venture
the opinion that his chances of future Federal
Labor leadership may be dismissed. The latest
of several such failures of the physical mechan-
ism, it means, particularly to a man still m
the forties, that he must very soon make up
his mind between getting out and getting under.
Nature does not give many of these summary
danger signals, and the occurrence of this one
after a six months’ rest from the strains ot
office makes it appear all the more serious
from a medical viewpoint. Mr. Smith will be
well advised to make up his good Scots
comraonsense mind between f.a.q. health for
a fair expectation of life and —well, the other
thing. Several able Australian politicians have
been faced up with a similar situation. All
the surviving ones had the wisdom to get out.


-
%
7\
Ya
r
Wa
/&
777 a
// 7
Z
•S/SS
Us!
53 tt
XtftC u\^
AUTUMN
L
Japan—attractive at all times—is delightful in the Autumn. The weather is
ideal, crisp and clear, and the countryside is a mass of variegated colour and
entrancing beauty.
The E & A Line Route, which includes calls at Rabaul, Manila, Hongkonq,
Shanghai and five ports in Japan, abounds in variety and interest.
The comfortable SECOND SALOON accommoda-
tion is in 2, 3 and 4 berth Cabins, the Menu
is excellent, and Second Saloon passengers have
many privileges similar to First Saloon.
Passengers may live on board at all ports,
the Australian £ is worth 25/- in Japan and
fares are free of exchange.
5.5. NELLORE LEAVES SYDNEY SEPT. 12
5.5. TANDA LEAVES SYDNEY OCT. 14
5.5. NANKIN LEAVES SYDNEY NOV. 14
Round Trip Steamer Fares
SYDNEY TO YOKOHAMA AND BACK
First £9O Second £56.15
Joint Passenger Agents:
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO. -
Sydney Melbourne
MACDONALD. HAMILTON & CO.
Brisbane Adelaide


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
CastlereagH Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. .T. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Body,
Oeneral Secretary. Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR”
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable (or all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars ami prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.B.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,969
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.e. = 287,500 1,865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out..
1929 381,572 62,925 15 p.e. = 300,000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 .. 2,083,825
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.e. = 200,000 2,074,644
Premiums on new shares, £457 .. 2,075,101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2i „ „ 60,000 2,073,871
To contingency reserve, £420,000 .. 1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 2J p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 . . 1,650,356
1934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 „ „ 144,000 1,656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 ~ „ 168,000 1,663,292
This co.’s pound shares are the most
actively traded of the pastoral-finance
stocks. The business, which is spread
throughout the Commonwealth, is strong-
est in N. S. Wales, where the co. receives
nearly half the wool it handles, does
most of its livestock turnover, and is a
large run-owner as well. Higher prices
for wool and sheep, combined with an
increased volume of sales, were mainly
responsible for the spring in last year’s
earnings, to which the merchandising and
other sections of the business also con-
tributed. Although the co.’s actual wool
receipts (306,777 bales) were little dif-
ferent from the previous year’s, it sold
and shipped an extra 104,391 bales
(358,232 in all), thanks largely to in-
creased Japanese buying, which also
helped to bump up the price. The Aus-
tralian average for the 10 months to the
end of April was £l7 16s. 3d. per bale
as against £l2 Bs. 4d. for the correspond-
ing period of the previous season.
On Sept. 25 the co.’s main woolstore,
Pyrmont, Sydney, together with 25,525
bales of wool (included with sales above),
was completely destroyed by fire. The loss,
estimated at over £BOO,OOO, was covered
by insurance. New premises, now near-
ing completion, are being erected on the
site. Still, the inevitable dislocation and
extra cost of conducting the business
from temporary premises helped to bump
up exes., which, however, benefited by
a drop of £26,674 in the tax bill
(£35,266), owing to the small profit in the
previous term. After setting aside what-
ever was considered necessary for con-
tingencies, gross earnings were up
£91,771;
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 846.050 4 02,725 63,233 5000 315,092
1927.. 855,272 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
1928.. 889,060 509.213 62,967 5000 311,880
1929. . 914,201 527,629 62,925 5000 318,647
1930.. 795,752 539,787 62,646 2500 190,819
1931.. 630,714 450,685 62,553 2500 114,976
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2000 63,294
1933.. 508,675 367,137 62,553 2000 76,985
1934.. 615,705 354,321 62,553 3000 195,831
1935.. 566,424 402,683 62,553 3000 98,188
1036.. 658,195 415,726 62,552 5000 174,917
Exes, took £13,043 of the increase, and
an extra £2OOO was sent to the staff pro-
vident fund, leaving the net result
£76,729 better at 7.2 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 4, 8.1, 3.2, 2.6, 4.7, 9.5, 15.9,
16.3. 17.7, 18.9 and 21.8 p.c. back to
1925. A point was added to the div.,
making it 7 p.c.
Of the £2,400,000 of share capital,
£1,149,151, which brought with it
£761,113 of share premiums, was
gathered during the half-dozen years to
the close of accounts in 1930. The new
money, together with over half a mil-
lion of borrowed funds, was put out
largely in advances on stock and station
properties, wool and produce, etc. To
protect the book value of these advances
£420,000 was whisked away to inner
reserves in 1933. The position so far as
balance-sheet figures show it compares as
follows:
1930. 1933. 1935. 1936.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 2,399,892 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures 1,418,702 1,418,702 1,418,702 1,418,694
Sundry credi-
tors .. 1,309,596 033,687 564,697 536,887
Liquid assets 398,515 505,248 513,394 1,105,372
Advances .. 5,886,051 4,720,487 4,645,594 4,073,886
P v o per ties
and stock 290,904 252,331 220,755 216,197
Premises,
etc. .. 649,158 625,245 664,345 615,402
Other assets 166,564 105,332 125,759 142,025
Finances are obviously comfortable. The
year’s better sales and prices are further
reflected in a contraction of £571,708 in
advances, of £27,810 in the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors and a growth of
£591,978 in liquids. The net reduction
of £48,943 in the premises item was on
account of the fire already referred to.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook is favorable, and the clip pro-
mises to be bigger, but the withdrawal
of Japanese support following the
Federal Government’s new tariff has
already resulted in a sharp drop in prices.
The tariff has also produced counter
measures against Australian goods, and
if Japan continues to stand out of the
market it will prove a very costly experi-
ment so far as Australian economy is
concerned.
The sharemarket prices the scrip at 30s.
6d., about the same as a year ago. The
return at 30s. 6d. is 4.5 on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 335. lOd. in net
tangibles.
Provident Life (Maoriland)
Ordinary and Accidknt Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance auce
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Funds. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,789 30,457 190.475
1925'. . 58,583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256,123
1927.. 70,031 19,147 12,580 38,304 331,747
1928.. 78,975 27,584 15,692 35,699 367,446
1929.. 87,475 27,821 16,883 ( m- oqq
Trans, to shareholders, £4278 ) 400,939
1930.. 94,735 39,038 17,589 38,108 444,047
1931.. 96,332 40,546 18,327 ) , r 0 , an rnr
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO \ “ > ■> 48
1932.. 98,989 44,532 17,994 ( oco
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO } ’ ol ,9 >
19.3.3.. 101,922 44,567 18,913 1 ? , 533411
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO 1
1934.. 105.203 49,773 19,631 7 ol) q g 583
Trans, to shareholders, £5840 ) 083,370
1935. .108,423 55,324 23,130 29,969 613,339
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 p.c.)
1925.. 128,044 28,760 51,150 1470 326,546
1927.. 148,937 33,267 63,511 1470 422,159
1928.. 163,773 45,069 69,320 1470 470,073
Transferred to
Shareholders.
1929.. 172,600 43,320 74,745 4937 519,671
1930.. 181,594 61,001 72,412 567,852
1931.. 181,064 71,997 68,023 609,496
1932.. 183,361 101,928 69,286 621,643
1933.. 185,043 92,120 73,971 040,595
1934.. 194,368 79,378 78,104 6340 671,141
1935.. 210,335 92,650 68,847 719,978
The Provident is a 33-year-old Dun-
edin-controlled office which gathers
about two-thirds of its income in the
Dominion and the other third in Aus-
tralia. Over 78 p.c. of its funds is in-
vested in Government securities and
local-body debentures, and regular
bonuses are paid to policy-holders and
dividends, etc., to shareholders. Though
the co. has its own actuary on the
premises, it still sticks to the old-
fashioned idea of making an actuarial
overhaul of the business once every five
years. Including interim bonuses paid,
surpluses available for distribution com-
pared as follows at the last two quinquen-
nial valuations:
1928. 1933.
Surplus:—
Ordinary . . . . . . . . £42,782 £58,402
Industrial.. . . .. . . 24,686 31,700
Total .. .. .. £67,468 £90,102
In 1933 bonuses to policy-holders were
unchanged. On Ordinary contracts where
bonuses had already vested they ranged
from 355. p.c. on endowment assurances
to 60s. p.c. on whole-of-life, and on In-
dustrial policies from 5 p.c. to 15 p.c.
of the sum assured, according to the age
of the policy. These bonuses called for
£52,562 (90 p.c.) of the Ordinary and
£25,360 (80 p.c.) of the Industrial sur-
plus.
The other £12,180 was transferred to
shareholders’ account. The div. has re-
mained at 12 p.c., sweetened with a capi-
tal bonus of £4200 (2s. per share) last
year, making paid capital £24,000 in
33.000 £2 shares —3000 paid to £2 and
30.000 paid to 12s. each.
The co. has scored heaviest from sur-
plus interest, which is the difference be-
tween the rate the office assumes its funds
will earn and the rate actually earned.
To help offset the effect of the drop in
interest rates, the basis of valuation was
lowered from p.c. to 3 p.c. in the
Ordinary department. In the Industrial
section the basis has remained unaltered
at 34 p.c. Also, premiums received on
conversion of Maoriland’s local govern-
ment bodies’ securities to 4\ per cents,
were used to write down book values.
Last year’s net return on average funds
was £4 7s. Bd. (up 7d. p.c.) in the Ordi-
nary and £4 10s. JOd. (up 6s. 3d. p.c.) in
the Industrial section.
The amount of new business written in
all sections combined was £1,431,282, up
£91,706. Excluding taxes and allowing
3 p.c. for consideration for annuities,
exes, took 21.8 p.c. of the Ordinary and
38.9 p.c. of the Industrial net premiums,
as against 18.7 p.c. and 45.6 p.c. respec-
tively in 1934.
The contents of the investment port-
folio compare as follows:
1934. p.e. 1935. p.c.
Government securities .. £248,105 18.9 £267,644 19.3
Local-body debentures 802,414 61.2 821,347 59.3
Other debentures .. 54,055 4.1 62,251 4.5
Loans on policies, etc. 93,297 7.1 93,216 6.7
Mortgages .. .. 16,756 1.3 23,492 1.7
Premises . . . . 52,250 4.0 52,250 3.8
Debtors, cash, etc, . . 45,247 3.4 65,528 4.7
The growth of £20,281 in cash, etc., re-
flects one of the legacies of slump —diffi-
culty in finding profitable employment
for surplus funds.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus/ Dividends A
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 8 To Be- Ke-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
1926.. 14.791 3000 200 8 p.c. = 964 10,627 18,820
Premiums on new shares, £694 .. 19,514
1927. .17,461 4500 200 8 p,c.= 1136 11,625 31,139
Premiums on new shares, £330 .. 31,469
1928.. 8,827 4011 200 8 p.c. = 1268 3,348 34,817
Premiums on new shares, £1135 .. 35,952
10 p.e.
1929. .11,011 3196 250 10 p.c. =2042 5,523 41,475
Premiums on now shares, £521 .. 41,990
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.c. =2250 41.101
12 p.e.
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 „ 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,764 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
1933.. 14,073 3163 300 12 „ „ 2700 7,910 55,230
1934.. 3,144 1726 300 12 „ „ 2700 53,648
174 p.c.
1935.. 18.984 2423 437 17J,, „ 3938 12,180 65,834
20 p.c.
1936.. 20.649 2617 500 20 „ „ 4500 13,032 78,866
The co. chased business last year, but
did little better out of it. The previous
term’s underwriting figures, however,
would have been hard to beat. The ex-
perience generally has been rather
dazzling—most well-run insurance cos.’
results are. The Automobile Co.’s
figures have attracted the eye of at least
one company promoter—whose flota-
tions have found difficulty in emulating
them.
In 1922 the Automobile Co. started
off under the patronage of the Royal
Auto Club (Vic.). About eight years
ago the connection was severed, “Fire
and General” was inserted into the title,
and later there was a link-up with the
United Travellers’ Association and the
“Herald” Touring Club.
Despite slump and a steady contrac-
tion in net premium income between
1927 and 1932, the div, has climbed
from 8 p.c. to the ords. in the co.’s
second year to 20 p.c. (up 2\ p.c.) last
term. There has never been a cut in the
div. rate.
The co. now transacts a wide range of
insurance. Increased activity in the
motor trade and a rise in insurable
values have had their effects on premium
income recently:
Net Pro- Loss Expense
April, miums. Claims. Exes. Kate. Kate.
1926.. £50,819 £16,871 £22,520 38.2 p.e. 44.3 p.c.
1927.. 83,028 29,206 38,370 35.2 „ 46.2 „
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 23.2 „
1929.. 58,765 34,999 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1931.. 43,380 21,650 14,307 49.9 „ 32.9 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 „ 42.0 „
1933.. . 50,062 17,866 20,493 35.6 „ 40.9 „
1934.. 44,173 23,063 20,749 52.1 „ 46.9 „
1935.. 54,898 21,569 17,155 39.2 „ 31-2 „
1936.. 73,982 34,252 23,375 46.3 ~ 31.6 „
An extra £19,084 of premiums was
gathered last term at an additional cost
of £6220. Expenses ran. off with an
extra 0.4 p.c. of the net premium income.
Claims were £12,683 higher, accounting
for 46.3 p.c. of the premiums (up 7.1
p.c.). The underwriting surplus (£16,355)
was up £lBl ; it compared with £16,174,
£378 and £11,703 in the three preceding
years. Interest, rents and commissions
(£4295 = 17.2 p.c. on capital) rose
£1485. The net result was £1665 better.
Allowing for rebates to policy-holders, it
was equal to 72.1 p.c. on the £25,000 of
paid capital, compared with 66.2, 5.6,
43.6, 23.8 and 21 p.c. back to 1931. The
div. was lifted to 2s. a share.
That rate of distribution looks com-
paratively safe, being nearly met from
investment income and commission last
term. Reserves (labelled “nominal 1
the table because they include £29,- •-
set aside against unearned premiums) are
now more than three times paid capita .
The funds are securely invested. .
At April 30 the co. had £54,615 m
Consols and debentures, £3622 in shares
(all less £lOOO reserve), £13,986 in de-
posits and cash, £47,223 in freeholds (up
£6933), £2907 in fittings, and £10,441 in
debtors, etc. Policy-holders could see net
tangibles equal to 140 p.c. of the year >
net premiums. In addition, there was
£25,000 of uncalled capital.
The £1 shares are paid to 10s. ;
5000 prefs. carry a cumulative 8 p.c. and
advance with the ords. beyond that
rate. For the ords. 50s. is paid, showing
4 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible backing is £2O 15s. sd. prefs.,
£2 ss. Id. ords.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Be- Be-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ &
1926.. 8,552 10 p.c. ;= 7253 1299 15,'6»
1927.. 7,985 10 „ „ 7253 732 16,500
1928.. 8,351 10 „ „ 7253 1098 17,998
1929.. 9,026 10 „ „ 7253 1773 19,371
1930.. 10,403 10 „ „ 7253 3150 22,521
1931.. 5,215 8 „ „ 5802 21,934
1932.. 2,921 6,, ~ 4352 —20,50 c
1933.. 3,727 6„ „ 4352 19,878
1934.. 6,335 8 ~ „ 5802 533 20,411
1935.. 6,251 8„ „ 5802 449 20,860
1936 . . 9,938 10 „ „ 7253 2685 23,54 c
Despite fierce competition and the fact
that last summer was the coolest recorded
in Sydney for the last 77 years, this
manufacturer of soft drinks was able to
further widen its connections and im-
prove its earnings. After paying all
exes, and making whatever allowance
was considered necessary for deprecia-
tion, taxation, etc., the year’s net result
sprang £3687, reaching 13.7 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 8.6, 8.7, 5.1, 4, 7.1,
14.3 and 12.4 p.c. back to 1929. A 2 p.c.
bonus was added to the 8 p.c. div., mak-
ing 10 p.c. for the year.
The co. has an attractive history. It
set up 25 years ago with a capital of
£38,507, to which £21,393 was trans-
ferred from reserves five years later,
freehold and plant being written up
£11,444 for the purpose. At the same
time the div. was reduced to 7 p.c., but
it was worth more than 10 p.c. used to
be. In 1922 a par issue carried paid
capital to its present figure, and another
run of 10 p.c. divs. followed. They were
interrupted by slump, the rate for the
two years to the close of accounts in ’33
being 6 p.c. p.a., which, according to the
figures, was not earned.
Still, financially the co. was very well
equipped to stand a jolt and to take ad-
vantage of whatever opportunities
offered, as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:
1927. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital . . £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,534
Liabilities.. . . 1,652 1,970 3,216 1,066
Freeholds, buildings,
etc 40.274 33,617 29,499 27,050
Plant, etc. . . 26,526 11,067 5,196 6,682
Stocks . . . . 13,129 8,069 7,488 7,467
Book debts, etc. . . 12,969 4,600 34,200 38,0;>1
Cash, etc 7,542 44,006 23,127 25,246
Earnings suggest that assets are con-
servatively valued. Debtors’ balances, etc.
(up £3851 last year), include an unspeci-
fied amount of mortgages and Consols.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£69,698, including
stocks) was £8099.
On the market buyers offer 325.
(245. 6d. a year ago) without attracting
sellers. The return at 325. would be 6.2
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 265. 6d. in net tangibles.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Cuttle), Ltd.
There was a clean-up in 1931 ; good-
will was wiped out of the accounts, plant
was written down by £24,999, and free-
holds by £3496. A large p. and 1.
debit was also eliminated. In doing all
this 9s. per share was struck off capital,
both pref. and ord. The public is inter-
ested in the 52,525 9s. prefs. (8 p.c. cumu-
lative, participating fully with the ords.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
Company
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.
PREMIUMS effected at lowest current rates
DIRECTORS:
R. Rawnsley Moss * - - Chairman
Thomas A. Magney Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C. William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, TV .A.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: «. N. Kirk A Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalsrety & Company. Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEIIAN, TAS.: «L 8. Mnnro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalsrety & Company , Limited.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.: Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalsrety & Company. Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.; Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedfttrom, Limited.
“Invincible
sin ce
INVINCIBLE
MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES.
Petrol-Kerosene—Diesel.
18 Sizes: 3 to 100 h.p.
Write for Catalogues.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS,
53 Nth. George St„ Sydney,
Mining Notice.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES NO
LIABILITY. . ..
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend ot
One shilling (1/-) per share has been declared
on all the issued shares in the capital ol the
Company. , , , . ...
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday,
the 14th day of August, 1936.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, the 15th day of July,
and reopen at 10 a.m. on Friday, the 17th day
of July, 1936, and shareholders registered on
Thursday, the 16th day <pf July, 1936, will be
entitled to receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders. „
By Order of the Board,
HUGH G. BRAIN, Manager.
Collins House, Melbourne,
Ist July, 1936.
beyond that rate), which were listed on
Melbourne ’Change in 1934. There are
40.000 9s. ords.
There was a change in management
about the same time. The Scullin tariff
helped, and since 1931 turnover has
steadily improved. Trading since 1932
has been profitable, following a year of
heavy loss. Pref. div. arrears had been
overtaken by 1935, and in the last term
(to March 31) net profits stepped up from
£9604 to £9904, being equal to 23.8 p.c.
on total capital. But £5OOO was carried
to contingencies reserve (£7500), and the
ords. were handed 8 p.c., the same as the
prefs. In 1935 the ords. received 4 p.c.
Reserves now stand at £19,941, allow-
ing for final divs. Finances have im-
proved out of sight in the last half-dozen
years. Additions to plant have been
necessary ; after the 1931 writing down
this item stood at £22,266. In 1935 it
had risen to £29,333. Last term the de-
preciation reserve (£9002 at 31/3/’35)
was written off the item, reducing it to
£19,838. Freeholds appear at £10,510,
stocks at £33,703 (down £3174), debtors
at £16,531 (down £337), and cash, etc.,
at £3136. Liabilities total £18,809.
In view of the uncertainty created by
the Canberra tariff policy, the co. is fol-
lowing a conservative course. Additions
to the mill are contemplated if the out-
look clarifies. The co. represents an
attempt started some years ago to estab-
lish country industries in Victoria. At
first business was carried on at Clunes,
but was later shifted to Maryborough.
The prefs. at 11s. 3d. yield 6.4 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. In view of their
participating rights they are interesting.
Placer Development
Placer’s interests in Colombia, S.
America, are developing nicely. Together
with Oroville the co. owns a half-interest
in Pato Consolidated, whose 16 miles of
river flats along Nechi are estimated by
F. R. Short to contain 189,000,000 c.y.,
averaging 17.4 cents (Canadian), from
which a profit of about 21,350,000 dollars
is expected. In addition there is about
300,000,000 c.y. of “probable” ground,
expected to average 12.9 cents and to
yield a profit of about 23,000,000 dollars.
These are low-grade areas from which
best results can be obtained only by
large-scale operations, which mean low
average costs. Two dredges are now
operating, and four more are to be built
at an estimated cost of 3,100,000 dollars,
which is approximately 2,700,000 dollars
in excess of funds in hand. To help
meet the outlay it is intended to issue
500.000 Pato shares to outside interests
at 2 dollars 50 cents each, raising issued
capital to 2,500,000 shares of one dollar
each, on which a 10 p.c. div. is expected
to be paid toward the end of this year.
The rate of distribution is expected to
increase as the new dredges come into
operation. The first of the new machines
is scheduled for completion in December,
and the rest at intervals of about eight
months thereafter. If is not expected
that the Colombian Government’s gold
export restrictions will seriously interfere
with dividends.
Placer and Pato also each have a half-
interest in Restrepo options, covering
about 18 miles of Nechi River flats,
downstream from the lower boundary
of Pato’s properties. The options have
been acquired on a 7j p.c. royalty basis,
and a large yardage of payable dirt is
expected to be proved.
For the eight months to the end of
May, Asnazu Gold, another Colombian
show, in which Placer and Oroville each
own a 40 p.c. interest (the other 20 p.c.
belongs to the vendors), dredged
1.058.000 c.y. for an average recovery
of 44.7 cents. There is another 16,000,000
c.y., averaging over 40 cents, ahead —
about 12 years’ work for the present
dredge. Allowing for a royalty of 10.62
p.c. of all the gold recovered, the esti-
mated profit from this area is between
300.000 dollars and 350,000 dollars.
Placer’s other interests include Bulolo
Gold Dredging (New Guinea), Golden
Queen (California), Rutherglen Gold
Dumps (Vic.), Canadian Exploration,
Ltd. (Canada), and an option over a big
low-grade property in the Netherland
East Indies. To pay oif an overdraft
the parent recently sold 85,030 of its un-
issued dollar shares in London at
£4 each, making total shares issued
700.000.
Takuapa Valley Tin
Dividends of £41,056 disbursed during
the year to Dec. 31 were £25,253 more
than earnings as per accounts. Sales
(645 tons t.o. from 3,033,000 c.y. dredged)
turned in £84,327 (average price realised,
£127 16s. per ton, was £3 17s. 3d. down
on the previous year); all-in costs made
off with £62,688 (£16,747 for deprecia-
tion).
On the Takuapa area 2,722,000 c.y.
yielded 591 tons tin, the average recovery
of .491 b. per yard being wort(i 6.67 d.,
3.62 d. less than in 1935—prices were
lower and ground was poorer. Costs
were pulled back .66d. to 3.03 d. Alter
four years’ idleness, the Ban Pru dredge
set in towards the end of the year, treat-
ing 311,000 c.y. for 53 tons tin, the aver-
age recovery of .381 b. per yard costing
5.24 d.
For the first six months of the current
term, the co.’s quota was lifted to 398
tons, of which 342 tons, giving a mining
profit of £16,427, subject to taxation and
overhead, had been obtained to the end
of May. Two divs. totalling Is. 6d. have
already been paid, but a third has been
postponed, the board deciding to build
up a cash reserve of £20,000.
Ore reserves are 20,730,000 c.y., vary-
ing from 7oz, to 12oz. per yard, at
Takuapa, and 12,151,000, averaging 130 z.,
at Ban Pru, giving the holdings a life, at
present rate of treatment, of seven years.
At last accounting amount at credit of
p. and 1. totalled £50,610, after writing
£lO,OOO off concessions; the cash hold-
ing alone (£26,699) amply covered the
£4660 coming to outsiders. The increase
in the international production quota has
deepened the uncertainty surrounding tin
scrip generally, and Takuapa's £1 shares
went to below par, recovering later to
225.
At the end of 1935, dredgeable reserves
of Larut Tin Fields, which amalgamated
the interests of Larut, Tupai, Settlements
Dredge and Kota tin cos., were estimated
at 27,000,000 c.y., containing approxi-
mately 4858 tons of ore. The co. also
holds ground containing a further
11.000. c.y. of dirt and about 3147
tons ore, and a mining title will be
applied for when required. An additional
area held under mining title and part
agricultural is estimated to contain 540
tons ore. During 1935 the co.’s No. 5
dredge turned over 3,090,000 c.y., at an
average cost of 2.2 d. The profit was
£32,351. Owing to the increase in quota
release, two more dredges have since been
put to work, but there has been a heavy
drop in the London price of the metal.
The future of the industry is largely
wrapped up with the renewal of the re-
striction agreement, which runs out at
the end of this year. Siam is the doubt-
ful member at the moment.
* * * * ■
The latest addition to the already big
group of interlocking Anglo-Australian
De JBernales cos., all of which have
sprung up in the last half-dozen years,
is Australian Mining and Finance, Ltd.
It was registered in Melbourne last week,
with a nominal capital of £250,000 in 10s.
■shares, to manage the mining, real-
estate and industrial interests of the
group in the Eastern States. The Vic-
torian goldmining cos. that it will take
under its wing are Beaufort Cathcart and
Moyston Deep Leads, Ltd., Langi Logan
Deep Leads, Ltd., and Victorian Gold
Alluvials and Mines Development, Ltd.
On the board are C. A. de Bernales, E.
Faye and F. R. Lee. The last-named is
relinquishing his job as secretary of the
Associated Chambers of Manufacturers
of Australia to join the co.
* * * *
Adelong Gold Estates, which owns
460 acres at Bright (Vic.), is confi-
dent of paying, at least Is. 6d. a share
p.a. Approx. 50 acres have been treated.
With recoveries and costs as they are,
and gold fetching £8 10s. an ounce, i
profit of £7OOO p.a. is indicated. After
allowing for unsuitable ground, and on
a treatment basis of 20 acres p.a., a life
of 15 years is assured. A sixpenny div.
(£1875) was disbursed in May, leaving
the cash holding at £3900. Market for
the scrip (there are 75,000 30s, shares,
paid to 28s. 6d.) has moved up from 6s.
to 10s. since the beginning of the year.
North Wattle Gully has been put off
the stocks in Melbourne with £60,000 of
capital in 60,000 shares—2o,ooo f.-ps. and
40,000 contribs. —to prospect and de-
velop 60 acres immediately north of and
adjoining Wattle Gully’s -Chewton (Vic.)
holding. It is intended to sink the main
shaft a further 200 ft. to test Phillip’s reef,
previously payable to 240 ft., and to pros-
pect the Wattle Gully spurs and the
western anticlinal fold. Shaft-sinking is
expected to commence within two
months. On the board are A. Merren,
S. James, Wallace H. Smith, F. Herman
and J. Eskdale.
* * * ~
Boring at Tindals, Coolgardie (W.A.),
has disclosed three payable lodes between
a vertical depth of 330 ft. and 485 ft. The
first assayed 6dwt. over a width of 12ft.,
the second llfdwt. over 4|ff., and the
third over 10ft. The point of
intersection is 600 ft. distant from where
a Government-supervised bore pene-
trated 6ft. of 3oz. ore years ago. Tindals
was one of the earliest mines opened up
at Coolgardie, and good profits were
won from quarried low-grade ore. Early
this century, when deeper mining re-
placed opencutting, the property was
abandoned. It yielded in all 31,6120 z.
from 125,645 tons. Herman Mandel-
stam floated the present co. in London
last year.
jJj
Celebration has asked the Westralian
Government for a five-figure bank
guarantee. The plea is that unless the
co. gets assistance the mine will have to
close down, and a number of workers
will be thrown out of employment.
Formed in March, 1935, the co. got
£62,500 from the public, and handed the
vendors 70,000 paid shares. Since then
some cleaning out of old workings and
development have been done, and a
£70,000 treatment plant installed. There
are other cases like Celebration’s in the
West.
* * * *
Examination of New Golconda’s mine
on the Murchison field (W.A.) by an in-
dependent expert has been deferred for
a month so that the whole of the work-
ings can be got ready for inspection.
Most of the £50,000 of capital that the
co. raised two years ago has been mopped
up in purchase consideration, plant and
development.
* * * *
Ora Banda United, floated in 1934 in
London with a capital of £400,000 to
work the Gimlet South and other leases
at Ora Banda, reports that for the year
ended Dec. 31 4647 ft. of development
had been completed, while the main shaft
had been sunk to 278 ft. At 250 ft. a
crosscut disclosed a satisfactory lode.
A plant to treat 9000 tons a
month is being installed. Probable ore
to 700 ft. is estimated at over 1,000,000
tons. Latest estimate of actual ore re-
serves was 161,400 tons, with a probable
profit of £225,960.
* * * *
Reconstructed Western Queen com-
menced crushing at the beginning of last
month on its property north of Mt.
Magnet (W.A.). A trial run under full
load was satisfactory. On the No. 2 level
stripping has commenced, and good
values continue. Cyanide vats have been
completed, and sands retreatment has
commenced. The co. has much lost
ground to make up.
jfc H< *
G. Spencer Compton, lecturer in
geology at Kalgoorlie School of Mines,
is favorably impressed with Spargo's
Reward, 26 miles south of Coolgardie
(W.A.). An encouraging ore-body has
been met with in the north drive at the
200 ft. level. It is believed that the same
make has been struck 100 ft. further
down. A lot more work needs to be
done to prove width and value.
•!' 'l' H*
After good discoveries near the sur-
face, followed by disappointing develop-
ments further down, Ora Banda Amal-
gamated (W.A.) has struck payable
values below No. 3 level. At No. 4
18dwt. ore is reported ; whether the find
is a flash in the pan or something more
lasting remains to be proved.
# # # *
Mt. Magnet Co. (W.A.), controlled by
Lord Lee of Farnham and others, is
considering additions to its treatment
plant, which now handles about 5000
tons, monthly for an estimated annual
profit of £20,000. Increased ore reserves
have encouraged the move.
* H; H< ❖
Premier Co., operating the Big Bell
(W.A.) for Yankee speculators, is sink-
ing a 22ft. by 14ft. main shaft, claimed
to be the biggest goldmining hole in
Australia. The way the co. is opening
up the property is an eye-opener.
* * # ♦
Lake View and Star has declared a
third interim dividend of 6d. (sterling),
making total distributions during the cur-
rent financial term Is. 6d. a share
(£210,000). The co. is treating 50,000
tons of ore monthly.
jfc S-< ❖ Hi
Imperial (W.A.) hangs on. The mine,
at the south end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, hasn’t enough in sight to
warrant a mill, but the board has hopes.
The cash position is comfortable.
* * * *
Luxall, one of the weakly-financed
Adelaide brigade interested in the West,
has pulled out of the Leonora district.
Funds are low, but hopes of getting
something that will prompt call-shy
shareholders to find a little more are
high.
* * * *
Geologist Dr. Wade, after investiga-
tion of Freney’s Oil concessions in West
Kimberley (W.A.), suggests that two test
bores be drilled, one to 5000 ft. vertical
on Nerima Dome and the other to
4000 ft. vertical south of .Sister Ridges.
The former site is 130 miles and the
latter 56 miles from Derby. He opines
that two such bores would solve the
problem as to the existence of oil accu-
mulations in Kimberley. He doesn’t give
an estimate of cost, but a substantial
sum would have to be found by share-
holders or the Commonwealth Govern-
ment (or by both) to do the job.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* H: * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—-Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfleld
“TENS’OMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.


“start ability"
. . . plus the power
to keep going
Power to start instantly, plus power to keep going at peak engine revolutions-
regardless of temperature and driving conditions—this is the reason why
sales of Atlantic Petrol are going up and up! This is the twofold merit
that has swept Atlantic Petrol to the head of its price group—and
kept it there!
Why not change to Atlantic Petrol yourself? Remember,
nothing beats it in its price field! •
The only way to get still greater performance with
equal startahility (especially in high compression
cars) is to use Atlantic Ethyl , the A.l knockless
fuel.
ATLANTIC
PETROL
Af 7-48-36 .. . . ——


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gryllus”: The gentleman kookaburra
who honors our abode daily for break-
fast possesses a. remarkably varied
appetite. During four months’ observa-
tion, his menu has included raw and vari-
ously-cooked beef, mutton, pork, poultry,
fish, macaroni-cheese, plum-pudding,
spaghetti with tomato sauce,
raw and fried bacon, several
more than doubtful hen eggs,
a number of dead mice, five
two-day chicks also dead,
numerous insides of fish,
baked and boiled potatoes,
cooked and raw carrots and a
saveloy. He appeared to
enjoy them all, but the eggs,
mice, chicks and - fishworks
attracted his most vivid
attention. The dexterous
fashion in which he dealt
with the eggs confirmed my
opinion that he is a pro-
fessional nest-burglar. After
cleaning up the macaroni-cheese dish, he
laughed for two hours. When we got
the paper a little later we found that
Haile Silassie had fled.
* * * *
“J.D.”: Ask “Exes” (B. 20/5/’36)
what kind of timber was in that root that
burned fifty yards in a few hours. I once
started a bushfire by setting alight a pine
stump. Although the root came to the
surface only about fifteen feet away, the
fire took from June till November to
travel the distance.
* * * *
“MB”: Anybody who can lay hands
on a red doe and joey young enough to
return to the pouch can collect a tenner
from Cinesound, the Bondi film people,
who want the bounders for “Wilderness
Orphan,” a film in the making. The co.
will return the pair in good order and
condition after service, freight paid. Why
a red doe is specified isn’t exactly clear;
perhaps they’ve better camera faces.
What interests me is: How many joeys
does a doe have (a) at once and ( b ) each
year; and is this the time of year when
one might expect to find joeys in the
pouches? Come on, you kangaroosters.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: Queer bush accidents?
On Koolpinyah station (N.T.) I found a
dead brumby with its neck caught in a
fork of a low tree. Evidently the neddy
had been worried by buffalo flies and had
rubbed his head against the tree, and in
some way had got his head through a
narrow fork.
* * * *
“T.P.”; Yackandandah (Vic.) Shire
Council, a stickler for euphony, rightly
turned down a prayer from Tangamba-
langa for its name to be changed to Tan-
gam, meaning “home” in abo. lingo ; the
rest stands for “yabbies.” The younger
generation needs curbing. Veterans on
the council who adhere firmly to the
ancient pronunciation—Yackandandy—
shudder when brainless juveniles chatter
of “Yack.” We must keep pure and un-
sullied Upotipotpon, Boomanamoonah,
Croajingolong, Ozenkadnook, Duchembe-
garra and other gems, for such noraen-
clatural roses by other names wouldn’t
“smell as sweet.” Last century they cer-
tainly changed Tarrengower to Maldon,
but they’ve never ceased regretting it.
“The 0.D.”: This passion for debunk-
ing certain old bush beliefs may be over-
done. No. 6 in “Bill O’C.’s” list (B.
17/6/’36) is not completely fallacious. I
was on asphalted Langtree-avenue, Mil-
dura (Vic.), one summer day when a
heavy shower dropped myriads of tiny
frogs into the street. And “Snowy’s”
salt washed overboard and back again in
a gale is possible. I know a man who
was washed off a rock while fishing, and
washed back again just before his
strength gave out. He buys his fish now.
* * * *
“N. Gineer”: I agree that the Tom
Fool’s knot is an effective means of tying
a person’s wrists together. It is even
more effective, however, if the centre loop
is slipped over the victim’s head and a
side loop over each wrist. When this rig
is tightened so that the subject’s wrists
are drawn up under his ears, and the tails
tied in a reef knot at the back of his
neck, escape, even by a professional rope-
trick expert, can be effected only at the
risk of strangulation. Once in a Mel-
bourne theatre I accepted a “magician’s”
challenge to tie him up securely. When
he saw a Tom Fool’s knot in the cord a
whispered and anguished “Not that, old
man, not that!” made me relent. The
"No, it's not too good, sir. I'm afraid you weren't MADE for that suit."
best way to make anyone stay put —after
the application of a general anaesthetic on
the jaw—is to roll him face down, partly
unlace his boots, double the right leg up
and the right arm to meet it, pass a roll-
ing hitch with the lace tightly round the
thumb below the first joint, and repeat
the process on the left side. Even the
most fractious individual will then find
his exuberance curbed.
* # * • *
“Canuck”: They may be inflicting
heavy fines for killing rabbits in the Pro-
vince of Quebec, Canada (B. 13 /5 / ’36),
but when I lived in Northern Alberta
Arctic hares were a pest as destructive as
our Australian bunnies. They would eat
haystacks right through at the base till
they toppled over, ringbark saplings
and completely devour smaller shrubs.
As a boy I used to knock them down
with sticks and spear them with crudely
devised weapons. There was a tradition
to the effect that every seven years a
plague killed off all but a very few and
gave residents a couple of years’ respite
before they again multiplied to menacing
numbers. Their fur, though snow-white
in winter, was of no value, and they were
eaten only as a desperate last resort.
* * * *
“L’Oiseau”/ Bullock-drivers of to-day?
Examples in the Atherton Tableland
(N.Q.) district arc usually clad in shorts
and “Jackie-Howesbut their “language”
would pass muster with even the most
prejudiced of old-timers. When team-
sters’ children attend school the first
six months is usually spent in teaching
them that half of their vocabulary is not
King’s English.
“Larrakeah”: When a Koondrook
(Vic.) cocky had all his teeth out, the
local dentist built him a set of false
molars. Fishing on the Murray soon
afterwards, he was seized with a sudden
fit of coughing, and both plates flew from
his jaws and disappeared into five
fathoms. Unsuccessful diving efforts fol-
lowed, and, as times were hard, the
farmer decided to make himself -a new
set. Selecting a suitable piece of hard-
wood, he worked carefully for a month,
and eventually fashioned a remarkably
efficient set, so comfortable that he said
they were almost as good as his natural
dentures. With better times he now has
an orthodox set for wear in public, but
the old hardwood crunchers still do ser-
vice at meal times.
**' * *
“C.V.S.”: We were duck-shooting on
the bend of a broad river, and were
creeping on a large flock of the black
variety when a white cockatoo departed
vociferously, alarming our quarry, which
took wing. Returning, disconsolate, with
visions of the usual corned beef and
damper, we were surprised at the be-
havior of our tent, which was billowing
about with, a great commotion. Those
ducks had flown round the bend right into
the open mouth of the tent, which had
collapsed on them.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: I don’t know whether the
R.S.P.C.A., which concerns itself so
deeply with the pangs of captured fish
and the treatment of off-color Cup candi-
dates, has any award or awards for deeds
meriting its approbation on the line of
the Royal Humane Society. If so, I
desire to recommend for the gold medal
or D.S.O. a Mount Gambler (S.A.) bull
which, by breaking down a fence, liber-
ated all the trained hares ■ collected in a
plumpton for the South Australian cours-
ing St. Leger. The meeting had to
be postponed, and the bull has thus not
only dealt a blow at a cruel blood sport,
but has spared blameless dogs much
over-exertion and the moral deterioration
involved in the slaughter of the innocent
hares.
* * * *
“Woodash”: The long-standing con-
troversy regarding the world’s tallest tree
has at last been settled by the California
“Save the Redwoods” League, after pro-
longed correspondence with the Forests
Commission of Victoria. Result proves
that Australia once held the record for
the tallest tree, but it is no longer in
existence, having been destroyed by fire
in 1880. This was a Eucalyptus regnans,
or mountain ash, which grew near
Warragul, Gippsland (Vic.), 375 ft. high.
The present world’s-record holder is
Founder’s Tree, a redwood in Bull
Creek Flat, near Dyerville, Humboldt
County (Cal., U.S.A.) ; it stands 364 ft. in
height. The tallest standing tree in Aus-
tralia is a mountain ash in Cumberland
Valley (Vic.): 301 ft. 6in. These records
are for height only, and take no account
of girth, super, feet of marketable timber,
etc.
* * * *
“Duggai”: It is stretching credulity to
say that the macrozamias are the oldest
living things in the world. It is mere
guesswork, as they do not possess
growth rings at all. No one appears to
be quite certain how Professor Cham-
berlain arrived at his conclusion. Even
if the age was calculated on the basis of
one foot of longitudinal growth per 1000
years, that would not be a fair guide, as
it may be a survival of the fittest. On
Fraser Island kauri pine-trees were
planted out 55 years ago, and some have
stems to-day no thicker than one’s finger
and only about a foot high. Others are
now 60in. and 70in. in girth, towering
to the skies. The sacred gingko-trees of
China are about the oldest, as they
extend as far back as Chinese civilisation
itself. The gingko is found frequently in
Chinese shrines. It is not unlike our
own hoop-pine.
“R.8.C.”: “B. de V.” (B. 20/5/’36)
should be thankful that she never
married my grand-uncle, an old Scotch
bachelor and a North Coast (N.S.W.)
pioneer. He smoked Dark Conqueror in
a clay pipe, allowing himself twenty
years to break it in, and considered it
matured in another twenty. It was an
a aesthetic at twenty yards. Robbing
bees was like taking candy from kids if
he happened to be standing anywhere
near. To show the sort of man he was,
he would open a tin of salmon, eat half
and leave the rest in the tin to be eaten
several weeks later whenever the fancy
took him. He didn’t consider it fit to
eat unless it had hair on it. These habits
must have contributed to his early death,
for he passed away at ninety-seven. The
Anti-Tobacco League’s comment on the
obituary was that tobacco will always get
you in the end.
* * * *
“Daddy-Longlegs”: The redback spider
that disposes of the scarlet band is
no freak —it does that periodically, even as
a snake changing its skin will lose some
of its markings temporarily. Also, a red-
back loses the red daub within a day
after being killed, but close inspection
will show where the patch has been.
* * *
“Centre”: “Dau” (B. 3/6/’36) knows
his onions when it comes to making a
coconut cocktail. That added spot of
gin just does the trick. I’ve never used a
tomahawk to get at the goods. Green
nuts are the only ones used for drinking,
and it doesn’t need much practice to slice
the top of a nut off with a caneknife, so
that little or none of the liquid is spilt,
and you have a clean-cut edge from
which to drink or pour. To give the
cocktail additional kick decant the liquid
from the nut into a clean bottle. Tie the
cork down and stand the bottle in the
shade for from 12 to 24 hours, accord-
ing to temperature. When it is
to be opened hang on tight or you’ll lose
the lot, and get a shower-bath into the
bargain. Incidentally, if you’ve run out of
yeast and want to make a t)atch of bread,
a bottle of coconut water prepared in
this manner will give you bread that will
stand up to the best loaf ever turned out
by a master baker.
“J.C.” (London): I suppose some snag
would develop, but the idea of introduc-
ing vultures to dispose of carrion and
rob the blowflies of their breeding
grounds (B. 26/2/’36) seems, on the face
of it, to be a good one. The vulture is
protected in most South American coun-
tries, and they certainly make a good job
of keeping the towns clean. But I doubt
if the introduction would be met with
great acclaim. I still remember the re-
vulsion of feeling that assailed me when
half a dozen of the evil-looking creatures
rose sluggishly from the Callao-Lima
road as my taxi took me to Lima, and
the shock I received when I looked out
on the Lima skyline from the Hotel
Bolivar. Every roof and coping had its
quota, and the sky at any time of the
day was filled with wheeling black dots,
waiting, waiting. But perhaps, though
there is nothing aesthetic about a vulture,
there may be a real preference for him
instead of the blowfly. He usually waits
until his prey is really down and out
before getting busy, which is more than
can be said for the blowfly.
* * * *
“Dominic”: The toughest rag around
our western waterfront was Callaigh.
Three things he was invariably in pursuit
of, a beer, an argument, a job—in that
order. His bank account naturally never
got beyond an abstract idea. Seeing a
fellow-lumper, a noted Rechabite, off on
a trip to Sydney, Callaigh got bitten with
the same idea. “Dammit, I’m off ter Mel-
bourne to see the old home and the old
mother before she dies.” Laughter
greeted the announcement. But, sure
enough, when the Eastern-Stater pulled
out next time C. was missing. A month
later, when the boat again tied up, he
appeared on the wharf. “Hullo, Mick,”
greeted a boss lumper, “had your trip?
How did you manage it? Where’s your
luggage?” Callaigh scratched a frowsy
head. “How did I manage it? Luggage?
Well, when I started I had a pound-note
and a pair of socks —and I’ll be damned
if I’ve changed either.”
CUTTING SILAGE.
The engine, swung to life again,
Is throbbing to the old refrain;
The cutter whirrs and roars;
The long stalks rattle on the boards,
The knives whirl round like flashing swords.
And down the green tide pours.
Stalk and tassel dance and tumble
To the elevator’s rumble,
Climbing up the wall;
Belts in rhythmic time are tapping
On the pulleys, turning, slapping,
As the bundles fall.
The carts creep laden up the track,
And, empty, rumble slowly back
To take their fill again.
The burnished slashers rise and fall
And cut deep swathes along the wall,
Green stalks and golden grain.
Bright blades in the sunlight flashing,
Down the long rows swinging, slashing.
All the weary day.
Backs are aching, throats are burning,
But the carts keep on returning,
Cut and slash away!
We’re sick of it, the sight of green,
The feel of it our hands between,
The noise, the engine’s sound;
But still the slasher swings and gleams.
And still the groaning cutter screams,
And still the carts come round.
Still the day-long throb and rumble,
Slap of belts and slats a-tumble.
Carts upon the road;
Still the same old clash and clatter.
Sick of it? It doesn’t matter: —
Here’s another load!
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNET.


“Mostyn”: Being a Wild West Club
addict I never fail to find pleasure in the
poker-faced gambler, “like lightning on
the draw.” And the sheriff with the
same ability: and the cowpuncher like-
wise: and the killer with the tied-down
holsters and the pair of “plough handles”
right ready to leap into spitting death at
the slightest provocation. And certainly
if ever I go West the profession of morti-
cian is the one I will follow. But what
1 can’t understand is the crowded popula-
tion —humans and beasts—the cow coun-
try of Texas and “Arizony” carries. From
one of W. McLeod R’s latest I gather that
the distance between the ranch houses
of the usual pair of deadly enemies was
a whole ten miles: it was about the
same to a town (county seat) which
boasted a hotel, several saloons, a Judge,
lawyers and a parson. Also one of the
aforesaid deadly enemies employed 30
punchers on his presumably ten-mi les-
square holding. Up in the Westralian
cow country, the Kimberleys, I once got
lost in a paddock 30 miles square ; they
called it the home paddock, too.
And it was quite 200 miles to the
“county seat,” where there was nary a
Judge, lawyer or parson, one doctor-
(Mm-resident magistrate doing all those
jobs. Possibly it is because there is so
little population to decimate that our
punchers don’t pack six guns.
* * * *
“Beesknees”: You can't beat some
people for making money. A neighbor
of mine had his sheep away on agistment
in western N.S.W. While the sheep were
out there it became necessary to crutch
them, and they had to be driven through
another man’s paddock. He charged
agistment fees for the single day the
sheep spent in the paddock. A bit dif-
ferent from the give-and-take of most
country men.
* * * *
“De Bee”: Why does a kangaroo balk
at a netting fence? Kangaroos in a
netted paddock never get out of
it, though in the days of wire and
wooden fences, before the grey curse
dominated the rural outlook, they hopped
from paddock to paddock as readily as
a politician on a world tour. Has the
newfangled barrier a psychological effecr
on the timid marsupial?
* * * *
“K.C.”: How many bushmen know of
the strange partnership which exists be-
tween the golden-shouldered parrot of
Cape York and the small caterpillar of
a moth? These caterpillars live in the
floor of the bird’s nest, which is exca-
vated in the centre of a large termite
mound. In their dugouts the cater-
pillars remain more or less invisible until
the baby birds arrive ; then they sally
forth in myriads to fulfil their duty as
nursemaids and sanitary contractors.
Every trace of excreta is removed, and
even the nestling carefully wiped, and
then, their duty done, the larvae return
to their homes in the floor and wait
patiently until their services are again
required. This duty is so faithfully car-
ried out that the nests in which the in-
sects are present are always spotless.
When the caterpillars are fully fed they
spin up in flimsy silken cocoons covered
with dirt among the rubbish at the
bottom of the nest. Eventually small
grey moths emerge which set about find-
ing homes in which their offspring may
find suitable employment.
“Palmdale”: Silent, tight-lipped station
hands saddled dependable horses, and
strapped blankets and food on the
saddles. Each man was armed with rifle
or shotgun for signalling purposes. Sys-
tem and organisation, typical of the
station country, were largely in evidence,
for somewhere on the run was Bluey’s
maimed and broken body. Bluey’s horse
had arrived riderless, with bloodstained
saddle, at the homestead. Within an
hour the main party was ready to leave,
each man having an allotted section of
the run, when in walked Bluey, swearing
steadily and monotonously. He’d shot
a dingo, and, carrying it across the
pommel, had dismounted to inspect a
broken fence when his mount broke
away and headed for home. The boss
covered his relief with a volley of blis-
tering language.
* * * _ *
“Kapiting”: “Orient” (B. 3/5/’36)
should be told why only some coconuts
grow. Every Islander knows that one
evening you must get your friend to climb
a tree and, after duly invoking the spirit
of the palm, to drop the best nuts with-
out looking down. You must then select
them carefully, since only those that look
towards you will grow well. You must
be equally attentive to the planting, for
the holes must be deep and must be com-
pleted before you bring out the nuts.
Then one evening, when painfully dis-
tended with food —this is absolutely
necessary—you must run swiftly and cast
the nuts into their holes. You must not
straighten your arm as you cast, or the
stem will break before the nuts mature.
Only if you do all these things will the
stem shoot up straight and tall and put
you on the road to contentment.
* * * *
“Yarraman”: It’s not often that brum-
bies yard themselves, but I saw it happen
at Planet Downs (Q.). The station road
passed through the middle of the receiv-
ing yards, and when not in use the yard
gates were closed. Two brumby stallions
had been causing trouble on the run and
had evaded shooting. They had been
driven out of their mob by the leader, had
picked up the trail of the station stock
horses, and consequently found them-
selves trapped in the receiving yards.
They were caught, a fortnight elapsing,
between the two yardings, and on each
occasion they were observed some dis-
tance away, heads down, holding to scent
and not seeing danger ahead. Passing
through the first gates, they ran into the
closed gates on the opposite side of the
yards, being stunned momen-
tarily in each case. The
first to yard himself was a
three-year-old bay which had
lost an eye ; the other a steel-
grey two-year-old. They were
soon gelded and hobbled in
“Wot d'y ’ think I am? A flamin' butterfly?”
the horse paddock, the steel-grey being
sold to a shearer for £4 10s.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “They don’t make tools
these days as good as they used to,”
Dave told the storekeeper who brought
out a stack of hoes for him to select one
from. “That one you sold me last
year is worn out already. Cripes, the
ole man’s got one at home he’s had f’r
.donkey’s years, and it’s damn’ near as
good as the day he bought it. Of course,
“This is going to hurt me more than it does you”
“Too right, it is! You Wait till you see what my ole pot's like!”
it’s had a few new handles and it’s been
rebladed a couple of times, but apart
from that it’s still the same old hoe.”
* * * *
“G.A.L.: We all knew that old Joe
could neither read nor write, so, when he
came home from his monthly bender
with a “memory tickler” in his swag, we
wondered how he came by it. “What
good is it to you, Joe?” one of us asked.
“Good! ” the old chap enthused ; “why,
the bloke wot sold me this reckoned all
y’ ’ave to do is to tickle yer topknot an’
yuh remembers everything y’ fergot!”
“Jerry”: Universal bush beliefs? On
every station there is only one man who
is not worth his tucker, let alone
his pay, and whose job could be filled
better by any other man on the place.
That mug always holds the same job.
He is the manager.
“Laetitia”: Binghi, for all his native
bushcraft and natural savoir faire in the
realm of things wild, makes some
astounding errors in diet when it appears
that he has allowed the demands of his
bingee to override the saner counsels of
his natural caution. An instance of this
is the denuding of population of some
islands in Torres Strait, where man,
woman and child have been wiped out by
a tribal gorge on green turtle flesh,
usually eschewed by Binghi. The' reason
for the disastrous and unusual experi-
ments, particularly that of Two Brothers
Island, will always remain a mystery. In
his book The Drums of Mer, Idriess
ascribes the depopulation to a pot-hunt-
ing foray by the warriors of Tutu, but in
reality it was the debauch on green turtle
flesh that wiped out the island and not
the massacre related in the very fine
novel.
* * * *
“L.W.”: One of Australia’s most
peculiar timbers is the Johnstone River
hardwood, much prized as fuel in the
Innisfail (N.Q.) district, to which parts it
is peculiar. Its distinctive quality is
its capacity to burn as well wet as dry.
Water will literally stream out of the end
of a stick that is burning brightly and
hotly. Its disadvantages are that it will
not burn at all, even dry, without a
strong draught, and the coals are useless
for making a bush damper—they go
black and cold immediately the flame
dies.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: A huge wave of un-
known origin also rips along the narrow
strait separating Java from Bali. Some-
times it rises monthly ; at others three
months might pass without it showing.
The Javanese attribute its origin to a
crab of terrific proportions, Rajah
Hudang Besar, who lives in a huge hole
somewhere in the Indian Ocean and
whose favorite titbit is a meal of half a
dozen whales. When he leaves in
search of food, the extra water displaced
by his bulk causes the huge wave to rise
and rush through the strait.
* * * *
“Centre”: While the basking-shark is
neither a thresher nor a blue-pointer—
which, according to “Del Norte” (B.
3/6/’36), are the only game sharks in
Australian waters —20-odd feet of him is
game enough for the most ardent fisher-
men. In 1930 a 25-footer was washed
ashore at Mungo Beach, and I’ve seen
others not far short of that length inside
the Barrier Reef. In M.L. waters*they
have been found up to 30 feet, and in
temperate zones in the Northern Hemi-
sphere are fairly common at 35 feet. If
“N.D.” ever hooks one of these chaps
he’ll find excitement enough.
* * * *
“R.8.C.” : Recent Bulletin pars,
stress the bushman’s ability to recognise
a man, a horse, or anything else from
a long way off, but that doesn’t neces-
sarily imply good eyesight. My mother's
eyes are definitely weak, but she can
recognise friends and other objects she is
familiar with from amazing distances.
Nor is the ability to correctly estimate
the height of a tree an argument in favor
of a bushman’s good lamps—that is born
of long practice.
TRAGEDY OF THE MALLEE DUST.
It swept, obscuring sun and sky, a shrieking
fury from the west;
Across the gaunt and arid plains it moaned
like some red fiend possessed;
And as the choking dust and grit maintained
their undisputed sway
We gathered round McSweeney’s bar and
cursed the howling, filthy day.
“Y’ call this dust,” said Mallee Mick as
from the bar-room door he gazed,
And solemnly and beerily the blust’ring
elements appraised,
“Why, starve the spags! You blokes don’t
know that you’re alive. This little blow
Is nothing to the real storms we useter get here
years ago.
“It must be half a century since I first kicked
off on the land,
Although at that time I was just a blasted mug,
y’ understand.
I gets a big selection on the mallee scrub, but,
spare me days!
I had to graft for munce on end surrounded
by a thick red haze.
“I never saw the whole place all at once. A
blinkin’ yard or two
Was just about the limit that the dust allowed
y’ of the view.
Be cripes, that work was tough; of course 1
had to grope me way around,
An’ after clearin’ all the scrub I went an’
ploughed up all the ground.
“The day I started sowin’ seed it rained an’ —
well, I tell yer straight
That when the mud ’ad dried on me I must’ve
weighed some hundredweight.
But what fair broke me up and led me then
an’ there to take the knock
Was when I realised too late I’d done the next-
door feller’s block !”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


m
Sheet
» metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
. O 7LG
e- Son Ltd.
i/IcPHERSONS PTV. LTD.. Molboums,,.Adelaide,. Perth.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DißßCTOiis—James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H Hart Esq ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
E. E, Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq. C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at'London. Canberra (Federal Territory) Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the Woild, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
COMIMCtoSYDMEY?
Then wire or write for reservations at Petty s
Hotel. Petty's the oldest established ot
Sydney’s Hotels, will please you. Its quiet
comfort and convenient position make for an
enjoyable holiday. Tariff: Room and Breakfast
from 11/6. Inclusive. 18/-.
PETTYS
HOTEL York Si Sydney,
EDWARD VOUNLiS,
Manager.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOOTH AUSTR4LU
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ..
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • •
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET. E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit Issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All visual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Conservation of Fodder.
“The 0.D.”: Four divisions of the
Sydney R.A.S. fodder-conservation cham-
pionships have been judged. Nor’-west
and western entries were fewer because
of a dry autumn and hand-feeding.
Generally, quality of the fodder was
much the same in the inland divisions,
largely because the same men won their
district competitions and thus offered the
same lot of fodder.
There is still room for more silage, not
because it is the best feed (personally, I
have still to be convinced of its suit-
ability for sheep, though satisfied of its
worth for large stock) but because pits
are easily made and the fodder, once in
them and properly covered, is safe from
flood, fire, pests and stock. Moreover,
it can’t be sold, a thing that often hap-
pens with cereal or lucerne hay.
It seems some form of handicapping
is necessary in the three inland divisions.
The western champion in the open sec-
tion recorded his fifth successive win,
and both Riverina champions their third.
Certain men who always score highly
are growing and storing fodder as a
commercial venture. This is resulting in
other conservers withdrawing from com-
petition. And it is asked, and with more
than a degree of truth, “What chance
had a man at Hillston got against a man
at Canowindra? The latter seldom gets
even a dry month.”
Among the dairymen the competitions
are ideal as they are. On the coast cows
have to be hand-fed through the winter
if they are to yield well. Consequently
the judge sees new fodder every year.
One of the most notable things apparent
on the South Coast is the widespread im-
provement of pastures. Ryes, clovers,
cocksfoot, phalaris, etc., are being sown
at a great rate. Lucerne is increasing,
and more maize is being used for graz-
ing. Melons and mangolds are also
coming into the picture. All this is re-
acting beneficially on condition and pro-
duction of herds, as well as on the cow-
farmer’s finances.
There are still far too many nonde-
script bulls in use, however, and it seems
that progress in herd improvement must
be slow until some form of legislation
pushes it ahead.
More pigs are run, though there is
room for many more. Both inland and
on the coasts, where there is some free
range and grain can be grown, pigs are
the most remunerative sideline available.
Properly managed, they will beat fat-
lamb raising in many wheat districts. An
astonishing number of Poland-China
crosses are bred on the South Coast. One
must assume they are profitable.
Queer paradoxes thrust themselves for-
ward on these fodder tours. A man will
have stud merinos of super-quality,
lucerne paddocks like a dream, and his
fodder stored in tumbledown stacks bur-
rowed under by rabbits and pulled to
pieces by calves. Another shows a splen-
didly-built, well-thatched stack of
wheaten hay, with no protection against
mice entry from the ground. Or the
stack may be vermin- and weather-proof,
but consist of rotten old tack that no
self-respecting animal would eat while
there was a bit of bark about.
The Sheep-killers.
“B-gar”: Along with the blowfly (B.
17/6/’36) the dingo problem has reached
a stage of stalemate, but, whereas science
is very definitely doing its utmost to con-
quer the former, State Governments are
adopting an apathetic view about warri-
gals.
In Queensland, netting fences have been
allowed to fall into disrepair. Few
barriers now exist to prevent dingoes
"You bin Wrong all this time , mum. It Wuz a crow, not a goanna!"
coming into sheep country from their
natural breeding grounds —Crown lands
and cattle country. For miles along the
Q.-S.A. border, once secure against mar-
supials, rabbits and dingoes, deep excava-
tion would be necessary to find the sand-
covered fence.
As has long since been proved with
rabbits, the grazier unnetted is in a hope-
less position in dingo-infested areas. The
bonus-for-scalps system is a washout.
Until the one-time dog-proof fences are
restored and are kept in order, dingoes
(and, of course, Alsatians) will remain
unchecked.
Searing Marking Wounds.
“Corriedale”: It is a moot point
whether iodoform and boracic mixtures
dusted on to lamb-marking wounds (B.
17 /6 / ’36) are as effective as they might
be.
They are germicidal, but are almost
powerless to close the three arteries in
the lamb’s tail which cause the main
bleeding. The volume of blood usually
squirted from these after marking will
wash off any drying-powder.
Normally, bleeding stops because the
blood coagulates, gradually sealing the
orifice. The sensible thing to do is to
provide some direct and quick way of
sealing the arteries well before much
blood is lost. I think the searing-iron
method is best.
Three pieces of iron bar, like ordinary
pokers, with wooden or bagged handles,
are kept at about black-red heat in an
oil-drum fire. As soon as the tail is cut
the remaining stump is pinched tightly
between the thumb and first finger of the
left hand. The right hand is now free
to place the knife in disinfectant and seize
a hot iron. If the left fingers are slowly
released the artery sites are seen by their
immediate squirting and the point of the
iron dabbed on each. One touch is
enough to close an artery.
The result of this operation is that the
lamb is released bleeding very slightly, as
plain flesh-cuts soon clot. In five to ten
minutes all the unseared portions have
dried up.
The method is criticised because of its
slowness. If 500 are being marked it will
certainly take the time of 750 to get
through with the additional searing, but
the delay is worth it. Quickness is ac-
quired with practice. I have seen mobs of
1000 marked on seven consecutive week-
mornings, with no subsequent losses.
Inflamed Udder.
“Doitnow”: When the ewe’s vitality
becomes lowered, especially in bad
seasons or cold, wet snaps, this trouble
is common.
Affected ewes knock their lambs away.
The udder can be seen when the inflam-
mation is bad. Neglect is always dan-
gerous. The trouble won’t right itself.
The udder bursts and destroys the breed-
ing value of the ewe or turns septic and
kills the animal.
Another cause is from external injuries
to the teats, cracked teats from cold
weather, which hurt and encourage the
ewe to refuse the lamb or hold her milk.
This means lost lambs.
Treatment consists in milking out and
inflating the udder with air, as in milk
fever.
Drench with Epsom salts, loz. in 1 pint
water. Give warm. Repeat if necessary.
In bad cases, massage the udder with
olive oil, camphorated oil or marsh-
mallow ointment.
There is a disease that closely resembles
ordinary udder inflammation called
“caked udder,” and if several ewes be-
come rapidly affected, with signs in others
also, it is sure to be this.
Treatment is exactly the same as for
the other inflammation, with the excep-
tion that “c.u.” is contagious. Therefore,
isolate affected ewes, and don’t milk on to
the ground, but into a tin which can be
disinfected along with the milk. The
quicker the trouble is dealt with the
sooner the outbreak is fixed.
Bloat Prevention Methods.
“Lion”: In B. 10/6/’36 “Silky Bag”
gives us the main causes of bloat; but I
know a better method of prevention,
which I have worked consistently for the
last 12 years with losses practically nil.
Every year we turn off over 100 head
of fat cattle, besides several thou-
sand fat sheep. We have large areas of
lucerne, clovers and natural trefoils. We
experience very heavy frosts, which are
one of the main causes of winter bloat.
Whatever type of stock we buy, we
put into a rich grass paddock for a week,
at least, according to condition. The
poorer the stock the longer the grass-
feeding. This makes for stamina.
Drive them on to the lucerne with a
full belly. This is the “golden rule.”
It is essential to have a good supply
of water in the paddock. Watering stock
is one of the surest ways of inviting bloat
that I know of. They must have water
when they want it, and not when you
can take them. Artificial watering makes
them drink too much at once, often with
fatal results. I know a man who lost an
average of a beast a day, besides those
he saved, by watering fat lucerne-fed
bullocks in the summer.
A rough stack in the paddock is excel-
lent, which corroborates what “Silky
Bag” says. Failing that, in summer let
the stock roam on a grass paddock, or
feed roughage to them. Incidentally, it
hastens fattening to a remarkable degree.
Leave the paddocks to grow well during
the early autumn, foregoing that last cut,
which often is rain-spoilt. This allows
plenty of stalks, which not only provide
adequate protection to the young lucerne
growth, but also roughage as the stock
{Continued on page 24.)


7'//.%&
•f'III I ////////< • •
Hi Uf////////;.
m
%
<&•...
MW
ft;!*
1
m
W/hA
:*/5
M
*
spy
vv^
•*VW
•'■sy.
1
•VX
;;i
r
ST
Iv%> %'*
*
• •••••••**•••••••• *»•••(•••••• •••••• ff9aalv | tt9#9V o 9vcata •>« «»•«■>•*
/'
BP
\
&
V
m
Born 1820 —
Still going Strong
Looking for a satisfying drink ? A
drink that sets you up? A drink that
looks good, tastes good, is good
to the last drop? Johnnie Walker,
Easy to buy; easier still to open—
and to drink it easiest of all!
JOHNNIE
WAbHER
SCOTCH WHISKY
As old and as good as ever
JW—50.30
LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY


BETTER COMFORT
AND APPEARANCE
A SQUARE-TOED OXFORD with a hand-made appear-
ance, made of high-grade calf, with a broad welt and
punched facings. Abbey Shoes are definite money-savers. They
last longer, and keep their trim shape better
Stocked in full and half sizes and medium and wide fittings.
Black Calf, 39/6. Brown Calf 39/6.
N.
Use Abbey special polish for keeping your
shoes like new. It gives a brilliant shine
and preserves the leather. 6d. per tin.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
The BANK of
AUSTRALASIA
can help you
on your travels . .
Incorporated by
Royal Charter
fd
1835
Money, the traveller's greatest need, should never be
carried in currency. The safest and most convenient
method of financing a journey is by means of
Travellers' Letters of Credit.
In this and other ways, the Bank of Australasia has
assisted Australian travellers for over a century. The
Bank's agents and correspondents in every country
are available for assistance, also.
The Bank has two offices in London, one being in the
West End. This branch has recently returned to its
old address at 17 Northumberland Avenue, in the
Royal Empire Society's Building, where re-modelling
has been completed. Special provision has been
made here for the requirements of Australian and New
Zealand travellers visiting London.
Head Office in Australasia:
394-6 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
July Issue Now on Sale.
SHARES OF MERIT
A Market Review
FORESTRY BONDS AND SHARES
More Developments
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 232 George Street, Sydney, and all States
hk
mi «
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel. Xylo. Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for |in.. Jin. and Sin.
blades. 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street. Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/•
Xylo - 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keot in order for two
rears free of charge
graze. They can’t get at the dangerous
stuff without eating some of the other.
This method has never failed us.
Once on the paddock, leave stock
alone, even when apparently blown up.
One side up doesn’t matter much. It
is moderately safe. They gradually get
used to the lucerne, and can carry a
“load” without serious consequences.
Buyers have often reckoned that we are
taking a risk. It is nothing compared
with shifting of stock off and then back
again.
When frosts are about, better feed or
supply roughage for safety. This applies
to clovers and trefoils, especially the
latter, as well as lucerne.
In the last 12 years we have lost only
five beasts from bloat.
A Pasture Survey.
The C.S.I.R. has issued the most use-
ful and condensed survey of Australian
pastures yet printed, and has explained it
with a map which might easily be used
as a basis for national development. It
divides the continent into 14 types of
area, and leaves the observer appalled at
the immensity of the work which is being
left undone.
Rainfalls, grasses and timbers are listed
for each zone. Except for Victoria and
tiny strips in N.S.W. and Queensland
along the coast, practically the whole of
Australia depends on natural pastures.
Rich rain forest lands resolve themselves
into only isolated patches stretching in
no case more than 100 miles from the
East Pacific shore.
Tasmania appears to have more rain
forest in proportion to its area than any
other section of the continent. There are
two big belts of open country —limestone
and volcanic—one stretching northwards
to Burketown from Charleville (Q.) and
the other covering the Barkly Tableland,
Both these carry Mitchell grass. And
there are others mixed with spinifex to
the west of the Queensland belt and with
forest land nearer the coast. A great belt
of saltbush lies between a lesser natural
grazing belt around Moree (N.S.W.) and
the western end of the Bight, reaching as
far north as the Macdonnell Ranges. The
whole of the centre is spinifex and spini-
fex with intrusions of semi-arid to arid
j grassland.
From Onslow (N.W.A.) to 131 deg. long,
there is another belt of natural-grassland
grazing, which ends at its easterly point
at the Hall’s Creek to Wave Hill area,
where the good limestone and volcanic
grazing comes in blocks of some thous-
sands of square miles. From Derby, round
the northern and eastern coasts, there is a
belt of open forest grazing which reaches
down to Victoria and frames the open
grasslands of the mid-western tablelands
of N.S.W. and Victoria on one side.
At first glance it is a disheartening
map, but it is evident on careful study
that there are tens of millions of ob-
viously improvable acres still untouched
by intensive improvement. And there are
tens of millions more which experiment
will surely make improvable, and for
which a standard policy, conceived apart
from politics, should be framed.
Swedes.
“R.X.8.”: Swedes are the most profit-
able catch-crop I have handled. The
best districts for growing them for the
table are those that get the frosts, and
I swedes should not be pulled for market-
ing until they have had a frost on them.
Any free working soil will suit them;
and better use super.
The seed of any purple-top variety
should be sown with a drill. Sowings
should be made in succession to get the
first frost, and allow supplies to be sent
forward during the whole winter.
The crop should be thinned to about
eight inches. Scuffling to keep the weeds
down and the top soil open should be
done frequently. Pull the things when
they are about as big as a teacup, and
cut off the tops and tails. They should
go eight tons to the acre at that stage,
and it isn’t much use sending big ones.
The tops are good green feed for any
stock, and will not taint milk.
Wash the swedes before bagging
whether they need it or not, and other-
wise treat them the same as spuds. They
will weigh the same. Put a good brand
in a bright color on your bags, so that
agents and buyers will recognise them
as containing honest goods. That pays
with swedes and everything else.
Cultivate Maize Land.
“F.”: It’s a mistake to let maize
land lie under old stalks during winter
and then give one good ploughing in
spring for the next crop. This, habit has
as much to do with reducing the N.S.W.
corn yield as any other factor.
Nothing responds to good cultivation
better than maize. Deep, early plough-
ing and winter fallow mean high yields
because they permit maximum moisture
storage and release of plant food, thus
giving the young plant a good start on
a plentiful supply of soluble food. Tests
at Grafton gave a yield of 591 bushels
per acre from a May ploughing, 55
bushels from June ploughing and 48
bushels from August ploughing.
Leaving the ground under the old
stalks leaves the next crop wide open
to decimation from root and stem
diseases.
Another Weed Pest.
“Vic.”: Another weed pest is making
a supreme nuisance of itself in southern
N.S.W. and Victoria —hairy cress, or
white weed, which has a root system like
skeleton weed, but few of its good points.
Stock will eat skeleton weed under cer-
tain conditions, but at no stage of its
growth do they value the cress. In
some districts it is already prophesied
that it will be a greater nuisance than
skeleton weed.
It grows about 18in. high, with leaves
about Sin. long and llin. broad. And
the roots link plant to plant through a
series of buds, from which new speci-
mens grow. The foliage is whitish and
covered with fine hairs. It is an early-
summer flowerer. In Europe I have seen
hairy cress growing along railway em-
bankments, and in some of the Medi-
terranean States farmers have a whole-
some respect for it.
It is especially the enemy of the man
who does not rotate his crops—particu-
larly the wheatgrower. At the present
stage there is not so much of it in most
districts that rigorous cultivation will not
deal with it, but once it gets a good start
the owners of a good many thousand
acres will wish they had never seen it.
Hints for the Farm.
“Farmint”: To mend a crack in the
kitchen stove, use equal parts of wood
ashes and salt mixed to a paste with
water. Work the paste into the cvack
whether the stove is hot or cold. Con-
tinue to fill up until shrinkage has fin-
ished, and smooth off with emery paper
when the stove is cold.
“Bluetongue”: If you are ever caught
without belt fasteners, try using two or
three of the ordinary type of woolbale
fasteners. Hook the short ends in one
end of the belt, hammer them flat, draw,
the ends of the belt together and treat
the long points in the same way. They
can also be used to join two belts to-
gether for use on a wide pulley.
“8.T.”: Excellent “eye” portions for
gate hinges can be made from broken
main leaves of car springs. Heat to
make them workable, when it is easy
to straighten and drill bolt-holes in
them.
“Z. 0.”: To keep sheepskins from
rats, stretch a wire about 6ft. from the
ground and hang the skins on it, wool
to wire. As soon as the skins are dry
cover them with old bags —super, bags
are just the thing. They won’t warp or
wrinkle this way.
“L.M.”: To concrete a floor, dig 2in.
deeper than the depth the concrete is to
be and place formers in position round
the edges. Put in 2in. of sand or ashes.
The concrete should be 1 part cement,
2 parts sand and 4 gravel or crushed
stone. Mix with water till it is jellylike,
then lay in and beat down with spade,
finishing to smoothness with the straight
edge of a board.
“Sao”: A white lump under a limping
horse’s shoe indicates a corn. If pos-
sible, give the animal a month’s rest in
a soft paddock, but, if not, cut out the
growth and fill the hole with turpentine.
Cover with a soft leather pad and re-
shoe.
“Aram”; In onion-growing, watch
out for wind—once a plant is broken it
is finished. Bags make the best wind
fence and the more the field is divided
by fences the safer it is.
“Zedo”; To turn leaf refuse more
quickly into compost, use about 2cwt.
of the following to the ton of rubbish;
2 parts ammonium sulphate, 1 part
ground limestone, 1 part ground rock
phosphate.
“L.M.”: To kill zamias and save
rickets, put a tablespoon of kerosene in
the heart of the plant in midsummer.
The dose should be applied where the
new leaves grow out.
“Spud”: At York (W.A.) Jubilee wheat
sown on 1 /70th of an acre produced
601 b. of grain, an approximate yield of
70 bushels an acre. The return from the
sowing was given to another farmer who
intends producing the variety on a large
scale. '


HOTEL
Bent, Phillip
METROPOLE
Voting Streets, Sydney
m
111
m
it I
m
mm
ill
»mm
m
i si
ns
m
H
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
“METRO POLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
Self-control is being able to wait at
the telephone without scribbling on the
writing pad.
"I- 4* -I* -I-
“Dr. Earle Page is investigating the Australian
apple market overseas, leaving no stone un-
turned to increase their consumption.”
—Sydney paper.
For professional reasons he doesn’t
want' them consumed in Australia.
*!* •!* v
“The average woman is no carpenter.”
— Woman’s paper.
No ; all they can do is tint their own
nails and waste their husbands’ screws.
*l*
“A man in a divorce case said his wife never
cooked anything but sausages, and the food
was simply thrown at him.”
He should have been thankful that
there was no soup.
•J*
“Gold Weather Snow on Tablelands.”—
“S. M. Herald."
As registered by the Chalet box-office
thermometer.
*!♦ *t* *!• *l*
“A man in South Australia claims that he
has neither shaved nor sworn in his life.”
Well, why should he swear? He’s
never had to use a blunt razor.
“ ‘Being in a crowd always gives me a stitch
in the side,’ says a feature writer.”
From being hemmed in, of course.
T v -b -!-
“A phrenologist suggests that the fitness of a
man to drive a car might be told by phren-
ology.”
Well, of course, you can tell a bad
driver by his bumps.
-I' *l* *1- -I*
“For Sale. —Two Draught Horses, no further
use.” — Hobart "Mercury.”
Who said there was no truth in adver-
tising?
■l* “I* T -!•
“Lovers of snow are hastening to Kosciusko.”
—"Sun.”
Some, however, still patronise Dar-
linghurst.
*l* *l*
Endeavor.
“ ‘You say you have made efforts to pay
this debt?’ ‘I have had a ticket in the lottery
every week; but my luck is too bad. 1 once
won £lOO. It paid other debts.’ ”
—Bankruptcy report.
That is exactly the way with me. I’ve
tried every way possible to pay my debts,
but my lottery luck is rotten. I have
stroked black cats, rubbed shoulders with
Chinamen, picked up pins, put on my
underclothes inside out —nobody could
have worked harder to earn good luck ;
but it’s no good.
I have won a prize or two, of course.
A few paltry hundreds and some fifties
only, with the exception of one second
prize. Rotten luck winning merely a
thousand when it might just as easily
have been the five thou. But, as I say,
my luck is putrid.
Of course, I suppose a thousand is
useful enough—you can make a splash
for a bit on it. But it’s impossible to
think of paying debts out of such a
feeble sum.
I’m afraid that Peebles, my grocer, will
have to wait for his ten quid until my
luck changes. I’m still trying all I. know,
buying lottery tickets and stroking black
cats.
H. M.
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
Vll. —G EAR-CHANGING.
Nothing is more distracting to the
novice woman driver than to be con-
stantly made aware of the violent shud-
ders evinced by her tutor as she rips the
gears in. To avoid this, if possible, tell
her to press the clutch in and wajt for a
few seconds before changing the gears.
As she declutches, the car, from 6
m.p.h., will roll slowly forward. Just as
it comes to a dead stop, about twelve
seconds afterwards, she’ll slam the gear
in, let the clutch in with a bang, and the
engine will conk out.
Just wait. Don’t remark on it (you
probably won’t get a chance to, anyway).
Here it comes:
“There ! that’s ypur silly idea of wait-
ing. If you’d let me do it my way it
would have been all right. Now I’ve got
to start all over again”
“But I said only a few seconds”
“That’s a man all over —say something
vague and expect it to be understood.”
A few spasmodic jerks will proclaim
that she is in first again. In the back of
your mind will lurk the awful possibility
of her putting the selector straight up into
reverse from first, so to get the agony
over you say:
“Now get into second —don’t forget;
half-way”-
“Don’t prompt me —I know —half-way
up, across and up again.” As she tri-
umphantly grinds it in you sigh with re-
lief as disaster to the gearbox is again
averted, and you wonder how long such
phenomenal luck will last.
“Now a little more speed,” you say,
“and get into top—-just pull it straight
towards you.”
Ignoring the clutch altogether, she just
pulls the selector and, amazingly, it goes
straight in. Although by this time you
should be inured to shocks, you’ll prob-
ably look dazed as you ask:
“Didn’t you use the clutch ?”
Being a woman, to whom all theories
and mechanical principles pale before
actual results, she will naturally say:
“Of course not! You didn’t mention
anything about using it for going from
second gear into top.”
“But you have to use it to change into
any gear,” you say.
“Have you! Well, / got into gear just
now without using it, so I don’t think this
gear thing is as important as you make
it out to be!”
Of course, you could explain, with a
wealth of detail, the technical reasons
"Y' might bring me some peanuts
on y'r way back, Steve!"
why she fluked the thousand-to-one
chance of doing it, but your chances of
convincing her would be nebulous.
Thereafter the gear lever dwindles in
her eyes to sheer insignificance, a thing
to be dispensed with as the whim takes
her.
S. W. K.
*!* *!• *!* 'l*
Logic.
It was his first trip on a river boat.
During the voyage he noticed the crew
every now and then working a hand
pump.
“1 never knew before,” he drawled at
the tea-table later when giving his family
a detailed account of his experience, “that
they ’ad wells on boats, but it’s a good
idea all right, because in some places the
river water’s that, dirty-lookin’ a bloke
wouldn’t fancy drinkin’ it.”
Dregs.
“In olden days doctors used to bleed their
patients.”— “Sunday Sun.”
Well, well! Some old customs are still
popular.
*!• *
Straws in the Wind.
“Rain fell yesterday throughout virtually the
whole State, and snow was reported to be
falling on the highlands. In Canberra this
is taken as a favorable sign, but reports from
Tokio do not support this view.” — “Argus.”
The wisdom of paying attention to
meteorological portents may be ques-
“How many times have I told you not to call on my daughter?”
tioned, but if the idea extends we may
expect the formation of a Common-
wealth Bureau of Omens, whose fore-
casts will be eagerly studied.
Thus:
The hailstorm at Coolangatta yesterday
is regarded as ominous, and holders of
gold scrip are advised to sell.
Or;
Farmers in the Wimmera district will be
delighted to hear that Friday night’s meteor
has been interpreted as presaging a bumper
season. Seeding should be commenced
immediately.
And even this:
The significance of the comet which for
the last three weeks has been baffling the
experts of the Omens Dept, has at last been
realised. It foretells an overwhelming vic-
tory for the Government at the forthcom-
ing elections.
Uco.
*F "b *F
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XXII. —A Turbulent Sea.
At one time Tasmania was joined on
to the mainland. Many people consider
it was a mistake to break the connection.
The island is usually approached from
Melbourne.
You steam down the Bay through more
or less tranquil waters and decide that all
this talk of a rough crossing is without
foundation.
The Heads loom up.
“Ah!” says a seasoned traveller (prob-
ably a Tasmanian politician). “There’s
the Rip. Now we’ll get it.”
A few passengers shudder and turn
pale, but you glance ahead and remain
calm. It looks all right to you. Scarcely
any rougher than the water you’re
already in.
You pass through the Heads. You
enter the Rip. The deck you are stand-
ing on seems to undergo a queer change.
A moment ago it was as steady as a staid
old cart-horse, but now it is prancing
and curveting like a fiery mustang.
•You feel that you could stand either
the up-and-down motion or even the side-
to-side action, or even both of them, pro-
vided they came separately, but when
they persist in coming together, fighting
for supremacy the while, it is past a joke.
It’s like being on a see-saw which is bal-
anced transversely across another see-
saw, which in turn trembles precariously
on a rolling ball.
At least, that’s how you analyse it
later. At the moment you have neither
time nor desire for analysis.
The deck disappears. Miraculously,
you are in your cabin. You seem to
have been there for years —years of
agony. How you got into your bunk
you can’t imagine, and don’t try to.
More years pass. Once in every two
or three decades a steward comes and
goes. He seems to have a mania for col-
lecting little boxes. The composite see-
saw motion has not abated, and the sea
is beating against your porthole as if
it intends to dash through and sink the
ship. You wish it would, but you haven't
the strength to unscrew the porthole.
You doze and dream fitfully. You
have been shipwrecked ; you are being
chased by lions; guillotined; eaten by
crocodiles, very slowly and deliberately ;
you are imprisoned for life. No such
luck! You awake and are still in your
cabin.
More see-saws, more dreams, more
years and more visits from the steward.
Then the gradual realisation that time,
the ship and the steward are all stand-
ing still. The steward speaks.
“We’re there.”
You do not reply. He goes out.
You are on deck. You are leaving the
ship. You hear voices.
“Rough trip, skipper?”
“Oh, no. Nothing out of the ordi-
nary.”
You are ashore. You have arrived in
Tasmania. And for the moment you are
prepared to stay there for ever.
Jasby.
The Incompetent Lover.
Though I find women altogether charm-
ing.
And hold that true love is the spice of
life,
The wasted years slip by with pace
alarming —
I’m forty-five and still without a wife.
I pet with Fay, Felicity or Frances;
I golf and surf with Janet. Joyce or
Joan.
I partner them to dinners , shows and
dances,
But otherwise I’m more or less alone.
And while unmarried girls there are in
plenty
I doubt if one will ever marry me.
For, though I’ve studied love since I was
twenty,
I’ve only got a bachelor’s degree !
P.O.M.C.
Naked Truth.
I approve of the nude in art,
Despite what the wowsers say ;
I’ve commended it right from the start —
It’s because I was born that way!
P. C.


A Serial Novel of Strange, Dramatic Adventure:-
The Papuan
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
huistcatc-d
9y
?ucvf
Chapter VII. —( Continued .)
an AUL,” said Joyce, leaning slightly forward
| and watching him across the roses, “you're
A looking older. I’ve thought so more than once
to-night, but I was too excited when I first saw
you to be sure about anything.”
He met her glance with a brave attempt to smile.
“I hope the change is not making me repulsive.”
Her eyes shone softly in the fireglow.
“Do you know, Paul, that’s the first sound of a
carefree voice I heard in Papua. The old Paul at
last.”
“He’s still there, you see, although perhaps a little
shy. The occasion”
She waved a hand impatiently.
“There mustn’t be any talk of occasions. Besides,
the man I knew in Papua was equal to any occasion.
I can’t help noticing something new and unfamiliar,
as if you had to make a big effort to be yourself.
Paul dear, you’re not worried about anything, are
you?”
“Dreadfully. I’ll always be worried about some-
thing or other. Don’t forget, Joyce, that you see me
now in my native background. In Papua I was like
a bird uncaged, and I suppose it made me slightly
irresponsible. You may have to know me all over
again.”
She shook her head slowly.
“Perhaps I’m seeing things that aren’t there.
What creatures we are! I’m so glad to be with you
again that I’m beginning to torment myself with possi-
bilities of unhappiness—a sort of topheaviness of
gladness. Don’t take any notice of me, and do try
to eat something.”
She turned to her own plate, and Paul took a
pear and began to peel it. He was glad to have her
eyes off his face, for he feared that in another moment
she would notice a dampness on his brow. Sweat
was coming out gently on his skin, and he could do
nothing to keep it back. His lips were dry.
It was inevitable that he should show nervous-
ness, but he must keep Joyce from touching the real
state of his feelings. She was framed so sensitively
that she could know the presence of danger while it
still lurked at a distance. Yet he must keep her from
suspecting his suspense until a chance came to slip
away to that small room to which he had carried Lola
before coming down to meet Joyce.
He bent his head lower so that the roses hid him
from Joyce, and she could not see the spasm across
his face at the thought of those moments, weighted
with dread, when he held the dead woman in his
arms, and when he stood later, waiting for his pulse
to grow steady. It was a small room, quite bare of
furniture, and with a window high up that let in the
twilight. He had stayed there as long as he dared,
fearing that the sweat would never cease pouring out
upon his skin, and that his mouth would never end
its trembling.
And now he was with Joyce, and the first hours
of their meeting were over. He could not say clearly
how they had passed. Things had been said ; there
had been kisses and caresses, and he could remember
Joyce’s eyes, constantly upon him. There was a light
in them that he might have to quench. He could not
do it! Lola had called him weakling more than once,
and she must have been right. If it were strength to
tell Joyce of all that had happened, of the dead
woman and his relations with her, then he was truly
a weakling. He could not tell Joyce, and yet in some
way she must have the truth ; in some way he must
escape the consummation of love towards which the
hours were moving them,
Joyce must never know that there had been
sudden death. Never for an instant would he admit
that it had been murder. She had died under the
touch of his hands but not from their pressure, even
though afterwards he had looked with horrified eyes
at purple bruises on her neck. It was her weak heart
that had betrayed the both of them. And the fright
of the afternoon had helped ; for the memory of it
had leaped into her eyes as she felt his hands at her
throat, and he had seen there the fear that he wished
to harm her. Fear had been her murderer.
Joyce must never know. And yet, if he were
unable to get away without making her suspicious,
how was he to go through a mockery of happiness?
There must be some way out of it. God would show
him a way. He knew there was a God. And it
wasn’t just his fear that made him anxious to believe
in His nearness. But perhaps it was. He couldn’t
know. He could only try to think, and then give
way to dark waves of feeling, and then struggle back
towards thought. And all this time he must stay
very still and bite at his pear and lift his head to
Joyce—and thank God secretly for the shadows of
the room and the kindness of the fire that was dying
down and ebbing quietly from the table.
As he sat there Paul began to feel that the room
was growing smaller and smaller; and the hideous
fancy seized him that all the rest of the house was
growing larger. He was sitting with Joyce in a shrink-
ing room, a tiny safety zone at the very heart of
danger. All around them were things that waited:
the darkness of the stairs, the creakings of timbers,
the dim colors of dusk coming through skylights ; and
up there, in that small rooni now growing terrifyingly
larger, was the rigid body that only this afternoon
had been warm.
He was safe here with Joyce ; but in a little while
he would have to go out there. Something would
happen. He didn’t know what it would be, for his
imagination was tired ; but it would be strange and
terrible, and it-was already in wait for him. And
this was most terrible of all: that he must stay here
and resist the impulse that swept over him every few
minutes like a wave, the impulse to leap to his feet
and run out through those glass doors, down the
sloping face of the knoll and the rough grass, out to
trees leaning towards him with black shadows, and
on towards the wooded depths of a distant glade he
remembered from the afternoon—where even the
aspens ceased to tremble.
; ’... T ’• • v > . I (. . . “I r ’ r
11.
“Paul,” said Joyce, “there’s something wrong!”
They were sitting by the fire, and as she spoke
Joyce left her chair and began to walk up and down
the room. The firelight followed her, flickering on
her tall figure. In the middle of the room the table
shone among the outermost waves of light, and beyond
this were pools of shadow, disturbed by the merest
ripples as the flames rose higher on the hearth.
“It keeps coming over me,” went on Joyce, return-
ing to the fire. “A sort of disturbance out of the
night.”
She lifted her head as if to listen; and Paul
feared that if he did not speak she would reach out,
in her marvellously quick way, and discover the new
secret of her house,
“Are you sure it’s in the night and not in your-
self?”
“I’m not at all sure. I’ve been trying to think
it out while we’ve been sitting here, and I’m annoyed
that it should be necessary. How could there be
anything wrong with myself? When I came to meet
you I put everything else out of my thoughts. My
mind is clear.”
“I wonder if it’s possible to clean out our minds
as completely as that!”
“I don’t know. But even if I have to bring my
troubles with me they shouldn’t be able to survive.
They should have vanished at the moment I first
saw you.”
She came to his chair and looked down on him.
. “I know I’m all right. There’s no room in me
for anything but love to-night; and if there are fears
too and faint forebodings they must be the children
of love. I’m not afraid for myself, and there’s only
one other person I can think of at present—you. Are
you sure, my dear, there isn’t something in your mind
which could reach me and trouble me in this way?”
■ He tried to laugh, and patted her hand as it
lay on the arm of his chair.
“You frighten me, Joyce. How can my miserable
soul withstand those eyes of yours?”
He ran his hand up her bare arm, glad of its
warmth and softness.
“I don’t mind how much of my weakness you
discover, but I wish you would leave my troubles
where they belong.”
She seated herself on the arm of his chair and
put cool fingers against his forehead.
“They’re not your troubles any longer ; they’re
ours. My dear, how hot your head is!”
He got up rather quickly.
“A slight headache,” he admitted. “Nothing more.
Too much excitement, I suppose.”
She followed him away from the fire, seizing his
arm as he came to a standstill, and forcing him to
look at her.
“Paul, it won’t do! There’s something big in
your mind. I’ve been feeling it for the last hour. It’s
around you like a cloud.”
She put her hands on his shoulders.
“Won’t you tell me?”
Her hands were resting lightly, but he felt as
if they were forcing him out of this shrinking room
into some smaller prison, some cell-like place in which
he would be locked away with his memories of the
night’s happenings.
He forced himself to meet her glance.
“Joyce, there’s nothing.”
She looked at him a little longer before taking
away her hands.
“You’ll think I’m inquisitive and troublesome.
But it’s just that I want to help.”
She walked away from him and returned to the
hearth.
“You see, dear, this night is important, and if
we’re to make anything out of it we must face it
with clear minds. There’s no room here for anything
that belongs outside.”
“I know ; and I’m afraid I’m not all that you
wanted me to be. Sometimes I wonder if you haven’t
made a mistake about me. I mean,” he hastened to
add as he saw her surprised movement, “that I feel
rather feeble and helpless when I’m shown a glimpse
of your ideal of me. You have built me into an ideal
person, you know ; and sometimes I’m sorry. I’m
even more human than you imagine. There are things
I’ve done —I don’t know. It’s hard to talk like
this ; but you’re putting a sort of responsibility on
me to-night; you’re lifting me up to your own level,
to share something big. And 1 don’t think I’m fit
for it.”
He was speaking quickly and rather loosely, and
his breath was uneven.
Joyce came back to him.
“My darling!”
She put her arms about him, and once again the
darkness and fear went out of him as their lips met.
If only he could hold that moment!
“I’ve been foolish,” she said, drawing back.
“There was too much impatience in my letters, and I
suppose they troubled you. But you mustn’t have
false ideas about me. I’m very much in earnest about
to-night. I’ve looked forward to it for an age. But
I’m not expecting you to come immaculately to a
mystic union of souls. We’re together, Paul, and
we’ve shut the world away from us. I wanted to
escape the bustle and noise, but I didn’t expect any-
thing impossible from the man who was to meet me
here. It was just Paul 1 wanted.”
“Which Paul? There are several, you know.”
“There’s only one now. Our Paul.”
“I wonder!”
She watched him with puzzled eyes, and he had
a hopeless feeling that he was spoiling everything
for her.
“There’s something wrong! You wouldn’t talk
like this if your mind were free. Is it like you to be
afraid of happiness? Were you like this in Papua?
Why, I can, see yop now, laughing and glowing, with
the clearest eyes in the world. Not a question in
them —not a doubt. And now you’re afraid of me
and afraid of yourself, and there’s something about
you like a mist —and I can’t overcome it!”
She turned away from him, and for the first time
he saw her with drooping head. He had known that
he might have to play an ungracious, destructive part ;
and it seemed as if, in his anxiety and fear, he was
doing unconsciously the things he was afraid to do
openly. He knew that he could not allow this night
to go through as it had been planned ; but his alter-
native was a cruel one. Somehow, Joyce must be
made to see that things had changed ; and already,
in her quick way, she was seeing and sensing—-and
fearing.
; “There is something wrong,” he said suddenly.
“I can’t help thinking of things you should know
about me. They didn’t matter out, in Papua. I was
tasting freedom there, and this night had not been
promised to me. But now it’s different. You think
you know me, but that isn’t enough. How can I take
your love if 1 feel that I haven’t been honest?”
She had turned hopefully, but now she shook
her head.
“Do you think those things haven’t been in my
mind? Did you really imagine that I had a child-
like faith in your past: that I thought you were coming
to me quite clean and untouched? No, my dear ;
I’m a grown woman with some small knowledge of
the world. I don’t mean that I have a smooth indiffer-
ence to these things. Every woman has a secret resent-
ment for the other, unknown women. I’ve had my
taste of jealousy ; but it’s done with now. 1 don’t
want to hear any confessions. I’m in love with you,
Paul, as you are now: the man I see, and the man
I believe will grow out of you some day. Most of
all, perhaps, it’s that man. I think I could even say
that I fell in love with the promise that’s in you. My
own Paul is hardly here yet. He came once or twice
in Papua, and I saw a lot of him after you had come
back to England. I half-expected to find him here
to-night; but perhaps I was too impatient. He will
come more quickly after to-night.”
Paul went to her and took her hand.
“You’re the dearest woman,” he said in a low
voice. “I love you, Joyce. I hadn’t meant to tell
you that; I didn’t think I was fit to tell you.”
He felt her arms go about him. And then, as it
seemed that at last a promise of passion grew into her
embrace, a fear swept over him that the night would
be too strong for him, and that, if he were not careful,
he would be betrayed into a shame for which there
could be no absolution. Then, trembling in spite of
himself, he buried his face against her breast and
struggled with his weakness.
“Joyce! Joyce!”
And then in a whisper that she could not hear;
“I’m afraid!”


111.
At ten o’clock Paul knew he could wait no
longer. A hundred ideas for escape had come to
him; but each one was more impossible than the
others, and called for steady nerves, calm invention
and gifts for acting that certainly were not his.
Joyce had grown quiet, and was sitting near the
fire. The shadows had come further into the room
but were not so deep, for the moon was up at last.
Paul had moved his chair back to the edge of shadow,
muttering that the room was growing too warm;
and now he sat rather stiffly, his eyes on Joyce’s bent
head.
What was she thinking? he wondered. He knew
that she must be puzzled and oppressed, but he could
do nothing to help her. His thought seemed to reach
her, for she rose quickly and walked to the doors,
which had been opened again as the room grew warm.
’ Paul * turned in his chair and watched her as she
looked into the night. Moonlight was on the thres-
hold, adding silver to her dress.
“You know, Paul,” she said, “I’ve begun to think
that there’s a simple explanation for the way I’ve
been feeling. It’s so simple and so obvious that it’s
almost certain to be the truth. And I’m afraid of it.”
“What on earth do you mean?” -
“You think I’m talking strangely? Perhaps I am.
And yet you always understood in Papua. That,
was why I hoped so much from you. We were
close to each other, and I ventured to dream of a
splendid, untouchable intimacy. You and I were to
become one. I wonder how many pairs of people
have had that dream! It’s the wistful longing for
completeness, I suppose, and marriage doesn’t always
satisfy it.
“I thought to myself that I would overcome the
old problem of separation. The physical side of love
is beautiful, but it comes to a flatness and disappoint-
ment unless it can be made an introduction to a calm
intimacy of spirit . . . Do you think I’m talking
rubbish?”
The sudden question startled him.
“Not rubbish, my dear. It’s just your idealism,
I think.”
She turned back to the moonlight.
“Idealism! Uncle used to say it was a word
we’ve stolen from philosophers, and that it’s never
quite lost something of the feeling of those who
return exhausted from thoughts that lead nowhere.
Perhaps it is the right word.”
“You’i'e tired, Joyce. And a
little disappointed.”
“That’s because of my new
thought—a terrible thought, for all
its simplicity. But it’s here, and 1
can’t put it aside, and it may ex-
plain the heaviness that’s been
bearing on me increasingly since I
came into this house. In a little
while I’m going to ask you a ques-
tion” —
“Why not now?”
“Because I want to keep my
dream a little longer. You see,
I’ve had it for six months, and it’s
become important to me. And it
was a good dream.”
“Why do you speak as if it
were over?”
She did not answer at once.
“It’s a perfect night,” she said
at last, ignoring his question.
“Won’t you come here for a
moment and look at it?”
He rose to go to her. but fear
slowed his steps. Was this the
moment towards which the night
had been moving them? Was it
now that he must discover secret
reserves of strength and hold back
from her?
She reached for his hand and
drew him closer.
“Look out there, Paul. Isn’t it lovely?”
• “Beautiful!”
“Love’s own night. Don’t you think so?”
He said “Yes” indistinctly.
“A night without wildness and yet full of magnet-
ism. Those trees have never been so close together.
See how their branches mingle and how they lean
to one another in the moonlight! Such nights come
rarely, and we should be thankful for this one. Our
night, Paul. We’ll always remember it, won’t wc?”
He murmured something vaguely, but she did
not seem to hear.
“Yes,” she went on, “we’ll always remember our
night: the silence and the loveliness outside—and the
doubt and fear and disappointment inside!”
She turned to him before he had time to protest.
“I meant it, dear. I can’t unsay it. Only you
can do that.”
He stammered, “I don’t understand.”
“I see I must ask you my question, Paul.
Answer it as I still hope to hear it answered, and
we’ll go out there into the moonlight and find a glade
among the pines. I’ve begun to think we need clean
earth and trees if we are to find happiness ; there’s
something in this house that’s against us. Or else
it’s something in you. I want you to tell me. Have
you changed?”
“Joyce! You don’t think”
“I scarcely know what I think. That’s why I’m
anxious to have the truth. Until now I’ve been so
sure of everything. You were in love with me in
Papua ; it didn’t seem possible that there could be
anything shallow or temporary in what you felt for
me. But to-night, while we’ve been sitting in this
room, and I’ve wondered about your silence
and strangeness, I’ve had to realise that things do
happen that way: that men lose the strength of their
feelings in -time and distance, and that new excite-
ments come quickly to bury the old. You’re the kind
of man that women love easily; I wouldn’t want to
blame you altogether if your little Papuan romance
has become a memory that is fading. Look at me,
Paul,”
The night became empty of sound. Joyce was
looking at Paul, waiting for his answer ; and he knew
that here was the chance he had been asking for in
fragmentary, confused prayers all through the even-
ing. It was only necessary to stumble over a word
or two, to lower his eyes from hers and stammer that
the question was difficult: that he wasn’t sure, he
didn’t know ... In a moment she would have all
that she needed of the truth, and he would see her
turn from him. She would go without a word and„
without reproaches; and then he would be free to
go upstairs to that small, bare room and be alone
at last with his dreadful problem.
These thoughts flashed upon him as he bpnt
towards Joyce, His moment had come, but with it
was something stronger. It rose in him as he saw
her eyes and heard her urging him gently and sug-
gesting the quietness that might be waiting for them
in some glade in the wood. Away from the house!
Away from these shadows and those waiting stairs
and the conspiracy of empty rooms!' Perhaps if he
were among the trees with Joyce he would have the
courage to .whisper to her something of the tragedy
that was in this house and had brought unrest to her
and was threatening to destroy the sweetest night of
her life.
He fancied that these thoughts came to him, that
he held them and let them go, and fumbled towards
a decision. But there was no time for hesitation. It
simply happened that, as he stood there, with this
question to be answered, the truth rose in upon him
"Paul,” said Joyce, “there’s something wrong!”
and swept everything else aside: all fear, all pla»is,
all. prayers.
He puts his arms around her.
“Joyce, I love you.”
“My darling!” she whispered. “This is all that
matters. I can overcome anything else. It was only
that I was afraid of losing you.. I tried to believe
that I could stand it, but I think it might have been
too hard for me.”
Her lips pressed against his. They stayed close
a long time, and when they stood apart he expected
her to take his hand and tell him to follow her into
the moonlight. But she stayed, leaning against the
doorway, breathing quickly.
“Then it’s true,” she whispered. “It must be
true. I wasn’t sure —I couldn’t know. But now”
She turned from him and walked back into the
room.
“Joyce! What’s the matter?”
“I thought you had changed. I dreaded to believe
it, but I had to find out —to test you. And now I
mustn’t doubt again. It can only be that other
thing”
He followed her.
“Is there any need for this sort of thing now?”
“I had hoped not, but it seems that I can’t escape
so easily.”
She laughed in a quick, nervous way that troubled
him more than anything she had spoken.
“You talked of your past and were afraid of
bringing it here with you and spoiling this night. But
what about me? What of my past? I don’t suppose
you had thought of that!”
“Your past!” he echoed.
“Ugly words when you say them like that, Paul.
Don’t misunderstand me: there’s nothing soiled. You
know all there is to know about me, I think. But
there was something that troubled me in Papua, an
influence that seemed to come upon me like a pro-
jection of hate. I thought I had left it behind me,
yet I felt it again almost as soon as I came into this
house. It reached me as I stood in the hallway and
called to you. I lost it when I saw you and spoke to
you ; but it returned out of the shadows as we sat
together at table. Since then it has been steadily
deepening. I couldn’t believe it. There must have
been some more tangible reason for the dread that
was creeping along my nerves. That was why 1
tested you. But you have told me that you still love
me, and I have nothing to fear. And yet something
remains. It is still here, in the house, in this room —
in me!”
He was moistening his lips. There was no escape
then. He was a fool to have hoped.
“Perhaps,” he said, making an effort, “you’re
mistaken after all. There might be some other reason.”
“There’s only one reason, Paul. I know this
feeling too well to be mistaken. I fought against it
in Papua ; I’ve been fighting it here. There’s some-
thing in this house that wants to destroy me. I must
hunt it out and face it once and for all.”
“What do you mean?” he whispered.
She walked to the table. A match flared, and
she lit three candles in a stand. She returned with
the candles, and the light flowed about her face, show-
ing the anger in her eyes and the changed line of her
mouth.
“I mean,” she said, “that there’s someone else
in this house —someone who has followed me here
and is determined to keep me from happiness.
Murdoch!”
Chapter VIII.
I.
IT was Murdoch whose footfalls
had reached Lola’s ears as she
quarrelled with Paul. He had
followed them up the stairs and
had waited while Paul hesitated at
the threshold of the bedroom.
Then he crept nearer in time to
hear all that was said and to see
the violent climax while Joyce’s
voice sounded below.
Murdoch had learned quite a
lot about the house in the days he
had spent prowling about the
grounds and along the edge of the
woods. It had been simple to open
a window when the doors were
locked, and he had spent hours in
rooms that were still shadowed
and heavy with dust —beneath a
stained-glass window through which
the light came slowly, and in halls
and passages that were strangely
without space and echo. He had
had time to explore and discover,
and in the moments of surprise he
knew where to hide and wait until
Paul had gone down to Joyce.
There was a small, empty room at
the end of the passage upstairs, and
while Paul was still bending over
Lola he hurried in there and closed
the door.
He was sure that he would be
safe in here, but he made up his
mind to get out of the house as
soon as the way was clear. He had
had enough. It was a kind of mad-
ness that had drawn him here in
the first place, but he could go no
further. A little later, perhaps, he
might be able to steal one glimpse
of Joyce ; and then he would creep
outside and down the terrace to
those trees that reminded him so
much of the pine forest near the
summit of Weary Mountain. An
hour in there would help him to free himself from
unrest, and then he would turn his back on this valley
for the last time,
Joyce would be in the arms of that fellow Burnley
by now, he supposed ; and he began to feel savage
at the thought of it. And yet, if he wanted a malicious
satisfaction in the man’s misfortunes, he had ample
reason for it. Burnley was in trouble. How was he
going to explain that woman in the house? She
seemed to have collapsed rather badly, but women
came round quickly enough after their fainting fits;
and when she went downstairs and faced Joyce there
would be trouble of several kinds. He smiled faintly,
but could find no real pleasure in the thought of
Burnley’s discomfiture while Joyce’s unhappiness lay
at the back of it.
Well, it wasn’t his problem, and he’d had enough
of his own in the last few months, God knew! Even
now he didn’t care to look back to those weeks in
Papua while he went around with the secret of his
love for Joyce at war with a jealousy for Burnley.
He had applied for furlough because reaction brought
a craving for movement, and he decided to go to
Sydney and become civilised and perhaps dissolute.
Sydney had choice women ; and he hoped that one
or two of them might help to overcome his foolish-
ness.
But Sydney was somehow disappointing. He’
stayed long enough to puzzle a few women here and
there with ardors alternating with coolnesses, with
generosity set against an almost savage disapproval;
and then, rising one morning, he went to a shipping
office and came out with a ticket for London and
labels that would have to go on his baggage that
same day if he wanted it to be in time for the boat.
His passport was valid, and within a few hours he
was on an Orient liner watching the crowds and the
o Continued on page 50.)


FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” O/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, O/ O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
mbm
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
S vdney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Fine Character Study:-
PETER CARRIED ON
BY C. KELLY.
PETER pulled his shapeless felt over
his eyes for greater protection from
the light while he examined the letter.
It was from Hilda. Contact with his
elder daughter always left him with a
curious feeling of self-distrust and a
lowering of his self-esteem that vaguely
annoyed him. She was so observant
when it came to the little, pleasant foibles
of which a man likes to believe his
friends are unaware: and so outspoken.
He opened the envelope slowly, aware
of a feeling of impending unpleasantness,
which was confirmed as he read it.
Dear Dad, — Alma, Don, Fred and I
have had a little talk, and we think you
should give up work and live near us in
case of sickness or anything. Don is sure
he could find a buyer for your property .
and he also knows of a good investment
that would give you sufficient for pocket
money and clothes. You could live with
us turn and turn about, which would, /
think, be a fair arrangement for everyone
concerned.
He visualised them under the leader-
ship of Hilda apportioning equally
their shares towards his maintenance.
Blast them! Peter’s mouth tightened,
beneath its tidy grey moustache, in
his effort to control his mortifica-
tion and anger. He thrust the letter into
his trousers pocket and continued his
work where he had left off. The
impact of the mallet on the chisel handle
rang out sharply, in accordance with his
mood, as he worked methodically across
the beam.
So they had decided it was time he
gave up work. To live on their care-
fully counted charity and potter in their
dingy suburban gardens. He reached the
end of the beam, and, before rising and
straightening his back carefully, paused
to run his hand lovingly over the fine-
grained, butter-colored surface of the
teak decking. Then he walked aft to
where a dab of putty, awkwardly placed
displeased his eye, took up the knife
from the putty board and worked
it into the seam, painstakingly, until its
presence defied detection.
From the height at which he worked
he could look up the path which wound
across the tea-tree flats, where patches of
deepest shade alternated with brilliant
sunlight, on clumps of bracken and
stretches of crisp green grass. Occa-
sionally through the drab tea-tree foliage
ne caught the glint and sparkle of
the blue channel water beyond. A
boy and girl crept through a hole in
the palings and stood talking in its
shelter, too absorbed in one another
to be aware of his scrutiny. It was
one of the things that lent charm and in-
terest to his life that people were always
coming and going through the hole in his
fence, unconsciously revealing passages
of comedy and sometimes tragedy in
their lives as they paused to note the
progress of his work.
Hilda had reminded him when last she
had come to see him that the fence
needed mending. She disapproved of his
entertaining visitors while he worked.
When she had kept house for him in the
years succeeding her mother’s death she
had formed a habit of bringing her knit-
ting and keeping a cold, discouraging
silence before those idlers whose presence
would have been an inducement to him
to leave off for a pleasant chat. Won-
derful manager, Hilda! He had heard
her point out once, with perfect truth,
that his finances were never so flourish-
ing as when she had managed his affairs.
“So different,” she had said, “from when
poor mother was alive.” It annoyed
while it puzzled him that all four of his
children referred to Marion as “poor
mother,” as though in her life with them
there had been that which called for
regret.
He began to work fresh putty, with its
pleasant smell of linseed oil, into a new
seam, and thought of Marion’s gentle
face and tender eyes. He could not be-
lieve that she had appeared as an un-
happy woman. Rather, he remembered
her as one who had found life rich and
satisfying. The fine lines about her face
had a way of wrinkling into happy
laughter, and her mouth had never had
the self-pitying droop that sometimes
marred Alma’s. Remembering her gentle
selflessness, he wondered why so little of
her softness was apparent in her chil-
dren’s natures. This hard, competitive,
modern manner of living, perhaps, he
thought, hastily excusing them.
The pair below moved off, still unheed-
ful of his scrutiny, and he went down
the ladder for tools to begin a new job.
He paused on his way around the
yacht’s bow to admire her. He stood
well off, with his head on one side and
his eyes half-closed, taking pleasure in
her swelling curves and diminishing lines.
Like a perfectly-formed woman, he
thought. He was filled with fresh anger
when he remembered what he was being
asked to give up. He recalled Don’s
advice: “Your way of building is out of
date. People don’t want things to last.
Cheap and effective. Go in for standard-
isation. There’s money in it,” he had
finished reverently. The old man had
remained silent; aware how useless it was
to explain how more than money, or the
value of money, to him, were the lovely
ships of his creation, built up slowly,
painstakingly, from crooks and beams he
had watched swelling to perfection in the
tall trees on the flats and finished with
imported teak and pine. It was with a
joy that was deep enough almost to be
pain that he sometimes recognised the
flowing lines of his own craftsmanship,
grown old in service and disguised by
new names and furniture, in some illus-
trated paper. It was like coming upon
an old, dear friend in an unexpected
place.
IT was late in the afternoon when Don’s
car drew up on the road opposite the
yard. They all looked a little self-con-
scious, Peter thought, as they crossed the
yard. Don turned his head in the air like a
dog snuffing the breeze, and sighed a little
as he encountered the aroma of the place.
Peter noticed that, in spite of judicious
corseting, Hilda was getting fat. She
said “Well, dad,” and kissed him absent-
mindedly upon the cheek, her thoughts
already taken up with the best method of
approach to the subject that had brought
them from town. Alma, more subtle,
laid soft fingers on his hard, brown fore-
arm and lifted curved lips to his. “Dear
old daddy!” she said, and, lifting herself
to a seat on the bench, swung an expen-
sive shoe, while she regarded him from
eyes the color of Marion’s. The boys ex-
cused themselves while they examined the
yacht, in order to give their sisters a
chance to set the ball rolling.
Hilda, direct and blunt as ever, came
to the attack at once.
“When will you leave here, Dad?”
His worn frame and gentle, kindly
smile looked inadequate defence against
the stubborn determination of Hilda’s
will and the subtlety behind Alma’s eyes.
“I don’t feel the need to retire yet, my
girl,” he told her at last, with a hint of
humor behind the seriousness of his
features.
She was quick to see an opening.
“No, but you will later. And then
what’s going to happen? You can’t be
making more than bread and butter on
these jobs, with the work you put into
them and the prices you get. You’ve
only to slip on one job and then where
are you? Why not sell out now and
prepare for the future?”
So that was it! Peter thought grimly.
They were afraid he’d come to them in
his old age for charity.
Alma, quick to see her sister’s mistake,
sought to smooth things over.
“We see so little of you out here,” she
said, with a pretty affectation of sadness,
“and we’ve no one but you now.”
Lying young hussy! Peter thought, and
wondered why he loved her insincerity
better than Hilda’s honesty.
Don came around the yacht’s quarter,
stepping carefully over the poles that
shored her up, “Well, dad, old chap,” he
said, with discomfort plainly underlying
his attempt at bluff heartiness, “have
you made up your mind to come to us?”
Peter temporised. “Not for a while yet,
son,” he said gravely.
Hilda tried a new tack.
- “You’re nothing but skin and bones!”
she stormed. “You should be where you
can have proper care and nourishment.”
Her father thought: “Best not to rouse
Hilda too much!” “Well, I never was
what you could call fat, you know,” he
observed mildly.
Fred, coming behind Don, burst into
sudden teasing laughter. “Bet Hilda
wishes she had half your complaint!”
Don and Alma exchanged a quick,
mirthful glance, but Hilda affected not
to hear him. “I think you should con-
sider the matter,” she persisted. “No one
is sure of himself at your age*” She slid
a glance from under her lashes at Fred.
“Though, of course, you’re not a drink-
ing man.”
Fred went red about the cheekbones
and drew his eyebrows together, trying to
fix Hilda’s flitting glance with an angry
look. Alma had cupped her face in her
two palms, and, elbows resting on her
crossed knees, was drinking in the scene
greedily with mischievous eyes. Peter had
a momentary vision of her repeating it,
with variations, at some future date.
“I don’t know” —Fred stared hostilely
at Hilda while he made the pronounce-
ment —“but that dad is right. A man has
a right to live his own life without inter-
ference from anyone.”
Hilda was too astute to argue with him.
“You think it over, dad,” she said, with
the graciousness of one who suggests a
treat to a child ; “we’ll have a quiet talk
about it another time.”
THEY let the matter drop at that and
went inside for a cup of tea. Alma
settled herself comfortably, while Hilda
fussed with the tea things. Through the
drift of their aimless chatter Peter was
made aware of various things that irked
them. Hilda was concerned about young
Peter, who, quite crazily, according to
his mother, talked of leaving his job and
striking out for himself. At what, Hilda
did not say. Peter gathered that she did
not know. “And with his head for busi-
ness!” she finished despairingly. Fred
gave his opinion, unsympathetically, that
with young Peter’s head for business he
was quite able to look after himself.
As he turned back into the quiet room
after they had gone Peter wondered wist-
fully which of the things they strove for
could bring them greater satisfaction than
his own treasures.
He took down the half model of his
first boat from above the mantelpiece
and rubbed loving hands over its smooth
surface. It must have darkened with age,
for its polished cedar side had held the
same ruddy tints as Marion’s hair. How
proud she had been of it and of him, and
how they had stinted and saved to build
that first ketch. He had sold her to ad-
vantage before she left the blocks.
He took down another from the shelf
above. The Marion!
He blew the dust from its upper sur-
face and, tilting it lengthways, let his
eyes dwell on its contours. The shabby
room and peaceful present faded away
and he was back in the vivid days of his
early manhood. There had been heart-
break in every line of the Marion. They
had redoubled their efforts for the build-
ing of her. On the return trip from her
maiden voyage she had gone ashore on
the north breakwater. He had battled
out along the wall and had clung to a
big rock near its end, to watch her dark
shape rise and fall in the gloom ahead ;
and every time she came down heavily
upon the sand something within him
cried out in pain and horror. As though
it had been yesterday, he experienced
again that feeling of remoteness that en-
compassed him, and made him feel as
one apart from the other men who were
gathered there shouting, above the noise
of the sea and wind, that her back would
break before morning! His face glowed
with pride of workmanship when he
remembered that the Marion’s back had
not broken after all, and that he had
salvaged her, working the tides early and
late until he had got her up on the beach
and refitted her there.
He was at the end of his resources
when she was ready for sea again, and


515
KM.
TrHOME'TRAIN
Work over for the day, man and
maid, young and old are intent
upon “getting home.” All day they
have been concerned with business,
mostly someone else'sbusiness, for the
majority of the homeward-bound
travellers are salary or wage earners.
Have they—have you found
time for personal business? Have
you made the same wise provisions
for your own financial needs that,
as a matter of course, and of sound
business practice, you made for
the company, department or shop
where you earn your living?
The Commonwealth Savings Bank
is open all day in City, Town,
Village and Country Post Office,
and its convenient services are
therefore easily available to all.
Opening a Savings Bank account
—and using it costs little time
and no money, and it will pay you
well in the long run.
COfOmOnUIERLTH
snuines BRDK
OF RUSTRRLIR
m
Fll
trs^P^Ceness
maY; " thee ifflßr
-
° EC , A of the
B co^C?^'
oolh decay l tooth enameh
to *_V —
*
JBBORU STAINS
absorbs stal To re-
,e the ( ' lm -
WIApILM may lead
to all three
remove film this special way
Don’t fool yourself about film! It can be the forerunner of one or all of the
troubles pictured above.
"But in removing film, why use one dentifrice rather than another?” you may
ask. On that point, too, you need have no doubts. Many tooth pastes and
tooth powders may claim to attack film. Pepsodent’s sole duty is to REMOVE
FlLM—and to keep film off teeth safely. To both the dental profession and
the public alike, Pepsodent is known as the "special film-removing tooth paste.”
Common sense reason for effectiveness and safety
\ou know about that sticky coating that constantly forms on your teeth. Dental
authorities agree that this stubborn coating, which we call film, should be removed
daily. And now, in Pepsodent, is a revolutionary cleansing and polishing material,
recently developed. This material is unexcelled in film-removing power. No
other leading dentifrice contains it. And is it safe? So safe that in impartial -
tests Pepsodent has been proved the least abrasive . . . there-
fore softest —of 15 leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders.
So, between visits to your dentist, remove ugly, dangerous
film daily with Pepsodent. No grit in Pepsodent. No risk
of harming precious enamel as with mere "bargain” ways.
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have
cut costs, and we
are passing the sav-
ing on to you.
The identical time-
proved Pcpsodcnt is
ready for you, in the
new larger tubes, at
no increase in price.
N 1368
PEPSODENT
Th.e Special Film'Removing
IN NEW LARGER
Tooth Paste
TUBES
Alma was about to be born. He had had
to let her go, together with his home and
possessions, and make a fresh start. He
took comfort in the thought, even after
that lapse of years, that he and Marion
had never been so close in spirit as in
those days of their first great disappoint-
ment.
Here were the barges. They had been
Hilda’s idea, and had supplied the means
to put him on his feet again and to give
the children a, good start. Undoubtedly
Hilda was right when she said that he
had no business sense.
Yet, he thought, there was money to be
made from the yachts. Wedge-shaped,
and with counter sterns, they were begin-
ning to skim the lake in yearly increas-
ing numbers. If only one of his boys had
taken to the game, as Peter had always
hoped, now would have been the time to
extend the business.
HE felt suddenly lonely and a little cast
down, and he made his way to the
oaks by the water’s edge where he always
went for comfort. There was a gentle
melancholy about the still autumn air
and colorless sky that seemed to blend
with the sadness of Peter’s mood and
lend a little edge of fear to his thoughts
for the future.
The noise of a motor-cycle passed
down the road, and Hilda’s son Peter
came striding across the grass with a
grin.
“Well, old-timer,” he asked, “how went
the day?”
“Have you seen your mother?” Peter
inquired in return.
Young Peter’s face went suddenly
grave. “I’m a bit sorry for mum,” he
said ; “she tries so damned hard.”
“Yes,” said Peter, “I know,” and
wondered what the boy was going to tell
him. They settled themselves on a fallen
log, and young Peter turned his eyes
towards his grandfather.
“You know, when we were kids I
loved coming here. And then mum saw
to it that we got around and away.
Pushing us all the time. I’ve had time
to think lately, and it seems to me that
people waste an awful lot of time grasp-
ing for things that don’t matter. Mum’s
always held you up to us as an example
of how not to do things, but you’re the
only one of us who’s got the freedom to
do the things you like in your own way.”
There was silence for a while. Then
young Peter said, surprisingly: “Do you
ever think of taking a partner?”
“Yes,” replied Peter, “I do.”
“Because,” young Peter went on, “I’d
like to come in with you—if you’d take
me on. I’ve a little saved, and I thought
if you’d teach me what you know I could
live here and take care of you later on. ’
They both looked steadily out at the
lake —old Peter because he was ashamed
that the boy should see the warmth of
emotion his words had aroused, and
young Peter because he sensed the
other’s difficulty. They rose together,
and the elder man said: “If you’ll come
up to the house I’ll tell you about some
new plans 1 have in mind.”
That evening, when young Peter was
preparing to leave, his grandfather took
out the bottle of port that he kept behind
the kitchen door for great occasions.
"Well, sir,” he said, “here’s to the new
partnership.”
Young Peter gave him the sailor’s
toast, “Well, sir, here’s to a favorable
wind.”
A Sharply-etched Brevity:—
RESPITE
BY MYRA MORRIS
HE had gone then—the little weak-
chinned fool she had taken for a
husband because she had been too
drunk with love to help herself . . . the
little man who sat all day in the back
room planing off curly wood-shavings
while other women’s husbands lumped
coal or cargo down on the wharves.
Yes, he was gone. Slipped off like a
coward while she was up the street gos-
siping with Myrt Drew. He had left a
note behind on the bread-board saying
that he was off for good.
The ungrateful little beast—after all
she had done for him! It wasn’t every
woman who would have studied so care-
fully a husband with a delicate stomach
—even with love thrown in, and not much
more than love, either. There was no
money these days in cabinetmaking, and
his invalid pay did not amount to a great
deal.
Sighing gustily, Carrie shuffled through
the hot little house in her slippered feet.
He had hated her to wear slippers, but,
since he was no longer here to see them,
there was no point in casting them off.
She padded down the passage and opened
the front door.
A wind was blowing up the street
whirling the chaff and white tatters in
the gutter. The pavement was littered
with broken cigarette packets and tram
tickets. Beyond the shiny tramrails where
the world seemed to end in nothingness,
masts stood sketchily against the pallid
sky, and the high-up fluttering of sea-
gulls had the look of sun dancing on
water.
Carrie glanced furtively along the
street. Women were standing at their
gates, gossiping, with their hands folded
under dirty aprons. It was nearly five.
Soon the factory whistles would blow,
and their men would come home with
sweat-grimed arms and unfamiliar sooty
faces. She would have no man to come
at any time, for she no longer had a man.
She was a deserted wife . . . Deserted.
Carrie ran her fingers through her lank,
blonde hair, and a feeling of desolation
settled on her like a cloud. By to-morrow
all the street would know. The gossip-
ing women would point at her, muttering
behind their hands . . . She hadn’t been
able to keep her man. He had gone off
with another woman like as not . . .
Someone younger and prettier.
“You’ll never hold him,” they had said
in the beginning. “Not that sort. Younger
than you, with a come-hither look in his
blue eyes, and
faddy ways. Quite
the toff . . . You’!}
have to wat c h
him.”
Well, she had
watched him ; and
now he was gone.
Carrie set her teeth
together, blinded
by a sudden rush
of tears. It was
nothing now that
she had loved him,
waited on him,
cooked his messy,
easily-digested foods for him, altered the
easy ways of her life to fit in with his . . .
SUDDENLY the hot, quivering air was
split into shreds. From all about the
factory whistles shrilled out, answering
each other. Carrie’s flushed face bright-
ened. She never heard the factory
whistles without a little thrill of pleasure.
They revived in her memories of the dim,
early mornings when she herself had crept
out of bed in answer to their compelling
summons . . . She had worked at Toller’s
then, packing jelly crystals over the long
deal tables under a foreman’s raking eye.
Hard, lovely days that Alf wanted her to
forget. She could remember it now . . .
the sickly lemon-smell of the crystals . . .
the moaning song of the turning wheels
and belts on the floor below ... the
lunches eaten out of their greasy
wrappers down on the wharves when the
boats were in . . . the coarse laughter and
the ribald stories of the girls who went
with her arm in arm . . .
The whistles were silent now. Leaning
over the picket fence Carrie looked down
the lane that ran at the side of the house.
The lane had an appearance of slimy wet-
ness. Little pools of scum lay between
the stones. A garbage-tin with a cocked
lid gaped at a gateway. There were girls
coming down the Jane, walking with
linked arms. They were the hands from
Toller’s. They were hatless in the bright
sun and wore sagging coats open in
front . . .
Carrie’s heart turned over. They
dragged their feet tiredly, but they were
happy. Happy as she had been ; happy
as she could be again. Carrie drew her
hand over her eyes and went back into
the house.
It was like an oven, dark and
dull . . . lifeless as though something had
gone out of it. Carrie whimpered to her- '
self as she let herself down on the kitchen
couch. No more cooking meals for Alf.
No more following him around with little I
white pellets in a glass. No more jugs of
barley water. No more watching for his
young, blue-eyed smile or his delicate
look of distaste. No more keeping guard
on her over-ready tongue, on her shiftless
habits that displeased him . . .
Carrie went into the bedroom, un-
hooked her corsets and threw them into
a long roll on the floor. Ah, she felt
freer now. She could breathe in long
breaths. She went back again to the kit-
chen, a shapeless, unwieldy mass of a
young woman with the fat bulging over


df
BtLV/tDEKI I>l'l BELVEOEKt *>?'<
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
IHE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
161
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
BtLVCOCRC WW.
d
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
?
Si
i
ae'iS
0
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
An amazing
new Swan Pen
fd
ALL progressive writers will want to own
Li-this wonderful new invention! See for
yourself how much ink it holds, how it shows
you the ink through a special ‘ observation
window.’ Do this at any good Stationers or
Jewellers to-day!
Prices. —The new VISOFIL (‘Big-fill ’) Swan, 32/6.
Ladies’ Size 27/6. Leverless (‘ Quick-fill ’) Swan
from 21/-. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE VISOFIL
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
M
ALWAYS USE SWAN’ INK
A.3-3^
the band of her skirt. Slippers and no
corsets, and no one to reproach her with
word or look!
Suddenly she smiled. She was free.
Free! Nothing could happen because
the worst had happened. There was no
longer any need to be so fussy. Who
wanted a cloth on the kitchen table when
there were such things as good news-
papers? It was Alf in his prim little
voice who had always insisted on the
cloth. And butter off a plate! Who
cared?
IT was like the old days, she thought
* lazily, as she sat with rounded
shoulders at the table, her eyes skim-
ming the print of the folded novelette
that she held close up against her eyes. A
tap dripped unnoticed at the sink. A
kettle whistled unnoticed over the waver-
ing blue flame of the gas. And suddenly
Carrie, letting her slippered feet down on
to the floor with a dull thud, knew that
she was curiously, incomprehensibly
happy. She had done with striving after
silly little decencies —done with making
her ways fit the ways of another.
She had done with Alf. Lord, she had
loved the little fellow with his pale face
smooth as a girl’s, and his eyes blue as
a baby’s. But she was tired of him now
—had been tired of him for a long while,
though she hadn’t known it. Tired of
his finicky ways, his genteel, complain-
ing voice, his weak, tyrannical stomach.
She was glad that he had gone. She was
free now. Free! .
She drew back the cheap lace curtains
and looked out into the lane. The last
of Toller’s girls were straggling out into
the street. She heard the echo of their
high, uncaring laughter. And suddenly
Carrie knew. She would go back to
Toller’s —back to the factory. Barker,
the foreman, had promised to get her in
again any time she wanted if . . .
It was nearly dark now in the dingy
kitchen. Happy and fuddled, Carrie
switched on the light and sat there think-
ing. She would drop a note to Barker
and give it to Myrt to hand in in the
morning. She’d take a lot of trouble
with that note,
SHE was still on it, hunched over a
litter of dirty dishes, when she heard
the back door creak. She stayed with her
pen poised, her heart thudding sicken-
ingly. Another second and she saw him
standing at the door with a hangdog air
and a guilty smile on his mouth.
“Well, Frp back, Carrie,” he said in
his prim little voice.
“So I see,” said Carrie dully. Her hand
shielded the half-written letter childishly.
She stared at him. “Well?”
“I must say you don’t seem too pleased
to see me,” said Alf sulkily. He sat
down with his thin legs stuck out, and
glanced round the untidy kitchen with
disapproving eyes. “I s’pose it’s funny
of me, Carrie, but I couldn’t do it. Leave
you, I mean! Not after all we’ve done
together.” His hand stretched out in a
feeble, groping gesture. “It came over me
all at once. I was feeling bad. I knew I
loved you too much, Carrie.”
She stumbled to her feet, still staring
at him.
“I know,” she said wearily. “What did
they give you for dinner?”
“Suet dumpling,” he said frowning, “It
was kind of heavy.”
She nodded without speaking. Bitter-
ness rolled over her in black waves.
“Love,” he had said. What of it? She
had imagined something better. An easy
freedom . . .
“All this muck,” said Alf complain-
ingly.
“I know,” said Carrie in swift apology.
Avoiding his eye she padded out into
the passage and into the bedrom. Grunt-
ing, she stooped down and reached
despairingly for the hard familiar roll on
the floor.
“There Are More Things in Heaven and Earth” . . .
THE GOLDEN
HOUND
BY
E. MARY GURNEY.
OF a litter of five pups, Blond was
the last and largest, and the death
of the bitch who whelped him.
She was a good hound, and faithful,
and a favorite with Dan King, who com-
bined the duties of whip and kennel
man for the Waimate Hunt Club ; so it
was not odd, perhaps, that King should,
from the first, have taken a dislike to
the gaunt golden hound pup.
At birth, Blond was a pale, patched
fawn that glittered in the sunlight. As
he aged, it deepened to a golden-yellow
and red-chestnut. There was not a fleck
of white on him. His limbs were
immense, and his eyes, deep-set and
sombre, were a light and sinister yellow.
Abbott Veedol, who walked him, said
that he never associated with the other
pups—never joined them in their play
and their deliberate mischief. When
they stole eggs or chased the hens,
Blond kept aloofly apart, sedate and
dignified, or played earnestly and
solemnly with shadows, Abb thought;
but in a way that gave him a creepy
feeling. There was nothing psychic
about Abb Veedol, but he said that he
caught himself trying to see what Blond
saw: ' spectral hound pups and the
shades of boots that had rotted to shreds
untold years ago . . .
If at those times you went near
Blond, he would bristle all over, lifting
his hackles and baring his teeth in a
soundless snarl, and Abb said he always
imagined that he might be walking
through one of the pup’s invisible play-
mates.
The other pups did not seem exactly
afraid of Blond, but tacitly they avoided
him. Even at night when they were
penned, Blond slept in a corner apart;
but he never fought them. His attitude
was rather one of indifference than
hostility.
At six months old, Blond was as big
as a grown hound. Dan King called
him a throw-back, and was all for get-
ting rid of him, but Pinner would not
hear of it.
Unlike Dan, he was inordinately proud
of the golden hound, and attempted to
make a favorite of him, but there was
nothing of his dam about Blond.
Pinner’s advances he met with indiffer-
ence until the young huntsman became
importunate, when the big hound warned
him off with rising hackles and a silent
snarl of peculiar malignance.
IN secret, Dan King let his hatred have
full sway, depriving the hound of food
and freedom, and using his whip in and
out of season. Perhaps if Blond had re-
acted in a normal canine manner, and
yelled under the lash, King might have
desisted, but the dog merely bared his
teeth in that soundless snarl and went
indifferently about his business.
King rode a gaunt roan mare with
flecked wall-eyes, and there was some-
thing sinister about the trio.
If the hound reciprocated the man’s
hatred, he did not show it. At exercise
or on the roads to and from the meets,
Blond’s muzzle was invariably to the
roan mare’s heels. The mare and the
hound had a peculiar similarity of gait:
that loose, slouching, catlike gait that
is indicative of perfect muscular develop-
ment and has about it a deceptive air
of laziness. King slouched in the saddle,
gave the same impression of furtive
slinkiness, and his depthless agate eyes
held the same look as the horse’s and
the hound’s: a soulless look, ugly with
unreasoning malevolence.
Watching them, Abbott Veedol said to
Pinner, who rode beside him:
“Look at ’em, Pin! There’s something
queer about them—something dark and
horrible, like evil incarnate!”
“Who?” demanded Pinner with Lis
vague and vagrant happiness. “Not Dan?
Not Blondie?”
He called the hound by name, and he
dropped back reluctantly from his posi-
tion in the van of the pack, close to the
heels of the wall-eyed mare. Level with
Pinner’s horse, he paced beside him, leer-
ing up at him with unquestioning honey-
colored eyes.
“He says you’re
evil,” said Pinner,
as he might have
to a human. “And,
by God, you’re a
sou Hess looking
brute, Blondie!”
The hound
averted his gaze
and stared un-
blinkingly ahead,
and Pinner laughed.
“He’s damned intelligent, anyway!
You’d swear he knows what I’m saying!
You may go, Blondie!”
Instantly the hound forged ahead,
shouldering his way through the pack
until he paced once more with his
muzzle to the roan mare’s heels.
“He certainly has brains,” said Pinner
comfortably.
IF was not until well on into the season,
which was exceptionally hard and dry,
that the hunt as a whole began to hint
that there was something mighty queer
about some of the runs they had ; though
Abb Veedol swore, half in earnest, and
more than once, that when Dan King or
the golden hound came near him he felt
a sort of clammy, unearthly coldness
envelop him.
While they hunted inland things were
normal enough, though they had, con-
sidering the dry, summery weather, a
number of abnormally hard and fast
runs. Invariably Blond, green though
he was, was first on the scent.
Dan King tailed him ruthlessly, and it
was Dan who voiced the opinion that
Blond never gave tongue unless the hare
was a strong buck.
“I’ve seen him cross the trail of does
and young bucks!” he averred, and per-
sisted in the teeth of Pinner’s good-
natured scoffing and the master’s open
displeasure.
Hadly asked coldly: “D’you tail ’em
up and have a look at them? Or have
you an affinity with them, Dan?”
Dan stared at them loweringly.
“I’ve seen strange things where I come
from,” he muttered. “I’ve seen fox-
hounds hunt a man —aye, and pull him
down” . . .
He reined his mare away, and when
they hunted the coast kept his own
counsel.
Oddly, the coast meets, usually the
most popular, began to be less well
attended. One by one the members
began to have excuses for being else-
where. It was a significant fact that they
thought excuses necessary. One or two
of them resigned; yet the runs there
were full of incident, and fast as steeple-
chases. Hounds began to run with un-
canny promptness, and to run fault-
lessly ; and, no matter where they
started from, they always finished on
the cliffs that fell away to the sparkling
blue waters of the Manakau harbor.
It was at the second meet at Manakau,
where the country rolls out in wider
fields and the going has a sting, that
Abb Veedol gave voice to the question
that was haunting half the members of
the hunt.
After a quick run they pulled up on
the shore, while hounds cast desultorily;
all but Blond, who squatted on his
haunches on the cliffs and stared
steadily out to sea. Overhead, the great
shore gulls wheeled with their eerie
crying, the only other sound the heavy
breathing and fretful movements of the
horses. The sun was on the sea and the
sudden lift of the mountain cone, and
warm on the backs of horses and
hounds. One or two of the men were
smoking, but the majority of them sat
their horses stiffly, their faces peculiarly
strained—taut with an unconscious look
of waiting. For all the gay laughter of
the sun, the air from the sea had a
numbing coldness.
No one spoke.
Abb Veedol got his cigarette case out,
and sat staring at Pinner, who was talk-
ing in a low voice to Dan King. They
rode round close to Abb, and he burst
out, without meaning to: “Well, what
the devil are we hunting, anyhow?”
Pinner reined up and eyed him with
extraordinary unfriendliness. His eyes
had a foreign, worried look, and he bit
his lips, as though he might be at a loss
for an answer. Dan King saved him the
trouble. His voice plopped dourly into
a silence through which even the horses
had seemed to hold their breath.
“Nothing we’ll ever see or catch!” said
Dan King with astonishing violence. “I
tell you, the yellow hound should be
destroyed! ”


K
PC' '
m
msss
m
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
t o
JAVA
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder
No. 61.
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars —the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS. PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A
TO
Coro natA ° n
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANSI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
Blond stood up, took a last long look
at the sea, and then slouched to the heels
of Dan’s mare. King ripped out a
smothered oath and began to bawl at
the hounds, riding after them with a
restrained energy that had a curious and
repelling grotesquerie.
Old Owen Bendy, who had been out,
come rain, come shine, since the incep-
tion of the pack, reined his cob round
and began to ride away. Abb Veedol
hesitated, and then went after him. There
was a feeling down his back like icy
fingers stroking his spine with significant
urgency. Behind him, the beat of follow-
ing hoofs woke a roll like muffled drums.
At the first fence he overtook Bendy,
and knew that his voice lacked nor-
mality as he asked: “Well? What’s the
idea?”
Bendy threw him an enigmatic look.
“I don’t like it,” he said dryly, and set
his cob at the fence.
Veedol followed him over. “What
don’t you like?” he persisted.
“Same thing you don’t —that they
don’t.” Bently jerked his thumb over his
shoulder, and Abb looked back. Every
last member of the hunt was straggling
after them.
“Good God! ” said Abb, “what’s come
over us?”
Back against the line of sea and sky
the red coats of Pinner and Hadly and
Dan King stood out in sharp relief.
Abb Veedol reined up.
“I’m going back,” he said doggedly.
“I’m going to see it through”. . .
Bently grunted.
A DOZEN of them followed Abb back
over the fence. They went re-
luctantly—hard-faced thrusters who loved
fences as they loved life. Abb grinned
at them sourly, and they grinned back
sheepishly,
Jim Vermont, who had a face hard and
dark as mahogany, muttered: “I don’t
believe in the devil!”
Abb growled: “Or anything else!”
He wondered whether he had the same
look that seemed common to them all;
a pinched, blue look, as though they were
suffering from extreme cold.
As they rode up King moved off with
the pack at his heels. Pinner lingered
for a further word with Hadly, whose
fine face looked pinched, too, but im-
movably dogged. Whatever was afoot
he would see it through to a finish.
Pinner went off after hounds, but
Hadly waited, sitting his horse silently,
staring at them with a sarcasm that was
written over with a puzzled unease. When
he spoke it was with unusual formality,
as though his thoughts were elsewhere.
“Thank you, gentlemen ; but I think we
had better call it a day.”
Sombrely he rode after hounds. Un-
easily silent, they followed him.
As they rode back over the paddocks
it seemed to Abb Veedol that all his per-
ceptions were painfully acute. He
noticed things that he had never noticed
before—the way the wind ruffled
the horses’ manes, and the glint of the
sun on their backs and the backs of the
queerly sedate hounds. The gold of it
was mellow on the grass and the hills and
the gorse hedges that were splashed with
yellow bloom.
With the exception of Blond, the hounds
were crowding behind Pinner, whom they
adored. He rode level with King, but
a little apart. Blond paced with his
muzzle to the roan mare’s heels, moving
at his accustomed slouching gait, but not
looking to right or left. The mare was
fretful, uneasy and vicious. Once she
tried a tentative kick, for which King
punished her with venomous severity.
Whenever they went over a fence, hounds
stuck close to Pinner, instead of follow-
ing Blond’s lead.
IT was close on five miles from the
original starting place to the shore
where they had finished, and they had
just jumped out into the road close to
where the hound van was parked when
Blond threw up his head, giving vent to
a hair-raising snarl, and was gone over
the opposite hedge, travelling flat out on
a breast-high scent.
The rest of the pack, irresistible as the
sea-waves, but dumb as death, went after
him.
Pinner and Dan King had their whips
out, storming, and shouting, but, though
the lashes found more than one hide,
never a yelp came out of them. Merely
they dodged automatically, and, swift and
silent, bright and urgent, poured over the
hedge, and went away after the golden
hound, not hunting, but drawn on by
some strange, primeval force sinister and
overpowering.
There was no spar in the high gorse
hedge opposite, but an ugly ditch before
it, yet Pinner drove his horse at it, and
the brute did not hesitate. Abb Veedol
had a blurred impression of Dan King’s
red coat flashing up behind Pinner’s, and
then his own mount plunged and took
hold. The ditch and the hedge and a
wide ditch on the far side streaked
beneath him, and then they were going
flat to the green earth.
It seemed to Abb, as the wind whistled
past his ears, that never in all his years of
hunting had the blood coursed through
his veins with such a swift and tingling
ecstasy. Even as horse and hound, he
felt the call of some unearthly urgency
—a call that he must answer, even
though a numbing fear mingled with the
passionate joy of the following. Before
him. Pinner’s red coat bobbed fantasti-
cally, and over half a field away Dan
King lay low to the roan mare’s withers.
They had gone a couple of miles
before it dawned on Abb that they were
running in a wide arc that would take
them back to the sea. Far ahead he
caught a glimpse of it, flashing under the
sun —a living light that was like a shout
of laughter, like a call that is heard in
dreams.
Two fields ahead of the pack Blond
raced tirelessly to a breast-high scent that
was not of the earth. Watching him,
Abb thought, with that strange, sharpened
perception; “This is an evil thing—a
devilish thing! A man should pull out! ”
But his bay horse, ears cocked, reefed
his head out, snorting a little to the swift
taking of his breath, and opened up for
a fence that sped beneath them like a
flash of silvered light. With the ecstasy
of the leap thrilling his blood like a
pagan song, Abb Veedol shivered under
the knowledge that, straight as an arrow,
they were going back to the spot they
had so recently left.
“We’ll always go back to it,” thought
Abb. “Until that which is to happen
there has found fulfilment” . . .
Two fences, two fields —and the cliffs
above the shore. Leaning back from it
the terraced cone of the mountain had a
relentless air of waiting. The pock-
marks of the outcroppings of grey
scoria gleamed dully, like dead, waiting
eyes.
Veedol went over the last fence neck
and neck with Pinner. Ahead, hounds
scattered wildly as Dan King’s mare
plunged through them, and dashed to
the very edge of the cliff. Veedol’s heart
stopped, and Pinner cried out, but the
mare, sensing her danger at the last
moment, ploughed her hoofs in and
swerved in a desperate slither that
scattered the turf to the rocks below.
Wide-eyed with terror the mare reared
away from the edge of the cliff, but Dan
King jerked her to a stand and sat star-
ing, as Blond stared, out to the little
curling waves of the incoming tide. Far
away the spume went from the rocky
inlet of the Heads, and the waters of the
harbor boiled and seethed under the
caressing peace of the sun.
Veedol felt his horse shuddering
beneath him as Dan King’s was shudder-
ing. He turned to look at Pinner’s cob, and
the sight of it sickened him. It stood on
straddled legs, with its head low, and
there were exhaustion and abject fear in
its dilated eyes.
The hounds were not roaming about
aimlessly, rolling and scratching, as
hounds will after a sharp run, but were
sitting or standing in an uneasy circle,
watching Blond, who sat a couple of
yards back from the cliff’s edge, his
honey-colored eyes moving out towards
the Heads, as though he watched his
quarry escaping to the sea.
In a gaunt old pine that had its roots
in the cliff, a bird trilled; and spent
horses and riders loomed over the last
hedge.
King wrenched suddenly on the roan
mare’s head and drove her towards the
motionless Blond.
“That hound!” he grated. “That
spawn of hell!”
He spurred between Blond and the
edge of the cliff, and as he crossed the
hound’s line of vision Blond stood up
slowly, the hackles on his back rising
until they stood perpendicular. Slowly
his gaze lifted to Dan King’s face. For
a second man and beast stared into each
other’s eyes. Then the man threw his
whip hand up across his face, and the
roan mare reared up and up and toppled
backwards, crashing over and over to the
rocks below.
Abb Veedol flung himself from his
horse and ran to the cliff’s edge, but i:
needed no second glance to convince him
that Dan King and his mare had, on
earth at least, no more use for haste or
time.
BESIDE him someone drew a breath
like a sob, and Abb Veedol looked
round into Pinner’s young face.
“It’s awful!” said Pinner. “It’s
ghastly!” His face was drawn and dis-
colored and old-looking.
Abb looked down again and saw a
blotch of gold gliding over the rocks
towards Dan King and the mare, A
numbness of horror took him. He gesti-
culated wildly, mouthing, and the numb-
ness passed, and he shouted incoherently,
but the golden hound did not even look
up.
Gulls swooped in from the sea, clamor-
ing and wheeling above the dead horse
and rider. Blond moved forward
steadily, not furtively, but with unswerv-
ing purpose.
Abb Veedol fell silent, his mind a
chaos of half-formulated thoughts. Was
it Dan King, who hated him, and against
whom Blond cherished a silent and
deadly malignancy, that the yellow hound
had hunted with such strange and untiring
persistency, luring him to follow, instead
of following him?
Veedol tried to shout again, but again
sound would not come. He turned to
look at Pinner, and saw beyond him a
row of blunt, bland .hound faces peering
down questioningly on the ghastly scene
below. Pinner had his hands over his
face. Behind him the other men stood
staring, eyes dilated in their white,
strained faces.
Mutely the yellow hound circled his
kill. Mutely the pack watched him from
above. Over the mud-flats the incoming
tide slithered in a lather of dirty white
foam. It seethed into land-locked pools,
and snarled hungrily among the slimy
rocks.
Poised on a rock above his kill Blond
howled once; a terrible long-drawn cry
of triumph and despair. On the cliff’s
edge the pack pointed their muzzles to
the intense blue of the sky and howled
a devil’s chorus. Over the mud-flats a
big wave surged, whipping up the little
flecks of spent foam. With the speed of
horses it came shoreward, with the sun
lacing its crest to a lacquer of light; and
Blond, with a last look at all that was
left of Dan King and his mare, leaped to
meet it.
It washed over Dan King and the
mare, washing the red stains from the
rocks; ebbed a little so that the horse’s
head seemed to lift. Then the wave
came back. It took Blond from his feet,
driving him back towards the shore, but
with super-strength he breasted it and
began to swim steadily out towards the
little white horses that galloped across
the deep waters.
With eyes that burned, Abb Veedol
watched until the infinitesimal speck of
gold that was Blond’s head was lost in
the waste of water.
At the cliff’s foot the waves snarled,
flirting with the hem of Dan King’s red
coat. Overhead the great gulls wheeled,
crying . . . crying ...


COMFORT H SAFETY
' *:
:
STYLE
*
WAW:->.v
1
■>■: >
*SS%
l' ximfmH*—™
l#l##l##«#lHllllgfli ■
* * * ''' ;
li
m
um
m
. :
O
w*
;>»ss9£y;:
. . . and V-8 Performance
THE essentials and the luxuries to give finest
quality motoring are built into the Ford
V-8. Here is a thoroughly good car —a fine
car in everything but price. The beauty and
refinement of its appearance is matched by
its outstanding comfort, safety and perform-
ance. Centre-poise riding and deep, restful
seats assure maximum comfort for all passen-
gers. Safety is a definite V-8 quality, con-
tributed to by Safety glass all round (in
windscreen and all windows), All-steel closed
bodies, Super safety mechanical brakes and
easy control of steering and gear changing.
Performance is unrivalled because Ford is
powered with the famous V-8 engine—the
finest, most dependable and economical engine
available. In every respect Ford V-8 is a
completely satisfying car to own and drive.
Regarded purely on a value-for-money basis
it is the outstanding proposition offered to-
day. But drive the V-8 and prove these
facts- for yourself. The Ford dealer near
you will gladly place a car at your disposal.
Easy purchase terms may be arranged.
FOR 1936
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA?
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
K.E.8.: Stories of Caesarian vintage foreign
to our palate; yours is well done, though—
try elsewhere Bushwhacker; Interesting as
incidents only W.C.P.: As a bit of blood-
letting in the Grand Guignol manner it is too
crude W.D.: Not of sufficient interest....
H.E.: Try it on the magazine section of a
daily F.G; The sketch meant to be
humorous was treated far too seriously; the
other was maudlin A.J.: Nothing in it
D.N.L.: Agree with thesis on liars, but. regret
cannot fit it in....8.P.: Incident rather thin,
but fairly well handled E.R.: Rather diffi-
cult to place except in a children’s column
R.McL.: It shows improvement, but you have
yet to hit on a publishable plot 8.R.P.:
You take us to empyrean heights, then drop
us without a literary parachute... .8.F.8.:
“Disappeared” did —into the w.p.b’s. maw....
L. : Harrowing tale of Demon Booze made
Religious Editor swear off ginger-beer....
M. : Exactly describes it... .A.McC.: The
sequel, doubtless, will be that the wealthy club-
man turns out to be a retired laborer....
Dryab: Pars, are not acknowledged. They go
in or go out —and back if stamps are sent.
.... Bellerive: A pastoral touch this time:
BREAK OP DAY OUTBACK.
Fleet rabbits emerge
And wantonly play,
Sprint to and fro
At break of day.
As the rising sun
Sheds its golden light,
Wild birds cluster
And take to flight.
From the bough of a tree,
In a boisterous way,
Laughs the jackass
At break of day.
... .M.M.D.; Not our sort... .J.C.: Couldn't
find room for “The Old F01k”.... A.F.H.: No
hearts melted... .Yourana: Trifle sweet for this
palate Noah C.: Of course:
It was Adam first in Eden
Made the first false step, so why
Blame the poor darned baby
Who put no plum in the pie?
. ...A.P.M.: Moves too stiffly, a common
complaint of sonnets... .M.E.C.S.: Rhymes
“head” with “beds,” but has worse defects:
. ...W.A.C.: Two disturbing lines from the
“Epitaph”;
This seaman young but now is old,
lie has gone aloft and never cold.
G.A.A.: Not at all bad; send it to some
paper a few weeks before next Anzac Day.
. ...C.8.: “Mrs. Smith” doesn’t quite make
the weight.. . .L.AJ.: Well, Shakspeare had
the same thought M.McE; Can’t rise to
“The Burglar’s Toast”... .E.L.H.: We haven’t
space for criticising paragraphs P.J.C.: Nor
can we return rejected contributions unless
stamps are enclosed... .V.W.: Don’t like it.
.A.D.: The ending spoils it E.D.; Try
a woman’s paper ... .D.H.E.: You, t 00....
T.M.T.: Too thin....E.M.: You don’t give
it finish.. . .D.McM.: We were quite unmoved
by your jilted lovers... .W.S.P.; Not for us,
but try elsewhere A.H.N.: Not up to your
usual K.McC.: Idea good, but you make
heavy going of it... .R.G.R.: Don’t like those
letters. Try it some other way.... A.C.H.:
Took one. Other not up E.McK.: No.
“Interval” the better... .G.P.F.: Flapper-
paper might accept it C.S.: Overloaded
with melodrama D.C.S.: Who is Norman,
anyway? G.F.: It lacks life L.L.0.: We
“perused” it up to where “Marsden noticed
they wore lava lavas.” Then we were too
disappointed to go further.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.F.: Jest is a left-over from last century
and the drawing wins no bouquets... .A.M.N.;
You must have spent more time on the back-
ground architecture than on the foreground
figures... .F.S.: Gag long-winded and in-
volved; figures look to have been flattened by
a steam-roller,.. .L.W.: There’s a glimmer of
artistry in the telegraph poles.. . .C.R.: Better
look around for some other spare-time hobby.
. ...V.T.: Hardboiled as we are, we don’t like
that joke about the quintuplets.. . .R.H.W.:
Why so enraged about that dogfight? It’s a
dead letter n0w....M5.: Gags must be amus-
ing and original; yours is neither H.D.:
“Contribution to the Press” gag is usually
tagged on to a boxing or wrestling picture
E.A.; Even your offer to give them away fails
to move us W.N.K.; Not bad for a young-
ster, but you have a long way to go
H.C.D.: The glib-tongued spinster is no laugh-
raiser J. 8.: Small boy without a neck and
his undersized mother are on their way home.
E.M.: A crudely-drawn, hackneyed dig at
the outback Jay Pea... .F.G.N.: The gent, has
a flounder for a face, and the gag is venerable.
....G.L.C.: The giraffe’s remark to the field-
mouse didn’t amuse us... .W.A.: Nothing in
them to suggest that a great comic artist has
burst upon the world... .P.F.: Has some
promise; you should do well with animal draw-
ings J.A.S.; Keep off wash drawings until
you can draw... .8.P.M.: Your intention may
have been excellent, but the result was below
par M.D.: Not in the market for phreno-
logical charts of people... .L.S.: A trifling
effort.... .T.R.C.; Not so bad, but too stiff
and photographic J.J.; All missed the bull.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Willie Nicholson, whose name appears
in the British knighthood list, is a painter
and sketcher of character. He collabo-
rated with Kipling in producing an
almanac of sports, and with Henley in a
book of London types. Also, he worked
with Lutyens in designing New Delhi.
His family were ironfounders ; his sister
married Robert Graves ( Good-bye to
All Thai), and was one of the few women
admitted to the circle of T. E. Lawrence’s
friends. A cousin is managing director
of Hadfields, the steel people, and
another is married to a Sydney University
professor.
“Sandy”: The most successful theft of
a railway train (B. 17/6/’36) occurred in
Rhodesia 30 years ago. It was a goods
train, conveying trucks of foodstuffs and
£5OOO in cash in a safe, and it completely
disappeared with its crew (driver, fire-
man and guard) in the hilly country north
of Bulawayo. A thorough search failed
to reveal a trace of it. Nearly 12 months
later a big-game hunter came across the
deserted train hidden in dense bush near
a lonely siding about half a mile from
the main line. All the trucks were
empty; so was the safe. Near by
was a heap of rusted rails which had
been removed from the siding. The crew
had obviously shunted the train into the
siding and thence into the bush on a
temporary track laid with these rails,
which had then been taken up again.
The foodstuffs had been disposed of to
natives in exchange for cattle, several
hundred of which the robbers had driven
into Portuguese East Africa, selling them
at Beira. There they boarded a boat
for England. None of the three was
ever seen or heard of again.
* * * *
Tenor Crooks and family like our poin-
settia. New Yorkers get it at Christmas-
time at a dollar or so a spray. Syd-
ney’s lavish display of the scarlet beauty
gives a new arrival from the U.S.A.
shudders in his bank balance.
# * $ $
Presidential election figures are inter-
esting. In 1928, Hoover's total was
21,392,190, A 1 Smith’s 15,106,443; in
1932, Roosevelt’s was 22,821,857,
Hoover’s 15,761,841. So to get their man
in the Republicans will have to effect a
greater turnover than their opponents
managed four years ago. Their task
would be easier if the U.S.A. had com-
pulsory voting. It rarely gets even a 60
p.c. vote, whereas Australia, with between
3,000,000 and 4,000,000 exercising the
franchise, has averaged a shade over 95
p.c. at the last two Federal elections.
# i'fi
“Shrewsbury”: “Joey” Bell, referred
to by “M. Turlutu” (B. 24/6 / ’36), was
not at Oxford but Cambridge, where he
shone as an oarsman. Jack Hoolan,
member for Croydon, delighted in per-
secuting the starchy Joseph, but Joseph’s
particular bete noire was Joe Lesina.
Hoolan was sometimes incapable of in-
terjection or any other verbal harass-
ment. Not so Lesina, who could heckle
in his sleep.
* * ❖ *
“H.”: Emphasising that few national
champions of to-day are natives of the
countries they champion, Sydney “Tele-
graph” tells us that “Hitler is not a Ger-
man, De Valera is not an Irishman, Stalin
is not a Russian, Mustapha Kemal is
not a Turk and Pilsudski was not a
Pole.” It may be right, in a measure,
about the first two, but Pilsudski was
born at Zulow, district of Wilno, in
what was then Russian Poland and prob-
ably never ceased to be Polish. And
Kemal, teste Who’s Who, was born in
Turkey 56 years ago, so if he is not a
Turk I don’t know what is.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle” on an ambition:
The Church of England missed a great
opportunity once of obtaining a totally new
kind of bishop. When Captain G. Irvine,
now commanding the inter-State Manoora,
was about to be demobbed after strenuous
war service in Q boats and Channel patrol,
he replied to the customary official circular 9!
inauiry as to what he would like to be in
civil life by stating that he would like to be a
bishop. Interviewed by a 0.C.,
he explained that his wish was not due so
much to any inner spiritual call as to the fact
that he had recently met a bishop whose out-
ward appearance indicated that the life must
be a particularly tranquil one. After the rough
and tumble of war, he himself desired some
entirely peaceful and trouble-free job, and
had therefore made his application for a
bishopric. He admitted that his only quahli-
cations were those of a master mariner, but
that they implied a rich education in the uni-
versity of the world.
* * * *
“Rucker”: No one on this side was
surprised to hear that Graham Cooke,
the Queensland and Wallaby forward,
who returned to .South Africa after the
Wallabies’ tour, is regarded in the Union
as one of the first picks for the Springbok
team to visit Australia next season.
Cooke, with his height and weight and
his untiring work in ruck and loose, is
an ideal forward as the ’Boks see the
members of the vanguard. Curiously
enough, another Queenslander and Wal-
laby— 1908-09 edition—the late T. J.
Richards, also played both with Australia
and South Africa.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Marylebone club
has at last agreed to the use of the eight-
ball over during the English tour next
season without prejudice to its use on
future tours. This may lead to the
general adoption of the idea.
* * *■ *
“Aigburth”: Writer for one won’t be
surprised to see Patsy Hendren included
in the English Eleven to visit us at the
end of the year. The irrepressible Irish-
man, batting better than ever, was the
first to reach 1000 runs for the season,
and despite his age —he is 47—is re-
ported as slick as ever in the field. Hen-
dren probably possesses more than any
other British batsman the true Test tem-
perament, and I am including the dreary
Sutcliffe and the in-and-out Hammond
in my calculations.
3j« jfc H*
“Quarter Butt”: The Empire amateur
billiards championship, to be played in
England in November, is expected to
attract a record entry. As far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, our man will be
chosen in competition, but Walter Lin-
drum is all for sending Hayes, of N.S.W.,
and Marshall, of Westralia, who, he says,
are head and shoulders above other Aus-
tralian amateurs. Lindrum counts Mar-
shall, whom he has tutored, as the finest
amateur player in the world.
$ * * *
“Shirley”: If Maorilanders, especially
the golfers, were not in the George Wash-
ington class one would. be inclined to
doubt a happening reported from Christ-
church. Playing in a four-bailer,
man holed in one. Remarking “This
for a half,” his opponent teed up and
sank his ball in the tin to join the first
one. On what happened after that the
M.L. press preserves its usual well-
mannered reticence.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
uust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy, two male Aberdeen terrier puppies,
black and white. —2013.
Business-girl, Sydney, would like to get in
touch with another girl interested in rowing,
preferably one living near harbor. —2054.
Canadian, 22, 8.A.„ 8.C0m., strong, healthy,
business training and exp., good cook, wants
any job on a station. —2046.
Whereabouts of Leonard Francis, of Treasury
Chambers, Brisbane, who left for London about
the end of 1934. —2050.
To correspond with amateur photographers
concerning enlarging.—2os6.
To buy copy of Soils of N. S. Wales, by
Jensen. —2024.
information Sought.
In single-wicket cricket (1) can a batsman
step down the wicket and score from hitting
the ball ? (2) When are “sundries” not allowed
in these matches ? —2068.
(1) No; M.C.C. Laws of Cricket state:
“When the striker shall hit the ball one of his
feet must be on the ground behind the pop-
ping crease, otherwise the umpire shall call
‘no hit,’ and no run shall be scored.” (2)
“When there shall be less than five players on
a side neither byes, leg-byes nor overthrows
shall be allowed, nor shall the striker be caught
out behind the wicket or stumped.”
* * * *
What are the usual rates charged by teachers
of ballroom dancing in Sydney, and the hours
at which classes are held, etc. ? —2052.
Rates are from ss. to 7s. 6d. per half hour
for a single (private) lesson. Fee for a.course
of five or six lessons ranges from 21s. to 355.,
the reduction being proportionately greater with
an increased number of lessons. Private
lessons are given at any time of the day up to
7.30 p.m.; for the evening classes, which con-
tinue from 8 p.m. until 10 or 11 p.m., the
charge is from 2s. to 3s. Some suburban
teachers’ rates are a little lower than those
given here.
* sp * sp
Are births that occur aboard British ships
at sea recorded in the Parish of Stepney, Lon-
don ? What is the position in the case of
vessels sailing to Sydney? —2os3.
Births which took place on British ships at
sea were at one time recorded in the Parish
of Stepney, London. Since 1837, however,
when compulsory civil registration was insti-
tuted, the captain or commander of every
British ship was required to r/ecord every
birth which took place at sea on board his
ship, and to forward the particulars to the
Registrar-General in London from the first
port in England at which the ship called.
Since March 1, 1856, births occurring on any
vessel while at sea on a voyage to a port in
N. S. Wales have been registered in that State.
* * * *
(1) How many persons are serving terms of
inprisonment for two years and over in N.S.W.
gaols ? What is the religious faith of each of
them ? (2) How many persons have been
charged with murder or attempted murder in
N.S.W. during the past two years ? What is
the religion of these ? —1846.
(1) At June 30, 1935, there were 584 prisoners
serving sentences of two years and over. The
religions of these prisoners are not readily
available, but on June 30, 1935, prisoners who
said they were of the following denominations
were confined:
Male. Female.
Church of England .. .. 598 19
Roman Catholic 427 27 ‘
Methodist 43
Presbyterian 76 1
Congregational 3
Baptist 5
Lutheran 5
Hebrew 16
Other denominations .... 23
(2) On June 30, 1935, 53 prisoners were under
detention for murder and seven for attempted
murder. Religious beliefs not available.
H'
Is it a fact that the straight stretch on the
transcontinental railway across the Nullarbor
Plain is the longest in the. world? —1993.
No. The record goes to the 400 miles
straight run of railway between Leningrad and
Moscow, Russia.
* * * *
(1) Did the aboriginal have any definite tradi-
tion about the bunyip ? (2) Did he have any
special name for the man who pointed the
bone ? (3) In our garden lives a very friendly
lizard, about 18m. from head to tip of tail;
latter very long and thin, head rather broad
in comparison with the rest of its body. Down
the length of its back run two yellow lines
banded horizontally with black. This lizard
holds the front part of its body very erect and
often runs on two hind legs. Bushmen call
them “carnies.” What is the scientific name ?
(4) What is the bittern like ? Is it sometimes
called “Japanese crane” ? —1675.
(1) There is a myth amongst the aborigines
in all parts of Australia about a gigantic ser-
pent which has its home in deep and perma-
nent waterholes and represents the element of
water, which is of such vital importance to
man in all parts of Australia. The rainbow-
serpent is often regarded as being visible to
human eyes in the form of a rainbow. In
some tribes it is the object of a definite cult,
either as part of the totemic cult or as part of
the initiation ceremonies. It is often the chief
source, or one of the chief sources, of the
magical powers possessed by medicine-men,
who are the only individuals who can approach
fits home. Ordinary individuals are, it is be-
lieved, devoured by the monster. The tribes
of south-east Australia believed in other mythi-
cal animals inhabiting waterholes also. One
is said to have somewhat the form of a dog,
another of an emu. The rainbow-serpent has
been associated with the crocodile and with
large snakes. It is probable that the belief
among white people of the existence of the
bunyip originated in these aboriginal myths
and beliefs. (2) Every tribe has its own special
name for the sorcerer who uses the death-
pointer, which may be of bone or wood. Any
member of many tribes may employ this method
of killing an enemy, and in this case the rite
is given a special name, as is also the death-
pointer. Any member of a tribe who employs
the death-pointer without just cause would
suffer the penalty of death, for it is a recog-
nised method of punishing those who commit
serious crimes. (3) The lizard cannot be iden-
tified with any degree of certainty from the
description given, but it is suggested that it
belongs to the genus Amphibolurus, the Jew-
lizard group, which is known as the carney
in W.Q. (4) Have not heard of the bittern
being called the Japanese crane, though that
name might be applied to it in certain locali-
ties. There are three species common to Aus-
tralia. The little mangrove bittern grows to
about 17in. in length. The general color above
is slaty-grey washed with green; head and
neck, dark, glossy green; breast and under-
parts, pale olive brown. The little bittern is
much the same in color, but grows to only
12in. in length. The yellow-necked mangrove
bittern grows to about 20in. General color
is rich dark brown, washed on the back with
bronzy green. Head and neck are black,
the feathers on the centre of the neck being
straw-colored. The bird is difficult to see when
standing still among reeds or grass.
*.* * *
The exact wording of the Coronation Oath
as administered to Queen Victoria and Edward
VII. ? What words were considered offensive
to Roman Catholics ? —1795.
The oath as administered to these two
sovereigns differed only in minor particulars
from that laid down in the Act of Settlement
of 1688, and first taken by William and Mary.
It ran thus: Archbishop of Canterbury. “Will
you solemnly promise and swear to govern
the people of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland and the dominions thereto
belonging according to the Statutes in Parlia-
ment agreed on, and the respective laws and
customs of the same?” Sovereign: “I solemnly
promise so to do.” Arch.: “Will you to the
utmost of your power cause law and justice,
in mercy, to be executed in all your judg-
ments?” Sov.: “I will.” Arch.: “Will you
to the utmost of your power maintain the
laws of God, the true profession of the gospel,
and the Protestant reformed religion established
by law? Will you maintain and preserve in-
violably the settlement of the Church of Eng-
land and the doctrine, discipline and worship
thereof, as by law established in England?
And will you maintain unto the bishops and
clergy of England and to the churches therein
all such rights and privileges as by law do or
shall appertain to them?” Sov.: “All this 1
promise to do.” As a result of the Union
with Ireland Act of 1800 the words “and
Ireland” were added after “Church of Eng-
land,” but, owing to the disestablishment later
of the Church of Ireland, they were again
omitted at the coronation of Edward VII. This
oath is frequently confused with the Accession
Oath, or Protestant Declaration, made by the
sovereign at the opening of his first Parliament,
which contains a declaration against transub-
stantiation; in this the words “superstitious and
idolatrous,” applied to the belief, were objected
to as giving offence to Roman Catholics, and
in consequence of such objection were omitted
from the form of oath as administered to
George V.
* A' * *
(1) When was the use of gas first contem-
plated in warfare ? (2) Was gas used by the
British during the second Boer War ? (3)
When was it first used in modern times ? (4)
When first used by the British ? —1926.
(1) Thucydides mentions two instances of the
burning of sulphur and pitch in sieges in the
Peloponnesian War, and such methods were
frequently employed throughout the Middle
Ages. In 1855, Lord Dundonald proposed a
scheme for burning sulphur on a large scale
during the siege of Sebastopol, but it was
rejected on grounds of inhumanity. (2) and
(3) No; Germany was the first nation to use
poison gas, the first successful attempt being
on April 22, 1915, when the Germans dis-
charged chlorine from cylinders at Langemarck
opposite a sector held by the French. (4)
September 25, 1915, at Loos.
* * 3= %
I am a printing traveller engaged in Sydney,
obtaining orders for labels to be pasted on
food containers, and sold to wholesalers and
retailers. Do I come under the award for
commercial travellers as to salary and ex-
penses ? —lBl2.
The commercial travellers (Cumberland)
award covers employees employed ohtside the
employer’s place of business by a wholesale
or partly wholesale warehouseman, manufac-
turer, manufacturer’s agent, or indent agent, for
the purpose of soliciting wholesale business,
excepting van salesmen. If the work consists
substantially in soliciting wholesale business
you would come within the ambit of the award
referred to. Under the award, however, certain
firms and members of certain organisations are
exempt in respect of commercial travellers
employed by them receiving a minimum re-
muneration of £6 per week, together with such
expenses as may be agreed upon between em-
ployer and employee, and an allowance of £2
10s. per week where the employee provides his
own motor-car. Further information can be
obtained from the Dept, of Labor and In-
dustry, Sydney.
* * * *
I am a shearer, insured, and in employment
earn £l2 a week. I became injured while at
work and want to claim compensation. How
much am I entitled to claim ? —1746.
,Workers’ Compensation Act,
1926-1929, provides that a worker who has
received a compensatable injury shall be entitled
to a. weekly payment not exceeding two-thirds
of his average weekly earnings for the 12
months prior to the injury or any less period
that he has been employed by the same
employer. The maximum payment under this
provision is £3 per week. Additional pay-
ments of £1 per week in respect of a dependent
wife and Bs. 6d. per week in respect of each
child or stepchild totally or mainly dependent
on the worker may be claimed. The total
weekly payment, however, must not exceed the
worker’s average weekly earnings or the sum
of £5, whichever is the less. Persons whose
remuneration exceeds £550 per year are ex-
cluded. In your case, however, work is
seasonal, and your remuneration might not ex-
ceed that amount.
-i : *l' 'l* *»•
lam a Q’land taxpayer. Should the follow-
ing be shown on income-tax returns as income:
(1) The amount received as a beneficiary under
a will ? (2) The amount received from a policy
on the life of my daughter maturing at her
reaching the age of 15. (3) The amount re-
ceived from a policy maturing on a daughter
reaching the age of 21 ? —lB5l.
(1) Yes, if received as income from the
estate, but not otherwise. (2) and (3) No.
* * * *
(1) In the manufacture of fibrous plaster
what is in the mix and the proportions ? (2)
Is manilla hemp the only reinforcement ? (3)
What are standard size units for flat sheets ?
(4) Are the flat sheets put under pressure when
cast ? (5) On what centres are the fiat sheets
supported by wood furring ? (6) On what
centres are the nails driven into the sheets ?
(7) What kind of nail is used ? (8) What mix
is used for pointing the joints ? (9) Do the
joints ever open up after installation ? (10)
What is thickness of the sheets? (11) Is the
woodwork supporting plaster given any special
treatment so as to make it water resisting or
to prevent shrinking ? (12) Cost of manufac-
ture ? (13) Installed cost to general contractor ?
—1693.
(1) Individual manufacturers have their own
special mixes, which they are not likely to
disclose. (2) Any reinforcement that is fibrous
in nature —for example, hemp, M.L. flax, etc. —
can be used. Generally, manufacturers evince
a liking for a white-colored reinforcement. (3)
Large-sized sheets up to 14ft. by Bft. or more
can be produced. Common sizes are 6ft. or
Bft. by 3ft. (4) No pressure is used, although
at times a small roller of the nature of a
squeegee is employed to flatten the mixture.
(5) This varies at times, but good practice is
to have the furring strips spaced not more than
Ift. apart. (6) 9in. to 12in. (7) Flat-headed
clouts. (8) Details not available save that the
mixture contains a fairly large amount of
fibrous reinforcement. (9) Not if well-backed
with fibre. (10) Often |in., but fin. makes
for a better job. (11) No. (12) and (13) You
will have to obtain this information direct from
manufacturers.
❖ * * #
(1) How can I write on glass ? (2) Name of
a semi-transparent paint to be used on glass ?
(3) How is celluloid colored ? —1967.
(1) Dissolve sodium fluoride, 7 parts, and
potassium sulphate, 1.4 parts, in distilled water,
100 parts. Dissolve zinc chloride, 3 parts, in
distilled water, 100 parts, and add hydrochloric
acid, 13 parts. Preserve both solutions sepa-
rately. For use, mix a little of each solution
and write with a pen or brush. (2) Tylix
ordinary turpentine, 1 part, with Venice tur-
pentine, 2 parts, and rub into this Prussian
blue, crimson lake, Indian yellow, or any
admixture of these. (3) Black; First dip in
pure water, then in a solution of silver nitrate;
dry in the light. Blue: Dip in a solution of
indigo neutralised by the addition of soda.
Red: First dip in a diluted bath of nitric acid
and then in an ammoniacal solution of car-
mine. Green: Dip in a solution of verdigris.
Aniline colors may be used, but they are less
permanent.
❖ %
(1) How to mark steel tools ? (2) Acid used
for marking glass ? —2025.
(1) Warm the tool slightly and rub with
wax or hard tallow until a film covers the
surface to be inscribed. Scratch the letters on
the wax, cutting through to the steel. A little
nitric acid poured on the steel over the writing
will quickly eat out the letters. Wash the tool
and remove the wax with a hot rag. (2)
Hydrofluoric acid, using the same method as
for steel and applying the acid with a feather.
* * * *
(1) What is the best way of preserving hams
after they come out of the brine ? Have just
cured six hams and have them hanging up to
dry, and am in doubt what to do with them
as I wish to keep them for some months?
(2) Is unsalted lard good for making home-
made soap ? —1774.
(1) After being removed from the pickle
the meat should be salted and stacked for 14
days. Sugar may be added to the salt at the
rate of 10 p.c. After being resalted and
stacked for a further 14 days, the pieces should
be soaked for eight to 12 hours in clean
water, drained, then washed in clean.water at
about HOdeg. Fahr., finished in the smoke-
house for about 24 to 48 hours, and rubbed
lightly with olive oil. Smoking, which effec-
tively checks putrefaction, also improves the
flavor of the meat, and for this process a
smokehouse, for which an old galvanised-iron
tank of 600 to 800 gallons will serve, is neces-
sary. Darkness, with a certain amount of ven-
tilation, is essential, and the pieces should be
hung well out of reach but directly over a slow
fire of sawdust, etc., the object being to obtain
the greatest quantity of smoke without too
much heat. Be careful to see that the meat is
thoroughly dry before smoking, and after the
process it should be stored in a dark, cool'and
thoroughly dry place, as any dampness in the
atmosphere will cause mouldiness. (2) A pro-
portion of unsalted lard may be used in con-
junction with other fats.
* * * :jt
Recipe for hectograph jelly and colored
hectograph inks ? —1853.
For jelly, melt together 1 part glue, 2 parts
water and 4 parts glycerine, all by weight.
Skim off air bubbles during melting, and strain
if the glue is not clean. If climate is hot,
use more glue or less glycerine to make a
firm pad. Violet ink, which gives more copies
than other colors, can be made by dissolving
1 part methyl violet in 8 parts water, then
adding 1 part glycerine. Gently warm the solu-
tion for one hour, and add when cool | part
alcohol. Formulas for other colors can be
supplied if needed, but it is usually cheaper
to buy what you require unless using the inks
in wholesale fashion.
# $
(1) Can tinned steel articles be Parkerised?
(2) Where can further particulars of the pro-
cess and Parco powder be obtained ? (3)
Would the process be suitable for the insides
of milk cans when portion of the tinning has
worn off? —1983.
(1) Only after removing the tin coating.
Before iron or steel can be treated it must
be free of all foreign matter, oil or grease.
The articles to be Parkerised are usually cleaned
chemically or by sand blast. (2) From Parker-
ising-Bonderising Rustproofing, Ltd., 5
O’Connell-street, Sydney. (3) No. Cans should
be retinned.
* * * *
(1) Can chromium-plating be done by an
amateur; if so, how ? (2) Apparatus required ?
(3) How is silver-plating done ? —l9BB.
(1) and (2) Chromium is a very difficult metal
to deposit and requires an extremely high cur-
rent, which in some cases may amount to
100 amps, per square foot of cathode surface.
For this reason the process is not a practicable
one for amateurs. The apparatus is costly, and
includes a low voltage D.C. generator capable
of yielding a heavy current, also plating vats
and tanks, etc. (3) The article is cleaned
chemically and then rinsed. Metals such as
iron, steel and zinc must be coated with copper
before they can be made to take an adherent
coat of silver. The object to be plated is
placed in the plating vat and when the deposit
is of the required thickness is removed, dried
and polished. Full particulars of both pro-
cesses will be found in Electro-Plating (Ama-
teur Mechanic and Work Handbooks), 2s. 6d.,
obtainable from any big bookshop.
v >I ; ■!'
How to remove mildew from a painted sur-
face ? —1842.
Best method is to remove the spores in their
early settlement by washing the painted surface
with a strong hose pressure, and repeat this
practice whenever the growth reappears. If
the spores do not readily remove with ai strong
water, spray, a wash consisting of 32.2 fl. oz. of
strong ammonia and B.Boz. of boracic acid,
plus sufficient water to make one gallon, may
be used. Wash the wall thoroughly with this
and dry off. An alternative wash is loz. (by
weight) of hexyl resorcinsol with 6£ gallons of
water.
Brief Answers.
R.L.: Under medical supervision, Fowler’s
solution (liquor arsenicalis) is taken as stated for
anaemia and skin complaints. Much depends
upon susceptibility and reason for administra-
tion. Colic pains, diarrhoea and palpitation are
indications that the dose should be reduced....
E.R.W.: Get in touch with Dymock’s Book
Arcade, 424 George-street, Sydney... ,C.F.:
Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Sydney, for
pamphlet, “Diseases of the Udder of Dairy
Cows” W. 0.8.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept, for pamphlet, “Poisoning Green Timber
with Sodium Arsenite” J.0.D.: Poultry
Farming in N.S.W., by J. Hadlington (4s. 4d.,
post free), obtainable from the N.S.W. Govt.
Printer, Sydney R.C.: (1) Get in touch
with the Secretary, Highways and Local Gov-
ernment Department, Box 570 E, G.P.0., Adel-
aide. (2) The amount of cement used per
sq. yd. of pavement, mix,
thick, is approximately 1 1-3 cub. ft., but this
figure will vary somewhat according to the
type of stone used as coarse aggregate....
R.W.S.L.: Station referred to was fictitious.
R.C.T.: Approximate value 10s., but
market overstocked A.J.R.: Dyke’s Auto-
mobile and Gasoline Engine Encyclopedia
is the recognised work on this subject.
It is fully illustrated, and deals with
every phase of the motor-car engine. Price
425., postage 3s. 6d., from leading book-
sellers. .. .L.8.G.W.: There are many spineless
forms of prickly-pear and cacti, and some of
these are regarded as useful fodder plants.
Most of them, however, prefer fairly good soil
and a moderate rainfall, and it is very doubtful
whether they would grow under conditions in
the far west of N.S.W. where the soil-drift
problem is so acute. There is no record of an
attempt on a systematic scale to grow them
on such areas M.L.F.: The inflammatory
condition of the eyes commonly known as
sandy blight is most prevalent in the dry
inland districts of N.S.W. and Q’land. The
trouble originates in a lid congestion due to
irritation from dust particles, the eye itself be-
ing gradually involved as the disease progresses.
Infection may be transmitted by insects, flies
and the like, and prompt treatment is necessary.
(2) Transmission of gunpowder by post is pro-
hibited. This also applies to the preparations
in question W.N.G.: (1) Athletic training is
not a contributing factor. (2) It is abnormal;
many cases are quoted as medical anomalies.
Modern surgery simplifies the procedure. (3)
Both before and after. (4) No. (5) Discussed
in advanced medical works. No treatise on
subject... .C.N.8.: Henrietta Drake-Brockraan
has had two serials published in The Bulletin
—“Blue North” and “Men Among Pearls.”
Both have been issued in book form, the
former by the Endeavour Press and the latter,
under the title of Sheba Lane, by Angus and
Robertson... .N.A.: Write Norman Macqueen,
secretary, British Society, St. George’s Hall,
Calle Sarmiento 1236, Buenos Ayres, Argentina.
R.G.: At the 1933 census Mt. Isa (Q.)
had a population of 3241, Wiluna (W.A.)
1181, Wiluna goldfields 1476... .H.W.: Pre-
sume you refer to A Century of Journalism,
published by the “S. M. Herald.” It is pro-
curable from the publishers at 355.... .R.L.;
You might appeal to the Primate of Australia,
Perth, calling attention to your case and ask-
ing him to exercise his jurisdiction, if he has
any, in your favor. Possibly you could apply to
a lay Court for a mandamus, but this would
be a costly and doubtful course to take
A.S.: You could not garnishee money received
by him under contract with the Government,
but if he should be in receipt of wages from
any outside source you could attach them,
beyond £2 p.w S.S.F.; The phrase “penny
wise and pound foolish” is from Burton’s
Anatomy of Melancholy M.R.: Placings in
1922 Melbourne Cup were: King Ingoda, 7st.
11b., The Cypher, 6st. 121 b., Mufti, 7st. 91b.;
time, 3min. 28|sec S.S.; Lillian Gish was
born at Springfield, Ohio, U.S.A. Dorothy,
her sister, was born at Massillon, Ohio, U.S.A.
Their ages are their own affair H.D.:
Burrinjuck means “a mountain with a rugged
top” T. 8.: You should have a partnership
agreement properly drafted; see that your in-
tentions are clearly expressed in it and, so far
as possible, all contingencies that may possibly
arise are provided for. Better have it drawn
up by a solicitor C.S.H.: The musical
play “The Beloved Vagabond” was adapted
by Adrian Ross from the novel by W. J.
Locke. The music was by Dudley Glass
W.A.0.8.: Get in touch with any of the avia-
tion companies stationed at Mascot (N.S.W.).
(Many others mailed.)


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Hanging Too Good for Us
The Bulletin has become traitorous
to Australia, and, to crown all, it has
had the infernal cheek to head two
leaders one “Australia Second” and the
other “The Gullett Stunt,” with a lot of
freetrade muck to belittle the Govern-
ment’s late important course.
The time is rotten ripe to deal drasti-
cally with all accursed newspaper pro-
prietors that sell our country for the pur-
pose of secret emolument. This gentry
is a filthy, illicit, money-grasping traitor
and should be treated as such. Led out
and shot? No! There is a sort of pre-
ferential air about being stood up and
shot that these despicables should not
have. Hanged? Well, yes, perhaps, as it
is ignominity to a degree. But to fit the
crime they should be slinged from a
gibbet head down in the public blare
and have their bloody throats cut. —J. S.
(Vic.).
Reprieved
A few lines of appreciation for your
wonderful articles on this tariff business
with Japan. The general feeling here
among thinking people has been surprise
and disgust at the part the dailies are
taking. Though the wool market is
quoted 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. down, I per-
sonally was offered about 25 p.c. less
than was offered for wool withdrawn
from the May sales. —J. S. (N.S.W.).
Many thanks for “Australia Also
Ran” (B. 17 /6 / ’36). Your expressions are
plain commonsense and realism, as
opposed to the self-delusion which is now
so popular with both individuals and
nations.
Prime Minister Lyons now stands be-
side the stable door which he has securely
locked, and is asking his friends to with-
hold their offers to assist in catching the
horse until he is thoroughly and hope-
lessly lost. Meanwhile, South Africa is
leading the animal to nicely-prepared
stables, where he will have the best of
food and attention ; and proper locks
and bolts on the door have not been
overlooked.
“She was a trade horse, anyhow,” Mr.
Lyons says, “and we may buy a better
one in England even if at a much higher
cost.” —A. C. W. (N.S.W.).
A British Precedent
The British Post Office, which in the
past two years has introduced sixpenny
telegrams, air postage within the
Empire and cheaper parcel and telephone
rates, scooped a record profit of
£11,250,000 last year, despite the fact that
office wages have increased by £2,000,000.
Even Australians can rejoice at this.
Sheer shame must presently force a re-
duction in Australian rates and compel
Mr. McLachlan and his minions to divert
some of their regular profit to the relief
of their customers. —V. E. (S.A.).
Apt, Certainly
Professor Roberts, of Sydney Univer-
sity, is the author of a History of
Modern Europe, which has become a
textbook in Australian secondary schools.
Fathers Phillips and Lawlor, of the Jesuit
order, have written commentaries on pas-
sages in which they declare the professor
has departed from accuracy and mis-
represented the position of their church.
Their little book is dispassionately writ-
ten, and the authors recognise that “there
is much in the professor’s volume that
is interesting and attractive” —there are
other handsome tributes. But, honestly,
the matters in dispute interested me less
than a pregnant remark of the collabora-
teurs on Rousseau:
His feelings and discontents, his unrest
and his longings were inherently felt by
thousands who, themselves incapable of
self-expression, found their prophet in
Rousseau.
Substitute Lang for Rousseau, and isn’t
that a perfectly apt description of Lang
and his ascendancy over his followers, now
waning fast? — Jamwood (W.A.).
“The Bridle Track”
Let me offer congratulations to the
author of that fine story “The Bridle
Track.” I consider it the finest tale
The Bulletin has published: clean,
sweet, vivid with the details of the hard
but gloriously free life of the outback.
It brings with it the tang of campfire
smoke in the early morning, the rattle
of stockwhips and the tingle of the blood
that comes to one after a rousing gallop
on a good horse. Bill Muir is a fine
character, and his soul-searing experi-
ences are true to life. I who have
glimpsed the same red hell know it. And
the ending of the story is dramatic
enough for anyone.
Again congratulations to both author
and the newspaper that makes the writing
of such stories possible.—W. A, G. (Vic.).
No Use for Utilitarianism
Your article on Parliamentary privi-
leges (B. 10/6/’36) and the parking of
members’ cars reminds me that some
years ago we conceived the bright idea
of extending the half-built Elouse of Par-
liament to cover the whole of an un-
sightly half-acre of land lying vacant.
Admirably suited in the centre of the
town, the building was to have been car-
ried out in the same exterior style, but
with six concrete floors, for parking of
cars.
As the land is on a slope three or
four floors could be reached without the
assistance even of a ramp.
But when, in support of the scheme, it
was argued that State Parliaments were
doomed, and that the work of the State
could be efficiently carried out by a
board of commissioners in a compara-
tively small suite of offices, the politi-
cians turned it down. And now it has
received its quietus by the Bonython be-
quest, which will enable Parliament to
build a marble palace to house a crowd
of lawmakers whose exertions are not
needed.
The garage for parking cars would
have produced revenue, and would have
have been of infinitely more use than the
output of bills and talk. —Adele (S.A.).
“Ring the Boy Up!”
The enclosed letter gives some idea of
the resourceful manner in which our
Federal Government finds means to
spend Post Office surpluses:
It is understood that your son is attend-
ing the Geelong C. of E. Grammar School,
and perhaps you may be interested to
learn how easy it is to communicate with
him by telephone. Trunk-line facilities
provide a prompt and efficient service at
a very reasonable cost. The charge for a
call of three minutes’ duration from Mel-
bourne to Geelong on week-days between
9 a.m. and 6 p.m. is lOd. ; between 7 a.m.
and 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. the rate
is Bd. ; from 9 p.m. to 7 a.m. it is sd.
As considerable time is usually involved
in bringing the boys to the telephone, it is
advisable to use the personal-fee plan.
Under this system you indicate the name
of the person to whom you wish to speak,
and the department will arrange for him
to be called to the telephone. A small
charge is made for this service—3d.
You can imagine how welcome the
notion must be to headmasters. —R. B. H.
(Vic.).
In Reply to the P.M.
To-day artificial silk shirting costs,
landed in Australia, Is. 2d. per yard
(29in. widths).
The landing charges are made up of
7-]d. duty per 29in. width, imposed by
Australia on May 23 ; l|d. export tax,
imposed by Japan on March 15; sd. per
yard (29in. width) f.o.b. cost, allowing
for exchange.
As Brisbane retailers are selling the
material at Is. 3d. per yard (29in.) it
is hopeless for any agent to offer
samples until present stocks are ex-
hausted.
From this authentic information you
will gather that only a reckless buyer
would contemplate importing silk from
Japan, as was stupidly suggested by the
Prime Minister in his broadcast. —M. G.
(Queensland),
“What’s Two Millions?”
Among the multifarious ways in which
the Sydney Government is to lose more
loan money is construction of more rail-
ways. No recently-built N.S.W. railway is
paying; and altogether there are 60 lines
which are “in the red” for over £2,000,000
p.a. Some have become so useless that
they have been closed down.
But what’s £2,000,000 p.a. to a State
which built the Dorrigo-Glenreagh rail-
way on the recommendation of the same
Public Works Committee that reported
in favor of Sandy Hollow-Maryvale?
Dorrigo-Glenreagh (43-odd miles) cost
£1,378,000 and has been steadily losing
£l5OO to £2OOO per mile p.a. ever since it
was finished. —E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
Beyond Their Powers
The South African Government has
announced that it will shortly start on
the absorption of the three great native
protectorates, Zululand, Swaziland and
Bechuanaland. The South Africa Act
provides that this can be done only with
the consent of the natives of the protec-
torates, and that this must be ratified by
the Imperial Parliament. That consent
by people who have had close on two
hundred years of Dutch overlordship is
not likely to be given.
In the same way recent statements by
Afrikander politicians that Britain will
not be allowed to establish a naval base
in the Union are not worth the hot air
of their utterance. The same Act
especially enjoins that Britain retain con-
trol of the naval base at Simonstown,
with power to extend it if necessary- ■
Ex-Uitlander (Q.).
“Would Welcome German Control”
Pearce did not speak for every Aus-
tralian when he said it was “unthinkable
that Australia should even consider the
handing over of any territory.” There
are plenty of good Australians here
(N.G.) so disgusted with the Canberra
Administration and its treatment of resi-
dents in New Guinea that they would
welcome German control in New Guinea
—if only we had a clean slate in our
treatment of German residents and their
property when we took over. — Peter
Prospect (N.G.).
A NAUTICAL PLAY
(A one-act peep into the future suggested by the forth-
coming removal of the Navigation Department to Canberra.)
Scene; An office in the Navigation
Department, Canberra.
Time: a.d. 1966.
A new clerk, just transferred from the
Byways Department, seeks information
from an old hand.
New Clerk: What’s the idea of this
department, anyway? What does
it do ?
Old Hand: Oh, we write letters and
answer inquiries and file dockets —
same as all the other departments.
N. : Yes; but what about?
O. : Oh, seas and ships and sealing-
wax.
N. ; Well, I think I could manage the
sealing-wax, if necessary, but 1 don’t
know much about seas and ships.
O. : Why should you? Don’t worry
about that.
N. : But I want to be conversant with
my duties.
O. : Plenty of time for that.
N. : 1 really feel that for this job a
man with some experience of sea-
ports and shipping is required.
O. : Nonsense. There’s a splendid
library here. You can find out any-
thing you want to know there. Why,
I’ve never seen a ship, yet I get along
all right.
N. : But surely the library doesn’t help
much in settling current problems?
O. : Certainly it does! Why, just
recently we had a little matter sub-
mitted to us —some dispute over an
overcrowded fo’c’sle. Know what
that is?
N. : Er—no.
O. ; Thought not. Neither did I—
neither did anyone, not even old
Juggins, who came here just after
the show was transferred from Mel-
bourne. But we found out.
N. ; How?
O. : Well, young Smithers—he’s one
of those blighters who are always
reading something, not novels, but
deep, dry stuff —he came across it
somewheje. Said it was a corrup-
tion of “forecastle,” and had some-
thing to do with the front of a ship.
1 suggested it meant the lookout, but
old Juggins said no, he knew that
one —it was the crow’s nest, and
there was no question of its being
overcrowded because there was
never more than one man in it. The
chief said yes, that was right, other-
wise the apostrophe would have been
placed after and not before the “s.”
N. : Who is the chief, by the way? A
master mariner, I suppose.
O. : Good Lord, no! Fancy putting
one of those old muddlers in charge!
No, he came here from the Roads
and Bridges.
N. : Oh, I see. An engineer?
O. : Engineer, nothing! He joined as
a messenger same as you ’n’ me.
Anyway, I’ll get on with the yarn.
N. : Yes. Sorry to interrupt.
O. : Well, we let the matter stand over
for a couple of weeks ; then one
morning Smithers came in and said
he’d been looking at a picture of
Nelson’s Victory, and he reckoned
the fo’c’sle must be that thing that
sticks out in front. We weren’t quite
sure, so we wrote a couple of very
guarded letters asking to what extent
the fo’c’sle was used. The reply
was that it was in constant use by
the watch off duty and the total
crew comprised 24 men. That didn’t
help much, as the idiots didn’t say
how many men there were in each
watch or how many hours they
worked. Studying the Victory it
didn’t look as if there’d be room for
very many men on the stick we
reckoned was the foe’s’le, but some-
one suggested that perhaps the men
used it for gymnastic exercises.
N. (And did they? ■
O. ; Well, it seemed the only explana-
tion. The chief took the view that
seamen should be encouraged to
keep themselves fit, but that it was
hardly a matter the department
could move officially in. He con-
sidered that tact was called for, so
he wrote to the company concerned
and suggested that the fo’c’sle might
be, made a little longer to give the
men more scope for their gym-
nastics. ,
N. : And what did they say?
O. r s They said it was impossible to
extend the fo’c’sle aft (that means
“back” —you’ll get used to these
nautical terms in time), as Number
One hatch (that’s the place they put
the cargo in—most ships have ’em)
was in the way. , ,
N. ; So the chief—r
O. ; Wrote a patient letter and said he
hadn’t intended them to extend it
aft; he meant they should lengthen
it for’ard (a corruption of forward,
meaning “toward the front”), and,
do you know, they had the cheek
to write back and say they couldn’t
understand what he meant! They
said “If we extend the foc’s’le for’-
ard it will be projecting beyond the
bow of the vessel.”
N. : What happened then?
O. : The chief was very patient with
them. He replied saying that that
was precisely what he intended. And
they had the colossal cheek on top
of that to write and say that what
we proposed was both impossible
and absurd.
N. : You don’t say!
O. : I do! Well, they couldn’t have
chosen worse words. The chief has
a saying that nothing is impossible
to the department; and absurd .'
Well, it put him on his mettle. He
wrote them a strong letter, repeat-
ing his request and enclosing a pic-
ture of the Victory, marking the
fo’c’sle and extending it in red ink
beyond its real extremity. He con-
cluded coldly: “This is what I in-
tended and what I desire. Further,
if the men still complain of over-
crowding I consider you should allow
them to use the booms on some of
your masts when not in use.” That
went off yesterday. It ought to fix
’em.
[Enter harassed-looking clerk.]
H.L.C.: I say
0.H.: Hullo, Smithers. Just been talk-
ing about you ; meet the new chap.
[H.L.C. shakes hands, then turns to O.H.]
H.L.C.: I say, though. I think we’ve
made an awful boner over that
fo’c’sle business.
0.H.: What do you mean?
H.L.C.: Well, I’ve been looking up some
more books, and it appears that that
sticking-out thing isn’t the fo’c’sle at
all.
0.H.: What is it then?
H.L.C.: The bowsprit.
O.H. {laughing): Gosh! You scared me
me for a moment. I thought per-
haps we were wrong. But bowsprit!
No, you can’t catch me that way. I
know that one all right. The bow-
sprit’s the man that’s in charge of
the sailors. Kind of pannikin boss.
H.L.C.: I tell you
0.H.: Run away and read your books!
Bowsprit! Ha! Ha! Ha!
[Curtain.]


FOR FLEMINGTON.
Lawn Handicap: Dark Sky;
next, Studio.
Steeplechasers’ Flat: El Dama-
royal; next, Underwood.
Gooparle Handicap: Araunah ;
next, Lady Kooringal.
Braybrook Handicap; Serlodi;
next, Jack Horner.
G. National Steeple : Pactolus, 1 ;
El Damaroyal, 2 ; Draconic, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Flying Handicap: Poponaise ;
next, Kaylah.
Moorefield Handicap: Brush-
wood or Volwood ; next, St. Globe.
Carlton Mile: Watson or Brush-
wood ; next, Buonarroti.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
For the second occasion in turf history
the opening of the V.R.C. Grand
National meeting had to be postponed
because of rain. A. V. Kewney, the
V.R.C. secretary, considered that it would
have been possible to race on the circular
track if the programme consisted exclu-
sively of galloping events. The com-
mittee deemed it hardly fair to ask jump-
ing owners to risk injuring their horses.
The first postponement of a G.N.
Hurdle was in 1891, when, according to
a turf writer of the period, “a boat could
have been rowed up the straight.” On
Friday, July 24, nearly a fortnight after
the original date, the race was run, and
Crusoe, backed at long odds, was ridden
to victory by Martin Burke. The big
Steeple, run on the following Monday-
three days later than the first leg of the
double —went to Maybe (Bob Batty),
who vanquished the favorite, Tom Cor-
rigan’s mount Busaco.
■f * * =1:
Andrew Ferguson, who trained Bril-
liant Son for this year’s National Hurdle,
was twice victorious as a rider in the
event more than half a century ago—on
Ocean and The Agent. The fact of
Ferguson still being in action suggests
that, after all, the life of a jumping
jockey is not so brief as people imagine.
James Scobie, proprietor of the powerful
Pytchley Lodge stable at Flemington, was
associated with the triumph of Rhesus
in the first G.N. Hurdle.
* *
The sudden decision to send The
Genius over to Melbourne to compete
in the G.N. Hurdle is reminiscent of
Anna Carlovna’s overthrow by Aurifer
in the Caulfield Cup of 1913. Eric
Connolly, who owned the M.L.-bred
mare, had backed her for a fortune. Sol
Green, then “king of the Ring” at both
Flemington and Randwick, acted on be-
half of ante-post operators in laying Fred
Merton an attractive wager as an induce-
ment to start Aurifer in the Caulfield
Cup. Aurifer had been runner-up to
Cagou in the A.J.C. Metrop. This year
the Yarra River fielders faced trouble
over the National doubles, and it suited
them to have the Hurdle field strength-
ened by the presence of The Genius,
who, with only 9st. 81b., impressed as
a dangerous rival to Full Charge, Sixteen
Annas, Pooley Bridge and Brilliant Son.
* * * *
The list of G.N. Steeple winners which
the V.R.C. publishes in its racebook is
misleading in one respect. The 1870
event, won by Reindeer, was staged at
a Melbourne Hunt Club meeting on
October 15. Reindeer had won the same
event 12 months before, but does not
receive credit for it in the official table,
the reason being that on New Year’s
Day, 1869, the V.R.C. staged a G.N.
Steeple, which D. Callanan captured for
Adam Lindsay Gordon on Viking.
Earlier that afternoon the Victoria Derby
went to My. Dream. No such attractions
as a Derby and G.N. Steeple are now
served up at Flemington on New Year’s
Day.
* * * *
Percy Padfield, who trained Sir Prim
for a cross-country victory at Fleming-
ton in 1919, predicts that the day of the
jumper is doomed in Victoria because
of inadequate opportunities and the dis-
inclination of wealthy men to own
hurdlers and ’chasers —particularly the
latter, who take a lot of “making” and
race so seldom. Padfield may be right.
There were only nine acceptors for the
G.N. Hurdle, and the G.N. Steeple field
will be weak in quality, if not in num-
bers. Melbourne race clubs, with an eye
to tote revenue, cater mostly for gallop-
ing events.
Fidelity is out of action as the result
of an accident, but Nomad is keeping
up the reputation of Payten’s stable. A
sturdy son of Mullabawn —Spring Days,
bred by Anthony Hordern and raced in
Mrs. Hordern’s colors, Nomad has won
twice in succession. At Kensington on
Saturday he ran right away from the
opposition in the first division of the
Juvenile Handicap: Bull Ant, Silver
Dance and Spirits did the chasing in the
straight. Threes was the price, Bull Am
being favorite at 9 to 4.
Nomad equalled the track record for
five and a half furlongs, Imin.
and had he been ridden out would have
set new figures. At Kensington they
finish uphill, and there are horses that
simply can’t “go upstairs.” Nomad
gallops low down like a genuine stayer.
Waltzing Lily put Beau Fils on the
map as a sire. A good type of Beau Fils
colt. Beau Ideal, took the second division
at 9 to 2. He, like Nomad, was ridden
by Darby Munro, and led throughout;
but his time was Imin. lOfsec. Beau
Ideal is raced by Mrs. E. F. Hogan, wife
of a Sydney businessman, and is trained
by former jockey C. Ryan. Prendergast,
bred in M.L., ran on well to get second ;
A 1 bub era was third, and the favorite,
Worksop, one of Hunter White’s breed-
ing, fourth. On this showing Worksop is
of little account, but it may not have
been his form.
Both divisions of the Flying Welter
proved soft snaps —the first for Povert-
dale (9 to 2), the second for Maelstrom
(11 to 2). Povertdale is raced by Ken-
nerson and Jago, a Bathurst butcher and
journalist respectively. Kala Moti and
Prowler were the place-getters, the
favorite, Bim Boy, being anchored by
his weight. Verberry, not fancied and
ridden by an unknown apprentice, came
home well.
Ted McMenamin, who has given up
hurdle-riding, was on Maelstrom <ll to
2), who relegated Rhamses and Anchor
to places. The joint favorites, Prince
Peter and Atucas, shaped poorly. Mael-
strom, a son of Marconigram—Maureen
M., is raced by “J. Aldoss” and trained
by I. Honnery.
Brushwood (4 to 1) landed a plunge
when he led over the last half-mile in the
first division of the Bunnerong Welter.
Lanacian and Golden Gate challenged,
but had no chance of catching the big
son of Rossendale—Lady Merlina, who
his tail freely over the last two
furlongs. Sure Tip (4 to 1) downed a
poor lot in the second division. Snow
Glare and Allugo were behind him at
the judge.
Muswellbrook pastoralist Hunter Bow-
man saw his Cherry Bar (6 to 1) win
the first division of the Novice. This
mare might stay; she came away in
the straight to beat Color King and Big
Head. Colpac (Pacolet —Elsie Colugo),
who is bred on sprinting lines, ran out
the mile well in the second division. She
started at fives. Date Palm had the race
won at the top of the straight, but veered
to the outside fence, giving Colpac a
clear run on the rails.
For some queer reason Young Cru-
sader, who ought to be put aside for
the Metrop., was started in the Winter
Handicap. He was weak in the betting,
was wide out all the way and beat a
couple home.
Bathurst-owned Perron had dis-
appointed so many times on Sydney
tracks that he went out at 10 to 1.
Favored by a light weight, he took
charge in the straight, and was going
great guns at the finish, in which he beat
El Senorita and Grand Warbler—they
couldn’t be separated. Nord plodded
on to run fourth. Irving, the favorite,
shaped poorly ; under the whip most of
the way, he would not take the bit till
nearing the Leger; then he made a run,
finishing fifth. St. Globe had every
chance, but failed in the straight.
* * * *
Young Crusader has only 6st. 91b. in
the Metropolitan. Now that he has
shown he can go the distance and finish
strong, what is going to beat him pro-
vided he is not overraced in the meantime?
In the A.J.C. Winter Plate he carried 7st.
131 b. and ran the distance in 2min.
44Jsec. Oro and High Cross (from
whom the race was taken away) occupied
2sec. more in the last Metrop., and in
the straight could not have gone a frac-
tion of a second faster. Melbourne
people looking for winners of the two
Cups have a prejudice against winter
form, but if has repeatedly worked out
all right in Sydney. Laddie Blue won
the Winter Plate and the Metrop. Jour-
nal won the Winter Plate, was second in
the Metrop., third in the Toorak Handi-
cap and first in the Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
Cid gets plenty of racing and thrives
on it. After 28 races this season he came
out twice on the second day of the A.J.C.
winter meeting and won the second time.
It was his third start in two days, and his
second success. Frank McGrath trains
him. He has always been of the opinion
that it does not hurt a fit horse to have
two outings over distances up to a mile or
so with an hour and a half or two hours
between; but many trainers of theyounger
school won’t think of it. Yet Vaals, a
stallion, won twice at Rosehill a fortnight
before the 1927 Epsom, and went on to
win that race and the V.R.C. Can tala
Stakes. He was inclined to be gross,
and, so far from hurting him, the second
effort at Rosehill was a decided advan-
tage to his preparation for the Epsom.
*** * •
Limarch and Theo have been sold for
stud purposes. Limarch was infirm, but
the best was never seen of him on a
racecourse, though Jamieson is said to
have formed the impression that he was
Limond’s best son. That would make
him out superior to Limerick, and the
estimate seems extravagant. Still he was
a good horse the day he dead-heated
with Hall Mark in the V.R.C. St. Leger,
a performance which he excelled in the
A.J.C. St. Leger, although by that time
Hall Mark had clearly gone off. Down
to the 1934 Melbourne Cup, Theo had
proved himself the best three-year-old in
a rather poor year. He ran badly in the
Cup, and never showed a glimpse of form
afterwards.
Footbrawl
With a strengthened team and cm
sticky going England’s Rugby Leaguers
downed Australia 12-7 in the second
match at Brisbane. England’s hooker
Armitt gave his backs such a feast of the
ball that any other result would have
branded the side an extraordinarily poor
lot. He beat the smallish Fairall more
than two to one, getting the ball through
clean and quick, whereas it mostly came
through the Australian end so slowly that
the Englishmen were well up on Thick-
nesse and Norman, and the rest of the
back line, which beat England in the first
Test, looked futile. England’s two tries
were scored on Crippen’s wing. Crippen
has been praised for his defence, but m
club matches, as well as in bigger games,
he has looked, for a good player, one of
the weakest defenders that this scribe
has ever seen. He’s very young, and
scored a spectacular try in this Test. His
old school team-mate Beaton also had
an off day, but Beaton, in form, can be
a clinker, certainly better than any other
fullback in League at the moment. As
in the Sydney Test, Jenkins shone out
for England. Both tries for his side came
from his cross-kicks to Crippen’s wing,
where Edwards was too tricky for the
youngster.
For the deciding game at Sydney on
Saturday week Fairall has been dropped
and Folwell, hooker with the last Aus-
tralian team in England, will oppose
Armitt. On present form the team might
be strengthened by replacing Thicknesse
with Gilbert, playing Hey, the best five-
eighth in the country, opposite Jenkins,
and putting in Reardon, another Queens-
lander, as centre.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Australian Rugby
Leaguers are conferring with the Eng-
lish managers on the poaching of players
—a long-standing trouble. The agree-
ment whereby the English undertook to
pay £2OO on this side for every Austra-
lian kidnapped expires in November. The
Australians are asking, not only for re-
newal, but for the extension to this
country of the Northern Union rule
whereby clubs may not approach a
player without permission in writing from
his club. English League clubs main-
tain agents in N.S.W. and Queensland
who ship players overseas without the
consent (sometimes without the know-
ledge) of their clubs.
N.S.W. beat both Victoria and Queens-
land at Rugby Union in Sydney on Satur-
day. At the Cricket Ground the Vic-
torians had the better of the line-
outs, but Jheir superiority finished there.
From scrums and loose the N.S.W.
pack gave the three-quarters a feast of
the ball, and the backs were always too
fast and their handling too sure for the
Victorian spoilers. Richards, part time
five-eighth, part time centre, was, in
everything ; he scored one try and was
chiefly responsible for others. Rankin,
next to Richards, was with him in attack,
though his defence was poor, and half-
back Gibbons ran cleverly and passed
quickly from the scrum. Kelahei: had
little to do, the play going to O’Brien’s
wing ; that winger ran hard with the ball,
but missed a couple of tackles.
At half-time four tries had given Ma
a lead of 16-3. Afterwards down 3-26
Victoria put on a couple of converted
tries—the winger, Dorr, intercepted a
pass and sprinted half the length of the
field for one, and loose tackling by the
home backs allowed another —to finish
13-29. It was a ragged game ; Victoria
ragged in its passing, N.S.W. ragged in
defence.
Queensland went- down 11-23 —three
tries (all by McLean) to five —at Manly.
Tackling was solid, the Queensland
centres and breakaways rarely allowing
the opposing inside men to run with the
ball; and the N.S.W. wingmen saw little
of it. McLean on the Queensland wing
made sure of his place in the team for
Maoriland, using pace and swerve for
his tries. For N.S.W. the forwards and
half-back Stone were the most impressive.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. Rugby Union
heads are worried over the development
of the “breakaway” forwards, who are
rapidly making back movements impos-
sible by “spoiling” tactics adopted from
the League game. The nuisance could
be stopped under existing rules if
referees had the pluck to do it, but the
Union is talking of amending the law.
All the amending will do no good if the
law is not enforced. The breakaway not
only spoils back play but the solid
scrummaging which is an essential
feature of the Union game. He lends no
weight to the pack and hampers all
efforts of his mates to scrum tight. Much
was made of the abolition of the wing-
forward. Writer wrote in The Bulletin
then that the change would mean two
wing-forwards under another name, and
so it has proved.
* * * *
“Umpire’s Mate”; As a result of the
disturbance at Oakleigh (Vic.) on June
20, when an Association umpire was
threatened, abused, kicked and punched,
the umpires’ board met and decided that
members would refuse to officiate in any
matches at Oakleigh for the remainder
of the season. The association considered
the resolution and asked the umpires to
rescind it, promising to provide police
protection and to convey umpires to and
from the ground. If reports of the
Northcote match aren’t exaggerated, the
police escort will have to don shorts
and stick to the umpire all through the
game. It’ll be rather difficult if he
rushes to the latter’s assistance every
time he blows his whistle.
* * * *
Australia trounced M.L. in the first
Soccer Test at Dunedin; 7 goals to 1 —
centre-forward Smith, four.
(Continued on next page.)
Britain captured four of the five Wim-
bledon titles: Perry the singles ; Hughes
and Tuckey the doubles; Misses Stam-
mers and James the women’s doubles;
and Perry with Dorothy Round the
mixed doubles. Helen Jacobs—-second
four times previously—won the women’s
singles, beating Mrs. Sperling in the final.
* * * *
“Third Base”; Another American base-
ball visit is promised. Unless things go
wrong, as they have done so often before.
Santa Barbara University, California, will
ship a team for Sydney at the end of
July. Professor Harder will be in charge
—whether he is a professor of baseball
or the university variety deponent
knoweth not. So far it is intended to
play in N.S.W. only, but if Victoria
makes a noise like real money it also
will be taken on.
* * * *
“Blade”: Rowing men are hoping to
stage an Empire eight-oar race in Sydney
in 1938, and among those who may be
invited are Canada and England, the
Leander Club being named. Canada, just
next door, so to speak, and M.L. should
be certainties, but Leander, consisting of
Oxford and Cambridge oarsmen, some
of them up at the universities, won’t be
so easy.


“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
The
“UNDOVER”
M u 1 tiplying
Big Game
Reel w a s
used in land-
ing 10051 b.
Tiger Shark
caught b y
Sil Rohu off
Sydney Heads
on May 30, 1936.
ms
936.
This Reel can he used for top or under
rod fishing:. Capacity, 850 yards 36-cord,
700 yards 39. PRICE, £27/10/-.
My “SWORDFISH” Reel, same specifi-
cations as “Undover,” only for top rod,
£35.
1000 yards 39 cord Swordfish Reel in
course of manufacture. A feature of these
reels is that they can he taken apart with
a screwdriver, provided.
SIL ROHU,
Quality Firearms and Fishing Tackle,
143 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
MEKOM s Uh EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write:
Rev. WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS. LTD., MELBOURNE
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Setting about’ his job with clean
straight lefts, “Spider” Roach had
George Elliot so limp in the 12th round
of their bout at Brisbane that the referee
refused to let it go on. Roach, a very
clever boy who has developed a punch,
has now won his last five fights. When
Dave Shade was in Sydney he thought
seriously of taking “Spider” with him to
the U.S.A.; and the featherweight hadn’t
found his punch then.
* * * *
The old-time English welterweight
Arthur Evernden bobbed up in Sydney
last week in a workers’-compensation
case. It was mentioned that he once
fought Carpentier. There is another
former ring worthy in Sydney who boxed
the Frenchman as a featherweight and
outpointed him—Warner, who trained
Ambrose Palmer before Ambrose gave
up the game.
Footbrawl
“Outsider”: The Richmond Cricket
Ground war still rages. The day before
the Richmond-South Melbourne match
on June 27 large advertisements appeared
in the Melbourne dailies exhorting foot-
ball patrons to “force the Government
to give football a fair go” and to “refuse
to pay admission charges until the Gov-
ernment acts.” After stating that every
person had a right to enter the grounds
free of charge and that' if any official
attempted to prevent anyone doing so
he would be guilty of an offence, the
advertisement said:
Police are present to see that your citizen
rights are not interfered with. Call a
constable if necessary.
It concluded:
You are legally entitled to enter free. Do
so to-morrow.
Handbills similarly worded were distri-
buted outside the oval prior to the match.
A considerable number of
persons endeavored to force
their way in, and some were suc-
cessful. Police, including a
trooper, were present, but
apparently not for the purpose
of assisting the gate-crashers.
$
“Fitzcray”: The quarrel over
gate takings which came to a
head with the Richmond affair
may lead to a new era in Vic-
torian League football. Not
only is the present system of
ground control likely to be
altered, but it is suggested that
in future the richer and stronger
dubs may have to pool part of their
receipts for a fund to help smaller and
weaker combinations. These are gener-
ally without a razoo, while the fortunate
clubs can and do buy up all the new
talent heaving in sight, a system which
condemns the impecunious ones to per-
petual poverty both in cash and football
talent.
* * # ■*
“Hotham”: They take their football
seriously in Victoria. A domestic quarrel
over ground control has been carried into
Parliament, which has been seriously de-
bating amendment of the existing condi-
tion of things. Contrast this with N.S.W.,
where a greedy professional sporting con-
cern has been permitted to obtain a long
lease of the State’s principal ground,
originally dedicated to amateur sport, to
the practical exclusion, during the football
season at least, of the amateurs. Neither
Parliament nor the Minister responsible
has ever shown the slightest sign of
objecting.
# * * *
“Fitzcray”: How deeply despair has
bitten into some supporters of the V.F.A.
is seen in the remark of a Port Mel-
bourne city councillor when told that
takings for the Oakleigh-Port match
totalled £4 9s. 9d. It is recorded that
when the truth broke upon him he smiled
a dreadful smile, and stated his inten-
tion of voting to hand the Port ground
over next season to the Rugby Union.
Only Melbourne football followers can
realise the black agony behind this
avowal. Somehow it recalls Pitt’s cry
when he got the news of Austerlitz—
“Roll up the map of Europe.”
* * * *
Fielding a scratch side, the English-
men beat Ipswich (Q.) 23-3—five tries
and four goals (all Hodgson’s) to a try.
* * * jJ:
“Gate”: In a way, the N.S.W. Rugby
League heads were disappointed at the
63,000 attendance at Sydney Cricket
Ground for the first Test against' the Eng-
lishmen. It was hoped that the 1932
figures of 70,000 would be beaten;
“Horrie Miller,” somebody wrote, “ex-
pects 80,000.” The Australian record
for a football attendance still stays in
Melbourne. Therein 1933 75,000 people
watched the Richmond-South Melbourne
match at Melbourne C.G.
* * * *
“Scalper”: The N.S.W. League had
such success with its reserved-seat scheme
for the first Test match that it is asking
the Sydney C.G. trust for further reserva-
tions. These will probably be granted,
but a modest request that League ticket-
holders be allowed to occupy empty seats
in the members’ stand on payment of
a bob extra was hurled out by the
trustees.
* * * *
“Aberdeen”; The refusal of many
folk to pay admission to the Richmond
(Vic.) football ground has had repercus-
sions in Sydney. Manly Oval, a Rugby
“Aw, I didn't know it Was Mulligan. Thought it Was YOU.”
Union ground, is overlooked by a hill.
For a long time spectators seeking a free
view of the games from the outer have
been frustrated by a high screen of hessian
which hides the ground from the econo-
mists. Some of these rebelled, and on the
eve of the Newcastle-Western districts
game set fire to the hessian. If anyone
knows of a cheap fireproof material
which can be used for a screen at Manly
the R.U. will be glad to hear from him.
“Birkenhead Park”; If anyone had told
the writer a short time ago that the Eng-
lish R.U. was asking the International
Board off its own bat to change some of
the rules he would have rung-up the
reception house. The Union proposes to
award three points, instead of four, for
a dropped goal and two points for a
goal from a mark. Also it desires all
penalty tries to be awarded as between
the goal posts. Suggestions to stabilise
the offside rule are also offered, but as
that has been fruitlessly attempted for
years nothing is likely to happen.
* * * *
“Old Q.”; Records of inter-State foot-
ball, save those matches in which N.S.W.
figures, are hard to come by, but it looks
as if the meeting of Queensland and Vic-
toria to-day as part of the triangular
R.U. tourney in Sydney is the first
of its kind. The Vies, have, off and on,
been up against N.S.W. for years, some
of the clashes dating back to the
’eighties, and will have the disadvantage
against the Bananalanders of going up
against a team which has had two tough
games against N.S.W. this season. The
Victorians have made splendid progress
since the game was revived in Melbourne,
and when that Australian R.U. comes
along will have an unfettered chance to
go further.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: Padgham, winner of the
British open, has been knocking at the
door for some time. His first appearance
in the big tourney was in 1930, when he
finished away back. He was fourth in
1932, seventh in 1933, third in 1934 and
runner-up to Perry, last year’s winner.
His four rounds for the 7100 yards course
were 73, 72, 71, 71, every round a fine
performance on any Australian cham-
pionship course of 6000 yards or so. This
year Padgham has won all the big cash
prizes open to British professionals. The
open will be worth only £lOO to him in
cash, but a lot more in prestige.
>!« Jfc Sfc
“Hoylake”: Usually when Yankee
athletes open their mouths the subject
is themselves. Our old friend Sarazen
is an exception. Landing at Liverpool
for the open championship he began
spreading himself on the subject of Jim
Ferrier, whom he saw when a far in-
ferior player to what he is to-day. Gene
says he has marked the youngster down
as a future winner of the British ama-
teur and open and also the American
open, though he seems to have over-
looked the Yankee amateur title. Much
of what he says is, doubtless, well
grounded, but there is such a thing,
Gene, as laying it on with a trowel.
“Reichsportfiihrer”: Germany has
not cut much ice in golf to date, but this
is to be altered. On August 26 there will
be held at Baden a tourney between
teams from all golfing nations which like
to send them for a “Grand Prix de
Nations” presented by Hitler, together
with other prizes. Only two amateurs
will constitute each team, and the match
will be decided by 72 holes stroke.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: So keen are Queens-
land golfers on getting an Australian
championship meeting that some of the
clubs with claims are to lay down their
greens in bent. This grass is all the rage
elsewhere for the purpose, though there
have been no complaints of the putting
areas on Brisbane’s leading courses.
About the best chance the northerners
have of proving to the Big Three that
their claim is justified would be in insist-
ing on crack Queensland players enter-
ing for championships in the South, so
as to give the heads in Melbourne, Adel-
aide and Sydney opportunities of noting
Queensland form and assisting them to
do so. So far, Queenslanders at the
national and State championship meet-
ings outside their own State have been as
rare as Rechabites at a licensed vic-
tuallers’ picnic.
* * ♦
The N.S.W. amateur foursomes cham-
pionship at Kensington produced poor
golf. The winners, Cole and Carter, turned
in a card of 152, which included a novice
round of 81. The titleholders, Waterson
and Hattersley, finished level for last
place with three other pairs in a field
of 26 couples, their card reading 164, in-
cluding a first-round score of 81. The
display must have heartened mug
golfers—sometimes the super-player per-
forms like a novice. Hattersley, an ex-
Australian and State champion, and his
partner, who is amateur champion of
Queensland, made about every bloomer it
is possible for a golfer to accomplish.
* * :|; *
“Dissociate”; Mrs. Byrnes, of Wau-
chope, winner of the N.S.W. country-
women’s singles championship on The
Lakes course, owns to being a grand-
mother. She has been playing for 13
years. It was her seventh successive
showing in the event, and she has won
to the semi-finals three times.
* * *
“Sandringham”: Victorian golfers have
resolved to follow the example of N.S.W.
and change the conditions of their
amateur championship from stroke to
match play. There will be no qualifying
rounds. Handicap limit will be three, and
matches will first be played over 18 holes,
the survivors entering a final over 36.
The change marks another win for those
who have long been advocating aboli-
tion of the fluky stroke preliminaries,
which have often seen a bad player get
home from a better.
Racquet and Bawl
None of the Australians reached the
finals at Wimbledon. Von Cramm de-
feated Crawford in three straight sets,
though the Australian made him travel
in the second and third: 6-1, 7-5, 6-4.
And Quist was easy for Budge: 6-2, 6-2,
6-4. Perry and Austin won their quarter-
finals. In the semis. Perry beat Budge
and Von Cramm overcame Austin.
Perry had an easy win in the final:
6-1, 6-1, 6-0. The German strained a
thigh muscle in the first service of the
match, and afterwards apologised to the
crowd because he “couldn’t play any
better.” If it means he’s out for a time
it will upset all the Davis Cup estimates.
Worse than the failures in singles was
the defeat of Crawford and Quist in the
doubles by old-men Borotra and
Brugnon. Optimists now contend that,
giving Von Cramm (provided, that is,
he’s a starter) two singles wins,
Australia must win the other matches
in the European zone final and gain the
right to challenge England for the Davis
Cup. They are arguing against Wimble-
don form.
* * * *
“?”: To me the defeat of Dorothy
Round by the German Mrs. Sperling at
Wimbledon is wrapped in mystery. It
is cabled that Miss Round “broke a
strap” and asked her opponent’s permis-
sion to go to the dressing-room and get
it fixed. The German lady objected, and
the Englander, playing under handicap,
was beaten. Reading between the lines
it would seem that the mysterious strap
is equivalent to the solitary trouser
button on which so many males rely to
maintain the conventions. The dis-
tressed damsel has my sympathy.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”; The European Davis Cup
final between Germany and Yugoslavia
has been brought forward to July 10, and
the interzone final between Australia and
the winners may also start a bit earlier
than July 18. On form the Germans
will not have a walkover. Von Cramm
(if he is fit to play) should take both
his singles; the Yugs, however, have
been showing splendid tennis against
first-class players. In the doubles the
German pair should win, though they are
not great shakes.
:Jc sp sj* *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: A comment on
McGrath’s showing against Grant at
Wimbledon: “He looked so haggard
that he seemed a melancholy justification
of those who said he was overplayed


English as Eng-
land. The VAUX-
HALL BIG SIX
outside The White
HaH Inn (Norfolk)
with Us magnificent
carved beam sign.
No other car so near its overseas price
CB
Vauxhall Light Six for 1936
The most popular English car in Australia, the
Vauxhall Light Six is the complete medium-sized
car . . . with Knee-Action, Safety Body bv
Holden, Inbuilt Luggage Trunk, No-draught
Ventilation as standard equipment on closed
models.
1936 Vauxhall 7-Passenger Saloon
To those whose position calls for the luxury and
roominess of an English seven-passenger saloon,
Vauxhall offers a model of 130 inches wheelbase
that is the most adyantageously-priced English
car in Australia.
Ask about the new Two-unit GM-H “Air
Chief” Car Radio ! 9 valve performance with
6 valves. Price, £27. Any Vauxhall dealer
can install.
There are three good reasons why Vauxhall leads the sales of English
cars in Australia by such a huge margin. First, is Vauxhall’s value.
Vauxhall is priced nearer to its cost in England than any other English
car (the increase in price of the Vauxhall being less than half than
that of the average English car). Second, there’s Vauxhall’s unrivalled
service and spare parts facilities. Third, there’s the fact that Vauxhall
is VAUXHALL . . . always distinguished, always characterised by
the famous fluted radiator.
Illustrated is the 1936 Vauxhall 27 h.p. Big Six—England’s most
powerful, moderate priced car with such features as : Rapid vapor-
ising chamber, economy ignition adjustment, pedomatic starting,
automatic chassis lubrication, and Safety Body by Holden with
inbuilt luggage trunk (optional at £ll extra). Safety Windscreen of
Armourplate Glass and flat, unobstructed floors, etc.
GENE R A L MOTORS tn OLDEN’S LIMITED
g
Arrange for a demonstration from
YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
when he was younger.” As far as I can
recall the only journal to point a warn-
ing in this regard from the beginning of
the boy’s tennis career was The Bulletin.
If 1 had my way McGrath would be
forcibly restrained from first-class tennis
for a couple of years.
Sji * * *
“Hotham”: The Australian L.T.A. is
taking a chance and has advocated the
holding of an international women’s
tennis tourney on Davis Cup lines. A
committee is to draw up rules, and a cup
named after Norman Brookes will be the
trophy. It is hoped to start the thing
when the English women’s team is here
next year. The gate-money side is attrac-
tive ; apropos, the “gates” at the America-
Australia Davis Cup matches yielded
£5BOO. Of this Australia’s cut is £l4OO.
* * * *
“Milton”: An argument over the posi-
tion of “Gar” Moon is raging in Queens-
land. The hardcourts match with N.S.W.
is soon due, and the question is whether
Moon, who holds the title of hardcourts
champion but has not played in tourna-
ments for a couple of years, is eligible
to compete. He is still the best player
in the State on grass or hard courts and
could hardly be left out on form, but
the rules say candidates for hardcourt
selection must have played at least six
matches on the ant bed in the season.
And Moon is a selector!
Miscellaneous
England won the only Test match with
India at Lord’s by nine wickets. On a
damaged wicket India somehow got 147.
England did even worse, 134, only Ley-
land (60) shaping like a batsman’s boot-
lace. India scored 93 in its second try,
and England got the needed runs for the
loss of Mitchell’s wicket: Gimblett (67)
and Turnbull (37) were the not-outs. In
England’s first knock Amar Singh took
6 for 35. In the match Allen got 10
wickets cheaply.
“Aigburth”: Though wickets were got
cheaply in the India-England match the
bowlers were roasted by the critics. The
“Times” contented itself with saying that
it was “amazing that so many ‘swells’
could get themselves out so easily,” and
added for the bowlers’ benefit that “a
more riotous display of full pitches and
long hops has not been seen in a Test
match.” Neville Cardus alludes to his
fellow-countrymen as “a fortuitous con-
currence of atoms,” which is worse than
anything the Sydney Hill ever hurled at
Larwood.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: Harold Gimblett, the
Somersetshire cricketer in whom Eng-
lish critics are hopefully discerning a
successor to Hobbs (with a dash of
Jessop), only “arrived” last year, but his
arrival was a sensational one. He is a
native of Walchet —not far from Sto-
gumber, which produced “Farmer” White
—and his huge scores in local cricket
procured him an invitation to play for
the county against Essex at Frome, at
the other end of Somerset. His debut in
first-class cricket —-he topped the century
in about an hour and a quarter —ensured
the youngster a place in the side for the
rest of the year, and although he never
quite kept up to his opening performance
there was no doubt that the county had
a find in him. This season he reached
his thousand early, and his second
innings against India made it a certainty
that Australia will see him this year.
Gimblett probably (like Bradman) never
had a day’s coaching in his life before
he made good. Another proof that
batsmen, like poets, are born, not made,
and liable to crop up anywhere.
* * * *
“Wilga’s” correction:
“Womerah” (B. 24 /6/’36) is wrong on one
point. Alan McGilvray, the cricketer, is a son
of Thomas McGilvray, a Sydney warehouse-
man and Rotarian. The elder McGilvray was
an oarsman—stroke of Balmain,
jJ; 4 s
“The Gaffer”: The folly of our Aus-
tralian controllers of athletics in neglect-
ing to bring Australia into line with the
rest of the world in providing cinder
tracks is seen in the reported trouble of
Metcalfe, who is finding that in his jump-
ing take-offs the unfamiliar cinders at
Berlin do not hold as does the grass to
which he is accustomed. As a result he
has been forced to make a change in his
methods at this late hour to ensure a
clean take-off—a handicap he may find
it hard to overcome. News comes, by the
way, that the Australian’s Sydney hop,
step and jump of 51ft. 9|in. has been
recognised as a world’s record.
* * * *
“Spike”: Our Olympic team seems
born to trouble. The latest friction re-
ported arose between manager Alderson
and Inspector Fergusson, of the N.S.W.
police. The latter, who went across with
the police eight, without official status,
has been at odds with the official boss
as to who shall control the rowers. As
matters have been settled, the inspector
will look after the police finances, which
were raised from private sources, subject
to Alderson’s O.K. The team manager
will be the supreme authority in this and
all other matters relating to the rowers.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: It is proposed to spend
£6OOO on the 1938 Games in Sydney—
if it can be got. The estimate is that the
combined visitors will number 72, with
50 from other Australian States, who are
to be allowed a whole tenner apiece for
expenses. All hands will be housed free
for four weeks, the men in the dog and
fowl pavilions and similar palaces-r/e-
-luxe at the Showground and the women
in assorted pubs. The amazing statement
is made that the British authorities have
“rejected” the idea of a cinder track for
the athletes. They have nothing to do
with such a matter. North Sydney pool
will see the swimming ; the Stadium the
boxing and wrestling ; rowing will take
place on the Nepean, and cyclists will
figure at one of the suburban tracks. It
is not stated where bowlers will show, but
any green with a big bar handy should do.
*** ■ *
“The Gaffer”; Sydney C.G. is to be
the principal arena for the 193.° Empire
Games. After the revelation that the
ground had a slope of from north
to south and that most of the times made
in the past are worthless in consequence,
the authorities talk of “correcting” this.
How is not stated, but to level the
ground would be a fearfully costly job
and one quite out of the question.
Nothing is said of the construction of a
cinder track for the sprints. When the
Empire champions come along it is likely
that most of them will be flabbergasted
to find that they must run on grass.
* * ; i :
1 he unorthodox, high-stroking Japan-
ese eight didn’t show as expected at
Henley, A Zurich crew led it by six
lengths at the finish of a heat for the
Challenge Cup. Zurich won the final.
“Banks”; Komura, a Japanese oars-
man who rows with Melbourne Mercan-
tile, has been giving the locals “the oil”
about the Japanese methods which have
startled European oarsmen. He says his
countrymen are indebted to a book on
rowing by Rudy Lehmann, an English
oarsman and coach (also a writer of
agreeable light verse) in pre-war days.
Prior to this the Japanese had rowed a
fairly orthodox style, and usually with
bigger men than the university crew now
in Europe. They go forward for the
catch in orthodox style, but do not bring
the hands right home to the ribs at the
finish, stopping half-way. This enables
the short rate, all the work being done
in front and not behind the poppets, a
direct negation of the orthodox style,
so-called.
“Blade”: A party of Sydney oarsmen
experimented with fast stroking on the
Parramatta in a boat with the slides
shortened to half length. The crew, a
first-class one, after a warming-up,
managed to reach a rate of 60. No par-
ticulars as to pace, etc., were taken, and
there was no attempt at a stamina test.
That will have to be tried later if any
Australian clubs are to take up the new
fad. A rate of 60 or better, such, as the
Japanese claim to have rowed with
success, may be all right for short spins,
but over the three-mile courses on which
Australian championships are rowed
would be a physical impossibility, except
at paddling pace.
, * i- * *
“Splash”; For years the name of an
Australian has figured on the list of
world’s swimming records. The new list
issued by the international amateur body
contains none. America holds 20 of the
27 men’s freestyle records, Japan three.
Japan and America have two each in the
breaststroke class and Germany one. All
the backstroke figures are credited to
Americans. Among the women America,
Japan, Holland and Germany monopolise
the records.
* * v *
“Reformed Gun”; That noblest of
poor men's sports the tin-hare pursuit is
faced with serious rivalry. Cabled that
an English country town has constructed
a course on which cats will chase an
electric mouse for 200 yards. I can see
the game blowing up after the first meet-
ing or two. Emissaries of unscrupulous
bookmakers will stand by the course re-
leasing real mice thereon as the favorite
leads the field. These, unlike the bulky
hares, can easily be concealed about the
person and would be practically invisible
except to the cats. Also, when lady cats
are in the betting, toms could be con-
veyed in a car close to the rails with the
idea of unsettling the fleeting tabbies
with love songs.
# * * *
“Ride Off”: By beating Britain in the
first two matches for the Westchester
Cup at Hurlingham, the U.S.A. retains
the pot which it has held ever since the
war. The games were close, 10-9 and
8-6. Bob Ashton, of Goulburn (N.S.W.),
who was one of the umpires, rates the
Irish player Baldwin as the best of the
bunch, with the American No. 1, Eric
Pedley, second. Ashton himself has been
playing a lot of polo on a handicap
which shows that he is rated in the first
class.
•i 1 •i' *i»
“Shinty”; Australian hockey players
are talking of bringing a team from Eng-
land, where the game is taken much more
seriously than in Australia. It is about
up to them. The girls have not only
brought out an English team, but have
sent a team to England, and are sending
another to the U.S.A. An Indian side is
due in Australia and M.L. in 1938, and
it is hoped that a triangular clash will
result.


INTERESTING FIRESIDE READING FOR
WINTER NIGHTS
ENDEAVOUR PRESS NOVELS
SPECIALLY REDUCED IN PRICE
4 NOVELS FOR 51-
s?
A limited number of Endeavour Press novels which have become slightly soiled in the store are now made
available to “Bulletin” readers at bargain prices. The usual price of these is 5/- and 6/- each.
Your choice of Four of the following for S/-, post free.
“SATURDEE” Norman Lindsay
BRING THE MONKEY Miles Franklin
IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK Vera Dwyer
THE SOW'S EAR ... Bernard Cronin
STORIES BY “KODAK"
NIGHTS ASHORE ...... Captain Jack Hamilton
Mark the books you require and post the list, together with postal note for 5/-, to
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Company Ltd.
MEETING, JUNE 26, 1936.
K.M. NIALL (Chairman).
BEFORE dealing with the business of the
Meeting, I desire to make reference to the
recent loss we have sustained by the death of
our late General Manager, Mr. W. A. Gibson,
which occurred only twelve days ago. Mr.
Gibson joined the,Company in 1913 and held
the office of General Manager for twenty years,
He leaves behind him a fine record of efficient
, , , , . . , ,
and devoted service, not only to our Company
but to the Pastoral Industry as a whole.
Besides his loss to the business, he will be
greatly missed for his personal qualities.
•
The Board has appointed Mr. H. Latreille
to succeed the late Mr. Gibson as Genera
Manager. Mr. Latreille joined the Company
as Assistant General Manager in 1927, and
I have no hesitation in saying that Mr. Lat-
reille is a worthy successor to Mr. Gibson.
Referring to the main figures in the Balance
Sheet on the LIABILITIES side:
CAPITAL AND RESERVES AND DE-
BENTURE STOCK remain unchanged.
SUNDRY CREDITORS—£46S,466; There is
an increase of £76,494, principally in clients’
credit balances.
r-,r.n'c ivrn aopditph tmTppcot
ObPOSITS AND ACCRUED INTEREST-
I' 6 ie ,! UC ff Ol !i!Ldf' ’itir-i!
about by paying off deposits whci w re no
required.
PROVISION FOR TAXATION—£9,OO6—a
decrease of £22,066 which has reference merely
to the incidence ot payment ot our assessments,
which are based on the lower profits earned in
the preceding year.
On the ASSETS side •
CASH, DEPOSITS AND GOVERNMENT
DEBENTURES: The total of £992,565, as
compared with £403,801, shows an increase of
£588,764—due mainly to better prices and
larger clearances of wool. As indicated in the
Directors’ Report, clients’ wool on hand unsold
at 31st March amounted to 10,480 bales only,
as compared with 61,935 at same date last year.
ADVANCES: These amount to £4,073,886
—a decrease of £571,708, partly due to lesser
demands from clients as a result of their better
income. During the year certain overdrafts
were repaid by clients who desired, no doubt,
to obtain fixed loans for a term at present
comparatively low rates.
FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD PROPER-
TIES AND STOCK—£2I6,I97, a reduction of
£4ssB—mainly due to the fact that fewer sheep
were held owing to portion of our country
having been resumed in terms of the new New
South Wales Western Lands Act; this Act was
referred to at the Annual Meeting last year.
FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD BUSI-
NESS PREMISES—£6IS,4O2. There is a de-
crease in this item of £48,943, which is
accounted for by the necessary writing-down
of values owing to the loss by fire of our Pyr-
mont wool store. This is offset to some extent
by progress payments in connection with re-
building operations and to the completion of
the Adelaide Office premises.
ETC' Al £47 839^ A ThVs N shows
fBQ6fi TThe fire at Pvrmont and the new Office
Ihe fire at 1 yrmont and the new Office
building at Adelaide account foi the variation
shown here.
MERCHANDISE—£SB,OS4—an increase of
£6056, being the natural lesult of a growing
business in certain lines. .
PROFIT AND LOSS: Gross profit for the
past year amounted to £658,195, an increase
of £91,771, which is due to the much larger
quantity of wool and stock handled this year
than last, and the better prices lor same,
Our expenditure was £478,278—an increase
of £13,042. This increase would have appeared
as a much higher figure owing to the greatly
augmented quantity of wool handled had it
noL been < ?^ set by considerably lower taxation
payments based on the smaller pcofits of the
r)rf > rPr n n o' vrar
, ' .
THE DIVIDEND: In view of the material
improvement in profits—and as the outlook for
Ibe season and prices were on the whole satis-
factory—your Directors decided to recommend
a dmcleiid. of 7 per cent, for the year.
Following the long period of drought con-
ditions, the 1935-36 season opened in Queens-
]and with bountiful winter rains, which have
been followed by additional good falls and,
m consequence, almost the whole of that State
is in wonderful heart. Heavy stock losses
we re sustained in Queensland, however, as a
result of the drought, which extended, over
several years, and these losses, coupled with a
period of low wool prices, have inflicted upon
the industry there a most serious setback. The
difficulties have been accentuated by the cost
of restocking . The recuperative capabilities of
Queensland are proverbial, but the fortunes of
tke industry there are at such low ebb that it
w ill take a good many years of good seasons
and remunerative prices to restore them,
j n p T c meantime, the position demands a
long-sighted policy of forbearance and assist-
ance on the part of the Government in respect
to rents and taxation and other measures of
relief. The Company’s own policy has been
to give generous measures of relief, and we
believe that many other mortgagees must have
been acting similarly during the depression
years. It is therefore not unreasonable for
us to ask that these unfortunate leaseholders
should be treated in a similar fashion by their
landlord—the State.
j n ]sf cw South Wales, the west and central
west j s experiencing one of the best seasons
known for many years. The Western and
Central Riverma went through dry times earlier
in the season, but useful rams have now fallen,
In South Australia, the outlook dfiring the
earlier part of the season was very serious,
but late in May good soaking rains were re-
ceived throughout, the greater portion of the
State ’ and condlt,ons now P omt to a favorable
season.
After experiencing severe drought conditions,
particularly in the north and west, Victoria has
recently enjoyed beneficial rains, although we
regret that in certain districts they came rather
too late, and in Gippsland rain that is now
“f*“f-E damage.
, Portion of Western Australia is passing
through a drought of exceptional severity. The
entire extent of pastoral country south of the
Kimberleys is affected, and the position is per-
haps worse in the Murchison and East Gold-
fields districts, where stock losses are very
heavy. In the Great Southern and North-East
wheat belt good rams have fallen recently
and the outlook is normal.
With regard to the Company’s properties,
these ’ with one exce P tlon > are experiencing ex-
ceptjonaiiy good seasons. Shearing is due to
comrnence immediately on the Company’s New
South Wales properties, and a satisfactory clip
is anticipated.
Unfortunately, the blowfly has been very
active and virulent, and heavy mortality amongst
stock has occurred, particularly in Queensland.
Despite years of research, it is regretted that
no satisfactory method of dealing with this pest
has yet been evolved.
STOCK MARKETS: Due to high prices for
wool, skin values have been good, making for
buoyant markets for store and fat sheep and
lambs.
Shipments of mutton and lamb increased to
the full extent of the quotas allowed by Great
Britain for Australian imports, which is cause
for satisfaction.
On the other hand, the cattle market has
been depressed throughout the season, and is
still disappointing, although a slight improve-
ment has been noticed recently. It is hoped
in the Trade that negotiations between the Aus-
tralian and Imperial Governments will result
in an expanding market in Great Britain for
Australian meats, particularly beef.
WOOL MARKET; The wider enquiry and
more confident demand for wool that was
noticeable during the closing stages of the
period ending June, 1935, assisted materially
towards a satisfactory opening of sales in Sep-
tember for the 1935-36 season. I do not wish
to weary you by reading a long list of com-
parative prices, but I propose publishing with
this speech a monthly comparison of values for
the 1934-35 and 1935-36 seasons.
1934-35 Season. 1935-36 Season,
d. d.
July .. .. 9.18 8.20
August .. 10.14 8.00
September .. 8.79 12.27
October .. 9.48 12.84
November .. 9.90 14.23
December .. 9.40 14.38
January .. 9.95 15.36
February .. 9.52 15.72
March .. 9.35 15.35
April .. 10.14 14.40
May .. .. 10.82 11.11
These averages are of interest owing to the
fact that they indicate clearly the appreciable
increase in values obtained.
The steadiness of the market helped materi-
ally towards imparting a feeling of general
confidence to the trade overseas, while the fact
that the clip changed hands so freely would
indicate to some degree the strong statistical
position of wool.
The sustained enquiry from Japan was of
great assistance to the market, and good sup-
port was given by Great Britain, the Continent
and Australian mills, and it is anticipated that
at the close of the present season stocks of raw
wool in Australia and in the manufacturing
countries of the world —apart perhaps from
Japan—will be somewhat below normal.
The older manufacturing countries of the
world have been handicapped to some extent
in recent years in their export trade by the de-
velopment of textile industries in countries
which previously purchased their wool require-
ments in either a manufactured or semi-manu-
factured state. This development has probably
resulted, however, in a wider distribution of
purchases of raw material in the primary
markets. The difficulties of manufacturing
countries have been added to by currency
fluctuations, international complications and
high trade tariffs. However, the demand for
wool has been maintained, and the increasing
world production is being readily absorbed.
Wool still remains one of the more favored
raw materials, notwithstanding the increased
production of rayon and similar textiles'.
DEBT ADJUSTMENT; I do not propose
to say more than a few words on this much-
discussed subject. The object of the legis-
lation is the scaling down of debts of embar-
rassed producers to a point which leaves them
with a Balance Sheet showing some equity.
The fundamental objection is that this involves
interference with contracts, and, from that
point of view and from its bad effect in the
future upon lenders, it seems a, very regrettable
measure, even on the plea of necessity. How-
ever, there is no doubt that a very great deal
will depend on the administration of these Acts
in the various States. Although but few clients
of the Company are likely to submit applica-
tions for debt adjustment, the effect of the
working of the various Acts is a matter which
vitally affects all Financial Houses, and a
watchful eye will need to be kept on develop-
ments.
PYRMONT STORE: You are aware of the
disastrous fire which occurred in September last
at our main wool store in Sydney. Besides
appraising the loss of both building and con-
tents —which was a considerable task in itself
—we had to make arrangements for temporary
storage and show space, and we had imme-
diately to embark upon plans for a new struc-
ture. We desired to have these completed as
soon as practicable—if possible before next
season’s arrivals. 1 am pleased to say that, as
a result of the strenuous efforts of the builders,
great progress has been made, and we hope
to handle the coming clip under normal condi-
tions and with the advantage of a store com-
plete with every modern appliance. As advised
in the Directors’ Report, all losses were covered
by insurance, but we had to meet some un-
avoidable expenditure through increase of Over-
heads inseparable from the carrying on of busi-
ness under temporary arrangements.
TRADE CONDITIONS: With more money
in circulation as a result of the good income
received in Australia from wool and primary
products generally, there has been quite a
noticeable activity in the various trades, and,
as a consequence, unemployment continues to
decrease. As a natural sequence, it is not un-
reasonable to look for early and substantial
reduction in Taxation which was imposed for
unemployment relief. There is a strong feel-
ing in the country that substantial remissions
should be made, and, in view of the maerially-
improved position, there is every justification
for this attitude. Reductions, if made, would
serve as a stimulus to private enterprise, and,
as a result, unemployment would further de-
crease, and at the same time revenue should
not be affected materially.
Whilst conditions in Australia have un-
doubtedly shown steady if not pronounced
improvement, the outlook is still very un-
settled and perplexing abroad; one has only
to consider the huge deficits in America —the
success of the Communistic party at the French
elections —and also the Italian situation, to
realise this.
JAPANESE TRADE: We fully appreciate
the support which Japan has afforded to the
Australian Wool Market during recent years,
and it is a matter for regret that Japanese
buyers have withdrawn from the market for
the present.
Australia’s new Tariff has been designed
primarily for the protection of Australian indus-
tries and of those of the British Empire, of
which we are a component part. Australia has
not indulged in any policy of discrimination
as between foreign countries, which, under
the new proposals, are all treated alike.
The action taken by Australia in placing
specific duties on foreign cotton piece goods
and rayon will, it is estimated, have the effect
of reducing our imports from Japan from
about 5 to ■H million pounds, a reduction of
three-quarters of a million pounds of trade.
This is a relatively small figure which does
not call for extreme measures of retaliation on
the part of Japan.
Whilst this is the position from the point
of view of Australia generally, we cannot but
feel, as Brokers and Growers, that, should a
material restriction of wool exports to Japan
result from the Licensing System now intro-
duced by that country, it would be a particu-
lar misfortune if Australia’s leading industry
should be called upon to bear the brunt of a
readjustment of our National Policy.
We therefore hope that before very long
a trade agreement will be reached by the Gov-
ernments of the two countries. The British
market, however, is of paramount importance
to the Australian export trade as a whole, and
we hope that Japan will recognise that her
own policy and that of this country, as it
applies to the British Commonwealth of
Nations, are basically the same.


Kingsley” Radio
Receivers
“Kingsley” High Fidelity
Receivers for Alternating
Current Operation, Broad-
cast and Short-wave Bands,
High quality, low consump-
tion Dual-wave Battery
Receivers.
Write for full particulars.
KINGSLEY TELERADIO
CONSTRUCTIONS Pty.Ltd.
249-251 Spring St., Melbourne.
Cent. 8461.
GRAZIERS! Continue to place your confidence
imi —in this fine All-British Machinery.
BETTER THAN EVER
g
Wf)kSELFv SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE CO., LTD.,
* 111 i has its own Offices, Showrooms and
own
Selling Organisation
at Mi 11 e r’s
Point, Sydney.
(P.O. Box
1631 BB.)
The “RINGER’
You could not wish for a more
reliable Electric Lighting Set than
the WOLSELEY. Specially
designed for Country Homes.
Ask for Publication No. 160,
The Marvellous NEW Streamlined
Handpiece. The Lightest and Fastest-
cutting Shear made.
Complete Shearing Installations Supplied.
Also Engines, Pumps. Chaffcutters, Saw-
benches, etc. When writing, please mention
The Bulletin.
u t
.I
nil’
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
SECS
BUSINESS ,ROBBERY,ETC.
Factories for Our Future
The abos. were no match for Gover-
nor Phillip’s handful of soldiers, and
undeveloped Abyssinia, a country, appar-
ently, of hewers of wood, drawers of
water and professional bandits, offered
little more resistance to the Italians than
could be expected from the natural lay-
out of the land.
Australia, it was long considered by
some of its most influential mouthpieces
(that is after the abos.’ time), could
serve itself best by remaining little more
than a colony to Britain, the Old Coun-
try supplying us with manufactures in
return for our wool, wheat, beef and
other primary products.
The Bulletin, on the other hand, had
long foreseen the necessity in this coun-
try for what are called (lacking a better
phrase) secondary industries, just as it
foresaw 20 years in advance where our
borrowing-vote-catching policy would
lead us. When a manufacturing industry
had a chance of succeeding if granted
protection in keeping with our living
standards, this paper was for it.
Sometimes it may have been necessary
to go more strongly for Protection than
that, but generally results justified the
cause.
Results continue to justify it. It should
now be plain that, without our factories,
Australia would have been starved of
manufactured goods during the depres-
sion.
Our exports, on a six years’ average,
have not paid for such goods as
we did get from overseas during and
after the depression, plus interest. We
consumed, in addition, more Australian-
made goods than were imported during
the same period. Without factories to
make those Australian goods, we should
have had to go without them, be-
cause we couldn’t have paid for extra
imports and our credit was very rocky.
Much of the previous excessive borrow-
ing which was father to this rockiness
was not in respect of factory develop-
ment ; country railways represent as big
an item in the national debt contracted
in time of peace as anything.
Quite apart from the secondary em-
ployment given (in offices, shops, ware-
houses, etc.), Australian factories give
direct employment to about one in every
13 of the total population. The figure
is growing, and if our natural resources
—our coal, our iron, other minerals, etc.
—are to be developed, it must continue
to grow.
Wool, a “primary” industry, represents
the lifeblood of our external trade. De-
spite high domestic figures as legards
wages, costs, etc., wool sells at world
parity, and is nevertheless a source of
great financial strength to the Common-
wealth. In fact, it is one of our few
reliable land products at the moment.
It is battened on by Governments for
revenue, and has to go without conces-
sions. The proud position which it has
attained in the world’s markets (as a re-
sult of private enterprise) is now being
used as a lever to further an incompre-
hensible policy of trade diversion—from
Japan to Britain. Such is the faith in
the staple—an apparently blind faith at
the moment.
Australian factories consume approxi-
mately a tenth of the total wool clip.
The close interweaving of primary and
secondary industries and their value to
each other at this point are quite plain.
They are less plain, but none the less real,
in practically every other branch of in-
dustrial activity. Increase in population
and consumption go hand in hand ; thus
Australia is by far the best market for its
own less important pastoral and agricul-
tural products.
Manufacturing and defence go hand
in hand also. The Abyssinians couldn’t
even make their own rifles and ammuni-
tion. Australia has a small-arms factory
at Lithgow, and practically all of our
explosives are made within the country.
This is but a small step towards self-
defence ; yet it has resulted in widened
avenues for employment, which is en-
couragement for greater population.
Not many people who have studied the
Lyons Government’s tariff policy will
give it credit for having a Protectionist
outlook when the way was opened some-
what recently for the Australian manu-
facture of motor-cars and aeroplanes.
The promised motor-car bonus was
“ Sorry , sir—withdrawals at the other counter. "
u ...... T ,
'brown in to give the gohtbthve duties
lapanese goods a Rio ■
Th <= anti-Japanese duties, and to a lesser
extent those on U.S.A. cars, are r y
part o£ ,hc Government’s “great expec-
rations policy. English cats are not
affected by the duties. Reciprocity from
Britain is looked tor so far it hasn
eome to light, 'hough '' c ar p
of “ agreement pledging Britain to buy
another couple of pounds worth of
ehdled beet, or something like that,
By roundabout ways the opportunity to
make aeroplane engines in this country
has at last arrived ; and motor-car engines
may follow. Broken Hill Prop., G.M.-
Holden’s and their affiliates interested in
the new venture are eminently capable
and resourceful. An expenditure of
£2,000,000 at Port Kembla for steel-
processing works is spoken of, 1000
extra men will be given jobs within
three months, and a third large in-
dusfrial centre in N. S. Wales
looks like being established. Following
what appears to be the founding of an
Australian paper industry at Burnie
(Tas.), our industrial future takes on a
broader outlook.
At Mar. 31 N.Z. Perpetual Forests,
Ltd., had issued 144,844 bonds at prices
ranging from £25 to £55 each. The
amount paid or undertaken to be paid
on these was £4,173,113. Paid-up share
capital was £197,536. N.Z. Forests Pro-
ducts, Ltd., the bondholders’ co., is to
submit a scheme to the M.L. commis-
sion whereby rights of former bond-
holders (now shareholders) in issues of
varying ages will be adjusted on a basis
of timber growth, according to measure-
ments of sample plots held by the co.
Already 40,000 bondholders in Australia
have converted into shares, and 20,000
in M.L.
* * * *
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance shares,
in the unlisted section of Sydney ’Change
quotations, are worth attention if they can
be got below 30s. The scrip is fully paid
to 10s., and, though only 7 p.c. was dis-
tributed last term, earnings from all
sources were equal to 20 p.c. on capital.
Reserves at £125,615 are £31,690 more
than paid capital.
The surplus of exports over imports
for the eleven months to May 31 was
£23,135,000 sterling, a slight improvement
during the month. If this figure was main-
tained to the end of June it looks as
though there may be a surplus of
£2,000,000 over Government debt
charges (£21,000,000 p.a.) overseas. From
this balance a proportion of capital with-
drawals, trippers’ expenses and other in-
visible charges will be met; the rest will
come out of London reserves. Ob-
viously we are still not paying our way.
•i ! $ "1*
Britain has been getting an increasing
share of our trade —tariffs have been cut
down under the Ottawa Agreement — 1
which no one would begrudge it if it
were not pure sacrifice on the part of
Australian industries. We are thankful for
such preferences as we do get from the
Old Country ; but John Bull invariably
has a credit balance at the end of each
year when interest, etc., has been taken
into account. Over the 15 years 1920-34
the credits are estimated to have aggre-
gated £400,000,000 sterling, which isn’t
a great deal short of our total pub-
lic London indebtedness —£546,000,000
sterling.
Bears apparently are a bit tied up with
B.H.P.’s new issue. The contribs., when
the uncalled liability of 20s. is taken into
account, were dearer than the paids last
week. It looked as though someone was
anxiously covering.
* * * *
Carlton Brewery (Melb.) shares sold to
60s. last Thursday. In B. 3/6/’36, when
the scrip was at 575. 9d., it was pointed
out that earnings should warrant a 121
p.c. handout this year. For last term 10
p.c. was paid.
* * * *
A commercial action over the flourish-
ing brandy business in S.A. has been
settled by agreement. Tolley, Scott and
Tolley sought to bar R. D. Tolley from
using their family name in connection
with brandy sales. He argued that their
product is well known as “T.5.T.,” and
he was entitled to use his own name in
building up a “Tangari” brand. Settled
on those general lines, the name “Tolley”
not to be used alone.
* * =H *
Mort’s Dock (Sydney) shares jumped
on Thursday. Possibilities of better trad-
ing results this term and general trends in
heavy industries (B.H.P.’s name keeps
getting linked, unofficially, with this con-
cern) are having an influence. Unless
the outlook has improved considerably
on the experience of the last six years
or so, the shares at last week’s 12s. 3d.
are a spec.
*
Associated Pulp and Paper, the new
Tas. co., has given an order to Walms-
leys (Bury), Ltd., for a 15,000-tons fine-
printing and writing-paper machine.
Foundations are to be laid down as
quickly as possible. The co.’s 55.-paids,
which started off in the market at a small
premium, have slipped back to 3s.
* * '!-■ *
Swan Brewery 255. ord. shares have
rocketed these last two or three weeks,
there being sales at £7 6s. in Melbourne
a few days ago, as against about £6 be-
fore publication of latest accounts.
Profit-earning at present seems to
be on a higher level than at any
time in the co.’s history—Westra-
lian goldfields activity has been a
big help. Immediate yield is 3.4
p.c., and the position is as snug
as in the case of any brewery in the
Commonwealth.
# * * *
Copper has been one of the
steadiest base metals overseas for
some months. It has dropped a
few shillings in recent weeks, but
stood at £4O 10s. a ton for
electrolytic a few days ago. Mt. Lyell £1
shares are at 245. 6d., showing little
movement for some time. They are not
overvalued. Very good work has been
done at the mine, and profits for the
year to September 30 next should be well
up.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Central Nell Gwynne (Bendigo) reported
a crushing of 180 tons for 760 z. (average
B.4dwt.), as against 190 tons for 740 z. (average
7.Bdwt.) in the previous week. These lower
values (12dwt. and higher was the rule for a
while) may be due, to the fact that all develop-
ment ore is going into the mill. The share-
market firmed to 38s.
Morning Star (Wood’s Point) was stronger
at 3s. 6d. (ex div.). This was the State’s largest
gold-producer in 1935, and it appears to have
prospects. Dry weather held up operations
during this summer, and Central Nell
Gwynne may take pride of place as Victoria’s
most productive show in 1936. Morning Star
is spending £lB,OOO on reorganising its plant,
including outlay on a fine-grinding and flotation
plant to recover what has previously gone out
with tailings.
Following a' reference here on 17/6/’36,
Beau Monde’s ords. were in further demand,
selling at 19s. 6d. on Wednesday.
Australian Glass ords., after a temporary
setback following an annual meeting bare of
bonus announcements, sold up to 91s.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Rhodes of Africa”
This Gaumont-British film at Sydney
Embassy is a not unworthy effort to
dramatise the most picturesque passages
and the most forceful figure in the
history of the British colonisation of
Africa. It plays tag with dates and facts
but does not falsify the spirit of history.
Particularly is it fair to old Oom Paul.
Scenes from the Matabele War of 1893
are splendidly represented in wide pano-
ramic glimpses in which, apparently,
thousands of natives and considerable
bodies of British troops are engaged.
Walter Huston, as Rhodes, has little
facial similarity to the character he is
supposed to represent—he is far more
like H. M. Stanley—and he never suc-
ceeds in reproducing the dictatorial atti-
Ronald Colman in “Under Two Flags,”
to come to Sydney State.
tude that made Rhodes so few friends
and so many enemies. Instead, he puts
forward a quiet-spoken, reserved sort of
chap with a capacity to smile charmingly.
The exigencies of the film plot send
Rhodes to chaffer with Lobengula for
rights to mine gold in Matabeleland,
though it was Gilbert McArthur who
won that concession. Paul Kruger is
played by Oscar Homolka, who gives an
impression—quite correct —of great sin-
cerity and equally great obstinacy. “You
see my hand,” says the Transvaal Presi-
dent, exhibiting the stump of a thumb.
“I cut that off with a hatchet because it
was poisoned. And I tell you, if I could,
by doing so, cut that man Rhodes off
from South Africa, I would go outside
now, and lay my head on the block, and
cut it off!” Frank Cellier has a small
part as Barney Barnato, Peggy Ashcroft
is a lady journalist, and Basil Sydney
(who looks a lot more like Rhodes than
Huston does) is Dr. Jameson. The film
is the most ambitious, in scale, that has
yet come from an English source, and it
is almost completely successful.
“His Majesty and Co.”
At Sydney Embassy. An exiled
monarch and his queen take to restaurant-
keeping, very successfully. That’s the
plot. Most of the characters try to sing,
but none of them can. Taken all round,
about the feeblest attempt at entertain-
ment that ever came out of any studio
anywhere.
“Robin Hood of Eldorado”
Set in California in the days immedi-
ately following that State’s incorporation
into the Union, when Mexico “ceded” it,
this well-produced film tells of the law-
lessness that prevailed and of the shock-
ing treatment meted out to Mexicans
during the gold rushes.
The story concerns one Joaquin
(Warner Baxter), a peon* who takes his
bride to his farm, contented with his
humble lot. Four American fossickers
dig on his property, and when he protests
bash him. His wife dies in his arms.
He swears vengeance and kills the four.
With a price on his head, he is advised by
an American saloon-keeper (Bruce Cabot)
whom he had befriended, to go to his
brother’s outlying farm for a while.
Later, disguised, he visits town with his
brother. On a trumped-up charge—theft
of a donkey—Joaquin is flogged and his
brother is hanged. It is the last straw,
and Joaquin organises a gang of
outlaws who terrorise the district. Fol-
lowing the accidental killing of a girl
during a stage hold-up, the whole town
rises against the bandits. In a tremen-
dous pitched battle they are wiped
out, Joaquin, mortally wounded, stag-
gering away to die on his wife’s grave.
Though the recipe doesn’t call for a
happy ending, the final blood-bath has
been overdone. Nevertheless the picture
as a whole is good entertainment, and
the bacchanalian scenes in the bandits’
camp have been brilliantly done.
Warner Baxter gives the best per-
formance of his career. He portrays
quiet dignity until the injustices he suffers
arouse his fury, and thereafter he is the
coldly-calculating, fearless outlaw, bent
on revenge. Ann Loring, Bruce Cabot,
Eric Linden and Margo make a good
supporting team. At Sydney Mayfair.
IVL-G.-M. Shorts
Four varied and entertaining “shorts”
comprise the Mayfair’s supporting pro-
gramme. “A Thrill for Thelma” is the
fourth of the “Crime Doesn’t Pay” series
of propaganda films. It traces the
gradual descent into banditry of a girl
fresh from college who wants to squeeze
all she can out of life. She gets it —20
years. Simply yet convincingly told,
A Charlie Chase midget comedy, with
Charlie trying hypnotism on his wife and
friend, is highly diverting. Although an
unobtrusive comedian, Warner Oland
raises some good laughs.
“Let’s Dance” shows the technique of
the tap dancer, and some whirlwind Rus-
Herbert Mundin in “Under Two Flags.”
sian dancing, combined with knife-throw-
ing, is a guaranteed hair-raiser.
“Rural Mexico,” in technicolor, is a
Fitzpatrick travel talk of great beauty.
“The Invisible Ray”
There is something fascinating about
scientific * “future” films. In this one
imagination has run riot, though skilful
handling has invested it with an air of
possibility, and even in its most fantastic
moments it is exciting entertainment.
Dr. Rukh (Boris Karloff) reproduces
in his laboratory astral events millions
of “light years” ago which lead him to
believe that a meteorite that fell in Cen-
tral Africa contains radium X. In an ex-
pedition he and his wife (Frances
Drake) are joined by Dr. Benet (Bela
Lugosi), Sir Francis Stevens (Walter
Kingsford), Lady Stevens (Beulah Bondi)
and her nephew Ronald (Frank Lawton).
Dr. Rukh discovers a luminous pit of
the substance, which can melt rocks,
but he falls a victim to its poison, his
hands and face becoming luminous in
the dark, while his touch means death.
An antidote injected into his veins keeps
Claudette Colbert in “Under Two Flags.”
him alive. He sends his wife away, and
the whole party except Rukh return to
Paris,
In Paris Benet and Sir Francis reveal
the discovery to a scientific con-
gress. When Rukh returns his brain is
affected. Considering the members of
the party guilty of perfidy, he kills a
man resembling himself, and the press
announces his death. Thereafter he pro-
ceeds to bump them off, but boggles at
killing his “widow,” who meanwhile has
married Ronald. In a dramatic climax
he is confronted by his mother, whom he
has cured of blindness by the ray, and
he leaps, consumed by the ray’s flame,
to his death, having entrusted the secret
to his mother so that through it the world
may benefit.
It is a changed Karloff who probes
the earth’s secrets. In the early sequences
he is as handsome as a matinee idol; it
is only when he falls victim to his science
that his sinister eye gleams, but the hor-
rific is never dwelt upon. With Bela
Lugosi, too, the Dracula touch is miss-
ing—his Dr. Benet is his least menacing
role to date. Supporting players are all
well cast. Action is brisk, and the scien-
tific settings are splendid. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Times-square Playboy”
Warner Bros, are hereby awarded the
bun for having strung a full-length film
on to the thinnest plot that ever came out
of Hollywood. The bucolic best man
to a wealthy N’Yark playboy picks the
bride-elect and her family for gold-
diggers, and, on discovering they have
as much boodle as the ’groom, success-
fully apologises. That, in one sentence,
is the idiotic plot, which creaks at every
joint. Even the slickness of the produc-
tion cannot make it convincing, though
some excellent character-acting is a com-
pensation.
Warren William, in the title role, is
just fair. The crooning of June Travis
as his night-club-singing fiancee inspires
homicidal thoughts. Gene Lockhart, the
boneheaded best man, gets the laurel
wreath for a really good effort. Kath-
leen Lockhart, Dick Purcell and Barton
McLane all work hard to lift the thing
from the ruck, but their collective his-
trionics get muscle-bound in the process.
Also at the Capitol.
“Rendezvous”
William Powell, as beautifully clothed,
as imperturbable and as whimsical as
ever, puts life into this spy film at Syd-
ney St. James. He is stuck at a desk in
the War Department, deciphering codes,
when, as he feels, he could be giving
much better service at the fighting front.
Rosalind Russell supplies romance and
comedy in equal proportions—she’s the
daughter of the Assistant Secretary for
War, long on looks but short on brains.
Story is well constructed, and interest is
well maintained.
“The Bohemian Girl”
Laurel and Hardy repeat in this bur-
lesque their success with “Fra Diavolo.”
They frolic through the melodramatic
yarn without the slightest attempt at dis-
guising their well-known identities, and
Balfe’s music,’ still very popular, though
sneered at by the highbrows, survives
a severe test by retaining its prettiness in
farcical surroundings. Laurel tenorising
in his most determined mood is one of
the funny bits that stick in the memory.
Also at Sydney St. James.
“Tudor Rose”
This is the story of Lady Jane Grey,
of Court intrigue and the puppets which
heirs to the throne became in the hands
of politicians. Cedric Hardwicke is
forceful as Warwick the Kingmaker, who
marks time (having won many a cam-
paign through waiting for the enemy to
make mistakes) until Thomas Seymour
(Leslie Perrins) has lost his head and
Edward Seymour (Felix Aylmer) his
popularity. Desmond Tester, child
though he is, has already a feeling for
drama and plays with real understanding
the part of Edward VI., a poor little
pawn in the game of political greed.
Warwick marries his son Dudley (John
Mills) to Lady Jane Grey, a distant heir
to the throne. But Mary Tudor is the
rightful heir and the people rally to her
banner on Edward’s death. Gwen
Ffrancon Davies, though limited to two
appearances, makes Mary live. Sybil
Thorndike has a small part as a faithful
retainer, and Nova Pilbeam is charming
and plays with sympathy the role of
Lady Jane. Good entertainment. At
Melbourne Athenaeum.
“Pot Luck”
A farce with some really funny bits and
a good deal of padding. Tom Walls is
Fitzpatrick, a famous retired Scotland
Victor McLaglen in “Under Two Flags.”
Yard official. It seems likely that his tri-
umphs in the past have been through luck
rather than deep thought. Reggie (Ralph
Lynn) and his sister (Diana Churchill)
run an antique shop. A precious vase is
stolen. Chasers and chased play merry-
go-rounds and meet at a country house,
where there are some backchat with
batons and a slab of comedy up and
down a well in a bucket. Robertson
Hare looks like himself as Pye, the owner
of the house. The piece lacks the subtle
touch of the older Walls-Lynn films. At
Melb. Athenaeum.
“F-man”
A determined effort to star Jack Haley
in a sap part, for which his principal
asset is a capacity for making his eyes


Position Vacant.
PASTORAL MANAGER required to work
under General Manager large company; head-
quarters Sydney, but will need frequently visit
group Queensland cattle properties; well edu-
cated man aged 30 to 45, with practical
experience; good salary prospects right man.
Write confidentially C/o R. S. Maynard, 39
Park Street, Sydney.
Nozac
jpy
This
Conklin
brings you everything
that’s new in pens.
Every important new detail of
design, construction and per-
formance developed by the
fountain pen industry is
embodied in the CONKLIN
NOZAC in tested forms that
provide the maximum of
writing performance and
dependability.
Priced at 30/- and 40/-.
Pencils to Match, 25/-.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Sackless,
Visible Ink Supply.
The Word Gauge (exclusively
Conklin).
Speedy., Unfailing Mechanical
Filler.
Modish Colours of New
Design.
Improved Nib with Friction-
less Point.
Advanced Styling.
Sensible Prices.
From all Stationers, Jewellers
and Departmental Stores.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
m
ti
-v!
'III
t cv
1
O
I
a
9i
y<’ an
Iten
VPI
Hammer
ffOffli', 1 n/°or ,t6 "o£o
! STIU EfHES
i-■.•«««« pit ir?
* TS; i PINT s a “sts aua
° Fl *UlO OUNCES
There only could be one reason—Quality at
a commonsense price. Quality that reaches
perfection after many long years of aging
in the wood.
OLD COURT
whisky
very round, like Eddie Cantor. The poor
lad wants to be a G-man. The Federal
authorities, represented by William Fraw-
ley, after various efforts to choke him
off,' tell him he can be an F-man. After
various painful blunders as an amateur
detective the simple-minded soul assists
to capture a Public Enemy and wins a
large reward. Grace Bradley is the girl.
There is little humor in the affair. At
Sydney Cameo.
“Drift Fence”
Also at the Cameo. Zane Grey’s pet
story about the cattle rustlers who finally
were foiled by a hero in woolly pants.
Tom Keene is the rustler-foiler, Buster
Crabbe is head of the bad men, and
Katherine de Mille supplies the love
interest. Full of mustangs, mesas, chap-
arrals, bad hombres and six-shooters.
“Little Lord Fauntleroy”
For anyone who likes to wallow for
a couple of hours in the tenderer domestic
sentiments this is a fine field for the
exercise. The film is crowded with senti-
mentalists of the most oozy sort, from
little Lord Fauntleroy (Freddie Bartholo-
mew), his mother (Dolores Costello
Barrymore), the Earl of Dorrington (C.
Aubrey Smith) and his lawyer (Henry
Stephenson), down to Hobbs the grocer
(Guy Kibbee), Hannah the maid (Una
Connor) and Dick the shoeblack (an un-
identified youngster). Master Bartholo-
mew’s beautiful diction and C. Aubrey
Smith’s characterisation of irascible old
age are the highlights of a well-staged,
well-acted production in which settings
are excellent. There is only one disap-
pointment for the lovers of F. H. Burnett’s
touching romance —the young lord at no
stage of the proceedings wears the velvet
suit that made his name immortal. He
first appears in the peaked cap and long
trousers of The Bulletin’s “Little Boy
at Manly,” though these belong to the
’sixties, and the youngster, proud pos-
sessor of a “penny-farthing” bicycle, is
said to be living in the ’eighties. In
England he wears the Eton Sunday best,
but attends no school (though his spelling
is shocking). One of the few laughs in
the somewhat lachrymose affair is the
remark of the young lordling to his
grand-dad, after perusing some pre-
Tudor inscriptions in the parish church,
that he guesses he must have got his
spelling from his ancestors. At Sydney
Regent.
“A Message to Garcia”
John Boles is the young U.S.A. lieu-
tenant (military) selected to carry his
country’s offer of assistance to the Cuban
rebels, and Barbara Stanwyck is a
Spanish senorita who goes wandering
through the alligator- and enemy-infested
jungle with him. Towards the end the
heroic young man falls into the hands
of the Spaniards and is tortured
by a cruel international spy (Alan Hale)
to make him disclose the hiding-place of
the message. Boles and Miss Stanwyck
are right out of their element. Hale is
suitably ruthless. But the film, from start
to finish, belongs to Wallace Beery. He’s
Dorey, a renegade American marine, a
dirty, thieving rapscallion, who, as he
freely admits, has sold sawdust-filled
ammunition both to the rebels and the
invaders. He takes the helpless Boles
in hand (for a cash consideration) and
gets Garcia to him in the end. Dorey,
a fellow of infinite jest, even dies
humorously. Herbert Mundin, as an
itinerant purveyor of tinware, aids Beery
in the task of brightening an otherwise
dull and unconvincing affair. Previewed
at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
“Under Two Flags”
All the familiar props, of the Foreign
Legion type of romance were stabilised
by “Ouida” long before P. C. Wren and
others put their ploughs into the field of
sheikery, and the screen version of her
novel introduces a succession of old
friends—the English aristocrat who took
the blame to shield a younger brother
and fetched up in the F.L. (Ronald Col-
man) ; his faithful valet, who also be-
comes a Legionnaire (Herbert Mundin);
the brutal, unscrupulous colonel who
sends his rival to certain death (Victor
McLaglen); the pretty vivandiere, loved
by the colonel, who gallops all over the
desert warning armies of their peril
(Claudette Colbert); the society lady
(Rosalind Russell) who keeps a tryst at
midnight in an oasis with the aristocratic
non-com. ; the stupid Englishman who
comes to buy Arab steeds and gets badly
diddled (Nigel Bruce), and the comic
poilu (Gregory Ratoff). Mix all these
with a few acres of sandhills, a hundred
camels, a thousand Arabs and horses in-
numerable and they automatically make
effective melodrama. Colman walks
through his part as effortlessly as ever;
McLaglen has a congenial role, and the
others are all satisfactory. Previewed at
Sydney State.
“At the Bottom of the World”
This is a screen record, mostly genuine,
partly faked, of the principal events that
occurred during Admiral Richard Byrd's
second expedition to the Antarctic. The
stowage of supplies, including sheep,
dogs and cattle, the voyage to southern
seas of the Jacob Ruppert and Oakland
Bear, and the landing on frozen soil of
aeroplanes and tractors are shown. From
the air is seen a panorama of snowy
wastes and a long mountain chain, em-
bodying the principal geographical dis-
coveries, and the building of the under-
snow Jtown of Little America and jour-
neyings by tractor and by dog-drawn
sledges provide picturesque glimpses.
Blizzards, penguins, seals and killer
whales provide plenty of local color.
Least satisfactory feature of the film
is the effort to impart a spot of drama
by means of conversations between Byrd
and his colleagues. These don't ring
true. An interesting point is Byrd’s
ability as a hair-grower. He set off for
the advanced base, where he spent seven
months alone, close-cropped, and re-
turned with a thick mane of hair brush-
ing’his shoulders —a coiffure that put to
shame the flowing locks of Buffalo Bill
and Wild Bill, which were the culmina-
tion of long years of barber-dodging.
Going the rounds.
“Little Miss Nobody”
The story concerns a small girl in an
orphanage, lost child of wealthy parents.
She switches the evidence of her identity
so that another little girl, her dearest
friend, shall be claimed instead, to save
her from adoption into a hateful family.
Then small girl No. 1 runs away, takes
refuge with a kindly ex-gangster, and
gets mixed up with a shooting. Eventu-
ally all the tangles are unravelled, and a
happy future lies before all the likeable
characters. The affair looks as if it had
been hashed up to keep Jane Withers
occupied. She is never off the screen.
Ralph Morgan as a long-lost father is
suitably benevolent, and he and a dozen
other capable character actors and
actresses manage to put a veneer of
plausibility on the improbable proceed-
ings. Previewed at Fox Theatrette,
Sydney.
Some First Nights
Melody and merriment took the stage
at Sydney’s Royal on Saturday night
when “The Gypsy Princess,” a three-act
musicomedy, was presented by the Firm.
It compares favorably with previous pro-
ductions in like vein, whilst in settings
and costuming it is the most lavish seen
for some time. As the curtain rose on
Act II there were a concerted gasp and
vigorous applause, evoked by the beauty
of scene and sartorial elegance of the
figures in it. The story is inconsequential,
but a good enough thread for a string
of songs, dances and comedy scenes.
The Viennese Maria Eisner, making
her Australian bow, has a charming stage
presence and a voice which answers all
the demands of Emmerich Kalman’s
tuneful music. She was an instantaneous
success. Dunstan Hart, the new leading
man, has a fairly good voice, but is not
remarkable for his acting or for his
dancing. The comedy element of the
piece is strong, thanks mainly to Charles
Heslop, who is making his second visit.
His squash-racquets burlesque in the
opening scene is so good that more time
might be allowed for it with profit to the
audience. Heslop keeps chuckles assay-
ing high, valuably aided by Lois Green,
tiny, dainty, vivacious and possessed of
a strong comedy sense. Cecil Kellaway
gives his usual sound performance, and
Sydney Wheeler, Reginald Newson and
Rita Pauncefort fill character roles
capably.
Dances and ensembles, arranged by
Nina Starace, are finely presented, and
well-balanced choruses are a feature.
Andrew MacCunn’s baton is a guarantee
of stout orchestral co-operation. Fred-
erick Blackman, producer, has done a
good job.
•I* *l* -I*
Characters in George Calderon’s pirati-
cal pantomime “Cinderella,” recently per-
formed by amateurs in Melbourne, arc
Ibsen’s let loose in a burlesque of the
old fairy-tale wherein the slipper is a
gumboot and, instead of the fairy god-
mother, there are an unlovable hag, the
Rat Wife, and the Queen of the Fairies,
a giggling wench who sings out of tune.
In place of the prince there are Stockfish,
who has Jived for eight years on the top
of a gasometer, and Tesman, younger
but just as eccentric as everyone
else in the play. Calderon’s charac-
ters express their personalities without
logic Or ethics, with the result that for
both players and spectators there is a
hilarious tonic for the soul and the diges-
tion. Ugly sister Hedda has a passion
for long dreary games and revolvers.
Eileen Johnstone filled the role with
marked success. Equally well suited were
Dick Webb as Mrs. Inquest and
Lewis Tegart as Stockfish, the Baron who
blows up the gasworks and himself to
amuse the other characters. Useful help
was supplied by Mena Hede as faithful
servant Madame Helseth; Richard
Davies as Tesman, in love with Hedda ;
Bill Staughton as a hired waiter ; Frances
Dillon as the fairy queen, and Judy
Thomas as Hilda Cinderella in a shawl,
eyeshade and dark glasses. Brett Randall
was producer.
Asa curtain-raiser at little St. Chad’s
a playlet which won the Dramatists’ Club
competition last year was produced for
the first time. “Let’s Pretend” is by
twelve-years-old Deborah Newton,
daughter of surgeon Alan Newton and
his lady. Melbourne Grammar girls per-
formed in the cast.
• i• *S* -I* -I-
The No. 40 in G Minor of Mozart,
one of the loveliest symphonies ever
written, was the chief business William
Mallinson had to discuss with the Mel-
bourne Uni. Con. orchestra at Wilson
Hall last week. The answer he received
was to the satisfaction of the audience.
There was a momentary hesitation at the
beginning, but the delicate menuetto and
gracious andante were tackled with
sense and feeling, and there was admir-
able unanimity in the rendering of the
finale. Elgar’s “Wand of Youth” was
slight and pretty, and might have been
followed with something less pretentious
{Continued on page 44.)


The Richardson Chain Hotel
1 IN
:
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from. . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
m
IS
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
“The Gypsy Princess” has pitched her
tent at the Royal. Judging by the re-
actions of the first-night audience, it will
be a good long time before her caravan
moves on. Women, not to be outdone
by Maria Eisner’s golden-haired vivacity
in the glamor of Hungarian gypsy trap-
pings, wore their brightest and best for
the musical comedy’s opening. Orchids
and opulent furs, lily-of-the-valley and
velvet hobnobbed in the vestibule,
poured into stalls and circle. Silk opera
hats, too, half a dozen or so of them,
were sighted. Golden heads predominate
in this show, and Lois Green shakes as
nice a gold top as any, first above black
satin, and later above a faintly lilac
swirl of accordion pleats. Maorilander
Leslie Crane added a scintilla or two
to a stage whose brilliant lighting will be
quite an item on the expenses side of the
balance sheet.
Up in a box with the Howard Jacobs
couple sat Gladys Moncrieff, dressed in
amethyst crepes sprayed with lily-of-the-
valley. With her mother and banker
father came Enid Riddle, caped in hibis-
cus-red velvet. Mrs. Toby Browne’s cape
of white lamb’s wool was admired.
Primrose chiffons and a long fur cape
were Mrs. C. Norman’s contribution to
the gaiety. Persistent first-nighters Mrs.
E, Grace, Mrs. E. Wunderlich and the
Bertie Kellys were in their usual places.
Florence Bennett’s black velvet coat was
made redingote style.
Director of the National Gallery
Jimmy MacDonald, very smart in maroon
tie and grey tailorings, stood in the sun-
light on the top of the stone steps to
welcome the Lieut.-Governor Streets to
the Exhibition of International Art. The
L.-G. later on opened the show in a
speech which thanked everybody for help-
ing. Sir Philip’s lady had a taffeta collar
on her black frock and wore black furs.
Black was worn by Mrs. Anderson, who
came with her General. Many Consuls
and their wives were there doing an
artistic tour from Czecho-Slovakia to
Japan.
Spain’s Consul-General Don Pedro de
Ygual y Martinez Daban (that’s his full
title) was smiling over the attention
caused by the calm and colorful El Pozo
and others of the panel from Spain.
Clara Butter wore a high stitched toque
of blue to match her caped frock ; Sir
Hugh Poynter brought Lady Poynter
and Jocelyn ; Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s caped
suit was in burgundy tones; violets
bloomed against the green of Mrs. Rod-
ney Dangar’s outfit; the McKelvey
lady’s coat of black Persian lamb with
its silver-fox bordering was one of the
afternoon’s distinguished garments. Mrs.
B. Norris was at once one of the smartest
hatted and most knowledgeable. Mrs. F.
Clinton came in on a burst of the artis-
tic that included the Bill Moores, Syd
Ure Smith and Norman Carter. Alto-
gether the exhibition was launched in the
most fashionable manner.
From the lion made of marigolds that
might have had his gentle being in some
wood of Arthurian legend, to the flower
dolls that looked like the lavender ladies
from “Cries of Old London,” the table
decorations at the Movie Ball were the
most ingenious this dance season has
brought forth. There was a playing foun-
tain on the table where the Charles
Munro couple entertained. This was
fashioned of flowers, a rainbow of
colored lighting, and in its basin goldfish
swam lazily. Then, of course, the “Show
Boat” was moored for the night. It was
of violets and sweet-peas, its funnels
gilded. Every woman guest at the State
Theatre table received a miniature koala,
and each man an initialled lighter.
Mrs. Harry Shirley, whose husband
was the ball secretary, wore black moire,
its shoulder drapes showing an emerald-
green lining. The blonde Mrs. Dan Car-
roll’s black taffetas were patterned in
gold and scarlet. Little diamente buttons
glittered up the front of Mrs. Julian
Rose’s flowered georgettes. White mar-
quisette made with a little matching
jacket was effective on Mrs. W. Deaton ;
Lorna Searl was pencil-slim in camellia-
red satin. And every girl with movie
aspirations gazed at Clarence Badger,
the film director, who has just arrived
from America to produce “Rangle
RiVer.”
Lucy Heney, a young member of a
well-known Sydney literary family, is
joining the ranks of Australian novelists.
Her book, The Shadow Tree, is now in
the hands of London publishers. Mont-
gomery Dunn photograph.
Preparations for the Journalists’ Ball,
which will take place in the Duntroon
midway through next month, promise an
all-expenses-clear sheet. Bridge parties,
tennis and golf matches and picture-
theatre parties are being organised by an
eager young committee as well as by
more senior members of the press. Lady
Poynter is president of the ball com-
mittee. The juniors are led by Margaret
Adams.
The Great Hall of the University was
crowded on the first night on which “The
Holy Grail” was presented. The front
rows were mostly academics, led by the
Chancellor Mungo MacCallums ; the rest
of the hall was filled with the literary,
the dramatic-minded and those who
thought the show might be interesting,
and were not disappointed. There were
even small boys, but some of these fell
from grace and read their comics during
the slower movements of the production.
The most colorful part of the spectacle
was the two immense gold banners held
aloft throughout the performance by
two stalwarts in shining armor. Back
of them again was a company of pen-
nons —reds and golds and greens.
The ladies who spoke in the chorus
wore meek looks and white robes; King
Arthur and Queen Guinevere made a
brief but handsomely-accoutred appear-
ance, rather like a Russell Flint illustra-
tion to Malory’s Morte d’Arthur. The
knights wore silver and golden shoon,
and if the ermine that bordered the red
robe of Galahad had been the real thing
it would have cost the young lawyer who
took the part many briefs to pay for
it. The Lancelot of John Gould was
vigorous and vibrant with poetry. He
was a striking figure, his cream cloak
lined with gold. A clarion note was
struck by the grim young knight, a fore-
runner of the transfusion surgeon, who
demanded a dish of blood from Sir Per-
civale’s sister. A rule of the group re-
sponsible for the production is that all
players should remain anonymous. But
you can’t wrap a voice modulated like
John Gould’s in anonymity. As well
think you could mask Gog and Magog
behind a postage -stamp. The whole con-
cluded with the sounding of the “Dres-
den Amen” by six golden trumpeters.
A new idea in dance table decorations
launched by the students of the Kinder-
garten Training College deserves a hand
clap. Vice-principal Zoe Benjamin
offered a prize for the most original set-
ting of the nursery story of the Three
Bears. Joan Henk’s table, where mother,
father and baby bear lived in a pumpkin
house, won the prize. On the table around
which Miss Joan de Mestre and treasurer
Margaret Scott seated their guests baby
bear found Goldilocks asleep in his bed.
Every table showed the three popular
figures in fiction in a different episode.
The college principal, Miss Ella Slack,
wore a grosgrain frock of cobalt blue.
Tenor Richard Crooks continues to
bring a shower of gold into the E. J.
Tait coffers, and the audiences include
listeners from every corner of the city.
At one concert last week there were twb
Jack-tars on the organ gallery, while in
the front rows sat Darling Point and
Point Piper. Mrs. Sep Levy’s sable has
been seen at almost every concert. An-
other faithful has been Mrs. Wilfred
Fairfax, her complexion and Mrs. F. J.
Davy’s equal to any English-grown. An-
other listener was Mrs. D. Knox, her
heel-length cape of black velvet cover-
ing Wedgwood-blue chiffons.
It’s going to be hard to say good-bye
to some of the bowls and silverware
now on loan to Sydney’s Art Gallery. In
the Norwegian section there is a porce-
lain jar by Nora Gulbrandsen. This is
delicately patterned with a design of girl
and boy tennis players; down in one
corner is a speeding motor-car, in the
air hovers a ’plane. The whole is as
heartening as a spring day with a light
wind blowing. There’s a red-enamel
coffee set that any hostess might crave.
It is banded and lined with silver, and
the coffee pot is shaped like a narrow
barrel. From the Netherlands comes a
wall tapestry on which children gaily
play hand in hand around a tree ; others
play in boats, while on a hillside a fairy
piper blows. From the Netherlands, too,
comes the beaten silver Madonna in gold
shoes.
There’s a silver fruit stand from
Greece that Epicurus himself would have
enjoyed taking a peach from. It is fluted
inside, and in each space is first a stylised
eagle, then a peacock. There’s a gentle-
ness about the China and Japan sections
that makes a special appeal to women.
There’s a sigh of approval for the kimono
with its feather-and-peacocks’-eyes pat-
tern on a deep-red ground, and the
blue and silver obi richly embroidered in
gold and silver and deep blues at the end.
Then there’s the four-winged yellow
screen across which a rickshaw trails a
cargo of red, white and brown chrysan-
themums.
Every Monday night from 2CH Nellie
Sheridan’s voice can be heard hitting the
loftiest altitudes of the vocal stratosphere.
Nellie is the girl who, it is claimed by
teacher Roland Foster, has a higher
soprano than any mentioned in musical
history, even beating Agujari, the girl
who gave Mozart and his contemporaries
something to write up to. Nellie is 18.
Photo, from Russell Roberts.
The C.W.A. tea dance made a nice
little cheque for the association’s six
outback hospitals and for Keera House,
the holiday home at Dee Why. Mrs.
C. C. Ridley, who had much'to do with
the organising, was among the early
arrivals with her Colonel. The Trocadero
was cheery with bright lights and dance-
inducing music, and hundreds stepped to
the strains from five till seven. Marjorie
Wilson, from Queensland, was one of the
dancers; so was Joan Waddell, her
emerald-green toque with its flower-
shaped bow a bright finish to her black
velvet dress. Mary Hordern, hatless,
showed her fair hair. The vogue for
muffs continues. They finished off the
ensembles of at least two girls. One
hand-holder was of astrakhan ; the others
looked like the old-fashioned grebe.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly wore with her cobalt-
blue suit a toque of black-and-white
cellophane straw. Mrs. S. Ritchie en-
tertained an official party that included
the Acting-Premier and Mrs. Bruxner
and Mayoress Parkes and her alderman
husband.
Whether in more prosperous days they
were caretakers’ quarters cannot be said,
but tucked away in many a city build-
ing there’s a little flat, kitchen, bathroom,
living-room and other amenities. The
rent, too, is not nearly so staggering as
in a residential block. A week or two
ago an artist secured a penthouse under
the stars, and above Bond-street. Now
Adelaide Perry, the artist, has blos-
somed out into extensive quarters in the
lower end of Pitt-street. Here a long
studio is backed by a long sitting-room,
and these as well as the other rooms are
painted white and have floors polished
golden. Adelaide gave a housewarming
last week, and all Sydney’s younger art
crowd, and the established ones, too,
christened the rooms with a cocktail or
two. Among those who bounded up
the brass-bound stairs were Maude Sher-
wood, Norman Carter, Ethel and Jeanie
Ranken fresh from the International Art
Show, Mrs. F. Payne, Wal Taylor and
the Alan Clunies Ross couple.
Wesley College dance was so young
an affair that most of the dancers looked
as though they had just burst their shells.
The balconies of the Blaxland Galleries
were hung with the black and blue of
the college, and its flag hung over the
official table. Senior student H. J. Prior,
a carnation in his buttonhole, welcomed
the guests. The official group was made
up of students from other colleges within
the Uni. Secretary F. L. Owen spread
his hosting between this table and his
own special party, which included Sheila
Chaffey. Sheila’s white velvet wrap with
its white Arctic collar made a favorable
impression ; so did Joan Spence’s white
satins embroidered in seed pearls.
As befits a bishop’s daughter, there was
a touch of purple in the wedding pro-
cession of Hilary Long when she became
Mrs. John Bligh at St. Thomas’s, North
Sydney. Hilary’s father was the much-
loved Bishop Long, of Bathurst; of
late she has made her home with her
mother at Killara. ’Groom’s father is
Dr. Erasmus Bligh, of -North Sydney,
but his home address is Darling Downs,
Queensland. Bride’s frock, with its long
winglike sleeves, was of blush-pink mag-
nolia satin ; her veil was layers of toning
tulle falling from a coronet of seed
pearls. The three ’maids were in Parma
violet satin, and the purple tinge was in-
troduced again in the purple iris that,
banked with arum-lilies and wattle, deco-
rated the church.
Some of the girls at Scots College Old
Boys’ dance sashed their frocks in clan
tartans. One girl came snooded in the
plaid of the Black Watch. Ribbons in
these colors were handed out, and soon
flashed on every evening frock. There
was a full-volume entry of pipers, and
kilts made a brave show among the
dancers. There were reels, Highland
flings, and, no doubt, deoch-an-dorrises.
President of the Union E. R. Cox, aided
by Mrs. Cox, whose pale-pink lace frock
cascaded pastel roses from shoulderline
to waist, college principal A. Knox
Anderson and Mrs. Anderson were in
the official group. Chrysanthemums
were clustered at the neckline of her
lacquer-red chiffons. The reds and
purples of fuchsia were caught in Jean
Kennedy’s frock ; Mrs. Colin Galbraith
was smartness in black. The sleeves of
Mrs. E. P. Allen’s wine-red moires were
shirred and puffed ; Judy Nome wore
golden taffeta.
Knight Harry Budge, for many years
official secretary to a succession of
N. S. Wales Governors, has retired
from his job and gone to live at
Darling Point. Possibly no man in Aus-
tralia is more fitted to write memoirs
than the former official secretary. Great
men like Kitchener and Jellicoe revealed
an intimate side of their characters to
him. During King Edward VIII.’s stay
at Government House the O.S. and
royalty were brought into contact; the
same happened with the other royal
visitors. Of visiting potentates he knows
no end of anecdotes, and not one of them
unkindly. Never was there man with
more kindly nature and tongue than
Harry Budge.


fdfd
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Your best
protection
against
infection
HUDSON'S
EUMENTHOL' a
JUJUBES
Universally
used for
almost 50
years . . .
6d. & 1/6 tin
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 742 of 1936.
BETWEEN HILDA LILLIAN GREEN
Petitioner
And VAUGHAN JOHN GREEN
Respondent.
TO VAUGHAN JOHN GREEN late of Cut-
tabri in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Hilda Lillian
Green has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for. a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion and TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit in the proper office of this Honourable
Court on or before the Fifth day of October
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this 2nd day of July, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JOSEPH CHRISTIE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Rose Street, Wee Waa; by his City
Agent, FREDERICK CHARLES BRYANT,
Solicitor, Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Last year’s American dance party was
such a tremendous success that this
year’s practically sold its own tickets.
But it didn’t organise itself —that job was
a commendable accomplishment of the
committee. Mrs. Earl Moser and Mrs.
Jim Clymer saw practically nothing of
the party until after midnight and the
dawn of the historical July 4. With cash-
boxes and card index of tickets, and sus-
tained on nothing but soda-water, they
sat just inside the door balancing then-
ledger, which will show a considerable
sum in favor of the Children’s Hospital.
At midnight toasts of the King and
President Roosevelt were proposed by.
Consul John Dye and Admiral Hyde. It
is rather surprising that Australian ears
are not very familiar with the U.S.
anthem. Not until the musicians were
half-way through the words and music of
“The Star-spangled Banner” did people
wake up to the fact that O Say, Canst
Thou See” is Uncle’s anthem, and that
everybody- should have been standing. It
was a very merry Palais, full ol more
than a thousand people. Good-fellow-
ship made every heart warmer and
warmer, and the night outside got
damper and damper, making ready for
Melbourne’s wettest week-end this winter.
Right through supper (when at most
dances everybody settles down to go
more or less consistently through the
menu), people wandered round among
the tables exchanging ideas on the !ess
serious aspects of life, gathered in knots
in the corridors, or breasted the bar,
where little blonde Mrs. Perry Ballmer
was one of the ticket-sellers. Perched up
high in her wicker ticket-box she looked
rather like a camellia unexpectedly pok-
ing its head over the top of a w.p.b,
Mrs. E. A. Callanan’s gown was of
black lace and satin, bright as the sheen
on ink. Three pearl drops suspended
from a triple string of pearls were chosen
as jewellery for Mrs. Norman Picot,
whose black lace cape was fingertip
length over a black crepe gown. Mrs.
Billy Brasche wore palest pink, with an
amethyst flower lying on her shoulder,
Mrs. Danny Reddin flew angel wings from
the neckline of her white frock, and Betty
Bradford was a pretty lass who glittered
in gold mirror lame. Hope Kellow wore
black lace with long slim sleeves; Pat
Chilvers,* with her hair worn in a curled
fringe and a halo twist, chose deep mul-
berry moire in which to pedal trays of
cigars and cigarettes. The Luigi Luiggis,
who rejoice in the alliterative spelling of
their name, were there, she in orchid
chiffon. Richard Linton and his lady (she
wearing white with bits of garden in full
bloom painted upon skirt and corsage)
were among guests at the official board,
which was spread against a background
of the Capitol at Washington, the Inde-
pendence Hall at Philadelphia, a brace
of cannon and a couple of live models
of “minute men.” The “minutes” were
lads of George Washington’s day who
boasted that they swept into war or any
other patriotic duty at a minute’s notice.
Cabaret tables populated from sixteen
Victorian public schools were booked at
Earl’s Court for the Alma Mater Ball.
The great event of the evening was the
boat race, in which eight crews competed
in three heats (the final was won by Mel-
bourne Grammar from Geelong
Grammar). The craft, skeleton seats on
runners, were pulled down the length of
the room by long ropes tied to pillars ;
the arm power, gritting its teeth and
nearly bursting its white ties, made a
magnificent effort to show that dancing
and no starving of the inner man are the
best training for indoor river sports.
The band did its bit with “The Big Bad
Wolf,” producing that sharp-toothed
canine in the manner of an old-time Ger-
man band, and there were Salvation Army
lads and lasses (and theif drums). Grena-
dier Guards and Chinese entertainers.
Among those who shared the official
carpet were Col. and Mrs. Wallis (she in
lame pencil-striped with navy and silver
and lined with deep crimson), Mr. and
Mrs. S. H. Calvert, of the Western Dis-
trict, and Janet Hamilton, wearing a gown
of pink and silver metal tissue. A Scotch
College foursome, complete with wives,
were Dudley and Gordon Challings-
worth and Jack Phillips and Bill David-
son, Isabel Crosby chose chiffon in soft
sweet-pea shade. Barbara and Joyce
Hayden Smith were there, both in long
velvet cloaks to their toes, Barbara’s
black, and sister’s the deepest shade of
ripe mulberry.
Donations dropped into a silver salver
at Mrs. Roland Graham’s afternoon party
for St. Paul’s Boys’ Home totalled
£l5 Bs. About seventy guests came to
Fintry, Toorak, for the occasion, which
centred in a musical entertainment pro-
vided by Carrie Cairnduff and Margaret
Sutherland. A profusion of flowers
adorned the lounge, hall and smoke-
room, and the gaiety was augmented
with bright blooms in window boxes.
Big fires added to the hospitable atmo-
sphere, and folk who like their music
mixed with a spot of quiet chat found
corners where they could talk and listen
to two things at once. Tea was a buffet
interlude in the dining-room, where Mrs.
Graham was mistress of ceremonies,
wearing black crepe georgette softly
draped across the corsage and offset with
a tiny toque of black velvet.
Rain poured down on Saturday night
like thunder on the roof of the Garrick
Theatre, where “Lady Precious Stream”
was being performed. Many elaborate
and genuine costumes were worn. Mrs.
E. Barnes and Leila Pi rani lent some of
them ; Leila owned the beautiful pieces of
embroidery which, pinned to the black
velvet curtains, provided the scenery.
There was also a bamboo which, when
present, denoted that the action was tak-
ing place in China ; when absent, in the
Western Regions.
A snowstorm was very simple, two
men on chairs scattering pieces of paper ;
and Keui’s equestrian journey of several
weeks was a make-believe of a riding
whip and the traveller’s own feet doing
the jog trot round the stage. The moun-
tain passes presented few difficulties, for
Keui demanded admission to and negoti-
ated three of them in as many minutes.
It was always the same pass, moved
about by the sceneshifters. When the
Queen of the Western Regions, with her
brace of Tartar serving maidens, a
soldier or two and a man carrying a
banner (the symbol of 1000 troops),
threatened to attack the pass the general
in command begged her not to ; “You
know it’s only made of cloth,” he added.
There are some soliliquies, but instead
of being heavy they are spiced with
friendly gossip, as if there were no
division between players and audience.
“O dear, I’m practically a widow,” says
Silver Stream. “How silly! I don’t like
this scene at all.” The startling make-
up of the Dragon General and the Tiger
General denoted that the Dragon, who
wore bright-red triangles on his cheeks,
was an honest man and the Tiger, with
his white splodges, a villain.
Max Welsh and Jacqueline Mackin-
non have, not yet given their friends the
chance to share in wedding rejoicings.
Skipping the preliminaries of a formal
engagement they were married very
quietly at St, John’s, Toorak, and the
next day went off to Sydney for their
honeymoon. The bride, seen here in a
Jack Cato portrait, is the only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. K. J. Mackinnon, of
Tintaldra, Upper Murray, The ’groom,
who is the younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Welsh, comes from Wellerigang,
just across the river.
More and more dresses arc coming
out of La Meri’s 52 trunks. When the
curtain rose on the third programme’s
bolero, the dancer, her frills and flounces
bathed in a rose-pink glow, was reclin-
ing on a gorgeous shawl. All in one
with the skirt was one of the long pea-
cock trains which La Meri can kick out
of the way so cleverly with a flick of
her foot. To Bach’s music she danced
the sarabande with the dignity and un-
hurried elegance necessary to such a
difficult costume, its wine-red panniers
swaying a yard in width. Among request
items were “The Goya,” a Spanish
classic in black-and-gold lace, a high
comb and a mantilla, and “The Empress
of the Pagodas,” a story in gestures
based on the legend of the Sacred
Dragon descending to earth to teach
“good and love” to mortals. For this
dance La Meri wears a beautiful Chinese
cloak, short tunic and embroidered
trousers and a splendid headdress of
three long swaying feathers.
In the crinoline and frills of “Caprice
Viennois” she is a flirtatious miss, so
animated that the spectator can almost
see the two gentlemen of her acquaint-
ance, one she is endeavoring to captivate,
the other already at her feet. “The
Russian Doll” is a delightful piece of
comedy, the doll wearing long golden
plaits to her knees, a jolly pink and green
dress, two bright blobs on her cheeks
and her muscles and bones turned into a
deceptive semblance of sawdust. La
Meri’s interpretations of Chopin’s pre-
ludes are of particular interest to students
of eurhythmies. For one plastic study
last week she wore a short gold tunic,
heelless gold sandals and a golden fillet
round her long unbound hair.
Here is a Jack Cato glimpse of Mrs.
Villeneuve Smith, who was Isabel Gor-
don, eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
#
A. W. Gordon, of Essendon. The very
quiet morning ceremony in the vestry of
St. Patrick’s was followed by a recep-
tion at the Embassy, and next day the
newly-married couple sailed off on a
honeymoon to Ceylon and the isles of
the East Indies.
There were no prearranged speeches
at the reception, which was more like an
informal cocktail party than a formal
wedding, but while everybody drew close
to the scene of action as the bride was
cutting the cake the ’groom drifted
effortlessly into one of his subtle orations.
The room was so arranged that one part
was reserved for a bar, whence guests
drifted and ordered whatever kind of
refresher they felt like. A long table
carried savories and another table decora-
tions and the all-important cake, which
when cut was carried round on a silver
salver by the bride herself.
When she makes her home in Adel-
aide, Mrs. Villeneuve Smith is sure to
be seen at every race meeting, for the
turf is her favorite sport. She and her
sister Rosalie are always at Flemington,
Caulfield and Moonee Valley.
The Ballarat Club Ball, always one of
the best of the year, is marked by all the
appointments of a city function in addi-
tion to genuine country hospitality. Club
members somehow make the guests feel
that they, the hosts, are the honored
parties. This year Cobb’s coach, pulled
by a tandem, galloped round one wall of
the club ballroom, the effect of lighting
and vibration upon the paper reins giv-
ing it the appearance of motion. Much
later in the evening coach and horses
were commandeered by fond parents for
children at home.
Supper was a grand meal which went
on and on. The last guests did not
think of departing till 5 a.m., so cooks
in caps did their jobs nobly. The presi-
dent, Dr. W. Capell (whose wife was
absent through illness), had the support
of daughter Mary, who had her own
particular spot of limelight, for her en-
gagement was announced to Roy Dobson
(originally of Geelong), a solicitor prac-
tising in Melbourne. His sister Nan
was in black, with a starlike patterning
of embroideries upon her frilly sleeves.
The Clive Fiskens were there, Mrs.
Fisken in an elaborate gown composed
entirely of sequins sewn as black and
silver stripes. Mrs. Jack Griffiths wore
black, with daphne pinned to her fur
cape. Mrs. J. V. Tunbridge’s pink dress
was softened with wide folds across the
corsage. Mrs. Graeme Dowling was in
lilac, and silver sequins glistened about
the throat of Madge Fraser’s black
velvet. Dr. and Mrs. Gardiner were
present; also Dr. and Mrs. Cleve Best,
Mrs. Best in an old-world gown of rose-
and-grey-shot talfeta. Mrs. L. McNeil in
Patou-pink velvet secured an extra layer
of protection from chill breezes with a
diamente-studded coat.
Almost all the guests who came to the
cocktail party at Lordello (for which the
Moulden lady had issued invitations
earlier in the week) knew that they would
be received by Mr. and Mrs. Basil
Murphy. Lordello is so packed with
valuable antiques that everybody was
nervous about knocking things over, and
there was even a risk about putting
down a cocktail glass, for instead of that
glass one might easily pick up and try
to drink out of a priceless piece of
Waterford.
It was not primarily a party of eating
and drinking but of looking at things.
Heads vibrated backwards and forwards
between fables covered with objets d’art
to walls almost hidden by dessert ser-
vices balanced on rails. There was a
noticeable absence of garden flowers, but
on one of the pianos (which carried also
several autographed photographs of
royalty) was a witch bowl, one of the
very few modern pieces in the house,
filled with orchids and lily-of-the-valley.
But there were china flowers, and lights
glowed through transparent fruit, and
in the downstairs dining-room people
searching for the source of sudden
warmth to their toes, discovered a bronze
heater under the table. One appointment
is the sedan chair telephone-box. On its
roof is a tiny black parasol, a dress
accessory of a later period.
Mrs, Murphy always serves snails at
her parties. Saturday’s molluscs lay all
ready to be eaten after first having been
dipped in mayonnaise, returned to their
shells and speared with colored cock-
tail picks. As their complements there
were cocktails mixed with absinthe. Just
as prominent as savories were chocolates,
gorgeous fat ones, and the wedding cake
was cut during the afternoon.
For this wedding reception-cnm-house-
warming Mrs. Murphy wore cigar-brown
lace with a garland of orchids, big brown
and purple blooms interspersed with tree-
pygmies. Among the hundred or so
friends whom she received in the hall (her
husband moved among the guests while
she stood her ground to say welcome
and farewell) were the Leigh Falkiners,
Mrs. Falkiner very beautiful in silver
foxes, Mrs. Russell Gabb in a sable
wrap, Roberty Lee and his wife, the Tom
Smiths, the Leo Littles and others of
legal ilk. Strella Wilson, Hec Green
and the Fred Knights were among folk
who came dressed for the evening and
more parties.


than Coates’s “Cinderella.” This long
piece of programme music suffers from
the defects of its class —having read the
label, the listener becomes less concerned
with the music than trying to read a
familiar story into it; in due course
along comes the inevitable stroke of mid-
night, and then you begin to listen for
the dropping of Cinderella’s slipper and
the squeals of the elder sisters when the
shoe pinches. The tone poem “Fin-
landia,” of Sibelius, concluded the pro-
ceedings. The natural majesty of the
sea was matched by the majesty of the
music. Soloist Carrie Cairnduff sang
“Voi che sapete” in a voice of such
smooth texture that she was asked for an
encore. She very sensibly repeated the
same item even more smoothly.
*1- 'I- *»■
That resolute London success The
Wind and the Rain” has been produced
by Arthur Fay (formerly of Melbourne)
for Adelaide Repertory, and was so suc-
cessful that a third night had to be given.
This steady progress, in six scenes, of a
surly English youth, in Edinburgh lodg-
ings, to a medical degree was soundly
worked out by Keith McDonald, with
Florence Brown as heroine. It may be
the fault of the author, Merton Flodge,
that the love scenes dragged a little. He
has made the girl come, like himself,
from M.L., and can delay the action to
let her talk about its sunshine and Scot-
land’s bad weather (which even provides
the title). John Duncan nearly ran away
with the play as a reckless student who,
in a story abounding with beer and bad
language, wins the double with ease.
Clever sketches were dropped in by John
Arthur (man-of-the-world medico), Ken-
neth Frazer (athletic student), Ronald
Suggett (shy student), Roxy Sims (with
ladylike intoxication) and Katherine
Watson (landlady, verra Scotch).
•j* 'l* *l*
“Billie,” presented to Melbourne by
way of the Apollo stage, is an unsophisti-
cated two-act musical comedy, so whole-
some that strait-laced elderly relatives
may safely be taken along. The music
is in no way remarkable and the voices
are only fair, but there is plenty of
humor in the show and more plot than
usual. Charles Norman describes him-
self as “a gentleman of leisure who lolls
about from couch to couch,” but he is
full of beans and versatility, has some
good entrances and snappy lines, and
provides a good percentage of the life
of the show. Equally efficient are Barrett-
Lennard (a peer) and Bert Mathews (a
cigar-eating lawyer), a pair who put over
one upside-down scene in the lawyer’s
office, when laughs fall effortlessly around
them. Leads in the feminine cast are
played by Catherine Stewart as Billie,
Rene Maxwell and Dawn Lightfoot.
Mona Zeppel, a pretty sprite-with ex-
quisite legs, dances solo, and the ballet
is lively and agile.
“Billie’s” story is that of a young man,
erstwhile a millionaire, now down and
out, affianced to a many-times-married
lady of wealth. In the nick of time a
chewing-gum king dies and leaves his
fortune and gum factory to down-and-
out nephew. Gum-king’s secretary Billie
has a business head and proffers sound
advice. The factory is sold for a million
or so, instead of a few thousands, the
chewing-gum employees keep their jobs,
the oft-married lady secures the peer,
Billie gets gum-king’s nephew and all is
well.
-!• *!•
Shades of the Hellenic fathers must
have warmed at the production, in this
advanced age, of Euripides’ “Electra” at
Sydney Con., but the impression of this
commentator was that the men of ancient
Athens were easily satisfied. Though
there is compelling rhythmic grace in
Gilbert Murray’s transcription, much of
the inherent word-beauty of the lines is
lost on latter-day ears in the intermin-
ably long and uninteresting harangues
assigned to the various characters —
doubly trying as Grecian drama runs its
full course without interval.
Returning from the Trojan War,
Orestes, son of Agamemnon, finds
the old man stark, the victim
of intrigue, his sister Electra re-
duced to the shameful ignominy of a
peasant hut and his mother Clyteranestra
and the usurper Egisthus sharing the
seat of power. Spurred on to vengeance
by the dual goadings of the god Apollo
and the relentless Electra, Orestes pro-
ceeds first to stoush yEgisthus and then
to bump off the queen-mother—which
latter unfilial action, however, the god
Castor considers a bit over the fence. In
a highly-dramatic finale retribution over-
takes Orestes.
There was much confused flickering
of lighting, but the players revealed an
uncommonly good sense of the dramatic ;
particularly -Rosalind Spence (also re-
sponsible for the production), who
made the unhappy Electra, eating her
heart out in unbridled hate and anguish,
a poignant figure. Orestes Bede McKel-
vey, shepherd Arthur Mitchell- and
peasant Henry Howlett declaimed their
roles with forceful significance, and a
good word is also due to the polished
rhetoric of Jack Needham, Marjorie
Stenberg and Colin Peebles, not forget-
ting the pleasantly euphonious chorus.
*5*
Louisa M. Alcott’s “Little Women,'’
presented at Sydney’s Kursaal Theatre,
has lost none of its homely essentials in
dramatisation, and Scott Alexander’s
players contrived to invest the simple tale
with an authentic Victorian flavor,
handling humor and pathos with equal
versatility. As madcap Jo, Valerie Shaw
blended femininity with tomboyish im-
petuosity, and found a coquettish bevy
of sisters in Helen Perry (Meg), Peggy
Richardson (Amy) and Paddy Peach
(Beth). Prof. Arch Hull pressed his
claims as suitor with comic temerity, Ida
Rowland’s frowsy Aunt Martha proved
a nightmarish in-law, Edna Newbold
rolled her eyes ideally as Hannah, and
Pat Twohill was all a hero should be.
4*
“Lady Precious Stream” is “an old
Chinese play done into English accord-
ing to traditional style.” Chinese trans-
lator Hsiung seems to be a very modern
thinker with an understanding of the
English character.
Against the will of her father and the
house of Wung the little heroine marries
beggar-gardener-poet Keui (Jack Wilt-
shire), who after only a month of wedded
happiness travels to the distant Western
Regions where he stays 18 years. Lady
Precious Stream remains faithful to his
memory in her miserable cave refusing
all succor from her family. Keui returns
as a king, and the pair are reunited. Keui
is the weaker vessel; it is again the charm-
ing and intelligent wife who thinks for the
pair of them.
Margaret Reid as Precious Stream,
elder sisters (Frances Dillon and Loveday
Hills), their husbands (Robert Bennett
and Reg Robertson), Prime Minister
Wung and his wife (Collins Hilton and
Edith Bell) were in the large well-chosen
cast, which acquitted itself with credit.
H. N. Gregory merits a word for his
Chinese general sitting up on top of the
mountain pass, and Brenda Newbold was
dashing as the queen of the Western
Regions. Brett Randall’s work as pro-
ducer was a big factor in the success or
the Melbourne performance.
Current Artbursts
The outstanding impression given by
the pictorial section of the exhibition of
international art at Sydney National
Gallery (so far as the European paint-
ings are concerned, at any rate) is that
of mediocrity. It this is the best that
France, Germany, Holland, Scandinavia,
Greece and Switzerland can produce, the
beholder is likely to say that art in those
countries must be in a very decadent
condition. Belgium shows some sound
portraits ; “The Seine in Winter,” by A.
Marquet, in the French section, is a vivid
piece of impressionism, and two obviously
very old portraits in the German division
are excellent. One portrait from the
Netherlands (by W. Schumacher) has dis-
tinction, and in the Spanish panel
“Gitana” is a splendid dark-eyed wench
in a brilliantly colorful setting. Outside
these the work too often belongs to those
modern schools that glory in distortion,
deformity and atrociously bad drawing.
The Grecian section in particular is full
of daubs that would not be accepted by
most Australian galleries as a gift.
Japan and China give a better account
of themselves. Every one of the six
Japanese paintings has grace and distinc-
tion, whether in the old Nipponese idiom
or in Western technique. Of the former
“After Bathing” (Toshiko Mitani) and
“Mother and Child” (Shoyen Kami-
mura) are masterpieces; “Girl Sewing,”
in oils, in Western style, is a
thoroughly sound piece of work, tex-
tures being well reproduced. “Inland Sea
in Summer,” also in oils, is a very eflec-
tive seascape. The Chinese exhibits show
less delicacy of line but more vigor in
execution. They look as if they had been
done by a Japanese student who had
revolted from the too-strict tenets of his
teachers, though probably the Chinese art
antedates and inspired the Japanese.
The applied art in all sections is inter-
esting, sometimes remarkably beautiful ;
but here again the Orient scores over the
Occident. There is a Japanese screen
lovelier than anything in any of the other
sections.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WEST R A LI A.
Latecomers at Northam for the race
week-end found hotel accommodation
booked out, and most farms within a
radius of 30 miles had their full quota
of house guests. Frocking on the course
was warm and snug. Mrs, Lionel Vive-
ash topped brown-and-white check
tweeds with beige felt, a violet velour hat
surmounted Mrs. Vernon Hamersley’s
pin-striped black suit, Elsie Forrest cov-
ered bright blue tweeds with a deeper
blue coat and Mrs. Garnett Wood’s bis-
cuit blouse peeped from a walnut-brown
ensemble. The festivities closed with a
crowded dance at the Northam Town
Hall.
The bells of St. George’s Cathedral
rang merrily for the wedding of Perth’s
civic lady, Mabel Teather, and Lance
Barrett, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. O. Bar-
rett, of Melbourne. The Primate per-
formed the ceremony with assistance
from the Rev. L. Webb, and the Lord
Mayor gave his niece away. The bridal
procession was all cream and scarlet.
Tight-fitting sleeves were attached to
the bride’s backless satin, which ran
to an overtrain of chiffon sprayed with
flowers. ’Maids Olive Teather and Molly
Manning wore satin Peter Pan collars
with their cream sunray pleated chiffons,
tied scarlet sashes round their waists, and
finished their tulle bonnets with scarlet
flowers. Little John and Susette Gawler,
one in cream satin cavalier suit and the
other in old-world chiffons, carried be-
tween them a basket of red camellias.
The breakfast was served as a dinner
for the 150 guests housed in a marquee
on one of the lawns at Mr. Poynton’s
home in Claremont.
Lord Gowrie took the salute from 900
Girl Guides in the march past which
commemorated the movement’s twenty-
first Australian birthday. Watching the
parade was Miss Frances Wells, who,
with Lady Barron, the wife of a former
Governor of W.A., inaugurated the Aus-
tralian formation of the association in
Perth in 1915, as a result of which the
movement soon spread throughout the
Commonwealth. After the official busi-
ness there were tea for mature members
in G.H. ballroom and a goodly spread
for the young fry in the supper-room.
P.L.C. old girls took partners along to
the Myola Club for their annual hop.
Gwen Dean presided over the dance
committee in moss-green silk and lace,
secretarial duties were carried out by a
blue-cloque-clad Alison Baird, Eleanor
Foulds guarded the treasury with Kenya-
red satin, and Margaret Bird assisted in
gleaming gold lame.
Mrs. R. Reynolds and Mrs. Edith
Broad arranged a frolic at the Como
Pagoda to swell funds for St. Mary’s,
South Perth. Chinese lanterns swung
from boughs of cherry-blossom and wis-
taria climbed over the pillars. The Rev.
R. Hall and Mrs. Hall were guests of
honor, she with presentation gladioli held
against floral taffetas. Mrs. Broad’s
satins combined black and white, lace
mingled with georgette in Mrs. Reynolds':;
parchment draperies, a shower of
autumn leaves fell on Rene Bick’s phan-
tom crepe and Pam Drake-Brockman
rustled china-blue taffeta.
The Gerald Prettys’ second daughter,
Barbara, has given her promise to Phillip
Devitt, of Claremont.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The State received a shock on Sunday
when news of the untimely death of
aviator C. J. Melrose was broadcast. The
cheery young man from Glenelg, a mem-
ber of one of the best-known South Aus-
tralian families, commenced what seemed
likely to be a very brilliant career when
he won the handicap prize in the Mel-
bourne air race two years ago.
The Basil Murphys (she was the
Moulden lady) are spending their honey-
moon in Sydney. Mr. and Mrs. Vil-
leneuve Smith have departed for a trip
to Colombo, Java and Singapore.
Adelaide men seem to fall for Mel-
bourne girls. Peter Gebhardt, T. E. Barr
Smith, junior, R. Burns Cuming, junior,
G. Sangster and Villeneuve Smith all
gained brides in Melbourne within the
last six months.
Adelaide is having a welter of bridge
parties. Alt the Free Kindergartens are
running them, having a “Princess” for
whom votes have to be secured. There are
parties nearly every afternoon. Then in
the interests of Kuitpo a Pioneer Ship
competition is being held. Girls who are
direct descendants of pioneers are having
“afternoons” arranged. At Stawell, Mount
Lofty, there is to be a shipboard shivoo,
at which games played on board ship will
be provided, in conjunction with bridge.
Mrs. Ruth Gault will represent the ship
Lysander, in which her branch of the
family came to Australia.
Fur coats, fur-trimmed heavyweight
tailored coats and black have been popu-
lar fancies at the races. At one meeting the
Lady Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan) chose
a black crepe toilette under a mink fur
coat, and her black felt hat turned up all
round. She is to remain Lady Mayoress,
Mr. Cain having defeated Mr. Holden
in the Lord Mayoral election.
Adelaide University Ball was not so
largely attended this year. The refectory,
where the dancing was held, was beauti-
fully decorated with fruit, and boughs of
golden oranges looked effective, the
flowers used being guinea golds and
scarlet poinsettias. Guests were received
by the president of the University
Sports Association, Dr. C. B. Sangster,
and his mother, Mrs. J. Sangster, who
was gowned in Parma-violet georgette
cut on long lines. Six debutantes and
their partners were presented to Vice-
Chancellor Mitchell and the Parsons lady,
who was in pale grey and silver lame cut
on princess lines merging into a train;
the scarf draping the bodice was caught
at the waistline with a diamente buckle.
The Mawson lady was in black chiffon
velvet, moulded to the figure, the bodice
slightly shirred, and a spray of Lorraine
Lee roses pinned on her mink fur cape.
Every year Mrs. S. Forsyth has enter-
tained members of the Kuitpo Helpers
Association, which started five years ago
with ten members and now has eighty.
They all enjoyed the cheery party held
at Arcadia Cafe. Mrs. Forsyth received,
wearing a brown tweed tailored suit,
cream lace blouse and a brown felt hat.
Helena, younger daughter of the Henry
Newlands, of Lee Lodge, North Ade-
laide, is engaged to Thomas Patton Ham-
ilton, 11th Sikh Regiment, third son
of Dr. and Mrs. R. H. Hamilton, of
Walkerville.
Elaine, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
V. M. Newland, of North Adelaide, is
to be married to Robert Wreford this
month.- They will have a flat at Pros-
pect House, North Adelaide.
Mrs. Frank Buttfield, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. E. W. Holden, who has been
living in Sydney since her marriage, has
come back to Adelaide with her husband
to reside. Mrs. Buttfield was married at
the beginning of the year.
TASMANIA.
Scotch College Ball at Albert Hall,
Launceston, was a big event in the
Speck’s social annals. Highland pipers
gave it an impressive opening. The first
part of the programme was devoted to
youngsters, and at half-time their elders
took the floor. The Head and Mrs.
Briggs received in the official lounge, Mrs.
Briggs wearing black with yellow flowers
trailing across the bodice. Country
guests came in hordes. .Supper-tables
had decorations of mauve, iris, daphne,
narcissi and fern in brass and crystal
bowls. Dressing was smart and colorful.
The nurses of St. John’s Hospital ran
a dance at the Continental to get money
for their tennis court. The Premier and
Mrs. Ogilvie were there, and medicoes
and their wives rolled up in scores.
The new president of the Art Society,
Alfred Pedder, and his wife gave a dance
and bridge party at their home, Sher-
borne, Newtown, in aid of the society s
funds. Supper* was served in rooms gay
with roses—unusual decoration in tte
depth of winter.
Professor Lloyd, of McGill University,
Montreal, and his wife spent a few days
in Hobart and were entertained at parties
and with drives to our beauty-spots. Mr|.
Lloyd was the guest of Mrs. Joseph Peaf-
son at a luncheon at the Queen Maty
Club.
Dr. and Mrs. Orr (Launceston) have
left to live in Sydney. Among farewell
parties was one given by Mrs. A. J. Mc-
Kenzie, when Mrs. Orr took away an
inscribed suitcase as a souvenir of son|
of her northern friends.
The Cecil Stackhouses have left Hobal
to live in Launceston, where they have
taken the house lately vacated by Dr. and
Mrs. Orr, Bifrons Court.


The Latest Vogue with Horsemen!
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING
BOOTS
Popular for mounted and unmounted
wear.
Easy and quick to put on and take
off.
In Full and Half Sizes.
33/9 Pair.
Send Your Order To-day.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD,,
In Queen Street ------ Brisbane.
A§§URI
I
awn cmwAcma
The P. & C. is owned by the primary producer and
operated co-operatively for his benefit. It is YOUR
company and offers you the advantage of co-operative
assurance specially designed to meet your needs.
Through it you obtain more liberal treatment and
maximum benefits from your policy.
Credentials? The P. & C. is linked with the foremost
co-operative bodies of the primary producer in each
Stale, who give it their enthusiastic approval and
support.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
Co-operative Assurance Co. Ltd.
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director :
H. FELL.
Chairman of Directors:
SIR ARTHUR K. TRETHOWAN, K. 8.. M.L.O.
rr_
<3492
LSAAf
WHERE
will You stay in
MELBOURNE?
)At the Victoria, of
course! • Australia’s
largest, most modern
hotel. In heart of city.
Every luxury. Un-
rivalled dining rooms
and cafeterias. Popular
“Room Only” tariffs:
Singles, 4/- to 7/6
per day; Doubles, 8/-
o 16/-. Write for
free illustrated booklet
to Department 810.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 tittle Collins
St., Melbourne, C.l.
lit*!!
ill"
M9P
it ik n
hwii Hitt-irrn
LARGEST MON-tICENSED HOTEL IN AUSTRALIA
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Way They Have in N.G.
“X.T.”: The contrast between how
native reserves are regarded in Australia
and in the Mandated Territory was illus-
trated by the trial at Rabaul of a
Lutheran missionary in charge of a
station at Kerowagi, behind Madang,
charged with “unlawfully depriving a
native, Gorai, of his personal liberty.”
Part of the surrounding area was
labelled “uncontrolled,” and Europeans
were forbidden to enter it without per-
mit, and then only with 10 indentured
laborers, four armed. Missionaries were
specially forbidden to start new stations
in the area.
Three native teachers or helpers in
January last came to the mission head-
quarters from an outstation and told the
missionaries that they had been chased
by a tribe across the border and robbed.
The missionaries decided to send the de-
fendant to “recover the articles in a
peaceful way.”
He set out with ten laborers, six
armed. When the Dangas, the “robber”
tribe, were encountered, they were per-
suaded to put most of the stolen articles
on a track. Next morning by a ruse the
mission pary captured the “unsuspecting”
boy, Gorai —the defendant’s word—tied
his hands and used him as a bait or
hostage. They took him to their own
territory, still bound, and, though the
“robbers” sent more of the stolen goods
and two pigs, the native was still kept
tied—now hand and foot —and tethered
to a post for the night.
The Dangas again offered the pigs, say-
ing that they could not recover the re-
mainder of the goods.
According to the missionary, they came
up in a friendly way, blamed the boys of
the village for the robbery and offered
a site for a mission in their village.
But the local kiap reported that the
missionary account was “highly colored”
and that the mission teachers had actually
slept among the Dangas in forbidden
territory the night before the alleged
robbery. He quoted a letter from the
missionary in which he said that “the
chiefs saw to it that the articles were
promptly returned, and expressed indig-
nation at the action of their young men.”
Afterwards, in another letter, he contra-
dicted some points in his story. The
Judge said: “You have brought shame
on your mission and you are en-
dangering native lives and the lives of
Europeans whose work brings them
among natives.” The sentence was two
years’ hard labor.
It was a heavy penalty, but it was in-
flicted in a spirit which might well rule
in regard to Australian native reserves
like Caledon Bay and West Centralia.
The missionary and his boys might easily
have lost their lives and those of
rescuers had the Dangas not proved
friendly.
“Murrinji”: Dr. Emil Hirschfeld has
told a Brisbane meeting that the saltbush
between bread and butter makes a good
sandwich, carrying more iron than straw-
berries or spinach or egg-yolk. He said
that it needed “a little enthusiasm” to eat
it, but he recommended it as a vegetable
for westerners. He cannot claim to be
a pioneer. I have seen the western
-Asiatic eating saltbush wrapped round
his meat patties and well saturated with
oil. And this in a region not so far
from where Nebuchadnezzar was sup-
posed to have eaten grass.
*** * .
“II Vecchio”: Dogs have been earning
more than normal limelight in the North.
A few weeks ago Boulia Hospital com-
mittee solemnly passed a resolution sym-
pathising with a member in the death of
his sheep-dog. The members, follow-
ing the usual practice, stood as the
motion was put. It is now up to some-
body to move in the local council a
resolution to a Mt. Cotton (S.Q.) dog.
His owner, a farmer named O’Hara, was
swept from the saddle by a branch while
mustering. An hour afterwards his
hound found other musterers, and bark-
ing excitedly dashed into the bush several
times. They followed him through rough
timber and found his master dying.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Canberra’s idea concern-
ing the deadly heat which forbids de-
velopment in Queensland should under-
go some alteration after the recent ex-
perience of the airliner Melbourne at
Longreach. For two hours the craft re-
mained on the ground with all four
“ Well, I COULD give you something to do for a few days, Mary."
“ Orright—so long you don't entertain like big station missus!”
engines dead owing to the intense cold!
Canberra itself could have done little
better in the rheumatiz-bracing line of
climate, although any frozen motor
could be unstuck by subjecting it to the
cyclones of hot air which pour out of
Parliament. On second thoughts, though,
Parliament is careful to avoid Canberra
in wintertime.
* * * *
The latest N.T. school census has it
that, outside compound schools for half-
castes, which hold 125 human mixtures,
there are 321 youngsters on the rolls,
and only 156 are of pure British descent.
Including the compound schools, the
British proportion is 35 p.c. Darwin
school has only 66 British attendants out
of 168 scholars. There are 50 Chinese
and 25 Greeks.
“East Point”: When the three Caledon
Bay natives —Mow, Natchalma and Nar-
kaya—who were concerned in the Cale-
don Bay affair found themselves outside
Fanny Bay Gaol the other day, their sen-
tences reduced from 20 years to three
years and a pukka anthropologist waiting
to conduct them back to the land of their
fathers, it is recorded that they smiled
broadly. And no wonder. Anybody
who knows anything about the abo. takes
it as an axiom that when you promise
him a thing, whether it is tikkipence or
20 years’ quod, that promise should be
sternly kept. In this case, probably, it
does not matter that it wasn’t, since any
period over a season means nothing to
wild Black Brother. The only snag is
thaf Mow, Natchalma and Narkaya, re-
turning to Caledon from the fleshpots of
Darwin, where there were regular meals,
no miserable summer spent in shivering
rain in improvised shelters, may get home-
sick. In which case, a few more
Japanese or other visitors may go west
during an attempt by the ex-prisoners to
ensure themselves another view of the
delights and inconsistencies of white
civilisation.
“Australia Jane’s’ 5 ’ Budget
Betty Bannatyne de Burgh Persse mar-
ried her Englishman, Lieut.-Col. William
Tuxford Howe, 0.8. E., Royal Signals,
India, at the family church at Tamroo-
kum, 200 wedding guests showering her
with good wishes and confetti. Bishop
Dixon tied the knot and St. Thomas’s
Church choir chanted choral numbers.
Four generations of the bride’s family
have made pastoral history in Queens-
land. In 1842 John and Annie Collins,
her great-grandparents, first settled in
Queensland. Eight officers of the Aus-
tralian Corps of Signals, swords flash-
ing in the sunlight, formed a guard
of honor for the newly-weds, and Mrs.
H. Bruxner, Jelbyn, an aunt of the bride,
and the bride’s cousin, Mrs, Harold
Purvis Smith, of Tenterfield, arranged
the flowers.
Yellow jonquils and bright blue forget-
me-nots made the posies on the guest
pews, and the color scheme was blue
and gold throughout. Betty’s father is
a cousin of Lady Gowrie.
The bride wore a Grecian frock of
magnolia satin, with a diamond brooch,
the gift of the ’groom, sparkling on the
corsage. The true-lover’s knots on the
veil were part of the veil worn by her
mother. A pearl ring, the gift of Mrs.
Willie Persse, a cousin, was worn on the
little finger of the right hand for luck.
Mary de Burgh Persse, the bride’s
twin sister, in an old-world frock of blue
velvet and a little matching turban with
an encircling plait, was ’maid. Her muff
was made of blue velvet, and showed a
cluster of pink camellias. Captain C. W.
Kappe was best man.
The night of the De Burgh Persse
wedding also saw the marriage of Nan
Shaw to Norval Smith at the City Taber-
nacle. Sister Jean, in dusky pink, was
the only bridesmaid, and Nan’s tall young
form was draped in off-white georgette.
All Brisbane’s musical world turned out
to wish her well.
We do have novel entertainments
these days. When Mrs. Fraser gave a
family party in honor of Patricia Craw-
ford, who marries Les Fraser this week,
each guest was given a lump of plasti-
cine to make a set of dentures. One
guest produced a painstaking effort with
32 teeth, no less, on each jaw; and her
husband isn’t a dentist either.
Mrs. Wyndham Pike gave a farewell
tea in the Portland Lounge to Mrs.
Stanley Kent, and handed the guest a
small memento for herself and another
for a little daughter. A crystal bowl in
the centre of the table contained a posy
for each guest, and flaming poinsettias
in big bowls gave a feeling of warmth to
the room.
The cables this week carried the news
that Captain John Francis Anning
Forster, of the Indian military service,
had been awarded the Sir Joseph Fayner
medal for his treatise on tropical diseases.
The captain, who is only 24, already has
a string of learned societies’ letters to add
to his signature. He is a grandson of
the late Mr. and Mrs. Frank Anning,
North Queensland pastoralists. Mrs.
Forster, senior (Bessie Anning), is in
Brisbane with her daughter. Their home
is in London, where W. B. Forster is
manager for Howard Smith.
Dorothy Helmrich got lots of flowers
and fruit at her first recital at the Albert
Hall. W. M. Hughes and Dame Mary
were among the audience. A new con-
cert hall with proper central heating
would be a godsend to this town, for
the collection of blue noses that one
sees at entertainments these frosty nights
would be hard to equal.
A. S. F. Huybers has been elected
president of the Royal Queensland Yacht
Club in place of T. L. Jones. Fifty-one
years has the club flourished, and Tom
Welsby, an original member, still is going
strong.
David Lanham, who came to Queens-
land in 1862 on the Flying Cloud, has
died at Enoggera, aged 81. He founded
the firm of Relyans and Lanhams, Ltd.,
and there are few camping Queens-
landers who do not know Lanhams’
tents. He was a splendid rifleshot; his
Enoggera home contained dozens of
trophies. Two sons and three daughters,
17 grandchildren and three great-grand-
children are left to carry on the Lanham
tradition of reliance.


mmm
■ I
mm
mmta
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “ BABY GRAND ” All-wave.
(The set that received 60S verified stations
on Hie broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
X.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
RolU Reproducers,
Van Buyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mallard Radio Valves.
m
'M*.
\
warn
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
J
1936 Dual-wave
PENTAGBID FOB®)
£B/5/-.
RADIO NEWS
CURES FOR A.C. HUM.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
With A.C. powered receivers, where
hum is in evidence and components are
known to be in order, the cause of the
trouble may take some time to locate.
. . • ■
In most cases the power mams are m
one way or another to blame, directly or
indirectly.
There are occasions when the use of
neighboring electrical machinery may
result in the impression of a variety of
.... ~ . , ,
odd apples on the supply system and
cause some difficulty in obtaining a per-
fectly silent background in the receiver,
A method which has been found useful
in reducing these interfering noises is to
place a pair of condensers in series across
• o . r
the primary of the power transformer,
the centre point of these being earthed
through a heavy-gauge earth lead. This
lead should be as short as possible, and
the capacity of the condensers should be
of the order of about Imfd. to 2mfd.
An alternative scheme is to use air-
, , ' • ( - f
core chokes, consisting of about 600
turns of No. 22 SWG D.C C copper
TshZTtn" ie cLuit dSgran/" The
• . • , ... ' ,
senes centre-point-earthed condensers be-
fore referred to mav be nlaced exneri-
fore lererrecl to may be placed expei.
mentally before these chokes, between
them and the source of supply. If results
are not satisfactory they may be placed
across the primary windings of the power
transformer. In each instance the effect
of the condensers should be ascertained
before making the wiring permanent.
This arrangement is the simple “line
filter,” of which several examples are on
the market. The Airzone type has been
found particularly effective.
The writer recently had the experience
of hearing A.C. hum only when a par-
ticular receiver was tuned to a local
station, the carrier wave of which was
strong. At all other settings the receiver
was silent, and also when no carrier wave
was being received. As there was known
to be no modulation hum on the original
carrier wave, it was evident that the diffi-
culty was due to a local cause. Tests
showed that when no R.F. amplification
was used the trouble disappeared, and
it therefore seemed clear that the R.F.
stages were minute R.F. currents, which
were being picked up on the surround-
ing power lines and modulated by the
ripple on those lines. The difficulty was
entirely overcome by running lead-
covered leads right up to the power trans-
former, bonding together the lead covers,
and connecting the bonding wire to earth
by the shortest route. An additional pre-
caution was taken to screen the power
transformer and rectifier from the R.F.
amplifiers, but the main improvement re-
sulted from the screening of the power
leads.
Generally, if hum noises are heard in
the receiver at all points of the tuning
scale, this indicates that additional or im-
proved filtering is necessary, and experi-
ments to improve matters with iron-core
chokes might be made on the circuits
feeding the earlier stages of amplifica-
tion. R.F. stages do not appear to require
such a pure D.C. supply as the detector
or audio stages immediately following it,
and moderately high inductance iron-core
chokes of the order of about 10 to 20
henries are usually suitable for those
stages. The outputs of the chokes should
be by-passed to earth by a 2fnfd. con-
denser.
The detector should be treated care-
fully, and an inductance of 100 henries
may be necessary to obtain good filter-
ing of the plate power. Frequently quite
a large-capacity by-pass condenser, say
Bmfd., between the output of this choke
and earth is extremely helpful in cutting
out the last remaining hum arising from
this stage. The same remarks apply to
intermediate audio amplifiers. A 20-
henry choke is sufficient for the output
stage, the by-pass condenser having a
value of about 4mfd.
Heater Supply.
It is seldom that modern A.C. in-
directly-heated-cathode valves are re-
sponsible for hum noises, but sometimes, if
a hum is traced to the heater supply, mov-
ing the cathode return lead from the
centre point of the transformer to one
side of the secondary winding may effect
an improvement. In other cases, where
this lead is already on one side of the
winding and no centre tap is provided,
an artificial centre tap can be made by
placing a 10-ohm or 20-ohm potentio-
meter across the terminals and utilising
the sliding contact by connecting the
cathode lead to it. Experiments should
then be made with various settings of the
slider to obtain best results. Sometimes,
also, it is useful to increase the value
of the capacity placed across any grid
bias resistances which may be included
in the circuit to obtain “automatic” grid
bias, especially if these are on the small
side — i.e., less than o.smfd.
Safety First.
It is extremely important to switch off
the power supply when making adjust-
ments to an A.C.-operated receiver, and
this should be done at the wall plug or
other permanent fitting. Using the switch
in the receiver itself may result in a part
of the wiring being alive and dangerous
to handle. If at all in doubt the advice
of the makers should be obtained, and
in such case the receiver should not be
interfered with except by a qualified
engineer.
QUEREN
All Round the Dial.
Many reunions, sometimes after a long
period of years, take place in the Sydney
A.B.C. studios. Lt.-Commander H.
Bennett, prior to giving one of his talks
one evening, met an old “ship,” Lt.-Com-
mander Burke. Nineteen years had
passed since their last meeting. On that
occasion Lt.-Commander Bennett had
sunk a “tinfish,” and being on different
ships their conversation was per medium
of flags. Bill Beausang, formerly ground
engineer to the late Kingsford Smith
and now employed by the A.8.C., met
one of his company officers. Captain
Doherty. Twenty years had elapsed
since their last meeting on the Hulluch
Road at the Battle of Loos, September,
1915. George Irvine, now employed by
the A.8.C., was listening to Captain
Batt’s talk recently. Hearing him mention
the s.s. Mirama he recognised the Dublin
brogue of the speaker. ' They had pre-
viously met early in 1918. Captain
Batt was navigating officer of the
hospital ship Mirama bound for M.L.
George Irvine, seriously wounded, was a
patient aboard.
:js * *
“Querex”: For 2UW Sydney Charles
Lucas gave a “blow-to-blow” descrip-
tion of the Schmeling-Louis battle. His
account was realistic enough to trans-
port listeners in imagination to the
stadium, and the loudspeaker almost visu-
alised every move of the fighters and the
excitement of the vast crowd.
What’s What in Radio.
The C.S.I.R. has issued the Radio
Research Board’s report on atmospherics
—the clicks and crashes all too well
known to listeners. There is no at-
tempt to go into the problem of how
to overcome their effects in radio re-
ceivers. However, such studies may
ultimately throw light on that prob-
lem, In the main the investigations
related to the method of determining the
location from which any particular atmo-
spheric comes. Details are given of a
self-recording instrument whereby this
determination can be made. There is a
discussion of the determination of the
locations, activities (measured in num-
bers in flashes per minute) and durations
of the main sources of atmospherics on
127 days of a year. The relative values
for different sources over land areas cor-
respond with those derived from
meteorological thunderstorm records;
this is further evidence supporting the
now widely-held belief that atmospherics
result from lightning flashes only. Sea
areas, especially those east of Vic., have
roughly as many thunderstorms as land
areas of similar latitude. A summer
maximum for tropical areas was the most
Mr. JOHN OXLEY ( G6QP ) operating
his amateur station in Edinburgh, Scot-
land. The transmitter uses LS5B and
T25D valves, and is often heard in Aus-
tralia on 20 metres.
pronounced feature of the seasonal dis-
tribution.
* * * *
Engineer and signal officers of Empire
military organisations foregather each
year on the anniversary of Waterloo to
dine and exchange greetings. To indicate
what radio means to the army, arrange-
ments were made this year, through the
courtesy of the British and Australian
Post Offices and A.W.A., to enable Lt.-
General Sir J. Ronald Charles, of the
Royal School of Military Engineering
at Chatham, to transmit a message of
greeting from London to a gathering at
the Tmnerial Service Club. Sydney. Sir
Ronald Charles spoke from London,
and through the Anglo-Australian wire-
less-telephone channel his message of
greeting was reproduced in the dining
hall, as if he were present in person.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
The writer, after an absence from the
ether for some weeks, finds on return
that the usual winter conditions exist,
and that there is very little to be heard
until after midnight.
The sole exceptions are the Russian
RVIS on 70m. and the amateur band,
W2EUG himself, operator of the excep-
tionally strong American 20-metre ’phone
station referred to in B. 8/41’36.
75-80 m. It appears as if the 80m. band
is not going to be equal to past years, as,
although the noise level is now quite
low, few Australian or M.L. stations are
heard at good strength.
The early mornings are excellent.
CTIAA was heard to announce that it
was putting out a new transmission, and
would be very glad of reports, especially
from listeners who could compare- the
two transmissions. They are just below
2R.0, and at best strength at 7.30 p.m.
2RO has dropped a little, but is best
just before 8 a.m. The writer’s new re-
ceiver has solved the trouble of inter-
ference from the French % code station
FRA. During daylight reception is easy
from English, French, German and Rus-
sian stations.
Radio Coloniale is still the strongest
station when using 25.26 m.
It is noticeable that the 19m. band is
being used much more by Europeans,
and W2XAD is fairly consistent on this
band.
The Americans in the 31m. band have
been erratic, but the description of tennis
between the English and American
women players was easily followed.
The 20m. amateur band is still full of
American ’phones, though not now quite
so strong. English amateurs have also
been heard at excellent strength in the
early morning.
The writer built the Ideal Amateur
Superhet as in B. 15/4/’36, but with a
few modifications to suit particular
needs. The result from the number of
valves is remarkable. This receiver was
easy to get going, but well repaid careful
adjustment.
NIGHTOWL
Casual Comment.
“V.E.”: In Queensland radio beacons
are overdue. Cost? Don’t mention it!
Four old-timers and a pressman on
the ground and a flier aloft ascer-
tained 12 months ago that a five-
metre beam was 35 miles wide at
130 miles (optical) and that the edges
of the beam were as sharp as the
crystal in an H.R.O. Three genemotors
and a couple of old land-line telephone
transmitters were used, and 171 A tubes
took the power easily.
* * * *
“Horn Gap”; There are times in a
serviceman’s career when the need for 1i
portable light presents itself — when
truing up condenser blades and aligning
condensers, for instance. Secure one of
those cheap fountain-pen types of


Radiokes’ New Kit
Set Release —
Xshe 1936
MONEY SAVER
is designed for use with
MULLARD
SILVER CONTACT
High Efficiency Valves.
TYPES
E.K.2, E.F.5, E.8.C.3, E.L.2.
E.Z.3.
There is a Good Reason!
Milliard
THE MASTER VALVE .
Milliard Radio Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
26-30 Clarence Street, Sydney.
PALEC
TESTING EQUIPMENT
Dependable, Profitable
MULTITESTER—ANALYSER-SELECTOR—VALVE TESTER—ALL-WAVE
OSCILLATOR —VACUUM-TUBE VOLTMETER.
The above Instruments constitute a most complete outfit for the service man or radio
laboratory. All units the same size: lain. x B:{in., panels (jin. deep. Available singly
or in black leatherette-covered cases of two or three Units, as illustrated.
saw*
(A) MULTITESTER, D. 0., A.G. volts.
Current, resistance, capacity,
inductance, impedance, electro-
lytic condenser capacity and
leakage. Power supply built in.
22 ranges. Price ... £l3/10/-
(B) ANALYSER-SELECTOR. For
current, voltage, resistance
ANALYSIS from any valve socket.
Price £2/19/6
(C) VALVE TESTER. Tests all
American. English and Butch
tubes, including all latest types.
Tests for MICRO-LEAKS on
HEATED VALVE. Easy reading
valve test chart. Price, £ll/5/-.
(D) ALL-WAVE OSCILLATOR. I.F.
to highest R.F. by 5 bands of
fundamentals. Precision Dial
with vernier scale. Attenuates
to microvolts by new graduated
capacity ’attenuator. Battery-operated. Perfectly shielded. Price £ll/10/-
(E) VACUUM-TUBE VOLTMETER. Reads 50c.s. to high R.F., also D.O. on multi range
direct-reading dial. Metal, measuring tube on 3ft. flexible lead. No grid leads—no pick-up.
Power supply built in. Most advanced design available anywhere. Price £ll/10/-
All Prices Are Subject to Sales Tax.
Combinations: A and B, £l6/10/-; A, B and C, £36/10/-; A, B and D, £36/10/-.
All Plus Sales Tax.
Write for catalogue descriptive of full range,
including Palec Cathode Kay Oscillograph.
THE PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO.
90 VICTORIA STREET, ASHFIELD, SYDNEY. Telephone: UA1960.
Distributors; —Sydney; Bloch and Gerber, Fox and MacGillicuddy, Lawrence and Hanson.
Melbourne; A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd.’
New Zealand: The Electric Lamp House, Ltd., Wellington.
torches, wire a pair of flexes (in lieu of
the battery) and terminate the wires in
a pair of small split-washers, bored to
take the filament pins of a valve. This
gadget’s consumption is negligible. The
washers should be made of phosphor
bronze or springy brass.
* * * *
“V.E.”: There still is some spasmodic
effort on 56mc. in the region north of
28. Current rumor credits two young
sparks with a record of conversation
over 200 miles that will take sonie shat-
tering. They don’t want their identities
disclosed.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
Ultimate Seven-valve All-wave Battery
Superhet.
In the process of establishing short-
wave reception as an entertainment
medium receivers have, passed through
many interesting phases. There will
always be the simple type of receiver for
the experimenter, but the listener who
knows little and probably cares nothing
about technicalities wants no experi-
ment. Finger-tip control of entertain-
ment and news is the order, and to be
worth while in these progressive days the
instrument must give a first-class per-
formance over medium and short waves
alike. The short-wave question has been
tackled in most instances in Australia
from the dual-wave angle. It is both
easier and cheaper for the manufacturer
to switch two channels, and few have
considered the all-wave type of receiver.
Consequently, it is satisfying to find
something unusual in the form of an all-
wave superhet submitted for test, and
particularly gratifying when the model
is a battery type for country use. It is
one which, owing to the design, is emi-
nently suitable for the far outback or
such places as New Guinea or Fiji. It
is one thing to run over an A.C. re-
ceiver which will eventually be used
somewhere within ready call of the ser-
viceman if necessary, and another to
examine the qualifications of a battery
model to be used where the nearest ser-
viceman is hundreds of miles distant. The
Ultimate seven-valve all-wave battery
superhet in Baby Grand cabinet, £45 12s.
(George Brown and Co., Ltd., 267 Clarence
Street, Sydney.)
battery receiver calls for scrupulous
attention to detail if it is to be attractive
to the user. If it is a little higher priced
than usual, there must be justifiable
reason.
This Page c’onsiders the Ultimate
seven-valve all-wave battery superhet,
recently submitted to a week’s test, out-
standing proof of what radio engineers
can do in the interest of battery users,
First, design shows intelligence in the
choice of valves. Remarkable results are
obtained from the valve combination, and
with this is linked extremely economical
operation. Second, the chassis is beauti-
fully engineered ; the wave-change switch,
condenser gang and tuning dial being
particularly noteworthy. These are not
likely to give trouble in a long time,
Third, there is the all-wave feature. In
“ Attention, listeners! The police are trying to locate Mr. Hans Prystekoff,
who disappeared mysteriously while making an attempt on the ski-
jumping record !”
two steps the short-wave ranges take in,
inclusively, everything from 18 to 128
metres. There are stations above 50
metres, and more are likely to appear
between 50 and 130 metres in days to
come. Fourth, there is the performance.
Sensitivity is remarkably high; a very
small indoor aerial suffices to pull in all
the world’s popular short-wave broad-
casters, and there is not a double spot or
a “joey” to be found anywhere. On the
broadcast band it would indeed be hard
to do better, and the audio quality from
the Class-B system with 135 volts of B
is surprising.
The first thing to attract attention is
the appearance of the dial. This is a full-
vision affair of square form, with band-
spread indicator and an ingenious color
scheme. According to the wavebands, a
small porthole indicator changes from
green to blue and red. Volume-control
operation shows a graduated increase in
red shading on one side, and tone control
a corresponding increase in green on the
other. There is no stiffness about the
tuning, and the dial can be rotated almost
with one finger. An attractive feature
is the fact that this is a two-volt receiver.
A two-volt accumulator and 135 volts of
superdyne B battery provide the power.
The valve combination includes a type
15 (indirectly heated R.F. pentode) as
R.F. amplifier, IC6 frequency changer,
15 intermediate amplifier, types 31 and
34 second detector and A.V.C., 30 driver,
and 19 Class-B audio.
One of the reasons for the outstanding
performance of this receiver is un-
doubtedly the R.F. coil design. The
coils are of an uncommon type, with
very low distributed capacity. For in-
stance, the broadcast coils are only
l-16in. in width, yet very compact. All
coils are wound with Litz wire. The I.F.
transformers are also Litz wound and
isolantite insulated. In the wave-change
switch, double self-cleaning silver-plated
contacts are used, the springs being of
phosphor bronze. In action, this switch
system is “dead-end.” It shorts out un-
used coils, and thus avoids “dead spots”
in tuning. The A.V.C. is fully effective,
and the tone control well graded from
“natural” to “mellow.”
A point for the consideration of the
countryman is the inclusion of a “battery
economiser” control. When the receiver
is tuned to ordinary room volume, a
switch on the left of the dial can be
moved to the left and, owing to the cir-
cuit method used, provides a considerable
saving in B battery current with very
little reduction in volume. This is some-
thing new and a definite advance.
As for the battery consumption, the
standing current on a local station
(unmodulated) works out at 6ma. to 7ma.
with the economiser control in action.
“Flat out” on a station, the total drain
does not exceed 12ma. The consumption
from the two-volt accumulator is l-f-
-amperes.
A permag. dynamic speaker with alu-
minium cobalt steel magnet is the sound
source, and provides excellent reproduc-
tion. Some idea of the sensitivity can
be gleaned from the fact that it was found
possible to use the receiver without aerial
or earth and still tune in distant stations.
The Empire short-wave station could be
tuned in at good volume around 25
metres by merely holding the short aerial
lead provided in the hand.
If stars or other tokens of merit were
to be awarded by this Page, this receiver
would be well tabbed. As tme expects,
considering workmanship and material, it
costs a little more than usual, being listed
at £45 12s. in a fine Baby Grand cabinet.
There are productions overseas costing
much more which would have to sprint
to give a better showing than this model.
The Ultimate receiver is distributed in
Australia by George Brown and Co.,
Ltd., electrical engineers, 267 Clarence-
street, Sydney.
VK2WI Schedules.
For some years, thd official station of
the N.S.W. Division of W.I.A. has only
been operating at intervals. With the re-
organisation of the institute’s activities in
N.S.W., this station will now play an im-
portant part in the dissemination of in-
formation to members and others. Trans-
missions will include a regular news bul-
letin and notes on activities of the
N.S.W. Division. The first session will
be on Wednesday evenings, commencing
at 7.30 p.m. on 3580 kc. This frequency
will be changed shortly to 3250 kc. The
session on Sundays will be on 7160 kc.,
commencing at 11 a.m. Duration of each
session will be approximately 35 minutes.
Reports are wanted from W.I.A. mem-
bers, the officer in charge being desirous
of tabulating a list showing how many
members can receive the transmission
and how many are regular listeners. Sug-
gestions are welcomed from country
members, in the nature of subjects for
lecturettes and talks by prominent people.
The address of the N.S.W. Division of
W.I.A. is Box 1734JJ, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) In constructing the Ideal Amateur Super-
het (B. 15\4\’36) would improved selectivity
be given by the use of a separate beat fre-
quency oscillator valve, whereby the detector
could be tuned to resonance and the regenera-
tion be placed in the I.F. stage ? (2) Can
8.F.0. coils be obtained in Sydney; if not, how
can one be made ? (3) Would a stage of
R.F. in place of the aerial coupling unit be an
improvement with the extra labor? —441.
(1) No. In the system specified regeneration
is controllable, and by this means a high
degree of selectivity can be obtained at the
second detector, which would not be possible
so easily with regeneration in the I.F. (2) The
8.F.0. coil for this receiver is any coil for
broadcast coverage. The lin., 1-Jin. or even
an old honeycomb type coil will do. Turns are
removed until oscillation is smooth. Inciden-
tally, potentiometer value need not be 10,000
ohms. It can be as low as 400. (3) The
aerial coupling unit is preferable in the interests
of lower noise level, but a tuned R.F. stage is
certainly worth consideration. It must not be
overlooked that simplicity as far as is consistent
with the best possible results is the keynote of
this reccher.
# * * =l=
Meaning of the following symbols met with
in radio literature — DX, WjVE, W/T, R/T,
R 7 ? —444.
DX, long distance; W/VE, worked with
Canada; W/T, wireless telegraphy; R/T, radio
telephony; R 7, strength seven.
% * + $
Addresses of the publications “Australasian
Radio World” and “Model Engineer” referred
to on this page, and where available ? —446.
“Australasian Radio World,” 214 George -
street, Sydney; “Model Engineer in Australia
and N.Z.,” P.O. Box 4, Hurstville, N.S.W.
Both publications are obtainable from all book-
stalls.


USEFUL DATA ON 14/40 VAUXHALL.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 20 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 10
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in third in 7
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 20ft. 9in.
Maximum speed, 63. 8 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 30.4 m.p.g.
TO
KEEP YOUR CAR
you no
dp
S 3?
ffflß
gw
rip|||ce'
worn plugslwith
—, CHAMPIONS
Champion
SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
•'SILVER
EDGE* 9
ffifuAaitbi,
TRADE <7 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with "RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
OVER THE TEST COURSE WITH
THE 14/40 VAUXHALL.
GOOD RESULTS UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS.
BY FRED BERRY
ROUPED in the light-car class, but yet capable of rapidly
transporting four adults in comfort over any type of road,
the 14/40 Vauxhall, since its redesign under the guiding hand
of General Motors, has over the last few years established an
enviable reputation among Australian motorists.
The VX model is classified as a light car merely by reason
of engine dimensions, but in practice the outfit is a big car in
miniature, the construction throughout being of a solid and
robust nature, resulting in reliability and freedom from petty
troubles, together &ilh economical operation due to low fuel
consumption and cheap maintenance costs.
Rated at 14.07 h.p. the six-cylinder
o.h.v. motor develops 42 b.h.p. at 3500
r.p.m. Bore 2.42 in. (61.5 mm.) and stroke
3.93 in. (100 mm.) give a piston displace-
ment of 108.8 cubic inches (1783 cc.).
Compression ratio is 6i to 1. Cylinder
block is cast integral with upper half of
crankcase. Sump is of pressed steel, with
provision for draining. The engine is sus-
pended in the chassis at four points on
inclined rubber cushions front and rear.
Pistons are aluminium-alloy, of split-
skirt type, each with three rings, all
located above the gudgeon pin. The two
top rings are compression and the lower
ring oil-regulating, sealed in a groove
designed for oil-return. Gudgeon
pins, of nickel steel, are case-hardened,
floating in both connecting rod and piston
and retained by circlip fittings. Pins
are force-feed-lubricated through
drilled con. rods.
Connecting rods are steel forg-
ings of I section, the big-end bear-
ing being white metal lined,
bonded directly to the rod
with pure tin. The bearing is
drilled to provide a jet of oil inl-
pinging on the cylinder bores once
each rev., and the rod is rifle-drilled
from big to little end to conduct oil to
the piston-pin bearing.
The crankshaft, balanced statically and
dynamically, is a drop-forging of high
tensile steel, and runs on four steel-backed
babbitt-lined bearings. End thrust is
taken at the front intermediate main
bearing. Upper bearings arc dowelled in
crankcase, and lower dowelled in cap.
A torsional vibration-damper is incor-
porated in the pulley housing on the
front end of the shaft.
Distributor head with cover removed.
(1) Rotor. (2) Adjustment for points. (3)
Contact points. (4) Return spring. (5)
Micrometer adjustment for advance. (6)
Vacuum control. (7) Suction pipe. (8)
Condenser.
The drop-forged, carbon-steel cam-
shaft also runs on four bearings, thrust
being taken up by a
bronze plate forward
of the front bearing.
Camshaft drive is
through duplex roller
chain. Crankshaft
sprocket is of high
carbon steel and cam-
shaft sprocket is cast-
iron. Timing marks on
Sturdily constructed and economical in operation, the 14140 light six
Vauxhall sedan.
each wheel avert risk of error on re-
assembly after dismantling chain.
Valves arc located in removable cast-
iron guides and operated by overhead
steel rocker arms and push-rods. Rocker
arms are adjustable for tappet clearance.
Single helical valve springs are located
on stems by cotters. Rocker shaft is
hollow, providing positive pressure feed
to all valve mechanism. Rocker shafts
arc rigidly supported on six cast brackets,
eliminating possibility of whip or deflec-
tion due to spring load at speed. The
entire valve assembly is enclosed by two
removable covers of pressed steel, with
breather vent in centre. Tappet clearance
(hot) is 8 to 10 thou. Valve timing
inlet opens 2deg. after T.D.C. and closes
49 (deg. after B.D.C. Exhaust opens
544 deg. before B.D.C. and closes 14)deg.
after T.D.C.
Carburettor is of Zenith down-draught
type, with throttle and choke control
interconnected and operated by cam to
ensure correct mixture strength both for
starting and touring. Attached to the
intake side of the carburettor is a ver-
tical silencer. Air cleaner and flame
arrester are of metallic gauze type.
Standard jet settings are: Choke, 22mm. ;
main jet, 95mm. ; compensator jet,
70mm. ; progression jet, 75mm.; and
slow-running jet, 55mm.
The inlet manifold is of the three-port
type, each port feeding two cylinders. A
cast chamber, through which hot exhaust
gases pass, serves as a “hot spot” to
facilitate starting from cold and ensure
complete vaporisation of petrol.
The fuel tank, holding nine gallons, is
suspended by straps from the rear cross
members, and fuel is drawn by a mechani-
cal pump through gauze filters and a
settling bowl to the carburettor.
Exhaust manifold is cast-iron, of four-
port type, an auxiliary expansion cham-
ber assisting greatly in reducing exhaust
noise before gases pass into the main
silencer, which is suspended on the
chassis by flexible rubber brackets. A
forced water-circulating cooling system is
incorporated, the centrifugal pump being
mounted on the front of the cylinder
block and driven in tandem with the two-
b laded fan. The
radiator is of charac-
teristic Vauxhall V-
film type, with copper
core and chrome-
plated outer shell. A
thermostat in the
header pipe prevents
water from circulating
until the temperature
of the water surround-
ing the cylinders has
reached approximately
140 deg. F.
The engine is lubri-
cated at high pressure,
oil being drawn by a
gear-type pump through gauze filters and
delivered direct to the main bearings.
From there it passes through drilled
holes in the crankshaft to the big-end
bearings and through drilled connecting
rods to the small-end bearings.
Drilled passages in the crankcase feed
the crankshaft bearings, and a supply is
taken from the two intermediate bearings
through pipes to the valve rocker gear.
Automatic petrol pump driven from cam-
shaft. (1) Retaining screw. (2) Cover
plate. (3) Metal diaphragm. (4 and 5)
Return spring and pull rod. (6) Attach-
ment flange. (7 and 8) Rocker arm and
spring. (9) Fuel inlet. (10) Gauze filter.
The crankcase ventilation system pre-
vents excessive oil dilution or formation
of sludge, the air passing through the
system entering through a screened
breather pipe situated on top of the
rocker gear cover and ejected, after col-
lecting injurious vapors, through an out-
let pipe projecting beneath the engine
tray.
Electrical equipment is Lucas, of single
unit 12-volt type. The generator, with
three-charge rate and half-charge switch
on the instrument panel, is driven by a
belt from a pulley on the
crankshaft in line with the fan.
A cut-out relay is mounted on the
offside of the dash.
The starter motor is mounted on
the flywheel housing, and has a reduction
ratio of 12.5 to 1 in relation to ring gear.
It is engaged mechanically before power
is applied, and is provided with an over-
running clutch.
The distributor is driven in tandem with
the oil pump, with fully automatic ad-
vance and retard of ignition, timing being
secured by both centrifugal and vacuum-
operated control. Also a micrometer ad-
justment is fitted to the spindle for
manual selling to suit various fuels.
Firing order is 1,5, 3,6, 2, 4.
Spark plugs are 14mm. thread ; gap
setting, 20-22 thou.; contact breaker
gap, 10-12 thou.; ignition timing, fully
advanced, Bdeg. before T.D.C.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry disc clutch of 7|in. diameter. Bow-


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
£»=
Qhl-MwatSom
936 -jees Udemanded
x.
,/
1
MOTO«
OIL
. 0.0(0 PURE
•XO^IVANM
—lt is VEEDOL the
world's finest Motor Oil,
and costs no more.
VZB
NEPTUNE OH CO. LIMITED
All STATES
NEPTUNE Gil CO.UMIIED
ALL STATES
den flexible cable is utilised in the clutch
throw-out mechanism to prevent the
movement of the flexibly-mounted motor
being transmitted to the driver’s foot.
Gearbox gives four forward speeds and
reverse, with central ball change lever.
Top and third gears are synchromesh,
silent, easy change, helical cut. Second,
low and reverse are spur gears.
An automatic locking device on all for-
wards speeds pre-
vents gears from
jumping out of
mesh. The trans-
mission case is
provided with an
oil level dip-stick.
Gear ratios are:
Top, direct; third,
1.5 to 1 ; second,
2.31 to 1 ; first,
3.92 to 1 ; reverse,
3.92 to 1. The
drive line is
through an open
tubular propeller
shaft with needle
roller metal uni-
versal joints. Spline
shaft is equipped
with grease nipple.
Rear axle is semi-
floating in a
pressed-steel banjo
housing, with spiral
bevel crown wheel
and pinion. Reduction ratio is 4.77
to 1, giving a road speed of 15.8
m.p.h. per 1000 revs. Frame is cruci-
form (X) type, front quarter being box
section. The front step hanger is used
for jacking up either side of the car.
Wheelbase is 101 in., arid minimum
ground clearance 7in.
Independent front wheel suspension is
incorporated as standard. Helical springs
in cylindrical housings function under
oil-bath conditions. Double-acting
hydraulic shock-absorbers are attached
to each wheel assembly. Rear springs are
underslung semi-elliptic, equipped with
Front-wheel suspension and steering assembly. (1) Front
tubular axle. (2) Pivot-pin bearings. (3) Spring housing. (4)
Carrier arm. (5) Brake reaction link. (6) Engine supports.
(7) Helical coil spring.
double-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers,
A stabilising bar connecting the rear
shock-absorbers reduces tendency to roll,
Shackles are of silent U-threaded type.
Brakes are of semi-servo, two-shoe
type, mechanically operated, internal ex-
panding on all four wheels and equalised
by separate adjustment of individual
levers. The handbrake operates the same
shoes on all four wheels through inde-
pendent linkage.
Steering is of worm-and-sector type,
with provision for adjustment for end
play in both sector shaft and column as
well as of meshing of worm and sector.
The drop-arm shaft is fitted with a needle
roller bearing. Gear ratio is 15 to 1;
turning circle, 36ft. 6in.
Bodywork, by Holden’s, is well-
finished. Front seat is adjustable. Door-
handles are remote control. Starter-
switch is on dash. Controlled ventilation
is fitted on front doors. Windscreen-
wiper is electric. A built-in trunk in the
rear panel serves as luggage compart-
ment, tool locker and housing of spare
wheel.
The instrument panel is neatly arranged
and fitted with speedometer, eight-day
clock of similar size and design, oil gauge,
fuel gauge, ammeter, ignition warning
light, mixture control and charging and
lighting switch, and is indirectly illumi-
nated for night driving.
The car taken over the Bulletin test
course, a 14/40 DX sedan, was driven by
H. Poulton, of Boyded, Ltd., N.S.W dis-
tributors, and weighed, with driver,
observer and full tank, 26|cwt. (Reg-
istered weight 23/rCwt.) Speedometer
reading stood at 9415 miles.
Heavy rain had fallen overnight, and
the test was conducted in showery
weather, the roads being wet and greasy.
Passing through the city and suburbs the
short-wheel based car proved extremely
handy in traffic, and showed no ten-
dency to skid, while on the open road
a cruising speed of 45 m.p.h. was com-
fortably main-
tained, all main-
road hills being
taken in top. Slow-
ing to 15 m.p.h.
near Pitt Town,
the car was allowed
to coast in neutral,
covering 686 yards
before stopping.
Over the measured
mile, with flying
start, the maximum
speed was 63.8
m.p.h. (56 2/5 sec.),
the car steering
easily at this speed.
Deviating from
the main road
through Grose
Vale, recent rains
and extensive re-
pair work had
rendered the road
difficult in some
places, the car sink-
ing to the wheel
caps in soft mud. Over this section the
Vauxhall behaved excellently, maintain-
ing a set course without undue skidding.
On Kurrajong Mountain the final 2 1-5
miles was climbed in 4min. 28sec., using
second and third gears,
Returning down the mountain emerg-
ency brakes were tested with satisfactory
results, and on the cross-country route
between Richmond and Penrith the fol-
lowing traffic tests were made: Slow
running in top for 350 yards, 2min. 20sec.,
averaging 5.1 m.p.h. ; accelerated 350
yards in top, finishing at 50 m.p.h.,
20 2-ssec., averaging 35.3 m.p.h. ; 10 to 30
m.p.h. in top, lOsec. ; 10 to 30 in third,
7sec. ; 10 to 30 in second, ssec.; and
standing start to 50 m.p.h., 20 l-ssec.
From 25 m.p.h. the car was stopped in
23ft. 9in. At the conclusion of the test,
covering 117 miles, petrol consumed was
found to be 3 gallons 6J pints, equivalent
to 30.4 m.p.g. (40.7 ton miles), at an
average speed of 33 m.p.h.
Longitudinal section of 14 /40 Vauxhall motor, showing
location of all components, including clutch, and method of
lubrication through hollow shaft.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
R.S.L. (Gosford, N.S.W.).—(!) What have
been the sales in the U.S.A. of two cars named
this and last year ? (2) What are the relative
merits of alloy and iron pistons ? Won’t the
alloy give piston slap and wear cylinders before
iron ? (3) What is the difference between semi-
float ing and three-quarter-floating rear axles ?
(4) Which of two cars named should I get best
results from, the six or eight ?
(1) Sales of six-cylinder in Jan., ’35, 26,594:
Jan., ’36, 62,999. Sales of eight-cylinder in
Jan., ’35, 46,306; Jan., ’36, 50,744. (2) Alloy
pistons are used in the majority of cars
produced to-day, only two popular types
still using iron. It has been suspected
in past years that soft aluminium alloy
w’as responsible for slap and wear, but
with new formulae the metal is equally light
yet as hard and wear-resisting as iron, conse-
quently wear and slap are, if anything, less
likely than with cast-iron. (3) Rear axles are
said to be semi-, three-quarter- or full-floating,
depending upon number and disposition of
bearings. r the full-floating axle is supported
throughout its entire length, and merely trans-
mits torque and no load. The semi-floating
axle is supported only in the wheel hub and
carries both load and torque. (4) Cars men-
tioned occupy first and second positions in
world sales, and either should be a good buy.
* * * *
A.N.H. (Brisbane). — Why is the Australian
selling price of certain English cars 25 p.c.
more than the English list price ?
Can t say. Variations between the price here
and that in Britain depend, among other things,
upon manufacturers’ sales policy and arrange-
ments made by local distributors.
* * * *
J.E.G. (Walcha, N.S.W.). — My four-cylinder
car vibrates when car is overrunning motor,
between 35 and 40 tn.p.h., and not above or
below tnese speeds. Vibration ceases as soon
as engine takes up drive. Motor has recently
been overhauled and is in good order; so are
front and back universal joints. Could the
vibration come from the crown wheel and
pinion ?
Unlikely if that gearing runs silently at all
other speeds. Vibration is possibly due to
wear in spline shafts or universal joints in tail-
shaft and gearbox.
* * * *
R.G. (Seymour, Vic.). —/ recently decarbon-
ised my four-cylinder engine and ground in
valves. Motor now starts up first try and pulls
welt for a few minutes, then appears to get slug-
gish and sometimes pops back. Further hard
driving causes boiling. Cause and cure ?
Symptoms indicate tappet adjustment having
been made with motor cold. Correct clearance
with engine at normal running temperature is
eight thou, exhaust and six thou, inlets. Setting
thus when cold will probably cause at least
some of the valves to ride on tappet and pre-
vent head from making a gaslight fit with seat.
•** * *
M.P.R. (Wyndham, W.A.). Quotation
wanted for truck of type described.
Distributors will advise you direct.
* * * *
C.E.W. (Culcairn, N.S.W.). — Please tell me
if the used car named is worth the price, and
what petrol consumption it should give ?
You should expect the car to be in good
mechanical condition for that price. Petrol
consumption should be about 28 m.p.g.
❖ $ ;I<
L.V.E. (Copmanhurst, N.S.W.). — My ’35 six-
cylinder car (4000 miles) has developed a
click in the motor synchronising with engine
revs. Tappets and fuel pump have been
checked and sump has been taken off and
bearings examined with negative results. Noise
is- audible only when starting up. Cause and
cure ?
Probably due to slackness in a piston pin or
ring. Suggest using a stethoscope to check
whether tapping noise emanates from one par-
ticular cylinder. If it does, the cure is obvious.
* * * *
Surrey (Melbourne). — My eight-cylinder ’36
model car (2050 miles'), although first showing
19-20 m.p.g., now at best does 14. Great
care has been taken in running in; average
driving speed 30 m.p.h., maximum 45. I
sometimes stop and start five times, including
a cold start, in a run of eight to ten miles.
Is not petrol consumption excessive ?
Would say that, starting up as frequently as
suggested, a consumption of 14 m.p.g. is all
that could be expected, but if any doubt exists
why not call on service station, which should
check your car for possible defective adjust-
ment without cost?
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Selma”: Who says that N. S. Wales
motorists are a selfish crowd? We were
motoring to Goulburn the other Sunday
afternoon, lights full on, to assist an
overcharged battery, and must have met
50 cars in fairly quick succession. With
one exception all the drivers, men and
women alike, flashed their headlights as
they approached to indicate to us that
we were wasting light. The fiftieth
driver, who met us unexpectedly on a
curve, had only time to shout.
•!• '!• 'I- -I-
“A. Sidley”: Motor traffic has pro-
duced a peculiar effect on some of the
main macadamised roads in Vic. On
level stretches the road becomes ridged
in unbroken folds across its width, like
an old-time corduroy. The corrugations
are almost as regular as those on galvan-
ised iron, but about 18in. apart. If the
road is heavily remetalled and traffic
continues, the ridges gradually reappear.
What’s the explanation?
# * * *
“Ayeff”: Motoring between Proserpine
and Mackay (N.Q.) we stuck fast in a
rising creek. Before the waves we made
had ceased to lap up on the shore, along
came an old fellow with a pair of horses
who offered to pull us through for ss.
We accepted his offer, and he told us
that he had pulled every car that had
attempted the crossing during the last
three days ; “that is,” he went on, “all ex-
cept them old Fords.” At that moment
along came an ancient T-model lorry.
It splashed through and roared safely up
the opposite bank.
;Jc ❖ . He sfc
“C.H.F.”: How accidents happen. A
car-driver was proceeding sedately along
the road when a mouse emerged from
some hiding place and scampered about
the base of the steering wheel. The
driver attempted to stamp on it with his
boot. The next thing he knew he was
struggling out of his car, which had come
suddenly to rest in a ditch. As he sourly
faced the bill for repairs he hadn’t even
the satisfaction of knowing he had killed
the mouse.


“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
for three generations
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
trained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the-advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. its circu-
lation exceeds that of . the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office; Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
THE MAIL"
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. <G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON —F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, 8.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“‘The Evening Post' ’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
f,K’l'
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt,
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
COVERS A RICH FIELD
AND GETS RESULTS
‘‘The Examiner,” established 1842, is the
oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and
yet is still the most modern paper in the
state. It circulates everywhere in the
North—the home of two-thirds of the
population of Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates
of ‘‘The Examiner” and “Saturday Evening
Express” obtainable from;
f
023
R ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
THE POWER
TO DO THE JOB..
The position that enables us to
reach every corner of the h est.
We have them both!
Broadcasting from the top of
tlie ranges on our new power ot
1000 watts, (iAM is a sure money-
getter for the man who has any-
thing to sell to country folk.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth. ,
Western Australia.
streamers and wondering what had come over him
and what he would do in England.
On the trip he tried to convince himself that he
had no plans, and that he was simply having an exten-
sive and aimless holiday; and to insure himself
against anything too definite he spent a lot of time
in the smokeroom, telling other fellows what he would
do at the end of the voyage. He formed a few friend-
ships that he thought might help to keep him. in
London ; and to make even more sure that he could
not be lured to the south of England he accepted an
invitation to stay with some people in Leicestershire.
There was also an affair with a red-headed girl with
a hungry mouth and eyes that always looked hot and
weary. They made plans for meetings in London,
and there were hints about Paris.
Beneath all this excitement was a sort of despair,
for he knew what was happening and what was likely
to happen. He was trying to convince himself that
he could let Joyce go, but he knew that he couldn’t
help moving towards her as soon as they were on
the same soil. He knew where she would be in the
near future, although sometimes he felt hot when
he remembered the way he had got the information.
She had surprised him that day in her bungalow,
and he had protested, in his clumsy .way, that he
hadn’t been reading her letter. But he had. It was
a sort of hunger that had driven him to turn oyer
the pages, a hunger to see if she had written anything
about himself. But it was all for Paul, every page
of it ; and he had had to stand there and read of
plans’ for the fellow’s happiness, and see in clear
writing the soul he had always known existed in
Joyce Manson.
Certain facts from the letter stayed firmly in his
mind. The hurry of his Sydney days was unable to
dislodge them ; they were not blurred by card-playing
and whisky in the smokeroom ; the passionate hps
of the red-headed girl had no power to melt them
from his memory. They survived with him through
the days of endless blue circles, through the clamor
and color of Eastern ports, and through the uproar
of London. Joyce was to meet Burnley at a house
in Surrey. And he knew where to find the valley.
He wasn’t going there, of course . . . And yet,
after a week in London, he broke away from the red-
head wrote to cancel his visit to Leicestershire, and
changed his hotel, leaving no address for the few
acquaintances who might want to follow him. Rest-
less days followed. He spent a night wandering around
Soho, and then tramping the length of Oxford-street,
watching its broad, prosaic way becoming hard and
bare and incredibly distant in the hours after mid-
night, The next morning he went to Waterloo station
and took a train for Guildford, He settled m at a
hotel there,, a dim place with rooms that seemed to
have been undisturbed for a generation at least, and
had their own special atmosphere of dreaming which
he tried to leave untouched. This was easy, for he
was out every day and all day, walking country roads
that led always in one direction and to one place.
The valley of pines opened before him, and he wa.chc
the house in its sunset hour.
Soon there was no part of the valley unknown
to him. He stood by the Pool of Forgetfulness, and
he followed paths through the woods and looked down
on the house from every ridge and summit of the
hills. All this was helpful. It was good for him to
be among trees again, and after a day or two he
found that his restlessness burned lower. He even
began to think he would be able to tear himself
away and leave the place in peace for Joyce’s home-
coming.
But he still wanted her. The long journey and
its episodes had taught him that beyond all doubt.
At one time he had wondered if her strength was
partly the strength of her loneliness: the isolation
that set up her beauty as representative of all woman-
hood, adding a mysterious delight to her company
and giving her lightest words a sound of music. But
since then he had moved among other women, and
had been bored with them. Always, as he moved
among them, his memory was impatient and provo-
cative ; a swarm of impressions brought Joyce back
clearly before him.
It was not good that he should come down here
like this and wait for her. There was a fear in him
that when the time came and he could see her he
would not be strong enough to resist whatever great
impulse swept across him. And, strangely, in a way
beyond his understanding, he wanted to resist. There
was a part of him that wanted Joyce to be happy ;
and if this were to be so there was little for him to
do except make his farewell to the valley, content
himself with the thought that at least he had seen
her nest, and return to his neglected Papua.
One day he found the house wide open, with doors
and windows drinking light and fresh air, and a
bustle of servants and tradespeople. He hung about
the edge of the trees and watched and waited ; and
when his chance came he entered the house and heard
a little of the talk that was going on. In this way he
learned that Joyce was returning next day. That
set him in a fever all over again, and any thought
of going was not to be encouraged. - Joyce was
coming. The whole valley was alight with (he news;
she seemed to have come in advance, and to be here
in spirit, for he could see sudden clear pictures of
her: a whiteness that hurt his eyes, her smile in the
sunlight, an edge of dress around the trunk of a tree.
She was here already. How could he go?
“A little longer,” he told himself. “A little
longer.”
He would wait until he saw her. She would be
happy, and he would not be able to harm her. Then
he would go.
And now the day had come, and he had been
here since early morning, watching with every hour
through a day that was to be set apart from all other
days—for Joyce and Burnley. It pleased him, in a
curious, crooked fashion, to know that he was sharing
it behind the scene.'
The first surprise came with the arrival of Paul
and Lola. Eagerness rose in him once more: the
stubborn hope that in some mysterious way all was
not yet lost for him. But there was anger, too. He
could feel no great surprise if Paul had had his
problems; but they had no place in this valley, and
if he had not been able to choke them off or crush
them before he came to his meeting with Joyce he
was a poor sort of weakling and not fit for happiness.
'f " ■ ■ . *
And so he waited and followed, and was able
to realise that things were not working out for Joyce
in the way she had planned. It was no concern of
his, of course. No doubt Joyce would be able to
shape something out of the disappointment and con-
fusion. There was even a chance that Burnley would
be abie to rid himself of this other woman before
Joyce surprised them. And if he couldn’t? He
shrugged over this thought, and the desire grew up
in him to get away. He wanted to see Joyce more
than he had"wanted most things ; but he couldn’t Prink
calmly of having to see her unhappiness. Yet h© still
waited.
“I'm in this,” he thought.
After all, he knew Joyce better than most people
knew her, and there might be a way in which he
could help. Somehow, she might need him. He
had a certain strength that could be hers if she wanted
it. And so, in the strangest of moods, his passionate
desire moved through body and mind in the com-
pany of fears for Joyce—and the new longing to help.
11.
The minutes crept on as Murdoch waited in the
empty room. A dim light came through the window,
and he knew that the sun was down. Already the
valley would be growing dark. The room was full
of shadow. His thoughts grew slow and heavy.
He was roused in the end by sounds outside the
door. Someone was breathing noisily, and he could
hear fingers fumbling at the door-handle. He looked
around for cover, and saw that his only chance of
staying unseen was to keep within the angle bf the
opening door. The shadows would help.
Steps and breathing came nearer, and the door-
opened. A giant and grotesque shadow came slowly
into the room and paused beneath the high window.
There were movements in the dusk, and the shadow
broke into two pieces, one going to the floor and
lying there and the other returning slowly upright and
standing motionless a long minute, while the breathing
grew calmer.
Murdoch stayed unseen as Paul turned from the
still figure on the floor and hurried from the room.
The door closed after him quietly, and the shadows
grew deeper, like waters smoothing after a disturb-
ance. Murdoch waited until there was no longer a
sound of steps along the passage. Voices came faintly
from downstairs, and then a door slammed in the
distance.
Even after this Murdoch was unwilling to move.
He was no stranger to death, and he had known its
presence at the first opening of the door. It was not
necessary to bend over the patch of shadow on the
floor and search the face for a sign of life, or to
chafe hands that would never be warm again. He
found no strangeness in the company of the dead.
Many times he had watched death at work in Papua.
using spears and sharp-edged weapons or creeping
into the mean huts of natives bending over pots of
food and setting slow agonies alight in diseased bodies.
He had doctored and buried, and was familiar with
the stillness that comes upon a place where the dead
are lying. But this time death was coming near to
him, and seemed to be at work upon the destiny of
the woman he loved. Therefore fear came among
the shadows like a current of cool air, reaching in-
wards to his blood.
{To be continued next week.)


Does Motoring
Make Youf Back Ache ?
Don’t Blame the Car
—or the Roads
It’s your
KIDNEYS
that are at
fault I
W 5
■
«
(.BACKACHESign of Kidney Trouble.)
IJOW often we see Motorists step
*’ from their cars, after being on a
long drive, with both hands on their
backs in obvious pain. Bad roads
and bumps are very trying to anyone,
but to those with Weak Kidneys
they are an absolute menace.
Don’t blame the Car or the
Roads if your back aches —it’s
your Kidneys that are at fault.
They are aching because they are
weak and inflamed. What they
need is a course of Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills, the most reliable
Kidney Remedy sold in Aus-
tralia.
Gin Pills are made especially
to assist weak and inflamed
Kidneys to become strong and
healthy, and in doing this they
quickly and surely remove the
cause of Backache and the
many other ailments which
arise from Kidney Trouble,
such as Rheumatism, Swollen
Joints, Lumbago and Bladder
Troubles.
f , . TV,- ! 's\?
■' : ' ■•, '■. • v ' • - ' ■ ‘V."'
If you have any cause
to suspect that your Kid-
neys are out of order,
then you should not hesi-
tate to begin a course of
Dr. Sheldon’s i
Gin Pills
immediately.
27 Pills .... 1/9
60 Pills .... 2/9
3hJheldoni
GIN PIUS
J^
n r
QISHLLDONj^
?/«>
HEALTH ENEMY No. 1
Fight it with
Doubi.kD'
isucaluhhiA Sxttactj
DE prepared to light when ’Flu—
Health Enemy No. i —attacks you.
Your best weapon is Double “D”
Eucalyptus, and this is how to use it.
df
TAKE 3 drops of
Double “D” on a
lump of sugar.
RUB chest and back
thoroughly with
Double “D.”
INHALE 15 drops of
Double “D” in hot
water.
Do these three things before retiring,
and while you sleep the powerful
germicidal vapors of Double “D”
Eucalyptus will light the ’Flu germs in
your nose, mouth, throat and lungs,
and will smash your ’Flu attack in
record time.
This treatment is also recommended
for Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma and
Catarrh.
Footballers and Athletes t
Double “D” Eucalyptus is
splendid when used as a rub-
down. It is more penetrat-
ing than Liniments—quickly
relieves sore muscles and
purifies and heals any cuts
or abrasions. Leading ath-
letes use Double *‘D” when
training.
Double “D” is the highest grade,
purest and strongest Eucalyptus sold
in Australia. For your own safety,
demand it —and take no other.
Dot OLE “D
ducalyfititi Sxltact
9d. ENORMOUS SALES -1/3.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
d
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
® t O Ve t Of*'
&
ci 1
**'!>? <■%
V V 0 >
N
v* v
\o
>0
s c
e
\o
s)
.• * J 0&
#• ,•••' ..••■ of '°^&>* e '
O'


Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
I I
l A...
? Mr
a
4/Mi
i
ujl
■ «
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS toil! not burn
WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
/or Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc*
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING ...
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. Waratah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it,
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World*s Best
MADE BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers*
Handbook
rm 1
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
