

mm.
- i
: ■ m
&
:• t
fc.
• V
4 Js,\ *1 |}|tnH * /Sy
ty
*»T» i - M
‘Tm iiiiiifT*” 8^
......
QUALITY SINCE 1897
V 104
FOR CARS
BATTERIES
m a Uthta-thi only,
with (lit Platt -Lock...
MOTOR CYCLES • HOME LIGHTING
*0 E BY VES I A BAfT E R Y CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD. SYONE'i»MELBUURN£-BRjSBANt*P£RrH*AUCKLAND-WEILiHSTQN*Q(iNEOLN
The Bulletin
Two Australians (Page 8)
Vol. 57.—N0. 2931.
Wednesday, April 15, 1938,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Up Name
My Address
8.8. 136
H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessarv amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envdope,
which wili not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the .Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
IDRIESS’S
KIDMAN
Nobody could
more appropri-
ately have under-
taken writing a
biography of Sid-
ney Kidman than
lon L. Idriess. Superficially they are
wholly different individuals, but there
are things so alike in the nature of each
of them that those who know' Idriess
must feel every now and again that
what has been said of Kidman could
be said with equal truth of his
biographer.
In that way Idriess is specially quali-
fied: everything that Kidman did Idriess
could understand. There might be
understatement, but there would be no
investing the subject with purely imagin-
ary attributes and complexes. There is
no clouding of neurotic complexities in
the character of either of them. Both
can, in the best sense, be described as
simple men, extraordinarily representa-
tive of the bush and the Australian
genius together. Again, Idriess is speci-
ally qualified by similarity of experi-
ence. His career as an Australian writer
holds many resemblances to Kidman’s
career as a cattleman. Kidman became
a millionaire ; Idriess never will, unless
in his wanderings over the face of the
wild he finds a hill of gold: but that is
only because Kidman dealt in cattle,
which might return millions, and Idriess
deals in books, which might—his do—
sell by scores of thousands and still leave
a man poor.
Idriess in The Cattle King (Angus and
Robertson ; 65.) sums up on Kidman:
He made of life a fascinating game of
chess. The board was Australia; the pieces
were station managers, land, drovers, stock-
men, bore contractors, tank-sinkers, water
conservers, money, energy, thought, organi-
sation, markets, transport, distances, stock
routes, water, grass, cattle, sheep, horses
and camels. Llis opponent was drought,
now slowly allying itself with erosion.
It was a wonderful fight, lasting 65 years.
Eventually the man won all along the
line, though still fighting at the end.
All of which is, of course, the very
material that Idriess himself uses in the
game which he himself is al. He plays
that game, too, curiously like Kidman
played his —on his own initiative. He is
a simple man, Idriess; easy to meet;
talking with a drawl (Kidman spoke with
a drawl), as if he had eternity in which
to utter a sentence. His publishers are
both fond of him and proud of him. and
it is they who arrange the whole of the
publicity he gets. He himself is utterly
remote from self-assertion. He has writ-
ten in the last 10 years or so about a
dozen books that have been pretty con-
siderably praised and very considerably
read, and he is the same quiet, drawl-
ing, easy-going, plain man to-day as he
was before any of this success of achieve-
ment came to him—in the days when,
from distant places on the Australian
map, he helped to fill “Aboriginalities”
with the curiosa of nature, prospecting
and other will-o’-the-wisps (hat beckoned
him through the wilds.
There are several leads for the young
Australian writer in his career. Idriess
follows the famous dictum of writing
about what one knows: there is a basis
not so much of actuality—which has no
importance—but of reality in his work.
It may deserve the charge which, in
various degree, can be brought against
nearly all our writing: that it is some-
what raw and rough. But even this is a
strength in such natural writers as
Idriess: it belongs to the nature of their
subject matter itself.
Still a greater strength in Idriess —re-
garded as an objecl lesson—is his singu-
lar personal remoteness from momentary
influences. He is absolutely self-con-
tained. it is possible that he would
listen to criticism and correct some glar-
ing fault, but it is impossible to imagine
anything—least of all hostility—causing
him to deviate a foot from the literary
track he is on. Kidman mapped over
the Australian outback and evolved his
big development schemes of strategically-
placed stations for fighting drought and
serving markets. Idriess has similarly
conned the source material of his books,
which stand, like Kidman’s stations, as
memorials to his industry. Nothing in-
fluenced the career of Kidman so much
as the vital flair within himself. So it is
with idriess, who goes his own way, at
his own gait, impervious to “literary in-
fluences,” “prose tendencies,” praise or
disparagement.
There is crudity in his work—even
in this Life of Kidman, which is,
save perhaps for The Desert Column,
far and away the best thing he has done.
But quibbling about his crudeness is like
quibbling about that of a jut of rock. It
is natural, with vitality in it always,
every now and then gathering itself up
and striking with force:
Far to the north, over a great arc, rain
was steadily falling. Dripping down from
the tablelands, rippling down from the
ranges, soaking info the flats. Millions of
gutters were trickling into gullies; gullies
were running into creeks; the creeks were
swelling! Then, from north-east, from
north, from north-west thousands of creeks
“came down.” Into the river-heads.
Sand and parched river-beds soaked up the
stream. The river-heads then “came
down,” faster, stronger. Long, spreading,
creeping snakes of water began appearing
in the river-beds. They were swallowed by
sand. Then a spreading volume of water
appeared, while ever ahead of it trailed
out again long, spreading, creeping snakes
of water.
The rivers began to run. From east,
north and nor.h-west three yellow-brown
walls of water came creeping down, softly,
silently, surely: the Cooper, the Diaman-
tina, the Georgina. Gently the yellow
floods came, slowly growing faster, noise-
lessly gathering weight. Then each came
rolling down, rolling yellow volumes down
the Three Rivers; growing stronger,
coming swifter, a faint murmuring in the
air.
Or take this, in which the “packlock” is
all Australia:
Rabbits ate grass—millions of stock,
billions of animals of all kinds eating
grass from (he one great “paddock” every
minute of the day and night. Billions
of jaws working, countless billions of
teeth chewing—biting, grinding, digging.
He rode on, thinking.
When a man writes like that he is
beyond being questioned about this or
that lapse into cliche or bathos, or
about raw edges that a polished writer
would have cut away. Apart from these
aspects of Idriess there is another of
some importance—the one that accounts
for his popularity: his unquestionable
gift as a story-teller. There is a natural
quality in his narrative, enriched with
the friendly humor and philosophical
squaring-up to realities which dignify the
authentic bush character.
Those are some of the qualifications
which Idriess brings to his narrative of
Kidman’s career, in which, by the in-
genious expedient of having important
contemporary events discussed at camp-
fires and suchlike, he produces a back-
ground of Australian occurrences in Kid-
man’s times as well. In a brief preface
Idriess mentions other qualifications:
Luckily, Fate gave me a flying start, for
as a lad T worked in the Broken Hill
Proprietary mine in the days when Sid
Kidman’s name was a household word in
the Broken Hill district. In later years,
prospecting ventures took me into his
farthest northern country, Cape York
Peninsula. Various wanderings took me
through the Gulf country, the Territory
and (lie Centre, and finally throughout the
Kimberleys. Hence, though not concerned
with the cattle industry (except to com-
mandeer a bullock now and then for the
tucker-bags), I wandered where Kidman
stations were.
Right from the start, Kidman was
above all interested in cattle. Idriess
speaks of himself “abandoning the quest
for gold, pearl and sandalwood for the
quest of book material”; but. as his
Bulletin contributions during those
years prove, his urge, though it may have
been subconscious then, was for writing,
and unconsciously he was absorbing his
book material even when consciously he
quested other things. It is characteristic
of Idriess to represent his career as of
no importance, and accidental, anyway.
C.M.
Literature
and
Experience
John Mase-
field’s recent ad-
mission that he
has never ridden
anything but a
bicycle when fol-
lowing hounds
and that he wrote his famous hunting
poem “Reynard the Fox” that way
brings him into line with other modern
authors of repute. Thornton Wilder con-
founded the critics who hati seen his sen-
sitive appreciation of South America
shown in The Bridge of San Luis Rey
by the revelation that he had never been
out of the United States. A writer who
has never seen a jungle, and whose en-
counters with big game have been in
zoos or in the books of travellers, has
created one of the most famous charac-
ters of the century. This is Edgar Rice
Burroughs, author of 40 works, who
began writing his Tarzan books on hotel
stationery when he was an officer in the
United States Army. Burroughs made his
first trip abroad recently— to the tangled
forests of Honolulu.
If these things were new in our history
they would not be without significance.
But they continue a tradition which is
possibly as old as tale-telling itself, and
which certainly is as old as Shakspeare.
Our greatest dramatist had never travelled
“save in map or card” ; he had no know-
ledge of Denmark or Greece or Egypt,
and was not even aware that Bohemia
had no sea coast. Voltaire did not hesi-
tate to send Candide to Paraguay, of
which he knew next to nothing, and Flau-
bert set out on a voyage to Carthage
with little to guide him —the Bible, a few
scant notes in learned volumes, his own
surmises from poking about the place
when scarcely one stone remained upon
another. In England the modern trend
was plainly pointed by Disraeli when he
set about the conquest of London. “Your
son must know a great; deal about
dukes,” said an admirer. To which Dis-
raeli’s father replied with Johnsonian
bluntness: “I doubt if my son has even
seen a duke.”
One could multiply these instances,
from Defoe, with his “lies so like truth,”
to Joan Lowell, of Child of the Deep.
Mankind has always loved the rich and
strange, as Shakspeare knew when he
wrote of “the anthropophagi and the
men whose heads do grow beneath their
shoulders,” as Defoe knew when he
created Robinson Crusoe and Swift knew
when Ire wrote of Gulliver. More, man-
kind has always looked to the story-
teller to give it heroes, credible and in-
credible ; and with the intrusion of actu-
ality into these tales it has applied stricter
standards of acceptance, so that if, as
Shaw has pointed out, a dramatist of
to-day were to give the equivalent of
Macbeth’s “Before my body I cast my
warlike shield” (“Forth from its pouch
I draw my deadly pistol” was the version
suggested by G. 8.5.) the audience would
shriek with laughter.
The present-day pressure has all been
in the direction of making the artist con-
form to the standards of a better-fed,
faster-travelling, more nervous but not
noticeably more imaginative people. Ihe
first lest that has been applied to ever>
work of art of the last 30 years is that o-
credibility. The novel, the film, the pic-
ture, must be acceptable in the terms oi
the experience of the critic who
it; and, since there are few people whos-‘
sympathies extend all the way from
James Joyce to Charles Dickens, it ha--
followed that someone has suffered in
the appraisement. In one way this new
standard of judgment has done a great
deal of harm. It has proved so severe
on those works which would not stand
the test that it has deterred competent
authors from attempting to enlarge their
scope of expression. Even in his chosen
field the author makes few attempts to
roam ; if he makes a success with a story
of farm life in Devon he continues to
write stories of farm life in Devon.
If these writers were of considerable
calibre this attitude might have its
merits. A Hardy can find all he wants
outside his door ; he can illuminate all
humanity by revealing portion of it. But
the test of genius is the variety as well as
the virility of its products, and this con-
stant reference to experience is cramping
in the extreme. One of the most adven-
turous of modern men of talent has been
Sinclair Lewis in his pre-Nobel Prize
phase. His novel Martin Arrows/nith, in
grasp of the essential problem of the
scientist in a world which values science
by results, in general execution and color
is a tour de force. Yet doctors with
whom I have discussed the book have in-
variably revealed themselves more im-
pressed with the brilliance of his painting
of the days of training, of the cadavers
on which the students work and the hum-
drum incidents in medical daily life. No
wonder it takes a Sinclair Lewis, a man
of exceptional combative temperament,
to enter the field of medicine while not a
doctor. And even a Sinclair Lewis may
have needed the accident of a father who
had a medical practice in the country.
What modern literature possesses is
greater technical facility than has ever
existed before. What it lacks is imagina-
tion and the courage to adventure.
QUENTIN POPE.
The New Irish
Writers
At Step h e n
Gwynn's London
flat I met James
Stephens. I had
wanted to sec
some of these
men who had given Ireland her twentieth-
century literature, and Stephens was the
first to come my way. This quaint, bald,
wispy miniature of a man sat curled in
a sofa while the sherry-bibbers circulated
about him. His wife (who spent her early
girlhood in Australia) exhibited her man
well. She told me that his casual talk
was even better than his writing.
Stephens now spends his life in London
and Paris,' and I soon learned why he
had put Dublin behind him.
“Literature is finished in Ireland for
at least fifteen years,” he said. “The
country is too troubled now with eco-
nomics and industry. It’ll be fifteen
years before they have time to be poor
and happy again.”
“Does De Valera care much for the
writing people?” I asked.
“In his leisure moments he may."
replied Stephens, “but economics have
got him. He is a mystic, but, what his
special line of mysticism is I have not
troubled to find out.”
The truth is that Stephens was mis-
leading me, not deliberately, perhaps, but
to find a square-off for himself. Mac-
millans had told me they could not per-
suade him to write, and a friend of his
had said he was happy to sit still.
“Seumas was a tramp when he was
(Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — Always.
“The Senior 'Store
While
l Live l ’
IT Grow*
Anthony Horderns’
TWENTY DAYS GENUINE REDUCTIONS
j
SPECIAL OFFER!
£B/8 1; £9/9/-, £lO/10/-
tailored - to-measure
SUITS
126'.
FINEST ENGLISH SUITINGS
This most unusual offer of English Suit-
ings enables us to tailor you a high-price
hand-tailored Suit at much below regular
values. The suitings are remarkable for
their quality, for their designs and for their
pleasing colour effects. Skilful cutters will
cut your Suit to your individual measure-
ments. It will be tailored on the open-
coat tailoring principle, with hand-drawn
collar, in our own workrooms under expert
supervision. Best quality linings only will
be used.
Prices . .£B/8/-, £9/9/- and £lO/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
PATTERNS SENT ON REQUEST
# Tailoring—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway
N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
. 126/-
stations in
FAMOUS “TREE” BRAND SHOES
REDUCED!
f
42/- SUPER HAND-
CRAFT SHOES
Distinctive Brogue
Shoe of imported
leathers. Select
37/6
French Calf, Tan or Black,
Scotch Zebu, Brown or
Black, and Brown Zug.
Aquatite with genuine
welted soles. Also smart
Bespoke Whole Golosh
model with wide welts,
stitched heels; full and half
sizes. Both styles are water-
proof. Price, pair . . 427-
Sale Price, pair .... 37/6
# Men’s Footwear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations
in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
■ ■ . I
SPLENDID BARGAIN FOR SHOOTERS
/9W-
£l4/10/- 20-GAUGE ENGLISH HAMMERLESS GUN
20-gauge English Hammerless Gun. 30in. special steel
barrels, left full choke, right modified Anson-Deeley,
£9/10-
cross-bolt action, auto safety. Made by Fred Williams. Price .. £l4/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £9/10/-
• Guns—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
FAMOUS FOR
LOW PRICES
a
Oo
3AVS P UB MON Ana
10/6 “HORDURA”
PYJAMAS
Buy several pairs of
“Hordura” (Regd.)
Pyjamas at this price
9/6
and be prepared for the cold
wintry nights. Made from soft
cosy striped Flannelette in a
full-fitting style. Small, Medium
and Outsizes.
Price, suit 10/6
Sale Price, suit 9/6
TO^
96
10/6 UNDERWEAR
A well-known make of
cosy underwear,
genuinely reduced! I.
7/6
and R. Morley’s reliable make
in soft medium weight. All-
Wool Shirts with short sleeves.
Underpants to ankle.
Price, per garment 10/6
Sale Price 7/6
10/6 “HORDURA”
GOLF SHIRTS
“Hordura” (Regd.)
Golf Shirts are
Anthony Horderns’
9/6
own make and are guaran-
teed to give satisfaction.
Strong British Broadcloth with
V-cased fronts, double cuffs and
two matching collars. Stripes
and checks of Grey, Blue, Fawn.
Sizes to 19-inch neck.
Price, each 10/6
Sale Price, each 9/6
2/11 “HORDURA”
HALF HOSE
3uy cosy “Hordura”
(Regd.) Fancy Cash-
mere Half Hose at
2/6
these greatly-reduced prices!
Full-fitting, splendid wearing
hose in a range of new designs
and colourings. Sizes 1 0 to I 1 \
inches.
Price, pair , 2/11
Sale Price, pair 2/6
12 to 13 inches. Price, pr., 3/6.
Sale Price, pair 2/11
© Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to
all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN § SONS Ltd., SYDNEY
'Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


111,
111
Mill
mu
A SUNSHINE CRUISE TO THE WARM north
Full particulars and pamphlets from A.U.S.N., Ltd., Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd., Howard Smith, Ltd., McLLwraith McEacham, Ltd., at aJI ports.
*l5
l\ H
BY SEA TO CAIRNS
THE exhilaration of a trip to Cairns thrills even the most hardened
travellers. Halcyon days truly describes a cruise aboard one of the
Interstate liners to Australia’s Wonderland.
WHILST gripped in the mantle of Winter the call to Tropical Queensland
rings a clarion note. The wonders of the Barrier Reef and Cairns,
the home of Warmth, Color and Beauty.
VISIT . . . MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND,
BARRON FALLS AND THE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
Book your Passage by ORUNGAL, MANOORA, ORMISTON, CANBERRA, KANIMBLA.
young,” said one, “so he’s pretty good at
sucking his thumbs.”
What has happened is that the guard
has been changed in Irish literature. A
new gang is in command now, and,
although Yeats is still honored as the
great one, what he and the old school
stood for has gone. A.E. left Dublin to
become an agricultural adviser to Frank-
lin Roosevelt’s Administration, but he
returned to England to die. Yeats is
the solitary prophet of the old order still
to walk among the ghosts in Merrion-
square.
Free State literature is now in the
hands of Frank O’Connor, F. R. Higgins,
Austin Clarke, Sean O’Faolain and a
few younger ones whom they are nour-
ishing. In the theatre —once so vigorous—
the only remarkable plays are coming
from Denis Johnston, a young Dublin
barrister, and Tessa Deevy, who has
been deaf all her days. Lennox Robinson
and the rest agree that her play “Tem-
poral Power” is the best home-grown
one the Abbey has had in years.
Although O’Connor and Higgins, both
in their thirties, are the present literary
chieftains, their views on the future of
the literature they are leading do not
coincide. I found O’Connor in the
librarian’s room at the Carnegie Library,
Ballsbridge. As a youth he had seen the
rough side of the troubled times, that ex-
perience being used as material for The
Guests of the Nation, a volume of
stories not so far behind the Civil War
tales of Ambrose Bierce in quality.
He maintains that there are faults in
the dialect writing of Synge and Lady
Gregory. It might take a good Irish ear
to detect them, but the occasional falsity
was there. The best-balanced Irish
speech, he says, is to be found in the
work of Somerville and Ross.
“But the old movement is finished,”
he said. “We are at the beginning of a
renaissance founded on nationalism. It
is going to be realistic, for we need no
more of the fanciful stuff. What we’ve
got to fight hardest now is the Irish lan-
guage. It would be suicidal for the coun-
try to adopt Irish to the exclusion of
English, but there are many who would
be glad if we did.”
O’Connor thinks that a good novel
could be written about the Irish in Aus-
tralia or Maoriland. “You would need
to have a thorough look round Ireland
first to get the other side of the picture,”
he said, “and, of course, the thing could
be done even better in America. So
far, Jim Tully in Shanty Irish is the only
writer who has attempted anything
like it.”
Higgins, the chief poet of the new
movement, is to be found in a printing
works where he edits a trade motor
journal. It is not surprising that he and
O’Connor should hold divergent views
concerning literature, for constitutionally
and temperamentally they are poles
apart. O’Connor is fall, thin and
solemn ; Higgins is short, stout, some-
what merry, and to see him walking with
his wide-brimmed black hat in College
Green or down O’Connell-street makes
one feel that he has a sense of bardic
importance. O’Connor, on the other
hand, is grim and unaffected.
“There’s been enough of this realism,”
says Higgins, “and there’s got' to be a
return to the old condition of things in
our writing. But we don’t need to
follow Yeats. He, being Anglo-Irish, got
caught in mist and mythology. He mixed
with those Irish people who can tell you
just what you want to know. If an
Irishman thinks you are interested in
fairies he’ll soon tell you about all the
fairies he has seen.
“Poetry is pretty thin in the Free State
just now,” he went on. He has no time
for the latest developments in English
poetry. “They’re a lot of sissy poets.
They win their reputations in drawing-
rooms, call you ‘darling’ and expect you
to be impressed. That sort of thing is a
sure sign of decaying English culture.”
These men, of course, have a political
background even though there is not
much political color in their writing.
The writers will talk a little of poli-
tical things, but they are not passionately
interested in them. A few years ago
they may have been, but all they want to
do now is to get on with the job of
giving Ireland a new literature and to
encourage young men to qualify for
admission to the Irish Academy of
Letters. Still they respect the past, as
was shown by the affecting eloquence of
O’Connor’s oration at A.E.’s funeral.
They acknowledge the masters, but do
not wish to follow them.
IAN DONNELLY.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
The Tumult and the Shouting George Slocombe
The Son of Marietta ■ Johan Fabricius
The Cattle King lon L. Idriess
FOR engaging reading, crowded with
personalities, incidents, events and
changing scenes, it is hard just now to
better such books as George Slocornbe’s
The Tumult and the Shouting (Heine-
mann ; 155.). There is a fair stack of
these books, recently put together, to pick
from. They have virtually taken the
place of the ordinary globe-trot travel
writing, and have many advantages over
it There is hardly one of them that’s
not worth looking into, and Slocombe’s
is among the best of them. They are the
memoirs, reminiscences, descriptive eye-
witness accounts of Europe’s semi-public
diplomacy of the last 17 years, written
by English and American journalists—
Duranty, Tuohy, Farson, Gunther and
others—who have been in attendance at
the diplomatic circus as foreign corre-
spondents ; trained and privileged ob-
servers, detached onlookers in the tur-
moil but not of it, rubbing shoulders with
the great figures of all countries, and-hav-
ing their own, sometimes hectic, private
life to throw in as lively coloring. For
an account of the European scene as a
whole, Gunther’s Inside Europe (R.P.
4/3/’36) is possibly the best so far
written ; but Slocombe’s, also covering a
pretty wide scene, and the most vital
events in foreign affairs over the past 20
years, has special qualities that make it
every bit as interesting. Few of the
whole stack, for instance, has anything in
effective descriptiveness to compare with
Slocombe’s account of the dawn guillo-
tining of Gorguloff, the Russian assassin
of the French President Doumergue.
A vivid piece of objective writing, it
touches such high levels that it recalls
the manner of Hemingway’s Death in the
Afternoon. And, though the most in-
tensely dramatic in effect, it is oply one
of a dozen or more fine flashes of writ-
ing, among them such things as the bril-
liant touch, in the account of Snowden’s
Pyrrhic financial victory at The Hague
Conference in 1929, of representing
Snowden’s grim plea to the Belgian Pre-
mier Jaspar in the original Yorkshire:
“Eh, Mister Jaspar, soommun oop all yer
remaanin’ strength, an’ go an’ see yer
frien’s agaan. Only thirteen per cent,
separates us now, an’ Aa know you can
find that.” It makes even the foreign
affairs diplomacy of these times human
and real. Lloyd George, Briand, Hitler,
Mussolini and pretty well all the other
political lights of the period come under
Slocombe’s scrutiny, and are as tellingly
depicted, and there is an interesting leav-
ening of the literary and artistic, includ-
ing Anatole France in a now-topical
prophetic outburst on the Versailles
Treaty:
The idea of making a three-cornered peace
and imposing it on the vanquished enemy
is a blunder which will turn Europe into a
desert No peace will have been more
disastrous to our own country... .The •
most comic of all the delegates is Wilson.
He knows nothing of Europe or its his-
tory, and he comes here to weigh the
rights of nations in a chemist’s balance.
... .The Treaty of Versailles bristles with
contradictions. It will not ensure peace.
New wars will certainly spring from it. I
am too old to invite you to compare our
ideas 10 years from now. In 10 years’
time I shall be dead, but if yqu remember
me then you will see that 1 was not mis-
taken.
Slocombe’s field includes India, as well
as most' of the European countries. His
book takes special character from his
Socialist outlook; London “Daily
Herald” is the paper he has chiefly repre-
sented.
Some have compared The Son of
Marietta: Johan Fabricius (Gollancz ;
Angus and Robertson; 125.), with
Anthony Adverse, but it is no Anthony.
There is, in fact, little resemblance ex-
cept that it is a past-period romance, and
an extravagantly long one. There is
none of the tremendous accumulation
of material, none of the vast sweep of
scene which warrants the length of Allen’s
great novel. A good deal of the length
of Marietta is merely the result of a pro-
fuse fluency in words; something like
half the four or five hundred thousand
or so of words have only vague rela-
tionship with the narrative. Still, they
are smooth-running words, and from
them emerges a picturesque and effective
pageantry of eighteenth-century Italy,
opening with the tavern, stage, convent
and bishop’s-house life of provincial
Todi, and moving to Venice, where more
stage life and a violent death or two en-
liven matters. For about a third of the
way Marietta* a waif left at a Todi
tavern by touring theatricals, holds the
novel’s stage, and holds it very well, too,
with her tavern upbringing, a term in a
convent, then in the bishop’s house,
finally producing an illicit son, whose
criminal and amorous affairs fill out the
rest of the tale, Marietta fading com-
pletely out of the narrative. It all leaves
a curious impression that the author set
out to write a rather different story from
the one he produced ; as if he had been
taken in charge by his own torrent of
words and carried to ends that must
have surprised himself. Characters are
varied and interesting, and the novel,
despite its really inordinate length, is
worth reading for their sake, for the
graceful depiction of the times and for
the brilliantly projected scenes that
startle up from the wordiness every few
hundred or so pages.
lon L. Idriess’s The Cattle King (re-
viewed on page 2) is a capital biography
of Kidman and a rattling good account
of Australia’s development during Kid-
man’s time.
Salka Valka: Hallador Laxness (Allen
and Unwin ; Bs. 6d.). Place, Iceland ;
people, mostly fishing primitives ; story,
flat as a flounder. Irony, mostly at the
expense of conventionalised religion, is its
strongest quality, and its representation
of the crude life it deals in is doubtless
authentic enough.
The Eldest Miss Grimmett: Florence
A. Kilpatrick (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). - An un-
convincing tale, beginning in the ’nine-
ties, about a girl who is denied all oppor-
tunity in life that an overbearing younger
brother may be given a good education,
until finally, he having become a famous
criminal lawyer, she kills him t( ? en^ u !~ e
his children’s happiness. It’s old stun,
this, of the weak character suddenly be-
coming possessed of one idea that is ruth-
lessly carried out, and it rarely rings true.
In this instance there were less drastic
remedies.
Petar Gigic: G. L. Jennings (Unicorn
Press ; 7s. 6d.). Spy stuff set in Austria
somewhere about 1850, the hero a Slav
working for the liberation of his race.
There is no hint of any organised move-
ment, and Petar is concerned chiefly with
a private grudge. The Austrian Secret
Police —“admittedly the most efficient m
the world” —fail ingloriously ; their chiei
is murdered without anyone so much as
knowing it, and the members come and
go, working for both sides, and for them-
selves, quite unsuspected of treachery.
There are two girls —a dancer spy, care-
less of her morals, and a lion-tamer.
Cricket in Firelight: Richard Binns
(Selwyn and Blount; Bs. 6d. net). With
his long friend Jerry as listening partner
Mr. Binns goes to look at cricket
matches, from pure village to Test, or
sits yarning of them and of great games
and great play that have grown into the
legend of cricket. Result, a friendly,
quietly entertaining volume of cricket
reminiscences further bearing out
curious fact that pretty well everybody
who writes about cricket writes well.
Casting about for the “finest cricket
match anybody had seen anywhere, the
author inclines towards dividing choice
between the first game of the Test series
at Sydney in November, 1894, and the
last game of the same series at Mel-
bourne four months later.
Michael and His Angels : Lewis Gibbs
(Dent; 7s. 6d.). The author does his child-
life study uncommonly well. He does
not idealise boyhood, but he prefers its
best qualities, and certainly he makes
more enjoyable reading than those who
distort all boyhood into a caricature of
criminology in embryo. In this novel he
stays with the boy longer than on other
occasions—through childhood, adoles-
ence and youth, with step-parent compli-
cations and war before the lad finds his
feet. Slight, but graceful and sincere
work.
Penguin Books (Bodley Head). A
better series than this for readers in the
bush could hardly have been devised.
The books are paper-backs, and at 9d. a
volume (Australian price) cost less than
most magazines, so a lot of them can
be had for very little, and what happens
to them after reading doesn’t matter
much. Also, they are light to carry about.
Latest additions include My Man Jeeves:
P. G. Wodehouse; Odd Craft: W. W.
Jacobs ; Naval Occasions : Bartimeus;
Doctor Serocold: Helen Ashton ; The
Autobiography of Margot Asquith (two
vols.); The Owls’ House: Crosby Gar-
stin ; Hangman’s House : Donn Byrne ;
Our Mr. Wren : Sinclair Lewis ; Esther
Waters: George Moore. Not one of
them that is not better reading than nine
books out of ten in the weekly deluge.
Roarin’ Lead: William Colt Mac-
donald (Collins; 7s. 6d.). As Wild-
Westers go, tiptop, with “Tucson” Smith,
“Lullaby” Joslin and “Stony“ Brooke —
bright lads of previous stories by the
author —appearing as owners of a ranch,
and enthusiastically shooting out a bunch
of cattle rustlers.
No Lovelier Spring: Lida Larrimore
(Blackie; 7s. 6d.). The old, old story of
the schoolgirl daughter of a famous
actress who falls in love with the man
her mother is going to marry. Beauti-
fully romantic, but long—very long.
The Future of Morals: C. E. M. Joad
(Kegan Paul; ss. 3d.). This study, some
time unobtainable in its original form, is
now more attractively turned out in
larger print. It is, of course, a jolly bit
of argufying by a clear thinker.


UVaWo/A
piaup
(in eu
SSBBS:
feSUa it
1
m
i
(L iutinces
. ifstomfiiuj
ftr
llctcCtCr it
con
4 s “ Vt
*"***"’*'
*£!&&’
\w»\ »i»"
This new tuning method is but one of many
outstanding features in a completely new
range of Radiolas, with types for all city and country re-
quirements. . . Year by year, Radiola has been the
symbol of Australian radio progress and the new and best
in developments of proved value, yet never before have
broadcast receivers been released which have lifted radio
reception so high above previous standards. . . . These
new Radiolas have every conceivable advantage you
would desire—super sensitivity—richer tone—easier and
more accurate tuning—durable Radiola quality down to
the smallest screw—and cabinets that are outstandingly
beautiful and delightfully different. . . . The
association of such outstanding advances, with
a price range of from 15 guineas for electric
(Australian Reception) models, and from 19
guineas for battery operated and World
Range models, establishes a new conception
of value in Radio. Test the new Radiola yourself and be
amazed that a receiver so much better can be produced
at so moderate a price. Your nearest
Radiola Distributor will gladly arrange a
demonstration.
n
THE FISK
A
3
1
HANOFJtCTOREO AND VVWO GUARANTEED BY
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’S I A ) LTD.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
*****
m
~Ao****o**---..
sill
nil
m
Z^j
• X. "■
\ Lj
Wm.
An Idea of Portion of One of the Vast Storage Cellars.
ome


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2931.
April 15, 1936.
ANTHONY ADVERSE THE AVENGER.
“Although events in Africa and Europe have made a wreck of his foreign policy, Mr. Anthony Eden, the fashionplate Minister, is still talking ‘sanctions.’ ”
“Boadicea, what? Oh yes—I’m bringing your case before ah Committay of Thirteen at Genevah.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
TWO AUSTRALIANS.
In 1870 a 13-year-old boy, clearing out from home
with five shillings in his pocket, rode a one-eyed
horse north and east from Adelaide into the South
Australian bush, making for beyond the Barrier
Range, where his big brother worked on a cattle
station. Drovers he fell in with took his nag in
jocular spirit, sold it and spent the 10s. on drink.
Thereupon the lad swore off the Demon for life —
possibly the strangest reason for rejecting liquor ever
heard of.
Later, on more incredible grounds, the lad pledged
himself against using bad language ; neither did he
smoke nor chew pituri, and his domestic life with
the Scotch lass he married was exemplary as George,
the Fifth’s. This astonishing paragon, a bushman
who neither drank nor smoked nor swore —in fact, a
miracle —collected sixpences and threepences with an
industry that excited the good-humored ridicule of
fellow-bushmen, added these small coins, with a won-
derful tenner got for riding a winner at a bush race
meeting, to his small weekly earnings as a stockman,
and in time out of this hoard bought a bullock. He
sold it at good profit.
Dealing in increasing numbers of stock, driving
a bullock-waggon for a while —he did not swear even
then —building a butcher’s shop out of bush boughs
in Cobar, swapping some bullocks for an original
fourteenth Broken Hill share (he sold it for £l5O,
though, kept, it alone would have made him a mil-
lionaire), sharing with his brothers in coaching ser-
vices, then taking a half-share in a station, he went
on saving. His savings he put into his outback enter-
prises, until eventually he owned or had a controlling
interest in more than 100 stations, covering 123,000
square miles of Australia. In three years—l 927-30—
he could lose without going bung 120,000 head of
cattle, 100,000 sheep, 6000 horses and hundreds of
camels (in all, representing about £1,500,000). Dying
a few years, later, he was still the winner in the fight
he had carried on all his life in developing outback
Australia.
That is a very rough outline of the story of Sidney
Kidman, as told by another not uninteresting Aus-
tralian, lon L. Idriess, writer of pars, for the “Abori-
ginalities” pages before he took to writing books.
Idriess mentions in his biography of the Cattle King
that as a lad he himself worked in Broken Hill
mines. He could tell a great deal more —as much,
at any rate, as any other living Australian pen-wielder
—of his own hard struggle towards literary success.
His battle in Sydney alone could make a story equal
in interest to Kidman’s. No Australian writer of any
time has a tougher story of struggle. Besides, he has
roughed it in the wildest parts of Australia, chasing
pearl, gold and sandalwood; and with little help
from anybody, and by reason wholly of the innate
urge to do something out of his own self, he is now
one of the extraordinarily few successful writers in
the country.
These are two plain men, Kidman and his
biographer ; and in this combining of them there is
a strong corrective to certain corrosive elements that
seem just now to be biting into the national character.
Nobody would accuse Idriess of being personally self-
assertive ; but, as with Kidman, there is strong self-
assertiveness in what he has managed to do ; and in
that there is a direct corrective to the too-common
defeatist state of mind.
Our quiet bushmen, like Idriess, are rightly
prized in personal relationships ; but non-assertiveness
as a national spirit is somewhat different. A self-effac-
ing nation has always been a lost nation. Self-effacing
people are ideal subjects for rule by political upstarts
whose whole statesmanship is to get their people’s
nose into the mud and keep it there. A people in
that state can take any rotten deal that is dished out
to it. It can lumber in dumb bewilderment under a
heavier taxation than any other people in the world
is asked to carry. Without protest it can see that
taxation used in the most shameless fashion, not for
the true purpose of taxation —the wise conduct of a
country’s affairs and development—but for purely
political purposes ; for handing largesse to this section
and that; for financing an exodus of members of
the favored party abroad ; for swelling the numbers
and payrolls of departmental staffmen, until almost
every taxpayer is supporting an expensive pet one of
his own ; for helping this Government and that Gov-
ernment to consolidate its position by judicious poli-
tical bribery —for any purpose that can be devised
to keep a people semi-impoverished, insecure, and,
therefore, servile.
As another example of this impoverishment of
the national spirit, only a people reduced by such
political jobbery to servility could see once bright
and vital cities, Sydney and Melbourne, turned into
sprawling tombs at night, until they are entirely
different places from what they were quarter of a
century ago, their life dulled beyond recognition by
“temporary” laws that were first of all war-precautions
measures, and are now dully suffered without a voice
against them. Only a people lost in a defeatist miasma
of spirit could suffer that sort of thing. Mr. Lyons,
the national leader, is another striking example, bam-
boozling an allegedly independent people into blindly
following a blind “policy” which consists wholly in
blindly following every shift in the shiftiest foreign
policy that Britain ever had.
There is one corrective to that sort of national
abandonment of spirit. It is to look about and see
that there are things worth while in the land, after
all. It is a steadier to reflect that one of these worth-
while things, the developing achievement of Kidman,
would be impossible if Kidman were starting to-day.
Not the bush—he was equal to that—nor naturally-
changed economic conditions would stop him. Taxa-
tion would.
That is not a mere figure of argument. Towards
the end Kidman must have been paying at least
seven taxes, plus Commonwealth land tax, on his
income from South Australia, Queensland and West-
ralia alone. It could be worked out to a decimal that,
with imposts thus multiplied, not 30 Kidmans could
do what one Kidman did. Their effort would be
stultified and crippled at its beginnings. The mulch-
ings of the taxgatherers would not leave the margin
for risk without which Kidman would have been
stopped not less than half a dozen times in his career.
It is a fearful thing for those who are interested in
the making of this country to think about.
But though repetition is now rendered impossible
by these unnatural means, the achievement itself stands
—like Idriess’s —among those things that we may get
spirit again from contemplating. Here, in considering
and emulating the worth while, not in the glum accept-
ance of a few life-deadening politicians, is a real lead
for Australians. Hereabouts hovers the vision splen-
did that Kidman and Idriess and many other Aus-
tralians have seen with Paterson, and that Australia
needs to see.
BLACK BOXERS.
Blackburn, M.H.R., is probably right in saying that
“Australians cannot be cured of their predilection for
American cars, films and tobacco by trade discrimina-
tion against the U.S.A.” ; but there are imports that
could be prohibited effectually, and with advantage
to the Commonwealth. Negro boxers.
As a rule, colored bruisers are imported because
they are cheap. They are brought out under contract,
and, if profitable to their employers, are kept in Aus-
tralia for long periods in infraction of the spirit of
the immigration restriction laws, if not of the letter.
Sometimes they are not only cheap but nasty.
Johnson achieved the greatest notoriety. On one of
his visits he was accompanied by a woman who looked
white, though she was said to have black blood. Much
has been written of Johnson’s bout with Burns, but
the full story has never been told. The man who could
have told it all is dead.
It would not be a nice story. Nothing about
Johnson was nice. Back in the U.S.A., he or one
of his intimates gave it out that he was about to
marry a white Australian girl, mentioning her by
name. The lie was published in Australia, and the
lady had to go to law to scotch it. Johnson actually
married a white American girl, and was promptly
ostracised by white Americans. In the end he bolted
to avoid arrest on a white-slave charge. He crawled
back years later, a beaten and ageing pug, to take
what was coming to him.
Johnson was followed by McVea (with McVea
for a time was a woman from France) and Langford.
Post-war years brought “Sunny Jim” Williams, “Tiger”
Payne and crates of brown men from the Philippines,
then, of course, American possessions. At least one
of the brown men took back to Manila a white wife
and a small addition to the problem of the half-caste.
Unsavory reports of Williams forced the laggard
immigration authorities to send him his marching
orders. Payne was also told to get out of the country
by a certain day, though for different reasons.
Langford was the best and gamest and most like-
able of all the colored boxers. Yet, like many of his
brudders, he had a cruel streak in him and did not
escape the charge of being “a dirty fighter.” After
one of his battles with McVea, a newspaper man and
a friend visited the latter in his dressing-room. “Why
did you give in?” they asked the giant negro, whose
face was unmarked (he had an ugly mug and a lovely
voice, the contrast being almost startling). The reply
was “Because he hit me below the belt. He always
does it!” McVea died two or three years later of a
disease which might have been started by foul
punches.
Williams was the dirtiest of “dirty fighters.”
Matched in Sydney against a white youth, scarcely out
of the novice class, he gave the lad a fearful hiding,
and, when the portly referee stepped in between them
to stop it, darted round and felled his opponent with
a blow delivered with all his force. The boy was
unconscious for many minutes, and was never any
good again. On another occasion the coon —who “lay
down” to Payne—claimed that he had gone easy with
another white boy, many pounds lighter. Even so,
the paleface was a wreck of his former fighting self
when he next shaped up.
Generally speaking, the black boxer is tougher,
rougher, more the primitive animal, than the white.
Certainly he has less respect for the rules, and is
more apt to let fly with illegal and dangerous blows,
such as “the rabbit-killer,” and to butt in the close
work—and his head is as hard as an iron maul or
mace. Sometimes tflp butting is evidently deliberate.
In the case of Leo Kelly, it is probably unconscious.
Nevertheless, Kelly, although resembling Langford in
more respects than in his power of punch, has been
a repeated offender.
In his first mill against the Italian Merlo Preciso,
Kelly, according to the “Labor Daily” reporter,
was “twice cautioned for using his head.”
The second head bump opened the Italian’s right
eye. Blood trickled down his cheek.
That was in the fifth round, and at the end of
the round Preciso was bleeding so badly that the
fight was stopped. The “L.D.” reporter again:
I examined the wound in the defeated boxer’s dressing-
room. I have never seen a deeper cut. It went down
as deep as the bone and necessitated six stitches. A
bump obviously caused the injury, and yet the boxer
who had been hurt had to pay the penalty of defeat.
In Palmer v. Kelly, said “S. M. Herald”:
Palmer held a distinct points lead until the eighth
term, when Kelly’s head connected with Palmer’s during
an exchange at close quarters. A deep cut under the
right eye was inflicted, and thereafter the flow of blood
from the wound hampered Palmer.
The “Labor Daily” version:
A head bump opened Palmer’s left eye, and a
second later blood flowed from a cut under his
right eye.
Another negro had been engaged in one of the preli-
minary bouts. Of this “S. M. Herald” said:
De Gans inflicted a gash with his head upon
Nicholls’s forehead in the sixth round, and the American
was cautioned in the eighth and ninth for similar
offences.
In the preceding week still another negro, Jones,
also boxing a white opponent at the Sydney Stadium,
was “cautioned for illegal punching” (“S. M. Herald”)
—“for using his head,” the “Labor Daily” had it.
They are always “cautioned,” never disqualified.
If the Lyons Government is serious about restrict-
ing imports from the U.S.A. it will begin with these
blacks. There should be no extension of the term
for which any of them was admitted, nor any further
admissions. The privileges granted to coons and their
bosses are inconsistent with the White Australia policy.
THE BREADWINNERS.
Census returns show that the male breadwinner earning
more than £5 a week is (or was in 1933) among Aus-
tralia’s “first 13.2 p.c.” of income-earners. That is,
assuming that census returns were correctly filled in.
The figures are astonishing. Males getting between
£3 and £5 a week aggregated 21 p.c. of the bread-
winners. During the year ended June 30, 1933, 24.3
p.c. received some income, but less than £1 a week.
This section includes the unemployed, since reduced
substantially. Reckoning in the jobless and pensioners,
two-thirds of the males classified as breadwinners had
no incomes or received less than £3 a week.
Among female breadwinners, 40.3 p.c. received
less than £1 a week; 24.6 p.c., between £1 and £2;
13.4 p.c., between £2 and £3 ; 5.4 p.c., between £3 and
£4 ; 2.3 p.c., between £4 and £5 ; 3.1 p.c., £5 and over.
In 1933 there were 438,499 registered motor-cars
(exclusive of commercial vehicles), owned by 13.9
p.c. of the breadwinning population, of which 13.2
p.c. are on £5 a week and upwards. Of course, some
people who don’t own cars could afford them, and
some who own them can’t.
Even assuming that there has been understate-
ment rather than overstatement of earnings subject
to a plethora of taxes, the mass of people with such
small incomes—two-thirds of the males with under £3
a week —represents a problem for the economist, busi-
nessman and statesman (if any).
The position, it should be said, has improved
since 1933. During the second quarter of that year
trade-union unemployment was 25.7 p.c. At the end
of 1935 it was 13.7 p.c. And the greater buying power
of these people has been demonstrated in the im-
proved trading conditions of recent months. On the
other side of the picture these conditions have led to
unnecessary imports, and banks’ credit resources have
been strained. All the same, there has been real
recovery.
Increasing the buying power of citizens with
modest incomes is a problem to which time and
thought may be profitably given. Merely by
increasing the basic wage the object will not be
achieved. Rather will it be defeated, since higher
nominal figures are often nothing more than inflation.
Inflation inevitably breeds slump and unemployment.
But such people could use more food and clothing,
and they could do with more instruction, particularly
in the form of libraries, and more recreation, particu-
larly in the form of travel.
The small-wage earner spends most of what he
earns. His earnings in the aggregate are, therefore,
a great factor in total spending power and business
activity.
One of the chief dangers when a feeling of finan-
cial well-being spreads through a community is
advance of prices irrespective of quality or cost Costs
soon follow prices, and better wages quickly become
a sham because of lessened buying power. So far
prices of necessaries have not run up much, but in
respect of some items this is because they are too
high already ; because of unwise political action (and
inaction), milk, bread, beer, rail and tram fares are
too dear. For a continuance pf recovery these things
need to be watched.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“A Fool Hath Said.”
That pert young gentleman Mr. Beverley Nichols has
chosen a peculiarly appropriate title for the volume
in which, with carefully-worded indiscretion, he an-
nounces his views on a variety of subjects, including
White Australia. He describes the effort as a “thumb-
nail sketch of applied Christianity,” and handsomely
admits that he himself is a believer.
Mr. Beverley Nichols decides, as did earnest-
minded individuals in the days of his grandparents,
that “enormous areas” (in Australia), “uninhabitable
by white men, were evidently created by God for the
use of the colored races” ; but, like his predecessors in
this line of thought, he omits to explain why an omni-
potent Creator left them empty for so long. He sug-
gests that certain areas of Tropical Australia should
be presented to Japan, forgetting, or not knowing, that
even more enormous spaces in Asia and Africa are
still unoccupied by the colored races for whose bene-
fit and residence they were “evidently created.”
Professor J. W. Gregory, who understood the
situation in a degree to which Mr. Beverley Nichols
will certainly never attain, described the White Aus-
tralia policy as both sound and statesmanlike, because
Australia is the one continent that offers any con-
siderable increase in white population. And Tropical
Australia is the one portion of Australia which pro-
gresses in population faster than any other part of
the continent. Moreover, its population is, to an
overwhelming extent, Australian-born.
Mr. Beverley Nichols may pass in England as
a Very Bright Young Man, but he is hopelessly grand-
fatherly in his outlook on White Australia.
7 ♦
The Grand Championship.
If prizes were awarded to Governments for nerve, the
grand championship would go to the Labor Ministry
at Perth.
In important respects it is the luckiest of all the
seven Governments. Its State has just received a fat
wool cheque, and produces three-fourths of the gold
won in Australia.
Of recent years it is the only State which has
drawn substantial supplies of British capital, and it
is now getting more from America for the exploita-
tion of a Murchison show, “with ore-bodies only
less extensive than those of Wiluna.”
Many of its wheat-farmers have had a pretty
bad time, but the much-abused Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has taken over the whole burden of looking
after them, a thing which State Governments once
had to do themselves. This year they are to get from
the Commonwealth a sum of £393,000, “about 3s. 3d.
per acre of wheat sown in 1935”; and, says the obliging
Prime Minister, it “can be distributed by any method
which the State Government considers desirable.”
There are also a Commonwealth fertiliser subsidy,
Commonwealth road grants, bounties on apples, pears,
oranges and mandarins, interest and sinking-fund
allowances and, above all, an annual “special” grant.
For the part of fairy godmother an understudy
is provided, a Commonwealth Grants Commission.
In its last report the commission mentioned that
Westralian State tax collections for the year 1933-34
amounted to £1,835,800, whereas payments made by
the Commonwealth to or for Westralia (exclusive of
old-age and military pensions and the like) amounted
to £2,290,000. The special grant alone reached
£600,000.
The commission accommodatingly recommended
that the special grant should be raised in 1935-36
to £BOO,OOO. This was done, and the extra
£200,000 came in handy for the restoration of “Crown
employees’ ” pay on the pre-depression scale, it being
a general-election year. Incidentally, the beneficiary
Government won the election.
Was the beneficiary Government satisfied? No.
For the 1936-37 year it has coolly asked for a special
grant of £1,500,000. What is more, it “cordially sup-
ported” a proposal for a Federal grant of £2,000,000
and an annual subsidy of £lOO,OOO for technical educa-
tion, on which it spends less than £20,000 a year. Its
share of the £2,000,000 was to have been £164,000.
The Prime Minister said it really couldn’t be
done. Possibly he will relent before his own election
comes on. Meantime the Perth Government is surely
entitled to a brass medal for the Grand Champion
Cadger.
♦-
Maoriland’s State-controlled Bank.
One of the fruits of Sir Otto Niemeyer’s visit to Aus-
tralasia was the conversion of the Maoriland Govern-
ment to the view that the Dominion’s banking system
would be improved by the addition of a central insti-
tution, a “bank for banks,” on the lines of the Old
Lady of Threadneedle-street and with a monopoly
of the note issue.
Following the Bank of England pattern, some
pains were taken to make the Maoriland Reserve Bank
a colorable imitation of a privately-owned corpora-
tion. Its capital of half a million was provided by
shareholders, but the Government put in a million
as a reserve fund, and took the right to appoint five
of the nine directors, including the governor and
deputy-governor.
With the idea of safeguarding the new bank
from the appearance of being too palpably a Govern-
mental financial engine, there • were written into its
charter prohibitions against underwriting public loans
or purchasing Government securities in excess of
three times the value of the bank’s capital and reserves.
The Maoriland Government had, and still has, a
controlling interest in the Bank of New Zealand, so
doubtless felt it need not lean too heavily on the second
string to its bow.
The pretence of private ownership and freedom
from political control has not lasted long. The new
Labor Administration was wafted into office on the
wings of a lengthy string of promises, among them
that the Government should “control the credit and
currency of the Dominion,” whatever that may mean,
so in the first weeks of their first session the new
brooms have swept away the window-dressing pro-
visions of the Reserve Bank Act.
Shareholders get their money back and fade out
of the picture. The bank, now entirely controlled by
Government appointees, may underwrite public loans,
and may, in case of what the Government may con-
sider an emergency, buy Government securities with-
out limit. Also it may grant overdraft accommoda-
tion “to the Government or other authority for the
purpose of financing the purchase and marketing of
New Zealand produce.”
The bank, in short, has now been made, as far
as the law draughtsmen can do the job, “an instru-
ment to give effect to the monetary policy of the
Government,” as explained by Finance Minister Nash
when introducing the bill.
Thus far the Government has not disclosed its
monetary policy. Before the election its Ministers
talked bravely of abolishing the exchange disparity
with sterling. They have since discovered that that
would seriously handicap the fulfilment of another
promise—to pay a guaranteed profitable price for the
main farm products. To a Government oppressed by
such financial problems complete ownership of a
“bank for banks” must convey a very comfortable
feeling.
Necessary—and Neglected.
Australia in general regards fish as a luxury-food,
and commercial fishing as a mug’s game. Other
countries don’t.
Last year California packed 2,470,000 cases of
tuna. Factory prices run up to £2O per ton for
yellow-fin, such as Zane Grey caught near Montague
Island (incidentally, Mr. Grey is coming back next
year to catch more), and a 40-day cruise will bring
in as much as 200 tons per boat. Yellow-fin are
taken by loosing live sardines, carried in tanks on the
big tuna-clippers, among a shoal. As they rush them
the vessel drifts down and the fishermen get to work
with pole “jigs” armed with barbless, baitless hooks,
precisely as barracouta are taken in Tasmania. Blue-
fin tuna are captured in purse seine nets, up to half
a mile or more long and 150 feet deep, shot from
launches round a feeding shoal. The net is drawn
close underneath by a footrope running in rings.
We may soon get some excellent demonstrations
of the new methods. The Japanese tuna industry
packs thousands of tons yearly and works much
further out than our coasts. Japanese are already
catching food-fish for the Singapore market off North
Westralia, And the cables tell us that “Japanese pearl-
ing boats in the Arafura Sea, which hitherto num-
bered 36, are to be doubled in the coming season”—
our politicians were taught in school that “Australia
is bounded on the north by the Arafura Sea,” but they
contrive to forget it —also that the first experimental
Japanese whaling expedition returned from the
Antarctic with 7000 tons of oil. But Canberra legis-
lators are having another holiday, so it is improbable
that these things will sink in.
*
There Was a Premiers’ Plan.
Since the Bank of N. S. Wales raised its interest rates
by an all-round 10s., to be followed by the other
banks, there has been argument about the abandon-
ment or otherwise of the Premiers’ Plan. That
agreement embraced five principal measures —a
cut of 20 p.c. in adjustable Government expendi-
ture, a reduction of 22\ p.c. in Government interest,
the raising of additional taxation (taxation “must
make a maximum contribution”), a reduction of bank
interest and relief in respect of private mortgages.
Cuts in Parliamentary and civil servants’ salaries,
as.well as pensions, have been partially restored,
yield on Government loans, down to an average of
about 3 p.c. at one stage, is close to 4 p.c. again, and
there has been a little relief in taxation—almost wholly
in respect of “special” taxes, levied, as* regards the
States, for unemployed-relief. These taxes haven’t
been ’reduced in anything like proportion to the
reabsorption of unemployed by private industries, or
in proportion to “Crown” employees’ salary restora-
tions. Mortgage interest, particularly in N. S. Wales,
has kept around low-level rates.
If the banks have departed from the Plan they
can plead precedents. Appreciable relief from “emer-
gency” taxation is not one of them.
—■
The Government and the Children.
Sittings at Canberra of the conference called to
consider measures for taking better care of crippled
children directed attention to the apathy of the Gov-
ernment.
Though Lord Nuffield’s gift of £50,000 was made
to the Commonwealth no Minister thought it neces-
sary to honor the conference with his presence, and
there was no sign from the Government that it was
interested. It received the Nuffield cash and then
washed its hands of the matter.
Admittedly the Commonwealth Health Depart-
ment seems prepared to give bushels of advice. It
weighed in with an elaborate memorandum, which
some delegates possibly found impressive:
Discovery of the crippled child should be part of
the work of the societies. Orthopaedic treatment....
should be done by the usual hospital systems.
[Touching] convalescent treatment... .the lack of
institutions is deplored, but Governments (i.e., State
Governments) and voluntary subscribers “should do
their share.” [Concerning] oversight of the children,
societies and hospitals should be brought to an agree-
ment. Education should be provided by the State.
Vocational training should be seen to by the crippled
children’s societies.
And so on. Premier Ogilvie, of Tasmania, has
expressed irritation at the Commonwealth’s allotting
to Tasmania £5BOO out of the Nuffield fund for a
new convalescent home without providing any money
for maintenance after the first five years. He has a
right to feel irritated.
The Chief Justice’s wife and other delegates at
Canberra stressed the necessity (1) for searching out
crippled children before they become unbeatable ; (2)
for education and vocational training to give these
little ones an interest and a hold on life; (3) for
bringing crippled children from country to city for
treatment. The Commonwealth has the most excel-
lent ideas on these questions, but action is restricted
to pious passages in long-winded memoranda. And
fine words butter no parsnips.
♦
Holding Their Own.
It now seems from information collected by census
officials concerning full-blood aboriginals, in contact
with the white population or living close to settle-
ments —the facts are published for the first time —
that the race is unlikely to follow the lost Tasmanians
into oblivion.
Particulars of ages were supplied in relation to
11,087 males and 8899 females; 37.8 per cent, were
under 21. This percentage corresponds almost exactly
with the proportion of white Australians who are
minors. The average age of full-blood male abori-
gines was 30 years, compared with an average age of
30.5 years for white Australians of both sexes. Thus
the same ratio of each race is well within the repro-
ductive age.
Relatively, the native birth-rate is almost the same
as that of the white race. There are 43 children under
the age of five for every hundred full-blood aborigine
females, compared with 36.9 per hundred white
women.
Of 19,986 aborigines about whom information
relating to age was obtained, 9.3 per cent, were under
five years, compared with 8.6 white children who had
not then reached the age of five; 9.9 per cent, were
between five and nine years (9.5 per cent, in the case
of the white race); 7.6 per cent, were aged 10 to 14
(9.5 per cent.); and 8.7 per cent, aged 15 to 19 (9.3
per cent.).
Thus the census disclosed a remarkable similarity
between the age-group constitution of the aboriginal
and white populations, indicating that the native race,
though small in numbers, is no more likely to become
extinct than the white race.
An excess of males over females —2370 —is
recorded. It is a result of the fearful hardship of
the lives led by females under tribal conditions ; but
the wastage of female life is being made good. Among
aborigines born between 1873 and 1&83, males exceed
females by 33 per cent. Among those born between
1863 and 1873 the excess of males is 43 per cent.
But of those born since 1883 the number of
females is only 18 per cent. less. Plainly the lives of
female aborigines born after about 1880 were far less
hazardous than those of their unfortunate sisters of
countless past generations.
This checking of the waste of female native
life corresponds generally with the establishment of
organisations for the protection of aboriginals. Per-
haps it was not civilisation that wiped out the Tas-
manians but rather the lack of it —or the lack of
civilised methods of dealing with them.
. ♦ —-
Clipping Usury’s Talons.
What can be done about usury? The question has
cropped up in all societies and all ages. Ancients
grappled with it; the Hebrew lawgivers tried com-
plete prohibition. But usury persists, because it fills a
social need. Nobody can say with certainty that the evils
attending its extirpation would not be worse than those
that follow its practice.
A bill aimed at clipping the talons of the money-
lender is to be brought before the Parliament of
N. S. Wales. Most would-be reformers have an idea
that limitation of interest rates will do the trick.
It won’t. In the first place, the circumstances of
moneylenders’ loans are so diverse that it would be
absurd to put all risks under one minimum ; in the
second, moneylenders have from the beginnings of
history been remarkably clever in masking the price
they charge for their money.
There are at present in the Statute Books of all
Australian States remedies prescribed for a borrower
who considers himself unjustly or oppressively treated.
In N. S. Wales, for instance, he can bring a suit at
equity and get a Judge to review the transaction. One
reason why he seldom does so is that litigation in
equity is as costly as it is chancy, and the money-
lender’s client is usually impecunious. Furthermore,
it is almost impossible to establish what rate of interest
has been charged.
The borrower signs a p.n. covering amount of
loan and first year’s interest, and possibly a bill of
sale over his assets. The rate of interest is not men-
tioned. The lender at any subsequent stage may be
called upon to say how much actual cash he advanced,
but he needn’t confess. He flourishes the p.n. His
legal position is strong, and his financial strength
compared with that of the borrower makes it stronger.
In a typical N. S. Wales case in recent years a
debtor had a suspicion that he was not being given
advantage of interest-reduction legislation. His pro-
test was met by an application to the Moratorium
Court for authority to seize his furniture. He paid
up arrears, and many weeks later his lawyer was able
to secure a substantial refund. He was fortunate in
being able to afford legal assistance and to make a
“without prejudice” settlement. Few borrowers in
recent hard times have been so lucky.
Probably the best way to discourage the worst forms
of usury would be to require transactions of registered
moneylenders to be secured, by agreement rather than
p.n. (or in addition to p.n.). The agreement, a copy
of which should be given to the borrower, should set
forth the true amount advanced and the rate of interest
charged.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: A city firm notorious for its
parsimony works its staff for a couple
of nights each week, thus saving the em-
ployment of an extra hand. Seniors were
paid 2s. 6d. tea money, juniors and girls
2s. The distinction struck the secre-
tary as inequitable, and he
approached the head of the
firm to point out that the girls
and juniors probably needed
as much food as those on the
higher grade. “So they do,
man ; so they do,” said the
head heartily. “In future
make everybody’s tea money-
two shillings!”
* * t-
“Brix”: It was current talk
in our boarding-house that
Mr. Rentless, in addition to
being hard up, was having
trouble with his missus, who
had taken another mate. She
had called to interview him
on several occasions during
the week, and been assured
that he was out. Finally she
arrived one evening at 11
p.m., only to be told by an
irate landlady, dragged from
bed to answer the insistent
rings, that Mr. Rentless had
retired. “That’ll do me,” said
the visitor, sweeping past and
ascending the stairs ; “I know
which is his room.” A pro-
testing landlady caught up
with the intruder just as the
latter had tossed a small parcel in
the direction of the blinking Mr.
T rntless with the remark: “You obsti-
nate old fool, refusing to see me all this
time. I just wanted to do you a good
turn. You were always decent to me,
#nd now I’ve got plenty I don’t want to
see you starve.” Then she departed. We
never actually heard what was in the
parcel, but as Mr. Rentless paid in full
and bought a new pair of boots in which
to take on a canvassing job we had our
suspicions.
* * * *
“D Coy.”: Am just returned from mili-
tary camp—voluntary system. In a dis-
trict rich in primary produce I expected
to find milk and fruit in abundance;
but soldiers, it seems, are expected to
subsist on stew, porridge, pastry, pud-
dings and jam. Milk and fruit were not
obtainable even at the canteen.
* * * *
“Kellick”: Shore service in depot
comes strange to naval ratings who have
completed several years at sea. I recall
one chap whose depot time coincided
with the hay-making season. When
ordered to go out to the boundary pad-
dock and stook hay he looked bewildered.
“What!” roared the bos’n, “three good-
conduct badges and don’t know how to
stook hay! What’s the navy coming
to?”
❖ * ❖ *
“Ex-Aus.”: Wandering around the re-
built city of Ypres last summer I came
across a small one-man show museum
of war relics. Among them was an
A.I.F. hat badge, with rising sun and
all. Neatly worked across this was a
scroll with “The Yarra Borderers.” I
was assured by the old Belgian that that
was the official name of the regiment,
and that it had a splendid record. Who
are or were the “Yarra Borderers” any-
way?
“Ras Beri”: Revisiting “Wipers,” I
was interested to see some peasant using
the old concrete dugouts built into the
Allied bank of the canal—to shelter his
cows! On the far rise grain fields sur-
rounded battered pillboxes. An enormous
tourist trade was being done by slot
machines. For a few francs anyone
might view a select and comprehensive
range of close-ups of mangled and muti-
lated 1914-18 combatants, both friend
and foe. Folders of similar ghoulish
snaps were on sale everywhere.
* *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has decided on an In-
stitute of Medical Research. It will have
a home in the Adelaide Hospital grounds,
and bring into a still closer alliance the
research-work, and probably the museum-
specimen collections, of the practical
hospital and the scientific medical school
of the university. Half of the prelimi-
nary £30,000 is to be found by the State
Government, subsidising three £5OOO
gifts by Barr Smith, Norman Darling
and Miss Edith, daughter of Langdon
Bonython.
“Walkabout”: English fictionists are
frequently blamed for their ignorance of
Flowers, lady? Make you smell nice!”
Australian geography, but they aren’t the
only offenders. In a recent “S. M.
Herald” news story (“copyright—all rights
reserved”), the two leading figures “met at
Ayr, which is a small coastal port not
far from Cairns in Queensland.” The
“port,” 10 miles from the sea, lies 60
miles south of Townsville and the best
part of 200 miles from Cairns.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Civil servants who get into
the clutches of professional money-
lenders could often obtain just the same
help from a trading bank at one-fifth of
the interest charges. A friend of mine
in Government employ had to find £lOO
to save a relative from imminent trouble.
He owned property worth at least five
times that amount, but no moneylender
would accommodate him at less than 33
p.c. In despair, he interviewed the credit
manager of a trading bank. Advance
approved ; interest 6 p.c.—the then rul-
ing rate for overdrafts.
* * * - *
“Keg.”: It is rather ingenious of
“Selma” (B. 1/4/’36) to blame multi-
tudinous parcels for woman’s forgetful-
ness, but how does she explain this? Says
one of the smartest ticket examiners in
the N.S.W. tramway service: “Eighty
per cent, of those I catch forgetting to
pay are janes”!
❖ * * :|:
“Selma”: The “Mutiny on the Bounty”
film is the third I have seen. The first,
a silent version, was shown many years
ago in Auckland. As soon as the island
scenes began to appear, we were struck
by the extraordinary likeness the alleged
Tahitians bore to the Maoris, and when
the unmistakable outlines of Mount
Ngongotaha and Mokoia Island swept
past yells of delight came from people
who recognised Rotorua landmarks.
Bligh made his historic journey
with the faithful few across Lake
Rotorua, the Bounty wrecked herself
realistically on Mokoia, and the Maoris
lived riotous days with the mutineers in
the neighborhood made famous by the
love-story of Hinemoa and Tutanekai.
Maoriland should be a handy country for
the makers of fillums when the industry
gets a good start there, what with pic-
turesque natives, immense lakes that can
be used for ocean scenes, geysers, alpine
wonders and most of the other natural
effects necessary in the movie world.
“Tarry Rope”: When Bligh, of the
“Mutiny on the Bounty” picture, paused
between ordering floggings to say prayers,
his ship became a church—in a sort of
a way. But the latest ocean mammoth,
the Queen Mary, is provided with a
church “in the best traditions of English
ecclesiastical art” —a synagogue, too.
If the provision is extended to all other
denominations, the addict of church
services will be able to go to sea and
have two Sabbaths a week by throwing
in his lot with, say, the Seventh Day
Adventists and the Methodists. In fact,
when luck favors him by his vessel
crossing the 180th parallel at the right
time of the week he will be able to enjoy
three Sabbaths.
* * * *
“A.A.R.”: Ross and Keith Smith
didn’t get to Brisbane in 1919 (B.
25/3/’36), but in February, 1920. They
left Hounslow on November 12, 1919,
and arrived at Darwin on December 10,
but were held up subsequently by engine
trouble. Their Vickers-Vimy (now pre-
served at Canberra) was the G-EAOU —
christened by the crew “God ’elp all of
us.” Help subsequently arrived to the
extent of £lO,OOO and a couple of knight-
boods.
tu* , *, *
/i /u ‘jj e Ade ! aide P°bce have
made the odd acquisition of 100 lances,
discarded by the British War Office now
mat its cavalry is turning to machinery,
Ihey are intended just to make a show
at ceremonies, but will probably also
revive the old-time tent-pegging at sports
meetings.
- * . * * *
M. de Pans”: It would seem to ail
fair-mmded folk that a certain Zarany
has a good case in the action for dam-
ages he has recently filed against the
Polish Government. He was the official
executioner at Warsaw, and was under
contract to receive £2 for every subject
whom he treated. For some mysterious
reason the Government this year granted
a New Year’s amnesty for all crimes
committed in 1935. Several of these were
of a type which must have brought those
committing them eventually into M.
Zarany’s hands, and he complains of
having suffered heavy financial loss in
addition to distress at the prospect of
losing an honorable and respected means
of earning a living.
* * * *
“North Terrace”; Adelaide seems* to
have struck a sensible plan for a
memorial to George V. The suggestion
is to renovate an old Government build-
ing at the rear of the Public Library and
convert it into a Museum of Natural
History. The name doesn’t sound very
exciting, but apparently it is intended to
build up a record of Australian indus-
trial, commercial and scientific progress.
A statue or fountain may be set up near
the entrance.
* * * *
“Brum”: Neville Chamberlain is
widely, almost generally, tipped as the
next Prime Minister of Britain should
Baldwin decide to retire. Which recalls
that both his father, Joseph, and his
half-brother, Austen, had bad luck in
missing the distinction. Joseph would
most certainly have succeeded Gladstone
in the leadership of the Liberal party had
he not broken with the G.O.M. over the
Home Rule question of 50 years ago.
That altered all his subsequent history.
Austen had his chance of becoming
leader of the Unionist party when Bal-
four retired in 1911. There were three
candidates for the vacant place —and the
subsequent blue riband of politics —but
at the last moment Austen and Walter
Long (later Lord Long) retired in favor
of Bonar Law. Now Neville looks like
doing what both his father and his
brother failed to do. If he pulls it off it
will be a great day for Birmingham.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Talking of Australian accent,
the pet joke of the moment with some
English weeklies is to rake up all the
old Cockney jests and attribute them to
us. Thus, in hospital: “He has come
here only to die.” “No, yesterdye.” And,
at a picnic: “Here’s the kike I mide,
and Aunty Mibel’s got the gripes.” The
strangest of them is of a visiting lady
who in a big store asked for the wine
department. But this is asserted to be
just how we pronounce “weighing.” And
so she was politely put on the scales.
* X * #
“Ex-Aus.” (Richmond, Va., U.S.A.):
Re your paragraph “From Old Vir-
ginia” (B. 29 /1 / ’36) concerning the very
generous and beautiful resolution passed
by the Legislature of Virginia
praying for the late King’s
health, it may interest you to
know that this resolution was
passed under the English
flag. Fifty miles from the
State capital is the old town
of Williamsburg, the first
seat of government in the
American colonies. During
recent years the old House of
Delegates at Williamsburg
has been restored to its pre-
revolutionary condition, com-
plete with the royal arms of
Britain, and the Union Jack
flying permanently over the
building. The flag, however,
is the Jack of colonial times,
i.e., without the cross of St.
Patrick, which was not added
until 1801. The Legislature
of Virginia, though normally
meeting at Richmond, spends
the last day of the session in
the old House of Delegates at
Williamsburg. It was here that the reso-
lution referred to was passed.
* * * *
“Spindrift”: Mention of the putting
out of commission of the Sydney
Harbor pilot steamer Captain Cook and
the transference of the figurehead to the
new vessel calls to mind a story told ly
late sculptor Nelson Illingworth. The
figurehead, a bronze bust of Captain
Cook, was one of Illingworth’s first
commissions in Australia. Some time
after it had been in use, a visitor to
the ship noticed that the bust had become
a gleaming snow-white. He discovered
later that one of the crew, perturbed by
the streaky green covering the effigy, had
painted it white “to look more ship-
shape.” Much labor and more cussing
went to the removal of the paint, but it
took a long time to restore to the figure-
head its beautiful green patina.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Bob Semple, Minister of
Public Works, recently visited Queens-
town school and, after the usual admoni-
tions regarding diligence and its rewards,
asked all who would like to be Prime
Minister of Maoriland to hold up their
hands. Not a hand went up. Which
recalls that some years ago a Minister
was visiting schools in a district where
M.L.’s national anthem has a strong hold.
A teacher assured him that local patriot-
ism was fostered. “So I observe,” was the
reply, “for I notice that whenever I have
been introduced to the scholars in this
district they rise as one and sing
‘God Defend New Zealand.’ ”
%
“Adelaide”: Sensible S.A. seems to
have made a quiet start with a much-
discussed reform. A man charged with
exposure in the parklands was released
on a bond for good behavior, his coun-
sel having pleaded that ordinary punish-
ment would in this case be futile, and
given an assurance that the patient would
“undergo medical treatment.”
THE ART OF SONG.
‘Sing me a song!” dull poets demand,
Invoking their Muse or terrestrial lady,
While reclining like pashas in Lotus land,
Or with idle lute in a woodland shady.
Avaunt! you lazy musicians; get work!
Have done with your orders to Clio or
Roxy,
As your duties you self-indulgently shirk.
Is all your singing mere music by proxy?
Loaf, if you must, on the asphodel,
With your senses drugged and your voices
mute;
You are only Poesy’s dressing and shell,
So doff you the laurel and pass me the lute.
From things that embarrass one let me have
freedom—
Work .and necessity, taxes and debt —
And your Muses and such I’ll not follow but
lead ’em
Up slopes of Parnassus when properly
Give me the theme, the tune and the measure
And the little brown jug that stands on the
shelf,
The loaf, the old bough and the face that I
treasure,
And the song? Stand by! I’ll sing it myself.
S.A.
BILL O’C.


“Balaclava”: The “Star” set suddenly
in Melbourne on Thursday. Issued two
years ago by the “Argus” proprietary, it
gave the “Herald” less worry than any
previous opposition to that most pros-
perous and powerful of evening sheets,
whose rivals always flicker out. In-
directly, it was the cause of far more
perturbation in the “Argus” office itself,
one result being the resignation of the
editor, Roy Curthoys, now in the U.S.A.
Yet there were clever men on the “Star”
staff, and the paper incorporated features
which are supposed to thrill the readers
of “tabloids,” among them a beauty com-
petition. The winner, “Miss Victoria,”
was sent to Hollywood, of which she
formed an unfavorable opinion, and her
progress was gravely recorded in the
“Argus,” past editors of which, had they
been ordered to conduct or report beauty
competitions, would have preferred to
cut their throats. The stoppage spells
tragedy to scores of good fellows and
their families, but departed “Argus”
worthies will now cease to turn over in
their graves.
* * * *
“D.A.”: N. S. Wales had a surplus
of rainfall during the summer, with low
though muggy temperatures. Melbourne,
“Sorry. I meant PINTS!”
with which humorists always associate
goloshes, overcoats and woollens, swel-
tered up to the end of March under
drought conditions and 90deg. tempera-
tures. Bushfires swept through timber in
the Dandenongs and elsewhere. In the
Speck, New Norfolk, usually “a bit of
old England,” was a sun-bleached and
dusty township a month ago, while on
the “wet West Coast” the Mt. Lyell
mine was embarrassed by lack of water.
General rains came; Mt. Lyell shares
immediately popped up a couple of shil-
lings ; in Melbourne, “because of the
breaking of the hot, dry spell,” shares in
Australian Knitting Mills, Holeproof
Hosiery and other knitting concerns rose
strongly. It isn’t only the farmer who
watches the heavens these days.
* * * *
“W.M.G.”: “Huer” (B. l/4/’36)
needn’t go back to his remote ancestors
for the popularity
of spying on fish
on the Cornish
coast. I can assure
him that as recently
as 1912 the posi-
tion of “huer” was
very much sought
after by local
fishermen. The
“huer” would leave
his village in the
pilchard season
early in the morn-
ing for some high
spot on the cliffs
and all day scan
the waters between
the Lizard Head
and the Manacle
Rocks for a “sight
of color.” This was
signalled to the vil-
lage by setting fire
to the gorse bushes.
When the fire was
seen everyone who
was able, including
the women and
children, would
down tools and off
to the “seine”
boats, calling out
“Hubba, hubba!”
to denote that a
catch was in the
offing. Rapid
action invariably
followed. I have, as a lad on the Cornish
coast, actually taken part in this now (I
believe) extinct industry. It was always
good fun, even if it sometimes ended in
what was called fisherman’s luck —“wet
stern, no fish.”
* * * *
“W.J.E.”: More in sorrow than in
anger the worthy lay-preacher who
is Australia’s chief film censor (“re-
creations : civics, church work”)
reports that British pictures are again
closer to the knuckle than Hollywood
productions:
British films are going back to the un-
enviable position of 1931, when the per-
centage of such films finally rejected was
about twice as great as those of Ameri-
can origin. English companies are still
under the impression that no film is worth
production unless it drags in a shower-
bath or bath-tub scene.
One of two “typical examples” he names
was “When Knights Were Bold.” The
spoken play was a delightful thing, and
if the producing co. made the film ver-
sion smutty the Rev. O’Reilly only gave
it its deserts. There is nothing so dull
as lubricity when there is no occasion
for it.
“Jurien”: Mrs. Daisy Bates, who may
claim to be the leading living authority
on the Australian abo., writes of having
come across, in the far hinterland, natives
of lighter hue than the ordinary, with
typically Dutch features. She suggests that
they may be remote descendants of two
Abrolhos Island mutineers marooned by
Pelsart near Champion Bay in 1629. It
seems unlikely; the chances of a single
pair of white men surviving long enough
to stamp their images on dusky progeny
couldn’t have amounted to much in
those parts,* three centuries ago. Any-
how there are records of many Dutch
sailors haying been wrecked on the
western coast long after the Abrolhos
business. To take only one instance, in
1649 the Vergulde Draek was wrecked a
little further south ; seven survivors man-
aged to reach Batavia in an open boat,
“Here, get out. It's my turn to dress her”
but when they returned to look for the
68 they had left behind “to protect the
cargo and treasure” they found no trace
of them. A party of castaways of that
size, furnished with stores and weapons,
are much more likely to have introduced
a dash of Dutch into the abo. race than
the two lone criminals whom Pelsart
left behind, with no possessions beyond
their clothes, to avoid the trouble of
taking them home to be hanged.
* * * *
“Findy”: Alleged to have 15 aliases
and 46 previous convictions, a man was
charged in Adelaide with posing as a
doctor and having insufficient lawful
means of support. A stethoscope and a
medical textbook were his chief claims
to genuineness, and he claimed to be a
fully-qualified med. prac., and to be a
victim of persecution by the Medical
Board. The Court disbelieved him;
“Three months.” This is what comes of
not keeping abreast of the times. Stetho-
scope ! If he’d produced a sphygmo-
manometer he might have left the court
without a stain on his character.
* * * *
“Hamer”: At Taihape (M.L.), when
it was the railhead of the Great Trunk
railway, I saw a poker
school which lasted for
nine days. It was a
changing mob, of
course, but at
least three of the
men who sat in when
the game started on the
pay Friday night were
still there when, on the
Sunday week, the
school was declared
closed. Places were
given up whilst the
occupants had their
meals —when they did
have them—but the
game went on, day and
night. Of course, pro-
fessional cardmen, tak-
ing the opportunity of
a spell of bad weather,
were the backbone of
the school; but the
game seemed fair
enough—l sat in for a couple of hours
myself. Can anyone instance a long-
distance card game to beat this?
* * * *
“Yetne”: At a North Coast (N.S.W.I
fishing resort three men waited a week
for the right tide and light. At last get-
ting both, they picked up a limpet in
the form of a stray visitor. After cover-
ing the bottom of the boat with bags
to muffle the noise, and wrapping the
rowlocks with rags, they set out. Arriv-
ing at the bay with its dark cloud-fringe
of mangroves, they rowed stealthily
round the feeding ground. Both kel-
licks slithered noiselessly overboard
and, drawn taut between the two, the
boat became a silent hive of industry.
Then, the gear rigged, the sinkerless lines
were quietly sent into the depths. Silent,
they sat and waited. The slightest whis-
per from the visitor was greeted by a
fierce s-sh-h! At long last their vigil
was rewarded ; the phosphorescent flash
materialised into a splendid bream. As
it was noiselessly hauled in the visitor
breathed an intense sigh of relief, took a
walnut from his pocket, placed it on the
seat of the boat and banged it a vigorous
whack. There was only one frightened-
looking passenger on the service car next
morning, and no one saw him off.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: The cause of certain
mysterious air disasters may be eluci-
dated and their recurrence prevented by
R.A.F. medical research work on the rela-
tionship between fatigue and indirect
oxygen want, such as that caused by
absorption of carbon monoxide from
engine fumes. Stub exhausts have been
incriminated ; also exhaust heating in en-
closed cockpits. The effect is not one of
acute CO poisoning, but mental and
physical fatigue, with markedly slowed
reactions. Under certain conditions, with
particularly susceptible subjects, drowsi-
ness, or even insensibility, may occur.
Certain individuals, otherwise normal,
display much lower resistance to CO
effects than the average. Repeated small
doses of CO at daily intervals also lower
resistance. The effects are at once over-
come by the use of oxygen apparatus.
# * * *
“Janitor”: Norman Lindsay’s “Temple
of Janus” cartoon (B. 8/4/’36) set me
thinking of an Oxford professor, a mas-
sive classical scholar, who strove to im-
press on us that the two-headed god never
had a temple. “It was the Gate of
Janus,” he insisted, and when somebody
objected that a gate must be the entrance
to some enclosure he wouldn’t have it
that this one was. I never felt sufficiently
interested to consult any other authorities
on the subject until now, but the Encyc.
Brit, certainly gives some support to the
professor. It says: “The temple of
Janus, which was in reality only an arch
or gateway, facing east and west, stood
near the forum.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The Bulletin souvenir
symposium, now closed, found me visit-
ing a homestead in the Young (N.S.W.)
district. The boss referred to the s.s.
mentioned, and said “I’ve got one that
puts ’em all in the shade. It’s worth
over £7000.” It was two sheets of type-
written paper, framed and hung on the
wall in his den —a copy of the Judge’s
summing-up in Scott v. the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment. Scott was awarded the £7OOO
plus heavy costs for having been deprived
of his job as chairman of the Meat Board.
IN BUCHAREST.
“Rumanians using foul language in public Will
now run the risk of being fined £4OO, with imprison-
ment up to six months. Words commonly heard in
Rumanian cafes and trains, even from the upper
classes, would shock the most emancipated Anglo-
Saxon. “■— Bucharest cable*
You can hardly feature Carol with unshak-
able convictions *
On the sanctity of all that parsons preach;
But he’s out to expurgate the wicked words and
maledictions
From his loyal subjects’ customary speech.
For the oaths and imprecations popular in
other nations,
The profanities which gangers use with zest
When some navvy must be slated, would
apparently be rated
As mild remonstrances in Bucharest.
I recall a generation when our bullockies were
reckoned
Finished masters of the words that flame or
freeze,
And the old-time London cabby ran a credit-
able second
For expansive and explosive repartees.
There were M.F.H’s., too, of the old days that
Jorrocks knew of
Who could get some pungent phrases off
the chest;
But their highest-spiced aspersions on the worst
of their aversions
Would have cut no ice at all in Bucharest.
There isn’t much to choose between the gentle
and the vulgar,
Whose expressiveness King Carol fain would
curb;
In the bandying of curse-words they can batter
out the Bulgar
And make a sorry showing of the Serb.
But the crisp remarks that sailors get from
mates or angry jailers
Loose on rowdy drunks resentful of arrest
Clearly might invite the title of a Sunday-
school recital
Compared with current talk in Bucharest.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


p 6 01
9,1^0&
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
v
THIS
G E N E R ATIOH
THE
CORK
PP E D
GARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
It is now admitted that the inter-
national sugar conference for which Pre-
mier Foghorn Smith fared forth in
December “to give direct representation
to the sugar industry of Queensland” will
never be held. The least the sugar in-
dustry can do is to refund to the State
the travelling and hotel expenses of
Foggy and his private secretary.
There is to be another Assembly elec-
tion for East Perth. Kenneally, the “full-
time Minister for Unemployment,” has
withdrawn his application to the Court
of Disputed Returns for the disqualifi-
cation of his conqueror, E. J. Hughes,
made on the ground that the latter was
bankrupt on polling-day; and Hughes
has resigned. Apparently an amicable
arrangement, but there will be nothing
amicable about the by-election.
With a surplus of between £4,000,000
and £5,000,000 in sight, Lyons and co.
will find it difficult to resist the demand
for tax-reduction. Resistance would be
impossible but for Curtin —he says he
won’t have tax-reduction on his mind.
His party aims at complete restoration
of all pension and social-service cuts. The
estimate for invalid and old-age pensions
for the current year is £12,700,000. Cur-
tin evidently thinks the country can afford
more.
By a most impressive majority, the Vic.
Labor conference endorsed the refusal
of the party executive to have any truck
with Communists or their faked agita-
tions “against war” or their imbecile
strikes. If means immediate, perhaps
permanent, sacrifice of income from
unions with Red or Reddish bosses, but it
will engender respect for Vic. Labor,
which has not often shown such courage
and commonsense.
Though he is still a hero to the cable-
men, British Conservative newspapers
are publishing savage attacks on Anthony
Adverse Eden (“a Popinjay in Power” is
the “Saturday Review’s” contribution),
and Europe is full of stories about him.
One, probably apocryphal, is that he is ad-
dicted to staining his fingernails, just like
a flapper. “L’lntransigeant” dismisses
Anthony Adverse as an insoluble puzzle ;
but he is not that at all. Obviously he
was the Boy Who Wanted to Be a Police-
man, and, grown up, is trying to be the
world’s cop.
Mrs. Rischbieth, one of those charm-
ing ladies with lots of time and pots
of money to whom the League has
brought a new thrill, is returning from
Geneva, where she was “substitute dele-
gate to the Assembly,” by the Pacific
route, incidentally travelling in a luxury
liner flying a non-League country’s flag.
Pausing at Honolulu, the lady “assailed
the isolationists and rabid nationalists
who refuse to recognise the inevitable
trend towards the League.” Considerable
assailing would be required to make any
impression. Of isolationists alone there
are 125,000,000 in the U.S.A., 90,000,000
in Japan and 65,000,000 in Germany.
And there seem to be a few in Britain
and Italy.
To oblige editors who demanded
“united action against the common
enemy”— i.e., Labor —Country and Pro-
gressive Nationalists (called Country
Progs, for short) set up in business in
Queensland 10 or 11 years ago. They
won one State election and lost three,
and looked so likely to go on losing that
disbandment has been decided upon.
Now the non-Labor forces will organise
as Nats, (or U.A.P.) and Country-party.
Allied or not, they will probably do
better than the Country Progs. —they
could scarcely do worse.
The new N.S.W. Government railway
restaurant at Wynyard station, which
serves suburban traffic only, “contains a
grill-room capable of seating 300 people,
a buffet with accommodation for 200
and a milk bar.” Within catapult-range
of it there are about 500 grill-rooms,
buffets and milk bars, run by people who
pay rates and taxes, and rents out of
which other people pay rates and taxes.
Some of these people are sure to be put out
of business through the new adventure in
State socialism by a Government which
professes to hate it. Government railway
restaurants pay neither rates nor taxes
and charge up their losses—reckoned by
the Auditor-General at £43,300 for seven
years—to the taxpayers, including, of
course, those with whom they unfairly
compete.
N.S.W. Deputy-Premier Bruxner, who
declared the taxpayer-strangling enter-
prise at Wynyard station open for busi-
ness, asserted that Commissioner Harti-
gan “was in the same position as the
general manager of any railway com-
pany.” But nobody has ever heard of
such a g.m. increasing the pay of his
personal staff and passing the bill to the
taxpayers, or of his exposing the policy
of his board—in the case of the Bruxner
concern, anti-socialism —to public ridi-
cule.
“One of ’em’s frightened an ’ the other ain’t game."
Garden, M.H.R., was not present at
Lang Labor’s Easter Conference, but
Lang had a lot to say about “whis-
perers.” For many weeks previously his
newspaper and party executive had been
roaring at Garden, chiefly on the score
of his control of the Labor broadcasting
station, and the former pride of the
Communists had bellowed defiance and
counter-charges. A conference delegate
was snubbed when he mentioned the
shindy, and it is all Goulburn-street to an
unsold copy of Why I Fight that nothing
more will be heard of it.
Just before the House of Reps, ad-
journed for another month’s rest, Curtin
got two months’ leave of absence for
“Texas” Green, member for Kalgoorlie, on
the ground of “urgent private business.”
Green’s version of the “urgent private
business,” communicated to a London re-
porter, is that he has been “studying South
American export methods,” which have
been reported on by men with immeasur-
ably greater knowledge—for example,
Spafford, the S.A. Deputy-Director of
Agriculture. “Texas” is going on to
visit Russia and other Continental coun-
tries “to study the economic position.”
An amiable soul, but that’s not what the
people pay him £B5O a year for.
Curtin’s pledge of devotion to what
he calls ,the New Protection has set
political historians recalling how the
attempt to introduce the other New Pro-
tection failed. The idea was to impose
excise duties on Australian-made factory
goods and waive collection if both
Houses declared by resolution that the
industry concerned was carried on under
an award or under conditions certified
by the Arbitration Court to be “fair and
reasonable.” This was pronounced un-
constitutional. Thirty years have moved
on, and Blackburn, M.H.R., for one, now
believes that the High Court “definitely
overruled” itself “by later decisions,”
and that “it is competent for Parliament
to regulate both wages and prices in pro-
tected industries.”
Figures relating to Australia’s trade
with Asiatic countries show that sales
and purchases just about balance. Japan
bought £8,000,000 sterling of Australian
goods between July and December, 1935,
the Netherlands East Indies coming next
with purchases worth £674,936. Sales
to China have declined from £2,472,000
sterling in 1934-35 to £549,000 for the
first half of 1935-36 Purchases in ster-
ling values for six months were £2,679,000
from Japan, £2,365,000 from the Nether-
lands East Indies and £1,589,000 from
India.
Queensland Labor retained the Bris-
bane Assembly seat—since the last re-
distribution almost its softest snap—but
failed in the Keppel by-election, its man
being an undistinguished second in a
field of three. The transport strangula-
tion policy was not an issue in Bris-
bane, where no privately-owned “heavy
vehicles” compete with the Government
railways ; it was to some extent in
Keppel. A police magistrate, F. C. M.
Burne, nevertheless saw fit to announce
that the Brisbane poll had shown that
the public thought the Transport Act “all
right.” Even in a State long familiar
with compulsory trade-unionism in the
public departments, and with the appear-
ance of public servants at Labor confer-
ences, this was regarded as odd.
Perhaps encouraged by the remarks of
a P.M. on the alleged significance of the
Brisbane by-election, the Transport
Strangulation Department has been seiz-
ing “heavy vehicles” and tossing their
cargo on the roadside. The excuse is
that the owners haven’t paid tax, which
is generally more than their waggons
are worth. Queenslanders never imagined
that they were fated to see Government
grab people’s lorries —their sole means
of livelihood —on the King’s highway and
leave other people’s goods to be picked
up” by chance-comers; but there are
recent and abominable N.S.W. prece-
dents.
Several Queensland harbor authorities
are making a thoroughly justifiable pro-
test against exaction of sales tax on
plant and goods bought for their
construction, maintenance and develop-
ment work. Sales tax does not apply
to Brisbane harbor works, as these are
administered by a State Government de-
partment, but all other harbor authori-
ties are mulcted in this fashion, some of
them in substantial sums annually. It
seems a thoroughly Canberra-like way of
encouraging the development of the
North.
Having alienated Italy by “sanctions, ’
exasperated Germany by the Rhineland-
army proposal and the military staff talks
with France and Belgium, and infuriated
millions of Britons by all these proceed-
ings, Mr. Anthony Eden is falling out
with the French. British newspapermen
report bitter Anglo-French wrangles at
the latest Geneva palavers, and Mr.
Anthony Eden found even Bruce against
him when he proposed that the Com-
mittee of Something or Other should sit
throughout Easter in the hope that an
opportunity of saying or doing some-
thing nasty might turn up. Lyons
should ask Bruce for a frank and full
account of Eden and his fioanderings.
Even if it had to be consigned to the
archives, it would be a valuable con-
tribution to the history of the time.
The passion of Brisbane’s Labor Lord
Mayor for selling parks, of which his city
has all too few, is at last being opposed
by his own party. His proposal to dis-
pose of Teneriffe Park has been brought
before Caucus, the ultimate governing
authority for Brisbane ; and that august,
though anonymous, assembly has de-
cided against Mr. Jones. Caucus, indeed,
seems to be restive over the Government
grab at Wickham Park.
Hofmeyer, Union Minister for the In-
terior, voted against his Government’s
Native Representation Bill. A son of,
“Ons Jan”—friend of Cecil Rhodes and
founder of the Afrikander Bond —he has
inherited his father’s reputation for plain
speaking. He objects to the creation of
a native electoral roll separate from that
for whites, maintaining that it is against
the Act of Union.
In 1933, the first Ottawa year, Aus-
tralia sold £48.5 million worth of goods
to Britain ; in 1935 the figure had risen
to £54.3 million, an increase of £5.8 mil-
lion, or 12 p.c. The corresponding figures
as regards our purchases from Britain
were £21.3 million and £29.4 million, an
increase of £B.l million, or 38 p.c.
Britain re-exports a great deal of our
produce in the form of manufactured
goods; Australia consumes practically
all it imports. When we have money
to spend, by all means let the Old Coun-
try have the business if it is reasonable
to do so ; but at present we haven’t the
money, and we are still paring down
tariffs.
“0.P.H.”: There is a growing tendency
at Canberra for Ministers to become
complacent. They have forgotten the
dark days of 1930-32, and by ignoring
public opinion in various ways are tak-
ing a risk with the electorate. Labor may
be defeated again next year, but Lyons
and co. will have to watch their step. A
bad mistake might result in a debacle
like that of 1929.


* A REA.L CHi,MPIOM ,MR &£k.LE
'! A , A
AMYHOW, Mut/l WEVfc ST\UL COT THE. Rte>e>OKl.
A RUN FOR HIS MONEY.


Touring on crowded roads
® Sw ttn( f
Save up to a jugful
of petrol on an hour’s
steady running.
n
Save up to a tumbler
Of petrol on a hard
10 minutes’ climb.
GET ALL THESE SAVINGS WITH
SHELL
ENERGY CONTENT SAVES YOU
MONEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
M. F. Costello, one of the men done
to death in the Rockhampton express,
was an Innisfail businessman and one of
the best-liked men in the North. He was
a brother of Patrick Costello, discoverer
of the Emperor mine, and himself spent
several years in Fiji. Only a chain of
circumstances led to his presence on the
train that night. He had arranged to
return from a family reunion at Mary-
borough, where he was born, via Bris-
bane and the northern steamer, but
missed the morning train. He tried to
get an air passage, but the service ’plane
had left. Only then he decided to take
the express, with results that have hor-
rified Queensland—two murders and a
savage attempt at a third.
Melbourne has no busier citizen than
Colonel Harold Cohen. Solicitor,
M.L.C. and sometime Minister, he is
Colonel HAROLD COHEN, who is in
everything in Melbourne.
chairman of directors of Carlton and
United Breweries, and has been presi-
dent of the Rotary and of the Legacy
and Constitutional Clubs. Frith caught
him in a Boy Scout outfit (he’s president
of the Scouts’ Association); he wore
A.I.F. uniform throughout the war, re-
turning with the D.S.O. and C.M.G.
Under him in the 6th Brigade served
The Bulletin’s John Dailey, and to
Dailey he was always “the Colonel” —
a first-class soldier and a prince of good
fellows.
John Vicars, the elder of the brothers,
Scot's from Tillicoultry, who came to
N.S.W. in childhood and made their
money in woollen mills, left estate worth
£177,050.
A long-distance war effect has been
disabling General Leane, S.A.’s Com-
missioner of Police. He was gassed in
France, has been liable to recurring
throat trouble and has now had his
tonsils out to check it.
In the days of Ballance and Seddon
the wittiest speakers in the Maoriland
House of Reps, were W. P. Reeves,
Downie Stewart and Scobie Mackenzie.
All three had children who have become
gifted writers: Amber Reeves (novelist),
Downie Stewart (economics and finance)
and Sheila MacDonald (creator of Sally
in Rhodesia). Scobie Mackenzie’s daugh-
ter, now Mrs. S. S. Moore, of Rhodesia,
is in Wellington on a visit to her mother.
Walter Lee, thrice Premier of Tas-
mania, has resigned his position as Oppo-
sition-leader for health reasons. He has
a political career of 25 years to look
back on ; before he became a politician
he was in business as a wheelwright
near Launceston. Lee was Premier dur-
ing the difficult period of the war. He
will be missed for his shrewdness as a
politician and for his keenness in debate ;
he is the only man on his side of the
House who is a match in wordy war-
fare for Premier Ogilvie.
The Britons arranging a scientific ex-
pedition to New Guinea engaged Sydney
zoologist Jock Marshall to make a re-
connaisance before the big stunt. Mar-
shall turned up at Aitape in January,
roped in a few carriers, bought some
provisions and started north-west for
Hollandia, in little-known Dutch New
Guinea. Making exceptionally good time
along an unpleasant coastline, he selected
a base for the expedition, and then
climbed over the huge coral plateau into
Dutch territory. Here a raft was made to
cross the flooded crocodile-infested Tami
River, after which a tired little party
struggled into Hollandia. Marshall, who
holds the Sydney Uni. walking cham-
pionship, was with the Oxford Expedi-
tion to the New Hebrides and with the
American Harvard Expedition to North
Australia.
A. D. Hill served Adelaide Steamship
in all the mainland States before becom-
ing secretary of the company five years
ago. Member of a
famous cricketing
family (Clem Hill
is a cousin), he
played cricket in
his younger days
before giving it up
for golf. Nowa-
days his favorite
week-end hobby is
listening to the
zoom of ’planes
(Adelaide Airways
is his co.’s latest
offspring) en route
to and from Para-
fi e 1 d aerodrome.
The machines
maintain regular
services to Mt.
Gam bier, Mel-
bourne, Broken
Hill, Renmark,
Kangaroo Island,
Port Lincoln and
Cowell.
IjCipling married
in 1892, being then
27, the lady who is
now his widow.
She brought him a
son and a daugh-
ter. The son fell
in the war; the
daughter, now mar-
ried, is to inherit
the estate if she
survives her
mother. If the
mother predeceases
A.D. HILL, of Adelaide Steam and
Adelaide Airways.
the daughter and the latter dies child-
less, her husband, one Bambridge, is
to get one-fourth, the balance being
divisible between the Australian (now
wholly Westralian) and Canadian Fair-
bridge Farm schools. The bard left
£155,228, and to this, less death duties, is
to be added 21 years’ income from his
books, most of which are still steady
sellers.
Dead in Adelaide, W. A. Rollison,
lawyer and sportsman. Evgryone called
him “Bill.” Trained under Villeneuve
Smith, Bill had acquired much of the
K.C.’s fine fighting spirit, and was
already prominent at the Bar at 42.
Then came the end.
Tas. Treasurer Dwyer-Gray went to
Canberra to demand £BOO,OOO from the
Commonwealth through the Grants Com-
mission, and afterwards spent a few days
in Sydney to recruit his exhausted powers.
Sixty-six, and beginning to look it, he is
a real link with Irish political history.
His father, as well as being a Nationalist
M.P., was the power behind the “Free-
man’s Journal” in its great days, and the
son edited the “Freeman’s” when it
turned against Parnell. One of their
great friends was Charles Gavan Duffy,
Premier of Victoria (1871-72), father of
Frank Gavan Duffy, sometime C.J. of
the Australian High Court, and grand-
father of Charles Gavan Duffy, J., who
gave the charge to the jury in the Sode-
man case. And the elder Charles Gavan
Duffy was one of the six patriots tried
for treason with Daniel O’Connell and
imprisoned for three months—the con-
viction was then quashed on appeal.
Dead in Brisbane, at 70, Peter
Macgregor, K.C., dean of the Queens-
land Bar. Grounded at Ipswich Gram-
mar School, Peter went to Sydney Uni.,
and from there, by means of a scholar-
ship, to Balliol, Oxford. Back in Bris-
bane he was associate to Lilley and
Griffith before working up a practice,
and for a time he was acting Supreme
Court Judge in the North. Tennis kept
him fit; as a youngster he held ttie
Queensland singles title. The actress
Mary Macgregor is a daughter.
Harold Cleary, a Grafton (N.S.W.) lad
of 16, seems likely to make a name for
himself if grit and
enterprise count
for anything. A
visit to an aviator
uncle in Sydney re-
vea 1 e d to him
simultaneously the
air - activities of
Mascot aerodrome
and the fact that
his only real mis-
sion in life was
that of an air pilot.
Returning home, he
wasted no time in
dreaming over the
future or trying
to touch his family
for a loan ; instead,
he laid out the
backyard as a vege-
table garden. The
business pays his
fees for flying in-
struction at the
Clarence Aero
Club. He is the
youngest pupil
there.
N.S.W.’s long-
distance champion
witness is dead, at
close on 90 —David
Carnegie Simpson.
In the McSharry
case Simpson was
in the box for 35
days as principal
witness for the
Government rail-
ways; as engineer in charge of works,
his reports were mainly responsible for
the trouble. Scottish-born, Simpson
retired in 1921 ; for 11 years previously
he had been a member of the Super-
annuation Board.
As one of Australia’s leading psycholo-
gists, Tasman Lovell no doubt turned a
tolerant eye on the flapper-press reporter
who discovered that he and Premier
Stevens, of N.S.W., shared the same
exclusive hairdresser. He is a dapper man,
both mentally and physically, a sound lec-
turer and an excellent linguist. Lovell
TASMAN LOVELL, psychologist.
came from Kempsey, N.S.W. North Coast,
took an arts degree at Sydne/ with first-
class honors, and the University medal
for philosophy and a first in French. A
Woolley travelling scholarship sent him
to Jena, which he left with a Ph.D. He
immediately returned to Australia, and
gradually rose to be Sydney’s Professor
of Psychology in 1929. He has written
a considerable amount of light psycho-
logical literature, is editor of the “Aus-
tralasian Journal of Psychology and
Philosophy,” and is accounted by his
friends an all-round good fellow. He
volunteered for active service early in
the war, but was turned down and
shunted into the censorship department,
in which he was a useful man.
While they were opening the Royal
Show at Moore Park, Sydney, E. E.
Collins, M.L.C., a familiar figure year
after year on the R.A.S. ground, was
dying at Manly. Collins was a wool
merchant by trade, and his life was
crowded with public service. Among
other things, he was Mayor of Wagga
for 14 years.
Fifty-three years ago a Sydney boy of
15, John McDowell, got a job in a
George-street drapery, Kelk and Al-
ford’s, moving on to M. J. Murphy’s
and then to Anthony Horderns’. John
McDowell died on Good Friday, head
of McDowell’s, Ltd., which has a staff
of 600, including three generations of
McDowells. For many years he was a
representative - bowler.
A Maorilander who has found this
side of the Tasman to his liking is W. B.
Hudson, who, as Comptroller of N.S.W.
Railway Stores, directs the purchase and
distribution of several million pounds’
worth of material annually. After serv-
ing his engineering apprenticeship 30
years ago at Auckland and graduating
to draughtsman, he decided to carve out
a career for himself in N.S.W. He did,
becoming in turn engineer, assistant
metropolitan engineer, civil engineer in
charge of electrification schemes and
later metropolitan civil engineer; and
when Garside was elevated to the assist-
ant Commissionership, Hudson became
Comptroller of Stores instead. His
nomenclatural suffixes include M.I.C.E.
(Lond.), M.lnst.C.E. (Aust.) and M.lnst.T.
He golfs at Avondale, Pymble, though
friends don’t hold that against him.


7865 E-
*
m 3
W m
x
p«
vi
ro
I •
ON
4
aj
m


The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £23,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,200,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedv,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
FOR SALE.
Mining Power Plant
at Broken Hill.
BELLISS & MORCOM VERTICAL TWO-
STAGE AIR COMPRESSOR,— Steam-driven
with steam cylinders on top. Capacity, 5000
cubic feet per minute at 190 r.p.m. In
excellent condition.
B.T.H. TURBO-ALTERNATOR AND CON-
DENSING PLANT, 1500 kw. 00 cycles. 400
volts, 3-phase, steam pressure 1651 b. This set
is in almost new condition, and can be run
at 50 cycles, 440 volts.
B.T.H. TURBO-ALTERNATOR AND CON-
DENSING PLANT,' 500 k w. 00 cycles. 460
volts, 3-phase, steam pressure 1651 b. This set
is in good order and can be run at 50 cycles.
TWO (2) BELLISS & MORCOM STEAM-
DRIVEN EXCITERS, each 50kw., 100 volts
D.C., in excellent condition.
The above plant is for sale at very low prices
as it must be removed at once.
Full particulars from—
The Superintendent,
THE ZINC CORPORATION, LIMITED,
BROKEN HILL.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR’”
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 221,041 lOp.c. = 200,000 21,041 208,007
Taxation reserves taken in, £lO,OOO .. 278,007
1926.. 211,608 lOp.c. = 200.000 11,608 289.615
Pref., Ord.,
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
£
1927.. 200,979 762 200,000 217 289,832
74 p.c.
1928.. 161,348 11,780 150,000 289,400
24 p.c.
1929.. 75,874 15,000 50,000 10,874 300,274
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
14 p.c.
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
24 p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
About half-way through the year there
was sharemarket talk of a 5 p.c. ord. div.,
but it proved beyond the co.’s immediate
earning power. The scrip crept up to
around par a month or so ago ; at the
17s. quoted last week the return is 2.9
p.c. on a 2j p.c. div. basis, or 4.4 p.c.
if 3| p.c. is distributed, which would call
for £5430 more than was visibly earned
last term.
It is mainly a holding co., with
£2,250,000 of capital to feed, the odd
quarter-million being in 6 p.c. prefs., the
rest ords. The latter include £1,550,000
of bonus scrip, mostly handed out shortly
after the co. passed over its shipping and
coal interests to subsidiaries in 1914.
The pref. money was collected in 1927
to help pay for scrip in iron and steel,
cement and blue-metal ventures, none
of which has yet brought anything into
the home. However, there will be some
revenue now from Broken Hill Prop.,
which has acquired all the shares in
Australian Iron and Steel, for Howard
Smith, following the dropping-out of
some English interests, last year increased
its holding in A. I. and S. to nearly a
third of the ords. ; it became entitled to
approximately 250,000 B.H.P. shares. It
should derive an income of about £31,250
p.a. from these on B.H.P.’s present div.
basis.
Howard Smith ords. averaged 11.5 p.c.
for the 13 years to the close of accounts
in 1927. Then the onset of slump was
preceded by a prolonged coal strike, and
for the last eight years the average dis-
tribution has been a shade over 2 p.c.
A few years ago the co.’s holdings in
its principal subsidiaries were:
Howard Last
Issued Smith’s Ord.
Capital. Holding. Div.
Australian Steamships. . £1,850,002 £1,849,990
Caledonian Coal . . 1,487,894 1,191,276* Nil
Invincible Coal.. .. 104,000 66,321 Nil
Aus. Iron and Steel .. 3,473,507 400,000 f Nil
S. Portland Cemeftt .. 850,940 368,299 Nil
Vickers Commonwealth
Steel 318,193 61,300
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 48,000 Nil
* 325,034 6 p.c. prefs. and 866,242 ords.
t Exchanged for holding in B.H. Prop., 1935.
Shipping interests, management and
agency fees, and returns from Austra-
lian Sugar are the chief sources of in-
come at present. Neither Aust. Steam-
ships nor the sugar co. now publishes
its figures.
Strike affected shipping earnings to-
wards the close of accounts, but there
is good money in the coastal trade at
present. The coal cos. don’t bring in
anything in divs.
The improvement in last year’s earn-
ings was only £10,591, making them
equal to 3.4 p.c. on ord. capital (allow-
ing for the prefs.), as against 2.9 p.c. and
1.6 p.c. in the two preceding years. But
if normal recovery in the shipping busi-
ness is allowed to continue the co.
should reap some improvement here next
term. Though the cement investment is
doing better, there are still pref. divs. to
pay olf. If income from B.H.P. is as
indicated previously, it will amount to
1.5 p.c. on ord. capital.
Shareholdings at £3,287,341 are greater
than capital and reserves combined—
this item moved up £67,053 last term.
Other capital assets increased £18,387
(to £210,863), partly owing to the erec-
tion of new Sydney premises. Hence the
co. depends a great deal on outside
finance, as this table shows:
1928. 1934. 1935.
Liquids £420,711 £155,945 £93,354
Liabilities . . . . 664,333 937,150 940,429
Excess liabilities .. £243,622 £781,205 £847,075
Most (£835,048) of the debt is owing
to subsidiary cos. Including this, the
excess of liabilities over liquids increased
by £65,870 last term.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
I eb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
41 £ £ £
1926.. 20,233 10 p.c. = 11,000 56,924 1063
1927.. 20,706 10 „ ~11,000 66,630 1097
Transferred to capital. £15,000 51,630 1097
1928.. 20,252 10 p.c. = 12,500 59,382 1026
1929.. 20,341 10 „ „ 12,500 I„ r 99 „
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO j 6 ,2 “ 3 1156
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 1,,-.-
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ] 71,756 648
Transferred to capita], £12,500. .59,256 648
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,375 l BQn 7 ,
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ] 61,890 * 4
1932.. 10,044 61 p.c. = 8,938 1 0Q „
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j 61,996 1259
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 ) ~,
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO j 61 > 86j 1710
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8.250 1„„ Q . ,
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO j 62,840 2;>11
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 r
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO 1 6u > 645
1936. . 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 fIQ 9 „ r
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J ~
Income is creeping back to former levels
—better markets for property, shares
and other investments have facilitated
the realisation of estates, and therefore
assisted the co.’s commission earnings.
Growth in expenses, especially taxation,
is the big item at present keeping profits
down.
This type of concern, once established,
is generally looked on as a sound invest-
ment, both as regards earning capacity
and capital security. And until slump
came this was generally so. Trustee cos.
were in a position to use wide discretion
in the investment of their own funds,
they were protected by law as regards
estate investments, and in cases of ab-
struse testamentary provisions they were
able to get a Court’s decision.
Slump affected earnings from their
own funds and estates in their care. This
co.’s leanest year from a revenue point
of view was 1934, but the div. rate had
dropped by steps from 10 p.c. to 6 p.c.
in 1933. Gross income has improved
£13,531 since then, and net profit £4221,
but there has been no lift in the div. rate.
Here are details of the co.’s income
and expenditure over a period embracing
21 years:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Expenses. Earnings.
1915 .. .. £17,318 £9,728 56.1
1920 .. .. 37,029 24,609 66.4
1925 .. .. 80,658 59,805 74.1
1929 .. .. 95,036 74,695 78.6
1930 .. .. 104,567 83,534 79.8
1931 .. .. 98,904 80,895 81.7
1932 .. .. 89,833 77,789 86.5
1933 .. .. 83,880 73,261 87 3
1934 .. .. 83,433 71,708 85.8
1935 . . . . 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 .. .. 97,411 82,571 84.7
Last term income stepped up £5873 ;
but ordinary exes, were £5OBB heavier.
After reserving £2OOO for taxation (actu-
ally, £9851 was paid last year), the net
result was only £785 better, equal
to 9.3 p.c. on capital, compared with
8.7, 7.6, 6.5 and 8.1 p.c. in the four
preceding years. Out of the profit £lOOO,
as usual, was carried to the staff fund,
and reserves (£69,235) benefited by £3590.
The co. has strong connections in pas-
toral circles, and it has branches in Syd-
ney, Brisbane and Townsville. It was
established 51 years ago in Melbourne.
The amount of trust business on hand
isn’t disclosed in the published accounts,
but it is obviously going ahead.
At the end of February shareholders’
funds and £ll3 of unclaimed divs. and
creditors were invested £133,035 in pre-
mises and £60,046 in Government secu-
rities and deposits ; only £l5OB in mort-
gages and £19,386 in cash and book debts.
The rise of 10s. p.c. in bank deposit
rates isn’t likely to bring the co. in much
more revenue next year. Future expan-
sion relies a good deal upon the general
trend of values and revival in the
property market. Subject to continuance
of present wool prices and relief from
further taxation impositions, the imme-
diate outlook is good.
The issued shares are paid to 275. 6d.;
all but 2s. 6d. of the remaining 225. 6d.
is reserve liability, callable only in the
event of liquidation. At 555. the yield
is 3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Wunderlich Ltd.
r~ Dividends s
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1926.. 45,336. .5600 12$ p.c. = 37,500 2,236 46,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO .. .. 43,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 .. 88,041
1927.. 64,143 5600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103,184
1928.. 69,553 5600 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 .. .. 105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
1930.. 56,955 5600 11$ „ „ 49,500 1,855 112,289
1931.. 14,542 5600 5 „ ~ 22,000 99,231
From specific reserves, £16,227.. ..115,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
From specific reserves, £10,051.. ..109,686
Additions to plant, etc., £9917.. .. 99,769
5.9 p.c.
1933.. 15,725 4714 5 p.c. = 22,000 88,780
Written off Vic. tile factory, £19,750.. 69,030
Premiums on new shares, ' £3748 .. 72,778
From specific reserves, £1503 .. .. 74,281
5.1 p.c.
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1985.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings, Deficit.
£38,361 • . 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
* After deducting bonuses to stun.
The policy in other days was to dis-
tribute profits as they were earned.
Thus dividends averaging 12 p.c. p.a.
were paid during the decade to 1929 ;
but during that time disclosed reserves
benefited by only £27,640 of undis-
tributed profit. Having eaten most of
their cake during boom times, share-
holders had to get along largely on what
conditions in the building trade had to
offer them when slump came. For the
four years to 1934, certainly, more was
distributed than was earned in paying
5 p.c. p.a. to the ords.—shareholders
didn’t go hungry at any time, a remark-
able tribute to the management—but now
that earnings are reviving shareholders
aren’t participating fully in the improve-
ment.
Liquid resources needed strengthening
to meet trade expansion. During the
four years to 1934 reserves were drawn
on for £45,702 in order to pay divs. In
addition, £19,750 was written off the
Vic. tile factory in 1933 and £9917 of
plant additions was charged to reserves
the previous year. At the end of 1934
the visible lay-by stood at £66,587, after
deducting goodwill (£73,888, not treated
as an asset herein). In 1935 £33,076
was written off buildings and plant, and
last term a further £38,361 was lopped ;
“this sum is considered adequate under
existing trading conditions.”
Though the past year’s disclosed profit
(£40,738, up £12,383) was equal to
6.9 p.c. on ord. capital after paying
the prefs., as against 4 p.c. and 3.2 p.c.
in the two preceding years, the div. was
kept at 4 p.c., and £12,775 was carried
to reserves (£8317 in excess of goodwill).
The year was one of considerable
building revival in the Commonwealth,
and Wunderlich’s, with an organisation
spread throughout Australia and Maori-
land, was in a position to benefit. The
future, however, is likely to be more
difficult than the past owing to much
greater competition, especially in the tile
and synthetic-stone sections. The co.
has a wide market for its present zinc
ceilings, and the alert and enterprising
control, which has led the way in build-
ing developments for many years, should
be able to hold its own under the altered
conditions.
In 1933 a new tile factory was put up
on a fresh clay site at Vermont (Vic.)
at a cost of £22,835. To meet this
and other outlay, including redemption
of a mortgage (£32,355) on the co.’s
Perth property, £BO,OOO of 7 p.c. third
pref. money was gathered. The effect of
this new money and the writing-down of
fixed assets show up in this comparison
of balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital: 1920. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Shareholders’ £379,666 £520,000 £600,000 £600,000
Employees’. 14,040 39,700 35,200 34,500
Liabilities . . 38,244 111,919 110,057 132,135
Freeholds . . 151,559 380,142 392,137 360,696
Leaseholds . . 9,659 801 760 940
Plant, etc. . . 108,926 242,990 219,766 202,002
Stocks . . 136,396 109,490 116,321 145,526
Book debts . . 64,342 33,901 55,662 72,459
Cash, etc. . . 16,598 6,436 8,492 7,314
Plant dropped £17,764 in the books last
term, and freeholds by £31,441, suggest-
ing that substantial depreciation was
allowed in addition to the writing-down.
Stocks moved up £29,205 and debtors
£16,797. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£93,164) was £22,846 stronger.
Capital account is made up of 40,000
first, a like number of second and 80,000
third prefs., all carrying 7 p.c., and
ranking in that order for capital and
divs ; there are 440,000 ordinaries! The
thirds are exempt from the 22\ p.c.
statutory cut. At 235. 9d. these shares
return 5.9 p.c. The ords. at 225. show
3.6 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, or 4.5 p.c.
if the rate rises to 5 p.c.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £
1926.. 56,725 65 p.c. = 50,000 6,725 55,556
1927.. 64,104 7.1 „ „ 53,125 10,979 66,535
1928.. 65,141 74 „ ~ 56,250 8,891 75,426
1929.. 62,995 74 „ „ 56,250 6,745 82,171
1930.. 60,489 74 „ „ 56,250 4,239 86,410
Jan.,
1932*. 56,695 55 „ „ 46,875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6i „ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 5 „ „ 37,500 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 „ ~ 37,500 101,759
1936.. 42,754 5 ~ ~ 37,500 5,254 107,013
*l3 months.
South Seas copra rose early in the
term, slipped again, but towards the end
of 1935 was up to £l2 10s. per ton in
London. It has since gone considerably
higher owing to increased demand from
Germany and the U.S.A., in which
countries imports had been more or less
restricted for some time.
The last 7\ p.c. div. was paid when
copra was fetching about £27 (stg.) a
ton. The slip in earnings since (the price
went below £8 in London in 1934) was
arrested for the first time last year.
Aided by increased trade resulting from
the development of the Fiji goldfields
(the co.’s head office is in Suva), there
was a smart rise of £15,886 in gross
earnings:—
Gross Exes. p.c.
Dec., Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1925 .. .. £169,632 £108,826 64.1
1927 . . . . 161,785 97,681 60.4
1929 .. .. 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 . . . . 185,060 124,571 67.0
Jan.,
1932 . . . . 169,182 112,487 66.4
1933 . . . . 158,121 105,933 66.9
1934 .. .. 147,700 109,642 74.2
1935 . . . . 137,507 100,349 72.9
1936 . . . . 153,393 110,639 72.1
Exes, took £10,290 of the increase, leav-
ing the improvement in net profit
(£42,754) at £5596. The div., to pay
which reserves had been nibbled at in
the previous year, was kept at 5 p.c.,
and £5254 was carried to the visible
lay-by (now £107,013).
Exes, include “depreciation, bad debts
and losses.” The net result was equal
to 5.7 p.c. on capital, as against 4.9, 5,
6.9, 7.5, 8 and 8.1 p.c. back to 1929.
That earning-power isn’t more robust
may be due to the comparatively small
visible reserves, equal to 2s. lOd. per
share. But, with the control largely that
of the parent concern, it may be assumed
that profits are not overstated, and are
written after full provision has been
made for the exes, particularised in the
foregoing.
Among assets the item “shipping and
landed properties, stores, wharves, in-
vestments, etc.,” could contain hidden
strength:
1923. 1929. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 57,058 85,092 4 0,385 30,724
Properties,
wharves, etc. 190,740 435,890 541,566 554,179
Stocks afloat 353,549 1 907 (jjo 154 2QQ 158 898
Merchandise.. 179,665 $ isi > bl 6 108,898
Book debts . . 126,148 189,962 200,032 175,49 S
Cash . . . . 28,083 60,048 33,746 36,662
It is an asset which has grown greatly
since the co. took over the South Seas
branches of Burns Philp in 1920. At the
end of that year it was £172,060; last
term it was £554,179, an increase of
£12,613 during the 12 months, partly
due to the purchase of a steamer and the
erection of new premises in Tonga. No
extra capital has been raised meantime.
As fixed assets and investments have
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


PROSPECTUS OF
YERRANDERIE ORE TREATMENTS LIMITED
(To be Registered under the Companies Acts of New South Wales.)
Capital £lO,OOO
Divided into 10,000 Shares of £1 each.
3,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are now offered for public subscription, payable 1/- per share upon application,
1/- per share upon allotment and the balance in calls of such amounts and at such times as the Directors may
determine. Provided that not more than 5/- per share shall be called up in any one month.
2,570 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are to be allotted as fully paid up shares to Yerranderie Dumps Limited, as full
consideration for the acquisition from such company of its business as a going concern, including its plant,
lease, and rights in respect to other dumps being negotiated for.
4,430 Shares of £1 each are to be held in reserve, to be issued upon such terms and at such times as the Directors
may determine.
Total 10,000 Shares of £1 each.
The Directors may proceed to allotment upon 1500 shares being applied for, and thereafter they may close the list at their
discretion.
PERMANENT DIRECTORS:
Mr. William Graham Mac Diarmid, A.1.C.A., 24 Hampden Street, Ashfield,
Public Accountant.
Mr. Frederick Morton Murdoch, F.A.C.1., M.Aus.I.M.M., 1 Wylde Street,
Potts Point, Mining Engineer and Metallurgist.
Mr. Edwin Cormack Bender, 8.A., L.L.8., Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney, Solicitor.
Mr. Harry Charles Swain, 123 Pitt Street, Sydney, Investor.
SOLICITOR:
Mr. Edwin Cormack Bender, 8.A., LL.B., Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
BANKERS:
Bank of New South Wales, Royal Exchange Branch, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Mr. William Graham Mac Diarmid, C/o. Messrs Treweeke & Treweeke,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Yorkshire House, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 81104.
OBJECTS.
The objects for which the Company is
being formed are (inter alia ):
(1) To acquire as a going concern from
Yerranderie Dumps Limited, its busi-
ness of recovering silver, gold and lead
from the slimes and sands dumps of
the Silver Peak Mine at Yerranderie,
Burragorang. The assets to be acquired
comprise, among other things, the fol-
lowing:—
(i) The Company’s plant, fittings,
sundry stocks, etc.
(ii) The right to treat certain tailing
dumps of sands and of slimes situate
at Yerranderie, and to win there-
from such gold, silver and lead as
may profitably be recovered.
(iii) A sub-lease of land at. Yerranderie
comprising part of P.G.L. 1, Parish
of The Peaks, County of Westmore-
land. It is upon such land that
the proposed sands treatment plant
is being erected, and on such area
the main operations of the Company
at Yerranderie will be carried on.
(iv) All the interests which the Vendor
Company possesses in other tailing
dumps and/or properties (mining or
otherwise) at the date of registration
of this Company.
(2) To erect and operate a central treat-
ment plant for the treatment and reduc-
tion of other ores which are available
from local mines and tributors.
(3) To market all or any of the metals and
minerals recovered, and generally to turn
to profitable account in such manner
as the Directors deem advisable the
said dumps of sands and slimes, and
other property, assets, effects and/or
rights of the Company.
(4) To acquire and develop other mines,
dumps, slimes, sands, mineral leases,
prospecting rights and other mining
interests which the Directors may from
time to time deem advantageous to the
Company.
GENERAL AND EXPLANATORY.
The Vendor Company, Yerranderie Dumps
Limited, has completed treatment of about
1200 tons of slime residues from the Silver
Peak Mines at Yerranderie, Burragorang
Valley, New South Wales, and since Sep-
tember 2, 1935, has recovered therefrom
approximately 200 tons of flotation concen-
trate containing about 25,0000 z. Fine Silver,
60oz. Fine Gold and 50 tons Lead.
The Company has already commenced to
instal plant for the treatment —as the first
operations of this Company—of some 8500
tons of Sands which assay 13.50 z. Silver
and ldwt. Gold per ton and 3 p.c. Lead.
Subscription of sufficient capital is now in-
vited to complete such larger and more
efficient plant.
The Company is also acquiring in the same
vicinity some hundreds of tons of slimes
which carry very good values but which,
owing to their oxidised nature, can be treated
only by the plant about to be installed.
REPORT BY MR. F. M. MURDOCH,
F.A.C.1., M.Aus.I.M.M.
To The Directors,
Yerranderie Dumps Ltd.,
Sydney.
Report on Proposed Treatment of
Sands.
The sands dumps at Silver Peak Mine con-
sist of about 8500 tons of material assay-
ing 13.50 z. silver and ldwt. gold per ton
and 3 p.c. lead. The gross value of this
content at present market prices (25 /1 / ’36)
is:
Silver, 13.50 z. at 2/3 A .. £1 10 4
Gold, ldwt. at 8/9 8 9
Lead, 3 p.c. at £A2O 12 0
£2 11 1
The method of treatment of these sands
has been the subject of close investigation
for many months. The first method con-
sidered was cyaniding, which at very low
cost both for plant and treatment gave an
extraction of soz. silver and i-dwt. gold
per ton, being about 28 p.c. of the total
values. No variations such as fine grinding
or roasting effected any material improve-
ment in these figures, which, although show-
ing a fair margin of profit, left too much
value unrecovered to be regarded as wholly
satisfactory. Full consideration was given
to all possible processes, and the one finally
selected is chloridising roasting followed
by extraction of the metals with brine solu-
tion, which best meets the requirements,
yielding as the results of many tests an
extraction of not less than 80 p.c. of the
total values, 80 p.c. of £2/11/1 being
£2/0/10.
Working costs are estimated at 17/- per
ton, comprising all wages, salaries and ex-
penses (both at the mine and in Sydney),
stores, repairs and maintenance and insur-
ance, leaving a profit on working account
of £l/3/10 per ton, or a gross profit on
8500 tons of £10,129.
From this sum must be deducted royalty
payments to the Silver Peaks Mines
£lO5O, and provision for Redemption of
Capital Expenditure, say, £2500, leaving a
surplus of £6579 available for distribution
as dividend.
F. M. MURDOCH,
F.A.C.1., M.Aus.I.M.M.,
25 /1 / ’36.
It is expected that the treatment of the
abovementioned sands will be completed
in about 12 months from the commence-
ment of operations.
Mr. Murdoch’s foregoing estimate deals
only with the sands from the Silver Peak
Mine.
Further, a chief feature of the Company’s
programme will be the establishment of a
treatment plant for handling other dumps
in the field, and especially for treating
available ores from current production of
other mines and tributors.
Therefore, it is anticipated that the Com-
pany will pay gratifying dividends from the
very start of operations.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
The Company shall, out of the funds of
the Company, pay all costs, charges and
expenses of and incidental to the pro-
motion, incorporation and establishment of
the Company, including this prospectus,
the said Contract, assays and certificates,
stamp duties and registration fees, as well
as brokerage at the rate of 5 per centum
to members of a recognised Stock Exchange
or other duly accredited representatives of
the Directors in respect of shares applied
for through them and allotted.
The Directors reserve the right to give
priority to, or to reject as they think fit,
any particular application; but, subject
thereto, shares will be allotted as nearly
as possible on a pro rata basis. If no
allotment be made, the amount paid will
be returned in full.
CONTRACT.
The Company has not yet entered into any
contract, but immediately after the regis-
tration of the Company it is intended that
the Company enter into an agreement to
acquire as a going concern the business
hitherto carried on by Yerranderie Dumps
Limited, under the management of the
same Directors as are named in this pros-
pectus.
This specification must be accepted by
applicants for shares as a sufficient com-
pliance with Section 66 of The Companies
Act 1899, and every subscriber and appli-
cant will be deemed to have had notice of
such agreement.
The draft of such Agreement, the draft
Memorandum and Articles of Association
of the Company and Reports may be in-
spected at the office of the Secretary.
Dated at Sydney the 14th day of April,
1936.
APPLICATION FORM.
To the Directors, Yerranderie Ore Treatments Limited,
C/o. Messrs Treweeke & Treweeke,
14 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs,
I hereby apply for shares of £1 each in the capital of Yerranderie Ore Treatments Limited, and 1 enclose
f° r £ being If- per share application money
I agree to pay the allotment money of 1/- per share on the number of shares allotted me. I agree to pay the balance in calls of such amounts and
at such times as the Directors may determine, provided that not more than 5/- per share shall be called up in any one month.
I request you to allot to me upon the terms of the prospectus dated 14/4/1936 that number of shares, and I undertake to accept and hold such
shares, or such smaller number as you may allot to me, and to be bound by the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, and I authorise
you to enter my name in the Company’s Register for such shares.
DATED this day of 1936.
ORDINARY SIGNATURE
NAME IN FULL
(Mr, Mrs. or Miss.)
ADDRESS STATE •
(N.S.W.j Vic.’ ’ Q.,’ etc.)’ ’
OCCUPATION WITNESS
s l t> e made payable to the Trustee for the Company, W. G. Mac Diarmid, and crossed payable to his bank account only. Exchange
must be added to country and interstate cheques.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
mm
sgs
U(i
mm
12
mam
; *■
iiilß
l&pg3§l§pip&
V
ssssssess
"That's the age to
ASSURE THEM
A REPRESENTATIVE of the A.M.P.
recently sought the ideas of a well
known business man as to the best
age at which to assure children.
“At whatever age they are,” was the answer.
“That’s the best age to assure them. At whatever
age they are, and keep on doing it!”
This merchant was not always well-to-do. Fifteen years
ago he was in a small way, but he had keen, business
instincts, and, because of that, he had great faith in the
A.M.P. He became a member of the Society early in
life and, as his income grew, his policies grew in number
and in purpose. He covered every risk with A.M.P.
policies, giving himself and his wife peace of mind.
He assured his two children as they were born and
increased their assurance as they grew older. They will
soon leave school, and their OWN MONEY from the
A.M.P. will be available to them for higher education
or travel. Financially, their futures are secure.
YOU CAN DO MUCH THE SAME for your children,
reader! The outlay can. be small. The need is to MAKE
A START. Ask the Society to send an experienced
adviser to talk this comfort over with you. No effort
on the Society’s part will be spared to give you this
comfort. Ring or write while it is in mind.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A, A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A.
Actuary. General Manager,
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
THE HOYT BOOK ON THE LINED BEARING
(ath edition) is gratis as previously. Enclose 3d.
tor postage. Ask for our house magazine, “THE
NOTCHED INGOT.” HOYT’S METALS, 49
HARDWARE STREET. MELBOURNE. —Advt.
* * * *
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* He * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company. Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.—Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN ■ timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service. New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. 8 Bond Street, Sydnev.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when seUing Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
.\llovs.-—Advt.
. .ivvncible” .
since f*J&.
1900.
INVINCIBLE
MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES.
Petrol—Kerosene—Diesel,
18 Sizes: 3 to 100 h.p.
Write for Catalogues.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS,
53 Nth. George St„ Sydney.
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, A'IC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.8.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY', N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: 3. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Cha.s. Davis. Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN,-N,Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
increased, stocks of merchandise and
produce have decreased in book value—
from £811,556 in 1920 to £158,898 last
term, when there was an upward move-
ment of £4599. Over the same period
liabilities dropped from £304,401 to
£30,724 —down £9661 last term. Debtors
showed a contraction of £24,534, and
liabilities were more than covered by
cash alone at balance day. Better prices
for island produce, increased spending
power and greater confidence in the
future make the outlook promising.
At 295. the return is a little over 3.4
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 4.1 p.c. if
the rate rises to 6 p.c.
Following E. G. Theodore’s statement,
given much publicity in his new “Daily
Telegraph” (Sydney), that he and his
associates still possess their initial holding,
Emperors and Lolomas have firmed con-
siderably. Theodore was in Fiji for six
months ; he reported that “ore reserves
are increasing every day, and I have no
hesitation in saying that at the present
prices quoted Emperor and Loloma
shares are very much too low.”
The Emperor’s crushings under the
public co. have been as follows:
Tons, Gold, Average,
Ore.’ Oz. Dwt.*
October lo x ’, 3 , 5 ,
November 36, ’35".'; 644 490 152
December 21,’35 .. 530 383 14.5
January 25, ’36 1230 764 15.3
ISo .1008 1
* Includes loss in tailings.
*** ~ *
Melbourne has a keen regard for
many of the gold shows in its own State.
Just recently there has been great
activity in several stocks, and the
interest, in some cases, appears to be
based on firmer grounds than usual. It
has followed the first few crushings of
a dozen or so shows. Central Nell
Gwynne has been the latest; down to
3s. in February, the 9s. 9d.-paid shares
sold to 15s. 6d. last week. Carshalton,
on the same (Bendigo) field, has
attracted interest since a system of gold-
bearing spurs was located. Ironbark,
which at one stage gave indications that
it had found the continuation of the
Hercules ore-body, turned out to be a
flash-in-the-pan from a market point of
view. The shares, up to 13s. in Feb-
ruary were down to around 3s. 6d. last
week.’ Outside of Bendigo, Morning
Star (at Wood’s Point) is attracting
attention ; it is the State’s largest pro-
ducer. Gordon Gold (Bolwarrah) was
second last year, but first on a div.-pay-
ing basis. Cocks Pioneer (Eldorado)
turned out over 4000 oz, last year,
though the market for this stock is
weakening. Wattle Gully, at Chewton,
has attracted a good deal of interest.
* * * *
Bendigo Mines, Ltd., is interested in
a string of comparatively recent floats,
One of the most promising is Carshal-
ton (B. 25/3/’36). Others are Napoleon,
Nell Gwynne and Derby. Add
“(8.M.L.) Mines, No Liability” to each
of those names and you have their full
title. All are on the Bendigo field, which
reached its greatest level of production
in the 'fifties and ’sixties. In The ’seven-
ties the discovery of the “300 ft.” and
Garden Gully reefs brought production
„n a pain • there was a decline after-
up again , mere was a uecune duel
wards, until the discovery of Snobb’s
Hill reef in the eighties and the financial
crisis of the ’nineties renewed interest
in the field. Fiom 1900 until the out-
break ol war the Garden Gully and
Moon reefs were hightly productive.
Bendigo is estimated to have yielded
17,000,000 fine oz. to date.
I ack of workine faces was responsible
Lack of working taces was responsible
for ore below average grade being fed
to the mill during the last three months
—that was the explanation given by New
Occidental’s chairman (A Vickery) at
the annual meeting. Also, instead of
9000 tons a month only about 5000 tons
of ore is Heine milled This and lack
of skilled labor are 'blamed tor the
higher costs (38s. Id. a ton). Ore re-
serves at February 29 were estimated at
261,000 tons positive (B.4dwt. values)
and 101,000 tons probable. A quarterly
statement of the working surplus and
capital expenditure is to be sent out
each month. The whys and wherefores
concerning movements in the grade of
ore milled would be equally valuable.
* ’ * * *
At Westralian Chamber of Mines’
/\i vvesuaiian yiiamuci ui mines
annual roll-up president Dick Hamilton
said that the goldmining industry had
achieved a record in 1935 foi low-grade
ore treatment. Average for 1,909,816 tons
r 0,1,,,, or.oir.cf 7 Kdmt ir. IQT/1
Was D.oQWt., against 7.3juWt.. in J 934
arid half an ounce a year or two pre-
vinnslv AX/ilnnn’c ffradp whq over
VIOUSiy. Wiluna S graae was just over
Lake View s approx. s|dwt.; the
cos. operating these two mines treated
nearly a million tons. Gold recovered
in 1935 was worth £5,702,149 (Aust.),
and dividends amounted to £1,124,918.
Men employed in the industry numbered
14,692, against 6344 in 1931 and 3800
• ir>Vr>
in 1928.
* * * *
Last-minute purchases by Claude de
Bernales before departing for London
were- (1) Half P. and O. Co;’S holding
/-x n- * i ... • ... .
m Collie Amalgamated Collieries, West-
raha’s sole coal-producer ; (2) half the
same co.’s holding in Collie Bower, a
pup. of Amalgamated Collieries controi-
ling electric light and power at Collie ,
(3) an option on the Hard Coal mine,
near Collie. Deals made by De /Ber-
nales in city property and cem eHt ddr ‘
ing his six months’ stay .m the West m-
volved £250,000 br more/He also bought
the King of Creation mine for the Angio-
Aust. Co.
* * T . * rw A x for the
The crushing of Tnt™ A.) to the
our t 0 Mar. 31 f
*°J -0580 z., an average re T
6.6dwt., as against 7dwt. in the
month - « J he + avera g £ meta *
of the last, quarter is m ,
output will be around 27,5U00z. a year.
An opinion of an engineer recently on
the spot is that the show should ean
outstanding div.-payer later. It has me
appearance of being a deep-seated ore-
channel, the plant is excellent, start
well trained, and development is oe-
mg carried out on lines similar to those
adopted at Wiluna. #
* ... . , *, A w; . rv>nl-
Consolidated Gold Mines of Coo
f rd,e - workmgFindals and other 1 eases.
has unwatered the ™atn shaft on Tin-
dals ’ and ls P re P arm S to unwater the
(Griffith nnH Perseverance leases
° n ttith and Perseverance leases.^
Mount Paris Tin Mines (nominal capi-
tal £120,000 in 480,000 ss. shares), formed
j as t y ear acquire an extensive alluvial
and j o de proposition four miles from
Branxholm (Tas.), has almost completed
and water race, and production
will shortly be undertaken. The lease is
estimated to have 2,000,000 c.y., of de-
_ d granitic material containing
P § with the metal at
. , . , r ,, AA n
per pound (£2OO per ton) profits of
£ W® are me " u ° ned ’ C°s* s are pu
“• %P«c.y, but even at a profit
ot «00,000 ts reckoned on. Jm is of
increasing importance to the Speck,
High-quality alluvial was recently dts-
cove,red rf.fn'Tu ™ r.™
worked Bell s Hill fie d, and on Cape
Barren Island, Bass Strait, where large
quantifies of fin concentrates have
al f e , ad y b , een f fu F ,her P ro m‘Sing
white and friable greisen formations
have been P roved b V “Steening.
(Continued o» next page.)


A Sound Industrial Investment
HASTINGS DEERING SERVICE LIMITED
(Abridged Prospectus)
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING,
Engineer.
BANKERS:
UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
DIRECTORS:
HAROLD WILLIAM CHANCELLOR,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
SOLICITORS:
NORTON SMITH & CO.,
39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
DAVID WILLIAM ROXBURGH
Solicitor.
AUDITORS:
FLACK & FLACK,
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
FREDERICK GEORGE McKEW, Corner Wattle and Thomas Streets, Ultimo.
Capital £lOO,OOO in 100,000 Shares of £1 each, divided into 90,000 7% Cumulative
Preference Shares and 10,000 Ordinary Shares.
A first issue of 45,000 Preference Shares is offered for subscription on the following terms: —
1/- on APPLICATION
1/- on ALLOTMENT
and the balance in calls of not more than 1/- per share at intervals of not less than one month.
OBJECTS.
This Company has been formed to provide Motor-car owners
with a complete range of facilities for the maintenance, service
and supply of all motoring requirements.
Motorists are offered the opportunity of acquiring 7 per cent.
Cumulative Preference Shares, particularly reasonable service
charges, and certain participating rights on the basis of purchases
made from the Company.
Further Objectives under Memorandum and Articles of
Association.
To conduct any or all of the following activities: —
1. To become dealers in FORD Cars and Trucks and other
FORD products, the distribution of which is held by Hastings
Deering, Limited, for the Metropolitan Area of Sydney, under
SOLE LICENSE AND AGREEMENT from the FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY,
LIMITED.
2. To become distributors of Exide Batteries, which distribution
for the State of New South Wales is held by the Deering
Engineering Company, Limited.
3. To carry on the operation of full-circle tyre remoulding and
retreading. Equipment for this activity is being installed by
Hastings Deering, Limited, and will be suitable for all types
of car and truck tyres.
4. To merchandise Machine-shop Work and all transport require-
ments which can profitably be handled in association with
A.E.C. (Australia) Proprietary, Limited. Mr. Hastings
Deering is Managing Director of A.E.C. (Australia) Pro-
prietary, Limited, having built up this activity over the last
ten years, and in his opinion the A.E.C. Machine-shop is
the most modern and completely equipped in Australia.
5. To build in Australia Diesel Engines and Trolley Bus Chassis
for industrial and traction purposes.
6. To purchase land and erect buildings suitable for special
service and/or to acquire and take up shares in any Company
formed for this purpose.
7. To contract to do bulk service work. To provide and operate
car-parking facilities.
8. To secure and hold any additional agencies which can be
profitably handled by the Company.
The Company will provide a proper relationship between the
motor-car user and a motor-car service company which is
in a position to supply specialised service facilities so that
both parties will reap the benefits of economical co-operation.
(The above is an abridged prospectus and contains only
extracts from the prospectus itself dated March 23, 1936,
which prospectus gives full details of the rights of the holders
of preference shares.)
PROSPECTUS containing full par-
ticulars of this attractive , co-operative
service will be supplied on application to
the Secretary, Mr. F. G. McKEW, care
HASTINGS DEERING, LIMITED,
GEORGE STREET WEST and
WATTLE STREET, SYDNEY.
Or Fill in this COUPON and MAIL
TO-DAY, without obligation, for
COMPLETE PROSPECTUS.
Mr. F. G. McKEW,
Secretary,
HASTINGS DEERING, LIMITED,
George Street West and Wattle Street, Sydney.
Please send me complete Prospectus of HASTINGS DEERING
SERVICE, LIMITED.
NAME <
ADDRESS
From a mining man in Simla: “I have
just received a prospectus of the Wynaad
Gold Development Co., Ltd. (W.A.).
There is a lot in it regarding returns from
the Mysore mine, which is one of the
Kolar group. Very interesting to Aus-
tralians, perhaps, but the Mysore lies
some 250 miles from the.Wynaad.”
»2» »!*
The - Government loan of * £250 to
Wiluna Ajax, which is near the Moon-
light property, Wiluna. (W.A.), is repay-
able at. the rate 0f,.10 p.c. of the gross
value jOf gold won. The - whole of
the forfeited shares in the co. have been
sold at “a satisfactory figure” to Kal-
goorlie and Wiluna interests. Drilling
has commenced.
* , j * * * '' i
Yellowdine Gold Option’s Three Boys
mine, at Southern Cross (W.A:), may
soon be producing. Good progress is
being made with the plant. and 10-head
battery. Satisfactory values have been
struck on the lower levels.
* * * *
Diamond-drilling on Paddington Con-
sols (W.A.), for years thought to have
been worked to a standstill by a London
co., has disclosed promising veins in
deep ground. Boulder Mining and
Finance is the interested party.
* * * *
To complete the purchase of leases at
The Granites, increase plant capacity and
continue development, Central Australia
Gold Fields is reconstructing. The new
co. will have nominal capital of £75,000
in 300,000 shares of ss. each. Public will
be offered 175,000 coritribs. at 4s. on
application and allotment, 60,000 will be
distributed among present holders, and
65,000 will be held in reserve. The field’s
history is anything but alluring. Prof.
Madigan, of Adelaide Uni., was utterly
unimpressed with “the possibilities of the
presence of undiscovered but really
valuable gold formations in this area.”
Boring, shaft-sinking and driving have
established the existence of alluvial wash
at Pitfield Plains (Vic.), and New
Glenfire, which acquired two leases in
May, 1934, is shortly toi commence pro-
duction. In a preliminary run of the
puddlers 3.280 z. gold was obtained from
35 fathoms of wash from all prospecting
drives, and the western portion, where
payable values were previously met with,
is now receiving attention. Costs are
expected to be reasonable.
* * * *
Union Corporation (London) estimates
world gold production in 1935 at
30,500,000 fine ounces, against' 27,620,000
in 1934 and 25,338,000 in 1933. Leading
producers (1934 outputs in parentheses)
were: British Empire, 17,115,0000 z.
(16,289,000); Russia, 5,650,000(4,263,000);
U.S.A., 3,115,000 (2,742,000); Mexico,
620,000 (661,000). British Empire per-
centage of the world total fell from 59
to 56.1, though the fall was not so great
as that between 1933 and 1934. Russia
recorded the highest individual rise.
Samuel Montagu and Co., London
bullion brokers and foreign bankers,
calculate world gold reserves in gold
pounds (775. 10£d. per standard ounce) at
the end of 1935 at £2,718,886,705. Com-
parative totals of individual countries
for ’34 and ’35 included:
, 000’s Omitted—
-(-increase.
1935. 1934. —Decrease.
U.S.A 1,227,500 .998,800 +228,700
France .. .. 533,742 661,171 —127,429
British Empire .. 300,521 293,672 +6,849
Russia .. .. 101,900 86,922 +14,978
Belgium . . . . 71,119 71,565 —446
Spain . . . . 89,400 89,908 —5OB
Switzerland .. 55,057 75,722 —20,665
Netherlands .. 53,146 69,550 —16,404
Japan .. .. 51,622 47,761 +3,861
Italy * .. .. 42,580 62,854 —20,274
Sweden . . . . 22,456 19,343 +3,113
Czeeho-Slovakia . . 13,650 13,599 +5l
Poland . . . . 10,243 11,602 —1,359
Greece .. .. 9,296 11,013 —1,717
Portugal . . . . 8,273 8,208 +65
Uruguay . . . . 7,900 9,912 —2,012
Austria .. . . 7,011 6,998 +l3
Norway . . . . 0,545 7,427 —BB2
Denmark . . . . 6,497 7,331 —834
Yugoslavia . . • • 5,181 6,458 —1,277
Germany . . . . 4,037 3,872 +165
Outstanding features are the rise in
U.S.A. reserves and the losses of the
leading European gold -bloc countries.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Billy See”: Biddy Maloney had a
parrot which was not only a master of
ordinary obscenity, but was also capable
of giving voice to the most embarrassing
personal invitations —its tutor having her-
self in early life been cook to many a
rough camp of navvies. And the surest
way of getting Poll to give tongue was to
rattle the front of her cage with a finger.
Came the new parish priest on a pas-
toral visit. “ ’Tis a foine bird ye’ve got
here, Mrs. Maloney. Does he talk at
all?” And to Biddy’s horror his Rivir-
ence rattled the bars of the cage with a
finger. But Poll knew the respect due
to the cloth, and with the utmost’ polite-
ness merely said “Pretty Joey. Pretty
Joey.” “ ’Tis a foine bird, but he doesn’t
say much,” his Rivirince concluded.
Two minutes after he had departed the
baker blew in and gave the cage the
usual irritating rattle —and got half a
pageful of the stuff that is handed up to
his Worship written on a piece of paper.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Boola-Boola, a muddy
hole in a channel of the Hamilton, about
25 miles north of Boulia (W.Q.), is held
in awe by the blacks. No boy would
dare to camp on its banks or drink
of its water; yet' none would think
of going past it without peering fear-
fully over its banks. One old fellow
told me that long ago a purinthy chased
a gin two or three times round the hole.
The gin climbed a coolabah-tree. The
purinthy followed her. She crawled out
on a limb. Purinthy did the same. She
then dived into the water. So did the
purinthy. The spirit of the big goanna,
according to Binghi, still lives in that
hole, though the stolid whites, who far
outnumber the blacks, must have broken
the spook’s heart.
% *!’
“Nejd”: “Greenhide’s” experience of
Arabs (B. 25/3/’36) must have been
peculiar if he claims the wide hoof as
their contribution to the make-up of Aus-
tralian horses. One of the best points of
the Arab is his small, compact hoof,
almost as perfect from the horsemaster’s
point of view as that of the despised
donk. Wide, shelly hooves are a heavy
handicap to a horse which has to work
on stony country. Some of the finest
horses I ever rode were on the A.P.
station, Balonne River, s.-w. Queensland.
These horses were by blood sires and
many of them from mares from the
famous Maribyrnong stud in the days
when the Fisher brothers replaced cattle
with sheep in the Balonne country. But
all of them had flat, shelly feet because
of having been bred and reared on the
alluvial plains of the Balonne, chiefly at
Cubbie station. Splendid nags in all else,
most' of them would be pulled up if sent
fast across the ironstone ridges which
were occasionally encountered. Shoeing
improved matters, but their brittle hooves
made it difficult to keep the shoes on
long in stony going.
* * * *
“Drayton”: Cactoblastis has been re-
sponsible for the uncovering of more
long-forgotten graves overgrown for
many years by the pear. Four more
have been revealed near Yarguellen, in
the Aubigny (Q.) district; and they have
a pathetic history. In the long ago
when sheep were shepherded, one of the
many Scottish families that came to
the Darling Downs and adjacent areas
were dumped down near a lonely yard
in which the sheep were folded at night.
“Pity We et the little bloke. We could've played bridge instead o’ this
blarsled cut-throat .”
The mother and three children sickened
and died—medical aid was out of the
question in that part of the country then
—and were buried by the husband and
father. He left the district, but not
before he had erected headstones. He
had no means of carving inscriptions
on them —perhaps he meant to come
back some day for that —and only the
blank stones and remnants of the old
sheepyard have remained to revive the
story.
•I* H*
“Westerly”: Does the kangaroo-fly
infest the bush in the Eastern States as it
does in the south-west of W.A.? Some-
thing like the ordinary house fly in
appearance, it has a fearful bite. To
experience the very quintessence of
torture, one has to be short of meat and
forced to carry a ’roo a few miles with
those flies buzzing around. I have
seen many an old-man ’roo so helpless
and frantic with the ’roo-flies that any
one could approach to within a few feet
without the boomer taking the slightest
notice.
$ yfi Jfc
“Overplumb”: The volunteer dairy-
maid was advised to tie our cow’s leg to
the post, as she is by way of being a
kicker. The indignant girl’s call for help
brought Dad, Dave and the hired man
to the rescue. It took all three to re-
lease Strawberry, neatly fastened by
both front feet to the bail posts, but
doing her best with her back legs.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The house-sparrow, aptly
termed “the rat of the air,” is certainly
Australia’s most successful bird immi-
grant. Like the rat, the sparrow makes
its living from man and his work, dis-
playing the while the utmost contempt
and disregard for all the noise and
scurry with which man goes about the
business of making a living—Tor the
sparrow! It thinks nothing of taking a
meal from the midst of a busy market,
among men, horses, dogs and hoofing
motor trucks, or of setting up house-
keeping in a big, untidy nest located in
the roof-space of a school full of its
natural enemies, boys. And it gets away
with it. Introduced long ago in mistake
for the useful and harmless English hedge
sparrow, it has laid under tribute the
whole of non-tropical eastern and
southern Australia, just as it had already
spread throughout Europe, and even into
Siberia.
* * * *
“Pack-bag”: On a farm on the Murray
at Bannerton (Vic.) a gander and
a pet lamb walked, ate and slept
together for months. Then Barney was
shorn. But the bird wouldn’t recognise
his old mate in his new clothes —or with-
out his old ones. For two days he kept
running away from him and fruitlessly
searching the shearing pens for the mate
he used to know. Then in disgust he
flew into the river, swam downstream
and has not been seen since.
*V* * *
“Will Random”: Ants are not the
only insects that Morse-signal by knock-
ing the ground with their heads (B.
26 /2 / ’36). Came upon a mob of white
grubs (the ones with the gold-brown
heads) crossing a road. After they had
got used to my presence, the leading grub
raised its head and tapped the ground
several times. At this signal the whole
army gave a wriggle and advanced a bit.
Each time their leader tapped they
moved forward. I then took a turn at
the tapping. They all moved forward at
my signal, including their late leader, but
this one always lifted its head up before
advancing. After I had led them several
inches I tapped at the side. Their ex-
signaller raised its head, turned towards
me, gave the usual wriggle, and the ad-
vance continued. I then tapped directly
behind them, and the grub in charge,
raised its head again and turned right
round. Having thus established man’s
superiority I left ’em to it.
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: Another amphibian of the
grasshopper type (B. 18 /3 / ’36) is the
dragon-fly. Mrs. D.F. lays up to three
thousand eggs ; the first few hundred she
deposit's carefully on aquatic growing
plants, but soon tires of this method and,
skimming swiftly over the surface of the
water, begins to drop her eggs at ran-
dom. She will not lay eggs on the sur-
face if rain has recently fallen, but will
dive to deposit them. To obtain air for
this descent she folds her second pair of
wings over her nose, enclosing a small
sac of air that is sufficient to keep her
alive during a submersion of anything up
to five minutes.
❖ * * *
“F.Y.7”: So far Coolum Beach (Q.)
is leading in the annual contest for the
champion snake yarn, with two strong
entries. A resident came on a carpet-
snake which had slain a chicken and was
about to swallow it. The snake retreated,
but the chicken’s owner tied a string to
it and went away. When he returned he
found, as he expected, that the snake
had come back and, swallowing the fowl,
was firmly anchored. In the other case
a smaller snake was found which had
swallowed a ball of wool, the loose end
of which was tied to a verandah post.
This chap was also hung up and paid the
penalty. The ball, by the way, was on
the verandah for a baby to play with.
What would have happened if the baby
had been attached to the ball when the
snake called can only be surmised.
“Bimbo”: What is the length of the
largest tiger-snake on record? L. Mc-
Quade, of Kongorong (S.A.), has. for two
seasons in succession found the dis-
carded skin of a tiger-snake which
shows it to be well over Bft. in length.
So far, the snake itself has eluded all
efforts to dispose of it.
* * *
“C.V.S.”: I nominate the Tasmanian
native-hen as the speediest of Australia’s
waterfowl. Flightless, it is possessed
of remarkable ground speed, and it takes
a fast and experienced dog to run the
bird down. Considering that its toes are
not webbed, it is also an exceptional
swimmer and diver, being able to remain
submerged with just the tip of its beak
above water. The other notable feature
is its voice, a perfect imitation of a hack-
saw cutting through galvanised iron.
* * * *
“Pisces”: The Chinese cook at Tarbrax
station (W.Q.) was a fisherman who
could have shown Izaac Walton points.
When he wasn’t doing anything else,
he put in his spare time on the
big waterhole in front
of the homestead. Cat-
fish up to 3ft. in length
were his long suit. If
properly cooked by a
man who knows how to
skin them they are
quite fit fodder for a
white man. Ah Fat re-
ceived every encourage-
ment to carry on the
good work. Once he
caught too many and
tried parking them in
the bore-drains, dis-
charging into the hole,
using netting fore and
aft. But the glad word
passed among the cray-
fish —these drains were
chock-full of them.
Catty, cooped in the
drain, was easy meat
for those crustaceans, and the reserve
supply disappeared.
* * * *
Near Kendenup (W.A.)
there is a small salt lake which, during
a dry summer, becomes a useful asset.
As the water recedes it becomes less
salty, until there remains a small pool
of perfectly fresh water from which
stock drink readily; dry salt may be
scooped up less than 50 yards away.
* * * *
“Pick”: Specimens of greenstone
tomahawks made by natives in districts
where no greenstone is found locally have
puzzled Abo. writers. Axeheads of
Monaro ironstone in N.S.W. always be-
came iridised as the dusky armorers wore
them down by continuous rubbing. After-
wards they retained a greenish tinge on
their smoothly-reduced sides, though the
unworn heads remained rusty brown.
Grey river stone, too, turns blue with
the heat of much friction, and blue axe-
heads are at times picked up where blue-
stone isn’t a feature of the landscape.
* * * *
“Teleco”: What is the farthest point
that can be seen from another point in
Australia? The Glass House Mountains
(Q.) are clearly visible from points in
the Macpherson Range over 100 miles
away, while it is possible to see Cunning-
ham’s Gap (nearly 80 miles) and some of
the peaks of the Macpherson Range (70
miles) from almost any part of Brisbane.
The point of Cape Moreton from the top
of Brisbane’s million-pound civic palace
is a common sight. In spite of the heavy
air that southerners allege to be the lot
of S.Q., long-range visibility is better
there than in any other part of Australia
I have visited.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Kids in N.Q. have added
to home-made bush amusements a form
of chariot racing, with horned poin-
ciana beetles for steeds, the smaller
variety of Christmas beetle for the
charioteers, and matchboxes of the
safety variety for curricles. The horns
of the poinciana beetles provide ideal
yoking places for the cotton reins and
harness. Of course, there are thorough-
breds and culls, and champions matched
with attendant wagering. Frequent bouts
of fisticuffs arising out of violent protes-
tations as to the speed of the respective
steeds add spice to the carnivals.
ONE GOLDEN DAY.
A warm, caressing sun—too mild for heat,
But stirring blood in veins that have for long
Been wearied by the summer’s hot
embrace.
A blue sky, laciness of clouds, and sweet
From scrub-lined valley’s slope a thrush’s
song.
The pastel shades upon the mountain’s
face.
Here tall trees dream, their droopt leaves silent
till
A tiny breeze comes stealing from the sea
And through them to the hills a whisper
sends.
Here vagrantly the beams of sunlight spill,
And etch on rock and fern a tracery
Of gold and shade that with cool green-
ness blends.
A mountain quail, her tiny, timorous brood
Hot-loot behind her, scurries through the
grass;
And there a rabbit flashes through the
scrub.
A porcupine, intent upon his food,
Tears at the white-ants’ nest, nor hears me
pass,
And painted bird-wings flash on tree and
shrub.
An opening through the
trees reveals, out-
spread
Far down, a view of
rolling hill and
plain,
Of golden crops; and,
wandering grop-
ingly,
Along a wooded valley like
a thread
Of silver winds a river
flushed by rain,
Upon its way towards
the waiting sea.
Autumn, that pause of
resfulness between
The summer’s passion
and the winter’s
wrath, ,
So lately come, so
soon to pass away,
Will leave me, when to-
morrow’s shifting
scene
Shows Winter from his
ice-lair creeping
forth,
The memory of at
least one golden
day.
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


“Same Hicgain”: Lotter rot thesh
blokesh at Canberrash talkin’ about low-
ered coshts of livin’. Wotsh a handle of
beer cosht? Shixpensh, and more than
half of itsh glash. Glash! Man can’t
drink glash. ’Ow’s ’e to get nur —hie —
nur’shment from glash? Man’d shtarve
ter death on glash. Rum, too. Bloke in
a dishtillery—bonzher job—tole me rum
only coshts fourpensh a gallon to make.
Molasshes an’ warrer’s all rum ish.
Maturin’ rumsh ’nother shixpensh. Ten-
pensh gallon for goorold rum. Nexsht
electionsh I’m gointer shtand as candi-
dash for redushin’ coshts of livin’.
Sherve rum in dippersh, thrummer a
dipper. No more glash in beer —lotsh
more beer in glash. That’sh me shlogan.
You wait, Joe Lyonsh—l’ll show yer!
* * * $
“G.C.W.”: I’m now convinced that the
goanna can swallow a bone. One be-
came very tame around our camp, and we
tried to get him to pick the meat off a
bone, raw ; he easily put bone and all
out of sight. Thought we had him beaten
with a rib bone about 15in. long; he
swallowed about half of it, but the bend
stopped him. Only for a while, however.
He made for the nearest stump and,
taking short runs, bumped it the rest of
the way down. His only ill-effect appeared
to be a stiff neck.
“Oloc”: She was a little mare, chest-
nut-colored and shaped like a barrel.
Seemed a bit frisky one morning, so I
put a crupper and breast-plate on to my
big stock saddle, then got on. Two
decent sorts of roots and she hadn’t a
strap on her, but I was still sitting on the
saddle and still held the reins. No one
saw it happen, so, being the head stock-
man, I handed her over to a jackeroo.
* * * *
“Spud”: A wild duck caught in a
Westralian swamp had a rubber ring,
used in bottling preserves, around its
body, preventing it from flying. By its
appearance the ring had been on the
bird for some time. Kept in captivity,
the duck never regained the use of its
wings, although they appeared perfectly
normal.
# * * *
“Crusoe”: It’s an easy matter to tell
when a shark is nosing around for tucker
in our N.Q. bay, even though the tri-
angular fin can’t be seen. Stingrays will
be found sheltering in water barely deep
enough to keep them afloat. From the
gentle agitation of the water where they
lie, it is difficult to gauge whether they
are palpitating in panic or having a
hearty laugh at the finny scavenger’s
discomfiture.
* * # *
“C.V.S.”: It was Sunday morning, and
all was still and quiet in the woolroom.
It was just as well, for Old Tom, re-
clining in a half-empty bin, was recover-
ing from a bender, and was in that state
when the stealthy tread of a cat becomes
horribly audible. He was watching a
feather float slowly from the roof, his
eyes following it down and down. The
moment it came to rest on the floor
someone dropped the press-handle with
a terrific crash. Tom hasn’t had a drink
since.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: What sort of second-
sight would “Murray” (B. 25/3/’36) de-
mand of a blacktracker if he were hiring
one? Permanent water, cattle camps and
general local knowledge have to be
learned on the spot, irrespective of the
standard of general bushmanship. A
blackfellow out of his hunting-grounds
is under this handicap, together with a
severe nervous strain due to possible
trespass on the grounds of hostile tribes-
men. Make him a police-boy and let him
travel, and the country becomes an open
book to him. The general qualities of
bush knowledge, where and what to
hunt for tucker, where a track leads and
how to come home again never leave
the myall until he becomes civilised, but
a track obviously can’t tell him who has
passed that way until he knows some-
thing of the one who made it.
* * *
“M.L.C.”: There seems little doubt
as to how the brown egg came into the
blue wren’s nest (B. 25/3/’36). The
wren lays a white egg with tiny reddish
freckles at one end ; the bronze cuckoo
lays a dark egg and frequently deposits
it in a wren’s nest. The young cuckoo
gets his back under the bodies of the
wren fledglings and adroitly tips them
over the edge of the nest to the ground.
Not only does he fill every bit of space,
but the parent birds have to work like
slaves to appease his appetite.
sji ;jc v $
“Centre”: “Gardener’s” choko vine
(B. 25/3/’36) is a mere toddler. I’ve one,
“ Marvellous! How ever do they teach the horses to do tha t?”
a three-year-old, trained along the top of
a wall, the fruiting-branches trailing
over the south-east side. It has grown
97 feet since last frost, and is still going
strong. It is hopeless trying to keep a tally
of the fruit. The family, several neigh-
bors, and the dogs, cats, fowls and ducks
have been wading into chokos fried;
frittered and boiled for weeks, and there’s
whips of fruit still forming on the vine.
* # * *
“F.H.W.”: Where has “Mug Pirate”
(B. 26/2/’36) seen thousands of quail in-
volved in the works of binders and har-
vesters? If there is no time to fly the
canny little bird flattens itself on the
ground, and in most cases the machine
passes harmlessly overhead. Stock do
trample them occasionally, but only when
in teams.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: The first settlers in the
s.-e. portion of S.A. found that the
plains between Naracoorte and the sea
were thick with the toolach, one of the
prettiest and most graceful of the wal-
laby tribe. It bore the best of all
wallaby fur, was so swift-footed that it
could extend the fastest coursing dogs,
and when chased would dart away with
an alternation of two short hops followed
by a flying leap. It was found nowhere
else in Australia, was a creature of the
open plains, and lived in colonies; this
latter fact made it very easy to find and
hunt. The young ones fell an easy prey
to the fox, however, and both young
and old were killed out by greyhounds,
with the result that it was very rare by
1918. Professor Wood Jones drew
attention to the need for rigorously pro-
tecting them, but nothing was done, and
by 1923 only one small colony was left
on Konetta station. But the agile little
wallabies defeated all attempts to cap-
ture them for transference to the fox-
free sanctuary on Kangaroo Island, and
they are now numbered among our ex-
tinct fauna.
* * * *
“Shawondasee”: At Lake Macquarie
(N.S.W.) I witnessed §. good example of
community effort on the part of birds.
In ones and twos some shags gathered
on a sandbank in a semicircle until there
were about a couple of score of them.
“There must be plenty of hardiheads
about,” remarked my fisherman friend ;
“those shags’ll go into conference soon.”
Shortly the birds rose and settled on the
water some distance off, forming them-
selves into a compact circle, with a chorus
of raucous cries. After about 10 minutes
they divided into three groups. One
group flew into an adjacent channel, div-
ing in unison, the next group followed,
to dive some yards ahead, and the third
group dived still farther ahead. The rear
group then flew over their busy friends
and plunged again in the lead. Taking
it in turns, they made their way in this
fashion down the channel, pursuing the
shoal of hardiheads. Suddenly one of
their number made off towards a flock
of gulls on another sandbank, flew
through them and brought them back
to help in the kill.
JjC v '1 : *i*
“Bogaduck” : When it comes to weird
forms of life and strange life-cycles, the
sea beats anything the land can show. The
“leatherjacket louse,” Ourozeuktes bopy-
roides, is one of the strangest examples.
When it hatches from the egg it is always
a male; when it attains a length of
about a quarter of an inch, looking like
a cross between a crayfish and a crab, it
is an adult, and cleaves to a female till
her eggs are fertilised ; then it becomes a
female, growing to the size of a small
shrimp. Then it catches its leatherjacket
—it is never found on any other fish ;
attaches itself to the skin, excavates a
pocket and crawls into it tail first, leav-
ing its eyes and breathing apparatus
protruding. There it lives on the body
tissue of the fish until its eggs are ripe,
when it leaves its host, the eggs hatch,
and it dies. Its presence does not seem
to harm the leatherjacket in any way, for
I have seen leatherjohnnies quite fat and
lively with two big lice buried under
their skins.
* * :]:
‘‘Walkabout”: The crow is a brainy
bird (B. 25/3/’36) ; watch the strategy he
and a mate adopt when rabbiting. With
bunny careering along a netting fence,
one Kelly will be on its tail and keep it
moving while the other swoops down and
picks out an eye. . Once the rabbit’s a
boko the rest is easy; before long
there’s a rabbit dying, minus its two
lamps and kidney fat. Poison a dead
bunny and the hungriest crow will give
it a wide berth.
* * *
“Runa”: Although the tuatara is
practically extinct on the mainland of
Maoriland (B. 18/3/’36) he still survives
on some of the outlying islands, where
he shares a burrow with a muttonbird on
agreeable terms. Some years ago tua-
taras were plentiful on several of the
Chickens in the Hen and Chickens group
off the coast of North Auckland, and as
the islands are all wild and heavily cov-
ered with bush, with landing places few
and dangerous, the lizards seemed to
have every chance of multiplying. Maori-
land has no animals, predatory or other-
wise, on these island sanctuaries, as
stoats, weasels and other imported pests
have never reached them, and even rats
are few and apparently unaggressive.
* :js
“Ex-Q.”: Tell ‘“Kwakprak” that he
maligns the inland Australian sandflv
(B. 12/2/’36), which is a thoroughbred
of the purest sandfly strain, big-gun bug-
hunters to the contrary notwithstanding.
Years ago I collected specimens at
Thargomindah (Q.) which were identi-
fied by an expert at the Sydney School
of Tropical Medicine as Simulium
furiosum, previously reported in Aus-
tralia only as a rare insect from Gosford
(N.S.W.) way. At that time there was a
plague of sandflies that covered the
country from Cooper’s Creek to Bollon
and from the border to Adavale; it
was so severe that stock and kangaroos
were dying and human life outdoors was
a misery. I examined hundreds—all
Simulium. The oldest inhabitant had
seen no change in their character since
they first bit him in ’76, and a committee
of drovers duly convened in Speedy’s
bar swore that the insects were alike in
appearance and character from Birdum
to Maree. Let “Kwakprak” look again.
* * * *
“Merlin”: “Duggai” (B. 25/3/’36) has
confused two plants. The Adelaide weed
known locally as the soursop is Oxalis
acetoseila, the English wood sorrel, intro-
duced as a pot-plant and gone wild. Jt
is a ‘small weed with a trefoil leaf and
bulbs and tubers that make it very hard
to eradicate. Stock eat it greedily, but
it contains enough acid oxalate of potas-
sium to make it disagree in large
amounts. It is a nuisance, but beautiful,
covering the ground with lemon-yellow
flowers on stems up to a foot high. The
soursop of Queensland, on the other
hand, is a fruit tree, Anona muricata,
native of the West Indies. The fruit
weighs up to 61b., and is full of juice of a
delicious flavor, like that of a custard-
apple, but more acid and refreshing, and
the pulp resembles wet cotton wool.
* ❖ * *
“Groper”: Hook a stingray, try to play
him, give him slack enough to get to the
bottom—and he will instantly attach
himself to the bed of the ocean. The
weight of the superincumbent water,
coupled with his enormous superficial
area, the shape of his body, tapering to a
thin edge all round, and his inherent
power of suction, enables him to take a
grip which will mean either he snapping
of the line or the tearing out of the hook.
This is probably the ’ray’s means of de-
fence. Flattened thus on the ocean bed,
with his ivory sting elevated for active
service, he can probably defy any shark
or other sea creature to make a meal off
him. It is only when caught “on the
wing” in the intermediate waters that
he falls a victim.
* * * *
“Western”: In a Westralian goldfields
camp not long ago I saw an offending
molar removed with an instrument com-
posed of two small three-cornered saw
files, a steel ring off a dog chain and a
small wooden wedge. The points of both
files were first broken off: then, inserted
through the ring, they were gripped on
to the tooth, the ring being nicely ad-
justed. The wooden wedge did the rest.
The operator applied a wrist move-
ment —and there was no hesitation
about that tooth leaving its socket. The
victim, however, swore that on the next
trip to the city he would have one out
with cocaine “just for pleasure”
THE CAREFUL BLOKE.
He didn’t smoke, he didn’t bet;
He boasted that he wouldn’t let
A single coin be wasted.
He shied at every form of sport,
And things like beer and gin and port
He never even tasted.
“Just save a bit,” he always said,
“And you’ll be bound to go ahead.”
He didn’t dance; he slept at nights;
A man needs eight hours’ sleep by rights—
That’s if he’s in his. senses.
He didn’t drive a motor-car,
For if you do, of course, you are
Just piUng up expenses.
“And you spend,” said he, “it’s gone,
And I want mine for later on.”
He met a girl, he liked her well.
“A wife’s all right; but who can tell?”
He said, and hesitated.
He’d wait a year or two and see
What times were like. He did, but she
Got married while he waited.
And as her fam’ly grew and grew,
He shook his head and said “I knew!”
He died at last, but till the end
Never a stiver would he spend
On doctors or on nurses.
His nephews came from town in haste,
But, knowing how he hated waste,
They saved a bit on hearses.
And now beneath the earth he’s laid
They’re lashing up what Uncle made.
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNE.


n
if
*l
Sheet
Metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
Pfflmi Nnw
e- Son Ltd.
/AcPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.. Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
PERMANENT PASTURES
The best results can only be
assured by using
THE BEST
P. 8.9 FERTILIZER
Because it ensures not only a quick
start to the grass, but also a suffi-
ciency of Plant Food throughout the
whole year, being a mixture of
quick-acting (Superphosphate and
Sulphate of Ammonia) and slow-
acting (Blood and Bone) Manures.
Write for Pamphlet's, Post Free.
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
Fertilizer Experts,
52 King Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All visual
banking business transacted.
Z'' l 1 is the Man Who
Wears a “Karachi”
Lightweight Tropical Suit.
KARACHI
Lightweight Tropical
SUIT.
Tailored to Measure, Coat
and Trousers ... £5/15/-
Three Piece ~ •••• £6/6/-
ltcady to Wear. Prices
from .. .. 79/6
In Shades of Fawn and,
Biscuit.
PIKEBROTHERS
LIMITED
in Queen St., Brisbane
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Cattle at Sydney Royal Show.
“J.R.D.”: The beef breeds at this
year’s R.A.S. have not only upheld the
high standard reached last year, but show
a definite improvement in numbers and
in quality.
The entire industry is now reaping the
benefit of the foresight and confidence
of breeders in continuing to import
quality sires throughout the long period
of adversity that affected the cattle in-
dustry. Never before has the standard of
the younger cattle been so high, a fact
that augurs well for the future.
Shorthorns still command most atten-
tion as the most widely-distributed breed
in Australia. The 1936 exhibits are
almost entirely free of the tall, leggy type.
Calf classes were strong, with an almost
entire absence of tail, although one or
two entries showed lack of show prepa-
ration. Colors were particularly good,
and the type generally is getting deeper
and closer to the ground.
In the open classes there were many
duels for supremacy between imported
animals and the local product. A beauti-
ful roan cow, Sni A Bar Ethel 2nd, won
the female championship from Anthony
Hordern’s Milton’s Gay Girl 2nd. The
two animals were as close to Shorthorn
perfection as any ever seen in Sydney.
The struggle for the bull championship
excited keen interest when the contes-
tants were narrowed down to last year’s
champion and runner-up. This year posi-
tions were reversed, due to some extent
to the older bull showing signs of wear ;
nevertheless the 1936 champion is the
most typical modern Shorthorn seen in
Sydney.
The Hereford section attracted some
big classes. One of these, comprising 44
entries, was, from a quality point of view,
one of the most impressive sights ever
seen here. In this section again the
local product was challenged by im-
portations. An English cow carried off
the female championship, but most of
the ribbons went to Australian-bred
animals.
Taking them all round, the Herefords
were of high, even quality, showing better
top and bottom lines than ever before.
Devons were represented by two studs
only. Although this seems poor enough,
it is an advance on previous years, when
one solitary breeder upheld the honor of
the type. The standard of exhibits was
high, and the champion Havilah bull is
an outstanding animal.
No other breed in Australia has made
such rapid strides in improvement and in
public favor as the Aberdeen-Angus. A
prize-winner of a few years ago would con-
stitute the tail to-day. There is abundant
evidence that the three main types —M.L.,
Scottish and Canadian —now appear to
be merging, and the Australian black
poll as a set type is resulting. The
younger animals of this section are a
revelation —-low-set, chunky and wonder-
ful handling. This is the type of animal
for which the chilling trade is clamoring.
Red Polls were well represented in
numbers and in quality, and, on the
whole, the animals showed better balance
in their dual purpose as meat and milk
producers than ever before. An occa-
sional beast showed a tendency to 'beefi-
ness —seldom in the other direction—and
colors were greatly improved. Some
classes held a bit of a tail, but the tops
would hold their own in any company.
Poll Shorthorns and Poll Herefords are
still comparatively new to this country.
The majority of entries comprised recent
importations from U.S.A., and a certain
amount of raggedness was in evidence.
The winners were splendid animals, but
some others appear to have been bred
primarily as polls, with little regard to
quality. Washy colors were another
weakness.
In the dairy breeds, Illawarra Short-
horn entries were heavy. A variation in
type is still evident and the color ques-
tion remains at issue. Ayrshires made a
fine display, and winners maintained
the high standard of past years. In some
classes, however, there appeared a de-
cided weakness in size and constitution.
Friesians also were weak in some de-
partments, and the quality of the prize-
winners served to show up the uneven-
ness and lack of size elsewhere.
Jerseys attracted over 300 entries, and
the already augmented cattle space at the
Showground was taxed to the limit.
Taken all the Jerseys were a fine
lot, and the ribbon-winners were fit to
take their place in any company. Exhibi-
tors of Guernseys were not so numerous
as usual, but the animals shown were
splendid types, and quality throughout
was excellent.
“Golden Lamb” at the R.A.S.
H. S. Henley, Bassett Downs, Cowra
(N.S.W.), won the Meat Industry Board’s
“Golden Lamb” trophy at the Sydney
R.A.S. The carcasses were from South-
downs crossed on Romney Marsh-merino
ewes. They were awarded 73 points out
of 75 for conformity and quality, though
only 10 out of 15 for carcass value, and
their aggregate was 91 points out of 100.
The second award went to F. C. Row-
lands and Sons, Waugoola (N.S.W.), for
a pen of Romney Marsh-Corriedales
averaging about 381 b. weight.
Among the purebred export classes A.
J. Reynolds’s Dorset Horns were second
and the McMaster Border Leicesters
third. A first prize was not awarded.
In the double-breed class, Southdown-
Romney Marsh won all three places—
A. F. Carr 1, F. C. Rowlands 2, A. F.
Carr 3.
The results are a strong hint to Aus-
tralian fat-lamb breeders. Few lines have
a chance of appearing among the tops of
the London lamb market unless domi-
nantly Southdown.
The Care of Rams.
“Granova”: The idea is prevalent that
rams must be kept poor or they will
not work. On the contrary, it pays to
give them the best possible feed for a
month prior to mating. Any rams be-
coming poor during mating should be
taken out and allowed to recover before
being returned to the ewes.
Some small-flock farmers use old
stud rams —price three to four guineas.
During mating, they feed them on grain
or lucerne hay during the day, and at
night yard them with the ewes. They
sometimes obtain excellent results with
3 p.c. of rams. The practice is only sound
in the hands of thoroughly experienced
breeders.
When mating is over, place the rams
in a securely-fenced paddock, well pro-
vided with feed, shade and water. Keep
an eye on them, as nothing is more
annoying during shearing, crutching,
etc., than a crop of newly-born lambs.
Rams that persist in fence-breaking can
be kept in order by fastening a yoke
made of three sticks about two feet long
around their necks. Remove the yoke
as soon as the ram has come to reason,
as it will cause him to lose condition.
Brands and Earmarks.
“Doitnow”: “Winfield’s” remarks on
branding are sound in many ways (B.
26/2/’36), but can be improved on.
Don’t economise with the oil, and
above all shake the tin thoroughly before
pouring out. There is more faulty
branding from neglect than from most
other causes. The pigment is always set
thickly on the bottom of all branding
fluids.
Don’t hurry the job. Far better to
take longer and brand than to boast of
how many you did in a minute, if hurry
makes for bad branding and bruising.
We adopt the policy of branding all
station sheep on the right shoulder, well
up, so that the mark can be easily seen
in a drafting race. All sheep to be sold
as store culls are branded in another
position, all sheep to be fattened and
sold in a third, and possible sale-sheep
in a fourth. This method has been of
untold value to us, especially with rogue
crossbreds.
If a sold mob gets boxed with a
station line, they can be drafted by a
competent station-hand on brand posi-
tion, as fast as they will run.
Lucerne v. Skeleton-weed.
“J.W.”: The N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment has formed the conclusion, on
the basis of reports from skeleton-
weed areas, which coincide with the ex-
periences of the Wagga Experimental
Farm, that lucerne and sheep can con-
trol the pest.
At the Wagga Farm, lucerne was
found able to get a hold on land with
from 25 to 30 weeds per sq. yard. Also,
lucerne has shown itself profitable, and
there is 300 acres on the farm on ordi-
nary wheat land. The Temora Govern-
ment Farm has 350 acres, and good re-
sults have been obtained at Cowra, Con-
dobolin and Trangie.
Now is the best time to deal with
skeleton-weed —that is, until about the
middle of May. The weed is at its dead
period, when growth is almost station-
ary. The lucerne should be put in just
after rain, if possible, and lightly fed
over with sheep in spring. Grazed then,
the weed cannot run to seed. The sheep
rush it, for it is then thoroughly tasty.
Lucerne sowing should be on well-
prepared fallow, and before sowing all
weed should be cut or eaten back to the
ground. The seed should be put in with
super, and covered with from |in to lin.
of soil. In August another lcwt. super
to the acre helps. It should be applied
with a spring-tooth cultivator and drill
or combine.
During the second spring season the
paddocks should stand pretty heavy
grazing. Quick feeding-off, with inter-
vals of rest, gives the best results. Con-
stant grazing works the land out.
Fallowing Practice.
“Winfield”: Two R.A.S. field-wheat
championships in four years, coupled
with a succession of high yields, have
put J. B. White and Sons (Boggabri,
N.S.W.) among the foremost authorities
on wheatgrowing.
These farmers tell me that all their
crops are grown on long fallow, on which
a mulch of at least 3in. is maintained dur-
ing the summer months.
The land is worked enough after every
rainfall to start weed-growth. It is a
mistake, they believe, to try to work the
fallow with sheep. It is better to prevent
weed-growth than to allow it and then
cut it back.
Sheep are useful only when it is not
practicable to work the land, as at har-
vest-time.
“Hortus” (B. 4/12/ ’35) says “Work
your fallow according to the time at your
leisure.” On this point—one on which
many farmers are in doubt —the Whites
do not agree with him. They believe
that the time to fallow depends entirely
on the incidence of rainfall, and that dry
working is a waste of time and effort.
Wheat Engorgement.
“Agamemnon”: One of the most seri-
ous troubles found in particu-
larly during harvest, is due to wheat en-
gorgement. The attack is complicated by
working the animal directly after gorg-
ing and by the predisposition of some
horses to gastric derangements.
The symptoms may be slight, the ani-
mal being sluggish, with no appetite.
Serious cases are very sudden. The
animal feels severe pain and becomes
violent and excited. Sweating breaks out
on the flanks, and the abdomen becomes
tense and swollen, death following.
Saline purgatives should be used to
remove the impacted mass from the
stomach. Four ounces of soda bicarb, in
one pint of water should be given to
counteract the toxin developed by the
wheat, followed by:
Epsom salts, 4-Boz.
Ground ginger, \oz.
Water, one pint.
The soda may be repeated every three
hours if it is thought necessary. Copious
enemas of soapy water are very useful.
In more serious cases one and a half
ounces of chloral hydrate may be given
in a pint of water.
While recovery is taking place only
soft laxative foods should be given, and
the horse should not be put to work too
soon.
Clydesdales in Australia.
The Commonwealth Clydesdale Society
has issued a handy little booklet on the
breed, which is obtainable from the Syd-
ney R.A.S. office.
It deals generally with the history of
Clydesdales in Australia, and with foun-
dation sires such as Prince of Wales (673
C. 5.8.), Darnley (222 C. 5.8.), MacGregor
(1487 C. 5.8.) and the later Dunure Foot-
print (15,203 C. 5.8.), who died in 1930,
aged 22.
Future generations may rate him as
Favorite (252) is rated among English
Shorthorns and the great Derrimut bulls
among Australian ones.
It is recorded that “it is almost impos-
sible not to find his name appearing in
the pedigree of any Clydesdale of conse-
quence in the show ring or stud in Scot-
land.”
The booklet gives a list of leading Scot-
tish sires as a guide to importers, the
scale of points adopted by the Common-
wealth Clydesdale Horse Society, hints to
breeders, explanatory photographs of
typical sires, a list of Scottish Clydesdales
imported into Australia and a summary
of the stud-book regulations.
The import list is a pointer to the
cattlemen. In the first nine months of
1935, 52 animals were brought in—26
stallions and 26 mares.
Cotton-packing Faults.
“Fibre”: Cotton-growers are receiv-
ing special advice from the Queensland
Cotton Culture Director (W. G. Wells)
before the harvest which is due to begin.
Some spoil cotton to save freight.
They pay by the bale for carriage to the
railway, and so pack more than the
standard 5001 b. per bale. The result is
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


«
i
m
m
A
ETHYL
JLd JL JB M JBL SLI
ETHYL
ETHYL
GASOLINE
CORPORATION
f
wmmw
Forget blatant selling claims . . . just test Atlantic Ethyl
yourself! We know Atlantic Ethyl* . . . what it will do in
your car —we know it’s the fuel that will give full “knock-
less” power in all high compression engines, 1934, 1935,
1936 models especially! But the point is this—you should
know it! So make your own tests —wherever you like—
under any conditions. Atlantic Ethyl is A 1!
* Atlantic Ethyl is NOT essential in cars built before 1934 unless they have high
compression motors! In low compression models , free from knock, Atlantic
Petrol develops full power output!
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD., —A.E3-36.


WORK YOUR LAND AT LESS
COST.. with an EFFICIENT FORDSON
&
</
ZI
-J
$
m
y
IS
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR—26 H.P. ON BELT
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON IS POUNDS UNDER THE PRICE OF
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF EQUIVALENT POWER
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT...HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
...GOVERNOR CONTROL ... SPECIAL AIR CLEANING SYSTEM...
CRANKCASE VENTILATION ... “HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER ... CLUTCH
PULLEY... POWER TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
FOrdSOIV Tr.wtor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
The English Fordson is the lowest-priced tractor per horse-
power on the market. And because it has ample economical
power, it will save time and money for you on every job—
ploughing, harvesting, haulage or stationary work. Fordson
is .available with pneumatic tyres or approved wheel grips.
A special Fordson Purchase Plan makes it possible for your
Tractor to earn its cost before you pay. Your local Ford
dealer will supply full particulars.
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD.. Corner Bridge &
Young Streets. Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
' LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., City Shrtns.: 601-3
Lit. Collins Street, Melb.
South Aust.: POWER PLANT LTD..
98-100 Currie Street. Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F61.27.T
DESIGNED AND BUILT AT DAGENHAM, ENGLAND.
Write for free copy “FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers’ Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
a pack so tight that clean-up is not easy,
and if the fibre is on the green side there
is a big risk of heating
Bale weights of from 4801 b. to 5001 b.
are most convenient. The woolman who
sent his clip in all-of-a-piece, with no
attempt at classing, would have a rough
time in the market. Although grading
is not so complex in cotton, it still pays
to divide into three lots—clean, clean
spotted and dirty
The class of bails also is a considera-
t.nn £ ; i ‘J d ? 1( i
tion Where the crop is large enough
sound woolpacks should be used. As
Q „ . „
opposed to the big weight, some exten-
sive growers still have the chaffbag habit
s-r . * . . , .. . °
in Central Queensland, and it is not a
good one, because it s ows up weighing
and grading five- and sixfold.
And senders, when they have more
than one variety of seed cotton, should
tag their bales with the name of the
variety
y ‘
. ,
Ihe Army Worm Arrives.
„ . .
Miram : North Queensland sugar-
men are being smitten hard by one of
their worst enemies, the army worm,
which affects ratoon and young sugar
mainly. The worm is really a caterpil-
lar, but gets its name from the organised
and systematic manner in which it
appears in a field and cleans it up before
moving on.
The worm is a dull-greenish fellow,
and usually spring is his season, but he
seems to find the present warm, wet
autumn to his liking.
He is a gross and eager feeder, and
when he finishes with a crop it looks as
if it had had a visit from two income-
tax commissioners and a couple of
Treasurers. Only the bare stalks are left.
The army worm grows to about Ijin.
in length, and when it is replete with
t: °° dtakes , the earth or burrows under
rubbish and becomes a chrysalis. Ten
days afterwards there is one more moth
cycde * s about
& , S-
Sugar-farmers are lucky m that the
P f est makes a fat . morsel for f bird and
J}? e^s , are sub J ect attack by some
and wasps, etc. On the other hand,
i ts . ? nemi f s do n ° tlce till it is
fa f ,r * y mature and has done a g° od deal
0 , arna S e - .
. , prevention one of the mam con-
siderations is cleanliness. The worm
likeS a dirty ’ Weedy field ' The next
move ( if weather allows) is generally to
Io £ deep f urrow with a vertical
;•, \ . Tia ~ , , , .
side between the advancing horde and
un t ouc hed fields At intervals alnnfr this
t T k, in ; ervals along tbls
pits are dug. Unable to crawl up the
f F
°1 th k e i urro *?’ ~t h. e
alon * the bottom ,in " falls lnto
* . , .
„ ***> , ov “ an ar f f bo “‘ » <* a,n
, lead to 100 gallons
°* water 8 0 °d insulation. But when
worms are in a field the officially recom-
mended treatment is the following bait:
2 quarts molasses.
251 b. bran,
11b. Paris green or white arsenic,
? gallons water,
Jluce ot s,x lenions or oran B es -
The poison should be stirred thoroughly
into the bran while dry. The molasses
and fruit juice are mixed with the water
The mixture is then poured over the
poisoned bran. It should not be so wet
that it will run between the fingers, but
wet enough to stick. It should be used
at about 201 b. to 231 b. to the acre.
n , , .. . .
Rabbit-control Disease.
“Ghanam”: The C.S.I.R. has pub-
fished the findings of Charles Martin,
F.R.S., on the control of rabbits by
microbe. The disease with which the
experiments were made was myxoma-
tosis, a highly infectious fever which
produces consequences too horrible for
a humane man to contemplate within
one incubation period of from five to
eight days.
It is a S. American scourge, and in
1926-27 it occurred to somebody that it
might be turned to good account in Aus-
tralia. Virus material was sent here for
experiment.
Dr. Martin now finds his experience
different from that of other investiga-
tors who thought that “even in a large,
airy room it is difficult to avoid infecting
other rabbits.” Apart from experiments
in which animals were in close contact,
he seldom succeeded in transmitting the
disease. It proved highly contagious
where rabbits were in close contact with
each other, however. And the disease is
unusually fatal —out of many hundreds
of cases before the Martin experiments
only six could be found in which rabbits
recovered. Dr. Martin’s tests showed a
l-in-25 recovery with one strain of virus
and a l-in-208 with the other.
After 20 months’ experience, Dr.
Martin thinks that “a good strain of
virus satisfies the essential requirements
for the control of rabbit population in
a circumscribed area without danger to
domestic animals.” One of the virus
strains maintained a uniform virulence,
when passed by contact, for 15 months,
during which it produced 100 p.c. of wild
rabbits and 99.6 p.c. of domesticated
varieties.
The doctor cannot say whether the
disease method would be effective in
general use. Its spread from colony to
colony would be determined by the
amount of contact between the rabbits
in each colony. Only field experiments
can show this.
It is to be hoped that there is some
other way of killing bunny off. This one
is so cruel and lingering as to produce
a shudder.
Blood-splashed Bacon.
“Pappa Mosca”: It causes a good deal
of loss in the bacon trade. It comes from
the tearing of muscles and small blood-
vessels. Blemishes may range from a
tiny spot to an ugly blotch half an inch
across, and showing mostly in the skirts.
The origin is in method of slaughter,
generally speaking. Scooting in the head
and pole-axing (which involve brain de-
struction) both cause it, but it is avoided
by “sticking” and by new electrical
methods which are in vogue in many
modern pig abattoirs.
Splashing occurs within a few seconds
of slaughter, and the time which elapses
between slaughter and bleeding influences
only the size of the marks. There is
also a bigger percentage of “splashed”
animals among pigs which have been
travelled long distances or otherwise
exhausted before slaughter.
Methods of prevention seem fairly
obvious from these facts.
Hints for the Farm.
“Cuchulain”: The average stiff-fingered
bushman would find “Whalebone’s” pair
of tongs (B. 26/2/’36) a bit fiddly for
putting out rabbit baits. I always use
a long-handled iron spoon (such as shed
cooks use for gravy-making). With this
it is easy to scoop thistle-root baits, one
at a time, from a bucket.
“A.G.R.”: A simple treatment for
blood scours in calves which has been
found effective in the Darling Downs
(Q.) district is to starve the calf in the
morning, and in the evening give it one
eggcupful of kerosene in a quart of new
milk. The milk must be fresh. Power
kerosene is best.
“Quack”: Don’t make hard work of
plucking even the toughest muscovy
drake. After the axe, immerse the bird in
cold water, working the moisture well
round the roots of the feathers, especially
of the wings and tail. Then immerse in
scalding, but not boiling, water —use it
when the first beady bubbles appear.
This avoids parboiling and loss of flavor
of the skin, and also keeps the bird free
from skin tears.
“Chook”: Soak wheat well before feed-
ing, especially to ducks. It is then very
filling and readily digestible, giving the
bird everything—gluten, pollard, sharps
and bran. And don’t throw away the
water used for soaking. If not used for
mixing a ration of bran and pollard,
put it in the drinking tin.
The Mudgee (N.S.W.) Stock Inspector
strongly favors heavy stocking, prefer-
ably with black-skinned sheep, as a
method of eradicating St. John’s wort'.
“Sheepo”: In spite of the results
achieved by “Warramulla” (B. 25/3/’36),
the grazier who crutches his ewes just
prior to lambing is tempting Providence.
I say, have the ewes crutched well not
less than a month before lambing. This
will achieve the object intended without
undue risks being taken.
“The 0.D.”: “Jonah” frightened me
at first with his talk of phosphorus de-
pletion (B. 4/3/’36), until I recalled that
in nor’-west N.S.W. there are wheat pad-
docks that have carried crops every year
for upwards of 60 years, with a steadily-
increasing yield (owing to new wheat
varieties rather than to soil), and with-
out ever having a pound of artificial
manure applied to them. Just for proof,
one such paddock is on Scott Bros.’, at
Currabubula.
“Agamemnon”: A satisfactory ration,
besides being tasty, succulent and vari-
ous, must be correctly balanced chemi-
cally. The proportion of digestible
nitrogenous matter (protein) to carbohy-
drates should be as 1 to 5 or 1 to 6.
The amount of dry roughage for a cow
in milk is about 21b. per 1001 b. live
weight. Milk producers require a much
closer ratio than dry cows. Young stock
need one of about 1:3. A cow of
10001 b. live weight should have 501 b.
silage or paspalum per day simply to
maintain bodily functions, while extra
nutrients are required according to the
richness and quantity of the milk.
Enough roughage could be provided
with a daily ration of 101 b. lucerne and
301 b. corn silage. The nutrients of such
a mixture would scarcely maintain the
cow if dry, and both protein and carbo-
hydrate would have to be increased. Six
pounds bran (ratio 1.4) and 21b. corn-
meal (ratio 10) will produce a ration in
which nutritive ratio is 1:5.9. The dry
matter —241 b enough, and it is eco-
nomical, practical and relished by stock.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Youi« Streets, Sydney
Ilium 111 I
Illl! Il a
li
m
I
m
mpm
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
36363 (A lines).
SMOKE-OH!
Change Places.
Young Jim Smith had achieved his
ambition. He was 15 to-day. But it was
not that which excited him; it was the
nicely-creased pair of long trousers he
wore —his first pair.
“Come and show your father,” his
mother urged. She was a little proud to
think that her son was grown up enough
to wear long trousers. But father didn’t
seem to care. He was too enchanted with
his own presence. Tennis racquet in
hand, he stood making imaginary strokes
before the mirror to see how he looked
in his new white shorts —the first he had
worn since he was 15.
Sef.
»b *b *!♦
Trapped'.
They had warned him before he set
out that he might not get back before
nightfall ; indeed, that he might never
get back. He realised now that those
words, uttered by men
who had been through
the mill themselves, had
been no idle ones. Fool
that he was, he had not
brought any water with
him, and here he was,
after wandering for
hours, the blazing sun
and burning sand aggra-
vating his awful thirst.
- Sand! It seemed to
his tortured mind that
he had never seen so
much before.
He had heard of men
getting the dreaded
sandy blight, and in a
moment of panic his hand flew to his
eyes. He could still see, but —God!
would it claim him, too, as it had claimed
other and stronger men? Sand! Sand!
The word seared into his brain. What
would he not give for a mouthful of that
water that he had so often laughingly
despised? Well, he was in a tight corner,
but he had got himself into it, and he’d
get himself out of it, despite his weaken-
ing legs and eyes, which were twin balls
of fire from the reflected glare from the
interminable sand.
Then, gritting his teeth determinedly,
the mug golfer gripped his club anew
and recommenced his savage onslaught
on the ball in the bunker.
Quayeau.
•b v -I*
“Stays with Aunt.”—' "Sun.”
When we were young it was just the
reverse.
•x 4
“When attacked by a 12ft. python, a young
African warrior killed it after a 15-minute
struggle.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
Wish we’d had him with us over
Easter!
b v »b •!*
The Question.
The suitor stood nervously waiting to
interview the girl’s father. How would
he take it? He knew the old man was
devoted to her.
“Just a moment,” interrupted the
father as the younger man started to ex-
plain. “There’s one question I want to
ask you before you begin. It’s im-
portant.”
“I’ll do my best to answer it, sir,” the
young man said, fearing the worst. He
knew he couldn’t give her the things she
had been used to.
Eagerly, the old man continued, “D’you
know what won the last?”
Ced.
A Lengthy Job.
“A petition 102 ft. long, containing thousands
of signatures, has been presented to the Minis-
ter for Transport.” —Melbourne “Argus.”
I know what a thankless and heart-
breaking task this petition-presenting is.
As president of the Dingbat Bay Pro-
gress Association, I once got up a peti-
tion protesting against the sandfly nuis-
ance on our beach.
As we had only a couple of hundred
residents, I was compelled to fall back
on the telephone-book, and, when that
petered out, on my imagination. After
five months’ solid work I had about
80,000 signatures. It took me another
two months to paste the sheets together
into one long roll, which I wound on
a surf reel. The Minister seemed quite
impressed when the local M.L.A. intro-
duced the deputation, with four hefty
lifesavers carrying in the petition.
After a short forty-minute preliminary
speech, I started unwinding it, reading
“Well, now you know where We live, you must drop in more often.”
out some of the prominent names. After
some time the Minister interrupted a
prodigious yawn to exclaim:
“What was that last name?”
I repeated it.
“Why, that’s mine!” he said.
That was that fool of a wife of mine
and the damned telephone-book! But
my grey matter was in top gear by then
and firing on all cylinders. My reply
was instantaneous:
“That peculiar coincidence struck me
at the time, but he said he was no rela-
tion of yours.”
Before he could start thinking again I
had rattled off a dozen more names.
The next time I looked up the sea of
paper around me was 7ft. deep. I had
to tread it down to get out. The noise
woke a uniformed individual in the Min-
ister’s chair.
“Finished, have you?” he said. “I’m
the head messenger. The Minister went
out a couple of hours ago. He says you
ought to have taken it to the* Chief Sec-
retary.”
I’ll spare the harrowing details, but
every time I unwound it before each of
the nine Ministers I was sent to it took
me a full day to wind it up again. Even-
tually I got to the right Minister—-
the one I saw at first —and was told
to leave it in the corner and I’d be
advised in due course.
That was eight years ago, and I haven’t
heard yet. But, after all, “due course”
can mean anything.
. S. W.K.
The Force of Prayer.
They were miles off the beaten track,
chugging along through sand and scrub,
when the car stopped with a hesitating
cough. Blobb pressed the starter, and
nothing happened. With a sigh he
reached for the starting handle and com-
menced to churn. He ceased, raised
the bonnet, and went through various
gyrations with the carburettor, distributor
and other gadgets. Nothing happened.
Blobb became a little impatient, and his
string of vituperation almost blistered the
paint.
“Oh, Mr. Blobb! ” remonstrated his
curate passenger, “have you ever tried
prayer?”
“No, but I’ll do anything once,” he
said, and throwing the starting handle
into the back, he climbed into the driver’s
seat, put his arms on the steering wheel
and shut his eyes. His lips moved. He
waited a moment and then pressed the
starter.
The gentle purr of the awakened engine
greeted their ears.
“Well, I’m damned,” said the curate.
X. S. S.
4* *l*
Bargains.
Bilspeare was browsing around the
cheaper counters of the second-hand
bookshop.
“All this row, 6d„” he
read, and with an eager glint
in his eye he began examin-
ing the contents.
“Marvellous,” he mused,
“the bargains one can pick
up nowadays. Here’s one of
Jolson’s works, practically
new. I’ll have that. And
this thing of Pickle’s —a bit
soiled, but dirt-cheap. Ha,
ha! Rather bright, that!”
The proprietor approached.
“Like something, sir?”
“Yes, I’ll take this Jolson
and this Pickle. My word,
you’re a real benefactor to us
struggling writers, giving away bargains
like this.”
“Well, of course, we can only sell them
for what they’ll bring,” was the reply.
“Yes, I suppose that’s right,” agreed
Bilspeare.
“Anything else, sir?”
“I’ll just look through the rest. Hullo!
What’s this? Dammit, man, you must
be mad! Never so insulted in my life!
Keep your books! Disgraceful!”
Bilspeare stamped out, leaving the pro-
prietor dumbfounded as he replaced
Jolson and Pickle on the sixpenny shelf
alongside a dozen uncut copies of The
Passionate Peasant, by Belvedere Bil-
speare.
Uco.
•i* 4*
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
X. — A Line on Adelaide.
South Australia exports wool and
wheat overseas, and motor-bodies and
brains to the rest of Australia. Her
main imports are cricketers, lottery
tickets and clergymen.
Adelaide, styled the City of Culture
by a globe-trotter who had apparently
not called in at Parliament House, and
City of Churches by a disgruntled tour-
ist who couldn’t get a drink on Sunday,
labored courageously under the titles for
many years, and then introduced betting
shops in order to attract a few visitors
for its centenary.
When the Whipsnoodles visited the city
Mrs. Loofah, an inveterate collector of
cathedrals and such, rushed off in search
of churches and stained glass.
She gave it up after her first four
attempts had produced two garages, one
biscuit factory and a betting shop. As
to stained glass, all she found was some
dirty windscreens and a couple of beer-
mugs (empty).
“It’s a sell,” she complained bitterly.
“Churches, indeed! I believe they’re
all heathens.”
Needless to say, her indictment was in-
correct. There are several God-fearing
people in Adelaide, and the last trams
leave at 11.30 p.m., while every year
there is a large number of convictions
for drunkenness and wife-beating—
offences which would be allowed to pass
unpunished in a heathen community.
After lunch I took the party down to
see the Torrens Lake. On the way I ex-
tolled its beauty, saying that here was
something worth coming half-way round
the world to see.
Full of expectancy we reached the
lake, but unfortunately someone had left
the bung out and we gazed upon a tiny
trickle of water in a sea of mud.
Mrs. Loofah was most indignant. “It’s
a sell!” she moaned. “I don’t believe
there’s a lake at all.”
Miss Birdseed took it more sportingly,
as an extract from her book shows:
....quite empty! It reminded me of
the time when my nephew (a little beast)
took the stopper out of my goldfish pond.
The poor little things died, of course. So
sad!
Returning to North-terrace, we met
a tall, sad-looking man. He said his
name was Buttle or something, and he
pointed proudly to a corner block with
palms and lawns.
“We’re going to build a new Parlia-
ment House here,” he volunteered.
“Why?” asked Sir Percy.
“As a centenary measure,” was the
reply.
“What’s wrong with the old one?”
“Well, it’s rather small, you know.”
“When was it built?”
“About 50 years ago.”
“Are there more members now than
then?”
“Less, I think.”
“Hm! Bigger members, perhaps?”
Buttle pondered a moment, then
replied :
“No, on the whole they’re probably
smaller.”
“Thinking of increasing the number?”
“No, we’re considering a reduction of
members.”
Sir Percy delivered judgment:
“Well, I can’t see what you want a
new Parliament House for.”
“As a matter of fact,” said Buttle,
“neither can I. But it’ll look jolly nice
on this corner, won’t it?”
Jasby.
4 1 y
“Like many Scots, her lover was a stickler
for moral principles.” — Woman’s paper.
Stop your stickling, Jock!
Anything for a Quiet Life.
We’ve made a mess of wedlock —
’Tis plain we’ll ne’er agree.
We’ve touched the base or bedrock
Of animosity.
You pepper me with dishes;
I fling invective hot,
And duck as past me swishes
A basin, jug or pot.
I’ve bought your ticket, honey, *
So packing, please begin.
Where did 1 get the money ?
Our neighbors all chipped in.
P.O.M.C.


Fine Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”:-
THE BRIDLE TRACK
By J.J. HARDIE.
Chapter XIII. —( Continued .)
IT rained for two days, and the men sat moodily in
camp, marooned in a bog with neither sight nor
sound of their cattle. On the third day they ventured
out with difficulty. The channels were beginning to
run, and it was imperative that the cattle be recovered
before the river came down and cut them off. They
penetrated the tangled maze of the channels, circling
outside the tracks, turning in every scattered lot of
cattle as they went, and Mac, mounted on a bay pack
mare, one of his original string, brought up the rear,
picking up the concentrating herd.
The mare was dull and lifeless, and could barely
drag her feet out of the sucking mud. In a narrow,
steep-banked channel, with six inches of water trick-
ling down it, she finally baulked and refused to face
the bank. The cattle were straying away to the flank,
and Mac, in desperation, dug the spurs in and drove
her at it. She reared, her week hind legs slipped from
under her, and she fell back on her side with the rider
pinned underneath the saddle.
Mac was not hurt by the fall, but the mare’s feet
were up the bank, and all her weight bore down on
his imprisoned thigh. She struggled feebly, and a new
fear seized him.that she might roll over and crush
him. But the mare seemed too listless to do any-
thing. His leg was feeling numb ; so was the
arm that propped his shoulders out of the water ; and
the realisation of another source of danger forced
itself on him —the water was rising rapidly. At this
rate it would not be long before the mare would be
forced to a final effort —which might end badly for
him —or, alternatively, the swelling stream must soon
submerge him. Either way looked hopeless for him.
He shouted at the top of his voice, but the narrow
banks threw the sound back at him. He tried to drag
his leg from under the mare, but only succeeded in
slipping deeper into the stream—with the mare still
on him. The crashing of a heavy body through the
gidya gave him hope, and he shouted again. A bul-
lock burst through the screen, slithered into the channel
and stopped, gazing stupidly at the prostrate man.
Then with a frightened snort it plunged back up the
bank and out of sight.
He had to struggle hard to keep his shoulders
above the yellow flood. He was too numb and power-
less to make another attempt to release his leg. Queer,
fantastic thoughts kept flitting through his head. Why
was he lying here waiting for death when he might
be working comfortably at home? A vision of a high-
spirited, wilful girl against a background of super-
cilious youths and laughing girls suggested an answer,
but he stubbornly refused to admit it. It was his
own fault. He had wanted to make money—a lot of
money in the shortest possible time. But what good
would all the money in the world be to him in a few
minutes when he could no longer keep his head above
the rising water? The chilly stream laid an icy finger
on his bare neck. He summoned all his strength and
screamed.
The crack of a whip sounded close at hand. He
yelled again, and after what seemed an age came a
questing “Hullo, there!”
“Here!” he screamed. “Here! Quick!”
A horse slithered down the steep bank, the rider
glanced sharply down stream, then he turned and
stared unbelievingly a second. His horse bounded
forward and the man jumped from the saddle, to land
feet first in the water with a splash.
“Dick!” he yelled. “Hi, Dick!”
At the answering shout, Bill stooped and slipped
an arm under Mac’s shoulders. The mare was lifting
her head to keep it clear of the water, and the situa-
tion looked too difficult for one man to tackle on
his own. Then Dick appeared up the bank, gave
one swift look and shot off his horse.
Mac looked down from the bank where they
had laid him to his mud-slathered mare standing
abjectly below ; then he turned his head slowly and
painfully toward Bill. “I think I’ll stick to sheep after
this!” he said.
It was rather ironical that they should suffer
all the discomforts of the rain and reap none of its
benefits. When they turned south from the Mayne
they faced a stretch of bare scrubland and dry grass
where no rain had fallen. Two long, dry stages faced
the weak, dispirited cattle —over a hundred miles with
only one doubtful waterhole on it.
They got through. They faced other difficulties
and survived, but on every camp they left a broken
remnant that had once been a sleek, spirited steer or
heifer; each day another and yet another beast fell
out and was left behind.
Then one morning Bill rode ahead across red
sandhills where camels wandered morosely, and found
a stock camp on the bank of a broad lagoon where
squadrons of black and white pelicans sailed and
manoeuvred in their hundreds. He returned to the
cattle with a return of the old alertness in his bear-
ing. “They’re coming to take delivery in the morn-
ing.”
And there was no possible doubt about the sin-
cerity of the heartfelt chorus of “Thank God for
that!”
They rested themselves and their weary horses
by the Pelican Lagoon for a full week before they
made for the nearest town. It consisted of half a
dozen houses in various states of disrepair—and a pub.
And there, with the exception of Mac and Percy, they
got gloriously drunk.
Chapter XIV.
THE atmosphere inside the courthouse was remi-
niscent of the cookery-book instructions to “bake
in a moderate oven.” The crowd that packed
the benches had long since discarded coats and collars
—or, rather, such members of the crowd as wore such
unnecessary garments had—and a general feeling of
sympathy went out to the president and officials of the
Land Court up on the platform, whose professional
decorum still outweighed considerations of personal
comfort.
Half the population of Longreach seemed to be
present. Those who could not get inside clustered
round doors and windows, or, while the uninteresting
process of checking the applicants in the land ballot
was in progress, drifted across to the pub to discuss
their chances over a beer.
The last tray of numbered marbles poured into
the ballot-box. A stout, elderly man was beckoned
forward, and the clerk handed him a wand with wire
prongs at one end, after exhibiting it to the crowd
with the flourishes and gestures of a conjuror inviting
the audience to see for themselves that there is nothing
up his sleeve. The hum of conversation died down
and the atmosphere became tense with expectancy. A
panel in the ballot-box was slipped open, and the fat
man inserted the business end of the wand. He with-
drew it slowly, and the audience craned forward in
their seats, stared hard, then sat back with gasps of
disgust. The prongs were empty.
A hoarse whisper floated from the platform.
“Harder, man!” And the fat man with the injured
expression of the conjuror who has failed to produce
the rabbit from the top-hat set his heavy jaw and
jabbed the stick fiercely into the box. It emerged with
a wooden marble in the prongs, and the conjuror,
smiling, handed the fateful wand to the president, who
peered hard at the number through *his spectacles.
He stood up, cleared his throat and declared
that Portion 2, Parish of Towoonan, 16,756 acres, had
been drawn by Number Eighty-seven. There was a
sudden scuffling and rustling of papers to identify the
number, and the crowd pressed closer, stemming a
flood of excited comment with apparent effort. A
shirt-sleeved land agent in the front row sat up with
added importance and a satisfied smile, and the clerk
passed a document to the president.
Heads craned through windows and doorway.
The president cleared his throat again.
“Number Eighty-seven. The successful applicants
are Mac Andrew and Muir. Longreach.”
The spate of comment broke out in an excited
torrent, and everyone made for the doorway at once.
A big, red-faced man panted in from the. street.
“Who won? Who won?”
“Mac Andrew and Muir!”
“Who? The drovers?”
“Yes.”
He clutched the sleeve of a tall, thin man. “Tom!
D’you know where they are? I want to get hold
of them quick.”
The thin man reflected.
“Mac ought to be up about Muttaburra with a
mob of sheep, and Bill’s due to deliver his cattle out
the other side of Corona day after to-morrow. What
d’you want ’em for?”
“Agistment! I’ll give ’em sixty pounds a month.”
The agent led him quickly down the street. This
was business.
The news penetrated to a cafe down town, and
the blonde behind the counter withdrew unobtrusively
through the green curtains. A calculating look crept
into her pale-blue eyes, then she smiled enigmatically
at her reflection in the mirror and proceeded to smack
at her heavy features with an overloaded powder-puff.
“So Bill had a selection now! Good! That should
bring him back to town soon. She must keep her
evenings free for the next week. And she W'ouid
have to get in ahead of that skinny barmaid at the
Commercial. Blast her!”
At that moment a slim brunette with just a little
too much color on her cheeks and a glint of suppressed
excitement in her sophisticated eyes had deserted the
bar for the ’phone in the hotel office. She bit her
lip with vexation, and the pointed toe of her shoe
tapped impatiently on the floor till a gruff voice
barked in the receiver at her ear. “Not there yet?
Oh, that’s bad! Will you try and get hold of him?
It’s very important . . . and tell him to ring the
Commercial and ask for me —for me, Mr. Smith . . .
it’s Florrie speaking. Aw, nothing of the kind!
You’re a nawful map! ’Bye, Mr. Smith!”
Mac, heading up the Landsborough with five
thousand wethers, idly watched the pillar of dust
curling up behind the approaching car, then, as it
swung off the road and bumped through the grass
toward the mob, he rode to meet it. The driver, a
lean, bronzed man in shirt-sleeves, hailed him above
the rattle of the car.
“Good day, Mac! A lot of telegrams for you.”
The furrows gathered on Mac’s brow, and he
set his lips, prepared for bad news. Instead, the
driver thrust a brown hand at him.
“Congratulations! ”
Mac accepted the firm grip with a puzzled expres-
sion. What had he done to be congratulated? He
never bought lottery tickets; refused even to “invest”
in a raffle, and had all his life shut his ears to . the
spruiker’s argument, “If you don’t speculate you
won’t accumulate!” He accepted the half-dozen tele-
grams with the nearest thing to a poker face he could
muster. »
He ripped them open, and, as he read, his mysti-
fication increased and refused to remain hidden.
He examined the addresses again. MacAndrew—
that was his name —and the address was near enough.
The driver laughed up at him.
“Well. Are you going to shout?”
“But what’s it all about? These wires are from
agents and people with offers for agistment. What’s
that got to do with me?”
The bronzed man leaned back in the seat and
laughed heartily.
“Haven’t you heard you drew a block yesterday?”
“Drew a block! Me? But” —he stared per-
plexedly at the other—“l never applied for one!”
“Wha-at! ” The man stared back in complete
amazement. “You must have! I got it over the ’phone
last night. Mac Andrew and Muir!”
A light broke suddenly on Mac. Was this an-
other of Bill’s mad schemes? He had never even
hinted at applying for a selection, but if he had —
if they had actually drawn one! A rosy light flooded
his incoherent thoughts. Here were people offering
him money —big money! His heart leaped at the
prospect, and he turned to the man in the car.
“Will you send a wire to my partner? I want
to get him on the ’phone.”
It was late in the evening before his call came
through. Over a couple of hundred miles of wire a
faint, distant voice buzzed at his ear.
“Hullo! Who’s that? That you, Mac? Heard
the news? Not bad, is it? We drew the homestead
block —sixteen thousand acres. Well grassed and
lashings of water! Have you had any offers for agist-
ment? What’s your best? Eh —what’s that? Eighty
pounds a month? How many months? I've got a
better one! MacCulloch rang me up—he offered
eightp pounds a month for six months, and hell
THE STORY SO FAR
Bill Muir came to Queensland as a
newchum and spent some time with
Mac Andrew, a sheep-drover, afterwards
turning his attention to cattle. Twelve
years later Mac Andrew’s son while on
his way to the Northern Territory to
pick up a mob of cattle fell in with
Bill, ’now an expert cattleman.
Mac had had difficulty in finding men
for the trip, so Bill, realising the lad’s
greenness as far as cattle-droving was
concerned, offered to go with him. Mac
eagerly accepted, but insisted on Bill
joining him as a partner.
With Dick West, Percy the horsetailer
(a half-caste) and “The Desolated Coker-
nut” as cook, they picked up the cattle
and started on the journey south.
At the close of last instalment the mob
had got away from them during a thun-
derstorm near the Diamantina.


finish the fencing for us. That suit you? Right! I’ll
fix it! What? What d’you say? Oh, didn’t I tell
you? I put in an application for the block last month.
Mine? Not on your life. We’re partners, lad.”
It was not until many months later that Bill
entered his new property. As the weary horses topped
a rise he halted his mare with an imperceptible ges-
ture and looked across a fold in the downs at the
old, rambling homestead with the big, square dam
on the eastern side and the two gently-sloping hills
rising from the belt of timber behind. Dick West
reined his horse alongside, and .presently the pair were
joined by Percy, grown to slim manhood. Then with
a long-drawn “Whoa! ” the waggonette drew up and
from the box the Desolated ‘ Cokernut blinked criti-
cally at the prospect.
“She looks all right! ”
Bill’s casual remark was. delivered with the non-
chalant air of a millionaire tossing, a thousand-dollar
bet on a roulette number.
Dick nodded appreciatively.
“I like the look of that flat t’other side of the
dam.”
“What d’you like about it?”
“I reckon there’s room for a mile track there”
Bill eyed him severely. “Do you ever think of
anything but racing the guts out of horses?”
“’Course I do! I like a drink.once in a while,
an’ if there’s any good sorts about”
Bill interrupted him and turned to the horsetailer.
“What about you, Percy?”
“Looks like a good horse paddock. Not much
grass in it, though.”
“No, I suppose Mac’s been running his blasted
sheep in it!”
“And there’s a good round yard”——
Bill nodded and looked challengingly at the man
on the box. “What have you got to say about it,
Tim?”
“Wait till I’ve had a look at the kitchen,” returned
that individual.
“Oh! Going to settle down, are you?”
“I’ve had enough of wearing the seat of me pants
on this ’ere box for a while. Anyhow,” he added sen-
tentiously, “I could do with a bit of sedimentary life
for a change.”
“Hmmm!” Bill surveyed the three in turn.
Dick’s going to build a race track. Percy’s going
to start breaking-in. Tim’s going to order a case of
decimated cokernut and poison the lot of us. Where
do I come in? And what I want to know is, Who’s
boss of this flamin’ outfit,
and whose selection is it,
anyhow?”
Dick stuck his chin for-
ward.
“Look! We’ve put up
with you for damn’ near
three year now —God only
knows how—-for I only
worked for one other man
for more’n a year at a stretch,
and that was when they got
me in the army and I couldn’t
get meself the sack!”
Bill swept the three of
them with a happy grin and
started his mare down the
track.
“Come on then, you
damned loafers! But don’t forget we’ve a mob oi
bullocks to lift after the races.”
He turned thoughtfully toward Dick West.
“Do you reckon that black filly will gallop?”
“I wish I was as sure of winning Tatt.’s!”
“Dick” —his tone was serious and his eyes fixed
contemplatively on the horses ahead—“l would like
to get some of my cash back from those bookies in
there! The best odds I ever got from them was
three to one against the outsider in a goatrace.” He
switched a keen glance on the man at his side, and
there was a businesslike ring about his words. “Do
you think we can train her —get her in condition in
time for. the meeting? We’ll leave that rough coat
on her and ride her in an old greenhide bridle. We’ll
nominate her in the Cokernut’s name and go for a
skinner. Is it a go?”
“Too flamin’ right it is!”
Dick banged his fist emphatically, on the pommel
and his horse jumped sideways and threw an aggrieved
glance back at him from the corner of an eye.
Bill swung his whip, and three cracks echoed like
pistol shots and sent the loose horses trotting on.
“That’s for Mac to put the billy on.” He turned to
Percy with mock severity. “You’ve got to ride that
black filly in Longreach—and in the meantime don’t
forget to say ‘sir’ when you’re talking to the owner
of this station! Now canter up and open that blasted
gate.”
Percy grinned widely as he slipped away.
“Right-oh, Bill!”
And Bill watched him with a paternal grin.
“He’ll be running wild, chopping down bees’ nests
and hunting witchetty grubs for the next fortnight
like any blasted walkabout nigger—and if we don’t
look out he’ll be too fat to ride that filly!”
Chapter XV.
BILL turned in the doorway to wave a cheerful
farewell to someone in the bar, then he barged
up the broad staircase. The hotel was full to
overflowing; the wide upstairs verandah revealed a
vista of close-packed rows of beds like an overcrowded
hospital ward.
Mac looked sharply at him as he entered the room
and plumped on the bed opposite. Bill had had a few
drinks —just enough to make him talkative —but that
was not the underlying cause of his elation. Mac
ventured a question.
“Wei!, how did you get on with the Ford?”
Bill roused himself and leaned forward with
enthusiasm sparkling in his eyes.
“Get on? I got on and stopped on! Rode her
to a standstill!”
Mac eyed him dubiously.
“How many gates did you hit?”
“Oh, one or two. Didn’t hurt Lizzie, though.
I clean forgot all about brakes. Sat back and took
a grip of her that’d steady a draught horse and the
damn’ thing kept on going. Good thing the bloke
from the garage was with me! ” He chuckled remini-
scently. “I gave ’em the ride of their lives coming
back!”
“Who else was with you?”
“Oh, I took Marie—the fair-haired filly from down
the street—the one you don’t like.”
“Didn’t shej know you couldn’t drive?”
“She never asked. Only too glad to come for
a ride. Cripes. and I clean forgot to take ithat whisky
out to Tim!” He sat back and laughed uproariously.
“You should have heard Marie perform when that
gate rushed up and hit us! Wanted to get out and
walk back, and the garage bloke looked like he wanted
to walk home with her. Anyhow, I gave Lizzie a
preliminary canter after the last gate, then I let her
out! One thing I’ye got against motor-cars—they
can’t take a gutter like a horse. And what do you
think? I offered to drive Marie to the dance to-night
and she turned me down!”
“The Ford’s done one good turn, then.”
Mac leaned against the wall with his hands clasped
behind his head.
“Bill, why do you run around with women like
Marie? Plenty of marriageable girls about.”
“Huh! Want to see me roped and branded, do
you? What would I do with a wife?”
“We’ve got a house—a decent property. We’re
making good money, and you’re chucking your cash
away on those women! ”
“That’s all right. Anyhow, can you see me
married and legroped to a house and furniture
and God knows what, and one day some fellow
rings up and says, ‘Bill, I want you to take a thousand
“What's this —the Kelly gang — or am I just drunk?"
bullocks down to N.ew South’? Then I’d have to do
like the other married drovers—go and leave the wife
on.hhr own for six months or say ‘No, thanks, old
man, you’ll have to get someone else.’ And every
day for the next six months I would be thinking,
‘They ought to be on the Barcoo by this’ or ‘They’ll
be camping at Northampton to-night.’ And I’d go
and ring up Blackall and ask what the road’s like on
to Tambo, what the grass is like, how the water’s
holding. I would be doing every stage of that damned
trip and cursing the bad luck that kept me off it.
“Anyhow”—he leaned forward with a touch of
heat —“what would any nice girl want with me?
She would want to know all sorts of questions about
my people. Could I tell her I never knew my father
—that I’m a bull without a pedigree—a damned
scrubber?”'
Mac rose to pacify him. Bill’s secret never came
to the surface until he had had a few drinks, but
Mac always found him easier to handle then than
when he was cold sober. He threw open the verandah
doors and a wave of dance music floated across from
the hall.
“Don’t be stupid, Bill! We’re not cattle, and
there are millions of people in the world in the same
boat as yourself. Anyhow, who can tell by looking
at a. man whether his parents were married or not?
Go and have a dance and forget about yourself.”
Bill rose and stared moodily across to the lighted
windows of the hall, where crowded couples were
weaving around to the strains of a foxtrot like a
mob of milling cattle. “Are you coming across?”
“Not me. I can’t dance.”
“Come on! Come and put your arm round a
flesh-and-blood woman instead of dreaming about
your girl on a pedestal down south.”
Mac shook his head and sat down on his bed
again. “1 think I’ll turn in. Don’t make too much
row when you come home—if you do come home.”
Bill turned in the doorway with a short, bitter
laugh. “Don’t worry—l’m going to get half-shot
before I go across there, and the first girl I meet
111 ask her to marry me—just to oblige you!”
He reflected a moment.
“Maybe I’d better get three parts shot. And if
she ever holds it up against me I’ll tell her it was
your idea!”
He walked aggressively downstairs to the bar.
“The usual, Tom, and don’t let me drink with the
flies.”
He peered suspiciously at a quaintly-garbed group
of masked men on the opposite side of the bar.
“What’s this —the Kelly gang—or am I just drunk?”
The barman laughed. “No, they’re from the ball.
It’s fancy dress, and you’ve got to wear a mask till
midnight. Aren’t you going?”
“Too right—when I’ve had a few more drinks.
What about a mask? And where can I get a fancy
costume?” r. \ .. : 5 t'j
“Aw, go as you are.” The barman leaned for-
ward and surveyed Bill from the heavy, low-slung
spurs, fine gabardine trousers and silk shirt to the
truculent expression on his face. “Anyhow, it’s too
damned hot to wear a fur coat like a polar bear or
a suit of armor”
“Whoa! That’ll do me!” Bill thumped the bar
and clung to a fleeting inspiration. “Fill ’em up
again and get me a mask, then I’m off.”
Armor! That was the idea that crystallised his
feelings. He was just in the mood to challenge some-
one —anyone. The cantankerous spirit roused by the
old argument rankled raw in him and craved an
outlet in battle —the fiercer the better. He stumbled
down the dim passage leading to the back of the
hotel, turning the idea enthusiastically over in his
head. A sheet of galvanised iron would soon provide
armor —a bit hot and heavy, though. The scheme
offered all sorts of satisfying possibilities. He would
get a horse, ride up the steps into the hall and
challenge the world. Great idea!
In the darkness of the back verandah he failed
to notice an obstacle till he fell over it with a resound-
ing clatter. He picked himself up with a savage desire
to kick something hard—and found the thing he had
fallen over —a shiny new garbage-tin.
He did not assault it immediately. Instead he
picked up the wide, round lid, studied it thoughtfully,
then, with a chuckle of mischievous joy, let himself
into the big, deserted kitchen. He levered at the
handle till he could slip a forearm through it, then
his roving eyes quested along the shelves till a big
new aluminium saucepan caught his attention. He
took it down and examined it critically ; instead of
a long handle it had two lugs, which, he reflected,
was all to the good. He fitted it on his head, over
his hat. Fine! The costume was progressing.
What was the next item—arms! He selected a
broad-bladed meat-chopper from the cook’s array and
balanced it appreciatively in his hand, then laid it
down again with a sigh. He was sober enough to
realise that if he hit anyone with that they might fail
to see the joke.
As he crossed the yard a sagging clothes-line dis-
lodged his helmet. He grabbed the clothes-prop—a
long slender sapling—to jerk the line to safety, when
inspiration stayed his hand. With a joyous chuckle
he dragged the clothes-prop clear and shook it aloft.
His lance!
A sword next. Where could he get a sword?
He walked out of the yard into a dark, narrow lane.
The big, heavy head of the hotel draught horse
drooped sleepily over the opposite gate. The sword
was temporarily forgotten. It was only the work of
a minute to slip the dilapidated winkers on, to couple
a short length of light rope to the bit for reins. He
vaulted lightheartedly on to the broad back, re-
arranged his garbage-tin shield, fitted the saucepan
helmet well down on his head, adjusted the black mask
over his eyes, picked up the lance and jabbed the
bewildered draught horse with the spurs. Dobbin
gave one indignant snort and lumbered sideways into
the lane.
The wide, dusty street was bathed in moonlight.
The unwilling charger sidled and snorted and reefed
past the dark cluster of cars parked in front of the
hotel, and found himself swung round the corner,
headed for the long line of cars and the garish splash
of light that marked the hall. Doors and windows
were wide open, and the orchestra’s quick, inciting
rhythm stirred the blood .of the rider.
Damn it, this entrance was too tame—too un-
dramatic. Come on, Hairy Heels! He dug the spurs
{Continued on page 50.)


tfcs
No. 400.
Order by post, stating size, number and
fitting. Also ask for our special Shoe
polish—it’s better. Only 6d. per tin.
COMFORT IS THE
KEYNOTE
• • • •
of this shapely, square-toed
Oxford, with the appearance of
a hand-made shoe. Displayed
to advantage are the broad welt
and punched facings—a real
man’s shoe. Made in both Black
and Brown High-grade Calf, and
stocked in full and half sizes,
and medium and wide fittings.
Black Calf, 39/6; Brown Calf, 39/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’’ W.A. 25.
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
C. Darvall, General Manager.
A Nark Meets His Match:—
MAGIC AT NOOGOORA.
BY ROGER CHRISTIE.
IT’S dead funny how little things can
change the whole course of a man’s
life, an’ how the blue duck of to-day
can become the roast duck an’ green
peas of to-morrow.
Take me own case, for instance. A
while back I was busted as flat as a
flounder, an’ it didn’t look as if I’d ever
come good again. An’ yet, when things
was at their worst an’ the whole future
seemed to have blue edges, Prosperity,
with a capital P, was hidin’, as the poli-
ticians say, just around the corner.
Me an’ Jim Glover had been battlin’
round the backblocks with a coupla hairy
goats that would’ve been cab-horses only
for this modern craze for speed. The only
time they ever won was when they was
loaded to the eyes with dope, an’ even
then we had to deaden half the field to
make things safe. Well, we backed them
at the Dunfield meetin’, havin’ previously
come to a gentlemen’s agreement with the
trainers of most of the opposition horses,
an’ blow me if first one an’ then the
other wasn’t beaten by
mokes that was supposed
to be dead for ’em.
I tell you my blood
fairly boiled when I
thought of all the oats
an’ chaff an’ strychnine
I’d used gettin’ those
prads ready for those
races. An’ then to be
taken down by a parcel
of dirty crooks that
couldn’t lay straight in
Molly and Elsie.
bed! It give me faith in human nature
a jar that it’s never got over.
When the meetin’ was over me an’ Jim
had a council of war. We’d done the
last of our sugar an’ we were up for a
quid or two at the pub for board an’
horse-feed. Generally speakin’, the out-
look was blacker’n the Earl of Hell’s
ridin’ boots, so we decided the best thing
we could do was to jump the rattler outa
town that evenin’.
We collected our gear, turned the
horses loose —I’ve often wondered since
if their owners ever got ’em back—an’
beat it for the railway. There was a
goods train standin’ in the yard ready
to pull out, an’ we slung our swags
aboard a half-empty truck an’ climbed on
after ’em. The accommodation in that
truck wasn’t much better than an
ordinary second-class carriage, but just
at that time we reckoned anything was
good as long as it was takin’ us away
from that den of thieves.
Allowin’ for the fact that our truck
seemed to have square wheels we had a
pretty comfortable ride, but when the
train pulled into Noogoora about ten
o’clock next mornin’ we was both glad
enough to hop off an’ stretch our legs.
First up we wandered down the street
an’ sold the saddle an’ all the rest of our
racin’ gear. As I said to Jim at the time,
the biggest mug wakes up sooner or
later, an’ we both realised that there was
no place for honest battlers in the racin’
game.
By the time we’d raised a bit of oscar,
me stomach was flappin’ against me spine
an’ the bare thought of eatin’ made me
feel light-headed, so without any argu-
ment we set sail for the grub shop, with
visions of steaka-da-egg leadin’ us on.
As soon as we walked
into the shop someone
sung out me name. I
was just goin’ to make
a break for it when I
spotted a party of two
girls an’ a bloke sittin’
at the far end of the
room. One of ’em —the
one that sung out —was
Elsie Matthews, a
snappy-lookin’ blonde
who used to be in the
chorus at Clay’s. The last I’d heard of
her she’d contracted an alliance with a
steward off of one of the boats an’ gone
on a shoddy-droppin’ tour —sellin’
genuine, smuggled English suit-lengths
that was made in Marrickville.
WE ambled down an’ sat in at their
table, an’ while the joker was rustlin’
up some grub I learned that Elsie’s
career as a merchant princess had been as
brief as a bathin’ costume before Spooner
got busy, an’ that she’d returned to the
boards until such time as her boy friend
was let out again. It appeared that these
three was the fag-end of a busted vaude-
ville show. The other two-fifths, the
manager an’ his wife, had folded up all
that they could carry an’ silently stole
away. The troupe was billed to show in
Noogoora that night, but, of course, now
the male an’ female leads was numbered
among the departed, the show’s off.
By the time Elsie had finished un-
foldin’ her tale of woe, the scran had
come to light an’ me jaws an’ brain were
workin’ overtime. You see, before I be-
come interested in the sport of kings, I
was doin’ the country shows with Skeeter
Brown in a conjurin’ an’ hypnotisin’
show. Skeeter had learned me a lot
about the game, an’ said I showed a
marked attitude or somethin’ for it. Any-
how, when we parted I took some of his
paraphernalia with me as a sort of keep-
sake. I still had it in me swag, because
you can’t sell stuff like that up-country.
So I suggested that we combine to put
on a show of our own. Elsie an’ the
other girl, Molly Reynolds her name was,
can put over some song an’ dance stuff
while I act the magician.
They all seemed to like the idea, so
Jim drifted off to the printin’ office to
get some dodgers run off announcin’ that
Professor Evanante, Mesmerist an’
Magician, would show that night an’ the
next, instead of the Hall Dramatic Com-
pany, an’ me an’ Elsie went into com-
mittee to work out a code for a thought-
readin’ act. When Jim come back I
oiled him an’ Foley—that was the other
chap—about their parts in the mesmer-
isin’ stunt.
There was a big stock sale in town
that afternoon, an’ we had the dodgers
spread round among the crowd. There
hadn’t been a show of any sort on in
Noogoora since Adam had the whoopin’
cough, so things looked pretty rosy for
a good turn-up. Sure enough, when we
opened the doors that night the crowd
started to trickle in, an’ by the time we
were due to start we had a decent house.
The first part of the show went off
good. I put over a few tricks an’ made
a few wisecracks about local identities,
Molly done a bit of fancy dancin’ and
then played while Elsie tugged at their
heart-strings with “Silver Threads Among
the Gold” an’ some other songs their
mothers used to sing to ’em. We all got
a hand, an’ I started off on the thought-
readin’ act full of confidence.
It went all right, too, for a while.
Elsie remembered the code 0.K., an’ I
took good care not to make things too
hard for her. But when we were half-
way through a young cove in the audi-
ence started to
heckle me a bit.
I could see he was
half-tonicked an’ I
pretended not to
take any notice of
him, although he
called me a fake
an’ what-not.
The next item I
was supposed to
mesmerise Jim an’
Foley, who volun-
teered themselves
as subjects. They
got up on the
stage an’ swore
that I’d never be
able to mesmerise
them, but, o f
course, they ended
up sing i n’ an’
“Fake !”
recitin’ an’ ridin’ chairs round the stage
an’ eatin’ candles an’ all the rest of the
usual yike. It would’ve gone down fair
enough with the mob, but the drunken
young coot who’d gigged me before
practically crabbed the show by booin'
an’ yellin’ out “Fake!” Anyhow, I
didn’t want no disturbance, so I
swallowed hard an’ put up with it till
the end of the turn. Then it was
interval.
WHILE the mob was consumin’ beer or
ice-cream, accordin’ to taste, sex an
age, me an’ Jim an’ Foley held a meetin’
“Silver Threads Among the Gold.”
about the cove who was drawin’ the
crabs on us. Jim used to be a pug at
one time, an’ he was all for bouncin’
him out on his ear, but I was thinkin'
of the next night’s show, an’ I reckoned
diplomacy’d pay us better. I’d thought
of a little plan that might come off all
right, so I told ’em the strong of it an’
sent Jim off to the unemployed camp to
grab a coupla likely lookin’ jokers.
When the curtain went up for the
second spasm, Molly an’ Elsie did their
stuff again. They got a great reception,
an’ Elsie had to sing a coupla “request”
items. But when I come back for a bit
more conjurin’ I copped out properly.
This young chap had got a few more
beers across his chest, an’ he went me
scone-hot. I put up with it for a while,
an’ then I come to the footlights an'
addressed the audience.
“Ladies an’ gentlemen,” I said, “A
certain person in the audience has been
annoyin’ all of us all night. In spite of
the demonstration I’ve given youse of my
unparalleled ability he’s called me a fake
and said I can’t mesmerise anyone. Now,
there’s only one way to convince him an’
to convince youse all, an’ that is to mes-
merise him. Is he willin’ to let me try?’"
“Too right I am,” sung out the nark,
“if it’s me you mean.”
“It’s you all
right,” I said.
“You reckon I
can’t put you
under control an’
make you do what-
ever I want. Is
that right?”
“You couldn’t
make me do
nothin’,” he come
back.
“All right,” I
said, “just step up
this way, will you?
An’ while we’re
on the job, is there
any other knowall
in the audience
what reckons I’m
a fake?”
At this the two
travellers Jim had got hold of at
interval stood up an’ made for the
stage. One of ’em was a tall, lumpy


AtfW 3JV S *
SNIVIS WOWS
S3AOW&
BISVd HdOOl 7VO3dS S/tfJ
l
//
vwy/A
r t.
Special stain-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is not contained in any other
leading dentifrice. Make the simple test that surprises smokers. Thousands
find dull, ugly teeth become naturally white and sparkling.
If you smoke, you’ve probably noticed stains on your teeth, or an. ugly yellow
smudge. Now there is a way to keep the faintest smoke trace from showing on
your teeth. This way is Pepsodent, the special film-removing tooth paste.
No matter what dentifrice you now use, switch to Pepsodent to-day and make
the smokers’ test. See how Pepsodent immediately "takes hold’’ to make teeth
cleaner, whiter, more attractive. Let your mirror prove that they glisten with
natural whiteness many smokers think impossible to attain.
It Works in a More Effective Way
In Pepsodent is a special ingredient designed especially to remove the film on
teeth. It is this film, not the teeth themselves, that smoke discolors. Therefore,
this film must be removed if you want to escape that unnatural yellow color.
It is film your dentist tells you to remove in fighting tooth decay and other dental
troubles.
This remarkable film-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is contained in no other
leading dentifrice. Not only does it bring out the natural whiteness of your
teeth, but it also polishes enamel to the highest brilliance. In addition, this
"Special Film-Removing tooth paste” has another major distinction: it is the
softest . . . and therefore the safest ... of 15 leading
tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders as shown by
scientific tests.
Try Pepsodent to-day. Not until you do can you
know how beautifully white your teeth are.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have cut
costs and we are passing
the saving on to you.
The identical time-proved
Pepsodent is ready for you.
in the new larger tubes at
no increase in price.
N 1 363
I "1 •
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
r I /
r si
ltuA
§
9h
t-1
4/
rf: ■ • %
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne.
j
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE! Necessities to _ users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use cur capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as vour own business. Full information posted
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOIJR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Campe/down, Sydney, N.S.W.
cove with a ginger head an’ a nasty
look in his eye. The other was smaller
but nuggety, an’ he had a dial you could
strike matches on. They both tipped me
the wink when they come up, so I knew
everything was jake, an’ a happy glow
come over me as I lined ’em up for the
performance with the nark in the middle.
Ginger was on the side nearest the
audience, so I started on him. “You say
l can’t mesmerise you?” I asked.
“You couldn’t mesmerise pussy,” he
said.
“It’s not cats I’m dealin’ with,” I
pointed out to him, “but goats. An’ I’ll
soon show you whether I can mesmerise
them or not. Can you sing?”
“No,” he said, “an’ I dam’ well won’t
either.”
“Well,” I told him, “you’re goin’ to
sing for the audience whether you want
to or not.”
An’ with that I fixed the eye on him
an’ went through all the motions, pointin’
the fingers at him
an’ glarin’. When
1 reckoned it had
gone on long
enough I told
him to sing—an’
he cut loose.
’Strewth, you
should’ve heard
him. His voice
had as much tune
as a brum my
two-bob. If was
just as penetratin’
as a dentist’s drill,
an’ a dam’ sight
more painful. He
took “The Rose
of Tralee” an’
"Box, boys, box!”
tore it apart, petal by petal. Dinkum,
if he’d been singin’ in Ireland the clear,
crystal fountain he mentioned would’ve
dried up, an’ the shamrocks would’ve
shivered ’emselves to death. The
audience sat as if they was stunned,
which they probably was, an’ when, he’d
finished an’ old codger in the front row
moaned, “If he’s goin’ to sing again, for
Gawd’s sake mesmerise me first.”
I WAS pretty shaken meself, but when
* I’d recovered a bit I turned to Nugget
on the other side of the nark. I put him
under “control,” but I wasn’t game to
ask him to sing in case the audience
would get out of control. Instead, he
recited ; an’ then he pretended he was a
dog, an’ ran about the stage barkin’ an’
yelpin’, an’ finished up by bitin’ the nark
on the leg. Everybody enjoyed it except
the nark. He threatened to do all sorts
of things to Nugget when he got him out-
side.
When I brought Nugget “out” he stood
up in his place again with a silly grin
on his face, an’ I asked the nark, “Now
do you believe I can mesmerise people?”
“No,” he said ; “these blokes is in the
yike with you. You won’t make me
make a flamin’ goat of meself.”
“No need for me to try,” I told him.
“I couldn’t hope to improve on Nature,
but I can mesmerise you, an’ I will.
Would you like to sing for the audi-
ence?”
“No bloomin’ fear,” he said.
“Well, can you dance or recite?”
No, he couldn’t or wouldn’t do either.
“Can you box?” I asked him.
“Yes,” he said, “a bit. But I’m not
goin’ to.”
“Oh, yes, you are,” I told him. “You
an’ these other gentlemen are goin’ to
give the audience a sparrin’ exhibition.”
“Not on your life,” he said, “an’ you
won’t make me either.”
Well, I stepped back an’ started the
eye-fixin’, finger-pointin’ lurk again, first
with him on his own, an’ then with the
three of ’em together.
“Now, boys,” I said to ’em, “you’re all
under control, an’ you’re goin’ to give
this sparrin’ exhibition. Are you all
ready? Box, boys, box ! ”
“Box be” starts the nark, when
Ginger busted him one on the
conk. The nark let out a yelp an’ sailed
for Ginger just as Nugget landed a
rozener in his slats. He made a break
for the wings, but
Jim an’ Foley
were there an’
bustled him back
on to the stage
again. This time
Nugget and
Ginger took good
care he didn’t get
away again.
Well, in the
ensuin’ mealie, as
the papers say,
what those two
did to the nark
was just a
bloomin’ shame.
They hit' him
with everything
on the stage except me an’ the piano,
an’ all the time the nark, who’d got
his blood up properly, was tryin’ to
hand ’em back as good as he got. It
was a real ding-dong scrap, an’
the audience was laughin’ like hell be-
cause I’d been able to mesmerise the
nark after all. Laugh! Blime, we swept
up a shovelful of shirt-buttons an’ busted
collar-studs next mornin’.
When I reckoned they’d had their
money’s worth, I signalled Jim to let
down the curtain, an’ we grabbed the
nark, who was considerable of a wreck
by this time, an’ ran him into a dressin’
room, where I pacified him a bit with a
coupla drinks an’ a half-note.
Now most people would’ve been con-
tent to let things go at that, but I’d seen
further possibilities. This joker had hung
on well to two pretty tough blokes, an’
I reckoned he ought to perform extra
against only one. So I kept on poppin
a drink or two into him an’ handin’ out
a soothin’ line of talk until I got him
feelin’ well.
He was pretty moist round the edges
an’ ready to believe I was his rich uncle
from Fiji when I finally signed him up,
for a three-year contract, but he stuck to j
it all right in the mornin’. He helped us I
with the second night’s show, an’ I
brought him to Sydney with the proceeds.
I got him a start in the fight game down
here, an’ he’s never looked back. You
must’ve heard of him —“the Noogoora
Burr” they call him, because he hangs
on till he wins—an’ I’ve got a meal-ticket
for the next coupla years at least.
You MUST Know Someone Like This:—
HASTINGS KNOWS HOW
BY E. DITHMACK
I STROVE to efface myself when I saw
old Hastings approaching. That was
the effect he always had on me, and,
I think, on most people. For Hastings
knew everything. Hastings was omnipo-
tent. Anything Hastings said was right,
or, if it wasn’t right, he’d have some good
excuse for its being wrong. Things
worked, rule and line, towards the ulti-
mate triumph of Hastings. Everything
he did was done properly, thoroughly, to
be a credit to a well-trained workman.
Hastings would tell you without con-
scious boasting that he was a well-
trained workman. If you liked to listen
he would tell you lots of things.
In the early days of his engagement as
casual gardener to my household I had
been unwary enough to listen to his
accomplishments, the result being that
Hastings now had me in the position of a
worm. He impressed on me how incom-
petent I was compared with the incom-
parable Hastings. He was, he would tell
you, the only
man in Queens-
land who thor-
oughly under-
stood his work.
Having been
trained from
boyhood in the art of growing plants, he
had risen to faultless development.
As a lad in England, “and mind you,” j
he would say, “you can’t compare a i
country like this with England,” he had
been engaged as under-gardener to
scions of noble houses. When Hastings
allowed this knowledge to break on your
understanding, you felt that he was of
the nobility and you were the weed-
pulling boy.
Having grown to full manhood, he
had been promoted to the position of
gardener. To get the proper signifi-
cance of the word, it would be necessary
to hear Hastings pronounce it. Then
it held a rich, full-flavored sound, grow-
ing and expanding until it dominated the
horticultural world and Hastings was a
god supreme in a paradise of his own
creation.
He lived all alone in a hut near the
railway line. He had a regular clientele,
and though his work was slow it was
sure.
There were days when, with nothing
better to do, I had listened to little
sketches out of the old man's past.
That time at Lord Marlowe's now


i>£o Belvedere p&j Belvedere
(>£<> Belvedere Belvedere Belvedere vsa" Belvedere psw Belvedere i>s<» Belvedere e>x<»
—,, — .:... puuiuuu
/■
m
/&*■
m
K*:
r
!!!n£
%
4
4e/ '%/ *%/' %/'
Suitings and Coatings
MADE BY
MARTIN SONS AND CO. LTD.,
OF
HUDDERSFIELD
Who were the Founders of the Worsted
Industry , and are equipped with the greatest
number of Pattern Looms £nou)n to th 6
trade. Thus
BELVEDERE
RANGES CONTAIN ONLY THE NEWEST
AND FINEST CREATIONS IN CLOTH
DESIGN.
THERE IS QUALITY
AND CHARACTER IN
EVERY YARD
OF
BELVEDERE
SUITING
LOOK FOR THE NAME IN THE SELVEDGE
The Ideal
of all
Well-
Dressed
k
Men
i>:< * Belvedere *v«Belvedere i>a<>
Belvedere o£<j Belvedere t>&<>
/ l '////////////w-//>/////////>/// l ' Jfswrfs-'ssji'ss/ss'ssfssss/s/si'/sj'rfi
Belvedere i>s<» Belvedere;
l>s<)
l>£o
Belvedere Belvedere
P2'i
“Hastings,” said his lordship after en-
gaging him as gardener, “there’s some-
thing wrong with my cherry-trees. They
won’t bear. They’ve been growing for
years and I’ve never seen a seed on them
yet. What do you think is wrong?”
Of course, you would conclude at once
that the matter was a perfectly simple
one for Hastings. And it was. He in-
vestigated. He found that the cherry-
trees were growing on stony ground.
Then Hastings delivered his verdict.
“It’s fertiliser they want,” he told his
lordship. “Fertiliser and digging round.”
“Then order fertiliser,” said his lord-
ship. “Order whatever you want, but
will that make them bear?”
“Your lordship,” said Hastings, and,
knowing Hastings, one could imagine
with what impressive dignity he would
address the titled autocrat, “I won’t say as
there’ll be cherries this year. Nor I
won’t say as there’ll be cherries next
year. Mind you, there may be, but the
year after that”
Well, could you doubt it?
Hastings passes over the intervening
two years, and arrives at the third year,
when it chanced that one day he met
Lord Marlowe’s new gardener.
“Those cherry-trees,” said Hastings.
“Did they bear?”
“Bear!” The man began to laugh.
“Bear, did you say? Why, man alive,
we sent cartloads of ’em up to Lunnon.
We gave cartloads to the whole village,
and even after that there were so many
that we fed ’em to the pigs.”
That’s the sort of man Hastings was.
Later on, working for Lady Someone
or other, her steward had complained
that she found Hastings disrespectful.
“Me disrespectful!” said Hastings. “I
wouldn’t be wanting in respect to her
ladyship, but I’ll fell you what it might
be.”
Then Hastings tells you.
After he’d been at the manor for
about six months, her ladyship came to
him and she said, “Gardener,” she said,
“I want some fresh plants for indoors.”
“Your ladyship,” said Hastings, “you
can’t have fresh plants for indoors.”
“Indeed? And why?” she wanted to
know.
“Because,” said Hastings, “you don’t
know how to treat plants. You’re too
hard on them. You get a load carted in
and what happens? They’re left for
weeks without a drop of water and they
die. Then they’re carted out' and an-
other lot carted in. The same thing
happens again, and then you want some
more. It’s impossible to keep up with
the supply, and you can’t have them.”
“Then,” says Mr. Hastings, “she tells
you I’m disrespectful!”
117 ELL, there you are. That’s Hastings,
*■ and, as I say, when I saw him com-
ing I tried to efface myself, but it was
too late. Hastings had caught me in the
act of setting a hen.
He put down his tools and regarded
the hastily-thrown-together nest with dis-
tinct disapproval.
“The trouble with you people,” he
said disparagingly, “is that you don’t do
things properly. How can you expect’ to
get chicks out of a nest like that? A
bundle of straw, a setting of eggs” —he
shook his head—“no method, no system.”
“Now I,” said Hastings—and I was
aware of the wisdom of Solomon being
expended gratuitously on me —“I set a
hen this morning, but it took me an
hour and a half. First of all I sprayed
the ground where she was to be set.
Then I limed it. The ground wants liming
this weather to keep it sweet and free
from insects. You fellows know that,
but, of course, anything’s good enough
for a hen. Then I got clean straw and
some feathers and made the whole thing
shipshape. You can’t throw a nest to-
gether in five minutes.”
“Well,” I said with a defiance that
amazed me, “I set mine in five minutes,
and I bet I’ll get as many chicks as you
will, with all your hour and a half.”
Hastings shook his head as though to
imply that one couldn’t argue with fools,
and I knew then, I knew as well as that
I was living, that nothing would come
out of my eggs. Hastings had said that
they’d be no good, and no matter how I
tried to convince myself that thrown-
together nests had yielded a good hatch
before, I knew that the days of good
luck were past.
I watched the eggs anxiously. I fed
the hen assiduously. In a fit of despera-
tion I surreptitiously limed the fowl-
house, but all the old Biddy did was to
eye me contemplatively as though watch-
ing the antics of a fool. I even went to
the length of urging her to do her
darnedest, not wishing to be beaten by
Hastings.
Three weeks passed. Three weeks of
Hastings’s making prophecies and of
careful scrutiny on my part. The eggs
chipped, two downy heads peeped from
under old Biddy’s wing. I dared not tell
Hastings yet. If the worst came to the
worst and no more were hatched, I
could pretend that the eggs hadn’t been
fertile and destroy them before the old
man had a chance to investigate.
Hastings, of course, would have chicks.
That was a foregone conclusion.
In the afternoon I saw him as he
mowed Mr. Brown’s back paddock. I
watched how rhythmically he used the
scythe —swish, swish —no wasted effort,
no bother.
“Any chicks yet?” I called out.
He stopped to sharpen his scythe. “Not
yet, but they’ll be out to-morrow,” he
said confidently.
I kept to myself the guilty knowledge
of the two premature births. Suppose no
more should come! Suppose, as usual,
Hastings should be able to point the
finger of derision at me and say, “I told
you so!”
“Any of yours out yet?” he asked,
beginning to mow again.
“Not yet. They should come to-
morrow.”
“Ah.” There was satisfaction in the
sound. “Well, you needn’t be surprised
if they don’t hatch out. Slipshod
methods never pay.”
He came to a particularly tough patch
of grass, and, putting his own scythe
aside, took up Mr. Brown’s and ripped
through the mound.
“The trouble with you fellows,” he
commented, replacing the scythe and
again using his own, “is that you don’t
know how to look after things. That
scythe now —it’s a disgrace. Brown’s
only had it for twelve months and it’s
fit for nothing. Now this one of
mine—l’ve had it for years, and look at
it Just look at it!”
Against such supremacy what could
one do?
THE next morning when I went out to
* the fowlhouse chicks were everywhere.
Old Biddy had turned out trumps, and
of the thirteen eggs given into her keep-
ing thirteen yellow balls of fluff were
the result.
“Now! ” I thought triumphantly, “what
about it, Mr. Hastings! ”
I strutted about as though I had
brought out' the chicks myself. I’d show
the old man whether his vaunted hour-
and-a-halfs were necessary.
He didn’t come that day. I put in an
hour mowing the lawn and, in my new-
found independence, admitted to myself
that the work was as good as Hastings
would do in two hours. He wouldn’t
lord it over me any more.
Yet, in spite of the chicks, in spite of
my triumph, there was something wrong
with the day. The morning didn’t seem
right with no old man pottering about
and harping on my shortcomings. There
was no spice in the knowledge that thir-
teen balls of fluff had come chirping into
the world when no Hastings was there to
comment disparagingly on it.
He came the next day, but it was quite
evident that something had gone wrong.
There was a flatness about him that re-
minded me of a deflated bicycle tyre.
For once he was subdued.
“Well, Hastings,” I said cheerfully,
“and how are the chicks?”
1 stood, hands in pockets, rocking
myself on heel and toe, feeling very
much master of the situation. I’d wait
and hear what he had to say before
springing my surprise on him.
Hastings hoed out a few weeds, then
shook his head dolefully.
“There’s something gone wrong,” he
croaked. “You mark my words, there’s
something gone wrong.”
“Gone wrong?” I echoed. “In what
way?”
“Those eggs.”
“Why,” I began boastingly, my
eggs”
“Yes,” he interrupted, “your eggs is
smitten the same way as mine. It’s a
bad season for chicks, that’s what’s
wrong. You get it now and again.”
“Then,” I said triumphantly, “you
mean to say that none of yours have
hatched out?”
“Only two. There’s something gone
wrong.”
Ha! I was cock o’ the walk at last!
I had the old fellow now where he had
so often held me, and it was my turn to
hold him up as an example of misman-
agement.
“Why, my eggs,” I boasted, rocking
more vigorously than ever, “my
eggs”
“You’re not going to tell me they
hatched out, are you?”
There was the look of a beaten child
in his eyes —a pleading, pitiful look as
though his world were about to shatter.
In that instant I knew that acknowledged
defeat would bow for ever that arrogant
old head, break the boastful spirit.
“After all,” I thought, “what has he
but his pride?”
It was all that remained for him in the
winter of life—his little conceits and
pretended conquests. I looked at him
standing there with a wistful, broken
look, and I couldn’t —no, I couldn’t.
“Devil a one!” I lied cheerfully.
“You’ll have to get to work and find
out what’s the matter.”
“Ah!” His shoulders regained some-
thing of their erectness, warmth seemed
to flow back into the old body, the faded
eyes gleamed with something of their old
dominance.
“I thought that if mine didn’t hatch
out yours wouldn’t, either. As I say,
there’s something wrong.”
“Susceptibilities too highly developed,”
1 murmured, moving away.
After that he spent half an hour each
day rubbing the legs of his two chicks
with embrocation. “They don’t seem
rightly strong,” he worried, “but it’s the
season —you see, it’s the season.”
I agreed, while my thirteen ate up
anything and everything a fussing mother
provided.
It was a week later that I called in to
see him as I was returning from a
meeting. The light in the old man’s
window showed that he was still up, and
he answered my knock with alacrity. The
reason was apparent. On the table were
books and pamphlets all dealing with
poultry. A sheet of paper covered with
pencilled notes showed that his investi-
gations had led to something tangible.
“It’s just what I thought,” he crowed
with all his old assurance. “That nest
now —it’s too near the railway line. I
knew that something like that must have
happened. Thunder will addle an egg.
and the vibration from passing trains is
what addled mine!”
I was rendered speechless by his
reasoning.
“But yours,” he went on remorselessly
—“yours failed through lack of proper
management. You take my advice, young
fellow, and put more care into making
the nests.”
He glowered at me in the fulness of
his superiority, then added bitterly, “But
what’s the use of trying to tell you any-
thing? You won’t be told!”
Well, as I say, that’s Hastings.


m
m
econds out
Linger a little more lovingly over the marma-
lade in the morning. Look a little more leisurely
at the morning’s news. You’ll still have time
to catch your train, provided you have used a
'Valet’ Shaving Set —the original self-stropping
razor which knocks so many valuable seconds
out of shaving time. Stropped in a few seconds.
Cleaned in a few seconds. Nothing to take to
pieces. Nothing to unscrew. Weeks of perfect
shaving from every blade.
“VALET
MADt IN ENGLAND
FT
•NJ
s-V-
No. 101 Set. —This Set is packed in a richly coloured
Mouldrite case. Contains self-stropping razor, strop in
nickel-plated hinged container, and three blades in
plated sheath 9/ -
Other sets from 4/6 to 65/-.
Of all dealers. British made.
‘VALET
Au fcySfcpop
Safety Razor
Managing Agents, for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Murder —or What?
The Dream.
BY R.W. COULTER.
IDO not know to this day if Bill
actually murdered Jim, and, strange
though it may seem, till the day he
died Bill did not actually know himself.
Bill was always unlucky. He went
right through the war and got knocked
dozens of times, but never seriously
enough to get a “blighty.” And then
just before the Armistice he got blown
up. Not badly hurt, mind you, but his
nerves —well, they were minus ever after.
He was allotted about two thousand
acres on the South-western Slopes and
started in to grow wheat, but his bad
luck still held. He did all right with
the wheat, of course —they did in those
days—but when his little nipper was two
the kid got diphtheria and died. This
sort of broke his wife’s heart—that and
the hard work —and it wasn’t long before
she followed the youngster and Bill was
left on his own.
But Bill was a plugger. He shut down
on his misery and battled on. Wheat
was guaranteed high that year, and he
was aiming to put in an extra hundred
acres, so he took a cove in on shares.
He took the first chap that came along
—Jim was his name, and he knew his
job. All went well while they were busy.
Bill had a good plant, and they ploughed
day and night, in shifts, with a search-
light on the tractor at night. But when
the seed was in and they started to see
a lot of each other, Bill’s nerves got edgy.
You can’t sit long at table with a man
with a soup-strainer moustache without
your flesh creeping. And there’s some-
thing wrong with a man under forty
who wears a soup-strainer—they went
out about the time he was born. He
used to kid his teeth were his own, too,
always flashing them through the
creepers and picking at them with a pin
at table just to sort of prove they were
natural. And he never took them out.
He had a lot of other habits and pecu-
liarities which made a man want to
crack him, but I don’t want to sicken
you like he sickened Bill.
Bill used to sit sideways on to him so
he wouldn’t have to look at him, but
Jim was one of those two-faced, earnest
coves who plant themselves square in
front of you, take you by a waistcoat
button and breathe lies into your face.
Bill used to revolve in circles to get
aside of him. And this Jim was one of
those very considerate argumentative
chaps.
“No, I can’t agree with you, Bill,”
he would say, and point his knife at
Bill’s nose. “Mind you, every man’s
entitled to his own opinion, but I think
you’re a bit wrong” You know the
stuff.
And when Bill would chip in real
human-like, “Aw, don’t be a silly cow,
you blitherin’ so-and-so,” Jim would
look pained but patient, raise his eye-
brows and go on popping bits of tinned
beef in under the soup-strainer.
I SUPPOSE you’ve had an exposed
* nerve in a tooth some time or an-
other? Well, Bill was like that all over.
It was as if he had no skin to insulate
his nerves, and when this Jim was about
they used to jitter and twitter like the
filament of an electric globe when a
lorry passes the house. But Bill kept his
mouth shut, like you do with an aching
tooth. The crop was up four inches, and
he had to wait only till the wheat was
at the siding when he could kick this
Jim from here to Bourke. But if you
sit on a safety-valve too long some-
thing’s sure to go pop —and it did.
It had been hot and oppressive all
day, real thundery weather, and even
Jim was a bit crotchety. He said he
was going into Boorloo that night to
see a bit of company.
“It’s a crook sorta life this you’re
tied to,” he said when they were having
a bit of tucker. “Wouldn’t do me. Work
all the year round, workin’ to pay the
interest on your mortgage and never
gettin’ it paid off, an’ workin’ to pay
taxes to keep fat politicians in their
jobs.”
Bill said nothing.
“It wouldn’t do me. Now when I
walk out of here with my cheque
that’ll be an end to it—no strings, no
taxes, no nothin’. Free as air, that’s me.”
Bill’s silence looked as though Bill
agreed and was ashamed of himself.
"But you’re in a different possie,” the
fool went on. “It’s another war, that’s
what it is. You’ve signed up for the
duration of your life this time, fightin'
to make profits for parasites.”
It was almost dark outside, and the
wind was rising. That’s what this Jim
was —all wind. Nothing like a good
storm to clear the air. Bill hoped it’d
come soon. Blue lightning slashed open
the red dust clouds rolling across the
yard. A thunderclap smashed down on
the iron roof. Bill leaped to his feet,
every nerve jangling with the ringing
iron. Jim’s voice scraped on.
“Nerves, is it? Gawd knows what
you’ll be like in another ten years. Not
that it’s your fault, mind you. You
couldn’t help it.”
He didn’t look at Bill or he’d have
stopped. He went on shovelling mashed
potatoes in under the soup-strainer with
his knife.
Peal after peal of thunder bombarded
the house. It cracked and swayed and
rang under the concussions and blasts
of wind. The lightning tore a near-by
hollow tree in halves and chucked them
on the ground. Jim sniggered.
“Cripes, ain’t it grand? But you
don’t get no tin medals for fightin’ this
sorta battle”
It seemed a fireball had burst through
the roof and swallowed and burnt Bill up.
He remembered no more. It was worse
than being buried alive, to be swallowed
and burnt up. That’s what he told me.
BILL came to next morning, to find
himself in bed and worn out by a
nightmare. He dreamt he had killed
Jim, throttled him with his bare hands.
It was a terribly real dream. He had
throttled him in the kitchen, making his
black eyes stick out of his head and
foam come up through his moustache.
But a storm outside had drowned the
gurgles. Bill was spared that.
It was funny to Bill how things get
jumbled up in a dream. Subconscious
memories, they call them, come popping
up regardless. He’d hated Jim, of
course, and underneath he’d wanted to
kill him like a wild animal would.
Awake, it never entered Bill’s head ; but
in the dream, yes. And it all got mixed
up with a story he’d read somewhere.
In the dream he’d relived the story.
When it was quite dark he’d dragged
Jim out into the yard. Then he
got a spade and carried it and Jim out
into the centre of the 150-acre paddock.
It was pitch-dark, but in a dream, of
course, you can find direction that you
can’t when awake. Bill dug up squares
of growing wheat, sods of it, just as
you do when you want to dig under and
replace a lawn. He dug a six-foot
channel about three feet deep—deep
enough to let the plough go over it next
year without exposing anything.
This all happened in the story, and it
happened the same in Bill’s dream. He
laid that Jim in the channel, filled it in,
scattered the surplus soil about in the
wheat and replaced the sods.
Then he woke up.
It was raining hard, and by the sound
of the water flowing into an almost full
tank he knew it must have rained heavily
all night. It was all to the good, just
come at the right time. Bill guessed Jim
must have put him to bed after the clan
had knocked him cuckoo. He wasn’t
such a bad chap after all. It must have
been the weather that made him so
cranky—both of them. Jim didn’t show
up all day, and Bill thought he must have
gone into Boorloo despite the storm.
After all, it had looked like one of those
dry duststorms. But here was the rain,
and Jim was probably waiting for it to
pass over.
It rained for three days, and you could
almost .see the wheat grow. On the
third day Bill went into Boorloo and
asked about Jim. But Jim hadn’t been
seen at Boorloo. The bloke who ran
the wineshop there said that Jim had
been in the habit of getting a quart or
two of “pinkie” sometimes and taking it
away with him.
Bill felt relieved. He’d never seen
anything of it, and guessed' Jim had
a plant somewhere and had gone
off on a private jag. That would be just
like Jim. The fact that he’d walked to
his rendezvous showed that he didn’t
want to be saddled with a prad whilst
he was swilling for days in secret.
Of course, Bill informed the local cop,
but nothing was done until after the rain.
Everybody was het-up with it coming
just then. Bill was a decent cove and
above suspicion, there was the “pinkie”
probability, and who was Jim, anyway?
When the rain let up the locals did get
out a few search parties, finding nothing,
although, thanks to Ben Hall, all the
hidey-holes in the district were known.
But Bill was worried. His dream wor-
ried him. Had it actually happened?
Was he a murderer? He couldn’t be sure.
He used to go to the 150-acre paddock,
now eighteen inches high in wheat, and
look for tracks, but the heavy rain had
smoothed the soil, and you can’t expect
a man to go digging over a 150-acre pad-
dock of growing wheat looking for the
evidence of his own guilt. Besides, Jim
might yet turn up.
Nobody else worried. They all liked
Bill, and Jim had irritated everybody. As
a matter of routine, a detective eventu-
ally came out and snooped round for a
few weeks, asking questions and so on ;
but what’s a city man in the bush?
Bill didn’t mention his dream. Facts
are what the Law wants, and Bill gave
them, just as they all did. The news-
papers published the facts; but Jim
apparently had no relations or friends
interested in him. There was nothing to
do now but wait till the harvest, when
Jim would have to return and do his
share —if he wasn’t dead somewhere of
alcoholic poisoning.
THE detective went back into Boorloo
to catch the train. A cove was there
with a ’plane. He’d been taking people
up for joyrides the afternoon before, and
this day he was going back to Sydney.
The detective knew him and cadged a lift
back. The ’plane was one of those where
the passenger and pilot sit side by side
and can talk.
As they flew over the wheat country
the pilot said, “This reminds me of Eng-
land. I had a job there once taking up an
archaeologist. He used to photograph
the country to find out where the old
Romans had their camps. It’s surprising
what you can see from the air, and the
things they’ve been able to find out.”
The detective was very interested and
looked down at the wheat. They were
just passing over Bill’s house. He waved
to Bill. They crossed the big paddock.
The wheat was just turning color. The
pilot pointed down.
“There you are! See! There’s been
a culvert across that paddock, filled in
now to below the subsoil with loam ; con-
sequently, the wheat’s darker and richer
along the line of the trench.”
The machine banked suddenly, throw-
ing the detective back in his seat; so he
did not notice a darker oblong patch
lying at right angles to the culvert, like
a sap.
Bill told me all about his dream before
he died. He never knew positively if he
had killed Jim, but there is a fine young
kurrajong growing slap in the centre
of the 150-acre paddock. It spoils the
straightness of the furrows, but looks
pretty.
Poor Bill must have guessed something.
He must have, because I was the pilot.


RHEUMATISM
Watch those First Sharp Twinges of Pain, and TAKE ACTION NOW I
Almost before you are aware of your peril, you may find that Rheumatism has
you in its merciless grip, and the result is not pleasant. Don’t let Rheumatism
conquer you. Don’t hesitate and waste precious time while the ailment get a
firmer hold upon you, but go to your chemist now and get a box of De Witt’s
Pills —the remedy that has been successfully used in all parts of the world.
You cannot choose a better remedy. Read this remarkable letter sent us by
a grateful user. Then ask your chemist. He will tell you that De Witt’s Pills
contain ingredients which will prove beneficial in cases of rheumatic trouble.
You may think your case is too far advanced for De Witt’s Pills to
help you. Don’t make this big mistake. If rheumatoid arthritis has already
distorted your limbs you cannot expect a cure, but De Witt’s Pills will
ease your pain and possibly check the progress of the disease. Going
to the other extreme, you may think you can do without De Witt’s
Pills because you only experience rheumatism in a mild form
occasionally.
DON’T BE DECEIVED
Those early symptoms need attention, and yon will be acting
wisely if you get a box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist at the
first opportunity. The cost is trifling, and surely it
is worth while taking one or two pills when you (
know that by doing so you will enjoy better health
now and ensure freedom from pain in years to come.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness under
the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen feet
or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains , gravel
or stone. These symptoms usually precede attacks
of Rheumatism, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or
serious Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting a box of
De Witt’s Pills from the chemist and taking them
as directed. Sold only in the blue, white and gold
boxes, price 3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6.
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
j
Mr. M. Preston, of 193, Elizabeth Street, Redfern,
Sydney, N. S.W., says: “I cannot speak too highly of
De Witt’s Pills. I can honestly say they gave me instant
relief. Having suffered for many years from kidney trouble
and rheumatism, I tried a large number of remedies without
result, until I gave De Witt’s Pills a trial One bottle was
sufficient to show results, but I continued using them until my
trouble had completely gone.”
DeWitt
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
8.C.: It’s an old bush yarn, and you haven’t
improved it in the telling J.G.: A long
way out of our line G.W.L.; Some human
interest ; below the mark as jingle... .R.Z.:
There’s music in it, undoubtedly, but the effect
is marred by vagueness and faulty lines
E. : Interesting as a memento, but the
verse is turgid M.K.: Victoria’s missing
barmaids deserve a better requiem P.W.8.:
Any interest it may have is purely local
H.D.: -
Back from the town where the traffic roars,
Back to the hills that my heart adores.
That’s just what’s happening to it L.A.:
You’re always metrical, but you never seem
to hit on a live, snappy theme... .0.K.C.:
Fairly well done, but the yarn is very, very
01d... . DJ.: We don't encourage our hens
“to lay in a hammock at close of day”—or
at any other time R.S.C.; Not sufficiently
amusing E.D.; Too far off reality
F. : Neither a winner... .S.H.C.: Below
your standard K.M.S.: Too long, and not
the type E.A.S.; Not quite what we want.
. ...J.E.K.: Well worked out, but too story-
magaziny F.S.S.: You seem to have a
facile rhyming pen, but none of the samples
gets past Nightowl: “Six weeks to go.”
Try again P.R.:
•lust as the liner is about to turn, one day
i’ll signal for a boat. Trembling with apprehension
And excitement, I’ll board and sail away.
Still, there are such items as passage money,
passports and income-tax clearances to con-
sider.. ..1.A.J.: Words, signifying nothing....
ACT: Off the course A.R.C.: Echoes of
a whole sheaf of escape verse A.L.: Those
two don’t suit, but don’t give up... .E.M.E.:
Doesn’t it seem rather futile to write verses
in praise of Shakspeare? 0.R.; “Trees of
friendship”—“flowers of love.” You’re too
botanical for u 5.... D.McN.; Its correct place
would be an autograph album... .C.J.R.; Just
another confidence trick—and there have been
so many of them W.H.D.: “Russian
Sponge” not light enough J.D.L.: Good as
a “real experience,” but hardly as a yarn....
E.C.H.: “Round Trip” completed A.H.:
Not suitable.... 1.M.R.; Has its humorous
moments, but doesn’t pass as a complete job.
Try another line L.T.G.; Not quite con-
vincing V.M.D.: Appeal too limited....
W R W • Full-rigged ship now floundering in
the overflow from the w.p.b R. 8.: Doesn’t
ring the bell K.F.C.: “Who Said Fire?”
We don’t know, but we heartily agree with
him WW.A.: No “Shadows of Fate” shall
darken these doors! M.A.8.: Rather dull,
MCG.: Some of its spots were good,
but not enough of ’em J.G.: We want
yarns with settings nearer home, and not too
long. Your main piece was more like the
resume of a novel 1.V.: Not enough grins
in “Sam” ...M.G.V.: It doesn’t quite carry
off the idea... .J.H.: Nothing in it....L.G.:
An oldish theme, treated without life
DR: Doubt whether maidens who let their
choice of a husband depend on the result of
a race or similar test ever existed outside fairy
tales N.8.C.; That assault story is as old
as cigars and trains G.E.M.: Same criticism
still applies. Try another tack altogether
F.K.G.P.: Coincidence stories have to be
better than that N. 5.8.: Not enough point
to prise open the office “peter”... .A. 8.: Callow
youth's love tragedy too purplish and bore-
some J.W.: Neither quite up to printable
standard A.H.: It has happened, with only
slight variations, so often before H.R.:You
tackled a stiff proposition with that sociological
yarn; it failed, but not badly V.R.: Setting
too far off, and too melodramatic... .J.M.:
Too short for a novel and at least five times
too long for a short story... .E.J.S.: It went
the way of most ghost stories... .W.R.F.: Not
worth more than a par....W.5.: Unexciting,
. ...Tarbeht: Not badly done, but it doesn’t
quite convince... .E.T.T.: “Toll” isn’t much
of a rhyme for “Sol,” but the picture of the
peaceful sheepman with his “shacklements of
gloom” washed off by 20 inches of rain is
one to linger in the memory E.R.T.; But
birds don’t nest in autumn time in your part
of the country, do they? J.C.:
My place is a place of misery
For the air is full of blather.
So it seems H.J.8.: Poor stuff.... P.A.R.:
As a versifier on bush themes you're a long
way below that.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
roppRQPOMnFMTC
CUKKESI UJNUfcW IS.
„ _ „ ,' . , ..
F.W.8.: Call and collect the Highlander with
the dram-pipe legs... .T.M.F.: Not keen on
head studies, with He-She gags beneath....
L.S.: Your drawing ol Bmghi suggests that
you have been looking at too many pictures
of Abyssmians... .A.C.D.: Dad looks like a
dwarf in a butter-box... .F.A.; Gag was a
laugh-raiser m the gay nineties
You’re making some progress, but you vc
a long way to g0....T.F.; Washwork streaky
and line drawings scratchy... .C.B.C. : Tame
jests and barely visible sketches J.J.: You
bfelong to the slather-and-whack school and your
gags are musty.... R.M.: Inter-State caricatures
should have some guarantee about the hke-
nesses... .K.W.: Charcoal drawings arrived in
a hopelessly smudged condition... .5.N.8.:
Copying another man’s work wont get you
far E.N.: A family-circle jest... .R.A.:
Oswald Pryor has a hen over the Cousin Jacks.
.. -P.S.: Cartoon overcrowded and confused...
G.M.: There is more m a lace than a circle,
a couple of dots and a straight line... .T.P.:
The office charlady almost fainted at the cob-
webs on that batch of gags....J.W.W.:
Passion for semicircular strokes suggests that
you use your pen as you would a reaping-hook.
. ...A.8.: Idea too provincial for a national
newspaper C.S.T.; Shivery penwork and an
indigestible batch of gags W.P.: Easter
would have fled before we could have used
it... .E.H.P.: Not far off; pay more heed
to details H.M.: Which is the big drum
and which the bandmaster? W.R.G.: It
might have scored with a little more polish.
S.S.; Our addmg-machme operator is still
totting up the errors W.L.: A quartet of
misfits.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Sailor Once”: A Brisbane leader-
writer, referring to Bligh’s historic voy-
age, mentions that the rations largely
consisted of 1501 b. of bread, and con-
tinues that “people who complain about
bread being stale after two days should
try to imagine what this bread was like
after seven weeks of rainy weather.”
Probably it was little the worse. Ship’s
bread was —and still is, as far as I know
—just ship’s biscuit, small, square slabs
of paving-stone hardness. The best way
to deal with the granity concoction is
to suck it like a bull’s-eye.
* * * *
“Yangardook”: War souvenirs, is it?
In the Boer scrap we learned by helio-
graph on December 24, 1901, that the
enemy was behind some kopjes five miles
away, and that no move need be ex-
pected from him on Christmas Day.
Consequently at noon on Christmas Day
we were surprised to hear a solitary 181 b.
shell whiz wide of our lines and lob in
a sandhill. We did not reply, but lost
no time in digging it out. On unscrew-
ing the nosecap we found the projectile
stuffed full of steaming hot plumduff.
Someone got the note inside wishing us
a happy Christmas, but I brought home
the shell. It still keeps open the office
door.
* * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Egg Shell Flat, north
of Aileron, and 20 miles south from
Titree, on the overland telegraph line, is
the latest addition to the Australian
gazetteer. It may be recognised by a
signboard on a tree, the shells of 21 dozen
eggs and a deep hole, where the Tennant
Creek mailmain from Alice Springs dug
out his 30cwt. truck, after 14 days of
being bogged to the running boards. His
load included several cases of eggs, a
case of tomatoes and a parcel of sultana
cake, on which he and his three pas-
sengers subsisted for a week, with scor-
pions, centipedes and mosquitoes as their
only diversions? The passengers walked
on to Titree, but' the mailman stuck to
his post, and the egg-tomato menu, until
he got the truck out. The only casualty
was a tooth, broken by one of the pas-
sengers in his first bite at a damper in
Titree.
* * * *
“Hooker”: As an old front-row for-
ward I am delighted to hear that some-
one in Sydney has invented a scrummag-
ing machine for practice. I haven’t seen
it, but in view of its alleged perfection
I can imagine it. In front there should
be six movable arms with knobs on the
end, and these would rotate so as to
engage the faces of the opposite front
row. A gramophone or radio attach-
ment about where the lock man is placed
should supply fluent and appropriate lan-
guage, including commentaries on the
ancestry of the opposing half for the
way he puts the ball in. Many other
points suggest themselves which space
considerations unfortunately ban.
* * * *
“Hotham”: A Melbourne swimming
enthusiast has put up an unusual record
by swimming at least three miles a day
for 366 consecutive days in the Yarra
and covering some 1220 miles. These
continuous performances are not as easy
as they look. Originally started by the
famous Captain Barclay in the early
nineteenth century, they were revived in
mid-Victorian days, and a lot of money
was lost and won over them. Invariably
the man who had contracted to walk, say,
1000 miles in 1000 hours, the easiest-
looking job of the lot, was all in at the
finish and mighty sick of his undertaking.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Hassett and Thompson,
returned from their trip to the Philip-
pines, report that they played tennis on
a rolled coral court which was first
watered. This was enclosed by high
walls, and a dense ring of spec-
tators helped the resemblance to
the steam-room of a Turkish bath. The
pair speak enthusiastically of their
hosts and of the magnificent Manila
sports arena, built from lottery profits,
and including swimming pools, baseball
fields, athletic tracks, football grounds
and tennis courts galore. Curious that
Australia, so boastful of its athletic
prowess, should own the mangiest col-
lection of sports arenas —with one or two
exceptions—in the world. We have no
cricket ground to rival that of the Ger-
manstown club in the U.S.A., and no
social-sporting meeting place like the
Wanderers’ club in Jo’burg, while some
of the tracks we ask our athletes to
break records on would test the nerve of
a rock wallaby.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- pep day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Booms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV£ PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p,m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot i
Bulletin to hand. , , . •
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every mqui y
must be confined to one subject. . . .
The right of selection and rejection is reservea.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist and telephone
operator, wants position in city office. —1092.
Young man (25), Vic., exp. fitter and turner,
motor mechanic and car, truck and tractor
driver, can ride horses, wants job.—1079.
Saddler and harness-maker, Sydney, general
hand, wants job, or would like to hear of open-
ing, town or country.—1113.
Advertising salesman, Sydney, exp., wants
position with high-class publication.—1093.
To buy An Introduction to the Study of
Australian Literature, by Zora Cross. —1096.
To buy, second-hand, Jack McLaren’s My
Odyssey and E. S. Sorenson’s Friends and Foes
of the Australian Bush. —1024.
To buy back numbers of Royal Aust. His-
torical Soc. “Journals” and books on early
Sydney.—1119.
Words of “The Bush Christening,” by A. B.
(“Banjo”) Paterson. —954.
Information Sought.
A and B were playing cribbage. A had
scored but five holes; B required five only
to win. A had the deal and crib. B died in
the last hole, and A pegged and scored suffi-
cient in the hand and crib to go right out.
What were the cards and how were they
played ? —1003.
A, who has only scored five, has dealt to
him 6, 6, 6, 3 and 3 ; B, who wants five to
win, is dealt 10, 7, 6, 3 and 3. A 9 turns
up. B leads 7, A plays 6; B plays 6 and
makes it 19 with 2 holes, A plays 6 and
makes it 25 with 6 holes; B cannot play, A
plays 6 and makes it 31 with 14 holes; B has
2 in hand, A has 12 in hand and 24 in crib
and wins the game.
* j|j sj? :}:
I believe an American professor some time
ago tossed a coin some millions of times as a
study of the theory of probability. Were his
results published, and w>as there any reference
to the probability of “head" sequences of
varying length? —1102.
Can trace no reference to the matter. It is
unlikely that any person possessed of mathe-
matical knowledge would waste time by so ex-
haustively investigating such a problem. The
laws of probability are well understood. If
a thing can happen in only two ways (such as
a coin falling head or tail) the odds against
either head or tail are one to one. That does
not preclude the possibility that in 10, 100
or 1000 consecutive throws heads would fall
each time. In 10 throws made while penning
this reply a shilling turned up heads six times,
tails four, with never more than two heads or
two tails consecutively; but 10,000,000 throws,
whatever their result, wouldn’t upset the law of
probability, that the number of heads and
tails will be equal.
* * * *
(1) Requirements of a perpetual-motion
machine ? (2) Is such a machine a practical
possibility ? (3) Has the U S. Government
offered a reward for a successful perpetual-
motion machine, and, if so, has the reward
been claimed? —984.
(1) Complete lack of friction, or, if friction
is present, that the machine shall create energy
to overcome friction. (2) No; the first re-
quirement is impossible, and the second violates
the law of conservation of energy that the
total energy of an isolated system is constant
and can neither be increased nor decreased.
(3) Cannot say, but it would be quite safe
in so doing since such a machine cannot be
devised.
* * * *
(1) Accident statistics for civil aircraft, Aus-
tralia, 1935 ? (2) For railways ? (3) For tram-
ways ? —999.
. (1) Miles flown, 3,662,308; killed, 28;
injured, 10—figures are for staff and others.
(2) Miles run, 67,485,391; killed, 22; injured,
325—figures are for passengers only. (3)
Miles run, 81,083,741; killed, 18; injured, 711
—figures are for passengers only. Persons
killed and injured in tram accidents, other than
employees and passengers, totalled 44 and
440 respectively.
* * * *
(1) What are the highest buildings in Sydney,
and how high ? (2) What is the limit to the
height of Sydney buildings ? (3) Reasons for
limit ?— 893.
(1) More than a hundred buildings have
been erected to the maximum height permitted.
(2) By an Act of 1912, 150ft., measured from
the footway to the top of the highest portion
of the building to be occupied. Towers, water
tanks, lift-houses, etc., may be permitted above
this height limitation. (3) Matters taken into
consideration were the effect on traffic, fire
hazards and the effect on lighting and ventila-
tion of adjoining buildings.
* * * *
What will remove the smell of alcohol from
the breath?— 949.
There are various tablets on the market that
combine cleansing and aromatic properties.
Another efficient deodorant is glycerine thymol
compound, diluted one in three with water for
rinsing the mouth. Otherwise, quill cinnamon,
chewed™* ° r orc^nar y coffee bean may be
* * * *
Total number of permanent and temporary
employees under the N.S.W. Public Service
Act in the various N.S.W. Government de-
partments ? Give number in each department ?
—1076. . n . --
Premier’s, 452; Public Service Board, 28,
Chief Secretary’s, 4282; Treasury, 2203 ; Minis-
try of Transport, 5; Attorney-General and
Justice, 1563 ; Lands and Western Land Office,
735; Public Works, 1047; Public Instruction,
12,174; Local Government, 191; Labor and
Industry, 255; Mines, 162; Agriculture, 764;
and Forestry Commission, 144. Total, 24,005.
* * * *
Approximate relationship of the British
Empire to the world as a whole in regard to its
area and population ? —lO7l.
Area in square miles (exclusive ot Polar
circles): The world, 51,104,000; British Empire,
13,355,426. Population: The world,
2,095,209,000; British Empire, 495,764,000.
# * * *
List of the works of Rudyard Kipling, with
the dates of first publication of each ? —958.
Kipling, who was born 1865 at Bombay,
India, commenced his literary career in 1886
with the publication of Departmental Ditties.
Plain Tales from the Hills followed in 1887,
Soldiers Three, In Black and White, The Story
of the Gads bys, Under the Deodars, The
Phantom Rickshaw and Wee Willie Winkle in
1888-89, Life’s Handicap (1890), The Light
That Failed (1891), Barrack-Room Ballads
(1892), Many Inventions (1893), The Jungle
Book (1894), The Second Jungle Book (1895),
The Seven Seas (1896), Captains Courageous
(J 897), The Day’s Work (1898), Stalky and
Cos. (1899), From Sea to Sea (reprint of news-
paper articles, 1899), Kim (1901), Just So
Stories (1902), The Five Nations (1903),
Traffics and Discoveries (1904), Puck of Pook’s
Hill (1906), Actions and Reactions (1909), Re-
wards and 'Fairies (1910), A History of Eng-
land (with C. R. L. Fletcher, 1911), Songs
from Books (1913), The Harbor Watch, a play
(1913), The New Armies (1914), France at
War (1915), Fringes of the Fleet (1915), Sea
Warfare (1916), A Diversity of Creatures
(1917), The Years Between (1918), Inclusive
Verse (1919), Letters of Travel (1920), edited
The Irish Guards in the Great War, two vols.
(1923), Land and Sea Tales (1923), Debits and
Credits (1926), A Book of Words (1928), Thy
Servant a Dog (1930), Limits and Renewals
(1932), Souvenirs of France (1933), Collected
Dog Stories (1934). He was awarded the
Nobel Prize for Literature in 1907.
* * * *
(1) When taking the hydrometer test of an
accumulator and correcting for temperature,
should the temperature of the surrounding
atmosphere be taken or that of the electrolyte ?
(2) Temperature adopted as standard ? (3)
How is the correction made ? (4) When read-
ing a hydrometer scale, should the surface of
the electrolyte or the line of contact be taken
for this purpose ? (5) Where can hydrometer
bulbs be purchased separately? —79B.
(1) The temperature of the electrolyte. (2)
70deg. F. (3) For every 3deg. rise above
70deg. add one point to the hydrometer read-
ing, and for every 3deg. fall below 70deg.
deduct one point. Example: The reading is
1240 at lOOdeg. (30deg. above 70). The cor-
rected reading will be 1240 + 10, or 1250.
(4) Of no practical importance provided the
same method of reading is always used. (5)
Anchor Rubber Works, 195 Liverpool-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Is a .22 cal. Savage rifle more powerful
than other makes of that calibre ? (2) If this
is so, how does it gain the added power ? (3)
What are the calibres of rifles between .22 and
.303 ?—636.
(1) and (2) No. The .22 Savage rifle takes
the same cartridges as other makes of
.22 American rifles, consequently cartridges
have the same value in all .22 rifles. (3)
.22 hi-power, .220 Winchester Swift, .22
Hornet, .25-20 cal., .32-20 cal., .250/3000 model
54, .270 cal., .30 Gove ’O6.
* * * *
(1) Where was Adam Lindsay Gordon
buried? (2) Is any Australian poet buried
in Westminster Abbey ? —969.
(1) Brighton Cemetery, Melbourne. (2) No,
but a few years ago a tablet was erected there
in honor of Gordon.
* * * *
Please tell me about the word “kefi” which
occurs in enclosed clipping from an Athens
newspaper. What is the derivation ? —1029.
The word is of Turkish origin, and signifies
humor, temper, bodily or mental disposition or
state of health. The sentence given could
be roughly translated: “The spirit of the
gathering was maintained until the morning.”
To what amount of compensation is the
licensee of a N.S.W. country hotel entitled
when the premises he occupies are condemned
and the owner will not rebuild ? My last year’s
license fee was £34, and business has not de-
creased. —1067.
It is necessary for all parties interested in
the hotel (the owner and licensee and any
lessees, sublessees or mortgagees) to join in
a request to the Licenses Reduction Board that
the surrender of the license be accepted with
compensation. This request should be sub-
mitted within three months of the making of
the order to rebuild. Should the board decide
to grant the request, it will then proceed
to award compensation. It is impossible to
estimate the amount which would be awarded.
Owner’s compensation is based on the differ-
ence between the rental as a licensed house
and the rent which could or would be
obtained for the premises if not licensed.
Licensee’s compensation is based on net profits.
The board would require evidence on these
matters.
* * * *
A few details concerning Chequers, the resi-
dence of the British Prime Minister ? —llOO.
Chequers, a country residence for British
Prime Ministers (from Jan. 1, 1921), was pre-
sented to the nation (with an endowment to
maintain the estate, etc.) by Lord and Lady
Lee of Fareham as the official country resi-
dence for the Prime Minister of the day.
In 1921 the Chequers estate of 700 acres was
added to the gift by Lord Lee. Chequers is, a
Tudor mansion in the Chilterns, about three
miles from Princes Risborough, Bucks, and
contains a collection of Cromwellian portraits
and relics.
* * * *
(1) What are the qualifications necessary for
a position as station book-keeper ? (2) Pros-
pects of employment ? —IO4O.
(1) Good handwriting and knowledge of
English, arithmetic, double-entry book-keep-
ing, control of stores and general business prin-
ciples. (2) Prospects of employment vary
with conditions, but a capable man should
not long be out of employment.
* £ *
How can a stain caused by Watson’s violet
ink be removed from blue cesarine fabric ?
879.
The makers of the ink are unable to sug-
gest any special treatment. Blue is a fugitive
color, and treatment of the stain may remove
the color of the material. First try washing
in plain warm water and soap. If that fails,
soak in cold water, wring dry in a cloth, spread
over blotting-paper and paint the stain with a
weak solution of cloudy ammonia in water.
If it is effective, dab repeatedly with blotting-
paper to take it up. If this does not take
effect, try dabbing with methylated spirit in
water, and increase the quantity of spirit gradu-
ally.
* * * *
Is inhalation of the dust of superphosphate
injurious to health ? —983.
The continued inhalation of dust particles
is harmful to the bronchial tract, and insoluble
matter from any source may bring about a
silicosis. The cause must be avoided with pro-
tective masks.
* * * #
Remedy for pimply face in a boy of 17 ? —-
940.
Daily outdoor exercise is essential; diet must
be simplified so that fats, condiments, etc., are
reduced to a minimum. Include fruit (oranges,
apples, etc.) and green vegetables freely with
meals, sip a glass of hot water first thing each
morning, and take a daily tepid bath. Mean-
while, bathe affected parts with hot water and a
pure skin soap at night. After drying dust over
v.ith a simple talc. If pimples persist, wipe
e.hereal spirit soap firmly into the skin twice
weekly before bathing.
If. if $ *
Where in Queensland could a bunion be
surgically removed ? How long would the
patient have to stay in hospital ? —796.
Operation for bunion removal is seldom
advised in the absence of disfigurement. From
two to three weeks’ convalescence would be
involved.
* x * *
My daughter has brown patches of various
shapes and sizes over the whole of the body,
not in any way sore or a trouble. Cause and
cure ? —619.
Brown skin patches or “liver spots” are
usually associated with organic changes.
Although the liver itself is not directly con-
cerned, the functions of the system in general
demand attention. Elimination must be en-
couraged by exercise, frequent salines and a
morning glass of hot water. Glycerine and
lemon-juice may be used as a local bleach at
night. In this respect peroxide creams are
also of benefit, but mercurial bleaches must
be used with caution if the skin is sensitive.
Meanwhile, fats and starchy foods must be cur-
tailed, fruit and green leaf-vegetables must be
included freely with meals, and lemon-juice
should be taken with the morning hot drink
if weight is excessive.
* * * *
(1) Does picric acid solution cause septic
troubles when used in the treatment of burns ?
(2) Modern first-aid treatment of burns and
scalds ?- —591.
(1) Used externally, picric acid is antiseptic
and mildly astringent ; a one per cent, solu-
tion is used for dressing burns and super-
ficial skin wounds. Toxic symptoms may arise
from absorption when extensive areas are
treated; carron oil with, a dusting of starch
powder is preferable in such cases. (2) For
minor burns and scalds there are many
remedies available in the home. Promptly
rubbing the area with butter or a piece of
moistened soap will often alleviate pain and
prevent blistering. Carron oil, as above, con-
sists of equal parts linseed or olive oil and
limewater, well shaken together. Small blisters
should not be broken. Subsequent methods of
treatment depend upon damage affecting the
tissues. Burns neither deep nor extensive may
be treated with dressings of ambrine, which
can be left on for a day or two at a time.
* * * *
Location in the various States of the Great
Australian Artesian Basin and the area of
whole and in States ? Area of the intake
beds in the various States ? —IOBO.
The area known as the “Great Australian
Artesian Basin” includes (a) considerably more
than one-half of Queensland, taking in practi-
cally all that State lying west of the Great
Dividing Range, with the exception of an area
in the north-west contiguous to the Northern
Territory; ( b ) a considerable strip of N. S.
Wales along its northern boundary and west
of the Great Dividing Range; and (c) the
north-eastern part of S.A. proper, together
with the extreme south-eastern corner of the
Northern Territory. This basin is said to be
the largest yet discovered, and measures about
600,000 square miles, of which 376,000 square
miles are in Q., 118,000 square miles in S.A.,
80,000 square miles in N. S. Wales and 25,000
square miles in the Northern Territory. The
area of the intake beds is estimated at 60,010
square miles, viz., 50,000 square miles in Q.
and 10,010 square miles in N.S.W.
Brief Answers.
J.L.H.: (1) Lip-reading classes for deafened
adults are held at the N.S.W. Institution for the
Deaf and Dumb and the Blind, City-road, Dar-
lington. (2) There is no present provision for
teaching lip-reading by correspondence, but
the possibility of this is under consideration at
the institution. (3) Inquire from the principal,
Queensland Schools for Blind and Deaf, Corn-
wall-street, S. Brisbane... .E.L.K.: Will
Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney, can supply
French’s Guide to Selecting Plays, Is. 9d.
posted, which will give all the information re-
quired. This book contains outlines of plots
of plays, particulars of scenery, time of repre-
sentation, costumes, numbers of characters,
royalty fees payable, etc. Beauty and the
Barge is described in this book, and other
works by the same author L.K.: Probably
impossible to remove except by scraping
and repolishing. The common solvent for
iodine is fresh milk; warm if possible; try
it, and leave it on for a while, then mop up
with a piece of old cloth twisted to a point.
If this is not successful, it can only be removed
by force... .G.L.A.: Particulars of Polish
Bezique are much too long to set out here.
You will find full details in the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, eleventh edition, under Bezique;
this work may be consulted at any public
library J.J.8.: Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street,
Sydney, can supply the Cockney recitations
for 2s. Id., post free. They are published with
musical accompaniment, though music is not
essential R.H.: (1) A good workable recipe
for simple home-made wines can be supplied
if you wish, but the results will depend on
good fruit and suitable gear, with some skill
and experience. (2) Write to the Department
of Agriculture, Sydney, for the information,
especially if you are going in for the work on
a large scale. (3) There is very serious legal
objection to all such work unless you are
quite certain of what you are doing; if home-
made drinks contain more than 2 p.c. of
alcohol, the maker is liable to a very heavy
fine, even if brewing for home consumption
only J.N.S.: Write Dymock’s Book Arcade,
424 George-street, Sydney F.W.S.: “Sun-
shine Susie” was shown at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne, on July 9, 1932, and “Jack’s the
Boy” at the Majestic, Melbourne, on January
7, 1933 J.A.F.: Write “Everyone’s,” 102
Sussex-street, Sydney... .F.G.L.: Peter Dawson
made his last tour of Australia in July and
August, 1933, and was then 57 R.M.: The
vessel was the Hereward, not the Hereford,
and was iron F.D.: Write M. J. Pettigrove,
secretary, Taxpayers’ Assoc, of Victoria, Col-
lins House, 360 Collins-street, Melbourne....
G.W.: No school of landscape architecture in
N.S.W. You could take a course of draughts-
manship which would enable you to draw
plans and become familiar with their read-
ing. Practical experience with a qualified land-
scape gardener would be the best preparation.
E.F.: Suggest Tap Dancing at a Glance
(35.); Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney
A. 8.: Yes, you will frequently see such adver-
tised in the daily press... .J.A.H.: Labur-
num contains a poisonous principle known
as “cytisin,” but it is not often that cases
of poisoning occur through children eating the
pods or seeds of this plant... .F.J.: It is in-
advisable to stand the tree in a bowl of water,
as the soil around the roots will become
saturated and not allow sufficient aeration.
This in itself might cause the death of the
plant. If the tree is showing signs of going
off it should be placed in a warm, protected
position where it obtains good light and some
sunshine. The soil should be kept slightly
damp, but not at all saturated with moisture.
These trees are kept dwarf only by cramping
or pruning the root system, and it is not
advisable to stimulate them too much with
artificial manures E.G.M.: Write Technical
College, Brisbane W.P.D.: Write Beale and
Cos., 41 Trafalgar-street, Annandale, N. S.
Wales... .C.M.A.: (1) It consists of two pieces
of drawn sheet glass enclosing a thin layer of
fine glass threads and sealed at the edges.
(2) The manufacturers make the following
claims: Insulation against sun-heat, directional
light diffusion, conservation of indoor warmth,
elimination of glare, correct color values in-
doors, longer daylight illumination. (3) About
70 p.c. (4) Thermolux Glass Cos., 1 Albemarle-
street, London, W.l. (5) No agent. It may
be indented through J. C. Goodwin and Cos.,
Myrtle-street, Chippendale, N.S.W H.V.C. :
(1) Yes, published by the “Herald and Weekly
Times,” Melbourne. (2) Last edition, 1935.
R.A.M.R.: (1) The wages tax payable
would be 9d. (2) It will be necessary to in-
clude in the employer’s schedule the amounts
paid to the sons of a farmer, plus value of
keep and allowances... .J.W.C.: Copies of the
new edition of “Tomato Culture Under Glass”
will be issued by the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department within a few weeks. Apply to the
department for a copy... .J.M.H.: It is impos-
sible to say what are the fastest fish in the
world, though most fish authorities would
place the mako shark first. The swordfish and
tunny are also very swift. No reliable esti-
mate has been made of the speed of fishes.
Zane Grey records a mako shark which leaped
30ft. into the air when hooked. The speed
in the water to allow of this height being
obtained must obviously have been very great.
F.F.: Coonabarabran is a N.S.W. abo.
place-name meaning “an inquisitive person”....
A.M.: (1) If you do not, on good grounds,
desire to do so, you need not grant permission,
but permission ought not to be withheld un-
reasonably. (2) If they mine under the property
without a legal right to do so you will have
an action-at-law against them E.J.8.: Write
S.A. Agricultural Dept., Adelaide.:. .V.M.:
M. A. Noble was born at Sydney on January
28, 1873. In 68 Test-match innings he scored
1905 runs, an average of 30.72; and in Shef-
field Shield matches scored 4976 runs, an aver-
age of 65.81... .A.P.J.: Recipe for Manhattan
cocktail: Put into a large tumbler a spoonful
of crushed ice, a dash of bitters, a sherry glass
three-parts full of whisky and Italian vermouth
and a dash of Curasao. Shake and serve with
maraschino cherry P. 8.: From G. C. Somer-
ville, secretary, the Australian Illawarra Short-
horn Society, Endeavour House, 33 Macquarie-
place, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


L (traded
i
NS
or
our ms
No matter where you live
—in city or country, large
home or small; no matter
whether you have much
money or little . . there is
a ''Bandmaster'' Receiver
exactly and perfectly
suited to your require-
ments. They range in
price from 15 guineas for
the 5 valve table model to
42 guineas for the 8 metal-
valve, dual wave de luxe
console.
A.G.E. are Australian dis-
tributors for Radiotron
Valves and C o I u m b i a
Batteries.
R 49
fTI HE amazing new "Bandmaster"' Receivers have just arrived in your
district. They are now on parade for your inspection in the show-
room of your nearest A.G.E. dealer or may be heard, if you wish, in
the comfort of your own home. And that inspection is going to thrill
you .. . going to reveal to you that the designers of "Bandmaster"' Re-
ceivers have crowded four years of progress into 12 months of amazing
discovery! You'll see the new A.G.E. FLOODLIT DIAL . . . designed
like a slide rule ... clear ... weirdly accurate .. . with ALL STATIONS
GROUPED in states or countries! You'll see the peak of achievement
in tuning control .. . the new AUTOMATIC VERNIER. You'll enjoy
the thrill of overseas broadcasts magically intensified by a newly-
discovered SENSITIVITY BOOSTER. "MAGIC EYE" TUNING . . .
Radiotron METAL VALVES . . . climate proof cabinets of surpassing
beauty and grace you'll find all these features in the 1936 "Band-
master."
HEAR THEM!
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
SYDNEY :: MELBOURNE :: BRISBANE :: ADELAIDE :: HOBART
w. A. AGENT: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., 894 HAY ST.,
PERTH
D
MICRO
n
a*
////,
• SENSITIVE
j^m
RADIO


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Doncaster retained its open ap-
pearance to the last, and an outsider
scored—indeed, it was an outsiders’ day.
Revealing brilliance unanticipated except
by the owner, R. J. Murphy—Concen-
trate, third in a Melbourne Cup, raced
in his colors—trainer George Price,
jockey McCarten and a select circle,
Cuddle won the Doncaster in runaway
fashion from Cabalist and Barak. The
verdict was “two lengths” ; seemingly it
could have been four or five.
Cuddle is a six-year-old daughter of
Psychology—Caress. She started at
twelves, but better could be got; twenties
were, in fact, laid. McCarten had evi-
dently been instructed to take her to the
front early, as he drove her along to
such purpose that she had the lead at
the three-furlongs post, and the result was
not in doubt from that point. Heritor
had done all the early leading, and he
was third at the home turn ; but he failed
to come on.
Cuddle won up to two miles in Maori-
land, but flopped badly in the Australian
Cup. She whipped in the field, and was
so distressed that many thought she had
broken down. However, Price brought
her along quietly after her return from
Victoria. Her Doncaster preparation was
unusual —it was mainly composed of
spurts of a couple of furlongs. She hadn’t
to beat lmin. 38sec. to win, though the
conditions were conducive to fast time.
Valiant Chief ran a solid race through-
out. He finished fourth, just ahead of
Regular Bachelor, who, left flat-footed,
made up a lot of ground over the last
half-mile. Had he got away he might
have troubled Cuddle. Garrio, backed
for a ton of money, was favorite ; he gal-
loped ungenerously. Voitre had him
tucked in behind Heritor for a furlong
or two ; but he finished last. Old Lough
Neagh found the pace too hot. Both
Cabalist (25 to 1) and Barak (8 to 1)
finished well.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt has
a fine galloper in Gold Rod, who could
scarcely go slow enough for Fidelity and
Siren in the Sires’ Produce Stakes. The
Chief Ruler colt was at 5 to 1 on. He
ran “seven” in lmin. 25fsec., equalling
Young Idea’s time last year; had he been
ridden out he might have got close to
Hall Mark’s record of lmin. 24sec.
Peter Pan (10 to 9 on) made a gallant
attempt to overcome increasing age and
infirmity (for racing) in the Autumn
Plate, but it was no good. The best he
could do was to finish third to Sarcherie
and Silver Ring. Sarcherie (12 to 1)
moved up on the rails at the top of the
straight, and finished full of running. The
slow pace over the first mile suited her,
but she would have won anyhow. Spear
Prince shaped respectably, but Soft Step
was last and Egmont second-last.
Knox’s riding helped Allunga (evens)
greatly in the St. Leger. Slowing down
the field early, he allowed Nalda to get
a break of a length at the half-mile, but
quickly settled Sol Green’s filly in the
straight. Then Wykeham put in his
claim, but Allunga responded gamely
under the whip, and beat him cleverly by
a long head, with Fanfare, outclassed, in
third place, and Nalda and Viceroy down
the straight.
Both divisions of the Vaucluse Handi-
cap were good betting races. Newcastle-
owned Bundar (8 to 1) came through on
the inside to beat Thebez, who was wide
out at the turn, with Pavarti third. The
Victorian Panax (10 to 1), favorite (and
last) at Warwick Farm, flew up the
straight to down Canegrass in the other
division, Disalto being third. The favor-
ite, Lolorua, lost ground from the turn.
The attendance at Randwick on Satur-
day was 60,000 —up 7000 compared with
the first day of the 1935 meeting. Tote
receipts were £51,851 —up £3156. A
good deal more would have gone through
the machines had adequate arrangements
been made. There were too few clerks
at the sale and pay-out windows, and
people had to wait too long.
Heritor was this Page’s tip for the
Doncaster. He wasn’t knocked about in
that race, and he might have done better
if he had been given searching gallops
during the previous week —his most
exacting task was “five” in lmin. 4isec.
At all events, the Doncaster race must
have done him good, for in the La
Perouse Handicap on Monday, going out
at 10 to 1, he defeated a strong field or
sprinters handily. Vista was second and
Valiant Chief third —fourth in the Don-
caster, the colt was up 61b., Heritor 41b.
Hadrian and Cereza were among the
beaten lot.
Saturday’s weather was windy and
cold, Monday’s windy, cold and wet ;
and punters began ransacking their
memories for impressions of horses that
had run well on sticky tracks. As a
matter of fact, no great quantity of rain
fell after the early morning, though the
Cup race was run in a shower, and times
throughout the day were pretty fast.
Hall Mark, Qarrio and Nalda were
scratched, leaving Victoria without a
representative in the field of 21. Cuddle
was in for Maoriland, and, though raised
six pounds to 9st. 81b., was set to make a
one-horse race of it again. After the
Melbourne experience it seemed a grossly
inconsiderate way to treat so gallant a
mare, who had not been trained for a
two-miler, but considerateness seems out
of fashion on the turf. She was done
with at a mile and a half. This Page
got a thrill when the horses it had placed,
Spear Prince (20 to 1), Egmont (12 to 1)
and Salamander (12 to 1), raced strongly
into the straight, with Spear Prince lead-
ing. A furlong and a half from home
the Queenslander was clear, but Egmont
and Contact (8 to 1) gradually got his
measure and battled out a most excit-
ing finish, which ended in favor of Con-
tact, with Spear Prince third. Half-
head ; two lengths; time, 3min. 24|sec.
Sarcherie was favorite at prices rang-
ing from 3 to 1 with “silver” book-
makers on the outskirts of the ring and
9 to 2 with bookmakers who hold 20
or 30 times as much. She made a for-
ward move approaching the home turn,
but' died on her run. In the Autumn
Plate she had beaten Contact, Egmont
and Spear Prince pointless ; in the Syd-
ney Cup they beat her pointless. Such
is horseracing.
Contact is owned by M. C. G. Clava-
renne and Dan Lewis, and is trained by
Lewis at Randwick. Like Cuddle in the
Doncaster she was ridden by McCarten —-
a sterling dual performance. Knox had
to put up a pound to ride Egmont.
* * * *
Unless the owner changes his mind
Peter Pan will race no more. He goes
to the stud with the reputation of hav-
ing been one of the greatest and gamest
horses that Australia ever saw, and it is
a pity that his record was dimmed by
needless reverses this autumn. As it was,
he was 23 times successful, six times
second, once third and nine times un-
placed. He won two Melbourne Cues
(1932 and 1934) and £34,790 10s. in
stake-money. Archer was the only other
dual winner of Melbourne Cups (1861
and 1862), and another 70 or 80 years
may elapse before it is done again.
* * * *
A week or so before the beginning of
the Easter meetings, winners of four
Melbourne Cups were on the Randwick
track the same morning ; and old hands
say such a thing never happened before.
But, for one reason and another, it
became a question whether any of them
would start at Easter, and in the end
Marabou had to be sent back to Mel-
bourne, scratched for all engagements.
Peter Pan and Hall Mark emerged—tem-
porarily, at least —from their troubles and
raced on Easter Saturday, with results
now familiar to all followers of the
game.
* * * *
Like Sylvandale (one of the Randwick
absentees), Capris seems much better in
Sydney than in Melbourne. Tried in
Melbourne for a period of 14 months —
of course she had spells—the chestnut
daughter of Captain Bunsby —Charis had
two successes only. Brought back to
Sydney, she won at the first time of ask-
ing, the race being a division of the
Flying Handicap at Ascot and the dis-
tance 6i furlongs, run in lmin. 21isec.
The bonny mare from Maoriland beat a
field which included Misnomer (second),
Serlodi (third), Some Boy and Ramadan,
all of whom .were backed, though Capris
was favorite at 5 to 2. Queenslanders
think highly of Some Boy, who ran
pretty well in the Liverpool Handicap at
Warwick Farm.
* * * *
Tote doubles were introduced at Ascot
(Sydney) on Wednesday, and the inno-
vation should have been made the occa-
sion for a splash, especially as it was the
last meeting before the Doncaster and
Cup. But Wednesday racing in Sydney
is run on frugal lines, and the initial
proceedings Were more ripple than
splash, while prize-money ; was. scarcely
any better than usual. People could back
doubles on divisions of the Fourteen-two
and the Three-year-old, and of the Flying
and Ascot Handicaps. One winning com-
bination, Valoria and Grand Warbler,
returned £ll ss. 6d. for ss.—ring prices
were 10 to Land 6 to 1. Spotters of the
other, Mafoota and Greek Play (each
6 to 1 with the bookmakers), did much
better, receiving £39 19s. for 55., say 158
to 1. That is good enough, especially as
the machine can never have a skinner ;
and doubles totes should now be in-
stalled on all Sydney courses. If they
were the kind of odds-cramper who
wouldn’t lay 100 to 1 at Randwick
against a camel and a mule would soon
be missing for ever from haunts that have
known him for so long. But for some
reason or other the A.J.C. committee
does not seem enthusiastic, and unless it
gets that way it cannot inspire enthu-
siasm in other clubs.
*.*■•**
Bill Burke, the Melbourne trainer, at-
tempted a jumping coup with Peep o’
Day at Williamstown. It was the first
public appearance of the Windbag geld-
ing after a long interval. The favorite
was Beaconsfield, who is of M.L. origin
but has raced in Melbourne for several
seasons. He ran third ; King’s Warden
came with a late rush and vanquished
Peep o’ Day by half a length. King’s
Warden, a four-year-old by the sire of
Waltzing Lily, belongs to brewer P. G.
Hay, who captured the Australian Hurdle
in successive seasons with Lord Darnley
and Poidale.
Burke tried to recover Peep o’ Day
losses through the agency of Rebel Queen
in the Werribee Highweight. Dempsey
rode one of his best races on Rebel
Queen. He kept her in a nice position
on the rails, and took instant advantage
of the leaders swinging out at the straight
entrance. When Rebel Queen hit the
front it looked all over, as In the Air
was making heavy weather on the out-
side of the field, but the Ronsard gelding
is nothing if not game, and, desperately
ridden by Barry, he got up in time to
score by half a neck, with the Wolaroi
mare Kitty O’Shea third.
Occupants of the press box over-
whelmed their colleague, W. G. Hughes,
with congratulations. Hughes races In
the Air in partnership with a friend.
Another pressman has a half-share in
Kitty O’Shea, who shaped like a coming
winner. That journalists can afford to
race horses is a sign of changed times ;
either that or an indication of super-
human courage in the face of experience.
Another Heroic juvenile found his way
to victory at Williamstown, the Maiden
Two-year-old Handicap going to Grand
Hero, who is out of a Linacre mare.
Through the death of his original owner,
Grand Hero came under the hammer a
couple of months ago and was bought by
J. Colthurst, a hotelkeeper at Oakleigh,
for 375gns. He led all the way and
won, easing up, from Fine Son (Beau
Fils —Compote) and Miss Stalla (Stalden
—Miss La Rose). Trained by Pat Kelly,
a brother-in-law of Mick Poison, Fine
Son did well to dead-heat for second,
after being in the back bunch two fur-
longs from home.
The greatest blow to Williamstown
punters was the fact of Burlesque, a 5-
to-2 favorite, running last in the Easter
Stakes. Apparently 9st. 101 b. was too
much for him to handle on a track which
had been soaked with rain the previous
day. The downfall of Burlesque followed
immediately on that of his stable-com-
panion, Parodier, in the event for young-
sters.
The race in which Burlesque shaped so
miserably went to Count Orlotf, who was
bred by Philip Russell, of the V.R.C.
committee. Big things were expected of
Count Orlotf at the outset of his career.
The grey son of Ethiopian is improving
greatly with age.
Jim Pengilly, who trains Count Orloff,
also appropriated the Point Cook. Trial
Handicap with Picador, a son of the Earl-
ston stallion Bucklaw. Odds of 11 to 8
were accepted about Favorite Son in the
Point Cook Trial. The half-brother to
Amounis carries the colors of his breeder,
Percy Miller. He displayed improvement
on previous efforts and lost to Picador by
a mere neck. This horse is developing
somewhat on the lines of Marabou as a
three-year-old. f
• • . • • • •
Breakdown of Barracker and his with-
drawal from the Seaside Handicap paved
the way for a victory by Phenomenon,
but the ex-Queenslander was all out to
beat Null den by a head. Barracker is to
be returned to the lessor, P. C. Einsidel,
for use as a stallion. Without question
Barracker was one of the best Vic.
sprinters.
It has been stated, and denied, that
Mrs. Buxton, who owns Heros and owned
Highland and High Syce, has offered
2000 guineas for Pamelus, reckoned the
best horse in Queensland. Pamelus is
still under disqualification. The term will
expire at the end of May, and his party
will be able to nominate him for the
Epsom and Metrop. and the two Cups.
He gave Regular Bachelor 131 b. and a
beating in the Doomben Newmarket, and
was rubbed out for not defeating Lough
Neagh at weight-for-age.
sjt * * *
Another Maoriland trainer, S. G. Ware,
has fallen under the displeasure of the
V.R.C. stipendiary stewards ; and so has
Jenkins, the jockey, also from Maori-
land, and the horse Gold Fox. Gold
Fox was favorite for the Somerville
Trial at Epsom; badly placed most
of the way, he finished fast wide out,
just too late to get a place. “Dishonor-
able action and improper practice,” the
stewards called it, and they put horse,
jockey and trainer out for 12 months.
The owner was absolved, being still in
Maoriland.
# * * *
“Readier”: Reports about the bare-
faced doping of racehorses in Brisbane
have prompted the Government to de-
clare that it intends cramping the style of
dope experts. Vets, are to be rounded up
and required to take precautions against
the free issue of drugs under penalty of
losing their certificates. Considering that
anyone can walk into an ordinary
chemist’s shop and buy most poisons by
the simple expedient of signing a false
name in a book, after explaining that the
stuff is wanted to stiffen the next-door
tomcat, this seems to be putting a plaster
on the vets. Cocaine and heroin are the
drugs chiefly used by dopers, and if the
alleged safeguards on the sale of these
were made effective we should hear less
of doping. The penalty for that should
also be increased. At present a maxi-
mum fine of £25 is all that is to be
feared by the crook.
* * * *
“Sturt”: How is this for blind luck?
At the evening “trots” in Adelaide, only
a single successful backer of the one leg
in a double took a ticket on the out-
sider Tarcombe for the other; and it
ran third, which doesn’t count. But the
favorite, finishing second, was beaten by
so complete an outsider that nobody had
backed it at all. Thus the second had to
become, for dividend calculation, the
winner; Tarcombe ranked as second,
and his backer, entirely through the
oversight of other people, collected £lOO
2s. 6d. for 4s.
The Olympic Federation has decided
that, “as funds become available,” Har-
ley, a light-heavy boxer, Doris Carter, a
high-jumper, and Masters, a diver, may
be added to the team for Berlin. They
are all Victorians. The N.S.W. flapper
press is thinking of declaring war.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR RANDWICK.
All-aged Plate: Valiant Chief;
next, Regular Bachelor.
Coogee Handicap: Osculum;
next, Prittle Prattle.
Cumberland Plate: Lough Neagh ;
next, Hall Mark.
City Handicap: Spear Prince;
next, Soft Step.
C. W. Cropper Plate: Hadrian ;
next, Cereza.
Dangar Handicap: Jovial Son ;
next, Salamander.
A J.C. Plate: Lough Neagh ; next,
Allunga.
Final Handicap: Mananui; next,
Young Crusader.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Brighton Handicap: Gay Pop;
next, Quasimodo.
Glenhuntly Handicap: Nellie’s
Tip; next, Free Wheel.
Glenferrie Handicap: In the Air ;
next, Bite Again.


■ ’
m
V • S
$
0
mote, wurfotlm/ mo&o
youA mcmey
WITH
Super Plume 2tU
-*■ THE SPO WER PETROL f
CIEAROSOI Mobil (i i 1
PRACTICALLY 10070 PURE LUBRICANT
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A good deal of what is now mostly
thought of as the “old-time” fighter
survives in Ambrose Palmer. Not only
fixed marks of damage to his eyes make
him look the complete professional pug.
He has the air of one ; the shape, the
manner, the natural cut of the best of
the craft who have pulled on gloves.
That other classy Australian Carroll,
with his postlike upright stance, his
solid, unvarying, blocky build, carries
back to an earlier date ; to the men who
fought with bare fists in the open—he
would have been a clinker among them.
Palmer keeps going the later tradition of
the ring—gloves, overhead lights, dress-
ing-gowns, sweatered seconds, towelling,
flannelled or dinner-jacketed referee, and
the count.
No present-day fighter seems to belong
more inside the ropes than the Footscray
heavyweight does. A wide triangle in
build, crouching, wary, he looks the part
all the time, even when, as happened to
him in Sydney the other night, he is tak-
ing a hiding. In fact, he looked more
the true ring pugilist then than in any of
his victories. When Joe Wallis moved
his flannelled argosy of a body over at
the end of the eleventh to ask whether
a game bloke hadn’t had enough,
Palmer leapt out of his corner indig-
nantly, resented the suggestion, and
sagged back on the seat again. No
yellow streak in Ambrose ; he can take it
with the best that ever wore a glove.
He certainly took it over the last three
rounds of his fine fight' with the Ameri-
can negro Leo Kelly, who, weighing B|lb.
less than Palmer’s 12st.
B|lb., accepted a pretty
boxing lesson rather
thoughtfully for six
rounds, and returned
the compliment with a
fighting lesson over the
remaining five. The
fight ended early in the
twelfth round, when
Palmer’s second, shud-
dering in despair at
what was happening to
a dazed man, shoved
the towel as far as he
could reach into the
ring. Palmer’s left eye
had been badly cut
when the fighting lesson
started; then blood
flowed from a cut under
the other eye. Two
reporters certify that
they saw a head bump ;
all this chronicler can
say is that they were
mixing it, close in and willing, at the
time. Kelly had fought cleanly, in dis-
tinct contrast to the performance of a
countryman of his in the main support-
ing bout. There should be an immediate
disqualification for head fouls.
But Kelly would have been unlucky,
and Palmer lucky, if Palmer had won.
From the start the white fought with only
one hand, his lightning left. It looked
pretty boxing, but it meant that Kelly
had only a one-handed opponent to con-
sider. Having thought out this simple
matter of defence and attack, meanwhile
blocking lefts with his chocolate face,
the hard-punching Leo at last waded in,
hitting fine and clean with both hands,
somehow cutting Palmer’s eye, and mak-
ing a chopping-block of a now-pathetic
champion for the rest of the fight. The
most relieved-looking face in sight when
the thing ended was Kelly’s.
Because of the raised prices there were
many empty seats, and —significantly—
receipts were not published.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L. has just dis-
covered what Cabbage Garden bow-
wows have long been barking, that the
Coulter law is being flagrantly broken.
This law, passed some years ago, en-
acted that no club should pay any player
more than £3 a week, and that on no
account should any present or bonus be
offered. Moving at a League meeting
for an investigation, an Essendon dele-
gate said the law was being openly
flouted. Others agreed with him, and
the motion was carried. Previous investi-
gations died in the cradle.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victorian Rugby Union
starts its season on May 2. It has grown
out of all knowledge, and is now hard put
to it to find suitable grounds. The
Amateur Sports Oval has been leased for
the bigger games, and grounds have been
secured at Elsternwick Park, Murrum-
beena, Footscray, Gardiner, Royal Park,
Middle Park (seven areas), University,
Geelong (two grounds) and Dandenong.
Ten clubs will play in each of the three
grades. In addition to the matches with
Queensland and N.S.W., there will be a
couple of clashes with S. Aus. in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Advocates for the adop-
tion of Rugby League rules by the
Rugby Union were agreeably surprised
". ..and when I count three We both
fire!”
when the news came through that the
League method of kicking into touch had
been permitted to the Australian and
M.L. Unions by the International Rugby
Board. Apparently South Africa has de-
termined to stick to real Rugby, for no
mention of a concession to the ’Boks is
made —indeed, they didn’t ask for it. This
opens the interesting question whether
the ’Boks will be asked to play under
the amended rule when they visit us
next year.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: Something new in
Rugby matches was the meeting of
teams representing Dominion medical
students and the United London Hos-
pitals. The Dominions team won 14-5 ;
it included Sturfridge, the Wallaby three-
quarter. The win was a creditable one,
for some of the finest internationals play
with London hospital sides.
❖ * 5*5 *
“Cradle”: When the Waratahs were
in England in 1927-28 these then-bachelor
footballers discussed the question of
building up another Waratah team. Re-
porting progress to date a Sydney paper
is downcast because of 15 children born
to now-married Waratahs only four are
boys. There seems no reason for the
moan. By the time these nippers have
grown up the girls will be found playing
grade and international football alongside
their brothers. The female of the species
has shoved her way into pretty well every
other sport once considered a fenced pre-
serve for man, and Rugby is not likely to
escape.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Lofter”: Jim Ferrier has done a
round of the difficult Carnoustie course
in 71 —one better than par for the 6700
yards. The score beats the professional
record, held by half a dozen world-
famous players, including Tommy
Armour and R. A. Whitcombe. But
golf practice records are like track
gallops against the watch in racing—un-
trustworthy indication of true form when
the whips are cracking.
* * *
“Hoylake”: One lion has been removed
from the path of Jim Ferrier in his tilt
at the British amateur championship.
Lawson Little, twice winner of this title,
has turned professional. He is joining
Bobby Jones in a campaign to increase
the popularity of golf, on which Bobby
has been employed—a soft job in the
U.S.A. one would think. Little is only
26, and is that rare combination a long-
and short-game artist and a flawless
putter.
“Lakeside”: The decision of Lawson
Little to go after cash rather than credit
has not been greeted with paeans of jubi-
lation by those already chasing money
round the U.S.A. from one year’s end to
the other. For one thing it means an-
other mouth to fill; and some of the
leading American professionals are Scots-
men.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Sydney City Council’s
hint that it may abolish Moore Park
municipal links or reorganise the whole
show has been expected for some time.
Annual loss on these links is given as
£lOOO, probably a world’s record for
municipal courses, which in most cases
pay handsomely. The control of the
links has always been unsatisfactory
from the point of view of people
acquainted with the conventions of golf.
For instance, matches are played the
wrong way round, and following players
wallop their way through parties ahead
without bothering about the two strokes
allowance. For this state of things
cheeseparing on the council’s part has
been largely responsible. There is talk,
too, of abolishing the club which has
established itself on these public links.
¥ ¥ $
“Hoylake”: Cotton had an unusual
experience in the tournament for the
“Daily Mail” prize at Bramshot. It
served, among other things, to show how-
even the most skilled players can be
abysmally ignorant of the rules of the
Royal and Antient. Henry played his
tee shot on to the overcoat of a spec-
tator which was lying beside the fairway.
He asked the man to move the coat,
which was done. This cost Henry a
penalty of two strokes ; had he moved
the obstacle himself, there would have
been no penalty. However, the com-
mittee let him off on the ground that he
had gained no advantage, but the tem-
peramental star finished with a cricket
score.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Cuba has with-
drawn from the Davis Cup tie with Aus-
tralia on the ground that the changing of
the location of the match from Havana
to New Orleans, as decided by an
American arbitrator, was unfair. The
Australians will meet the U.S.A. repre-
sentatives at Philadelphia at the end of
May.
* * * *
“Wun Lung”: For the first time since
1928 China has entered for the Davis
Cup in the European zone, and will pro-
ceed to give France “whaffor” in the
opening round. Leader of the team is
Gordon Lum, one of Victoria’s best
players seven or eight years ago, when
he figured in matches with N.S.W. Others
in the band are Choy, once of Cam-
bridge ; Cheng, of Shanghai; and Kho,
from Java. Their French opponents will
be chosen from Borotra, Brugnon, Ber-
nard, Boussus, Destremeau, Legeay and
Lesueur.
V H* -S' *l*
“Rev. Knucklebone”: An effort is to
be made to end the feud between the
N.S.W. grass and hardcourt players.
President S. E. Wynn, of the hard-
courters, suggests the formation of a
joint council to control the game. The
hardcourt army numbers 40,000, that of
the grassies 5000 ; but on the governing
body of 30 members there are only six
hardcourters.
Miscellaneous
“Shrewsbury”: The continued success
of the Cambridge crew in the boatrace is
a wonderful testimony to the virtues of
the Fairbairn style. Oxford, which has
stuck to the orthodox methods which
served it well in the past, will have to
drop its prejudices and adopt the Cam-
bridge system. It is absurd to say that
the senior university does not produce
specimens of manhood as hefty as the
junior, and that the superiority of the
Light Blues lies in their way of going
about their job is beyond contradiction.
Oxford has been called the home of
dead causes. Well, here is a fine chance
to bury one of them.
* * * *
“Blade”: N.S.W. rowing heads always
have trouble in raising funds to send a
crew to Perth—the cost for the long trek
is over £6OO. This year brass is very
slow in coming in, the counter-attraction
of the fund to send the Police crew to the
Olympiad no doubt having its effect. The
inter-State race is rowed early in May,
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The M.L. Olympic team
is to travel with the Australians by the
Mongolia. Though it numbers only five,


98,553 MILES AND STILL GOINS STRONG
IS RECORD OF A 1933 CHEVROLET TRUCK!
... and here is an even better
Hew/936 | 1
CHEVROLET
TRUCK
with FULL FLOATING BACK AXLE and 59 other NEW FEATURES
A ' V
s' m
.
m
CHASSIS PRICES
from
£272
Plus Sales Tax.
“98,553 MILES AND STILL
GOING STRONG” An actual
extract from the letter of a bus
owner operating in Sydney, N.S.W.
—“90,000 miles before a rebore.”
. . . The same lasting service and
efficiency can be yours with a new
Chevrolet.
THE FAMOUS CHEVROLET SIX CYLINDER TRUCK ENGINE
NEVER NEEDS REPLACING-IT LASTS THE LIFE OF THE TRUCK
Chevrolet’s famous six cylinder valve-in-head engine lasts longest, and gives best truck service,
because it has been designed especially for hard truck service. And this year, Chevrolet
performance is better than ever . . . Your local Chevrolet dealer will gladly answer any
questions and supply full descriptive literature. See him now —arrange a demonstration under
your own load and road conditions.
These Factors of Truck Performance Prove Chevrolet Superiority.
® RIM PULL (PULLING POWER). The Tractive effort delivered to the rear
driving wheels. Unapproached by other trucks.
* TORQUE. The true measure of engine efficiency. Chevrolet develops 155 ft.-lbs. at
900 to 1500 engine revolutions. Compare this with all others.
* GRADEABILITY. The truck’s ability to negotiate grades under load, or its aptitude
for top gear performance, Chevrolet has better Gradeability than other trucks.
* ROAD SPEEDS. The ability to cover distance at satisfactorily high speeds, con-
sistent with safety. Chevrolet has a wider, more serviceable range of road speeds,
with better performance characteristic throughout.
•PERFORMANCE FACTOR. Expresses the harmony and efficiency of the truck
as a whole. Ensures dependable, efficient, low-cost operation. Chevrolet is vastly
superior to all other popularly priced trucks.
GENERAL MOTOR S—H OLDEN’S LTD.
SOME OF CHEVROLET’S 60
NEW LONG LIFE FEATURES
CAST IRON PISTONS. —Best for truck use.
FULL FLOATING BACK AXLE.— Sturdy.
Accessible. Straddle-mounted drive pinion.
GIANT SIZED BRAKES. Sealel against
dirt and water.
MASSIVE FRAME. —Shock-proof, Rigid, Stayed
by Alligator Jaws of Steel.
IMPROVED APPEARANCE. Stream-
lined front end with distinctive radiator grille. Two
longer bonnet louvres, surmounted by the Chevrolet
Monogram.
TRANSMISSION . —Extra heavy: 4 speeds.
SPRINGS. —4 long semi-elliptics of toughenei
annealed steel.
LANC ED DOW N-DRAUGHT
CARBURETTOR. —New Air Cleaner. Aids
easier starting and fuel economy.
FULL LENGTH WATER JACKETS.—
Surround cylinder walls. Reduce engine temperatures;
minimise wear.
STRONGER CRANKCASE. With new
oil saving ventilator Laitle.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET TRUCK DEALER
RATINGS
FROM 12 CWT.
Sold and Serviced bif Chevrolet Dealers all over Australia
S TONS EASY -TO BUY UNDER *-<*. M,A,C. PLAN OF DEFERRED PAYMENTS
C 272-48
it’s all quality. Lovelock has improved
out of sight and put up world’s records
since his failure in the middle-distance
-vents at Los Angeles. Mathews, who
k aoing for the longer spins, has to his
credit an Australian record of Bmin.
4 ? 4.s sec . over 3000 metres at Mel-
bourne centenary games. The world’s
best for this distance, which is not on the
Olympic programme, is Bmin 18 4-ssec.
■ * * * *
“Backwoodsman”; Australia’s bowlers
are the latest to complain of the tyranny
of overseas rulers. There is to be a meet-
ing of the International Bowling Board
to°redraft the rules of the game in Lon-
don next year. Australia’s delegates will
be told to insist, among other things, that
the person appointed by the English
Bowling Association to represent Aus-
tralia on the board shall vote as Aus-
tralia tells him to and not at his own
sweet will. Also, equal representation
on the board with England, Scotland,
Ireland and Wales is demanded. Hitherto
the Dominions have been hopelessly out-
voted.
* * * *
“Bias”: The subject of bowl-testing
is to be brought up again at the
meeting of the Australian Bowling
Council in Perth by N.S.W. delegate
John Scott. Scott is all in favor of
carrying out the tests bn the green itself,
and it is reasonable to suppose that the
test on the natural grass will be truer
than one on a baize-covered table. Still,
there will always be the difficulty of
keeping a wood true to the tester’s
standard. It is no uncommon thing to
find a bowl that has passed the tester in
drawing capacity running as straight as
a croquet ball a little later. Wonderful
what a little skilful manipulation with a
bit of broken bottle will do.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Having reduced Queensland
cricket to an almost hopeless state of dis-
organisation, the Q.C.A. has suggested
one reform which seems important to it
—the substitution of a maroon, green
and gold blazer for the all-maroon which
has been the State color in all sports
since the garment first made its appear-
ance. The plea is that plain maroon is
being worn by everyone, while the bilious
triple combination can be copyrighted
and forbidden to the outsider. In view
of recent performances there are those
who suggest that a neat effect in sack-
cloth sprinkled with ashes would be even
more appropriate.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Mosman’s success in the
first-grade cricket premiership of N.S.W 7 .
was the third since 1928-29. No Mos-
man players figure in the first half-dozen
of the season’s batting and bowling aver-
ages—sound testimony to the solid ail-
round proficiency of the side.
* * * *
“Chukka”: South Australia made a
good start in the centenary tournament
in Adelaide, winning back the Austra-
lasian polo cup, lost to Victoria in 1928,
by 14 goals to nil. The locals took the
Cudmore Cup also, and the girls shaded
the Victorian women’s team by 4 goals
to 2. A pity the Wheatfielders and the
Victorians do not show in N.S.W. more
often.
* ❖ * He
“Chain Gang”: The tendency of
modern sport to organise paid bands of
athletes, who are tied hand and foot to
their owners and may be bought and
sold like cattle, has long prevailed in pro-
fessional football. It is being extended
to the popular pastime of dirt-track
riding, and purchases and sales of crack
riders are becoming a commonplace. A
record instance to date is the offer of
£7OOO to the Bellevue club at Manchester
for the body of Max Grosskreutz, the
Queensland rider, who is in the very
forefront of the game. Harringay, a
club well down the competition list and
evidently desiring to mend its fallen for-
tunes and increase its dividends, is the
bidder.


THE MUTUAL LIFE & CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED
FOUNDED 1886.
“M.L.C.” TRADITIONS FULLY
MAINTAINED IN 1935
STRENGTH
Assets exceeded £24,000,000, of which over 90 per cent, was represented by
Government, Municipal, and Local Body Loans, and Loans on Policies.
The valuation of the actuarial liabilities was made on strictly pure premium bases,
the rates of interest assumed being 2\ per cent, for the Industrial Branch, and 3
per cent, for the Ordinary Branch. These rates are unsurpassed for strength in
Australia.
PROGRESS
The new Ordinary Branch business written was . . £4,838,87 I—an1 —an increase of £621,287.
The new Industrial Branch business written was .. 3,264,733
The Total New Business being £8,103,606 —a record.
The increase in funds was £963,469, the largest in the Company’s history.
GOOD MANAGEMENT
ECONOMY: Notwithstanding the substantial increase in business written, the
percentage of income absorbed in expenses was only 8.86 in the Ordinary Branch,
and 24.58 in the Industrial Branch.
LIGHT MORTALITY: The mortality experienced was the lightest ever recorded.
SOUND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS: The effective rate of interest earned on funds
and reserves was £4/19/5 per cent, in the Ordinary Branch, and £417/3 per cent,
in the Industrial Branch. Outstanding interest at the end of the year amounted to
£5702 only, on assets of over £24,000,000, and none of it was brought into account.
THE RESULT
Again the M.L.C. has been able to increase bonus rates.
EXAMPLE: Whole-of-life Policy in the Ordinary Branch, age 30 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for First Year, £2/5/- per cent., increasing to £4/2 -
per cent, for the 30th year.
TRUSTEES
JOHN DONALDSON, A.1.A., Melbourne.
The Hon. Sir JOHN B. PEDEN, K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Sydney.
Sir GEORGE JULIUS, K. 8., B.Sc., 8.E., Sydney.
Rt. Hon. W. A. WATT, P.C., Melbourne.
The Hon. F. W. EGGLESTON, Melbourne.
EDGAR L. GUEST, Melbourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ARTHUR EEDY, Managing Director.
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman.
F. LEVERRIER, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc.
The Hon. Sir HENRY Y. BRADDON, K.8.E., M.L.C.


Stay at this
MODERN HOTEL
Rooms from 4/- to 16/-!
mu'*
iiiiinrii
111 'I F»fl
In heart of Melbourne.
All modern luxuries.
Unrivalled catering.
Popular “Room Only”
tariff: Singles, 4/- to 7/6;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
Write to dept. B 1 for
free illustrated folder.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST NON LICENSED HOTEL
INQUIRIES invited about stocks and shares quoted
on all principal Stock Exchanges.
We are also in a position to locate markets in shares
which are not listed. Write, ’phone or call.
Hodsons Investments Ltd.
INVESTMENT BANKERS,
PACIFIC HOUSE, 249 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: B 2892
(All Departments).
P.O. Box 3425 R,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Investbank, Sydney.”
Bankers: Bank of N.Z., Sydney.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location. ,'j§
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double, Ml
with private bathroom, from 22 /-. «
HOTEL
fTTNEIi
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Ottawa and Imports
Australia’s surplus of exports over
imports having been seriously short of
external interest commitments and in-
visible charges for a couple of years now,
means are at last being sought at
Canberra to right the position—without
disturbing the Ottawa agreements.
For the nine years to 1928-29 Aus-
tralian imports averaged £143.5 millions
sterling a year. In the same period ex-
ports fell short of imports by a net total
of £72.4 millions sterling. Interest
charges and invisible items increased the
deficiency ; it was all covered by overseas
borrowing, which sometimes had the
effect of putting the £ Australian at a pre-
mium with the £ English. At present our
currency is worth 20 p.c. less than Eng-
lish ; both are off gold.
During the worst of the depression
some Commonwealth and State loans
went to startling discounts in London.
The English people who had helped pro-
vide the money to enable Australians to
buy British and other overseas goods on
credit had to put up with this. Austra-
lian manufacturers had previously lost
markets to overseas exporters in a form
of financed competition. When London
funds threatened to run out they were re-
plenished by loans. Australian indus-
tries were not even fully allowed
the market which would have
been theirs had our external
earnings just balanced our over-
seas spending. Manufacturers
were penalised to the extent of
the borrowing. It was an un-
satisfactory business all round.
The exchange, and the emer-
gency tariff, import prohibitions
and primage duties imposed in
1930 brought favorable balances
of £28.4 and £40.6 millions
sterling in 1930-31 and 1931-32. Includ-
ing the shipment of the remainder of our
gold reserve, the balances were credits
of £38.6 and £37.8 millions in the next
two years. The surpluses since have been
short of interest requirements and capi-
tal withdrawals. One of the Ottawa
arrangements requires that Australia shall
provide protection only for “those indus-
tries which are reasonably assured of
sound opportunities for success,” and that
Australian tariffs shall “not exceed such
a level as will give U.K. producers full
opportunity of reasonable competition on
the basis of relative cost of economical
and efficient production.” The wording
is capable of varying interpretation, and
makes no provision for matters such as
depletion of Australia’s overseas funds
or the effect of excessive imports upon
employment.
The Tariff Board has the job of review-
ing existing duties and inviting Parlia-
ment to vary them, but protection must
not be raised against British goods. The
general effect since Ottawa has been the
paring-down of duties on thousands of
items and the removal of the prohibi-
tion on luxury goods.
The Lyons Government, faced with the
threat' of a crisis in our overseas posi-
tion if some check isn’t quickly imposed
on imports, has indicated that goods
from U.S.A. will be discouraged by tariff
revision or quotas. There has been a
one-way trade balance here for years.
American cars, machinery and petrol
have always been a big item in our im-
ports, while the U.S.A.’s purchases from
us are negligible.
It is an unpleasant position. Cars,
American or otherwise, are something
which Australia doesn’t yet make, but
which are required here in considerable
numbers. British car manufacturers build
principally for the home market, and
often their models don’t suit Australian
conditions.
The U.S.A. has pointed out that bal-
ance of international trade isn’t always
achieved directly between countries, but
by more roundabout means. That is
generally so, but there are many con-
cessions that the U.S.A. could give this
country.
Whatever way it is done, imports
clearly have to be checked. Undoubtedly
Australia has received benefits from
Ottawa, but we have to consider whether
those benefits weigh up with the conces-
sions we have given. In present circum-
stances it seems plain foolishness to go
on paring-down tariffs when we can’t
really afford what we are buying over-
seas now. Many of these purchases
could be made in this country.
The passing last Thursday of Mel-
bourne “Star” (of the “Argus” pro-
prietary) was preceded by a rise of 4s.
"It's a girl, sir. Ten pounds .”
"All right, all right. Jones, make out a cheque and I'll sign it."
in “Herald” shares over about a week.
The “Star,” an evening tabloid, attained
a circulation of “upwards of 60,000” ; in
closing it down “no monetary considera-
tion was sought or received from any-
one.” It went decently to its end, a
better-groomed paper than the “Herald,”
if in no other way superior.
* * * *
Broken Hill money will be well in the
picture in the new paper-making enter-
prise which Tas. Premier Ogilvie an-
nounced last week. Electrolytic Zinc and
Amalgamated Zinc are interested in Tas-
manian Paper Pty. (from which assets are
to be acquired) as well as Australian
Paper Manufacturers and North Broken
Hill. Tas. Paper’s interests were origi-
nally near the Huon, down south ; the
plant now proposed, on which work is
to start before the end of the year, is to
be on the Emu River at South Burnie.
Forests at Ringwood (24,000 acres) and
Woolnorth (38,000 acres) are being
bought from the Van Diemen’s Land
Co., and the Emu Bay railway promises
to benefit. Production is aimed to be
reached within two years. Present in-
terests are to subscribe £950,000 in cash
immediately. Capacity of the first plant
unit will be 15,000 tons of fine writing
and printing paper —not newsprint.
* * * *
The Ottawa agreement that concerns
Australia was entered into on August 20,
1932, and has a term of five years. In
the three years immediately before its
operation, Britain took 44.1, 44.3 and 50
p.c. respectively of our total exports. In
the two years to June, 1934, the per-
centages were 47.7 and 47.8. Of our im-
ports, in the three years before Ottawa
we bought 42, 39.6 and 40.6 p.c. of our
total overseas purchases from the U.K.
In the next two years they had risen to
42.5 and 43.4 p.c.
* * * *
Australia’s national debt is now over
£1255 million, the sterling and Aus-
tralian pounds being treated as similar
denominators. It is £lB6 per head
altogether—£9B per head of it repayable
in Australia, £Bl in London, and £7 in
New York. Our annual interest bill,
excluding £4 million suspended interest
on our overseas war debt, is £45.3 mil-
lion (Aust. and stg.). In Australia £24
million goes out each year 1 overseas, £2l
million sterling (about £26 5 miUion
Australian). Interest of over £8 a head
has to be found each year in taxation
and from “reproductive works.” Tax-
~ . . v f , c( i ~
ation is increased because few works
are reproductive!
There are two evils which make bor-
rowing inevitable if default is to be
avoided—unbalanced Budgets and un-
balanced trade. Financing of Govern-
ment deficits has been a big factor in the
, . - -ti
recent rise in the cost of money. The
effect of heavy (and often unnecessary)
imports on our trade position has re-
si.ltoH in debits in nnr overseas accounts
suited in debits in our overseas accounts
after payment of interest, etc. We still
have reserves in London (£6O million or
so sterling), partly representing the Com-
monwealth Bank's backing for the
national currency. Obviously we can’t
go on as we have been going.
* * * *
Up to March 31, 94 p.c. of the
season’s wool available in store (2,658,926
bales) for disposal had been sold. Less
than 400,000 bales, on estimates, have
yet to come in from growers. To the
end of March 2,445,065 bales of the
current clip had been disposed of at an
average price of 14.2 d. (Aust.), as
against 10d., 16.2 d. and 8.9 d. in the
three preceding full years. Value for
the nine months (£44.5 millions Aus-
tralian) is already £6.6 millions above
the cheque for the previous twelve
months, and the prediction made here
early in the season that £5O millions
would be realised this year looks like
being justified.
The clip was lighter both as regards
quantity and bulk this season. The
average per bale to date has been around
2991 b.
The last regular Melbourne wool sale
of the season closed with firmer prices.
During the preceding few days 13.2 d. was
averaged, bales going about 2891 b.
* * * *
Caldwell’s Wines (Sydney) has returned
to the ord. div. list with a 2\ p.c. distri-
bution—the first for seven years. Profits
were enough to pay 4.7 p.c. (subject to
taxation) on ord. capital. It is an en-
couraging recovery. Retail prices have
been stabilised, and the directors are
pleased with the outlook.
H*
Output of spelter by Electrolytic Zinc
for the 36 weeks of the present financial
year was 49,014 tons, up 30.9 p.c. on
the same period of last term. The Rose-
bery (Tas. West Coast) operations have
scarcely had time to affect the figures,
but the plant is operating satisfactorily
at two-thirds capacity. Spelter slipped
below £l6 a ton in London last week,
but should still return a tidy profit above
£l5. E.Z. ords. have dropped back from
above 40s. to 375. in Melbourne, present
yield being 4.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Lysaghts Newcastle Works, Ltd., has
taken over the Aust. Iron and Steel Co.’s
galvanised-iron plant at Port
Kembla. B.H.P. now con-
trols the ord. shares in A. 1.5.,
and is also interested in
Lysaghts. The plant has a
capacity of above 20,000 tons
a year, but so far hasn’t
reached full production.
In Melbourne last week:
The National Bank of Australasia, in its
summary of conditions, commenting on the
increase in interest rates, said: “The new l rates
are the same as the banks allowed between
February, 1933, and April, 1934. They did
not check the progress of industry then; why
should they do so now?” There are few
grounds for fear that industry will be seriously
handicapped by the present rise. Chief danger
lies in the possibility of Governments continu-
ing to take the line of least resistance in their
financial policy and thus forcing further in-
creases.
Loloma led the way in a market rise in Fiji
shows in which E. G. Theodore is interested.
Loloma rose 4s. in two days, and Emperor Is.
Koroere was a few pence stronger. Progress
reports of the first two cos. are due shortly.
Australian Knitting Mills and Hole-
proof Hosiery were two textile concerns much
stronger in the market, the first going to 305.,
and the other to 225. 3d.
Upper Watut, following official confirmation
of the rumor that Placer might become in-
terested (Bulolo is to test the property), failed
to hold the speculative price of 9s. reached
the previous week-end, the scrip selling below
Bs. on Tuesday.
Triton maintained its reputation of being
one of the firmest market stocks among the
new producers. Lady Shenton fell to 6s. 3d.
on heavy turnover —plant is the immediate
trouble here. Lancefield remained below
95., despite the reassurances of T. R. Victor
regarding ore reserves and plant efficiency.
Irowat Gold Alluvials, officially listed
during the month, attracted market interest
at 3s. 6d. for the 2s. 6d. shares. Sluicing
operations are set down for commencement in
May, experienced operators being taken to
New Guinea from the Briseis (Tas.) tinmine.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Modern Times”
Chaplin has been acclaimed the greatest
clown since Grimaldi, but it was not as
clown but as clown’s side-kicker, dummy,
that he climbed to fame. The coming
of the talkies helped him not at all, and
his latest production, presented at Sydney
Plaza, is a silent with a continuous
orchestral accompaniment and a few
sound effects. Chaplin arranged the
music, which is appropriate—the leit-
motiv is the air of “Hallelujah, I’m a
Bum.”
Action commences in a huge mass-pro-
duction factory where Chaplin, one of
the cogs in the machine, is made the
victim for a new automatic lunch-feeding
apparatus. It goes wrong and plasters
Charles’s face with custard pie. His ex-
Back to the screen in “Modern Times,”
at Sydney Plaza.
periences derange his reason, and he runs
amuck, pulling switches and wrecking
machinery. For the rest of the film he
is in and out of work and in and out of
gaol. At a shipbuilders’ yard, told to
find a wedge, he pulls out the nearest
one and launches —and sinks —a nearly-
completed ship. As nightwatchman in
a department store he gets drunk and
sleeps it off under a pile of remnants, to
be discovered by bargain-hunters next
morning.
Throughout he sticks to his traditional
bowler hat, bobbed moustache and baggy
pants. He goes through every mirth-
provoking trick in his old repertoire, and
adds a clinkingly good trick-skating turn
and a comic song—the only notable de-
parture from silent technique.
Paulette Goddard, as a likeable street
gamin, enhances the wistful touches char-
acteristic of Chaplin at his funniest. It’s
an honest show. People who pay to see
it expect to see Chaplin—the old Chaplin,
not a new one —and that’s what they get.
The humor, slap-stickery though most of
it is, gets over, and the Plaza audience
only ceased giggling to guffaw.
“Grand Exit”
Edmund Lowe is a sleuth with a nose
for fire-bugs, on the trail of one of the
most accomplished of the species.
Various tall buildings go up in smoke
and flames, leaving debris for Mr. Lowe
to investigate, before he is able to un-
mask the villain. Ann Sothern is intro-
duced to give the required percentage of
love interest. Lowe’s wisecracks are as
effective as ever, action is brisk and the
denouement genuinely surprising. Also
at the Plaza.
“Professional Soldier”
Opens promisingly with Colonel
Michael Donovan (Victor McLaglen)
rescuing his rich young employer, who is
very drunk, from a Parisian restaurant.
Meeting some opposition the colonel pro-
ceeds swiftly, scientifically and ruthlessly
to knock out all the waiters and gen-
darmes and wreck the joint. Then he
gets involved in the affairs of an opera
bouffe kingdom, kidnaps the boy king
(Freddie Bartholomew) and forthwith be-
comes his friend and champion. When
villains reabduct the monarch and set
him up to face a firing squad the colonel
escapes from a stout prison, captures a
machine-gun squad single-handed, and
then, carrying a Maxim in his hands,
rounds up a company of 250 soldiers,
killing scores and capturing the remainder
Single-handed. The fantasia ends with
the colonel, in full regalia, receiving the
cross of honor at the hands of his royal
protege. Dialogue is amusing, particu-
larly when the colonel, under stress of
excitement, produces malapropisms,
action is brisk throughout and McLaglen
and young Bartholomew are always in-
teresting. Love interest is smoothly in-
sinuated by Gloria Stuart and Michael
Whelan. At Sydney Mayfair.
“Honeymoon for Three”
The transatlantic flavor that clings to
so many recent English films is imported
into this variant on the standard bed-
room farce by making the scene of action
a liner running from Southampton to
New York. There are two couples, sub-
ject to the usual combinations and per-
mutations, dialogue is poor, and interest
slight. Stanley Lupino adds nothing to
his fame by this effort. Also at the May-
fair.
“Next Time We Love”
Despite inconsistencies and improba-
bilities this effort has vitality. It por-
trays the tribulations of a young couple,
newshound and college girl. Vowing that
separation will kill her, wife allows hus-
band to go to Rome as foreign corre-
spondent for his paper while she stays
at home and pursues a dual career as
mother and actress. From then on life
for them is a series of long separations
and short reunions, the temperature of
which falls gradually, although each still
passionately loves the other. Final re-
conciliation —too late—comes when hus-
band, who has picked up a virulent wog
in China, lies dying in Switzerland.
Margaret Sullavan as the wife adds to
her laurels. There is a tendency to
Victor McLaglen, hero of “Professional
Soldier,” at Sydney Mayfair.
overdo her whisperings, but on the whole
she succeeds in a difficult role. James
Stewart cannot be faulted as the hus-
band. Ray Milland as the not-so-platonic
family friend who launches the wife on
her career, gives a polished performance.
Robert McWade and Grant Mitchell in
character roles are pleasing. At Sydney
Liberty.
“The March of Time”
Also at the Liberty. This, the third of
the series of pictorial glimpses at con-
temporary history, deals with the ac-
quisition by the U.S.A. of the Jarvis,
Baker and Howland Islands, their strate-
gical importance, and the reactions of
other countries —including Australia—to
this American move. Radical political
doctrines are expounded by Father
Coughlin and Dr. Townsend, and atten-
tion is again paid to the ambitions of
Nippon’s militarists.
Freddie Bartholomew as the king in
“Professional Soldier.”
“At the Bottom of the World”
This film at Melb. Comedy is a record
of Byrd’s second expedition to the
Antarctic. Two supply ships see the
party safely landed and on the
way towards building a “winter city” on
Little America before hustling back
to civilisation. Living quarters are dug
underground: camps, a laboratory, “dog-
town” in a series of catacombs, and quar-
ters for cattle. Various scientific expedi-
tions are sent out from the home base
during the fine weather ; the small Fokker
crashes, but the audience is taken in the
big ’plane on a panoramic journey over
a frozen world. It gets a glimpse of a
tractor party a month from the main
camp, and farewells Byrd at his meteoro-
logical outstation. The psychological
danger of confining more than one man
in an underground cell through seven
months of darkness was one of the
reasons which influenced Byrd to do his
job solo ; another was that he wanted to
be alone. In the fifth month of his isola-
tion his radio signals fade, and a tractor
relief party, men on foot carrying huge
flares, traverses 123 miles of trackless
wastes and yawning crevasses to find the
leader badly gassed through fumes from
his radio machinery and cooker. The
scenery is magnificent. The huskies are
gallant little heroes leaping over ravines,
distributing their weight to get sledges
safely down sudden inclines, living on
frozen seal meat and frisking about in a
temperature of “60 below.” There are
a comic strip of beards and long hair
(Byrd’s locks are past his shoulders) and
close-ups of penguins, seals and a killer
whale.
“Crime Unlimited”
Made by an American film company’s
English factory. It equips London with
gangs and gangsters. These are foiled
by a gentlemanly young detective (he
does much of his investigating in tails
and a bell topper), who joins a gang and
communicates with the police per lip
language. The usual mysterious Russian
girl is mixed up in the fantasia, and
there is a robbery at a ball. Esmond
Knight is the sleuth, Lilli Palmer the
mysterious lady. Has some streaks of
originality, which is the utmost that can
be expected from the thriller type. At
Sydney Embassy.
“Here Comes Trouble”
Paul Kelly seems to have been elected
to fill the gap in the ranks of the rough-
necks left by the elevation of James
Cagney to more aesthetic roles. In “Here
Comes Trouble” Kelly is third engineer
of a liner on the New York-Havana run.
He is degraded to stoker for brawling
ashore and getting gaoled. Jewel thieves
endeavor to embroil him in their
nefarious plots. Mona Barrie (erstwhile
of Melbourne) vamps him, but the love
of an honest working goil (Arline Judge),
the ship’s manicurist, pulls Mr. Kelly out
right side up. Gregory Ratoff as a detec-
tive has a congenial role, and there’s a
drunk who is good for many a chuckle.
Action is swift; dialogue snappy. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Ceiling Zero”
At Sydney Capital. The main in-
terest of this film is the insight it
gives into the working of a modern
American mail-’plane service, operat-
ing day and night in all weathers.
The plot is traditional. James Cagney is
an ace pilot—a heart- and record-breaker
—selfish and irresponsible, who m
accordance with the best romantic
models comes good at the finish when all
the damage is done. Pat O’Brien as
superintendent of the airways is excel-
lent, except when in sergeant-majorish
mood, and June Travis will make every
girl who sees her want to be an “air-
hostess,” as, judging by June’s part in the
film, they don’t even have to fly.
“Black Mask”
An English fantasia on the gentleman-
burglar theme. The hero, “Mr. Blank”
(Ellis Irving), steals jewellery from
wealthy people to compel them to con-
tribute to charities. His activities bring
him in touch with a sleight-of-hand artist,
Jimmy Glass (Wylie Watson), so gifted
that he is able to perform miracles of
pocket-picking. When “Mr. Blank” is
falsely accused of murder, his protege’s
talents are of great value in securing
evidence for the defence. Romantic pas-
sages in which Eileen Mason figures are
Henry C. Gordon in “Professional
Soldier.”
worked into the slender plot. Watson,
who has dry Cockney humor, contributes
the lighter moments. First shown in
Sydney at the Lyceum.
“Murder in the Campus”
A murder is committed in the locked
campanile of a ’varsity (no! don’t be
alarmed—there are no freshmen and only
two co-eds.) and engages the attention
of a star reporter. In the tough problem
set him he is rendered merely casual
assistance by the police chief and his
burly men. The gore spilled through two
additional murders thickens the homi-
cidal stew. Of course, the reporter’s goil
comes under suspicion, as do several
others, and even the shrewdest fan prob-
ably won’t pick the culprit correctly until
past half-way. Charles Starrett as the
pressman-cwra-sleuth is moderately good,
and J. Farrell McDonald’s police chief is
a passable presentation. Shirley Grey as
the newshound’s other excuse for barg-
ing in on the case registers emotion like
an expert poker player. First shown in
Sydney at the Lyric.


BE
M
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PRUM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., fin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street. Sydney#
' 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in cwo
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
ketrt in order for two
vears free of charge.
fTHEI
(
DIAMOND TORCH REFILLS
have the same P 5 qualities
of Dependability, Consistency
and Increased Service.
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTY. LTD.
119 Hawke St., West Melb., C. 3. FI 175
Still
keeps
Working
when
others
have
Stopped
f
1. The P 5 has a greater ability
to deliver efficient current down
to a low voltage stage.
2. There is no overnight collapse
•with Ps—it will continue to "carry
on" after others have stopped.
3. The very gradual decline of P 5 will
give ample warning before new Ps's are
required.
4. Thus PS guarantees increased service,
absolute dependability and unvarying con*
sistency.
THE PS LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
©
The BANK of
AUSTRALASIA
can help you
on your travels . .
Incorporated by
Royal Charter
j
1835
Money, the traveller's greatest need, should never be
carried in currency. The safest and most convenient
method of financing a journey is by means of
Travellers' Letters of Credit.
In this and other ways, the Bank of Australasia has
assisted Australian travellers for over a century. The
Bank's agents and correspondents in every country
are available for assistance, also.
The Bank has two offices in London, one being in the
West End. This branch has recently returned to its
old address at 17 Northumberland Avenue, in the
Royal Empire Society's Building, where re-modelling
has been completed. Special provision has been
made here for the requirements of Australian and New
Zealand travellers visiting London.
Head Office in Australasia:
394-6 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
April Issue Now on Sale.
TREASURY BILLS AND THE MARKET
HAS THERE BEEN INFLATION?
THE GOLDMINING INDUSTRY
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
T >,fP r . per annum you may have the. journal posted direct each month.
1 lsnccl t)V bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Some First Nights
Musical-comedy tradition is well up-
held in “Jill, Darling,” which opened at
the Sydney Royal on Saturday night. Leg-
perfect ballets, tuneful melodies, witty
dialogue (the few hoary chestnuts didn’t
sneak but positively swaggered in), and a
plot abounding in funny situations com-
bine to make a bright and entertaining
show.
The plot demands the almost continu-
ous appearance of Leo Franklin in one
or the other of his dual roles. In part-
nership with him Nellie Barnes is allowed
full scope for her vivacity and humor.
Diana Du Cane, an attractive brunette
making her Sydney bow, dances with
grace and enters spiritedly into the fun.
Bert Matthews, an American newcomer,
is a first-class eccentric dancer with a
gift for burlesque. Marie Le Varre,
without whom no musicomedy seems
complete, skips around with remarkable
agility, and Frank Leighton, in the lead,
dances with his customary ease. Lois
Green confirms favorable opinions about
her aptitude for comedy, and Cecil Kella-
way’s too-small part is neatly done. Syd-
ney Wheeler, John Dobbie and Charles
Zoli in character roles are satisfactory.
One of the most pleasing features is the
ballet. For precision and grace it has
rarely been excelled on the Australian
stage. Nina Starace directed this phase,
while the music flowed easily under the
baton of Andrew MacCunn. Producer
S. Albert Locke has nothing to reproach
himself with.
4* + 4* 4*
“Anything Goes” at a hand gallop at
Melbourne His Majesty’s, with Harry
Langdon and Lillian Pertka at the head
of the field. The plot is a mix-up on and
off an Atlantic liner, with crooks and
pseudo crooks and Charles Norman dis-
guising himself as a sailor (every house-
painter should see Norman’s action with
a brush and can) and as a cove with a
beard, shorn from a seasick passenger’s
Pomeranian. Robert Coote takes him-
self with just the right degree of serious-
ness for an English baronet. In deadly
earnest he applies himself to learning
the American language, collects in his
notebook such phrases as “To carry a
torch,” which interpreted means “I’m
miserable without you,” and is marked
down as worthy prey by Lillian Pertka,
a devastating night-club enchantress.
Platinum blonde hair, a “wet” lipstick,
suntan make-up, perfect figure, dancer’s
toes and a husky croon are the com-
ponent parts of Pertka’s sophistication.
She’s the first face-to-face crooner Mel-
bourne has met. Those on the screen
have had mikes to provide volume for
their dull, low moanings, but Lillian has
to go to it unaided. Once the audience
got used to her she went over in fine
style, and her “Blow, Gabriel, Blow” was
a triumph. Harry Langdon is a first-rate
comedian with some new gags. Mas-
querading as a padre, his correct identity
is Moonface, Public Enemy No. 13, “Not
wanted, entirely harmless,” but he doesn’t
hear that damning reputation until the
end. Sis and Buddy Roberts dance with
their usual sparkle, and ballets and stage
settings all pass muster. Excluding
choruses the cast runs to 32 characters.
Current Artbursts
The only unlucky circumstance about
the thirteenth show of the Australian
Water Color Institute at the Education
Department’s Galleries, Sydney, is that
some of the most talented of the mem-
bers are not exhibiting this year, while
others are very sparingly represented.
Among notable absentees are Syd Long,
Harold Herbert, Rayner Hoff, J. R.
Eldershaw and Maud Sherwood. How-
ever, there are 82 names in the catalogue
and over 200 pictures, and the show is
full of interest. B. E. Minns breaks new
ground with synthetised portraits of three
figures in Australian history—Lachlan
Macquarie, Gidley King and John
Hunter ; the result, apparently, of some
research in the Mitchell Library. Nor-
man Lindsay shows half a dozen
examples of his mastery of color and
form —particularly form —and G. K.
Townshend’s suave and elegant land-
scapes are among the to-be-expected
features. H. R. Gallop gets some rich
color effects into his half-dozen, and
Kenneth Macqueen, in addition to a
characteristic rural scene, presents some
recent observations on the character of
waves. M. J. McNally, he of the Turner-
esque skies, shows one of his best in
“Rain on the Hawkesbury.” Hobart’s
picturesque nooks and corners supply
material for some effective pieces by Lin-
coln B. Hamilton. Tom Cross, who
paints like Hilder, makes good use of the
style in “Evening Light.” H. Nevill
Smith’s contributions were inspired m
Arizona, Mexico, Tahiti and Maoriland,
and he seems to have found the same sort
of pink in the landscapes of all four
countries. Rah Fizelle has gone more
modernist than ever; he shows nudes
which look as if they had first been
bleached and then gone over with a flat-
iron to take out any remaining model-
ling. F. S. Rodriguez applies primitive
methods with success in “Over the
Hills” —the whole sense and spirit of the
scene is emphasised. Quite the most in-
triguing picture in the show is Donald
Friend’s “Portrait of the Artist Knit-
ting.” It represents a man of Asiatic
features, clad in a loincloth, red socks
and a tall peaked hat, reclining on an
Oriental couch in languorous ease.
-I- -1- -I* *l*
There never was a painter who quite
so genially appreciated the eastern New
South Wales landscape and seascape as
does W. Lister Lister. A show of his
canvases and water-colors at Anthony
Horderns’ gallery is a cheerful tonic on
the dullest of days. Lister Lister never
wastes’canvas. If he takes a huge one,
as in the case of “Port Hacking River,
National Park,” he fills it nobly. In that
picture, in “The Old Gum,” and in some
coastal glimpses in the vicinity of Avalon
the painter is at his excellent best, revel-
ling in sunshine and shadow and the
jolliness of giant tree or sparkling sea.
In “Evening, Shoalhaven River,” and
“The Sweet Approach of Even” he de-
picts a cloudless sunset with dignity—a
very difficult feat, for the apparent sim-
plicity of such scenes hides many pitfalls.
There is a group of water-colors in this
show, all technically excellent, but the
oils outshine them. The palette is Lister
Lister’s most reliable friend.
*l*
A joint show of pictures by Eric Wil-
son and Harold Huntley occupies the
Macquarie Galleries (Sydney). Huntley’s
canvases are undistinguished, Wilson’s
all interesting. Wilson’s “Interlude,” in
a circular frame, a glimpse of figures in
an interior, has an Orpenesque quality,
and “Princes Bridge, Melbourne,” is in a
style all its own, close-woven and rich.
Some backyard studies, in which leaf-
less trees are made features of beauty,
could not have been done by anyone else
on earth, and there is some excellent
painting in a still-life that includes a cut
apple and in “Lupins and Snapdragons.”
**■ *l-
- autumn show of S.A. Society of
Arts is agreeable rather than distin-
guished, free from the less worthy but
not rising to any great heights Travis
Webber’s bit of the Grampians is perhaps
the best thing in sight. He has also a
fine study of blackfellows looking down
to white men’s tents, to which the title
“Adelaide, 1836,” gives an extra kick.
(Why shouldn’t Art stimulate the imag-
ination?) Max Ragless is the other
rapidly arriving artist, and there is good
stuff by old hands White, Giles, Ferries
and Gwen Barringer. The honors list is:
Bought by Adelaide Art Gallery, a quiet
brown study by Gilbert Roach of a
farm on the Murray flats ; two lino.-cuts
(showing marked Japanese influence) by
Ethleen Palmer, and a circus-horse statu-
ette by Marguerite Richardson. The
annual still-life prizes (M. J. MacNally,
now an Adelaide resident, is the judge)
go to: First, zinnias (plus china) by Jes-
samine Buxton; second, phlox (plus
lemons) by George Whinnen.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
SS
1:1
m
s;
5S
Mi
l< ff
33
mm §
§
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
ĵ
COMINCto SYDNEY?
Then wire or write for reservations at Petty's
Hotel. Petty's the oldest established ol
Sydney's Hotels, will please you. Its quiet
comfort and convenient position make for an
enjoyable holiday. Tariff: Room and Breakfast
from 11/6. Inclusive, 18/-.
PETTY'
HOTEL York St. Sydney,
S
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney hurled itself into the fray of
the autumn meeting at Randwick, push-
ing and thrusting its way from stand to
ring, from ring to tote with an abandon
not at all joyous to the pushed and thrust.
Gentlemen in a hurry didn’t mind brush-
ing aside, with a hot hand, the shoulder
of the best autumn model as they did a
sort of breaststroke through the breakers
of humanity. Ladies equally intent on
their affairs stuck the fashionably sharp
elbow into the most yielding bit of
anatomy to the right or left of them.
One man declared his intention of wear-
ing a kidney protector the next time he
goes to the races.
A wind straight from the South
Pole blew across the course and
tickled up the stands, so everybody
clustered in the hot sunshine behind
them. This was particularly the
case with the official stand. Everything
that was stylish in hat, frock, suit and
furs was to be seen. Sometimes you saw
the head and the face; later on, like the
pieces of a jigsaw puzzle, the frock and
lower extremities would take their place
in the picture. No loud cymbals can
be clashed over the little high hats and
the plaid swagger coats. Even the face
of 18 or 20, puckered against the after-
noon glare, suggested a road map. Breton
sailors are all to the good ; the square
beret is attractive on some —Mrs. War-
wick Fairfax, for instance.
A touch of the Argentine crept into
Sheila Smart’s attire. In black, it had
a bolero coat; its vellum satin blouse
was finished with long sash ends. Her
straight-brimmed black hat was held with
a back bandeau latticed in fine braid.
Mrs. Harry Rosenthal’s mink cape was
carried handsomely over a frock whose
deep purples wore ornaments of gold.
Antique clasps, brooches and belts in
Florentine design sparkled on every
second woman. Suzanne Stogdale’s ear-
rings were notable ; her frock had bell
sleeves in gold and pale blue. Black
was the most occurring color ; the fine
black Angora frock had restraint as well
as smartness. For warmth some wearers
added a black Persian lamb coat (or its
poor sister, Astrakhan).
Persian lamb and lily-of-the-valley
trimmed Mrs. E. J. Watt’s black coat;
silver-fox warmed the shoulders of
sister Mrs. A. H. Whittingham, of Bris-
bane. A white stock and white-lined cape
threw Mrs. Alan Potter’s black dress
and fair skin into relief : Dr. Agnes
McFadden’s fine woollen blouse was
caramel, her smart tailor-made cinna-
mon. Good-looking Vicki Gordon had
a flat white pique collar on her black
frock; Peggy Fraser, from Melbourne,
topped a smoky-fox trimmed blue coat
with a grey velour.
The Kelso King lady and Violet Van-
brugh were there. Mimi Healy, in green,
walked with her affianced, Paymaster-
Commander Johnson. Mrs. Doug Levy
wore one of the smallest, John McKel-
vey’s lady one of the largest, hats present.
This was in brown velvet, was softened
with feather, and worn with a cocoa-
brown dress that had tiny little bows from
the neck down. Add two cocoa Arctic
foxes of plump dimensions. Pamela
Laidley Dowling (an Easter fledgling, for
whom a great party was given in the
evening at Elizabeth Bay House) was
attractive in horizon blues. Mrs. Dan
Kelly was one of the smart, in black
simply dripping with silver fox. Mrs.
Harold Weigall mingled beige and brown,
Mrs. Tom Rutledge featured navy and
sister Philippa Stephen was attractive in
amber Angora. Midge Nelson, from
Dubbo, had white Loggings down the
front of her blue cloque suit; Mrs. E. J.
Hogan, over from Melbourne with her
Cabinet Minister, was black-suited;
Joan Waddell was in the group with the
Earl of Ranfurly. Mary Hordern and
Anne Gordon kept each other company.
Of the dusty-pink suits present Mrs.
Leigh Falkiner, of Melbourne, wore the
smartest.
The Laidley Dowling party was the
really swell crush of Easter Saturday. It
was in honor of daughter Pamela’s
eighteenth birthday, and it filled Eliza-
beth Bay House. In the dining-room
standards of pink Radiance roses and
pink candles in silver candelabra were
the right roseate setting for 18. In a
drawing-room massed with hydrangeas
and roses, Mr. and Mrs. Dowling and
their daughter received the many guests.
Mrs. Dowling’s frock was of midnight-
blue satin; her flowers were mauve
orchids. Pamela wore spreading blue taf-
fetas, and had white gardenias in her hair.
You can’t separate the Show and the
Angus family. They are as linked with
it as the Horderns. This is Frances,
daughter of the acting-president of the
R.A.S., and one of the attractive girls
who follow the course of the Show
closely. Photograph from Falk.
With each year women take more and
more active interest in the Show, but
none can claim such a long association
with it as Mrs. Whitney. Now 91 years
old, and managing director of the Whit
ney Pastoral Company, she has special-
ised for 70 years in the breeding of Short-
horns. Mrs. Tony Hordern, who is in-
terested in Herefords, and Mrs. Harry
Meeks (Dinah Hordern that was), who
exhibited horses, Mrs. Archie Sinclair
and Phyllis Skene, Phyllis White from
Armidale, Mary Hordern and Mary
Luxton from Melbourne were a few of
the well-knowns among the riders and
exhibitors. But personalities mean little
to the thousands who daily take posses-
sion of the Showground during the
Easter carnival. This year the attend-
ance record ran to over ten thousand on
the opening day. Herefords and Ayr-
shires, Clydesdales and Shetlands are
what they’ve come out to see. A pretty
girl passes, scarcely drawing a glance,
while every point of, say, an Aberdeen
Angus is keenly followed.
By the official opening day the cham-
pions had their ribbons, and, proudly
decked with these, they made their en-
trance into the ring. Most of them came
in dignified fashion, but some in sportive
spirit attempted to waltz around their
leaders, sometimes mooing with derision,
sometimes uttering long-drawn rum-
blings, something like a radio crooner.
The sky was blue, the grass was green,
the wind had a nip in it. Clydesdales
lifted their plumy hooves in holiday
mood, and cattle with widely-spaced
horns, weighted down with beef, moved
majestically. Here were beauties with
hides red dappled, buff, black-as-satin
hides. Here came a spindly-legged calf
at the side of its mother.
Like a piece of living statuary a com-
pany of mounted police and their horses
remained magnificently still during the
parade. Cossacks in long grey tunics and
high black caps, American, Australian
and Canadian horsemen and -women with
their striped and red and blue blouses
were colorful figures in the pageant.
Later, when the ring had been emptied,
the Cossacks swept across the arena,
vaulting across the saddle, lying full
length along the horse’s side, standing on
one foot, ballerina-wise, standing erect,
an arm flung in the air, while stands and
ringside ripped the air with applause.
The arrival of the Governor-General to
open the Show was quite a ceremonial
affair. First a company of mounted
police took up position in the ring ; then
came the R.A.A. band, a glitter of white
points and instruments against the green
grass. A little beyond rode the Cossacks,
American cowboys and Australian camp-
drafters adding their reds and blues
and the American and Australian flags to
the bright day. When the arena was
nicely set, in swept the mounted escort
with pennants streaming in the wind ; up
dashed the motor in which were Lord
and Lady Gowrie. Cheers from the
crowded stands and a greeting from lined-
up members of the council and the
Lieutenant-Governor Streets, a keen
glance at the guard, and the G.-G.
hopped to position behind the glittering
rampart of trophies and duly declared
the Show open.
Up in the council stand there was
quite a flutter, for after the opening the
vice-regals come across for their tea-
drinking. There were new green linen
cloths and bowls of autumn flowers (sent
by Mrs. Horace Whiddon from her own
gardens) on the tables in the room
behind the stand. Mrs. J. H. S. Angus,
wife of the acting-president of the R.A.S.,
was the afternoon’s hostess, and wore
mauve orchids in her black tailored suit.
Daughter Frances was also in black and
very smartly hatted.
By the time the vice-regals arrived the
little council stand, apart from their re-
served space, was packed. Elderly council
members sat in chairs behind the last
row of seats and mused on past Shows.
Smart girls in riding kit came in and
went out. Black Angora worn with a
small three-cornered hat and silver-fox
furs was Lady Gowrie’s choice. In
black were Philip Street’s lady, Mrs.
Bruxner, Mayoress Parkes and the
wife of British High Commissioner
Whiskard. Harry Budge’s lady, too, was
in sable hue. Bea Meeks’s suit of
powder blues and the red quill in Thelma
McMaster’s hat were welcome relief.
Mrs. Harry Meeks, Mary Hordern
and Phyllis Skene were among the
day’s riders. Mrs. Frank Chaffey and
daughter Sheila were there ; so were Mrs.
Percy Willsallen and Dame Mar ; y Hughes.
Lord Ranfurly and Captain Ponsonby
attended the Governor. Former Aide
Gifford, now a free man, enjoyed the day.
Denise Dettmann is following in
father’s footsteps (he is headmaster of
Sydney Grammar and a don at classics).
Denise will graduate this year with first-
class honors in Latin and Greek and
carry off the University medal for
classics. Last year she gained the Uni.
medal in English, and now she has
bagged the Cooper Graduate scholarship
for classics. This will take her to Oxford,
probably to Lady Margaret Hall. Tennis
and swimming are her recreations.
Widespread sympathy goes to singer
Ella Caspers; her husband, A. A.
Maloney, is dead. He was the founder
and for nine years president of
the Taree Golf Club, and a keen sup-
porter of the town’s bowling club. Mrs.
Maloney was the first Australian to win
a scholarship tenable in London. It was
for her rich contralto voice that the late
Charles Willoughby wrote “Coming
Home.”
Over 80 water-colorists have hung
their works on the walls of the Educa-
tion Department’s galleries. Water-color
is a fluid medium, and seems to have
carried its artists all about the State, to
England, Italy and Maoriland, and in
the case of Nevill Smith to old Mexico.
The catalogue cover is decorated with a
Minns drawing of an abo. rock-carver*
and this artist has given some of his most
charming work to the show. He and
H. W. Grace, along whose “Beach at
Gerringong” the surf breaks and curls,
were responsible for- two witty speeches
at the opening, which was done by the
Czecho-Slovakian Consul. The function
was a bit dinted by clashing with the
opening of the R.A.S. But Mrs. Kveton,
the Consul’s wife, wore the smartest
of brown outfits, and smiled over the box
of chocolates tied with the society’s colors
that was her reward for her husband’s
labors. Artists Dora Jarrett and Mar-
garet Coen were among the smartly-
hatted present. Both show attractive
panels. Mrs. Alice Hambridge is another
whose work draws the gaze.
“Jill, Darling,” brought fun to the
Royal on Saturday night; also an after-
the-races audience avid for laughter and
resplendent in attire. Crowds were
going on to private parties and to dance
at Romano’s, so there was the glitter of
lame, the crisp demureness of taffeta, the
lustre of satin. Every woman had got her
fur coat out of cold storage, and, wrapped
in lapin mink, squirrel and occasionally
ermine, took the bitter wind as it came.
Sir Hugh, Lady Poynter, Jocelyn and
Shirley made a good-looking family
group. Both the girls wore real flowers
in their hair. Mrs. Jimmy Bancks
gleamed in silver and black ; Ruth Allen
wore a frock of silver tissue, a coat of
blue velvet; Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s- cloth-
of-gold drew a long train —son Carlton
and the Tom Kelly pair were in this
group. Mrs. E. Baume’s lace frock was
ivory; Mrs. Herbert Douglass sparkled
above white satin and white furs;
Lorna Searl made black velvet look
exotic. Mrs. N. Johnson’s black laces
wore a hem-length blue sash.
Rear-Admiral Lane-Poole’s wife, who
arrived in the Orford last week, is no
stranger to Australia. It is only a little
more than 10 years since she left Jervis
Bay, where her husband had been in
charge of the Naval College for three
years. For the past two years her home
has been in Devonport, the Admiral
being commodore of the Royal Naval
Barracks. Before that, while her hus-
band was on squadron duty off the
American coast, Mrs. Lane-Poole tra-
velled through South America and the
West Indies. Gardening and music are
her chief recreations. Her instrument is
the ’cello. Eighteen-year-old Anne Lane-
Poole is due to arrive in Sydney in
August.
Sydney has a new playground. It’s
the Norwegian Ski Studio at Rush-
cutter Bay. The roof and the rafters are
painted blue, and a few feet below blobs
of snow, caught in the act, suspend them-
selves for ever. The walls depict a snow
scene —probably Kosciusko, for there are
a pub and a chalet rising in the white
landscape. A lone skier is in some act
of derring-do, and a few trees bend to the
storm. Of course, you don’t ski on the
walls. At the top end of the long room
there’s a steep incline covered with coir
matting, at its base a long level run cov-
ered with the same. Chief Secretary
Frank Chaffey (an indulger in snow
sports) opened the run, but long before
that representatives of the city’s ski clubs
were telemarking, stemming, herring-
boning and doing Christianas with great
zeal and some skill in the limited space.
Expert George Alberg gave a comprehen-
sive and perfect exhibition of what can
be done on skis. Patsy Finlayson, in a
vivid plaid shirt and black ski-ing
trousers, was the star girl-performer.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence,
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
j
WILCOX, SMITH & GO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 94 of 1936.
BETWEEN CYRIL STOTT Petitioner
And EUNICE REID STOTT Respondent
And BERT WARE Co-respondent.
TO BERT WARE late of Nicholson Street
Sydney and of Forster in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
CYRIL STOTT has commenced a suit in the
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction of this Honor-
able Court claiming that his marriage with the
abovenamed EUNICE REID STOTT may be
dissolved on the grounds of her adultery with
you AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Second day of July
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further dime the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Second day of April One thou-
sand nine hundred and Thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SHERIDAN & SHERIDAN, Solicitors,
Kempsey; by their Agents, BARRY NORRIS
& WILDES, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 292 of 1936.
BETWEEN GLADYS COTTRELL Petitioner
And JOHN CHARLES HENRY COTT-
RELL Respondent.
TO JOHN CHARLES HENRY COTTRELL
late of Parramatta.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
COTTRELL has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the sixth day of July next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herin may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
Dated this seventh day of April, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. H. GARRATT & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 253 of 1936.
BETWEEN EDWARD JAMES THOMAS
Petitioner
And DORA THOMAS Respondent.
TO DORA THOMAS late of Brisbane.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDWARD
JAMES THOMAS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixth day of July One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-six and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of April, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney; Agent for ERNEST ROY
HUDSON, Solicitor, Broken Hill.
Melbourne
Chattar
Last year in Melbourne on Good
Friday hotels were opened and all
theatres were closed, and a considerable
portion of the State was under water.
This year matters were reversed, the
rain held off, talk was of bushfires
rather than floods, temperance reigned
on Good Friday and some of the picture-
shows were open. Easter Thursday was
late-shopping night .; on Easter Saturday
city shops were barred and bolted, but
suburban stores did a thriving trade all
the morning; market produce, winter
woollens (in mind through the sudden
cold snap) and Easter eggs seemed to be
the main interest of every woman in the
crowd. The crop of Easter weddings
caused serious congestion in churches,
and florists’ shops and scores of taxis
retained white ribbon throughout the
long week-end.
A wheelbarrow marathon, frying-pan
tennis and now a scooter race as
an Easter attraction haven’t increased the
small boy’s regard for dad and his con-
temporaries. The lads are very patronis-
ing about the competitors’ tactics in the
race, especially as most of the scooters
were not home-made but luxury
vehicles with rubber tyres and brakes.
Competing in the Geelong to Queens-
cliffe overland were barrow-pushers of
all ages and both sexes (the sole girl
competitor caught the 6.30 a.m. train
from Melbourne to get to the start on
time). There were bald heads, black
heads, red heads, faces shaven and un-
shaven. Mayors and city fathers of the
near-by towns sponsored the race and
presented the money prizes, and the police
had a busy time clearing spectators off
the roads.
Mrs. C. R. Cowper and Miss L. Nyul-
asy helped to raise funds for Queen Vic-
toria Hospital by giving an afternoon
party at their home. Edith Harrhy and
Rosa Pinkerton entertained with music,
and a bevy of beauty came forward to
solicit patronage for the flower stall.
Hersey Brookes and Mrs. Harry Hop-
man raffled a nightgown made by Miss
Brookes, and later won by Mrs. Ernest
Graham. The lucky ticket for Mrs. J.
Barnaby’s iced cake enriched Mrs.
Roland Graham’s Easter larder. There
were over a hundred people at the party,
many of whom couldn’t face going home
in the storm, and lingered in the dusk to
drink cocktails beside a crackling fire.
In a burst of enthusiasm for the Cercle
Chantecler Mrs. Cedric Battle gave a
cocktail party at Menzies, where guests
were given an opportunity of meeting the
cast of the next production, “Liebelei.”
The Cercle’s president and producer, M.
Jean Studer, introduced the players,
among them Gwen Munro, the heroine,
who lived in a flighty age when flirting
was a necessary accomplishment and the
vapors an accessory after the fact. This
heroine takes her affair of the heart too
seriously and gets her affections sadly
dinted. Sylvia Lane, who came to the
party, very smart in black, is to be Mitzie,
who bandies repartee with a young blood,
Gilbert Parker. Helen Benjamin was
there looking the antithesis of the char-
acter she will portray, that of a catty
woman who has long, sharp claws hidden
in her velvet gloves.
With people present like the vivacious
Mile. Lutz and like Mile. Devole, in her
chic black beret and trim tailored coat
over a wine-colored frock, there was
plenty of French in the air, but Judge
Macfarlan’s speech was sound Aus-
tralian. Mrs. Battle wore a frock of
black cellophane crepe made with a white
yoke, silver fox furs and a tiny black
cap. A dashing touch to Mrs. C. Hun-
ter’s black dress was scarlet lightning
fasteners on skirt and belt. Una and
Betty Fitts were there ; Betty’s friends
were delighted to see her about again
after her long illness. Deighton Bur-
bidge, who has been co-author of several
of the club’s plays, thanked the hostess
for her interest, and presented her on
behalf of members of the “rooster circle”
with a paradoxical Eastef egg.
Jean Rhodes was no conventional all-
white bride. Her gown of pansy-blue
satin fagonne was draped with the ful-
ness at the front of the skirt, shirring
down the centre of the bodice, with
sleeves of wrist-length, and a large brooch
of antique silver and sapphires clasped to
the square neckline. A provocative little
eyeveil of brown mesh was attached to
her peasant’s bonnet created out of twists
of blue velvet. Instead of carrying a
bouquet the bride pinned deep pink
orchids to her beaded bag. She had no
attendants, but the ’groom, Bayfield
Ryland, depended upon Max Shaw to
produce the ring at the right moment.
Norman Rhodes gave his sister away at
Christ Church, South Yarra, and after-
wards Mrs. W. Rhodes staged her wel-
come, particularly warm in contrast to
the gale outside, at No. 9.
A gown of creamy satin, its charm
lying in its simplicity of cut, was Phyllis
Watson’s choice of attire for her marriage
with Bill McAuley at Scots Church,
Collins-street. The unadorned skirt,
sheathlike in front, was gathered with
elaborate fulness at the back to fall into
a long train. The quaint little veil was
but a wisp of tulle, very short, of only
fingertip length, with a frilly edging
round the hem. Instead of a bouquet
two orchids languished between the
leaves of the bride’s prayer-book. The
attendants, Mrs. Arthur Tilley, Mollie
McAuley and Muriel Beggs, were arrayed
in sunray pleatings of ivory chiffon. They
carried gilded leaves, and large gold-
centred marguerites bloomed high on
top of their heads. Tim Parker, Ray
Watson and Alan Scott were the ’groom’s
retainers. Afterwards there were merry-
making and cocktail-mixing at Menzies.
Here is a Jack Cato portrait of Mrs.
Denis Moore, who recently distinguished
herself at deep-sea fishing. At Bermagui
she landed a striped marlin weighing
2031 b. During their pursuit of the big
fellows Mr. and Mrs. Moore were accom-
panied by Mrs. Moore’s father, P. R.
Rogers, and her brother Welding, the
men of the party being all experienced
fishermen. Mrs. Moore, who was a
novice at the sport, has several photo-
graphs and the boat flag to remind her
of her success, but she decided against
having her trophy stuffed and mounted
and hung over the fireplace of her hus-
band’s smokeroom.
Fur coats rather than little velvet capes
were the protection chosen by most
women for the first night of “Anything
Goes,” but the theatre was snug and
wraps were discarded almost as soon as
the curtain went up. Occupying one box
were several members of the Geoffrey
Syme family, who included youngest
long-haired daughter Veronica in their
entourage. Mrs. Parker was there with
her two sons (the standard of Kenneth’s
photography should get him a job over-
seas) and Fay Robinson ; the quartet, off
to England this week, was enjoying its
last first-night. One blonde woman in
the stalls has stolen an Eskimo’s thunder,
for the hood of her cream cape was
lined with brown fur.
The Percy Frankenburgs were there,
and Dr. and Mrs. Roy Chambers, she
in blue, with white furs. Accompanying
her mother was youthful musician June
Phillipson, who wore a raisin-colored
frock with a white fur wrap. The
climax of Judy Price’s coiffure was two
curls piled high on the top of her head.
Marie White wore black and an alluring
orchid; Gwen Wilson chose red car-
nations, real and dewy and printed in
the pattern of her crepe gown. Mabel
Gibson was there receiving congratula-
tions upon the successful removal of
her appendix. Mrs. Frank Tait wrapped
silver foxes round her black velvet
shoulders, and Mrs. Lytton Stephens
used dyed squirrels to keep the chill
from penetrating black lace.
An Athol Shmith camera caught this
glimpse of Colonel and Mrs. L. R.
Thomas’s auburn-headed daughter Judy.
Miss Thomas inherits dramatic inclina-
tions from her father, who did a great’
deal of repertory playing in Tasmania ;
she has shown promise at Little Theatre
readings, and will perform at this group’s
first enterprise away from its haunt in
St. Chad’s —a Russian play at the Gar-
rick, which starts a short season next
Saturday. Valentin Katayev’s “Squaring
the Circle” is not propaganda; it’s a
highly amusing Communist mix-up over
two couples, registered and therefore
married, who share the same communal
flat. Miss Thomas is Ludmilla, fluffy
and bourgeoise; Irene Mitchell is Tonya,
a really serious-minded comrade.
Undoubtedly the noisest thing that will
happen during “Squaring the Circle” will
be Alec Pratt’s laugh. Alec is a poet,
called Vasyuk, whose job is to provide
much of the comedy for the play, so he’ll
have plenty of opportunity to use the
most famous laugh in Melbourne, once
heard never forgotten. If he has ever
acted before he’s kept it dark —officially
he goes on to the boards as a fledgling
novice.
Since her return to Australia Eileen
Joyce has been busy correcting the story
of her life, which has been exaggerated
to such an extent that' truth and fiction
are hopelessly mixed. For instance, the
tale that Eileen could neither read nor
write before she was 10 is quite incor-
rect. When she was eight she was
already attending St'. Joseph’s Convent in
Boulder City, where she also learnt
music. She had a piano at home, a
tinny instrument which her father, who
worked as a miner on the Golden Horse-
shoe, bought for her, and on which she
was taught her notes by her mother.
Eileen passed music exams, with such
high honors that- the people of Kal-
goorlie became interested in her. She
was sent to Loreto Convent, Swanbourne,
where she was a good all-rounder. She
played games, and her studies were never
neglected for her music, and she sat for
public exams, like the other girls of her
age. Much credit for her going abroad
must be given to Backhaus and Percy
Grainger, who sang her praises so loudly
that a fund was opened, benefit concerts
were arranged and Hamilton Brown paid
a star artist’s salary to a schoolgirl for
solo numbers at the Prince of Wales pic-
ture theatre.
The promising young pianist who
sailed away eight years ago under the
chaperonage of the Coghlan lady was a
sturdy little lass with a winning smile,
a round freckled face, straight dark hair
and a fringe. While abroad she was as
lonely as a young girl can be, and she
had a thin time when her money ran out.
Afterwards success gave her confidence
and poise, the critics were kind and one
of her most pleasant memories of social
functions is a luncheon with the Queen
of Norway.
Eileen Joyce is travelling with her secre-
tary, Coralie Clarke Rees, who in her turn
is accompanied by her husband, a drama-
tic critic. Mrs. Rees comes from W.A.
She is an arts graduate, and while she
was still Coralie Clarke did a good deal
of amateur acting and play-writing for
Perth Repertory Club, as well as jour-
nalism for Westralian papers. One of
her journalistic jobs was to accompany
Captain and Mrs. Jim Grey and a crew
of Sea Scouts to the north of Australia
on the little Silver Gull.
Taxis reaped a harvest during Mel-
bourne’s day of storm last week. The
drivers had no time for lunch or dinner,
and when they signed off late at night
reported that their engines had not'
stopped running all day. Gutters became
torrents, which one crossed only at a
flying leap, and small boys in low-lying
suburbs made some pocket money ferry-
ing passengers across flooded streets on
rafts or in canoes. The lads with fore-
sight have put' their craft “on slips” in
the family woodshed, all ready for the
next lot of Venetian atmospherics.
A Chapel-street picture-theatre (the
Astor) offers a special perk to the subur-
ban wife-and-mother. She may take her
offspring to the movies and let it shriek
all the way through tender love-scenes
and succulent croonings, for there is a
sound-proof room behind glass, with
tiered seats and a mike extension. The
babies breathe purer air than they would
get in the main theatre, the mothers have
a few hours’ relaxation and the bulk of
the audience can lose itself in romance
without any squealing to ruin its day-
dream.
Melbourne trains and trams have not
yet got used to patrons carrying fencing
foils. The porters at Flinders-street
station recoil in mock fear, tram con-
ductors are aloof, saying little but think-
ing a lot, and the passengers revert to
type. Some stare, others shoot covert
and rather patronising glances at the
long, shiny weapon balanced against its
owner’s knee. Old men who have fenced
in their youth open the conversation
with a word of advice and stories of
their own prowess, and young men talk
about fishing and what excellent rods
foils make.


Personal and Missing Friends.
LLOYDS ENQUIRY AGENCY, 100-104
Queen Street, formerly 80 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. TENDERS are invited for the
purchase of all next-of-kin, missing fiends and
other records of the above agency or ALTER-
NATIVELY for purchase of business, together
with all records, books, etc., as a going con-
cern. APPLY to the Executor, care of L. A.
CHISHOLM, LL.B., Solicitor, 100-104 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
Missing Relatives.
SPENCER. —The of GEORUE
ANGUS SPENCER, aged about 76 years, wno
died at Narrabri on 28/10/ 35, or y
knowing their whereabouts or having *
mation regarding the family J lls^ r y , T) ? IRr VA
quested to communicate with the rUBUC
TRUSTEE, 107/109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
TO GEORGE RUSSELL, Grandnephew of
ELIZABETH KNOX, deceased, who died
at Auckland in New Zealand on the 1 th
October, 1908, to his children and to any
person claiming by, through or under him
PURSUANT to an order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are here-
by called upon to send to the und er s>g ne n n
or before the Ist day of July, 1936, your
claims to certain moneys held by the Public
Trustee in the estate of the abovenamed ae-
ceased, failing which the said moneys will b
distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
re SS P lD , °“t r Wellington this 30th day of
Match. 1936. chas £
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Renowned
The Hotel Mansions is known far and wide foi
its hospitality, excellent service and cuisine.
“Our guests are always right” and smiling
service is our unvarying policy!
The most central Hotel in the city. Reserva
tions day and night—ever at your service.
Hotel Mansions
King’s Cross. Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
iMft
Q
aUESTIONS
we cixe qictel to-
ANSWER
I
The Rural Bank is your bank. Its operations are an
important part of the life of the State. Here are some
questions which may have occurred to you ... and the
interesting answers.
Q. How long has the Rural Bank been serving the
State?
A. Since 1899, when it commenced as the Advances
to Settlers Board.
Q. Of what assistance has it been?
A. Since its inception it has made 91,000 advances*
totalling nearly £49,000,000.
Q. To whom has this money been lent ?
A. To farmers and home-builders, thereby stimulating
primary production and directly helping to in-
crease employment.
Q. How much has all this cost the taxpayer?
A. Not a penny ! From its inception the Bank has
made regular but moderate profits consistent with
its policy of “ maximum service at minimum cost.”
Q. Where does the Bank get the money it lends?
A. A considerable proportion is derived from the
transaction of usual banking business Fixed
Deposits and Current Accounts. Funds are also
derived from the issue of Inscribed Stock and
debentures and capital repayments on existing
loans.
Fixed deposits are accepted and cheque
accounts opened at all branches
Rural Bank
SYDNEY BRANCH: 350 GEORGE ST. (opp. Wynyard St.)
Commissioners :
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Off moments of the Engineers’ Confer-
ence week were filled with a jaunt to
Yanchep, a lecture tte in the Silver
Stocking Cave, a dinner-party at the
Adelphi, a tour of the south-west and
miscellaneous shivoos, culminating with
a dance at the Embassy. R. G. Boyd,
president of the Institution of Engineers,
and Mrs. Boyd (her flat crepes were of
deep Parma violet) made a quartet of
receptionists with Prof. Fraenkel (hels
in the box seat of the Perth division)
and his lady, who lined the drapings of
her earth-brown velvets with gold lame.
Mrs. W. H. Taylor had a silver thread
running through her black marselle, Mrs.
O. F. Blakey trailed soft beige peau
d’ange lace, and gold whorls caught the
folds" of Mrs. Ron Oldham’s gold hail-
spot pink taffetas. Mrs. R. J. Dumas
wound a gold belt round her prune
satins. Mrs. R. H. Vincent spilled o.s.
orchids on her thick cream taffetas and
Mrs. James Young was sheathed in
parchment satin.
After a surge of bride-elect parties
Joan Leggoe kept her tryst with Colin
Johnston at Wesley Church, Perth. The
bride’s unusual frock of Kenya-red tree-
bark satin had a slightly trained skirt
that swept from a tunic bodice belted
with gold lame and frogged with gold
braid. Gold-to-red gladioli and dahlias
made a harmonising floral addition.
Lorna Dickson attended in autumn-
tone scored silk crepes with motif trim-
mings and matching hat.
The science students’ hop at the Uni.
was a cheerful affair run by Nancy Bur-
bidge, Charles Hosking and Claus Gloe.
There were initiation ceremonies, novelty
turns and an exhibition dance by Rene
Underwood and Reddy McMorrow. The
committee lass touched her blue crunch
crepe with scarlet, Dorothy Fleming
swished blue-checked taffetas and Melva
Smith ran a self stripe down her pink
cellophane georgette. Gold embossings
glittered on Dorothy Omonda’s white
taffetas. Queenie Lynch fluttered white
floral organdie, and Gwen Weymouth
alternated blue and white in her striped
taffetas.
News from Batavia tells of the mar-
riage of Audrey Savage and George
James (the bridegroom lives there).
Audrey’s filmy white lace was cut into
cape sleeves and a long train, and her tulle
veil billowed over a bouquet of white
orchids.
Minister for Education Millington
opened the Kindergarten Union’s new
building at Bayswater, a trim little struc-
ture built to the plans of hon. architect
Harold Boas. After a few short speeches
there was tea in the main room. Next
came a viewing of the premises. The
furnishings are carried out in gay green
and gold even to the tiny towels which
hang from the shiny pegs in the wash-
room. President Mrs. W. Murdock,
principal Gladys Pendred and director of
the new centre Miss B. Clifton were in
box seats.
Joye Morrison’s coming of age was
celebrated with sherry for 60 at her
mother’s home in Mount-street. Both
hostess and guest of honor wore magpie
effects, the former’s black georgette inlet
with white, while Quaker collar and cuffs
were attached to Joye’s neat black silk
crepes. Mrs. Morrison’s other daughters,
Mrs. C. M. Brearley and Mrs. Fred Vin-
cent, assisted their mother.
Welcome-home parties have started for
Mrs. H. Kelsall and daughters Edith and
Peggy, who have returned after two
years’ touring abroad. Marion Moullin
and her sister, Mrs. James, put on a card
evening at their home in Peppermint
Grove. Mrs. Liegh Thomason mixed
music and tea at her afternoon affair,
where items were given by Mrs. Kitty
Meares, Mrs. Edward Hamersley, Mrs.
H. V. Foster, the hostess, and Nina Jack-
son.
Mrs. Gilbert Elliott, of Tallerang, and
Mrs. Pat Maxwell, of Meeks, joined
forces in giving a farewell tea before
departing for their station homes. Karra-
katta Club was the venue, where hun-
dreds of blooms had been massed for
decoration.
Sheila, eldest daughter of Mrs. Clement
and the late Dr. Dixie Clement, has given
her promise to John Lloyd Brinkley, of
Fremantle. Another just-announced en-
gagement is that of Mollie McGrath, oft-
times State tennis champion, who is to
wed A. F. (Boyd) King.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The polo visitors have all departed
after hectic entertainment, mostly dinner
parties.
At Birkalla it was nothing but summer
frocks. Mrs. Roland Cudmore wore a
dusky-pink ensemble flecked with black
and a black straw hat. Her pretty little
daughter, Mrs. A. C. Rymill, was also
in pale pink beneath a wool georgette
coat and a chocolate-brown velvet tarn
beret. Mrs. Rex Warnes chose a beige
woollen frock with a brown collar and
a brown hat with upturned brim. Miss
Margaret Walkley wore a brown kasha
ensemble and hat; Mrs. Glanville Barker,
a blue-and-white checked suit and a hat
to match, with a scarf.
Gorgeous dahlias, shading from pink to
crimson, decorated the reception-room ot
the Lady Mayoress at the Town Hall
when Lord Mayor Cain gave a civic wel-
come to the Rev. T. Ferrier Hulme, who
has arrived from England to attend the
centenary celebrations on behalf of the
Methodists. The Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
H. Dunstan) wore a smart black cloth
tailored suit, a silver fox fur and a black
felt hat with a coque plume.
At Victoria Park races, the A.R.C.
chairman, Mr. James Hall, presided at
afternoon-tea with his daughter Muriel,
who wore a becoming frock of navy-and-
white coin-spotted marocain and a navy
hat, with a silver fox fur. Mrs. R. L.
Butler, the Premier’s wife, was in a black
matelasse toilette, with a hip-length cape
of the same, finished with a dainty white
georgette collar and jabot; her hat was
a black velour. Her daughter, Miss Jean
Butler, who is “Miss Racing” in the cen-
tenary competition, chose a navy-and-
white pin-check georgette trimmed with
navy and a navy taffeta tarn beret. She
wore a fawn-dyed fox fur.
Mrs. Reginald Walker, of Folkstone,
Kensington Gardens, gave a cheery fare-
well party for Mrs. W. J. Masson at Birk’s
Piccadilly, at which she entertained about
30 guests. The tea table was decorated
with lovely cactus dahlias from Mrs.
Walker’s garden.
At the Archbishop’s house on West-
terrace there was a successful garden
party, which was attended by Lady
Dugan. Passing through a guard of
honor formed of Catholic Girl Guides,
the vice-regal party was received by the
Most Rev. Dr. Killian, and escorted to
the lawn at the back, where chairs were
arranged and an excellent programme
rendered by the pupils of Loreto Con-
vent, under the direction of Mr. John
Dempster, and by Lombardi’s orchestra.
Lady Dugan wore a smart black georg-
ette toilette, with a large hat of black
straw. She was accompanied by her
sister-in-law, Mrs. Hazeldeane, who chose
a black ensemble and a hat of black
felt. Miss Roberts (Lady Dugan’s secre-
tary) was frocked in black georgette and
a black straw hat.
TASMANIA.
The races at Launceston fell on a chilly
day, which gave womenfolk a chance to
air their new autumn raiment. Some of
the tailored or braided suits were very
fetching, and velvet hats earned their
wearers many compliments. On the lawn
were the Guy Merediths, the R. C. Fields,
the Russell Ibbotts, the Andrew Rae-
burns, the W. Archers, Mrs. Noel
Browne, Mrs. Claude Stackhouse, Mar-
got McCausland, the H. Quigleys, the
Norman Fields, the W. Fitzpatricks, Mrs.
G. R. Collins, Marie Vranisan and the
H. Archers.
Lady Clark presided at the first meet-
ing of the Tas. C.W.A., held in the Town
Hall.
Bellerive revived its once-annual Muni-
cipal Ball at the local Town Hall, and
made a success of it, about 300 dancers
rolling up. Massed dahlias figured very
effectively in the decorations.
Young Midland spinsters paid their
cutlet-for-cutlet to the bachelors of the
district by giving a very smart dance
at Powell’s Hall, Mollie Mackinnon being
hon. sec. to a committee of 12 other girls.
As usual, guests were recruited from vari-
ous parts of the island, quite a big con-
tingent going up from Hobart, while
Launceston was well represented. The
D. von Bibras, Beaufront, Ross, dined a
big party before the ball.
The Midland Hunt Club started its
1936 season with a good meet and a long
run at St. Mary’s. M. Littlechild and
W. T. Lohery took the drag, and there
was a numerous following of members,
while many carloads watched the pro-
ceedings from the roads.
Mrs. Pierce Keating is off in the Bal-
ranald to England, where she will visit
her sons, James and Pierce, who live in
London. Afterwards she intends giving
Scotland and Ireland a look over before
returning in time for Christmas at home.
Mrs. Eustace Cameron, Mona Vale,
Ross, has gone to stay with her daugh-
ter, Mrs. Lewis Thun, Pennsylvania,
U.S.A. Another Tasmanian traveller is
Ahson Boyes, Longford, who is enter-
prisingly going in a cargo boat,, which
will wander on a two months’ trip, call-
ing at many ports before fetching up in
England.
To enable N.S.W. returned soldiers to
brighten up their medals for Anzac Day,
ribbons are available at nominal cost at
the trading department, R.S.L., Wingello
House, Sydney.


KNOWN TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUB U f
FOR 83 YEARS
for. its medicinal
qualities
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
IfJ
OR YOUR HEALTH'S SAK
Oil
t
cus
3*.
WOLFES
mmmu
SCBJEfIAM
m
I,
TO
KEEPYOUR CAR
yOUNC..
with!
CHAMPIONS
M PI ON
CAN D A S o° A R ' SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
On the third day after the fearful
affair in the Rockhampton mail—two
passengers were murdered and the con-
ductor battered almost to death—an
arrest was made in Melbourne, upwards
of 1100 miles away. The suspect was a
man dressed in woman’s clothing—grey
one-piece costume, brown stockislgs,
black shoes, red straw hat with a red
band, but no make-up. He was charged
as Herbert Kopit, station-hand, of
Pialba (Q.), and has been remanded to
Brisbane.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Queensland’s twelfth
city was inaugurated when the Executive
Council dowered Warwick with civic
dignity. With 1000 or so fewer people
than Canberra, Warwick is the smallest
of the dozen. Excluding Brisbane, Rock-
hampton ranks largest, with 30,000;
Townsville (27,436) second and Too-
woomba (27,207) third. Ipswich has
23,000, Cairns 13,000 ; Bundaberg, Mary-
borough and Mackay are all over the
10,000 mark. Gym pie and Charters
Towers are, next to Warwick, the small-
est, but all are bigger than Grafton
(N.S.W.) or Mildura (Vic.). In 1935
Bundaberg had higher birth-rate—22.9—
than any other urban area in Queensland.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The effects of recent gales
on the S. Queensland coastline are caus-
ing uneasiness amongst municipalities
which control surfing resorts. One more
day of easterly weather and king tides
would have wrecked the £6OOO surfing
pavilion at Kirra and the surf-club
pavilion and kiosk. A ruinous break-
through at Narrow Neck, near Southport,
was barely missed. Even Cleveland Point
inMoretonßay was severely damaged. For
200 miles and more northward beachside
structures, built with every confidence
that the sea could never reach them, have
been destroyed or damaged. No accu-
rate records of coast-erosion are avail-
able for guidance, and practically no-
thing is known concerning effective
methods of preventing it. Forty years
ago the Southport-Tweed Heads coach
used to pass to seaward of Elephant
Rock, near Currumbin, on a hard ocean
beach. Elephant Rock is now an offshore
islet.
* * * *
‘Bull-ant Bill”: Recent Queensland
floods have brought out the old pioneer
spirit again. A man at Nockatunga, in the
far s.-w., had occasion to get to the rail-
way in a hurry. Rains had rendered
motor transport impossible. He rode
70 miles with a blackboy guide to
Dewalla Creek, and found it in heavy
flood. A raft was improvised from
petrol-drums, on which the traveller, the
abo. and their outfit were ferried
across, the horses swimming behind.
Reaching Thargomindah, he chartered a
plane owned by a woman pilot from
Bourke. It took him into Cunnamulla,
where he joined the east-bound mail
train. A Mackay (N.Q.) farmer, bring-
ing his children home from their flood-
bound school, found that the river near
his homestead had risen in his absence.
Parking kids and clothes with a neighbor,
he swam across, and arrived home clad
only in a banana leaf and a broad smile.
* * * *
Notaden”: A two-foot section of
smooth galvanised iron lapped high up
round every power-line post on the Stan-
ley Dam supply line, running northwards
from Brisbane, has created many car
arguments concerning its purpose. It is
really a stop for possums, goannas, bears
and such climbers, which would other-
wise use the cross arms and wires for
play or resting, with disastrous results
to themselves and the supply should they
happen to touch two wires at once. A
large part of the work of breakdown
gangs on power lines is caused by animals
—especially flying-foxes or birds. Even
frogs give a lot of trouble by crawling
over the insulators and deflecting enough
current .to open the circuit-breaker at
the powerhouse.
"It's gone five o'clock long ago, Jacky."
“Cripes! Too late to knock off now!"
“M. Turlutu”: Recent press discussion
has shown that most of the 300,000 citi-
zens of Brisbane want fresh bread at
breakfast, but they can’t get it, even if
they call at the baker’s. When they do
get it, late in the morning, it is soft-
crusted and soggy from inadequate cool-
ing in the bakehouse. Experts and master
bakers agree that bread to-day is in-
ferior to that of 20 years ago. The
reason? Merely that Queensland’s law-
givers have decreed that bakers shall start
work at the same time as bread-carters.
Unlike railwaymen, policemen, night-
watchmen, or even mere newspaper
blokes, the operative baker must not work
in the early a.ms., even if he does all
his own baking, selling and delivery.
Brisbane bread consumption has fallen
by over 12 p.c. in the last 15 years, with
corresponding decrease in employment.
And how many operative bakers are em-
ployed in Brisbane? Just on 250. A
magnificent example of boneheaded
minority rule.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Crocodile-trapping has
become quite an industry in parts of
Queensland’s North, mainly to supply
shows. A three-foot-wide channel is
dug from the water’s edge at some likely
spot, ending under a stout mangrove
tree. It is lined with logs, and a pulley
block is lashed to a strong branch 10ft.
or so up. A wire rope, rove through
the block, has a slip-noose at one end
and a heavy sandbag at the other. The
sandbag is hove up and fixed with a peg
from which leads the bait line. The open
noose is set upright across the trench, to
catch the saurian between his fore- and
hind-legs. It is propped open so that he
must crawl through it to reach the bait.
A dead wallaby, bullock’s heart or other
delicacy is tied to the end of the bait line.
The croc.’s first tug at the bait pulls
out the peg ; the weight of the bag keeps
him from getting foothold. His bellows
announce the capture. After lassoing
jaws and tail, he is lashed to a couple
of stout poles for transport.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Jessie, one of the twin daughters of
the Colin Philps, of Wyaralong, Beau-
desert, who is a nurse at the General Hos-
pital, is going to be Mrs. Arthur Gilbert-
son very soon. The young man, who
hails from Devon, is a brilliant airman.
Evelyn Drury is thrilled because her
brother, E. H. Merivale Drury, and his
wife, who live in Jo’burg, are coming
out to spend some weeks with her in her
home at Windsor.
Mrs. Philip Hoskin and daughter
Peggy, who had their Southport holiday
before Easter, hurried home to spread the
tea tables in honor of Mrs. George
Clarke, who, after a prolonged stay with
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Talbot Stanley,
Toowoomba, is returning to her home at
Julia Creek. Another resident of Julia
Creek, Mrs. Ulick Brown (who was
Monica Little), has been at' Southport
with her parents, the Frank Littles. They
were in Toowoomba for the summer.
Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Huybers and
Molly Sutherland were at their South-
port home for Easter. The yacht Blue
Bird was with them, and the friends and
relations of the family spent happy days
picnicking round the bay.
In Brisbane on Easter Saturday Tom
Priestley, son of Mrs. H. J. Priestley and
the late Professor Priestley, married Anne
Walsh, daughter of the late Dick Walsh,
of Toowoomba, and Mrs. Walsh. Sylvia
Beirne, one of Toowoomba’s many pretty
girls, came down to ’maid for school-
chum Anne.
Dr. Christina Rivett is to leave by the
Ormonde on May 14 for England ; after
that, Vienna.
Barbara Sisley put on two gay little
comedies at the Lyceum, and was con-
gratulated by the president, Mrs. B. F.
Robson. The Lyceum ends its year in
June ; the committee is now busy on the
syllabus for the new year.
When Cambridge won the boatrace
Canon Warner was thrilled ; in 1870 he
was cox of the Cambridge crew when it
defeated the rival institution of learning.
On April 8 his wife celebrated her 81st
birthday, and the two spent the day at
Bulimba House with daughter Mrs.
A. E. Moore, who poured tea for all the
old friends who dropped in to offer con-
gratulations. Mrs. Warner was 19 when
she came as a bride to Queensland.
Queensland’s branch of the Junior Red
Cross will be represented at the Mel-
bourne display of Red Cross work by
two maps and a poster. Peggy Henderson
and members of the Ithaca branch did
the maps ; one is of Australia, worked in
white wool outlined in blue on a back-
ground of cream Ipswich flannel, and
with the coat of arms of each State
embroidered in colors. The other, a
panel of silky oak, has superimposed on
it a map of Queensland in its own maple.
The Barrier Reef is shown in tiny
splinters of coral. Miss J. N. Watts,
treasurer of New Farm branch, did the
poster. Later on the three exhibits will
go overseas to make part of an inter-
national exhibition.
St. Andrew’s Church, Longreach, will
see the wedding of Joyce Sinclair,
daughter of the Wilfred Sinclairs, of
Longreach, to Jerry (christened William
Roy) Westaway, son of Mr. and Mrs.
W. Westaway, of Greenheyes, Goomeri.
Enid Aland is to be the only ’maid.
Captain and Mrs. Henshaw have been
staying at Eskdale with the Roy Bells.
Mrs. Henshaw was a Dangar, and is Mrs.
Bell’s sister. Lady Curtis Bennett on her
last visit to this country, she married
again after returning to England.
Mrs. Ferrier and her two small sons—
she was Joyce Nicol, daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Nicol, and one of
Toowoomba’s loveliest girls—has been
spending a holiday at Redcliffe. She and
the family have gone back to Roma now.
Alice Crowther, a Queenslander who
is co-director with Mrs. Ann Mackay,
formerly of Melbourne, of a musical and
verse-speaking school in England, has
been here for a few weeks. She goes
back to Britain shortly.
Not far distant is the wedding of
pianiste Audrey Anderson and Dr.
Stanton Crouch. This pair will make
their home in Brisbane instead of Mel-
bourne, as they first planned.
Nora Halford and Dr. Harold Love
have an appointment to keep in St.
John’s Cathedral on April 16. The
wedding will be followed by an enor-
mous cocktail party at the Moreton
Club.


Replace worn
Valves with
Milliard
The
Master
Valve
IV <\
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
KITS OF PARTS
WE SPECIALISE IN KITS FOR ALL DON
KNOCK’S RECEIVERS. ALSO FOR EVERY
OTHER WORTH-WHILE RADIO SET.
THE LITTLE TWIN
Small enough to be easily carried
about, but will give full headphone
strength on all local and overseas
stations.
COMPLETE KIT wi t h
Valve, Batteries and
’Phones
£5
See Bulletin 29/l/’36.
IDEAL AMATEUR SUPERHET
FOR THE SHORT-WAVE ENTHUSIAST.
COMPLETE KIT OF BEST-
QUALITY PARTS WITH
VALVES AND ’PHONES
£9/15/-
SPECIAL, “A.C.” POWER SUPPLY
COMPLETE SET HEAVY-DUTY BATTERIES .
THIS RECEIVER DELIVERS THE GOODS.
£2/12/6
£3/7/6
WIDE-WORLD TWO
The ideal short-wave receiver. Easy
to build and operate. Will receive
local broadcast as well as short
waves.
COMPLETE KIT
with Valves, H.D.
Batteries and ’Phones
£7/13/fi
Bulletin 5J8/’3-i.
WE CAN REPAIR OR MODERNISE YOUR OED SET RESUETS DEFINITELY GUARANTEED
ĵ
PRICE'S RADIO SERVICE
[ D.G. M£ INTYRE ]
5 and E ANGEL PLACE SYDNEY— Phone 8414 E
-J
m
m
RADIO NEWS
THE IDEAL AMATEUR SUPERHET.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
nPHOUGH this receiver is designed primarily for use on the
1 amateur wavebands, including 80, 40, 20 and 10 metres,
it will be apparent that the design can be adapted for overlap
tuning on all short-wave bands, taking ill international broad-
casting channels. For four valves, the performance is
phenomenal, and approaches the ideal in signal-to-noise ratio;
hence the title. It is easy to construct, not unduly expensive,
and can be used with equally good results on batteries or A.C.
supply.
To arouse enthusiasm these days any
new receiver must possess some excep-
tional and really worth-while features,
Phis receiver does, and the writer believes
that amateurs and short-wave listeners
will welcome it as an answer to many
Fig. 1. —Circuit of the Ideal Amateur Superhet. Screened leads are indicated by dotted lines. With the coil data
given, all useful amateur bands are covered. The aerial-couvling unit shown here is not essential, but has an advantage
in providing still better signal-to-noise ratio. This receiver works just as smoothly at 10 metres as at 80.
problems. Credit must be given to Frank
Jones, of the technical staff of “Radio”
(U.S.A.), for the original idea. The
receiver described here has one or two
modifications to suit Australian needs,
and is the result of an experiment which
has been attended by great success. This
receiver has been in use for a month at
the writer’s experimental station, and is
the answer to adequate selectivity and
sensitivity for ’phone and telegraphic
work. It is possible to work with an-
other amateur station thousands of miles
distant, with a powerful local telephony
station in full swing at only a few kilo-
cycles difference in frequency, without
interference. Numerous short-wave lis-
teners and amateurs in Australia have
heard reference to the receiver over the
air, and have written for information.
Here is the story.
What the Receiver Is.
There are only four valves, in a special
superhet circuit, but they permit of a
performance outshining most multi-valve
designs. First and foremost, iron-
core I.F.Ts. play a leading part; if
ordinary air-core types are substituted
the same results are definitely not obtain-
able. Six-volt indirectly-heated Austra-
lian Radiotrons are employed, and refer-
ence to the circuit in Fig. 1 shows the
application. In order to get the maxi-
mum out of the first detector, regenera-
tion is introduced. This could not be
done readily by using a pentagrid valve,
so the 6C6 is used as detector with a 76
oscillator. I.F. amplification is provided
by the 6D6 with two iron-core I.F.Ts.,
Fig. 2. —The front view. Main dial is the bandspread tuning
control, with oscillator band-setter to the left and detector
band-setter to the right. The knobs below are, left to right:
Regeneration potentiometer, I.F. gain potentiometer, B.F.O.
extra control (not essential),' and second detector regeneration
potentiometer for c.w. The unusual finish on the aluminium
is obtained by ruling lines with a typewriter eraser.
and the 79 does a multiple job in serving
as second detector with oscillation con-
trol for c.w. and headphone audio out-
put. Plug-in coils are used, but switch-
ing could be introduced by the experi-
enced constructor if desired, and the re-
ceiver runs equally well from batteries
or A.C. power unit. The aerial-coupling
unit in Fig. 1 is not imperative, but is
well worth while. In ordinary use the
aerial lead can be twisted for a few turns
around the grid lead of the 6C6. Extra
audio amplification can be used, if
wanted for speaker work, and for this a
type 38, 41 or 42 can be used with
appropriate plate supply. In the writer’s
case the 79 provides enough audio output
to work a magnetic diaphragm speaker
on DX amateur ’phones at R 6 upwards.
Constructional Points.
A heavy-gauge aluminium chassis of
the size specified in the parts list is pre-
ferable, but this can be conveniently the
usual 18 gauge. Harry Crabb, Riley-
street, Sydney, has prepared a template
for 12-gauge aluminium, and 18-gauge
material may be obtained from Price’s
Radio, Angel-place. The front panel
carries the dial and band-set controls,
and the potentiometers for the various
circuits are
mounted below. It
is important that
the detector and
oscillator circuits
be well screened
off, especially for
10-metre work,
and the illustra-
tions show the ver-
tic a 1 interstage
panel fitted be-
tween the detector
and oscillator
(ganged) condenser
sections.
Fig. 4 gives a
good general view
of the layout. No
measurement dia-
gram is given, as
various types of
iron-core I.F.Ts.
can be used, and
some of these may
differ slightly from
the original. The
smaller circuit
diagram shows the receiver arrange-
ment from “Radio” (U.S.A.), but
minus a quartz crystal filter, as described
in that article. Such a filter should be
beneficial for extreme selectivity, but is
not, in the writer’s opinion, necessary
for average work. Here the coupling
from the suppressor grid of the 6C6 is
to the plate of the 76 oscillator. It was
found that better conversion was obtained
with coupling to the grid of the
76, as in Fig. 1, particularly at 10
metres. Either method can be fried
for comparison. Looking at the re-
Fig. 3 — T wo types of Radiokes iron-
core I.F.Ts. suitable for this superhet.
The larger size is the AD465 and the
smaller the SIC465.
ceiver from the front, as in Fig. 2, the
detector band-set condenser is the con-
trol on the right, with the condenser
operated by an extension shaft. The
condenser is mounted on the rear side of
the interstage panel and the oscillator
band-set condenser on the front panel.
The associated coil mountings and
35mmfd. condenser ganged sections are
arranged on the appropriate side of the
interstage panel. In action the detector
band-set condenser can be trimmed
manually for best results, but once the
oscillator condenser is set after locating
the bands this position must' be retained.
If detector and oscillator coils are made
carefully and wiring is relatively equal
in each tuned circuit the main tuning
control on the bandspread condensers
will cover each amateur band, including
10 metres, without any necessity for
touching the detector band-setter.
Iron-core I.F.Ts.
These are the heart of this receiver,
and the original types were imported,
being Aladdin type AlOO. They are not
obtainable in Australia, but various types
of iron-core I.F.Ts. are now made in
this country. Radiokes has produced two
new types illustrated in Fig. 3. For
compactness, the 51C465, being the
smaller, is very convenient, and the
larger type is the AD465, which is
air-tuned. Both types are wound with
Litz on Crolite cores, and on test in the
original receiver in substitution for the
overseas product gave good comparative
results.
Reference to the circuit diagram
(Fig. 1) shows an important feature in
connection with iron-core I.F.Ts. The
primary circuit in each case is de-
coupled by a 10,000-ohm resistor and
.lmfd. by-pass. Modern iron-core I.F.Ts.
give high gain, and without decoupling
instability at the peak may result. It is
better to preclude this possibility by
including at little extra expense the
resistors and condensers. In case of
instability, up to 2mfd. can be used as
by-pass with 20,000 ohms. No de-
coupling is used in the American circuit,
owing to very loose coupling between
primary and secondary.
Coil Data.
The familiar ribbed formers (ljin.
diameter) were first used in the original,
but since construction an excellent new
short-wave plug-in former has appeared
on the Australian market, and in l|in.
size, to correspond with U.S.A. practice.
This is the new Standardised Products
former, in special low-loss moulding and


Wave- | _
1 LI Detector.
1.2 Oscillator L3 Oscillator Plate.
80
Metres.
40 turns No. 20 D.S.C..
spaced to cover IJin. tap
at i turn.
33 turns No. 20 D.S.C.,
spaced to cover IJin.
8 turns No. 24 fc, Close-
wound l-16in. from L^.
4fl il2 turns No. 20 D.S.C.,
Metres, spaced to cover 14ia. tap
1 at 4 turn.
11 turns No. 20 D.S.C.,
spaced to cover IJin.
5 turns No. 24 L, spaced
Jin. from L 2.
20
Metres.
5 turns No. 20 D.S.C.,
spaced to cover Jin. tap
at one-third turn.
5 turns No. 20 D.S.C.,
spaced to cover Jin.
3 turns No. 20 U.5.C..,
spaced Jin. from L 2.
10 134 turns No. 20 D.S.C.,
Metres. ! spaced to cover lin. tap
1 at one-tlnrd turn.
3J turns No. 20 D.S.C.,
spaced to cover lin.
2J turns No. 20 D.M.CJ.,
Jin. from t. 2 and spaced
l-16in. between turns.
1
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. Ai.
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
j
DUAL WAVE AVC SETS, AG AC-DC & BATTERY
OVERSEAS STATIONS WITH FULL VOLUME
AT THE TURN OF A SWITCH
CO
co«®S2i
cogfej
GENALEX
RADIO WITH THE BIG
NAME BEHIND IT ....
"'Genalex" Radio Receivers are available in A.C., A.C.-D.C, and
BATTERY operated models, in table and Console Cabinets of
Original Design. Behind each set is the Guarantee.
Dealers in all Centres.
Write for catalogue B.C. 1260 - describing and illustrating the
entire GENALEX range.
PRICES FROM £16.16.0
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
Affiliated with the £:&(?. of England
Magnet House, 104-114 Clarence St., Sydney - 28 King St„ Newcastle
with a ring-grip for easy handling. The
American coil chart is given for the four
useful bands for Hin. formers, but if
the reader has an abundance of Hin.
formers it is only a matter of a little
cut and try, adding a turn or so to com-
pensate for the smaller-size former.
List of Components.
Chassis, aluminium, 14in. by lOin. by 3in.
Front panel, Min. by 7in., with iin. angle.
Interstage panel, Min. by 7in., with iin. angle.
Two Radiokes iron-core I.F. transformers, type
51C465 or AD465.
Four valve screens.
Three six-pin valve sockets.
Fig. 4. —Showing the layout from the power-supply connector
and headphone jack end. The grid leads: to the 6D6 and 79
from the intermediate transformers may be copper braid
screened and earthed to chassis. The twisted wire from the
detector-coil socket is for connection to the aerial-coupling
unit suggested.
One five-pin valve socket.
Coil sockets—isolantite, one National or
Hammarlund four-pin, one National or
Hammarlund five-pin.
Four bakelite stand-off pillars for coil sockets.
Power supply connector, one four-pin socket
and plug.
Eight Standardised Products short-wave coil
formers, l-]in. diameter (four four-pin and
four five-pin).
Two Radiokes isolantite midget variable con-
densers, type MCIOO (band-setters).
Two Radiokes isolantite midget variable con-
densers, type MC3S, with brass coupling
spindle for ganging (bandspread tuning
condensers).
One good-quality aero-type vernier dial.
Two small protractor scales for band-set indi-
cation.
One single circuit headphone jack and plug.
One 50,000-ohm Yaxley potentiometer (first-
detector regeneration).
One Marquis 20,000-ohm potentiometer (I.F.
gain control).
One Radiokes 10,000-ohm tapered potentio-
meter (beat oscillator control).
Three 50,000-ohm 1-watt resistors.
Three 10,000-ohm 1-watt resistors.
One 25,000-ohm 1-watt resistor.
One 100,000-ohm 1-watt resistor.
One 1500-ohm resistor.
One 1000-ohm resistor.
One .OOOlmfd. mica condenser.
Two .Olmfd. mica condensers.
One .002mfd. mica condenser.
Six .lmfd. tubular condensers.
One 25mfd. tubular electrolytic condenser.
One .005mfd. mica condenser.
One standard broadcast coil (see text).
One 50-ohm centre-tapped heater resistor.
Aerial coupling unit (not essential, see text).
Valves—Radiotron, one 6C6, one 6D6, one
76, one 79.
Seven inches lin. insulating rod (detector band-
set condenser extension control).
Six feet copper braid.
Aerial and earth terminals (or doublet input
connections).
Power supply—six-volt storage battery and
135-volt B battery, or 6v. 3amp. trans-
former and Philips B eliminator.
Six knobs.
Wiring flex, 16-gauge tinned copper wire, and
wire for coils (see text).
Beat Frequency Control.
Instead of using a separate BFO valve,
regeneration is included in the 79
cathode by simply fitting in series a coil
wound for the broadcast range. This
is shunted by the 10,000-ohm potentio-
meter, and on adjustment of this the 79
will oscillate. If oscillation is sudden or
harsh, turns should be removed from the
coil until the desired smoothness is
obtained. If oscillation is not present the
coil needs more turns. Adjustment is not
critical. The potentiometer itself is im-
portant, and several
types were tried
in the search for
quietness. The new
Radiokes 10,000-ohm
tapered type used is
excellent. To change
from ’phone to c.w.
reception this pot. is
advanced until the
first triode of the 79
oscillates. Very
slight detuning oc-
curs, and this is
easily corrected on
the main dial. An
extra knob in the
original receiver can
be seen under the
detector band-setter
control. This oper-
ates a three-plate
midget in parallel
with the secondary
of the second I.F.T.
It is not necessary,
and is merely a
luxury in the shape
of an extra c.w. beat
control.
Tuning Dial.
This must be of
good quality and
free from backlasn.
The one fitted to the
original is an Efco
dual speed. There
are now several large
drive aero, dials on
the market with
sufficient reduction
at the one ratio provided to make tuning
easy at high frequencies. Efco and
Radiokes have several good types, and
the choice is left to the reader’s fancy.
“The Ideal Amateur Superhet”
will be concluded next week.
What’s What in Radio.
Another from Moscow. Policemen on
point duty, it is stated, are to be pro-
tected from the rigors of cold weather
by thick coats with wire netting sewn
into the lining. The wire net is to be
“radio-electrically heated by neighboring
broadcasting stations.”
* * * *
The American Radio Relay League has
protested against the term “amateur” as
applied to newcomers before broadcast-
ing station microphones. A.R.R.L. de-
fines the amateur, as applied to radio
communication and experimental work,
as being “a person interested in radio
technique solely without a personal aim
and without pecuniary interest ”
* * * *
Ignition suppressors are invariably
fitted to motor-cars provided with radio
broadcast receivers, but the time would
appear to be not far distant when some-
thing must be done about fitting all motor
vehicles with suppression. Ultra-short
waves are becoming more and more use-
ful, and in another 10 years might well
assume priority for many reasons. Inter-
ference from ignition systems is particu-
larly acute at 10 metres and below, some
cars and aeroplanes being heard in re-
ceivers over distances of a mile or so.
In some North of England towns radio
dealers are obliged by law to keep the
door closed when operating a loud-
speaker in the shop. This could be well
applied to Sydney, where the ears of city-
bound workers are assailed by occasional
bellowing speakers as trams flash by.
Loud loudspeakers are bad enough at
Fig. 5. —Seen from the rear , the detector side of the inter-
stage screen. Note how the coil socket is mounted above the
metal chassis on bakelite pillars. The detector valve is at the
right and the I.F. valve on the left.
any time, but particularly annoying be-
fore the nervous system has settled down
to the daily grind.
* * * *
“Australia Street”: I saw the par. (B.
18/3/’36) from “Athanasius” comment-
ing on the DX performance which won
the £lOO trophy for J. Sullivan, of Cam-
bridge (M.L.). The writer can verify the
performance, which has not yet been
approached by other DX fiends under
International DX Association observa-
tion. The set Sullivan used was a stock
model Airzone, made in Sydney. The
tariff on radio sets imported into M.L. is
so light that sets from practically every
well-known manufacturer in the U.S.A.,
Canada, Britain and Australia are
marketed, though a good share of the
market is held by sets of M.L. manu-
facture.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
A few weeks ago 1 acted on your suggestion
and replaced my 39ft.-per-side short-wave
doublet aerial with one of the G.E.C. type,
which gives very satisfactory service on all
bands. The increase in signal strength is not
very striking, but the tone has improved. (1)
Why should this
appear “raw” when
the set is used with-
out this special
aerial ? (2) The aerial
tuning system is also
used. Should this
show definite peaks
when correctly tuned ?
—398.
(1) The aerial itself
cannot affect the tone
other than responding
more efficiently to the
received signal.
Although you con-
sider that signal
strength is not im-
proved this must be
so, judging by your
remarks on tonal im-
provement. Your
dual-wave superhet is
most likely fitted with
A.V.C., and conse-
quently the improve-
ment in tone would
be noticed when it is
actually due to better
signal pickup. The
rawness noted with
the previous aerial is
simply due to less
signal at the receiver
input. (2) Yes, there
should be a definite increase in the signal
strength as the aerial system (plus feeders) is
tuned to the frequency of the station being
received. The increase will be quite pro-
nounced if everything is correct. In the
writer’s case, a tuned aerial system (for
amateur work) is almost the equal of a stage
of tuned R.F. pre-selection.
* * * *
Is there a really reliable channel through
which I could purchase a second-hand wireless
set ? —404.
Most dealers have a trade-in system of busi-
ness, and in many cases it is possible to find
some really good second-hand receivers. Radio
Supply Stores, Royal Arcade, Sydney, special-
ises in second-hand apparatus.
* * * *
What is the mathematical formula for de-
termining the length in feet of an aerial, know-
ing the frequency at which it is to be used ?
—403.
For a half-wave aerial the answer in feet is
obtained from 468,000 divided by the fre-
quency in kc.


••SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE (/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes I
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
LONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHOW WORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easier
tyre inflation —for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up ■by
the small high-
pressure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
ft sfi 1
m
60-
less Gauge
sj m extra
with gauge.
Take it east/ with a
RENRUT
aUAD FLU P L£
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield,
England.
The Steering Column.
OVER THE TEST COURSE WITH
THE FORD V8.
SNAPPY PERFORMANCE AND EASY CONTROL.
BY FRED BERRY.
r | 'HE Ford record for 1936 started in brilliant fashion with an
* outright win and four of the first nine placings in the Monte
Carlo Rally (possibly the most strenuous and exacting reliability
trial in modem times), a demonstration that, while Henry’s
product is in the low-priced group, it can hold its own against
all comers when put to the acid test of performance, reliability
and efficiency. Cars of the new ’36 series, now arrived in Aus-
tralia, are, if anything, slightly better than the 1935 models in
road performance. Of still greater interest to the average
motorist is the introduction of safety glass in all windows and
windscreen, easier and safer steering, silent synchromesh gears
in transmission, an improved cooling system and a number of
valuable additions to dashboard instruments. Coachwork is
all cteel unit welded, and although the altered profile may not
meet with universal approval there can be no doubt that the
body is a very fine example of Australian workmanship.
The VB, 90-degree engine, with
aluminium cylinder heads, is retained,
bore being 3.063 inches, stroke 3.75 inches
and piston displacement 221 cubic inches.
R.A.C. rating is 30, but at peak revs.,
3800, 90 b.h.p. is delivered.
Compression ratio is 6.33 to 1
and firing order 1,5, 4,8, 6,
3,7, 2. Cylinders, exhaust pas-
sages and crankcase are cast
integral of alloy iron, the
cylinders being offset 0.187
inches to reduce piston thrust.
Cylinder walls are honed to a
mirror - like finish before
assembly.
Pistons are lightweight alloy,
with two Compression and one
oil-control ring located above
the gudgeon pin. Gudgeon
pin is hollow, ground and
polished, and floats in the
piston boss.
Connecting rods, I section,
are forged steel, big-end bear-
ing being of the floating type.
The crankshaft, running on three main
bearings, is fully counterweighted of
special Ford cast alloy steel, throws being
set at 90 degrees. Main bearings are
Transmission case and clutch assembly
of V8 Ford, showing all gears helical cut,
silent type, and newly-designed tension
mechanism for preventing clutch slip
under heavy load.
babbitt-lined. The camshaft runs on three
steel-backed babbitt-lined bearings and
is driven through compressed “silent”
bakelite gears.
Inlet valves are nickel alloy steel;
exhaust valves, chrome tungsten steel,
with hardened steel inserts. No provi-
sion is made for adjustment, the clear-
ance, 12 to 13 thou., being set when the
motor is first assembled. It should re-
main constant for long periods without
attention.
New design, all-steel body on the VS Ford touring sedan.
The motor is lubricated by full-pres-
sure system, oil being forced by a geared
pump through cast-in conduits to all
main, camshaft and timing gears, and
reaching con. rod bearings through drilled
holes in the crankshaft.
The carburettor, located midway be-
tween cylinder banks, is a dual Strom-
berg, of down-draught type, with silencer
and air cleaner.
Intake manifolds for both banks of
cylinders and hot-spot are of aluminium,
cast integral with the valve chamber
cover. Exhaust passages pass through
the cylinder blocks to the manifold on
the outer side of the banks. Fuel is held
in a welded-steel, plated tank at rear,
holding 11 gal., and is drawn by a
mechanical diaphragm type pump to the
carburettor.
Radiator is staggered, core being flat
tube type with closely-spaced fins. Water
is circulated by two centrifugal pumps,
one on each cylinder block ; drive, to-
gether with generator, being of diamond
design, a flexible rubber belt passing over
all pulleys. Ignition is by coil and bat-
tery, with a single unit type distributor
in a waterproof housing. The distributor
is driven direct from the front end of
the camshaft, and spark advance is fully
automatic, with vacuum-controlled cen-
trifugal governor. Twin, non-synchron-
ised breaker arms are used, the gap being
12 to 14 thou.
Spark plugs are 18mm. in diameter ;
gap setting, 25 thou. The ignition lock is
mounted on the steering column, and
serves also to lock steering when in
the “off” position.
Generator is six-volt, air-cooled,
with third-brush regulation of charg-
ing rate, the unit “cutting in” at a
road speed of approximately 10
m.p.h. and delivering a normal
charge of 12 amps. Starter motor is
equipped with Bendix drive, turning
the engine at 100 r.p.m. The engine
is suspended in the chassis at three
points on live rubber buffers.
Transmission is through single-
plate dry-disc clutch, contact pres-
sure being increased by centrifugal
weights as engine speed increases.
Gearbox provides for three for-
ward speeds and reverse. All gears
are silent helical type, quiet at all
speeds, with synchromesh meshing
of second and top. Change-speed
lever is of central ball type. Gear
ratios are: Top, direct; second, 1.6 to 1 ;
bottom, 2.8 to 1 ; reverse, 3.6 to 1. .
Full torque-tube system is employed in
final drive, tailshaft and universal joint
being totally enclosed. The forward end
is attached to the gearbox with ball-and-
socket joint, rear radius rods of steel
tubing being welded to fittings which
serve as the rear-spring perches.
The rear axles, in a pressed-steel hous-
ing, are of three-quarter-floating type,
with straddle-mounted pinion. Ring gear
is spiral bevel, with a final reduction
ratio of 4.11 to 1.
Chassis is of double drop X-member
construction, the channels forming a box
sec ti o n with side
members and extend-
ing to the end of the
frame. Four cross
members provide
additional torsional
rigidity. Springing is
Ford transverse, can-
tilever type in con-
junction with four
double-acting
hydraulic shock - ab-
sorbers, fully adjust-
able. Radius rods are
attached to the front
axle to maintain
alignment. Rear
springs are fitted with oilless shackles.
Wheelbase is 112 in.; spring base,
123 in.; minimum road clearance, B|in.
Braking equipment is four-wheel,
mechanically operated, two-shoe inter-
nal expanding, with floating shoes and
wedges. Hand brake operates on all four
wheels through independent linkage.
Brake drums are of ribbed iron alloy,
and brake adjustment is effected by
means of a single screw in each housing.
Cutaway section of steering cross shaft,
showing anti-friction type needle roller
bearings in mounting.
Cross steering is fitted, the steering-
box having a worm and sector gearing
with a reduction ratio of 17 to 1. The
drag link isi adjustable for length. Turn-
ing circle, left and right lock, is 40ft.
Wheels, 16in. diameter, are cold-
pressed steel, with centre sec-
tion welded to rim. Tyres,
6 x 16, have a normal infla-
tion pressure of 301 b.
Bodywork is all steel, no
wood being used in any struc-
tural part. Panels are first
welded into a complete shell,
and in turn welded to the steel
frame. All windows and
screen are safety glass, ade-
quate provision being made for
ventilation without draughts.
Additional elbow-room is
provided in new type bodies
by forming recesses under the
rear quarter windows.
Front seats are adjustable
for length, and an elbow rest
is fitted on the driver’s side
door panel.
A luggage trunk fitted with duplex
, ocks j built into the rear panels and
j sha ped. Interior and exterior
hard ; are T nduding radiator grille, are
. 6
c b rome 'P lated -
The instrument board is provided
with an electric fuel gauge, water tem-
perature indicator, ammeter, oil-pressure
gauge and large speedometer. The wind-
screen-wiper is operated by suction from
the intake manifold.
The four-door touring sedan taken over
the Bulletin course was driven by V. P.
Adams, of Hunt Bros., Parramatta,
USEFUL DATA ON FORD V8.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 11 3-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 2-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 3-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 26ft.
Maximum speed, 79.29 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 21.9 m.p.g.


Hints for Amateur Mechanics
fflfllfl
READING FOR FULLY
CHARGED BATTERY
SHOULD BE BETWEEN
1-240 AND 1260
STORAGE BATTERY
Illustrating how car and radio
batteries may instantly be tested
for charge by use of hydrometer.
Clnd How
HUS
PffiP
j
j
Two years' unremitting research produces Dufor's latest achievement . .
a 100% Australian-made axle equal in every respect to the world's best.
CHECK THESE DUFOR FEATURES.
1. AH Tapers and Bearing Surfaces are machined to precision limits to standards set by car
manufacturers.
2. Genuine Duior Axles are Brinell tested and stamped with the DUFOR trade mark.
3. Material used is a high-grade Chrome Nickel Axle Steel to S.A.E. Specifications 3140.
4. Dufor axles are heat treated to a tensile strength of 65 tons.
5. The accurate finish of every Dufor Axle' insures ease of fitting with a minimum of time
and labour.
6. Duior Splines are machined to recognised standard, with a tolerance of .002.
DULY & HANSFORD LTD.
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
DUFOR
AXLES
metropolitan distributors, and together,
with driver, observer and full fuel tank,
weighed 3Hcwt. Speedometer read-
ing stood at 1550 miles, and the motor
was still stiff and harsh, requiring much
further running-in before performing to
best advantage. Despite this handicap,
acceleration and top-gear performance in
traffic were of the excellence character-
istic of the VB, whilst the newly-designed
steering and redistribution of weight ren-
dered the car easier to handle and more
roadworthy than hitherto.
On the open country roads a very
slight throttle opening proved adequate
in maintaining a cruising rate of between
40 and 45 m.p.h., a certain promise of
economical operation when driven in a
rational manner.
In a test of coasting from a speed of
15 m.p.h. a distance of 667 yards was
Heavy-duty generator, showing adjust-
able field brush for varying charging rate.
covered before coming to rest, a binding
brake-shoe preventing a better result.
Over the measured mile with flying
start a maximum speed of 79.29 miles
per hour was obtained, the distance being
covered in 45 2-ssec.
On the rough, unmade roads through
Grose Vale suspension and roadholding
were tested with satisfactory results,
while in the speed hill-climb of 2 1-5
miles of the steepest portion of Kurra-
jong Mountain, clocked in 3min. 22sec.,
the Ford negotiated the several difficult
bends with a pleasing absence of sway-
ing, and on the fast, straight sections
roadholding qualities were excellent.
On the Castlereagh-road en route to
Penrith tests were made of slow running,
Duplex carburettor, illustrating method
of tuning each bank of cylinders for
idling.
350 yards in top gear, followed immedi-
ately by 350 yards “accelerated.” Results
were: Slow running 3min. 3sec., average
speed 3.9 m.p.h.; accelerated (finishing
at 60 m.p.h.) 15 3-ssec., average 46.1
m.p.h.; 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top, 7 2-ssec.;
10 to 30 m.p.h. in second, 4 3-ssec. ; 0
to 50 m.p.h. in 11 3-ssec. ; stopped from
25 m.p.h. in 26ft.
Fuel consumed over the course of 118
miles was sgal. 3 pints, an average of
21.9 m.p.g. (34.7 ton miles).
Average speed, inclusive of all tests,
was 36.9 m.p.h.
Motor Oddities.
“R.H.A.”: The owner of an old
Austin Seven found himself with a dud
speedo and a slender purse. Riding with
him recently the writer discovered that
the owner had developed a remarkable
sense” for speeds—or so it seemed.
Questions, however, revealed that no
sixth sense was employed, but that by
comparison and observation he had been
able to calibrate his ammeter on the
charge side with amps, reading road
speed in m.p.h.
* * * *
“Jerry”: “Sambo” deplores the lack
of good-fellowship towards a brother
motorist in trouble (B. 19/2/’36).
It isn’t so on the bush roads in N.Q.
It doesn’t matter under what con-
ditions a car has stopped by the road,
even if it is obvious the passengers are
having a rest or a meal, a passing car
a ill always slow down in case help is
needed. Fresh from the bush I got my
big shock when running down from
Brisbane to Southport. I wanted a bit
ol insulating tape for a burnt lead to a
plug. I stopped by the side of the road,
confident that the first car passing
would stop. Did it? I took a new
lesson in road manners while I stood
there. Finally, good and hot, I stopped
a car. That fellow was just as hot as
I. I didn’t get the bit of tape—l got
directions to go to hell,
* * * *
“Jeffo”: Having to drive in dense fog
is not often the lot of the motorist in
this country, but I can remember a night
trip in the Parramatta (N.S.W.) dis-
t'rict when I was forced to crawl
along, keeping to the road by watch-
ing the light gravel shoulder at the
side. Once or twice at intersections I
had to stop and get out to read notice
boards, though I had travelled the road
hundreds of times. In California,
especially round Los Angeles, fogs are
quite common. There, yellow lines
painted on both sides and in the middle
of the highways form the guides, and it
is amazing how these show up under
headlights.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
A. (Lismore, N.S.W.). —I recently in-
stalled a radio set on my ’36 six-cylinder car,
and although tone and reception are good I
still notice interference when engine is running
and distant stations are tuned in. Usual sup-
pressors and condensers supplied with the set
have been fitted. Any suggestions ?
Almost every car is an individual problem
if best results are expected from radio. Sug-
gest you should replace H.T. leads to plug and
coil and substitute metal-braided wire, each
end of the braiding being earthed. A plan of
auto, radio equipment will be published in the
Steering Column at an early date, showing
latest procedure in smoothing out electrical
interference.
* * * *
S.B. (Ipswich, Q.). —The exhaust of my ’34
model car is gradually becoming noisier, and
the racket is particularly noticeable when
accelerating in top from 10 to 25 m.p.h. Have
jacked up rear wheels, and the noise seems not
to come from the rear pipe but from the
muffler itself. Cause and cure ?
The muffler is built up of a series of
baffle plates, spot welded in a cylindrical casing.
Possibly one or more of these baffles has
broken away, setting up the noise mentioned.
Only remedy is to have the unit dismantled,
cut open and welded again. Probably the
cheapest and surest method would be to buy
a complete replacement.
* H- * *
B. (Red Cliffs, Vic.). —Although I made
several attempts to cure an elusive trouble in
my ’33 car, I cannot prevent it from missing.
Have changed coil, plugs, condenser and dis-
tributor, but still, after running all right for a
little while after starting up, it then begins to
miss intermittently. What can be wrong ?
Since ignition system is apparently in good
order, suggest dismantling carburettor and ex-
amining the heat-raiser. If this is burned out
or punctured symptoms indicated will be pro-
duced. Only cure is replacement of raiser.
* * * *
G.L.D. (Canberra). —Is my informant correct
in telling me that my car will not pull as well
in mountainous districts as it will at sea-level?
Also, why is it that the motor appears to
pull better at night than in the daytime ?
(1) Power delivered by any internal-combus-
tion motor, other things being equal, depends
upon the weight of the explosive mixture drawn
into the cylinders in each cycle. Immediately
one leaves sea-level and begins to climb atmo-
spheric pressure becomes lower, and the higher
one climbs the less pressure is available to
push the charge into the cylinders. Conse-
quently power output is reduced, and in the
case of aeroplane motors, where efficiency is
essential at high altitudes, superchargers are
fitted to balance the deficiency in atmospheric
pressure (2) When driving at night air drawn
through the carburettor contains a higher per-
centage of water vapor, resulting in a slight
“slowing up” or “softening” of the explosion
in the combustion chamber. This no doubt
has the effect of somewhat smoothing out
power impulses, but brake tests reveal that the
actual increase in power output may for all
practical purposes be disregarded.
* * * *
G.O’B. (Home Hill, Q.).—The battery of my
’33 car (41,000 miles) has distilled water added
each month, but since serviced recently I find
that only one cell uses much water, the outer
two mostly requiring only an eggcupful to l ring
up level. Is one cell weak, and, if so, thai
should I do ?
Trouble may be due to mechanical dan age,
one cell case being cracked, resulting in loss
of electrolyte. If the case is sound, then the
two outside cells have a greater internal re-
sistance, owing to sulphation, than the c mtre
cell. Only remedy is to send battery o a
service station and have it dismantled and
reconditioned.
E.M.A. (Kew, Vic.).—My 10-h.p. fo\r-
cylinder car (1100 miles), although running
better than when new, has developed an elusive
engine knock. The service station has dis-
mantled the engine, measured up bearings and
find fits perfect in cylinders, pistons, gudgeons
and bearings, yet still the knock persists in-
termittently on No. 2 cylinder. Any sugges-
tions ?
There should be no knock in the motor at
tfre mileage stated. Suggest drawing pistons,
removing hollow gudgeon pins and shaking
violently to determine whether the solder
insert has come adrift. If such be the case,
the knock would be heard only when the mass
of solder was free to move in the hollow pin.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS! —
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full .particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
- Cable Address: MERCURY, lIOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
c F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Supposing ...
Just
Supposing!
. . . that 4 people
only read each one
that’s printed. Four
times 61,361 is 245,444
. . . practically one
in 21- of S.A.’s popula-
tion . . . coverage ?
Advertise in
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE —A. G. Pike. First Floor.
NewsDaoer House. Collins street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON —F. A. Smith. 34-40 Ludeate
Hill. E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city * and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Adit*
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
/{‘‘THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
J lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
V tural, Commercial, and Tourist Centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 93 years, and is the Newspaper read by Northern
Tasmania to-day.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson*st.. Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
The Centre of Tas-
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
W'estern Australia.
in, and as the heavy horse bucked forward and broke
into a clumsy canter he brandished his lance and
loosed a wild “Yuck-ai-i-i! ” that drew the attention
of the lounging crowd on the broad verandah above
the steps.
Another wild yell and the spurs tickled the
draught’s ribs and goaded him faster. Suddenly a
touring car drew out to the middle of the road in
front of him and stopped—almost blocking the course.
There were two people in the front seat, apparently
in a close embrace. A wild impulse shot through him.
He would teach them to make love in the middle of
the main street and cramp his entrance. He couched
the lance, aimed at the centre of the windscreen, and
as the horse bounded again at a jab of the spurs he
let out a wild, long-drawn yell.
He had a momentary vision of a pair in the
front seat separating suddenly, staring fear-stricken,
then diving precipitately below the dash, and his loud,
reckless laugh changed to a wild whoop. He was on
them ; he jerked up the point of the lance, but was
too late. It missed the glass but hit the front of the
hood. Something gave —the hood shot back and upward
as the end of the sapling splintered and broke, and the
jar nearly dislocated his shoulder. The shock of the
collision drove the rider back on the horse’s loins ;
as he swept past the car he caught a glimpse of a
figure in white running toward the hall.
Hell! He must have scared the life out of that
girl. With sudden contrition Bill pitched the splin-
tered lance from him, swung the astonished draught
round the back of the car and dragged him to an
abrupt halt at the steps. The girl, arriving at the same
moment, stopped and shrank back from what appeared
to be a colossal horse with a rider in shining helmet
and shield charging down on her.
The horseman vaulted to the ground in front
of her, and as he landed the saucepan helmet tipped
over his eyes, completely destroying the effect.
“Damn! ” Bill pushed it fiercely back. “I say, I’m
sorry about that! I didn’t mean to hit the car. Bad
judgment, but I apologise.”
A half-smothered giggle interrupted him. His
apologetic glance rose in mute inquiry to meet the
girl’s laughing eyes, tantalisingly veiled by the black
domino.
“It’s quite all right.”
Her laugh was under control, but her amused
smile remained.
“As a matter of fact, you did me a good turn
butting in at that moment. I didn’t mind sitting out
in the car, but going for a drive is a different matter.”
“Good!”
Bill drew a long breath, and his spirits rose again.
A shaft of light from the doorway drew a glint of
gold from the auburn hair.
She glanced at the ungainly horse puffing at his
elbow and back at Bill.
“What are you going to do with Rosinante?”
“Who?”
“Aren’t you Don Quixote?” She surveyed him
from head to foot, her smile dimpling mischievously.
“No. Something earlier, I think. The Round Table!
That’s got it! Why, we’re off the same period.”
He stepped back a pace and looked at the girl.
The moonlight shed a soft radiance on the long, white
frock with the sleeves ending in fantastic points far
below the hands. She wore it with an air that defied
the whimsical changes of fashion; she might av
stepped out of any period of history, and the impres-
sion remained that she could have stepped back in o
any period and fitted in—and still remained herselt.
Her hidden eyes mocked him as she poised like a
bird arrested in flight and ready to dart off again a
the instant; a wild grace about her in the lilt or
her head, the tilt of her chin.
He stepped closer and shook his head.
“I’ll give it up. Who are you ? ’
She dropped a low curtsy. “I am Elaine
The man’s head went back and something tingle
through his memory. , .
“Elaine!” he murmured. “Elaine the Fair, Elaine
the Lovable, Elaine the Lily Maid of Astolat.
“Splendid! You’re the first man to recognise me
to-night. And you, Sir Knight—who are you?
With a strange tingling in his blood Bill bowed
before her. “My name is Lancelot.”
“Sir Lancelot. Well met! Now I must go. Fare-
well!” And she moved up the broad stairs with a
parting smile.
“Elaine!” _ .
She paused, looked inquiringly down at the in-
congruous figure on the bottom step.
“May I have the next dance?”
She hesitated.
“I have a vague remembrance of booking some
dances ahead, but I’m not certain which. If you
care to risk it”
Bill would have risked anything for that smile.
He ripped the winkers off the horse with a joyous
parting oration. “Go home, Asparagus! And when
they put you in the garbage cart to-morrow, tell them
that to-night you were up to the hocks in history.”
He bounded up the steps and joined the girl in
white. Masked pierrots, cowboys, swagmen and
geishas turned to scrutinise the pair as they passed.
Bill unlimbered his shield and helmet.
“If my memory is right, your job is to look after
my shield. Didn’t you sit up in a tower with it or
something?”
“Not quite!” .She smiled disconcertingly. “There
were two Elaines. If I were you I’d put the iron-
mongery in the cloakroom.”
Chapter XVI.
THE musicians lowered their instruments and
mopped their brows; the pianist flung a handful
of minor chords at the lingering couples and
deserted the platform. Bill drew his partner into the
main exodus toward the door. It was the end of their
second dance, and they found themselves jambed in
a motley, hilarious crowd of bushrangers, sailors,
pierrots and cowboys whose costumes were beginning
to drift toward a common note as a result of the warm
night. On the whole, the women were better off.
The feminine idea of fancy costume expressed itself
in two distinct ways: the majority showed a tendency
to wear as little as possible, or, at the most, some-
thing diaphanous, while the balance favored male
attire. It was rather curious, this hankering to parade
in riding-breeches, jodhpurs, white flannels or shorts,
while there was no corresponding desire among the
men to wear skirts.
Elaine threw her escort a questioning glance.
“Where to?”
“Let’s get outside for a bit of fresh air.”
The girl hesitated. “Look here, I haven’t been
with my party for ages.”
“Don’t go yet!” he pleaded. “We haven’t had a
chance to discuss all the things that have happened
since we met —how many centuries ago?”
She laughed softly. “All right, Lancelot. But
I’ll have to make my peace with the party. Go ahead
and I’ll meet you in a couple of minutes.”
“On the spot marked X?”
“Ex-actly! ”
Bill lit a cigarette and waited impatiently on the
lowest step. Every car in sight housed red points of
light from cigarettes and low voices that sometimes
broke into quick laughter. There was no sign of
the car he had tilted at; the memory of that moment
when the hood flew up in the air over the heads of
the occupants drew a chuckle from him, and he won-
dered lightly who owned the car and what had hap-
pened to him. What a lucky coincidence it had been
to give him the opportunity to meet Elaine! She
danced like a fairy—light as thistledown, warm and
vibrant in his arms. He inhaled a long, deep breath
and smiled up at the inky velvet spaces between the
stars. The situation was perfect, the prospects alluring.
But who could she be? He had met or knew by
sight most of the girls in the district, and, although
the town was crowded for the race meeting with people
from a radius of a hundred miles, he was sure that
this girl was a newcomer or a complete stranger.
She came tripping down the steps toward him.
“Well, Lancelot, what now?”
“A comfortable seat —if we can find an empty
car.” • _ , . .
“Lead on. I hope you have no ideas of driving
off with me like my last partner. The supply of
rescuing knights must be running low.”
As they drew blank at car after car, Bill turned
to her with a rueful expression. “If we don’t find
an empty car soon we may have to fall back on Lizzie,
even if I’ve got to turn someone out. I hope you
don’t mind the long walk.”
“Carry on! I like this pavement. The holes and
gullies in it are delightful, but my slippers ought to
last as far as the corner.”
“It’s just across the road.”
They had drawn blank at every car, and the
glowing ends of cigarettes showed even among the
cars parked in the shadow of the hotel. Bill halted
in front of a battered old Ford.
“Here she is! Lizzie, this is Elaine! Elaine the
Fair, Elaine the Lovable. Ow ! ”
“Shut up, you idiot! . Are you trying to intro-
duce me to the whole town?”
Bill rubbed the arm she had pinched, then jerked
open the door and dusted the seat with a handker-
chief. “Will you step into my parlor”——
“If this dress gets covered with oil and grease I’ll
send you the bill.” „ ,
“Right! Wait till I collect after the races to-
morrow. Cigarette?”
“Thanks.”
Bill studied her features closely in the light of
the match, but the black domino still masked her with
maddening thoroughness. Their fingers touched as she
bent over the match.' Then in turn she eyed the man
as the glow of the match from his cupped hands lit
up his features. The damaged side of Bill’s face was
toward her, and she puzzled at the totally new inv
pression she got from the crooked profile and the
almost sneering twist of the lips.
He turned and studied her, leaning back in the
shadows. “Elaine, who are you? What is your real
name?”
(To be continued next week.)


Even the whitest
teeth are prey of
PYORRHEA
j OOK at your teeth in a mirror. No matter how flashing
white they may be, even now Pyorrhea may be at work
in your mouth, and in time may rob you of teeth and health
alike.
For this insidious disease of the gums works down the
roots, between teeth and gums, without warning of its vicious
presence. It comes to four out of five people past the age
of 40—but years may pass before tender, bleeding gums tell
you that Pyorrhea is destroying the health of your mouth.
Don’t wait for warnings
Because Pyorrhea is responsible for one half of all adult
teeth lost , one half of the people who wear false teeth to-day
might have been spared this grim ordeal had they sought in
time protection for their own.
How much wiser to protect and prevent! Now, before
gums bleed, see your Dentist—and seek his care at least twice
a year.
Between visits, begin the use of Forhan’s for brushing
your teeth, for massaging your gums, morning and night.
Guard the teeth you have
The care of the teeth and gums is a serious business. Don t
look upon a toothpaste as a simple cleanser —a sweet-flavored
soap. Don’t look upon it as a mere cosmetic. When you
get a toothpaste for yourself and your family, get the best —
get Forhan’s— lit is more than a toothpaste; it contains
Forhan’s Pyorrhea Astringent, and if used in time and used
consistently will prevent Pyorrhea, or check its progress.
Once established, Pyorrhea cannot be cured by Forhan’s
or any other toothpaste.
“ You didn't come
a day too soon ”
The sure way to avoid trouble in
your mouth is to see your dentist
in time. Go to him at least twice a
year as a sensible precaution. He
will keep teeth and gums healthy
and may prevent serious trouble.
<■. ■»
m
A dentist perfected Forhans
to fight Pyorrhea
Forhan’s is the discovery of a dentist, R. J. Forhan,
D.D.S., who for 26 years specialised successfully in the
treatment of Pyorrhea. It is unique in that it contains the
benefits of an ethical preparation which dentists are using
throughout the world in the treatment of this dread disease.
Your teeth are a priceless possession. Do not lose them
for any cause. Use Forhan s —so
pure, so mild, and so thoroughly
cleansing. There is no finer denti-
frice than this scientific preparation.
For that reason you can make no
wiser investment in the safety of your
teeth.
Price, 2/-
Extra-large tube, 3/«
Australasian Agents — The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.IV.
Forhan’s
for the gums
§££?
rfmjt**!**
« 1‘ Jh I* ' JUL
- J oo
?«fl M.UK-rA -If HI3&H
mm
S)VfO9
m
Mi
yv!N«
i®g§
M
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEFK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers hymn our :< J e Air n-idui mid Mew
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
3*
L ei'
\\P <
«* v
-<V n,v> tIP
,»V k l , o^id «MS U y
’ -V*** *>n‘ .••• ..••
V >°* > W
V
P* 0*
$
°
<$ vo \**sA*‘
V e


lor AUSTRALIAN FARMERS
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
j)r ‘ "
¥
- s-
"V
RVUNDSI
X-xx
I
■
I*
“WARATAH" FENCING WIRE.
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH" STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS «,ni not bum
U
a
WARATAH”' Hinged Joint Fence
for Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc.
WARATAH" WIRE-NETTING . ..
100 per cent Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. Waratah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable■ product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World’s Best
MADE BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD.
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers*
Handbook
THTT
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
