

NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
T "I 1
ill
I 1 1
I
i t n
'll 111
m t -i t -i t -!
I
i ~i n
D
r
r
F
NANCE
National development depends on finance. All industrial and com-
mercial growth, all progress, all expansion, depends on finance.
Too often ideas and plans for fresh development are scrapped—not
because the plans are good or bad—but for lack of finance.
If a plan is good, it not merely requires, but deserves , finance.
It is the function of this Corporation to provide fends for National
developments which are worth while and which contain within them-
selves the elements of success.
What is your special requirement? Is it factory plant—buildings—
stock? is it merely temporary shortage of capital to meet current
commitments?
Whatever your finance problem—come and discuss it with us. We
are financial experts and it is our business to analyse your problems,
to advise you and to assist you.
'PHONE: MJ 4371 (6 lines)
Producers [ General Finance Corporation Ltd
AUTHORISED CAPITAL; £900,000
7TH FLOOR, THE BLOCK, 426 GEORGE STREET, SVDNEV
The Bulletin
“Amathea”: Great Serial Story of Horses
Vol. 57.—N0. 2949.
Wednesday, August 19, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
<3
»ms
IUMfI
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
_ CUT HISKE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New free
itfpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your' Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ..•••• ■• • •■ • ■■•• • •: ••- * ■ • •••• • •'
My Address
9.8. 480
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
lo recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as’ the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature. _ .......
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible lor
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
oublished in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be contioiled
0> 'Any* boiia fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific glands wi
eligible to enter for the competition works wh'd be n
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, enner
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true na ™ e ,
of the author must accompany each entry in a seated envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accep.
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising i oat o,
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 ueorge sireei.
Sydney reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in die opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to tit.
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
STELLA
MILES
FRANKLIN
If anyone is
qualified to write
the sagas of the
Australian
pioneers it is
Miles Franklin by
right of birth.
Her grandfather Franklin, with his wife,
sailed through Sydney Heads to end the
first stage of their journey of high en-
deavor nearly 100 years ago. but her
great-great-grandfather, Miles, was then
not only the sire but the grandsire of
children born in the colony.
Like homing pigeons circling to get
their bearings, her early progenitors on
both sides remained in. the settled dis-
tricts long enough only to get accus-
tomed to the lay of the new land, when,
following closely in the tracks of the
southern explorers, they joined with the
squatters who flooded beyond the boun-
daries of the policed areas and sought
new country in the mountains of the
Upper Murrumbidgee, there to raise their
cattle and their families.
Miles Franklin was born at Talbingo,
at the foot of the steep descent from the
hills of Monaro into the Tumut Valley,
but her father’s home was under the
ranges which now make ‘a rampart of
the western boundary of the Federal
Capital Territory, in the midst of which
Mt. Franklin stands, 5400 ft., to gather
crystal water from the clouds to refresh
and replenish the Colter and the Goodra-
digbee.
She was still a girl when she found her-
self on a holding near Goulburn, and
here she resolved to do some pioneering
of her own. Departing from the tradi-
tions of her forebears, she wrote a novel.
The manuscript was sent to The Bulle-
tin in Archibald’s lime, and was returned
with some kindly comment and encour-
aging advice. ' She revised her story and
sent it to Henry Lawson, then at the apex
of his literary power and fame.
The novel had the ironical title, My
Brilliant Career. It: was written as the
passionate protest of an ambitious girl
against the drudgery and monotony of
her life on a drought-stricken farm. The
experience was, and is, common enough,
and the story could have been drab and
commonplace, in perfect harmony with
the life and surroundings it described,
yet it pulsed with vitality, the more
vivid because of its autobiographical
form. Sincerity was written in every line
of it, and truth ; but, though the heroine
was plunged into despair from which she
was to rise in revolt against the condi-
tions of her life, she held fast to her heri-
tage, and was proud to be Australian.
It is not difficult to imagine the reason
for Lawson’s enthusiasm when he read
the manuscript. It expressed the life he
had lived as a boy, and was written with
a feminine fearlessness that excited his
chivalry. He saw the author, and took
the manuscript to London. He found a
publisher and wrote the foreword.
Miles Franklin did not fall into a
common mistake of the juvenile writer and
try to make a grown woman of herself.
She was a girl, and wrote as a girl; nor
did she endeavor artificially to mould her
novel into conventional form. She- had
a hero, it is true ; and he was young and
tall and handsome and passing rich and
strictly honorable, as all good heroes
should be ; but when he made his per-
fectly proper advances she made her
heroine swipe him over the head with
her riding-whip. If you want to know
why she did that you will find it all legi-
timately explained in the book, though
this will be hard to do, as it is now out
of print, its publication having been dis-
continued by Miles Franklin herself be-
cause she has gone beyond the stage of
admiring her own youthful effort, good
and all though it be. It was first written
when she was 16.
My Brilliant Career created quite a
literary sensation when it arrived in Aus-
tralia, and though Miles Franklin may
like to forget about it she will never be
allowed to do so, because it was the
first novel written in Australia that could
not have been written by anyone but
an Australian.
Its publication definitely determined
Miss Franklin to pursue a literary career,
and with method this bush girl engaged
herself as a probationary nurse in Mel-
bourne to acquire experience and gain
a knowledge of city life, to which she
had been hitherto a stranger. Her
account of this brief chapter of her life
was published serially.
In 1905 she went to America, joining
Alice Henry in social-reform work and
the editorial control of “Life and Labor,”
a bright journal devoted to the interests
of women as wage-earners. The vastness
and the millions of America could not
turn the eucalypt into a sycamore, and
when war broke out she responded to the
urge of her blood and transplanted her-
self to England, where she remained
until 1932, with some Continental experi-
ence and occasional fleeting visits home
to Australia.
Her second book,, Some Everyday Folk
-and Dawn, had been published in 1909,
but this gave evidence of having been
written too soon after the first one ; of
100 conscious an effort at conventional
construction. Though it presented a life-
like picture of a grandmother who knew
how to rear a family, and placed her in
a boarding-house as a convenient muster-
ing yard for her diverse characters, most
of them faithfully drawn, and although
the heroine was again a girl who
“yearned for better things,” it lacked the
lire of the first emotional outburst. Miles
Franklin was not yet through her appren-
ticeship as a literary craftsw'oman.
Then followed a gap of 20 years be-
fore we see her name on the title-page
of a book again, and across this gap
Miles Franklin has placed a barred gate
to the literary inquirer.
Then came Old Blastus of Bandicoot,
the full-bodied portrayal of a roaring old
bull of a settler whose voice would split
the granite in the Monaro ranges and
send the wallabies scampering up the
gorges for the lick of their lives. He has
his counterpart in every Australian centre
of settlement away from town boun-
daries —the boss cocky of his district, with
a confidence born of sheer ability. But
the honor of his home had been sullied
by the conduct; of his daughter and the
son of a neighbor, more an accident than
anything, but not so regarded in the code
of his times. The novel concerns itself
with the consequences of this domestic
Tragedy upon himself, his family and all
the folk around him. In this book Miles
Franklin showed that she had mastered
the novel form.
One suspects that the next one, Bring
the Monkey, an intriguing detective story
with a monkey as the central figure, was
written as a divertissement—just to show
that she could do it—for the casual en-
tertainment of her friends. It has no
association with Australia, and is purely
the product of her English environment.
Reviewing My Brilliant Career in the
London “Sun” a good many years ago,
Henry Murray said: “Miles Franklin has
written a really good book. She will
write a better before long or I am no
prophet. She may some day even write
a great novel.”
It has taken a long time for the ful-
filment of Murray’s prophecy. The novel
has been written at last. The budding
promise of My Brilliant Career has
fruited in maturity. Miles Franklin has
reached the zenith of her power. When
she was leaving England for Australia in
1932 she told an interviewer: “I want
to present the Australian scene as it used
to be before the last Of the pioneers have
departed.” She has done it, how' splen-
didly!
All That Swagger, the novel that has
won this year’s Prior Memorial Prize,
is all Australian, in every word and line.
Though it spans four generations and
a hundred years of time, it is true to
period and takes no liberties with his-
tory. Its characters arc as really Aus-
tralian as the eucalypts that forest the
slopes and gorges of the Murrumbidgee
hills, or the creeks that flow from the
snows and springs on their summits. In
not one page is there to be seen any
evidence of overseas influence. Only an
Australian could have written it, and
there has been nothing written like it
except the Brent of Bin Bin novels, the
style and setting of which it resembles,
but of which Miles Franklin does not
acknowledge authorship.
Zane Grey said Up the Country was a
classic, which is nothing new, as the Red
Page said that seven years ago. He has
not yet read All That Swagger. Here is
the heart and soul of Australia in litera-
ture.
T. D. MUTCH.
[Serial publication of All That Swagger
will begin on September 16 in instalments
of about 20,000 words in enlarged issues
of The Bulletin.]
Shaw
Dead?
If Quentin Pope
(R.P. 5/8/’36) is
right and Mr.
Shaw is dead—
that is to say, his
ideas no longer have any influence on
men’s thoughts—-it can mean only one
of two things. Either Mr. Shaw’s ideas
never had any validity or they have been
surpassed and a deeper and a wiser philo-
sophy has moulded men’s minds into
something wiser and more profound than
Shaw's.
Which alternative does Mr. Pope
accept? Will he maintain that when
Mr. Shaw wrote “Widowers’ Houses,”
“Getting Married,” “Candida,” “Mrs.
Warren’s Profession,” “Arms and the
Man,” “Saint Joan” and “Heartbreak
House” he saw no deeper into the abuses
of authority, the cruelty and futility of
the laws, the viciousness of the prevailing
matrimonial customs, the perversions of
the emotions of patriotism than his
contemporaries? Or will he maintain
that men and women are now so wise
that they know how to educate their
sons and daughters so that their sons
and daughters shall be fulfilled in love
and marriage ; so subtle and profound
that they know how to contribute to
society and at the same time preserve
their individual freedom and their per-
sonal pride so that they can steer a course
through life as skilfully and powerfully
as Mr. Shaw? Will he maintain that
Governments are so enlightened that they
know how to frame the laws so that
there shall be the maximum of indi-
vidual freedom with the maximum of
social order and stability within their
borders and the minimum of hatred and
misunderstanding between their own
nations and those outside?
If it is the first proposition Mr. Pope
wishes to maintain he will have to say
that Mr. Shaw invented the abuses he
wrote about 40 years ago ; that he only
pretended that things were wrong ; Mr.
Pope will even have to say that Mr.
Shaw only imagined the Great War, and
that the new puritanism of the Russian
Revolution, Fascism and Nazism and
the frenzied rearming of the nations for
another Armageddon were only phan-
tasms of Shaw’s mind. If this is Mr.
Pope’s idea, then his opinion of Shaw as
an amusing clown follows logical!;,
enough ; but will he maintain that this
is his idea? If he does not, then he is
obliged to accept the other alternative:
namely, that there was plenty of wrong
thinking 40 years ago, but that nowadays
right thinking is the order of the day. !t
he maintains this, he will have to sa\
that Mrs. Warren's Profession no longer
exists, that there are no Widowers
Houses in London —or Sydney and Mel-
bourne, for that matter—that business-
men compete with one another not in
making more factories but in building
themselves more beautiful dwellings;
that, so to speak, there is not a cloud in
our social sky. He will have to say that
the scholars our universities and col-
leges turn out year by year are not merely
learned men, but individuals fitted by
their education to face life as well as
Mr. Shaw. He will have to say that, if a
Christ or a Joan appeared to-morrow,
our rulers would immediately hand over
to their superior intelligence. He will
have to say that Governments are now
so sagacious that their present activities
will not result in destroying their own
people and those of other nations, but in
a universal millennium. Will he main-
tain that this is his idea?
If he does not wish to maintain either
proposition, he is obliged to admit that
Mr. Shaw’s ideas are by no means dead,
that their author never was superfluous
and his ideas arc no more superfluous
to-day than the ideas of Socrates, whose
definitions of consideration and other
things are no better understood in A.p.
1936 than they were in 399 b.c. Never-
theless, Mr. Pope might say that this is
actually a milder and more intelligent
age than that of Socrates because no
Government as yet has given Mr. Shaw
the hemlock and he is an octogenarian.
But the age is no whit milder or more
intelligent than the age of Socrates. It
uses different weapons against the indi-
viduals who make it feel, that is all. And
it is a most effective weapon against
Shaw to say that he is merely a funny
man, and that his plays aren’t plays at
all. It completely negatives the onh
things that are important about him-
his ideas.
It might equally well be argued that
the Dialogues of Plato aren’t dialogues
at all, because anybody who asked the
questions Socrates did would have re-
ceived a punch on the nose. And it
might just as well be argued that the
plays of Shakspeare aren’t plays, since
Shakspeare was never in Helsingfors with
Hamlet, at the Court of King Lear or
with Antony at the Pyramids. But the
only important question is whether he
understood the pickle King Lear was in
with his ambitious daughters, Antony
with his ego-bound mistress and the in-
cestuous Queen of Denmark with her
self-pitying son. If he did understand
them and succeeded in giving his under-
standing. the form in which he gave it
was as right as the form in which Plato
gave his understanding of the thought of
Socrates. And if Shaw’s thought is given
in his plays and his thought happens to
be true, we are in as good a position to
say that Einstein should have given his
thought about Relativity in dance steps
instead of figures as to say that Shaw
shouldn’t have given his in plays.
The fact that there is not the same
passion and imagination in Shaw’s latest
plays as in the plays of his artistic prime
does not mean that he has become a re-
actionary. It means only that he is tired
but finds idleness impossible. But Mr.
Pope does not complain that he is re-
actionary : he complains that he is dead.
T. S. Eliot is dead—that is to say, he has
(i Continued on page 4 .)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
‘The Senior Store” ‘While l Live Til Grow ”
ANWONYUORDERNS
•Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
"BETTER AND CLEANER BEDDING'
i]£tt dp to • •
lH YOUR
ATTRESS
m
Ahcdl
a
buuintt
•m
H
-
BETTER BEDDING
/
7/4
/w
«
-7:
n 8
3RISP
* *
- IV
m
£
if!
agSgßfi
TW
I #jp«
TICKING
PURE FELTED
COTTON
■ife.
CURLED HAIR
STOUT CANVAS vi,
SPIRAL SPRINGS* ssa
_
SPRINGS
SEPARATELY
CASED
: ■:
rnrotT;
“The Ideal Bedding
“HORDERNIAN”
SPRING FILLED MATTRESS
Full - sized mattress,
Containing 408 spiral
springs encased in sep-
arate pockets. Layers
of fleecy felted cotton
and hair placed on each
side of the springs en-
sure perfect comfort.
Best quality . Blue . and
White or Belgian Linen
Ticking coverings.
Mattress, 2ft. Gin., Price £5/17/6. Mattress, 3ft. Gin., Price £7/13/6. Mattress, 4ft. 6in., Price £B/19/6
3ft., Price .... £6/15/- 4ft., Price .../ £B/10/- In Linen Floral Ticking, 6/- each extra.
WHAT WE DO AND
WHAT YOU DO
1. —YOU select your fresh bedding from our
unrivalled assortment, the prices being, as always
at Anthony Horderns’, the lowest possible, quality
considered. BUT—note this! Off our “Famous
Low Prices” you receive a generous rebate on your
old bedding. WE WILL ALLOW YOU £1 FOR
YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF YOU PURCHASE A
NEW FULL SIZE ONE. If you decide on a
Mattress smaller than 4ft. 6in. wide. WE WILL
ALLOW YOU 10/- off the price of a new one.
THIS, OF COURSE, IS OFF OUR STANDARD
PRICES AS QUOTED IN OUR REGULAR PRICE
LIST. We do not include Flock or Fibre Bedding
in this offer, as we do not recommend them as
“Better Bedding.”
2. —WE WILL deliver your new bedding without
charge (if you live in the Metropolitan Area), and
special vans will pick up your old Mattresses and
remove them.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS.
3. —COUNTRY CUSTOMERS may also partici-
pate. Write for further particulars.
Hundreds of housewives, boarding-house keepers
and hotel proprietors have already taken this
opportunity to replace old and uncomfortable
Mattresses with new and better bedding. It is
YOUR opportunity also to secure new and better
bedding and at the same time dispose of old Mattresses which may be a positive
nuisance.
Now is the time to examine your Mattresses. Just consider how Anthony
Horderns’ Campaign for “Better and Cleaner” Bedding can help you. You
are offered up to £l for each old mattress, under the conditions stated above.
Country customers are urged to write at once for full particulars.
Qualify DD. BLUE AND WHITE
A good medium quality Mattress, with 34in. borders,
in strong Black and White Ticking. Hand-made
throughout.
■Sizes 2ft. din. ■ 3ft. 3ft. din. 4ft. 4ft. din.
Mattress.... £l/12/6 £l/18/6 £3/5/- £3/13/6 £2/17/6
Pillows.'.... 4/- each.
Quality D. Cot. Tick Blue & White
Plain Blue and White Striped Ticking, having Sin.
borders, taped. Comfortably filled, hand-made
throughout, and tufted.
Sizes 2ft. din. 3ft. 3ft. din. 4ft. 4ft. din
Mattress £l/7/- £l/12/6 £l/18/- £3/4/6 £2/8/6
Pllows 4/- each.
Quality F. Belgian or Union Tick
Belgian Striped or Union Ticking of good quality.
Sin. double stitched taped borders; hand-made
throughout, and well filled.
Sizes.. ' 2ft. din. 3ft. 3ft. din. 4ft. 4ft. din.
Mattress £3/1/6 £2/7/6 £2/16/- £3/11/6 £3/17/0
Pillows 6/- each.
Quality H. Floral Best Special
Similar in weight and quality to H. Quality, but
covered in finest floral Damask Ticking, and in a
variety of colourings.
Sizes. 2ft. din. 3ft. 3ft. din. 4ft. 4ft. din.
Mattress.... £3/14/- "£4/6/6 £4/17/6 £5/13/- £6/1/6
'Pillows 8/6 each.
Quality H. Best Belgian Linen
A super Mattress with din. piped borders. Covered
in best Belgian Striped Linen, various colours, or
Linen Blue and White Ticking.
Sizes 2ft. din. 3ft. 3ft. din. 4ft. 4ft. din.
Mattress £3/9/6 £4 £4/12/- £5/6/- £5/13/6
Pillows 8/- each.
% Bedding—Third Floor. Free Delivery City and
Suburbs: onlv.


become reactionary—and he is a much
younger man than Shaw, and still the
darling of the literary coteries.
M. G. SKIPPER.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
|N true bush fashion he strained the
* billy of tea carefully before adding
the milk, and asked, “One or two
lumps?” Thereafter, in the appropriate
atmosphere the dinkum Kirribilli camp-
fire engenders, we conversed pleasantly
on the number of Australian authors sud-
denly and deservedly getting into print.
“Not only numbers,” I commented.
“Quality also. It’s certainly a long time
since I’ve read anything more fresh and
refreshing than Frank Dalby Davison’s
Caribbean Interlude. Knowing your
tastes, I should think that as it’s mainly
set in the gloryhole of a Caribbean-coast
passenger ship 22 years ago some aspects
must have appealed very strongly.”
“So, so,” he admitted genially, adding
that he “preferred his toughneck authors
with vocal cords and vocabulary to
match.” “Here’s Davison,” he declared,
“with a cargo of 48 female school-
teachers cruising the tropic seas. There’s
calls at Panama, Jamaica and other
choice spots. There’s the gloryhole itself,
with its ‘song and bawdy anecdote’ and
he-men who drink bay rum at a pinch
and finish up setting the place alight by
putting a match to a spilt bottle of
brandy. Ashore, there’s whole street-
lengths of multicolored feminine allure.
Yet, with a start like
th a t,” he demurred.
“Davison, as he himself
puts it, is ‘meet for the
pretty ears for whom
this tale unfolds.’ You
could read him to your
auntie.”
“Giving a moral semblance to a true
depiction,” 1 remarked, “is a perfectly
sound device as old as Richardson.”
“You're very subtle this evening,” he
said cheerfully, “but I see what you
mean. As you suggest, Vic did get away
with some bodyline stuff in South Africa.
What I understand you to mean is, in
effect, that Davison puts over the Carib-
bean bodyline so that intelligent people’ll
recognise it for what it is, while pretty
ears will regard it as delicate leg-theory.”
“Sir,” I objected, “in order to find
a quibble is it necessary to go as far
as cricket? My reference was to the
great author Richardson, of Pamela.
What I wished to convey was that Mr.
Davison, as Richardson did. expresses
himself freely on conventionally taboo
topics by the nice device of giving his
true account the semblance of a moral
tale. I had thought how much nearer
good art it is to achieve the picture of
life that Mr. Davison projects, without
that rawness or crudity that pretty well
all our writers have when it comes to sex
and suchlike topics. As you should
know, most of them on these topics write
with what Freud would possibly call the
graffita smallboycus complex. Mr. Davi-
son’s one of the few Australians I’ve read
with enough craft to simulate the naive
self-consciousness that nearly all of them,
on such topics, actually feel.”
The devil at ray firelit elbow having
fallen into meditative silence, chewing
his plug of pituri, 1 pointed out that, in
any case, it was misleading to labor this
particular aspect of an admirable book.
“Better,” I suggested, “to contemplate
how, in his sensitive prose style, Mr.
Davison conjures up the engaging detail
of this cruise along American coasts. His
descriptive passages are set down with
a feeling for the memory of the scene
of his boyish adventures that I for one
find remarkably refreshing and con-
tagious. Nowhere does it read like a
book merely written to be published. 1
should say it’s easily his best perform-
ance since Man-Shy; like that gem of
our prose, a book written wholly to get
down something the author felt was
worth getting down for its own sake.
Surely,” I concluded, “even you must
agree it’s a most excellent work.”
“In these stimulating surroundings,” he
said, “I’d agree that Australian authors
are the best on earth, even when they
forget that the business of an observer
is to set down what’s observed, not to
resent it or insist on superiority to it. Of
course Frank observes well enough when
his own conception of a good world isn’t
involved. In fact, you haven’t a better.
Still,” he added feelingly, “I can’t
forgive him for drawing the veil of
episcopalian reticence over those 48 lady
school-teachers. Next time he comes to
me for a bright idea he’ll get a tram-
load of curates.”
❖ * -i
'T'HE nostalgic aroma of merrily crack-
* ling greenhide and stringybark
brought irresistibly to mind other pages
from the sunny heritage of Australian
literature. Presently, interrupting the
silence, he remarked:
“From the inefficient though promis-
ing profanity of your thoughts, 1 gather
that your trip with Clime is off.”
“Still,” I said, “the tour Mr. Clune
kindly invited me to take with him was
to be over much the same ground that
he’s described in Roaming Round the
Darling. Reading it, 1 feel that I’ve
actually taken the trip already—that it
was I and not Bartlett Adamson who sat
beside Mr. Clune, popping our heads
out to read all those notice-boards rac-
ing by on the road to the Blue Moun-
tains: NAVELS FOR SALE SHILLING A
bucket. Or waiting where the main
road, a few hours’ travel from Syd-
ney, was blocked by a creek: ‘A
hundjed thousand unemployed—and the
main road impassable!’ as Mr. Clune
remarks. Or sliding down over the false
track into that other creek, where ‘An
old nincompoop, rotting on a horse,
called out for our information: “You’re
in the crick!”’ Or hearing Mr. Clune
sing opera in the Jenolan Caves.
“Or,” I continued, as more and more
of the jolly narrative came to mind,
“hearing the policeman tell those chaps
who were noisily sparring up to each
other in the pub yard and keeping us
awake that ‘if they didn’t fight he’d lock
them up.’ Or meeting those two plucky
girls who were going from town to town
out there barnstorming in an aeroplane.
On into Bourke. On again, popping heads
out to read that notice written in what
Mr. Clune calls ‘a poison-laid-here sort
of hand’; to whom it may concern
OVER AT TOWN FOR NIGHT BACK FIRST
THING MORNING. MAKE YOURSELF AT
HOME BREAD IN BOX MEAT IN SAFE TOMA-
TOES ON BUSH. ALL’S RIGHT WITH THE
WORLD SEZ YOU. TOM BOWDEN. And SO
on out into the Burke and Wills country
and Innamincka, about which Mr. Clune
remarks that: ‘Of the twelve dozen goats
at Innamincka, six dozen belong to the
police. The rest of them stop at the
pub;’ Thence down the triangle’s side
to Broken Hill, where we—l mean to
say, they—ran into a whole nest of Aus-
tralian authors, seeing the wilds. And
so on back across to Sydney. Also,” I
said with enthusiasm, “there’s all the
lively historical items with which he salts
it. Like the fact that Blaxland went out
of exploring to found the wine industry,
while Wentworth founded the State lot-
tery and bought Maoriland for £lOO. Or
that Henry Parkes changed his electorate
13 times. It’s studded with that sort of
curiosa. You must agree,” I insisted,
“that Mr. Clune gives you the impres-
sion of missing nothing.”
“Missing nothing?” he repeated
warmly. “Well, for a start, what about
the reindeers? Does he mention them ?”
“Reindeers!” I protested. “Surely be-
cause we’re discussing Mr. dune’s book
by this typical Australian campfire that’s
hardly a warrant for indulging in ridicu-
lous leg-pulling. When and where are
your fabulous reindeers to be seen?”
“They’re to be seen,” he proclaimed
pleasantly, “beautifully framed on the
walls of parlors and dining-rooms in
all the pubs from here to Bourke. That’s
how you know they’re pubs. No rein-
deers, no pub. Elementary, my dear
Watson. Of course, Clune may mention
them in some of his slabs of microscopic
type, where he’s been too tired to trans-
late historical information into his own
language and has lifted it whole as the
original travellers and observers in these
parts prophetically wrote it for the
Mitchell Library. Damn’ hard to read
in this light, apart from casting doubts
on Clune as a prospective willing fur-
nace hand.
“Still,” he added darkly, “it’s not dune’s
sins of omission but one of commission
that to my way of thinking’s absolutely
unforgivable. Imagine it,” he flared, talk-
ing as if to the surrounding ring of be-
mused wombats, “a Gallipoli Digger,
moreover one who makes a living fixing
up people’s income-tax papers, and he
admits without a blush that in one town
one Sunday he sang a different hymn in
each of the town’s three churches. So
much for Ciune. It’s the hot grid for
him! ”
As if in confirmation of prophetic fate,
the plaintive call of a coolabah echoed
over the lonely flats, including those
occupied by the Governor-General.
C. M.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Nobody Talks Politics: Geoffrey
Gorer (Michael Joseph, Ltd. ; 8s. 6d.
net). Author’s appendix admission that
he’s no novelist is late but accurate. Even
though his satire on the Fascist threat in
England isn’t long, it’s diffuse. But it's
bright. Its point is that Fascism will come
to England with the next Labor Govern-
ment, which will coalesce readily with
it. Appendix chiefly interesting for
bitter attack on Wyndham Lewis.
Boom-time Gold: G. W. Wicking
(Angus and Robertson ; 4s. 6d.). Gang-
ster yarn stuck in a Melbourne-Sydney
sheep-station setting. Characters are
stereotypes, and plot antedates Methu-
selah, but style is brisk, hero and vil-
lains are equally ruthless, and bullets fly
on the slightest provocation.
Brazilian Marriage: George Royston
(Thornton Butterworth ; 7s. 6d.). Eng-
lishman, wealthy, jilted, goes to Brazil
to forget, marries a Portuguese girl and
acquires a sugar plantation. Plots to
murder him arc foiled. A straightfor-
ward yarn with some sexy passages.
e
Wilderness Orphan : Dorothy Cottrell
(Angus and Robertson ; 2s. 6d.). Pretty
little nature chatter. Chut the ’Roo, who,
brought into civilisation, isn’t understood,
brings with .a mate the princely price of
£300 and goes with the bush sideshow-
man who paid it, until one day he ups
and does the nasty showman in, bolts,
joins some shearers and at last, with lady
and baby, returns to nice couple who
first adopted him.
Various Verse
The Bugles.
Whisper, bugles, again:
Blow us out of our sleep,
Mutter your mad refrain
About the paths we keep.
Shout, you bugles, again!
Sound in the quiet places
Where, for a little day,
The sun has lain, and the graces
Of the green things made stay.
Scream through the drowsy valleys
Where the moon-silvered sheep
Stir, and a small wind rallies
The grasses, and sighs to sleep
Lost in a ruffle of boughs . . -
Blow out, you bugles, again!
Go shrilling to the skies
Linking faint star to star
With spreading, birdlike cries.
Leap from the hills afar;
Beat from the thunderous seas
Till sound and echo ring
Heroic melodies.
Sing, bugles, sing!
This is the death of youth.
TASMANIA.
H. M. BETHUNE.
Gorse.
From dark earth where the dark roots grope,
In purple bells of fire—the grape;
And earth taints harsh and dark the lees.
So here where now the crisp light lies
Like silver foam on yellow wine,
The valley’s whole wild goblet won
Pours down my throat with saffron fire
A taste of earth and gnarled desire.
Light is the liquor, light and pure.
But all head’s strength, all body’s power
Is called to dare this golden cup
From whose dark dregs is no escape.
Climber on this sharp hilltop taste
Before the dusk this deadly test,
The darkness in the saffron borne.
The twisted root, the bitter thorn.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Dream.
I dreamed —alas! how many of us have
dreamed thus—
In the dark depths of night, in a dark room,
After the moon had set and I had watched it.
Sharing with night in that solemn golden
darkening.
I dreamed, lying face downward in that careless
pose
That masks all wild and passionate dreams
from the eyes
Of any who might watch us while we sleep.
1 dreamed waking into a haste of harps
Running and flying beyond a dark door
That opened upon halls of immense whiteness
Soaring into stone balconies, into ceilings
Of carved and heavenly proportions, almost
Beyond reach of the frightened dream’s sight.
Down a curved, milky staircase way
Fled the thin haste of harps, which, hearing
That it was only 1, their brief creator,
Slowed and sobbed in their breath, and turned
back
To the weaving of patterns all together.
A lackey coming forward —a faceless being,
A thing of hands and direction —went to lead
up
The harp-enchanted stair. 1 asked for some-
one —
Someone I had never met, nor known ever,
But whom at that moment I longed for exceed-
ingly
As though I had just returned from years of
wayfaring
Haunted by her amazing image always.
And it was she who made me turn suddenly
Upon the curving stair, in the heart of it.
There she stood upon the floor below me.
Going another way. She was the pattern
Which those wild thrilling harps had woven
Across the expectation of my mind.
And as I called her, and called after her,
“Listen! ”
They ceased; the hands fell from the magic
looms;
The worK was done.
Then going down the stair, alone in those halls
Save for her waiting face, which was the
essence
Of all the girls’ faces 1 ever loved,
1 was against her there, my own hands
Covered by hers upon her secret breasts,
Both of us standing there for some time
To gaze at one another —I with desire
Swaying me like a strong tree towards her;
She with the deadly innocence of the virgin
Scarcely more than flowering from the bud.
Whether she spoke or that I heard her thought
It would be false to say; but she knew
How her breasts had grown since another time
When I observed them with my hands, as
now;
And how her body had drifted into a change
Since I observed it with my hands, as now;
And how her lips had softened, increasing
together
Two parts of one surprising promise of passion
If a man knew or dared know how to teach
them
The anguishing fulfilment of that promise.
1 was swayed towards her by desire.
And held and torn by all the subtle griefs
That congregate in dreams such as this one.
With the ascending of the stair towards
The waking voices of the harps, I knew
I dreamed. Alas! how many of us dream thus
Of unknown women whom we know we love,
In the dark depth of night, in a dark room,
Between the setting of the moon and day.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


\\H' >h 'v\u u s * ,/l
w»^
NHH V'W/ W .
“/A,
vV' W '' - .
\ [t
m
"',. ,///*
, t !(»<>• . >vt»** • 1 °' w -*
*
7 V
X I
\li.;/, _
#
%
I" 1% -
»I y * »
r; < *
: ,/,wr;
*•.., ,i
\VI
7 i'*V»
m
m\m'
m,
/ 7l
■
■•/ •/•■■••
<fc
W/,
f
/##
i
V/K‘
STROMBERG-CARLSON!
WHEN the gold-mining exiles at Tennant
Creek gathered together at their historic party
in Central Australia, they chose a Stromberg-
Carlson receiver to bring to them from Brisbane the
Prime Minister’s inspiring message.
They chose it for its reliability its amazing distance-
covering power its great volume, and its thrilling
tone, so that the living personality of Australia’s
leader could be present at their lonely far-away
party.
Who could fail to be impressed by this simple, but
significant, tribute. In the history of Stromberg-
Carlson no better proof has ever been given of the real
quality and value of these famous receivers.
Whether you live on the fringe of civilisation or
in the heart of a great city—be guided by the choice
of the people whose contact with the world depends
almost entirely on Radio.
Choose a Stromberg-Carlson!
There is nothing finer, no matter what model you like
best, and remember prices are as low as 14
guineas!
The complete Stromberg-Carlson range com-
prises 9 models for All-electric operation (3
of these will operate on D.C. as well as A.C.)
at prices ranging from 14 guineas , and 5 Bat-
tery-operated models from 19 guineas.
Modd 883 an 8-valve Dual-wave Battery-operated Super-
heterodyne. This receiver represents the greatest
advance to date in the design of Battery Receivers.
Overseas stations can be received equally as well as Australian
stations, and the ease with which all stations can be tuned in is>
really astonishing.
Reproduction is particularly fine, and the volume ample both day
and night in any locality. Low battery consumption, and a special
battery switch enabling dial lights to be turned off after tuning,
make running costs very low.
Complete with batteries 45 ggis.
AUTHORISED DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE
COMMONWEALTH.


r


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2949.
August 19, 1936.
THE LOSER DIES.
"t is predicted that the Spanish civil war will end in the extermination of one side or the other.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 8797 J.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell' Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inler-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.: 3 months, Bs.
"MOST GRATIFYING .
Perth has acquired a Society for the Promotion of
Cultural Relations with Soviet Russia. The society
aims at “the study of conditions and activities in and
the interchange of information with” Red Russians,
and is to have “direct relations” with an Anglo-
American branch of a Moscow concern. 'At the
initial meeting in Perth there was an attendance of
120, which Archbishop Le Fanu found “most grati-
fying.” The archbishop has become a member, and is
positive, good man, that “the movement has no political
or propagandist significance.” Gratification was also
expressed by Bishop Burgmann, ofGoulburn; “Russia,”
this prelate said, “should be regarded as one of the
greatest nations, and the more we know about it the
better we shall be able to estimate the value of its
mighty experiment for the future of the world.”
Bishop Burgmann is always saying things like that.
No doubt there are “conditions and activities in
Soviet Russia” that would repay study ; but the study
should not begin and end with Soviet propaganda.
For one thing, students should try to discover how
many Russians were done to death in the revolution
and the civil wars. They should inquire into the
operations oi: the Cheka and the Ogpu, and try to
ascertain whether the Communist Internationale is part
of the Russian Government or an organisation for
which the Russian Government is not responsible—the
latter is now the authorised version, but it is doubted.
Archbishop Le Fanu, for his part, might endeavor
lo learn how much property the Greek Church pos-
sessed in Russia before the revolution and how much
it possesses now ; how many churches were open in
July, 1914, and how many in July, 1936; and
how many professing Christians were enumerated at
the last Russian census.
The growth of the Young Communist League
should also be studied. A report of a late mee'ting
of the Communist Internationale states that a Spanish
delegate ascribed “the successful development of the
revolution in Spain to Dimitrof’s instructions for the
joint working of the Young Communist League with
non-Communist Socialist parties.” By all accounts
bands of Young Communists of both sexes have been
active in the ghastly Spanish civil war, and pictures
of armed hooligans and hoydens with the lust of battle
or murder in their eyes have reached Australia.
Australia has Young Communists, too. They
don’t go about flashing automatics or lugging machine-
guns around, nor have they been known to make any
attempt at “taking and holding the means of produc-
tion” or “liquidating” anything. But there seem to
be Young Communists who would “liquidate”
Christianity if they could. ,
A Young Communist was killed in an accident
at Brisbane recently. A newspaper man attended the
funeral, “About the coffin,” he wrote, “was a red
silken shroud, fringed with gold lace,” and the wreaths
were of red flowers, “one being in the form of the
hammer and sickle,” and another representing “the
hammer and sickle and a star —the emblem of the
Young Communist League.” The “service” began with
the Red Front salute and ended with the singing of
the “Red Flag” ; in between there were speeches in
which “homage was paid to the dead youth’s gallant
part in the class struggle” and to the struggle of
“comrades” to bring about “a Soviet Australia.”
Possibly if the researches of the Perth students
include consideration of this Brisbane incident, the
movement may find itself short of one archbishop.
On the other hand, Dr. Le Fanu and some of his
fellow-students may draw from it renewed determina-
tion to examine both sides of the case. In that event,
ihey should make an effort to understand why Soviet
Russians have so utterly failed to extend their system
to their nearest neighbors on the west, especially those
who lived under the rule of the Czar that was
murdered with all his family (wife, daughters and
crippled son); why their system is contemptuously
rejected, not only by Finns, Letts, Poles, Esthonians
and Lithuanians, but also by the highly intelligent
and democratic Swedes, Norwegians and Danes.
The investigators might likewise ask themselves
why, if the Russians are such wonders and their
system so marvellous, the thing cannot be established
anywhere without civil war and cannot reach full
fruition without “world revolution” ; and why coun-
tries that suppress Communism grow strong and
countries that compromise with it grow weak. If they
are honest students they will admit that Italy is a far
more powerful figure among the nations than it was
in 1921, when Red mobs were seizing factories and
workshops; admit also that since the Communist party
became a force in French affairs France has lost
its predominance on the Continent to the Germany
which has stamped Communism out.
If the students have any heart left for an economic
survey they might turn up those 1930-31 writings in
which the doom of the private wheatgrower was
pronounced. With their collective farms and their
tractors and their cheap labor, and the greatest
extent of easily-worked wheat land in the world,
the Red Russians were going to spoil the world
market for the “capitalist” countries, Westralia in-
cluded. Why haven’t they done so? Why have
they, instead, been reduced to importing wheat and
flour from Australia —£630,000 worth in four years to
June 30, 1935? And if their progress in every branch
of industry and commerce has been so magnificent,
why have they had to get their Australian wheat and
flour carried in foreign bottoms? Sydney is one of the
great ports of the world, and Soviet Russia has a
Pacific port of its own —one with a population of
just on 200,000, serving, or supposed to serve, a popu-
lation of nearly 11,500,000. No Soviet merchantman
has ever been in Sydney harbor, nor any Soviet war-
ship for that matter.
Defence "Plans" and "Objectives."
[Another article by Rear-Admiral Fcakcs.]
The interest of the people of Australia in the country’s
oldest problem, that of its defence, shows signs
of a reawakening. A press-cuttings agency has
collected upwards of 200 newspaper articles, letters
and paragraphs on defence published in July,
In the last ten years there have been six Ministers
and one Assistant-Minister for Defence—or for the
defence of the Defence Department—and there has
been much talk of “Plans” and “Objectives.” Repetition
of these words, though tedious to some, has soothed
others willing to believe that all is well. But what have
been the “Plans” and what the “Objectives”?
After the visit in 1921 of the then Prince of
Wales, when H.R.H. inspected a fleet of 30-odd vessels
of war and naval auxiliaries, mobilised at Melbourne,
the “Objective” became one of Reduction,
There was a brilliant but brief period of expan-
sion, when official interest in defence revived and
£10,000,000 was spent on a construction programme—
cruisers, submarines and an aircraft-carrier. Thedepres-
sion arrived. Reduction was again the “Objective,”
The new submarine flotilla was presented to the
Admiralty. The personnel of destroyers and surveying
vessels and, later, the aircraft-carrier was paid off.
Training establishments were reduced ; so were naval
reserves. Many reserve units in places distant
from the capital cities, units established by sea-
conscious salt-in-the-blood forebears half a century
ago, were disbanded.
“Economy” in what may be described as the
Australian section of Australia’s naval defence—that
was the “Plan.”
The fleet in commission now included only two
cruisers and a destroyer.
A period of complete naval-development slag-
nation ensued. It was broken about four years ago
by a rousing speech made in Parliament by a former
senior military officer who had entered politics on
retirement. Relentlessly this gentleman exposed the
inadequacy of Australia’s military forces to meet
problems already in sight. About the same time, at
a Victorian Yacht Club function, senior representatives
of the three arms exposed the weakness of Britain’s
defence measures and its loss of authority at sea,
saying, in effect, that he who sang “Britannia Rules
the Waves” lied,
Poor old Mother at the time was spending on
defence £3 per head of population for every 15s.
spent by Australia. Considerable decreases followed
in Britain and in Australia, but the ratio remained
about the same.
Another long interval of silence, and then the
question was taken up by Mr. Hughes, at that time a
private member, and certain patriotic bodies. To such
effect that the (then) Defence Minister was delivered of
another “Plan” at a Sydney Millions Club luncheon,
incidentally recommending people interested in the
defence question to get in touch with their member
(the writer votes in Darlinghurst),
The Assistant-Minister for Defence, introducing
the estimates with the complacency that onlv corn-
plete ignorance can give, declared that the'“Plan”
would provide defence on a scale not previously
enjoyed by Australia. This amazing assertion was
accepted without protest.
The “Plan” is presumably now complete. It
finds Australia, in the words of the president of the
Defence Council, reduced to “no defence at all.”
Australia should be looking for a new “Objective”
and a new “Plan” to meet it.
Let it get back to the preliminary stage of develop-
ment and realise that its first requirement is Men,
Men and still more Men. And, above all, let there
be no confusion of “Objective.”
A great proportion of those 200 contributions on
the defence question referred to the Minister’s laudable
and laughable efforts to encourage youths to undertake
voluntary military service. These efforts are in opera-
tion in areas where voluntary naval units have recently-
suffered reduction and, in some areas, extinction,
What encouragement to lads is this? And what
more striking example of confusion of objective could
there be?
The three arms of defence at the present time
may be considered suitable for training,
Men, trained men and still more trained men should
be the immediate “Objective,” and there should be
inquiry into the policies and expenditure of the past
before a “Plan” for the future is accepted,
The restoration of an inspector-generalship, to
include all branches of the defence services, is an
urgent necessity.
Only by inspection and report by technical officers
can Parliament and people be kept correctly informed.
and only thus can a correct balance of power between
the civil and military sections of the Defence adminis-
tration be maintained. And that is equally important.
Mt. Isa Shows the Way.
In 1938 there is to be a motor race round Australia,
and people who know the country are wondering
whether the contest will be much of an advertisement
for the Commonwealth. It will be 8500 miles long,
and for most of that distance there are no made roads
nor much “development.” On the Northern Territory
border, the racers will reach the boundary of a station
the size of Belgium. On the other side of the overland
telegraph line they will see Victoria Downs —if the
difficulties of the “road” do not turn them back.
Victoria Downs is nearly as big as Denmark.
On the way to Victoria Downs there is one
480-mile stretch of Barkly Tableland road along
which there are five (5) habitations, though the country
looks like a wheatfield. Beyond Victoria there are
stretches with even less population to the thousand
square miles. These conditions exist after 60 years
of “settlement.”
William Hatfield, the writer, has witl\in the past
year or so been through the country over which the
motorists will drive. He is no fleeting, inexperienced
reporter ; as a drover, horsebreaker and station worker
he has 20 years’ practical experience of the area of
which he writes. He travelled on the main road
through western Queensland:
The mailman, who had to get through wet or dry,
had been along that way with his truck while the
ground was soft and had left two steep walled ruts
9in. to a foot deep in place of smooth-rolled motor-
tracks. The sun had dried them to the hardness of
concrete... .this is the road a mechanised army
would have to dash over to repel an invader in the
north. We passed plenty of pits where the hardy
traveller bad dug himself out.
Mr. Hatfield called at Cloncurry, the Duchess
and dozens of other once-prosperous townships, and
found them dying. Camooweal looked like “a scat-
tered dump of old tin cans on the plain.” Every
tree has been cut for fence posts or firewood ; the
water supply is stored in tanks collected from the
roofs ; when it doesn’t rain children drive goat carts
and bale filthy soak out of the mudholes of the
Georgina. Yet for hundreds of miles round Camoo-
weal stretch Mitchell-grass plains, and 24 hours’ ride
to the north the permanent Gulf rivers flow. In the
wet season the Georgina surges past the township
like 20 Danubes, and Lake Francis becomes about
the size of Sydney Harbor.
The interior has haff many towns like Camooweal.
They were shanty towns —tin and weatherboard—with-
out water supplies, drainage or parks. They depended
on mines, and when mining slumped people quitted
them—when the like happened in Victoria and N. S.
Wales many hung on. Bad housing and primitive
sanitation have been among the curses of the North.
If a Sydney suburban milkman attempted to house
a cow as the managers of some thousand-square-mile
stations are housed in the N.T., a horde of inspectors
would be down on him. Many station houses are
mere iron or rubble hovels, without flooring or a single
convenience. Shocking, and quite unnecessary, as Mr.
Hatfield demonstrates in his book.
He visited Mt. Isa. It lies in the most
forbidding and inhospitable part of the Selwyii
ranges, a land of blistering heat. In 1928 the rainfall
was only about five inches; in 1931 just under 8.5
inches. In this region the Mt. Isa Co. has laid down
a town which has a population of 3000. It has dammed
a forbidding ravine (Rifle Creek) 25 miles away and
impounded 1,400,000,000 gallons of water, enough for
three years.
Actually Mt. Isa supports two settlements; the
municipal town, which has features which Mr. Hat-
field found depressingly familiar, and the mine’s town.
In the mine’s town every house has its water supply
and septic tank, and every change-room, too. Elec-
tricity is laid on in all houses at a charge included in
the rent, which averages less than half the rent of a
four-roomed house in Sydney. Fumes are precipitated
at the mine, and there is medical examination for
every worker. There are schools, clubrooms, billiard-
rooms, floodlit tennis courts. . Buildings are all
flyproof. The town has an ice plant, and gets
pasteurised milk by refrigerated car from the Ather-
ton. And it is 700 miles from the coast and
more than 700 miles from a coalmine. As for
the surroundings:
Not a tree has been felled except where absolutely
necessary... .Everywhere you look, that soft tracery
of dull green breaks the stark line of ridge and gable
... .trellised creepers about the houses, flower gardens
and patches of lawn tell of a water supply which all
Australian inland towns under municipal control lack.
There are contrasts in stations as well as towns.
Mr. Hatfield went to Milner Ponds, a small Territory
holding which has a comfortable home with all the
amenities. The owner is making good. Men on
larger holdings with land twice as good can scarcely
pay their rent.
Mt. Isa and Milner Ponds point the way to the
future of the interior. If it pays to provide
1.400.000. gallons for a mine, it would pay to
provide an equal quantity or less to water 2,500,000
sheep. If miners are entitled to septic tanks and water
laid on and gardens, so are station workers. Mr.
Hatfield thinks that stations like Alexandria could be
cut into 30,000-acre blocks on which a capable man
might make £750 a year.
With fodder and water conservation 15,000-acre
blocks might pay on stations which total about
13.000. acres. This would mean a settlement of
1000 families, plus a new township here and there—
say, 10,000 people in all. No great number, but more
than double the present white population of the NT.
Mt. Isa methods are needed throughout North
Australia’s worth-while pastoral and mining areas.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Politicians and the Olympic Games.
It’s a long way from Australia to the cities in which
Olympic Games have been held since they were
revived at Athens in 1896, and the journey and local
conditions—climate, diet, water, tracks —are rather
against our representatives. The girls' especially have
a distressing tendency to put on weight. Three
successes were gained by Australians at Los Angeles
in 1932, three at Paris in 1924 and two at Stockholm
in 1912 ; in no other year was there more than one
win. At Berlin no Australian was in first place.
In itself defeat in these contests doesn’t matter a
dump. What does matter is the spirit in which success
is striven for and failure is accepted; and in this
all-essential respect the Australians ran true to Aus-
tralian form. Before and after the Games they seem
to have got on excellently with their hosts and their
fellow-competitors alike.
Unfortunately the expedition gave rise to a great
deal of logrolling, boasting and abuse. Sydney flapper
papers had fits of hysteria because certain damsels
had not been included in the original choice. Largely
because of this absurd agitation additions were made
to the team —of candidates who fared worse than
those picked in the first place ; but one young woman
whose selection was noisily demanded was still
omitted. 'Her case was carried into the House of
Representatives by Mr. Ward (Labor), who advanced
the “argument” that, since the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment had granted £2OOO towards expenses, it had
a right to interfere.
Mr. Ward spoke for 20 minutes on this theme,
which is just about his intellectual size. He railed at
“the Victorian representative” for taking it upon him-
self to “eliminate the names of seven athletes who are
definitely up to Olympic standard,” and demanded
that the Government “should indicate to the officials
responsible for the present position that it considers
their selection methods unsatisfactory,” and that “steps
should be taken to make certain additions to the
team.”
I appeal to the Ministry to see that Australia is
represented by the biggest and most representative
team ever sent abroad, including every athlete who is
up to the Olympic standard.
Mr. E. J. Harrison (U.A.P.) supported the Labor
orator, saying, “His remarks are not nearly so bitter
as those levelled against the selectors by every sporting
editor of note in N. S. Wales,” Mr. Jennings (U.A.P.)
felt sure that the Government would “extend serious
consideration to the matters raised” ; Mr. Garden
(Labor) insisted that Miss Blank should be given “a
fair deal” ; even Mr. Curtin, the Labor leader, spoke
in the same strain, though not quite so stupidly. Only
Mr. Hawker (U.A.P.) struck a commonsense note.
This subject is scarcely one which should be raised
in the national Parliament. It appears to be purely a
Sydney grievance.
Mr. Forde (Mr. Curtin’s deputy): “It is of Aus-
tralia-wide interest.”
After praising and sympathising with Miss Blank,
Minister Parkhill was asked by Mr. Beasley whether
he would “convey to the selectors what is obvi-
ously the opinion of this House.” He replied, very
properly, that he would do nothing of the kind, and
that “the Government must decline to intervene.”
The debate was ridiculous at the time, and the
event has made it more ridiculous still.
Nice Place, Adelaide !
On the Premiers’ Conference business-paper published
by the Prime Minister there were 28 subjects. Among
them were the financial relations between the Com-
monwealth and the States, “Section 92,” development
and migration, Federal-aid-roads and the petrol tax,
overlapping of services, unemployment, rural rehabili-
tation, appointment of a Constitutional convention,
reorganisation of observatories, cancer research,
control of whaling and the uniform rail gauge. Some-
thing like a business-paper, and people unfamiliar with
the ways of politicians were impressed.
Delegates were bidden to assemble at Adelaide
on August 28. Adelaide in early spring is a charming
place, and the conference will take on a pleasant
holiday aspect, though brief. It is to be restricted to
four days. That means that only “Section 92” will
be discussed at any length, and even this discussion
will come to nothing because no unanimous decision
can be expected from the States.
The last Premiers’ conference was held at Mel-
bourne in February, 1934. It lasted for ten days, the
cost being estimated at £5OO a day, and did exactly
nothing.
For two successive years the Commonwealth
tentatively convened, and then abandoned, a Premiers’
conference to be held at Hobart. Now the third
attempt is to be a fiasco.
Parliament has not been sitting since May. Surely
if the slightest value is attached to these conferences
the Adelaide affair could have been held at some
time when there were more than four days to spare.
Mr. Vincent Climbs Down.
The Bulletin is glad to note that the Sydney Govern-
ment has agreed to refer the installation of electric
coal-cutting machinery in N. S. Wales pits to inde-
pendent inquiry.
A bad blunder was made when a royal commis-
sion was set up to probe s.p. betting- charges, for
which a select committee would have been sufficient
and had been asked for. Another piece of folly was
the appointing of a man from some department or
other to conduct another milk investigation, the out-
rageous price of 7d. a quart that the metropolitan
consumer has to pay being excluded from the terms
of reference. Each investigation has dragged on for
months, and it will be a miracle if any good comes
from either. But the affair of the coal-cutting machine
is imperatively one for inquiry by the best man avail-
able. Indeed, an inquiry should have been sanctioned
when the 450 men employed in the Aberdare Central
mine gave up their jobs months ago rather than go
on working after their check inspector had reported
that “the machine is dangerous because of the presence
in the mine of inflammable gas.”
On August 12 Mr. Dunningham, the Minister
of Labor, admitted to a deputation at Cessnock that
Aberdare Central was “recognised” as “a dangerous
gaseous mine.” Yet on July 21, when a public inquiry
was asked for in the House by Mr. Baddeley, M.L.A.,
Mr. Vincent, the Minister of Mines, while admitting that
“Aberdare Central is a gaseous mine,” declared that
a joint inspection had found conditions “quite satis-
factory,” that the machine in question, “the latest in
electrical appliances for cutting coal,” had passed
a British Home Office test, and that it would be “waste
of time to set up a committee of inquiry.”
Hours after his colleague, who had no responsi-
bility in the matter, had “recognised” that “Aberdare
Central is a dangerous gaseous mine,” and intimated
(hat “a competent authority would inquire into the
whole matter,” Mr. Vincent announced that the
Government had “decided to inquire into the safety or
otherwise of the machine.” In ruder times, a Minister
who had thus been thrown over by his own Govern-
ment would have resigned rather than eat his own
words, but nowadays that kind of thing simply isn’t
done.
The Pursuif of Tourists.
The Commonwealth subsidises a National Travel
Association to encourage trippers to come to Aus-
tralia and spend money. Having possibly read the
association’s literature, an elderly lady arrived in
Australia a few months ago, having a thousand pounds
or so to spend. She fell in love with the place, and
decided to come back and import some more money
after a trip to Asia.
Ordering a berth on a ship to Japan, the lady
found herself served with a buff form which looks
to the uninitiated like a writ. It is headed “Federal
and State Income Taxes —Taxation Clearance Certi-
ficate,” and is full of bewildering admonitions about
the provisions of Section 54 (4), liability for sales
tax, etc.
The visitor was required to state her name in full,
occupation, address, date of arrival in Australia, what
ship she was leaving by, date of departure, intended
period of absence, destination and full names of rela-
tives, not in receipt of income, accompanying her.
The form went on to recite a rigmarole of
procedure and guarantee which must be accomplished
by those who have lodged tax returns, till it tailed off
into another “to be completed by persons who have
not lodged returns.” Reasons why returns had not
been lodged were demanded, also date of birth,
whether married or single, and, if married, date of
marriage and (again) full names and dates of birth
of children, if any. And there was a declaration to
be signed that the statements were true and correct
in every particular.
Presumably this sort of thing makes a job for
somebody, but it seems enough to induce the timid
or irritable tourist to give Australia a wide berth.
Encouraging News About Cancer.
Let this be said for the Commonwealth Government:
it is not unmindful of its obligations to sufferers from
cancer. It helps in co-ordination work, in the employ-
ment of a competent radio physicist to work with
clinics, and, above all, in the provision of radium
supplies. But there is a great deal more to be done.
About £150,000 would provide in every State
an adequate cancer pavilion with proper facilities for
clinical research. For another £lO,OOO a year the Com-
monwealth could get a competent research worker
who would observe and co-ordinate results in each
hospital. All the expenses of running these special
hospital sections might be provided locally. In most
cities the medical and treatment organisation is there
already ; but the accommodation and special research
facilities are not.
Each passing year yields new successes in the
field of deep X-ray therapy. German reports on the
neuro-hormonal treatment which is being carried out
experimentally by a group of German, French, Swiss
and Yugoslavian doctors of world standing suggest
that another track of importance has been opened up.
The results are well authenticated —the “Medical
Journal of Australia” has a leading article on them
in its last issue. A simple series of painless intra-
muscular injections of extracts from various parts of
the interiors of animals was given, along with tablets
taken through the mouth.
Of 114 cases treated, 104 were “desperate”—
cases in which nearly all the victims had been operated
on. Some had growths in several parts of the body ;
all were beyond the aid of surgery or irradiation.
Many could not stand up. Some were regularly under
morphia. Four died, but many are greatly improved.
Some have returned to work and are apparently with-
out growths. Very bad bed cases, after a few weeks’
treatment, are able to walk. One patient who had
been in bed for nearly a year and was in coma
recovered sufficiently to return to his job after a few
weeks’ treatment.
The “Medical Journal” says that it is too early
to pronounce judgment, but results are “unusually
encouraging.” They should likewise encourage
Governments to help with the means at our disposal,
the Australian Government in particular.
Surplus and Shortage.
There has been a pause or hiatus or something in the
Sydney Government’s plan for putting all the N. S.
Wales unemployed on loan works “at full award
wages,” and thousands of poor devils who were getting
temporary relief jobs have had to go back on the dole.
The loan works —Sutherland-Cronulla and Sandy
Hoilow-Maryvale railways, sewering of semi-insolvent
Sydney suburbs and providing of Olympic swimming
pools and the like for country shires —can never pay.
x\nd when they cut out the Government, in addition
to drawing on the taxes to make up the interest, will
have to come to the help of municipalities and shires
that will have gone heavily into debt as part of the
plan. (It had to do this in the case of the Water and
Sewerage Board before the present prodigious schedule
of sewerage works was drawn up.) In the result, many
workless men will find their prospects of getting
permanent and productive toil poorer than ever.
Dissatisfied U.A.P. members have been bombard-
ing Deputy-Premier Bruxner with protests against the
relegation of so many emergency relief-workers to
food-docket status and imploring Premier Stevens by
cable to use his influence in their behalf, Mr. Dun-
ningham, the Minister of Labor, introduced a diver-
sion by intimating that, while there was a devastating
overplus of laborers, there was a shortage of skilled
workers in certain industries.
A shortage of marine fitters’, turners, boilermakers,
platers, welders, ship-joiners, machinists and elec-
tricians ; an unsatisfied demand for carpenters, brick-
layers and draughtsmen. It seems impossible to get
bodymakers for saloon car-work, and 100 panel beaters
could be employed in the coachbuilding trade.
As for women workers.
There is a shortage of experienced machinists for
straw-hat making, bootmaking, artificial-flower making,
carton boxes, frocks, underclothing and other clothing
trades.
Well, what has Mr. Dunningham’s Government
been doing all this time? It is in its fifth year, and
since it arrived tens of thousands of youngsters have
drifted on the unskilled-labor market. What has the
Education Department been doing? Very little, it
is obvious, on the technical side of its job, though
Minister Drummond’s exertions have been rewarded
with a trip to England to attend some conference or
other—nothing to do with technical education, of
course.
In the year to June 30 Mr. Dunningham’s Gov-
ernment extracted £6,190,000 in unemployed-relief
taxes. It appropriated £1,000,000 for food relief, but
only £150,000 “to provide for ‘works.’ ” Why doesn’t
it say to wagepayers in general, “As from the
beginning of the financial year we will let you contract
out of part of this tax if you give employment addi-
tional to what you gave on June 30? The tax will
remain at lOd. in the £, but if you employ men and
women on jobs for which they have had some train-
ing, and if you take lads and girls on the strength and
train them in skilled callings, we will give you a
remission of up to sd. in the £.” This would result
in the immediate and fruitful employment of thou-
sands for whom there is offered nothing better than
donkey work for a few months even if the Govern-
ment’s rosiest expectations of its loan works are
fulfilled.
But it would seem that this Government is so
intent on larding itself with stale eulogy and
ladling out verbose assurances to the unemployed
that they would be much worse off had Lang remained
in office that it has no time to spare for anything
constructive.
Another Royal Commission.
Returning from one of his tours abroad (this time
he had tripped to the international sugar conference
that wasn’t held), Queensland Premier Forgan Smith
soon realised that his transport regulators had infuri-
ated motor-users and their customers the public, and
that resistance was organised and articulate. He is
too intelligent to ignore the necessity to do something
in such circumstances—or make a show of doing
something. So he fell back upon the device of appoint-
ing a royal commission with an elaborate “order of
reference.”
A Supreme Court Judge, the Main Roads Com-
missioner and a merchant are to investigate and report.
They began to take evidence on August 12, and expect
to sit till about the end of the year. Parliament will
have risen by then, or if it hasn’t risen it will be too
busy to discuss the Transport Act. Thus the report
will be available for consideration during the recess,
and after the assembling of Parliament about August,
1937, such recommendations as may have been made
may or may not be favorably treated, according to
the wishes of the caucus. Or, of course, there may
be another royal commission.
Meantime the Strangulation Board is free to impose
taxation by regulation, to order petrol-driven traffic
off the roads, and to refuse the public the right to
utilise the cheapest and best form of transport that
should be available. No doubt the Railway Depart-
ment, whose insolvency has been concealed by book-
keeping jugglery, will continue to proclaim its slogan,
“Use the railways—you own them,” and will keep
quiet about the fact that in the last financial year its
receipts went down £353,150 and working expenses
w'ent up £94,721, while there was rather more than the
usual increase in motor registrations. Presumably
commercial-motor people will not be permitted to
proclaim the slogan that they consider appropriate,
“Use the roads —you’ve paid for them.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Spud”; Kindergarten children in a
Westralian town had been told the sig-
nificance of a flag flying at half-mast
and the teacher was testing their powers
of assimilation with a few questions.
Asked to tell what he had learned, one
bright youngster reckoned “When a
flag’s at half-mast it means someone’s
half-dead, and when it’s at the top of
the pole he’s pegged out.”
# :|: sic
“Ex-Officer”; I repeat that I have
never heard of anyone in the Army be-
ing handed his commission. I have mine
still, wherein the King addresses me as his
“trusty and well beloved,” and states that
his confidence in my loyalty, courage and
good conduct has decided him to
appoint me an officer in his land forces.
But even this document, by means of
which I functioned as an officer, did
not reach me until I had left the Army
—and when the war which I had helped
to win was a memory of the past. I
doubt if it would have reached me then
had I not written to the War Office and
asked what they were doing about it.
Then they handed me my commission
—by post.
“Fillemup”: The “S. M. Herald” can
be very English. “At the little village of
Billinudgel,” it records, “Mr. Lyons, who
stayed there for dinner, was voted a jolly
good sport after he had stood drinks for
all who were crowded into .the small
bar.” When I first arrived in this coun-
try I was told that “standing drinks” was
an absurd and almost an objectionable
phrase, stamping the perpetrator as a
“Pommy,” in a country where everyone
desirous of indulging in this pleasing
social practice “shouted.” I took heed,
and have never since employed if. But
I suppose “Granny” would find some-
thing undignified in the idea of a Prime
Minister (and a P.C.) “shouting for the
crowd.”
“Edenglassie”: Brisbane Customs
officers stumbled on a cute device aboard
the Taiping—a canister made of sheet
brass and fitted with an airtight compart-
ment to make it unsinkable. It held 15
2oz. tins of double-strength opium ; when
tested at the wharf the tin bobbed about
like a cork. Something of the kind has
been used for years up north by opium-
smugglers. Thrown into the sea at some
prearranged place and time, it is picked
up by a fast motor-boat waiting for
that purpose. Customs officers have no
fast boats.
“Sixenate”; It was a husband-and-wife
case in a Sydney police court. The
former put forward a tale of persistent
harrying on the part of the wife which
caused the magistrate to make a sym-
pathetic remark. “Well, I quote the poet,
y’r Worship,” said hubby, who was de-
fendant. The S.M. was curious. “You
know, yT Worship—the lines ‘Beneath
the bludgeonings of fate me head is
bloody well unbowed.’ ” It was neces-
sary for “Silence in the court!” to be
called very loudly after that; but the
jaunty man with the unbowed head had
no further bludgeoning, as far as the
Court was concerned.
* * *
“Old-timer”: Spaniards may be scarce
in this country (B. 5/8/’36), but when I
was down about Barham (mid-Murray)
there was a pretty big bunch of them
growing tomatoes on the Vic. side of the
river. A Bendigo sauce factory took most
of their produce.
-I* •*' *i'
“Exdig”: One of the earliest photo-
graphs of the upset in Spain pictures a
shell landing on a big building in a town.
The people in the street look undis-
turbed, hardly startled. It reminds me
of an experience of my own in Mor-
becque when that little French town was
reduced in a couple of hours to a ruin.
When the shells began to pour in we had
to help the townsfolk out. The impres-
sion, apart from the whine and crash of
shell explosions, was of tense human
silence. If the dazed people spoke it
“Most annoying, dear! Lost my collar-stud again."
was in whispers. Nor was there any
rush to escape the dangers; men and
women loaded themselves with house-
hold goods and moved with a slowness
that was irritating to us who had the job
of helping them. A couple of months
later I saw “The Better ’Ole” in London.
One scene showed a village suddenly
shelled. It was full of frantically rushing
people and loud shrieks. To the initiated
the stage picture must have looked much
more like the real thing than what it
was supposed to portray would have
done.
“Kellick”: Escapes from land prisons,
excepting the most pretentious establish-
ments, are not infrequent, but I have
known only one man who got away from
naval custody. When under open arrest
in H.M.A.S. Australia, this prisoner dived
through a porthole, swam to a motor-
boat moored alongside Garden Island,
climbed aboard and headed for Woolloo-
mooloo. He beat his pursuers by about
a minute. That was six years ago —and
he hasn’t been recaptured.
“Ancient Greek”: 1 notice many dif-
ferences between the modern Olympiad
and ancient ones. In classical times the
contestants used to go into the fray in
their birthday suits, and sometimes they
came out of it dead. Women were not
allowed to compete ; they couldn’t even
be spectators. The old Greek boxers
went into action with weights fastened
in their hands, and Virgil mentions one
man getting up on tiptoe to strike his
adversary on the top of the head. 1
have seen no modern record to touch
that of Phayllus of Kroton, who is
alleged to have made a long jump of
50 feet. Nor have I heard of any in-
stance of cheating such as is recorded in
the ninety-eighth Olympiad (388 b.c.)
when Eupolos was convicted of bribing
the three boxers opposed’ to him. Also,
there are several classical allusions which
make it plain that the vanquished were
victims of gibe and ridicule, and sneaked
home by lanes and backways.
si; * *
“T.A.C.”: “Gee” is wrong in suggest-
ing that the old-fashioned school black-
boards are artists’ anachronisms (B.
5/8/’36). As a Government teacher in
N. S. Wales up to a year ago, I can certify
that they are still in use. They have their
advantages, too ; personally I preferred
them to the fixed wall-boards. They
could be moved to suit the convenience
of the pupils, who sometimes find the
other type too far off or in an unfavor-
able light. Also, both sides can be used,
and work can be kept on the board.
* * * *
“Ex-Ringkeeper”: About the making
of those double-headed —or double-
tailed—-pennies, the real art is the joining
together. An ex-plumber member of
our platoon used to do it with a scrap
of the thinnest tinfoil from a cigarette
wrapper. Having ground the two halves
accurately, using a lignum-vita; block
countersunk to half the depth ol: a
penny as a holder and any grinder avail-
able—a file, an emery wheel, or even a
grindstone—he gave (he job a wash with
killed spirit, inserted the tinfoil, and then
put the thing to sweat on a hot plate over
a charcoal brazier. The resultant join was
quite invisible other than with a mag-
nifying glass. Such masterpieces were
not cheap—Bank of England currency
to the value of 20s. alone bought one.
“V.A.G.”: I can understand the
reasons and uses of the double-headed
penny, but why a halfpenny should be
similarly treated puzzles me. Yet I ac-
quired one lately in change from a news-
boy. I have some idea of keeping it
for tossing with persons who habitually
call “tails.”
“Ming": The story of the pressman who
was made welcome on the Nahlin (B.
J2/8/’36) shows the owner in a favorable
light (and mood). On her visit to Aus-
tralia she had a brush with the port
authorities at Melbourne, and immedi-
ately shook the spray of Port Phillip
from her prow. Later in M.L. she had
a dust-up with the Tourist Department
over a matter of a few pounds, and
departed in a swirl of indignation. Even
the possessors of twenty millions or more
don’t find life all plain sailing.
“Miro”: Commissions? When a Maori-
land youth who went into camp ahead of
most of the lads from his district was.
unexpectedly promoted from the ranks
the distinction went to his head. The
first cobber from the home town to hail
him genially as “Cecil” was met with a
chilly “Mister to you, please!” A few
days later the lad was marching proudly
at the head of his column when a
delighted aunt addressed him from the
sidepath as “Cecil, darling.” He had no
occasion to acknowledge the greeting,
as with one voice the column yelled
“Mister to you, please!” A scarlet-
faced young man left auntie gazing after
him in bewilderment.
£ Hi *
“Pitt St.”: Touching these film anach-
ronisms (B. 5/8/’36), the otherwise
splendid scene of Arabs attacking a
French battalion in “Under Two Flags,
shown recently, was spoilt for me by the
fact that the soldiers of the Legion used
a very modern machine-gun. Ouida’s
book was published in the ’seventies.
“Plankton”: I have looked on a Japan-
ese scene in which the rickshaw boys wore
pigtails, and another where British sol-
diers saluted officers in approved Yankee
style. But the most glaring of all was
the long, slender cigarette-holder (1920
model) in the dainty fingers of a gay
adventuress figuring in “Monsieur Beau-
caire.”
“Panza”: The numerous maps of
Spain published in the dailies call atten-
tion to a rare geographical distinction
held by the country-—the capital, Madrid,
is almost in the exact centre of it. From
an administrative viewpoint this might
be regarded as an ideal arrangement.
Years ago, when Australia was looking
for a capital, Jimmy Edmond persistently
advanced arguments in The Bulletin to
prove that a site in or handy to the
Macdonnell Ranges would have every-
thing to recommend it, especially as a
means of opening up the country, it
would certainly be an advantage, too, in
the event of an invasion from whatever
quarter the enemy might advance. But
in the case of civil war the benefits of
a central capital are much less apparent.
For one thing, the Government, if things
are going against it, has precious little
chance of escape except by aircraft.
... * *
“Uramao”: Recently Maoriland’s High
Commissioner received a request from
the 8.8. C. for a copy of the Dominion's
National Anthem, and it has sines
been orchestrated for broadcasting.
Though written over half a century ago
by Tom Bracken and set to music by the
late J. J. Woods, the anthem had no
wide vogue until wireless gave it new
birth. A Maorilander was at a festival in
Rome. The anthems of various countries
were played and the nationals stood to
their feet. The Maorilander was presently
amazed to hear his own anthem, and
he. too, rose—a solitary figure in the
great assemblage.
* * * *
“N. Gineer”: During recent altera-
tions to a 50-year-old building in Laun-
ceston some convict-made bricks were
taken out. They were second-hand when
the building was erected, and it speaks
something for their quality that they are
still good for a further term. Bricks of
convict manufacture frequently bear the
imprint of the maker's thumb, and some
of these were so branded. Another is
dated 1822 ; on yet another a name is
scratched. lam not going to divulge it.
MALTA.
] was glad when we left Gibraltar; l”ni sick
of the thought of Spain.
Now we’ve arrived at Malta I’m almost
cheerful again.
And 1 went ashore with McLean, our old chief
engineer,
And I saw so much to-day that nothing seems
very clear.
But two things stand in my mind, above and
over them all;
The Cathedral of John of Jerusalem and the
blue Bay of St. Paul.
To think that St. Paul was a man, like Mr.
McLean and me;
To think that he* sailed in a ship, like us, on
this selfsame sea;
To think he was shipwrecked here, and saved
on this very shore;
And that was a thousand years ago—no, nearly
a thousand more.
I had read about it before, but somehow it
didn’t mean
Much to me till to-day when I went ashore
with McLean.
Dreaming the years away, up on the wind-
swept heights,
I saw the church of St. John; I saw the
tombs of the knights;
Hanging high on the walls, old and faded and
frayed,
The banners of battle they bore, till they went
on their Last Crusade.
.1 could have knelt and prayed, I could have
almost cried,
Only for Mr. McLean standing there at my
side.
There were dozens of things besides; things I
can scarce recall;
My head’s in a whirl to-night; I can’t remem-
ber them all.
I shan’t be able to sleep, and I couldn’t enjoy
my tea.
But I’m glad that father was sensible when I
wanted to go to sea.
I'm glad of the things I learned; I’m glad of
the things I’ve seen;
And I’m glad that I went ashore to-day at
Malta with Mr. McLean.
QUEENSLAND.
L. O’NEIL.


“5.0. E.”; Told of the late Father
Piquet, renowned for his charity to all
in need, how a woman once appealed
to him for a loan of £2. “Two pounds!”
said the priest, “I am afraid I have no
money at all.” He put his hand in
his pocket, and unexpectedly found two
£1 notes. “A miracle,” he declared, and
was about to hand over the money when
a brother priest appeared in a hurry ;
“Father, where is my coat? Why, you
have it on —that money is mine.” And
the miracle did not eventuate.
* * * *
“Stalin’s Ghost”: As I walked along
Macquarie-street, Sydney, the day before
(he new Governor of N.S.W. arrived, a
sight met my eyes which I have dreamed
of for many years. Across the gates of
Government House somebody had hung
a red flag, which, like all banners of the
sort the world over, had a limp and un-
tidy look. The word “Welcome” in hazy
letters across it was given a special signi-
ficance by a gentleman who was leaning
against a gatepost fingering a coil of
rope and chewing something with excel-
lent proletarian technique. The general
effect was startling, but some cow spoilt
it during the afternoon by adding a bit
of blue and white.
* * $ • *
“Kali”: Tricky trade signs (B.
12/8/”36)? One enterprising hamburger
merchant in St. Kilda, Vic., appeals to
the public with the slogan “Eat more or
we will both starve.”
* $ M: *
“Watercress”: A copy of the “Vege-
tarian News” (London) that has come my
way suggests that, in the U.K. at all
events, the cult is progressing; the
example and precept of Bernard Shaw
may have had something to do with it.
In the old country nowadays not only
do vegetarian clubs, restaurants, hostels
and guest-houses flourish, but there is
even a vegetarian athletic organisation.
Turning to more strenuous pastimes
than cycling and running, the “V.N.”
asks: “How does the gorilla, man’s near-
est relative in the animal world, get the
reddest blood and the most sturdy
muscles of any living thing from a diet
of wild celery and berries?” I don’t
know how he does it, but the query set
me wondering if any vegetarian pugilist
has ever slogged his way to fame. I
never heard of one, but when found he
will be a far better ad. for vegetarianism
than the gorilla.
* # * *
“Willies”: In contrast with the perils
of fermenting wheat as ship’s cargo (B.
5/8/ ’36), Australian sugar has been
known to show a pleasing effect. In ’l7
we loaded sugar at Pyrmont (Sydney) for
Leghorn, discharged and cleared again
for Sydney. Rough weather being encoun-
tered, hatches were battened down. The
mate, a new hand in cargo carriers, sent
the watch down to “clean holds.” At
seven bells nobody appeared from below,
neither did “Halloos” get any response.
When the four A.Bs. were brought on
deck they were all dead drunk. Breath-
ing sugar fumes had done the trick.
“Jobber”: A Torres Strait mummy
may be worth a fiver (B. 29/7/’36), but
I couldn’t understand the Digger who
wanted to spring me the same figure for
the first issue of “Aussie,” printed “some-
where in France.” He asked, through
The Bulletin’s Service Column, if
anyone had a copy, saying he would
“Sorry to ’ave to leave it, mister, but We just 'card the pub's on fire."
pay well. I wrote to him that he
could have mine; his reply took the
form of a cheque and a letter tell-
ing me he had had a rough trot,
but was looking for a good harvest.
I returned the cheque with the intimation
that ten bob for the local Diggers’ kid-
dies’ home would be a fair thing. The ten
bob came and the paper went.
* * * *
“Zabut”: Convenient creeds for sol-
diers? A South African veteran of my
acquaintance, on the strength of his pre-
vious experiences, arrived in the Great
War as a Jew. It wasn’t so much the
dodging of church parades that con-
verted him as the number of fes-
tival days which had to be ob-
served. These inevitably meant
leave and a feting by co-religion-
ists in the nearest town. The
adjutant and orderly-room clerk
of an A.I.F. unit registered
surprise when Paddy Carey
paraded for leave-pass and rail-
"Ah! I remembah! You are ze good Colonel Farquhar's voman—
am I right ?”
warrant on the first Jewish festival
that came along. They demanded his
paybook for verification, but everything
was O.K.
* * * *
“ Moontah ”: The old - timer who
thought that he needed to raise his voice
to be heard on the phone between
Sydney and Melbourne (B. 22/7/’36)
reminds me of the time when Cap’n
Penglase installed a local system between
the main shaft and the battery on the
opposite side of the gully. The first call
was put over by Ole Tom Treglowan, the
Cap’n being across at the mill. Realising
the distance and the necessity of being
heard above the roar of the stamps, Tom
started off with a shout. “Can’t hear
’un” came the whisper back. Pitching
an octave or two higher Tom tried again.
“Still can’t hear ’un” was all he got.
Taking hold of himself Tom had a third
try, nearly cracking his throat. “Can’t
make ’un out” was his reward. Filled
with contempt for such “ newfangled
things” Tom turned to interested by-
standers. “Can’t hear me! Damme,
what’s come over ole Cap’n? Think
ole must be gettin’ deaf.” Then
Tom stood as one stricken with paralysis,
for the whisper came back: “1 heard you
perfectly that time, Tummas!”
_ ‘‘Johnhop”: Dusty industries (B.
5/8 /’36) ? Coal-dust, which certainly
blackens a miner s lungs unpleasantly,
is practically ln fact, miners
phthisis, due to silica-dust, much less
frequent since wet-drilling was made
compulsory, is often benefited by a
period of coal-mining. The theory is
that the coal-dust helps to coat the sharp
silica particles with a non-irritant layer
of carbon. Perhaps the most dangerous
of dusts comes from the bamboo.
Exposure for any length of time to the
minute splinters from this plant usually
proves fatal.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Good work
done by old-time tradesmen (B. 5/8/’36)?
In the early days of the Moonta (S.A.)
copper mines there were
practically no makers of
mining machinery in Aus-
tralia, and it took a long
time to import it. But the
Moonta people employed
a few men game to tackle
anything, and they did
some extraordinary jobs,
the most outstanding being
the building of a main
drive shaft for the ore-
concentrating plant—from
scrap iron! Blacksmiths
began to save up alt the
scrap wrought-iron, such
as old bolts, worn-out
horseshoes, etc.; these
bundles were raised to
welding heat in the fur-
nace and then faggoted
into billets on the anvil.
When sufficient billets had
been collected they were welded into a
shaft 30 feet in length and 18 inches in
diameter, which was then turned up on
a lathe enlarged to take it. That shaft
did service for many years; visiting
engineers were always amazed when told
its history. The only people who were
not impressed were the miners. “That
do be nothin’ for they workshop
laads,” they would inform a
visitor. “They could build battle-
ship for ’ee if they tried.” After
examining that bit of shafting I wouldn’t
have put it past them.
Melbourne is lo have another
centenary in 1939 —that of the R.C.
Church in this part of the world. It
was on May 19, 1839, that Father (after-
wards Bishop) Geoghegan celebrated the
first mass in Melbourne. A £300,000 build-
ing programme is to be the chief feature of
the rejoicings; it includes a chapel at New-
man College, a monastery at the corner
of Elizabeth and Lonsdale streets and
new premises for the Catholic “Advo-
cate” in a’Beckett-street. But the most
impressive architectural gift to Mel-
bourne will be the completion of St. Pat-
rick’s Cathedral according to the plan
of the original architect, W. W. Warded.
Without its spires the present building
looks squat; with the immense central
tower and spire and the two front spires
added, it will be one of the finest
examples of Gothic in Australia. The
spires will be a memorial to Archbishops
Goold (first) and Carr (second). St.
Mary’s, Sydney, was designed by Warded.
“Erua”: Errors in petty cash (B.
12/8/’36). The Bright Young Person
who looked after such things in our M.L.
office one day announced herself £6
short, and after every possible line of
inquiry had been exhausted the amount
was finally posted as missing. A week
later the B.Y.P. dashed in in a frenzy of
delight and excitement. The money, she
explained, had been borrowed by the
foreman of the gum store to pay an old
gumdigger for his consignment of gum,
and as it was a last-moment affair she
had handed out the cash and forgotten to
make a note of it. Then she dramatically
revealed how she had traced the cash.
“Going home last night,” she explained,
“I saw a poor old gumdigger, and sud-
denly it came back to me where that £6
had gone. Memory’s a wonderful thing."
The head accountant, looking sourly at
the young woman, remarked that he pre-
ferred to put his faith in scraps of paper.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The thieving propensities
of gipsies are so traditional that one
sometimes wonders if there is not as
much exaggeration in them as in the
popular belief that Jews can’t help
becoming rich, despite the fact that the
vast mass of Jewry never rises above dire
poverty. My 50-year-old encyclopiedia
remarks that in 1877 there were only a
few thousand tent-dwelling gipsies in Eng-
land, while 20,000 were respectable house-
owners, and the town of Yetholm in
Roxburghshire was exclusively inhabited
by pure-blooded speakers of Romany.
Whatever their means of livelihood, they
appear to be raising themselves in the
social scale in Australia, too. The other
Friday night I saw a gipsy woman, tall,
traditionally handsome and picturesquely
dressed, bargaining with a second-hand
motor salesman in Latrobe-street, Mel-
bourne. for an elegant caravan.
A MYSTERIOUS COIN.
“K.C. (at the S.P. Commission) : ‘His words were
that he took a bet tor a deener —that’s a sixpenny
bet. 9
“Better-informed junior; ‘Oh, no, a deener is a
shilling-. A zack is sixpence and a tray is three-
pence.’ ”
Our slang terms for coins are expressive and
various;
Tis seldom their origin anyone knows.
But deener derives from the Latin denarius
Through the Gallic denier, one may fairly
suppose.
The sixpence—the Englishman’s tanner or
tizzy—
Is a zack or a sprat all our continent through,
But my forehead would knit and my brain
would grow dizzy
Were I ever required to define a “rahzoo.”
From Darwin to Daylesford, from Cue to Con-
dobolin,
From Brisbane to Burnie we know —or we
did
When sovereigns were plenty—a Jimmy
O’Goblin
Is worth just the same as a pound or a quid.
A penny’s a brown and a crown is a caser,
But here is a bullet for pundits to chew,
A knock-me-down problem, a regular facer;
Can anyone tell us what is a “rahzoo”?
The threepenny-bit that is tossed to a bummer,
Or in the' collection-plate piously placed,
Is either a ticky, a tray or a thrummer;
It’s purely a matter of fancy and taste.
But this other affair —is it dinkum or spurious?
Suppose it were tendered, let’s say, to a Jew,
Would he grab or reject it? I own that I’m
curious.
And what do you think it would buy, a
“rahzoo”?
I've never encountered a chap who had got one
To park in his pocket or grip in his fist,
But I’Ve heard of so many poor devils who’ve
not one
That I’m bound to conjecture the thing must
exist.
We have picturesque terms and colloquial
phrases
For most of the boodle we bank or we blew,
But it beats me to know what the blithering
blazes
Is meant by that overworked word a
“rahzoo.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


'•to
A
20/brl'6
10 for 9 d
W 1874
THE
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CORK
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENE R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
When Parliament returns to its job
there will be a first-class row over asser-
tions made a week ago by J. S. Teasdale,
president of the Westralian P.P.A., in
explaining why woolgrowers— not all of
them, of course —have acquiesced in the
Government’s hush-hush policy regarding
its trade war with Japan:
Confidential information and documents
displayed to the woolgrowers by the Prime
Minister were instrumental in relieving
their minds to a considerable degree.
Curtin has demanded an explanation
1 rom the P.M. At the moment of writing
none has been forthcoming.
Politicians who change their party
shouldn’t be forgetful. Tackled about
the sales tax, Lyons said “We didn’t put
Ihe sales tax on.” But he was a member
of the Labor Government that intro-
duced it in 1931. Scullin, Theodore and
he were “we” then.,
At Brisbane Lyons was speaking
about “the protection my Government
has extended to industry” (cement cos.
don’t think much of it) when a member
of the audience interposed with “You’re
giving no protection to the wool
industry.” The reply was “It doesn’t
need protection, thank goodness!” Not
tariff protection, but it needs protection
from clumsy fellows who consider them-
selves statesmen, and that has been
refused.
Sir Leslie Wilson, who intimated that
he did not want to be reappointed
Governor of Queensland, has been re-
appointed. When he went to England
to attend the international sugar con-
ference that never was on sea or land
Forgan Smith proposed a Queensland
successor, but the Dominions Office
would have none of it. Westralian
Labor got over the difficulty neatly by
sending Mitchell, the Premier it defeated,
to Government House as Lieut.-Gov.
He has been there for upwards of three
years, and the crimson bond is still func-
tioning.
A cinema-theatre man has returned
from Hollywood with the information
that Australia can’t expect to get any
more actors like Charles Farrell from
those parts, Farrell having spread the
news that actors are taxed higher here
than almost anywhere else. Australia
can really struggle along without Holly-
wood actors ; all the same, Mr. Farrell’s
opinion of its taxes can’t help its tourist
trade.
The Olympic Games had their political
side —politics creep into everything nowa-
days—and in that respect, as in others,
seem to have been eminently successful.
Not so the Red Games which were to
have been staged at Barcelona as a rival
show ; they had to be abandoned because
of “rebel” interruptions. A daughter of
Vance and Nettie Palmer was “interpret-
ing in Barcelona for the bureau that was
to entertain foreign athletes arriving for
the People’s Olympiad,” when the whole
show was blown away by civil-war gun-
fire. Nehher Russians nor Spaniards took
part in the Berlin Games.
With about a twelfth of the electors
voting in the selection ballot, a son of
the late W. F. Foster won the U.A.P.
nomination in Vaucluse (N.S.W.); but
he is not to have the easy time that Gold-
finch enjoyed. That C.S.R. man got the
U.A.P. nomination in Gordon, was given
a walkover, and made a few appearances
in the House. He then set off for London
—not, of course, for his constituents but
for his company —in search of the inter-
national sugar conference which more
important politicians failed to track
down, among them Forgan Smith. Young
Foster is to have opposition from young
Robson, son of an M.L.C. who has
never had any use for machine politics.
Introducing the bill for the appoint-
ment of another paid Minister, Vic.
Premier Dunstan said it would involve
merely the difference between £1250, “the
present nominal salary of a Minister,”
and £5OO, “the nominal allowance of a
member”; —•
The actual additional expenditure will,
however, be less than £750, because
financial-emergency deductions are still in
operation.
That was on July 8. A similar state-
ment was made by the leader of the
Upper House on July 22. On August 3
came the Budget speech, in which Mr.
Dunstan announced, in effect, that the
difference would be £750, since all emer-
gency-deductions were being restored. A
small thing, perhaps, but significant of
the contempt with which politicians treat
the public.
The N.S.W. Taxation Department lost
its case against the trawler men who
were blistered for “special unemployment
tax” on their earnings, which are made
chiefly in Victorian and Maoriland
waters. Jordan, C.J., ruled that they are
“‘We have heard nothing from the Japanese Government for three weeks,’ said Mr.
Lyons to the woolgrowers Japanese breast-stroke swimmers at the Olympiad dived deeply
and then swam under water for half the length of the pool.”
“Get under, Joe, or we’ll never catch him!”
taxable only on actual earnings in N. S.
Wales, and ordered the department —-
which, of course, means the people—to
pay the costs. Unfortunately the judg-
ment does not affect N.S.W. residents who
draw property income from other States
—they can still be taxed up. to lOd. in
the £, and they get no exemption for
taxes imposed in the State of origin and
by the Commonwealth. It is a cold-
blooded swindle, but provincial poli-
ticians claim to have “legalised” it.
One of the monthly jokes in Queens-
land, though it may not be widely ap-
preciated, is the publication of a Gov-
ernment “Gazette” indicating the state
of the public funds. There always is a
“credit.” July figures show, that after
deducting the debit in the consolidated
fund from the combined credits in the
loan and trust funds there remains a
credit of £1,348,173. This “credit” gets
a headline all to itself in the newspapers.
But there is a snag. An innocent-looking
item in the “Gazette” gives Treasury bills
outstanding £2,833,000. Thus the actual
and net position is a debit of £1,484,837.
In %hort, Forgan Smith is paying his way
by borrowing.
Another Victorian wife-killer, one
Purcell, has been found “not guilty on
the ground of temporary insanity,” and
will doubtless be let loose some day
when it is “the Governor’s pleasure,” or
the pleasure of some politician or official.
The English verdict in such cases is
“guilty, but insane at the time so as not
to be responsible for his actions.” That
affords the public some protection against
crazy killers; the Australian form gives
no protection at all.
Attorney-General Menzies, giving other
people advice at Melbourne:
The price 'of democracy is the energy
with which we, as democrats, are pre-
pared to work the machinery that has
been given to us.
Part of the machinery given to Menzies
is Section 92 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution :
Trade, commerce and intercourse among
the States, whether by means of internal
carriage or ocean navigation, shall be
absolutely free.
Menzies has been trying to throw a
spanner into that part of the machinery.
In the Governor’s speech at the open-
ing of the Queensland Parliament it was
mentioned that revenue front taxation
had been “buoyant.” What wasn’t men-
tioned was that the deficit had exceeded
the previous one by £177,204. True, the
1934-35 shortage fell short of the esti-
mate by £420,588, but the estimate was
a bit hot. Had all the Treasurers esti-
mated on a similar basis even the Loan
Council might have had a shock.,
Fantastic as it seems, Spooner, Stevens’s
understudy, considers himself an afeh-
opponent of collectivism —a great rock
of individual effort, on which insidi-
ous socialist schemes break in vain. At
the Chamber of Commerce dinner in
Sydney he solemnly warned the other
diners against such schemes, and gave
them to understand that he had smashed
all emanating from “ambitious” young
men in the departments. That very
week the Department of Road Transport
announced the impending purchase of
“20 more new large-type Government
buses.” There were no Government
buses in N. S. Wales before the anti-
socialist Government came along.
Of 2000 ex-warriors placed on soldier-
settlement farms in Tasmania, only 500
can now be found there. The Lands
Minister furnished this information when
introducing another revaluation plan,
explaining that the 1500 had “either left
of their own accord or were evicted.”
Of course they were nearly all placed
on dear land, and some of the dear land
was so poor that it has been sold to the
Forestry Department for forestry pur-
poses. A sorry chapter in the history of
land settlement, but every other State
can furnish parallels.
Bussau, the Victorian Transport Min-
ister, has exhibited a tendency to hys-
teria since the Riverina “hauliers” showed
that they were not going to be meek and
humble about his efforts to drive them
off the roads. In an emotional address
at Beulah, Bussau said:
If you want road transport, you can
have it, but you will lose the railways and
ruin yourselves and the State if you
incur it.
Another politician with a bullock-dray
mind! In a larger sense —remembering
Paris and the motor-buses that saved it
in 1914, also the motor-lorries that saved
Verdun in 1916 —it might be argued that
politicians with bullock-dray minds will
ruin Australia if they thwart the develop-
ment of motor transport.
Queensland Taxpayers’ Association,
unwearied in its pursuit of facts which
may move an easygoing people to demand
tax-reduction, has discovered that in the
20 years to June 30, 1935, Savings Bank
deposits increased by £2O ss. 2d. per
head in Victoria and only £9 14s. Id. in
Queensland —“£4 4s. 2d. below the aver-
age for all States.” The reason?
Taxation is 40 p.c. per head higher in
Queensland than in Victoria.
Probably not the only reason, since
Queensland has lotteries and Victoria
has none ; but a striking comparison.
N.S.W. Premier Stevens goes to Glas-
gow :
June 15.—Conference with traders, four
hours; lunch (with speeches), 3i hours.
June 16. —Visit to Glasgow meat, fruit
and cheese markets, three hours (it would
take a man knowledgeable in meat and
fruit days to go through them effectively);
lunch, 1| hours; inspecting river and
docks, three hours.
After that, the wanderer received the re-
porters and told them all about Aus-
tralia and all about Glasgow.
Although Westralian Labor was weak-
ened in the Leg. Assembly by this year’s
elections, it slightly improved its position
in the Council, where it now holds eight
seats out of 30. An old plank of its
Labor platform was “Reform of the
Legislative Council with a view to its
ultimate abolition,” which sounded about
as logical as the idea of having a pair
of boots mended to fit them for the scrap-
heap. It is years since there was any
abolition talk; at its mild worst the
Council is a handy thing to throw blame
on when Labor cannot carry out its elec-
tion promises. And, as a Westralian jour-
nalist puts it, “Laborites elected to the
Upper House are soon able to discover
that it has its points of usefulness.”
At the Mort’s Dock Co.’s annual meet-
ing, chairman Kelso King furnished strik-
ing evidence in support of The Bulletin
contention that the States should trans-
fer ordinary income taxation and educa-
tion control (total revenue from one is
less than total expenditure on the other),
one reason being that the Commonwealth
could scarcely help making a better fist
of technical education than the States
have made. The veteran stated (1) that
his concern had had to pay 45 p.c. of the
year’s net earnings in taxes and rates, and
(2) that another of its difficulties was “to
find sufficient skilled labor to complete
our contracts.” That is a result of tech-
nical education being under provincial
control, and starved.


THE COMEBACK.
“Royal Limond, winner of the G.N. Steeplechase at Christchurch (MX.), was bought as a yearling for 500 guineas, but was a failure on the flat. He was then sold t ci
his present owner for 35 guineas.”


LL MOTOR OIL
CUTSOU T "D R A G
O
*
S
OUT
m
W
PERSONAL ITEMS
Another wandering Australian has
achieved honor under the Stars and
Stripes. Frank Apperly, formerly a lec-
turer at Melbourne University and now
at the Medical College, Richmond (Vir-
ginia), has been chosen a member of the
research board of the Virginia Academy
of Science.
Dead at 84 in Auckland, George
Gideon Quintal, in his day well known
as a master mariner and one of the best
boat-steerers in the Pacific. He was a
fine advertisement for the longevity of
the Pitcairners, being himself the first
child born among the Norfolk Island
emigrants from the Bounty island. He
and his father and grandfather bridged
with their lives the 148 years between
1936 and the Bounty mutiny, in which
his great-grandfather took part.
H. J. Hynes has been awarded the third
doctorate in agricultural science con-
ferred since the Sydney University agri-
cultural faculty was founded 26 years
ago. Hynes took his bachelor’s degree
in 1923, won a Walter and Eliza Hall
Fellowship, earned an M.Sc. at Minnesota
(U.S.A.) for a thesis on wheat rust, and
came back to the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department as senior assistant biologist.
His doctor’s thesis opens up new ground
in the investigation of root rot in wheat
and other cereals.
Captain H. B. Robinson, private secre-
tary to the new N.S.W,. Governor, was
born at Southampton (Eng.), and received
his first naval training aboard H.M.S.
Britannia. In 1905 he visited Australia
as a lieutenant. He was with the Home
Fleet until the end of the war, including
two years under Sir Dudley de Chair in
the Tenth Cruiser Squadron as flag-lieu-
tenant. After the war he served in North
Russia, where he was awarded the D.S.O.
A.D.C.
From 1924 to 1926, in China, Robinson
commanded the Magnolia, returning in
1929. Four years later he was appointed
private secretary to Admiral Murray
Anderson, then Governor of Newfound-
land.
G. B. Waller holds a lot of enterprise
under his characteristic hat, and when
he celebrates his pastoral golden jubilee
next year he will have much useful
pioneering to look back on. The hat and
his address, Wallaringa, Wallarobba,
N.S.W., lend George a somewhat
romantic air, but he is a highly practical
grazier. On his three properties—Wal-
laringa, Rosedale (Currububula) and
Cunderang West (Walcha) —he has been
a breeder of Hereford and Short-
horn cattle, merino and comeback
sheep, polo ponies and utility horses.
He has judged many times at the Sydney,
The Squire of Wallaringa.
Melbourne and Brisbane Royal and other
shows, has been president of the N. S.
Wales stud cattle breeders, is prominent
in Masonry and takes a leading part in
public movements in the Dungog district.
But his hobby is shows. He has attended
over 250 of them.
The long-distance award among the
medicoes who received diplomas and
degrees from Sydney University last week
goes to Charles Mervyn Deland, M. 8.,
8.5., formerly of Adelaide. Deland’s job
is to keep the wild mosquito and the
raging framboesia bacillus at bay at Wee-
wak, on, the wilder coast of northern
New Guinea. By way of a holiday he
did the 4000-mile trip to Sydney and
back recently to take his public health
diploma—and got it.
Is Mrs. Thomas Walker, of Hamilton
(Vic.), the oldest Tasmanian? Born at
Launceston, she celebrated her 101st
birthday on August 11. She has lived in
Hamilton for 70 years.
Fred Stewart, knight and erstwhile
Commerce Minister, who is abandoning
business to devote his time to the de-
velopment of his 40-hour week and
national-insurance schemes, is a stocky
man who does not look more than 40 of
his 52 years. For 20 years in the rail-
ways, he conceived the idea that buses
were the coming vehicle, bought a rattle-
trap and started a service to the Chul-
lora railway workshops. By the time
the Government decided to become bus-
men, he had amassed a pile through
his enterprise and his flair for organisa-
tion. He was one of the founders of
Australian National Airways, the first
inter-capital daily service, and had just
imported a factory full of modern wool-
len machinery when he made his decision
to retire. His personal hobby is a model
farm at Dundas. 2CH wireless station,
which he controlled, is in his back
paddock, flanked by the Christmas
bushes which he has planted in four
hundreds along the Kissing Point-road.
Probably the least conventional, cer-
tainly the most artless, pocket-biography
to be found in all the ponderous pages
of Who’s Who is that of the Australian
Steve Fairbairn. Some extracts:
Fairbairn, Stephen (“Steve”). Director
of Dalgety and Co.; rowing coach and
no other occupation; b. 1862, son of
George Fairbairn, who started first freez-
ing works in Australia. Rowed four years
for Cambridge against Oxford; while a
schoolboy played for three years for the
town cricket and football teams—about
equal to playing for a county in England
—papers said he was best footballer in the
States;, worked for 20 years on a sheep
station. Publications: Fairbairn of Jesus;
Rowing Notes, said by some to be the
bible on rowing. Recreations: All games
earlier; later golf; now curing sciatica.
“H.F.”: Mention of the death of
Sidney Williams (B. 5/8 / ’36) recalls that
shortly before his death I saw on his
office wall an address given to him some
10 years ago, signed by old employees
to commemorate the fiftieth aniversary of
the foundation of his business in Rock-
hampton (Q.). It mentioned that during
those 50 years not one day had been lost
in the business through industrial dis-
putes. He told me the day before his
death that it was something of which he
was very proud. He started making his
Comet windmills in Rockhampton 60
years ago. He was 70 when he decided
that he needed a wider sphere and moved
to Sydney.
James Montgomery Flagg, who ranks
as one of the leading illustrators in
U.S.A., told Jimmy Bancks (whose
Ginger Meggs is being syndicated round
the world, and who himself was a Bulle-
tin artist for a decade) that he regards
Norman Lindsay as “the greatest artist
in the world to-day.”
Eric Lowe belongs to the N.S.W. pas-
toral family that owned Consul—
about the first pure Shorthorn bull to
make real history in Australia —
and that did much to extend the borders
of the grazing country beyond the
mountains. Like most of the third and
fourth generation of the country-bred,
he covers a large slice of Australia with
his shadow, but betrays a surprising ac-
tivity for a man of his bulk. If some-
thing like a fly is observed a few hundred
feet up making its way across a Leura
cliff face or jog-trotting up one of the
Three Sisters at Katoomba, it is evens
that it may be Eric, who is a confirmed
cliff-climber, as befits the descendant of
a race which has a century of associa-
A Prior Competition Novelist.
tion with the Blue Mountains. Other
things he does in a large way. When a
sweating carrier arrived at The Bulletin
office staggering under a burden which
looked like a collected edition of all the
Australian “Hansards” in history, it
turned out to be Eric’s entry for the S. H.
Prior prize. And it nearly won the prize,
too —one of the finest novels written in
the Commonwealth for years.
A. J. Hannan, K.C., born 1887, went
from Port Pirie to the Adelaide Univer-
sity, where he took his B.A. with first-
class classical honors, winning the two
David Murray scholarships and the Stow
prize. Called to the Bar in 1913, he be-
came Assistant Crown Solicitor in 1917
and Crown Solicitor in 1927. One of
Mr. Crown Solicitor, S. Australia.
Australia’s very able public servants, he
has lectured in various years on a number
of legal subjects at his old university.
Sydney loses one of its best-known
human landmarks in William Lowe,
founder and managing director of the
clothing stores bearing his name. Tall,
always in immaculate grey and swinging
a walking-stick, Lowe was debonair and
youthful-looking to the end of his 62
years. He came to Victoria in 1889 at 15,
lost his first £5O of savings in the ’93
crash, arrived in Sydney with £ll in his
pocket, turned it into £250 in four years,
opened a small shop in Oxford-street, and
gradually expanded it into a huge George -
street headquarters, with branches which
ranged as far afield as Newcastle and
Parramatta. He was was one of the wit-
nesses for the shop assistants on their
first appearance in a N.S.W. Arbitration
Court.
“El V.” on a retirement:
Everyone who saw Percy Deane at work
during the war and after, regrets the ill health
which has forced his retirement from the War
Entitlements Board at 46. Percy Deane came
out of the A.I.F. a sick man in 1916, after
two years’ service, to find W. M. Hughes
sacking secretaries at the rate of about one
a minute, and took over the job. From then
onwards till 1920 he travelled an average of
1000 miles a week and worked an average of
16 hours a day—sometimes it was 48 hours
at a stretch. Nothing worried Percy in those
days. He was fearless alike of influence or of
Billy, of whom everybody else was afraid. 1
have known him at the end of a 1300-mile
journey, during which he had kept two assist-
ants going with correspondence and answered
repeated profane calls from Billy for papers
and aid, to settle down to a solid eight-hour job
of decoding war cables. At the end of the
war he was about the most powerful man in
Australia next to the P.M. On £4OO a year, he
had powers of action which in settled times are
reserved for senior Ministers. The man who
before 1914 ran a little golf paper in
Melbourne was in 1919 secretary to the Aus-
tralian Peace Delegation and Assistant Secretary
to the British War Cabinet. He became per-
manent head of the P.M.’s Department in
1921, and was secretary to three Australian
delegations to Imperial Conferences. But after
the war he became the victim of nervous re-
actions brought on by strain —a different man
from the bundle of activity we knew from
1916 to 1920.


k
I
♦x
a
E 3
few
JMSJ
m
m
*
is
I
7
$
m
m
&
S/>
m
m
• sa ■
£
*1
i'rii
:::;
l::;:n
iiiiii
!;
!|l!;i
asm
XI
ii
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;
iijiiiiljliiijji;
••I'*! 11
I?«ll
•UMi
mu
fiS
Modol 060 S. 27 ovinea
H
Here is the Heart
of the Radioplayer
—the Sentinel Unit
which is the secret
of the amazing efli-
ciency of the world-
wide models. An
exclusive Radio-
player feature.
DE in tune with the world ... buy
U a PHILIPS RADIOPLAYER
to make your home complete.
Whether you live in the heart of the
city or on the fringe of the Never-
Never, you can keep closer to
happiness with a RADIOPLAYER
—the Key to the World.
OBTAINABLE ON TERMS FROM YOUR
LOCAL RADIOPLAYER RETAILER
it
■i
**
>•
<•1!
• v-vv
SVK
MAKERS OF THE LAMPS THAT LIGHT YOUR HOME


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d'Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p
Tables or Scats may be reserved by 'Phone. M 4601.
MODERN MILLING MACHINERY
For Gold and Base Metal Mines, Etc.
The following equipment Is manufactured under license in our own works at South
Melbourne:—-
DORK Classifiers, Agitators, Thickeners, Pumps, etc.
OLIVER Continuous Drum and Disc Kilters.
MERRILL-CROWE Gold Precipitation Plants,
ALLEK-BHERMAN-HOIT Hydroseal “Maxiinix” Soft Rubber-lined Sand Pumps.
WESTERN-PRECIPITATION Dust Collection and Recovery Units.
Units of the above eqtiipment have-been,-arid are being, supplied to all the principal
Mines in Australasia, such as Great Boulder Pty., Gold Mines, Ltd., Lake View and
Star. Triton, Lancefield, Big Bell, Mount Isa, Mount, Morgan and Mount Lyell. etc.
BY
CROSSLE & DUFF PTY., LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
SYDNEY OFFICE: Crossle, Duff & Macintosh, Ltd., Winchcombe House, 53 Bridge
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS. FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
'SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
Net To Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 46,113 10 p.c. = 30,311 15,802 429,845
Premiums on shares and profit on
sale of . freehold, £71,583.. 501,428
New capital, £30,640 .. .. 532,068
1927.. 51,012 10 p.c. = 33,375 17,637 649,705
1928.. 42,214 10 „ ~33,375 8,839 558,544
New capital, £44,000 .. .• 602,544
Share premium, £ll,OOO .. .. 613,544
1929.. 47,935 10 p.c. = 40,000 7,935 621,479
1930.. 39,758 10 „ ~ 40,000 621,237
Loss.
1931.. 4,053 3 „ „ 12,000 605,184
Profit.
19.32.. 12,795 3 „ ~12,000 795 605,979
1933.. 19,315 4 „ „ 16,000 3,315 609,294
1934.. 31,738 6 ~ „ 24,000 \ , 7 „ R fils 0 0 2
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 5 ’ 738 Clj ’° 3 “
1935.. 47,372 7 p.c. = 28,000 ]
Provident fund, £2OOO j- 13,872 628,904
Staff bonus, £3500.. J
19.36.. 51,514 8 p.c. = 32,000 ]
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 14,514 643,418
Staff bonus, £3000., j
The splendid recovery in net earnings
over the last five years has been due
mainly to continued improvement in the
underwriting experience. Here with-
drawal from the unsatisfactory London
marine market about four years ago and
a more rigid selection of risks generally
have helped, and so have the strengthening
of capital values, interest and rents, ac-
tivity in the building trade, growth of
merchants’ stocks, increase in the number
of motor-cars on the road and the length-
ening of payrolls.
During the last term the management
gathered an extra £12,636 of net pre-
miums at 30s. per cent, less cost:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.-
1900. . £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p.c.
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52.9 „
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 „ 41.2 ~
1929.. 362,167 198,925 143,963 54.9 „ 39.,8 „
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 „ 43.5 „
1931.. 297,000 191,393 138,560 64.4 ~ 46.6 „
1932.. 243,280 130,130 122,558 53.5 ~ 50.3 „
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 ~
1934.. 230,000 87,192 123,211 37.9 „ 53.5 „
1935.. 237,374 85,963 125,437 36.2 „ 52.8 „
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 „ 51.3
The loss ratio was Bs. per cent, heavier,
leaving the underwriting surplus £4246
better at £30,220, or 7.5 p.c. on capital.
There was little change in the amount re-
ceived in interest and rents (£21,295 =
5.3 p.c. on capital). The net return from
all sources was thus 12.8 p.c. on capital,
compared with 11.8, 7.9, 4.8, 3.8, a loss
(£4053), and then profits of 9.9, 11.9,
12.6 and 15.2 p.c. back to 1927. The
div. was lifted a point, making it 8 p.c. ;
for the decade to the close of accounts
in 1930, the average was a shade under
10 p.c., and for the 10 years before that
15 p.c.
Subject to losses, an inestimable factor,
there is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest a recession in earnings during
the current term. The market therefore
prices the pound shares paid to 16s. at
31s. 3d. as against 28s. 3d. a year ago.
At the higher figure the return is 4.1 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Policy-holders are well protected;
1928. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £333,750 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 237,262 202,668 147,796 154,019
Freeholds, etc. 227,181 412,968 412,000 411,676
Mortgages .. 17,822 19,258 17,268 16,738
Public securities,
etc 459,474 319,963 306,425 316,705
Book debts . . 80,865 67,614 49,908 50,361
Cash, etc. .. 35,153 6,051 23,597 33,957
When the books closed, net tangibles
were equal to 257 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. It was to build
the new headquarters in Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, that the : co. went a bit into debt.
Still, finances are very comfortable. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£263,742) was £14,340.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
Reserves
Transferred
June, Profit. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 43,600 10 p.c. = 22,000 20,000 80,033
1927.. 44,141 10 „ „ 24,000 15,000 85,774
1928.. 49,153 10 „ „ 25,500 20,000 89,427
1929.. 57,453 10 „ „ 27,500 15,000 104,380
To Reserves.
1930.. 24,909 74 „ ~21,740 3,169 107,549
1931.. 23,412 74 „ ~ 21,745 1,667 109,216
1932.. 22,689 74,, „ 21,750 939 110,155
1933.. 22,551 74 ~ ~21,750 801 110,956
1934.. 34,262 74,, „ 21,750 12,512 123,468
1935.. 28,218 74,. ~21,750 1.468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 ]0" ~ ~ 29,000 381 125,317
This co. is in the wool- and produce-
broking and stock-and-station-agency
business. From the investor’s point of
view, the position is more attractive
than the last line in the table suggests.
Consider these figures:
1920. 1925. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £200,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft . . 5,912 325,057 43,490
Sundry creditors 43,258 34,632 69,030 132,087
Freeholds, etc. 125,092 149,286 154,240 153,769
Advances, etc. 98,943 378,186 90,219 163,250
Liquid assets 50,000 141,250 260,382 300,000
Last year’s growth of £73,031 in ad-
vances reflects continued expansion of
the business. To meet the outlay and
add another £39,618 to the already fine
pile of liquids, the amount coming to
sundry creditors was increased by
£63,057 and the co. went to its bankers
for £43,490. Liquids consist of fixed
deposits (£lOO,OOO, down £50,000) and
Australian Consols (£200,000, up
£97,461). Consols, in at cost a year
ago, now appear at face value ; there
was no apparent profit or loss connected
with the adjustment. Including ad-
vances, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£287,673,
equal to 19s. lOd. per share) was £6102.
The board gives no hint whether it is
likely to find any other employment for
the large sums now invested in Consols
and on fixed deposit. On the figures at
June 30 it could return half the capital
or more without any apparent danger
of hamstringing the business financially
or seriously impairing its earning
capacity.
The spring in last year’s gross return
from trading (£103,312) was £10,605,
owing mainly to the rise in the price of
wool—Sydney average was £l7 9s. 3d. per
bale, up £4 16s. 4d. —and a “particularly
satisfactory” result in the produce depart-
ment. The return from Consols and fixed
deposits (£9718) was up £ll6O. Exes.
(£83,649) were £5602 heavier, leaving, the
net result £6163 better at 10.1 p.c. on
capital as against 8, 11.8, 7.7, 7.8, 8, 8.4
and 20.9 p.c. back to 1929. The div.,
which averaged p.c., sweetened with
£235,000 of bonus scrip, for the 22 years
to the close of accounts in 1929, was
lifted from 1\ p.c. to 10 p.c.
Notwithstanding doubts concerning
the price of the current season’s clip, the
market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 425. or thereabouts, and has
done so for the last two years. The
return at 425. is 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The book value of the cover is
28s. Bd. in net tangibles.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re~
Junr, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926. . 71,656 12 p.c. = 60,000 11,656 185,045
1927.. 51,784 10 „ 50,000 1,784 186,829
1928.. 59,849 10 '50,000 9,849 196,078
1929.. 62,428 10 ~ ~ 50,000 12,428 209.106
1930.. 62,057 9 .. .. 45,000 17,657 226,763
1931.. 65,251 9 „ ~ 45,000 20,251 247,014
1932.. 66,195 9 „ 45,000 - 21,195 268,209
Loss.
1933.. 6,627 0 „ „ 30,000 231,582
Profit.
1934.. 03,108 7 „ ~ 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935.. 65,123 8 ... ~ 40,000 25,123 284,873
1936.. 72,364 9 ~ 45,000 27,364 312,237
Earnings from milling and refining are
supplemented by returns from a fine wad
of investments (£416,000-odd) outside the
business. Refining is done under con-
tract with the Government, and the
profit therefrom is moderate ; still, to-
gether with returns from investments, it
is a nice anchor for earnings. Fluctua-
tions in profits are due mainly to returns
from the milling business. These de-
pend chiefly upon the tonnage of cane
put through the rollers, and upon the
quantity of surplus raws exported and
the price realised abroad. The retail price
of fines for local consumption is fixed at
4d. per pound.
The co. does not broadcast its crush-
ings. However, during the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, farmers
in the Bundaberg (Q.) district grew more
cane, and the average price for surplus
raws exported (£7 18s. 9d.) was slightly
better ; so was the average for the whole .
output (£l6 17s. per ton, up 6s. Id.).
Millaquin’s declared net earnings sprang
£7241, reaching 14.4 p.c. on its half-
million of capital, compared with 13,
12.6, a loss, 13.2, 13, 12.5, 12.4 and 11.9
p.c. back to 1928. A point was added to
the div., making it 9 p.c. The loss in
1933 —the first thing of its kind—
was due to a dry spell, followed by
severe frosts, both of which greatly re-
duced crushings.
As for the current term, the immedi-
ate outlook favors another crushing at
least equal to last season’s, and there is
nothing in sight at the moment to sug-
gest a drop in the price of raws abroad.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 425. 6d. as against 38s. 6d. a
year ago and 30s. 6d. 12 months before
that. Allowing for the final div. and
bonus (together 6 p.c.), the return at
425. 6d. is 4.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the net tangible coyer is 325. 6d.,
of which 17s. Id. is surplus liquids.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. . . £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors . . 95,327 119,166 110,012
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 335,578 325,277 323,939
Plantation, etc... .. 63,302 64,422 58,420
Railways and tramways 37,654 33,926 32,374
Stocks 86,826 65,871 80,307
Book debts , . .. 12,929 11,762 10,454
Investments .. .. 258,717 391,837 416,837
Cash 46,905 35,943 29,918
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£427,504) was
£41,257. Investments consist of Austra-
lian Consols, £309,663 ; fixed deposit,
£40,000 ; shares in Bundaberg Distilling
Co. (10s. shares taken in at 65.), £64,951 ;
shares in other cos., £2223. The future
of the scrip as an investment will depend
partly upon what the board ultimately
decides to do with the money now in-
vested in Consols.
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends ~ Towards
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927*. 5,261 3600 Nil 1,661 4,543
1928.. 5,281 4800 Nil 481 4,062
1929.. 5,647 4800 Nil . 847 3,215
1930.. 6,688 4800 Nil 1,888 1,327
Reserves.
Share premiums, £33,794 . . .. 32,467
1931.. 6,083 4800 Nil 1,283 33,750
1932.. 8,292 4800 Nil 3,492 37,242
1933.. 11,273 5800 25 p.c. = 2,500 2,973 40,215
1934.. 18,558 6800 43.7 f „ 4,379 7,379 47,594
Bonus scrip issued, £40,000 . . . . 7,594
1935.. 21,720 6800 124 p.c. = 6,250 8.670 16,204
1936.. 31,823 6800 20 ~ ~10,000 15,023 31,287
* Nine months.
+lO p.c. on ord. capital and share premiums combined.
This co. has had a remarkable history.
Originally if was Sniders and Abrahams,
formed in 1919 ; it reconstructed as G. G.
Goode in 1923, and there was a further
clean-up in 1926. Altogether the ords.
lost 9s. of each 10s. share, and the pref.
div. was lifted from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in
return for cancellation of dividend
arrears. For the next four years profits
were little more than the pref. div. called
for. Then slump provided the co. with
an opportunity (in 1930) to link up with
Carreras, Ltd., the well-known English
co. which manufactures Craven A and
other lines of tobacco. Carreras bought
75,098 unissued Is. ords. for 10s. each,
and with them control,, and the business
has made remarkable progress since.
A factory was erected at Prahran in
1931, and the English co. found the
money, much of which has been repaid
since out of earnings.
Morris and Johnson’s business (they
distributed the co.’s products in N. S.
Wales) was welded into the organisa-
tion in 1933. The price was £20,000 in
fully-paid prefs. In the following year
£40,000 of bonus scrip was handed to
the ords. —£33,794 of it came from share
premiums, and the balance from undis-
tributed profits. That raised paid capi-
tal to its present figure (£118,000) in
68.000 £1 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
200.000 ords. of ss. each—the old ords.
were consolidated into ss. shares.
Expansion of the business since manu-
facture under British trade-marks began
is illustrated by the growth of gross earn-
ings, which stepped up from £43,929 in
1930 to £177,551 for the last term, when
the improvement was £33,576. Exes.
(£145,728) were up £23,474. The net
result was thus £10,103 better at £31,823,
which was sufficient to pay the pref. div.
and show 50 p.c. on ord. capital. That
leaves out of the reckoning £17,852 added
to reserves for taxation, exchange, obso-
lescence, etc. (£56,644), not included with
the lay-by in the table. The div. was
lifted from 12£ p.c. to 20 p.c.
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging:—
1924. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £71,226 £78,000 £llB,OOO £llB,OOO
Overdraft .. 33,794 13,083 28,962 6,904
Creditors . . 12,882 134,773 117,090 88,144
Freeholds . . 64,093 61,560 59,970
Plant, etc. .. 11,757 30,427 35,909 32,858
Stocks . . 50,076 137,242 157,616 147,3X6
Hook debts .. 20,273 43,019 50,188 48,271
Cash, etc. . . 1,377 894 986 964
Subsidiary co. 20,000 20,000 20,000
Expanding turnover was accompanied
by a reduction of £10,300 in the
book value of stocks and £3051 in
debtors’ balances; The overdraft was re-
duced by £22,058 and the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors by £28,946. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£121,503) was £36,765.
At 365. the prefs. return an attractive
5.5 p.c. Excluding the contingencies
reserve already referred to, the net tan-
gible cover is 435. lid. The ords. are
not listed.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £25,612 .. 25,612
1927.. 4,949 Nil 4,949 20,663
Reserves.
1928.. 35,866 Nil 35,866 15,203
1 c 29. . 47,268 8 p.c. = 33,936 13,332 28,535
1930.. 47,872 8 „ ~34.690* 13,182 41,717
1931.. 39,451 54 „ „ 27,459 11,992 53,709
1932.. 22,257 4 „ „ 19,970 2,287 55,996
1933.. 42,810 6 „ „ 29,955 12,855 68,851
1934.. 56,666 74 „ ~37,444 19,222 88,073
1935.. 52,134 7 „ ~34,948 17,186 105,259
1936.. 42,973 74,, ~33,450 9,523 114,782
includes 1 p.c. on deferreds.
This 10-year-old has given a very good
account of itself in an overcapitalised
industry, thanks largely to the Govern-
ment contract with which it kicked off
and then held until October, 1934, when
it passed to Kandos. At the start capi-
tal outlay called for more than was ex-
pected, but this and other difficulties
were soon overcome. Divs. began in
1929, and have continued to flow since,
despite slump, the average for the last
eight years being 6.7 p.c., with com-
fortable margins.
Surplus earnings, together with £25,000
annually set aside for depreciation, have
enabled the co. to reduce the debt and
accumulate cash, as the following table
shows:
1927. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. £466,691 £499,257 £499,257 £399,406
Creditors . . 169,248 21,459 32,315 134,197-
Frccholds and
plant .. 522,335 451,938 399,773 389,916
Investments .. 35,009 35,009 35,009 35,009
Stores and
stocks . . 35,774 43,986 32,922 30,477
Book debts
and cash.. 22,160 53,267 186,601 208,959
* Including- £99,851 provision for capital return.
During the last term £9857 more was
written off than was spent on fixed assets,
stocks were reduced by £2445, while
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


ii
1^
S*-.-
B;-;
9^
PHE
*x**
rS&'i
S&S3
G
*Z*zyA
>;-Vi
i*'um
z~zy\
I'A
ft-;
fy\
*:•-
''A
Z'A
\
GARRICK
FILTER TIP
ClCfl R ETTES
The Garrick Filter Tip
delivers to your throat and
palate the pure benefits of
an entirely new and differ-
ent blend of fine tobaccos
fa Garrick specialty).
Oke.
jfzrt
fmAUurtOkhatiU
A sectional view of
the patented Scienti-
fic Garrick Filter Tip.
j
i-'/l
l
►vv
I
s
t
•\
K
G
C
ID-9
20-1/6
Also Round
Airtight 30’s
4012-7-6


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
ANGLO-ORIENTAL MINING CORPORATION LTD.
For the Quarter ended 30th June, 1936,
NeL :
Operating Profit,
£83,85 8
23,481
18,085
22,937
2,188
20,263
13,991
9,214
9,402
1,292
NOTE. A!1 figures are expressed in English sterling.
w
THE WORLD’S TOUGHEST
AND MOST DURABLE LINING
METAL FOR BEARINGS.
Stocks in all States.
Write for “The Hoyt Book.”
HOYTS METALS (AUST. ,
49 Hardware Street, Melbourne.
Cent. C6Ol.
H
LIMEJOKE
casap zt omm cordials
£5OlO was added to debtors’ balances
(£29,195) and the cash holding (£179,763,
fixed deposit, etc.) was strengthened by
£17,347.
Unable to find employment for sur-
plus cash in the business, the co. returned
4s. per share (£99,851) last month, reduc-
ing paid capital to £399,406 in 499,257
shares of 16s. each. On the basis of the
figures at June 30, that reduced the cash
balance to £79,912; sundry creditors
and reserve for taxation figure at £34,346.
It will also enable the co. to pay a
slightly better rate of dividend than
would be otherwise possible, and thus
benefit the market for the .scrip.
During the last term protection against
competition from imported British
cements was lowered from 20s. to 7s. 6d.
per ton, and it is proposed to wipe out
the duty altogether from the beginning
of December next. Local manufac-
turers reduced their selling prices, and the
slip in the co.’s net earnings was £9161.
The £42,973 of profit claimed was 10.7
p.c. on £399,406 of capital. The current
year’s result will partly depend upon
what further cut, if any, has to be made
in selling prices.
On the market, the 165.-paid shares
fetch 16s. lOd. At this figure the return
would be 6.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis ;
and a 7 p.c. div. would call for £15,000
less than was netted last year. The
cover is 20s. 7d. in net tangibles.
Copper
The rise in the London price of copper
—electrolytic fetched £43 last week-end
as against an average of £36 7s. 2d. for
June and £35 14s. Id. for the 12 months
of 1935—was due mainly to reduction
of world stocks of the metal, following
a stronger demand for industrial and
armament purposes, and to a slight
easing off in supplies, owing to the dis-
turbance in Spain. Also, buying on
French account as a possible hedge
against devaluation of the franc is said
to have almost disappeared, following
the announcement of the French Gov-
ernment that it would not interfere with
the gold standard. It needs to be remem-
bered, however, that many of the world’s
big copper-producers are working well
below capacity.
Including prospecting, development and
depreciation charges, Mt. Lyell’s all-in
cost of producing and selling a ton of
copper was £49 10s. lOd. (Aust.) for the
12 months to Sept. 30, 1935. The co. has
since paid an interim 6d. per share from
mining profits, and another 6d. from the
same source, plus 6d. from fertiliser in-
terests, is expected in November. Hence
the pound shares have risen to 30s. in
the market. At that figure the return
would be 5 p.c. on a 74- p.c. div. basis.
Kramat,. now one of the Anglo-
Oriental group, operating at Kinfa
(F.M.S.), netted £80,404 for the year to
the end of March last as against £41,652
for the preceding 12 months. Last year’s
profit included a non-recurring £16,413
from liquidation of the buffer pool. Divs.
(Is. 6d.) and bonuses (3s. 6d.) together
amounted to ss. per share, equals £41,250 ;
depreciation, £16,752 ; reserve for bucket
band replacement, £4500. Hitherto no
provision was made for replacement of
capital represented by the dredge (the
£15,000 so written off last year reduced
its book value to £60,000) or for re-
newal of the bucket band, which has to
be replaced every four or five years,
according to hours run and the nature
of ground treated. After taking depre-
ciation into account, and so long as
profits permit, divs. will be paid in April,
August and December. At the end of
March, dredging reserves were estimated
at 39,000,000 c.y., containing approxi-
mately 9200 tons of tin ore, sufficient to
provide continuous operations for an-
other 11 years.
* * $ *
Kuala Kampar, also one of Anglo-
Oriental’s Malayan group, netted
£105,404 for the year to the end of March
last as against £34,270 for the previous
term. The 1936 figure includes £5555
from realisation of buffer stocks. Two
divs. of 3d. each plus a 3d. bonus took
£43,875 ; new bucket band, £7348 ; de-
preciation plant, etc., £21,607 ; reserve
for replacement of bucket bands, £5OOO.
The amount struck off for depreciation
of the three dredges was £18,727, reduc-
ing their combined book value to
£135,000. No. 2 dredge remained docked,
but Nos. 1 and 3 worked continuously,
thanks to increases in the quota release
and purchase of quotas. At the end of
March, dredgeable reserves to a depth of
90ft. were put at 196,000,000 c.y., con-
taining approximately 36,700 tons of tin
ore. Below this level it is figured that
there is another 25,000,000 c.y. contain-
ing about 8300 tons of tin ore. The
board intends to instal a new dredge to
treat this deep ground, and to meet the
cost out of the co.’s present resources
plus surplus earnings in the future.
* * * *
Malim Nawar, another member of the
Anglo-Oriental group, netted £4687
(down £5465) for the 12 months to the
end of March. Sluicing was continuous,
but peat and clay gave trouble. During
the year, £2500 was paid off the loan
from Kuala Kampar, reducing if to
£12,000 —-the figure has been lowered to
£10,500 since the close of accounts. Cash
in hand was £2133 (stg.). It is proposed to
write the loss on bucket-dredge materials
(originally £26,000, now £2157) out of
the books during the current term. Until
the loan from Kuala Kampar is repaid,
there can be no question of dividend dis-
tributions, the chairman says. At the
end of March, the co. had 28,000,000 c.y.
of dirt, containing approximately 5700
tons of tin ore, still to treat. Peat and
clay are now reported to be less promi-
nent, and, by rearrangement of the head
pump, maximum sluicing depth (pre-
vious average 45ft.) is governed only by
the type of ground encountered.
* * * *
For the year to the end of February
last, Melbourne-controlled Tinsongkhla,
operating in Siam, netted £7787 as
against £14,959 for the preceding 12
months. Two pref. divs. to the end of
Feb., 1928, took £2047, leaving £9505
still to come. The co. dug 1,257,000 c.y.
for 200.35 tons t. 0., which averaged
£137.1. For the previous year the figures
were 718,000 c.y., 180.71 tons, and £154.2
respectively. One effect of poorer ground
and drop in the price of tin was a con-
traction of 4.1 d. in the average gross
value (5.2 d.) per yard of dirt treated ;
another was that an extra half-million-
odd yards had to be dug to make up the
co.’s quota. Working costs averaged
3.39 d. (down 0.29 d.), and the profit
1.85 d. (down 3.82 d.) per yard. When the
books closed there was £3084 coming
to outsiders. Debtors figured at £1237 ;
tin on hand, £1986 ; cash, £7637. The
co.’s quota is now 15.68 tons per month,
the assessment having been lowered from
59.13 p.c. to 52.7 p.c. for the last half
of 1936. Since the close of accounts, the
dredge, which closed down for 1| months,
has been in 0.341 b. ground.
* * * *
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, formed in
March last year, commenced regular pro-
duction on the Sandy Creek section of its
New Guinea holdings in January. To
the close of accounts at April 30, gold
worth £4839 had been recovered for a
net profit of £229. Yardage and costs are
not mentioned, but “every effort is being
made to increase gold recoveries.” Re-
sults are said to have since improved.
For the three months to July 31 net
earnings of approx. £1825 are. reported.
On the Poverty Creek sector, preliminary
box-sluicing has been “very satisfactory.”
The co. holds some 1100 acres, to be
tested as opportunity offers. Excluding
485 acres acquired in July last year, R. J.
Winter put the value of all areas com-
bined at £531,138 (gold at £7 Bs. 9d. an
ounce), an average of 3s. a yard. Costs
were not expected to exceed Is. 2d. At
April 30 current assets stood £663 in
excess of liabilities.
* * * *
During July Bulolo Gold Dredging
turned over 986,700 c.y. for 19,8120 z.
bullion, containing 13,904 fine ounces
gold, worth £121,606 with gold at £8 15s.
(Aust.). Working profit was £84,621.
* * * *
Despite transport difficulties, deter-
mined efforts are being made to open
up the new Blue Mountains goldfield,
north-east of Coen, Cape York Peninsula,
where some of the richest ore N.Q. has
known has been found. A stamper bat-
tery from the old Starcke field, out-
side Cooktown, is being shipped to Port
Stewart, from where it will be hauled by
motor-truck 70 miles across rugged coun-
try to the new field. Here Golden Sun-
rise is down 40ft. on a 2ft. reef prospect-
ing 2oz. to the ton. Water has come in,
and operations have ceased until a pump-
ing plant arrives. On the Convict lease
three new leaders, from sin. to lOin.
wide, carrying high values, have been
located.
* * * *
Encouraged by the lift in base-metal
prices, North Broken Hill is resuming
operations on the low-grade British sec-
tion, bought in 1923 and closed down
six years later owing to the collapse of
metal prices and increase in costs. About
130 men will eventually be employed on
the British, from which a weekly output
of approx, 1500 tons is indicated. The
ore is to be crushed on the spot, and then
transported to the North’s mill for treat-
ment. In its last year of operation the
British produced 158,589 tons of crudes,
assaying 11.8 p.c. lead, 8.6 p.c. zinc and
6.70 z. silver per ton.
# * *
Though development and stoping have
proved little that was worth while in
Hercules’ main shaft at Bendigo (Vic.),
the winze down 210 ft. below the cross-
cut on the 1940 ft. level has cut a “favor-
able-looking” formation at 194 ft., where
crosscutting west is now in hand. In the
Stanfield shaft the east leg of a saddle-
reef, 6in. wide, has been encountered at
the 510 ft. west crosscut, and further
crosscutting is to be undertaken to locate
the cap and the matching west leg. Before
charging £3150, cost of sinking the Stan-
field shaft, against reserves, operations
for the six months to June 30 last show
a loss of £7169. Shares in other cos.
stand at £2969 ; reserves appear at £6400.
Current assets exceed liabilities by £BlB9.
The 1220 tons crushed during the half-
year yielded 211 oz. Bdwt. gold.
* * $ $
Diamond-drilling is an expensive busi-
ness, and it is not always satisfactory,
because it doesn’t show whether the lodes
are horizontal, vertical or flat, said W.
Baragwanath, Director of Geological
Survey in Vic. He had in mind the old
Maldon field, where he considers sinking
several holes at various angles is neces-
sary ; also that unwatering of proven
mines, such as the South German and
Derby, is advisable. A geological survey
is to be made of the Lahns leaders area
of the field.
* * * *
Increased divs. were forecast by North
Kalgurli chairman C. A. Whitfield at the
annual meeting in London last month.
A high-grade ore-shoot has been un-
earthed on the Kalgoorlie (W.A.) mine,
and each pennyweight rise on the present
10,000-ton-a-month throughput will mean
an annual profit increase of £42’,000 —40
p.c. on capital. Costs are now ITs- 9d.
a ton, extraction being 86 p.c., as against
a theoretical 90 p.c. The difference is
due to an increase in the lock-up in
higher-grade concentrates. Blocked ore
reserves amount to 460,000 tons, averag-
ing 7.7dwt., compared with 402,000 tons,
going 8.35dwt., a year ago. Broken ore
is put at 125,000 tons. There is another
200,000 tons of probable ore outside the
measured block. The co. operates a
joint-treatment plant with Boulder Per-
severance.
* * * *
Lady Miller, which has suspended
operations on its Norseman (W.A.) areas
because the grade wouldn’t warrant in-
stallation of a plant, plans to amalgamate
with O.K. Gold Mines. A new co.,
South Norseman Gold Mines, N.L., is
to be formed with a nominal capital of
£12,500 in 2,000,000 shares. Share-
holders in the old cos. are offered one
share in the new for each share now
held at per share. Lady Miller’s
directors consider selective mining could
be carried out on the co.’s property if
crushing facilities were available. In-
cluding £8285 allowed for depreciation —
£5Oll of it in respect of writing off flota-
tion exes. —the loss for the year to June
30 was £11,055.
* * *
Because its scheme of mine develop-
ment called for more than was antici-
pated, Celebration, Hampton Plains
(W.A.), has gone to the bank for £25,000,
repayable over two years ; the W.A. Gov-
ernment is the guarantor. Chairman
H. E. Sizer reckons the co. has 100,000
tons of 6dwt. ore available at Celebra-
tion, where treatment of 5000 tons a
month is aimed at. Costs are put around
30s. a ton. On the Golden Hope a shoot
460 ft. long has been disclosed ; assays
over the first 100 ft. average 4.75dwt., and
over the remaining 360 ft. lldwt. The
make is going strong underfoot, and
there is approximately 5000 tons of
lOdwt. ore above the No. 2 level. Dur-
ing July Celebration crushed 3041 tons
for 5270 z. bullion. Head value was
4.47dwt. a ton, residues assaying
0.668dwt. June throughput was 2778
tons for 4520 z. 18dwt. gold.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas, of Perth, is
whooping mildly about prospects of a
Coolgardie property over which it holds
an option. A winze has been sunk to
a depth of 90ft. in high-grade ore, of
which 50 tons has been raised for dis-
patch to the State battery. The co. was
floated in 1935 to acquire a block at
Yellowdine (W.A.), which it still holds
but has not yet been able to turn to
profitable account.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting’
Griffith, Hass el and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and'Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L, MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTV.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony’
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * $
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


“It won’t see
for Years”
;: : ;;: ; : ; : ; ; ; : : :*;£:v : : :
SMI •=
said Johnnie Walter
cr
A Tasting Glass
The cask of whisky which the man in the picture is
tolling away is very young whisky; in fact, it is the “new
make”—just distilled. That is why Johnnie Walker is
having it laid aside for years in the cool darkness
of the bonded store.
A great change comes over whisky while it is living in the wood,
and the familiar word “maturing” does not express all that really
happens. Through good malting, through the drying of the
malt over slow peat fires, the young whisky has acquired a
subtlety of fragrance and flavor which only years in the wood
can develop to the full.
Only fully matured whiskies are used in the blending of Johnnie
Walker, and to-day these whiskies are older and better
than ever. Some give that faint peatiness which is
characteristic of the finest Highland whisky; others
depth of flavor; but all unite in one perfect “brother-
hood.” In fact, the blenders at Kilmarnock do their
work so well that you will always find it a good thing
to ask for Johnnie Walker by name.
Johnnie WalKer
Born 1820 —still going strong
.-0W„ T tk MltlT|e|t AWa
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
JW 60-FP


ABORIGINALITIES
“Billy Fowlhouse”: Plenty cranky
pfeller talk along Sydney how Straits boy
makit one pfeller strike along boat. Boy
no niaKum that pfeller ; Mary b'long
boy she makum, too much dress she buy
along Gubmint store on island b’long
(hat boy, 100 much silk trouser, too much
hat, too much tin bullockabeef, too much
tombacco. Boy he work along boat, he
come back, wantum money b’long him
for work along boat, Gubmint he say no
money b’long that boy, all money b’long
store, pay for all thing Mary b’long boy
buy when that pfeller boy work along
boat. Boy he say no dam’ good that
pfeller yarn, wantum money b’long him,
knockum block off that dam’ Mary b’long
him, boat he go to hell, boy stay along
island, Mary b’long him plantum yam,
catchum coconut, catchum pfis, no go
long boat no more. What talk you callit
that pfeller boy makum strike? Dam’ lie
that talk. Boy he say more better that
dam’ Mary go long boat, do all work.
Then that boy he gettum trouser, bul-
lockabeef, all thing Gubmint store, Mary
he got no blurry money all that week.
>|: * # :J:
“Al F.”: The old near-sider swung off
the road, then “geed”-off again as a car
approached and flew past. There wasn’t
one word of command from Riley. This
happened half a dozen times. Only once
did that horse fail to make way for
one, and that time we were starting to
get anxious when the car swung off sud-
denly on to a turn-off track. That neddy
easily recognised the slight knock in the
boss’s car.
* * * *
"Slultus”: Queer accidents? A crew
of native “boys” on a northern
lugger speared and cut up a big
turtle on the deck. They discarded
the few portions that Binghi reckons
inedible, and among these was a
triangular piece of bone formed by the
junction of flipper and carapace. Next
morning there was washed up on the
beach a fair-sized shark, quite dead, its
snout firmly wedged by the three sides
of the bony headstall.
❖ * * *
“8.D.”: I can certify that Marble Bar
(North W.A.) is entitled to its reputation
of being the hottest place in Australia.
The thermometer had registered over
I2odeg. for a fortnight or more when 1
offered a swaggie a lift in to the Bar.
“Blanky hot,” he remarked as he dumped
his bluey on the back seat. 1 offered him
a cold beer from the thermos, but sur-
prisingly he shook his head. “Cold
beer!” he said, “not on your sweet life —
us blokes up here can’t drink beer if it’s
off the boil! ” •
'k ❖ '!■
“Nordbo”:* At Brown's Bay, near
Cairns (N.Q.), a circular week-end house
built of mangrove sticks, grass and plaited
strips of palm-leaf shows that one man
has had the commonsense to break away
from that hot and horrible bugbear of
the North corrugated iron. But a second
indication of the householder’s origi-
nality is a blackboard on which is
painted a white skeleton warrior,
equipped with spear and shield, out of
whose empty eyesockets twin snakes coil,
and who treads the steps of a ghostly
corroboree to the illumination of a zig-
zag flash of lightning. Over that naked
ghost-warrior is printed in bold letters:
"The Ghost House. Haunted by The
Dead.” The owner elucidated: wander-
ing blacks from the Yarrabah Mission
station found the grass house a con-
genial camp. Those blacks now shun it
as they do the sacred boya-grounds of
False Cape, a mile or so away.
# * ;J: :Jc
“Horsetailer”: I fired an old warrior
redgum on a wood landing for Murray
steamers. Six weeks later a large quan-
tity of five-foot, 38 yards away, went up
in smoke. I remember the details—l
owned the wood.
* * * *
“Kriz”: While householders in
Broome, Nor’-Westralia, have no fear
that their colored help will want to “go
bush” in August each year, for Jackie
and Mary know full well that the
Japanese Feast of the Lanterns takes
place for three days of that month when
the luggers return to port. In the
Japanese cemetery all the graves are
adorned with colored lanterns, which
are Jit at sunset. Afterwards tiny boats
with candles, cooked rice and flowers
“Dad, that's the crow's nest. I key'll be buildin' cages for 'em next."
are sent out to sea on the turn of
the tide, offerings to the spirits of the
departed. On the graves are left cooked
poultry, pork and beef. When the
Japanese depart Binghi has a royal feed.
* * $ *
“Warrigal”: Values? I was looking
over a dairying property of about 350
acres, but purely from the point of view
of a visitor. “Nice Jerseys,” I remarked.
“All right,” admitted my host; “but
there’s nothing in dairying. I’ve let this
place to a cove on the halves ; he just
scratches a living out of it, and some
months I make a quid clear for myself.
I’m well out of pocket on the whole con-
cern.” “What do you reckon you'd get
if you sold out?” I asked. “Not much
for the stock,”-he admitted, “but the
land ought to fetch eight quid an acre!”
* * * *
“Culex”: Where mosquitoes go in
winter has been discovered by relief-
workers clearing swampy country between
Brisbane and the river-mouth of water
hyacinth. Beds of this, 6ft. thick, were
encountered, and at the bases of the
stalks lived millions of mosquitoes quite
unperturbed by the oil which has been
dumped on the face of the waters for
years. The clearing not only banished
the shelter for the pests but allowed
thousands of tiny fish, known as “blue-
eyes,” which are famous devourers of
mosquito larv<e, an open go. To-day not
a mosquito can be found in the cleared
area. These “blue-eyes,” by the way,
have such a reputation that a number
of them was recently shipped to Papua.
“Orn”; It isn't surprising that the bush-
man clings to his conviction that the
marsupial young are born on the teat
when the latest scientific serial, “Out-
lines of Modern Belief,” gives an illus-
tration of the mother possum and young
with the statement below it that “This
old-fashioned mammal, like the duck-
billed platypus, lays eggs as birds and
most reptiles do!” When I think of the
many times I’ve roused a ringtail from
its nest and failed to search for eggs I
could kick myself. Scrambled possum
eggs would go well with damper.
Si! * H=
“Hanko”: While “Ned Kelly’s” ac-
count of the poisoning of his pup (B.
15/7/’36) raised a lump in my throat, it
likewise raised my ire that Ned did not
follow up the salt antidote by vigorously
swinging the tyke round and round by
the hind legs » covering it warmly after
dosage isn’t enough. Experience has
taught me that a bait-stricken dog may
be saved when almost at its last quiver
by the salt-and-swing procedure. Swing
it round till the stomach-content is
ejected ; make sure all is ejected by a
further dosage of salt and an extra
swing ; cover the hound warmly and he’ll
be jake.
;j; ;ji * *
“Salt Lick”: Bidding for fleece wool
had been dull, but mention of pieces and
odd lots had brought the bench of per-
spiring buyers to their feet as one man.
Frenzied shrieks and outflung hands
greeted lot 69, one bale of “bellies” being
offered on Dad’s behalf. “Funny,” said
Dad later, discussing the sale in the vesli-
bule of a near-by hotel, “them bellies
bringing so much when all I got for me
half-bred-super, was eleven and a half.'’
“Well, it just shows, Mr. McGronther,”
said Miss City-bred from her stool at the
office desk, “that the hospitals simply
must have tripe.” There was a sound as of
creaking of heavily rusted hinges as Dad
moved slowly from the vestibule to the
bar.
* * * *
“Gripes”; They put the boot into law-
breakers in Queensland. Two men were
charged at Toowoomba with killing pro-
tected possums—on June 19, 11 days
before the open butchery season began.
Also they were using a flash-lamp, which
is forbidden even in the open season. An
implacable beak fined them 10s., and
as the skins brought as much as 120 s. a
dozen at the first sales in Brisbane it
will doubtless be a horrible warning to
them.
# ❖ * i\i
“ The 0.D.”: Shooting, eh? I fired at a
shag across a billabong ; the bullet struck
the water about 20 feet short of the bird,
which immediately bent backwards and
collapsed, the ricochet- having broken
its spine.
“Bisley”: Tell “Groper” (B. l/7/’36)
that those olives in the Murray district
(W.A.) can be made to taste like the im-
ported ones. Around April the green
olive begins to reveal mottled white spots
on the skin —-one or two on the tree may
start to turn purple—and this is the time
to pick them. When harvested the olives
are pierced with a fork and immersed in
a lye solution of washing soda and water.
After several changes they are bottled
in brine. By then their bitterness will
have gone.
* ;|c * ❖
“Fairmile”: Seven years ago a pair
of magpies took up housekeeping in a
tree alongside my garden (S. Tablelands,
N.S.W.) and have exercised seignorial
rights ever since. They line up for a
handout every morning at the same hour
to the tick —if the tucker is late in forth-
coming they are not long in advertising
the fact. They allow no other fowl to
settle in the garden, harrying every
feathered intruder, regardless of size.
Their offspring, as soon as they can
flutter from the nest, are brought along
to share in the dole, but at weaning time
the parents hunt them away. 'ls this
squatting natural with magpies and
are their claims to homestead selec-
tions and boundaries recognised and re-
spected (more or less) by the feathered
world in general?
* ;|: * *
“Jindivick”: Old Bullocky Fred’s
pony trotted into the yard, reins hanging
loose, one stirrup missing, blood stream-
ing from her quarters. Scenting a
tragedy, I started off at a gallop in the
direction I reckoned Fred to be. A mile
up the road I met him swinging a stirrup
by the leather and swearing in time to
its rotations. He had cornered an old-
man ’roo in the scrub and had made
several unsuccessful swipes at it with his
detached stirrup. Then, dismounting, he
backed his pony into the hopper and
hoped for the best. He got it. The Too
swung round, and instead of receiving
a knock-out kick as per schedule it
clawed the pony’s rump. His prad
leaped clean over old Fred, rolling him
in the dust, and then lit out for home.
* * * *
“Nothung’’: Just what is the record
for a dingo litter? I recently saw one
of nine, and those pups would be hard to
beat for prettiness. Their very activity
distinguishes them from the domestic
pup. Charters Towers (N.Q.) recently
held for exhibition a white dingo—a rare
specimen of its kind, which is invariably
ostracised by its fellows.
* * * !j=
“Billy See”: The first time 1 particu-
larly noticed Albert he was sitting on a
rail gazing earnestly at the ground.
“What’s doing?” I inquired. “Nothin’,”
he informed laconically. “Watching the
ants?” I suggested sarcastically. “That’s
it!” he admitted. “Wonnerful interestin’,
ain’t they?” Next day he was there
again. And the next. And the next. 1
didn’t reproach him, realising that Albert
was merely following the teachings of the
good book. A fortnight later he was
still studying. “Still watching the ants?”
1 sneered. “Yes!” he replied, too inter-
ested to converse. A week later I passed
going to the races. Albert was still there.
“Not off to the races?” I inquired.
“No! (Jot no boots.” I may say that
habitually Albert scorned such trappings
of civilisation as boots, but at race meet-
ings they were considered the thing, some
distinction being necessary to sort out
the whites from the abos. “No boots!”
I queried. “No. Left ’em in the cow
shed and the white-ants et ’em.” Then
1 realised that here was another version
of the old cause of theological schism,
the varied interpretation—Albert had
been watching the wrong ants.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Casualness and enter-
prise are just as much a part of Bill-
jemima’s make-up as of Billjim’s. On
a night of fierce wind and rain a stranger
came to my hut on Lake Whymoul
(Lower Wakool, N.S.W.) about 11 o’clock.
He was the manager of a station on
the Moulamein-road, and had been driv-
ing home from Barham in a sulky when
the horse jumped at something, broke
the traces and cleared. The accident oc-
curred about three miles from my hut,
the only habitation for miles. It was
back from the road, and he had taken
a couple of hours to spot my light
through the wild night. Luckily old
Sandy was in the horse-paddock and was
used to harness. Nearly two hours
elapsed before, leading the harnessed nag.
we came on the abandoned sulky. I
stepped forward to hang the hurricane
lamp on the dash and was startled to
hear a feminine voice. A 20-year-old
girl crawled from beneath the vehicle.
Had she been afraid? Oh, no, she
guessed he would be a long time, so had
rigged a rug over the back of the sulky,
weighted the bottom with a log, gathered
some box suckers in the darkness, made
a bunk and settled down for a sleep. She
had come up from a Melbourne registry
office to work at the station. Hadn’t she
thought of dingoes and things like that?
Yes, but, as she couldn’t see them, reck-
oned they couldn’t see her, and so didn’t
worry. Would we please hurry as it was
cold and wet and she had to start work
soon? We hurried.
MAKING MINING PAY.
Old Jack is back in town again, and telling
all he knows,
For Jack is an authority on all the outback
shows.
There isn’t much he doesn’t know about the
mining game,
And anything he doesn’t know he’ll tell you
just the same.
Old Jack is back in town again and doing
pretty well,
For always he demands his price for what he
has to tell.
But if he asked for twice as much we wouldn’t
call it dear,
Seeing he only tells us just the things we want
to hear.
Across a pot we’ll hear him say, “Now don’t
you blokes be chumps;
She’s dull just now, but later on she’s sure to
turn up trumps.
You hang on to these shares of yours, there’s
some good stone about,
And they’ll get on it when they find they
cannot freeze you out.”
And so we fill them up again, for that confirms
our view.
And later Jack collects from us a trifling
“loan” or two;
And later still he will be heard, when we’re
no longer nigh,
Commending the good sense of those who
didn’t choose to buy.
Old Jack believes in telling folk just what they
want to hear,
For firmly he believes in popularity and beer.
And his success in getting both shows yet
another way,
II one is not particular, of making mining pay.
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Old-timer”: The new boundary-rider
proved a disruptive element. He per-
suaded the hands that heavy clips and
good prices had put thousands into the
boss’s pocket and it was high time said
boss remembered those who “sweated
their hearts” (not the words he used) out
for him. “We got him now; with
shearin’ about ready to start,” he went
on, “he can’t afford a hold-up. We’ll
walk out if he don’t spar up some more
money all round.” To their amazement
the usually fiery old boss heard their de-
mands mildly and agreed that from the
following Monday all hands would re-
ceive £1 a week rise. Suspicious, the re-
former made him put it on paper. On
the Monday everybody turned out bright
and early, ready for the new era. Down
from the homestead walked a tall, hard-
faced stranger who abruptly ordered
them to work. A big finance company
had foreclosed, and the hands had met
their new boss. Their wild looks must
have been one sweet thing in the old
boss’s agony as he followed the new-
comer around.
■f * * *
“H.S.G.”: I think the cunning of crows
is overrated. From a tent near the shear-
ing-shed on Cambridge Downs (N.Q.) I
shot eight of the stupid fowl from a
mimosa bush about 50 yards away in
about two minutes. Their cobbers stayed
for more, but I had run out of .22 shorts.
* * *
“Eureka”: The swag has undergone a
considerable change since the outer blue
rug got it the name of “bluey.” The
other day I saw a man carrying a swag
that was three times as big as a normal
one, but not nearly as heavy—it was an
eiderdown quilt. Another carried a green
tablecloth and a piece of worn carpet.
Strangest of all swag blankets, however,
was a baby’s woollen shawl. You rarely
see a Wagga rug or a Murrumbidgee
blanket in a swag these days, though they
are as warm as any woollen blanket and
far cheaper.
* * * * *
“Burradoo”: Museums in Australia
need not start to push things about to
make room for side-saddles yet (B.
29/7/’36). One is always seen at the
Sydney Royal Show, and the lady who
uses it has entered a hack, with herself
in a side-saddle, for half a century. A
Digger I know who left his right foot in
France always uses, a side-saddle, and
when suffering from a foot injury I also
got at the Great Brawl I use one myself.
For a poor horseman the side-saddle is
the next best thing to sitting in an arm-
chair.
* * * *
“Johnhop”; Host Bullock, of Maccles-
field (S.A.), was introduced to imple-
ment-salesman Bull. As they shook
hands Bung solemnly remarked: “I pre-
sume I’m your unfortunate brother!”
# * % *
“G. 3”: ’Roos in our Tamworth
(N.S.W.) district are not balked by the
strongest of netting fences. Once a single
strand in our sft. rabbit- and dogproof
fence is broken they have no trouble
in widening the hole and forcing them-
selves through, and in no time the bottom
section of netting is trampled flat on the
ground.
* * * *
“Hayseed”: A sinuous black length had
just emerged from beneath the tankstand
and was slithering towards the bushhouse.
Grabbing the Dutch hoe near the kitchen
door I jabbed it down, but merely pinned
the wriggler to the ground, with about an
equal length of snake stretching out from
under each side of the hoe blade. A
flattened head turned and darted in my
direction, while the small, beady eyes
gleamed wickedly. I decided to take no
chances, but simply keep it pinned until
friend husband, who was due in for
lunch, should arrive and deliver the death
blow. The next ten minutes were not
pleasant; the black devil threshed about
“Gentlemen , GENTLEMEN, time, please !”
wildly, finally becoming so infuriated that
it disgorged itself of two elongated and
defunct frogs. Evidently such rage as the
captive had displayed demanded an out-
let, for, after heaving out the sickly-look-
ing corpses, Joe seized each in turn and
shook them as a terrier shakes a rat.
I was so amazed at these capers that I
very nearly relaxed pressure on the hoe.
¥ $
“Seaweed”: Add bluegum to the timber
which the marine borer (or “cobra”)
won’t touch. I have buried bluegum
in the mud among the mangroves, and
at the end of 18 months it hasn’t been
touched, while alongside a lump of pine
has been reduced to sponge. Spotted gum
kept tarred and reasonably clean defies the
borer to a certain extent. The peculiarity
“They're gain t' kill off th' bunnies by injectin' a disease."
“ Cripes! ’ Could y imagine anyone bein' so callous?"
about this borer is that it will never leave
the board which it enters to attack an-
other. It will worm its way through the
board, eat it away to a rotten sponge, go
within a fraction of the edge, and turn
and make another feed of its own home.
I have never even known of one going
through a join.
“O. W. Waireki”: Some city artists
gave a concert in our outback hall. The
soprano’s last lofty note was just dying
away when a voice boomed from the
back of the hall: “Gripes! That’ll make
th’ ducks lay!”
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: This is the time to find
fairly well-grown joeys in the pouches
of the Too. Actually the pouch is prac-
tically never empty, the doe suckling an
active joey on one teat while to the other
is attached a tiny naked youngster. A
kangaroo may have twins or even trip-
lets, but very rarely is more than one
transferred to the pouch, though a bandi-
coot, whose young are equally helpless,
carries three or four about with her.
“Urlwood”; Regarding outsize Aus-
tralian eels, our museums seem to be
well behind in the matter of actual
records. Among the many giants I have
seen nothing came near the colony of
mammoths existing at Tuckombil Creek,
N.S.W. One caught by the postmaster
and measured by the sergeant of
police went 30ft. 2in. The spot infested
by these fearsome-looking brutes was
contiguous to the local slaughter-yards,
and the butcher’s custom has been to
throw all offal, etc., into the creek after
killing. With almost magical suddenness
the placid water is torn to a seething
mass of foam, offal and giant eels. The
“tiddler” concerned was caught on a
shark line and hauled ashore with a
hand winch and light steel cable.
“J.C.” (London); In Chile, where revo-
lutions are not wholly unknown, they take
good care that the peon can’t possibly
get his hand on fracteur—by the simple
expedient of not using it. In Chuquiqui-
mata, for blasting purposes they use bags
of charcoal soaked in liquid oxygen,
which is carted around in huge, glorified
thermos bottles. The bags are perfectly
safe to handle, but if left in the air for
any time lose their oxygen and become
useless as an explosive. But when placed
in a firing hole, tamped and fired in the
ordinary way they are as effective as
dynamite. The fumes resulting from the
explosion may or may not be toxic,
though the principal one, carbon dioxide,
won’t sustain life, but that does not
matter much at Chuqui, for the mining
is open-face. In the first place, it isn’t
worth while stealing the explosive, for
it soon becomes valueless as such, and in
the second it is rather hard to conceal a
bag which is at a temperature of minus
189 deg. centigrade. Plenty of cheap
water power makes the liquefaction of
air with subsequent fractionation of the
oxygen easy at Chuqui.
* * if *
“Nor West”: Is the Chinaman really
immune from attack by a crocodile? Up
at Wyndham Ah Wing reckoned he was —
“Alligator allee same brother to dragon,
no hurt Chinaman.”
And, of course, the
Chinese dragon is a
friendly spirit, carried
in processions to scare
away devils. Ah Wing
used to pity a 16ft.
specimen caught by a
trapper in a snare and
later confined in a sap-
ling palisade, bringing
it overproof fish and
tasty scraps. And the
croc., which never
failed to snap wickedly
at whites and blacks,
rather seemed to like
him. So sure was Ah
Wing on this point that
he even offered to enter
the compound and pat
the saurian. But to this
the owner demurred,
declaring that he
wanted to get the croc, away on the next
boat and so had no time to wait for
inquests and possible charges of man-
slaughter.
* * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: Out on the open
ground I came upon one of those big,
grey, velvety spiders (the ones that don’t
build webs) with 50 or more of her
young packed tight on her back.
Held down with a twig she remained
docile while I dislodged her brood,
which made a rush for cover in the grass.
The mother stayed motionless for four or
five minutes when I let her go, and the
youngsters again came in ones and twos
and took up their positions on her back.
Roughly half had returned when I left
them to it about five minutes later.
“Bryan”: As a weather prophet the
spider is often superior to frogs, black
cockatoos and granddad’s gout. If there
is stormy weather ahead it will use an
old torn web in preference to building
a new one. A canny fellow, it doesn’t
believe in wasting labor and materials.
“Drazelb”: We always go trapdoor-
spider hunting a day or two after rain.
The heaps of dirt are never close against
the excavations —anything from one to
four feet away. Generally it is difficult
to find the holes when the door is shut,
but it is possible to trace the tiny bits of
dirt dropped by the spider between the
nest and the dump, a game for the keen-
sighted only.
%
“Kerriki”: The road was rough, but
it would take a carping critic to find fault
with the grading. I commented on it to
one of the locals in the service car. “Just
like all the old shire engineers used to
do,” he volunteered. “They used to
find a good cattle-track and stick to it.”
A mile or so further on we slithered and
skidded round a series of avoidable
devil’s elbows. “What sort of cattle made
this track?” I bawled above the scream-
ing of the brakes. “A new engineer from
the city— he’s to blame,” roared the man
with the local knowledge. “He was so
long getting up to here that the cattle gave
it up. The grass grew over the pad, and
he was too poor a bushman to find it
again! ”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Coral lime as a building
material is well known and exploited by
the Torres Strait Binghi. On Badu Island
the now Christianised and mystical-
minded abo. has evolved an ornate ceme-
tery, studded with carved headstones,
mostly of devotional and Biblical flavor,
in which lime obtained from burning the
coral from the outlying reefs is the basic
constituent. The result is an immaculate
whiteness admirably suited to the pur-
pose. On Darnley Island, which was the
jumping-off place for the first L.M.S.
men, there is a fine church wrought in
this material, its dazzling whiteness,
coupled with its Moorish design, making
it outstanding.
A VEXED QUESTION.
“Cauegrowers in N.Q. are protesting against pro-
posals to exterminate the bandicoot, as they consider
it a godsend.”
On the question of each creature whose exist-
ence is a feature
Of our bush, there’s mostly unanimity
As to whether it’s essential for man’s good, or
pestilential,
Or merely harmless, as the case may be.
There’s a firm and deep conviction that the
’roos are an infliction
And that emus should be ruthlessly sup-
pressed,
But there still is sharp division touching this,
and indecision:
Is the bandicoot a godsend or a pest?
There’s no grazier, I’ll warrant, but will style
the crow abhorrent,
And particularly so at lambing time;
While they’re all agreed that rabbits, with
their pasture-wrecking habits,
Are detestable as criminals and crime.
None appreciates the uses of the dingo; while
abuse is
To the wedge-tailed eagle lavishly addressed.
But up north there’s scant suggestion of agree-
ment on the question:
Is the bandicoot a godsend or a pest?
The marsupial that burrows ever stamps in-
creasing furrows
On the corrugated brows of cockies, who
Work like blazes ploughing, sowing, and, just
when their spuds are growing,
Find the nicely swelling tubers eaten through.
On the other hand, the “bandy” in the sugar-
cane is handy
And for cleaning up the grubs is duly blest.
How about a Roy’l Commission to review the
whole position?
Is the bandicoot a godsend or a pest?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTR VLU
BRISBANE OFFICE: 805 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up ~ .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Shafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business traits acted.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY .
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
%
*
•!lli 2i
UK
•ll.il
IIM
• Hl**
■ 01
in
minin'
min
111
o
■ ns
MELBOURNE
Located beside Melbourne Town Hall, the
Victoria is Australia’s largest, most modern
hotel. Every comfort. Unrivalled cater-
ing. Moderate “Room Only’’ Tariff:
Singles, 4/- to 7/6; Doubles, 8/- to 16/-
per day. Write Department
Cl/ CV? Bl.j for free illustrated
Jhe/lUut booklet.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Millers Don’t Want Ford.
“Nabawa”; N.S.W. Flour Millowners’
Association has shocked nor’-west N.S.W.
to its depths with a statement to the effect
that the association believes Ford and
Baringa wheats should be allowed to go
out of cultivation.
When Ford was first introduced to
nor’-west paddocks, most millers paid a
premium on it. Its rust-resistant quality
has made it the most popular wheat in
N.S.W. outside Nabawa. It is a bag-
filler, and will stand heavy grazing back.
It is almost universally used as a mid-
season grain in the nor’-west, and has
many adherents in the west and south.
Premiums were paid for Baringa as
recently as two years ago. It and Ford
appear to have suffered as other wheats
for which premiums were paid—they
were so widely grown as a result that
premiums were no longer necessary.
In place of the two condemned varie-
ties, the millowners favor Dundee.
Nabawa, Flora, Florence, Gular and
Marshall’s No. 3 for “general crop pur-
poses,” and Carrabin, Comeback, Ideal,
Pusa No. 4 and Pusa No. 3 in the
strong white class. Of that little lot,
Nabawa, Dundee, Marshall’s and Pusa
4 will make most appeal to growers for
yield and smut resistance.
After tests in Victoria and M.L. with
artificially bleached wheats it was con-
tended that a very small loss of
baking quality (if any) did not justify the
serious dockage imposed on naturally-
bleached wheat. The tests gave a definite
loss in bushel weight, owing to swollen
grain.
Millowners’ technicians say that N. S.
Wales wheat is superior to Vic. and
M.L. wheats. Therefore bleaching does
reduce it's baking and milling quality.
1 hey add that tests on artificially-
bleached wheat are of no value, prob-
ably because atmospherics at time of
natural bleaching are not reproduced in
the laboratory.
The statement concludes;
Bleaching can be of varying degrees, but
externally all bleached grain is much the
same, and its quality can be determined
only by milling the wheat and subsequent
baking results. As this is obviously im-
possible in most cases, millers must regard
all bleached wheat as doubtful.
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture is
to make tests, which pleases the millers,
though they do not expect the depart-
ment to discover “any more than has
been known for many years past.”
Pastures and Capacity.
“Rom Ney”: Consider N. Twin, of
Blayney (N.S.W.). In 1927 his 600-acre
property would barely carry 500 sheep.
This year it is carrying 1400 sheep and
150 lambs, and has not reached its limit.
The owner sowed sub. clover in badly-
eroded paddocks, with phalaris in the
gullies, as a beginning. He increased the
area to 300 acres of sub. and 100 acres
of mixed perennial rye and cocksfoot.
It soon became evident that sub. clover
was not particularly suitable, so he began
to replace it with perennial rye and white
clover.
The paddocks arc regularly renovated
and top-dressed, the sheep are not
allowed to flog them out, subdivision is
to be increased, and carrying capacity
grows year by year.
Last year he turned off 900 lambs.
Sheep Parasites.
Dr. J. Clunies Ross, Director of the
McMaster Animal Health Lab. (Sydney),
and H. McL. Gordon, one of his research
men, have produced a much-needed work
"I cant cash this cheque — it's not signed."
"Well, you sign um .”
on The Internal Parasites and Parasitic
Diseases of Sheep (Angus and Robert-
son; 255.). The book is meticulous in
detail, and leaves out nothing which can
be of use in diagnosis or treatment. It
gives the distribution of each ailment,
usually illustrated with a map, life his-
tory, symptoms and method of handling.
There are 44 full-page plates and 35 text
figures and maps. The photographs of
diseased organs are, in particular, above
the average in quality of lucidity.
Primarily, this is a book for the
veterinary, but it is in language under-
standable to the average reader.
There is an excellent index.
Horny Merino Ewes.
“Agemark”: In merino sheep, homed
ewes are, I consider, of better constitu-
tion than their polled sisters. And better
breeders and mothers.
It is most noticeable here (n.-w. Q.)
since the disastrous drought of last year.
On our property there are 3500 breed-
ing ewes left out of 13,000 at the begin-
ning of 1935. The percentage of hornies
among them is well above that seen in
the ordinary years.
Look through any fair-size mob (say,
2000 ewes) with 50 p.c. of lambs at foot,
and you will find that the percentage of
hornies with lambs will be eighty or
more.
When driving ewes and lambs, watch
the ewes that turn and defy your dog —
they generally have horns. They are also
quick at finding their lambs after lamb-
marking, and you very seldom see a
horned ewe at the yards next morning,
looking for a lamb mothered the pre-
vious day.
Twin-lamb Disease.
Thjs tLd . (known ,ech-
. „ J . ~ , ,
n,ca My as toxaemia ol pregnancy) has
been prevalent in the Riverina, because
of a bad winter ; losses are still compara-
lively heavy.
xhe fattest ewes are affected, especi-
al|y if carrying twin iambs. T.l.d. is caused
, , ... ,
a breaking down ot the hver, kidneys
and, later, heart, owing to insufficient
exercise on dry, nourishment-lacking
feed. The organs gradually cease to
perform their jobs, an improper excre-
tion of waste matter takes place, and a
toxin forms which is quickly absorbed
into the system.
The affected ewe will be seen standing
about the paddock listlessly. She won’l
run away from you or dogs. It is im-
possible to drive her, as she either lies
down or goes round in circles as if, blind.
She won’t feed. Death may take as long
as a week or more.
P.-m. examination shows a frothy dis-
charge from nose and mouth. Quick
putrefaction, with the same sort of
offensive smell as in entero-toxremia,
takes place.
The liver is congested with blood, a
light, unnatural color, and breaks up on
being pressed with the fingers, as if half-
cooked. The kidneys are usually dark
purple and heavily congested. Some-
times they are pulpy also, so take great
care to distinguish between t.l.d. and
e.-t. The intestines are inflamed and
usually empty.
If these post-mortem signs are noted
in conjunction with fat condition and a
dry-feed period, t.l.d. is a certain diag-
nosis.
Treatment is not very effective. A
stiff dose of Epsom salts, followed by
compulsory exercise, helps. The mob
must be given green feed to effect a
certain cure, or the unborn lambs
removed, after which recovery is rapid.
Failing this, feed artificial foods rich in
protein. Affected animals must be made
to eat or they will die.
I have saved several by filling their
mouths with green feed as often as I
could ; others by feeding them protein
and by driving them every day. This
latter is the finest preventive method
I know, and it will work, if done
regularly, without either green feed or
artificial protein. However, it is best to
try everything, as t.l.d. can take heavy
101 l in a fat mob.
It is neither infectious nor contagious.
I have known ewes die after lambing,
but it is unusual.
The greatest safeguards of all are
green feed such as oats and prompt
action when the disease appears.
Sawfly on the Maranoa.
“J. Want”: Around Injune (s.-w. Q.)
there have been losses of dairy cattle
from sawfly poisoning, which is bad this
season all along the Maranoa.
The poisoning is the result of the eat-
ing of the fly larvse by cattle, which
seem to develop an abnormal appetite
for them. The Queensland Agricultural
Department is trying to find out the
reason, but its job is not easy, because
epidemics are isolated, often with three
or four years between.
Requests are being sent out to graziers
to collect lame which fall from trees —
the more larvae the merrier the depart-
ment will feel, especially if full data as
to locality, stock condition on the prop-
erty, losses, symptoms and development
accompany the gift.
At present, there is no cure for the
poisoning and only one known method
of control. Stock should be removed to
ringbarked paddocks or to enclosures
free from silver-leafed ironbark, which
is the fly’s host.
New Dairy Regulations.
“X.T.”: Queensland has issued new
dairy regulations which aim at a cooler
type of dairy house. Old houses, how-
ever, are not to be condemned at once
provided there are decent ventilation and
cleanliness. The new houses are to have
wire-nettinged or |in. woven-wire vents
in place of gauze, hitherto used.
Houses must now have a hot-water
boiler, washing-up trough and draining
rack, and there are special safeguards
for milking-machines.
Cloths and cans must be used to clean
teats and udders before and after milk-
ing, and it will be an offence to milk in
(“ Land” continued on page 24.)


SUNSHINE
FALLOWING EQUIPMENT
Does Good Work
in All Soils and
Conditions!
m
4 Vi
m
fw
■jm
SUNDUKE BRIDLE DRAUGHT
STUMP-JUMP SCARIFIER.
14-tyne, 7ft. cut, for team, £56 1 3
18-tyne, 9ft. cut, for team, £65 6 6
Tractor Hitch and Screw Lift with exten-
sion for tractor use (in lieu of rear levers)
at small extra cost. Ask for the
SUNDUKE FOLDER, which describes it
fully.
SUNRISE STUMP-JUMP
MOULDBOARD PLOUGH.
3- with long boards, £35 1 1 9
4- with long boards, £45 16 6
5- with long boards, £5l 13 6
6- with long boards, £6O 9 0
Tractor Levers, Automatic Lift and other
special equipment at small extra cost.
Ask for SUNRISE FOLDER for full
details.
k
m
SUNDERCUT STUMP-JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH.
I 0-disc, with 20in. and 1 Sin.
discs, cuts sft £4B 15 0
1 2-disc, with 20in. and 1 Bin.
discs, cuts 6ft £56 1 3
14-disc, with 20in. and 1 Sin.
discs, cut 7ft £59 19 3
Also obtainable with 22in. and 20in. discs,
hand-steering gear and tractor levers in lieu of
team levers at small extra cost. Ask for the
SUNDERCUT FOLDER for full details.
MASSEY HARRIS NEW MODEL 25 TRACTOR
Fallowing pays. Here is another instance:—
Mr. J. H. Harvey, of “Kindalin,” Dubbo, N.S.W., averaged 34.8 bushels per acre on
fallow for ten years, compared with 15.6 bushels on stubble for eight years in which it was sown.
Fallowing increases yields, helps weed control, maintains fertility, ensures moisture for seeding,
and increases carrying capacity for sheep. Sunshine fallowing equipment comprises a full
range of disc, tyne and mouldboard implements—set or stump-jump—renowned for quality,
dependability and service. Horse-drawn or tractor-pulled—strong, durable, efficient —they
make good fallows in diverse conditions, as many discriminating buyers have proved to their
satisfaction and profit.
This new Model 25 Tractor—the latest and most powerful tractor built by Massey Harris
for use with petrol, kerosene or distillate —is a notable advance in tractors —durable,
sturdy and compact, simple to operate, speedy and powerful in performance, with low running
and maintenance expense. HORSE POWER (Nebraska Test—Distillate Fuel) —Rated
Drawbar, 26.44; Rated Belt, 41.01; Maximum Drawbar, 35.25; Maximum Belt, 48.25.
SPEEDS—Standard, 2\ 3± 4 m.p.h.; Reverse, 2J m.p.h. OVERALL DIMEN-
SIONS—Length, 135 inches; Width, 65| inches; Height over Hood, 57 inches.
Its great success, measured by sales made in
all States—a sure guide, indicative of
appreciation of its many fine features —points to a
good tractor worthy of investigation by prospective
buyers. Full particulars and numerous new features
—all of genuine worth, and valuable ones protected
by patents against use on other tractors —are illus-
trated and described, with other specifications, in
the MASSEY HARRIS TRACTOR BOOK-
LET—free on request. Obtain a copy, or, if you
prefer, we will sent a representative to discuss your
requirements, explain the tractor and make a pro-
position—free to you of obligation to buy. Ask the
local agent, or write to the nearest branch.
Prices quoted here are net cash for delivery f.o.r. Sunshine.
Prices for delivery at any Australian capital or Tasmanian
port are a little higher. Extended terms can be quoted at
small extra cost
Ask ihe local agent,
or write to the near-
est branch for de-
scriptive catalog ae —
free on request.
SUNSHINE LINE
INCLUDES
•
Ploughs
Sundercuts Cultivators
Harrows
Scarifiers Horse Hoes
Pasture Renovators
Pasture Harrows
Fertilizer Distributors
Seeding Machines
Planters
Field Rollers and Packers
Mowers Rakes
Reapers and Binders
Stripper Harvesters
Header Harvesters
Auto Headers
Tractors
Chaffcutters
Grain Grinders
Milking Machines
Cream Separators
Engines
Spraying Outfits
Saw Benches
Maize Shellers
Sack Trucks
Bag Loaders
Metal Farm Gates
Q
THEY WORK WELL
AND LAST LONG.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, SUNSHINE, VIC.
Branches at 6d4-664 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 27-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North i errace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King
Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V, McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane,


PRICE 45/-
This boot is made in full and half sizes, with
medium and wide fittings.
For keeping your boots in good condition,
use Dale’s English Dubbin, 2/6 per tin.
AH ALL-PURPOSE
BOOT
OR every kind of wear,
riding, walking, in the
paddocks, or on the roads, this
boot is essential. Made of a
strong, pliant Ooze Calf Upper,
thick, stout Soles, and Re-
inforced Elastic Sidepieces, and
featuring the special Ankle
Strap, better value would in-
deed be hard to find.
FOR COUNTRY
WEAR.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
W.A. 42.
Something New!
A CRUISE ROUND SOUTH ISLAND
FIRST CLASS ONLY
Fares from 20 Guineas.
NEW ZEALAND
Calling at ,
MILFORD, AND OTHER FAMOUS SOUNDS,
STEWART ISLAND. DUNEDIN, LYTTELTON
AND PICTON.
“These New Zealand Sounds are
grander than the Fjords of Norway.”
R.M.S. MAUNGANUI
Leaves Sydney December 2
Returns Sydney December 16
14 DAYS’ GLORIOUS CRUISING
Apply
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: 876 7 I
OR AT ANY TOURIST AGENCY
“SUPER RAPID”
Ball-bearing
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
Centrifugal Pumps supply a greater
amount of water than any other pump
of the same pipe size.
Where a large volume of water at no
great pressure is
required,
“Super Rapid”
is the pump for
the job.
Fitted
with
S.K.F.
Ball
Bearings.
“Super Rapid” Pumps are made in two types: Low Lift for a head of 50 feet,
and High Lift for a head of 100 feet.
The following list shows the capacity of some of the popular sizes:—
ẁ
Ask for our illustrated
catalogue
It contains full particulars of
these and other pumps.
Centrifugal Pumps can be
supplied direct-coupled to electric motor
51 Bathurst St.,
Sydney.
546 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
116
Waymouth
Adelaide.
St.,
532 Murray St.,,
Perth.
dirty clothes. Milk or cream kept in a
dairy house must be protected from dust
and insects, and stirred every four hours
with a metal stirrer. And cheese-factory
milk must be delivered before 9 a.m. in
summer and 9.30 a.m. in winter.
All cans must be scalded after return
from the factory before being used
again. Cans must be numbered, and a
fine is prescribed for using a can belong-
to another person. Milk carts also must
be cleaned and taps must be covered
“with an approved cover.”
When cream is delivered under first-
grade or butter-fat standard at the fac-
tory, the supplier must at once be told.
Cheese-factory deliveries are to be tested
four times a month.
It sounds hard by older standards —
but there’s money for the Queensland
butter industry in every line of the com-
pulsions.
Beating Skeleton Weed.
“C. Real”: Skeleton weed will soon
be in the rosette stage again. If lucerne
is sown at once, it has a chance of becom-
ing established ahead of the new skeleton
growth. Lucerne put on weed areas last
year should be top-dressed with super
this month. To mulch the soil after
recent rains and heavy stocking, use the
harrow on oat fodder crops sown on
weed.
Young lucerne will be almost hidden
by skeleton and other weeds by early
spring, and a mower is recommended to
allow it to get a second start against its
opponents.
Hand-feeding is now a definite ally in
the fight against skeleton, and farmers in
infested areas should mark some of their
lucerne and cereal crops for hay for next
season.
These Sorghums.
“R.X.8.”: So much has been said
about the dangers of sacchaline and the
other sorghums that this valuable form
of feed is unpopular in some districts
where there have been losses. Danger
can arise only from carelessness.
At certain stages of growth all
sorghums are poisonous, and at some
stages the erstwhile popular planters’
friend and sacchaline may be more
poisonous than other types.
The poisons are active up to seven
and a half weeks’ growth. They dis-
appear shortly after the blossoming stage
and are completely gone when the seed
is ripe.
Poisons also are harmless if the plant
is cut and dried for at least two days.
Observe these rules;
1. —Have the paddock securely fenced. Don’t
allow stock access to the growing stuff at all.
2. —Never feed freshly-cut sorghum. Allow
at least two days to dry.
3. —Never graze off stunted or immature
growth. If it is too short to cut, turn it in.
4. —Feed only in' green after the blossoming,
and when the grain is forming.
Sacchaline has the best nutritive ratio
of the sorghums and is available be-
tween seasons and when grass is scarce,
usually resisting frost. The crop should
be pushed ahead with plenty of super.—-
quantity depends on the soil—and by
broadcasting the seed a fine-stemmed
growth is obtained, more succulent and
readily eaten.
Handling a Colt.
“Winfield”: Undue fright and excite-
ment will be avoided if, a few days before
he is to be doctored, a colt is handled
and quietened. The opportunity should
be taken also to trim his hooves, as long
hooves may cause a horse to become
knock-kneed, bow-legged or pigeon-toed.
After a little handling, teach the young-
ster to tie up and lead—a simple process
if a strong rope is used. First secure a
strap from one bit-ring to the other,
underneath the jaw. Put the rope round
his neck and tie with a knot that won’t
slip. The other end of the rope is tied
to a green tree, passed down between the
jaw and the strap. Make the animal try
to break away so that he will find he has
no chance against the tree. Mastered
in this way, he will never again strain
against his lead, whether being led or
tied up.
Trimming the hind hooves is risky if
not properly done. A good method of
lifting and holding is to place a strap
with a loose round link on it around the
pastern. Through the link a rope is
passed, and this rope is secured on the
horse’s back to a surcingle. The other
end is taken to a safe distance behind
the horse. A pull from behind will lift
and hold the hoof from the ground.
Codlin Moth Spread.
“C.P.”: If the blowfly in its various
new manifestations is giving the grazier
a headache, the codlin moth is rapidly
becoming a gnawing pain to the apple-
and pear-grower. Up till 12 years ago, if
a Victorian grower sprayed his trees
more than four times with arsenate of
lead he was a marked man. To-day
seven and eight sprayings a season are
common, while the percentage of codlin-
infested fruit is higher than ever.
Not only have the expenses doubled
without effect, but the grower’s market-
ing expenditure is increased, because
the increased use of lead has forced him
either to wipe or wash the spray off the
fruit.
It seems to trained investigators that
a new type of moth or grub is evolving
—one that is becoming more and more
immune to arsenic. How else can one
account for the increasing “carry-over”
of infestations?
One grower showed me on an average
of seven cocoons in new cases packed
with picked-over fruit and stored in the
cool store. The only remedy is for every
grower to bandage his trees with either
chemically treated or bag bandages and
destroy the pupating grubs at regular
intervals, and to keep on doing it for
some weeks after the crop has been
harvested.
Hints for the Farm.
“R.E.”: A lot of erosion is caused be-
cause farmers will not learn the lesson
that if is unwise to fallow on top of less
than a quarter of an inch of rain. Stop
work as soon as a dust cloud rises. Soil
is capital.
“Ekka”: To preserve rope use, well
mixed, hot tallow (three parts) and
graphite (one part).
“Aida”: Nothing like two halves of a
40-gallon oil-drum as horse feed-boxes.
Cut them lengthwise with a hacksaw.
Turn in the sharp edges with a wrench,
and beat down with a hammer. And
don’t forget a small hole or two in the
bottom for drainage if they are in the
open,
“Ek Dum”: An average 15001 b. work-
ing horse should have about 61b. to 81b.
oats, 41b. to 61b. cracked maize, 151 b. to
201 b. chaff and lib. bran per day when
in average work.
“Mano”: For sheep foundered on
wheat try two tablespoonfuls soda bicarb,
in i pint water. A couple of hours after
this dose, give i pint linseed oil with 10
drops turpentine. And for four days
give the animals nothing but a little straw
and plenty of water.
“Lam”: Why not a bone silo? You
need a Ift. 6in. wide trench in good hold-
ing ground with 6in. recently-burnt wood
ashes on the bottom and a row of stakes
up the centre. On the ashes place a 3in.
layer of bones with the fat well boiled
out. Repeat the ash-bone layering to
within 6in. of the top. Fill with a final
6in. of ashes. Remove stakes and pour
liquid manure into the holes. Fill the
holes often enough to keep the trench
contents moist, and within a year there
will be a good bonedust ration ready
to be broken up and distributed over the
paddocks.
“Valerin”: A great many N.S.W.
wheatgrowers have denuded their farms
so thoroughly that they have not left a
stick of firewood. I know a shrewd old
farmer who, when clearing his block,
left belts of green timber. Every year
he pollards enough trees to keep the
woodheap up to the Plimsoll mark. The
result is that he hasn’t to cadge a load
of fuel from his neighbors, and his trees
are making vigorous growth.
“Sheepo”: “XT.” (B. 29/7/’36) is
right about the losses that occur by let-
ting midwinter-shorn sheep into cold,
open paddocks on the first night. His
advocacy of shelter sheds will receive
little attention, but where plenty of pen
space is available commonsense will save
many sheep. Get - the morning-shorn
mob away bush quickly. Afternoon-
shorn sheep can be brought back into
the shed at knock-off time, even if it
means turning out the woollies penned
for next day. It might rain. What if
it does? Better to lose time through wet
sheep than see the paddocks dotted with
carcasses of sheep stiffened by cold.
“Valerin”: The irregular germination
of sub. clover may be explained by a
theory I heard the other day. It was
asserted that the pods carry about fifty-
fifty soft and hard seeds. The former
germinate soon after being sown, while
the others lie dormant for 12 months or
longer. This could explain the dis-
appointing growth of the first year’s seed-
ing.


HOTEL METROPOLE
PhiMlo ani Your? Streets, Sydney
hi
7i mW|| «$ S w ini L
)-•
NiiKiii ■iii ,l li
1:.:
« ill I *^
B
.
■; ; '
m
<&*
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“My idea of a perfect wife is one who is
young and beautiful to look at and a first-class
cook .“-—Magazine article.
Sounds like bigamy to us.
*** *l* ►i*
“ ‘Even the woman of 50 powders nowadays,’
says a beauty expert.”
Powders and puffs.
4. 4. 4. 4-
From the gloomy remarks of English
papers it appears that England has at last
selected the right team to lose the Tests,
4.
“Hugh Denison, the newspaper proprietor,
says Australian papers can compare with the
best in the world.”
Sez Hugh!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Ability to walk a chalk line is no proof of
sobriety, says a police official.”
Or, as Henley says: “It matters not
how straight the gait.”
“The 20,000 liners of the Orient fleet have
all been remodelled.” — “S.M.H.”
About 19,950 in plasticine, we pre-
sume.
“John, don't sniff! Use your handkerchief!”
“A man claims to have a talking cat at his
home.”
Blonde or brunette?
*!• ■4* 4* 4*
“Marketing Boards. Rigid Changes Sug-
gested.”—“Sun.’
After all, we are board stiff.
4. 4. .t, *
“Tyre Blows Out. Motorist Gets £l6O
Damages.”— “Sun” heading.
Now he can have a real blow-out.
*%* *l*
“Asbestos Tower for Peace Prayers.”
—News heading.
For hot gospellers?
Wisdom of Solomon.
“These two women each claim to be
the mothers of the quintuplets before us,”
announced the Grand Vizier.
“Isn’t there some precedent for settling
the case?” commented King Solomon.
“I have a vague recollection of some
appropriate judgment I made”
“O King, that was but one child.”
“Oh, yes, I see. Let me consider.”
Solomon deliberated.
“My august judgment is that each of
the women shall be given a pair of chil-
dren, and that the fifth shall be reserved
for the Crown.”
“But,” shrieked the bereaved mothers,
“why cannot the odd child be divided
between us by the sword?”
“Revenue, ladies, revenue!” drily re-
sponded the sage. “In these days
of multiple births, the prudent man lays
up treasure unto himself by preserving
any single birth carefully and tending it.
There will come a day when the sign of
‘Only Child’ will be sufficient to pack
the music-halls.”
Cloon.
4- 4* 4- 4-
“The canister has been added to the Customs
museum of curios found on ships in Bus-
bane.” — “S.M.H.”
All they want to complete the collec-
tion is the passenger on a cruise ship
who made no secret of the fact that he
was married.
•J* *2* *2*
“A clergyman says that bridge fiends will
have no chance when the end of the world
arrives.”
He’d better not be too sure. When
Gabriel takes a hand, the bridge addict
may declare no-trumps.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Discarded by his wife, he took to dunk.”
Well, it’s natural for the discard to
go to the pack.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Natives of the Upper Ramu, New Guinea,
pay the equivalent of one shilling for a wife.”
—Magazine article.
So there is profiteering even there!
.T. 4. 4«
Where the Blame Came From.
“Drink Blamed for Poverty.”
—“Sunday Sun” heading.
There you are—l knew it! My wife
has been talking again, and it’s got into
the press.
1 know, because that’s just the way she
puts it. We are poor, of course —at least
I am. Together we can afford most
of the things that make life uncomfort-
able, like wireless sets, and a flat big
enough for other people to use for par-
ties, and the stuff that they mop up ; but
there is always something we have to do
without. In my wife’s case it may be a
fur coat; in my
own, my fare into
town on Thursday.
My wife doesn’t
mind about the
fare business, but
she is very con-
cerned about the
fur.
Last week I had
a spare couple of
quid over the rent,
housekeeping
allowance, gas, in-
come tax and other
sundries. Although
1 would have liked
it for other things
I thought it might
lay the spooks of
some of those gar-
ments for my wife
which she says she
needs so badly.
She, however, de-
clared that the
time was ripe to
give a party to
some of her
friends.
When I was
round getting some of the requirements
I met Bloggs. We spent eightpence each,
and Maria smelt the money on my breath
when 1 returned.
“There you go again!” she cried.
“Wasting money in the hotels! And
you know I need a new hat. But I’m
likely to get it while your drinking keeps
us poor.”
Oh, yes! My wife has been talking
to the papers all right!
H. M.
4- -I- 4- 4-
“‘I am puzzled,’ says a character in a
novel. ‘Donald has asked me to marry him
and make him happy.’ ”
She’ll just have to make up her mind
which she is going to do.
“ ‘I can’t understand why my wife left me,
because I’ve always treated her like a gentle-
man,’ says a petitioner in a divorce case."
It might have been better if he had
treated her like a lady.
Some Little-known Facts About
Spain.
I.— General Knowledge.
Spain is a large tract of land attached
to Gibraltar, and is bounded on the n.-w.
by the three Basque provinces—hence
the term “bounding Basques.” The rest
of it, with the exception of the Pyrenees
and Portugal (home of the “Pork and
Beans” who struck such terror into
Teutonic hearts in 1914-18), is surrounded
by sea. As Spaniards don’t surf, the
“That beastly running-out-of-benzine trick again!”
circumambient ocean is regarded bv
more advanced nations as being wasted.
Nor does the sea yield its quota of
fish as along other seaboards. Reason?
Spanish mackerel only bite in the middle
of the day, and as this clashes with the
inviolable custom of the “siesta” (lit.,
“snooze off”) the industry has languished.
Don Y Zunda Pantz, the great Catalonian
ichthyologist, has tried for years to
change the fish’s biting time to the
quarter-hour before noon which is the
Spanish working day, but without suc-
cess.
The region of the Bay of Biscay is said
to be the wettest in the world. This is
doubtless owing to its big grape and cider
yields, rendering the district wetter even
than the biergarten area in the Wilhelm-
strasse and Moscow’s famous vodka
foundry region.
The country’s chief industries are bull-
fight-watching, castanet-dancing and
siesta-taking. Output is governed by
the last-named —the “key” industry.
Modern mass-production methods have
speeded up the siesta industry to
such an extent that the nation has
been enriched by two million more
sleeping hours and 74 million snores
per working week. Since the great
insomnia epidemic of ’22, which wrought
such havoc in the siesta industry and
brought Spain to the verge of bank-
ruptcy, all the energies of Spanish scien-
tists have been bent to the task of keep-
ing the nation asleep. “Tune in to
dreams,” the slogan of the President,
Senor Cascara Sagrada, has been taken
up drowsily by all classes, i
Next in order of economic importance
is the raising of goats and Barcelona
knuts. These are mostly used for the
home market, the majority graduating
through the bullring and becoming pic-,
mat- and toreadors.
Toledo is famous for its swords. In
the Great War Toledo swords were in
strong demand, as their peculiar temper
made them better for making toast with
than any other type,
Next to the fashioning of songs about
it's district, Granada is celebrated for its
cork oak forests. Owing to the introduc-
tion of (he patent beer-bottle cap, the
cork industry has seriously declined, and
the eminent botanist Senor Sombrero
Malagasoaka spent some - years in cross-
ing the cork oak with the Valencia
orange, in order to evolve a featherweight
citrus which would have saved millions
a year in freight. It was found, however,
that the resultant fruit had to be opened
with a corkscrew. At present the Senor
is experimenting with an Australian iron-
bark, and he hopes, by. hybridising, to
obtain a soft, light hardwood.
Castile is the first place in the world
to be named after a soap, a grace-
ful tribute to the cleanly habits of its
people.
Since the popularising of Spanish by
Don Quixote, it has become the national
language, being spoken quite fluently by
the inhabitants. The word which has the
biggest turnover is “manana” (lit., “blast
the job”).
It is estimated by the Government
Statistician that if the Spanish ’flu germ,
which is exported in enormous quantities
each year, had a monetary value, Spain
would be rich enough to pay all
her external debts, nationalise the bull-
fighting and mantilla industries, and abol-
ish all work by increasing the siesta time
bv a quarter of an hour.
S. W. K.
Futility.
You lift your golden curls; your eyes
With g 1 owing lustre gaze on mine;
Then tears of gentle passion rise
And make them look superb, divine.
Your sweet lips falter, fail to speak.
And make me wildly yearn to kiss.
At last you sigh in accents weak,
“I love you !” — Oh, the words of bliss !
Then bitter mern’ry gives a thrust
For what avails it, O my queen ?
I’m flesh and blood, and you are just
A shadow on a movie screen.
T. W. N.
Social Item.
When the sounds of a party
Have ceased to be hearty,
Many a hostess
Looks more like a ghostess.
T. W. N.
Change.
/ remember, I remember, the house where
1 was born.
My parents thought it somewhat small
and just a trifle worn ;
But surely they {and I myself ) made some
mistake, for that’s
To-day a residential with “six mod.
s\c. fiats ”
H. M.


Magnificent Coming Serial.
"ALL THAT SWAGGER"
By Miles Franklin,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner for 1936,
will appear in instalments of about 20,000 words
in enlarged issues of The Bulletin.
First Instalment September 16.
Bright , Brief Australian Serial of Real Horses and Men:—
AMATHEA
BY Henry G. Lamond
ẅ
squealing skirmish, a clash of teeth and a shuffling
of feet as they paired off, mate with mate, and stood
head to tail with one hind leg resting. Gradually
each lower lip hung pendulous, each eye half-closed,
each head drooped to an easy level, and, unconscious,
yet rhythmic, each tail swung to ward the flies from
the other’s eyes.
Cascade was a stranger. A beautiful eight-year-
old chestnut mare, she had not yet any social stand-
ing in the mob. She had not reached the position ,
of possessing a mate of her own, of the right to claim
one part of the yard as hers, on which she could stand
and take her rest, and she was denied the privilege of
demanding that another horse should stand head and
tail with her and swish flies mutually.
She moved tentatively towards Cherry. Cherry
lopped her ears, bared her teeth and swung her head
as if, like a snake, she was about to strike. Cascade
moved away. In her heart she was not afraid of
Cherry; but there was an etiquette, and she knew it,
about the pairing of horses in the yard. She had not
found her footing. Until she was a recognised member
she must hover on the outskirts.
~ _ ~
OVER in one corner old Capsicum w&s standing
alone. Cascade made friendly advances towards
her. Capsicum made no response—sne dia not
even deign to open one eye or to lift her head to
a higher level. Cascade ranged beside her confidently,
and with the comforting feeling that any sort of a
mate is better than no mate at all she stood head-and-
tail with the old mare and swished flies contentedly.
There was a reason why Capsicum had a corner
of the yard to herself and why no others mated with
her. That old virago had a temper! Cascade had
swished but three times, drawing the plume of her
tail lingeringly over the old mare’s eyes, when Cap-
sicum demanded better attention. She bared her teeth
and chopped sharply at Cascade’s buttock.. Cascade
knew the signal. In horse language that meant “Shake
it up! Swing your tail more briskly!” Cascade re-
sponded. She increased the pace of her swings and
lengthened the radius. Capsicum’s face was enveloped
in a perfect veil of hair, and not one fly could have
found a footing there. Capsicum had no fault to
find with that attention. She found fault because
there was no fault to find. She struck again with her'
teeth, and she doubled her body and swung round
with her tail twitching in spasmodic jerks,
ASCADE knew that signal also. Capsicum had
N-' declared war. Her opponent could flee to save
herself —she could take the punishment which was to
be handed out to her, or she could fight. Cascade
was a stranger in a strange yard. Her position had not
been determined, and she was not sure where she stood.
She elected to escape punishment. She sprang away from
Capsicum and fled towards the middle of the yard.
With any of the horses to which she was accus-
tomed that would have sufficed for Capsicum. But
this new mare was a stranger. She must be taught
her place and a fitting degree of humility. She fol-
lowed that escaping figure.
As Cascade reached the main body of the horses
the lopped ears and twitching tails told her there
was no sanctuary there. That old she-fiend Capsicum
came charging behind her. Cascade dodged, and, striv-
ing to efface herself, slipped into the corner she had
left. She cringed there. That was Capsicum’s own
special corner! In the old mare’s bigoted mind that
was the height of insolence. She
charged. With her mane flying,
her eyes glaring, her teeth bare
and with her tail streaming behind
her, she swept to the attack. She
raked Cascade’s ribs with tearing
teeth and, pressing her in the
corner, swung and loosed her
thunderbolts of hind hooves.
Cascade cringed and twisted
as one broadside took her. As
Capsicum was gathering herself
for the second she turned. Un-
flinchingly she took the shock as
Capsicum’s hooves rattled her
ribs; and then her own hooves
lifted under Capsicum’s belly.
The old mare was surprised.
More, she was hurt. In the long
run of years her dignity had never
suffered such a jolt. It was more
than enough. She retired, kicking
blindly at nothing when she was
well out of range and chopping
one inoffensive gelding with
raking teeth as she passed him.
Confidently, knowing that her place was won,
Cascade looked for a mate beside whom she could
stand head-and-tail. She selected Cherry—Cherry,
the acknowledged social leader of the yard! —and
after a brief introductory nuzzling and smelling of
breaths the two mares stood out clear of the others
and swished tails in contentment.
“\I/E’D better pension off old Capsicum,” Kilgour,
* * the manager of Meetucka, was saying to Harry
Peelben as the men came to the yard. “She’s a vicious
old devil! She might cripple something some of
these days. I can’t stand these old ’uns who look
for fight for the sake of fighting.
“You’re taking the camp out to Galahpootra
to-day, aren’t you?” he asked. ‘Til take this mare out
to Mingeri Paddock and put her with Bluff Downs.
Tell Paddy to make a fire outside the round yard till
we cross-brand her, will you? Hey, Woppida!” he
called to a blackboy. “You catch’em that mare Maple
belong-it me. No, you fool! Not that one horse
Marble. That one Maple —that mare.”
A man, he thought, doesn’t ride a gelding when
he goes among a stallion’s mob running bush —not
without he’s looking for trouble.
He caught Cascade in the round yard.
“You’ve been having a fight with something,”
he muttered, noticing the streak of hair missing from
along her ribs.
He bridled the mare, soothed her and petted
her while the brands were heating.
“What’s amusin’ th’ boss this mornin’, Harry?”
one of the men asked. “He’s that pleased with him-
self he’d burst out laughin’ if he got a stitch in th’
side —he’d reckon it was somethin’ ticklin’ his ribs.”
“He got that chestnut mare from Andy Whelan
yesterday,” Harry replied abruptly, being economical
almost to the point of meanness with speech. “She’s
got a pedigree as long as your arm.”
“Who’s goin’ to ride her? Billy Brennan, Whelan’s
horse-tailer, told me that one can go through th'
ring of th’ bit when she starts buckin’ proper.”
“She ain’t that bad,” Harry stated. “Anyway,
you needn’t spit on your hands, Joe. She’s goin’ to
Bluff Downs.”
“H’m-m-m-m,” Joe replied judiciously, taking a
new view of the mare. “If I was in th’ boss’s place
I’d be whistlin’ tunes meself, getlin’ a brood mare
like that.”
Kilgour took the brand from the fire and tested
it against a post in the yard. It charred quickly,
cleanly, without breaking into flame, and he handed
it back to return to the fire. He took off his hat and
placed it under the near cheek-strap of the bridle,
improvising a one-sided winker, and picked up a
stake about three-feet long. Then, while Harry held
the mare in front, he soothed her and rubbed against
her body on the blind side, running his hand down
her near thigh.
“She’s got the, breeder’s brand on the near thigh,”
he mumbled. “The next quarter’s the off rib. I
hate a rib-brand on a horse. There’s room under
the breeder’s brand. Hand me that brand, Paddy.”
Kilgour held the stake in his left hand. He took
the brand in his right, pressing the point of the stake
against the mare’s quarter. That caused her to lean
over, tightening the skin, and presenting a drum-tight
surface to the brand. With a light touch, firm and
quick, he pressed the U9L in one piece against the
gleaming skin. For a snap of a second nothing hap-
pened. Then, coincident with the twirling plume of
smoke and the acrid smell of burnt hair, the mare
bounded wildly as the pain stung her.
Harry was crooning unintelligible profanities while
he soothed the mare and quietened her. Kilgour
threw the band to Paddy, and snatched the hat from
the mare’s cheek. He took her muzzle in the crook
of his arm, laid his cheek against hers. From deep
down in his throat a steady rumble sounded while
words poured from his lips—words which had no
place in any modern lexicon, which were meaningless,
profane, blasphemous and yet which the mare seemed
to understand as a message of peace.
The men caught their horses and saddled them.
Those needed for the camp were drafted out in a
separate yard. Kilgour, riding Maple and leading
Cascade running beside him, started for Mingeri.
| T was late in March. The season had been good
1 and the grass, mellow and rich, waved before the
wind. Summer was abating slightly. Already giant
puffs from the south-east heralded the steady trade
winds which were to take possession of the land
for the next six to nine months.
Birds of many varieties, having reared their first
clutch of chickens for the year, were congregating in
big flocks, filling the air with their cries and feasting
on the bounteous provender of the earth. The smaller
creeks had ceased running, but all the holes were
full, and along the banks trees drooped under heavy
foliage. In short, the earth was responding to the
rains—full, replete and bursting with life. And the
flies were everywhere—sickly, nauseating, clinging.
Kilgour rode up along Mingeri Creek. He headed
for the big claypan flat above Camp Oven Hole,
swinging easily to the action of his horse. When he
lifted his hat to scratch his head, or to let the wind
play on it, his hair showed grizzled and streaked with
grey. He was just what he knew himself to be—a
plain bushman and stock-lover, suntanned, lean, wiry,
with wrinkles showing about his eyes.


He knew the stallion and mares would be where
he found them on the claypan, walking in a ring, so
that the earth broke up like fine flour, keeping the
flies off them. There were between twenty and thirty
mares. On the outskirts were ten or a dozen with
foals, spindly-shanked little strangers which hugged
their mothers’ flanks in fear and wonder ,of the world.
A blazing chestnut, every inch a stallion, showed
prominently, even though all the horses were at rest.
They were dozing, lifting an occasional hoof and
setting it down again, swinging tails incessantly.
Suddenly one of the mares sensed a stranger s
approach. She did not move or utter a sound, yet
the warning spread from her over the mob. Instantly
all heads were erect; ears pricked. The mob was alert.
Only one horse called. Full and rich, the . stal-
lion’s clarion challenge rang through the air. Bluff
Downs breasted his way through his brood, pushing
mares aside. He came out to
meet that which approached
him.
”P HE stallion stood clear of
1 the mob and challenged
again. He snorted stertorously,
then he raked dust, threw bil-
lowing clouds of earth in the
air behind him.
Kilgour dismounted and
dropped Maple’s reins on the
ground. Holding Cascade’s
halter, he advanced a little to
meet the horse.
Bluff Downs swung round the
led mare and swooped in on
Maple. He whinnied to her as
he came, and with a rush he
surged up beside her, nuzzling
her nostrils with his.
Maple squealed her protest,
lopped her ears and struck
going out to the camp to note how the branding was
progressing, took one with him.
“Here you are, Harry,” he advised his head stock-
man. “The township’s holding a meeting on the
twenty-fourth of May. It’s a grassfed affair for
station horses. What about it?”
“What’s it in aid of?” Harry wanted to know.
“This don’t make a pretence of being in aid of
anything,” Kilgour said. “Might be a publican’s
benefit. Any horses you’d like to send?”
“Them Bluffs is too green yet,” Harry said.
“They’re only three, an’ th’ first of ’em is only broke
a few months. I’d like to meet ’em next year, an’
th’ year after, with some of them colts. Still, we can
hold our end up with th’ ol’ horses. There’s Jujube,
an’ Swallow, an’ Glacier, an’ Heiress, an’ Zoe, an’
one or two others.”
Harry was inclined to loquacity on one subject
blindly. The rebuff satisfied him. He left her and
came towards Kilgour and Cascade.
Kilgour, knowing the fight that would have been
on hand had he been fool enough to ride a gelding,
admired the superb masculinity of the horse.
Bluff Downs reached Cascade. Whinnying softly,
he advanced his nostrils to those of the mare. He
slipped along her side and sniffed behind her shoulder.
Then his whinnyings took a new note.
Cascade resented those abrupt advances. She
squealed, switched her tail and kicked.
The stallion bounded back. Posturing superbly,
his tail arched, the wind ruffling the mane on his crest
as he bowed his head, he advanced again.
Kilgour let the mare go. Undecided, she hesi-
tated whether to trot back to Maple or to go to the
brood mares ahead of her.
Bluff Downs lowered his head, lopped his ears,
swept in behind the mare, chopped her on the but-
tocks with his teeth. When she bounded and tried
to swing back he headed her off. He propped and
wheeled her when she attempted to dodge, and, close
behind her, with his head held high to avoid the
retaliatory kicks, he shepherded her into his mob and
merged her with them. He followed her among
them, reared, squealed, raked dust, curvetted—he im-
pressed her with his might and he fascinated her with
his beauty.
'"THE brood was disturbed. Some of the outside
I members spread and nibbled at the short pickings
of grass on the flat. Bluff Downs left Cascade, For
the time being the new member of his brood could
wait. He burst through the mob, lowered his head
and swung it with snakelike action. He lopped his
ears, showed the whites of his eyes and bared his teeth.
Then, in a fury, he swept round the mob. Those mares
knew the rules, the implacable spirit of their. lord.
They scuttled back to ring. One mare on the out-
skirts hesitated. She was a light bay with a chestnut
colt at foot. Palpably she was nervous, and undecided
whether to flee or to return to the mob, she cringed
in fear and shrunk in on herself as the stallion ap-
proached her. Then, when he was almost upon her
she fled in terror, galloping blindly.
Bluff Downs raced beside her, chopping at her,
and with each bite raising small tufts of hair which
floated in the wind. He chased her a hundred yards
or more from the mob. He raced in front of her and
stopped her in her tracks. He wheeled her back and
chivvied her in another direction. When she sought
to regain the safety of the mob he intercepted her
and drove her out on the flat.. He would not let her
enter the mob. He would not let her race away. The
mare was wet with the sweat of terror. A flabby
thing in her fear, she rolled in her stride.
“That’s Susette,” Kilgour muttered, talking to
himself. “I knew the horse disliked her, but I didn’t
think he hated her that badly.”
Suddenly Bluff Downs reared slightly, curvetted
and uttered a peculiar little gurgling whinny.
_ Susette came to him. She came falteringly, un-
willingly, seemingly in a mesmeric trance and unable
to control herself. She came, each slow step singly,
and a dozen times she hesitated. But she came as
though tied to a string, slowly and surely.
Bluff Downs curvetted, rearing and swinging on
his hind legs.
The mare came to him, sweating fear as she
advanced. She drew nearer, balanced on the hair-
trigger of flight, and at last she was close enough to
the outstretched nostrils of the horse.
“What can you expect of the progeny of such
a mating?” Kilgour asked himself, mounting Maple
to ride home. “I'll lay the odds to thrippence that it
ain’t a horse.”
( Chapter ]
ADDITIONS TO THE BROOD.
HALFWAY through April the township of Iladda,
the centre and gathering point of that district,
decided to hold a race-meeting. Programmes
were printed and sent to the various stations. Kilgour,
only: horses and racing. That
was a long speech, for him.
“I think we’ll give it a
flick,” the manager observed.
“Of course, it’s a tea-and-sugar
bushranger’s meeting. We can’t
win much, though we can lose a
dickens of a lot if we ain’t care-
ful. Anyway, it does the men
good.”
“I’ll take Wraith, too,”
Harry decided. “She’s pretty
slippy for a bit, an’ with th’
work she’s been doin’, an’ th’
solid feed of this time of th’
year, she’ll run her five fur-
longs. You don’t know what
other horses is cornin’, I sup-
pose?”
“I haven’t the faintest
idea,” Kilgour admitted. “It’s
pretty much of a certainty,
though, that Evans is going to bring Linen Duster.
That mare must be fifteen if she’s a day. It’s blasted
murder. He’s racing the guts out of her.”
“She won th’ Handicap at th’ last ’Burra meetin’.”
“What if she did? What’s it matter if she did
win a thirty-quid trophy an’ a few bits of bets? That
mare’s done her day—she did it before Evans got her.
She might have thrown something fit to take her place
as a horse. You can’t breed good stuff from the frame
of a wreck, Harry.”
“Suppose not,” Harry agreed. “I hear he’s got
some good youngsters by that new horse of his,
Lapidist.”
“He might have, Harry. Lapidist is by Grafton.
What chance d’you think a Galopin horse has of get-
ting good stock horses? That blood’s too fiery. It’s
too excitable. I doubt if it’ll stand punishment. I
mean the long work and slugging. That Galopin stuff
fizzes like soda-water. There are exceptions, of course.
But, if Evans gets racing his two-year-old stuff he’s
riding for a fall.”
“Th’ meetin’s on th’ twenty-fourth of May.”
Harry read the poster. “I’ll have them horses ready
by then. I suppose you’ll be runnin’ Nebo for your-
self, will you?”
Harry continued his work. The horses for the
meeting had sufficient rough training to allow them
to gallop in public. The Meetucka party, with their
horses, their camp-followers and retinue reached
Iladda on the eve of the races.
| LADD A, in common with all western townships,
* consisted of a pub, a police-station, a post-office, a
herd of goats, a litter of empty bottles and battered
kerosene tins, and a collection of corrugated-iron
buildings which were known as houses. For the
greater part of the year it drowsed, with only an
occasional drunk to give it life. At race-meetings it
bloomed a while.
Kilgour, watching the coatless men coming and
going to and from the bar, was approached by Evans.
“Hullo, Evans,” he said. “How goes it? I see
by the nominations you’ve brought a string of horses.
Old Linen Duster top-weight for the Handicap: eleven
ten. It’s a big weight for a grassfed horse over a
mile.”
“She is grassfed, like all the rest of them,” Evans
answered quickly, scenting an implication that his
mare had been fed secretly. “She’s not too old—-she’ll
be twelve on the first of August. I’m thinking of
putting her to the stud before she breaks down. She
ought to give Bluff Downs a chance he rarely gets —
mating with a mare of that quality. I brought another
two-year-old filly. By Lapidist from Seething—stud-
book stuff. She crippled herself, unfortunately. I
don’t mind swapping you a couple of services. I’ll
send these two mares to Bluff Downs, an’ allow you
to send two of yours to Lapidist. How about it?”
“Oh, very well,” Kilgour replied gruffly. He felt
irritable, but added: “We’ll wet it. What’s yours?”
AT the course races were run and other business was
conducted —between drinks. The betting opened
and became freer, coincident and proportionately with
the increase to the pile of empty bottles behind the
booth.
Bluff Tom Hopkins, sterling fellow and manager
of Parrapituri Downs, collected a group of brother-
managers. ; ' ;
“These publicans’ benefits are right enough,” he
concluded. “But we want a decent club. How about
us getting together and forming a club of our own?”
“Good egg!” Kilgour agreed. “I’ve been think-
ing the same thing, Tom. Exlusive, strict, straight—
will that do for a slogan?”
The voice of the race-meeting secretary inter-
rupted them.
“Weigh out for th’ Publicans’ Handicap!” the
secretary called, ringing a bell with one hand and
wiping his mouth with the back of the other as he
moved away from the bar. “Weigh out for th’ Publi-
cans’ Handicap.”
“Even money th’ field!” the bookmakers took
up their chorus. “Evens th’ Duster. Two to one
Flagpole. Three to one Nebo. Two to one bar one.
Here, four to one Bezique an’ Straddler. Three to
one bar one! I’ll lay! I’ll lay! I’ll lay! Even money
Linen Duster. Six to one Styx, Who wants to back
one?”
The field went to the post. Linen Duster, though
as well known as the township itself, received curious
and admiring attention. A bay mare, low and long,
she moved cleanly, and her eyes showed full, lustrous
and intelligent. But there was an indefinable some-
thing about her which prompted Kilgour to screw
his own eyes in a maze of wrinkles while he watched
her. The mare’s eyes may have been just a shade
too prominent, the lustre which shone from them
perhaps a trifle glazed. Patches of sweat showed about
her flanks and down the slope of her shoulders. As
she was going to the post her tail twitched nervously,
half swung in a semi-circle, then jerked from side
to side.
“Poor little mare,” Kilgour muttered under his
breath. “I knew it was coming. It’s come!”
“Go! ” the starter shouted, swinging his red flag to
the ground.
A DOZEN horses bounded forward in a swirl of dust.
In a scramble and rush they jostled to the first
turn. There they strung out slightly, and Styx played
merrily in the lead. A couple of horses showed clear
of the ruck near him, and then in a bunch they
straggled away again to a dwindling tail. They raced
along the back, seeming to move like mechanical toys
in the distance. Styx had dropped from the lead and
was lost to sight. Design ripped along in front, lengths
to clear. Just ahead of the ruck Linen Duster’s, Flag-
pole’s and Nebo’s colors could be picked. Away out
behind, toiling hopelessly, Brusque followed the pack.
With a ribbon of dust following behind, with
the clatter of galloping hooves and the shimmer of
bright silk, they turned into the running. Linen
Duster’s yellow jacket with black spots showing promi-
nently. Behind it a blurred kaleidoscope of jumbled
colors mingled together. The mare was racing strongly
—though to the trained eye she may have appeared
to be laboring slightly—and already the crowd was
acclaiming her victory.
“Linen Duster! ” one solitary voice roared.
“Li’n Duster!” the chorus echoed, “Come on, Li’n
Duster! Li’n Duster! Hooray!”
Suddenly the mare faltered. She lost the machine-
like precision of her action. She floundered. She
rolled and wallowed. She climbed in her stride, and
the rushing phalanx from behind swal-
lowed her, engulfed her and hid her.
The race was run and won. The judge made
his declaration, and the clerk of the scales testified
to the correct weight.
“I’ll pay Nebo.” the bookmakers shouted. “I’ll
pay Nebo. Pay Nebo. Bet on th’ next. Even money
Malcolm. Three to one bar one. I’ll pay!”
T INEN DUSTER, tied to a tree, was standing with
her legs wide-braced. She hung her head low, and
her tail, half-raised, was flying a signal of her distress.
She quivered and trembled, and gulped great gallons
{Continued on page 50.)


A Great Australian Story
“ALL THAT SWAGGER”
By Miles Franklin,
S. H Prior Memorial Prize Winner
for 1936.
Owing to its size, the big sweep of its
story and its many characters- —greatest
of them Danny Delacy and not the least
his "brave Johanna” —this splendid
novel will be presented in instalments of
about 20,000 words in enlarged issues of
The Bulletin.
First Instalment, September 16.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
For over a century the Bank has maintained
its stability in times of economic stress,
expanding its activities in times of pros-
perity, and prudently administering to the
needs of its customers and their descendants.
HEAD OFFICE
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and at Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
THIS
FIT A MAZDA
THE paths outside your house should not
be full of shadows that perturb women-
folk and hide carelessly left obstacles. Fit a
Mazda and be safe.
GOOD LIGHT GOOD SIGHT
Iru,
Coil
M L6O
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Study of a Fictitious Celebrity:—
Eacape for One
By CECIL MANN
NOW he is one of those people whose
photographs are worth publishing in
the papers. You may recall at once
(he felt haf, rakishly set, tilting askew
over the forehead. The hat, the horn-
rims, the moustache: that is how you
would recall his face. The nose, sharp:
you might recall it as keen. The chin,
too, fairly sharp. On the whole a good
effect: you can hardly have other than
a favorable impression.
He was not always one of those who
are photographed; which, of course, can
be said of the most eminent. Neither
was his face always as you have seen it
in the papers. That, again, can be said
of anybody’s face; but, as you know,
other famous faces are not changed from
what they were 20 years ago so much
that you could not recognise old photo-
graphs of them immediately. But you
would be quite astonished by the twenty-
years-old photograph of this rakishly
hatted, hornrimmed, moustached face
that you must have seen in the papers
last Friday or Saturday and will cer-
tainly see again next Wednesday, if it be
only in the advertisements.
The earlier picture does not leave a
really good impression. It is in a group
of soldiers, taken against a tall hedge.
True, with this picture, the eye goes to
his face instantly ; but that is because,
owing to some trick of camera or of
light, his face shines singularly white in
the group. Even without that effect his
lace would be noticed ; for the others
are a good, average lot of Diggers, most
of them smiling, one or two looking
serious and determined, none of them
at all extraordinary; and the eyes in
his naked face would surely impress you.
They are, as they still are, large, shining,
intelligent. The face as a whole leaves
a less pleasing impression: a very dif-
ferent impression from his picture of
to-day. You might not quite feel that
ratlike describes it, but you might well
think of it as a haunted or a hunted face.
As your own, perhaps, might have
been if you had had his boyhood ; if
those who brought you up had been as
viciously cruel as his adopters were to
him. If trifling things that you did had
been made out to appear monstrous per-
versions and you had been flogged for
them ; if a sharp tongue had cut you with
i earful, malignant words, scarring your
subconscious self with deep, bitter weals ;
if you had been crushed, frustrated, ridi-
culed, your spirit drained and your de-
fences destroyed, you might have had a
face just like that.
Looking at this old photograph of hint
you might have a sense of some such
past come to surface. Yes, he is here a
soldier: but not all volunteered out of
courage. A boy still, he fled into the
army: rather late, when they were tak-
ing boys ; when conscription had been
rejected, and boys would do.
As a soldier he was hardly a success.
After one trip with ammunition to the
batteries, where they were dug in in the
mud at Westhoek Ridge, he was, in
truth, a sorry failure. Crossing over to
the guns from Menin Road, in a night
that was sinister enough, he bogged his
led horse. The bombardier in charge of
the ammunition party made him cut its
throat.
SINCE that night he has had that
twitching of the forehead which the
present-day rakishly-tilted wearing of his
hat covers up. You would see that
twitching now only if you were privi-
leged to watch him at work, when he
had made some little blunder or other.
In France, after that night, his fore-
head would start twitching, fairly danc-
ing up and down in corrugated ripples,
if he saw even a moderately fresh-
looking shellhole, however far from the
front line.
Or you could have seen men opposite
him throw two good pairs or three kings
into the discard without betting a franc
on them, and if you looked up you would
have seen the forehead twitching and
heard him say disgustedly;
“I’m hanged if I know . , , when I get
a decent hand nobody bets!”
They en joyed the joke for a while ;
then they told him. After that he
always played poker with his hat on,
rakishly tilted down. But he remained
throughout that last year of the war
scarcely the pattern of a hero.
NOR did he find civilian life any better
when he returned to it. He found it
worse. There at the war he had belonged
to the unit; he was not a unit in him-
self. There was friendliness; men were
a shield about him; in the. ranks he
stood in the mass and felt supported.
Day came and day went: water and
feed horses, fall out, eat, fall in, groom
horses, eat, clean wagons, eat, play
poker, sleep. On leave, women if he
wanted them. Like that: not the busi-
ness of taking them out, impressing them,
conquest. Not that he wanted them: the
weals cut into him as a boy arrested that
in his body’s life also.
He is married, now, of course, but not
so very long since. It is a mark of his
strengthening ; a thing he utterly could
not have done when, after the war, after
the support of men about him was gone,
he faced alone as an individual what
was to him the more ruthless warfare—
civilian life.
He found it not at all civil. It shrieked
about him; glared; thrust back his
attempts to come to terms with it. At
this time his face positively was ratlike.
It was worse than hunted: it was furtive,
frightened. The old weals cut in his
subconscious were wide open. Walking
the footpaths the bedlam traffic crashed
bewilderment in his brain. Machinery
groaned and shrilled. People, hard, un-
friendly, bumped past him. The whole
scaring city swirled about him, so that
he felt lost, harried, a wretched thing
thrown about in the tumult of a terrific
maelstrom. Modern Life, noisy, forbid-
ding, menacing, united against him, sur-
rounding him, fighting him down.
We do not all feel this r that Modern
Life is the Adversary. We have not
all had his boyhood, nor felt the gush
of hot blood on our hands. Most* of us
have not even read graceful advertise-
ments in the papers, gone after the job,
been sneeringly disillusioned. We have
not all, perhaps, canvassed subscribers
for a stupid paper, with some bombastic
name, started by a crook for the defraud-
ing of fools. Nor have we lived in a
crumbling basement with a dirty bed in
it, nor had the cutting westerlies blow
through unovercoated thin covering on
a half-starved body, nor stood out in the
milling crowd at the Annual Show with
a tuppenny rattle, trumpeting the vir-
tues of a fat freak in a tent.
We have been very lucky— most of us.
J_j E got an existence job. Stone-nap-
-1 1 ping. You may know the work:
may have done it, perhaps? You do it
with a small steel hammer on the end of
about 2ft. 6in. of thin hickory handle.
You tap the stones with the hammer,
they become smaller, You tap s more,
and they fall apart; You tap again, and
there you have nice small bluemetal,
useful for roadmaking; The same re-
sult can be achieved by a crushing
machine, but that Would not provide
work for the Diggers.
Like all occupations, stone-napping
has risks peculiar to itself. The worst
is that small pieces of stone fly up and
cut into the eyes. It was his right eye
(hat was cut, A tiny piece, like a spark,
making a tiny cut. The doctor, knowing
much about eyes, declared the sight was
damaged, and subsequently ordered
glasses.
“Get hornrims. Always have 'em
myself. Don’t break as easy as the other
damn’ things,”
He got hornrims. He put them on and,
with hat rakishly tilted, walked out along
(he footpath.
Recalling his face, as you have often
seen it, with hat, hornrims, moustache,
you know that it is not unintelligent He
bas always been intelligent. He was as
a boy.
Otherwise, he might have gained
nothing by that walk through the streets.
He did not realise it, analyse it, under-
stand it, all at once. But presently he
knew. It came gradually through his
looking at the passing faces. He found
that he could look at them. Most might
have credited this to some quality in the
glasses. He did himself at first. He did
not feel that they helped him to see
people ; rather, they blurred faces. Tak-
ing them off, he found he could see better
without them. But he could not look as
he could with them on.
It was when this distinction touched
the nerve points of his brain that he
knew. It was then he realised that with
these hornrims he was, as it were, behind
a barrier. He was incredibly strength-
ened. You could no more induce him
to part with those hornrims to-day,
though he does not need them, than you
could entice him to shave his moustache.
The hat, the hornrims, the moustache
. ;. . they are not parts of him ; they are
himself. !he hat he adopted protectively,
the hornrims accidentally: the mous-
tache was a wholly conscious effort.
N / OST of us have no need of barri-
-1 cades. This shrieking, fierce life that
the machines have brought about us is
not so inimical to most of us, perhaps.
Our subconscious self is healthy, whole;
nothing has ever cut weals into it. In-
deed, to us all this is not Modem Life:
it is just life ; and we are fit to face up
to it without a flinch.
We shave our faces nice and clean in
the mornings, go forth into it, and be
damned to it. Those blustering big
beards of the old days! Did our ances-
tors, when life was not so protected, have


At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder
No. 61.
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
t o
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars—the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
It is 1 from just such small beginnings
that a Savings Bank Account will
grow into a substantial possession.
The habit of Thrift is not hard to
acquire and, once begun, leads to
security. No matter how little you
can afford to put by weekly, com-
mence at once. You will be agreeably
astonished to note how soon the
“mickles” become a “muckle.” It is
a happy and a safe condition, to
have “money in the bank, and the
opportunity is conveniently at hand.
Not only by hundreds of Branches,
but through practically all Post
Offices and many private agencies,
the Commonwealth Savings Bank
service is made available in all
Australian districts—in your district.
commonuiEßLiH
SflUinGS BfIDK
OF nUSTRALIR
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FRO Vi “THE BULLETIN,” Q/n ROST
252 George St., Sydney, O/ O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St
’Phone: BWI2IB
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative;
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
a need of them? Would you have faced
up to rapier or sabre better with a beard,
do you think? All those bushrangers:
look what they got away with! Could
you have done it; that is, as you are ;
that is, without a beard? Think of the
thousands of weak faces all that flour-
ishing foliage must have covered —and
strengthened?
So a moustache added to the barriers
that now come between you and him,
when you see his picture from time to
time in the papers.
Hat, hornrims, moustache: the mask
Aer it all. Strength. Confidence. Vic-
tory over an absurd monster —this that
to most of us is a nothing, a mere matter
of course that we take as we take the
air, even though, at times, when our
nerves are jarred, jangled, we may feel
that it is difficult, that it can shriek ; can
seem menacing, perhaps. But mostly this
Modern Life, this Machine Age-good
heavens, we like it! We have created it,
made it; it is our child, ourselves.
WHY, even he is a part of it, one with
it: a stronger part than most of us.
And to this happy consummation con-
tributed the hat, the hornrims, the mous-
tache. One other thing completed it.
Ironically, only Modern Life could
have supplied this complete solution to
his particular problem. Only Modern
Life, from which he shrank, could have
provided the whole solution of making
him famous as part of itself, could have
given opportunity to reveal the latent
talent now so familiar to us all. How
many thousand was it voted for him?
How few knew how his strength for the
contest began with his absurd mask: his
hat, hornrims, moustache!
So that now he is thoroughly comfort-
able, with, in front of him, the greatest,
final mask of all, the microphone. He
is an excellent studio actor. With that
clear, confident voice, and his sure inter-
pretation of character, especially in senti-
mental parts, he is, as he deserves to be,
one of the most popular of them all.
A Feeling Sketch:-
DUST
BY GAVIN
S.CASEY.
A FEATHERY
tower of dust
was dancing
over the housetops
towards the hospital
buildings, swaying
and leaning, and
scurrying across
open spaces so fast
that it sometimes
left its top trailing
away behind it.
After the manner of inland willy-willies,
it picked up light things that lay in its
path and tossed them high, swooped
through open doors, leaving a red trail
wherever it went.
From the laboratory verandah a dozen
men watched its erratic progress and
eventual dissolution as they waited.
The red, honest dirt of the surface soil
that was swept about by the wind,
thought Parker, visible and avoidable,
quite unlike the stale, still, malicious
menace that polluted the atmosphere of
far underground.
“Marvellous what them things’!! shift
if they git right under it,” said Big Joe.
“I seen one take the roof off my front
verandah an’ land it in th’ chookyard at
the back,” said old Penberthy, who was
squarely built and had inherited thick,
strong limbs from many generations of
mining ancestors.
The morning was bright and warm, and
normally Parker and the others would
have been far below the sunlight, under-
ground. Parker wished he was. He
leaned, with his elbows on the rail, smok-
ing and watching the dumps away on the
other side of the town.
His breathing was heavy, sometimes
catching and whistling softly in some
mysterious passage behind his chest. He
felt tired and listless. The long row of
glittering, curtainless windows of the
laboratory depressed him, because he
always thought of the “tickets” that were
made out, signed, recorded and filed
away behind them as “death warrants.’'
The ordeal of waiting for the doctors to
open the doors, and then for his turn to
go in and be subjected to the tests and
examinations that might mean the end of
everything, shattered his nerves, as it
always did.
“Y’ git miner’s complaint jist as easy
on th’ surface as y’ do down below,”
someone was saying. “ ’Specially in th’
mill.”
“We all git it at the office every third
an’ seventeenth,” came the voice of
young Pope. “Not enough money!”
Parker shivered.
It was a hell of a subject to joke about,
he thought indignantly. The kid was too
young to know any better, had probably
never seen a man with “dust.” But old
Penberthy and Big Joe —-they should
know.
Pictures out of the past floated on the
heat haze that shimmered over the red
earth in front of Parker. His old dad,
just before he passed out, when Parker
himself was just a little shaver. Still on
the right side of fifty the old boy had
been, but there had been only nine stone
left of his original fourteen. The lungs
rotted out of him, so that every moment
was heavy labor! Bleached, papery
claws of hands that had seemed natural
enough to the boy. Now he could well
imagine the kind of fists the old man had
had before the “dust” got him. He
looked at his own big, hard paws, clutch-
ing the rail in the sunshine.
Of course things had changed, he tried
to reassure himself. In his dad’s time a
man had just kept going in ill-ventilated
depths until he could work no longer, and
then it had been too late to do much for
him. To avoid that sort of thing was the
purpose of the
laboratory, the
periodical exam-
in a ti o n of all
mine employees,
the whole system
of “first tickets”
and “second
tickets” and pen-
si on s. Venturis
down below and
water everywhere to keep the dust down.
But some men still went out. Give it
time enough to do its work and the dust
still defied science.
WHEN the big doors at last clashed
open the pumping of Parker’s heart
and lungs forced a wheezy whistle
between his teeth that terrified him.
Treading the jarrah boards heavily, Big
Joe went in, and Parker glimpsed a
dancing muscle behind the giant’s jaw
that seemed to tell of nervous tenseness.
Even in Pope’s eyes there seemed to be
the shadow of a vague, unspoken fear.
Parker felt for a moment very much one
with his comrades, held together by fear
and hatred of the life they lived.
Why had he given all those years
since the war to toil in the deep
levels? Why must he continue there,
breathing stagnant death? Why could he
laugh at risks to life and limb in the
months that fled between each laboratory
inspection, and yet inevitably find him-
self quailing before the memory of his
old dad, in agony of fear each time the
day for his examination drew closer?
Was he all his life to tremble at the
after-effects of a stubborn cold, imagin-
ing a warning of disease in every speck
of phlegm?
By the time Big Joe came tramping out
and young Pope went in Parker felt
elated and wanted to laugh at them both.
The dust would get them sooner or later.
It was only a matter of time.
But he, Parker, was stepping out of it
all, just like that. Right now he was
going to set out for town with Big Joe,
have a drink and say good-bye to the
mines for ever. Chuckles bubbled in his
throat and then there whistled through
them a tiny, sobbing intake of breath,
sucked through some obstruction by
laboring lungs. Parker put down the
hat he had grabbed and stayed where he
was.
“Well, that’s that!” said Big Joe,
tightening his belt. “Y’ don’t look too
good, Tom.”
“I’m all right,” Parker managed, “Got
a bit of a cold.”
WHEN the other had gone he prayed
wordlessly as he leaned against the
verandah rail in the sunshine. He would
leave the mines, but first he must know,
be sure that the wheezing in his lungs
was only the aftermath of the cold that
had gripped him earlier in the year. He
could not go now. He must have the
verdict, and then he would be through
with underground.
When his turn came he tensed himself
to go through with it. To the X-ray
operator he even tried to voice the
customary jocular comment on the cold-
ness of the plate against his bare chest,
but it stuck in his throat. The doctors
he knew from many previous visits, and
he wanted to ask questions, but dared
not.
“You’re heavier,” announced the last of
them amiably as Parker dressed himself.
“Six-seven pounds on since the last card
was filled in.”
Parker took courage from the fact.
“When’ll a man know if he’s come
through all right?” He tried to make his
('Continued on next page.)


Your best
protection
against
Infection
HUDSON'S
EUMENTHOL *,
JUJUBES
Universally
used for
almost 50
years . . .
6d. & 1/6 tin
cV" e
trve
tVt
to°
\
o o e
tt**
I V
tU.'St***
me
•i
n« sS •**•
iHK«£ <■ lb
j\s
<s
jVxa'f?
or®'
afft*
tV* e
2^%
f.%s
you* r Or e ' ro^
,h * <"« *rc?
Befot e fILM does this to you
Remove it daily as only Rep so dent—the Special
Film-Removing Tooth Paste —does
How to remove film
TN removing film the Pepsodent
laboratories have made a great
discovery. A new cleansing and
polishing material has been devel-
oped. As a film-removing agent
it stands unsurpassed. Yet in spite
of its high cleansing powers, this
new material is far softer than the
one most commonly used in denti-
frices. Being softer, it cannot
harm precious tooth enamel.
And so, in judging a dentifrice
ask yourself: Does it remove film?
Is it safe? These are your dentist’s
standards. Judged by them, Pep-
sodent stands unique. No other
can give you Pepsodent results.
SAVE MONEY!
Buy Pepsodent in the new
10% larger tubes at the old
prices. You can’t afford to
take chances on cheap “bargain”
brands now that it costs no
more to insist on the special
film-removing Tooth Paste.
PEPSODENT
the Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL n.mst
mm
f'V
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel. Xylo. Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
X'HE PLiUM RAZOR GUARD, for tin., fin. and Jin.
blades. 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black. 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order fcr two
vpars free cf charge.
tones unconcerned and casual, though
blood seemed to be pumping hard against
his eardrums.
“I won’t see the plates for a day or
two,” said the doctor, “but I’d bet on you
without seeing them. You’re as fit as a
fiddle, Parker, and we certainly won’t be
using any ink making out a ‘ticket’ for
you this time.”
His surroundings turned momentarily
black. Light-headed and faint with relief
he scrambled into his clothes, and when
he reached the sun-warmed outer air he
sucked it in in appreciative gulps. Bright
skies looked good, and the subdued
thunder of the mines was a pleasant
drone that sang of toil and prosperity.
“Well,” he said to old Penberthy,
“that’s over for another six months! I’ll
hang around until they're through with
you and we’ll have one at th* corner. ’
“If they’re ever through, ’ grumbled
Penberthy irritably. “They muck about
enough, don t they? Doesn t matter t
these wages fellers t miss half a shift,
but y° u an me ; ought t be pushm th
winze down right now, Tom. 1 hey
ought t let a man make a time fei this
suits hint.
Aw, we should worry, said Parkci
§ ai ly* . EE be a good pay fer us with-
OL U this moimn . anyway. An Doolan
was tellm me that when we got her
finished he wants one on th Fifteen. We
can ma ke a bit down theie.
“Th’ Fifteen?’ said Penberthy. “ ’S un-
healthy on th’ Fifteen. Dunno as 1
altogether like th’ Fifteen.”
“Aw, bunk! said Parker. “The un-
healthy places is where th’ money is.”
“Girls of All Shapes and Sizes Could Blind Alec”:-
ALEC WAS AFOOL
BY. ROLAND FLINT.
7ES, there's no doubt Alec was a
Y fool about women. And not one
of those ordinary goats that are
suckers for blondes either. Girls of all
shapes and sizes could blind him. But
that's not all, Lefty. It was the way he
used to come up for punishment. He
was a glutton for punishment. It seemed
like he'd never learn.
“What made me think about Alec just
now was that this afternoon I went down
to see the Monterey off. Up on the top
deck there’s a girl Alec used to know.
It made me think what a goat he could
be.
“The first time 1 saw her was one
night in the lounge of a hotel in Castle-
reagh-street. It was a Friday night, and
I’d just sold a utility to a fellow from
the South Coast. Alec was there, a bit
shot like he always is when he’s just
got paid, and there was this little dark
girl drinking quietly and looking a bit
tired. 1 suppose Alec had been telling
her about himself. He always does. Any-
way, she looked as if she wanted a bit
of diversion, so I went over.
“Besides, I thought I knew her. She
looked like I had seen her before some-
where. I wasn’t just pratting in. And
even if I had been, what would it have
mattered? Alec was such a goat anyway.
i 4 D EING Friday, I’d just drawn my
commission, so 1 was well set.
There’s nothing worse than meeting a
skirt like that when you’re a bit light-
weight. But it turned out I’d never met
this piece before at all. The way I got
the wrong idea was that she used to
pose for those corset and underwear ads.
they have in Thursday’s and Sun-
day’s papers, and that was where I’d
noticed her. You know the big spreads
they have. I don’t mean that I looked
at that sort of thing deliberately. What
1 mean is, you can’t help seeing them.
“On, the way home I found that her
name was Olive Morelli. I didn’t catch
it when Alec introduced us. He didn’t
seem very pleased to see me, but then,
as I’ve told you, he was a bit shot
at the time. It was a bit cold for her
to go home on the back of Alec’s bike,
and I happened to have a light utility
with me that I was going to demonstrate
in the morning. Alec didn’t say much,
but of course he knew I was a cobber of
his, and it was different really.
“Well, the more I saw of Olive the
better I liked her. She looked better
than she did in the ads., and she had
plenty of sense. She knew straight away
that selling trucks was a better profes-
sion than filling tanks in a gas station.
I could see right there that Alec wasn’t
going to get very far. 1 was sorry for
the poor cow. Fair go, I was.
“It turned out that she wasn’t doing
anything next night, so I borrowed a car
and called round to take her out. I was
feeling pretty good, because I’d almost
sold the truck, and I had nothing on my
mind. Her sister and an advertising man
came along, too, and I had a good night.
Though it might have been better at the
finish. I seemed to get stuck with the
sister. Not that she wasn’t a good sort,
Lefty, but she was different, somehow. A
bit heavier and not so much life, if you
see what I mean. The way Olive explained
it later, this advertising specialist had
some pull with her firm, and she had to
go with him. There must be a bit of
money in the advertising game, because
he had a nice coupe. He was pretty
slick with it all, too. Alec would have
squirmed if he had seen him. I didn’t
mind much.
* 4 I T was a good time after that before
I I saw Olive again. Half the time she
was too busy to see me or else
I was busy. It was Show-time, and
I had a lot of prospects on my hands.
The boss reckoned we had to clear all
the junk out before winter, so I was
moving pretty fast. I done pretty well,
too. 1 can talk: you know that. Lefty.
But even you’d be surprised at the stuff
I got sold.
“When the old commission was totted
up I'd done pretty well, and 1 thought
I’d give it a burl
at the races. So
one fine Saturday
out I went to
Kenso. Fair go.
Lefty, I couldn’t do
anything wrong.
i backed a couple
of winners and had
a go on the tote at
one that runs a
place, so I'm still in the money. Then, just
when I’m collecting, who do I run into
but Olive! She sighted me, too. There
weren’t too many taking their profit that
day, so she could see at once that I’ve
got the right oil. It’s a good build-up
for me, I think.
After I stowed away the cash I stepped
over and had a word with her. She’d
arrived just at the right time, and 1 was
glad to see her like that, Lefty, you
understand.
Well, after we’ve talked a bit it’s time
to do something for the next, and so
she asks me what’ll win. It’s a seven-
furlong welter, and 1 like a moke from
the country called Mongolia. Then just
as I’m on the point of giving it to her
up steps a fellow who’s been trailing
behind us. I see then that she’s with
him.
“ ‘Yes, tell us what’ll win,’ he says.
‘You seem to be doing pretty well.’
“Tell us, mind you, Lefty. Not that
Fd have cared if 1 liked the sap, but
he’s dressed up like Clark Gable, and
he’s got one of these little black stream-
lined moustaches. You know the type.
Just like that.
“Well, the more I look at him the less
I like him, so I says ‘Ashanti Chief.’ 1
wouldn't give that thing a show in a goat-
race, he’s drawn badly, and I got no
confidence in the boy on him. When 1
look at Olive I hate to do it, but you
can see how it was. I just had to, Lefty.
“Off goes Olive with this fellow to
tote him, while I go off to back Mon-
golia. By then I can only get five to two.
though I think if I had looked round a
bit more I might have got threes.
“By the time I gets back to the stand
they’re in line. Well, to cut a long story
short, Lefty, up goes the barrier and out
bounces this Ashanti Chief. He’s drawn
wide, which is one reason I’ve given him
to this bloke, but inside a furlong he’s
across on the rails and going for the
doctor.
“Mongolia is swamped at the start
and I’m a bit sour. Still, it looks
like this boy is going to ride Ashanti
Chief into the ground, the pace he s
going, and, anyway, the field gets strung
out so that Mongolia isn’t really pocketed
at all. Not badly, anyway.
“When they turn into the straight and
this blasted Ashanti Chief is still well
clear it looks as though I might have
murdered my cash and given them the
winner after all. I’m in a proper sweat.
I mean, 1 can imagine this greasy cow
with the moustache collecting. The
thought makes me shake all over.
“And half-way up the straight things
are not so good, either. Ashanti Chief
is still full of running, and Mongolia
has to drop back after going for a run
on the rails. But then, just as things are
looking really lousy, Mongolia gets clear
and starts to gallop. Down the centre
of the course he comes with the best run
I ever seen in my life. He just flies past
the rest of them, and on the post he's
with Ashanti Chief. Nobody knows
who’s won. I don’t know either, but
when the numbers go up I see he's
chopped Ashanti Chief out just in time.
‘ < D Y God, it' was a good race, and I
L-certainly was glad Mongolia got
there, as I’d backed him straight out
only. But I wasn’t so pleased when I see
the dividend Ashanti Chief pays. Over
eight quid for a lousy five bob, while all
I get is a fiver for my two quid.
“So I go round to the tote to see if
Olive is there getting her payout. She’s
there all right, and so is the boy friend.
He does the collecting, and when he
comes over he’s almost human. He even
cracks his face in a kind of smile,
although he can see what a fuss I am
in with Olive. She’s quite gay, and
her face seems flushed with excitement,
full of color, if you know what I mean,
and she’s laughing and joking away to
me as if we’d been friends right along.
And this joker with her never kicks at all.
“Of course Olive never knew what I
tried to put over her, and after a time
I get quite pleased that it’s all turned out
so well.
“The next race is too hard to pick.
I mean, 1 can’t give her a sure winner
this time, so we don’t bet, but we all
stay together, and I tell Olive how
well I’m doing in the truck business and
how it looks as though I might be sales


advt
The New
ConMhi,
QUICK FILL PENS
will modernise your
writing equipment.
Unusual beauty of line, non-
breakable materials in new ultra-
modern colour combinations
make these pens an object of art
as well as a utility.
They are a sackless pen with a
Push-Pull piston and with trans-
parent lines running the length
of the barrel which do not
sacrifice the ink visibility.
The Ink capacity is 50 per cent
greater than the same size pen
equipped with a rubber sac.
Available in three colours —
Grey Pearl, Green Pearl and
Red Pearl.
Pens 22/6, Pencils to Match
17/6.
Complete Sets, 40/-.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
n all Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
53
sa
i
26*2
1
95?
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
NEURITIS
BANISHED
Business Man
tells Amazing
Story of Health
Regained . . .
"Neuritis made my life a misery. Aches
and pains stabbed and wracked every
limb . . . my friend said I looked more
dead than alive—and, believe me, he
was right. He suggested I seek expert
advice—l'm glad I did. The things I
learnt amazed me."
"The colon, clogged with fermenting
food waste, is a breeding ground for
bacteria. These germs get into the
blood stream —play havoc with the en-
tire body . . . they attack delicate
nerve-endings—causing neuritis."
"The only way to end the trouble was
to clean the colon and stimulate the in-
testinal muscles. I was advised to take
COLOSEPTIC. It quickly put me on my
feet. Now 1 feel like a two-year-old."
Coloseptic banishes neuritis because it
removes the basic cause which is Self
Poisoning (or Autoxima) brought about
by a clogged colon. Clear this putre-
fying waste and agonising neuritis
vanishes. Experts agree Coloseptic is
the sure, safe way, because it also tones
up the kidneys, the respiratory system,
and the pores of the skin. These are
the other organs which eliminate poisons
from the body.
End neuritis with Coloseptic. At all
chemists. If unobtainable locally, write
to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O'Connell
Street. Sydney. Clip coupon for sample
and intimate booklet on Autoxima—
post to-day.
Coloseptic
Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FREE book on Autoxima.
Also send my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC, for which / enclose If-
in penny stamps.
NAME
FREE BOOK
CLIP OUT
4DDRESS
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
August Issue Now on Sale.
THE TARIFF AND THE CONSTITUTION
A Market Review
AUSTRALIA’S PRODUCTION PROSPECTS
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY. OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
manager in another year or two if 1 keep
on my toes. After a while the boy friend
gets a bit peeved. It seems as if he
doesn’t like to hear how well I know
Olive and how well I’m going in busi-
ness. Some blokes are like that; they
can’t take it. But I keep right on. Once
or twice he yawns a bit, just to show
his nonchalance, but that don’t put me
off at all.
“For the last race I have some oil
about a horse called Greengage. He’s
got a lot of weight but he can carry the
grandstand, so I know it’s a good thing,
and I naturally put Olive on. After
I’ve told them where to meet me after-
wards, I get to it myself. As a matter
of fact, 1 went in fairly heavy. You
would yourself, Lefty, if you were win-
ning like that.
“Well, like they sometimes do, this
good thing don’t come off. The cow is
stone dead. That’s the worst of even
the best information. It’s what they
whisper to the jockey when they leg him
up that counts, and I don’t hear that.
The fellow who gave him to me meant
well, but the owner is trying to get
Greengage down in the weights again,
I guess, so I know to lay off him for a
spell. And, after all, you got to pay for
learning these things at times, so I don’t
worry.
“But Olive didn’t look at it like that.
That’s the worst of women—they don’t
understand. Mind you. I’m not blaming
Olive. She’s no worse than any other
girl would be.
“Tf you hadn’t been so certain we
would have gone home,’ she says. ‘I
didn’t want to wait for the last race, I
wanted to go and miss the crowd. But
you said to wait. And now Kenneth has
lost all he won on Ashanti Chief.’
“I glance at Kenneth, and he looks a
bit sour, but he knows better than to
sav anvthincr
I "f VI, 1 i .. •
Well, it you d looked at the belling
youd have seen that the stable wasn t
in, I says. was pie ly mad.
“ ‘Why, he went out at twelves, I says.
‘lf they’d fancied him you wouldn t have
got belter than fives.’
“That’s so,’ said Kenneth. T should
have noticed it. And, after all, Olive,
you haven’t lost anything.’
“ ‘But you promised me what you
won ’ she wails.
“And with that Kenneth takes her arm
and away thev go.
lt ,. r ~ T . :. . . ~
Well I talked to myself all the way
home. It seemed so stiff alter the break
Id got at first. Still, I thought Olive
might see reason after she’d cooled oft
a bit, but somehow or other I wasn t
able to see her lor weeks. One thing
and another, you know how it is. Lefty.
Then I noticed her picture in some winter
fashions. She’s in dresses this time, so
I see she’s had a step up from corsets.
She looked pretty smart, too. This’ll let
Alec out for good, I thought.
< ‘ A COUPLE of days later Alec walks
E\ into the shop and I tell him about
this cove Kenneth. Alec just listens. He
doesn’t seem to have much to say, and
after a lime he lops off. Well, I think,
I’ve done the fair thing, so 1 can ring
up Olive with an easy conscience. Then
I think maybe it’s no good to ring ; per-
haps I better run out to her place and
surprise her.
“So that’s what I do. I borrow a little
old coupe and out I go. Her sister comes
to the door. She seems pretty glad to
see me, and we have a bit of a yarn.
When she tells me that Olive is living in
a flat in Darlinghurst, I decide not to
stay, although she asks me in. Several
times she asked me, and I nearly did, too.
But I thought I better not, maybe. It
would be different, somehow.
“Next morning it’s Saturday and things
are pretty dead in the shop, so I give
Alec a ring and tell him about the flat.
I tell him where it is, so he can call.
He never even thanks me. And I’m sure
he never went there or rang even. The
trouble with Alec was he never had much
initiative.
“From time to time I mean to call up
Olive at the flat, but somehow I keep
putting it off. For one thing, all the
time I’m at the boss to make me sales
manager, and it looks as if I might pull
it off any minute, so I think it would
be better to wait until I get the job.
Then there would be a good excuse for
ringing, if you see what I mean, Lefty.
And I know Olive would like to con-
gratulate me as soon as she knew.
“Well, the old man keeps stalling me
off from week to week, until one day, as
I’m driving along Castlereagh-street, I
nearly crash a roadster that’s crossing
from Martin-place. I’ve got the right-
of-way, but this bus keeps on, and then
swerves along Castlereagh-street. The
driver pulls in to the kerb, and I pull
up alongside to say my piece, when I
see it’s Olive at the wheel. It’s just as
well I didn't shoiff something like 1
might have.
“We didn’t talk much. Olive tells me
she’s just been married to this Kenneth,
and that’s about all. I haven’t much time
to spare, so I get on my way. She never
did tell me what he did for a living. I
don't know yet.
“IT was just after that, Lefty, that the
* boss made me sales manager. I get
salary now, no commission. I used to
knock a fair bit out of commission, so
it’s not a rise in a way ; in fact, mostly
I get less than I used to, but it’s the
status. I mean, if 1 want a job any-
where else I’ve got position. You got to
sacrifice something to get on, after all.
The boss made me see that plainly, and
I think he was right, Lefty.
“That’s how I come to be at the wharf
this morning, on account of my position.
Kenneth was there on the wharf, too,
so I guess Olive is going on a holiday
by herself. She’ll have a good time with-
out him. I wisht I had been going.
And I wisht Alec had been there, too.
He’d have nearly cried, I reckon.
“Well, I got to be going now. I’m
meeting Olive’s sister at half-past. Since
I’ve been made sales manager I’ve been
seeing her quite a bit, on and off.
“If you see Alec, tell him Olive’s gone,
will you?”
The Golden Mile.
Shines the morning sun now about its
laden branches,
Shines the misty rising moon above
the grey defile,
Where August floods the hillsides with
her lovely avalanches,
And the wattles are in bloom down a
certain golden mile,
A golden Gippsland mile.
Spring has crossed the paddocks with her
flower-frosted sandals;
There’s a dandelion carpet with a
pollen-dusted pile;
To mark her way the wayside pines put
forth their new brown candles,
But there’s nothing like the miracle
they call the golden mile,
The fiower-broidered mile.
For the very air is dusty with their
drooping clouds of glory,
And the very winds go heavily with
fragrance for a while.
And the gullies take the tale up and the
creeks repeat the story
Of the bright mimosa blossom down
the misty golden mile,
The long enchanted mile.
Give me all the world to wonder at, all
gloried, known or alien ;
There is never draught of beauty that
my senses would beguile.
No nearer door to Paradise than that of
one Australian
Highway leading homeward down the
fragrant golden mile,
The blossom-burdened mile.
VICTORIA.
K. D.
Eve and Adam.
If I were Eve, with you my A dam
dwelling
In Eden’s field, without a rival
there,
I’d never, never tire whilst you were
telling
That you loved me because that I was
fair.
But if you praised the grace of faun or
lily,
Or smiled when wanton breezes kissed
your cheek.
I’d feel the air of Paradise grow chilly,
And hate the very words I heard you
speak.
If you compared my eyes and lips and
tresses
With flowers and fruits and blossoms
growing nigh.
I'd pluck them with a thousand tender-
nesses,
And deck me with their charms to please
your eye.
But if your fickle love were won by
graces
Of flaunting faun or frond or petal
fine.
I’d tear them roughly from your bold
embraces.
And claim each flutter of your heart as
mine.
S.A.
STRIPPER.


'm
H
DROP IN BLADE
lllllllllHlttlMH
lIIINNMIII
A TWIST.ITS CLOSED !
y^rnnoimcina...
THE GILLETTE
“one
ARISTOCRAT
No loose parts. ..all one-piece... simplicity itself
Adding amazing convenience to shaving comfort, the Aristocrat
marks still another achievement in the great manufacturing record
which began with the invention of the Gillette Safety Razor
40 years ago.
Ingenious—revolutionary in design—The Aristocrat is all one-piece.
Just a twist of the handle opens the cap to remove or replace the
blade. Another twist locks it securely into position for perfect
shaving. You can whisk through a smooth, comfortable shave in
less time than ever.
Sturdy, simple in construction, The Aristocrat is built to watch-
makers’ standards of accuracy. What a perfect razor for the new
Blue Gillette electrically tempered blades I
Ask your dealer to demonstrate this marvellous new razor.
Perfectly balanced, heavily
equipped with
2 man-sized handle and
tacked in a handsome nickel
tlated case with engine
turned lid , together
with ten Blue
G illett e
Blades
/I THE GILLETTE
yrriAtocrat
nvi bH UI ifl
:e razor
A MIXED GRILL.
“Shep”: On the first night of our Lon-
don leave in 1917 four of us had wined
and dined, seen a show, wined and supped
—and lost ourselves. The bus we chased
was on its run to the sheds, and the
ticket-taking girleen decided it was better
to cart us there than dump us in the
dark and the rain. She and the driver
parked us along the seats, tucked us
under our greatcoats, and asked the
much-older womenfolk who nightly
cleaned the buses to call us early. This
they did, with strong coffee, and by
way of return we helped them spruce
the windows. We felt annoyed later in
the day, after other methods of warm-
ing ourselves, when an inspector called
Jacks to remove us from their vehicle,
where we were proffering further assis-
tance in collecting fares.
* * * *
“Pipards”: Australians may have
plenty to complain of in the multiplicity
of income and other taxes they are re-
quired to pay, but when they are land-
owners they have at least one marked
advantage over Englishmen possessing
the most modest portion of the earth’s
surface—they aren’t stung annually for
tithes. On the top of thumping taxes
and crushing rates, this is the last drop
in the bitter cup of the small landowner
in the Cold Country, even if he has only
a few score acres to call his own. It
may press less hardly on the resident
landlord, who, like enough, is a pillar of
the Established Church and possibly the
vicar’s churchwarden, but for the
absentee owner overseas, who may have
never seen his property (or the inside of
any place of worship) for a large slice of
his lifetime, it seems about the last word
in unjust imposts. And I have known
instances in which the church tithes make
a close run against both the rates and
the taxes for the top place in the bill. __
* * * *
“A.”; The choice of the word sesqui-
centenary” to describe Australia’s 150th
anniversary year is popular in one quar-
ter. The G.P.O. insists on charging it as
two words when sent in a telegram.
* * * .*
“K.D.”: By October 3 Victorian civil
servants will have had restored to them
the full emergency cuts of the depression,
In other words, their salaries, of greatly
increased purchasing power, will return
to pre-depression levels; the average
money wages of ordinary people m ordi-
nary jobs, on basic figures taken through-
out the Commonwealth, are still 18 p.c.
below the 1929 par. Even so, the basic
wage buys more.
* * *
“Adelaide”: The astonishing com-
munity hotel at Renmark (S.A.) spent
£lO,OOO on improvements last year, and
has declared a record profit of over
£7OOO. As is usual, more than half of
this goes to the various institutions of the
town, the hospital getting the biggest
grant with £l4OO.
& * * * *
“Garda”; Those heartrending stories
of helpless Abyssinians being mustard-
gassed and blinded by the thou-
sand leave me cold. The gas is far
from being the terror the panic press
would have us believe. In fact, if hos-
tile aircraft were attacking the Sydney
Town Hall with mustard-gas bombs
people a block away could go about their
business in perfect safety—provided, of
course, the bombing was accurate. Dur-
ing the Big Scrap I often came in con-
tact with the gas, and the only serious
case of blindness I saw was that of a
man who had been lying wounded in a
wet uniform in no-man’s-land for a
whole night. Even he eventually recov-
ered the use of his eyes. In damp,
swampy parts the stuff will hang around
for days, but owing to the length pf
time the fluid takes to vaporise it is far
from effective elsewhere.
“Emms”: The value of money alters
a good deal in 90 years; assuredly no
woman would expect to get a hat worth
going to law about for Is. Bd. nowadays.
It was different in 1847, teste this extract
from the early records of the Grafton
(N.S.W.) courthouse, now on their way
to the Mitchell Library:
The plaintiff sued the defendant “for
that she entrusted the defendant with a
Tuscan bonnet of the value of twenty pence
to take the said bonnet to Sydney and
have the same cleaned and for that the de-
fendant had the said bonnet cleaned and
now refuses to give up the same to its
lawful owner.” The plaintiff prayed “That
the defendant may be adjudged to deliver
up the said bonnet and to pay the sum of
fivepence by way of damages for the in-
convenience occasioned by her detention
thereof.”
It is satisfactory to chronicle that the
litigants, at the suggestion of the beak,
managed to settle the fiscal question out
of court.
* * * *
“P.C.”: Only two couples remained
in the Monte Carlo waltz —Bill Blunt, my
room-mate, and his girl, and self and
partner. Suddenly my braces broke. Pre-
tending not to notice the catastrophe, 1
went on dancing, but when the pants
began their ominous descent girls
screamed or ran outside and fellows
gathered around while temporary repairs
were effected. No, I wasn’t embarrassed
or confused. Bill, who’d borrowed them,
had ’em on!
* * * *
A New Pathology.
I read in a newspaper recently that
experiments are being conducted with
instruments which record the breathing
of vegetables; but that’s old stuff to me.
Years ago I became alive to the neces-
sity for improving the respiratory powers
of vegetables.
My cauliflower crop had unaccount-
ably “buttoned.” True, we were in the
midst of a drought, but it couldn’t have
been that, for I was watering them regu-
larly once a month; and the soil, 1
knew, had been heavily manured five
years previously. Discarding the possi-
bility of insufficient diet, therefore, I con-
ducted an intensive research into their
C 3 condition, as I suspected that after
four months’ growth they should have
measured more than across the
head.
Testing each and every plant with a
stethoscope I was amazed to find a dis-
tinct bronchial infection, marked by a
nasty, rattling wheeze. I could see that,
without prompt action, they would go
into a decline. After taking a swab, I
gave each plant a hypodermic injection
of camphorated oil. They seemed tem-
porarily to brighten up, but died after
a few days. Nevertheless, I had made an
important contribution to vegetable
pathology; viz., that camphorated oil
isn’t of lasting benefit to cauliflowers
suffering from pulmonary diseases.
Later, a bed of lettuce showed signs
of failing. I tested them with my
bronchometer. As a lettuce breathes with
its roots I had to lift each plant with
great care so as not to disturb its growth
more than necessary. I heard faint ster-
nutations, indicating acute inflammation
of the larynx. After vigorously shaking
the clogged roots I replaced each plant,
but apparently they were too far gone,
for the next day the entire crop was dead
of “heart” failure.
When my tomatoes began to turn red
I suspected that the erubescence might
be due to faulty breathing—humans suf-
fering from that complaint, I knew, in-
variably go red at the slightest exertion.
When tomatoes, which can’t move about,
go red, it obviously means something
serious. I diagnosed the hectic flush on
the fruit as galloping consumption,
though how a standing plant could have
caught that had me beaten. Anyway, I
played safe against its spreading and
burnt them all.
I had my greatest measure of success,
though, with climbing beans. It is
obvious to the veriest tyro that perfect
breathing is essential for climbing. I had
invented a delicate instrument, consisting
of a length of gaspipe, two pieces of
rubber and an old speedometer, which
recorded the number of breaths per leaf
that a bean took to the air minute.
The vines being below standard, I used
to give them a shower and a brisk rub
down every morning. They simply
leaped ahead. In fact, one morning I
had dozed in the sun about four feet
away from the nearest tendril; I woke
when I felt my own breathing getting
short, and found the bean beginning to
strangle me. Alarmed yet delighted, I
put my breathoscope on those runners
and found that they weren’t even panting.
My wife said the excessive growth
was due to the blood and bone she had
been feeding them on, unknown to me.
But women are like that —they let a man
do all the donkey work and then grab
the kudos.
S. W. K.


3SV3H^ siyoW3W
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write:
Rev. WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esa. •
F, E. Loxton* Esq.; Wm. A, Jolly,-Esq., C.M.G, * *
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydnev, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
n
RT
Quick
Relief
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid contusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nusl be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, senior typist and tele-
phone operator, knowledge general office
routine, wants employment in city office. —
2549.
Young man, single, exp. in all classes of
stock work, wants position as station manager,
N.S.W. or Q.—2563.
Diamond-driller and -setter, underground and
surface boring, oil, coal and lode, exp. with
latest “22” machines, steam- or benzine-driven,
is open for engagement. —2585.
Young man, N.S.W., qualified book-keeper
and practical overseer, desires position on
station. —2581.
To buy second-hand circular slide rule or
engineers’ calculator.—2s9l.
Words of following two poems by “Banjo”
Paterson: “As Long as Your Eyes Are Blue”
and one containing the line
“Wherever there’s a death to die, yqn’ll find then)
there,” said he.
—2596.
Words of poem “Why Antonio Didn’t Go
to the War.” —2569.
Will “Truthful James” communicate with
old friend at Roseville (N.S.W.) address?—
2577.
Words of old campfire song beginning:
Six years ago, or nearly so—
How fast the time goes by.
—2553.
Information Sought.
Are (here any public motor touring camps
in the Sydney area about Parramatta or Ryde 3
—2546.
There are no motor camps in the Parramatta
or Ryde district, the nearest to Sydney being
located at Matraville. The Matraville camp,
situated in Bunnerong-road at the Franklyn-
slreet intersection (seven miles from the city),
offers city water, sanitation, tent poles, hot and
cold baths, gas copper, electric irons and a
permanent caretaker resident on the ground.
Camping fees are Bs. a week. Other camping
areas within handy distance of the city are
located at Lansdowne Bridge, Hume Highway,
16 miles from the city, where all facilities arc
available; Narrabeen, at Lake Park Reserve,
where conveniences are provided, and at Avalon
Beach, where facilities are supplied. Narra-
been is 15 miles from Sydney and Avalon 22
miles.
❖ ❖
At bridge, A and B, partners, hold nine
cards of a suit. Of the remaining four cards
of the same suit held by the opposition, Y-Z,
the queen is the only honor. What are the
odds that this queen is a singleton, and what
odds that it is a doubleton 3 Similarly, what
are the odds when the distribution is eight-five ?
—2571.
When Z-Y hold four cards of the suit, Z
(or Y) may hold all four, three including queen,
three excluding queen, two including queen,
two excluding queen, queen or another, or
none—eight different possible distributions. The
chances that either Z or Y holds the queen as
a singleton or one of a doubleton are there-
fore eight to one against. When the distri-
bution is eight-five, there are nine possible
distributions in Z’s or Y’s hand, and the odds
are therefore nine to one against any possible
combination. The odds against either Z or Y
individually holding any of the combinations
mentioned are 16 to 1 in the first case; 18 to 1
in the second.
* si-- *
Details concerning the Australian pearls
“Southern Cross” and “Star of the West” 3
2560.
The “Southern Cross” was found off the
north Westralian coast in 1883. It is formed
of nine separate pearls grouped in the form
of a cross Hin. long; seven form the shaft,
two (not well balanced) the arms; the indi-
vidual pearls are not of great size or beauty,
and the gem’s value depends on its unusual-
ness. The “Star of the West,” the finest pearl
yet found in Australian waters, is a drop-
shaped gem the size of a sparrow’s egg,
weighing 100 grams. It was found on the
Westralian coast in 1917 and valued at £14,000.
* * * *
At Melbourne on June 15 the sun sets
earliest, and on June 28 it rises latest, the
shortest day thus averaging out on June 22.
Why does the sun not rise and set at its
extremes on this date 3 —2484.
The shortest day in the southern hemisphere
is the day on which the sun is furthest north,
that is, June 22, but about this date the length
of day changes very slowly. The time at
which the sun crosses the meridian about this
date is about 13 seconds later each successive
day, so that the sun will rise later and later
until the length of successive days increases by
more than twice this amount. The explanation
for rising is similar. Expressed as an equation:
Time of rising equals time of meridian passage
minus half the length of day.
* * * *
(1) Date of next election of N. S. Wales Par-
liament 3 (2) Date of expiry of present term 3
(3) Date of next Federal elections 3 (4) Total
number of Parliamentarians in Australia 3
2420.
(1) and (2) Present Parliament was elected
in May, 1935, and provided the Stevens Gov-
ernment enjoys its full term of office the next
elections should be held in May, 1938. (3) In
the normal course of events, during Septem-
ber or October, 1937. (4) The total is 616,
made up as follows: Commonwealth, Upper
House 36, Lower House 75; N.S.W., Upper
60, Lower 90; Victoria, Upper 34, Low er 65;
Queensland (Upper House abolished in 1922),
62; South Australia, Upper 20, Lower 46;
Westralia, Upper 30, Lower 50; Tasmania,
Upper 18, Lower 30.
$ sfc $ *
Maximum family income permitted in N.S.W.
household where daughter contemplates sitting
for a bursary 3—2525,
Regulations are that no bursary shall be
awarded if the family income is in excess of the
following amounts: For three or fewer depen-
dants, £220 p.a.; for four dependants, £260
p.a.; for five, £3lO p.a.; for six, £360 p.a.;
for seven, £4OO p.a.; for eight, £440 p.a.;
for nine, £4BO p.a.; and for ten, £520 p.a.
The term “dependant” includes parents or
guardians and each member of the family and
each relative resident in the home entirely
dependent upon the family income. It ex-
cludes children or other relatives earning a
wage of 15s. or more per week. ■
$ $ $ $
(1) In the sentence “On the arrival of Dr.
Brown, he found Mr. Jones suffering from
shock,” does “he” refer to Dr. Brown, and is
the sentence correct 3 (2) In the sentence
“South’s pack was quite overshadowed by
North’s forwards, and although their hooker
won the ball regularly Norths were enabled
to retrieve it,” to which team does “their”
refer 3—2538.
(I) “He” must refer to Dr. Brown; it can
refer to no one else. The sentence is correctly
constructed. (2) In this case, though it is clear
that “their” refers to South, the construction
is ambiguous. In all such cases, where there is
any risk of ambiguity the safe rule is to repeat
the noun and eschew pronouns, as “and
allbough South’s hooker won the ball, etc.”
* * * *
Some biographical details concerning J. L.
Michael, an early Australian poet 3—2555.
James Lionel Michael was born in London
in 1824, practised law with his father, who
was a solicitor, but found literature more con-
genial and spent his leisure hours in associa-
tion with the pre-Raphaelite brotherhood. In
1853 the gold-fever brought him to Australia,
but he soon found the diggings Jess remunera-
tive than law, and before the end of the year
was practising in Sydney. In 1857 he published
Songs Without Music, a small volume of imi-
tative but graceful verses; in 1860 appeared
John Cumberland, an autobiographical sketch
in verse. His best service to Australia was his
encouragement of Henry Kendall, whom he
took into his Sydney office about 1858 and
kept with him for a while after moving to
Grafton in 1861. On April 28, 1868, Michael
was found drowned in the Clarence River.
* * * *
(1) Population of Wallaroo, S.A. 3 (2) Pop.
of Camperdown, Vic. 3 (3) Pop. of Naples.
Italy, and what is the appearance of that city?
—2452.
(1) As at last census, Wallaroo 2958, and Wal-
laroo Mines 1085. (2) 3900. (3) The popula-
tion of Naples is about 983,000, and it is situ-
ated on the curving shores of the bay of the
same name, 135 miles from Rome, on the
north-east shore of the bay being the volcano
of Vesuvius. It is an important industrial
and shipping centre.
* * # *
Is it safe, from a health point of view, for
cousins to marry 3 —2339.
Risk exists only if there is a disease taint
on one or both sides. If there is no taint on
either side consanguinity generally makes not
the slightest difference to the prospect of a
healthy-' family. To illustrate this, let it be
supposed that a man (a) with an inherited
disease marries a healthy wife ( b ) and they
have a son (e) who is apparently healthy.
The father has a brother (c), who also marries
and has a healthy daughter (/), while the
mother’s brother (d) has a daughter (g). There
might be some risk in the son (e) marrying his
cousin (/), but there could be none in marrying
his cousin (g). Where there is doubt a study
of the Mendelian theory should be of interest;
this applies beyond exact relationship.
V 'l* -I-
-(1) How. many varieties of “frilled” lizards
are there in Queensland, and distinguishing
marks, if any 3 (2) As the “shingle back”
lizard moves, do the scales on his back rub
together to produce the noise he makes 3 (3)
A small fat lizard nightly appears on our gas
pipe to feed on the moths round the flame.
He is very light in color and when the light
shines on him is almost transparent. What
kind is he 3 —2482.
(1) There is only one species of frilled lizard,
Chlamydosaurus kingii, distinguished by the
large, paper-like frill which is folded neatly
over the shoulders when not raised. The Jew
lizard has a kind of frill, but this is under
the chin only, and is formed by a puffing out
of the loose skin on the neck. (2) Yes. (3)
Probably the rock gecko Gymnodactylus
platurus, a harmless lizard, nocturnal in habits.
* * * *
(1) Shortest and least expensive route to
Tennant Creek; its climatic conditions, rain-
fall and population 3 (2) Is climate at Alice
Springs the equal of Nairobi, Kenya Colony ?
—2123.
(1) Tennant Creek is situated about 330 miles
north of Alice Springs. Train runs from
Adelaide to Alice Springs on Thursdays, thence
a private mail coach to Tennant Creek. Popu-
lation of Tennant Creek is about 600. Climate
is characterised by high temperatures, low
humidity and a rather light rainfall, nearly all
of which latter occurs in the November to
March period. Average maximum tempera-
tures range from 97.9 deg. in January to 76 deg.
in July, and average minimum temperatures
from 75.7 deg. in January to 51.4 deg. m
July. Temperatures appreciably exceeding 100
deg. occur frequently. Rainfall varies from
an average of 360 points in January and Feb-
ruary to 15 points in August. (2) The climate
of Nairobi is probably more pleasant than
that of Alice Springs, largely because of the
more equable temperatures, which range only
from an average of 65.8 deg. in March to
59.4 deg. in July, as compared with the Alice
Springs temperatures of 83.3 deg. in January
(warmest month) to 52.8 deg. in June (coldest
monthl. At Nairobi there is an absence ol
high individual summer temperatures, which
are fairly frequent at Alice Springs, and frosts
also are comparatively infrequent. In all but
one month, however, the rainfall at Nairobi
is considerably greater than that at Alice
Springs, and relative humidity is also higher,
but usually not high enough to cause dis-
comfort.
$ * *i* *
Particulars regarding Spitzbergen. Is there
Communication with the island 3—2163.
Spitzbergen is a group of islands in the
Arctic Ocean between Nova Zembla and
Greenland, and about 400 miles north of Nor-
way, of an estimated area of about 25,000
square miles; the principal components are
West Spitzbergen, Barents Land, Edge Island,
Prince Charles Foreland and Charles Land.
The area is largely a plateau, rising in parts to
sharp peaks averaging generally about 20001 t.,
Mount Newton attaining 5690 ft., and glaciers
occupy the valleys. The eastern coast is diffi-
cult of access owing to pack-ice, but the
western coast, owing to the north Atlantic
drift, is generally clear, and during the mild
summer visits are made by vessels cruising
with tourists. There is also wireless communi-
cation with, the mainland and a summer postal
service. Discovered by Barents, the Dutch
explorer, in 1596, but undoubtedly known to
the Norsemen, the islands were finally assigned
to Norway in 1925; Norwegian, British, Dutch
and Swedish companies are engaged in mining
the large coal deposits.
❖ ❖ * *
Can you tell me something about the climate
of Argentina 3 Does snow fall often in Buenos
Avres, and when is summertime there 3
2566.
The climate upon the whole is pleasant,
although ranging at the extremes from the heat
of the Tropic of Capricorn to the rigors of
Tierra del Fuego. There arc broadly three
climatic zones; the Littoral, the Mediterranean
and the Andine. The mean temperature of
the first is 66 deg. F.; in the second 105 deg. F.
is frequently attained in very hot summers,
with low temperatures registered in the winter
—the mean being about 61 deg. F. In the
Andine region the climate varies greatly, and
fluctuations of 36 deg. F. within 24 hours are
not uncommon. The mean temperatures of
Buenos Ayres are approximately: Summer
77 deg., autumn 64 deg., winter 54 deg. and
spring 62 deg. F. A shade temperature as high
as 98 deg. F. has been recorded in Buenos
Ayres 66 times in 48 years, oftenest in Janu-
ary, to the accompaniment of winds from n.-w.
or n.-e. Occasionally, in the month’s play to
August, the thermometer falls below freezing-
point, but snow is very unusual in the coastal
districts. Summertime runs from November
1 to February 28.
What English poet answered in verse the
question “Why is a pump like Viscount Castle-
reagh?” Can you quote the lines ? —2548.
Thomas Moore in his book Trifles. The
lines are as follows: —
p-~0,,c: A ;< a sipjKier thing of wood,
That up and down its awkward arm doth sway,
A.uu coolly spout and spout and spout away,
lu one weak, washy, everlasting flood.
* * * *
How to calculate the length of an inclined
plane, knowing the height and the base 3 —2557.
Add the square of the height to the square
of the base, and take the square root of the
result. For example, if the length of the base
is 40 feet, and the height 30 feet, then the
square of 40 is 1600; the square of 30 is 900.
These two numbers added together equal 2500,
whose square root is 50. Therefore, the length
of the inclined plane, in this case, will be 50ft.
* * v- !l<
Is there an award for breadcarlers in the
country (N.S.W.) 3 If so, what is the weekly
wage, what hours do they work and what work
are they supposed to do 3 —2449.
Breadcarters in country districts are covered
by the provisions of the Breadcarters (Country)
Award, 1936, which is obtainable from the
Government Printer, 7d. Prescribed rate of
pay is £4 9s. per week; working hours, 44 per
week. The term “breadcarter” is defined in
the award as an employee who delivers bread
or bread rolls from any bread cart or any
other description of vehicle or conveyance, and
who is in charge of such cart, vehicle or con-
veyance and/or the delivery therefrom.
* =;: * *
Name of a book describing the operation of
small refrigerators of the household type 3—-
2551.
Modern Gas and Electric Refrigeration, by
A. A. Althouse and C. H. Turnquist (Good-
heart-Willcox Co., Chicago), 245.; Household
Refrigeration, by H. B. Hull (Nickerson and
Collins Co., Chicago), 30s. —both obtainable
from leading Sydney booksellers.
* *
Recipe for a dressing for a cypress-pine
dance floor 3—2521.
Assemble 11b. hard paraffin wax, 71b. pow-
dered boric acid, 1 drachm oil of lavender, 20
minims oil of neroli. Melt the wax, then add
the boric acid and the two perfume oils. Mix
well, and then sift or force through a one-
sixteenth mesh sieve. Sprinkle over the floor,
and polish with a heavy polisher or drag a
small sack of sand or grain up and down,
but see that the rubbing side is protected by
a woollen cloth and that nothing leaks out
of the bag to spoil the surface of the floor.
Brief Answers.
J.C.: “Horticultural dust” may be com-
bined with a small percentage of prepared
chalk or talc (French chalk). A 2 p.c. addi-
tion should suffice, but mix and sift well before
dusting on plants. For your purpose it is
usual to prepare the insect-powder as a wash,
made as follows: Insect-powder (pyrethrum,
etc.) loz., soft soap loz., water 1 gallon.
Mix 24 hours before use or boil five or ten
minutes J.J.G.: A pamphlet on the construc-
tion of sundials is obtainable from the Govern-
ment Astronomer, the Observatory, Sydney....
E.W.H.: Write Dymock’s Book Arcade, 424
George-street, Sydney F.H.: Bathe face
with tepid oatmeal-water night and morning,
and dab over with liquid witch-hazel after drying.
Apply a trace of almond oil occasionally if
the skin is dry. Take milk of magnesia as
an aperient, and the following antacid powder
twice or thrice daily before meals: Carbonate
of bismuth 4 drachms, heavy carbonate of
magnesia Hoz., oil of peppermint 10 minims,
bicarbonate of soda to 4oz. The dose is a
level teaspoon in a wineglass of water
A.J.; In 1931 Harold Gatty and the late
Wiley Post, in the ’plane Winnie May, circled
the globe in 8 days 15hrs. 51min., thereby win-
ning a prize of £4OOO M.M.L.: Each partner
is liable jointly and severally with his fellow-
partners for all debts of the partnership in-
curred whilst he is a partner. If the assets
of the partnership are insufficient to meet its
liabilities then any partner may be called upon
to make up the deficiency out of his own
private estate. The reference to bankruptcy
does not apply.,. .W.8.L.: Copyright vests in
the author without registration, but for the pur-
pose of affording definite evidence of his rights
it may be registered. The local copyright office
for Australia is at the Commonwealth Bank,
3 Martin-place, Sydney. You cannot parcel
out your copyright in the way suggested, but
you could assign it as a whole... .A.E.: Get
in touch with A. E. Smith, violin expert, 9
Hunter-street, Sydney G.D.: 128 cub. ft.
go to the cord. Weight varies according to
the degree of dryness of the timber and
manner of stacking, but it is generally taken
that 2\ tons go to the cord.... A.D.N.: Food
too rich; cut it down to corn and sunflower-
seed 0n1y... ,F.M.: Write Lecturer-in-charge,
Tanning School, Bourke-strect, Waterloo....
G.W.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of Agri-
culture, Sydney, for pamphlet “Mushroom Cul-
ture”. .. .J.W.S.: It is not possible to give an
accurate rendering of your examples of Greek
words apart from their context; some carry
more than one meaning and shades of meaning,
others are Hellenised French words, of no par-
ticular value or interest and applicable only
in connection with the description of fashion
matters or of social gatherings. As regards
your inquiry concerning a Greek-English dic-
tionary, a Liddell and Scott lexicon in an
abridged edition, published by the Oxford Press,
is available at 14s. from Angus and Robert-
son, which firm also has larger editions in its
second-hand department at from 20s. to 255.
. ...F.C.: Some time ago the Sydney Techni-
cal College provided a course of panel-beating
and general motor-body repair work, but it
was discontinued. The resumption of this
course is r.ow under consideration. Apply to
the superintendent for further particulars. The
alternative is to become apprenticed to
one of the motor-body-building and -repairing
firms in Sydney. Names are listed at the end
of the Telephone Directory... .C. D.: The
honorary secretary of the Gould League of
Bird Lovers is Miss Leithead, and her address
9 Royal-street, Maroubra, N.S.W C.M.P.:
The new moon made its appearance at 3.5 a.m.
on Saturday, October 5, 1918 (Greenwich time).
At Sydney the new moon appeared at 1.5
p.m. on the same date... .E.L.N.: From
C.5.1.R., 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne....
G.A.: Write to Public Service Commissioner,
Treasury Gardens, Melbourne... .G.8.C.: Get
in touch with Gordon and Gotch, Barrack-
street, Sydney A.J.F.: “The Wind and the
Rain” commenced a season in Sydney on July
7, 1934, and in Melbourne on October 13,
1934 F.M.R.: Get in touch with C.5.1.R.,
314 Albert-street, East Melbourne M.F.;
Information not available in such detail in
standard reference books. Try navigation
departments at Melbourne and Hobart
J.G.: Write the Registrar, Nurses and Mas-
seurs’ Registration Board, Bank of N.S.W.
Chambers, 33 Queen-street, Brisbane... .J.S.:
Vic. Dept, of Lands has no knowledge of an
unemployed-settlement scheme whereby 100
young men were placed on 20-acre blocks in
the Echuca district T.S.: Budgerigars,
issued by the Australian Bird Council, 4s. 6d.,
obtainable from leading booksellers... .J.M.:
Try Sydney Technical College, Ultimo, Sydney.
A.B.J.: (1) She would, on the facts stated,
have a claim at law on A, he being her em-
ployer and having acquiesced in the additional
duties. (2) D is apparently without redress.
B was a minor when the wig was made, and,
having attained his majority, has refused to
ratify his indebtedness. A is not liable, as the
article was not in any way a necessary item
of B’s maintenance P.F.: The fact that
your wife has removed from one State to an-
other does not relieve you of the responsibility
of maintaining her. The imprisonment was for
contempt of Court in failing to obey its order
for payment of the maintenance due. Your
wife’s right to maintenance continues, and she
may again apply to the Court. There is re-
ciprocity between the States in these matters....
C.J.H.: Winsor and Newton’s fixed India ink,
2s. per bottle; obtainable at all artists’ supply
stores. Where very fine lines are required, a
mapping-pen should be used A.J.: (1) Max
Reinhardt, Schloss, Leopoldskron, Austria;
Ashley Dukes, 19 Camden Hill Gardens, Lon-
don, W.B; Gordon Craig, Via della Costa di
Serretto, 17, Genoa, Italy; Karel Capek,
Prague, Kr. Vinohrady, 1853, Czecho-Slovak
Republic. (2) The Gato Theatre, 16a Villiers-
street, London, W.C.2. (3) Emily Pol ini died
July 31, 1927....A.P.: You must hold the
scrub lease for five years before your right
to apply to convert into a homestead selection
would arise. It is improbable that the Crown
would, in the circumstances stated, claim the
improvements. What the Government might
do in years to come cannot be forecast....
(Many others mailed.)


Let International Quality and Appearance advertise your business
H
IvXv*
m
■ .
teawy****.*
.
mi
wm
/ V ■ ~ < -, s ' ■> ■
v ' H &5 V
iisii-
«ass!sna»
in
iiiiiiliiii
i ........
'
W7M
mm
w
Mmmm
INTERNATIONALS give confidence
mtTOHii;
to your customers
The link between your business and your customers—your delivery service—
does it do justice to the quality of your goods? Does it give confidence to
your customers and inspire prospective customers with a proper appreciation
of your progressive policy?
Beautiful . . . Streamlined . . . Alert . . . International's newest 6-cylinder, half-ton van will create
an atmosphere of quality and efficiency in your delivery service, and will give confidence to the
customers who see it standing outside their doors. For this new van sets a higher standard
of elegance and quality—it is at once your smartest travelling salesman and the best
advertisement your business can have.
And with all its dignified lines and pleasing proportions it is true to International tradition,
sturdy, powerful, economical to operate ... a truck at heart, built to endure a long life of
faithful service. Come and have a look at these Internationals, get behind the wheel and
drive one—notice the attention it causes in the streets, picture your firm s name displayed on
its shining panels—then you will make an International van your best advertisement.
OTHER INTERNATIONAL MODELS
Other Internationals include the new Model C-15, 6-cylinder, I-ton truck; the 30-cwt. Model C-20; the popular
International 6-cylinder 35-cwt. Model C-30 which handles 60% of everyday truck work; Models C-35 and C-40—-
the 2 and 3 tonners —speedy, adaptable, economical 6-cylinder units with plenty of power and typical
International quality . . . great trucks for all-round heavy haulage. International Models C-50, C-55 and C-60
handle the heavier loads from 4 tons upwards. There is also a full range of International 6-wheelers.
The International 6-cylinder Utility com
bines International engineering quality with
modern adaptability, comfort and style
1
M
The International Utility with a wellsidc
body is a popular adaption for many users
of this speedy and attractive runabout.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROST. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA __________
5.1523.
RNAT
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
T.H.Y.: Arcadian in sentiment, Boeotian in
expression J.S.: “The Sea Waggon” lumbers
along the track too slowly F.M.: The
bullocky who yells “How’s things?” sounds
natural enough, but the cocky who greets the
stranger with
“Welcome, mate, to bed and bite,
Here’s filling for the briar”
strains poetic license too far J.W.: Neither
got past the gate E.J.M.: “Mr. Holmes Is
Not Amused” —no more were we... .J.L.C.:
“No Fear” came nearest without coming very
near. A little more “spit and polish” would
be helpful in your case A.M.: Quite a good
ending, but you mix your metres as recklessly
as some misguided persons mix their drinks.
E.S.: We’ve seen that bos’n before. And,
for all his travels, his spelling and pronuncia-
tion of “Iquique” strike us as equally faulty.
R.L.M.: Has some aptness, ginger too,
but you might have found a better rhyme for
“Holland” than “Poland” R.Z.: Sorry, but,
with all the goodwill in the world, we can’t
pass it; the blemishes are fatal to the merits.
. ...E.S.: Can’t make the space for verse that
length K.A J.: Couldn’t enlist the pay bloke
to listen to “The Song of Mars”... .T.E.L.:
Contemplation of lost souls thankfully declined.
P.A.G.: You sound very young. Wait
till you’ve something you really want to say.
A.G.: Don’t care for the verse, but the
thought’s all right 0.5. F.: Too slight for
this market... .O.I.B.: Falls short of jingle
requirements.. . .R.K.: “Death of a Poet” will
hardly headline your obituary notices....
D.H.L.: Few of your allusions would be in-
telligible this side of the Tasman without
footnotes... .R. 8.: Nothing fresh about those
memories Letty: So long M.D.: Nice;
but no enthusiasm here for purely moralising
verse... .Astir: Need to say more for that
length... .T.H.; Touching footnote to your
poem on a pig: “Don’t say, ‘Gone back to
the sty.’ Anything but that.” You prefer us
to roast it with the rest of the litter here?
H.J.: Well told, but the yarn doesn’t quite
get there.. . .E.L.: Not enough punch in the
humor... .R.J.C.: “Honey” is on the thin
side and lacks flavor J.T.: After trying
your systems, our racing editor was found
wandering dazedly near the Gap... .M. 8.5.:
You haven’t made a readable yarn of it
M.M.: Readers would refuse to believe people
could be simple enough to buy such a farm..
Anon, (name next time, please): True, but grati-
tude incident doesn’t make a story M.K.H.:
More suitable for magazine section of a daily.
R.H.L.: Nothing wrong with the telling,
but the plot is weak D.G.: A series of
arguments doesn’t make a story R.C.
(M.L.): Some humor; try something easier,
but off the beaten track.. . .R.HJ.: It didn’t
miss by much B.B.: “Sadness sets in” with
a vengeance; if you pruned your verbiage by
about 60 p.c. you’d probably see print
S C.: Don’t like that disjointed style of talk.
W.S.C. (Sth. Africa); Regret rejection of
the four articles; they aren’t suitable
Moonie Min: Nothing in it D.R.: Sketch
not up W.H.: Authenticity not doubted,
but it is too crowded with personalities....
H.W.S.: The tragedy of lunacy is out of place
in a quasi-humorous story Dally Lowe;
Your narrative style needs tightening up; it’s
inclined to amble and ramble M.G.W.:
You’ve got the Rocks atmosphere to a T, but
that’s as far as it goes C.E.8.: If a boat-
swain ever spoke like that we’ll drink a gallon
of bilge-water neat G.C.O’D.; No sympathy
for Willie who went up in the waterspout....
J.S.: “The First Voice” not raised loudly
enough....E.W.: Glad to hear of the stoush
in the library reading-room to get to The a.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
KJ.: Picture of Lyons as a hod-carrier not
for u5....M.W.: A mildewed wheeze
P.W.: Keep Tommy in the nursery....
C. 8.: Its arrival evoked no loud hurrafls.
S.H.: Recently saw the same lass on
the raft floating calmly in an English maga-
zine... .G.H.T.: Brisk linework marred by
inferior observation... .JJ.: An untidy batch,
judging from the marks which disfigure them,
you take us for a fingerprint bureau.. ..H-R- :
Careful artwork, but the gags are an infliction.
L.W.: Why should the horse be standing
on its head and the man climbing a dead tree.
R.R.: Idea shows muddled notions ot
the international situation; drawing atrocious.
....A.P.: Dreadful....G.S.A.: A harsh, for-
bidding line, and why the cross-stitches in the
lady’s face? .... A.G.M.: You belong to the
army of scratching plodders L.W.W.: Crude.
P.A.B.: Still a little too stiff.. ..ST.:
Amateurish —lessons needed H.V.K.: Neither
flapper was presentable enough to be placed on
our visiting list.


FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Underwood Stakes: Valiant
Chief; next, Young Idea.
August Handicap: Donaster;
next, Beau Ham.
Truganina Handicap: The Chan-
ter ; next, Heros.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In recent years the form of no jumper
has been so enigmatical as that of Bril-
liant Son. He is a stallion, and stallions
have rarely reached high rank as jumpers,
though Malua, mighty over all distances
on the flat, landed a G.N. Hurdle in his
only outing over the battens, and Raheny,
a little chestnut stallion from Tasmania,
figured in many a thrilling steeplechase.
Those who backed Brilliant Son at
Moonee Valley would do so again if the
race could be re-run, for, favorite at 11
to 4, he passed horse after horse in the
concluding few furlongs and finished a
mere half-head behind Loyola.
Loyola had been second to Martext
and King’s Warden on Australian Steeple-
chase day ; yet he was at 12 to 1. Harry
Gabell trains the Poitrel gelding.
Poitrel, although a Melbourne Cup
winner, has not sired a great galloper,
his progeny chiefly achieving distinction
in. the jumping division.
Victoria has rarely had a poorer lot of
’chasers. Santa Casa won the National
Steeple, but failed so signally in the Aus-
tralian Steeple that the owner was sus-
picious of his horse having been “got at.”
However, the analysis of saliva swabs
afforded no support for that theory.
Wakerife, who romped home in the Aus-
tralian Steeple, could not gain a place in
the Melrose Steeple at the Valley. He
nearly crashed at the first of the stand
double, and seemed altogether at sea on
the smaller course. Winner of no fewer
than seven races there, Philax (4 to 1) led
until supplanted by Dubup (5 to 2) at
the second-last fence. Revealing unsus-
pected stamina, Philax put in a second
run, easily beat Dubup and incidentally
took 4sec. off the course record for
“about two miles 3 \ furlongs.”
Fred Hoysted has the gallopers of
Archie Crofts well forward in condition.
That chain-store proprietor is a keen sup-
porter of the South Melbourne football
club, but absented himself from the
match with North Melbourne long
enough to see Heroic’s Pride (Heroic —
Kalyanni) run in the Laluma Handicap,
for three-year-olds, at the Valley. This
colt is a stable-companion of Valiant
Chief, who registered a first-up victory
in the Moondah Plate at Caulfield,
Heroic’s Pride went close to equalling
that achievement. Starting at 10 to 1, he
finished only half a length behind Fire
King (6 to 1), who had let his backers
down badly at Ascot on the Wednesday.
Third place went to Elfin Echo, a Pan-
theon filly that may make her presence
felt in the Oaks. She is bred to stay,
the dam being Imitator, by Magpie.
Racing for the first time since he was
transferred from the stable of Fred Foul-
sham to that of Jack Holt, Young Idea
was in commission for the Kiata Handi-
cap, run oyer six furlongs. Disadvan-
taged by being drawn on the extreme out-
side of the field, the Constant Son four-
year-old finished an impressive- fifth.
Percy Miller formerly raced Young Idea
in conjunction with A. G. Hunter, but
now figures as the sole owner. Never
in better trim than now, Charles Fox
won this race. Just when Kanuri (favor-
ite at 7 to 2) had gathered-in the pace-
maker, L’Elite, a whirlwind rush by
Charles Fox ended in a half-head victory
for Sol Green’s candidate, who was at
10 to 1 With the bookmakers and a trifle
shorter in the tote, Dave Price took over
Green’s horses from Lou Robertson re-
cently, and already has been successful
with Alaric and Charles Fox. Last-
named originally was held on lease by
“G. Ornqng,” a leading Melbourne bar-
rister. i .
Time is near at hand, for Jack Holt to
score with some member of his team.
Young Idea' : shaped creditably, and
Golden Promise nearly caused a boil-
over in; tjie Argyle Welter. Allowed to
run loose-at 33 to 1,-the Limond stallion
lost by less than a length to Desert Chief
(11 to 2), with Palatinate (6 to 1) a neck
farther off. Favorite was Chelandric, an-
other Holt neddy. C. B. Kellow paid
lOOOgns. for Chelandric as a yearling, but
the Heroic gelding has been somewhat of
a washout. Golden Promise figures in the
livery of J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C. com-
mittee. He came under the hammer
through the death of L. K. S. Mackinnon.
The Argyle Welter result justified the
action of Maoriland sportsman G. J.
Barton in hanging on to Desert Chief.
This handsome son of Chief Ruler may
develop into one of the best four-year-
olds in training.
* * * *
W. A. Freeman and F. V. Stanley
gave 1600 guineas for Heroic Faith as a
three-year-old. For a time he failed to
run up to track trials, but if he continues
to give of his best he will be an Epsom
possibility with 7st. 51b. There was no
fluke about his victory in the first divi-
sion of the Flying Welter at Moorefield,
Starting at sixes, after eights had been
laid, Heroic’s son jumped away from the
rails, and, shaking off Beaupre at the turn,
won in a canter. White Lilac and Spear-
meta —a stablemate of Goorka, who did
not start —dead-heated for third. Fire-
man came from a long way back to run
fifth. Cabalist, who has been backed for
the Epsom, was supported for this race.
He beat only a couple home, but looked
well enough, and probably struck trouble.
Anyway, it was not his form.
The Queensland-owned Sira, who is
trained at Randwick by Peter Lawson,
gave bookmakers a skinner (15 to 1 was
the nominal price) and apprentice Sil-
burn his first winning ride in the second
division. Full Wind tried to pace it with
Sira, but he was under the whip at the
turn and dropped out in the run home.
Sira scored cleverly by half a neck from
Kurrawid, with Strathisla a similar dis-
tance away. Pacaroi, always well up, was
fourth, and Orelton, owned by T. C.
Trautwein, fifth.
With only a poor lot to beat in the
Moorefield Handicap, Dulcedo looked
the good thing of the day, yet fives could
be got—it was 7 to 2at the end. Ridden
by Zensky the Queenslander secured a
nice position early, and dashed away in
the last furlong. He easily held off Lyn-
ford, who went wide at the top of the
straight; Spear Belle was third and Im-
biber fourth. Dulcedo carried 9st. ; he
drops to 7st. 131 b. in the Metrop. Former
jockey Barney Page has him in capital
condition.
Pastoralist A. G. White had Not So
Bad and Peanut engaged in the Kogarah
Stakes. The latter was selected to carry
the familiar brown-and-white hoops, and,
starting at sixes, he won easily from the
Wellington-owned Jimmy Lee, a good
type of stallion by Shillinglee, and Cali-
ban. The favorite, Dan Dee, failed to
see out the mile. Peanut is by Magpie—•
Raisin.
Million Dollars (7 to 1), owned by
Mrs. S. S. Hawkins, of Lithgow, had a
runaway win in the first division of the
Three-year-old. Bred by the Sydney men
who raced as “Smithden,” Million
Dollars was sold for 300 guineas at the
dispersal sale of their horses. The
Menangle-trained Slanchivar and Oma-
rere filled the places. Maoriland-bred Jubi-
lee Singer (7 to 2), a colt by Nigger Min-
strel, rather like his sire, had only com-
moners to beat in the second division,
and accomplished the task easily. Kip-
chak was second and Brass third;
Drouthy, left at the post, was just behind
them at the finish.
Hope (5 to 1) put up a striking per-
formance in the Rockdale Mile ; he went
round five horses at the turn and sailed
on to beat Toriwa (14 to 1) and Flamari.
Pavarti was repeatedly checked on the
rails. Babili was fourth. There was back-
ing for the Doomben Cup winner Ver-
dun, a plain-looking gelding, who will be
better suited by a bigger track ; he was
troubled by the turns. Soft Step, having
his first race in Ike Andrews’s colors, was
always second-last. He looks well.
i * * * *
•One of the reasons why racing has
made little headway in Sydney since the
worst depression days is revealed in the
A.J.C.’s annual report. Always gener-
ous in the matter of prizes, the club dis-
tributed £94,655 last season, there being
20 race days at Randwick and eight at
Warwick Farm; the State Government
actually took £112,743 in taxes. Compared
with the 1934-35 season, tote receipts feil
from £832,474 to £756,244. The Gov-
ernment demands 9 p.c. for its cut, in
addition to charging about double ordi-
nary rates for railway and tramway trans-
port. Thus it drives people who might
otherwise go to the races into starting-
price shops, and it has to employ large
squads of policemen to track down these
shops and a squad of barristers to in-
vestigate charges against members of the
police squads. The A.J.C.’s income from
all sources amounted to £210,476, and
it wound up the year with a surplus of
£667. No mean achievement, considering
the handicaps imposed on it by a stupid
Government.
* * * *
The opening day of the Q.T.C.’s
Exhibition meeting at Ascot furnished
two surprises—Brown Force’s defeat of
Thalwyn and Spear Prince in the
National Plate, and High Speech’s failure
in the Ascot Handicap, for which he was
a 9-to-4 favorite. High Speech pulled
up groggy, and when this was written the
stewards, at the instance of owner-trainer
W. J. Shean, were inquiring into the state-
ment of a stable-hand that a man had told
him it might be worth £l5O or £2OO to
stop High Speech. Strange Idea, an old
Rivoli —High Ideas stallion, won the
Ascot Handicap at 16 to 1. W. J. Shean
captured the last race, the Winter Handi-
cap, with Mr. Rivoli (10 to 1).
* * * *
“M.P.”: At Rosehill Loud Applause
looked and galloped like a horse that
may-do considerable things in the spring.
Last season he did not quite live up to
the promise he gave in the Rosehill
Guineas, in which he was a close third
to Hadrian and Allunga ; but he ran a
good fourth in the Sydney Cup, coming
from a good distance back. Loud
Applause has 7st. 131 b. in the Metrop.,
Bst. 61b. in the Caulfield Cup and 7st.
111 b. in the Melbourne Cup, and must be
accounted well treated in the Metrop. and
the two-miler. He is by Limond —Cur-
tain. Another four-year-old that im-
pressed at Rosehill is Fair Diana, who is
by Heroic —Rythona. Fair Diana has
7st. 61b. in the Metrop., 7st. 91b. in the
Caulfield Cup and 7st. 11b. in the Mel-
bourne Cup.
* * ♦ *
From P. J. Edwards, of Narracoorte
(S.A.):
There was a recent reference to lack of
knowledge of the breeding of El Damaroyal’s
dam and 'of Turmoil. I owned Turmoil —
bought him from S. W. Cooke, of Murndal,
Branxholme (Vic.), as a yearling. I raced him
for several seasons; he was a good, game
racehorse and a good-looking one also: a
descendant of the great Panic (imp.), like Wake-
ful. Turmoil’s pedigree can be found in the
Australian Stud Book. He was by The Har-
vester (24) from Melee, by King of the Ring
from Tumult, by Pell Mell, by Panic.
H* *l*
“Sturt”; Port Adelaide Racing Club
proposes to give its elder brothers an-
other lead. Its Centenary Cup on De-
cember 28 will (including an actual £2OO
gold cup) be worth £l6OO, making S.A.’s
biggest stake for a flat race.
$ * * ;f.
“Redfern”: It didn’t need a Racing
Commission to discover that 26 p.c. of
Brisbane’s adult population was “betting-
minded.” Twenty-five years back, and
more, s.p. shops were plentiful in the
main streets. The largest was run by a
citizen who subsequently rose to be an
M.H.R. It was “all in” betting, which
meant that in trying to spot the winners
from effective elsewhere.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Brief is the story of the Australian
boxers’ experiences at the Olympic
Games. Cooper, the flyweight, was
knocked out in two rounds by a Pole ;
Cook, the welterweight, outpointed an-
other Pole, and Harley, the light-heavy-
weight, outpointed a Swiss. In the next
round Cook lost the decision to a Finn
and Harley to a Czech. End of the
section.
* - * * *
An offer of £1250 for a match with
Rosenbloom has tempted Ambrose
Palmer to return to the ring. Two
months ago he was saying he had hung
up his gloves for all time, having been
advised that he would risk blindness if
he continued in the game. It is to be
hoped that the young man won’t have
cause to regret changing his mind. He
has been playing football with Footscray
—not much of a preparation for a fight,
strenuous as football has been in Mel-
bourne this year.
Melbourne people paid £1945 on Sat-
urday to see Rosenbloom and Kelly slap
and cuddle and amble their way through
15 dreary rounds. The infliction, which
was designed to make boxing boom
again in Melbourne, was declared a
draw. Veterans, growling their way out,
were heard to say that Joe Goddard,
back in his old city and as good as he
was when he had Peter Jackson limp
at the end of an eight-round “exhibi-
tion,” would have whipped Rosenbloom
and Kelly in four rounds, one up and
one down.
* * % *
“Cestus”; Both “O. Henry” and
“Tuart” (B. 12/ 8/ ’36) overlook the fact
that it was “the pathetically fistless Latin
races” who invented and practised boxing
long before our present civilisation was
heard of. Under the Greeks boxing was
ranked high among the sports, and was
included in the Isthmian, Corinthian and
Olympic Games. The Romans brutal-
ised it, as they did most of the things
they borrowed from their Greek neigh-
bors. In the circuses of Imperial
Rome, the cestus, once intended for a
protection to the boxer’s hands, became
a lethal weapon vying in this respect with
the sword of the gladiator or the trident
and net of the retiarius and other special-
ised killers.
Footbrawl
More changes among the V.F.L.
“four.” Saturday’s games, played in a
high wind, saw Richmond, beaten by
Carlton, slip from third place to fifth,
and Melbourne make its way back into
the semi-final group. Carlton looks to
have made certain of its position. It
trailed the Tigers for three-quarters to be
17 points behind at the beginning of the
final spell; then good kicking gave it a
24-point win, 14-6 to 9-12. Melbourne
and Richmond are level with Carlton in
competition points. A better percentage
gives Carlton third place, and Mel-
bourne’s 50-point margin over Hawthorn
so improved its percentage as to put it
ahead of Richmond. Hawthorn couldn’t
hold Melbourne as it did Carlton the
previous week ; it managed only 9-8 to
17-10.
Collingwood and “Sowth” remain un-
changed, first and second, the difference
still one of percentages. Collingwood
had an easy trot against Essendon, 14-16
to 8-10, but “Sowth,” kicking poorly, had
only one point to spare against' North,
8-16 to 9-9. Highest score of the day was
Geelong’s 18-22 against St. Kilda (10-7),
and the bottom-liners, Footscray and
Fitzroy, finished with ’Scray on top, 12-17
to 9-10.
* * * *
Randwick, Uni., West and Drum-
moyne are now likely to figure in the
Sydney Rugby Union semi-finals, though
East still has an outside chance; the
others are out of it. Randwick, with a
reorganised back line and a couple of
new forwards, beat Drummoyne 14-6.
University ended East’s winning run,
scoring three tries to one, 12-8. West
gave its best display for some time in
trouncing North 21-9 ; Wogan, on the
left wing, got four tries. Manly over-
came Parramatta 26-18, and St. George
managed to pass the wooden spoon to
Gordon, 14-12.
* -e * *
The English Rugby Leaguers didn’t
lose a match in Maoriland. At Auckland
on Saturday they won the second Test,
23-11.
(Continued on next page.)
“Shell”: Time was when the name of
a new English sculling champion echoed
round the world. When the latest took
up the crown in London scarcely a news-
paper did him reverence with a par. He
is Lou Barry, nephew of the Ernest
Barry who beat Felton for the world’s title
in Sydney after the war, and a brother of
Bert Barry, who also held the honor until
devoured by Bob Pearce. Phelps, whom
the new champion defeated, is a cousin,
so it is all in the family.
* * * *
“Spike”: In a country laboring heavily
under the burden of bread and circuses,
the Government may be asked to appoint
a Minister for Sport. It is even sug-
gested that such a Ministry would assist
recruiting. If it could be co-ordinated
with a real defence scheme the plan
would have its merits. To associate it
with the awful jumble over which Park-
hill at present presides would be a calam-
ity to all concerned.
** * *
“Tenakoe”; The M.L. women’s golf
team to tackle Australian girls for the
Tasman Cup at Adelaide on Septembet
3, after figuring in the Australian cham-
pionships there a week earlier, 'is now
sharpening its niblick in this country. In
addition to captain-manager Godby the
team comprises Mrs. Fullerton-Smith
(Miss Gaisford that was) and Misses
Kay, Horwell, Helean and Fleming. The
side is the pick of M.L., and intends to
take back at all costs the pot won by
Australia in Maoriland in 1934-


At the Olympic Games
Our Olympic selectors now have the
laugh on the papers and politicians that
assailed them so furiously three months
ago. In the retrospect it is clear that
they knew a great deal more about inter-
national form than their critics —nearly
all hysterical, and, in some cases, almost
libellously abusive. Had their original
selection stood, Australia would not have
nearly so many defeats to ponder over.
In almost everything they tackled —one
of the very few exceptions was that rather
futile performance the hop-step-and-jump
—our representatives were outclassed. It
is no use making excuses for them;
report says they realise it themselves.
Competition in every branch was severer
than it ever was before, and it will grow
severer still.
Some mechanical improvements can
be made, and in other respects condi-
tions can be altered with advantage. For
example, cinder tracks must be provided
for athletes—no more running on grass
alone —and three-mile eight-oar and scull-
ing races must no longer be the rule until
three-mile races are included on Olympic
programmes, which is never likely to be
the case.
Metcalfe’s third in the hop-step-and-
jump was our only place ; and he, Back-
house, the Westralian swimmer Oliver
and the pair-oar men, Turner and Dixon,
were the only members of the team to
reach finals. Oliver’s time in the semi-
final of the 100-metres backstroke, Imin.
9.45ec., represents new figures for Aus-
tralia, and in this lad and Miss De
Lacey Westralia must now be reckoned
to possess the best pair of swimmers in
the Commonwealth.
Pearce and the N.S.W. Police eight-
oar crew were disappointing ; both fin-
ished second in heats for those unplaced
the first time, the winner to start in the
final. Turner and Dixon got to the final
that way ; badly beaten in their first heat
they rowed much better to win a heat
from Poland and Hungary. The English
pair won a “losers” heat and the final
as well.
Ins and Outs
The English cricket side reads pretty
strong on paper. It includes a fine
variety of bowling, from really fast in
Farnes’s case to the slows of Robins and
Sims, while the batting looks formidable.
Australia may be hunting an extra bowler
or two before the season is well ad-
vanced. Gimblett’s omission after his
press boom is surprising, and so is that
of the well-fancied Cover. Voce is a
surprise, but he has been bowling in great
form, and his left-handed stuff should be
invaluable. Larwood was available, as
Voce was, but he has dicky feet, and in
the circumstances the M.C.C. thought
him hardly worth his passage.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The dry bones of cricket
are beginning to stir. In addition to the
preparations for the Sheffields and the
English tour, there is to be the Bardslcy-
Gregory testimonial match in Sydney
beginning October 9. About the same
time the Englishmen will be in Perth, and
Bradman and others have been asked to
make up the team for the Australian side
to meet the tourists. Bradman says he is
committed to the testimonial game, but
Badcock, Waite, Ward, Grimmetr and
Fleetwood-Smith, who have also been in-
vited to Perth, have not yet decided.
“Sturt”: S. A. Cricket Association’s
annual report has two main features.
One is the State Eleven’s winning of the
Sheffield Shield after a nine-year interval
—it lost only 54 wickets, averaging 52.11,
to all opponents’ 101 wickets af 25.52. The
other is a negotiation with the Football
League, which announced its intention
of abandoning the Adelaide Oval as
headquarters ; finally the League ratified
an agreement for another six years on
getting slightly better sharing terms.
Footbrawl
“A. 8.”: It is some years since a foreign
team played Soccer in Australia, and the
round-ball game in these parts needs
periodical doses of that particular tonic.
Let me in before a million others with
the suggestion that a Peruvian side be
imported next winter. One went to Ber-
lin and met the Austrians, and “after a
Peruvian defender had ignored the ball
and kicked the opponent” (in that
merely conforming to a rule practised in
at least one other code) “the Austrian
went off to have his injuries attended to.
Later he returned” —but let first-hand wit-
nesses tell the story in their own words:
Declaring that another player had
been sent oh as a substitute, the Peruvians
assembled in the middle of the field, ges-
ticulating wildly. The referee tried to
smooth matters over. About 1000
Peruvian supporters, shrieking and waving
flags, rushed on the field, Austrian players
being kicked and punched. One of the
Peruvians put his hand to his hip pocket
but was seized by the referee and over-
powered.
“A replay” was ordered. The Peru-
vian committee refused to allow its men
to fight again, observing “We won the
match against dirty play, against dirty
refereeing and against prejudiced lines-
men.” From G.H.Q. at Lima came a
cable recalling the “players” to Lima,
though this decision has since been
rescinded. By all means let us have them
in Australia. Scrapping English Rugby
Leaguers would be nothing to them.
* is * *
“Stand Off”: The Australian R.U.
team for M.L. left Sydney last week, and
plays its first match against Auckland
on Saturday. There will be 10 matches,
including Tests at Wellington and
Dunedin—on September 5 and 12 respec-
tively. The last game will be at Palmer-
ston North against a Maori side on Sep-
tember 23. September 28 will see the
side back in Sydney.
“Ogils”: With the first of the 1936
challenges for its newly-acquired Ran-
furly Shield repelled, Otago has learnt
the commercial value of the blue riband
of Rugby in M.L. The railways carried
to Dunedin 5000 from Southland (the
challenging province) and upwards of 1500
from North and Central Otago ; another
3000-odd are estimated to have come by
car. The “market” price for grandstand
seats opened at a pound apiece (500 p.c.
premium) before the tail-end of the
queue had been allotted its maximum
six, and wintry conditions later in the
week saw the price reach £2 15s. Pubs,
restaurants and petrol-sellers gathered in
the major whack of the £15,000 estimated
“I think I'll have a lash at the noddies meself.
Cot change for a bob ?”
to have been spent. Otago scored 16
points to 3.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Amateur Pro.”: Steggall, the foot-
baller, began as a Rugby League player
in Queensland. He went over to the
Union and then toured South Africa with
the Australian amateurs. Returning to
Australia, he became a Leagueite again
in N. S. Wales. Now he is to come to
Sydney to join a Sydney legal firm,
a member of which is chairman of the
N.S.W.R.U., and it is suggested that he
will play Union again. He may, and he
is a very good footballer ; but diehards
are certain to point out that it is only
two or three months since he played the
professional game on the .Sydney C.G. ,
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Gate”: When Sydney League started
night football again this season in spite
of bitter experience, it was resolved to
play the first half of the competition at
the beginning of the season and the
second at the end. Now the clubs con-
cerned are jibbing on the proposal to
complete the joke, and no more is likely
to be heard of it.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Randwick”: Having reported a loss
of £lOOO for the year on the Moore Park
municipal links, Sydney Council has
evolved the bright idea of spending £450
on an “attractive approach” to the club-
house, Meanwhile the course and greeps
have been permitted to get into such a
state that teams from other A grade
clubs are annoyed, and there is talk of
crossing the M.P. club, which is power-
less to better conditions, off the competi-
tion list for this season at least. A solu-
tion may lie in the offer of a syndicate
to lease the course, giving the council
£lOOO p.a. clear.
“Susie Swattit”: The impending visit
of Helen Hicks is tying women golfers
in knots. The N.S.W. ladies have cabled
to the English L.G.U. to ask if they
may play one of their champions in an
exhibition match or two against Miss
Hicks. They might as well have saved
the money. Joyce Wethered and Enid
Wilson have appeared as professionals in
mixed matches of the kind ; all that is
needed is the consent of the local gov-
erning body. In Melbourne the ex-cham-
pion of America is expected to enter
for the men’s open in the Australian
championships. There is no rule to ban
the lady, but anxious he-men players
who do not relish the prospect of being
walloped by an associate are eagerly
hunting for one.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: If the offertory is satis-
factory a team of Queensland golfers will
play in the Australian championships at
Melbourne in September. It is proposed
to send seven, paying cost of transport
and housing as is done in other amateur
sports. Clubs throughout the State are
to pass the hat and conduct competitions
to raise the necessary funds. They will
also be asked to nominate players, and
leading performers are to be tapped at
once as to their willingness to go if
selected. Entries for the championships
close on August 28, so there is not much
time to spare.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: Norman Brookes has
been telling a Melbourne interviewer that
Quist has yet to reach his best, though
he is far and away the ablest of Aus-
tralia’s players and has been for some
time. Quist sadly lacks a good press
like that of Sydney, which has kept the
Crawford tradition on its legs long after
it was due for oblivion. Brookes thinks
Quist and others of the young school
should have a solid rest. The South
Australian needs it. On this last Davis
Cup tour he had to carry the rest of the
team while getting little of the credit.
“Top Spin”: In Sydney there is official
opposition to the proposed visit of pro-
fessionals Vines and Tilden, as there was
when Cochet came along. On that occa-
sion the hardcourts people swung their
weight behind the Frenchman’s tour.
Now they are backing the Tilden visit,
and the Victorian L.T.A. has asked the
Australian body to endorse the tour.
South Australia and Queensland will cer-
tainly follow suit.
“Drayton”: “Gar” Moon, of Queens-
land, had an unusual experience at Too :
woomba after winning the Darling
Downs tennis championship—he was pre-
sented with the ball from which he made
the winning stroke. It was suitably em-
bellished and inscribed with the record
that it was Moon’s 100th championship
title. Presentations of the kind are
common enough among cricketers, but
not among tennis-players.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”; The Empire Games
Federation, sitting in Berlin, has given
a dubious consent to the holding of
track events on the grass at Sydney G.G.
provided a cinder track is not available.
Manager Alderson, of the Olympic team,
said he was going to barrack for a cinder
track on his return, but made it plain
that to achieve this end the State lug
would have to be bitten. It is anomalous
that a great community like .Sydney
cannot find the brass to build a track of
a kind that was to be found in every
considerable Australian town 50 years
ago. There was considerable criticism
of the S.C.G. in other directions, dele-
gates being well informed as to the
marked slope down which so many
alleged records have been clocked in
the past. The meeting also insisted that
the swims be held in fresh water, and in
other ways hinted that it was up to the
Australian Games heads to pull up their
socks and modernise their methods,
* * * *
Worsted : Cabled that Jack Metcalte
” as been authorised to invite Jesse Owens
*° corne to Australia and compete against
amateurs. The idea is a ridiculous one.
We have no amateur in Australia
fit to match with Owens even if we com-
pelled the world’s record-holder to run
on the hayfields we choose to regard as
running tracks. And attendances at
amateur meetings are poor. Though
Owens has said he will not turn
professional, his mate, Metcalfe, in-
tends to do so, and Owens will prob-
ably follow suit. If the pair could be
got out here for the professional
“world’s” championships to show in com-
pany with Eddie Tolan, who is under
contract to appear, there should be big
money in it for the promoters in Victoria
alone,
* * *
“Crouch”: After turning a deaf ear
for years to expert evidence that cinder
running tracks were absolutely essential
if Australian runners were to compete on
level terms with those overseas, there has
been a wild rush to establish the things
at once, Sydney being particularly enthu-
siastic. Olympic manager Alderson has
been asked to get the specifications of the
Berlin tracks for the City Council, which
is talking of making a great sports ground
at Moore Park. Time something was
done. Sydney is ill supplied with sport-
ing arenas worthy of the name, the Syd-
ney Cricket Ground superstition being re-
sponsible for this to a great extent.
Heralded by the Sydney press as being a
model of its kind for the world, the old
arena is a fourth-rate show sadly in need
of digging up, relaying and redesigning
generally.
❖ * * *
“Splash”: The meeting of the Inter-
national Swimming Federation at Berlin
administered a deathblow to Australian
hopes that amateurs would be allowed
to compete in' surf races with paid
beach-inspectors. Amateurs may still
compete in lifesaving events, but not in
surf races for professionals. Teachers
of swimming in schools will not forfeit
their amateur status if they teach without
special pay, and do not coach for com-
petition. Bath and surf attendants are
professionals, but may be reinstated b\
their national governing body after 90
days’ penance.
* * * *
“Shell”: Following on the Olympiad
flop the N.S.W. rowing heads are con-
sidering the addition of double-scull and
pair-oar events to their programmes. The
idea is that next time oarsmen are sent
abroad to compete in these they will have
some idea of what to do. The trouble is
that there are only one or two boats in
N.S.W.', and building a fleet will be a
costly job for the different clubs. How-
ever, Victoria, which goes in for this
sort of rowing, should be able to help
with a few tips and help to save Australia
the absurdity of sending men half across
the world to compete in a style of rowing
they have never before attempted or
even seen.


350,000 MILES AND STILL
ON THE ROAD EVERY DAY-
H
B
: : M& ( m
'IHI |
#.
l '^3 Ur
.. ° J °*'S3r, * B
Vis
se?
Sflrgtfeo ,
*^(Ui
®tb/ *.i
r*o
HQ
r «fcj
u 3 e
l ot
®fJo
e S©
itee
*£{?
*Q6i
P»t
«ou
■V
a^o
“ej;
<*«6
s<f e
S3 0
*w
«n
f e a
WM
ow
fun
■to
/°OO
•11
®«c
r s£
®<?e
r u n
n2tri
a J*e
W**>
*Uh
°Sfc
J
r ®c
Wi
e/it
°*Jt
r?«*
f**in
übj
■JM
.0/3
C OJ(J
e -i 6
®»C
"ev,
®Or.
Aa>
r a ti
««)
wtu
*i?o
o ®a
■toy
00/j
6 -ocl
“Po
*4J
c '*rbS* b l
niy
*9h
%
O®C
*J>«
®S/7
*Q(f
cw
s ed
<UJ
e °*rb
C ?U
«o/»
VM
°nx
*2*
"tict
«U J
®atf
p/v
poo/
»13 0
tfco
r Uft
ni/j
tor
e *o
Surely this would
convince anyone.
. °ut , o>t.
-000 „ * ttst I '-
b * / , ’•'« 3*„ Sn <j, f
stl li a or,'/ 1 ' 1 t/>«,
a „ °«^%4s
(f s et *°,Ooo
bi^feoX*S3
.iw7*
* lo to /o J-
-
- fc
' 4, ,J,e
■sr"’A* -
' Z f h e ott
JUST think of it 350,000 miles
with original valves and main bear-
ings still in the engine.
This is definite proof of what Texaco
Motor Oil will do better than any other
oil.
Yon are assured of greater engine effici-
ency, longer effective engine life, and a
considerable saving in repair bills no
matter what car or truck you drive.
Make sure it is Texaco Motor Oil for you
next time.
'‘My Bedford bus has now
run 150,000 miles and is
in perfect operating condi-
tion, giving no mechanical
trouble or road, delays
whatsoever” says P.
SHEEHAN, 10 Brunswick
Road, Melbourne.
m hi
' •: -
9
11
11
“A 1931 Model White
bus has completed a
distance of 176,000
miles during the past
four years. In that time
the valves were ground
twice. One set of
standard rings, oversize
not being necessary,
were used”—says R. /.
DOUGHTY, Ptr. Bantu-
town-Lakemha Bus Ser -
vice, IS.S.W.
“One sedan has done 86,000 miles and has
never, at any time, had any repairs, not even
a set of netc rings ” —says GEO. CORLETT,
Two Thousand Private Taxi Co., 665-7 St.
U-Uda Road, Melbourne.
“4 ttvelve-year-old A.E.C., with 105,000 miles up, is a
working testimonial of the safe economical lubricat-
ing qualities of your oil” —says H. KEOGH, Foreman
Mechanic, ISorthcote City Council, Victoria .
mStm
I
w
3
mm
MB -r'
A Reo truck with a mileage of over
109,000 —nine other trucks doing, in
all, one million miles, have equally
good performances. Texaco Motor Oil
is responsible ” —says H. BLAKISTON,
Customs and Shipping Agent, Geelong,
Victoria.
TEXACO MOTOR


,
./“S
m
mm
m
i>^ r >
giiii
gaga .
m
IIIS
w&
1
ii
pw;
The Luxury of Y-8 Performance
ORD V-8 has become famous because
it gives motoring of a quality that
few of even the world’s highest-priced cars
can equal. Its performance is thrilling—
the smooth, effortless power and acce-
leration that is exclusive to a V-type
engine. Its style is luxurious —external
beauty is matched by splendid interior
treatment and fittings. And more than
anything else, it is the safe car. Three
outstanding features are important con-
tributions to V-8 Safety: All-Steel closed
bodies; Safety Glass all round; and
Super Safety mechanical brakes. Centre-
poise ensures exceptional riding comfort;
upholstery is deep and restful. Your Ford
dealer cordially invites you to drive the
V-8. Easy and convenient terms arranged.
FORD-PHILCO CAR RADIO
The latest and finest car radio, specially designed
for the Ford V-8. Superheterodyne circuit giving
exceptional selectivity and deep, mellow tone.
Uses less current than other types without loss
of efficiency—less drain on car battery. Set fits
neatly under instrument panel. Speaker mounted
to give “ear-line” reception. Your Ford dealer
will demonstrate.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F93.24V
oe well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
mm
k : •
'
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms ;
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write hint for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range /
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOUUIS’ "THE KET.IAIiT.ti”
d.b.b.U. GUN, 12G„ top lever, bar action,
S2in. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
locks, crossbolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
grip walnut stock. £l5/15/-
Carriage Paul.
No. 3—HOUUIS D.8.8.U. GUN, 12G.. top
lever, -32 in. barrels, both choke, bar locks,
cross bolt; similar to No. 3, but lighter
build; weight, about 71b. £ll/15/-
Carriage Paid
No. 9—CASHMOKE D.8.8.U. GUN, 12G.,
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
fore-end pistol grip, walnut A
stock; weight, about 71b 3Cl*»/ IU/“
Carriage Paid.
No. 34— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.U.
HAMMERUESS GUN, 12G., top lever cross-
bolt, steel barrels, both choke, matted rib,
barrels and lug one-piece, 32in. barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip, tested for nitro
powders; weight, about 81b. /10/-
Price ' '
Carriage Paid.
No. 25—1 VO K JOHNSON D.8.8.U.
HAMMERUBSS GUN, 12G.. 32in. barrels;
both full choke, top-lever crossbolt; Anson
and Deeley action. Tested for nitro £g
powders; weight, about 81b
Carriage Paid.
SPORTING RIFLES
An outstanding Rifle, fitted
with Telescopic Sight, now
retailing at the low price of
£6'l7'6
MOSSBERG .22
CALIBRE BOLT-
ACTION REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, IM-
PROVED MODEL4S
This is a remarkable
comb i nation of a
superbly accurate Rifle,
equipped with a Micro-
meter Adjustable Rear-
sight and four-power
Telescope Sight, also
Micrometer Adjustable
Sight. The sales for
this Rifle have been un-
precedented, and in re-
sponse to demand we
have just landed an-
other large shipment
from America.
1
No.l-THE MAINE MFLE,
22-cal., bolt action, V-back sight; for-short,
long, or long-rifle cartridges. Round barrel.
18in. long, bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight, about 31!b. ot /
Price • t
Postage, 3/-; Other States, 3/6
No. 40-SAVAGE BOLT-
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 4,
round barrel, gold bead front and ladder
rear sights; takes 22 short, long or lon
rifle cartridges. Weight, 541 b. on /
Price ....... ......;... ‘."t ou / "
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, & All Branches.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Riverina Transport War
Let us not forget that our railways
are owned by the people. In our part of
Riverina storekeepers and merchants get
their supplies by motor transport from
Melbourne, a distance of 220 miles, for
50s. per ton. Wool is carted as back
loading for that price during the shear-
ing season. Such merchandise as salt,
cement and fertiliser is transported
from Melbourne by railway. The freight
on fertilisers from Melbourne to Oak-
lands is Bs. 9d. per ton, and sheep salt
is retailed at very little more, than the
motor transport freight. Is this fair
competition? How could the man on
the land pay 50s. per ton on fertiliser? —
Corowa (N.S.W.).
Unemployed and Taxation
Mathematics being an exact science it
follows naturally that the politician who
uses figures to boost his argument mostly
tangles himself in a knot.
Vic. Lands Minister Lind, bragging at
Ballarat of his chief’s achievements, said
that Mr. Dunstan (why the “tan”?)
had reduced unemployment registra-
tions from 30,000 to 15,000 —3000
of them, with a well-developed sense
of humor, were then “on strike.” Yet
though Mr. Dunstan preens himself
on the paltry 10 per cent, reduction
in unemployment-relief tax, the actual
amount to be raised this year is
£1,854,000, almost the same as last year.
What a fraud this alleged emergency
tax is can be seen when it is remembered
that hitherto boys and girls earning 20s.
a week had to pay their whack. Yet a
man with wife and three children gets
335. a week when working and 225. when
not working. No wonder Melb, City
Council engineer declared that the relief-
workers under him were only “10 per
cent, efficient.” And on top of that mil-
lion-odd Mr. Dunstan has the nerve to
say that £2,184,000 is to be applied to
unem.-relief from loan money, making in
all £4,038,000 for “relief” this year,
though he says “the number of unem-
ployed is not now much above normal.”
—Elgar (Vic.).
Excused
There was an Assembly by-election in
Brisbane, and I am a Brisbane elector.
Being about to leave on an extended
country trip I inquired at the Queens-
land Electoral Office whether I could
record an absentee or a postal vote. To
my surprise I was told no arrangements
for either had been made, and that if I
was absent from the district on polling
day I would be excused.
Weeks later a “please explain your
reason for not voting” reached me at a
country post office. I replied in due
course, and that was the end of the
matter. But why no provision for
absentee or postal votes at a by-election
when the law makes voting compulsory
at a general election? — Laxlex (Q.).
Can Japan Do Without?
In the year to June 30, 1936, the U.K.
bought 957,000 bales of Australian wool.
Japan bought 779,857 bales —more than
Belgium, France, Germany, U.S.A. and
Italy put together.
The U.S.A. turns out 420,000,0001 b. of
raw wool p.a. off 50,000,000 sheep. Of
Australia’s customers for raw wool that
country alone can look after itself; the
rest are dependent on imported raw or
manufactured wool. In times of stress,
and with exchange against them, they
are eking out their restricted purchases
with substitutes and wolstras.
Japan’s wool consumption in 1934 was
about 3.741 b. per head of population, and
it was officially estimated —the figure
appears in “Dalgety’s Review, 1935,” as
being quoted by the Japanese Consul-
General in Australia—that by 1945 its
internal usage would be about
400,000,0001 b. p.a., allowing for continu-
ance of present rate of wool-use increase
and population.
At the same time, for immediate
needs, Japan appears to have enough
wool to stand a siege long enough to
make Australian woolgrowers "very un-
happy.
The Japanese hold at present from
300.000 to 350,000 bales. Their export
of manufactured wool, wool rags and
waste is completely prohibited. Normal
export accounts for about 90,000 bales,
so this makes a substantial reserve. With
collectable waste, usable wool might be
brought up to 500,000 bales. This used
in 40 p.c, to 70 p.c. wolstra mixtures
would be equivalent to a year’s supply.
Japan’s actual shipments from Bris-
bane and Sydney for the nine months to
the end of March were 410,000 bales
against the United Kingdom’s 380,000
bales. The year before Japan shipped
298.000 bales in the same period against
Britain’s 445,000 bales. This gives a
further indication of how the Japanese
got ready for trouble.
And Japan can still buy from Maori-
land in the open market. Maoriland’s
annual production is about 500,000 bales
—in 1933-34 it sold 650,000 —and, though
much of this is usually unsuitable for
Japanese machinery, shift could be made
with a great deal of it. If the Japanese
cared to disregard price, they could get
a vastly greater quantity than the 31,000
bales of M.L. wool they bought in 1934-
35. The U.K. takes about 250,000 bales
of Maoriland wool on an average, Brad-
ford might hold this at any cost, though
buying it in a keen market would add to
the difficulty of its task in supporting the
Australian market. But Continental
countries, especially those on the gold
standard, would have to yield to bidding
in which the sky was the limit —their
takings average 160,000 bales.
Japan appears to be feeling comfort-
able, even though the statement of the
Japanese Commerce Minister, Mr.
Ogawa, that he did not need to license
Australian stocks because Japan has
plenty of wool and can get immediate
supplies elsewhere is locally regarded as
propaganda.—E. H. M. (N.S.W.).


n
Sheet
nctal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY \ 7
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
>AcPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne.. Adelaide.. Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s’’ criticism (10/ 1 / ’ 3 4). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
' Branch Offices:
smiTWATTSTRAirl 75 o? 1 !!? 8 street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
wfSTFRN AL aT^i^ I a I t A ta 29 w lng •Y' Hf" S>treet ’ Adelaide ; F - c - Resident Secretary.
vvjhbiiiiKN AUSTRALIA. Warwick House, St. Georges Terrace, Perth; F. J, Smith
Resident Secretary.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Epj Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
i&i with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL- *
mmsm
m
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Trial of McArthur
John William Shaw McArthur, whose
company operations were the subject of
simultaneous legislation in Maoriland
and Australia, has been tried in Welling-
ton on six charges of “issuing or being
concerned in the issue of false reports
or prospectuses.” After a hearing which
lasted seven days, he was found guilty
on two charges and fined £5OO, in default
six months’ imprisonment, the jury add-
ing a recommendation of a fine to its
verdict.
Acting-Chief Justice Reid asked
McArthur whether he could pay “a sub-
stantial fine.” The reply was “Yes.”
McArthur was allowed a month to pay it,
and meanwhile was released on £2OOO
bail.
During the trial there was put in
evidence a statement tendered by
McArthur on September 25, 1931, to the
Crown Solicitor at Auckland; it de-
clared his assets then at £405 and his
liabilities at £19,240. In 1932, Crown
Prosecutor Meredith said, McArthur and
Alcorn, as agents for British National
Investment Trust, produced £50,000 cash
required for the purchase of the Sydne-'
“Daily Telegraph” building, on which
there was a £50,000 mortgage.
The £50,000 required was advanced by
Investment Executive Trust, which sent
large, amounts to Australia in October,
November and December until £50,000 was
reached. If the building was wisely
bought, the profit would belong to British
National Investment Trust, and it would
be in a position to repay the £50,000 loan.
If it was a bad speculation, the security
of Investment Executive Trust would go
back. This was apparently what people
were allowed to believe was sound diversi-
fication of investments.
Referring in evidence to this “Daily
Telegraph” transaction, McArthur said it
was false to state that he had made a
profit of £287,000; his personal profit
was £60,000. He dealt with the purchase
in the way he did because there was a
question of £96,000 income tax, which
would have to be paid if the deal was to
be conducted by the Trust. He con-
sidered that he had legally and quite
properly saved that sum.
McArthur and Alcorn, the Crown
Prosecutor said, were directors of Pacific
Explorations, formed in 1932 with
£lO,OOO of capital. Sterling Investments
signed for £9999. Sterling Investments
advanced £20,000 to Pacific and no de-
bentures were given in return; £4165
represented personal drawings by
McArthur. Among Pacific’s assets was
the ocean-going yacht Morewa, on which
it spent £lO,OOO. Ultimately the yacht
was taken over by McArthur.
Leading counsel for the defence, H. F.
O’Leary, K.C., objected to evidence as
to Morewa transactions, mentioning that
“an action by the Public Trustee regard-
ing the yacht, and claiming £lO,OOO, is
pending immediately the present case is
finished.”
Another matter mentioned was the dic-
tating by McArthur to a stenographer of
the reading matter of a booklet, “Increas-
ing Your Income.” It might be thought
that subscribers to McArthur companies
would be indisposed to reperuse this
masterpiece, and no doubt some would.
But one of the Crown witnesses said he
had attended a meeting of 60 or 70
debenture holders at which the Public
Trustee’s sale of assets under the liquida-
tion had been discussed, and the majority
expressed “absolute confidence” in
McArthur.
In one respect this trial made history:
it was the first of the kind in M.L.,
though the Acting-Chief Justice intimated
that there had been Empire cases, not-
ably the Lord Kylsant affair.
“D.C.”: Zane Grey’s remark that
the taking of long-fin tuna could be
developed into “a great Australian
industry” was prompted by the catch-
ing of a 901 b. yellow-fin. Mentioning
this achievement, the “Fisherman” states
that “tuna up to 6001 b. have been caught
by professional fishermen at Albany
(W.A.)”; indeed, “the tuna can be found
cruising comfortably around King
George’s Sound, and fairly large schools
are frequently seen in adjacent waters,”
but because of “the present system of
marketing the production of tuna in
quantities is not a profitable suggestion
“ Forty-seven quid, not countin' the ten bob We get from the paper for
bein' first in with the news.”
for Australian fishermen, though in
America it is fast becoming a specialised
industry.” It doesn’t say much for the
Governments responsible for “the present
system of marketing.”
* s< * *
Beau Monde, Ltd., a Melbourne
hosiery manufacturer, continues its
dazzling run. Increased plant capacity
(in the books the item is up £21,086 at
£135,863) is mirrored in a growth of
£7607 in net earnings last year—to
£31,091, equal to 40 p.c. on capital. And
that was after adding £15,505 to depre-
ciation reserve, now £66,168, or 48 p.c. of
actual plant cost. Shareholders’ whack
(25 p.c.) absorbed £19.130. Further fixed-
asset expenditure is now mooted, and
shareholders —pref. shares are to be con-
verted into ords. —are offered 102,026 ss.
ords. at par, one for three, raising paid
capital to £102,391. The ss. scrip sells
freely round 235. 9d., to return 6.6 p.c.,
allowing for exercise of rights, if the 25
p.c. disbursement continues —it will re-
quire £5494 less profit than disclosed last
year when all the new money is in.
* * * *
Newbold Firebrick (N.S.W.) showed
a profit of £18,425, up £659, in its last
year. A div. of 10 p.c. on the increased
capital took all but £1753 of the earnings.
The directors say that manufacture dur-
ing the year was hampered by installa-
tion of new plant. The sharemarket
was disappointed with results.
* * ❖ ❖
At Dec. 31, 1935, there were estimated
to be 6,753,114 people in Australia, ex-
cluding abos., and 3,164,979 of them
were in the capital cities. Steps towards
remedying this unbalanced state of affairs
are the recent manufacturing develop-
ments at Port Kembla (steel) and Burnie
(paper). Queensland among the larger
States has the best-distributed popula-
tion (as between country and metropolis),
and Queensland has the greatest number
of important coastal towns. They are
all fed by railways penetrating the back
country, as well as being assisted by local
industries —mostly sugar, though there
are a meatworks and machinery-manu-
facturer or two.
* * * *
Henry Gullett says that the Govern-
ment ventured on its “motor-car-build-
ing” policy only after careful investiga-
tion. H. C. Jones, secretary of the
Chamber of Automotive Industries, has
replied that the investigation was so care-
ful that no one in the N.S.W. motor in-
dustry had heard anything about it until
tariff action had been taken. Like other
people, Mr. Jones questions the legality
of the anti-Japanese and -U.S.A.
schedules.
* %
Flour exports are no trifle in our over-
seas trade; their value in 1935-36 was
£4,545,000 in the currency of the Com-
monwealth, a slight drop compared with
the preceding year.
* * * *
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers (S.A.)
showed a loss of £2580 last year, as
against a profit of £8590 in 1934-35.
Output was bigger, but keen competi-
tion brought prices down. The forma-
tion of Fertiliser Sales, Ltd., to distribute
the products of South Aus. manufac-
turers, is expected to have a favorable
effect on costs.
* * * *
During 1935 the world’s chief steel-
producing countries turned out an aver-
age of 5,900,000 metric tons of iron and
steel per month. This compares with an
average of 7,974,000 tons in 1929 and
3,174,000 tons in 1932. During 1936 the
monthly average has been well over
6,000,000 tons, and reached 7,100,000
tons in April. Broken Hill Prop.’s
monthly output of steel is now very close
to that of Italy, Canada or Sweden.
* * * *
The improved price for lead made a
50 p.c. difference in the export value for
the 12 months ended June 30. Quantity
sent overseas was 194,160 tons (up
10,400 tons); value was £1,420,000 Aus-
tralian higher at £3,837,000.
* * * *
Less than 600 tons of copper was ex-
ported from Australia last year—that
is short of the production of Mt. Morgan
(Q.) alone. Practically the whole of Mt.
Lyell’s 14,000-ton output is consumed in
the Commonwealth, with attendant
freight and other benefits. When copper
is £4O sterling a ton in London, it should
be worth every penny of £5O Austra-
lian to the Speck’s West Coast show. At
present the red metal (electrolytic) is
fetching sterling in London.
: i : ❖ sj«
From the Bendigo field (Vic.),
18,2060 z. of gold was won during the first
half of 1936, an increase of 2000 oz. over
the same period of last year. State pro-
duction is up 8000 oz. Central Nell
Gwynne, Morning Star, Gordon and
Wattle Gully are among the chief pro-
ducers.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Cox Bros. ords. touched the record level of
65s.—a 10s. gain over the week. Something
substantial is expected by shareholders.
G. J. Coles were back to 86s. (from 81s.
6d.) at the week-end ; B.H. Prop, showed small
fluctuation around 755.
Yarra Falls and Gordon and Gotch ords.
were firm at 40s. and 51s. respectively.
Amalgamated Wireless 14s. contribs. were
in demand at 39s.—a 2s. rise.
Bendigo Gas has sent out the usual 7 p.c.
(= £3430) from disclosed profits of £3490.
In anticipation of an early meal, George
Pizzey ords. moved up 2s. 3d. to 14s. 6d.
Mildura Hotel netted £4550 last year; an
8 p.c. div. absorbed £2400. Buyers offer 14s.
for the 10s. scrip.
At 21s. 6d., D. and W. Chandler ords.
were their highest in a decade; the first div.
for six years has been declared.
Fijis attracted support after an inactive early
period: Emperors sold Is. sd. higher at
165.; Lolomas advanced Is. 3d. to 245. 9d.
Bendigo shows were in good demand:
Buninyong Rand put on 2s. 6d. to Bs. 9d., and
Deborahs, Is. 6d. to 15s. 6d.
Hercules struck the east leg of a saddle-
reef at the 510 ft. west crosscut. Sellers were
afterwards asking 12s.
Mt. Lyell retained the previous week’s 3s.
gain, settling round 305.; base-metal shows
were generally firm.
Mt. Firebrace fell to 27s.—a loss of £6 13s.
in two weeks—following an adverse report
from director T. Victor. There was recovery
later to 555. when decision to have another
investigation was announced.
Satupulo, with a 2s. rise, was the most
active tin stock, closing round 275.-255.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL DISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“San Francisco”
The scene is ’Frisco’s Barbary Coast
of 30 years ago. The hottest joint is
run by Blackie Norton (Clark Gable).
To his honky-tonk comes clergyman’s
daughter Mary Blake (Jeanette Mac-
Donald) seeking a job as a singer. Why
this sweet, pure goil should look for em-
ployment in such a quarter is not ex-
plained. Her employer, who of course
has a heart of gold, treats her chival-
rously. There is rivalry between him and
the millionaire owner of the Tivoli Opera
House for Mary’s voice and affections.
It seems as if the nabob had won when
the earthquake of 1906 wipes out ’Frisco
and two loving hearts are reunited.
The unoriginal yarn is merely scaffold-
ing for Miss MacDonald’s voice—a
Clark Gable in “San Francisco,’ at
Sydney St. James.
sweet, clear, flexible soprano that soars
up to the high A without effort and seems
capable of reaching G. Her powers as
an actress are extremely limited, but, as
she has little to do but sing, that doesn’t
matter. Spencer Tracy puts in a bit of
congenial character-acting as a priest,
and the rest of the cast is adequate.
The great feature of the film, after
Miss MacDon.ald’s singing, is the earth-
quake. This has been done with every
ounce of ability modern studio technique
can command. The terrible subterranean
rumble that heralds a big ’quake has been
reproduced exactly, and the collapse of
a great city into piles of bricks and
stones, the rapidity with which fire breaks
out and spreads, the activity of military
dynamiting squads, and the huge camps
where the survivors find refuge are all
impressively represented. At Sydney St.
James.
“Poppy”
The humor of W. C. Fields in this dis-
play window for his powers is as
mechanical as modern warfare. If he
essays to play croquet the head of his
mallet falls off 11 times, and on 12
occasions he trips over the hoops.
Attempts to tether his braces at the back
or to put a stud through his collar fill
hundreds of feet of celluloid, and when
he plays a cigar-box fiddle his tall hat
rolls miraculously round him in a never-
ceasing circle, interfering with his bow.
Yet he is represented as a shrewd old
charlatan, living by his wits.
When not tripping over his own feet
Fields gives a clever enough picture of
the old-time sideshow man. He has in
tow his adopted daughter (Rochelle
Hudson), remarkably ingenuous in view
of her upbringing. A plot to establish
her as an heiress is launched by her
guardian with the connivance of a
double-crossing attorney, but disaster to
the heroine is avoided by the last-minute
discovery that she actually is the heiress.
So she .is able to marry her small-town
Romeo (Richard Cromwell), and her
pseudo-papa fades out of the picture
taking with him somebody else’s hat and
walking stick. Before leaving, with tears
in his eyes and immense impressiveness,
he gives the girl his blessing and one
parting word of advice—“ Never give a
sucker an even break.” Good character-
acting by Maude Eburne in an elderly-
spinster role helps to make the thing
feasible. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“The Sky Parade”
Jimmy Allen of the aeronautical
serials, William Gargan and Kent Tay-
lor are musketeers of the air. The
progress of the two older men from
members of a country-fair air-circus
troupe to controllers of a great air-
transport organisation is made the
thread for a sort of “Cavalcade” of air
history (incidentally, amid a catalogue
of mostly American air exploits, the
Pacific flight of Smith and Ulm is given
a place). The lady in the case is Katherine
de Mille. Of course there is a plot to
steal an epoch-making invention, led
by a Scotch-Irishman, Casey Cameron
(Grant Withers), and of course it is
foiled by the heroic Jimmy. Despite the
triteness of the materials the affair is
strung together in interesting fashion, and
the characters are likeable. The aviation
stuff is very well done. . Also at the
Prince Edward.
“Living Dangerously”
The medical vogue which is affecting
Hollywood and Elstree at present is mani-
fested in yet another film with a crop
of doctors in it. This one is particularly
good of its kind. The story is soundly
constructed and the manner of its telling
neat.
After he has killed his blackmailing ex-
partner, a fashionable New York doctor
tells his story to his friend the Attorney-
General. The action then casts back to
the time when the two doctors had a
London practice.
Dr. Prior (Francis Lister) is a gambler
who pays his debts by illicit dealing in
Jack Holt in “San Francisco.”
morphine. His wife (Leonora Corbett)
and his partner Dr. Nolan (Otto Kruger)
are in love, but have not told their love.
When Scotland Yard’s morphine trail
leads to their surgery. Dr. Nolan an-
nounces the dissolution of their partner-
ship. Enraged at his imminent ruin, Dr.
Prior alleges before the Medical Board
illicit relations between his wife and Dr.
Nolan. On false evidence of a nurse,
employed by the partners (she is Dr.
Prior’s mistress), Dr. Nolan’s name is
struck off the register. In the subsequent
morphine inquiry Dr. Prior gets five
years’ imprisonment.
Nolan and his partner’s wife start
afresh under an assumed name in the
U.S.A., and he eventually rises to be-
come a great specialist. Prior, now a
down-and-out. ferrets him out and tries
to blackmail his old partner into taking
William Ricciardi in “San Francisco.”
him in again. The climax is thrilling,
and is given a new and clever twist.
The inquiry before the Medical Board
is conducted with typical English
decorum, but the president’s refusal to
hear relevant evidence is not feasible.
Otto Kruger gives a natural portrayal of
the badly-treated Dr. Nolan, and Francis
Lister as a medico whose weaknesses
take him to the gutter gives sound sup-
port. Leonora Corbett brings dignity
and restraint to a difficult role. At Syd-
ney Mayfair.
“Invitation to the Waltz”
A clumsy attempt to cash in on
Weber’s composition. The story is fatu-
ous and badly acted. It concerns a
dancer (Lilian Harvey), who persuades
the Duke of Wiirtemberg to give her
palaces; he thus goes broke, enabling
perfidious Albion to get Wurtembergers,
for the war against “Boney,” at cut rates.
The duke’s stupidity is unbelievable. The
only compensating elements in the film
are the music, the magnificent settings
and one good ballet piece.
Lilian Harvey, birdlike in appearance
and with a birdlike habit of hopping
about, is unimpressive as a quasi-mistress
of a supposedly hard-boiled duke. Cari
Esmond looks handsome, but speaks
with a plum in his mouth. The whole
thing falls flatter than Australia’s athletes
did at the Olympiad. At Sydney May-
fair.
“Dracula’s Daughter”
This horror film should appeal to those
who like their marrows chilled ; it should
also be seen by taxation officials. It is a
tale of a female vampire who stalks
London at dead of night. When a luscious-
looking prospect hoves in sight, the vamp
lures him or her to her apartment and,
after putting the luckless one under hyp-
notice influence, gnaws the victim’s jugu-
lar and swills a pint or two of bright
arterial blood. The stupid superstitions
of a half-witted Central European
peasantry have been grafted on to
modern London’s radio and super air-
liners, an operation that is nothing to a
producer who is out to curdle the gore
and gooseflesh the skin. All the old
tricks have been resorted to. There are
fogbound alleys in Chelsea’s arty district,
gloomy passages, weird music and a mys-
terious-looking vampire’s offsider who
speaks in a rumble and wears what look
like a pair of Russian pyjamas.
The phantasmagoria has been well
handled, and Otto Kruger as the psychiat-
rist who tracks Dracula’s daughter down
acts with his usual competence. Gloria
Holden as the girl who likes to take her
blood neat has the staring eyes and high
cheekbones which seem to be the stand-
ardised facial attributes of those who
deal in black magic. Irving Pichel looks
sinister as the Chief Blood Urger, and
Marguerite Churchill adds a tepid heart
interest.
The vampire throughout the film
shows poor judgment in not picking, on
plethoric victims or those with high
blood pressure. But apparently vampires
are like mosquitoes and go for all and
sundry. At Sydney Capitol.
“Bunker Beau”
A harmless milk-and-water comedy
about a crusty businessman’s very meek
secretary, who, after visiting a sorceress
and being told that he is the reincarna-
tion of an ancient Gyppo king, throws
off his browbeaten air, spanks his girl
(the boss’s daughter) and starts throwing
his weight about in the business world,
eventually confounding his boss in a big
deal and compelling the old man to be-
come his pa-in-law. How a young man
can suddenly become shrewd enough to
do all this after being absurd enough
to give 500 dollars to a fortune-teller
for a spurious Egyptian mummy, and to
believe what he is told, isn’t explained.
However, there is some pleasant
comedy, mainly owing to good character
studies by Robert McWade as the short-
tempered boss and Jessie Ralph as an
aggressive grandmother. Owen Davis,
jun., competently mixes dreaminess and
action in the title role, and Louise
Latimer is charming and capable as the
reason for his transformation. At Syd-
ney Capitol.
“Speed”
One of those motor-racing affairs
where the hero (James Stewart), driving
a car of his own invention, wins fame and
the heart of a beauteous (and wealthy)
goil (Wendy Barry). Strikes some new
notes —there are no villains striving to
steal the invention, and the hero is a
youngster with an “inferiority complex"
in the proper sense of that much mis-
used term. It makes him aggressive, irri-
Spencer Tracy in “San Francisco”
table and bad - mannered. Racing
sequences are well done, and a go for
the world’s mile record is staged with
convincing completeness. After the first
mile has been covered, breaking the
record, the driver is discovered to be un-
conscious. He has to be rushed to hos-
pital. So his most hated colleague takes
him aboard and drives the huge car back
over the course (complying with the rule
that the mile must be run in reverse
direction within half an hour). He does
even better time on the second run, and
continues off the course and through the
streets to the hospital, arriving in time to
save his passenger’s life. At Sydney
Civic.
“The Garden Murder Case”
S. S. Van Dine was responsible for this
one. Edmund Lowe is Philo Vance. An
obnoxious millionaire is found mur-
dered in his library. Virginia Bruce, H
B. Walthall, Benita Hume and H. B.
Warner all had reason to do him in, and


METROPOLITAN WATER, SEWERAGE
AND DRAINAGE BOARD, SYDNEY
£1,000,000 LOAN.
INTEREST, 4i PER CENT. PRICE OF ISSUE. £99.
REPAYABLE 1951.
LOAN OPENS AUGUST 14, 1936—CLOSES SEPTEMBER 14, 1936.
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Board from whatever
source arising.
Applications to the Loan will be accepted at the Commonwealth Bank
of Australia. Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth
and Hobart or through members of a recognised Stock Exchange for
amounts of £lOO or multiples of £lOO.
INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL ARE REPAYABLE FREE OF
EXCHANGE AT ANY OF THE ABOVEMENTIONED BRANCHES
OF THE COMMONWEALTH BANK.
Prospectuses and application forms may be obtained at the Board’s
Head Office and Branches, and from Branches of the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia indicated above.
Subscriptions to the Loan may be paid in full with application or by
the following:—
Option 1.—10% with the application.
30% on October 16, 1936.
30% on November 16, 1936.
29% on December 16, 1936.
Option 2.—10% with the application.
89% up to December 16, 1936.
Stock will be inscribed or Debentures issued at the option of the
applicant.
SECURITIES ISSUED BY THE BOARD ARE A TRUSTEE INVEST-
MENT IN NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND AND TASMANIA.
Application will be made for listing the Loan on the Stock Exchanges
of Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
Commission at the rate of 5/-% will be paid on all allotments in
respect of applications lodged by members of a recognised Stock
Exchange.
The Board reserves the right to partially allot applications and to close
the Loan without notice at a prior date.
SYDNEY.
T, Haynes Upton, President.
F. J. Henry, Secretary.
more
111 ill
BIJ i
ill
I if li ll
# m. m m
'/. V/////////'
m
m
B 1
.
4
«
■
i
I
*
*.wAi
Si
m*.
»g
°v *
*
%j,
41
There only could be one reason-Quality at a
commonsense price. You’ll find proof of the
quality in the distiller’s guarantee of excep-
tional age on the back label of every bottle.
by the time this commentator left so
many other characters had become in-
volved that it appeared likely the denoue-
ment would produce Philo or the District
Attorney as the criminal. At Sydney
Civic.
Flfcf IVinrkfe
oome i irbi IMgniS
The crowd at the Myer free concert
at Melbourne Town Hall was regaled
with something probably unprecedented
in Melbourne musical history, inasmuch
was a concerto by an Adelaide com-
poser and pianist, Miriam Hyde, who
had made the trip especially to hear her
work performed and to play the solo
part. Miss Hyde’s composition gave the
impression of being a competent and
cool-headed piece of work which neither
attempted to surprise by a specious pre-
tence of originality nor made a bid for
consideration with borrowed plumes In
other words, it seemed to be a sincere
endeavor on the part of a technically
well-equipped mind to say no more than
it knew. The result was 20 lihnutes of
well-ordered and melodious music Miss
Hyde’s concerto was performed in Lon-
don in 1932, and Bernard Heinze’s
orchestra gave it its Australian premiere.
The orchestra gave one of the finest
SSTT of in C^ reer in th f Sibelius :
which lasted for 50 minutes and appeared
to contain the whole gamut of the Fin-
nish composer’s art De Falla’s suite
“Three-Cornered Hat,” received its first
performance in Melbourne and Weber’s
“Invitation to the Waltz” and Nicolai's
“Merry Wives of Windsor” overture com-
pleted the gratis bill-of-fare
. . . ’
_ ‘ v . ■
Dorothy Helmnch, the Australian
mezzo-soprano whom the A.B.C. has
been broadcasting lately, appeared before
miniature audiences at the Assembly
HaU, Melbourne, last week. Miss
Helmnch has an elevated repertoire, and
sang it in a voice of considerable
power and range, though a huski-
ne .ss attended her efforts in the
middle register. She showed a strong
dramatic sense, especially in the abusive
hymn To Life of Hubert Foss, set to
the dismally pessimistic words of Thomas
Hardy. Her musicianly attributes came
to the fore in a heavenly panel of Schu-
bert’s songs, and, as far as present com-
mentator is concerned, she could have
spent Saturday night singing “Auf dem
Wasser zu Singen” and “Nacht und
Traume” over and over again instead of
proceeding to other composers’ lays.
Richard Crooks could sing the sort of
song she sings, but she couldn’t sing some
of the songs he sings,
4. 4. 4.
SignM
concluded tb ® ir Sydney season with two
conc ® rts at . tbe Town Hall, both broad-
cas t entuety. With the Sydney Sym-
P bon y Orchestra a great deal of Mozart
™ as sung, including the duet from
. How Long in Torment Sigh-
which the voices contrasted
nicely and the band contrib uted an effec-
tive back B round - For the final concert
on Saturda Y Madame Rethberg included
m her offenn g s some of the best-known
Brahms a nd Schumann heder, and Signor
Plnza ’ for an encore ’ sang Giordani’s “O
Love of Mine ” The tremendous applause
given t 0 numbers identifiable by the
™ a J onty of the audience should not be
lost on the P eo P le who supervise A.B.C.
P r °g rammes -
Current Artbursts
„ , .. , A .
The Contemporary Group is exhibiting
at Melbourn e Athenaeum the best
“ modern ” exhibition we have had this
yea l\ Daryl Lmdsay has tackled the
P roblem of portraits with interesting re-
salts > m TI “ Danc f Resting” especially,
George Bell produces half a dozen can-
vases which cover a variety of subjects
from the orderly “Michael’s House” to an
essay in the abstract. E. Alsop’s tech-
nique impresses particularly in her draw-
ings. Rupert Bunny’s exhibits are not
all of the same standard. Of his por-
traits “Lady with the Bead Necklace” is
viewed with general approval. W. Frater
plays with atmospherics, and Arnold
Shore produces two of his boldly charac-
teristic flower studies and a large land-
scape which few people recognise as
coming from his brush. “Grandmother”
is a clever piece of work from invitee
Frances Hodgkins, and A. M. Plante’s
portraits of a boy and a small girl have
merit. Isabel Tweddle’s best picture is
“Hungaria,” lively in its color compass.
E. W. Syrae produces several small and
attractive pictures, and E. M. Spowers
shows gay little color prints. Mary Cecil
Allen’s two landscapes are in this pro-
gressive artist’s best manner. Eric Thake’s
abstractions are interesting.
“Old Spanish Bridge,” by Ambrose L.
Halien, at Anthony Horderns’ Gallery,
Sydney.
Tom Garrett’s exhibition of paintings
on view at Margaret McLean’s Gallery,
Melbourne, was of interest for the poetical
effect which the little pictures achieved
and for the unusual methods employed
by the artist. Although there were four
oils in the show, all the pictures to the
casual glance seemed to be in the same
medium. Garrett catches his impres-
sions with a sensitive eye and a cunning
palette, and the feathery foliage of his
trees is admirable suggested. Among Tas-
manian sketches was “Half-way House,”
a placid little picture which nevertheless
suggested to the imaginative spectator the
troublous years of the early colonists.
“Gipsies,” “Rain Cloud” and “The Play-
ground” also had a quaint appeal, and
“The Loo” was a satisfying achievement
of solidity and distance. Garrett’s style
is occasionally reminiscent of that of
Blamire Young.
Ernest Buckmaster exhibited some
50 pictures at the Fine Arts Gallery,
Melbourne. There was no great variety
about the show: several canvases had
the same tendency towards opaque mists
and purplish hazes, grapes figured in at
least half a dozen still-lifes and white
flowers in several more. There were also
bright, flamboyant flower-pieces depicting
marigolds, peonies and phlox painted
with a daring rather than
a subtle hand. The land-
scapes gave an impression
of color and brilliance,
and appeared as if the
artist, working at double
pressure, took a pride in
his speed. Worthy of
mention among notable
achievements of execution
were “Morning, Kallista,”
“Summer Haze,” several
scenes around the Goul-
burn River and “Morning
in June,” a small thing
with a distinct charm of
its own. There were three
portraits and “Barbara,”
a child study, done in a
sensitive and careful
manner.
S.A.’s winning centennial paintings are
now on view at Adelaide Art Gallery.
Ivor Hele gets the chief award with a
fine imagining, based on contemporary
records, of the proclamation of the pro-
vince—it claims never to have been
exactly a “colony”—when Governor
Hindmarsh landed at Glenelg on Decem-
ber 28, 1936. Sound work, though per-
haps the 50-odd figures included at close
range crowd it a bit. Max Ragless is
second with a bit of Sturt’s boat voyage
in 1830 from the Darling to the mouth
of the Murray. The boat is seen in
middle distance on a river curiously nar-
row with threatening natives on a sand-
bank within spear-length. The coloring
is pale and charming. William Rowell,
of Melbourne, comes third—and might
conceivably have come first. He treats
an exactly similar incident dramatically
as a close-up, with river and hills of a
glowing darkish blue. The show is highly
popular.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
im lv
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
COM INC to
Then wire or write for reservations at Petty's
Hotel. Petty's the oldest established ot
Sydney's Hotels, will please you. Its quiet
comfort and convenient position make for an
enjoyable holiday. Tariff: Room and Breakfast
from 11/6. Inclusive, 18/-.
SYDNEY?
PETTY'S
HOTEL York Si Sydney.
EDWARD YOUNGS-,
Manager,'
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Governor’s lady had scarcely got
her toothbrush unpacked before she had
taken up the cause of the children. Her
first official job was attending the annual
meeting of the Day Nursery Association.
This was held at North Sydney. The
Governor-General’s wife, Lady Gowrie,
was at this meeting, and added her
pleasant smile to the diplomas that she
gave to the trainees who had graduated
in day-nursery work. There was a great
rally that included Archbishop Mowll
and Mrs. Mowll, the Minister for Health,
Mayoress Parkes and the Mayor of North
Sydney. Mungo MacCallum’s lady wel-
comed the vice-regals. Three wide-eyed
little girls who presented the bouquets to
Lady Gowrie, Lady Anderson and the
MacCallum lady were in turn made
happy with a posy of violets, plucked
from her own bunch by each receiver.
In Saturday’s sunshine Lady Anderson
opened Kindergarten Week at its first
function, a fete in the grounds of the
George Julius home.
Collection Day for the Bush Book Club
netted a number of books from Queen
Mary’s own shelves, among them The
New Rector, by Stanley Weyman ; Peter
Pan in Kensington Gardens, Wonder
Book of Railways, King Arthur’s Knights
of the Round Table. There were at least
another half-dozen —all in perfect condi-
tion. Lady Gowrie and later Lady
Anderson came along to the clubrooms
in Bligh-street to give vice-regal support.
Saturday night was made memorable
to Italians in Sydney, not only by the
singing of Ezio Pinza but by the open-
ing of the Italia Club in King-street. This
drew all Italy’s magnates from Consul-
General Vita-Finzi. Minister for Agri-
culture Main and Mrs. Main were
among the notable Australians present,
and the Minister was warmly praised by
the club’s president, F. Lubrano, for his
work on behalf of Italians engaged in
agriculture. A feature of the night was
the singing by the whole company of
“Brindisi,” a song composed in honor of
Mr. Lubrano by Mr, Aldrovandi.
There was spring in the foot as well
as in the air at the dance of the Old
Sydneians. The Blaxland Galleries
vibrated to a dizzy babel of sound, the
human voice leaving off only when
baffled by the band. N. L. Cowper,
in his first year of presidency, was genial
and urbane at the official table. Mrs.
Cowper’s frock was of hyacinth-blue
satin patterned in gold. The pale gold
of daffodils, the red-gold of nasturtiums,
were heaped in standard baskets near the
table for importants. The chief decora-
tion on the board was a basket of daffo-
dils backed not with their own greeny
lances but with black lacquered leaves.
Thus were the school colors proclaimed.
Knight John Peden, the Hyam Marks
couple, the Martin Hoares and B, R.
Riley were notables. Ellis Dettmann’s
taffetas were hibiscus-red and pictur-
esquely full; Molly Storey got an
ethereal effect from poppy-emblazoned
chiffons; Joan Ritchie wore dryad
greens. Ruth Basil-Jones was arresting
in her unusual frock of bright-red
taffeta. Mrs. David Lindsay was one of
the night’s attractive. Mrs. Ewart
Allen’s laces were snowdrop white.
Turquoise velvet was worn by Mrs. R.
C. M. Boyce.
Not only bankers go to the Bankers’
Ball. The girls and boys who, by get-
ting the right answers to miles of addi-
tions every week, help the bankers to
keep their jobs go along too. The total
of £BOOO which has been dropped into
the Royal Prince Alfred coffers during
the last 16 years has been substantially
contributed by long tots and short tots.
Last week there were 1300 dancers at
the Trocadero in the same good cause.
The Acting Premier and Mrs. Bruxner,
Mayor Howie, Mayoress Parkes and
Deputy Mayor G. A. Parkes shed efful-
gence on the ball, and were in the group
entertained by the presidential H.
Buchanans. Mrs. Buchanan’s frock was
of black-and-violet shot taffeta and had
a flared fichu outlining the neckline.
The Chief Justice Jordans came, her
satin frock palely pink. Mrs. Bruxner’s
cornflower-blue net frock was flower pat-
terned. and fragrant with a shoulder
knot of pink and blue hyacinths. Dr.
Bertie Schlink, president of the hospital
board, squired the hospital’s matron, B.
Dun. The shoulder scarves of Mrs. S. M.
Norton’s lacquer-red crepe frock were
lined with pink chiffon. Committee sec-
retary S. McKenna came with Mrs.
McKenna, whose grape-blue velvet glit-
tered with diamente strappings. The
Minister for Health and Mrs. Fitzsimons
and the O’Malley Woods were others
sighted in the amiable revolution that
started at nine and ended at two.
The Mater Misericordke Hospital is
planning extensions. Among these will
be a very up-to-date maternity wing. A
committee drawn from every suburb on
the north side of the harbor is working
for the “Uncivilised” Ball, which is to be
the foundation stone of the building
fund. This will take place at the Blax-
land Galleries on August 26, and its star
turn will be the selection of screen types.
Film-producer Chauvel will attend him-
self and pick the winners. For these a
special screen test will be arranged. Mrs.
Norman Macleod is treasurer of the ball
committee. Her photo, is from Monte
Luke.
Further news of the late Mrs. Lachlan
Beaton tells that her illness was of no
more than a week’s duration. The end
came in the American hospital in Paris.
vSon Lachlan and friend Ruby Adams are
returning to Australia, bringing with
them the ashes of this brilliant and
kindly lady. The intention is to bury
them beside the grave of her husband.
After the lecture on the art of the
Netherlands by its Consul-General, Elink
Schuurman, John Lane Mullins was host
at a tea-party in the Domain kiosk. Here
were entertained the Netherlands G.-G.
and his small wife, whose navy frock
had a round-pleated collar; the presi-
dent of the Society of Artists, Syd Ure
Smith; that generous endower of art
galleries Howard Hinton, and National
Gallery head Jimmy MacDonald. John
McKelvey’s lady, very trig in deep blue,
wore white hyacinths against the neck-
line of her frock. Barbara and Hilda
Lane Mullins wore with their slim black
suits smart hats with an uplift tendency.
Mrs. Norris was in grey; cousin Mary
Hughes wore brown. The Thomas
Hughes lady was the heroine of the party.
With son Geoffrey, Mrs. Geoffrey and
the grandchildren, she is preparing for
her umpteenth visit to England and
Europe. This time she will take in the
coronation.
The whole length of one side of
Romano’s was crowded with lunchers to
the glory of Ezio Pinza last Thursday.
This was a trumpet call of the Dante
Alighieri Society, and was responded to
by Consul-General for Italy Vita-Finzi and
Mrs. Vita-Finzi and Mr. Baretta.
Ezio comes from Ravenna, the town that
was so hospitable to Dante. The basso
had an ovation when he made his speech
(in English), and a gold rush is a soli-
tude compared with the way ladies con-
verged on the handsome singer with the
wavy hair at the end of lunch.
Mrs. Vita-Finzi wore a smart little pill-
box hat with her dark-grey ensemble and
carried a great cluster of lily-of-the-
valley. The society’s president was pre-
sented with the equivalent of the letters
patent to his Italian decoration, and that
was another cause for a great handclap.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly wore a caped dress in
slate blue with smoked fox borders. Her
hat was small and mingled red and blue.
Mrs. Moran, whose doctor husband
“Paddy” is not returning from Italy till
next year, brought a party ; so did Mrs.
B. Norris and Lute Drummond. Tina
Bentivoglio was both smart and smiling.
Mrs. Ferrari Passmore put in a little quiet
propaganda for Music Week, which she
is organising. Mrs. Fiaschi wore an out-
size in white jabots.
Ezio Pinza and Elisabeth Rethberg
may repeat their arias, but Elisabeth
never repeats her dressing. Her hands
and arms continue to excite admiration ;
and at the A.B.C. symphony orchestra
concert last Wednesday her frock of
white moire won the indrawn breath of
admiration that is woman’s sincerest
applause. This frock was long-sleeved,
and was patterned with sequins at the
waistline. She wore a spray of palely-
green orchids. Pianist Eileen Joyce, pic-
torial as usual, was in the audience.
Brown is becoming the vogue for evening
wear. Three wearers of this autumnal
shade were Mrs. A. C. Godhard, the wife
of Rear-Admiral Feakes and Mrs. Guy
Blaxland. Noreen Dangar’s full-length
coat was in brown velvet. Mrs. Cleary
picked up the gold note of her metal-run
frock in a cluster of daffodils. The Alex-
ander Gordons, the Waller Swinsons, and
the whole Bainton family were present.
The Doctor very much so ; he conducted
the orchestra.
Pauline wSpencer Parsons is a young
visitor from Tasmania who has been
sampling Sydney doings under the guid-
ance of friend Clara Butter. The blonde
Clara fell ill last week, and went to hos-
pital with a troublesome appendix. Falk
made this photograph of Pauline.
Howard Hinton, a trustee of the
N.S.W. Art Gallery, is better than a fairy
godfather to the Armidale Teachers’ Col-
lege. Last week he made further gift
to this college, on which he has already
lavished a small fortune in art treasures.
This time no fewer than 54 pictures were
handed over. Among the artists repre-
sented were Lionel Lindsay, Sydney Ure
Smith, Fullwood, Streeton, Murch, Ash-
ton, McClintock, Blamire Young, Lister-
Lister, Jackson, Charles Wheeler, Frank
Mason, Douglas Fry and Arthur Burgess.
For this year’s ball the journalists sat
on the rocking wave as if in an anchored
ship, which, of course, they were. The
craft was the M.V. Duntroon, lent by
the Melbourne S.S. Co. Four nice debs,
were presented to Mayoress Parkes by
Mrs. Lance Fallaw. Mrs. Parkes’s frock
was of silver grey, long and sweeping.
Mrs. Fallaw’s black frock was starry
with sequins. Margaret Adams, who was
president of the junior committee, cele-
brated her coming-of-age, and had given
a dinner party in her home before com-
ing to the dance. Her frock of powder
blue scattered with pale-pink flowers
was one of the night’s prettiest. Lady
Poynter was president of the ball com-
mittee, and dressed her part in moss-
green velvet, orchids and lily-of-the-
valley.
Artist Dora Jarrett gave a studio
party for Milton Chick and Valerie Ley.
who have just become engaged. The invi-
tations were very Elizabethan, and showed
two hearts skewered by an arrow, the
one heart inscribed “Milton,” the other
“Valerie,” quite in the forest of Arden
manner. Art and ether filled the rooms.
Half the guests were musicians or singers
who sipped a sherry and then rushed
off to various radio stations. Some of
the contents of the studio were scribes;
the rest of the glasses were held by
artists—Albert Collins among them. Ken
Lawson introduced a touch of the
tropic North by arriving in a car loaded
with custard apples. The hostess topped
a trailing black satin skirt with a tunic,
flamingo-red scrolled on an ivory ground.
Valerie wore a long frock of sheer in
lake blue. The hat on her fair hair was
of the same tone. Her posy was snow-
drops and daffodils, fringed with violets
and tied with a grass-green ribbon.
All Sydney knew Father Piquet. Not
only the parish of St. Patrick’s on Church
Hill, where he had ministered his cure of
souls for over 50 years, but every section
of the city knew the vigorous figure, the
kindly bearded face of the French priest.
Last week to his Requiem Mass in St.
Patrick’s came literally thousands of his
friends. Over 2000 people filed past the
coffin paying their last respects before
the Mass started, and between the church
and the waiting hearse in Lang-street
there were crowded between four and five
thousand, many of them weeping openly.
Father Piquet was the last of three French
Marist priests who had come to St. Pat-
rick’s in the ’eighties. The others were
Father Le Renetel and Father Ginisty.
They were known as “the shamrock of
St. Patrick’s.”
The death last week after a short
illness of Mrs. Julian Simpson, who was
Janet Knox, caused wide regret. Mrs.
Simpson was one of Sydney’s well-
knowns. She was the youngest daughter
of the late Edward Knox. Julian Simp-
son is a son of Mrs. Ashburton Thomp-
son and a grandson of the late George
Simpson, knight, of Darling Point.
As bait to catch recruits the ball of
the United Services held far more allure
than any of Parkhill’s posters. There was
something George - and - the - Dragonish
about the lances, with their vivid red and
white pennants, that stood tall and slim
around the pillars of the ballroom. Then
there were the pretty uniforms: scarlet,
blue and gold. A dash of Vienna (or
was it Brussels before Waterloo?) was
mixed in by the opening waltz played by
the band of the Royal Australian Artil-
lery. Altogether it was a satisfactory
night, to which the presence of Admiral
Lane-Poole and his lady was an added
gaud.
Admiral and Mrs. Feakes were two of
the night’s striking figures. Her graceful
length was clothed in bronze satin.
Deputy-president Colonel Spain and Mrs.
Spain and the Brigadier Mills couple re-
ceived the guests. Mrs. J. L. Hardie, who
came with her Brigadier, wore ivory
brocaded satin sashed with pink and blue
taffeta. Mayor Howie and Mayoress
George A. Parkes came to the party. Her
frock was long and black, her cape of
Parma violet. Mauve hyacinth wreathed
Mrs. H. Boyle’s dark hair. Green and
gold were in Mrs. David Lindsay’s frock.


FEE ‘RUN - DOWN?
(jet Nerve-racking Headaches? Eyes bloodshot? Can’t
sleep? Unable, to work? Feel depressed, weak and
Irritable? That's bad! Take CREAM OF YEAST.
That’s good! Makes you feel better and brighter in
a few minutes. Picks you up. Calms the nerves.
Reduces that health-destroying craving for too many
cigarettes. Thousands take and praise Cream of Yeast
—try it in your own case. Better to spend 1/11 now
than pounds later . . . Chemists and stores everywhere
sell Cream of Yeast. If you wish to, you can feel
better in a few minutes. / t’s up to you ! Cream of
Yeast gives Pep!
reaiiwYfs:st
hH
93
&
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying anil
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
- Bankers: The Union.
Personal and Missing Friends.
FELICE (OR PHYLLIS) MABEL JUST, last
heard of at Maroubra about June, 1932 (now
believed to be married), or anyone knowing
her whereabouts, is requested to communicate
immediately with her brother, Leslie Just, c/o
Macnish, Macrossan and Dowling, Solicitors,
pr,vvv,r,« i s dead and his estate is
being administered.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Public Notices.
TO JOHN DUNN, HUSBAND OF
VICTORIA MAY DUNN, WHO DIED
INTESTATE AT GREYTOWN, IN NEW
ZEALAND, ON THE 16TH DAY OF
AUGUST, 1930, AND TO ALL PERSONS
CLAIMING BY, THROUGH OR UNDER
HIM.
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send to me on or before
the 30th day of September, 1936, your claims
to share in the estate of the abovenamed
Victoria May Dunn, failing which such estate
will be distributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 27th day of
July, 1936.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO ARTHUR PERCIVAL STAGE, SON
OF ALBERT STAGE, WHO DIED AT
WELLINGTON, IN NEW ZEALAND, ON
THE 28TH DAY OF JANUARY, 1934,
AND TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY,
THROUGH OR UNDER HIM.
PURSUANT to an ORDER made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you arc
hereby called upon to send to me on or before
the Ist day of November, 1936, your claims
to share in the estate of the abovenamed Albert
Stace, failing which such estate will be dis-
tributed disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 27th day of July,
1936.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
The speediest thing about the Automo-
bile Club’s tenth annual ball was the
dancing of Marie and Austin. There
was no need for speed cops at Wattle
Path that night; not a summons was
issued, no couples parked on the wrong
spot or crossed the floor against the
traffic lights. It was a paragon of
orderly parties. The Lord Mayor and his
lady came early and danced until 1 a.m.
President J. M. Ramsay and his wife were
there ; also the chairman, E. H. Young,
who, when paper caps came on the scene,
put himself under a Turkish fez. Bearded
B. S. B. Cook made secretarial adjust-
ments in a parrot-green jockey cap.
Noticed among the dancers was smooth-
stepping Peggy Shiels in a slinky robe
of navy-blue satin.
A really piratical party was the Adver-
tising Arts Ball in the Palais. Drinks were
free, and the bar was like the scrimmage
of a sheep dip, the “sheep” pushing their
way towards the counter. Thence if they
were lucky they emerged with as many
glasses as their two hands could carry ;
but getting out was as slow as getting in,
and the man who came through with his
rations unspilled was indeed lucky. Canny
lads posted guards at their tables, for
late in the evening roaming marauders,
having run through their own caches,
calmly pocketed other people’s bottles.
.Some consolation for the fuzzy heads of
the following day was the thought that
the thousand-odd who paid for admission
had done their bit towards the funds of
Queen Victoria Hospital.
A hale and hearty 50 was Group-
Captain Harrison last week, when his
wife gave him a semi-surprise birthday
party. He is receiving a double lot of
congratulations, for this month he cele-
brates another jubilee—2s years a pilot.
A cake is part of every real birthday
party, but Group-Captain Harrison
doesn’t like cake, so it was a cheese which
had pride of place among the cocktails
and savories. Decorated by daughter
Greta, its round red surface was painted
with a map of the world, a miniature
’plane hovering over the North Pole.
Among guests were Wing-Commander
and Mrs. Brownell, back only 10 days
when they received notification of their
transfer to N. S. Wales. They and their
two small daughters spent two and a
half years in England, where Wing-Com-
mander Brownell did exchange duty, the
other end of the exchange being
Squadron-Leader Banting, who left Mel-
bourne a few months ago. Flight-Lieut.
and Mrs. Don Carroll were there—
they’re the proud parents of twin baby
daughters—and the Basil Murphys were
also guests. Mrs. Murphy, who orna-
mented her brown felt hat with a black-
eyed, perky-eared sable, is preparing for
yet another aerial trip to the north and
west of the continent. She has the wing-
ing instincts of the family. Her husband
has not yet been aloft.
Among other Air Force people present
were Squadron-Leader and Mrs. Hempel.
He’s been back only three weeks from
another tropical journey by flying boat
and Qantas up as far as the Malay
Peninsula. Owing to the cheapness of
labor, landing grounds in that part of
the world are particularly fine. At
Penang the ground (a cleared and built-
up rubber plantation) is constructed to
cope with a rainfall of three inches per
hour, and it’s never bogged.
It was a very merry party which the
Harold Cohens gave for Dr. and Mrs.
W. D. Falk. Three years ago their
daughter Barbara, having acquired a
Master of Arts degree, went off for more
study to Oxford. Fler marriage took
place last June, and now, plus her clever
husband, she is in Melbourne on a six
weeks’ visit. Dr. Falk is German. He’s
a Doctor of Philosophy, for which hall-
mark of learning his wife intends to
qualify when the couple return to
Oxford. They came to Australia via the
U.S.A., and preferred the Pacific crossing
on the Aorangi to the Atlantic on the
ostentatious Queen Mary.
The party at Tudor Court was pri-
marily talking and dancing, but a bunch
of keen contract players sought out the
cardrooms, where they pursued their
favorite hobby all unheeding of the
merriment of the ballroom. Supper and
bar were buffet, and there were no
speeches. Mrs. Montie Cohen, obvi-
ously proud of her clever granddaughter,
wore black ornamented with hand-
painted flowers. Mrs. Harold Cohen was
also in black, her gown being faintly glit-
tery with a thin silver stripe, and Mrs.
Loris Pirani was yet another advocate
for the midnight hue. Mrs. Falk, who
chose purple-grape matelasse, does her
hair in the same brush-back shingle which
she liked when she left Melbourne. Mrs.
Gerald Ormiston’s black lace gown broke
into blush-pink lace at the neck,, whence
it flew backwards into a long scarf.
Among the guests were the Jack Wilt-
shire couple. Mrs. Wiltshire, known on
the other side of the footlights as Enid
Hollins, has just returned from several
months’ touring with a J.C.W. co. Her
engagement was the outcome of her act-
ing in “The Millionairess.”
This evening at Mrs. F. K. Thomas’s
home in Lansell-road there will be a
bridge party for the Boroondara Free
Kindergarten. In the Dickinson-Mon-
teath photo, is Gwen Thomas, secretary
of the kindergarten committee and secre-
tary-treasurer of the newly-formed
social auxiliary. Mrs. Thomas shares
her daughter’s enthusiasm, and is presi-
dent of the Boroondara committee. A
large percentage of the rest of her social-
service interests is expended on the Air
Force Officers’ Wives and Mothers’ Asso-
tion. Her son is Flight-Lieut. Fred
Thomas.
Mrs. Frank Andrew had a new experi-
ence last week when she took the chair
at the Society of Prevention of Cruelty
to Children’s annual meeting in the
Town Hall Council Chamber. As presi-
dent she has accomplished a great deal
for the movement. The office of chair-
man gave her some anxious moments,
but sincerity conquered nervousness. The
meeting was a success, and has created
public interest.
Lady Huntingfield in her speech echoed
the sentiments of Dr. Dale (and many
other people) by saying that, if people
did as much for one another as some
folk do for dogs, homo sapiens would be
a much more amiable fellow. Among
others present who have either given
practical help in the past or have made
resolutions for the future were Mrs. R. H.
Wilkins, Harry Gullett’s lady, Miss Bulli-
yant, Dr. W. Kemp, Jessie Brookes, who
is studying for a social-service diploma,
and Mrs. L. J. Clendinnen, in a stone-
grey coat collared with Arctic fox.
On the credit side of the S.P.C.C.’s
balance sheet is £lO4 for “The Door
Opens,” a play written by the president
which was produced last year at the Gar-
rick. Mrs. Andrew has literary talent,
and is the author of several sketches,
stories and short plays for both adults
and children. It is her dream that some
day the S.P.C.C. will be able to afford
a home for some of its distressed cases.
Last year it fought battles for 488
neglected children who struggled for
existence in an atmosphere of dirt, dis-
order and disease.
There was no official opening of the
Contemporary Group’s exhibition, but
masses of people visited the Athenreum
on the first afternoon. Lady Hunting-
field and Mrs. Pott dropped in informally
and looked at the pictures with great in-
terest. Glimpses were caught of the
Daryl Lindsays, the George Bells, Mrs.
Tweddle and daughter Betty and
elder daughter Mrs. Jim McKay —wear-
ing a fur cape and a polka-dotted
veil on her black hat. Claire, Sue and
Joyce Hammond were there to see Mrs.
Tweddle’s portrait of Joyce, and Mrs.
R. D. Elliott was present also to view
herself on the wall as depicted by the
colorful brush of W. Frater.
Among others who are often seen at
private views were Mrs. Bernard Hall,
Mrs. H. F. Maudsley, Margaret Fan-
court, who warmed her shoulders with
furs, and Elizabeth Dutton Green, in
tweeds. John Longstaff was there ; he is
to have his first Melbourne show (after
15 years here) at the Fine Arts Gallery
in September. Among others noticed
were Molly Simpson and Barbara Lyon
and Harold Holt, M.H.R.
Mary Cecil Allen displayed two can-
vases ; one, a landscape, is among the best
pictures she has done. Mary has gone
back to the U.S.A. on a cargo ship which
carries only two other passengers, who
speak Spanish more fluently than English.
A true tale (guaranteed) of her adventures
in Central Australia came to town last
week. Mary had been painting at Simp-
son’s Gap, a 600 ft. precipice about 18
miles from Alice Springs. Some of the
outbackers were drinking beer at the
Alice. Said one of them, “I saw that
painter woman with the high heels out
painting Simpson’s.” “Now that’s nice
of her,” ruminated another tobacco-
chewing stalwart; “but how did she
manage to put up the scaffolding?”
Gretchen, only daughter of Mrs. R.
W. Hardey, of Perth, and Bill, only son
of the William Anketells, of East Mal-
vern, were married last week at Christ
Church. Particularly suited to the tall
bride were her draperies of sari inspira-
tion, tulle veil folded under the chin and
scarf swathed across the shoulders, which
descended into a long train. ’Groom’s
sister Dorothy and a ’maid from N.S.W.,
Maisie Vile, wore orchid-tinted frocks
of pleated tulle over satin, and tulle veils
drifted from their floral wreaths. After
the ceremony there was a reception at
Grosvenor, where champagne corks
popped until long after midnight. After
the late dinner had been consumed tables
were moved aside, for young folk easily
predominated among the guests, and a
dance band was on the spot with an
inexhaustible repertoire to dip into. The
newly-wedded Mr. and Mrs. Anketell
motored to Sydney for their honeymoon.
Afterwards they will live in Melbourne.
Wearing the halo hat with the feather
chou is Mrs. Morris Sallmann, who re-
cenliy returned with her husband from
a holiday in Colombo. A schoolgirl
daughter and a younger schoolboy son
were waiting on Station Pier to welcome
their parents home and to hear all about
the romantic island of ebony, ivory, rick-
shaws and (for Tony) jungles full of
tigers and elephants. Broothorn photo.
Further impetus towards a proposed
Women’s College was given by Freda
Bage, who for the last 20 years has been
principal of the Women’s College in
Brisbane. The visitor’s address was given
to the Centenary Club, to which she was
introduced by Mrs. T. J. Ryan. Queens-
land’s Women’s College celebrated its
twenty-first birthday last year with 30
students in residence. It is hoped that
the Melbourne institution will eventually
accommodate 50, but the committee will
be satisfied with a small beginning and
room for 20 students. Miss Bage has
many friends of her girlhood to see here,
for before undertaking her northern job
she took a science degree in Melbourne.
Conspiracies are already being hatched
for the Journalists’ Ball, to be the biggest
party inkspillers have ever had, for the
Palais has been booked for an early date
in October. One young woman who
always won a prize for her sense of
comedy (one year she went as a wrestler,
with muscles) has already gone off to
England to lie in wait for the coronation,
but another who will sail early next year
to fight for her place in the Mall has
risen to the occasion. She’s to play the
mayoress in a mayoral ball debutantes'
set. Black sequins and padding in the
right place are part of her warpaint, and
her own particular optimism a useful
stock-in-trade for success.
It was the Dramatists’ Club, not the
Little Theatre folk, which supported
Brett Randall’s production at St, Chad’s
of “Sir Charles the First,” a three-act
comedy by a local lad, John Ormiston
Reid. It’s not so much that there’s a
prejudice against Australian plays and
books, but the public is wary; it’s been
bitten so many times by the boredom of
home-grown pseudo-geniuses. But “Sir
Charles” has merit, and raised plenty of
laughs during its four nights’ season. It
was among the final five entries in the
Thring £250 competition.
Probably the only person in the
Comedy audience on Saturday night who
had read Don Quixote in the original
Spanish was Mrs. Gras-y-Fort. Even her
daughter Sarita, who was escorted by her
fiance Dr. John O’Sullivan, had to admit
that she had never perused the classic
of Cervantes. Mrs. Gras-y-Fort and
Sarita found the film took them right
back to their own country. The wind-
mill especially reminded them of a similar
mill not far from Madrid.
The impossible has happened. Mel-
bourne Tramways Board has promised to
run trams on Sunday mornings. The
board is not happy about its concession ;
it doesn’t see why the general public
should want to get about on Sabbath
forenoons. For church people there
is one church train and a little over-
crowded bus which chugs about at in-
frequent intervals. The board waves a
red flag at the optimists who think they
will be getting out and about from
October 4. If the half-hourly services
are not well patronised back go the
trams into their barns.
The Edmund Kurtz couple have sailed
for the U.S.A., where Edmund intends
to join one of his brothers, Efrem, who
conducted orchestras some years ago in
Australia, and who has recently been
conductor for the Monte Carlo Russian
Ballet, due here in October. Edmund
Kurtz, a member of the Spivakovsky-
Kurtz trio and a teacher of the ’cello
at the Conservatorium, will be a loss to
musical Melbourne. His wife, who until
a few weeks ago was Barbara Bellair, will
miss all her young friends, but is looking
forward to the career which America has
to offer her husband.


HIGH SPEED
FILLING
Two half-turns only required!
r T'HIS is quite the simplest and quickest way
in the world of filling a fountain pen. See
for yourself just how easy it is, try writing with
one, at any good Stationers or Jewellers.
Prices. —The Leverless (‘ Quick-fill ’) Swan from
21/-. The Visofil (‘Big-fill ’) Swan 32/6. Ladies'
Size, 27/6. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. F/ne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE LEVERLESS
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
► ALWAYS USE SWAN' INK
f
i
A. 2.36
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
OUFFNSI AND
TO WILLIAM DUNCAN ' McGILVRAY
formerly of Brisbane but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane No. 348 of 1936
by Edith May McGilvray your wife in which
she claims a dissolution of her marriage with
you and by her petition filed herein alleges
that on the nineteenth day of May 1931 you
without cause deserted her and have continu-
ously so deserted her for five years and up-
wards to the present time and it has been
ordered that service of the writ of summons
and petition upon you be effected by publish-
ing this notice once each in the “Courier Mail”
the Townsville “Daily Bulletin” and the Sydney
Bulletin published at Brisbane and Townsville
in the State of Queensland and Sydney in the
State of New South Wales respectively and by
filing a copy of this notice and sticking same
up in the Registry of the said Court for
twenty-one days and by delivering a copy of
the said writ and petition to Mr. J. J. O’Connor
Solicitor Brisbane in the said State.
If you desire to defend this action you must
within forty-six days from the doing of the
last act as aforesaid enter an appearance at
the said Registry and in default of such
appearance judgment may be given against you.
DATED at Brisbane this eleventh day of
August, 1936.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
O’SHEA, O’SHEA, CORSER & WADLEY,
Solicitors, Bank of New South Wales Chambers,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
7FAI AND
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
No. 4817.
In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE HORACE WELSFORD
formerly of Wellington in the Dominion of
New Zealand, Leadlight Artist.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MAUD
EMILY WELSFORD has filed a petition for
divorce against you in this Court on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards and
that unless you enter an appearance and file
the answer in the said Court at Wellington
within 45 days of the publication of this
advertisement the said petition will be heard
and determined in your absence. A Copy of
the citation and petition will be supplied to
you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
DATED at Wellington this 7th day of
August, 1936.
C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
ERNEST GORDON WEBB is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service
is at the offices of Messrs. Kent and Webb,
Solicitors, 109 Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Pay by
CHEaVE !
Payment by Cheque obviously has many advantages. It
eliminates the necessity for, and worry of, keeping
large sums of money in the home and prevents loss by
fire, theft, or when travelling to and from the City or
other places. Then again, a cheque and its butt may
act as a receipt and provide a sure safeguard and
protection should the formal receipt be lost or mislaid.
BANK
udilo&Ji/z <JjsruiecL
Branches Throughout Australia
s/la/se
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Parliament opened with a flourish of
trumpets, a colorful background of uni-
forms and decorations, and a throng of
spectators on the floor of the House and
in the galleries. Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell and
his lady, she with a brown musquash fur
coat over trim black roubaix, drank post-
ceremonial tea with knight John Kirwan
in the President’s room, where Iceland
poppies abounded. Speaker Panton, with
his other half’s braided navy ensemble
alongside, put on an aftermath in his
French marigold-decked room, and the
hundreds of other guests sipped their
beverages in the corridors of both
Houses.
Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, the newest femi-
nine recruit to Parliamentary ranks,
took her seat in a navy suit with a gold
rose blooming on her matching hat. Most
of the fair sex came along in dark wintry
clothes, but some of them brightened the
picture with their headgear. Mrs. Vernon
Hamersley topped her black tailleur with
violet velour, the Kingsmill lady swept
a burgundy feather round her black fur
felt, a white quill was rampant on Mrs.
A. McDonald’s black headpiece and Mrs.
J. L. Walker’s raspberry outfit struck a
cheerful note.
The Flying Doctor fund was given a
substantial lift by the Bankers’ Ball.
Hundreds of dancers and onlookers
trekked to G.H. ballroom. For the frocks
colors ousted black by ten to one. Mrs.
Cecil Rose wove a silver design on her
blush-pink satins, Sylvia Hodgson’s apple-
green georgettes were sunray-pleated and
Naomi Chappie showered hailstones on
her blue chiffon. Sheila McClintock’s
moire taffetas gave a dawn-sky effect,
Betty Sudlow combined lipstick velvet
and net, and Mrs. A. W. Joseph pinned
Parma violets on her silver-threaded ivory
brocade.
On her marriage, Betty, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Viveash, of
Northam, who has announced her en-
gagement to Peter Russell, will abandon
her promising career as a breeder of
horses. Starting with a few fine geegees
given her by her father, the owner of
Katrine Stud, Betty has bred an enviable
string of thoroughbreds in the course of
a few years. She prepares the animals
for the show-ring, and gives preliminary
training to those destined for racing
stables.
The Kennel Club dance at the Embassy
was a cheery affair. President B. R.
Adam escorted his lady, whose fuchsia-
ribbed taffetas were touched with gold
lame. Mrs. S. F. Benporath sprinkled her
black velvet with diamente, Blossom Piz
ran silver stripes down her cornflower-
blue georgettes, Mrs. C. H. Turvey’s black
velvet was wrought with gold, Mrs. M.
H. Butler’s turquoise cloque glittered
with silver and Doreen Wiggins draped
black lace on taffeta.
Jean Smith did a round of parties be-
fore setting sail for England, where she
will marry Eric Greenwood. Her sister,
Mrs. Keith Hodge, poured cocktails for
70 at her home in Peppermint Grove.
Dehlia McKenzie, slim and trim in a
leaf-green ensemble, brewed a pot of
tea at the Palace Hotel, where the guest
of honor appeared in grey-and-blue-
flecked tweeds. Dorothy Temperley was
another who shook sundown cocktails,
and there was a communal dinner at the
Adelphi in Jean’s honor, with post-pran-
dial dancing at Karrinyup Country Club.
Sylvia Cox, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. R. J. Cox, of West Perth, celebrated
her coming-of-age at a dance given by
her parents in the Karrakatta Club. The
hostess flung a brown net cape over her
goldy-brown cellophane crepes, and
Sylvia held a pink-and-blue posy against
changeant-blue taffetas.
A brace of engagements with roots in
the south-west has been announced.
Gwen Brazier, youngest daughter of Col.
and Mrs. Brazier, of Capeldene, Kirup,
is to wed John Berkeley Fitzhardinge, of
Perth, and Gerald Vaughan Parkes, scion
of the A. V. Parkeses, of Bunbury, has
won the hand of Patience Egerton-War-
burton, elder daughter of the Phillip
Egerton-Warburtons, of South Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Governor and Lady Dugan made
their first appearance at a race meeting
since the death of King George when
they attended the Gawler point-to-point.
They brought Mrs. Haselden with them,
and were received by Mrs. E. A. Brooks,
wife of the president of the Hunt Club,
and Mrs. Ernest Luxmoore, wife of the
Master. Lady Dugan wore a silver-
grey tailored suit with a grey
black-and-white-check scarf and a black
pleated cellophane hat caught with a bril-
liant bar. Mrs. Haselden was in black
wool de Chine and sported one of the
new shovel-shaped hats banded at the
back. Mrs. Brooks chose a fawn flecked
tweed coat, and Mrs. Luxmoore’s en-
semble was brown. Mrs. Barnett also
favored a brown suit and hat. Mrs. P.
Teesdale Smith chose delphinium-blue
flecked tweed, with hat to match. Her
young daughter, Mary, was the winner
of the women’s point-to-point steeple-
chase.
Mr. and Mrs. Albert S. Conrad enter-
tained friends at their home, East-terrace,
as a farewell to Mr. and Mrs. H. M.
Wolcott. Mr. Wolcott, who has been
U.S.A. Consul in Adelaide, has been
appointed to his country’s Consulate-
General in London.
For the University Ball the refectory
was decked with almond and prunus
boughs mixed with mimosa. Supper was
served in the Lady Symon Hall, the table
arranged with pale-pink sweet-peas and
irises. The young president of the Union,
M. F. Bonnin, and his pretty sister Wini-
fred received the guests, she in bottle-
green chiffon velvet. Mrs. Macbeth
sported moss-green chiffon, Dr. Helen
Mayo chose black lace and Mrs. Penny-
cuick’s black romaine costume had a
Renaissance jewelled belt and a black
chiffon velvet cape.
The Centennial Hall at Wayville was
the scene of the Toe H Ball, and large
as the committee was it groaned at the
idea of having to decorate such a vast
place. But hundreds of motor-cars
arrived laden with almond-blossom,
prunus and flowering peach, and in half
a day the hall was converted into a floral
bower. Fir-trees, real ones, in pots
thickly spangled in green, were arranged
along the back of the stage with a hedge
of white and pale-pink blossom in front.
The entrance hall was massed with
flowers, and the v.-r. box was enclosed
with high standing bowls of white and
pink blossom.
The Governor and Lady Dugan were
received by Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Wood
and Dudley Matthews. Lady Dugan was
smartly gowned in black chiffon velvet,
cut on long lines. Mrs. Haselden’s long
black ring velvet coat was fastened at the
neck with large black and silver flowers.
Janet Winser was in the party, frocked in
white taffeta. A most striking toilette was
a silver-sequinned gown which fitted Mrs.
Hew O’Halloran’s slim figure like a glove.
Mrs. R, K. Wood chose a soft black
satin flowered in white, and Mrs. Walter
Kidman looked attractive in mist-blue
satin with a diagonal stripe of silver
thread.
At 10 p.m. the Toe H members
appeared in a burlesque, “Mr. and
Mrs. Is the Name” from the film “Flir-
tation Walk.” Eighteen young men as
brides correctly turned out in white satin
and tulle veils, and their partners in dress
clothes and crush hats, contributed a
dance. The bridesmaids, who wore long
black tulle skirts and short black silk
bodices showed their skill as ballerinas.
Dudley Matthews, as the mother of the
brides, was gowned in scarlet satin with
a long train and a scarlet hat and veil,
and led a tiny Cupid.
TASMANIA.
The University Ball, having developed
too long an invitation list to be crowded
into collegiate premises, was held at the
Continental, the social committee in-
cluding Ruth Clemes, J. D. Bushby and
Peter Wood. In the official party were
Hobart’s Mayor and Mayoress, Uni.
Chancellor Stops and his wife, Vice-
Chancellor Morris Miller and Mrs.
Miller, Prof, and Mrs. Shatwell, Dr. and
Mrs. Arundel Orchard, Canon and Mrs.
Barrett and Registrar Preshaw and Mrs.
Preshaw. Spring flowers and immense
clusters of balloons decorated.
The Premier and Mrs. Ogilvie headed
the official party at the Convent Ball in
the Franklin Town Hall. An Oriental
scheme of decoration made a very effec-
tive background to the large throng of
dancers. Seven young “apple blossoms”
from the Huon district made their bow
to the Ogilvies. They were Phyllis
Hohne, Valerie Beech, Barbara Norris,
Zoe Page, Mary Latham, Sadie Barry
and Ruth Norris.
Rosny Golf Club associates had a good
opening day. Florence Gatehouse quali-
fied as senior associate for the fourth
year in succession, and Mrs. Fred House
and Misses K. Moore, H. B. Shaw and
W. Oliver were also trophy-winners.
Betty Pringle and Mae Davidson fare-
welled Gordon Gibson and Warwick
Ramsden, both leaving Hobart to take
up work in Launceston and in Mel-
bourne, at a gay dinner at Hadley’s,
going on to the Imperial to dance after-
wards.
The Apex Club burst into histrionics
at the National Theatre, Launceston,
when “The Middle Watch” was pro-
duced by Derham Green, and ran for
three nights to good houses. Among the
women players were Christine McElwee,
Cherry Gregory, Valerie Briggs, Marcia
Vranisan and Marjorie Finlay. Dress-
ing and staging were both above the
average.
Rona May, daughter of the Syd
Murphys, Launceston, and J. H. Doug-
las-Royle, of Moss Side, Frankfort, were
married at St. Paul’s, Launceston, the
bride wearing a gown of heavy white
satin, the tulle veil falling to make a
train.
Tourists revisiting Hobart this coming
summer will miss Mrs. Alice Tagg, the
old lady of the Homestead tea gardens,
beyond Ridgeway, who has gone to rest
at the eightieth milestone. The garden.
and Mrs. Tagg in it, had an old-world
charm that delighted everyone.
Bessie Massey, leaving the Education
Department after 28 years’ service in
care of school-children’s health, was pre-
sented with a blackwood stick and a clock
at the Wellington State school, Launces-
ton. Other schools also made recogni-
tion of her services.
An engagement of interest is that of
the Attorney-General, E. H. Ogilvie,
brother of the Premier, to Lucy Coghlan,
of Melbourne.


w
The
“Bonser”
Stockwhip
Made Qf hand-plaited Kangaroo Hide, 8-
btraud, Bft. long. The handle is 8-plait
and steel-lined to give strength. A fine
stockwhip for hard work.
Price 217-
Boy’s Size, 6ft. . . 18/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
lIMITCn insurance
UR! I CU COMPANYLTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager,
Patents.
PARASITICIDES AND INSECTICIDES
AND METHOD OF MAKING THE SAME.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 14315/33 is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN TRUSSES.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 24379/25 is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
2C
a:
u
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “ BABY GRAND ” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send jor Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Kuyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mullard Radio Valves.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
This year’s Queensland Royal Show is
bigger than last year’s. There are more
beef cattle (216), and some dairy-cattle
classes now rank among the largest in the
world —244 lllawarras, 242 Jerseys, 97
Ayrshires and 29 Friesians, or 612 in all.
Pig entries prove how much hog-farming
has progressed in the last few years;
they number 366, and a new pavilion
has been built to allow the future exhibi-
tion of 800. Horses are a record —1662,
against 1500 last year. The showground
has been expanded into Alexander Park,
there are a new wool court and sheep
pavilion, new roads and other improve-
ments costing £17,000. And the district
exhibits are said to be the best yet.
V *i* 'i*
“H.E.M.”: King Billy of the Warra-
mungas must be the world’s most for-
giving monarch. When his tribal lands
near the Tennant appeared worthless, the
Commonwealth Government declared
them an abo. reserve. As soon as gold
was discovered on them, the abo. was
dispossessed. Uncle Sam does things dif-
ferently. When oil was discovered in
Oklahoma, wells on Indian reserves were
managed in trust for the Indians, and
many of them became wealthy.
“Vic”: Sir Leslie Wilson is to have
a second term as Queensland Governor.
It will make him almost Australian. He
spent five years in N. S. Wales as aide
to bluff old Harry Rawson and married
a Sydney girl—daughter of Charles
Smith, of Goderich. Also, his son is on
the land in Queensland.
* * -t *
“J.W.”: Time was, after Big Bill Mc-
Cormack publicly renounced the wig as
the appanage of Speakership, that our
notables came to openings of Queensland
Parliament wearing their gauds with the
shamefaced air of men who had left
their trousers at home. Now contact by
our leaders with the gilded panoply of
Britain has done much to restore ancient
pomp and ceremony. The Governor
turned up at the opening last week in the
dress of a Privy Councillor. The Judges
were there in scarlet and ermine. The
mounted police in blue and silver formed
a bodyguard. There was the military
guard of honor common to such cere-
monies—26th Battalion and the sth Field
Artillery with 18-pounders ; then Messrs.
Pollock, Hynes and Pease were revealed
as a commission to reswear members. I
secretly hoped that they would wear
knee-breeches, but they didn’t.
* * * *
“Zedo”; The main gift which the
Commonwealth Ministry handed out
during its visit to Brisbane was a seven-
storey P. 0., which will cost a couple of
hundred thousand and have plenty of
Italian Renaissance pillars stuck along
the front of it. It is unlikely that the
State Government will let the challenge
pass. It has, of course, a few blocks of
palaces under way and more contem-
plated. Already, the Anzac Square pro-
ject is raising its head again. Our Lord
Mayor—his council is spending £359,000
of loan money on our environs during
the year—says there is no hope of financ-
ing the scheme in 1936-37 ; but there is
plenty of time. Mr. Lyons has told us
that Queensland has “immense resources
of strength,” which should encourage
that timid borrower Forgan Smith to
ask the Loan Council for a few extra
millions.
“Kaloa”: The latest man to get the
Mandate’s police V.C.—the Valor Badge
for conspicuous bravery—is Lance-
Corporal Maigugu, who was at Boram
plantation (N. 8.) when a local lad
polished off an enemy with an axe.
Maigugu, with four other police, was
served with five rounds of ball and told
to get the culprit, alive and unhurt if
possible. The lance-corp. was alone when
he met the enemy, who was purposefully
swinging the axe. In the subsequent
debate Maigugu took the cartridge out
of his carbine and tried to reason with
his man, who promptly made a pass
with the Kelly. Maigugu parried the first
attack, but a second badly gashed his
wrist. The pair then had an axe v. rifle-
butt duel. Eventually the murderer ran
away. He was stopped with a bullet in his
right arm, whereupon Maigugu knocked
the axe out of his hand with the rifle-
butt, closed with him and (as (he
report laconically concludes) “stood
on his neck.” The official statement
says that, had it not been that the rifle-
butt parry deflected the axe. Maigugu
would be without an arm.
* * * :1c
“Innamincka”: How about somebody
who deals with these things having a
look at coast fescue as an anti-sandhill
grass? It grows prol ideally on the
Australian and M.L. coasts. Ignorant
"Cripes, mu, come an' 'ave a look at this one!"
people mistake it for oats or wheat, and
I should imagine that in the inland, not
too far from the salt lakes above
Twenty-eight, it would do well. It isn’t
much of a fodder plant, but neither is
sand.
“Buderim”: About the oldest living
thing in Australia—apart from some of
our political cliches—is the cycad-tree
which has just been discovered at
Mapleton, on the Blackall Range, about
60 miles north of Brisbane. It is some-
where between 10,000 and 15,000 years
old. The cycads are a palm related to
the sago-palm. There used to be a
famous one (“Father Peter”) on Tam-
borine Mountain, but the usual vandal
heard about it and sharpened his axe.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Sir Leslie Wilson has made troops of
friends who are delighted that he
is to be with us for another five
years. Lady Wilson, Australian-born, is
equally well-liked, and Marjorie Wilson
has many friends among the Younger Set.
Peter, on the land in the south-west, looks
like becoming a permanent Queens-
lander.
Members of the C.W.A. Younger Sets
are in the throes of an Educational Week
—an innovation in Australia. About
200 girls seem to be combining business
and pleasure very successfully. Mrs.
Edward Farmer, president of the
Southern Division, C.W.A., imported the
idea from M.L. The Lord Mayor gave
the girls a civic welcome, and there were
talks on the proper method of conduct-
ing a meeting and demonstrations on hdw
to choose crockery and linen for the
home, a visit to the museum and a talk
on arts and crafts.
The R. C. Philps gave a pleasant dance
at Coorabel, which overlooks the river,
for daughters Betty and Audrey. There
were deep-red roses in the hall, sweet-
peas and gerberas in the dining-room and
festoons of gay Chinese lanterns on the
verandahs where the young things
danced. Betty wore pale-green lace over
taffetas, a la Elizabeth, and Audrey was
in brick-red girdled with gold.
Molly McPherson, daughter of the D.
McPhersons, of Laidley, and Dr. John
Owen Walsh, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
F. W. Walsh, of Brisbane, are the latest
ret ruits to the ranks of the newly-
engaged.
Another engagement is that of Nell
Haymen, daughter of the M. G. Haymens,
of the Q. N. Bank, to Captain T. P.
Honnor, who was once A.D.C. to our
Sir Leslie. Nell does a lot of work for
the District Nursing Association and the
Younger Set Committee. A sister mar-
ried one of Queensland’s early Rhodes
scholars. Dr. A. S. Roe, and a brother
was one of the first half-dozen Queens-
landers killed at Anzac.
When this sees print, Enid Morgan
Jones will have become Bishop Dixon’s
lady. The wedding was celebrated
quietly at the chapel at Bishopsbourne
on Saturday morning, Aug. 15? Enid’s
father once looked after the spiritual
needs of Clayfield. She was a war nurse
with a fine record. Her brother, Claude
Morgan Jones, an old Blue Coat School
boy, who married a sister of war his-
torian Bean, is well known to Inky Way-
farers in Brisbane and Sydney.
All. the loveliest of the spring flowers
were ruthlessly cut to beautify the Legis-
lative Assembly chambers when Parlia-
ment was opened. The women present
were flower-decked. Natural flowers
were worn as posies and shoulder sprays,
and flowers not so natural but just as
gay were on hats, pinned to furs and to
the revers of coats.
The Blair lady was in her favorite shade
—brown —and Mrs. Forgan Smith added
silver-fox furs and a ballibuntal hat to
her black gown. She and her lord gave
a luncheon in the Premier’s room. Min-
ister for Lands Percy Pease and his wife
had their luncheon party at Finney's
Cafe, and Minister for Transport and
Mrs. Dash were hosts at another shivoo.
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes, of Can-
ning Downs, Ella O’Shea and Miss M. J.
Bedford were among the guests at the
luncheon party given by H. A. Bruce,
Minister for Public Works and his wife.
Home Secretary Hanlon and his wife,
Minister for Education P. A. Cooper and
his wife, and James St op ford, with his
nice niece, Ettie Jackson, acting-hostess,
were among the lunch-givers.
Federal Ministers and their wives
were entertained at lunch by Senator
Joseph Silver Ceilings and his daughter
Kit. The Opposition Leader and Mrs.
Maher did some entertaining, and various
Ms.L.A. and their wives and daughters
brought along parties. Quite the bright-
est and best opening of Parliament seen
for a long time.
Fair-haired Alice Scanlan, in ice-blue,
and dark-tressed Myra Theodore, in deep
purple with a cyclamen yoke, assisted
by Marie Bergin, in heliotrope, gave a
supper dance at the Belle Vue for a few
score of our Younger Set. Iceland pop-
pies and tulle were on the tables, and
quaint hand-painted placecards to match.
The New Settlers’ League and the Vic-
toria League both have arranged to enter-
tain Lady Whiskard, who arrived in Bris-
bane with her husband a few days before
the show opened. The visitors sped
straight to Nambour from the Manoora,
but returned the following day.
St. Paul’s Church, East Brisbane, heard
Dorothy Jean Kilby and Colin Benjamin
Rounsefell exchanging their vows. The
bride wore white satin and wreath and
veil, and Joyce Rounsefell and Joyce
Kilby, carrying pink sweet-peas and
roses, and wearing naiadish green frocks,
‘maided. The newly-weds went south in
the Duntroon.
At St. Paul’s Presbyterian Church Joan
Kennedy, daughter of the R. D. Ken-
nedys, of Clayfield, kept her altar date
with Jack Mundell, younger son of Mr.
and Mrs. Jim Mundell, of Lilyvale, Wan-
doan. All in misty cream, and attended
by her sister Pauline, also cream-clad,
the bride looked very charming. Jack
Cullen, of Taroom, was best man. The
youngsters will live at Taroom when they
return from their honeymoon.
The fact that the wedding of Nancy
Taylor and Lennon Winten was to be a
quiet one did not prevent droves of
friends from coming from western
Queensland to attend. The bride is the
youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. S. A.
Taylor, Wyobie, Warra, and ’groom the
third son of Mr. R. J. Winten, Warra.
Ann-street Presbyterian Church was
crowded when Rev. P. Q. Pearson tied
the knot. The bride was in blue, with a
halo of silver on her hair. Beth Winten,
in burnt rose, was the only ’maid, and
Roy Rush brook was best man.
St. Paul’s Presbyterian Church was the
setting, and Rev. John Sinclair the cele-
brant, when Mavis Lillian McMaster,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Mc-
Master, of Devoncourt, Hamilton, and
Devoncourt, Cloncurry, married E. J.
Mclntyre, son of Mr. and Mrs.
D. W. O. Mclntyre, of Strathmore, Goon-
diwindi. The bride looked like a snow
queen in her drift of white chiffon and
matching veil. Jessie and Edith McMaster
attended as ’maids, wearing quaint little
Quaker caps of cherry velvet with their
misty-blue frocks.


The New
Milliard Silver - Contact Series Battery Valves
Chosenfor the Battery Dual-wave Moneysaver Kit-set
KK2 18/- KBCI 17/- KC3 16/-
KF3 17/- KDDI... 17/-
Milliard Silver-Contact Valves ensure
Maximum Efficiency, Lowest Possible
Eattery Consumption, Minimum Self-
generated Noise. Every up-to-date feature.
Insist on having
Milliard
MASTER VALVES MASTER RADIO
RADIO NEWS
RADIOKES DUAL-WAVE BATTERY MONEYSAVER
SUPERHET.
BY
DON B. KNOCK .
THIS inexpensive modern receiver for the home-constructor,
produced by Australia’s leading kit-set manufacturer, was
introduced in the previous issue, B. 12/8/’36. The description
continues here with point-to-point wiring details and further
information.
Panel Connections.
The resistor panel may now be mounted.
It is mounted on the back of the chassis in
the two elongated holes provided. The letters
A to J should be nearest the chassis surface.
Connections to panel. —B to No. 6; C to
grid cap of KBCI. This lead is shielded with
copper braid to within |in. of each end. The
shielding is earthed. (Be careful to see that
the wire does not short to the braid.) E to
No. 8 of KBCI socket; G to No. 6 of KBCI
socket; H to No. 3 of aerial coil; 1 to black
lead 465 No. 1 (I.F. transformer); N to
centre lug sensitivity control: P to +135 on
battery socket; Q to remaining outside lug
of sensitivity control and 4£V on battery
socket; Rto centre lug volume control. This
lead is shielded with copper braid to within
jin. of each end. The braid should be earthed.
See that the braid does not short to the wire
at the ends; T to —3V on battery socket.
Wiring w 465 No. 1 U.F. transformer). —
Red to No. 7 of KF3 socket; green to No. 8
of KK2; black to I of panel; white to cap
of KF3 valve.
Wiring of KK2 socket. —No. 4 to No. 7 of
KK2. Also a .Imfd. condenser connects from
No. 4 to earth; No. 5, solder a lead about
3in. long; No. 6, between No. 6 and No. 2
connect a .05meg. resistor (green body, black
end, orange dot), and to No. 6 solder one end
of a .OOOlmfd. condenser and a lead about 3in.
long to the other end of the .OOOlmfd. con-
denser.
Wiring the oscillator coil. —Red to No. 7 of
KF3 socket; 3 to stator plate of seven-plate
padder; 4 to one lug of .OOSmfd. padder. The
other end of the padder is soldered to the
common earth lead of 16-gauge tinned copper
(see diagram).
Aerial coil. —Connect No. 6 to No. 2, which
is the aerial lug. The remaining lug on the
volume control connects to No. 3 of the KDDI
socket. Also a .OOOlmfd. condenser is con-
nected to the volume control —one lug to one
outside lug and the other condenser lug to the
remaining lug on the volume control.
Wiring of dual-wave switch. —Before mount-
ing the switch, leads about 4in. long should
be soldered to the aerial and qscillator coils —
Nos. 1,2, 5 and 6 of the oscillator, coil and
Nos. 1,2, 4 and 5 of aerial coil. On the
aerial section of the switch three leads should
be soldered (about Sin. long) for the Color-
vision dial (marked “red,” “green” and
“+2V” on diagram).
Connections to switch. —Switch is mounted
so that lugs Nos. 1 and 2 are furthest away
from the chassis. The leads from the coils
should be cut exactly to length and then sol-
dered to switch.
Connections to aerial coil.—- No. 1 to No. 1
of switch; No. 2 to No. 2 of switch; common
to gang stator (aerial gang); No. 4 to No. 4
of switch; No 5 to No. 5 of switch; common
to aerial No. 1.
Oscillator coil. —No. 1 to No. 1 of switch;
No. 2 to No. 2 of switch; common to gang
stator (oscillator gang) and unconnected end
of .OOOlmfd. condenser; No. 5 to No. 5 on
switch; No. 6 to No.
6 on switch; common
to No. 5 of KKi
socket (see diagram).
The gang condensei
should now be
mounted. A lead about
4in. long should be soldered to each stator
lug before mounting. These leads protrude
through the chassis and connect to the switch
(see “Connections to Switch” in foregoing).
The dial lights are wired as in diagram and
the dial mounted carefully in position. (Use
fin. spacer between the dial and chassis.)
The trimmers are connected as in Fig. 2
the bottom plates to lugs No. 1 and 2 on the
switch sections. The top plates are all con-
nected together and connected to earth. Use
16-gauge tinned copper. (See Fig. 2.)
Wiring of Colorvision dial.-— j Common to
—2V; red to red lug on switch (see Fig. 1);
green to green lug on switch (see Fig. 1);
common on switch to +2V.
New Mullard Battery Valves in Simplified
Battery Moneysaver.
The Battery Moneysaver is designed
around the new Silver Contact range
of Mullard valves equipped with side-
contact (P) bases. These valves incor-
porate the most recent developments in
valve design and construction, and are
particularly suitable for Australian
country conditions, where maximum per-
formance for minimum battery consump-
tion is essential.
The KK2 type octode frequency con-
verter has been used in many of the
most successful receivers in Australia.
The new KK2 has all the advantages of
the former type, and is also equipped
with the Silver Contact base for maxi-
mum efficiency. The splendid low-noise
performance and low consumption of the
KK2 are well known.
The KF3 is a new variable-Mu
pentode having excellent all-round
characteristics and embodying the
new extra-rigid non-microphonic
construction also used in the other
valves of the series. Both filament
and B currents of the KF3 are re-
markably low, while high stage
gain can be obtained when used
with up-to-date high-efficiency LF.
transformers.
The KBCI has similar electrical
characteristics to the well-known
Mullard TDD 2, but differs from
this and other similar valves in the
new non-microphonic construction
and the Silvert Contact base. As
the grid of this valve is connected
at the top of the bulb, less distor-
tion is caused by stray capacities
than in valves having the grid con-
nection at the base.
The KC3 and KDDI have been
designed together so that the char-
acteristics of each exactly suit the
other. The result is a Class-B audio
system having very low B battery
drain, together with ample undis-
torted output, provided a good-
quality transformer is used.
(To be concluded next week.)
Latest in the Trade.
No radio technician wishing to keep
up to date can afford to be without the
recently-published 1936 issue of the
Radio Handbook, for which Frank C.
Jones, a prominent American radio
engineer, is responsible. Jones tackles
his many subjects in a thoroughly prac-
tical manner, and wastes no time with
unnecessary frills. Everything is covered,
from antennae to ground, and there is
enough material to keep the experimenter
busy for years. The book can be ob-
tained in Sydney from Angus and Rob-
ertson ; 6s. 6d., plus 6d. postage.


1 K Setter Kxxdky
Jkiammarlund
■ ■ PRECISION
Amateurs and Home Constructors will
welcome the opportunity of again
obtaining Hammarluml world-renowned
products. John Martin, Ltd., has new,
stocks of these fine lines.
I s o 1 a n t i t e
Valve Sockets
with extremely
hi g h surface
resistivity and
low losses, have
pecial spring metal con-
tacts, plated for noiseless operation for ever,
A complete range- of Hnmraarlund com-
ponents may be obtained from John
Martin, Ltd.; chokes, condensers of all
types, etc. Call or write for full par-
ticulars.
JOHN MARTIN, LTD.
“The Friendly Wholesale House,”
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Telephone: 81403.
RADIO ACCUMULATORS
?.i YEARS’ GUARANTEE
New cases and fittings,
heavy duty plates. Fully
charged.
2-volt 100 amp. ...'. 17/0
4-volt 80 amp 35/-
C-volt SO amp 47/0
Packing 1/6 extra.
Send your inquiries for
all types of CAR and
Home Lighting Batteries.
“B” BATTERIES.
45-volt “CLIMAX,” full voltage, long
life. Made by one of the largest manu-
facturers in Australia. Guaranteed for
:j months -against -faults.
Triple Duty,. 13/-. Light Duty, t/0.
Heavy Duty, 13/-. “C” Batteries. 2/-.
HEADPHONES.
Continental, lightweight, 4000 ohms.
very sensitive, pair 7/6
Please add freight to all orders.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
’Phene: FXS4S4.
•SSSfy!
I!K!(i Dual-wave
PENTAGBIU rOUK.
£B/5/-.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6 ;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6 ; 2A6, <>/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOVAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ts^l
Vs
“Still keep working
when others have stopped”
A
&
fi.
%
■
RADIO
m
D/amon
Dl
BATTSRT
VOLT
PL
TB
capacitv
vertical
DIAMOND
VOIAMOKC>
HERE’S life in the old dog yet” is a phrase
that could apply to DIAMOND Batteries just
as well as to Dad at the local dance. Built by a new
process and backed by years of practical research they
offer greater capacity, greater recuperative powers and
an uninterrupted flow of sparkling current right down
to the lowest voltage stage.
Equip your set with DIAMOND Batteries NOW
and note its new freedom from sudden fading,
crackle and distortion.
i
Diamond
Radio Batteries
and Torch Refills
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTV. LTD.. 119 Hawke St., West Melbourne, C. 3, Vic.
D.F.2
Should the A.B.C. Give Public
Concerts?
The A.B.C. has recently been criticised
by J. H. and E. J. Tait, presumably on
behalf of the now-seldom-heard-of firm
of J. and N, Tail, as J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., though they advertise the Taits’ in-
frequent importations, aren’t ostensibly
in the concert business. The Taits object
to the A.B.C. outbidding them for con-
cert artists, competing with them further
by giving public concerts, and still further
crooking their pitch by giving away “hun-
dreds” of free tickets for broadcasting
studio performances. The A.8.C., per
Mr. Cleary, retorts that the Taits bring
only one or two artists a year to Aus-
tralia, that the musicians the Commis-
sion imports won’t come unless they are
allowed to perform in public, that these
performances help to make the importa-
tions possible, and that there is nothing
wrong in the A.B.C. outbidding com-
petitors for talent.
There’s some sort of a reasonable case
on both sides. The Taits, who both as
.1. and N. Tait and J. C. Williamson, Ltd.,
pay heavy taxes, have a right to feel
aggrieved when a Government institution
commissioned to provide radio entertain-
ment, and given a vast amount of money
drawn from radio license fees to do it
with, goes out of what is morally if not
legally its bailiwick, hires town halls
and theatres, and does a brisk box-office
business.
The A.8.C., on the other hand, looks
at the terms of its commission, finds them
elastic enough to allow it to run anything
from a Punch and Judy show to grand
opera so long as listeners get a bit of it,
and saves money by exercising its com-
prehensive privileges. The more money
it saves by paying part of the cost of
importations out of box-office receipts
the more it will have left to finance
further enterprises of the sort, and it
argues that the net result will be that the
listeners will get more and better fare
than otherwise would be the case. As to
the buckshee studio tickets, they cost the
A.B.C. nothing, and they provide per-
formers with a little audience to sing oj
play to, a much more congenial business
than solely addressing a mike.
But the listener, whose money pays the
piper, has also some right to say a word
about the tune. He may agree that the
Taits have a right to kick against com-
petition by a public concern, and that the
A.B.C. has equally a right to conduct its
business as, efficiently as may be so long
as it doesn’t exceed the bounds of its
commission, but he is also at liberty to
think that perhaps the terms of that
commission don’t sufficiently emphasise
that the listener must come first. Re-
cently (notably in the cases of pianist
Eileen Joyce and operatic singers Reth-
berg and Pinza) the Commission, with an
eye, doubtless, on the box office, has
broadcast in the city in which a public
performance by those artists has been
given only a portion, and that not always
the most attractive portion, of the pro-
gramme. The box-office has been
reckoned, to this extent, of more impor-
tance than the listener. Furthermore,
public performances, especially in Syd-
ney, where audiences come trickling in
till half-past eight or later, cannot be
run to exact schedule time, and a listener
tuning into 2FC to listen to Rethberg
and Pinza at 8.10 is as like as not fobbed
off for another ten minutes while the
studio plays gramophone records. The
listener begins to wonder whom the
A.B.C. is supposed to be serving—the
Town Hall patrons or the people whose
money the Commission is paid to ad-
minister.
The question of a divided allegiance
should not be allowed to arise. If the
A.B.C. must give public performances,
the listener, unless a shareholder in some
entrepreneur business or an exceptionally
earnest opponent of State competition
with private enterprise, will not worry
about it so long as he has a right to listen
in to the whole proceedings. And the
democratic soundness of the principle
that gives 100,000 or so of listeners as
much right in the performance their
money paid for as the one, two or three
thousand people to whom the A.B.C.
farmed out tickets can hardly be ques-
tioned.
A. MAJOR.
What’s What in Radio.
In connection with the planned 1938
round-Australia motor contest, Don B.
Knock (VK2NO) has been appointed to
the organising committee to advise in
the question of emergency radio com-
munication. It is realised that a network
of experienced amateur telegraphists
could be of great value, additionally to
existing commercial stations, and the per-
mission of the P,M.G.’s Department is
to be sought along such lines. In cer-
tain parts of the Northern Territory and
North Westralia mobile guard stations
could be established during the contest,
and would form valuable emergency
links.
* * * t-
Many attempts have been made in
U.S.A. radio circles to find out what is
the cause of the great boom in short-
wave listening in that country. The most
widely accepted reason is that Ameri-
cans are merely following the example of
the Athenians of old, or, in other words,
behaving like a child with a new toy. A
more probable reason, however, is that
in spite of the fact that there are over
600 broadcasting stations in U.S.A. there
is a tremendous number of set users who
have no local station. This in itself is
partly due to the vast size of the country
and partly to the fact that many people
find their local station inadequate
in power, quality of transmission or
entertainment value. It has, in fact, been
estimated that no less than 65 per cent,
of the country’s area is outside “local”
range. It is the inhabitants of these areas,
which are dead spots in more senses than
one, who are said to be the biggest
buyers of short-wave receivers. This
theory fits in very well with Australian
conditions also.
Amateur Chatter.
Reference was made (B. 29/7/’36) to
the reception in Hazelbrook (N.S.W.) by
E. B. Ferguson of five-metre telephony
from VK4AW. Mr. Ferguson has re-
ceived confirmation from VK4AW, Mr.
Walz, of Nundah (Q.), to the effect that
VK4AW was transmitting at the reported
time. As if this long-distance ultra-short-
wave occasion were not enough, a report
is to hand from Sergeant Jones, of Ist
Cavalry Divisional Signals, Sydney, that
one evening recently he very definitely
logged a VK3 on five metres, also on
telephony. In both these instances, the
receivers used were plain super-regen-
erators, and, so far as is known, the
transmitters were not of the stabilised
type. This indicates that exceptional five-
metre conditions must be prevailing over
Australia, as in other parts of the
world, and inter-State working appears to
be quite on the cards. Apropos, there
were 1926-27 reports of inter-State
reception on five metres. The decks
may now be cleared for a big wave of
five-metre enthusiasm.
It is hoped that amateurs may be able
to co-operate in providing radio com-
munication during the 1938 round-Aus-
tralia motor contest. The writer con-
siders that the project of sending hun-
dreds of motor vehicles, good, bad and
indifferent, along the bush tracks of the
north and north-west calls for a well-
planned emergency communication
scheme. It is realised that, in many in-
stances, commercial communication can
be applied, but there are certain aspects
of communication in the north that pro-
Vide an opportunity for amateur high-
frequency work. At least two mobile
stations should be situated in certain post-
lions along the route.
VK2NO.
Country Short-wave Diallings.
The turn of the season is evident in
the effect on morning and evening recep-
tion.
The J9m. band appears to be coming
up to strength much earlier than previ-
ous years, and whether this is due to
ether condition or to more powerful and
more numerous stations it is not yet pos-
sible to conclude. There are many
stations quite good up to 10 p.m., after
which all fall away rapidly until after
midnight.
The Germans are the best, with Hol-
land (PCJ) a good second. A broad-
cast was heard on 25/7/’36 from a
new station in Czecho-SJovakia, but the
actual name or callsign could not be
identified. Wave-lengths used were
19.68 m. and 25.5 m. Strength even sur-
passed FYA, but quality was rough at
times. Reports on each transmission
were keenly requested, but no statement
was heard as to future transmissions.
No. 1 transmission from the 8.8. C. is
still very good, but since the alteration
to an earlier hour strength is falling con-
siderably after 4.30 p.m. here. One not-
able circumstance about 8.8. C. transmis-
sions is that, while the signal strength may
not equal other nations’, the quality of
the transmissions excels.
CTIAA has been rather weak on the
3Jm; band, and the writer cannot notice
any improvement with its new trans-
mitter.
The 80m. amateur band has improved,
and the quality of the Maorilanders is
very good.
The 20m. band has also revived, and
amateur ’phones can be heard from all
over the world, one Mexican station
being very strong around midday on
Sundays.
NIGHTOWL.


It’s Not what you PAY
it’s what you RECEIVE . .
Vw*f
SMOOTHER
RUNNING
SINCE 1869 Valvoline, the finest lubricating oil
money can buy, has been the standard by
which all other oils are judged.
Use this superior oil in your car and enjoy
smoother running and all-round performance.
Sold only in "tamper-proof" tins, sealed as a
protection against substitution, dirt, adulteration
and short measure.
Ask your garageman!
Advt. ol J. CARRIGAN. Sydney, Melbourne, and throughout the Commonwealth
HI-36
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course, The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD. 92 Fleet Street.
The Steering Column.
SAFE NIGHT DRIVING.
NECESSITY FOR DRASTIC ALTERATION
IN STREET LIGHTING.
BY FRED BERRY.
EVERY motorist knows that the risks involved im driving a
car at night are far greater than in daylight. Within the
last few months fatalities have occurred and innumerable
accidents of a more or less serious nature have been recorded
in the widest streets of capital cities and major towns during
the hours of darkness. When inquiries are instituted into the
cause of these happenings, evidence is taken as to the relative
positions of cars, other vehicles and pedestrians at the particular
time, and a verdict is returned accordingly; but, as a result of
careful personal investigation in many of these cases, the writer
is forced to the conclusion that much of the risk is caused by
factors over which neither of the parties involved has any real
control.
Taken by and large, the lighting of highways in Australia
is notoriously poor, and in some instances positively dangerous,
and, although isolated cases can be found wherein modern
systems have been installed- it must be admitted that such
desirable conditions are the exception rather than the rule.
Over the last few years many thou-
sands of miles of Australia’s principal
highways have, by skilful engineering,
been transformed from flat “potholey”
thoroughfares into perfectly graded
boulevardes. Over a similar period the
normal cruising speed of most automo-
biles has increased appreciably. As a
direct result motorists can now travel
over national highways at a cruising speed
never in excess of 50 m.p.h. in the same
time as that usually taken by express
trains, but only in daylight; for, whilst
the long stretches between populated
centres can, by reason of uniform lack of
illumination, be safely traversed at such
speeds with the normal lighting equip-
ment of the car, every experienced or
cautious driver must of necessity slow
down to an absurd minimum when
approaching or passing through lighted
areas.
Doubtless, the illumination of roads in
most of these centres is adequate for the
purpose for which it was in the first
place designed, but as the car and truck
have now superseded the sulky and
wagon, so must the lighting of streets
be re-designed accordingly.
Research on this vital subject has
shown conclusively that regular and uni-
form illumination is the only successful
method, and that a few powerful light
units scattered at intervals over a road-
way make driving far more difficult than
in an unlit street.
Every successful competition or racing
driver knows that if on record bent he
must do the night drive in darkness and
without light of the moon, for with a
bright moon false shadows are cast on
the roadway and the value of headlights
is discounted accordingly. Precisely
similar conditions exist when, as in the
majority of cases, street lighting consists
of a series of electric lights fitted with
plain white reflectors and spaced at inter-
vals along the side or suspended over
the centre of any roadway.
Zones of Darkness.
In such cases it will be found that the
street immediately beneath each light
unit will be brilliantly illuminated, but
when viewed from the driver’s seat, even
at a modest speed of 30 m.p.h., the sur-
face of the highway appears as alternate
zones of intense light and relative dark-
ness. On road surfaced with bitumen or
other dark material, this uneven effect is
aggravated further by absorption and
poor reflection of the headlight beam,
and as a consequence pedestrians and
other road-users are rendered difficult to
discern unless directly beneath the centre
of lighting.
Ideal highway illumination would in-
volve equipment which, while giving a
reasonable volume of light, would be
regular in intensity and cause no shadows
to be cast. Both in Italy and America
floodlighting experiments conducted re-
cently have been highly successful, and
it is now possible to pass through some
sections at night without the headlights
burning. Such highly-efficient equipment
is too easily to instal except under
special circumstances, but a marked im-
provement in existing methods could im-
mediately be secured by the simple and
relatively inexpensive process of elimi-
nating arc lights and substituting some
effective type of floodlight. By eliminat-
ing the necessity for powerful or bril-
liant headlights, efficient street lighting
would reduce the glare menace to a
minimum, and so add greatly to the com-
fort and safety of motoring.
RECORDS AGAIN BROKEN.
Since the inception of motoring the
outstanding test of reliability has been
the 24 hours’ record, for obviously any
car capable of being driven on lull
throttle for such a period must be well
designed and faithfully built.
Driven by S. F. Edge on Brooklands
track (Eng.), a Napier car was firs o
establish this record, a total d,stance of
approximately 1500 miles being covered.
These figures stood for many years.
As an illustration of progress in design,
however, the achievements of Capt. Geo.
Eyston and A. Denly at Bonneville, Salt
Lake (Utah, U.S.A.), in covering the
amazing distance of 3480 miles in 24
Capt. Eystem's 400 -h.p. Rolls-Royce-engined Speed of the Wind, at full speed on
Bonneville, Salt Lake, in the process of breaking both 24- and 48 -hour world’s
records.
hours and 6545 miles in 48 hours are of
great interest.
In this drive Eyston’s car (Dunlop-
shod front-drive, of special design) actu-
ally averaged 149.14 m.p.h. for the first
24 hours of the long drive, the merit of
which will be appreciated when it is
realised that the same driver’s Tecently-
established world’s record for one hour
was at a speed of 162.5 m.p.h.
In achieving new figures for the day-
and-night drive around a 12-mile cir-
cuit of hard salt, Eyston has added over
jo? miles to his own record of 3372
miles 899 yards, established at the same
locality and with the same machine last
an jhe am azing nature of the day’s
j t^e Britisher will be better
' it is staled that the distance
.. .
covered by him in oars
ent to the journey from Perth to Bns-
bane. During the night dnving S
circuit was lit by 300 flares.
Eyston’s 48 hours’ drive betters the
previous world s recoid by no fewer than
1286 miles, three Frenchmen, Messrs,
Perrot, Dhome and Girod (Delahaye-
Dunlop), having driven 5258 miles 1341
yards on the Montl’hery track, Paris, in
1934.
In establishing his magnificent new
series of world’s records from 310 to
6544 miles, Eyston and his co-driver had
to make many scheduled stops to change
drivers and replenish petrol and oil


•'SILVER
EDGE' 9
fficuAei&i,
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, IAC.
0
0
0
t
St
v«.
ft
A
FOR POWER.STAMINA&DEPENDABILITY
tanks. Eyston cabled Dunlop that the
tyres were absolutely trouble-free. When
details of the feat come to hand, it
probably will be found that, deducting
scheduled stops, the average speed for
the whole two days’ drive was well over
140 m.p.h., a really amazing achievement
for men, machine and tyres.
An American contender for the 24
hours’ and other world motor speed
records, Harlan Fengler, has had a two-
engined racing machine specially built
for the purpose. Its streamlined appear-
ance is somewhat on the lines of Sir
Malcolm Campbell’s famous Blue-Bird,
which holds the land speed record of
310 m.p.h., except that its nose is bullet-
shaped. It is known as the Falcon,
Fengler was scheduled to make an
attempt on the 24 hours’ record with his
newly-built car early in July, on a suit-
able circuit in California, but nothing has
yet been heard as to the result,
Eyston’s latest figures will set the
Falcon no mean task, despite the fact
that it has a far more powerful motor
than the 400-h.p. Rolls-Royce engine in
Eyston’s machine.
THE WORLD’S AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY.
The transport of passengers or goods
by independent self-propelled vehicles
such as cars and trucks has betn proved,
after many years of experiment and
despite the influence of restrictive legis-
lation in certain States, to be speedier,
more efficient and more convenient
to the public (in certain circumstances)
than any other method. Proof of the
growing popularity of motor transport
for goods can be found in figures pub-
lished in the “Dunlop Bulletin,” showing
in all States an average for (he ’35
period of one new truck purchased for
every 2.5 cars.
Such progress has been made over the
last few years that it is almost impossible
for the layman to appreciate the colossal
nature of the world’s automobile and
allied industries. In 1935 there were
5,126,680 vehicles, an increase of 37,2
per cent, over the preceding year and an
indication at least of partial recovery
from general economic depression.
The following figures show the chief
manufacturing nations and exporters of
automobiles during 1935, the number of
vehicles exported being shown in paren-
thesis :
U.S.A., 3,946,934 (271,383; 6.9 per
cent, of production) ; Great Britain,
416,915 (68,202 ; 16.3 percent.); Canada,
172,877 (64,330; 37 per cent.) ; France,
179,270 (18,921 ; 10.5 per cent.); Ger-
many, 242,934 (23,563 ; 9.6 per cent.);
Italy, 45,208 (9,444 in nine months ; 20.8
per cent.) ; Soviet Russia, 97,000 (858 :
.88 per cent.); Czecho-Slovakia, 9978
(714; 7.1 per cent.); Belgium, 753 (113 ;
15 per cent.); Sweden, 3404 (1858 ;
54.5 per cent.); Japan, 6800 (1361 ; 20
per cent.).
The U.S.A. output of automobiles for
1935 comprised 3,252,244 passenger cars
and 694,690 trucks. Great Britain’s pro-
duction in the same period was 325,194
passenger cars and 91,721 trucks;
Canada’s, 135,562 cars, 37,315 trucks;
“Gel ’er right by 1938, Alf —I Want to win that ten thousand for the
race round Australia .”
Germany’s, 201,438 cars, 41,496 trucks;
Russia’s, 19,200 cars and 77,800 trucks.
What the retail value of the 1935 out-
put of automobiles totals is difficult to
estimate, but it is certainly not less than
750 million pounds.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
A.M.S. (Adelaide). —I have lately had a petrol
and oil level indicator replacement for my
‘34 car, but when dispatched from Eng-
land no instructions for assembly or fluid
were included. Any advice ?
Any service station should assemble the
part without difficulty, but you must have the
instrument filled with special telegauge fluid,
otherwise erratic readings will be recorded.
This fluid can be obtained from Bennett and
Wood, Ltd., or Bradley Bros., both Sydney.
Jfc ❖ * t’fi
E.G.F. (Auckland, M.L.). —(1) I intend
buying a second-hand car for £lOO. Which of
the three named do you advise? (2) What is
the oiling system of my car ? (3) Do the later
models wear more rapidly than other makes?
(1) Cars named are each popular makes.
Choice would depend entirely upon mechanical
condition. (2) Splash. (3) No.
W.E.H. (Marysville, Vic.).- —/ have been given
an attractive offer to trade my old car for a
new model of different make, but have been
advised to go higher in the price group, as the
small car is not reliable. Any suggestions ?
Car offered has been giving excellent service
in this country for some years, and is both
reliable and economical.
A.K.S. (Taranaki, M.L.). —Is it possible to
supercharge a ’35 Pontiac Six, and what would
be the approximate cost ?
It is possible to supercharge any car, but
structural alteration would be considerable.
Blower would have to be imported and many
experiments conducted to secure best results.
Cost would be at least £5O.
C. (Windsor, N.S.W.).— My car is fitted
with an electric petrol pump and it is the
only source of noise in the car. Is there any
method of silencing it ?
You are to be complimented on possessing
such a quiet motor. If the pump is bolted
to the metal bulkhead, it is possible the sound
is transmitted to the driver’s compartment.
Suggest cutting a gasket of Jin. rubber and
inserting between pump base and metal bulk-
head.
* * *
D. (Renmark, S.A.). —Are any shock-
absorbers thermostatically controlled, and, if
so, where does the heat come from to vary
the damping effect ?
Several hydraulic types use thermostat con-
trol. Heat is generated by movement of the
rotor in the main chamber of the shock-
absorber. Due to this heat the oil flows more
freely, and so passes more readily through the
valve. Thermostat control regulates this open-
ing according to temperature of oil, and so pro-
vides, in theory at least, a constant damping
effect on the springs.
F.R. (Kyneton, Vic.). —My ’36 car (4000 miles)
gives cm excellent performance when pulling
hard or in brief spurts of accelerating, but
when driven on full throttle it is impossible
to reach maximum speed. Car starts easily
and runs well. I have checked valves, car-
burettor setting and ignition. Cause and cure ?
Apparently either timing or fuel supply is
at fault. Check valve timing against setting
in instruction book. If this does not give
results, there may be a partial blockage of
the fuel line. Disconnect petrol pipe from
pump and blow back with air pressure through
line.
!$« ijj * *
A.G.B. (Stanthorpe, Q.). —My ’36 car is
fitted with synchromesh gears which work satis-
factorily when starting, but after driving for
perhaps half an hour great difficulty is ex-
perienced in engaging those gears to which
synchromesh is fitted. Cause and cure ?
A most unusual trouble, although it is some-
times found in new cars so fitted that the 1
synchronising cones take some little time to
wear in, involving a slight delay in shifting
from one gear position to another, if your
transmission does not soon free up it is obvious
that the expansion due to heating is causing
some part of the mechanism to bind, and the
only course open will be to dismantle the box
and locate the light member.
Wants.
W.S.B. (Coolac, Vic.) wants an instruction
book for Denby truck.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
"Mail Car”: I was making for Long-
reach (W.Q.) during wet weather in 1914.
Continual heavy pulling burnt out the
leather clutch facing. Bush ingenuity and
a packing-case came to our rescue. Strips
of wood were split off the case, tapered
down and then driven under the leather
lining until it was expanded enough to
give sufficient friction. It proved a slow
job, but was worth while, as it enabled
us to travel the remaining 28 miles to
our destination.
“Hamer”; The man who introduced
the first motor-car to Brisbane, James
Trackson, has just celebrated, besides his
seventy-eighth birthday, a jubilee—that
of the foundation
of the firm he
formed * with his
brother, both
pioneers in electri-
cal appliances. The
brother died over a
year ago. Track-
son’s car was a
steam one, built on
the lines of a high
four-wheeled buggy,
and it first patrolled
the streets of Bris-
bane in 1902, to the
panic of horses and
the consternation of
their drivers. The
car proved a
serviceable vehicle,
however, and was
still doing good
work when it was
superseded by some-
thing more modern.
“Bogaduck”; Struck a motorist with
a flat tyre recently and pulled up to help
him ; when it came to putting air in after
(he puncture had been mended he didn’t
do any physical jerks on a pump. From
under the back seat he took a steel gas-
bottle, connected the tube to the tyre
valve, turned the tap on, and up went
the tyre to full pressure in a few seconds.
Tve tried in vain to get hold of a
similar steel bottle to carry, and
I’ve since wondered why the things aren’t
on the market as a motor accessory. They
should be welcomed by the drivers of
heavy trucks, for pumping up a big truck
tyre on a hot day is about the hardest
graft a chap can tackle.


w
THE AGE’’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in '
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, ;which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
Cbe mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. ; Its, circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. - That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31,i 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address; MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., . Representatives. -
Melbourne Office: Newspaper, House, Collins St.
P. RIEUSSET. Representative. ‘ \
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
“THE MAIL”
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First Floor,
. Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger, Warwick
t Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of .
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers;
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from? the , mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is, the only paper
bought voluntarily by_people of Broken
Hill ~ahd " surrounding pastoral districts.-
Details ' from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
; Building:, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Established,
. 19124.
rf 1 ;
The, only-even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T-Ht
SATUR.DAY £Vt NING
A,
V\ . ,
Is published and circulates in Eaunceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North-East,
North-West, and the Midlands. No papers are
published on Sundays in Tasmania; therefore,
advertise in “The Saturday Evening Express”
for the Sunday readers.
pSja
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
You can’t
ignore GAM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
.Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the fanner.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
of air. She was too spent to show any excitement
and too exhausted to open her eyes or lift her head.
“She was short of a gallop,” Evans confided to
Kilgour as they stood out from the mare looking
at her. “I told Ted she was short. You saw the
way she went to pieces, did you? She choked. Too
fat inside. I would have liked her to win her last
race. In fact, 1 backed her to win. Still she’ll breed
a great foal to Bluff Downs.”
“Do you want me to put her to the horse im-
mediately?” Kilgour asked, anything but pleased
about it.
“If you would —she and Sethia. You’ll take them
down with you, will you?”
The races went on.
Back at the station Kilgour instructed his head
stockman. “Take these two mares out and let ’em
go with Bluff Downs. Take care of the old mare,
Harry—she deserves a better fate than any we can
give her. And, Harry, I want you to have a look at
Cascade when you’re out there. See all’s well with
her.”
Chapter 111.
AMATHEA.
storms came early in January. Almost over-
I night, the khaki earth took a new coat. Tender
A little shoots of green sprang into being and a
mantle of verdure covered the ground.
Further storms followed. The horses huddled
miserably, tails to the driving rain, and with water
running over their quarters and dribbling down their
hocks. Then the wet season commenced in earnest.
Mere pads and tracks became rivulets. Gullies tore
and rushed with spume-strewn waters. Creeks
roared in their might, and the sodden ground squelched
water at every hoof-track.
With the rains the flies came in countless mil-
lions. Those stinging serpents of the air, the sandflies.
made all animal life a constant torture. By night, the
mosquitoes. ■ ■ , -
It was a good season, and all Nature responded
—full measure, pressed down and brimming over.
.Strangely enough, coincident with the rains, a
sudden drop of foals occurred in the brood. When the
drenched earth dried itself, shaking its mane ot glass
and laughing in the sun, ten little strangers ranged
beside their mothers and mingled with the mob. Fly-
rings were reopened and worked to the full. But
even that did not afford perfect protection from the
sandflies. The mares were constantly on the move
during the ten days after the last rain, which was the
period of the sandflies’ life.
While crossing a washed-out creek Sheba’s month-
old foal, playing carelessly, blundered into the wet
silt. It floundered, struggled desperately. But there
was no firm footing beneath its hooves, and gradually
it sank until it was mid-rib deep.
The rest of the mares trotted on, ever striving'
to get away from the sandflies. Sheba returned to
her foal. She hovered on the brink, neighing piteously
and with her head outstretched towards the foal>
wallowing in the mud. Feeling her way tentatively, she
waded in to where the foal was stuck, and there
nuzzled it,' crooning to it and licking the clinging
mud from it.
B LUFF DOWNS suddenly discovered one of his
mares had deserted the brood. He raced to the lead
of the mob, swung them abruptly and ‘brought them
back to the bank of the creek on which Sheba had
climbed and was standing while she watched the foal.
Without pause, and with his low-held head swaying in
snake-like undulations, he charged the mare. He
swung between her and her foal, and with a chop
sent her scurrying back to the brood.
Sheba called once. . From the bed of the creek
a piteous whinny replied to her, and she turned and
raced back to the gully.
The stallion followed her. He swept in between
her and the bank of the creek' and tried to drive her
back to the waiting brood.
Sheba squealed, reared and struck blindly. She
snapped with her teeth and swung to lash with her
heels. Berserk in anger, bold beyond belief through
fear for her foal, a fiend in her fury, she swept the
horse aside. She raced to the brink of the bank,
plunged into the silt and stood beside her helpless
foal. She was quivering, distraught. But she dared
the' horse! . „
' Blaff Downs followed. He lifted hair from her
rump with his chopping bites. He shouldered her
over, and, by main force pushed her up the bank.
When she reared and'struck at him he reached across
and took her by the nape of the neck, his strong
teeth closing as a vyce and making the mare wince
and cringe in on herself. He swung her in front of
him, bashed her with his striking hooves. Then, ail
opposition quelled, he drove her to the brood.
{To be continued next week.)


ẃ
H.R.H.
Prince Charles of
Sweden.
Lieut.-General
Lord Baden-Powell,
K.C.8., K.C.V.0.. LLJD.,
F.R.G.S.,
“The Chief Scout ”
. P -
Mr. E. V. Lucas,
Asst. Editor of
London “Punch.”
Sir Max Pemberton,
the Well-known Novelist.
“Pelmanism smooths away all
difficulties ...” / rr
The Signatures
Tlie signatures in this announce-
ment are reproduced from signed
letters of appreciation received by
the Pelman Institute. Signatures
differ as much as faces differ, and,
like faces, they often surprise us
when we meet them by their un-
likeness to our conception of them.
We are sure (hat readers of “The
Bulletin” will be Interested in these
signatures of well-known IVlman-
isis.
DR r. M. NORWOOD, D.D.,
“The World’s Evairg«|lst,”
recently of the City Temple,
London, who describes Rei-
man ism as “The Key to a Man’s
Career.”
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute:
Liege .... 1930 Nancy .... 1933
Geneva .... 1933 Paris ..... 1933
Ihe more important personal qualities
and attributes developed by Pelmanism
are:
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
Decision
Self-Confidence
Initiative
Social Ease
Courage
and a Keliable Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, arguments and useful data of every
kind.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 34,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The I’elmai: Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 10 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1., where
it has been established for 38 years.
ẅ
' We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” T 6
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To tin* ivlmuii Institute. :! Gloucester House,
;!!)« .Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
I.* lease send me, free and post-free, a copy of
•The Flticieiit Mind.”
Xauic
Address
lIS
The late
Mr. Edgar Wallace,
Author and Dramatist.
/£v/~
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., D.Sc., Governor of the
London School of Economics.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
*
A 1
OV*
V A X e av
t& 0 $>
N
SS®
o x
\o
u''
1$
.*•* <
>- ..- >ss*
■ ..••* +s&&'*
..••• Wv^’
c >.>


vUr,;
Vm 1 '*'*’
sssB
!*,sv
Ite
tteSi
Sekgi
e rf3«
lift
sr.v,
0 P
k
1
;, V ,
IS
JSP&SBk
s.y
V *%**&&£/ MBMaSfei •;• •'• ■■-•' •• ..
Ivv -
rX
vv
---rr “'fT.--^v^
k
>Yv.
SC?.
pw
*K«E
»<r «
• •.■•‘• < :vj
vV^W^V^*' 7 * 5 ’ . '*.♦/• -v •v3S
W-
M¥;
VV"\- u „
Vm V*
#V'*
»t\ ?*
-\1 4
f’O.*
V’3&
*«.,,'
A
k
*3..
H-.;
• t r~'\V« ,-> ‘-r..:.»*»>■'.*!
J&2
WW‘>" W "
u*-
r
> v ;.i
ftw
IW-
(Hit 'sayr
•Mii
4W' Jfl .„v-> t \ \Vm ; i-
wc-i\\\}\,r
agasw'^jw-'*"".
>fv.;3
rw>
DRY GIN
The full sized Gilbey’s bottle
has long been familiar as a
cheerful dispenser of hospitality
and a family safeguard against
ills and chills . . . For the con-
venience of the outdoor and
travelling public this famous gin
is also obtainable now in strong
snug-fitting flasks and half
flasks .. . Three sizes, but only
the one world-famous quality.
BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M.THE KING
