

BSWS
as
SN ❖ V
■ \
sv v
•v, .
iii
; m
mmmmi
m
ms
•>: :■
k ■■ .'•/>
L *■ 'll
xjxX:X>
mm
lii
SXXXXv
ns
& KS
iliijpgii
iliioi
• •
v : ■
■am
k
Between the virtuoso and the tyro in
mastery of the keyboard lie the vital dif-
ferences . . . knowledge plus technique
. . . each the fruits of years of intensive
study and painstaking applicaton to detail.
The secret of achievement in business and
sciences as well* as art has its foundation
in knowledge and the science of investment
is no exception. It calls for a highly
specialised technique covering many
phases of finance and economics.
Investors must have the guirUnce of
experts to secure returns in the shape of
capital appreciation plus regular dividends
and at the same time eliminate risks.
Hamiltons (Australasia) Limited offers the
services of a large staff of expert invest-
ment advisers to direct capital investments.
Speculation and its attendant risks of loss
may largely be eliminated by confining
investments to shares in ESTABLISHED
companies.
Enquiries concerning such investments are
invited.
fflamiltons (Australasia) limited
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capital £250,000
Head Office, KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W. ’Phone, Armidale 150. Box No. 125 Armidate.
Union Bank Chambers, Cnr. of Hunter and Bolton Streets, Newcastle. ’Phone: Newcastle 1942.
ED
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Commonwealth Bank Building,
Queen Street,
Brisbane
G.P.O. Box 1017 N.
Bank'of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C.M.L. Building,
King William Sreet,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
NEW ZEALAND:
National Bank of N.Z. Chambers
Featherstone Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O. Box 562 Wellington
The Bulletin
Can Labor Win Next Year?
Vol. 57.—N0. 2959.
Wednesday, October 28, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded poet
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Siorg Wrttmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
I’leuse send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
M a A ddress
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin lor 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year's competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out ot
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year's Prize.
The Red Page
SPARE A
TEAR
Though mil-
lions mourn the
proud white sail-
ing ships that
have sunk into
the grave of
\ ime, and tears are shed over the passing
oi the dodo, no voice of lamentation is
heard oyer the death of the old Earl, the
Lady Violet Montressor, and that black-
browed hard rider to hounds Lord
Carnaby.
They were the idols and the ideals of
the reading public of ohly a generation
or two ago, but are now no more. Per-
haps those who loved them feel at their
passing a sorrow too deep for words.
Yes, gone is the Earl, that fine old Eng-
lish gentleman, whose honor was black-
ened if he did not pay his gambling
debts; and whose honor was untar-
nished if he did not pay his tailor, or
his wine merchant, or his cigar purveyor.
And gone is that little band of musicians,
the butcher, the baker, the candlestick
maker, who made the morning melo-
dious as they stood on the Earl’s door-
step whistling for their money.
Do you remember when the old Earl’s
honor was at stake, and, after hours of
pacing up and down the old oak study,
he decided at last to sacrifice three bins
of that priceless ’93 port (as yet unpaid
for) to honor his card debt to his friend
Lord Carnaby? And how we were
thrilled when, assisted by his flunkeys,
he flung down the steps of the manor
the importunate huckster who had sup-
plied the precious port of ’93, and had
called to see if he couldn’t get just a
little on account?
But much as we admire the Earl, we
love most the proud, sweet Lady Violet
Montressor, the Earl’s daughter. We
admire her most for her independence,
for her courageous entrance into the hell
of London Journalism —into that great
battle where only the best survive. We
respect and admire her for her revolt
against the hidebound traditions that
would keep her where she could only
do what she wanted to do—when her sky-
soaring spirit demanded that she should
do even what she did not want to do.
And we admire and respect her for her
Success.
Defying all traditions, steeling her
proud spirit against the old Earl’s
threats and entreaties, she comes, with
her poor little twenty-seven trunks and
portmanteaux, alone to London. And if
that is not courage, what is?
Alone in London! And the Earl’s
Town House a long half-mile away!
And the great world of Journalism, her
chosen career, before her!
And nothing between her and starva-
tion but five hundred a year from the
gilt-edged Consols her dead mother had
l£ft her!
Often had she pondered over her dying
mother’s last words: “These Consols are
to feed you, my dear, not Carnaby’s
pigs.”
In London, and, except for the conven-
tional three meals a day, almost starving.
I prefer to pass as quickly as possible
over the first fortnight—or, to be exact,
ten days--of Lady Violet’s fight for a
Position in Literature.
When the editor of the “Yellow Book”
returned her article, “The Parsnip, Its
Youth, Bloom and Decay,” as not quite
suitable for the pages of the “Yellow
Book,” and the editor of the “Financial
Weekly” said that “Spring, the Seed-
time of Love,” got his goat, Lady
Violet was more astonished than
astounded. But after her ten-column
article, “Reminiscences and Recollections
of Notable Sayings of the Nobility and
the Landed Gentry,” was accepted by
the “Socialist,” and reduced to a four-
inch single column under the title “Piute
Piffle,” Lady Violet never looked back.
It says much for the Old Stock that,
after her article in the “Socialist,” the
Lady Violet did not break down under
the importunities of more than half the
editors in London. A woman journal-
ist of to-day who has never ridden to
hounds or known Lord Carnaby would
never be able to write each week the
thirteen articles, the three short stories,
the five poems and the eight columns of
“Social Sidelights” that Lady Violet wrote
during the three tense hours a day she
devoted to her chosen career.
If I remember aright it was when the
sun's rays first kissed the edge of the
Ming vase in the casement window that
the Lady Violet lifted her pen each day ;
and when the sun, with a lingering caress,
moved from the green jade Buddha,
Lady Violet laid down the pen that
meant more to her than life.
We love the Lady Violet for her atti-
tude towards her father when he needed
her most. And we admire the Earl for
the manner in which he forgave her for
being kicked out of the house. Bravely,
in a short, cultured note, the Earl wrote
to Lady Violet: “I bet Carnaby my sow
would litter first. It didn’t. Have you
got three thousand?”
And without a reproach, true to her
traditions, she saw to it that her father’s
honor remained immaculate.
Now I do not say there are not some
fine women writers in Australia. I do
not say that among all our millions there
is no man like unto an English earl. But
Ido ask: Is there any woman journalist
in Australia who, out of her whole year’s
savings so hardly earned, would send
three thousand pounds to her father to
honor a bet about Carnaby’s pigs?
I doubt if there is one.
1 did speak to one young lady, a jour-
nalist friend of mine on a Melbourne
weekly. “What would you have done?’
I asked, “had you been placed in Lady
Violet’s position?”
“I’d have sent a telegram right away,”
she told me without a moment’s hesi-
tation.
“Ah-h-h!” I breathed reverently.
“Yes,” she said, “and I’d have got it
off my chest in just six words —‘Tell
Carnaby to boil his head.’ ”
It is sad, but true. The Old Nobility,
the Old Tradition, like the dodo, have
passed away. “Geworen forloren,” as our
Saxon forefathers might have said ; or, in
the terser parlance of our trans-Pacific
cousins, “quit.”
BRAM GRAY.
Two-a-penny
Authors
A collection of
books came my
way the other
day for advice
regarding its dis-
posal. The gathering of a sentimental
woman who was attracted by the sensa-
tional of every year and hate.d to part
with it, it was representative of the
literary froth of several decades. It
struck me to test the reaction of the
youth of to-day to books that had
thrilled their kind in a previous genera-
tion.
The Greet Hat, Moon Calf, If Winter
Comes and This Freedom, best-sellers a
little over a decade ago, stirred no in-
terest in my victims. There was, how-
ever, a flicker of interest in The Sheik;
strangely, the victims, though all had
heard of it, had not read it. All were
disappointed.
Nat Gould, who sold by the million,
was also regarded as “not worth read-
ing.” Guy Boothby and Charles Gar-
vice were scornfully rejected. Each
novelist once held a vast audience, not-
withstanding that Garvice boasted of
writing according to formula and
Boothby made his author-hero write a
complete book in a night and see it
a winner within a week. Boothby, an
Australian, invented Dr. Nikola, who
seems the basis for the chief character in
pictorial serials now syndicated widely.
If there is a taste for this sort of thing
done in pictures by Yankee artists,
Boothby should not be so utterly rejected.
Marie Corelli’s utter forgotlenness is
typified in a query to a newspaper about
who she was. My victims declined to
read her ; yet W. T. Stead gave much
serious space in the “Review of Re-
views” to her Sorrows of Satan and
Barabbas. 1 would not care to have to
read them again, but I browsed for a
while in Thelma. How turgid the lady
who was such a literary idol of her
day!
Hall Caine was even more enthusias-
tically rejected ; Sarah Grand, “Ouida,”
Flora Steele, John Strange Winter and
a host of others once considered real
authors were all spurned.
I am convinced that those who stay
are not the “popular” authors of any
generation, though 1 find Jerome’s
Three Men in a Boat, an Eger ton
Castles and a Tom Gallon still consid-
ered readable.
HAROLD MERCER.
Only the
Poet
Only the poet
knows how diffi-
cu 11 it is to
achieve publica-
tion. Publishers,
who are businessmen, say that poetry
does not pay, that nobody wants it. Yet
poetry is the first and most spontaneous
form of literary expression, and there is
still so much that prose cannot reach.
Has prose, from constant application, be-
come an iron habit of the mind, and is it
driving out poetry, which is more diffi-
cult to read because more seldom read,
as safety drives out courage? Or have
the proud and difficult modernists among
the poets so snubbed the lay reader that
he has developed a phobia? However
it is, one experiences now, when one of 1
those slender volumes finds its way into
the world, something of the half tender,
incredulous surprise that one feels when,
as happens now and then, a small land
bird appears on the deck of a ship far
out at sea.
Such a slender volume, and her second
at that, has Mary Lang just had pub-
lished by Dent. It is called Tom Groggin
and Other Verses. In the sedulously un-
poetic title one detects perhaps the influ-
ence of the Poet Laureate, but Tom
Groggin is a signpost. Near Nimmitabel,
N.S.W., there is a small signpost which
says “To Tom Groggin.”
I was so long ago—
Surely the fathers of these oldest here
Were children, when l lived. I built a house
And made a fence and ploughed a field. To-
day
A name is all of me that lingers here....
So the book of verse is laid, as it were,
without any parade at the feet of the
forgotten pioneer whose virtue has gone
back into the earth. It is not a book to
snub the reader with incomprehensibili-
ties. The lyrics are of simple things of
beauty found near at hand. She writes
of dead flowers, the cook’s cat:
Her supple limbs are coiled in sleep,
From furry breast two white feet peep.
Of a sleeping boy, a ship’s figurehead,
Blossom, an old plough horse:
Burnished to copper by the sun she stands
Unshakable as earth, as strong as fire.
Of the Monaro:
Here are the humping'plains, treeless, pale
brown,
Where half-grown hills romp roundly, up
and down,
And fat, white clouds dapple the rippling
miles
With great deep-colored shadows.
And of love:
Be still, my heart,
Lapped in the radiant, ultimate light that gleams
In our attained east. Be still, my heart.
Cease in this farthest hour nor stir again.
All ways are retrogression, and the pain
That lies at beauty’s core is gone awhile
And change lies bound in sleep.
It is sensitive verse in the main lyric
tradition It is companionable. It has
fire, sweetness, grace and sometimes a
high beauty, as in the lament “Three Tall
Ships”:—
They are the last, those tall ships of men
Made for God’s winds to drive to strange far
lands.
And what of joy and grief have they not
known?
Of past they have so much, of future none,
Save in the clangor of the break-up yard
Where men bring bar and hammer to destroy
Their grave, unwanted beauty.
The minor poet is not a poet who has
failed to be a major poet. He —or she —
has a place, a scale and a value of his
own. If is a matter not of success but
of dimension. A major poet proves no-
thing, for genius is outside the common
law. The minor poets are the bread of
poetry. To them we must look to keep
it alive so that it shall not become like
the sailing ships, “a glory passing from
the world of men.” It behoves us then
to keep them alive.
MARJORIE BARNARD.
The Very First
Petrol-driven
Motor-car
On a bright
spring morning in
1885 anyone who
peeped over the
back fence of
the small gas-
engine factory
in Mannheim, Germany, would have
seen a little group of workmen and one
woman surrounding the strangest-look-
ing tricycle the world had ever seen. It
had a clumsy-looking engine mounted
over the back axle, to which it was
geared by chains and belts, a soapbox
for a seat, and a short lever attached to
a vertical pillar for steering. A man
climbs on to the soapbox. The engine is
started with much spluttering and pop-
ping. The contraption won’t move until
it is given a sturdy push from behind.
Then it careers round and round the
yard, while workmen cheer and the wife
of the man on the box claps her hands
with joy. A tremendous thing has hap-
pened to the world. The first automobile
driven by an internal combustion engine
has come to life.
The man on the soapbax was Karl
Benz. The contraption he drove em-
bodied several features that were to be
inherited by its descendants even to the
present day and generation. It had
poppet valves, was water-cooled, had
electric ignition, a carburettor with a
float, and differential gearing. This last
feature was not original—J. K. Starley
had patented it for tricycles eight years
previously—but the rest of the design
originated in the mind of Benz.
On these facts St. John C. Nixon in
The Invention of the Automobile
(Country Life Press; 7s. 6d.) awards the
{Continued on page 4.)


“ Truth in Advertising”
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
ENJOY FRESH FOOD
THIS SUMMER
jr
1
> '
To those country people who have been
denied the pleasure of food and drinks
off the ice—science offers this simple
solution—Anthony Horderns' "Selfreezer
m. - i
Even on the hottest days, food will,be
delightfully appetising, allowing the
housewife always to serve, enjoyable meals
dishes to tempt the most jaded
appetites.
m
m
i
<c
¥s*
i 11
5:
m
&
tm
r-~.
%
II
i 1
1
sr/:.
-Si:
“The Senior Store”
There is a
container
for making
14 Ice Cubes
Ah
ANTHONY HORDERNS
NEW MOD EL.IMPROVED
ATTRACTIVE AND HYGIENIC. —The handsome cabinet is made by Anthony
Horderns 7 AND IT IS MADE TO LAST. The interior of porcelain enamel is
most efficiently designed with rounded corners, adding to its hygienic cleanli-
ness as well as its appearance.
CAPACITY. —The ample storage space is 24in. long x 18in. wide x 19in. deep.
Removable wire trays add to the effectiveness of the interior, which will contain
eggs, milk and other necessities, as well as a whole carcass of mutton cut into
joints, and half a box of butter.
DRY COLD. The "dry" cold is exceedingly
effective, and will keep all food crisp, fresh and
appetising. "Dry" cold maintains the wholesome
health-giving properties as well as the original flavour.
Easy Terms can be arranged.
Ask for the easy terms on which a "Selfreezer"
Refrigerator may be obtained.
FURTHER DETAILS WILL BE SENT ON REQUEST.
"SELFREEZER"
SEMI - AUTOMATIC
REFRIGERATOR
£49'io-
Including Packing in specially made cases and delivery
to boat or rail.
• Furniture—Third Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.
SIMPLE
No complicated mechanism—a child could work it. There
is nothing to get out of order. Only two minutes' personal
attention is required each day.
ECONOMICAL
Considering the benefits and comforts derived from the
"Selfreezer," the cost of its upkeep is surprisingly
economical. It can be kept in perfect working order at
the cost of one pint of kerosene per day. With care
it will last indefinitely.
FOOD SAVING
COVERS THE COST
Many harassed housewives often find it necessary to
throw away food that perishes rapidly in the hot weather,
but with the installation of the "Selfreezer" it will be
found that the saving in foodstuffs will substantially
help towards defraying the cost of this useful appliance.
Just think of it! No more oily, rancid butter, sour
milk, or unappetising meat, but in their stead, fresh,
firm butter, icy cold drinks, fresh vegetables and de-
lightful savouries. You can completely disregard the
temperature when thinking of your culinary comfort.
WHAT
LUXURY • I
K\
MM
ICED
DRINKS
What is more delightful
during hot, tiring weather
than an iced drink?
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


ANOTHER SPLENDID AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
First Instalment
in
Next Week’s “Bulletin”
“I SOLD MY HORSES”
by Eric Lowe
Another fine novel from the 1936 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize entries.
It deals in greater detail with a period in the Australian scene passed over
rapidly in “ALL THAT SWAGGER”—from 1902 to 1919. There are
chapters devoted to experiences at a college; the pastoral life; the
growth of country towns with the coming of the railway ; the movement
for closer settlement; anti-German feeling during the war years ; the
attempts to secure conscription ; the campaign in Palestine.
A WORTHY SUCCESSOR TO MILES FRANKLIN’S GREAT SERIAL
IN 10-PAGE INSTALMENTS
Beginning in Next Week’s “Bulletin.”
honor of inventing the motor-car to
Benz. To Gottlieb Daimler, who had
attached an internal combustion motor
to a bicycle in the same year as Benz
tested his three-wheeled car (but there is
no evidence that Daimler’s motor-cycle
ever moted) belongs the credit for de-
veloping the automobile to the stage at
which the vehicle made an effective
appeal to the public. Benz, after his
initial great effort of originality, closed
his mind. Daimler kept his open, and
though Daimler died in 1900, just on
the threshhold of the motor age, and
Benz survived till 1929, three years after
the Daimler and Benz organisations had
amalgamated, Daimler did more to push
the great idea to fruition than Benz did.
The line of the Daimler car’s descent
lies through the Mercedes, now the Mer-
cedes-Benz. The name came from Mer-
cedes Jellinek, daughter of a millionaire
pioneer motorist and an early director
of Daimler Motoren Gesellschaft. Jel-
linek reckoned the cars wouldn’t sell in
France if they had so Teutonic a name
as Daimler attached to them. The ob-
jection didn’t apply to broadminded
Britain. The English co. that took over
the Daimler rights retained the name,
and Edward VII. had a fleet of Daimlers.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
DEATH COMES TO REPUBLICANS
Death Is So Fair, by Louis Lynch
D’Alton (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.), is a story
of “the troubles” in Ireland. The writer
suggests that, after the first few days of
enthusiasm, many of the Republicans
grew sick and tired of the rising. Their
morale was maintained by a comparative
few who gravitated to posts of leadership
as platoon and company commanders,
men of relentless purpose and very tough
fibre indeed —the Republican militant
minority directed and driven by a
minority within itself.
The leading characters of D’Alton’s
book are Considine, who abandons his
intention of entering the priesthood to
serve the Republican cause, and Kil-
foyle, destined to be his commander in
County Galway, who warns him of what
to expect. Kilfoyle, as a study, is the
achievement of the book. A realist,
utterly ruthless, he knows that the basis
of Considine’s decision is emotional, and
tells him he will be a failure as a rebel.
A failure Considine is. An ambush of
Black and Tans is planned ; it misfires
through one of the men, Daly, not carry-
ing out an order. Daly is tried for his
life. Considine, wearied of bloodshed,
defends him, his reasons being as emo-
tionally based as those which carried
him into the Republican ranks. The
others, equally wearied of killing, acquit
Daly. At that moment Kilfoyle, the
new commander, steps out from the
darkness from where he has been watch-
ing. “Finished?” he says. “Comedy all
over? Ambush without fighting—courts-
martial without tears! Spectacular and
safe! A nice gang of play-acting fools,
aren’t you?” And he shoots Daly.
A man thought to have been a spy
has been shot on Considine’s evidence.
It turns out that he was innocent, and
Considine is stricken with remorse. Kil-
foyle’s grimly nonchalant “Mistakes
are bound to happen” fails to console
him. While he is dallying with a col-
leen, his brother is killed ; and that, for
him, is the beginning of the end.
Actually, the love story is the weak
point of the book. Norah Hogan is a
well-drawn character, but she gets in the
way of the straight line of the author's
intention, which is to show the breaking
down of Considine’s nerve. She is an in-
truder. Considine, so sated with the
spectacle of killing that his only escape
from it is to seek death himself by sur-
rendering to the Black and Tans, would,
on the author’s evidence as to his charac-
ter, have done so even had there been
no Norah.
Another recent novel along much the
same lines —but without a Norah —is
Ugly Brew, by Jake Wynne ; it is more
in the tradition of Liam O’Flaherty’s
The Informer.
* * * *
VOICES OF ISRAEL
The Brothers Ashkenazi, by I. J.
Singer, translated from the Yiddish by
Maurice Samuel (Putnam; Angus and
Robertson ; Bs. 6d.), will probably come
to be recognised as a work of true dis-
tinction and a valuable contribution to
modern literature. It is a major effort
both in bulk —about 750 pages—and in
scope. The scene of the story is Russian
Poland; the time span, from just after
the Napoleonic wars until the Russian
revolution.
The story begins with the trek into
Poland, under Government auspices, of
German weavers, their hand-looms and
household goods borne on ox-wagons
and handcarts. It ends with the flight
over the roads leading out of Poland of
dispossessed Jewish industrialists and
their workpeople when, the Russian
markets being closed to Poland, they, the
alien minority, are made the scapegoats
of bad times.
The picture of the Jew as scapegoat
may be said to be the only propagandist
feature of a book remarkable, on the
whole, for its absence of race-conscious-
ness ; that is, of superficial or false
racial consciousness. For the author
achieves the deeper and more re-
vealing understanding of race when
he loses himself in his story and speaks
—not as Jew to Gentile, but as Jew
to Jew—of known and familiar things.
He presents, together with appealing
human drama and a graphic account of
the rise of industrialism during the
twentieth century, an interesting picture
of Judaism in its religious, cultural and
family aspects. Because of this and be-
cause of the number of characters of
many classes and varying degrees of
human worth, drawn well and with no
apparent intention other than to reveal
Jewish humanity to itself, it offers an
excellent study to Judaphobe and Juda-
phile alike.
The story traces the history of the two
Ashkenazi brothers from the time when
they are little lads with earlocks and
ritual fringes to their gaberdines. Simcha
Meyer —later calling himself Max—is of
Shylockian character and low-comedy
appearance. In boyhood and manhood,
frail, diminutive, unpleasing and shut out
from the pleasures of fellowship by his
own resentment toward the better
favored, but brainy, he sets out to
avenge himself on mankind for the acts
of God. He will acquire money and
power and the world will pay grovelling
homage to Simcha Meyer.
He succeeds. Father, acquaintances,
parents-in-law are sacrificed to that am-
bition, each after his weaknesses have
been studied and his downfall planned.
Simcha sacrifices himself to it, although
he doesn’t realise this. The. thorn in his
flesh, the source of enduring chagrin, is
that Yacob Bunim, the handsome brother
whom he hated from childhood and
whom he sets himself to outstrip, keeps
pace with him in material success, largely
through the favor of women.
In early manhood, Simcha Meyer, as
a result of parsimony, usury and the
coldblooded exploitation of an over-
amiable father-in-law —in love with a
handsome, spendthrift wife —achieves his
first important success.. His hour of
gloating is spoilt by learning that Yacob
Bunim, too, has risen in the world by
simple reason of a rich man’s daughter
falling in love with him. Simcha’s one
triumph, an empty one, is in getting
Dinah —later Diana —the girl of Yacob’s
first fancy. It was a matter of parental
arrangement—and against the girl’s
wishes.
Yacob always outdistances him. When
the brothers are caught by a Jew-baiting
mob and ordered to dance naked and
yell “To hell .with the Yids,” it is
Simcha who complies and Yacob who
has the daring to refuse. When Simcha,
by this time an industrialist of the first
magnitude, is thrown into prison at
Petrograd, it is Yacob who bluffs and
bribes his way through and rescues him
in an extremity bordering on insanity.
More broadly, the story takes in all
those whose lives have a bearing on
those of the brothers. Through these
are caught glimpses of many things:
Rabbinical authority, the Talmudic
scholars, apostate and Chasidim, the
hatreds that divide Polish, Lithuanian
and Muscovite Jews, the patriarchal
household, as in that of Reb Kalman,
“where even the oldest sons, themselves
grandfathers, were as obedient and timid
as the youngest child admitted to the
foot of the table.” Reb Noske is the
mystic, the ritualist, forfeiting this world
in the hope of the next. Nissan, his
son, in passionate revolt, is the rational-
ist, the apostate, the agitator. Through
him are seen the conditions of the work-
people at a time when the workman
kissed the master’s hand each morning,
when weavers worked 16 hours a day
and provided their own candles for night
work.
Miron Markovitch is the universal
betrayer who, at the instigation of
Simcha, the master, sells Nissan into exile
and, years later, sells Simcha to the Rus-
sian authorities. German Huntze’s sons,
whose dissipations are financed by
Simcha, are the Gentile profligates who
sell their father’s honor and their own
heritage to the Jew. Bashke, who dies
at the barricade for love of a liberty that
she can apprehend only through her love
for her father and for Nissan, is another
aspect of race and of humanity. These
are but a few of the many characters,
amusing or tragic, and sometimes both,
whose lives are followed to where they
disappear beyond the framework of the
author’s story.
The Ashkenazi Brothers has, natur-
ally, the limitations of its qualities ; its
appeal is intellectual, rather than emo-
tional. It has neither the lyrical over-
tones of a Kristin Lavransdatter nor the
poignant tragedy of a Richard Mahony
—to choose convenient instances but not
to attempt an assessment of comparative
merits. Its chapters are like blocks of
stone hoisted into place in a structure
that, finished, has the imposing solidity
of a national building. If it has a fault
it is in a tendency, in those places where
the author feels broad treatment to be
necessary, to abandon the implicit for
the explicit statement; always risky in
creative literature.
* * * *
BY ONE WHO SHOULD KNOW
In the preface to his novel Star Turn
(Chatto and Windus ; 7s. 6d.), Rene Clair,
the French film producer, makes some
interesting remarks:
People are sometimes astonished at the
mediocrity of motion-pictures. But to
anyone who knows how films are produced
what seems fairly inexplicable is that works
of value do appear from time to time
The cinema’s reason for existing is to seat
a given number of persons of both sexes in
so many rows of stalls... .There is not an
author, a director or an actor in the film
world who is not subject absolutely to the
verdict of the box-office.
The book itself is a satire on the mega-
lomania of a screen actor who has him-
self cast for the title-role in a film called
“God.” By means of special mechanism
it is projected on the night sky and can
be seen from every part of the globe. Its
success is enormous, and is exploited by
the popular press and by commercialism
under the name of Religions, Inc. If the
subject were fresh the treatment would
be scathing, but, in the circumstances,
Clair is belaboring asses so dead that
everyone has become accustomed to the
smell.
* * * *
RECOMMENDED
Novels: The Brothers Ashkenazi, I. J.
Singer (Putman); An Ordinary Life,
Karel Capek (Allen and Unwin); Tare
Harvest, Eleanor Peters (Cape); The
White Hare, Francis Stuart (Collins);
Heyday in the Blood, Geraint Goodwin
(Cape); Education Before Verdun,
Arnold Zweig (Martin Seeker). Travel:
News from Tart ary, Peter Fleming
(Cape); Sky Pilot's Last Flight, K. Lang-
ford Smith (Angus and Robertson).
Biography : Sherston’s Progress, Sieg-
fried Sassoon (Faber and Faber).
Poetry: Tom Groggin and Other Verse,
Mary Lang (Dent).
F. D. D.
Reviewed Briefly .
FICTION . . .
Scotch Mist: Dorothy Lambert
(Collins ; 7s. 6d.). Lord’s daughter re-
duced to interior decorating takes holi-
day in Scottish manor converted into
pub and falls in love with the laird-pro-
prietor. Coincidently a young sister con-
ducts a flirtation with an awful boundah.
They all talk incessantly and go chasing
all over the countryside in swift, power-
ful Rolls-Royces, Hispano-Suizas and
lsotta-Fraschinis. Nothing much happens.
Eagles Restrained: Brian Tunstall
(Allen and Unwin ; 7s. 6d.). A story of
1954. Hero is an officer of the League
of Nations’ International Police and
takes part in a police campaign to stop
a war between Gerrfiany and Poland.
Weird new drugs, a colony of insane
addicts, terrible combats in the blue and
a great deal of bombing and besieging
are described. The I.P. make all sorts
of bloomers, but finally impose peace on
the belligerents. Moral seems to be that
the only sort of League of Nations that
will work is one that includes all the
Great Powers, has strong claws, and is
run by a permanent executive em-
powered to make quick decisions.
My Man Godfrey : Eric Hatch (Arthur
Barker ; 7s. 6d.). Hatch is the American
Wodehouse. Irene Bullock, beautiful, of
Amazonian proportions, and quite cap-
able of sitting in the gutter and telling
her woes to the world after the twenty-
first cocktail, introduces to her parents’
home as butler a beautiful young man
whom she discovers down and out, liv-
ing in a packing case. He becomes a
sort of guardian angel to a family that
sorely needs one, and near the end it
comes out that he’s one of Boston’s blue-
bloods, reduced through a disastrous
marriage. The happy ending is that he
becomes a head waiter and marries his
Irene. The flow of breezy humor is un-
restrained, all the characters, even poor
dumb Irene, being able to swing some
nifty wisecracks.
GENERAL . . .
Our Two Englands: J. L. Hodson
(Michael Joseph; 10s. 6d. net), is a
series of scrappy impressions gathered
by the author during brief sojourns in
dozens of differing localities. He chats
with the people, goes on pleasure excur-
sions, visits factories and dockyards,
looks at pigs in farmyards. In Suffolk,
Norfolk, Lincoln, Cumberland, York-
shire, Lancashire, Wales, Devon, Corn-
wall and Scotland he runs against the
unemployment problem. Cumulatively
the picture presented is overwhelmingly
tragic. Again and again Hodson finds
working-class folk with no hope in the
future save the prospect of “another
war.” Labor-saving machinery, the
Gandhi movement in India, the competi-
tion of Japan in the pottery and textile
trades have combined to put British
men and women out of work. It is com-
forting to reflect that matters have
brightened up a bit since Hodson went
his rounds.
And Far from Home: T. E. A. Healy
(Michael Joseph ; 12s. 6d. net), contains
some reminiscences from the pen of a
Melbourne journalist who, out of a job,
went to Broome and 'planted a rag there,
and later lived in Darwin as representa-
tive of Sydney “Telegraph” and other
papers. There is nothing in his ex-
periences to cause The Bulletin’s eyes
to grow round with astonishment, but
Healy has a ready pen, discusses such
matters as the abo. problem in a level-
headed way, and depicts the little ways
of the north and nor’-west with pic-
turesque vigor.
Scottish Eccentrics: Hugh Mac-
Diarmid (Routledge; 15s. net), covers
the careers of Lord George Gordon (of
the riots), Macpherson (of “Ossian”
fame), Sir Thomas Urquhart (translator
of Rabelais), Prof. John Wilson (“Chris-
topher North”), McGonagall (a writer
of doggerel), William Berry (cutter of
intaglios), Lord Monboddo (metaphysi-
cian) and others—a humorless lot, but
Mac Diarmid detests humor. Best parts
of this incurably garrulous book are its
digressions and asides which deal with
every Scot of literary note from the
Gaelic bards down to R. L. Stevenson.


mm
CLrndJis
LLrinq;
Dear Sirs,
I am sending you a photograph
of our baby son Graham, age 7
months. He has been fed on
Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
since he was three months old, and
people remark what a big, healthy
baby he is—thanks- to Arnott’s
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits.
I am, yours faithfully,
Mrs. E. BARBER,
166 Jllawarra Road,
Marrickville.
Arnott’s
contribution to
the Road Safety
Week campaign.
V '
.
mm
wmm
m


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
tgaßiag««ii
.
as*
m
iam
OB
m
m
m
mmm
h'
■
is
:
t
■
/a
mmm
m
■
A
#■
■
U
m.
wm
m
*%*
mm
■ S' S
m
m
#
■
w
m
V,.
■ : ..
*'S
: H
m
y*
r.i
..
■
i
.
M
m
■
- m
■
u
/♦.
■
■
mm
: *M
■
ill
£K
«iT
gr
JH
■ n
i I
■
#dv-
a a
■
■
H§
«v.
Hub
BMPfI
......,_dlSs
*
11
■
Ss
ii
liiil
:S««
111
Ml
:i§
pm
■
: ft
rS: s,
r ; v
mm
* » , -.-V * >- ' :r
Aerial View of Seppeltsfield , Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.
j 4 tfblt H'me cf-ia/ie mettcimeMandlvuq/uet


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2959.
October 28, 1936.
POSITIVELY HIS LAST APPEARANCE—UNTIL HIS NEXT.
“The reopening of the N.S.W. Parliament saw Mr. Lang in his old part, with Mr. Lazzarini, a member of his company for many years, giving him ‘the bird' from the wings."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
§ Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
outh Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zbaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
"TO IMPLEMENT MARKETING
SCHEMES."
In the latter part of the nineteenth century the develop-
ment of the Australian communities into a nation was
arrested by bitter interprovincial jealousies, which took
such forms as border customs houses and railway
rate-books designed to steal trade. The minds of
men in that generation were vexed with the thought of
civil war —when the Federal movement got fairly
started Antietam and Gettysburg were more recent
memories than first Marne and first Somme are to us —
and there were direful predictions that N. S. Wales
and Victoria would some day refer their quarrels to
the sword. It was to avert such possibilities and make
the Australians nation-conscious, as well as to confer
great practical benefits on them, that the fathers of
Federation wrote Section 92 into their draft Con-
stitution.
On the imposition of uniform duties of customs,
trade, commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean naviga-
tion, shall be absolutely free.
The words, repeated from a thousand platforms,
inspired a passionate enthusiasm for the coming
Commonwealth, and they moved John Quick, after-
wards member for Bendigo, and Robert Randolph
Garran, who was to become Solicitor-General, to write
an eloquent passage in their “Commentaries” on
“inter-State trade and commerce protected by the
shield of Federal freedom.”
In order to secure that object, the strongest possible
words have been used. Nothing has been left to
implication
Absolute freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse
may be defined as the right to introduce goods, wares
and merchandise from one State into another, the right
to sell the same, and the right to travel unburdened
by State restrictions, regulations or obstructions. Free-
dom of trade necessarily means the right to sell as well
as the right to introduce and the right to travel in order
to sell. The right of introduction without the right of
disposition would reduce freedom of trade to an empty
name.
The “Commentaries” were published in 1901,
What a fall there has been since! In the last few
years we have seen the “right to travel” burdened by
“State restrictions and regulations” in attempts to
preserve the vested interests of State Government rail-
way employees, and to make State Government rail-
ways pay—which they never do. Now, if the
Government at Canberra has its way, “the right to
sell” will go, as well as “the right to travel in order
to sell,” and “freedom of trade” will be reduced “to
an empty name.”
Enter Mr. Menzies with his “amendment.”
92a.—The provisions of the last preceding section
shall not apply to laws with respect to marketing made
by the Parliament in the exercise of any powers vested
in the Parliament by this Constitution.
.The object, according to Mr. Menzies and the
Sydney “Morning Herald,” is “to implement market-
ing schemes.” What “marketing schemes”? At
present chiefly the arrangements for the “control”
of butter and dried fruits, which arrangements were
alleged to have been smashed by the Privy Council
judgment declaring that Section 92 means what it
says (actually, they are still in being, the predicted
chaos not having arrived). But, of course, other
“marketing schemes” are proposed, and will be
“implemented” if political schemers can induce the
people to surrender the power which they acquired
under the Constitution, and on the strength of which
the State separated from the mainland by Bass Strait
and the State remotest from the great centres of
population came into the Commonwealth.
It is acknowledged that the woolgrowers want
none of these “marketing schemes.” The industries
which do, or whose loudest sections say they do, are
all protected, and the protection is maintained even
when, as has lately been the case with potatoes, retail
prices soar to fantastic heights. And many of them
are or have been bounty-fed. The Australian people
have even uncomplainingly submitted to a bread tax
to help the wheatgrowers. But when they are invited
to emasculate the inter-State freetrade section “to
implement marketing schemes,” they may well feel
that the sacrifice is too great.
Keeping the argument on the low plane to which
the Government has brought it, what can the con-
sumer ever get out of “marketing schemes”? Nothing
but a clutching hand in his pocket. “Marketing
schemes” aim at making him pay the losses on exports
of the commodities covered by the “schemes,” with as
much added as schemers choose to extract. The
central idea is that it doesn’t really matter if you sell
cheap in the British market, provided you can sell dear
in the Australian market by means of “marketing
schemes.”
The Constitution requires amendment. Australia
has too many politicians, departments, industrial tribu-
nals, boards and commissions, the
excrescences have to be nourished —too many taxes.
In the legislative and administrative fields there is a
great deal of overlapping, and things necessary to the
well-being of the nation are badly done or not done
at all. Many Australians would vote for a complete
separation of Commonwealth and State powers and
for the placing of education, industry and all forms
of transport under national control. Many people
even in the dissatisfied States would give the Com-
monwealth full trade and commerce powers, and
chance “orderly marketing” and “home-consumption
prices,” if they were guaranteed against being shut
out of the N. S. Wales, Victorian and Queensland
markets, and if their local governments were put in
the way of making ends meet. But they will not part
with inter-State freetrade merely “to implement
marketing schemes.”
Can Federal Labor Win?
Can Labor win next year’s Commonwealth elections?
The question is increasingly asked as more and more
people grow sick of the unctuous self-satisfaction of
the Holey Alliance and become convinced that it has
no policy other than what seems expedient at the
moment. The Holey Alliance stands for nothing more
inspiring than what it calls “orderly marketing” and
“home-consumption prices,” expedients dictated by
the U.C.P. and insincerely accepted by the U.A.P.
When it hears some Briton or group of Britons calling,
it invariably goes at the knees anql becomes a collec-
tion of Yes-men: “Yes, Mr. Eden”; “Yes, Mr.
Baldwin” ; “Yes, Mr. Neville Chamberlain” ; “By all
means, gentlemen of the Manchester Chamber of
Commerce.”
It will be exceedingly difficult for Labor to get
a majority in the Senate. The party has only three
members in that House, and all three go up for
re-election next year. Actually, if the composition
of the Senate remains as at present, 19 seats will be
contested—there are, of course, 36 Senators.
It will be possible for Labor to win the whole
19 seats —possible, but not probable, though it has
been done before. Successes in some of the States are
certain, but Labor will probably remain in the minority
when the Senators to be selected next year take the
seats, which will not be until July 1, 1938.
But it is by no means impossible for Mr. Curtin
to become leader of the House of Representatives.
His party now has 27 of the 74 seats, and holds nearly
all of them strongly. The one apparent exception is
Bass (Tas.), which two years ago was wrested by Mr.
H. C. Barnard from Mr. J. A. Guy, then one of Mr.
Lyons’s Ministers, by a majority of 166 in a poll of
23,802. Not much of an advantage, certainly. Never-
theless, Mr. Barnard has proved himself an active
member and a pertinacious critic, and the indications
are that with an energetic State Government in office
Tas. Labor has gained ground since 1934. So Bass
will very likely be retained.
* No other Labor electorate seems at all doubtful.
For one reason and another Messrs. Blackburn and
Garden have fallen out with their party organisations,
but whether they stand again or not (the disappearance
of Mr. Garden would, of course, remove a handicap
to the party) their constituencies cannot be lost to
the other side. Bourke (Vic.) and Cook (N.S.W.) are
as safe as houses.
Of the 11 seats required to give Mr. Curtin a
majority, N. S. Wales may be reasonably expected to
furnish at least five. Barton turned only because
of the now-exploded Mr. Lang ; and it would be the
wildest extravagance of eulogy to call Mr. Lane, the
U.A.P. member, a strong man. Two years ago he
failed of a majority on the first count, and after the
fourth his advantage, 4304 in 1931, had fallen to 1506
—in a poll of 52,522. With no elderly Langster to
beat next time, Mr. Lane will go.
Macquarie is another semi-industrial electorate
which is normally Labor. Young Mr. Lawson has
been its member since 1931, but only because of the
faction fight which has now ceased to divide Federal
Labor; in 1931 and 1934 the votes polled for his
two Labor opponents were greater than his. In 1931
he ended with 19,980 to ex-Minister Chifley’s 19,524;
in 1934, at the end of the third count, he had 22,405,
Luchetti (Lang Labor) 15,163 and Chifley 11,037. In
the end he got 3529 of Chifley’s preferences, but that
kind of thing won’t happen again.
Mr. Aubrey Abbott, the member for Gwydir, has
also been advantaged at two elections by faction
fighting among his opponents. His majority last time
over two Labor candidates was 2517, the number of
effective votes being 49,941. Whether he goes to
the Northern Territory or not, Gwydir is reckoned
as good as gone ; and it is already evident that Minister
Thorby is going to be hard pressed in Calare. The
late Neville Howse won Calare from a Labor man,
Mr. Lavelle, and held the seat for seven years; but Mr.
Thorby is far from being as popular as Neville Howse
was. His 1934 majority was 3889 in a poll of 49,153.
Other N.S.W. electorates which have been Labor,
and some of which may conceivably return to their
old allegiance, are Hume, Parkes, Wentworth, Eden-
Monaro and Watson —which was Labor for 25 years
when known as South Sydney, though it has been
altered somewhat since.
In Victoria and Westralia there have been belated
boundary alterations which will take effect next year.
The only result in Westralia may be that Mr. Nairn
(U.A.P.) will find Perth more difficult; but in Victoria
the changes will almost certainly benefit the Opposi-
tion: there several U.A.P. seats are held on very
uncertain tenures. In Ballarat, with 40,333 ele f*or=>
voting in 1934, Mr. Fiskm’s majority was 31bV-
Except for a slight interruption in 1919-20, Ballarat
was Labor for 16 years (1913-1929). In Bendigo Mr.
E. F. Harrison’s 1931 majority of 7543 slumped to
1305 two years ago, when 42,061 persons marked
ballot-papers correctly. Not a few members could
be better spared than Mr. E. F. Harrison, but the
odds are now against him. Corangamite, Cono, men,
Flinders and Wannon are other Victorian electorates
which have had Labor members and may have Labor
members again.
South Australia had its redistribution of seats
before the last election and was deprived of Angas.
Since Charles Cameron Kingston died in 1908 Adel-
aide has been Labor most of the time, ex i c^P tl °” s
being 1919-21 and the period since 1931. In 1934 the
party put up a man identified with the attempt o
establish a Lang Labor party in S.A. Largely tor that
reason, Mr. Stacey won again. Partly because ot
Mr. Butler and his five-year Parliament, Mr. Stacey
is very unlikely to have a third win. Of the remaining
S.A. electorates, Labor has held Boothby and Grey.
In Queensland one change is expected: the substi-
tution of a Labor member for Minister Hunter in
Maranoa. Mr. Hunter has been Maranoa’s member
since 1921, but his majority has seldom been more
than a thousand or so. In 1931 it was 1159 ; in 1934,
with an Independent standing as well as a Labor man,
it Was 1761, the number of votes counted being 48,095.
Mr. Hunter has always depended on graziers to put
him in, and he has offended so many of them by
meekly supporting his Government’s trade-war policy
that in 1937 his former saviors won’t bother.
Abject in its relations with Britain, inert in the
presence of unsolved Australian problems, inconsistent,
utterly commonplace, yet puffed up with a fatuous
pride, the Government at Canberra has got on the
country’s nerves. Its only chance of survival will lie
in the saddening belief that it is the lesser of two
calamities.
A Big Landowner at Work.
The State of Queensland is one of the world’s biggest
landowners. It controls 429,129,000 acres, of which
only 6} per cent, has been alienated or is in process
of alienation from the Crown. It has still about
47,000,000 acres unoccupied, though it is largely rough
country in Cape York Peninsula and far-west sand.
Of £18,655,000 worth of direct overseas exports
from the State last year, farm and station produce
accounted for £16,922,000.
Till 17 years ago, landholders, especially those
who held Crown land on lease, lived in a welter of
uncertainty, harassed by Land Act “amendments” and
retroactive exactions.
That day has gone. Queensland has virtually
removed its land policy from politics. Recent
reports of the Land Administration Board show it in
the light of a smoothly working machine which leaves
red-tape off its order list.
Queensland is passing through a bitter period of
drought which, because of the uneven price of wool
and the cumulative effects of taxation and depression,
was worse to cope with than that of 1902. But the
board tackled the situation efficiently. In some districts
sheep rents were reduced 25 p.c. And,
without any formality or lengthy procedure, leases
were extended and tenures adjusted on 308,000,000 acres.
More than that, the board recognises the difficulty
of keeping up the flow of capital for developmental
work on leasehold lands, and is prompt in giving
security of tenure and specialised conditions to any
grazier ready to spend money on improving carrying
capacity.
Among last year’s instances was that of a
grazier who was “unable to develop the inherent
quality of his holding” because of the “short
term of his lease and the danger of resump-
tion rights being exercised.” On seeing his
plans the board granted an extension of the lease,
waived its resumption rights and deferred the rent
for 20 years. In a few years the carrying capacity of
thd land has been doubled; the State is getting more
ip taxation than it would have done in rent, and
neighboring landholders who have been struggling
along grumbling at the poorness of the country and
the blowfly have been set a good example.
At Thargomindah a couple of years ago only
three buildings and a huddle of unemployed were
left. There were no sheep. To-day there are 80,000
sheep: the district sent away 2000 bales of wool last
year, and will double it within the next year or two.
Thargomindah is being rebuilt, and it has been found
necessary to import men.
In other districts improvement loans have been
granted which found work for a total of 17,342 men at
periods during last year.
Road-building has been vigorously pushed.
Luxuriant fastnesses at the back of Mackay and in
other rich northern scrub districts have been opened
up by means of highways in advance of settlement.
Ip the prickly-pear country only marginal areas
carry traces of the pest. Thousands of settlers have
been placed on land on which even the goannas were
full of prickles a decade ago. The latter-day history
of towns in the once-blighted area is a record of new
buildings, new population and inflowing capital. At
Boonarga they have built a hall as a memorial to
Cactoblastis on a spot once thick with pear and death-
adders. . ....
There are, of course, matters in which there is
room for improvement. Forestry in particular. The
reafforestation area in Queensland is all too smali,
and there are no tree-planning schemes in western
districts which need them most. But, on the whole,
the board is doing splendid work for Queensland and
for Australia.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Where There Is No Tuning-in.
There seems to be an impression that A. M. Blain, the
voteless member for the Northern Territory, scotched
the proposed appointment of Abbott, M.H.R.,
as N.T. Administrator —neither admitted nor denied
by the Government —by advancing the following
argument against it, among others:
For months the member for Gwydir has been the
mouthpiece of a group which has been trying to
borrow a large sum of money from the Government to
forward a scheme on the Barkly Tableland for its own
profit.
It would certainly have been enough to scotch
the thing in other years. But nowadays Governments
—not the Canberra one merely—have more
“advanced” views.
Blackburn, M.H.R., put a fair question to the
Prime Minister:
Does any member of his Cabinet hold a director-
ship in any company or corporation?
The reply was: —-
No reason can be seen why information of this
personal character should be supplied.
Mr. Blackburn gave him reasons:
Mr. Gladstone declared that no director of a public
company ought to be a member of a Cabinet. That
rule was strictly enforced by the Campbell-Bannerman
Ministry We live in an age in which government
and business are closely associated, and the public is
entitled to know the business interests of members of
the Cabinet.
An unanswerable contention. Nevertheless, one
of Mr. Lyons’s Ministers, Postmaster-General Mc-
Lachlan, has for years been a director of two public
companies—Hume Pipe and Hume Steel —which are
apt to benefit when there is brisk loan expenditure
on works, such as is going on now.
This is one of the matters in which Mr. McLach-
lan’s Government does not “tune-in to Britain.”
"A Loss of £117,751."
The Queensland Railway Department’s report to
Parliament records a loss in 1935-36 of £117,751,
compared with a “profit” of £494,521 in the previous
year.
The accounts show some peculiar movements.
Receipts were down £503,000. Employees increased
by 248 and wages by £120,000. Receipts per train
mile went down 3-|-d. ; expenses went up 6Jd. The
refreshment-rooms —which sell spirituous and fer-
mented —took £1946 more over the counter, but
expenses went up £6922.
A few years ago Parliament determined to
improve the railway position by “writing off”
£28,000,000 of the capitalisation. This relieves the
department of a great deal of its debt-interest liability,
but does not take one penny off the cost to the tax-
payers.
The department is given the full benefit of reduced
interest rates following the big conversion in Aus-
tralia and the operations of the High Commissioner
in London. It is charged nothing for exchange on
remittances abroad in respect of interest on railway
debt, and nothing for sinking fund. These two items
represent over half a million pounds per annum. The
railway accounts are not even debited with the salary
of the Commissioner —the Treasury pays that, as well
as interest on the £28,000,000 “written off” and sinking
funds and exchange.
The total cost of the State public debt in 1935-36
was £6,268,065. In the classification of “loan assets”
the railways account for 52.26 p.c. of the total debt. On
this basis their share of the year’s loan-service charge
was £3,275,701. Net earnings contributed £1,470,646,
leaving a deficiency of £1,805,055.
The difference between the real and the apparent
deficit is what the public pays to have its leg pulled.
Imported Cement and Chemists 1
Shops.
December 1 will be a glad day for British manu-
facturers of Portland cement, for on that day—unless
the Lyons Government changes its mind in the mean-
time —their cement will be admitted to Australia duty-
free. And they can get it carried from Britain to
Australia at rates lower than the charges for the
carriage of Australian-made cement from, say, Bris-
bane to Fremantle. And two groups controlling 60
British cement cos. have been paying 20 p.c. divi-
dends ; and one group is expected by the “Financial
Times” to pay 30 p.c. this year.
The advent of the agent for British cement may
coincide with or be preceded by the establishment
of a chain of chemists’ shops by the enormously
wealthy Boots concern. This intelligence was accom-
panied by amazing U.A.P. press attacks on the
methods of Australian chemists. To outward appear-
ances they are anything but a wealthy class; indeed,
the Australian pharmacist often impresses the casual
observer as a worried person who looks as if he is
having a mortal struggle with the existing variety of
chain store, and is wondering how he is going to
pay his income tax and his next month’s rent.
These threats to the livelihoods of Australian
cement-workers and chemists seem to be effects Of
the descent on Britain of a body of politicians who
pour out cataracts of claptrap concerning the fortunes
to be picked up in Australia by discerning investors.
Their advice is taken by the wrong people.
Are They Good Prices?
As a result of the devaluation of the franc and the
lira —wholly unforeseen by Canberra when it sailed
gaily into its trade war —wool prices have spurted a
bit, and there has been a better turnover. But not
in Westralia, where the need is greatest: of the second
sale of the season at Perth, the “Primary Producer”
reports that “values were irregular, sales were mostly
in favor of buyers, and of 19,214 bales in the cata-
logue only 71 p.c. was sold at auction.” At the third
Adelaide sale the average was 12|d., which was held
to be “excellent” ; but is it? A shade under tenpence
sterling for S.A. wool!
Better results were obtained in Victoria and
Queensland. At Geelong one line fetched 26d., “the
highest price this season.” But last year’s highest price
was From July 1 to September 30 the Aus-
tralian average for greasy was 12.48 d. Australian ; but
the South African average was 10|d. sterling— i.e.,
13d. Australian.
Writing in the “Primary Producer” aforesaid,
Eric Hitchins, a Westralian representative on the
Woolgrowers’ Council, reckons that “3d. a pound has
been lost on all [Australian] wool sold since May,”
the month in which the Whiskard-Gullett tariff was
sprung on the community. It was J. B. Brigden, the
brainy Tasmanian who is head of Queensland’s Bureau
of Industry, that wrote:
Our woolgrowers will not seem to lose much if the
price of wool does not fall. A failure to rise in price
is not nearly as impressive, although the loss is just
as great.
Sheep Are Exported.
No Australian wool is going to Japan, but Australian
sheep are.
The controversy about the export of merino rams
has been revived, and it has now beeii suggested by
a section of the N. S. Wales Graziers’ Association that
the matter be referred to the Tariff Board. The
argument in favor of lifting the embargo is that there
is a surplus of good rams, and that without
external markets breeders cannot keep studs up to
standard. On the other hand, if Australian wool is
not kept up to a standard higher than that of the
rest of the world there might some day be no Aus-
tralian stud breeders at all.
Obviously, overseas buyers want Australian sheep
because Australian sheep are better than their own
and cut more wool. But they will buy on a substantial
scale only until they can build up their own studs to
Australian levels. After that they will merely pick
the eyes out of the market.
Australia, S. Africa and the U.S.A. are the only
countries in the world in which there has not been a
decline in merino-sheep numbers in the last 20 years.
In U.S.A. the reason has lain in the fact of a growing
home demand. In Australia increase in output, has
been due partly to a strong market based on quality
and partly to S. American countries which used to be
competitors going out of the business, because beef
production and other industries have paid them better.
In 1910 Argentina and Uruguay produced
536,000,000 pounds of wool against Australasia’s
510,000,000 pounds. As late as 1915 these S. American
countries had 110,000,000 sheep against Australasia’s
94,500,000. Since then S. American sheep numbers have
fallen 50 p.c., and wool production has gone down
correspondingly, while Australia’s has doubled.
But now that Mr. Gullett has handed the Japanese
market to our rivals on a platter, S. America, as well
as S. Africa, may take woolgrowing very seriously.
These countries have enough market advantages over
us already without our helping to develop competition
against us by supplying them with some of our best
breeding sheep.
"Going Abroad This Year?"
During the 1935-36 financial year N. S. Wales Rail-
way Commissioner Hartigan went abroad, returning
by way of U.S.A. in an American luxury liner; and
he was followed by Transport Commissioner Mad-
docks. Taxpayers would like to know what these
expeditions cost. Evidently the information will not
be furnished unless it is demanded in Parliament;
and politicians who may become trippers themselves
some day have a certain delicacy in these matters.
Auditor-General Spence has a pertinent paragraph
on the subject of commissioners who travel:
The commissioners administering various Govern-
ment activities have been given authority... .to sanction
all classes of expenditure incidental to their management,
without seeking Ministerial or other approval.
By virtue of such authority, they can make or direct
payment to themselves for expenditures on entertain-
ment, travelling expenses and the like, which both in
commercial organisations and in Government services
are usually subject to the control of some higher
authority.
“Accounts,” it seems, are “examined,” and “there
have come under notice various expenditures which
indicate that the powers given to commissioners by
statute may be too wide.” But “it is outside the
province of an auditor to question the actions of a
commissioner” exercising authority or power vested
in him by statute. Again:
The check through audit of expenditures on travelling,
entertainment, social functions and ceremonies and on
personal and other publicity may not prove effective
in that it is made after the expenditure has been made
and cannot therefore prevent extravagance.
“Personal and other publicity” is rich, considering
that the bills are passed on to the public. On the
Government railways alone the public has had to
shoulder losses amounting to £28,178,000 for the ten
years to June 30, 1935, and to that amount it is acknow-
ledged that £698,000 was added in 1935-36 in the
process of what is humorously called “reducing the
deficit.”
Instances of expenditure in 1935-36 reported to the
Treasurer direct attention to what appears to be a
weakness in the system of control of autonomous
bodies created by statute.
Mr. Stevens was “the Treasurer,” and since he
was himself away touring during part of 1935-36 it
is improbable that any attention was given to the
Auditor-General’s representations.
Australians have become familiar with the spec-
tacle of politicians going abroad when it suits them
and presenting huge bills to the public, besides drawing
their salaries for the time when they are not attending
to their duties. In N. S. Wales, it seems, these “rights”
are extended to commissioners, the public being cast
for the part of paying up and shutting up.
"Don't Bother Me!"
Mr. Lyons promised in his 1934 policy speech
that his Government would give special attention to
a policy designed to create employment for Aus-
tralian youth. He undertook to summon a conference
to discuss this question, which all will admit is one
of the gravest national problems of the day.
Mr. Holt, the M.H.R. for Fawkner, who has not
been long enough in the game to lose his enthusiasm
and his belief that policy speeches do or should mean
something, has annoyed the bigwigs by demanding
that the promise be honored.
Mr. Lyons informed him that the matter is
“receiving consideration” —that blessed phrase which
means in political life “Don’t bother me.”
Mr. Lyons’s promise reads:—•
Practical and enlarged efforts to relieve employment,
with particular reference to the needs of youth, will
take precedence over other Commonwealth activities.
A conference with the State Governments will be sum-
moned. Our aim will be to handle the problem upon a
national as well as a State and municipal basis. Instruc-
tions have been given for the assembling of all the
information directly accessible to the Commonwealth.
This information will be supplemented by a swift and
detailed survey of all that has been and is being done
by the States, and in the light of complete information
comprehensive co-operative planning between Common-
wealth and State Governments will follow.
Fine-sounding words these. Sentiments which
do credit to the Right Honorables and Honorables
who repeated them in 1934. But the boys of 16 then
are now 18, many drifting into a condition of unem-
ployability. Nothing has been done for them.
Victoria’s Air Junction.
Air-minded Australia has its eyes on Melbourne, the
junction for ’planes operating west, south and north
services. Transport history is being made there ; next
Monday (November 2) Australian National Airways
takes over Holyman’s and Adelaide Airways.
Route extensions and service co-ordination are
the important achievements of recent Australian
aviation. A.N.A., for example, plans extension of the
Adelaide-Perth service; another Douglas arrives in
November, and a machine of that type will fly from
Adelaide to Perth twice a week.
As recently as 1931 the entire passenger mileage
flown by air transport services in Australia was only
1,781,201 miles for the year. A.N.A. machines operat-
ing between Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart, Adelaide and
Perth will fly approximately 2,000,000 miles_ in the
next 12 months; to that total must be added the air
miles eaten up by Qantas and the smaller feeder
services in the same period.
Even Mr. Dunstan is now persuaded that there
is something in aviation, and that Fishermen’s Bend
deserves more serious consideration.
Anyway, the Vic. Premier says he is only awaiting
some details from Mr. Parkhill before he calls a
conference to discuss forming a trust for building and
controlling an airport at Fishermen’s Bend. Melbourne
and South Melbourne City Councils, the Harbor Trust,
the Board of Works, the Department of Public Works,
the State Electricity Commission and the Civil Aviation
Department will be represented. There is this much
to be said for Mr. Dunstan —that in Mr. Parkhill
he has a most unsatisfactory politician to deal with.
Except where stunters are to be salvaged or some-
thing like that, it is extraordinarily difficult to get
Mr. Parkhill to come to a decision.
"A Necessary Duty."
W. S. Gilbert never invented anything better than
the story of the Sydney traffic policeman told in court
last week.
The constable belongs to the Police Safety Bureau.
He was charged by a chauffeur with having driven
a car in a manner dangerous to the public.
The chauffeur was driving along the Parramatta-
road when, according to his story, a police car cut
in front of his mudguard, missing it by a foot. He
said: —■
If my car had not been in tip-top condition I would
have driven right through the police car.
The constable said that the chauffeur was travel-
ling at a very high rate of speed. The magistrate
found the information proved, but dismissed it on
the ground that the constable had been “performing
a very necessary duty.”
In. a case heard not a month before another
driver of a Police Safety Bureau car was cast in £1750
damages and costs (the State pays both) for having
knocked down and caused the death of a man on
the Prince’s Highway, St. Peters. The charge was
that he had driven the car “negligently and unskil-
fully.”
Most constables are no more safe as drivers than
many private drivers. Police Safety Bureaux could
surely find some way of performing the “necessary
duty” of curbing speed fiends other than pursuing
them at an equal or a greater rate and cutting in in
front of them. It would be much better to set a
speed limit in definite areas and severely punish the
breaker of it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Boreas”: He is one of those punters
who believe in signs and omens, especi-
ally stray words, spoken or written, that
are come across on the morning of a
b'ig race. I met him on the day after
the Caulfield Cup and he was beaming.
“I got the straight tip this time,” he
said; “take it from me it pays to
read every part of the paper.” I asked
for enlightenment, and he produced a
cutting from the previous day’s “Age,”
wherein a few lines from an undistin-
guished poem by Emily Bronte were
quoted. One of them ran:
Cold blows on my breast the north wind’s
bitter sigh.
“Northwind,” he said, “I couldn’t miss
it. Only a few hours before the race,
mind you. And a north wind was blow-
ing at Caulfield when the barrier went
up!”
* * * *
“Mak”: Doctors are rarely sued on the
score of operations; but in Melbourne
last week a doctor was sued, and the
hearing was the more remarkable because
the plaintiff, her counsel and the defend-
ant were women. A waitress sought
£499 damages on the ground that a
medico of her own sex had injured her
throat by removing more tissue than
tonsil. The doctor’s male counsel
secured a nonsuit. The other male prin-
cipal was the Judge.
* * * *
“Adel.”: An Adelaide man has been
sued for ringbarking three big pine-
trees in his neighbor’s garden. His de-
fence was that every year they dropped
on his roof and garden-paths cones
weighing anything up to 101 b. But the
Court called his act “entirely unjustified,”
and awarded the plaintiff £lOO, the
amount by which a land agent estimated
that her property had been depreciated
for selling purposes.
* # * *
“Sach”: When I read the other day
that the engineers on the Strathnaver
walked off the day before she was due to
sail, and insisted on certain grievances
being remedied before they would re-
turn, I was reminded of a similar hap-
pening on the E. and A. steamer Empire
when she was lying at Circular Quay,
Sydney. But that was in- war-time, and
“Billy” Hughes was the P.M. Using his
power under the War Precautions Act he
forbade the banks to let the engineers
operate on their accounts, and the strike
ended. None the less, marine engineers
have their grievances, and reforms from
shipping companies generally have to be
fought for. One point that is often
overlooked is that the engineer has to
learn navigation. He can take the bridge
if necessary ; but the master or the mates
cannot go into the engine-room.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Two things about women, the
eternal mystery, particularly mystify me.
One is their craze for getting photo-
graphed. The average man would run
a mile rather than face a newspaper
cameraman; but the average woman
would run 10 miles —if she could get
that far on the absurd stilts she calls heels
—rather than miss him. Duke’s daughter,
cook’s daughter, daughter of a hundred
earls or a thousand plasterers, they all
want to get their pictures in the paper.
At Randwick and Flemington you can
see women posing for chaps who get
snaps for dailies, and meekly obeying
sharp directions to walk this way and that.
Mannequins? Now and then, but nine
times out of ten they are wives and daugh-
ters of aristos, and the matrons are as
eager as the maids. Another thing that
mystifies me is that marriageable women
never laugh openly at one another’s
appearance, however outrageous the cos-
tume or make-up. Men do constantly ;
"Take a tip from a man that knows,-Joe—never 'ave anything to do with these gold-diggers .”
masculine ridicule is the regular accom-
paniment of the introduction or imitation
of a fashion—the toothbrush mo, for in-
stance, and in other years the raining-in-
London pants. But if a girl got round
in baby clothes, with her face painted
green and yellow the sisters she en-
countered in her goings and comings
would not even snigger. In such cases
the sex is moved by the impulse that
was the buckler of the pianist in the Wild
West tavern: “Don’t shoot; she’s doing
her best ” A nhilosonhic and sporting
attitude very creditable to the dears,
The other is a childish form of vanity,
me other is a cnuaisn torm o y
“Sixenate”: A queer example of
feminine tyranny cropped up before the
NSW Equity Court the other day. It
was an action brought under the Tes-
tator’s Family Maintenance Act. The
plaintiff had married young, and he
handed over all his wages to his wife,
who returned him a shilling for his per-
sonal needs He was 78 when she died,
leaving U>369—all with the exception
of a smalfsam to a niece, to go to chad-
ties. The Court altered all that. Chari-
ties will have to wait while the old man,
who all his married years had only a bob
a week to throw about, draws £3 per
week, with £2OO down to establish him-
seff in comfort
* * * *
“Centurion”; The N.S.W. ordnance
department, if correctly reported, slips
when it claims that the gear which was later
to become the Digger hat was an emer-
gency issue to troops for South Africa
owing to the shortage of helmets. Even
more incorrect is the statement that the
first Australians to wear the lid were the
Ist N.S.W. Bushmen, raised in 1900. The
slouch hat was worn by “colonial”
militia regiments, mounted and foot, for
years before the Boer War. The N.S.W.
Lancers were the first to land in South
Africa with it in 1899, and the Ist
Q.M.I. were close on their heels. Regi-
ments from all the States wore the hat
in South Africa, and though the Imperial
staff tried to substitute a particularly use-
less helmet for them at Bloemfontein it
was soon discarded. All the South
African regiments save the Cape Town
Highlanders in that show wore the hat;
so did the English Yeomanry. In any
case the Digger hat is not an Australian
patent. Both sides used it as uniform in
the American Civil War, and famous
corps like the N.W.M.P. and the Cape
Mounted Rifles adopted it as long as
70 years ago.
* * * *
“Fiona”: Can nothing be done to pre-
vent builders putting up houses with
elegant fireplaces, complete with grate,
attached to dummy chimneys? A M.L.
couple rented a house so designed and,
the landlord having omitted to mention
that it was necessary to use radiators for
heating purposes, lighted a large and
cheerful fire. Seated before it they re-
mained blissfully unaware that the upper
part of the dwelling was in flames, until
?e1 S cei°„ rS a Sytey It
as disastrously if the chimney had not
proclaimed itself flueless by belching
quantities of black smoke back into the
room, incidentally ruining the curtains
and upholstery. As in the other case,
the incoming tenants had not been
warned that the splendid-looking fire-
place was entirely for show.
* * * .* . +
“Crump”: I’ve just been listenmg-m to
a community concert. One voice struck me
as familiar; I remembered hearing it in
country church choirs, at Band of Hope
concerts, and when Miss Blank (by re-
quest) sang “Just Break the News to
Mother.” But that was 40 years ago, and
it had just occurred to me that the voice
was wearing well when an unseemly com-
back Qf the halL
A fat girl—at least, that was the way I
featured her—started to giggle; a few
others took up the chorus; a man added
his guffaw. I could visualise the con-
ductor by his voice: “Come, come, ladies
and gentlemen, let’s have a little
decorum!” I have found these com-
mupity concerts a trifle boring but I
mean to tune in the next time if I feel
sure that the girl with her male escort
is in one of the back seats.
* * *
“Ferintosh”: The wreck of the ship
at Preservation Island (B. 21/10/’36)
which strewed the landscape with cases
of whisky was a mere circumstance to
the gift of the gods which descended, not
once but twice within a few years, on
the inhabitants of the Southport (Q.) dis-
trict. Two sailing ships, the Scottish
Prince and the Cambuswallace, full to
the bung of the national beverage, went
ashore on the ocean beach there,
first time, when the district was _ .
habited by only a few lp C 9 C
was estimated that a belt -0 mp es
and stretching from Tweed Heaas
Beenleigh held few sober mhabitan
months after. The loot was too ig
even dishonest hearts and willing nanus
to get away with, and the Gus
rescued hundreds of cases and •
Still, even with that, most of the
had a whisky mine on their prop
which paid dividends for years. ,
story was repeated when the Cam
Wallace piled up, but this time there
rail communication with Brisbane,
the narks were down before more
a quarter of the cargo had disappeare
* * * *
“Q G. Salis”: Axe-handles and cross-
Cl )t saws are not the only things artists
draw carelessly. When my Bulletin
reached me (in hospital) to-day I com-
pared the bandages on my left arm with
those on the corresponding arm of the
fellow in Lance Mattinson’s drawing (B.
14/10/’36). They weren’t a bit alike,
and I suspected that he’d lose his if he
wriggled. Called sister over for an expert
opinion. “Yes,” she said, “it would cer-
tainly come off—and I wonder why the
nurse bandaged the sleeve of his pyjamas
a s well as the arm. Not that it matters
much,” she added, “he’s dead. Look at
his temperature chart.”
* * * *
“L’Allegro”- “Der Jong” is hardly
accurate in his paragraph (R H/.Om,
about Lady Sarah Wilson g-
She was in the town with her soldier
husband, Lt.-Col. Gordon Wilson, when
the siege began. The Daily Mail cabled
an offer, which she accepted, for her ser-
vices as war correspondent. Baden-Powell,
hearing a rumor of an imminent attack,
asked her to leave for a place of safety.
J. hls she reluctantly did, and presently
dispatched by earner pigeon a reassuring
message to Mafekmg, mentioning where
she was. The pigeon flew straight into
the Boer camp, and the Boers descended
upon Lady Sarah and held her prisoner
until an exchange was effected. On being
returned to Mafekmg she stayed through-
out the siege helping to tend the
wounded, m addition to her other job.
Inciden tally, she holds a record in having
been the first woman war correspondent,
** * .
“C. G. Sahs”; Don t agree with Six-
enate” (B. 14/10/’36) that “selling a
horse” is the usual way of settling a
“bob-in.” My own experience suggests
that it is resorted to when Bung is
too scared of the local constabulary to
permit more obvious forms of gambling,
Dice are often used, but the commonest
way out in the pubs that I frequent is
to deal a poker hand all round. When
the school is a fair-sized one, it is usual
to slap two or more euchre packs to-
gether to ensure sufficient cards. Results
are queer sometimes. Once 1 held a
full hand with three aces. Another player
showed four aces, but the, “bob-m was
won by five kings. It profited him little,
however, after a general agreement had
been reached that he mus- shout twice
for his freak hand.
A PRESENT FOR A GOOD BOY.
“Dr. R. H. Bettington suggests that, to combat
the barracking evil, a vote could be taken from the
English team after the Tests to decide which crowd
had treated them best, the winners to be rewarded
by a free day at the next Sheffield Shield match.”
You leather-lunged crowd,
You iron-jawed brigade,
Whose comments rise loud,
Whether Test games are played
At Melbourne or Sydney or Brisbane or nor-
mally calm Adelaide,
You “Yabbas” and all
Who your quotas subscribe
To the bellow and bawl
Of jeer and of gibe,
Attend! Here’s an item to ponder for the
whole of your strepitant tribe.
Talk of turning you out
Or of running you in,
There isn’t a doubt
Would occasion chagrin;
Here’s a far better method suggested to curb
your vociferous din.
To gag you by force
(Were it feasible) would
Be clearly a course
To be misunderstood.
For one kid who’s spanked for being naughty
a dozen are bribed to be good.
You barracking blokes
Who persistently rag
The batsman who pokes
As a nark and a snag,
You fellows who foam at a fielder to furnish
himself with a bag;
You chaps who are fain
In a Test match’s stress .
In terms bald and plain
Your views to express,
There’s a move to restrain you by coaxing
instead of attempting duress.
Let the voices be hushed
That condemn or condole
When the wickets are crushed
Or your side’s in a hole,
And, maybe, you’ll find in your stocking a
gift from the Board of Control;
A pass on the nod
To where cricket fans fill
The stands and the sod
At a Sheffield . . . But, still,
I fail to envisage the bacon borne home by
my friends on “The Hill.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Old Westerner”: Crash! Bang! A
cricket ball came sailing through the
window and landed at the housewife’s
feet. She rushed to the door but found
the street deserted. Half an hour later
there was a timid knock at the door, and
a timid voice announced: “Please, missus,
here comes father to mend your win-
dow.” A man with a sheet of glass
under his arm was seen approaching, so
the thoroughly mollified lady returned the
ball to the boy and praised him for his
honesty. The job didn’t take long, but
when it was completed the housewife
was utterly unprepared for the notifica-
tion, “That’ll be 3s. 6d., please.”
“What!” she exclaimed heatedly. “Wasn’t
that boy your son?” “Lord luv you, no,
mum,” said the man; “aren’t you his
mother?”
* * * *
“Unity”: The manager of a big motor
concern was interviewing prospective
junior typists. Of one likely applicant he
inquired: “Do you know anything about
motor-trucks?” “Motor-trucks!” ex-
claimed the young woman ; “I ought to.
I was born in one.” Regarding this as a
flippancy the manager looked sternly at
her, whereupon she hastened to explain
that her statement was actually true, she
having made her entrance into the world
on a deserted up-country road while her
agitated father was driving her mother
to the nearest hospital 30 miles away.
She got the job.
* * * *
“D.C.” : In our N.Q. district it has
been the custom for Diggers to have a
“smoke social” on Armistice night, and
to fight old battles over again
with a good supply of liquid refresh-
ments. But times change, and at
a recent meeting of returned men it was
decided to substitute a “social evening”
to which ex-warriors could bring
“Why don't you come in?"
“ Oh, when this costume gets wet it flaps round me like a bag."
along their womenfolk and where liquor
would be barred. As a sop to more
robust spirits, it was suggested that those
who preferred the old method of cele-
bration could organise an outing on the
same day, and take along all the stingo
they wished. “What about a fishing
party, with a barrel of beer?” ventured
someone. Came a disgusted voice:
“Yairs —and then some silly cow will
want to go fishing!”
* * * *
“Selma”: Make-up has uses other
than those, already noted (B. 21 /10/’36).
A great-aunt of mine used to tell us that
her husband had never seen her without
her top-dressing except on one memor-
able occasion. That was when he abso-
lutely declined to finance a project on
which her heart was set, and she,
outwardly gentle and submissive, brought
her woman’s wits to work. She came
down to breakfast entirely minus tinting
and powder. Uncle, after the first agon-
ised glance, concluded that her haggard
looks were due to his heartless attitude.
Without even waiting to eat his ham and
eggs, he sought his study and returned
with the necessary cheque. Aunt retired
gracefully to repair her appearance.
* * * *
“Turl”: That philanthropic captain of
industry Lord Nuffield has just enriched
Oxford University to the tune of
£1,300,000 or so —claimed to be the big-
gest gift on record ever bestowed by an
individual on an institution. It may be,
but the Rhodes benefaction, willed to
the same seat of learning, must have run
it pretty close, if it didn’t exceed it.
Rhodes’s will set apart £52,000 anually
for the scholarships that bear his name,
and what amount of capital would be re-
quired to produce that sum in yearly
interest any actuary will calculate in a
moment, though I can’t. In addition
there was a trifle of £lOO,OOO for his
old college, Oriel. Rhodes’s estate was
valued at six millions, and practically
all of it went in well-thought-out philan-
thropy. Nuffield is proving himself
another munificent helper of deserving
causes; it is mostly the public which
benefits when modern Croesuses are
childless or have no near relatives to in-
herit their wealth.
sjs . jfc
“P.0.M.C.”: We were leaning against
a fence dispatching lunch and discussing
Blodgins’s faculty for skilfully turning
his hands to anything, when the latter’s
offsider joined our group. “Don’t you
think Blodgins is easily the most versa-
tile chap on the job?” we asked. “Yairs,
’e’s on ’is own,” the newcomer agreed.
“Why, I’ve seen ’im foller two whiskies
with a pint o’ beer, a rum, a stout an’
two sherries an’ go ’ome cold sober.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: That youngster who
found £3 in a Sydney pub (B. 21/10/’36)
reminds me of an experience of my own.
It was at Euston (N.S.W.), where Mat
and I had been celebrating Christmas
and prolbnging the revel until the cash
ran out, when we moved on. But Mat
had a retentive memory, and somewhere
about Mt. Bryan (S.A.) weeks later he
recalled a lot of things and remarked,
“ Y’know, either we lost a fiver or some-
one pinched it when we had that beano
in Euston.” It wasn’t worth arguing
about, anyway. At Terowie there was
one job; we tossed for it; Mat lost.
Nine months later he wrote, “Got
into Euston last night from Mildura, and
the publican hands me a fiver. His
daughter found it in our room after we
left.”
"Tell her not to look."
“Pardon Me”: “Fleet Street” (B.
21/10/’36) ignores the fact that the Coro-
nation is a religious service. St. Augus-
tine called the rite of regal unction
(anointing with holy oil) a sacrament —
and that sort of “mediaeval flummery and
mummery” is not lightly discarded.
Moreover, I doubt whether “a whole
crowd of bishops” ever kissed the king.
It is only the Primate who gives the kiss
of homage, on behalf of all the other
spiritual peers, and similarly it is only
the premier temporal peer in each order
who does homage for that order. Wil-
liam IV. objected to being kissed by the
Primate, but he did give way when the
Archbishop maintained that it was an
integral part of the ceremony. Edward
VII. and George V. were also kissed by
the Primate. Victoria was kissed on the
hand.
* * * *
“G.A.L.”: Topical advertising! On
the afternoon of Jean Batten’s arrival
at Mascot (Sydney) our local hairdresser
came out with a huge placard for his
shop front: “Jean Batten for Air —But I.
Shingle for Hair.” Some information
on the price of “perms” followed.
H*
“Binduli”: The satirical suggestion
that Aubrey Abbott, M.H.R., be-
came an authority on the Northern Terri-
tory “after flying over it” (B. 21/10/’36)
brought back to my mind a remark on
superficial observations made at Kal-
goorlie some 30 years ago. Newton
(sometimes called “BuglepUmpkin”)
Moore was the Premier, and, visiting the
goldfields, was being given a reception
by the local council. But the agitation for
the Esperance railway—persistently re-
sisted by Perth interests —was still a
vigorous one, and the subject soon
cropped up. Moore sought to temporise.
The agricultural possibilities of the coun-
try between Esperance and Norseman
had been exaggerated, he said ; his col-
league, the Minister for Lands (Lieu-
tenant-Governor James Mitchell nowa-
days), had recently travelled along the
route of the suggested line and reported
unfavorably on it. Some nark immedi-
ately jumped up and quoted a newspaper
cutting to the effect that little of Jimmy’s
trip had been done in the daytime.
Warming to his work, he congratulated
the Premier on having an offsider who
could form an opinion on the wheat-
growing qualities of soil by looking at
the tops of trees, in the dark. The out-
burst of merriment that followed enabled
Moore to smother his annoyance, but it
took a drink or two to restore his cus-
tomary bonhomie.
“Questo” : Plunkett’s Australian Magis-
trate, printed by W. A. Colman, George-
street, Sydney, in 1847, contains the fol-
lowing :
Any person profanely cursing or swear-
ing and being thereof convicted, on con-
fession or oath of witness before one Jus-
tice, shall forfeit as follows: A day-laborer,
common soldier or seaman, Is.; every
other person under the degree of a gentle-
man, 25.; every person of or above the
degree of a gentleman, ss.
In the case of the first class, an hour
or two in the stocks was the penalty
assigned for non-payment. I don’t know
how the status of a ‘“gentleman” was
determined.
* * * *
“War Baby”: Blank cartridges? In
1916, when Billy Hughes called all of us
bright lads up for home-service training
in readiness for his Conscription Act
(which the people turned down), a bunch
of us drilled under a crusty school-
teacher. He seemed to think we were
still a class of kids, and we resented it.
He used to march us about Mildura
(Vic.) carrying cadet rifles. Often Re
made us drill in the main street before
crowds of people, clicking empty
weapons—until somebody raided the drill
hall. On the next demonstration each of
us had a few blanks. The loot, lined us
up before a big store, ordered us to pre-
sent and “Fiah! ” Instead of clicks there
was a rattle of musketry. Our officer
nearly threw a sixer, people raced for
cover, a policeman advanced on us warily
and then the storm broke. But the
teacher kept us out of the town after that.
* * * *
“Quatermain”: E. E. Bullen, a big-
game fisherman, in an address to the
Legacy Club, Sydney, claimed that the
hobby of Zane Grey and himself was a
more sporting pursuit than big-game
hunting on land. In the latter case, with
the modern type of weapons, the animals
do not get an even break, whereas “in
big-game fishing, even with the best of
tackle, the odds are more often than not
in favor of the fish.” Likely enough,
but how far fewer the chances which the
marine sportsman takes compared with
those of the big-game hunter, however
deadly his weapons! Nobody ever heard
of a fisherman in Zane Grey’s class being
gored by an infuriated shark or trampled
to death by a wounded tuna.
IT’S GOOD TO BE ALIVE.
When morning steeps the southern hills
And bathes the vagrant clouds in gold,
When grass is dusted grey with dew
And hooded blooms their gems unfold,
When magpies peal from glistening trees
And painted parrots swoop and dive,
And dawn is still half-drunk with night,
It’s good to be alive.
When noon has drugged the earth with warmth
And dances shimmering o’er the plains,
When cattle drowse beneath the trees
Where sanctuary cool remains,
When all around the murmurous sound
Of bees marauding for the hive
Blends with the ripple of a creek,
It’s good to be alive.
When stars are blazing from the sky,
The waning moon a silver shield,
The soft night vapors drifting by,
the hills, dim, half-revealed,
It’s good to be alive and see
The first pale hint of dawning creep
Along the range—but, better far,
To be in bed asleep.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


A
16
20/
or
9 d
10/
or
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CIGARETTE
THIS
->#
1
/
m
Z
; J
G E N E R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
Value (in sterling) of Australian im-
ports from and exports to “a good-
customer country” and “a bad-customer
country” (Commonwealth Statistician’s
figures, published last week):
Imports. Exports.
Japan £4,969,571 £14,100,784
Netherlands East Indies 4,928,025 1,022,945
Mr. Gullett has “taken energetic measures
to correct the position”—against the
“good-customer country.”
Maoriland Labor has introduced a
delayed-action measure providing for the
protection of British shipping in the
Pacific, reservation of the trans-Tasman
trade for British vessels being proposed
as a first step. Mr. Lyons applauds “the
principle,” but “the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s policy will,” as always, “be
determined after receipt of a report from
the Imperial Shipping Committee.”
The U.A.P. Lawson wants the Gov-
ernment to rise up and do something
unspecified to Japanese shipping in the
Pacific. This Lawson was too young to
go to the war. He seems to be suffering
from a bad attack of thwarted pugnacity.
A Great Daily expects that “Madrid’s
desperate armed bands will fight to the
death in the streets.” And so they might
—if there were a deep river behind them
or if Madrid were at the edge of the sea.
But, like the heroes of Toledo, they will
have places to run to.
Finding it necessary to make some sort
of demonstration in favor of a cause that
is losing ground everywhere, the Reds at
Moscow have denounced the non-inter-
vention agreement, styling it —obviously
in the hope of impressing the now-fed-up
British —as “a scrap of paper.” A lot
they cared for scraps of paper in 1917!
London “Economist” draws attention
to “the uncomfortably low level of Aus-
tralia’s London funds,” “the rather
slender monetary basis upon which Aus-
tralian recovery has been built” and the
possibility of “further depreciation of
the Australian pound if exports should
suddenly shrink” ; and says “such ques-
tions should be publicly canvassed.” One
difficulty is that Mr. Casey objects.
Tas. Premier Ogilvie says he isn’t
going to support the “amendment” of
Section 92, and S.A. Premier Butler says
he will be hanged if he supports it either.
Stevens’s estimate of his deficit for
1935-36 was £1,750,000. While he was
away, Spooner, his deputy, announced
that the actual deficit was £1,687,200.
The Auditor-General reports that it was
£2,293,000 and the accumulated de-
ficiency—it began to accumulate in the
year to June 30, 1930 —£29,759,400.
The Auditor-General’s plain tales put a
lot of politicians down.
W. M. Hughes to the N.S.W. Institute
of Journalists (“S. M. Herald” report):
Germany and its Government was still
actuated by . the motives expressed by
“Deutschland fiber Alles,” and was the very
negation incarnate of all the principles of
personal liberty and democratic government
in which we believed and for which the
Empire and the Allies fought in the Great
War.
It doesn’t make sense or even grammar.
Anyway “Deutschland fiber Alles” is
merely the German equivalent of “Aus-
tralia First.”
London “Financial Times” of Septem-
ber 6 announced that Associated Port-
land Cement Manufacturers and British
Portland Cement Manufacturers, which
between them control over 60 cement
cos., had both declared p.c. interim
dividends, the British co. on an ordinary
capital of £2,000,000, £320,000 greater
than last year, when each company paid
20 p.c.:
Last year’s Associated dividend was made
up to 20 p.c. by a final 15 p.c., and the
1\ p.c. now declared will strengthen market
hopes of a total of 30 p.c. this year.
It seems very likely, since British cement
will be on the Australian free list on
December I—one1 —one of the “reforms” of
our great Trade-Diversion Government.
In the queer lingo of U.A.P. news-
papers and politicians, “the N.S.W. rail-
way deficit was reduced to £698,262 dur-
ing the financial year ended June 30 last.”
Translated into plain English, this means
that the accumulated deficit, which the
Auditor-General calculated at £28,178,000
on June 30, 1935, was increased by
£698,262 during the ensuing twelve-
month. The increase was really a great
deal more, for £BOO,OOO of tax-revenue is
reckoned as railway receipts and a great
deal of “reconditioning” expenditure is
charged up to interest-free loans —in-
terest free to the department, although
the Government pays p.c. to 4 p.c.
The comedy of the two Dromios is
nothing to the comedy of the two Lazza-
rinis, of N.S.W. Labor politics. A week
“Defending the change in foreign policy announced by the King of Belgium, the
Belgian Foreign Minister said: ‘Remember Abyssinia.’”
“But your Majesty is rejecting the great principle of collective security! Why,
I ask, why?”
“Ask him.”
ago Lazzarini, M.L.A., who was an
obsequious supporter of Lang in Lang's
maddest years, delivered a fiery attack
on the Boss, having been expelled by
Lang’s organisation. That same day
brother Lazzarini, M.H.R., was told that
he could expect furious opposition from
“industrialists” at the next election in
effect, because he hasn’t been expelled by
Lang’s organisation.
Victoria’s Dunstan Government is tak-
ing £lOO,OOO from unemployed-relief
fund “to relieve hospital finance.” Fif-
teen Assemblymen objected that the
principle was rotten, and so it is, but
Dunstan can claim a precedent as putrid.
The Sydney Government has been paying
child endowment and the like out of the
proceeds of its unemployed-relief taxa-
tion for years.
There is an exultant note in the annual
report on the Commonwealth Govern-
ment railways ; for the first time since
1928-29 they showed a “profit.” Read-
ing on, the investigator finds that the
“profit” was £252, and that an interest
bill of £414,109 was not taken into
account. This is the way the official mind
works.
During the construction of the Trans-
Australian line 14 goods locomotives
were ordered in excess of requirements.
Because of the war they didn’t arrive
until after the work had been completed,
and they have been lying in storage ever
since. Now the Government is trying to
sell them to China. The. Celestial Land
of Squeeze could not itself provide such
a comic-opera situation.
In its relations with Westralia, the
Canberra Cabinet always does the wrong
thing. It sneered at the. secession move-
ment until preparations for the secesh
referendum were well advanced ; then it
tried to choke the thing with soft words.
At the beginning of a prosperous year
for the West, it raised the State’s special
grant from £500,000 to £BOO,OOO. When
drought was on the land, it reduced the
amount to £500,000 again. Now that
the Westralians are intensely irritated,
it is going to ask them to make an end
of the inter-State clause.
Riding in a cable tram to Parlia-
ment House to speak against the
Leg. Council Reform Bill, H. I.
Cohen, K.C., the “unofficial” leader
of that House, was struck on the
forehead by a swinging brake-handle and
knocked over. Pulling himself together,
he continued his journey and spoke for
two hours against the measure, describ-
ing it as “hasty, ill-digested, spiteful,
arrogant; replete with difficulties and
dangers; a dreadful exposition ; a dis-
grace to the Legislature ; rubbish.” What
wouldn’t he have said of it if he hadn t
had the argument with the brake-handle.
As a Tasmanian Ogilvie objects to the
Menzies constitutional on
the ground that it would admit of “the
inter-State market for any or all of our
produce being destroyed as a result of a
‘marketing scheme’ devised to suit the
interests of farmers in other States.” As
a citizen of Australia he goes further:
It is a vicious method which places
the burden of assisting industry on the
shoulders of consumers who are least able
to bear it, and which will ultimately be
of no benefit to the producers themselves.
It is so many years since an Australian
Premier was heard speaking up for con-
sumers that this is a very notable utter-
ance. It might almost be said to mark
an epoch.
In his Budget speech 13 months ago,
Premier Stevens, who isn’t much of a
prophet, said he was “satisfied that next
financial year [i.e., 1936-37] the railways
will be fully self-supporting as far as the
Treasury is concerned.” Ordinary people
would take this to mean that the Rail-
way Department will meet all legitimate
expenditure—interest, working expenses,
track and rolling-stock maintenance and
the like —out of actual revenue and dis-
pense with the annual grant of £BOO,OOO
out of the. taxes, to which it never con-
tributes. If all that is done it will be a
departmental miracle. Said Stevens:
The estimated [railway] deficit for the
current year is only a little in excess ot
£500,000.
As acknowledged, it was only a little
less than £700,000.
Australia draws substantial dividends
from its investment in Amalgamated
Wireless, and benefits in other ways from
the energy and enterprise of that admir-
able concern, which has trained many
young Australians with a mechanical
bent. So far the country has never got
a return from Commonwealth Oil Re-
fineries, but the period of dividends may
be approaching, for C.O.R. reports a net
profit of £56,985 for the year to June 30.
The profit reduces accumulated losses to
£62,707. In each case the Commonwealth
Government holds half the shares plus
one.
“I gather that the honor of proposing
this toast has fallen to me because I
am a member of the Lyons Ministry,”
said Customs Minister White at Wirfh’s
lions’-den dinner in Melbourne. He
added smartly that it was a pleasure to
mingle with lions that had every
right to growl but didn’t. Wirth’s lions
must have recognised a fellow-performer
—didn’t the Lyons Ministry jump through
the tariff hoop into the Japanese bother
at Lancashire’s bidding?
The Country-party branch at Merriwa
(N.S.W.) has passed a resolution slating
the U.A.P.-C.P. Government for starting
the trade war with Japan and stating
that the first requisite of a settlement is
the removal of Gullett. Merriwa is in the
electorate (New England) of Thompson,
the C.P. whip, who in a burst of con-
fidence said that the Government was
staking its political existence on the
quariel with Japan. It may be staking
Thompson’s political existence, too.
It is taken for granted at Canberra
that all “primary producers” will vote
for the emasculation of Section 92 ; but
in N. S. Wales the other day, a Citrus
Growers’ Defence Association man said
he was “for the section as it stands.”
Wheatgrowers on the Westralian P.P.A.
will support “an amendment granting the
Federal Government power to supple-
ment State legislation aimed at provid-
ing for organised marketing” but no-
thing else. A grant of power merely
to “supplement” provincial “legislation”
would be something new in constitu-
tional history, but the Lyons Govern-
ment is ready to accept the ignoble part
assigned to it. Anything for the sake of
votes.


THE ETERNAL CYCLE.
“Many hospital are suffering from preventible digestive troubles.... he young married woman who become, a cook with a tin-opener forget, that if she wants
to keep her husband .he has to feed the brute."—Sir Bruce Bruce-Porter.


Don't let your car through summer
SHELLmotorOIL
Cuts out "(hay
PERSTONAL ITEMS
Another first step to a Judgeship was
taken the other day when R. T. E.
Latham, son of the Commonwealth Chief
Justice, was appointed an assistant law
lecturer in King’s College, London Uni-
versity. Young Latham has just finished
his degree course at All Souls’, Oxford,
of which T. E. Lawrence was a fellow.
He is an old Scotch College and Mel-
bourne University student.
Henri Segaert, Belgium’s Consul-Gen-
eral, who has just returned from abroad,
is a genial, scholarly man who has been
in Australia so long that he has become
Almost an Australian.
almost one of its native sons. He served
in the Congo in his early years, and was
a captain in his native country’s terri-
torial forces till 1915. He owns one of
the pleasantest homes in Sydney, and has
so many orders and decorations that
when he walks abroad in full fig he looks
a little like the Tower of David whereon
there hung a thousand bucklers.
H. W. Osborne, who a week or two
ago retired from the g.m.-ship of the
Western District Co-op. Co., Vic. (B.
21/10/’36), did not live long to enjoy his
leisure. He had been out of harness only
a few days when he died at 71.
In other days a successful way of
ensuring a long life was to get elected
as a Commonwealth representative
for Queensland. With Tom Glassey
dead at 94, there still survives, at 86,
J. G. Drake, Barton’s P.M.G., 1901-03.
Also Mat Reid, once king of the
Brisbane Trades Hall, a State M.L.A.
throughout the ’nineties and a Senator
"from 1917 till last year. Reid was
the oldest man to sit in a Federal Par-
liament —87 when he retired. He is one
of Australia’s most persistent vege-
tarians.
The New Guinea Mandated Govern-
ment has a peculiarly awkward oppo-
nent when it takes up the cudgels against
J C. Mullaly, M.L.C., president of the
N.G. Planters’ Association, with whom
there has been a recent official tussle
over local shipping. J.C. knows the
Administration from inside as well as
outside: A Commonwealth civil servant
when war broke out, he served five years
with the A.1.F., earning his commission
in 1918. He was then successively expro-
priation audit inspector, native affairs in-
spector and D.D. and magistrate.. In
1925 he bought Natava plantation, a few
miles from Rabaul. His wife was an
A.I.F. nurse.
“El V.”: One of the best examples of
the stern impartiality of British justice,
was seen the other day in London when
the King’s Private Secretary and right-
hand man was fined 30s. for exceeding
the speed limit. The young man, Alex.
Hardinge, is the son of an ex-Viceroy
of India and heir to a peerage, and
when he was caught hurtling along at
39 miles an hour he remarked cheerfully
to a constable: “Well, I’ve done worse
things than that in my life.” So fined
he was, and his license was endorsed.
Gilbert Mant, again with Reuters and
the cricketers, has been round the world
cricketing a couple of times since he was
on the old Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Neville Cardus (Manchester “Guardian”),
C. B. Fry, Bruce Harris (“Evening Stand-
ard”), Jack Hobbs (“Chronicle”), and
Pollock (“Daily Express”) are others of
the team. Another Australian, Tebbutt,
originally from Rockhampton but later
a protege of Keith Murdoch, is also with
the flock of scribes.
Changes bring F. W. Tonkin back
from London, where he has been handling
Associated Newspapers’ cable staff, to
edit the Sydney “Sun.” Tonkin has
edited the “Daily Guardian,” also the
Sunday “Sun” and the “Daily Tele-
graph Pictorial,” which he took over
when the old company sold its interests.
He originally hailed from Bendigo.
E. G. Bristow, of Broken Hill (N.S.W.),
celebrated his thirty-seventh year of
membership of the G.U.0.0.F. by being
elected N. S. Wales Grand Master. He
has held offices in the Order for 30 years,
and is secretary in his home town.
Counihanhas caught the atmosphere of
gentleness which hangs round J. C. Win-
deyer, who teaches the rising medical
student of Sydney University his obstet-
rics. Blooded at r f'he, King’s School,
Parramatta —he was a son of a pastoral
Windeyer from Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.) —he took
a medical degree
at Sydney before
going to London
for post-graduate
training at the be-
ginning of the cen-
tury. He. has been
Dean of the Medi-
cal Faculty at Syd-
ney and a member
of the senate, and
takes an active in-
terest in all medi-
cal or g a nisation
and in N. S. Wales
charitable move-
ments.
Q u e. e n s 1 a nd’s
Education Director
B. J. McKenna has
retired at 65. He is
Queensland - born
and Queensland-
trained, like his
predecessor, J. D.
Story, and rose
from a pupil-
teacher’s job to
control of the de-
partment.
Sydney’s Obstetrics Professor.
Australia isn’t to see any ducal visitors
this year except the Marquess of Hart-
ington, Under - Secretary for the
Dominions, who arrived in Brisbane on
October 19 and is to visit all States. He
was with the Derby yeomanry in the
war, was on Gallipoli and afterwards a
member of the British Peace Delegation
at Versailles. He sits in the Commons
for West Derbyshire.
The late John Shirlow’s successor on
the Board of Trustees of the Melbourne
Public Library and Vic. National Gal-
lery is Alex. Colquhoun. Though not
Australian-born —he came from Scot-
land as a schoolboy—all his chief work
has been identified with the Australian
landscape. He is represented by pictures
in several Victorian galleries and at Can-
berra (F.C.T.) and Dunedin (M.L.).
Australia is seeing in the flesh a
cricketer who once was the idol of every
English follower of the sport —C. B.
Fry, who is to broadcast this year’s
matches for the A.B.C. Fry was an
unusual combination of learning
and sporting ability. He was
senior scholar at Wadham College,
Oxford, where he took his degree
—first-class Moderations and
honors in literce humaniores. He
captained Oxford both at cricket
and Association football, and
played for England at both games
—he was in 17 Tests against Aus-
tralia. He was also president of the.
Oxford University Athletic Club,
and once held the world’s record for the
long jump. His hobby is nautical train-
ing for boys, and he is an honorary
commander in the R.N.R. Latterly he
has written several books, and is con-
sidered one of the 8.8.C.’s best sporting
broadcasters. At 64 he can still place it
on record that his recreations , are
“cricket and Rugby and Association
football, running, hunting, fishing, shoot-
ing and motoring.”
Burnie (Tas.), one of the oldest ports
in Australia and once the headquarters
of the Van Diemen’s Land Co., gets a
new harbormaster in Evan Evans, who
has crossed Bass .Strait over 10,000 times
during 48 years at sea. The captain is
a Welshman who served his first 10 years
in sail and became first mate of the great
old-time wool clipper Loch Lomond be-
fore he joined the Union Co. 38 years
ago. He has commanded all the crack
Strait liners of his generation, his last
ship being the Taroona.
The long, active figure of John Brown-
lie Henderson will be seen no more in
the Brisbane streets, except when he visils
the capital on holi-
day. When he
came, to Australia
in 1890 his stock-
in-trade consisted
of abundant energy
and a sound Glas-
wegian education.
He soon trans-
ferred from a job
as science master
at' Brisbane Gram-
mar School to be-
come Government
Analyst. Hender-
son was one of the.
most active
workers for the
foundation of the
Queensland Uni-
versity, and is one
of that institution’s
original senators.
He was also
deputy - chairman
of the board which
began the destruc-
tion of prickly-
pear. He now pro-
poses to retire to
Dulacca, where the foundation work on
pear destruction was done, but where
now even the hardest-working Cacto-
blastis has difficulty in finding a square
meal.
Claude Richards’s silhouette has be-
come a fixed feature of Adelaide life, but
his activities stretch round Australia. He
is managing director of T. J. Richards
and Sons, who established themselves in
1885 as carriage-builders and developed
into motor-body builders with factories
in Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane and agencies in the other capi-
tals. Claude learnt his trade from the
beginning; he was apprenticed to his
father, the founder of the firm. At 29,
A Motor Pioneer .
a quarter of a century ago, he took over
the management of the business with his
brother, and when his brother died dur-
ing the war formed it into a limited
liability co. and became, sole head. He is
a keen bowler in these days, but in a
younger age his head was often to be
seen thrust forward in a racing car or
over the handlebars of a bicycle or in a
scrum.
Robin L. Ryder, a well-known figure in
western Queensland pastoral circles, has
died suddenly in Bendigo, at 41. Bris-
bane-born, Toowoomba Grammar and
B.G.S. boy, Robin Ryder worked on
Nive Downs station (W.Q.), and then
took up part of Walton Downs, which
he sold later to buy Como, near Quilpie.
After selling Como he bought Aroo, near
Charleville, and Glanmire. In 1920 he
married the daughter of the late R. San-
derson Taylor, once the Brisbane
“Courier” editor. She died a year later
after giving birth to a son, and Robin
subsequently married a Melbourne girl,
Alice Craig.
“The University’s most urgent need is
a new Union House,” said Dr. R. E.
Priestley when he became Vice-Chan-
cellor at Melbourne. When the founda-
tion stone of a £67,000 building fell into
place, the other most satisfied onlooker
must have been his new warden. Dr.
W. Bryden. This young man’s job is
almost unique. A liaison officer between
undergrads., the staff and graduates, his
aim is to co-ordinate the activities of
the students. Union House is to be his
headquarters. Dr. Bryden is a Maori-
lander who took a research scholarship
from Canterbury College to Scotland’s
Edinburgh. He returned to Christchurch
in 1934, but in June, 1936, he became
Melbourne’s warden. As well as be-
friending the students, he lectures some
of them in biology.


JUST RELEASED!
di
m
.
m
1 Hi
■
H
MB
Si
: m
m
m
i
m
u
■
A&f
H
BBSS
«
m
M:
m
THE
6500
5 VALVE A.C.
OPERATED—FOR
BROADCAST
RECEPTION.
WITH
“TWILIGHT”
DIAL
1 23 gns.
WITH utmost pride Philips offer the 6500 —a
Radioplayer designed for complete enjoyment
of all Australian broadcast transmissions. One of
the famous Philips range of receivers, it is, in
common with them all, backed by the development,
research, and manufacturing superiority of the
World’s Largest Radio Manufacturers.
The 6500 is equipped with the famous Philips
Metal Clad Valves, including the Octode, and
features the amazing “Twilight” Dial and Auto-
matic Volume Control.
OTHER RADIOPLAYER MODELS .
BROADCAST MODELS.
A.C. OPERATED.
Model 6506, 5 Valves, 15 gns.
Model 6507, 5 Valves, 19 gns.
WORLD-WIDE MODELS.
A.C. OPERATED.
Model 6608, 6 Valves, 27 gns.
Model 7609, 7 Valves, 34 gns.
BATTERY-OPERATED RECEIVERS.
Model 6517, for Broadcast Reception, 5 Valves 27 gns.
Model 6612, for World-wide Reception, 6 Valves 37 gns.
TERMS AVAILABLE.
PHILIPS
k
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS PHILIPS LAMPS


Are you quite sure
your Will is valid?
ķ
The way of the will-maker is strewn
.with pitfalls for the unwary. Home-
made wills, printed forms, neglect of
regular revision, all contribute to mis-
interpretation, costly litigation, and
the defeat of the testator’s best intentions.
In justice to your family and your beneficiaries,
you should have your will read by your solicitor
and any necessary revision should be attended to
at once.
If you care to make an appointment with us, we
will be glad to discuss with you and your solicitor,
the important aspects of practical administration
of your estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Fordyce, Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.,
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney JoneS.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Biigh Street, Sydney
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
, Dividends
June, Profit. All Shares. Off. Reserves.
1926.. 557,029 12 p.c. = 311,845 133,205 91,047
1927.. 544,607 12 „ „ 312,000 150,145 173,509
Charged to development, £1369 .. 172,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,452 228,820
1929.. 513,660 12 „ „ 312,000 138,828 291,252
Charged to development, £lB4l .. 289,411
Pref. Old.
p.c. p.c.
1930.. 428,156 10 10 260,000 137,532 320,035
1981.. 158,239 Nil Nil 142,768 336,506
Charged to development, £4l .. 336,465
1932.. 234,903 8 Nil 120,000 151,000 300,368
1933.. 373,095 12 Nil 180,000 151,371 342,092
1934.. 350,161 12 4 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
The table is a testimony to the skill of
the management and to the support,
financial and otherwise, of the Barrier
cos. in building up an industry which in
pre-war days was mainly in the hands
of Germany and German-controlled
plants in Belgium. The £2,600,000 of
share capital is in 1,500,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs., which advance with the ords. be-
yond that rate, and 1,100,000 ords. An
all-round 12 p.c. was paid for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1930.
Then came the collapse of markets and
prices, and the. pref. div. got behind for
a while. Much of the business lost in
Europe, however, was replaced by in-
creased sales in Australia, India and
Japan, and, with the recent upward surge
in economic activity, production and
sales have reached record figures, while
earnings have kept step with the in-
creased output and the rise in metal
prices. The prefs.’ slate was cleaned in
1934, and the ords., which were left
out of the dividend list in ’3l, got back
again in ’35 with 4 p.c. Since, then the
outlook has brightened rapidly.
The spring in last year’s figures was
due mainly to a substantial all-round in-
crease in production and a strengthening
of metal prices. The rise in the average,
spot price of spelter in London (£l5 3s
lid.) was £2 7s. 3d., and in lead (£l6
4s. 6d.) £4 18s. 6d.; silver (2s. 2.4 d.) was
down 1.5 d. The profit claimed was
£322,864 (up £66,844), which is recon-
ciled with the larger figure in the table
in this way:
Profit and loss balance .. . . . . £322,864
Net addition depreciation reserve, etc. .. 174,594*
Total £497,458
Less: Unexplained reduction sinking fund 211
Net profit as per table . . . . £497,247
* Includes £5O written off development account.
Net additions to the depreciation reserve,
etc., are then shown as written off, though
this reserve (£2,132,595, equal to 50
p.c. of the book value of mine and plant,
etc., at June 30) appears to be some-
thing more than ordinary provision for
wear and tear. However, after deduct-
ing last year’s addition, enough remained
to show 12.4 p.c. on total capital (pref.
and ord. combined) as against 9.8 p.c.
and 8.9 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The ord. div. was lifted from 5 p.c. to
10 p.c., the. final being at the rate of
12 p.c. p.a.
The Risdon plant, whose capacity was
stepped up 30 p.c. in March, 1935, worked
at full pressure, turning out an extra
13,233 tons of high-grade zinc, which
sells at a premium of around £2 a ton
over G. 0.8. spelter:
Cad- Cop-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium, per,
Tons. Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons.
1925.. 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1930.. 54,150 669,800 5466 218 179
1931.. 55,282 708,000 5091 235 127
1932.. 53,085 367,000 2915 153 106
1933.. 53,951 221,000 2223 169 79
1934.. 53,464 197,800 2024 166 85
1935.. 58,889 207,400 1983 175 97
1936.. 72,122 247,500 2403 253 140
* Excludes residues from cadmium plant.
The entire output' of zinc was sold—
-28,500 tons of it locally and the balance
overseas. The rise in the metal content
of the by-products was due partly to
heavier input of calcine to the plant
and partly to the higher silver, lead and
copper values of concentrates from the
West Coast. The output of sulphuric
acid was 82,512 tons, up 13,453 tons —
most of it was produced from Barrier
concentrates, smelted on the mainland
before dispatch to Risdon. Sales of
superphosphate from the co.’s own works
in Tas. reached 23,741 tons, up 3198
tons.
To meet the increased demands of the
Risdon plant, the mines and mill at Rose-
bery, on the Tas. West Coast, were
brought into production on Feb. 18. Here
the co. has invested over £457,500, on
which it has had no return for upwards
of four years. The mill treated 47,888
tons of crudes, assaying 21.7 p.c. zinc, 6,3
p.c. lead, 0.6 p.c. copper, 7.30 z. silver
and 2.2dwt. gold, with the following
results:
, Assay *
Sit—
Zinc, Lead, ver, Gold,
Tons. p.e. p.e. oz. dwt.
Zinc concentrates .. 16,791 52.5 3.9 10.0 2.2
Lead concentrates .. 3,547 13.7 56.9 34.8 9.2
Residue .. .. 27,550 4.1 1.3 2.2 1.3
The lead concentrates have been stored
at Burnie for shipment overseas. Most
of the zinc concentrates were roasted at
Zeehan, and the calcine railed to Risdon
via Burnie.
Blocked ore in the Rosebery mine
totals 438,500 tons, assaying 21 p.c. zinc,
6 p.c. lead, 7oz. silver and l.Sdwt. gold,
and in the Hercules 394,200 tons, assay-
ing 24.8 p.c. zinc, 6.4 p.c. lead, 6.70 z.
silver and I.9dwt. gold, including prob-
able ore, proved by diamond-drilling, re-
serves in the, two mines are put at
1,500,000 tons.
There was marked improvement in
the already strong financial position:
1931. 1935. 1936.
Debentures and interest £404,033 £401,697 £401,697
Sundry creditors . . 274,082 138,140 190,845
Deposits and interest.. 240,835 87,354 90,358
Overdraft . . .. 37,563 8,460 27,314
Mt. Read-Rosebery mines 449,783 457,524 457,524
Properties, plant, etc... 3,654,539 3,787,542 3,809,826
Book debts . . . . 238,804 161,315 192,418
Shares 226,179 246,733 265,483
S'coc-ks 444,088 368*869 423,762
Cash, etc 281,694 775,407 1,010,669
The year’s addition to cash, etc., was
£235,262. Including stocks and share-
holdings, the growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,182,118) was £265,445.
Last week-end the London spot price
of spelter was £l5 3s. 9d., and of lead
£lB 10s. The co.’s production and sales
are being well maintained, and the cur-
rent year’s figures should get the full
benefit of long-delayed operations on the
West Coast. ,
The prefs. at 51s. 3d. (375. 6d. a year
ago) and the ords. at 475. 6d. (335. 6d.
12 months back) return 3.9 p.c. and
4.2 p.c. respectively on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.7 p.c. and 5 p.c. respectively
on a 12 p.c. distribution.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926. .. 232,030 14.4p.c.=1l 1,761 120.269 1,432,718
1927.. 237,035 15 „ ~116.060 120,975 1,553,688
Unexplained additions to reserves, £67,910 1,611,598
Reserves capitalised, £257,910 .. 1,353,688
1928. . 214,333 12.1 p.c.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
Written off premises, £20,000 .. .. 1,523,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.c.=137,552 , 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included, £9073.. 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1,672,766
1932. . 194,443 13.3 „ „ 137,652 ) Ift RQI , , sq fir>7
Written off premises, £40,000 j 16,891 1,089,6 7
1933. . 191,304 13.3 p.c.=137,552 ) 7 , 9 . 7n « . ftq
Written off premises, £40,000 J 13,7j2 1,703,4 9
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£263,681 1,907,090
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,009,508
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
1935. . 261,538 13.3 p.c.=137,562 ) Q „ oa a „ 17H
Written off premises, £30,000 ] 93,986 2,178,462
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
Shareholders in this 64-ye.ar-old Auck-
land-controlled fire and marine office,
with world-wide connections, are in a
very snug position. Paid capital is
£1,031,640, of which £907,910 has been
transferred from reserves; and yet' the
growth of reserves has outstripped the
growth of capital, visible accumulations
having mounted to £2,350,837 at the end
of August. Further, the capital and
reserves have been invested in sound
securities, returns from which have fol-
lowed close, on the heels of advancing
dividend charges, leaving underwriting
surpluses available to swell investments
and returns therefrom. Last year’s
return from investments was £129,130
(up £2374), equal to 12.5 p.c. on capital.
The possibilities of the scrip as an
investment are thus governed largely by
underwriting performances, which com-
pare as follows:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. pens.es. Rate. Rate.
1595. . £2U9,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4,, 27.7 „
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4,, 32.3 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8,, 34.6 „
1929. . 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 ~ 30.2 „
1930.. 991,647 617,069 304,357 62.2 „ 30.6 „
1932.. 804,634 470,290 274,089 58.4 ~ 34.0 „
1933.. 791,538 431.505 295,571 54.5,, 37.3 „
1934. . 813,472 422,969 275,163 51.9 „ 33.8 „
1935.. 895,697 482,941 277,974 53.9 ~ 31.0 „
1936. . 1,040,070 562,000 295,461 56.5 „ 28.4 „
The sharp spring of £144,373 in last
year’s net premium income, which
approached near to the peak figure of
1929, reflects the improvement in world
trade generally. Moreover, the larger
business was gathered at £2 12s. p.c. less
cost, though the gain in this respect, and
a trifle more, was offset by the rise in
the loss ratio. Still, the underwriting
surplus was £47,827 better at £182,609,
equal to 17.7 p.c. on capital. Allowing
for a net unexplained reduction of £1782
in reserves, the net return from all
sources was the best yet (£309,957, up
£48,419), equal to 30 p.c. on capital as
against 25.3, 23.2, 18.5, 18.8 and 13.2 p.c.
back to 1931. The div. was kept at
13.3 p.c.
It is not' surprising, therefore, that the
market discounts the future by pricing
the fully-paid £1 shares at 91s. 3d. —
they have been fairly steady around this
figure over the last 12 months. The
immediate return at 91s. 3d. is 2.9 p.c.
on a 13.3 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for 4.4 p.c. on his money
counts on a one-for-one gift issue and
a 10 p.c. div., which would then call for
£206,328, or £103,629 less than was netted
last year.
Policy-holders are well protected. When
the books closed they could see net
tangibles equal to 325 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. Assets, which are
in this form, are well worth their book
value:
1935. p.e. 1936. p.c.
Premises .. .. £433,112 12.6 £442,264 12,2
Mortgages .. .. 86,227 2.5 147,30/ 4.1
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 572,836 16.7 558,074 15.4
Stocks, debentures, etc. 659,851 19.2 631,270 17.4
Municipal debentures, etc.' 403;148 11.8 - 409,850 11.3
Government securities.-1,203,-177 35.1 1,327,112.36.6
Book debts . . . . 71,260 2.1 108,112 3.0
The year’s surplus earnings, a reduction
of £14,762 in deposits and of £28,581 in
stocks, debentures, etc., enabled £123,933
to be added to Government securities,
£61,080 to mortgages, £9152 to.premises,
£6702 to municipal securities, and an
extra £36,852 of book debts to be carried
as well.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £
1926.. 36,230 9 p.c. = 27,000 9,230 90,926
1927.. 44,950 10 „ „ 33,492 11,458 102,384
1928.. 48,214 10 „ „ 35,974 12,240 114,624
1929.. 47,720 10 „ „ 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930.. 49,737 10 „ „ 40,000 9,737 132,172
1931.. 35,383 7 „ „ 28,000 1 . „ fi o iok Mr.
Contingency reserve, £3OOO j 4 ’ 383
Q’land Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-share basis; reserves written' off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17,300 . . 119,255
1932.. 30,083 5 p.c. = 27,359 2,724 121,979
1933. . 35,890 4 „ „ 27 042 ) 6 848 127>827
Contingency reserve, £3OOO )
Surplus on sale property, £16,250.. 144,077
From tax reserve, £lO,OOO . . . . 154,077
1934.. 38,799 4 p.c. t= 27,304 11,495 165,572
Unexplained reduction, £5713 . . 159,859
1935.. 48,079 41 p.c. = 30,717 17,362 177,221
1936.. 48,998 5',, „ 34,457 14,541 191,762
The Permanent has given a very good
account of itself. For the seven years
to the. end of August', 1930, shareholders
averaged a shade under 10 p.c. Then
slump, the collapse of values, more or
less frozen condition of the real-estate
market, fall in interest rates and heavy
increase in taxation, especially on in-
come from property, struck these building
banks their heaviest blow since the crisis
of the ’nineties, and this co.’s div. fell
to 4 p.c. for the two years 1933-34.
Meanwhile, it added to its stature by
absorbing the Queensland Deposit Bank
(in 1931) and, later, by taking over most
of the assets and liabilities of the sus-
pended Federal. The two deals lifted the
Permanent’s paid capital from £400,000
in 1931 to £682,000 two years later, and
its inner reserves were strengthened as
well.
With the improvement in conditions
generally, the co. has further consolidated
its position. Headquarters were trans-
ferred into the old Federal co.’s Queen-
street premises, which were remodelled,
and the Adelaide-street property was
sold (for £45,000) at a profit of £17,000
in 1934. Lending connections have ex-
panded, and, with the hardening of in-
terest rates and a little relief from taxa-
tion, which is still very heavy, earnings
have benefited.
During the last term the co. gathered
in interest, etc., £129,944, up £3541. Man-
agement charges amounted to £21,197
(down £1530), interest payments to
£36,749 (down £3848) and provision for
taxation to £23,000 (up £8000). The net
result (£48,998) was thus £929 better at
7.1 p.c. on average capital as against 7.1,
5.6, 5.3, 5.4, 8.8 and 12.4 p.c. back to
1930. Half a point was added to the
div., making it 5 p.c.
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging:—
1922. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid
capital £212,245 £400,000 £682,600 £736,180
Deposits 515,854 901,842 )
Sundry ) 1,541,940 1,466,581
creditors 7,354 9,093 J
Premises,
etc. .. 15,500 26,500 52,260 56,938
Advances 578,315 1,092,017 1,755,147 1,843,810
Book debts 3,040 306 —•—
Public
securities
and cash 202,642 354,467 634,846 536,860
The year’s contraction of £75,359 in
liabilities reflects redemption of £98,424
of the old Federal co.’s stock, which fell
due in December last. To do this, add
£4678 to the book value of premises
and £88,663 to advances, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £97,986 and £53,580 of
fresh capital was gathered. When the
books closed, cash and Government
securities amounted to 36.6 p.c. of liabili-
ties as against 41.1 p.c. a year ago.
Shortly before the close of accounts
67,400 new £1 shares were, issued at par.
When the remaining £13,820 on that lot
comes in, paid capital will be £750,000,
on which last year’s net result was equal
to 6.5 p.c. At 225. 3d. the fully-paids
return 4.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Including the £13,820 just referred to,
the cover is visibly 255. Id. in net
tangibles.
Australian Wood Pipe Co.
Towards De-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 10,045 7 p.c. = 7,350 2695 2686
Reserves.
1927.. 13,814 9 „ „ 9,451 4363 1677
1928.. 13,724 10 „ „ 10,501 3223 4900
1909 10 745 10 „ „ 10,501 244 5144
1930!. 9,737 9 „ „ 9,450 287 5431
1931.. 514 Nil 514 5945
1932.. 1,895 2$ p.c. = 2,625 5215
1933.. 4,153 5 „ „ 5,250 4118
1934.. 4,064 2$ „ „ 2,625 1439 550<
Loss.
1935.. 1,330 Nil 4227
Profit.
1936.. 5,350 5 p.c. = 5,250 100 4321
Earnings depend largely upon public
spending on water-supply schemes,
hence the sharp contraction of the figures
for 1931. Since then there has been
fierce competition for the limited amount
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


This Abridged Prospectus does not comply with the full requirements
Companies Acts and accordingly is not to be regarded as an invitation to _
Public to subscribe for shares. Applications for shares will proceed on
of the forms of application endorsed upon a printed copy or the nul Prospe ~
which was filed w r ith the Registrar-General on the l<th day of October, lJob.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of an issue of
100,000 SHARES OF 10/- EACH
in
Beacon Investment Trust Limited
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria under the Companies Act 1928)
Nominal Capital, £250,000, divided into 500,000 Shares of 10/- each,
of which
100,000 Shares are now being offered for subscription at par, payable 5/- per share
on application and 5/- per share on allotment.
400,000 Shares are being held in reserve for future issue.
500,000
DIRECTORS:
ARTHUR WILLIAM RELPH, Company Director, Mont Albert Road, Canterbury, E. 7.
STANLEY ERNEST ELDER, member of the firm of Madden, Butler, Elder and
Graham, Solicitors, 400 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
HERBERT TAYLOR, member of the Arm of Young and Outhwaite, Chartered
Accountants (Australia), 368 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOLICITORS:
BLAKE AND RIGGALL. 120 William
Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED
OFFICE:
KENNETH SAIIGOOD RUTTER
CLARKE, of Percy Jennings <fc Clarke,
Chartered Accountants (Australia),
34 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
BANKERS:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUS-
TRALASIA, LIMITED.
AUDITOR:
GEORGE SUTHERLAND SMITH, of
W. 11. Tuckett and Sons, Chartered
Accountants (Australia), 448 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
BROKERS TO THE FLOTATION:
CLARKE AND COMPANY, Members of the Stock Exchange, 371 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
FUNCTIONS OF AN INVESTMENT TRUST. —The function of an Investment
Trust is to provide for its members facilities for collective investment over a wide
range of sound securities affording, by reason of their diversity, not only safety to
capital, but also reasonable expectation of satisfactory and regular return.
OBJECTS OF COMPANY. —The Company has been formed to carry out the
functions of an Investment Trust such as is above described.
POLICY OF BIRECTORS. —It will be the aim of the Directors to spread the
funds of the Company over the widest possible range of investments, offering
satisfactory security for capital and reasonable return of income, to avoid, as far
as the interests of the Company permit, the placing of more than a small proportion
of the Company’s funds in any one investment and to build up out of profits arising
from the realisation of securities a special reserve to meet any fluctuations in the
value of the Company's investments.
ANTICIPATED RESULTS. —As security of capital will be the aim of the Directors,
spectacular results are not to be expected, but shareholders may confidently look
forward to a reasonable return by way of dividend practically from the outset. A
minimum dividend of 4 per cent, per annum is the immediate aim of the Directors,
but this should be considerably increased as the Company’s activities develop. Filrther,
with the building up of reserves, and their profitable investment, there should he
a steady advance in the capital value of the Company’s shares.
EXPENSES OF MANAGEMENT.—The aim of the Directors will he to conduct
the affairs of the Company on the most economical lines possible, and to restrict the
expenses of the management to a minimum consistent with efficiency. In this connec-
tion the Directors have agreed for the present to accept only a nominal fee for their
services.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.—Preliminary expenses will be paid by the Company
and are estimated at £lOOO. including brokerage as hereinafter referred to. There is
no consideration of any kind being paid to any promoter.
BROKERAGE.—A brokerage of 2d. per share will be paid to members of any
recognised Stock Exchange in Australia or New Zealand upon shares allotted
pursuant to applications bearing their stamp.
STOCK EXCHANGE LlSTlNG.—Application will be made in due course for
listing of the Company’s shares on the Stock Exchange.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION.—The amount fixed by the Articles of Association
of the Company as the minimum subscription upon which the Directors may
proceed to allotment is 00,000 shares.
APPLICATIONS.—Copies of the full Prospectus with forms of Application
attached may he obtained at the Registered Office of the -Company, or from the
Brokers to the flotation, Clarke and Company, 371 Collins Street, Melbourne, or
through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
The subscription list is now open and applications will be received until 12
noon on Monday, the 16th November, 1936, but the Directors reserve the right to
close the subscription list at any earlier date.
Applications for shares may be made through any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange, and should be lodged with Percy Jennings and Clarke, 34 Queen
Street. Melbourne.
FOR LOWEST PRICES AND HIGHEST QUALITY
QLD.'S BIG DIRECT SUPPLIERS STAND ALONE
s * t
Cool
Comfort
without
Ice.
"HIBISCUS"
Ventilated Cold Safes
Buy. now and have the benefit right through
the Summer. Small, 14 x 14 x 20 inches,
£2/2/6. Medium, 18 x 18 x 28 inches,
Large, 28 x 24 x 32 inches,
£4/15/-. Write for pamphlet.
A Food and a Tonic
SOLMOLAZ is solidified
molasses for sheep,
cattle, horses and pigs.
Saves waste, freight,
money. Packed in
easily-handled c o n-
tainers. Weight, 1 1 21b.
Price, 13/6.
SOLMOLA
Vl I
WRITE FOR LICK AND FEED BOOKLET.
ĸ
WIRE AND NETTING
We are the largest dis-
tributors in Queensland.
Genuine Hibiscus—no
other firm can supply.
Hibiscus Bg. Galv. Wire,
16/- cwt.; 10g., 1 7J-.
~ . Hibiscus Tested High
Tensmn Wire, 25/- coil; £24 ton. Standard
,' i '^i re > 2O- coil of 1500 yards.
Tyeasy, 22/6 per cwt. 12£g. Barb
from 17/6 per coil of 440 yards.
WRITE FOR REDUCED LISTS.
LOWEST PRICES
FOR:
Galv. Iron, 28g. British
Crown, £23/10/- per ton;
also B Grade, 6ft. 'LI-, Bft.
2/6 per sheet. Linseed
Oil in drums—Raw 4/8,
Boiled 4/10 per gal.
Tents and Tarpaulins at
factory prices. Camp Beds,
12/6. Water Bags from
1 /3. Joinery, including
Doors 17/6 each. Cement
Roof Paint, 17/6. hibro
Cement Sheets, 2/3 sq. yd.
Dover Stoves—No. 7 60/-,
No. 8 70/-; piping free.
Cement, 95/- per ton of
24 bags. All Shearing
Requisites, Camp Supplies.
Pumps and Machinery.
Windmills, etc.; also
HIBISCUS Water-boring
Plants, guaranteed up to
400 ft. Latest Wire Gauze
and Materials for new
Dairy Regulations. Arsenic,
3 7/6 per cwt. Caustic
Soda, 37/6 per cwt.
Strychnine, 5/- per ounce;
and all Groceries and
Hardware Lines.
OUR BIG CATALOGUE
SAVES YOU POUNDS.
14th EDITION READY—
WRITE TO-DAY.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.
Universal Suppliers to"\Oueensland Producers
BOWEN ST., off ANN ST. (nepr Fire Brigade). BRISBANE
qA CLUSTER of BEES
by
TARLTON RAYMENT, F.E.S.
With Introduction by Professor E. F. Phillips, D.Ph.,
Cornell University, U.S.A.
A remarkable monograph of 750 pages in which
every genus of Australian Bee is delineated in a
manner never before attempted. The book contains
65 plates, which have necessitated hundreds of
microscopical dissections, and 150 text figures. Over
130 new species are described.
Specimen Plate from “A Cluster of Bees.”
STRUCTURAL DETAILS OF MEROGLOSSA.
J 11
'i
S V
s vr s
ITa rltonPaywemt 1
An authoritative work on the many hundreds of
bees indigenous to Australia which no library,
museum or nature-lover can afford to overlook.
Only a limited edition, beautifully bound.
PRICE, £i/i/'i plus 6d. postage.
Post This Order Form To-day.
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
Please forward to me cop of "A Cluster of
Bees,” by Tarlton Ray merit, for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS


NOBEL!
I
INOBED
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRAL, AST Ay AGKXTS :
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S'.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: K. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: TV. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: .1. S. Munro & Company.
lIOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Daigety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUXOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
The Mutual Life and Citizens ,
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
\V. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, . Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
. TAYMER MILL. —For crushing fine, Grinding and
Amalgamating. Light, Robust and Portable. Weight,
4 tons. Output 25 tons and upwards per diem,
depending on class of ore. Appi’oximate life of
wearing parts, 10,000 tons. Can be erected by two
men in three days. Apply Taymer Mill, 293 Queen
Street, Brisbane, Queensland. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
4= * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Strap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydnev.— Advt.
J '* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * 4= *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
BRITISH MOTOR
TRUCKS
We have in stock two absolutely new
Petrol Motor Lorries made by
TILLING STEVENS, LONDON,
which we are selling at £420 each.
The usual price of these trucks is
from £9OO to £ll5O, and we desire
the room for new models. Any
inspection.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
of business available, with price-cutting
as an inevitable consequence, while over-
head has remained relatively stubborn.
Still, the wood pipe has its own special
advantages, and the co. has been able
to win its full share of whatever orders
were available. The Westralian factory at
Victoria Park, put up about four years
ago to supply 10 miles of 24in. pipe be-
tween Perth and Kalgoorlie, contributed
substantially to the ’33 and ’34 profits.
In the following term most of the busi-
ness offering was for small-diameter
pipes, the co.’s three factories —the other
two are at Lape Cove (N.S.W.) and
Footscray (Vic.) respectively—worked
short time, and, for the second occasion
in 20 years, a small loss showed up.
During the last term new contracts
were received from the Westralian Gov-
ernment and from local-government
bodies in Victoria, N. S. Wales and Tas-
mania, as well as from various industrial
and mining cos. throughout the Com-
monwealth. After providing for taxa-
tion and writing off £1696 more than was
~«pent on fixed assets, a profit of £5350
remained, an improvement of £6680 on
the previous year’s result. Shareholders,
who were passed by in ’35, were handed
5 p.c., making an average of 5.3 p.c. over
the last decade.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1922. 1932. 1935. 1930.
Paid capital.. £105,007 £105,007 £105,007 £105,007
Liabilities .. 40,358 9,114 10,353 11,040
Properties and
plant .. 57,918 70.082 83,021 81,325
Stock.. .. 23,126 29,171 22,408 24,948
Hook debts . . 58,000 13,098 10,779 14,186
Deposits, cash, etc. 9,818 3,009 3,378 3,138
Including stocks, the year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£30,632) was £4420.
As for the current term, some of the
contracts entered into before the close
of last accounts have yet to be completed,
a new factory has just been erected at
Launceston (Tas.) to supply 16,911 ft. of
9in. pipes to the Leven Council, and
tenders are to be called for a number of
other water-supply schemes.
At 12s. 6d. (7s. 3d. a year ago) the
pound shares return 8 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 20s. 10d. in net tan-
gibles, mostly plant, worth what it can
earn.
The price of base metals continues on
the up-grade, owing partly to increased
trade activity and partly to expenditure
on armaments. The average spot price of
lead in London was £l4 ss. Bd. for the
12 months of 1935 ; the figure, which
rose to £l5 4s. 3d. for June and to £l7
19s. lOd. for September, was £lB 7s. 6d.
last week-end. Corresponding prices for
spelter were £l4 3s. 6d., £l4 os. 2d., £l4
os. Bd. and £l4 18s. 9d. respectively, and
for electrolytic copper £35 14s. Id., £4O
11s. 3d., £43 10s. and £46 respectively.
It has all been reflected in a sharp rise
in the price of Barrier and other stocks
concerned. Of the three metals, the out-
look for lead and copper is brightest at
the moment; there is nothing to sug-
gest a recession in the price of spelter. If
the price of copper doesn’t fall below
its present level, Mt. Lyell shares, which
advanced from 245. Id. to 335. 9d. over
the last four months, may still be worth
consideration.
* * * *
For the year to June 30, after provid-
ing £7106 for depreciation, Golden
Plateau, star performer at Cracow (Q.),
discloses a profit of £195,509, down
£18,389. The slip is due to a rise of 3s. 2d.
per .ton in costs (£1 Is. Bd.) and to lower
recoveries from the tailings—9.6gr. a ton
as against 18.4 gr. in the previous term.
Divs. totalling 4s. 6d. absorbed £189,000,
and another shilling a share has
been sent out since the close of ac-
counts. The 45,075 tons treated yielded
36,9720 z. bullion, containing 29,2110 z.
fine gold—an average 12.96dwt. a ton
—worth £253,054 (down £19,455). Ex-
traction (97.01 p.c.) showed a small im-
provement. Ore reserves are slightly
higher at 233,640 tons, containing
93,4300 z. gold. That takes no account
of ore available between the tunnel and
294 ft. levels in No. 2 shoot; no crosscut
has been put out to prove this ore-body’s
size or value. The mine comprises a
number of lenticular enrichments in a
wide, mineralised ore-channel in rhyolite.
Below the 294 ft. level No. 4 winze has
shown an average ofi* 19dwt. to a depth
of 30ft. (well in sulphides), while No. 3
shoot is carrying 14dwt. values going
underfoot. Should present widths be
maintained, each 100 ft. of sinking be-
neath bottom level is expected to yield
90,000 tons of ore. Of the rich ore in
No. 1 shoot above tunnel level which
proved such a sweet thing in the past,
only 3400 tons remained at June 30.
From June 20 to Oct. 10 of this year,
average recovery fell to 10.37dwt., and,
in order to maintain last year’s earnings,
plant capacity is to be bumped up. At
balance date current assets stood £74,355
in excess of liabilities.
* * * *
Sapphire Creek (Papua) Development
Syndicate, N.L., is a Melbourne float to
take over 68 acres between the Borobo
and Merrie England leases (Papua), to-
gether with three areas, totalling 50 acres,
adjoining Mandated Alluvials’ property,
17 miles from Port Moresby. On the
50 acres, costeening has disclosed a lode
formation (width, etc., not stated) re-
sembling that on Mandated Alluvials’
leases. Nominal capital is £lO,OOO in £2
shares, which are to be first offered to
those on Upper Sepik Gold Syndicate’s
register at Oct. 29.
* * * *
An area of 250 square miles in the
Weymouth Bay district, Cape York
Peninsula (N.Q.), known as the Port-
land Roads or Iron Range field, has been
gazetted as the Claudie River goldfield.
It is bounded on the north by the Pascoe
River, on the west by the Janet Range
and on the south by the Claudie River,
named in 1878 by W. Lakeland, a pioneer
prospector, after his son. There are
about 130 people on the new field, where
some 40 leases are being developed,
Gold was first discovered there by John
Gordon in J 934, and so far his mine, the
Iron Range, has yielded nearly £20,000
worth of the yellow metal. Prospecting
is being carried on over a strip of country
five miles long by a mile wide, and rich
ore has been found. A parcel from the
Golden Range is expected to go any-
thing up to 14oz. per ton ; at Scrubby
Creek, crushings have averaged 30z.; at
Packer’s Creek, an average of 16dwt.
smelted gold has been recovered from the
plates. The future of the field will largely
depend upon the extent to which the
formations and values live down. Machin-
ery, stores and passengers are landed
at the bay by John Burke’s steamer,
whence a Government road is being built
to the field.
* * * *
Fiji Gold, N.L., another blue duck of
the Tavua field, having lost all but £lOOO
of its £14,000 of share-money, now has
its eye on a 150,000-ton sands dump,
assays of which indicate a possible work-
ing profit of 2s. per ton.
* * * *
Bidor Tin, N.L., formed in Sept.,
1926, to take over 820 acres of ground
at Perak (F.M.S.), has sold its property
to unnamed interests for £29,000 (Aust.).
A selected area of 560 acres was esti-
mated to contain, to a depth of 40ft.,
some 36,000,000 c.y., averaging B|oz. t.o.
A dredge had not been installed when
the restriction scheme came into force,
so the co. has been unable to get a quota.
Subscribed capital is £72,250, £15,000
of it 10 p.c. cum. pref. money, on which
arrears of divs. will amount to £14,938
on Oct. 31. No announcement has been
made regarding the future of the co.
Liquids total £12,000 plus the sale money
already mentioned.
He # * *
Taranaki (N.Z.) Oil Fields, N.L., which
holds extensive oil-prospecting rights in
Maoriland, hopes to make mutually satis-
factory arrangements with “a large and
successful overseas organisation” for
further testing and drilling the co.’s most
promising structural areas in the Hawke’s
Bay-Gisborne district (M.L.). Mean-
while, those on the register are asked
for another penny per share (in all about
£1800) in order to service equipment,
etc.
* * * *
On its option at Storey’s Creek (Tas.),
Mt. Rex Tin, which has extended No. 1
adit to 212 ft., expects to meet the down-
ward continuation of the lode within the
next 40ft. If its luck is in, a second
adit is to be driven lower down, with
the hope of proving 200 ft. of vertical
backs. The co. has £l2OO in hand, but
those on the register will be asked for
another Is. per share if the driving of
No. 2 adit is considered worth while.
* * * *
Halley’s Comet, a newly-prospected
Marble Bar venture, has been added to
the list of De Bernales’s Westralian gold-
mining group. Boulder Mining and
Finance and Commonwealth Mining and
Finance are the owners. Two prospecting
shafts and several costeens have revealed
a shoot 100 ft. long, 23ft. deep and 12ft.
wide on the surface, which is expected
to average soz. T. Blatchford, formerly
Government Geologist, and A. Faul,
chief engineer of Australian Mines
Management and Secretariate, Ltd.,
testify to the richness of the show, which
is in the prospecting stage.
* * * *
North Gympie Gold Deposits, N.L.,
which suspended operations at Gympie
(Q.) months ago, has secured 24 acres at
Marble Bar (W.A.), adjoining Halley’s
Comet mine. The co. expects to begin
profitable production after an expendi-
ture of £5OOO.
* * * *
Despite the six-figure sum raised to
reopen the Edna May (W.A.), the co.’s
till is nearly empty. The board, there-
fore, proposes raising the nominal value
of shares from 4s. to ss. to provide a
calling power of £38,675, the amount
estimated to be required to bring the
property to continuous and profitable
production. Unforeseen delay and ex-
pense of unwatering and reconditioning
the old workings have been the trouble.
Production is expected to begin in about
six months.
* * * *
Celebration, Hampton (W.A.),. which
recently obtained financial help from the
State Government, announces that,
owing to continued dilution of ore
values, underground operations have
been suspended, and a geological report
is to be obtained. Better news is broad-
cast from the co.’s second string, Golden
Hope, where lOdwt. ore is being broken
over a width of from a stope above
No. 2 level. No ore from this property
has yet been milled.
# % * *
Finances of Hill 50 (W.A.) are causing
the board concern. The Government
loan of £5OOO proved insufficient to
bring the mine to the regular production
stage, and one of the directors is re-
ported to have put up a further £3750.
A 2000-tons-a-month mill is running;
shareholders hope for the best.
Kimberley - Options (W.A.), having
permitted tributors to extract a lot of
the good-grade ore from the main work-
ings of its Edjudina mine, has now agreed
to let them carry on ih another part of
the property, where up to 30dwt. re-
turns have been obtained from shallow
digging.
* * * *
Owing to the shyness of holders in
exercising their options on shares, South-
ern Cross and North Kalgurli United
(W.A.) are talking of interest-bearing note
issues as a means of gathering additional
capital. Each co. is accelerating develop-
ment, and each claims substantial ore
reserves and good prospects.
* * * *
Bayley’s old Reward claim at Cool-
gardie (.W.A.), now operated by Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance, Ltd.,
looks pleasing to the eye 1000 ft. below the
surface. Drives, so far aggregating 100 ft.
in length, have opened up a strong body
of ore, ranging from Bdwt. to 16dwt. in
value.
* * * *
Western Mining Corporation, which is
making, a good showing at Cox’s Find
(W.A.) —last month 1000 tons returned
£lO,OOO Australian —has taken up an ad-
joining property on the south. The
vendors, Mrs. Finch and Miss E. Hayes,
have received £2500 cash.
* * * *
Golden West (W.A.) needs help, and
there is talk of shareholders being asked
to find it; many of them are wondering
what has become of the “fair tonnage of
high-grade ore to be drawn on when the
mill started.”
* * * *
Perth’s first goldmining exhibition, with
its nuggets, rich ore specimens, pros-
pectors’ outfits, dryblowers and dolly
pots in operation, model mills in motion,
machinery displays, early goldfields
photo, gallery, and films of the industry
and goldfields life, has opened and shut.
It proved as interesting and instructive as
its organisers predicted, and was a gilt-
edged success financially. A local paper,
lamenting the absence of a cage for
wild cats, assumed that space sufficient
to do justice to such an exhibit was not
available.
* * * *
Westralia hopes to recover 820,0000 z.
of gold this year, compared with
649,0000 z. in 1935 and 651,3380 z. in
1934. The fall in the 1935 figure was due
to industrial trouble. The yield for the
expired nine months of this year is
608,0000 z. Early additions to the list of
producers will be Riverina and Emu
(Murchison group) and Big Bell.
* * * *
Goldmining .reservations are again
causing discontent among prospectors in
Westralia, where thousands of acres are
so tied up. Prospectors may operate
under certain conditions on some of these
areas ; others are closed to all but the
holder, often a big mining corporation,
thus curbing the activities of prospectors.


"Equal to a
fine liqueur
ft
1
m
?s^
X'*
5?
os>
■vWiSSfifc
v <;?
-*.
•v\
'^v;
»X:
m
%
v/,
m
%
%
%
H
V*
It.
mm
I
to.
m
VS//,.
vm
kU
“I can tell
White Horse
blindfold!
It has a subtle and dis-
tinctive aroma. A smoothness and mellowness you cannot mistake,
Why, this whisky is just like a fine liqueur !
W.H.
Screw cap flasks of convenient slices on sale everywhere


ABORIGINALITIES
“Rus”': It was in the Mallee, and.
the cocky having hospitably agreed to
put us up for the night, we retired to the
shakedown on the back verandah after
some hours’ yarning. Our host shared
the sleep-out with us, and in the half-
light we were mystified to see him delv-
ing into a dipper alongside his bunk and
rubbing handfuls of some substance
through his matted thatch. Just when
we had concluded that he was a disciple
of some new cult, he relieved our
curiosity. “Blow the missus! Lent
me alarm clock to Maloney, so I put
wheat in me hair so the fowls wijl
wake me by peckin’ me at daylight.”
* * * *
“W.R.W.”: Melbourne “Sun,” writing
up a show visitor who breeds blood
horses, remounts, polo ponies and cattle
at his station in the mountainous coun-
try between the New England tableland
and the Clarence River at Grafton
(N.S.W.), said:
This property is so wild that at the
annual muster of cattle steers and heifers
are often found, two or three years old,
that have never been branded or seen
before.
Evidently a bit of the great outback,
where men are men and steers are steers.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Lightning may not strike
twice, in the one place, but it can smite
thereabout with a deal of frequency on
occasions. I once witnessed the lively stuff
strike and fire tinder-dry shore thistles
five times in 20 minutes on Jerilderie
common, Riverina (N.S.W.). That was
during the “dry” part of a storm. Fol-
lowing rain left the burnt patches like
close shot-groupings on a target.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: I have watched the
giant fish hawks of Torres Strait swoop
down from the skies on their submarine
quarry. Swift as is their flight it takes
the space of seconds till they reach the
water, merely skimming the surface with
their talons, yet these unfailingly bear a
fish in their ascent skywards. As no fish
remains stationary on the surface (if it
did it would spot the corsair’s swoop
and avoid it), the hawk’s means of timing
his dive constitutes the puzzle. It almost
argues some telepathic foreknowledge
of the fish’s movements, since he must
begin his dive long before the fish reaches
the surface. The hawk’s shoulder
muscles must be wrought in Nature’s
toughest fibres, to permit of his sudden
pulling out of the dive.
* * * *
“Saddle-flap”: Although a corroboree
as stage entertainment is usually poor
stuff, the Kimberley abos. put on a solo
dance that is a good music-hall turn. To
the clank of the didgereedoo and the syn-
copated drumming of bonesticks, a young
buck goes through a shimmy dance while
skilfully synchronising the actions of
washing and shaving with the rhythm.
The actor finishes his five-minute turn in
a spectacular whirl of shimmying, grunt-
ing and stamping of feet. Whenever I
recall Binghi’s “washum-shavum” dance
I can never believe that syncopated jazz
originated in America.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Liberated near Melbourne
more than 70 years ago, the English sky-
lark has proved about as enterprising a
traveller as a suburban swagman. The
blackbird, another importation, has over-
run suburbia and penetrated the black-
berry-smitten district to eastward of the
Victorian capital. The Indian myna
clings tenaciously to the city’s garbage-
tin parade. Is that little black-and-brown
brawler from Curryland domiciled other-
where in Australia than Melbourne?
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Apropos the supposed intel-
lectual inferiority of the Australian abo.
There was, until a few years ago, in
Innisfail (N.Q.) a full-blooded abo. who
managed a large sugar estate, and man-
aged it well. He had several whites
under him, as well as blacks, and his
authority was never questioned. He was
a first-rate mechanic and blacksmith and,
by general consent, a man who would
have gone far had his skin been a dif-
ferent color.
* * * *
“L.S.R.”: To anyone with a know-
ledge of dentistry, the idea that a per-
manent tooth can be removed by “bare
hand” (unless considerably loosened by
“Drivin' fasht, ain cker ?”
“Me driwin'! Thought—hid — YOU were!”
accident or disease) cannot be taken seri-
ously. Steel forceps, even in experienced
hands, not infrequently slip from teeth,
and such is the resistance offered that
the finest instruments obtainable soon
acquire more or less mangled edges, ne-
cessitating reconditioning or replacement.
Instrument-makers have evolved forceps
with blades peculiarly adapted to their
job, and they bear little resemblance to
finger and thumb. If it were possible to
attach the digital tissues to the average
tooth so that they could not become
unstuck then the tissues would tear from
the fingers (Japanese or otherwise) before
any self-respecting tooth would have left
its moorings.
* * * *
“Nor’-West”: Leaving Fitzroy Cross-
ing, out from Derby (W.A.), on June 17,
M.C. Nevin, with two trackers, one
native witness, two horses and 12 mules,
started in pursuit of one Jumbo, alleged
slayer of a gin at Wungilyunga Creek,
somewhere on the other side of the
Leopold Ranges. Three days to the
ranges, then up and over. Then along
the gorges of the Hann River to the scene
of the killing. Grave located, body ex-
humed and examined. Weapon, a bottle-
glass spearhead, found. Off on accused’s
trail to Wire Yard station. Country in
grip of worst drought on record. Water-
less camps. Quarry reported at Gibb
River. On to there, to find bird flown.
Then on a false trail to the dry Salmon
River. Food short, so on to Karungie
station. Now out a month. Word that
Jumbo now at camp near Wyndham. On
to Wyndham, to find that abo. “wire-
less” had been at work, the fleet Jumbo
being now at Ivanhoe station, 50 miles
to the east. A quick dash in a car.
The stealthy surrounding of a gorge in
which many blacks were camped. Be-
trayal of approach by barking of nig-
gers’ dogs. Camp rushed, but quarry
again gone. Patrol then ordered home
back the way it had come. Water even
scarcer but journey made, Fitzroy Cross-
ing being reached on August 16, two
months from starting out. During this
two months of constant saddle work the
lone policeman suffered almost daily
privation from lack of decent drinking
water; nevertheless it was a jour-
ney upon which crocodiles, wild game,
picturesque gorges, steep ranges, primi-
tive blacks, hard-bitten courageous cattle-
men were all encountered. Still, just the
ordinary duty of the Kimberley police.
Yet our Australian youngsters are fed on
stuff that pictures the Canadian
“Mountie” as the absolute world-beater.
The police didn’t “get their man,” but
he’ll be got.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”: If that poison tree, which
“L.W.” (B. 30/ 9 /’36) mentions is the
same which grows on northern N.S.W.
rivers, the remedy usually grows next
door. It is the sap of the roots of the
cunjevoi, or green scented lily.
* * * *
“Rus”: The rural retreat in which I
dwell is plunged in grief over the loss
of its Christmas dinner. A turkey hen
was sitting on 16 eggs, and doing so well
that visions of turkey ad lib. were enter-
tained by all. The other morning our
turkey expert visited the lady’s nest. No-
thing remained but a few bones and many
eggshells. A fox.had scoffed, not only
the mother, but her 16 unborn infants.
It recalls a Papuan cookboy in the long
ago. He came to me with a hatful of
prehistoric hen eggs he had found aban-
doned in the grass. I threw one against
a tree as a test, and released a well-
developed chick and a devastating smell.
Before I could try another cookie’s voice
rose in an agonised wail. “No more,
taubada, no more ; me eat ’em”—and
so it was.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Is there anything in the
bush put to greater use than the quan-
dong? The flesh of the fruit can be
eaten raw, cooked in pies and tarts and
made into jam and jelly. Also, I’ve seen
the pitted seeds when dried used as
buttons, strung round a swagman’s hat
instead of corks, worn on a watch-chain
as an ornament, worn by women as
necklets and used by bush kids as
marbles.
* * * *
“I.C. de M.”: On Saturday mornings
a special pigeon truck pulls into Bunda-
noon (N.S.W.). Thousands of carrier-
pigeons, released, circle round, getting
their bearings, then off they sweep in a
beeline for home. But their happy flight
is too often a tragic affair, for death
comes swiftly as hawks strike with deadly
accuracy and their victims fall to earth
like stones. The Pigeon Protection
Society is offering 10s. and ss. for scalps
of falcons, goshawks, etc. One crafty big
hawk was seen hovering about waiting
for his prey. The pigeons circled around
the station, refusing to leave while the
enemy was about. As soon as he flew off
in the direction of Goulburn the carriers
sped on their homeward flight. Like a
great racing ’plane that hawk then turned
and shot after them, and before they
were out of sight of the station he struck
twice, killing each time. Can any Aboite
tell us how to decoy hawks?
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: What do redback spiders
eat? Any beekeeper will tell you that
the redback’s favorite camping spot is
beneath the bottom board of a beehive,
where as many as ten may make their
home and wax fat; and the shrivelled
bodies of web-entangled bees around
each spider shows what has fattened the
ugly little brutes. Best deterrent is to
paint the bottom board of the hive twice
a year with old sump oil. Some bee-
keepers, before shifting their hives, rake
all webs and spiders off with a hand-
broom, yet I have not heard of one being
bitten ; if he were it might be serious, as
the natural assumption would- be that
the pain was caused by a loose bee and
he might take no notice of it. When I’m
working in my home apiary my old pet
magpie always hurries over and follows
me from hive to hive ; whenever I find
a redback under a hive cover Maggie
deftly snaps up the spider with an expres-
sion which seems to say “Oysters aren’t
in it.”
* * * *
“Osh”: Touching on maul handles
the best, bar one, is the “midgibil.” I defy
anyone to break it while green, though
liable to split when dry. I had one for 18
months before it broke. Having left
the scrub country I was unable to find
anything to last more than three days
at most, so I tried a length of fin. gal-
vanised pipe. It’s a bit hard on the
hands at first, but as a handle it’s the.
daddy of the maul.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: For the tourist surfeited
with the world’s wonders there is still the
Coppa mari, or communal festal dance
of the outer isles of Torres Strait, a mass
jubilation at which a marriage or birth
is celebrated or a death honored after
the manner of the Irish wake. There are
singing and dancing,
and the “pappi”—the
piece de resistance —is
a gourmet’s dream. It
is a confection of taro,
young pig, turtle, fowl
and dugong, cooked in
coconut milk, and
flavored with indigen-
ous spices known only
to Binghi. The lot is
tightly packed and
wrapped in banana
leaves and then buried
beneath white - hot
stones. After requisite
time it is dug up and
placed ceremoniously
before the guest, who is
apt to recoil in horror,
so startling is the coco-
nut, roasted hot and
surmounting the pappi,
got up to resemble a cooked skull.
* *
“Manah-bolek”: Hawkesbury River
(N.S.W.) settlers have complained of
ducks lost through attacks by eels. They
say the slimy brutes have become so
daring that they even attack the birds
swimming on the surface, in some
cases actually dragging the ducks below
the water and ripping them to pieces.
In reply to these, assertions a Sydney
ichthyologist stated it would be impos-
sible for an eel to drag a duck under.
He may be right, but I saw an eel drag
a gannet below at East Point, Dar-
win, when the water was crystal-clear.
Despite the victim’s frantic struggles the
eel showed no apparent difficulty in tak-
ing it 15 feet down to a crevice in the
rocks.
* * * *
“Hobo”: Say it with music. Work-
ing for a W.A. cocky at harvest-time, we
often wondered if he ever went to bed
—he didn’t seem to think that anyone
else should go. Came Sunday morn-
ing, and despite hints of the previous
night we decided to lie in until at least
the sun came over the tops of the jarrahs.
Woke just after dawn to a plaintive
lullaby. Peeping out, saw the farm wife
with her youngest in her arms walking
up and down in front of the bunkhouse.
She wasn’t a bad crooner, and it cer-
tainly was better than calling us rough.
Here’s her song:
The baby’s up before the men,
The baby’s up before the men,
The baby’s up before the men,
This bright and sunny morning.
PIPER’S FARM.
i( was lonely over at Piper's Farm,
Down the valley by Mangrove Flat,
The winding creeks and the scrub-clad hills,
And the old grey farm in the midst of that,
Whence at morning and eve they’d hale
Slow-foot cattle to byre and bail,
Urging them on their leisurely way;
“Mitzi! Melody! Mandalay!”
Out in the rainy, shivering dawns,
When down the valley the great wind soughs,
Seeking between the tea-tree lanes,
Drenched with the drips from the soaking
boughs,
Water dancing in yellow streams
Under the flickering lantern gleams
As we called aloud by the old pine-tree,
“Come up, Dinah and Dimity!”
Summer morns and the chanting birds,
The scent of clover and glowing gorse,
Spreading over the dewy fields,
Searching the drying watercourse;
Soft, warm winds and the morning star,
Roar of the distant thundering bar,
As we called the cows by the old seaway,
“Mitzi! Melody! Mandalay! ”
Out in the quiet of the autumntide,
The bramble red and the bracken gold,
The wide, grey sky and the windless air,
The yellowed leaves in the orchard old;
Homestead smoke in a column white,
Soaring into the stilly height,
As we called the cows with a shout of song,
“Daisy! Dimity! Dandenong! ”
It’s a long, long cry down the years behind
To Piper's Farm and the mangrove streams,
To the scrub-clad slopes and the dewy fields,
But 1 see them all in my lonesome dreams.
1 seek in the wintry dawns again
For the slow-foot cows in the driving rain,
And call through the mist of a breaking day,
“Melody! Mitzi! Mandalay!”
N.S.W.
TROY.


“Bungarrer”: Even “Laetitia’s” black-
smith (B. 30/9/’36) is well ahead of our
local butcher when it comes to book-
keeping. Butch, keeps no accounts at
all. Comes Friday. “Mrs. Jones?” asks
the boy. “Oh, put her down at 9s.
lid.” But Mrs. Jones is positive that
she does not owe that much. “Well,
knock her back two bob and say we
made a mistake.” Sounds muddled, but
he’s the only greasy in the district thriv-
ing, even though the others dead-reckon
to a ha’penny and cut the odd sausage
in halves.
* * * *
“Billy Boil”: How’s this for active
auctioneering? At the Charleville (Q.)
saleyards Leo Lynch put 200 head of
horses under the hammer at an average
selling rate of 50 per hour. They were
offered singly, and the time necessary to
place each in the yard for inspection,
sale and removal is included in that rate.
And every prad fetched a good price.
* * * *
“A.S.”: Will a horse buck with a
drunken rider? 1 doubt it. One old
chap in our district regularly rides to
town on a young ’an with the strength
and the will to shake the best of riders.
Coming home he’ll sway back over the
prad’s rump one minute, the next hang-
ing over one knee-pad or other. The
youngster will cringe, balk, but will
never buck.
* # *. *
“Pisces”: A bush aquarium worth
noting is to be found at Mt. View, in
the Dalby (Q.) country. The owner,
P. Curran, struck water in a 400 ft. bore
and pumped it into a large tank to
supply his stock. Near by in a drying
waterhole were many
of those tiny fish
familiar to every bush-
man who cares to
amuse himself won-
dering how they got
there. Curran trans-
ferred a lot of them to
his tank, and, though
in the small water-
holes they are never
known to increase in
size, they are putting
on weight rapidly in the
bore water. They are
dewfish, perch and
bony bream, the first
two excellent eating.
No reason why West-
ern Queenslanders with
a bore on their prop-
erty should not emu-
late the monks of old
and furnish their table
with fish stews when salt mutton and
pumpkin palls.
* * * *
“Dominic”: There are still a few
patches of Australia capable of support-
ing an odd million or two. Take the
Fitzroy River (W.A.). It rises in the
Leopold Ranges and, after a circuitous
course in which it gathers numerous
tributaries, flows into King Sound, a
vast inlet 90 miles long by 50 or 60
wide. The river waters 250 miles of
arable land spreading six miles on each
side —land that will grow anything, as
witness on the few cattle stations the
gardens tended by lazy abos. and watered
during the “dry” by kerosene-tin. In the
“wet” the river overflows, a bed 400
yards wide, with banks 30ft. high, being
in many places unable to hold it. It
ceases to flow in the. dry, but there are
always plenty of mile-long pools main-
tained at a fairly constant level by the
vast reservoir underground. Men who
have seen both rivers in flood compare
the Fitzroy with the Nile.—and the Nile
has supported Egypt for over 6000 years.
Population of the Fitzroy Valley—well,
as an extravagant estimate, say one
white to every 50 square leagues. And
there are other rivers just as big.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: One of the heaviest
handicaps under which the African
“ That'll teach you to interrupt a Beethoven sonata!”
farmer works is stock diseases unknown
in other countries. Among the worst
of these are horse-sickness, which makes
it impossible to use horses north of the
Limpopo, and tsetse fever. A serum to
overcome horse-sickness is said to have
been discovered, but so far the tsetse is
unconquered. For years in the East
African areas donkeys have been the only
means of transport immune to it.
Among wild animals the zebra is also
immune. This has led to experiments in
crossing the zebra and the horse, the
result being also proof against tsetse with
fever. In consequence it is likely that
the breeding of these zebra mules will
be undertaken on a large scale to fill the
breach caused by the inability of horses
to live in the country.
* * *■ *
“R.W.D.”: Something like a young
explosion in the chimney startled the
household ; a shower of soot fell into the
“The crows picked ’em clean in them days, Mum!”
fireless grate and drifted in a cloud over
everything in the vicinity. Rushing out-
side to see if Father Christmas had
arrived early by mistake, the family dis-
covered two kookaburras seated upon
the roof. Mrs. Kooka chuckled uncer-
tainly as she regarded her spouse with
an expression of bewilderment; while he,
black as a crow from beak to tail,
looked as though he regretted his inves-
tigation of the nesting possibilities of
that particular hollow tree.
* * * :;<
“Overplumb”: My youngest looked
at his new catapult with a doubtful “Will
it shoot?” “Shoot!” said the missus
sarcastically ; “it would kill a bull ! ” The
nipper walked over to where placid
Strawberry was browsing sleepily. The
elastic came back to its full extent,
and a waterworn pebble caught her on
the top lip. Hard to say who made the
loudest noise or showed the greatest sur-
prise—Strawberry as she came forward
to indignant reprisal, the kid as he hit
the ground a yard away, or the missus
as she climbed the fence to rescue. Me?
I was making a quick getaway before
I should be blamed for making the cata.
“Walkabout”: Never saw a crow
painted and released with the idea of
scaring away the flock (B. 30/9/’36), but
I saw the same thing tried with a dingo.
A jackeroo on a W.Q. station trapped
and stunned it, gave it a coating of phos-
phorous paint, tied a bell around its neck
and released it. Not one of its fellows
was seen for a few days after the re-
lease of the scarecrow ; but he had to
face the boss’s wrath a week after when
warrigals from all over the district
massed to inspect the freak.
***!!:
“Kriz”: An interesting relic of early-
day Nor’-Westralian pearling turned up
the other day in a Perth second-hand
dealer’s shop. Two beautifully-carved
mother-o’-pearl shells mounted on a sea-
ebony base, with a partly-decipherable
“Ship Inn” carved on the ebony. If they
are genuine they should be worth their
weight in gold. Way back in 1866 Sue-
bert, mine host of the Pearlers’ Arms at
Fremantle, hearing so much about wealth
to be picked up in the nor’-west, set out
to see for himself. He had hardly landed
at Cossack when the schooner he had
sailed up in, the New Perseverance, was
thrown so far ashore by a tidal wave that
it was found impossible to refloat it.
Suebert bought it, much to the delight
of its owners and to the chaff of the
pearlers at the little port, who reckoned
he was going to wait for another tidal
wave to refloat it. Their guffaws turned
to surprise and delight when he went
south and returned with a license to run
a public house and sufficient stock to wet
their whistles for many months. Sue-
bert gave the boat the appropriate name
of Ship Inn, and it was serving more
than a useful purpose till better shelling-
grounds were found further up the coast,
and the exodus made the business un-
profitable. The boat was abandoned
later, and many of its parts were used for
spare rigging on the luggers which came
to replace the boats after native skin-
diving was given the knockout by diving-
dress and gear.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Despite popular misbelief,
Torres Strait “skin-diving” abos. enter-
tain wholesome regard for the shark
hazard, and all their native caution is em-
ployed to avert the menace. One method
is the absolute avoidance of any deposit
of greasy matter of any kind in the
water. The slightest film of grease is a
powerful magnet for sharks ; accordingly,
nothing containing grease from dugong
or turtle cooking is thrown overboard,
whilst lathering of the hands with soap
in the sea is strictly taboo. In the bad
old days unscrupulous white and Japanese
shellers used to cast an oil scum over a
patch of rich shell that was being worked
by native island divers. Another charm-
ing trick was to place turtle blood in a
floating kerosene-tin, which was allowed
to drift in among the skin divers. Im-
mediately the abos. were compelled to
vacate the lucrative patches of shell in
favor of the almost invulnerable dress
divers.
* * * :!:
“Horsetailer”: Dirk Hartog station
(W.A.) isn’t worried about boundary
fences, being on the island of that early
Dutch navigator’s name, 70 miles long
and from eight to 16 wide. Cut off from
the. mainland by a narrow tide-whipped
passage, the island juts out into the
Indian Ocean and forms part of the
western shore of Shark Bay. On the
station the turn of the tide is considered
with seamanlike interest, for the wind-
mills on the soaks have to be turned off
at low water to prevent salt water being
pumped up, and most of the riding and
droving of stock is done along the hard
beaches at half-tide. The station has its
own seagoing cutter for transport to
Denham, 40 miles across the bay, and
for towing a punt used in boating sheep ;
16,000 sheep are shorn, and the wool is
lightered direct on to the Singapore
steamers, the freight being cheaper than
to Fremantle. Besides the homestead
there is a pearler’s cottage on the beach,
for pearls abound in the shallows round
the bay, and 200 yards from the wool-
shed I’ve caught old-men snapper as
fast as I could haul up my line.
* * # *
“A. Punter”: I was sitting in my
barn husking corn for seed when my
s.p. bookie came
in, it being settling
day—as usual, I
was the settler.
He’ll bet on any-
thing, so 1 swung
him on to corn
cobs. I bet him a
quid a go he
couldn’t pick
whether the num-
ber of rows in a
cob running
lengthwise was odd
or even. He backed
odds, I evens —I
saw to that. I
even allowed him
to select his cobs.
After squaring all
my losses I merci-
fully pulled out.
Possibly there may
be a cob which has an odd number of
rows in its make-up—but I’ve never
struck one.
* * * *
“J.N.”: With all the mechanisation of
industry, you occasionally run on to some
old-style methods. Near Augathella (Q.)
there is a pit-saw plant in full action, the
man in the pit wearing glasses to pro-
tect his eyes from the sawdust.
* * *
“Falconer”: There seems to be no end
to the strange alliances between animals.
A resident of Whangarei (M.L.), while
ferreting for rabbits in the sandhills, was
puzzled by the unusual commotion issu-
ing from a burrow his ferret had entered.
He dug out the burrow and found that
the bunny was keeping company with a
full-grown penguin.
A BIRD FROM THE BREE.
[Suggested by “The Parrot” of B. 9/9/’3G.]
Now I was reared in a station hut
On a sheep run by The Bree;
My owner called me a tough young nut
And raised me on bread and tea.
He took me down to his girl in town —
Or someone who posed as such;
She passed me on with an ugly frown
And reckoned I talked too much.
1 only echoed the words I'd heard
On that station by The Bree;
And, though she called me a nasty bird,
They sounded all right to me.
They must have been, for I say the same
When I fancy a friendly chat;
And all the boys in the bar exclaim
Is “What do you think of that ?”
To tipple a little, now and then,
I’ve learned since I left The Bree;
What odds if my perch gets wobbly when
The shouts have come fast and free?
The liberty other birds call sweet,
The freedom they hold so dear,
I grudge them not, while I’ve whips to eat
And never go short of beer.
I’ve comfort, cobbers, good food and drink,
So why should I want The Bree?
Would I have for home on that dry creek’s
brink
A hole in some half-dead tree,
Where the windstorms scour the scorched-
up plain
And tear at the shrinking scrub,
Vhile sheepmen look for the rain in vain?
No, thanks! I prefer the pub.
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


Sheet 1
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY \
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
PTy. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide,- Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
QN
BANK
” THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
T)ant- = V,fFnr« iLr. fullest facilities for thp‘transaction of all ereneral banking business
i
I
PETTYS Hotel
Stay at Petty's in Sydney—the hotel of 102 years' service. Enjoy the
excellent service; the air of comfort; and the convenience of its position.
The best of everything at sensible prices.
New private dining room and lounge room at your service.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(2) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE : 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
A.lso FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
.. £1,250,000
.. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund .. • • • • • •
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Als'o 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
‘ America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking’ business transacted.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Shearing in N.S.W.
“Bungaree”: The N.S.W. shearing
season has gradually shortened until this
year the bulk of the barbering has been
jambed into July, August and September
—mainly into the last two months.
One of the largest shearing companies
has supplied the following round figures:
, Month. Shearing Sheds Operating.
July .. .. 90
August t2O
September 125
October 70
November 40
These figures deal mainly with medium-
sized to large clips. Most of the smaller
men make their own shearing arrange-
ments.
This year many stations which usually
shear in July did not start till late Aug.
or Sept., and many of the later sheds put
their shearing forward to Sept. Cold-
country sheds which once shore in De-
cember and January are now shearing
months earlier. These and other factors
are combining to make all branches of
the shearing industry more of a casual
occupation than ever in N. S. Wales.
There is no reason why shearing in
N.S.W. could not be spread over a much
longer period. Lambing must control
shearing to some extent, and fly attack
also; but autumn shearing would suit
many districts, and graziers could count
on better workmanship, better-clip pre-
paration and quicker returns.
Victoria aggravates the position by
commencing shearing at the peak period
in N.S.W. Queensland, on the other
hand, shears practically all the year
round, and a shearer there can count on
10 months’ employment.
Handling Short Wools.
“Murrawong”: Shearing at shorter
intervals than a year is unlikely to be
adopted, but often a grazier may be com-
pelled to shear half-woolled sheep—in
drought years, under extra vicious fly
attack, or if they have been shorn some
months earlier than the flock. If bought
sheep carry only two to four months’
more wool than the station sheep, it is
best to leave them till general shearing.
Should bought sheep carry six months’
wool it may be necessary to shear them
at once. The first difficulty will be pick-
ing up the fleeces from the board. If
they are burry or of over six months’
growth, the fleeces may hold together
sufficiently to be picked up and thrown
out as usual, but, as a rule, especially
with free wools and old sheep, it is hope-
less to attempt this or only a small por-
tion of the fleece will reach the tables
and the board will be knee-deep in wool.
The only alternative is to handle like
lambs’ wool.
Make the lamb boards at least 6in.
wide and 2ft. long (including handles).
A piece of old leather belting makes the
best hinge ; it should be long enough to
allow plenty of space between boards.
Cover wool tables with a tent-fly or
woolpacks, and work the wool into
baskets if bins are available or else
directly into packs. The fleeces will
naturally take up a fair amount of table
space, especially when several shearers let
go together. To avoid a sudden rush,
board-boys should pick up half a fleece
at a time. When first side of sheep has
been shorn, that wool may be swept clear
with the broom —not roughly rolled over
and mixed up.
It can then be picked up without
danger of overflowing the boards and
placed on a clear place on the wool table,
ensuring a steady flow of wool and
making picking easier.
Number of lines made will depend
largely on number of sheep shorn, and
also on amount of burr and variation in
quality and condition. Two main lines
should accommodate the average flock
of one age and mark.
Black Disease Vaccination.
“Ghanam”: Should be done on a well-
cleaned shearing-shed floor. Nail a box
to the floor near the catching pen as an
instrument table, and on it lay a couple
of lOoz. glass jars for vaccine, three 2oz.
wide-mouthed bottles of iodine, metho.
and formalin, a small dish, a 10 c.c. glass
syringe with three push-on No. 18 gauge
needles, small pliers, cotton wool, swabs
—about a dozen 2in. square—gloves and
loz. tincture of iodine per 200 sheep.
Sterilise the syringe and vaccine jar,
boiling the syringe for 10 minutes with
the piston removed. The needles should
“ I'd like yt ’ keep y'r eyes skinned while yre drwin' the team. I lorst
me pipe in ’ere yesterday .”
be placed in methylated spirit in the dish.
Boil vaccine jar lid for 10 minutes and
place in an envelope.
Handle the instruments with rubber
gloves and shake the vaccine tin before
filling the jar, the stopper of which
should be swabbed with formalin.
Pour slowly or the vaccine will come
with a run and a lot will be lost.
Two catchers are needed per pen.
They turn the animals over in the pen
and move backwards towards the
operator, one on each side of him. He
inoculates the left thigh of the sheep on
his right, swings round and does the left
thigh of the animal on the other side.
The head of the animal must be kept up,
its stern squarely on the floor, with as
much of the inner thigh as possible ex-
posed. Hands should be kept away from
the inoculation point, except the one
handling the syringe. Otherwise there
will be some pricks dealt out to those
who do not need them.
After each filling of the syringe, the
lid should be placed on the vaccine jar.
The animal’s skin should be swabbed
hard with iodine before the needle, goes
in. It is not necessary for a practised
man to hold the skin while the needle
penetrates. The syringe should be. held
in a firm finger-hold and the piston
pushed home steadily with the thumb
until the right dose has been given.
Losses After Dipping.
“K.Mc.”: Sheep losses frequently
occur after dipping because animals are
either overheated when entering the bath
or are driven too soon afterwards. In a
heated condition, the pores of the skin
open and the arsenical properties in the
dipping mixture are absorbed by the
body. In this way, arsenic may enter
the skin and cause sores on the hands
of users. A couple of years back I saw
500 ewes dipped late in the evening and
rushed straight to the paddock a quarter
of a mile away. A cold wind blew up
and snow fell that night. The owner ex-
pected to lose half his stock, but only
three died. The explanation appears to
be that the wind closed the pores of the
skin, thus minimising the danger of
arsenic entering the body, and being
hardy and in a sheltered stubble paddock
the animals escaped pneumonia.
At the same time, dipping in cold
weather is not advisable, nor for that
matter in extremely hot weather, when
it may cause scalding. Do the job on
moderate days. Do not dip in the even-
ing, and avoid travelling the animals too
soon before and after the ducking.
Contour Banks Where Needed.
“X.T.”: If there were more contour
banks on western slope land in N. S.
Wales and parts of Queensland, there
would be less waste and erosion, especi-
ally in lands which have been cleared
and put into grazing, then transferred
to grain production.
Even land guttered five or six feet deep
can be reclaimed. About the best way is
to place the banks about two chains
apart with a 1 p.c. to H P-c. fall, plough-
ing between them in the direction in
which they run. Always avoid crossing
a bank with cultivation implements.
A lot of work has been done on the
C'owra State Farm (N.S.W.), and a tech-
nical pamphlet full of useful detail is to
be had from the N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department.
Udder Development.
“Silky Bag”: Usually it is not until a
heifer is well on towards her first calving
that she acquires any real milk-duct de-
velopment, with the forming of secreting
alveoli. The teats are fully mature, and
also the milk sinuses above them, quite
early; but secreting tissue is produced
only when hormones are liberated
through the animal becoming in calf.
A heifer, however, has never used the
secretory parts when she calves, and they
are in a very primitive, raw condition.
Secretion itself mostly proceeds with a
full flush, but the alveoli, milk ducts and
muscle tissue have to be moulded to con-
tain a volume of milk beyond their
primary capacity.
These tissues are plastic, and in one
month can accommodate themselves to
let any cow or heifer produce and hold
a full volume with ease. Until then it is
a different story.
Much damage is done by trying to
bring heifers to their top soon after calv-
ing. Any resulting breakdown will not
only affect the production of the next
few months but may spoil the udder for
life.
Large volumes of milk set up con-
siderable tension inside, so that some of
the support of the udder can easily be
torn from the abdominal floor. A floppy,
low-hung bag results. Distorted vessels
which are put down to breeding failures
are often the result of forcing heifers in
the first six weeks of milking.
In older cows the secreting tissue is
fully formed for life, if lactations are
regular but not more than two months
apart, Longer rest periods cause degen-
eration of milk-forming alveoli, which
makes for the growth of fresh tissue
when the cow is approaching a new
calving. Broken-down udders occur at
this stage, quite as often as not because
the pressure of milk on raw tissue is too
great, and it gives way. A cow after a
dry period of over three months needs
nursing back to production, relative in
degree to the length of the dry spell.
It is better to sacrifice the spectacular
results of forcing with concentrate feeds
early in lactation. Good, level udders on
mature cows are always the result of
careful treatment in the two-four-year
heifers. Capacity can be developed safely
only slowly and in the later months
of milking periods.
A New Tropic Sickness.
“Walliew”: A sickness resembling the
“three, days’ sickness” among cattle in
tropical lands has begun to attack stock
north and west of Townsville (Q.).
In the wet season in the Gulf, cases
were reported, and it was thought that
it was due to feed brought up by the
rain. The presence, of the sickness now
in dry belts discounts this theory. Symp-
toms are a stiffening of the limbs and
(Continued on page 24.)


v \kMlNf AS THE
\\S
m
w vmMm
- r >> • '•■ .:•••;• ::---W
m
m*m M
M m
>mWs
tb e
rvfipO^"!j.r»n? e .
f* c °uo» «° rV l - ,ro
TO° S
Carv- raAU > s : ntb
„. g -*”” 8
reCe or^
ste^s
' t tb^’ s ***’
k \is^
is . ’\ V,aM vltv
t,ca yoU t?£;*o
U oi * , oa vea te
«-& jss r
<*v
)»W°
.\s
> ott «ts i^ ey 1
a>«
the
*>*•
* * h e
ttv A « ce
3 veV_
b» cU
tViey
tVv e
the >■; „S the us tt»te
Ca, b ’
La
,0*
sketc
■b * eV
«Jp , E>
77ze Magnificent
JC
jf
w
CONCERT GRAND
Never before has Stromberg-Carlson
—or any other radio manufacturer —
been able to offer so many exclusive
advances combined in a single radio
receiver. Its many brilliant features
include:—
1 •—The Acoustical Labyrinth for tonal
fidelity which has never before been possible.
2. The beautiful Concert Grand Cabinet
illustrated above.
3. —lsolector Tuning Unit which makes
tuning amazingly simple and eliminates all
extraneous noises from trams, trains and
power lines by means of the special copper
shield entirely surrounding the unit.
4. Special type tone control.
5. Tru-tone Compensation.
6. Variable Selectivity Control broadens
the tuning on local stations, so making
possible extended fidelity without affecting
selectivity.
7. —Magic Eye which operates on ANY
station the Model will receive, both on the
broadcast and the short wave band.
8. —Edge-lit Rectangular Vertical Non-slip
Dial.
9. —Special Speaker designed for the
Acoustical Labyrinth.
10. —lron-cored Tuning Coils for extra-high
Efficiency.
1 I. —Gramophone pick-up terminals and
three-way switch—Broadcast, Short Wave
and Radio-Gramophone.
12.—Specially imported Condor Valves.
1 3.—Eight-valve Superheterodyne Circuit
for dual-wave operation.
Price 39 gns.
There is an Authorised Stromberg-Carlson Dealer handy to your home.
GREATEST ADVANCE YET MADE
TO ACHIEVE TONAL PERFECTION
The Acoustical Labyrinth is an invention
developed in the American and Canadian labora-
tories of Stromberg-Carlson, and it overcomes, for
the first time, the distortions introduced into radio
reproduction by cabinet resonances and speaker
deficiencies.
When listening to the Concert Grand note particu-
larly the rare brilliance of high frequency (treble)
tones which brings out qualities in instrumental
reproduction that you have not heard before in
radio without sounding high pitched. At no time
do the bass notes sound “tubby” or “boomy.”
Ask your nearest authorised Stromberg-Carlson
dealer to demonstrate the Concert Grand in your
own home and judge for yourself the improve-
ment this great invention makes. You’ll be truly
amazed that a receiver of such accomplishment
can be obtained for only 39 guineas.
* Descriptions of the Acoustical Labyrinth in
technical and semi-teclinical language (with
diagrams and illustrations ) are contained in folders
available from all authorised Stromberg-Carlson
dealers and from Stromberg-Carlson (AI sia), Ltd.,
Bourke-road, Alexandria, Sydney.
Carlson


k
p "
I
RIDING,]
WORKING, ;
ROUGH COUNTRY j
: WEAR AND
: HIKING |
Ll
COSSACKS
for
SATISFACTION
'THIS sturdy Abbey Cossack Boot
* is the best that money can buy.
For all kinds of hard work, rough
country and good or bad weather,
it keeps on doing its job till the
last. Have you ordered yours yet?
Made in Black or Brown Calf, also in Brown Grained Calf.
Stocked in full sizes.
Prices: Black Calf, 37/6; Brown Calf, 45/-; Brown Grained Calf, 45/-
| WRITE FOR LATEST CATALOGUE—POST FREE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
W.A. 51.
m
k
,
■
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PIiUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 651 George Street, Sydney.
' 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/•
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
AU post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keDt in order for two
rears free of charg*
Foremost in the
Metropolis
THE
TELEGRAPH
Queensland’s Premier Newspaper
A nnounces
A Unique
Achievement
Latest circulation figures
show beyond all doubt that
“The Telegraph” predomi-
nates in the whole of the
Greater Brisbane Area.
No wonder that
Local Advertisers prefer
“The Telegraph
Queensland Owned and Controlled.
Greatest in Greater Brisbane.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to CAM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to (he Ilappy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
6AM
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin’’ takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
IscttzA,
them a TUBE
PRESS THE FLASK
AND THE POWDER'S
ON THE BRUSH
Here’s a tooth powder which
really cleans your teeth, in a new
packing which is ever so much
easier to use than old-fashioned
tins and tubes. Just press the flask
and the powder is on your brush.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England. *“
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC /
THE EMPRESS OF BRITAIN
CUTS 2 DAYS
OFF THE
ATLANTIC CROSSING
Two days’ sheltered sailing down the
picturesque St. Lawrence Seaway
before reaching the open Atlantic.
Novel shipboard amusements . . . deck
sports. . plus Canadian Pacific comfort,
cuisine and personal service. Details
from any Tourist Booking Agency,
OR
Wrrld’s Greatest Travel System*"
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET - SYDNEY
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St., Sydney
general paralytic symptoms —suggesting
the inroads of some paralytic germ.
Mortality is low, but the beasts must
be left to rest. If they are not moved, the
sickness leaves them within three or four
days.
A Pig Policy.
“Pappamosca”: As with lambs, Maori-
land is showing the Commonwealth the
way in pork and bacon. The M.L. Agri-
cultural Department quotes Danish
results. There, breeds are restricted to
a couple, and it is a great offence
to keep a pig which does not fit into the
general scheme of things.
In nine years in Denmark all pigs have
been carefully measured, and it has been
found that carcasses in that time have
increased in length by an inch, back fat
has. been reduced 25 p.c. and belly
thickness increased 15 p.c.
It is now proposed in M.L. that there
shall be restriction of breeds to those
most in favor in overseas markets which
the Dominion serves ; that half the cost
of recording work should be borne by
the Government and part obtained by a
levy of 2d. per killed pig, the remainder
to bemiade up from litter-recording fees
and a subsidy from pig-breeders’ asso-
ciations.
Overhauling the Header.
“Winfield”: Now is the time to get the
header ready: if left until the harvest
rush the job is sure to be slurred.
All belts should be taken out and over-
hauled. Elevator belts especially can be
a source of trouble owing to stretch in
the leather causing slack, which leads to
slipping. A thin coat of harness oil
should be applied, and a good idea after
oiling is to stretch the belt from post to
post, placing a weight, just heavy enough
to take up slack, on the middle.
Oil cups, shaker bearings and other
movable parts should be moistened with
a mixture of oil and kerosene, as there
is sure to be a little rust to remove.
The knife should be examined for
missing blades, and the comb adjusted—
a few teeth taken out or put in as needed.
A spanner on all nuts is the best way
to find the loose ones, and also to un-
earth any broken bolts.
Before pulling the machine into the
crop give it a run in the open —say a
fortnight before use. Defective parts
are likely to break during this prelim-
inary, because rust and disuse are not
favorable to running.
Lucerne on Dairy Farms.
“North Coast”: All sorts of excuses
are made for not growing lucerne on
some dairy farms. Quite often this sort
of story is told: “We had a good plot
of lucerne, but it only lasted eight years
and then died out.”
Why lucerne, of all plants, should be
expected to last for ever is hard to say.
Even if a plot has only three or four
years’ good life it is worth sowing, be-
cause it costs only twice as much to
sow as a crop of oats in the first place,
and nothing more for succeeding years.
It will cut each year three to five tons
of hay —and this, if well made, will con-
tain 14 p.c. protein—against the usual
two tons produced by oaten hay, which
has a mere 4 p.c. of protein. Saccaline
may cut 15 tons in the year of 0.3 p.c. to
0.4 p.c. protein stuff, so it is little better.
There is nothing like lucerne as a soil
renovator. No one yet has accused it
of impoverishing soil like sorghums and
millets. All it asks is an annual top-
dressing of lcwt. to 2cwt. super. An-
other 2cwt. of burnt lime helps.
In return it supplies concentrated
summer grazing to balance paspalum
pastures, hay that can be made into
chaff which is the equal of any equiva-
lent for winter-feeding, as well as silage
for bad times.
I have seen lucerne grown in too many
unlikely spots to believe the simple
statement “It won’t do here” until the
facts are proved.
Hints for the Farm.
“Colon”: The discharge from dip
draining-pens often flows into the exit
and the sheep emerge through a scum of
grass-seeds and filth. A little ingenuity
and a few feet of piping will lead the
drainage to the entrance to the dip, leav-
ing the exit clean.
“Colon”: When clearing up after
shearing, drain the lamps of kerosene
and stand them upside down with the
plugs removed to avoid rust holes de-
veloping during the idle season.
“Quack”: Never feed raw meat to
ducklings. Given the taste, they may
start feather-picking, pulling blood
feathers from each other’s wings, a habit
curable only by isolation of the worst
offenders and the painting of the entire
brood’s wings with Stockholm tar.
“Walliew”: Although it is generally a
poor seeder, guinea grass, which is doing
well oil the N.Q. coast, will hold its own
well against blady-grass. It needs a
fair amount of moisture. Safest method
of propagation is to plant by root.
“Sandy”: A hole in the ground is
filthy and useless as a pig wallow, which
is necessary in summer. The best thing
is a trough 3ft. wide, 6ft. long and 6in.
deep. It should be made of concrete,
brick or wood and cleaned out every
fortnight. A little fuel oil poured on
top of the water will kill all the big game
on Denis.
“A.Y.”: Try this fencing technique in
timber country: Erect the posts in the
usual fashion and bore a plain wire hole
2in. in from the side where the wire will
be. Then strain the wire and twitch it
on to the posts. The tie wires are about
a foot long, and tied over and under
the running wire, thus making it doubly
secure. If a tree falls or a beast happens
to break through, the wire is loosened
only on one panel and can be repaired
faster than with the ordinary centre-hole
method.
The area under wheat in N.S.W. this
year is the largest since 1933-34 —
4,320,000 acres, including wheat for feed-
ing off and hay. There are 16,215 hold-
ings growing wheat.
“Neil W.”: “S.G.” (B. 16/9/’36) must
have taken a very cramped glance at the
youth of Australia when he says they
want their land in well-grassed and work-
ing condition before they will buy. Two
13,000-acre blocks in the Brewarrina
(N.S.W.) district just balloted for at-
tracted 3000 applicants. I was among
the also-rans. I can name at least 40
men in no more than 40 miles’ radius
who will jump at an offer of land that
it is at all possible to make a living on.
“Mirwa”: With the price of rabbit-
skins soaring, sheep-farmers in Gippsland
(Vic.) welcomed the many trappers who
were clearing the paddocks of rabbits.
Their rejoicings were short-lived, how-
ever, as so systematically had the trappers
cleared the warrens that foxes had to
look elsewhere for food. Now that the
lambing has begun farmers are alarmed
at the losses through the depre-
dations of the foxes, which also turn to
the henyard when they feel the need of
a change of diet.
“Grasses”: In the Lower Richmond
(N.S.W.) there are hundreds of acres of
badly-drained flats which grow only reeds
and coarse, tussocky paspalum. The
Ferrises and Amphlett brothers, of
Wyrallah flats, have shown what can be
done to make this soil fertile and grow
wonderful bodies of rye grasses and
clovers for winter feed. The reeds were
burnt as soon as the ground was drained,
shallow-disc-ploughed and allowed to lie
for two months (during which the heavy
clods broke down considerably), then har-
rowed and rolled and ploughed deeply
before cropping with a mixed pasture.
Before the main drains, which are 9ft.
deep and 6ft. wide, were put in, this land
would be swamped after heavy rain. Its
fertility is chiefly due to the accumula-
tion of organic matter from the rotting
of vegetation during the years when the
land was swamp.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Recipe for the nicotine sulpliate-bluestone
drench for worms in sheep as recommended by
the C.5.1.R., giving quantities of ingredients
and dosages for lambs amt grown sheep?—
3374.
Dissolve lib. copper sulphate (bluestone) in
2 gallons water, add 16 fluid oz. 40 p.c. nico-
tine sulphate and mix well. Dose: Adult
sheep, 20 cubic centimetres; two tooths, 15-20
c.c.; lambs, 4-18 months, 5-15 c.c. according
to age; lambs under four months, 5 c.c.
If more convenient the strength of the drench
may be halved and the dose doubled. Not
necessary to starve sheep either before or after
drenching, but if drenched in hot weather it is
probably advisable that they should not have
access to water for an hour or two after drench-
ing. (There is some doubt, however, about this
precaution.)


HOTEL METROPOLE
Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
ta m
mm
\ : y :
■
111 M* v ,
BiUHKiI 1 -■ flj
mm ill
li
11
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
"METROPOLE." Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“M.P. Addresses Hikers.” — News item.
So that’s what they mean about the
perils of the outdoor life!
b b b b
“Even the dentist to-day may call his busi-
ness premises his ‘studio.’ ” — “Sun.”
Well, why not? Doesn’t he draw
teeth?
b b b b
“The Earl of Yarmouth was not wealthy.”
—“D.T.”
Still, he might have been called a
bloatered aristocrat.
b b b b
He’s Different—Now.
“Owing to the serious failure of the recruit-
ing campaign the War Office is exploiting in-
numerable novel schemes.” — “Sunday Sun.”
One of these, of course, is the substi-
tution of a new type of sergeant-major
for the old blood-and-thunder terror of
the parade-grounds. Can’t you hear
him?
“Naughty, naughty, Private Bonehead.
Just fancy a ’andsome young feller like
you a-comin’ on parade with orl them
buttons orf y’ tunic! Bless y’ little
’earts! When I said ‘Present arms’ I
“We must have an extra room for Fido, George. Now he's growing,
the little pet is beginning to notice things .”
didn’t mean that one ’arf you poor angels
’ad to stand there with y’ rifles upside
down. That’s better! ’Andsome is as
’andsome does, I ses . . . Tut, tut; Hi’rn
sure the young gentlemen that’s utterin’
them raspberries ain’t adoin’ it from the
bottom of their precious little ’earts. Let
us orl try t’ live hup t’ the new harmy
motter, ‘To herr is ’uman, t’ fergive
divine’ . . . Ain’t Private Muggs a funny
little cuss, standin’ there adoin’ a tap-
dance orl by isself when I horder th’
company t’ ‘Quick march’? . . . Now
lads, I think a little game of ring-a-ring-
a-rosy will be better than this nasty old
paradin’; an’, don’t forget, before ‘lights
out’ your old sarmajor will come
round to tuck you in an’ kiss you orl
nighty-night! ”
McM.
•b *b *b . *b
“He was once a respectable man who took
to crime and turned into a fence.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Much better the action of the ordinary
citizen who only turns into a pub.
•b *b *b *b
“The police could gather no information
from Wells.” — “Sun.”
In spite of all their pumping.
•J* *l* *l*
“Father’s Will Challenged by Daughters.”
—Law news.
In death as in life.
There’s Nothing New.
Notwithstanding the claims of modern
composers of rhythm, Nero was the. first
musician to put across a “hot number.”
Hannibal pioneered the trunk-line ser-
vice in transport when he crossed the
Alps with a string of elephants.
Present-day managers of newspapers
congratulate themselves on having in-
stalled the block system to help their cir-
culations. Henry the Eighth used the
block system to keep his wives in cir-
culation centuries before them.
Jonah was the first inventor to tinker
with the idea of submarine navigation.
Romeo and Juliet got in early with
the idea of crooning about love, and
this confirms the belief that the poison
which settled them was not self-adminis-
tered.
Ned Kelly showed the way with emer-
gency measures for raising revenue. Our
politicians have improved on his tech-
nique.
D. McM.
*b *b 4* *l*
“In a moment of unthinking anger he called
her the biggest idiot on earth.”
* —Passage from latest novel.
He obviously forgot himself.
“New Hop Disease Discovered.”
—News item.
Let’s hope it’s no worse, than the
rhumba!
•b *b *b *b
“ ‘Surprising as it may seem, we film actresses
really love the simple things in life,’ says a
noted star.”
Perhaps that’s why they want to marry
so many of them.
b b b b
“Why We Yawn.” — “Sun” heading.
The “Sun” knows it couldn’t have any-
thing to do with Hector Blithero or John
Bilgewater.
“It was disclosed that in this district 2300
people were living in two rooms.” — “D.T.”
So much for those calamity howlers
who decry our sparseness of population.
•b *b 4* *b
“ ‘What’s the secret of clean politics?’ asks
reformer.”
Soft soap!
4* *b 4* *b
Billy Hughes reckons that he has ex-
perienced every type of fall a man can
have. That includes one good windfall.
»$«
When Jokes WERE Jokes.
“I cannot understand this modern humor.”
—Elderly correspondent in English weekly.
Neither can I. These one-line jokes
are too abrupt. Nothing in ’em.
Give me the good old days when you
used to get real value for your money.
Plenty of reading matter under each
joke-block. Like this:
Jones {who, seeing Brown strolling
with a fair charmer the night before, is,
not unnaturally, all agog to discover the
identity of the sweet young thing,
although he is already engaged to be
married himself ): “I say, old boy, who
was that lady I saw you with last night?”
Brown (who, unknown to Jones, is
married, the ceremony having taken
place many years ago in a small coun-
try township, with Mrs. Brown’s father
giving the bride away, and all the town
gossips longing to give the bridegroom
away ): “Oh, that was no lady, old
fellow ; that was my wife! ”
(Collapse of Jones!)
Gee.
•b *b *b *b
How to Catch a Spider.
Furnish 14ft. by 10ft. flyproof parlor
with two-piece suite and decorate with
embossed wallpaper. Rent parlor to
spider, and get it to spin web across fire-
place, stand pot of cabbage-water near
fender and hire experienced spruiker to
control queue of flies.
When spider has settled down (say
about the third day), sit on tuffet in
garden, eat curds and whey from bowl
with forget-me-not
border, and make
a noise like a
blowfly with faulty
sparkplug on one
cylinder. Spider
will smile grimly,
hurriedly scan In-
ternal Combustion
Engines Their
Design and Main-
tena nc e (John
Hyman and Sons ;
215.), weave 12ft.
ladder, attach
same to balcony
balustrade, descend
and sit down be-
side you.
Now wipe super-
fluous curds from
your mouth with
table napkin and
pat spider on the
“ Mumma, can We go and see the fat Woman ?”
back with 41b. mallet. Remove spider
with putty-knife.
P. C.
“Now is the time for spring-cleaning.”
— Women’s paper.
Bookmakers have made a good start
vith theirs.
•I- *b *b *b
“The walk-up start is the only splution for
factious racehorses.” — Sporting paper.
It will also be in harmony with the
walk-up finish that so many give us!
“No Bedclothes. Prisoners in Cells Go
Cold.”— “Sun.”
Couldn’t they have been given some
charge-sheets?
4* *b *b *b
“Why do some people desire to be pillars
of the community?”— “D.T.”
Doubtless because of the columns in
the press.
Some Little-known Facts About
China.
I. —General Knowledge.
China is (unless the Japanese have
snavelled the last bit of it while this
edition was going to press, in which
case the word “was” can be substituted
throughout) a vast country in Asia
bounded by sea and land, in contradis-
tinction to most other countries, which
are bounded by land and sea. This
topsy-turvydom is typical of China.
Books are read by starting from the last
page and working through to the front,
a custom which can be traced to the
influence of women, who like to know
before commencing what the end will
be. Dinners start with coffee and cigars
and end up with soup ; men wear skirts
and women the trousers (a custom bor-
rowed from married people of Occi-
dental countries); white is. the mourn-
ing color, and dresses are worn back to
front. ‘ This latter peculiarity makes it
difficult to know whether citizens are
coming or going, and is responsible for
the high suicide rate among Chinese
traffic policemen.
The invariable marriage customs come
down from time immemorial. As with
Western nations, the bridegroom has
little say in the nuptial arrangements.
Matchmakers arrange the union, the
bridegroom rarely seeing his betrothed
before the ceremony—another instance
of the diametrically opposed views of
East and West.
Bird’s-nest soup is the staple diet.
Just as our own oyster soup as served
in most restaurants contains no oysters,
so bird’s-nest soup contains no birds’
nests. At least, the birds’ nests are taken
and wrung out after the soup is made,
and the soup is then eaten with chop-
sticks. The birds’ nests, as with the
oysters, can thus be used again, ad infin.
Ostrich nests are the most popular for
soup-making, as the nests, being made
of fencing wire, and old nails, can after-
wards be used as toothpicks. The
Nanking Government has recently
launched a Bigger and Better Birds’
Nests Campaign, and efforts are being
made to acclimatise the Australian brush
turkey and the emu.
Chief industries are kite-flying, fan-
tan playing, bird’s-nest hunting, opium-
smoking and tea-drinking.
Little progress was made in the culti-
vation of the tea plant until it was de-
clared a noxious weed in 429 b.c. by the
Emperor Un Hung Lia. Peculiarly, it
was the success immediately following
this declaration which caused the coun-
try’s name, to be altered. At that time
it was known as Cathay, but the rich
tea and pottery merchants petitioned the
Emperor, pointing out that Cathay
plates and Cathay tea sounded silly com-
pared with China plates and China tea.
The Emperor agreed, marking his appre-
ciation by having them publicly be-
headed.
China has a population of 3.6 to the
square yard, the densest in the world.
This denseness is reflected in their atti-
tude towards any predatory nation that
comes after territory or concessions. The
three represents army generals and war
lords, and the .6 the civilians and
privates.
Space is so restricted that everyone
has to sleep standing up. This incon-
venience, accepted as a natural part of
their existence, has bred that philosophic
outlook for which the Chinese are cele-
brated, and developed the bland and in-
scrutable look which is the birthright of
every Chinese character in a best-selling
novel.
S. W. K.
Core of My Heart.
“Core of my heart,” she calls me,
And gazes in my eyes;
A single glance enthrals me,
And life seems Paradise.
“Core of my heart," she calls me;
But that was yesterday.
To-night my fate appals me —
She’s thrown the core away !
A. G. B.
Penny-wisdom.
“Learn thrift. Take care of your pennies.”
—Savings Bank advt.
Now, kids, it’s high time that you learned
There’s virtue and merit in thrift.
A penny that’s saved is well earned —
Don’t into extravagance drift.
You’ll cling to your pence if you’re wise
(This isn’t as hard as it sounds),
When you grow up some cove will devise
A scheme to take care of your pounds!
P. O. M. C.


The Novel Which Won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1936:-
'ALL THAT
SWAGGER'
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
drawings by
DOUGLAS PRATT.
Chapter XLVI.
SHUS the Delacys and other integral units
of the populace drowsed along until one
fine day they found the world at war. From
Chicago to Bagdad, Tokio to St. Petersburg,
Canton to Canberra and Rio Janeiro, and
back again to London, wiseacres were
assured that it could not be real. Just some
mad scare ; the dogs of war would be back in their
collars again in a twinkling.
Kitchener, predicting that it would be a three-
years job, was regarded as a war-monger talking in
character. War could not last with all the modern
appliances. Europe would be blown to smithereens
in two weeks. The doctrine of “frightfulness” to
make war so terrible that men would shrink from
beginning it, had mesmerised the masses.
France had no illusions.
The war continued and spread. Nation after
nation became infected —“got hysterics,” as an old
lady remarked in Chicago. Australia heard England’s
bugles “blowing o’er the sea, as they had called a
thousand years.” That calling, calling across the
wintry sea aroused England’s outposts. Once more
the lust for adventure in beef-fed men was fanned to
imperial uses by sentiment conducted through the
umbilical cord of quasi-nationhood.
A ustralia will be there, will be there!
The Australians swaggered up again to fill
contingents as for the Boer war —cavalry, too, though
the rhythm of horses’ hooves was but a dying echo
far down the road to yesterday.
Ethically progressive mentality and engines of
war are incompatible.
The war for votes for the Uitlanders had with
time assumed a different complexion to the veterans
of that campaign, but the saving of gallant little
Belgium was a brand-new cause to ignite the idealist
in Youth —a glamorous war-cry to disguise the lust
for blood, the lunacy of general havoc.
Margaret winced to recall the going of Syme.
She could still hear the thunder of the farewell salute
on the last day she had seen him. She hoped that
Roger would not contract war-fever.
Station people were hopeful that the price of
produce would rise and set pastoralists and farmers
on their feet again.
The Delacys were not war-minded. Danny’s
contempt for arms and braggadocio had given them
a contempt for soldiers and all that they stood for.
Still, there was one Delacy who heard the call of
adventure. He had respected the Germans, having
heard that they were people who could amass property
and were up-to-date in trade ; but Sophie was a stout
jingo and informed her family to the contrary. The
news that the Germans unlike many natives and
imported wasters—did not look upon Australia as a
“beastly hole” soon began to tell. The Emden incident
was near to home and put pep into the whole per-
formance.
Young Dan from Bewuck enlisted.
Clare was so startled that she spoke of bringing
Brian home.
“There are plenty of wombat-holes at Ferny
Creek for him to hide in,” said Uncle Roger. “If the
whole Australian contingent hid in them instead of
going overseas it would be better business.”
DAN’S family went down to see him embark, much
to the amusement of the Burrabinga girls in
Sydney. Their letters to Clare Margaret were full of
merry ridicule of the antics of the Bewucks in town.
Aunt Jean, it was asserted, was lost in George-street
and sat on the edge of the pavement until the police
took up her case. Uncle William meanwhile was
wrapped around a lamp-post in King-street and
coo-eeing so that she would know his whereabouts.
Rescued from this predicament, they rode all night in
an automatic lift where help could not reach them.
Little Brian, however, took his cousin
seriously. He had the adventure from the
schoolboy angle. Dan from Bewuck, sweating
along to Wooloomooloo and then climbing the
rigging of the ship, was a hero to him. Brian
was proud of Dan and hoped that the war
would last until he, too, could go amid cheers
and crowds and the thrilling thunder of a
military salute crashing across the harbor. He
wrote to his mother that the jokes of Aunties
Mavis and Vida about Aunt Jean and Uncle
William were mostly tarradiddle. Brian liked
Sophie. She was the only one who took an
interest in his lessons and helped him to win
a prize.
Kitchener and Bobs made a popular
comeback. Some of the horses and bulls
named after them and Oom Paul, Cetewayo,
Umslopagaas and Lobengula were still remem-
bered. Anticipation of the newest atrocity
made the newspapers more exciting than a
detective novel. From lurid propaganda
hungrily absorbed grew the belief that the
Allies were a race of God-fearing crusaders
saving heroic little Belgium, and that of these
the Australasians speedily become the
glorious Anzacs —outstripped every other breed
of men at five to one. Through the restricted
channel of the cables the news could be kept pure and
undefiled by reason or the truth of the criticism voiced
by the thinkers, and war-glory made a resounding din
from Pole to Pole.
In the absence of the picked men all kinds of
persons, superannuated, superfluous, or flawed by
God, found in the war resurrection and liberation and
accordingly revelled in it. The fear of financial
depression was speedily removed by inflated pros-
perity.
Wool! Wool! Wool!
Wool was crowned king anew. The big sheep-
men became local kings. Every cockatoo-farmer
entrenched himself as a thriving wool squire by the
aid of sacrificial dogs ruthlessly bred and ruthlessly
trained.
The Robert Delacys had not run to sheep. The
poking quality of the industry had repelled such Cabal-
leros: Burrabinga, however, had lands to let, and
endless horses and dogs, and no men knew the area
as did Robert and Roger. Robert had hopes of
catching up with the interest on the mortgages.
Roger was kept away from the townships because
all the girls were hysterical about the glorious heroes
and continually demanded of him to enlist. He was
goaded to try, but was rejected. *
GOOD fortune came to Clare Margaret with the
boom in wool. Her flocks were first-class and
she was well-off for man-power. Old Dunlop con-
tinued to soak at intervals, but was glad to crawl
back. The fossicker also was happy to work at
Ferny Creek, without recourse to Wages Boards, for the
fabulous gold which he was certain remained in the
gullies. Indeed, he found plenty to supply his simple
needs. These retainers were permanent because Clare
left them alone. They could combine the freedom
of hatting with adjacence to a home, and did not make
off as formerly from any community where women
appeared.
Clare Margaret’s wool brought a high price at
first, and later was purchased by 8.A.W.R.A., or the
great British-Australian Wool Syndicate. She banked
money. Her property increased in value, and was
entirely at the service of Brian’s education. There
was to be no retirement among the dingoes for that
young man if his mother could prevent it.
The war went on and on, draining even far-away
Australia of first-class man-power. Europe had
become a shambles. As war-fever progressed from
initial hysteria to chronic paranoia there arose a
clamor for conscription. The Australian boast of
fighting as free men was to be challenged. Australia
mustered crusaders who, from hustings up and down
the Commonwealth, and at the risk of personal
assault, strove to publish the facts of the war that
was wrecking European civilisation.
Among these were a few independent thinkers
devoted to truth, and many more of the Celtic blood,
who believed that here was an opening to pay off
an old grievance against England. The crusaders were
branded as cowards, as irreconcilables, as traitors
to let down the glorious heroes in the trenches. Re-
crimination and vituperation reached furnace-heat.
No imputation of slacking could have held against
the battle-scarred features, the virile appearance, of
a big fellow declaiming in Hyde Park, while his mates
upheld him. No one dared to interfere with his
sentiments, as the men wore on their arms the letter
“A,” emblem of the sacred Anzacs, extolled by press
and public as the equals of the gladiators of old.
“You see, it was this way: we came over here as
free men to fight, and we’ve had a bellyful of war
a double-dyed-damned bellyful, with all this
saluting like a monkey on a stick. We came to save
Belgium and end war, and all we’re getting out of
it is to be made lick-spittlers like the people here.
Instead of saving anyone we’re being made like them,
and we’d be damn’ cowards to force the other poor
young bastards out home to come by force, now
when we know what it’s like.
“For God’s sake vote to keep young Dick out
of this,” was the type of admonition in scores of
letters from elder brothers in the trenches.
The day was saved, symbolically or actually, for
a shred of freedom. There were people, with names
great in the humanities, who graded this as one of
the most heroic incidents of the war.
“The Diggers,” exploited ad nauseum by military
propagandists, in this took a stand magnificent in its
isolation and independence. Other armies could tell of
battles held or won, and flaunt the trophies taken with
mad heroism equalling that of the Australians, but only
these men from the furthest extremity of the globe
had volunteered to fight as free men and, in the midst
of world hysteria, coolly maintained their right to do
so. For what it might mean, there it was, a lone
banner unequivocally unfurled in a demented world.
Advance, Australia fair!
THE Delacy women in Sydney capable needle-
women —sewed, sewed, sewed ; knitted, knitted,
knitted, on those bales of pyjamas, those bales of
socks, those bales of baby-clothes, famous from


Monastir to Belgium and to London’s slums, so many
of which went to the decimated Serbs in Macedonia
and so many of which went to the haunts of the fishes
en route.
That was as near as the Delacys, except Dan
from Bewuck, got to the war. One of the Butlers
had taken a commission and was rising to glory as a
major.
At the end of 1916 Humphrey Vance created a
sensation by enlisting. Everyone said that he was the
last man of whom it was to be expected. Clare Mar-
garet was really responsible. After two and a half
years of renewed hovering he had definitely asked
her to marry him. She as definitely refused. The
glamor of her love for Darcy remained. She could
not put this heavy, middle-aged man in her darling’s
place. And there was Brian. He was her life-work.
She could not share him with anyone. She had
managed alone in the impossible years: she would not
surrender now when money was easy and the way
clear.
“Oh, well, then, I might as well take a look at
the way they are coming along in Europe,” announced
Humphrey.
Clare Margaret expressed regret that he should
endanger himself. He laughed comfortably. “I’ve
no ambition to run around butchering Turks with
a bayonet or bombing Germans. I shall get into
the remount department. They want men who know
something of horses.”
This made him a new butt for the bright Delacy
wit. What could he know of horses, poking about
on open country after sheep? To the highly specialised
Delacys his knowledge of horses might have been
fifth-rate, but to the officers who were wont to come
to New Glenties or Longview to blunder after rabbits
or wallabies on over-fed crocks he was a marvel of
practical knowledge, and readily given a commission
in Egypt.
Young Dan from Bewuck never came back. He
never walked the home way from those gates at
Woolloomooloo through which he had sweated so
gallantly in quest of adventure —never, not even as
one of the nerve-shattered or mutilated, who are still
expiating the sentence of Mars.
Chapter XLVII.
WAR gripped the world as a
chronic state wherein people
ceased to realise any other kind
of existence and were devoid of
any other preoccupation.
Then suddenly the slaughter ceased. The word
armistice took the place of the word war. Brutalised
and exhausted peoples, destitute of leaders of vision
or followers of faith, groped in a limbo of shattered
ideals and discredited philosophies. Nevertheless the
welcome-home celebrations were flattering to the
survivors and a relief to the spiritual lesions of the
non-combatants who organised them.
Bandalong turned out to honor its returned
heroes, led by Major Butler, who had not suffered a
scratch and was covered with glory and medals. His
mother—Robert Delacy’s rejected adorer—was the
only Fullwood who had done well for herself socially
and financially. Her son, the Major, was companioned
by Captain Vance.
Later Bandalong erected a monument to its
soldiers, fallen or standing. The dedication took place
during the holidays, so Brian and his mother came
in a sulky, driving a Nullah Mundoey who could do
the fifty miles from Ferny Creek and go home next
day undistressed though she was seventeen. All the
progressive and prosperous now had motor-cars, but
they were not used in the procession because horses
had not yet accepted them and there was the difficulty
of combining the old pace and the new. Brian was
vain that one of the heroes was his godfather, though
Vance had been merely nominal in the office. All the
living Bewucks were present, and Dan’s name was in
gold on the granite column. There was pain in their
glory, but Dan had bequeathed his family a gratifying
importance for the holiday.
“It’s like Daddy’s funeral,” said Brian, “only
it is not raining and there are more people.”
‘ It’s a funeral sure enough,” responded his
mother. “All the poor fellows who never came home
to be buried.”
Everyone greeted Clare Margaret and her son,
and she recalled the day that her boy’s father had
come riding on his heroic pony Deerfoot, and her
heart was desolate; but no one else remembered
Darcy. He was not mentioned.
“Brian is the living image of my father,” said
Uncle William, and added “If he’s as good a man
he’ll be harmless.”
“A great old pioneer!” remarked someone else.
“I’m glad there’s no pioneering for Brian to do,”
observed Clare.
“Oh, but I want to be a pioneer,” chirped Brian.
Someone laughed.
“He’ll be luckier still to miss the war,” volun-
teered another.
“Plenty more wars to get into as soon as he is
ready.”
“I thought you fellows went over there to end
war.”
“More like the beginning of dozens, by the look
■of Europe.”
WHEN the ceremony waned Clare drove to the
cemetery, where northerlies searing from the
Equator, southerlies blustering from the Pole, blow
on the high point beyond the township and the roads
cross and run away to Monaro and Melbourne,
Riverina and Bathurst and Sydney.
“Everyone says I’m like Great-grandpa,” said
Brian, reading old Danny’s inscription. “What was
he like?”
“I only saw him when he was a
grandfather, but you have the blue eyes
and silky black hair, and Grandfather
was smallish, like you.”
“Why was he called old Hopping
Danny?”
“Because he had a wooden leg.”
“Was he a soldier?”
“No. He was a pioneer.”
Brian was invited to all the family
places: to Old Glenties and New Glen-
ties and Longview, Bewuck and Heulong.
At all he asked questions about his
great-grandfather. He was eager for an
ancestral hero like the splendid war heroes, and
Great-grandpa Danny was the most promising
material.
“Why was he called Fearless Danny? Why was
he called Nullah Mundoey? How did he get the
wooden leg?”
These questions called basic and satellite yarns
from old tongues. Clare Margaret, too, found
pleasure in reconstructing her grandfather. Upon
the demand of Brian he reappeared as a personality
big in heroic as well as humorous stories, a man who
could emerge larger than life from ridiculous anec-
dotes. He had talked much with Darcy during that
first visit when the boy had been captivated by the
gift of the Nullah Mundoey. Darcy had constantly
repeated his knowledge to Clare Margaret, and she
had a full store to draw from.
“Tell me about the time Grandpa Danny brought
the peacocks,” Brian would demand. He would
question his Burrabinga grandmother, another gifted
raconteuse, rich in tales of Great-grandpa, and
humorous. He would gallop off to Burrabinga to
get the rights of the story of Billy the goat, or of
the finding of Doogoolook and Wong Foo. “Tell me
again about Great-grandpa and the Yackandandah.
Fell me about the time he brought the carriage home
to Great-grandma.”
Clare sent him to his Grandfather Harry, settled
at Bowral. From him she knew he would have an
inspiring legend of his great-grandfather and come to.
know much that he might otherwise miss. The visit*
was bliss, and renewed hope in Harry, and Josephine
was pleased with the lad’s “handiness.” He returned
full of ambition and lore and an increased interest
in old Nullah Mundoey. “I’m sorry there is no
pioneering for me to do,” he would sigh.
“You must turn pioneering backsy-fore and be
the first Australian Delacy to go to the old country
and do something there —something better than leav-
ing your bones in the mud like poor young Danny
and Syme.”
“I’m afraid the kid will be no better
at money-grubbing than the rest of us,”
said his Uncle Roger.
“That’s why I’m arming him with
every scrap of education! can get.”
BRIAN’S mechanical gift grew with
him. When a motor-car penetrated to
Ferny Creek and broke down he righted
the trouble. He decided to work with
motor-cars forthwith, but his mother per-
suaded him to continue with his studies,
just to please her.
“You must swim the Yackandandah
of those exams.,” she said with a
twinkle. A sense of humor was a bond
between them. Clare Margaret’s idea
of education was to pass examinations
so brilliantly that the result was letters
after the graduate’s name. She lacked
acquaintance with any other view of it.
AT Burrabinga foreclosure by the bank
cast its shadow. “It will kill poor
old Pa and Ma,” they all agreed. Every-
one was aghast at uprooting the fine old
pair. Bank officials and influential
friends presented a plan to capitalise the
hospitality of the old homestead. If
Clare Margaret would return and take
up the reins of a guest-house there would
be little difference from the old days
excepting that the guests, instead of eat-
ing their old friends out of their home,
would help to eat them in.
“Your friends would rally to you,”
said the bank manager.
“Yes —like they did to me when I
married,” said Clare.
“A lot sent kind letters when Darcy
died,” remarked Roger.
“Yes, when it cost them only a stamp
and a bit of paper.”
“You don’t want to let yourself get
bitter,” interposed Roger.
“And you don’t want to let yourself
get bitters,” retorted his sister. “If you
kept off the booze you could save Burra-
binga yet. I could if I was let at it with-
out interference.”
The decision was to adhere to agistment. Flocks
were priceless, there was brisk demand for grass
country, and the boom had every prospect of continu-
ing. The guests were dropping off with the old
peoples increasing age: expenses could be cut in
many directions, and Roger was blithe about pulling
the place together.
The Vances had progressed to the champion class
of sheep-breeders at the Sydney Show, which meant
that they led the world as growers of fine merino
staples. Their wool attracted the notice of foreign
buyers to other growers in the district, and Clare
Margaret benefited. Her brand was sought, and her
neat bales went to market by way of the
bridge which Darcy had opened.
With a year or so at Ferny Creek to
delay him, Brian advanced to the Uni-
versity. Clare Margaret had been wise as
far as she knew concerning the relation
of examinations to education. Brian’s
facility in imbibing knowledge
won him one scholastic prize
after the other and attracted
attention in the Faculty of Arts.
He had inherited old Danny’s
wiry speed on his feet, and
prominence in games made him
more important to his fellow-
students than if he had dis-
covered why men were born. His interest in
machinery was diverted for the present into a delight
in maths.
He arrived home on his first vac. in a motor-car
to surprise his mother. By bargaining and exchang-
ing he had a machine that could be nursed to go for
miles at a stretch. He also had money in hand.
“Whoop!” exclaimed Clare. “Perhaps the
Delacys are going to produce a financier at last.”
“Old Danny will never be dead while he is alive,”
said those who remembered old Nullah Mundoey.
Brian wore that as his panache and took his great-
grandfather as his standard. In a difficulty he would
recite the old man’s exploits. “If,” thought Clare,
“I can only get him to follow Grandpa’s lead in other
directions he will be safe from one kind of woman.”
For the present girls had little interest for Brian.
He thought more of the conspicuous pipe he was
cultivating in imitation of his progenitor. He loved
the Murrumbidgee area as deeply as old Nullah Mun-
doey could have desired. The influence of his grand-
father Harry had also to be considered. The region
was being dredged from oblivion by the projection
upon it of human personality. A land beloved as a
being cherished garners spiritual identity.
Brian was skilled in handling horse or car, but
he said the horse was dead commercially. “He’s
staggering on his last legs now, except for pottering
about on rough country. Next it will be the aero-
plane everywhere. Golly! I’d like an aeroplane for
travelling and a car for small errands.”
The daring had long been risking life and limb
in motor-car races and by stunting in the air. The air
suggestion terrified Clare Margaret, but this danger
was out of the question financially, and the desire
died down in Brian when he was half-way through
his University course. Having wasted a year in the
transition from pupil to student, he became a glutton
for studies.
“I’d tremble to think how she’d take it if any-
thing happened to him,” said
her family.
“There’s a lot to come
out in him from others as
well as old Honest Danny
that might throw him olf the
rails,” said old Dunlop, who
had worked about the district
since Brian’s grandads had
been in their prime.
During the bold boom
years that sprang like
giant nettles from the humus
of havoc young Brian, with
not a care, was a worthy
object of parental and
national pride.
In due course he achieved his
Bachelor’s degree with honors, and
his mother, exhausted by excite-
ment, went to Sydney for the
graduation revels. There were
friends among the University
Faculty who insisted upon the
acceptance of their invitations and
did much for her pleasure. These
were hold-overs from the palmy
days of Burrabinga who had lapsed
from association through gathering
age rather than because of Burra-
binga’s moth-eaten finances, as
Clare was touchily inclined to
think. It was placed to Brian’s
credit that he had not swanked
about this intimacy with the dons.
“Pooh!” said Brian. “My
great-grandad Nullah Mundoey
Delacy was a greater man than the
profs, and dons glued together.
You should see where he took the
first bullock-dray beyond the
Murrumbidgee. I’d like to see old
Prof. confronted by
such a problem.”
Pioneering had become
a passport to social im-
portance. Young people
swaggered about having the
greatest number of Austra-
lian forebears possible, and
the more bullocking these
had done the better.
The country regions had an epidemic of cen-
tenaries, marked by festivals of remembrance in the
banal little towns which drowsed in arrested mental
development. Even Bandalong had a Boomerang
Week to celebrate the arrival of Mr. Moore, who had


settled there some years before he
had come back from Ireland with
young Delacy. Sophie was an
eminent daughter who honored her
native town and was proud of
Brian.
Clare Margaret was able to say
to Uncle William “There are two
Delacys able to distinguish them-
selves, at all events.”
William was happy and proud.
He had long since forgiven Clare’s
flightiness and respected her as one
able to hang on to her property.
They could talk of wool and
markets as twin souls. “What is
Brian going to do with his grand
education now that he has it?”
“He’s hankering for the motor-
car business.”
“But isn’t he educated well
enough for a doctor or lawyer?
It would be a waste of money if he did not use his
education.”
“At any rate he has it. I was determined he
should not be like all the other Delacys feeling
clever enough to be Attorney-Generals but with only
a rabbiter’s education.”
Others were curious about the purpose of Brian’s
“flash education.” The land was in favor again with
the boom in wool. Weird little selections of hop-scrub
and wallaby runs, far back on barren ridges beyond
Goulburn and Gunning, Bandalong and Yass, which
had been the retreat of casual laborers, now com-
manded extortionate sums.
ONE fine day Clare Margaret grew hysterical with
pride upon receiving the news that Brian Daniel
Franc-Alleu Delacy had been awarded the James
Gawler Scholarship. This carried £3OO per annum
for two years at one of the leading universities of
Great Britain, with the possibility of a third year if
so recommended by the authorities of the chosen
university. Brian was brilliant in a number of
subjects, including philosophy, history and economics,
and had a talent for applied mathematics which
should have put him in the engineering departments
if this ability had not been jostled by his hunger for
academic subjects.
This award set the seal on his excellence in
scholarship and character. There were those to point
out that it took life to test what was real talent, not
this cramming at universities ; but this was not the
point of view of the prize-winners nor of their imme-
diate families, especially outsiders like the Delacys,
for whom a university retained its glamor and
superiority.
All the families consented to be proud of Brian.
He was easy to lionise. He had the physical health
of his progenitors and the Delacy humor —in its
broader, kindlier aspects of liberated personality, as
distinct from the carping ridicule of those suffering
inhibitions or a sense of failure. He was claimed by
the squattocracy as a bush boy, and his residence in
Sydney had broadened him into an all-round Austra-
lian. He had an open personality like old Danny’s.
Tales of old Danny gained him the ears of the
reporters. The members of his family, accepting a
strong lead, recalled Grandfather as an original and
extraordinary character with manifestations in keep-
ing, rather than as an oddity with an Irish brogue, at
one time deplored or suppressed in the interests of
genteel snobbery. Clare Margaret was a leader in this
re-establishment. She pasted this fresh notice in the
scrapbook with the obituary tributes to old Danny.
“At last,” she exulted, “there is a Delacy who is some-
thing more than a waster throwing away opportunities
of fortune by supporting spongers.” Old Harry was
similarly jubilant.
People warned Clare Margaret that she would
lose her boy by letting him go to England, that all
the geniuses stayed in England or were grabbed by
the United States, and Australia had to be content
with the ordinary natives or importations of small
calibre.
“If I lose him, I lose him,” said Clare Margaret.
“He shall have his chance without any strings. I’d
rather lose him to England or the United States than
have him wasted as a dingo here.”
People suggested that she should go with him.
“No. I stay right on Ferny
Creek. I’m only an old wombat,
but I’m a queen wombat on my
own run. I’m not going forth to
be exhibited in a circus or a zoo.
I see shiploads of remarkable
creatures all off to London —much
queerer than our marsupials. I
often wonder what is thought of
them on the other side.”
She went with Brian overland
to Melbourne big travel to her,
who had been no farther than
Sydney. She was unwavering in
gaiety and comradeship until the
bell clanged for her to go off the
ship.
“You’ll come over, Mum, just
as soon as I get the hang of it? We
could live like fighting-cocks on
three hundred a year. It’s a
fortune.”
To hear this was almost as sweet as the days of
her youthful love. It sustained her going down the
gangplank and during the long wait on the wharf on
the end of a paper ribbon until the ship moved out of
sight and across the Rip for the voyage. It was with
her on the return to Ferny Creek.
“That is the end of him for me,” she said to
Mrs. Thingamebob, a sympathetic confidante, now of
years’ standing.
“Why should you say that?”
“He never can be the same again. He will soon
belong to some other woman, and even if she has two
heads and cauliflower ears I’ll never take the bloom
off his love-affair when it comes, and hurt him as
Darcy and I were hurt. No. The only chance of
companionship in life is a real mate, like Darcy was,
and if he goes you are alone.”
“Or at peace,” softly interposed Mrs. Thinga-
mebob, thinking of her mate, who had died in
Darlinghurst Gaol.
Chapter XLVIII.
THEN to look for letters.
The first two came from the
home ports, then a blank until the
third from Colombo, and a long
wait until the first from England. At length
the regular report once a week. Eagerly awaited,
these letters were at first full of description. Clare
Margaret’s in return, so detailed, were eagerly
devoured, until in the increasing momentum of life
at Oxford they were scampered through and kept
for re-reading, which rarely took place.
Brian found it harder to compile a letter. Much
effort would be necessary to inform his mother of
a life to which she had no key. The interests of
mother and son drifted apart.
Clare Margaret continued to write fully from her
centre, and was frequently disappointed that Brian
omitted to answer her questions. She adhered to her
work. The property was now her habit, her life.
She left the care of the house to Mrs. Thingamebob
and tended her sheep and cattle, her cultivation
paddocks, her orchards —her beautiful estate, which
she and Darcy had made in partnership.
Darcy had left his share to her to be halved with
Brian on his twenty-first birthday, if worthy. Ah,
he had been worthy: she had helped to make him so.
Now he was a junior sleeping partner, and she faith-
ful in stewardship. Brian was to have a property as
well as an education: he should not be cast out naked
and unprotected into the world as she and Darcy had
been by incompetent parents. Brian’s letters were the
sweetest expectation of her days. That other woman
had not yet intruded, as far as she could judge. Her
mother pride and passion could be indulged un-
checked. Sometimes a personal paragraph in the
newspapers further rewarded her.
Clare Margaret strove to project herself into
Brian’s life through the medium of his letters, but had
not the spiritual or intellectual equipment to bridge
the chasm, though Brian was a good correspondent
for a young man, and the Delacys were humorous
and informative letter-writers. As time passed Brian
told less and less of his daily routine and filled his
page with comment on what his mother wrote. This,
too, dwindled. Those mail-days which brought no
letter were agony: Clare did not know how to cover
her humiliation from the fossicker, Dunlop and Mrs.
Thingamebob, and they learnt to hold their tongues.
As the first year ended in examinations there
were honors to report. Clare revived and proclaimed
that Brian had had to stick to his studies, without
time for letters. Lo! here was the
result. And still there was no woman to
dispute her ownership. There was
much to hold her attention at home.
The boom in wool subsided during the
year of Brian’s departure, and with it
the value of land. The bank officials
saw that there was no possibility of
Robert and Roger redeeming Burra-
binga, and were desirous of realising on
outlay before further decline. This had
to be put to Robert, and he did not in life leave the
old place where he had reigned as the last of the
pioneer squatters of the district.
The stroke which prefaced his passing was attri-
buted to shock. Fortunately he did not linger more
than a few months, and these were passed in the oifl
home. Despite his great age he partly recovered
and was able to sit in an easy-chair on one of the
verandahs in the morning sunlight within sound of
the river, and three or four of his faithful heelers
would find their way in to regard him with worship
and to snooze at his feet. The burdens of the present
were blotted out, his memory slipped back to the past.
To all and sundry he continued to offer the hospitaltiy
which had distinguished his establishment for half a
century. He would look up his once piercing eyes
glazed and uncertain, and stammer:
“Turn your horses out and stay the night. The
cook will give you a feed for your dogs.
The cost of that hospitality, hoarded, would have
given him comfort and freedom from worry at the
last, that hospitality so free and generous for which
his only return had been the pleasure in dispensing,
and the final worry of poverty.
He who had been born at Burrabinga should
have lain there or have come out with a spanking
four-in-hand, but the horses were gone ; a pall of debt
as well as of death hung over the valley.
WILLIAM waited in Bandalong for the funeral.
Harry, still slim and erect, came up to Burra-
binga. He wept tears of age-weakness and sadness
to see the old valley again, and Robert for ever asleep
to the Burrabinga’s anodyne lullaby, while a fierce
old dog howled mournfully like a tolling bell.
“Poor old Robert,” he quavered. “You’ve car-
ried your hide to the tanyard, and carried it well.
I won’t be long following you.”
“Death—time —just a breath or two—and all our
swagger, where is it?” he observed to Margaret, and
relinquished the scene that had known his shy, lonely
youth, the strength of his thews, and his stillborn
dreams. He was now living in Bowral, rescued from
financial destitution by his efficient Josephine’s in-
heritance.
Burrabinga was shortly afterwards advertised to
be sold by order of the mortgagees. All those rich,
deep acres watered by creeks that had never run dry
in the memory of white men, and the white men of
Burrabinga were all of old Danny’s providing! Long
years of loneliness and stiffening slogging were repre-
sented by its extensive freehold. Ninety years and
three whole generations of bone-racking, neck-risking
exploits had gone in wresting Danny’s now curtailed
province from primeval fallowhood and taming it to
Europe’s service, and the last of those who had waged
war against resistant Nature would not reap the
harvest of their despoiling.
Roger was bitter, but Clare Margaret said “If
you hadn’t the guts to hold on you can’t blame out-
siders. You have to thank old Wong that you have
a cubby to retreat to.”
They hoped—Roger and Harry —that by some
fluke Burrabinga would still be Delacys’. The world
until recently had been booming; all the money
could not have disappeared overnight. Roger expected
the mortgage to be realised and that the bank would
retain him as manager.
“A pity that none of the Delacys had any business
sense,” remarked Josephine. “Fools tame properties
for the wise to enjoy.”
Harry’s hope was that
Clare Margaret would pawn
Ferny Creek and her merinos
—the lesser to retain the
greater. “If they could have
Burrabinga without one old
cow or so much
as a fowl to stock
it, surely to God
it’s a fortune.
Motor-cars to
bring it near.
Think what it
was when my father went there with his bare hands
and a few head of cattle, and the blacks to be con-
ciliated. His own axe the first to blaze a tree, except
those holed by a black after a possum. I wish I had
my strength.”
His strength was gone. All that he had from
Burrabinga, where it had been wasted, was an
irrational love of the place, and that, in Josephine s
estimation, was foolishness. Not hers to feel that it
was spiritual tilth of a people, which in the potent
circle creates the place-soul to inspire a people. Harry
worshipped this land which had lain fallow of love or
hate since before time —or had the love of the
shadow people, who melted as wraiths before invasion.
That love, unrecorded in archives or architecture, lay
so lightly, was so tenuous, that it was beyond the reach
of man’s working senses.
Old Harry, as he dreamed in the sun to warm
old bones, was so near the end of the blind alley of
life in the physical body that miracles for him had
now to embrace a new dimension.
IT had been clear for some time to the financial
1 manipulators that world trade was on a perilous
slope and beyond their control. Clare Margaret never
speculated. What she had had been won by inhuman
industry. She would take no risks. Also, she was
strapped for ready money. She kept her secret, but
Brian, overseas in that superior removed life, that
earthly paradise, was a drain on her. He was con-


stantly requesting money on the ground that his
£3OO per annum went nowhere in England: as an
Australian a fellow was marked.
Burrabinga was a bargain for a company many
of whose clients lived on the Riviera. Some of
them did not know a merino from a Corriedale or
a comeback, nor a brigalow from a swamp gum or a
kurrajong, and they abominated the Australian accent.
They were conscious of Australia as once a convict
colony and still a retreat for a proletariat over-
proletaneous since machinery was making so many
men superfluous in industry. The place was a store-
house of gems, minerals and other raw materials, and,
now that British capital had been blown out of Europe
by depreciated currencies and other results of military
glory, Australia, by reason of its umbilical connection,
was the safest investment for British financiers, as it
had been a hundred years ago the ideal dumping-
ground for spoiled or unruly British subjects.
“Usury must reap where it can,” observed old
Harry. “When investments can be applied to taking in
the family washing it booms its own self-righteousness
till its ears are full and the devil laughs out loud.”
Roger was offered a job as boundary-rider. No
one knew the fences so well, and the points of invasion
by the dingoes and wombats which refused to be
dispossessed. Old Mrs. Robert was informed that
there would be a jointure for her. A letter from the
company said she was welcome to reside at Burrabinga
until the end of her days.
Upon reading the letter Mrs. Robert rose to her
full height and her full dignity. With her ancient
grand manner, which had sat well upon her as hostess
there for half a century, she thanked the manager-in-
chief of the company, who was there taking stock
and awaiting the arrival of a resident manager.
“I have made other arrangements, thank you.”
The conversation was
left dangling. The manager,
a decent man with heavy
responsibilities, did not know
how to proceed for a
moment. Her anger would
have made it easier for the
“business-is-business” patter.
The man was
impressed by
her bearing.
“The storm that
was promising
seems to be
passing off,” she
remarked urbanely, with a far, grand glance at the
familiar heavens.
The manager wiped his forehead with his hand-
kerchief as he agreed with her, and looked at the
mighty clouds moving out by the source of the Burra-
binga, on the way to Bunbilliko, where Robert and
Harry had ridden when young with the Lillingstons.
She turned to Clare Margaret when the man had
escaped. “I’ll go with you for a visit, as you have
so often asked me.”
Clare Margaret had designed apartments for her
during the fossicker carpenter’s remodellings.
By law Margaret was not entitled to a teaspoon
or a pillow; but the manager had sprung from
pioneering selector stock. He was a success, and
though business success is not won by Delacy charac-
teristics of sharing and giving, nevertheless he was
touched to see the old lady thus shorn at the end of
her days. He was more sympathetic towards her
position than to that of principals overseas who had
classified his accent as common Cockney. He was not
going to incur censure by throwing her out. No
inventory was to be made before Margaret chose
what articles she wished from the dwelling. Roger
was allowed an old horse-dray. No more drays for
Burrabinga. On all up-to-date places drays were
falling to pieces under the shade of some tree. The
last of the horse waggons dwindled with Robert’s
final decade. Clare Margaret would send plough-
horses to take out the load.
Roger was left in charge until the resident
manager could arrive, and his mother decided to stay
with him. This was a reprieve for Roger. To send
him from Burrabinga was like turning an old horse
from his foalhood’s stable.
“The manager must have perspired with relief,”
chuckled Clare Margaret, “when he heard that Ma
had other arrangements.”
Roger railed against the strangers who turned
people out with nothing after generations of pioneer-
ing labor.
“The Barbara Fritchie part suits Ma to perfec-
tion, but it looks rather silly on you,” said Clare
Margaret. “I’m not going to antagonise the manager
and I’ll take everything he offers.”
“I wouldn’t take a stick. Let the lousy swine
take the tail with the hide.”
“Rubbish! He is not the one that is driving you
out penniless, but all the cadgers for the last forty
years —and the pub-keepers. You ought to be thank-
ful that old Wong paid his way.”
Chapter XLIX,
awT is strange that Brian never sends
1 any word about the old place.”
Old Harry harped on this as he
sat chopping the fuel. He knew, the
qualities of each block intimately—its grain,
color, weight, which would split and which was tough.
He handled the wood with artistic relish and affection,
his mind reverting to the undesecrated forests of his
youth and the dreams he had dreamed to people them.
“What could he say?” Josephine would pose.
“The Delacys never had a business head among them,
and were not content to scratch like the old man.
They got too. big for their boots, and this is the
logical outcome.”
“Yes, but,” Harry would counter, “young Brian
felt differently about things. He was like his great-
grandfather.”
“That would not help him to get on very far.”
Harry would abandon the argument. He was a
man of peace.
Clare Margaret also wondered why she heard so
little from her son. She had sent him all the spare
money that came in, and was more than ever deter-
mined not to cripple Ferny Creek. The final illus-
tration of the need for avarice was constantly before
her.
At the close of Brian’s second year of absence
there was a blow: Brian was not recommended for
a third year’s study, and, as far as his mother could
deduce, did not seem to have any definite profession.
He told her that he was going to work, that he was
sick of sitting about among books, which a girl could
do and thereby “lick the Senior Wrangler.” (Clare
Margaret took this as a tilt at the nagging propensities
of women.)
He further confessed to having been swindled,
and that he was in debt and would be disgraced unless
she could rescue him.
She hastened to the bank in Bandalong. Any-
thing, everything, to save her boy.
Brian was thus released from debt, but loose in
a hostile world without a paid position. He asked
for his patrimony to start in business. His mother
inquired what kind of business, and he wrote that it
would be something in the mechanical line. “I’ve
been fumbling around wasting my time on academic
subjects when I should have been in an engineering
works. That has put me back years, but with a bit
of an income I won’t be so hipped as if I had to
cringe for a job.”
Later he wrote of his arduous days in an aero-
plane factory, where he was starting from the ground
up. “Tackling the dungarees again after lolling about
like a swell soon took the fine lady out of my fists.”
CLARE MARGARET did not divulge that he was
not doing the third year at Oxford. There were
a few, more conversant with the world than she, who
asked what Brian was going to do when his term at
Oxford had ended. What profession was he entering?
What was he to pay in results for the capital spent
in making him a graduate of two universities?
Fortunately such “stickybeaks” were few. Most of
Clare Margaret’s acquaintances were as naive as
herself and looked upon Brian’s scholarship as an
Elijah’s chariot, something which had lifted him to
a region far above the Murrumbidgee.
Clare was pitifully uneasy concerning him and
determined to face secretly whatever might come from
that source. She reflected despairingly that the Delacy
breed was certa-'nly destitute of acquisitive proclivities.
Nearly a hundred years since Johanna and Danny
had landed, and no outstanding successes to show for
all the struggle and honesty and heroism! New
arrivals within the present century had made the
environment subservient to their success, whereas the
most distinguished Delacy was Sophie of Bewuck,
head mistress of a high-school, who educated the
daughters of others, having none of her own nor so
much as a niece or nephew worthy of her. Since
1914 crowds of people had made war fortunes and
ordinary fortunes and departed to splurge in Europe,
but none of these were Delacys. The Delacys, who
adored Australia, could not make her pay dividends —
to themselves.
Della’s children had dropped out of sight in
Victoria as minor pastoralists and farmers. Honoria’s
family—the New Glenties Butlers —included Coole,
who was a rich man but not nearly so wealthy as the
Vances who had progressed to championship ranks
in wool, with social obligations in keeping. They had
half a dozen rich properties: the sons played polo, the
daughters had their photographs taken in the act of
looking on, and appeared in what Society had become
since the war and at the furthest extremity of the
globe from its London origin. It was a cocktail rather
than a cocktailed affair, inadequately furnished with
distinction or intelligence. Its bright young things
displayed their fine physique on the democratic
beaches which made Sydney a paradise, or cavorted
at charity functions where they followed trivially the
procedure and fashions prescribed for them by
Europe.
CLARE MARGARET always spent a night with
Uncle William on her way to the township, and
he was one of the inquisitive. They had grown close
together with the years, and to him she confessed
with a smile:
“Like your Bob, I think Brian is wiping-up grease
with a dirty rag these days.”
This was a family gag. Bob, one of the few
Delacys to “chuck” the bush, had landed in a motor-
garage, where he was set to clean the cars, and was
there found, to his father’s consternation, “Wiping
grease off a car with a dirty rag.”
“Why, damn it,” exclaimed William, “the money
spent on Brian since he started to get this fine educa-
tion would secure a tidy property!” He was sorry
for Clare Margaret. His own family too, except
Sophie, were disappointing. “It’s a pity his flash
promise isn’t coming to anything. He wants six
months on the axe to make a man of him.”
“Those who had six years on the axe aren’t so
wonderful.”
“But he could have been an aeroplane mechanic
without all the expense of one university education
after another. If he takes to flying you’ve as good as
been at his funeral already.”
“Oh, well, I shan’t bury him till I have to, and
then I shan’t ask anyone to help me cry.” Uncle
William knew when to desist.
When Clare Margaret was leaving in the morn-
ing he said “I hope you get good news from Brian
next time. It seems that you and I are the only
Delacys with head enough to hang on to our
property.”
“I’m only a brumby compared with you. Bewuck
is a beautiful property —six times the value of Ferny
Creek.”
“And six times as many to scatter it as soon as
I am cold.”
Those were his last words to her. She never
saw him alive again. His tombstone stands head-to-
head with old Nullah Mundoey’s where the unfettered
winds enlarge the fleckless days.
ROGER and his mother were finally ejected from
Burrabinga. The new manager arrived —without
his wife until he knew how the dispossessed were to


act. Unnecessary precaution. Margaret was too
strong, Roger too gentlemanly, Clare Margaret too
full of commonsense for hostility.
Clare brought her car, and the journey, which in
the era of the horse would have taken the best part of
a week, was made in the day. They stormed up
Delacy’s Cutting, through Delacy’s Gap, down past
the remains of Birrabee and Keebah, away towards
Bandalong for Darcy’s bridge, and home to Ferny
Creek at warm dusk in October. A cheery fire
burned in the new room for old bones. Margaret’s
smaller things were in place.
“It’s all very nice,” she said in her grand way.
“You must have waved a magician’s wand.”
“It will be better when all your own things arrive
from dear old Burrabinga.”
“Dear old Burrabinga, my Burrabinga, has gone
with your father, and Syme and Darcy, and William
and Old Danny and Johanna, and Norah and Della
and Ned and Stewart. I never want to hear the new
Burrabinga mentioned.”
Thus she closed her life and turned with dignity
and fortitude to its epilogue.
“We are lucky to have escaped the rain,” said
Clare. The storm could be seen approaching as on a
screen far across the valley. Soon it was beating on
the house, rattling the spouting, chasing any loose
vessel of tin, tattering the soft young garden, and
turning spitefully cold.
Wild hours always took Clare back to Darcy’s
passing.
Roger, with the aid of old Dunlop —now very
stiff —had his belongings loaded as night was falling
and the wild wind intruded upon the spring scene. He
was compelled to borrow a tarpaulin the Delacy
tarpaulin, now no longer his.
They had pulled the dray against the high palings
of the little graveyard where lay Doogoolook, Wong
Foo and several others. They sheltered under the
end of the tarpaulin, Roger too depressed for further
action, while Dunlop made a fire and boiled the billy.
The new manager expected them at the house
when they should have made all snug, but they did
not appear. In an ill-provised bed under a dray with
a few sticks of furniture the last of the Burrabinga
men spent his outgoing night. Danny, Robert and
Harry had often gone out and soaked themselves to
bring in wayfarers out of such weather, but not by
such brotherliness are stations retained to pay
dividends on far-flung investments.
AT midnight, when the storm had ceased and a
waning moon showed through ragged clouds,
Roger was aroused by a delegation of Wong Foo’s
compatriots come to remove Wong’s bones to China
now that Burrabinga had passed from Delacy owner-
ship. They were furnished with a permit from the
authorities. This procedure was in key with Roger’s
mood, and he and Dunlop assisted as by “the
struggling moonbeam’s misty light, and the lantern
dimly burning,” like a reversal of a famous burial,
Wong’s remains were rescued.
The headboard remained, the mound was care-
fully remodelled; and the manager a week later
reported to his wife: “All that trouble to clean up a
Chinaman’s grave —no wonder they lost their
property! ”
“Oh, I don’t know,” responded the woman. “It
shows a nice spirit towards the old man who left them
a little place to turn to.”
OLD Harry, warming his bones in the sun, wept
bitterly when he heard that Burrabinga was really
gone from the family—that no miracle had saved it.
Until the last moment he had expected something
from young Brian, who had gone abroad in a cloud
of glory, but he had not sent so much as a postcard.
Josephine laughed that he should take it so much
to heart. “What does it matter to you now, when
your time at the longest must be very short? You
ought to be glad that a big company that can do
something with it has it.”
He felt that she did not understand. “It was the
motor-cars that ruined Burrabinga by killing out the
horses. Stinking machines that eat Yankee oil,” he
quavered.
“We must progress. I wish I had a car and some-
one to drive me about in it.”
“They take all the money for foreign oil.”
“A lot of Delacy money went to maintain the
publicans in luxury.”
“Even that was better under our economic system
than keeping foreigners, as you’ll find presently...
But it’s strange that none of my father’s progeny was
worthy of him.”
“He never taught them to do anything but tigrinise
among the native dogs, as your mother used to say.”
“My father was a great man,” persisted Harry.
“The day will come when his power will be seen. My
father’s vision will be bearing the fruit of life when
the moneybags kind of success is suppressed as out-of-
date barbarism.”
“It is as well for you to think so,” cackled
Josephine, and bore with his vagaries because she
considered him childish.
CLARE found her mother a comfort. Her mind
was still keen and they always had had a sense
of humor as a bond. Clare confessed some of her
uneasiness about Brian. “With all the chances I
gave him to get above rabbiting, he is only working
in an air-garage.”
“Perhaps these things are dictated by fate. All
sorts were of use at the start of colonisation because
they were scarce, but it is different now.”
“Yes, but Grandpa had something notable about
him, and, as Uncle William said the last time I saw
the poor old man, the only difference between Ferny
Creek and Bewuck was that there were more
scatterers at Bewuck.”
“Brian has not found himself yet,” said Mar-
garet, too tactful to fan anxieties. “At any rate, he
can still come back to you—not like Syme and Dan.
I see in the paper that Aunt Jean has gone to Sydney
for some ceremony at the gates where Dan embarked.”
Sophie, instructress of the young, whom the years
had not disillusioned regarding patrioteering, took
care that her mother and she had their places on the
official dais at the ceremony of commemoration when
the wharf entrance was christened the “Gates of
Remembrance,” nearly a generation after young Dan
and many as likely a lad had disappeared that way,
never to return; but the soldier-lads have been
replaced by oncoming youth and the gates are
neglected, forgotten by all but a dwindling company
of ageing women who assemble there on Anzac Day
with rosemary in their hands and a hurt look in their
eyes.
OLD Harry, dreaming over book or newspaper, still
pinned his faith on Brian with reference to the
continuity of character through the generations.
“It stands to reason,” he would say at such times
as Josephine would listen unrancorously. “A great
spirit like my father’s could not go without results.
They might not reappear for a generation or two.
Breed is like that. But in the immense age of the
human race, if a great spirit appeared every five
hundred years think what that would mean. ‘The
moind! The moind! ’as my father used to say. It’s
only a hundred years and a bit since he was born.
All the same I should like to see someone worthy
of his breed, and it can’t be in my time unless it’s
young Brian. Get me pen and paper. I’ll ask him
what he’s doing.”
His letter was so foolish, in Josephine’s estima-
tion, that she was ashamed to send it. She wrote
an explanatory note:
Your grandfather is too old to write now. His
fingers ache when he tries to hold the pen, and he is not
clear in what he wants to say, but he will be waiting
for a reply as if his ideas were of importance. He is
always longing to see you, but you must not expect
to see him here when you come as the doctor says that
his organs are quite worn out.
“A dream, a vision of what is to be, is greater
than all the moneybags in the world,” Harry remarked
when the letter was safely in the envelope and he set
out to the post office to deposit it. Old and frail, a
financial failure, isolated from his spiritual equals,
his winged spirit nevertheless continued to resist the
conclusions of materialistic commonsense as stupid
and wasteful of beauty and truth and an obstruction
in man’s ascent.
“Without moneybags where would you be?”
demanded Josephine. “If I hadn’t hung on to some-
thing we’d be in a pretty pass to-day. And if my
poor Darcy had had a moneybag or two to start, and
if others had struggled to help him as I did, he need
not have killed himself in that silly pioneering without
any reward. There is reason in all things.”
“There is one kind of reasoning that never does
anything but fill its belly from the storehouse after
the other fellow has pioneered to build and stock it.”
“But what is the sense in piling up for the other
fellow? I’d rather be the other fellow for a change.”
Josephine was indispensable, efficient and unceas-
ing in her duties and care, and habit is stronger than
passion and outlasts it. He was a one-woman man ;
none but Josephine had known his virility, and such
a man, when of fine sensibilities, is bound to a woman
for ever by his own virginal conception of her, plus
his dire male need.
NOT so long after posting the letter Harry slipped
away one morning to enlarge that presence,
palpable but intangible which compounds the aura
of places where there has been continuity of human
association from generation to generation.
Only Clare Margaret of Harry’s own family came
to see him laid away, the last of the Burrabinga
Delacys except Roger.
Josephine consented to return with Clare for a
week, but she was unendurably restless. She hated
the district. The distance from a physician in case
of sickness, and the lack of elegancies and entertain-
ments, had always been insupportable to her. She
had her whole family, with the exception of Darcy
and Isabel, collected in the one plot at Murrumbong,
and she resented Clare’s possession of that other grave
as she turned eagerly to her own life at last, the
heroine of long years of incompatibility and the loss
of all her family but Isabel, who was never mentioned.
Her indomitable prosaicness exposed her to the dis-
covery that she was lonely without Harry. He had
given her much, though not of those things for which
moneybags are the symbol.
Chapter L
hegira to Europe furnishes
1 experiences so removed from those
open to the home-staying Australian
that Brian was able for a time to
harvest his blunders without exposure to his
home runs. Achievements conspicuous in Bandalong
and Yass, and which had lent him brief distinction
at Sydney Uni., attracted no notice at Oxford. There
he was merely one of the colonial students, who were
of all persuasions, complexions and nationalities.
The national heritage, the man-made beauty of
centuries of ancient glamor and still-living tradition,
had at first intoxicated him, and had involved the
metaphysical experience of fusing his dream of old
places with their actuality.
Greedily he had tried to swallow all of life. First
came the acquiring of knowledge in accordance with
the curricula, then the stimulation of his thinking
powers by association with mental equals and
superiors in the movements with political ideals and
affiliations. A diplomatic tolerance grown wily and
mellow in the handling of resurgence and insurgence
—any intransigence from colonists —ignored much,
but twice Brian narrowly escaped being sent down
for activities with subversionists.
He also excelled in sports, which enlarged his
social contacts, and these flowered in the major bio-
logical initiation. For this a number of Brian’s
relatives had been indebted to the ancient and
generous school of serving-maids. In England, in
Brian’s decade, the faculty had widened: social equals
were available in a fairer educational exchange, and
Brian’s experience on this front proceeded without
volcanic disturbance. Many more extensive dossiers
are available in the novels which in the post-war
emergent period provoked attention by their unreticent
details of bodily functionings and provided capital
sport when flung in the face of fin de siecle wowser-
ism. The lack of variety in any normal biological
processes reduced such case-histories to unendurable
dullness as soon as their publication was robbed ot
the sauce of indecency by acceptance as part of
modern behavior.


Sufficient to record that Brian Delacy graduated
in the Faculty of Sex without spiritual or physical
accident, largely because of his predilection for women
older than himself.
I—| IS dismissal without the third year of the Gawler
1 * Scholarship drove him to cover, tortured in every
fibre of his being, in which there was some of the
sensitiveness of his father and his grandfather Harry.
He locked himself in his rooms, and for days floun-
dered in humiliating reflection that he had wasted his
chances both at Sydney and at Oxford. He had lost
the rewards of both the careful and talented and the
daring and gifted. He must flee from the scene of
his immediate defeat: nor could he face return to
Australia with empty hands and no definite profession,
seeing the flourish with which he had departed.
He was loose in a world where to drop from a
post was as hazardous as falling off a liner in a high
sea, for all the hope there was of getting back to a
berth. To such a pass of futility had Big Business
Dictatorship brought the human race at the beginning
of the fourth decade of the twentieth century. How-
ever, Brian was fortunate: his mother had rescued
him from debt and was sending him a small income,
and the isolation of Australia from England enabled
him to make a new start without the derision of
former associates.
Talents dormant during his pursuit of academic
arts and philosophies now re-awakened. In any case,
he would not have remained drugged by ancient
glamor. Mechanics. As he had rallied to the
filibusters in the political line, so he would be in the
van of mechanics, and to him that meant aeroplanes.
He turned with a will to Coventry. Those were the
days when he wrote of dungarees, which in the real
sense were a passing incident. His personality was
worth more than a university degree in the acquaint-
ances it brought him.
“If aviation attracts you,” said Sir Coverly
Benedict father of a fellow-collegian, “I’ll get you
into the Royal Air Force.” His own son was working
off headiness in this avenue, and Brian seized the
chance to join him, though he was temperamentally
unsuited to military organisations.
His ambition to master every branch of aero-
nautics, combined with his talent for mechanics,
quickly made the air his element. He won his wings
with expedition and wore them with the dash with
which his grandfathers had clanked their silver-plated
spurs.
He and young Benedict went often to the Duchess
of Tilbury’s. The Duchess was divorced, but traded
under the old title. She was a man-eater of air
officers.
She specialised in those from overseas, and found
their lack of ceremony amusing. They sometimes
found her food “rotten,” and it was after a midnight
supper at her apartment that both Delacy and Bene-
dict were smitten with gastritis. Brian, who con-
sidered himself gastronomically as invincible as a
goanna, was kept in hospital for a month, at the end
of which the official physicians declared him per-
manently unfit and gently dismissed him from the
Service.
It had been a relief to inform his mother that he
was in the Royal Air Force and to sprinkle his letters
with the names of the swagger people—many of them
with titles who petted flight officers, while his
mother’s fears for his safety in the air had speedily
given way to pride in his stylish career.
To be discarded as unfit was as staggering, if
not so painful, as his retreat from Oxford. He spent
terrible weeks of depression in lodgings, and sent no
letter to Australia during the time. Then he sallied
forth to tell the Duchess what her supper had done
for him.
BRIAN found her Grace preoccupied with his
successors, but one Lola Bradley, a miss from
the Middle-West, glamor-struck for Europe in
general and aviation in particular, was kind to him.
She was older than she looked, and had but lately
seized her freedom. She had money, though was
“not so lousy with dollars as some,” to use the
Duchess’s classification. Lola’s was that she was
“just plumb crazy about flying.”
She was won by Brian’s friendly Australian
manner and was a good listener, so he was soon telling
her that he felt like making an end of everything.
This resulted in Lola’s suggestion to escape before
he was again poisoned by the Duchess’s “muck” and
spend the remainder of the day with her. He was so
melancholy that she persuaded him
to remain for a couple of nights,
and later to fetch his possessions
from his attic in Bloomsbury and
accept her care until he was fit
again.
Lola was not an indisputable
beauty. She had dazzling teeth,
but at school had been called
pop-eyed, a state arising from her
enthusiasms and which time was
tempering. Good - natured and
easy, she soothed Brian and re-
stored his amour propre and freed
him from a threatening fixation
concerning “ the tragic Delacys ”
which had arisen after the second
mishap to cloud his sunny fibre.
She confessed to being six years
his senior. When he, sun-lined and
tanned, said he would not have
thought her more than thirty, she
regretted that she had not pro-
claimed herself that age. Her com-
panionship, ostensibly as nurse, was wholesome.
Brian’s emotions were affectionate and promised
something more. Lola had broken away from
home determined to have an affaire ere the years should
have superannuated amour, and pursued her purpose
without hesitation.
Brian consented to go with her to recuperate in
the south of France, and for a time she relinquished
her ambitions as an aviator in favor of love. They
dawdled along the beaten track, forgetting which was
Arles or Nimes. In Avignon they stayed at the
Grand-Hotel d’Europe and inspected the Notre-Dame-
des-Doms Cathedral with its “richly decorated
interior.” Owing to Brian’s reversals, romance was
rationed until Lola noted in the hotel register the name
of a physician from Chicago. She called on him and
begged him to examine Brian, which he consented to
do and testified with confidence that Brian was as
sound as an ox.
A young man renewed went from the physician’s
presence.
Inquiries later convinced Brian that the real
reason for his removal from the R.A.F. was that
his manner had not been sufficiently conforming to
superior officers to be tolerated in time of peace. His
Duchess had been of the wrong bouquet to protect
him, where there were so many young fellows who
could more safely be moulded to the pattern of “an
officer and a gentleman.”
“I’m tickled clear through that you are free!”
exclaimed Lola. “Let’s do all the stunts right away,
darling. Cape-to-Cairo first, for practice. Then
we’ll fly to Australia and see that Uppamurrumbad-
geree you talk so much about.”
CONTINUALLY Brian’s thought reverted to the
Murrumbidgee because he was shut therefrom by
failure of two kinds. Now himself again, his nostalgia
was the spring of inspiration. Avignon, capital of
the Department of Vaucluse, sent his thoughts to
Vaucluse House in Sydney. A spark ignites purpose.
Australia so far away! England had once been a
mere five weeks from Australia, but in the Anglifica-
tion of his perspective Australia had come to be at
the furthest extremity of
the globe. Yet a year since
a girl had upped and flown
to Australia in a matter
of days. An English girl.
The world had buzzed
with the miracle, which
had escaped Brian during
his retreat after Oxford.
Its full significance came
to him now.
Strolling in Railway-square he remarked of the
statue of the inventor of the flax-spinning machine:
“By love! it would suit me better to be doing
something to win a monument in my own land than
to be paddling around here like a poodle on a string
looking at the round-towers and machiolated battle-
ments. You should see the battlements at Burrabinga!
Romance needs adventure at the start, and the start
of tradition is adventure that gets recorded. I’m for
starting something glamorous concerning my own
wide open spaces. Whoops! that’s a filthy cold
wind.”
“That’s the famous mistral!” con-
tributed Lola.
“Huh! Even their old wind is given
a title! You wait till you feel the
Monaro wind across Canberra: it would
shave a gooseberry, as we say. I wish you
could smell the bush about Ferny Creek
on a summer night. I reckon it’s holy.
The earth here cannot work off the con-
tinual contamination of human contact,
like lice for ever on it, and fertilisers and
battles.”
pOLLOWING this outburst Brian
1 walked alone on the terrace with its
view of the Rhone and the Cevennes and
the Alps, majestic in the waning light.
The splendor drove him, as his great-
grandfather, to ponder on posterity,
his contemporaries being inade-
quate to people the eternal
grandeur of the globe. His
spiritual and intellectual harvest
from the history piled before
him and from the glory of the
past as exemplified by Oxford
was realisation of the potentiali-
ties of his own anciently empty
new land. He compared his
own double heritage with the
circumscription of those who
possessed only Europe, and
exulted. He had inherited
Harry’s and Danny’s dreams.
Far Australia was brought
near if a girl could fly there
over the week-end, so to speak.
In a flash he saw his future.
Aviation. Aviation not for
mere aviation’s nor adven-
turous stunt’s sake, but for
Australia. The Caballero would
transfer from the horse to the
aeroplane. He was impatient to
be winging his way by Rome,
Vesuvius, Athens, Damascus,
Bagdad, Basra names mossy
with legend but which in his present mood had not
the liberation of the mellifluous lullaby names of his
native beat, plucked like the echo of an echo, the
shadow of a shadow, from a wraith-like people who
had left undefiled and undespoiled their disdainful,
capricious land.
In the profound suffusion of emotion which
transcends thought, and but for which the intellectual
absolute would be too arid to prevail, he harangued
Lola as Danny had spellbound his Johanna in the
coomb in Clare a century earlier.
“I’m glad I came to Europe, and more glad I
didn’t fit. It has just come to me —the indignity of
crawling home to Europe and drawing on what has
been made here —mostly made a mess of —and rehashed
and polished and traditioned and precedented for cen-
turies, when we have a whole new country still clean
and free —free — free! Do you realise its freeness? The
freest social and sociological conditions on the globe,
and empty. Think of the glorious emptiness of it!
The purity! Here you have the treasures of art and
architecture of the ages, but as well you have accumu-
lations of pollution. Do you grasp, woman, how clean
we are in Australia?”
“I hadn’t heard any big noise about your clean-
liness.”
“Talk about incense! The heavenly perfume of
Australia used to waft far out to sea before it was
civilised. You’ve never known a rapturously pure
smell until you have been in a eucalyptus forest.
There’s not even any damp smell of rot from veget-
able humus. It’s antiseptic with cleanness.”
“But you’ll find it kind of different from what
you expect when you go back. You won’t be able to
stand it after Europe.”
“How d’you mean? Stand what?”
“You miss all the contacts you know, the
culture.”
“Culture? Bah! I’m beginning to see that
culture makes a poor return for the time it has had
and what it has cost in blood and slaves. I’ve been
up against men dripping with culture and what is
called breed and education and it did not save them
from being crawlers who had no semblance of man-
hood. The highly cultured can be the lowest perverts.
The cultured can be contented amid gross injustice.
Culture be damned! Culture is not enough. We
need decency and goodwill in brotherhood —common-
sense in opportunity and in distribution of the


world’s products ethical
ideals in control of man’s
inventiveness.
“Culture huh!
Filaria, hookworm and
leprosy are samples of
ancient culture of the East
that were introduced into
the Australian Garden of
Eden a century ago. It
would take a lot of Ming
vases and artistic prints
and flowery proverbs and
polished manners and
underhand subtle diplo-
macy and military glory
to outweigh those
scourges. Culture! Euro-
peans haven’t the common
business savvy to live
without war, and they
spread their Kelly-gang
tactics through all the
world. Europe should be
boycotted to stew in its
own juice. Asia’s somno-
lence is preferable to the
wakening and speeding-up
to Europe’s general lunacy
and inefficiency.”
“Yes, but I’ve been
back to the Middle-West, and it was a bit crude after
Europe,” interposed Lola when he stopped for breath.
“Crude, be blasted! I pray that Australia may
remain crude, and empty, as the last refuge for the
doomed of Asia and Europe ... How do you mean
crude, anyway?”
“Unsophisticated, I guess that’s what they call
us Americans when they want to be polite, but”
“Superior... Crude people always do better for
their fellows than the sophisticated. If you analyse
sophistication it explodes as a nasty stink. Sophisti-
cation is a green sickness that feeds on decadence.
I’m off back to first principles. One of Europe’s
biggest crimes is to drag her descendants back from
Australia and America to gather diseases and to die
in her tribal racketeering.”
J N the manner of women, Lola was giving him one
1 ear while with half her consciousness she pursued
her own thoughts. She was ten years older than Brian.
Like him she had come to the hub of sophistication
from an outpost; similarly at first she had been
shocked by the poverty, the servility, the flagrant
assumption of superiority by caste. She had grown
homesick for Michigan, but upon return to a tortured
sojourn among her early associates she felt that the
women trading upon domestic womanliness, the
standardised college professors, the exalted pants-
pressers, cried aloud for debunking—if not, indeed,
for elimination.
On her second escape to Europe she had become
selective of congenial contacts, as one could in the
Old World centres. Class or caste could be used for
one’s comfort. In this reorientation poverty and
servility had ceased to distress her. She was not
responsible for her own state in life nor that of others.
History demonstrated that humanity was unchanging
despite its new gadgets ; experience taught that there
was more profit in getting the best out of the world
than in attempts to reform it, though men must gas
about something ; and this was rather a safe hobby
for Brian so long as it did not go too far.
She could companion him in his activities but not
in his dreams.
“The most important thing about Australia at
this crisis in civilisation is its emptiness,” Brian was
saying.
Australia’s emptiness added to its isolation and
did not appeal to Lola, but she listened satisfactorily.
A trip to early scenes was the only cure for childish
illusions about the home-town. Lola would follow.
One track was as good as another to the aviator, for
whom death waited daily. Aviation was not for old
age. For the present there was love. She gazed
at Brian indulgently.
“I’m waiting to be led to this land of promised
hope and glory. It sounds a pretty swell dump.”
They began their joint career that night. Lola
had the means to provide a plane, Brian the
mechanical skill to keep it at concert pitch. Her
ambition was his. Life was good again despite the
financial paralysis which had crept outward from the
core to the extremities of the world.
A T Ferny Creek Clare Margaret was alarmed by the
*'■ declining value of wool, though the first two years
of the slack had not hurt the Australian workers.
They let the motor-cars go, then the gramophones, the
player-pianos, the time-payment houses, while the
so-called poor turned up their noses at the clothes
cast off to them, and
others with money-sense
collected them and sold
them to the ol’-clo’ mer-
chants.
At this stage had
come the second blow
through Brian’s removal
from the R.A.F. His
mother cabled his fare.
The money was useful
to Brian in
Europe. After
weeks of
silence came
his statement
that, to gain
strength before the sea voyage, he was going to
the Riviera to look for the sun. After further
anxiety his mother was rejoiced by the verdict of the
Chicago physician and accepted Brian’s decision to
return to aviation.
Families which had migrated to the cities from
bush holdings now felt that evacuation had been a
mistake. Those on the land could at least be sure of
food and shelter. Interest on mortgages mounted to
startling figures among the big men, but Clare Mar-
garet’s thrift kept her solvent while the financial
crisis went on and on ripened to a “chronic.”
Though the land was bursting with plenty, Australians
began to feel the pinch.
The voice of the doled was dolorous in the land.
Idleness enervated the adolescent generation. The only
hope of betterment, of release from
constricting poverty, for the great
masses of people in the mightiest
empire on record was a lottery
chance or gambling on the race-
courses. All waited. For what?
For a miracle, in the ancient
way of mankind from out eternity
and to eternity: the miracle of
leadership that would be accepted,
some ingenious formula to save
people from starvation in the
midst of abundance: simply that.
BRIAN proceeded healthfully
with his career, confident that
the thinkers must before long im-
pose intelligence upon stupidity :
otherwise some major explosion
would annihilate civilisation in its
present form.
Lola was described as a brilliant American woman
aviator, able in all departments, including wireless.
Brian combined mechanics with aeronautics and wire-
less, and his partnership with her was filled with
instructive activity. They took private persons on
flights, entered for air races, gave some attention to
aerobatics, and put up a record or two on the author-
ised air routes. Their performances gained the
attention of leading makers, who engaged them as
test pilots. The owners of a new style of machine,
which, through many metamorphoses and because of
its special construction, had come to be known as
the Multiple-Vertical-Gyro, invited the Delacys to
attempt the Atlantic in their product.
Lola opposed this in favor of Australia for the
simple reason that in her own State Brian would
discover her real age, and she loved him more con-
sumedly with each month. She had as much nerve
as he in the air but lacked the hardihood to confess
that she was ten years his senior. So long as her
youthful appearance remained she would protect her
romance.
The Multiple-Vertical-Gyro Company were
agreeable to this as their product had already been
exhibited in New York.
The Middle-West held probable embarrassment
for Lola ; the Upper Murrumbidgee would be equally
uncomfortable for Brian under certain conditions.
He had absorbed enough of the sophisticated she-man
point of view of Europe to accept Lola’s gifts in
amour while in London and France. It would be
another matter to appear in Australia unmarried to
his female partner.
|—| E was too fond of his mother to subject her to
1 * such a trial and spoil all the triumph of his
return, for which she had so loyally worked.
His desire was a share in making Australia as
generally an avian Commonwealth as it had been an
equestrian colony in the days of the earlier Delacys,
and what this might develop in economic reorganisa-
tion. As with old Nullah Mundoey, personal aggran-
disement would not mean so much to him as the
development of his incalculable continent, where a
spiritual legacy lured him home like a siren. His
waywardness would be against other forces than Mrs.
Grundy. To protect his dreams from disharmony, his
schemes from obloquy, he was willing to observe the
most barnacled family conventions.
“If we flew to Aussie together we’d have to get
married,” he said to Lola.
“Why, how perfectly ridiculous! I thought it
was a new country with advanced ideas.”
“There’s nothing new about living in concubin-
age.”
“How crude to put it that way!”
“It wouldn’t be put so politely among the old
pioneers on the Murrumbidgee. Not a single solemn
simple Simon one of my aunts or great-aunts was
so much as breathed upon before she was married.
Even the men had to be quite decent, because there
weren’t enough women to be indecent with.”
“I guess that was the only reason... Oh, well,
I understand. I was raised in the
same kind of bourgeois respect-
ability in Jackson, Michigan, but
I did not lie down under it.”
“Well, what about it?”
“About what?”
“Our tying up.”
She was aching to hear him
say that he loved her, not merely
to suggest marriage to maintain his
respectability. “Maybe we’d better.
I guess I can stand it as well as
you, but I don’t want to be taken
for your grandmother.”
“My grandmother’s cat! I
reckon I look as old as you are;
and there’s no need to tell all we
know. Knock a couple of years
off.”
“All right. Let’s. Then when I want to go home
to Michigan you can divorce me for desertion.”
“What in thunder for? I thought you—cared for
me?”
His blank look was comforting. “Yes, but if
you’re marrying only to be respectable enough to
carry out our flight to Australia I don’t want to hold
you.”
“Damn it all, I’m fond of you, and would like
to marry you if we did no flying at all.”
“Then no backing and filling about the difference
in our ages later. I’ve always said I’d never be such
a fool.”
“I’ll forget it, if you do.”
“That settles it then.”
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery,. 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


Joy suffused her to have her Brian
plus respectability. There would be no
need to stick to him for ever if the union
became impossible.
AUSTRALIAN MARRIES
WEALTHY AMERICAN AVIATRIX.
J T was crack cable news in Fleet-street,
* so full of Australians.
A freelance some months before had
dispatched an article about the combina-
tion of American aviatrix and Australian
aviator which had been filed, but the
accompanying photograph was now un-
filed and widely reproduced in the Aus-
tralian press. The newly-married pair
were credited with planning an air honey-
moon to Australia In a new type of
machine.
The photograph had been snapped
in a bleak March dawn at the end of
one of Lola’s long-distance flights. In
it she looked, as she expressed it, “like
something that never happened unless in
a nightmare after eating an English
boiled pudding.”
“I think she must be a multi-million-
aire,” smiled Margaret.
“She looks a thousand, and old for
her age,” agreed Roger.
The overseas correspondents had
delighted to cable her age, as given in
the marriage declaration. Clare Margaret
had had a joint cable from the pair
which sustained her pride under the blow
of the other woman’s possession of her
boy. She spoke now with a challenge
in her voice. “It’s that silly way they
are all taken, showing their teeth like
sharks. And she had just come off a
killing flight.”
“He has married a very old woman,”
wrote Aunt Jean in a letter of congratu-
lation to Clare Margaret. “But the Delacys like
to marry people older than themselves. Old
Danny was younger than his Johanna, and Darcy
was younger than you. Now Brian has started
the fashion again, and I suppose it is as good
as any other. I hope he is not killed before we get a
look at him and his rich American wife. It is good
to have someone bring money into the family at last.”
“She couldn’t be called a beauty by any stretch
of the imagination,” wrote Josephine. “She looks
very old, but your Aunt Della married a man with
a greater disparity in years and it made no difference
in the end. A pity his poor old grandfather did not
last till Brian came. He had such faith in him doing
something great some day.”
CLARE MARGARET began to work for the day
of Brian’s arrival. There were “kags” of paint,
now distributed in tins. She looked with satisfaction
at her property (and Brian’s) in a bed of the stream,
with the trees which made it look like an English
park, a condition ensured by Darcy’s love of trees
and the education of Clare by aristocratic English
tutors. Beyond Ferny Creek the enfolding ranges,
still crowned with timber, rose in tiers. Comforting
roads wound across the horizon towards the bridge
and Burrabinga and Gool Gool.
Humphrey Vance immediately offered to drive
Clare Margaret and her mother, and also Roger, to
Sydney for Brian’s arrival.
“He’s my godson, and that entitles me to a bit
of a splurge. I’ve had a hankering to own a plane
for a long time.”
Clare Margaret’s tense driving mood had eased
with the prospect of happiness and success for Brian.
She suggested taking Aunt Jean too. “The three old
ladies, each well on the way to a hundred, will be an
encouragement to the bride,” she chuckled. “A
certificate for the Delacy men as husbands that their
wives all outlive them, whether they started at scratch
or behind it.”
When paragraphs appeared concerning the
renown that this sprig was bringing to the pioneer
family of Delacy Clare Margaret slyly remarked:
“Only that I disgraced myself by marrying a cousin
it wouldn’t have been the Delacy name at all, and
Nullah Mundoey would have been forgotten.”
“Lucky for the old man’s memory,” said
Humphrey, “but you know the name you should
have.”
“You say that because you know you are safe.”
“No fear. You could make it right yet.”
“You’d die of fright if I took you at your word.”
“Just try me.”
“It would burst up your habits. Better if I
stayed at Ferny Creek and you at Longview.”
“1 might consent to that.”
“Would you, really?”
Vance looked dubious. “I might come to it if I
could not get you any other way ; but it couldn’t last.
We wouldn’t be able to stand the talk. People
would say we were freaks.”
“I’m thankful to be a freak when I see the blobs
that are considered all right.”
“But you couldn’t stand what people would think
of that. It would be called a week-end marriage.”
[ T was well that Brian
1 had bowed to con-
vention on the tracks
that Danny had blazed.
The day came
when the cables bore
the news of Mr. and
Mrs. Delacy’s hop-off
from England in a
Multiple-Vertical - Gyro
christened the Nullah
Mundoey. The route
was that which a slip
of a girl had traversed
alone some three years
earlier, and three years
were equal to a genera-
tion in airship progress.
The interest in this
flight lay in its family
nature and in the new
type of machine, not
hitherto seen in Aus-
tralia.
It was the first
England - to - Australia
flight of a man and his
wife linking the two
English - speaking
nations of the Pacific.
A point stressed in the
recent Italian flight was
that Balbo, the leader,
had allowed none but
bachelors to take part,
presumably so that they
should be unhindered
by legally accredited
feminine fears and
tears. The terrors of
illicit ladies had to be
kept out of the public
eye and ear, or pre-
sumably were an in-
spiration to virility rather than a softening of manly
fibre.
Brian, with the Delacy sense of humor, turned
this point inside-out merrily and started well with the
press. Old Danny had come immediately after the
explorers Sturt and Major Mitchell and made a home
for wife and babies in the wilds. His great-grandson’s
announced ambition was to forward the family era
in aviation and thus to banish Australian loneliness
and isolation, internecine or international.
“We must take to the plane as the early settler
took to the horse and the camel. We must all fly as
a matter of course.”
Lola knew him for a superb “mixer,” and he was
too normally of his nation to frighten it with wild
ideas. He hammered on those already half-accepted,
over and over again, a few genial slogans that grew
familiar.
A winged continent can be mistress of her own
sea-line and sky-line; a wingless A ustralia is prey for
mollyhawks.
“A few slogans pile up publicity and make fame
—too many smother it,” said he.
Chapter LI.
CLARE MARGARET was filled with
an exciting sense of unreality to be
at the good old Metropole, the
favorite hostelry of the squattocracy.
They were still the squattocracy, though
their stations were widely merged in syndicated
ownership.
Aunt Jean and Aunt Margaret called the roll
of the old-timers, so few of whom could answer
Adsum as their names arose for review. Aunt Jean
was forgetful and repetitive and a little deaf, but that
was her complaint of Margaret. “Poor old thing, she
must be nearly a hundred. No wonder she is as she
is,” she would remark in Margaret’s hearing. Luckily
Margaret’s sense of humor was as mellow as her
years. Josephine was also persuaded to come to the
hotel. Hers was the final triumph. Erect and free
from bulges, she was of striking elegance.
“You might take me to the theatre,” Clare Mar-
garet suggested to Humphrey. “I shall go mad with
nervousness waiting here for news from the Timor
Sea. There are three chaperones—more correct than
the picnic when poor old Uncle William lectured me
because I went for a drive in your new sulky—spoiling
sport when he had you ready
for Laura Butler.” Clare
laughed mischievously, but was
thankful that she had not mar-
ried this “stodgy old cow.”
Near midnight the paper-
boys were crying extras concern-
ing an air record, and the hotel
buzzed with the news that the
Nullah Mundoey and its pilots
had safely reached Darwin and broken previous
records with ease. Congratulations met the relatives
of the fliers at every turn.
The M.-V.-G. had proved the claims of its
makers by resisting the sandstorms of the Near East
and the heat of the tropics of India and by refusing
to misfire in the monsoons which sluiced upon it over
Rangoon. Mrs. Delacy had done much blind flying
and had taken the watch over the Timor. Delacy was
in fine fettle, but Mrs. Delacy was feeling the strain,
so that the passage from Darwin was to be taken in
short stages.
Arrival at Mascot was timed for ten o’clock one
August morning. A stubborn drought prevailed even
as far south as Gippsland. The young day was pallid
with the southerly which roistered up from the Ant-
arctic to make heady going for the Nullah Mundoey.
The wind-sausages bellied as tightly as boiled pud-
dings. Whirlwinds of dust soiled the air, freezing to
Sydneysiders but mild to those from the Upper
Murrumbidgee, where Monaro winds have the shrewd
rasp of purification.
News came that Delacy had to land for an hour
after leaving Cootamundra because of Mrs. Delacy’s
indisposition, though she was finishing the flight with
her husband. Old-timers shook their heads and stood
to reason that women were not meant by Nature to
fly. Men of outmoded thought, who still felt that
whistling was blasphemy for women, and politics
beyond them, had a nourishing revival.
“Oh, why doesn’t he leave her and come on?”
said Adrienne Butler, an aviator kinswoman of Brian.
“Too much like old Nullah Mundoey,” said his
mother. “Grandfather always took Grandma with
him everywhere until she jacked up.”
ADRIENNE was a conspicuous figure among those
milling around in the dust for an extra hour. The
baby of the family of Coole and Fanny (Vance)
Butler, she was Brian’s second cousin and awaited him
with feverish enthusiasm. She strained to be upon the
minute or ahead of it. Roger Delacy described her in
domestic society as a chain-smoker and a man-chaser.
In other congregations more pungent tributes
circulated, which, though unsubstantiated, rescued
Adrienne from the obscurity which would have been
hers had her deportment won approval from Roger. She
was frequently the subject of press paragraphs and
familiar to the public through the pictures of her
opening-up the fleeces of her Uncle Humphrey’s
champions or leading-in her father’s winners at
picnic races. She was a pet with her uncle and
regarded as his heiress and much courted for his sake
as well as for her own liveliness.
Coole was president of the Bandalong Jockey
Club, and Adrienne among the dwindling number of
girls who could ride. She boasted of the Delacy blood
there. She could even play polo, on ponies of the
old Nullah Mundoey strain. Also she had an “A”
license as a pilot. A ’plane of her own had been post-
poned by the subsidence of wool profits. Adrienne
had tried to wheedle her uncle into providing a ’plane,
but a lot of the troglodyte lingered in him. He
thought that flying had made Adrienne just a little
“loud.”
When she saw the pictures of Lola she felt that
Brian would be an easy conquest.
“Married to an old scrag like that, he will be
rabid for a little understanding,” she observed to her
confidante as she retouched her pillarbox-red lips.
Her cheeks and fingernails were also lacquered with
a flaming tint. Upon an endearing mass of curls, like
a poodle’s, was perched a chapeau constructed from
pieces of stockinette to resemble the cap of Reske-
meer’s “Cornish Gent,” and she had a fashionable
coatee.
“In my young days it was the bosom that was
upholstered to the shape of a plum pudding,” chuckled
Clare Margaret to Adrienne, who was exercising her
muscles like a hula-hula dancer.
Adrienne was noted by a presswoman who signed
her social gossip “Ercildoun” —a distant connection
of the Delacys, who had consorted with Brian and
Lola in London.
“Absolutely, mon vieux cheval ,” said this person
softly. She knew the European and American
originals of Adrienne and dismissed her as an un-
worthy graft on old pioneer stock.
“Why do you call me that?”
demanded Adrienne as they shared
Clare’s sandwiches and thermos of
coffee in the last hour.
“Because you are so con-
spicuously vieux jeu, mon enfante.”
Adrienne could not be sure of
Ercildoun, but courted her. To be
written-up was a criterion of suc-
cess : Adrienne was no blob or
woopwoop. Clare was amused by
the disapproval of Adrienne by the
oldfangled. Clare herself had been
a shocker when younger than
Adrienne, and now applied the
yardstick of experience.


“Pooh!” she said to Roger’s complaint. “What’s
wrong with her? She’s only going with the times.”
“She’s over the odds.”
“Bah! Men always think dirty things that they
manufacture out of their own minds about women.
Noah took a pair of that fashion into the Ark and
they have multiplied ever since.”
Adrienne quickly discovered Clare’s sanction and
kept in the limelight by sticking to the celebrity’s
mother
Clare Margaret took the girl as easily as she used
to manage the spirited Nullah Mundoeys, and with
such handling Adrienne purred. She threw her arms
around Clare and whispered that she loved her and
wanted to help by lending her Humber with herself
as chauffeuse.
A F length the avian Nullah Mundoey and its escort
*'■ pf twenty planes were descried. Clare and
Adrienne embraced each other and wept with excite-
ment. “I know he’s lovely!” exclaimed the girl. “I’m
so proud he is my cousin. I’m sick of so many blobs
and woopwoops for relations.”
The press representatives were photographing the
three ancient graces. “I should be in too,” said
Adrienne. “I’m the only other flying Delacy.”
“We owe her the front page for carrying the
ads,” said a good-natured veteran. “Come on, Miss
Aviatrix.”
“The old bungs are very proud of my cousin,”
she remarked. “With his education he might have
merely turned into some sort of old professor.”
“It would be better, though, if he were bringing
home the Davis Cup or the Ashes,” said the veteran.
“That would be too much to expect,” said Adri-
enne.
“Quite!” interposed Ercildoun. “We must be
thankful it’s flying. He might have obscured himself
by producing a serious exposition of Commonwealth
politics.”
The earlier gale had blown the day clear, and
eased a little. The wind-guides slumped to the outline
of big white caterpillars. The sun sparkled on the
plain where a decade earlier had still flourished a
garden of fairy shrubs and unique flowers. The world
ran clear and flat to the distant bay, beautiful with
the special magic of Sydney waters, the sea as Cook
had first beheld it foaming about its promontories.
Roger and Humphrey re-tucked the old ladies’
wraps and offered them alcoholic sustenance. The
watchers eddied for positions in relation to the sun.
The unemployed from adjacent suburbs and congeries
were present in numbers, but there was no such muster
as called up by Amy Johnson. These arrivals were
becoming a commonplace, and no man could outdo
“Smithy,” whose constant achievements made him a
classic.
The M.-V.-G. machine neared speedily, gave the
airman’s curtsey in excelsis, and rose to remain
buzzing overhead.
“Stone the crows! A beetle or a windmill! ”
exclaimed a spectator.
“A new fakement; haven’t you read the papers?”
demanded another.
“By cripes, it’s a rum-looking contraption!”
Loud guffaws as at a clown among airships.
“You can laugh, but it’s the only machine that
can hang about in the air. Aw, what’s the good of
talking to that haven’t as much machinery in
their heads as a tin hare!”
The Nullah Mundoey was fairly overhead,
demonstrating her dragonfly stunt. Then she alighted
vertically, according to claim. She had really arrived.
Her pilots were getting out of the cockpit. The crowd
was prevented from shredding the plane for souvenirs
by squads of police who pushed everyone back to a
place of safety from the planes alighting on the
’drome. The pressmen acted as guards to the relatives
who went to meet the pair, Lola looking her age—
any age up to a hundred, as someone kindly said —
and exceedingly white and drawn, in spite of chic
make-up. She had been a passenger only from
Darwin, but there she was as Brian’s mate.
Cheers from swirling knots of people. Police
regulating movement. Brian was caught by one
camera in the act of kissing his mother. Then came
the three old aunts. Adrienne pump-handled Brian’s
hand and omitted to embrace Lola. People strained
on tiptoe to catch a glimpse of the pair, and stood on
one f°°t and another and ached with apathy while
the head of the Aero Club, the head of the Chamber
°f Commerce and others welcomed the fliers and
business envoys on duty pushed their commodities,
A municipal authority put forward the claims of the
spot as an imperial ’drome. Here was a square mile
of level plain, right at the city’s side door, as yet
pre-empted by little except the bedraggled skirts of
a slum and Chinese vegetable-gardens a glorious
opportunity awaiting people of vision and taste.
The microphone was thrust before the fliers.
Brian beamed and began one of his “pieces.” Fine
popular pieces welled spontaneously from his over-
flowing zest in being an Australian. Everything was
for Australia. His cheering pronouncements were
direct descendants of old Danny’s visions of posterity.
He was posterity fulfilling old Danny.
Ercildoun made her way to Lola, whose eyes
lighted to recognise a friend and ally. Lola whis-
pered “I feel as if I’m going to die. I’m so air-sick,
and it does not ease off when I land. Oh, if only
I could lie down somewhere and sleep for a week!
They’ll take dreadful pictures of me looking like some-
thing the cat left on the mat.”
“You need a dragon. Ah, Adrienne, mon vieux
cheval, here’s your opportunity. The only member
of Lola’s sex in the tribe able to meet her on some
sort of equality. Excuse me —excuse —please excuse —
thank you so much. Splendid! So kind of you—
just let us pass.” Thus she made her way, with
Adrienne commandeered to the service of Lola, and
reached the Humber while the crowd pressed around
Brian, warmed by his humorous tones.
THE reporters beset him with busy pencils as he
turned from the microphone.
“Fly! That’s the order of the day. My old
great-granddad—all his kids went from the bottle on
to a horse without a pram between, and my kids and
yours—if we have the luck to have any—must go
from their mothers—by George! they must go with
their mothers straight into planes. We’ll build
hangars and ’dromes instead of roads. Instead of the
old pub-keepers with a stable and a nosebag we’re
going to have bowsers and skilled mechanics with
spare parts. It’s the greatest flying land on the globe,
the best sky—blow it all, we’ve got about the biggest
sky there is all in one piece, and that’s without any
bolony. That’s a yarn I must have on the air later
too busy now. Here my wife and I are linking-up
America. It is due to my wife’s superb navigation
that this flight has been so successful. She has a
sixth sense of direction, like our ornithorhynchus.
She can show me the way to Aussie in the dark, and
the only condition upon which she would marry me
was that I’d bring her straight home to see you all.
She will now say hullo!”
“Your wife has eloped!” shouted a voice.
Brian joined in the laughter. “She has a big
heart for Australians. She is too modest about her
achievements, so I thank you on her behalf for this
magnificent welcome, and promise that she will talk
later to you all on the air.”
Fellow-pilots carried him for a few yards between
lines of curious people and then put him down. The
three old ladies were cheered as they progressed
under the care of Roger, Humphrey and Clare Mar-
garet.
“Can’t I get into the thing and see how it goes?”
demanded Josephine.
“Would you, grandma?” Brian shouted his
excitement.
He was surprised and delighted by the stylish
and youthful appearance of this grandma in her rich
fur coat, her Parisian chapeau, with her feminine
earrings and fragrant posy of boronia and violets.
“And what about you?” He turned to Margaret
and Jean.
“I suppose I might as well end that way as any
other,” said Margaret. She was not to be outdone
by Josephine in the last lap.
Jean refused to risk her life. She could never
be prodded into family rivalries. The two old ladies
were placed in the machine. Here was publicity.
OCTOGENARIAN LADIES IN FIRST FLIGHT.
Up rose the machine, gently demonstrating its
capacity. Brian luffed for five minutes, then back to
earth and two triumphant old ladies stepped out to
share the eminence of their descendant.
EANWHILE Lola arrived at the hotel and was
taken upstairs to a back room, while the suite
on the front, all decorated by a committee of welcome,
was left to decoy the bothersome.
It was Ercildoun who compiled the interviews,
loaded with cute and popularising American opinions
of Australia’s gorgeous girls and vast beaches, she
who set in motion the conception of Lola as so
modest and feminine that she left all speech-making
to her husband, though she could fly blind for leagues
and take the watch over the Timor without a tremor.
Lola, through nervous exhaustion, had to be
excused from all the officially arranged welcomes.
Such a pity, said someone, but Clare Margaret thus
had Brian to herself, and Adrienne wasted no sym-
pathy on the indisposed airwoman.
“She doesn’t look so bad as her photos led us
to expect,” said Margaret.
“She’s better-looking than he is. He has that
Irish mouth like old Grandpa Danny,” said Josephine.
“Terrible pity he didn’t take after the royal side
of the house,” muttered Roger.
“Clare was so happy that she said “Let her have
her head. She’s a show piece, and what Brian doesn’t
know won’t hurt him. Humphrey is another ready
to cheer now that the battle is won, so I’m letting the
tails go swimming with the hides in this Yackan-
dandah.”
Clare decided, with a touch of Danny’s nobility,
to abrogate her unforgiveness. Humorously she
realised that it would never occur to the unrelenting
old lady that she could necessitate forbearance;


-r .^AiIAN :
1 ROMANS Ml'
V.
08.
'3T
HOT?
&•****»*
-r.w-
V ,
68
PAGES
for
3d.
No other Woman’s Journal in Australia presents such an attractive
array of features each issue. See November 3 issue—it will be on
sale Friday.
THE DRAWBACKS OF BEING A FILM STAR.
Second Instalment of the New Serial,
"BEHIND THE PONGYI’S FAN."
THE REAL SPANISH WOMAN.
In the fight for Madrid it was reported:
“The women declare that the capital cannot and will not be taken, but the
young men are apparently not so enthusiastic.”
WHY IS THIS? The question is answered in this very interesting
article.
Intriguing Travel Article,
BALI: WONDER ISLE OF THE TROPIC SEAS.
A GIRL WHO LAUGHS AT LADDERS.
Humors and Difficulties of Being a Woman Signwriter.
always her own heroine, no tinge of remorse had
ever tarnished her self-confidence.
During a family rally held later Aunt Jean
remarked “All that Brian needs to be old Grandpa
Danny is the big pipe and the long beard.”
“And the wooden leg,” added Roger.
Josephine asked what he would do with the
Nullah Mundoey at Ferny Creek. “It will get tangled
up in the trees.”
“You might drop something on the dingoes—
plenty of them there yet,” contributed Aunt Jean.
“Oh, the Nullah Mundoey can land in its own
space. That’s how it will revolutionise flying.”
“Rather early for revolution: I thought flying
was hardly rooted yet,” observed Roger, whip and
horseman, beached by change.
Lola remained so weak and nervous that she soon
withdrew, followed by murmurs of these flights being
unfit for women, but Margaret said “I don’t suppose
that flying is any more wearing than being in a hut
surrounded by hostile blacks with fire-spears, dr than
having a baby on a tarpaulin under a dray on a
flooded stream-bank among the flies and ants, as the
women did in my mother’s day. Women can stand
more than men, and outlast them, as far as I have
seen. Something else could have upset Lola: there
is a lot of gastric ’flu about.”
Clare Margaret was eager to have her daughter-
in-law at home to smother her with attention. Even-
tually they went together in the car placed at Brian’s
disposal by the oil company whose product he had
used on the flight. Brian remained in Sydney to
pluck opportunity while interest in him was awake.
He was full of unction that he was representing Lola
as well as himself. Only Lola was feeling more
resentful than grateful.
His grandmother Josephine was a rich find to
him. Darcy had rarely mentioned his mother: silence
had been the only way to limit Clare Margaret’s
criticism of her mother-in-law. Not so long after
Darcy’s death Brian had gone away to school, and
Clare’s habit of silence about Josephine thus enabled
her grandson to make her acquaintance free of the
ancient jealousies and incompatibilities. Though
verging on eighty Josephine retained more vigor and
beauty than the average woman of sixty and could
outlast any number of the flappers. In addition, she
had the ability to take a practical interest in the
Nullah Mundoey, and with Brian on guard soon could
manage the controls. She confessed her ambition for
a plane of her own.
Brian was equally a satisfaction to Josephine.
She would at best have tolerated an acclaimed artistic
genius, provided he could make money, but mechanical
skill she could understand, and in air science take
pride. From all the travail of her youth, her marital
disappointment, including the early loss of all her
children but the stiff-necked Isabel, here at last was a
shred of recompense. Her implacable disparagements
of family members amused Brian. He attributed them
to her great age. Also he was not at her mercy, and
there was a precipitate of her own harder prosaic
grain in him to rescue him from the visionary and
sensitive Delacy temperament while he retained the
Delacy winsomeness. He felt indubitably Josephine’s
kin and dramatised her strain in himself.
She was a prodigy for which he was thankful,
as Adrienne said, “among the crowd of blobs.” A
born mechanic, she revelled in her grandson’s skill
and in having her own recognised. She did not have
to insist that Brian inherited his gifts from her: he
loudly proclaimed his debt. Throughout her married
years she had heard poetic interpretations of life and
of nature, or dreams of posterity, which had irritated
her as the delirium of incompetence, while the door
of the stable might be hanging on one hinge or the
spouting escaping from the verandah, and she herself
compelled to attend to such repairs. Men who could
not make money were contemptible in her eyes. She
was never tired of driving or flying with this young
man, who belonged to her, and she put helpful sums
in his pocket. Flying as a belated outlet for her
mechanical genius was an exciting drug to banish the
malaise of old age.
A DRIENNE remained in Sydney, supposedly in the
charge of her Uncle Humphrey, and attended
functions on the invitations intended for Lola. She
had much notice as the intrepid young aviatrix Brian’s
cousin, and was described without reservations as
beautiful.
Brian accepted her and liked her as a kid who
had an infectious excitement in her experiences.
He needed advertisement: Adrienne was a fine pub-
licity-hound and a tireless honorary secretary. She
took a palpitant interest in the Nullah Mundoey, flew
it with elan, was interviewed in it and gave her views
on its coming supremacy. This was all attributed to
cousinly interest. There lay the danger.
Awaiting the completion of the latest M.-V.-G.,
Brian was compelled to take people on joy-rides and
to grab any odd job. Lola was not wealthy as rumor
said. One after another of her father’s enterprises
had run dry since 1928, and she had spent her avail-
able assets with Brian in aviation.
Brian spoke before every group that asked him,
regardless of its size or politics. He had old Danny’s
sociable attitude towards his fellows and was careful
not to be too far above the crowd except in an air-
ship. He reinvested platitudes so that he was inspir-
ing, and Adrienne toppled into amorous infatuation
for him as only a girl of twenty can, and was heady
with the anti-social delusions of the state. She was
sure that Lola had taken advantage of Brian through
her money—an old woman who was strangling his
personality. Adrienne had embraced modernism and
imagined that she had jettisoned the conventions.
She was plaguing her Uncle Humphrey to float her
as a trans-Pacific flier and dreamed of taking Lola's
place.
Lola felt banished at Ferny Creek. She thought
it the dearest, cutest place she had ever seen as a
week-end summer resort, but to her it had the
primitiveness of a camp, with less of comfort
and conveniences than many a summer cot-
tage of her childhood at Charlevoix or Har-
bor Springs. To that was added a sense of
“| isolation from the world which Pitcairn
Island might have given to Clare Margaret.
Not even one modern picture on the walls!
Nothing but enlarged photographs—and of
what looked like hayseeds! Not even radio!
Lola could not ride, and hated the bush roads for
the automobile. She was not a Nature-lover. The
strange elfin spring meant little to her, though she
obligingly tried to gush over the mimosa, which
afflicted her with hay-fever. She made no discoveries
for herself. She was a worshipper of machines,
especially of the carrier that could scour the skies
and speak between continents. She was no racon-
teuse to gain entertainment in entertaining others.
Her social equipment was in her ability to listen, and
during five years or more she had been a mental
sponge saturated with all the advanced politics, isms
and ologies of art and science of the capitals of
Europe and of the United States. Her indisposition
at Ferny Creek confined her to the housewives who
called on her mother-in-law, and their gossip of cake
and knitting recipes was stupefying. A letter from
her ally Ercildoun provided escape.
Ercildoun had summed-up Adrienne’s cousinliness
to a millimetre. Neither trouble-maker nor alarmist,
she simply said it was a pity that Brian had to take
the lionising alone, as it put him in a false position,
especially with women.
(To be concluded next week.)


FOR SHORT STORIES
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition;
January 31 , 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FROM "THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, &/ FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 6 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. .. 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price ljd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth,
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Astounding Tale of a Second Samson:—
THE MIGHTY HORACE
BY
REX G. RIENITS
KARL liked to show off his strength.
He picked up a telephone-book and,
clutching it firmly between his ham-
like hands, tore it in halves. Then he
flung the two portions on the bar
counter and gazed around him with an
air of triumph.
There was respectful silence for a few
seconds. Then someone sniggered. The
occupants of the bar turned to face
McCarthy.
“Child’s play!” he declared contemp-
tuously.
Karl glowered. “Maybe you can beat
him, huh?” he queried, with a danger-
ous glint in his eyes.
“Not me,” McCarthy returned, “but I
once knew a feller who could put a
dozen or more of them books together
and tear ’em apart like you or me would
rip a single sheet of paper.”
Someone jeered, but McCarthy was
not at all perturbed.
“It’s a fact,” he insisted. “Bloke by
the name of Horace Wimple, it was.
Like to hear about it?”
No one was anxious, but McCarthy
wasn’t the sort to wait for an invitation.
“IT all began when I was company-
-1 promoting,” he began. “An old
cove came to me one day. Said he was
a chemist, and that he’d invented some
dope which would make weak men strong
and strong men stronger. Herco, he
called it. Sounded barmy to me, but I
was wise enough not to condemn it before
giving it a fair trial. I told him to bring
round a couple of bottles and I’d try it
out, and if it was all he claimed I’d do
my best to put it on the market for him.
“That was okay with the old chap, and
a day or so later he returned with a
couple of bottles of the dope. I told
him I’d let him know, and off he went.
A moment after he had left the room I
heard a crash, and when I went out to
investigate, believe it or not, he had
fallen down the stairs and broken his
neck.
“Well, there’s me with the two bottles
of body-builder on my hands, and the
only bloke who knows the formula
ready to be stretched out on a slab
at the morgue. Mind you, I’m still
dubious about the value of the stuff, but,
just supposing it does do what it’s sup-
posed to, what’s to do about it? I asks
myself.
“First up I took it to an analyst, but
back it came with a note that it con-
tained several ingredients that defied
analysis. That settled any chance I
might’ve had of putting it on the market,
but was I downhearted? No, sir.
“If I can’t cash
in on it one way, I
reckon I owe it to
myself to do so
some other way.”
McCarthy
stopped to dis-
pose of a pot of
beer, but the res-
pite was only temporary. Before,
anyone had the sense to change
the subject he’d wiped the froth
from his moustache and was off
again.
“The only thing to do, of course,
was to find out whether the stuff
was really the goods or not.
Eventually I dug up a feller name
of Horace Wimple, who agreed to try
it out.
“Horace was ideal for the experiment
—an apologetic-looking runt who could
hardly stand the strain of lifting a pint
to his mouth. To look at him you’d’ve
thought he was suffering from consump-
tion, tuberculosis, floating kidneys, leak-
ing valves and fallen arches.
“Well, Horace just took one little shot'
from one of the bottles, and you’d never
credit the difference it made to him.
Inside of a minute his biceps had ex-
panded two inches, and his chest just
seemed to swell up like a toy balloon.
His face lost its anaemic hue, and that
air of apologising for being alive dis-
appeared entirely.
“Any doubts that I might have had
about the efficacy of the dope were swept
clean away. Anything that could change
a bloke like Horace into a he-man so
quickly was certainly the goods.
“I took Horace home with me, fed
him on a tablespoonful of the mixture
every other day, and within a fortnight
he’d grown into one of the toughest,
huskiest blokes I’d ever clapped eyes on.
“Well, there was me with a genuine
strong man on my hands, and carefully
locked away in my office safe the where-
withal to make him even stronger if I
wanted to. All I had to do now was to
think out some way of capitalising him.
“First I had a shot at busting in on the
grappling game, but every promoter in
town, after one look at Horace’s gorilla-
like torso and bulging muscles, refused
point-blank l to have him on at any price
for fear he’d permanently maim their
best drawcards. Of course, I could’ve
put him to work as a wheat-lumper or
a coal-heaver or something like that, but
you can’t make money that way!
“Finally I hit on the idea of following
the shows round the country, with my
little ball of muscle exhibited as a sort of
Sandow the Second. Horace didn’t seem
to mind what he did, so between the two
of us we nutted out a sort of routine-
lifting half-ton weights in his teeth, tying
crowbars into lovers’ knots, driving nails
through six-inch boards with his bare
hands, and all the usual stuff, and off we
set.
“You’ve got no idea what a sensation
he was. Three times in the first two
months I had to sell the tent and buy a
bigger one to get the mob in. I bumped
the admission price up from sixpence to
two bob, and still they kept coming. At
first I used to send an advance agent
ahead, but I soon found that Horace’s
reputation preceded him wherever we
went, and there was no need at all to
advertise. Inside of three months we
were taking a couple of hundred quid a
week.
‘ ‘ LJ ORACE seemed to get bigger and
1 1 stronger every day. I’d’ve been
prepared to keep on at the same racket
indefinitely, but unfortunately after a
while Horace developed different ideas.
“At first he seemed to enjoy travelling
about from town to town, but eventually,
when the novelty had worn off, he began
to pine for a sight of the city. His work
suffered, and he became ill-tempered and
morose. Even at that I might’ve been
able to keep him in hand by taking an
occasional week-end trip to the bright-
lights, when we were within reasonable
distance, but in addition to becoming
homesick he started to develop ambitions
that I couldn’t counteract nohow.
“ ‘Who’s this bloke Sandow what
you’ve named me after?’ he inquired one
day.
“ ‘Sandow was the strongest man in the
world a few years back,’ I informed him.
‘You oughter be flattered that you’ve
been given the same name.’
“‘How strong was he?’ Horace asked,
giving no sign that he appreciated such
an honor.
“ ‘I dunno, but he was pretty strong.’
“‘Stronger’n me?’
“ ‘Well, yes, I reckon so.’
“Horace snorted indignantly. ‘I bet
he wasn’t. I bet he couldn’t lift a motor-
car clean over his head.’
“ ‘I bet you couldn’t, neither,’ I re-
torted.
“‘I bet I could. I did it this morn-
ing,’ he informed me with a touch of
pride. He was silent for a moment, and
then went on: ‘Listen, Mac, I’m sick of
this moochin’ round the bush. Let’s you
and me go back to the city.’
“ ‘And turn in two hundred quid a
week?’ I answered. ‘No fear. You an’
me’s stopping right here.’
“ ‘You can if you like, but I’m goin’
home to-night,’ Horace declared flatly.
‘Take it or leave it.’
“Being a wise guy I took it. The
thought of sacrificing good sugar nearly
made me weep, but every cloud has its
silver lining. It was Horace’s remark
about lifting the car that saved the
bacon.
‘‘ D ACK in the city I staged a
private exhibition for the benefit
of the press. Horace didn’t exert him-
self much —just snapped a railway sleeper
in halves over his knee, crushed a lump
of granite to powder in his hands, and
punched clean through a brick wall with
one smack of his bare fist —but the news-
paper lads fell for him in a big way. The
free publicity that followed would’ve
made a prima donna turn green with
envy.
“I declared in an interview that Horace
was strong enough to lift a motor-car
clean over his head, and then sat back
to see how the fishing was. One of the
town’s recognised strong men fell for it,
and offered to bet a hundred it couldn’t
be done. I took him up, and the. next
day the football heads offered to supple-
ment the purse by an extra hundred and
fifty if we’d stage the challenge at the
Sports Ground between games.
“Well, you can imagine how much dis-
cussion the affair started. It was-the one
topic in every bar in Sydney, and any-
one who wanted to have a bet one way
or the other could get set for anything
up to half a hundred inside of a few
minutes. The day before the show I
poured a stiff dose of Herco into Horace,
and then did a round of the pubs. By
the time the demonstration was clocked
to start my notebook showed that if
Horace succeeded I’d be a shade over
two thousand quid to the good.
“Lifting the car was child’s play for
Horace. First of all he stood it on its end,
then got a good grip underneath the
chassis, and with one mighty heave raised
the vehicle clear above his head. For a few
seconds he held it there, while the crowd
gasped, and then he
let one hand go, and
continued to hold it
up aloft one hand
only. Finally, to
demonstrate just how
simple it all was, he
tossed the car up-
wards about ten feet,
caught it as it fell and
replaced it easily on
the ground, You
should’ve heard the
crowd go mad.
“From then on it
was plain sailing.
Horace was front-
page stuff in every
newspaper in town,
and I was kept so
busy signing film,
radio, stage and ad-
vertising contracts that
I developed writers’
cramp.
‘(I F Horace had only
1 shown a little
common sense we’d
have been million-
aires in a couple of
years, but brains never
was his strong point.
Flerco might’ve been
the goods for building
muscle, but it didn’t do no good to the
grey matter. In fact, the stronger Horace
became the sillier he got. There’s fellows
who can take popularity in their stride
without letting it affect them, but not my


TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ
No. 1 OF A SERIES
cx
).
SS
rss
| ' )
-&{r Snake Charming"
COLOMBO
31
little Horace. The adulation of the mob
and all the blather in the papers went
right to his head, and within a couple of
months he’d become insufferably con-
ceited.
“I spent most of my spare time sneer-
ing at him in an effort to bring him back
to normal, but it didn’t do no good. One
day he came to me and demanded a
decent dose of Herco. By this time the
first bottle was mighty low, and I didn't
want to waste a drop if I could help it,
in case something should happen to
Horace, and I become faced with the
task of building up someone else into his
successor. Financially there was no sense
at all in him becoming any stronger, and
as far as that went I much doubted
whether Herco or any other dope could
make him any more powerful than he
was.
“‘What do you want it for?’ I in-
quired aggressively.
“ ‘Well, you see, it’s like this,’ Horace
returned. ‘Ever heard of a bloke named
Samson?’
“ ‘Sure. What about him?’ I asked.
“ ‘Well, they tell me he was tops as.
a strong man. D’you know what he did?
He bumped off a thousand blokes at
one go with nothing but the jawbone of
an ass. What a man!’ There was an
almost reverent gleam in Horace’s eyes.
“‘I get it. You want to do the same,
do you? Want to see what it feels like
to knock off a thousand, eh? That’s
intelligent, that is. Ain’t you never heard
we have a police force in Sydney? They
tell me they take a peculiar view of
murder; sometimes even put people into
gaol for it,’ I retorted.
“Horace looked sheepish. ‘I don’t
wanter kill anyone,’ he said. ‘lt’s just
that I’m sick of copying Sandow. I
wanter be a real strong man, like this
Samson. What’s the good of spending
your life doing silly things like bending
railway lines into circles? It ain’t getting
me nowhere.’
“ ‘Well, if that’s the way you feel
you’ll have to go into training, and build
yourself up like any other man,’ I de-
clared.
“ ‘How about a shot of Herco?’
“ ‘Nothing doing,’ I announced flatly.
‘There ain’t much left, and what there
is I’m going to keep in case it’s needed.’
“ ‘You'd hold out on me, would you?’
queried Horace with a mean look.
“ ‘You bet I would,’ I retorted.
“Well, I’d never seen such a nasty
glint in his eyes before. He reached out
an oversized hand and grasped my
shoulder. Then he shook me till I could
hear my teeth rattling. ‘See here, you, I
want that dope, and you’re going to give
it to me,’ he said.
“Well, I ask you! I always was soft-
hearted, and how could anyone resist such
pleading? I opened the safe, took out
the nearly-empty bottle, and poured out
half a teaspoonful.
“Horace regarded me disgustedly. ‘Nix
on that!’ he said harshly. ‘I wanter
decent dose. Pour-the lot of it out.’
I thought about refusing, but one
glance at Horace changed my mind. I
emptied the bottle, reflecting thankfully
that there was still another one left.
Without any further talk Horace grabbed
the glass, and drained it at a single gulp.
‘ ‘ L_J ORACE was big enough before,
* * but you simply wouldn’t credit the
transformation that took place in the
next two minutes. He just swelled in
every direction before my eyes. By the
time he showed signs of stopping he was
enormous. Remember King Kong?
Well, he was like that, only not quite so
big and much less hairy. He made
Tarzan and Frankenstein look like babies
in arms.
“He surveyed himself —or as much of
himself as he could —in my office mirror,
grunted with satisfaction, and then strode
out with never another glance at me.
Aghast at what I had done I watched
him go, scared so stiff of what might
follow that I couldn’t say a word.
“When I was able to move again the
first thing I did was to take the other
bottle to the Commonwealth Bank, hire
a safe-deposit compartment and deposit
the bottle in it.
“Five minutes after I returned to
my office the police ’phoned. Horace
certainly was having a good time. It
seems that someone had told him about
Samson wrecking some joint in which
he was held captive by the simple expedi-
ent of tearing down a couple of marble
pillars that supported the roof, and in
an attempt to emulate this remarkable
feat Horace had completely demolished
the twelve-storeyed building owned by
the Immature Wives and Citizens’ Insur-
ance Company.
“There didn’t seem much I could do
to stop him, but I rushed out in case 1
could induce him to listen to reason. By
the time I came up with him four more
big buildings were ruins.
“Horace was doing his best to smash
up the head office of the International
Bank when I found him. Even as I
arrived it collapsed. In the midst of
the falling masonry Horace stood with
a beatific smile on his asinine dial.
Bricks and steel girders crashed on his
head and body, spattering off like drops
of water. He shivered with delight, as a
man would under a cold but exhilarating
shower.
“A police inspector stepped forward a
couple of paces.
“ ‘ln the name of the law’ he
began.
“Horace grinned maliciously. ‘Come
and get me,’ he invited.
“The inspector blew his whistle, and
fifty valiant policemen leapt forward. In
twenty seconds it was all over, with
Horace still master of the situation, and
two score and ten uniformed figures lying
about the ruins in various attitudes of
repose.
“Horace’s roving eye caught sight of
me. He stepped over the fallen bodies.
“ ‘Ah there, Mac,’ he greeted, as
though nothing out of place had hap-
pened.
“'’THE only thing to do was to humor
1 him. ‘Hullo, Horace,’ I answered,
making an attempt to be casual.
“ ‘I got something I want to ask you,’
he stated. Reaching into his hip pocket
he extracted a large brass plate. ‘I
found this at the last insurance office 1
visited. Who’s the lizard?’
“I took the plate and examined it.
‘That’s a picture of Atlas,’ I told him.
“ ‘Atlas? 1 thought that was a book.
What’s he doing, anyway?’
“ ‘Holding up the world on his
shoulders.’
“Horace’s eyes narrowed, and he
glared suspiciously at me. Then he
snatched the plate, and studied it care-
fully, till he had satisfied himself that I
was speaking the truth. ‘Do you mean
to say you knew about this bloke before
and never told me nothing?’ he de-
manded angrily. ‘Letting me believe
Samson was the original strong man,
when he was only a mug, after all.’ He
studied the plate again admiringly. You
could see with half an eye that he was
already picturing himself in the role of
Atlas. ‘Where’s that other bottle of
dope?’ he inquired suddenly.
“ ‘What for?’ I countered, sparring for
time.
“ ‘Well, if this bloke Atlas can lift up
the world there ain’t any reason why I
can’t,’ he answered. ‘Come on, where
is it?’
“ ‘l’ll see you dead before I give you
another drop,’ I told him resolutely.
“That mean look returned to Horace’s
eyes. ‘Why, you squib, I’ll break you
into little bits,’ he threatened. ‘Come
across with it before I get real mad.’
“ ‘You can do what you like, but
you’ll never get it,’ I declared. ‘lt’s
locked away safely in the vaults of the
Commonwealth Bank, and it’s going to
stay there.’
“Horace peered at me closely, until
he was satisfied that I had told the truth.
‘ls that so?’ he grated. ‘We’ll soon see
about that.’
“Without another word he turned on
his heel, forced his way roughly through
the crowd, and set off at a steady trot
toward the Commonwealth Bank.
“I spotted the police inspector near me.
“ ‘Stop him,’ I yelled. ‘Shoot him, kill
him, do anything you like, but don’t let
him get that bottle. He’ll wreck the
world.’
‘ i T" HERE was a confused screeching
1 of whistles and police sirens. Swept
along by an irresistible tide of people I
found myself heading for the bank. By
the time I reached it, it was surrounded
by a triple ring of police, armed with
rifles. Down in the vaults of the bank
you could hear a terrific sound of batter-
ing and the scream of tearing steel.
Horace was looking for the bottle!
“ ‘Make way for the military,’ some-
one called, and as the ranks of spec-
tators divided a detachment of soldiers


~J»W
deC»V tVx c *o
rH' s
m
SiwsSSii
?s»
ifSi
de Posit£ a *jt° f °rn, / n
" e,s ‘"‘*fe«££2'
the
?«ms
STUBBORN STAINS
Film absorbs stains from
food and smoking. To remove
these stains you must remove
the film.
SQQS
on teeth
'""may invite all three
Remove film this safe, sure way as only the “special
film-removing tooth paste” does
PILM should be removed if teeth are to be kept clean and sound, it gums
are to remain healthy.
It has been proved unexcelled in the way it removes the film that glues
decay germs to teeth. Other dentifrices may promise film-removing action.
But are they equally effective ? Can these other kinds remove film with the
same safety ?
In fair and unbiassed laboratory tests, it was shown that Pepsodent s
special polishing material was the softest —and therefore safest . . . of ij
leading tooth pastes and 6 leading
tooth powders. Pepsodent con-
tains no grit, nothing to harm
the teeth.
Use Pepsodent Tooth Paste
twice a day; see your dentist at
least twice a year.
PEPSODENT
the Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE HOST ECONOMICAL
SAVE MONEY!
Buy Pepsodent inthe new 10% larger tubes
at the old prices. You can’t afford to take
chances on cheap “bargain” brands now
that it costs no more to insist on the
special fllm-removing Tooth Paste.
N. 6366
came into view, some carrying rifles,
others Lewis guns and others cases of
Mills bombs. Through the main doors
of the bank they passed at the double.
“I followed. A moment later I was
at the foot of the stairway leading
from the ground floor to the vaults.
Immediately in front of me the soldiers
had assembled, the machine-gunners set-
ting up their weapons.
“The vaults were in a terrific state.
Twisted steel and massive lumps of con-
crete lay everywhere. I could see Horace
tearing two-foot-thick steel doors bodily
from their hinges and flinging them im-
patiently on to the floor. Even as I
watched he reached a hand inside one
of the compartments, and with a tri-
umphant yell extracted the second bottle.
“The Lewis guns by this time were
assembled. The officer of the detach-
ment looked inquiringly at me, and as
I nodded my acquiescence gave the order
to fire.
“The barrage that swept his body
startled Horace for an instant. He looked
up to see where the interruption was
coming from. Didn’t the bullets hit him?
Of course they did. But his muscles were
so tough that they just ricochetted off
him.
“‘Hey, cut it out,’ he called. ‘You’re
tickling me.’
“The officer looked helplessly at me
and shrugged. He gave an order, and an
instant later the air was thick with Mills
bombs. They burst round Horace with
a detonation that seemed to shake the
whole building. But even as the bullets
had bounced off him so did the bombs.
“Horace knocked the top off the
bottle, poured the liquid down his throat
and heaved the ‘empty’ towards us ; I
bent to pick it up. At the same instant
an explosion which put the combined
effort of the Mills bombs to shame
rocked the vault.
“The concussion knocked me flat.
When I looked up again the soldiers
were crouched, ready for instant action,
behind their machine-guns. Before them
were dense clouds of smoke.
“O LOWLY the air became, clearer.
O For a while I could see nothing
distinctly, and then, there among the
ruins of the vault I suddenly spied
Horace —not the massive, herculean
Horace of a moment ago, but the under-
sized Horace I had first chosen to rear
on Herco.
“I stared increduously, and Horace
stared back. There was a bewildered,
thoroughly scared expression on his face.
The muzzles of the weapons trained on
him filled him with such terror that he
shook from head to foot.
“ ‘D-d-don't shoot,’ he begged. ‘l’ll go
quietly.’
“Half dazed, I realised that I was still
clutching the empty bottle. Without
knowing why I looked at it. On the
label was boldly scrawled the word
‘Herco,’ but for the first time I also
noticed some other writing, down in the
left-hand bottom corner. I had to peer
closely to decipher it. It read ‘Anti-
dote’.”
DISPLAYING a commendable sense
of dramatic values McCarthy stopped
short and glanced triumphantly at his
listeners.
With one accord they turned their
backs on him and gulped down their
beer.
A Brief Sketch:—
THE OLD WOMAN
BY G.L.K.
WE got the.
farm from
old Mrs.
Bidden soon after
old Bidden died,
for, so she said, she
“ ’ad no further
use for the place,
now the old man
wus gorn.”
It did seem that not only had she no
use for the place, but that probably
no one else ever would have. The fences
were down everywhere, buildings were
tumbling in, and paddocks were over-
run with suckers and cutty grass and
blackberries. However, we thought there
were possibilities in it, and we were
right.
It was not long before we were sup-
plied with all the available information
the district held about the Old Woman
and her husband. Old man Bidden, it
seemed, had been organically lazy ; the
district was quite willing to forgive him
this failing, probably because of a fellow
feeling. They couldn’t, however, forgive
the Old Woman, which is easy to under-
stand, since she was a worker.
Nobody knew where they had come
from, nor whether the old man had ever
had any trade or any regular work ; but
they did say that the Old Woman had
egged her husband on to buy the farm
with some small inheritance which came
their way. She had bought the land
under the impression that she was mov-
ing them and their two girls into the
security of landed proprietorship. She
was right in that, but doubtless she
never bargained to do all the work in
order to retain that security.
The old man simply wasn’t interested ;
apparently she should keep the place,
since it was she who had done the buy-
ing. So he milked the cows, did some
ploughing now and then, and sometimes
mended parts of the fences. “What more
could be wanted?” asked the district, and
approved; but the Old Woman knew
better—in any case, the place was pretty
poor.
“ ’E ain’t a farmer,” said the district,
“and it’s ’er fault that they’re ’ere, so
what can she expect?” So they con-
tinued to talk with him over the slip-
rails while the Old Woman struggled
valiantly with the vegetable garden, the
poultry and the housekeeping and looked
after the girls.
Sometimes the old man rode about
the place on a small brown, shaggy-
haired pony, but most of the time he
waited at the sliprails for someone with
whom to talk ; if business callers ever
came they were sent to look for “the
Old Woman.” “She ’as the runnin’ of
the place. Ain’t no use askin’ me any-
thin’.”
How much love there was between
them I don’t know, but I never believed
the district’s story of a quarrel.
Eventually her two girls married, and
I think the Old Woman must have felt
some relief when the old man died, for
then she got away somewhere, but one
could never tell what the Old Woman felt.
SO we got the farm, and so we set
to. We dreamed and planned and
slaved. We redrafted the paddocks ; we
put up fences and gates, cleared, grubbed
and burnt off, and we renovated the pas-
tures. We enlarged the cultivation and
cleaned it; we ploughed and we put in
crops. We pulled down the old build-
ings and put up new bails and sheds, a
new barn and a silo.
All this time I had been haunted by
the Old Woman. Whatever I did there
she was alongside of me doing the same
thing in the way she had done it.
Whenever I carried
water up from the.
well to the house
she panted along-
side of me ; when
I grubbed, so did
she, but ever so
feebly ; and in the
house she screamed
night and day, for
she had a shrill voice, they said, and
she was a bit of a witch.
Then one Sunday we had a visit.
Barney and I were in one of the river
cultivations, broadcasting barley, when
we saw a sulky coming down along the
paddocks. Barney said it was Harris’s,
but soon we could fell from the trot of
the horse that it wasn’t Harris’s but
Dalian’s —Ted Dalian, who married one
of the Old Woman’s daughters. When
they came near we saw that the Old
Woman was on board.
They drove up and we exchanged
greetings.
“I see yer’ve been makin’ some
changes to the place,” said the Old
Woman.
Not “improvements”—it was a sort of
challenge. Barney nodded his head,
“Yes, these fences were not here when
you were here last.”
I smiled when 1 thought of the fences
which had been there. At the spot where
we stood there had been a few trees
around which lay a tangle of black-
berries and fencing—a bad-tempered
remnant of scrub it was, which seemed
to attract small heifers. The Old Woman
broke in on my thoughts: “There Used
ter be a coupla tea-trees jist there, and
many a bright time I ’ad, fetchin’ the
’eifers about it.”
There was a gleam in her eyes, which
made, me wonder how much she was
dwelling in the past, and how sorry she
was for it.
Barney asked them to go up to the
house to see the girls, saying that we
would finish our sowing and follow soon.
They went off, and we followed them in
about half an hour. Barney sent me
in to keep Ted company, but when I
got inside I found that Ted had gone off
with the others, so I stayed to talk to
the women. The Old Woman seemed
now much less the old woman than the
“little old lady,” for she was small and
wrinkled, and her voice was not shrill.
“I see yer’ve put a window there,” she
said, indicating the window let into the
side of the chimney in the kitchen.
“That wus always a dark place. 1 once
spilt -a pan of dripping over meself, fer
yer couldn’t see. An’ the old man could
never find time to mend it fer me.”
j THOUGHT then that I understood:
l she had always deluded herself, for
she had never ceased her love of him,
and she must always have thought him
busy —for wasn’t she ? And she never
could have realised the changes that
came in herself and in him.
Later, when they all were in the sulky
and ready to go, she spoke to Barney:
“Yer’ve done great things with the old
place, Barney Meare, you an’ yer brothers,
in a quarter the time we wus ’ere.”
I knew she was fighting with her
loyalty to the old man, loyalty which
bade her resent us, our youth and our
success. I knew her to be peering down
the years to what had gone, and forward
to the years of loneliness. And then she
said: “We enjoyed what wus given to
us . . . Ted, what’re yer waitin’ on?”
And I thought as they drove off that,
if she thought that, then there really
wasn’t anything more to be said. In
any case, I shouldn’t ask the district
about it.
Atonement.
An hour set between the day and dark
When skies are lavender and stars yet
dim,
An iridescent moon upon the rim
Of world; a waiting hush that one may
hark
To chirping crickets and to winds that
walk
So light they crush no flower on its stalk.
And, in your arms, elusive thoughts that
crept
Across a sleeping world in dreams, that
were
No more defined than skies of lavender
A nd melted into mists the while we slept,
No longer are elusive; but disclose
The beauty of the lily and the rose.
And loveliness, intangible no more,
Is set about you as a shining light;
And Love walks naked from the waiting
night,
And sets a gentle hand upon the door
That till this time has guarded as apart
The innermost recesses of the heart.
And fragrance that is essence of the
spring.
Distilled of flowers yielded to the gold
Of sunshine that the wooing hours hold
And spare no shyest spray of blossoming,
Would seem to offer incense at some
shrine
To make atonement for your love and
mine.
In ceons hack we walked our separate
ways,
Yet not the you that is by me caressed,
And not the I that leans upon your
breast;
For they were puppets surely, and their
days
But cast in shadows with all longings
stilled
Until with us as one they were fulfilled.
Yet is there healing in the kiss of wind
That bows no smallest flower to its stem ;
And knowledge that One walked in
Bethlehem
And stayed the stones that fell on her
who sinned,
And that since Love has brought this
thing to be
It yet shall shelter and shall pardon me.
N.S.W.
DAWN EYRE.


?T»
9
RK.
X SPECIAL XMAS
VACATION TOUR
4 WEEKS' RETURN TRIP
VISITING
BRISBANE, BALI,
MACASSAR,
SOURABAYA, DARWIN
AND THURSDAY IS.
LEAVING SYDNEY PER S.S. "NIEUW
HOLLAND," 21st DEC., 1936
RETURNING SYDNEY PER M.V.
"MERKUR," 23rd JAN., 1936
Unique opportunity to visit the East—Java, Bali and The
Celebes. Luxury liners, equipped with every modern con-
venience, transport you by a smooth water route. Countless
attractions await you colourful people, quaint customs,
ancient temples, palatial hotels.
For all particulars and folder No. 61 apply to :—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY :: TELEPHONE: 87901
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
ofh@
Coro^ tlofl
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" ........ From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Pares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
Raggles the Ratcatcher Again:-
NEW METHODS
BY G.C.B.
I’VE always preferred the good old-
fashioned rat-trap to poisons. You’ve
got somethin’ to show for your day’s
work, even if people don’t want you to
show ’em wot you ’ave got; and it gives
a ratcatcher ’eart to go on and improve
on ’is last week’s catch. But there’s
always someone wot thinks they know
more about your job than you do your-
self ; and Mr. Wallis, our town clerk,
once got a perfect craze for rat-poison.
“Raggles,” he ses one mornin’ in ’is
office, “them traps of yours is obsolete.
Wot you want to use is poison. There’s
a paste on the market that’s clean and
sure and eats away the carcasses. I’m
goin’ to order a dozen jars for you.”
“There’s one thing you’ve forgot, Mr.
Wallis,” I ses quietly: “the smell.”
“This paste don’t smell,” he ses.
“No,” I ses. “P’raps not; but wot
about the victims?”
“They don’t either,” ses Mr. Wallis,
very sure of ’imself. “The whole pro-
cess is odorless. And it’s far more effi-
cient than your present methods. Why,
while you’re catchin’ one rat you could
be poisonin’ ’undreds. I’m sorry I didn’t
think of it before.”
| DIDN’T like the idea at all. Keepin’
l rats down to reasonable numbers and
wipin’ ’em out wholesale is two very
different things. You see, rats is
attracted by rubbish: they was put on
earth specially to warn people not to
throw rubbish about to rot and cause
diseases; and if they was wiped out
rubbish would be thrown about careless
and dreadful diseases would result.
I was terrible upset about it, and
again and again I tried to reason with
Mr. Wallis. I pointed out that carryin’
poison about made me wash my ’ands
three and four times a day, and although
he said he understood ’ow ’ard that must
be on me and that he was very sorry,
he didn’t go no further than sympathy.
Even when ’is wife’s prize Persian cat
was foolish enough to mistake one of
my baits for its dinner he wouldn’t
change ’is views. A terrible obstinate
man, Mr. Wallis.
This mad craze of ’is upset my whole
life. I didn’t feel like a ratcatcher, if
you understand.
1 felt more like a
miserable low as-
sassin. Why, after
I’d been layin’ baits
for a week I
couldn’t look my
pet rats in the eye.
1 felt so mean and
underhand. No-
body knows ’ow
much I missed the
bundle of traps I’d
set out with morn-
in’ after mornin’ for years; or
’ow I missed Mrs. Raggles’s cheery
evenin’ greetin’, “ ’Ow many to-day,
Ernest?” All the romance was gone
out of my job.
ii M WALLIS ’as made a grave
error,” I ses to Mrs. Raggles one
night; “but I don’t bear ’im no malice.
I only ’ope that no ’arm comes of ’is
mad experiment. He ses there’s no smell
with that paste, but he’s all wrong. He
can’t teach me anything about rats,
alive or dead. In a few days’ time when
the baits I’ve laid under his ’ouse ’ave
done their work there will be a terrible
smell there.”
“Serves ’im right,” chips in my eldest,
Ernest Junior.
“No, Ernest Junior,” I ses quick and
sharp. “You mustn’t talk like that. I
believe in returnin’ good for evil, same
as I’ve always taught you. I’m goin’ to
see that Mr. Wallis ain’t troubled with
unhealthy, disease-carryin’ smells. I’m
goin’ to see that his ’ouse is properly dis-
infected underneath. Mr. Wallis ’as
always been a good boss to me, and I’d
’ate to think that anything might ’appen
to ’im.”
“There’s such a thing as bein’ too
good-’earted, Ernest,” ses Mrs. Raggles.
“I can’t ’elp it,” I ses, shakin’ my ’ead.
“It’s my nature, I suppose, and you
can’t change Nature.
“Ernest Junior,” I ses, “I want you
to make up some of them disinfectant
balls and squash ’em under Mr. Wallis’s
’ouse to-night.”
“You mean my stink-bombs?” ses
Ernest Junior, ’is eyes glistenin’.
“I dunno wot you calls ’em,” I ses ,
“but if they ’aven’t got disinfectant
properties they should ’ave, smellin’ as
they do. They should clear away un-
healthy, disease-carryin’ smells.”
But I was mistaken. My kind-’earted
action didn’t do no good after all. Them
stink-bombs, as Ernest Junior calls ’em,
couldn’t ’ave ’ad the slightest effect,
because Mr. Wallis and ’is family ’ad
to move from their ’ouse for a week on
account of them unhealthy, disease-
carryin’ smells.
Still, I uses traps now, so p’raps it was
all for the best.
M other-in- Law:-
MOTHER WAS SITTING
BEFORE THE FIRE
BY DON EQVARDS
THE night was
cold and my
mother was
sitting before the
fire. She was
leaning well back
with her feet
spread out to the
blaze. She had
been reading the
paper, but she had
allowed it to fall to
the carpet in a disorder of crumpled
pages. She was just staring at the fire.
I sat away from the front of the fire-
place, and my back was cold. The cold-
ness irritated me; so did the sight of
the crumpled, disordered newspaper
which I had not read. I was too far
away from the light to read with com-
fort. My mother had the best of the
light, but she wasn’t reading. I felt like
hurting someone, and when the cat
jumped on to the arm of my chair I
pushed him off. He walked over to my
mother and crouched down beside her
feet. I thought of how he regarded her
as a member of the household.
That started me counting the weeks
she had been with us.
It was just such a night as this, but
in the early autumn, when she arrived.
A cold, frosty night. She had looked
bright and eager for an old woman, and
I had been pleased to welcome her. She
had been sick and she needed a quiet
holiday in the country. “Mother won't
stay more than a couple of weeks,” I
said to my wife.
That was four months ago, and my
mother still sat before my fire.
I thought of the pain in the side of
which she had complained after she had
been with us for a week. I thought of
the many days she had spent in bed ; of
her bent, shuffling walk that never took
her out of the yard and seldom out of
the house ; of the
doctor who had
said there was no-
thing serious the
matter with her.
Once I said to
her, “If you need
treatment don’t you
think you should
go home?”
The hurt way in which she looked at
me and said “I am too ill to travel”
made me feel so ashamed that I never
mentioned the subject again. So my
mother still sat before my fire.
My wife was taking a long time over
the dishes in the kitchen, and that an-
noyed me, too. Once she would hurry
to finish so that she could sit before the
fire and listen while I read to her. Now
we always sat apart, silently, because
my mother had my place and my read-
ing worried her.
I saw my mother’s head droop. She
was going to sleep, but I knew she
wouldn’t go to bed for a couple of hours
yet. She said she couldn’t' sleep if she
went to bed early.
Presently my wife came into the room
and picked up her knitting. I nodded
towards my mother drowsing before
the fire and smiled at my wife, but she
did not smile. She only turned towards
my mother and shouted, because my
mother was deaf: “Jack and I are going
down to the coast for next week-end, but
you are too ill to travel, so”
My mother interrupted her and spoke
quickly in her soft voice. “I’ll be quite
all right here, dear. I reared four chil-
dren, so I can manage alone for a couple
of days. Isn’t that right, Jack?”
“Yes,” I said.
My wife rose abruptly and went into
her bedroom.
I sat there wondering whether my
mother was thoughtless or cunning. I
had no way of knowing, and I did not
want to do her an injustice, for she had
gone through a lot in her long life. My
wife was sure that my mother was cun-
ning and that she had decided to live
with us rather than with Beryl, my mar-
ried sister.
Somehow, despite my irritation, I
could not bring myself to believe that
she was deliberately planning to make
her home with us. She looked so old,
so quiet and helpless that my annoyance
gave way to a feeling of pity. After all
life hadn’t given her much.
My wife was in bed when I went in
to see her, so I knew that she was angry.
“In bed pretty early, dear,” I said.
“Well, I feel the room isn’t ours at
night now,” she snapped.
“Mother will go soon,” I said.
“Then why didn’t she take the hint
about next week-end?”
“She didn’t regard it as a hint,” I
said. “Mother has always been very
sensitive, and if she thought we didn’t
want her she would go at once.”
“Then you had better make her think
so, because I have tried enough.” And
she turned her back towards me.
Perhaps there was some truth in my
wife’s assertions ; besides, my mother had
enjoyed a long holiday with us. I de-
cided to say something to my mother.
SHE was still sitting before the fire.
I looked at her and wondered what
1 should say.
Suddenly my mother moved and said:
“You know, Jack, Beryl has altered in
the last' couple of years. I felt that she
didn’t want her old mother living with
her, so that is why I came to you for a
holiday. I think I’ll go to bed.”
I watched her old, bent figure shuffle
out of the room. She had never gone
to bed as early as this before. I sat
there thinking. Since then I have not
said anything about her leaving us.
Gates.
There is a gate in the South of France,
in a garden still and cool;
There is a gate in the Kwang-Si hills, and
beyond it a lily-pool;
There is a gate in Yucatan, and a wall
where the peacocks scream ;
And there is a gate where l died last
night—died in a dreadful dream.
If ever l stand beside that gate (some day
I surely will),
I shall know that gate by its lofty arch
and its heavy iron grille.
I shall lift my hands in a futile thrust,
and feel the hot blood run,
And cry—just once—as l cried last
night; and so shall my life be done.
There is a gate in Yucatan, and a pea-
cock strutting slow;
There is a gate in the Kwang-Si hills, and•
a pool where the lilies grow.
There is a gate in the South of France,
by a little, quiet stream ;
And there is the gate where I died last
night—died in a dreadful dream.
QUEENSLAND.
LYDIA M. D. O’NEIL.


WHAT THE EDITOR WANTS.
No matter liow good your MS. may be, its
chances of acceptance are lessened if it is
not typewritten. Good journalism is
more promptly recognised when MSS. can
be easily and quickly read.
With an Underwood Portable you can
type your work neatly and rapidly in the
most acceptable form, have a duplicate
copy for reference, and be certain of
better reception.
Write to-day to Stott & Underwood. Ltd.,
P.ox 1556 E, G.P.0., Sydney, for full details
of their easy-payment plan.
on
C-30
0^2
mm
.s
mg
SB
LOW PRICE ‘T*
35-CWT. CAPACITY
SIXCYLINDER
ENGINE
78.5 HORSEPOWER
HARDENED
EXHAUST-VALVE
SEAT INSERTS
TWO WHEELBASES:
133 AND 157 INCHES
HYDRAULIC BRAKES
FULL-FLOATING
AXLE
♦
SOLD AND SERVICED BY
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER COMPANY
?! the 35-cwt
INTERNATIONAL
that Truck Owners look up to!
JILYou need a truck for every-day haulage work. Look this great International up and down
* from any angle . .. look into it. .. try it out. This is the truck you have been looking
for — a roomy, comfortable cab, full truck power, with gears and steering wheel as easily
handled as those in a modem car. .. Loaded or empty, Model C-30 gives you speed, easy riding
and sure-to-get-there performance—pays for itself with years of economical, trouble-free
service ... A sturdy, balanced frame ... Just the touch of streamline in bonnet and cab to
suit your choice of body style and set it off with distinction. See your local agent or write to
us for a free demonstration.
Other Internationals range from V2 ton to 5 tons —and the big six-wheelers for outsize loads .
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
X2091 BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
CHASSIS PRICES from
(plus tax)
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.G.: An idea in it, but too much muddled
phrasing. “Cloudlet diadem” is an instance....
P.D.P.: You may be “a man supreme” some
day, but the chance of your verse ever attain-
ing “complete perfection” is remote... .J.F.H.:
“The Mourner,” best of the batch, is far from
being readable jingle... .E. 8.: Written as prose
it might have a faint appeal; in the free-verse
form it has none E.E.: “Sunny .Sam”
proved a depressing study.... A.J.G.: “1 am
18 and it is a pleasure to me to sit down and
write about persons and things.” A pleasure
lo us to hear that’s pleasure to you
H. : If Jean Batten receives many
“poems” she has our sympathy C.P.T.:
Quite good of its kind, but the beauty-parlor
craze is getting frayed as a verse theme
A.J.M.: Afraid it was wasted on us. We never
heard “the wail of weird banshees”... .A.N.:
Quite a good argument for cremation
K.McL.: We don’t mind the redness of the
ink. It’s the pinkness of the sentiment that
sent it basketwards....P.H.: One verse:
While the sun beats down on the parched-up soil
And crushes the man who tries,
Our statesmen murmur it’s very hard
And vote themselves a rise.
. ...P.8.H.: Your lack of optimism is well-
founded... .A.J.M.: We are still a trifle scepti-
cal about the crow having to answer for the
raven’s crimes.... M.D.: It lacks snap....
C.H.M.H.: It’s not too obvious, merely too
unimpressive... .M.H.M.: “The bubblings of
your soul” are unsaleable here... .C.R.U.: Our
interest in Chicago gangsters is faint N.C.:
Ballad of the ferry-hand who was clouted by
the skipper for failing to respond to a flapper’s
artless overtures strikes us as unreal....R.D.F.:
Greek to us... .E. 0.5.: With the purple patches
cut out, it might make the grade elsewhere....
I. Those hands are not convincing enough.
S.S.S.: You’ve got the atmosphere, but
yarn not quite strong enough.... 8.W.: That
plot’s been dug over too often... .C.W.P.: Try
Angus and Robertson.... H.M.: Rather exotic,
though dialogue well done... .M.F.: Orthodox
magazine stuff —seaman carrying fortune in
pearls, murder, amateur detection, confession.
. ...E.F.: Nothing in any of the three
Doobi: Hardly suitable for us—try it on a
daily... .D.O'C.: Below standard —you empha-
sise the theatrical too much... .A.L.P.: Patches
of fair humor, but the racing part lacks appeal.
....W.F. (Eng.): Not interested in syndicated
articles... .Dinkum : Both lack general interest.
M.L.L.: Bravo! the preamble took a mere
17 pages! F.A.J.: Its banal subject
smothered some good writing A.H.L.:
Couldn’t raise any enthusiasm over the appren-
tice barman... .A.C.: Flat and dreary as the
Nullarbor plain Kykuyu: Incident doesn't
hold sufficient story interest... .A.P.: A lew
more tries and you might even be able to dis-
guise the murderer’s identity until the second
page F.8.C.: The Religious Editor has
taken a week off to check up your quotations.
L.T.T.: “The Storm” blew itself out after
the first-page blast... .Oram: “He crushed one
burning kiss on her lips and leapt overboard.
The End.” Pity he didn’t do that at the be-
ginning F.R.F.: Took 0ne....A.8.: How
romantic! D.S.H.: Read a few issues to see
what we want and try again 5.8.: “He left
his chair, kissed his wife gently and laid his
cheek for a full five minutes against hers.” These
passionate love scenes!... .R.A.M.: Still don’t
like your “strange and tragic example of
Nature’s relentless ca 11”... .H.A.H.: That’s
been done before; try something new....
F.H.: Lightweight... .E. 0.5.: Saw that idea
somewhere else... .G.F.: Thin gruel....
E.G.W.: No room for “Old Jack”... .M.N.:
Sweet, sweet! G.E.M.: That reef’s petering
out.. ..J.D.: Came near; try again... .H.R.R.:
And you A.H.: Too much melodrama, but
you should place it....W.C.: Not up
W.8.L.: “Jonathan’s Eggs” are undersized....
J.G.: Chinese mandarins are ten a penny on
the short-story market.... M.L.: More in the
magazine line than ours... .T.McL.: Suspect
it would appeal only to the few... .0.W.W.:
Too lean in the ribs D. 8.: Some cleverness
in it, but it’s hardly reproducible W.M.M.:
A good peg for satire, but yours is a trifle
heavy WIC.: The “saw-door” rhyme grates.
So does “the orison welling from the throats
of monks.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.L.8.: What is the new hand supposed to
be shooting—a bandicoot or a buffalo?....
M.F.: Grandfather laughed heartily at that
wheeze in ’72 R.T.: It might have been
drawn with a post-office pen dipped in molasses,
L M • The basket seemed to shudder as
that chestnut fell into it.... F.E.: Lines show
promise, but get away from the old he-she type
of gag N C • You don’t say so, but we
presume' the wrestler has elephantiasis....
M.0.L.: The horse could have brushed the
flies out of his eyes with that tail. .. .R.M.8..
You ve adorned dad with merino wo<pl instead
of whiskers... .R.M; Howling twins came
close ; other spoiled by figure ot drinker t
another look at the position of the mug ot
beer... .P.G.; Art editor collapsed among his
colors after one look at it.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Mrs. Jim Campbell is back in Mel-
bourne after a nine months’ wander
round the continents other than Europe.
Among some of her experiences were a
cocktail party in Mombassa, given by a
Japanese and his British wife, and a look
at Zanzibar. There she discovered that
when the men go out in the evening they
leave their wives at home in padlocked
houses.
* * * *
As a Johannesburg jubilee offering, em-
ployees of the Rand goldmining cos.
were givm double pay for a day. This
roughly averaged 30s. per white worker
and ss. for colored. For the natives there
were an additional meat ration and their
fill of Kaffir beer. White employees now
exceed 36,000 and colored approximately
320,000.
* * * *
“Wagga”: Listening-in the other
evening to the. wireless news session, we
learned that “the Marquee and Mar-
shuness of Hartington” were about to
tour Australia. One of the youngsters
wanted to know whether the “markee”
was the same sort as the big tent that
they’d had lunch in at the showgrounds.
Still, he wasn’t so very far off ; a marquee
was originally the tent of a marquise,
the French equivalent of a marchioness.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: “Commonsensicus,” in
his effort to prove that the Scone stone
came from Palestine (B. 7/10/’36), be-
littles the metalwork of the sixth-century
Celt, beautiful specimens of which
may be seen at the British Museum.
Six centuries sooner the “savage” Piets
possessed weapons to worry Roman
legions, and it took good steel to do that.
Incidentally, the “high Chaldean civilisa-
tion of Jacob’s day” was strictly an
agrarian one. Somehow I cannot visual-
ise a heavy brick being carried to Egypt
across the desert in time of drought, nor
being held sacred enough to warrant a
return trip at the Exodus. The probabili-
ties are that the Scone stone was wrought
and baked near where Edward I. found it.
* * * *
“Forceps”: It is rather strange to
read in the Red Page review of The
Heritage of the Bounty (B. 14/10/’36)
that the Pitcairn Islanders of to-day,
albeit of healthy and robust physique,
are mostly “dental unfortunates.” Pre-
cisely the opposite characteristic has
been noted by more than one recent ob-
server about the inhabitants of another
isolated speck in the ocean, Tristan da
Cunha, now said to be in danger of
being eaten out by rats. The islanders
there, though equally remote from den-
tists, are certified as having excellent
teeth, much better indeed than the aver-
age European or American. Whence,
I wonder, comes the difference. Is it
because the Pitcairners, on the authority
of Dr. Shapiro, are vegetarians, while the
Tristaners eat meat, even if it be only
goats’ flesh, as often as they can get it?
* * * *
Germany has a front-door currency,
which is quoted in the papers, and a
back-door one. The latter is represented
by “Aski” marks. When goods are sold
to Germany payment is made, (into a
German bank) in Askis, which are of
no external value, and there it stays
until someone in the selling country
buys enough goods from Germany to
offset the account. It is really a system
of barter, and in it German ingenuity
has obtained the advantage of a depre-
ciated currency in export trade with-
out actual devaluation. The U.S.A.,
which is “agin” the use of export sub-
sidies in other countries, has put a stop
to the system as far as trade between it
and Germany is concerned.


Quick
Relief
ADAMS’ (TATTE-RSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 48-1 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms,-6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now w.orry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
mist be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to'Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, well educated, with journalistic
ability, knowledge of advertising, wants posi-
tion anywhere. —3420.
Young man (21), Qld., with station exp.,
seeks opportunity to learn the butchering trade,
anywhere, city or country.—34o3.
Sheep overseer, 31, single, well educated, exp.
as wheat manager, knowledge of cattle, horses,
book-keeping, cars and farm machinery, wants
position on wheat or sheep property with pros-
pects, Riverina or W.A. preferred. Refs.
3412.
Unemployed Digger’s wife, Sydney, would
welcome gifts of scraps of material, old socks
and stockings, for toymaking.—339s.
To purchase loose stamps or accumulations.
—3416.
To buy, second-hand, Beethoven’s sonatas
complete, in one or two volumes. —3417.
To buy copy of Hits, Skits and Jingles, by
W. T. G00dge.—3393.
Information Sought
(1) In what years did C. B. Fry (at present
touring with Allen’s English XI) play in Tests
for England v. Australia, and his scores ? (2)
At what university did Fry get his blue? —
3390.
(1) In 1899—at Notts (50 and 9), Lord’s (13
and 4), Leeds (38), Manchester (9 and 4), Ken-
nington Oval (60); in 1902—at Edgbaston (0),
Lord's (0), Sheffield (1 and 4); in 1905—at
Lord’s (73 and 36 not out), Leeds (32 and 30),
Manchester (17), The Oval (114 and 16); in
1909—at Birmingham (0 and 35 not out), Leeds
(1 and 7), The Oval (62 and 35 not out); in
1912—at Lord’s (42), Manchester (19), The Oval
(5 and 79). Total: 28 innings, 3 not outs, 825
runs, averaging 31.73. (2) Oxford.
* * * *
(1) Is it a fact that every time Billy Mur-
doch captained an Australian XI in England he
topped the batting averages, and his figures ?
(2) Which Australian players got both the best
batting and best bowling figures on English
tour ? —3446.
(1) Yes; Murdoch’s figures were:
Not Highest Total
Innings. Out. Score. Runs. Av.
1880 .... 60 5 153* 1218 22.14
1882 .... 61 5 286* 1711 30.55
1884 .... 50 5 211 1378 30.62
1890 .... 64 2 158* 1459 23.53
* Not out.
(2) George Giffen, who scored 1454 runs, ay.
25.98, and took 162 wickets, av. 16.98, in
1886; and Warwick Armstrong, who scored
2002 runs, av. 48.82, and took 130 wickets,
av. 17.60.
$ * * *
Could you give me (1) the names and
averages of players who in Test cricket, Eng-
land v. Australia, have had over 60 innings,
(2) bowled more than 5000 balls and (3)
how many of such players are still alive ?
3461.
(1) —
England.
Not Total
, Innings. Out. Runs. Av.
J. Hobbs .. 71 4 3636 54.26
W. Rhodes ..69 14 1706 31.01
A. MacLaren ..61 4 1931 33.87-
Australia.
S. Gregory ..92 7 2193 25.80
C. Hill .. .. 76 1 2660 35.46
V. Trumper 74 5 2263 32.79
W. Armstrong 71 9 2172 35.03
M. Noble .. 68 6 1905 30.72
J. Blackham .. 62 11 800 15.68
(2)
England.
Balls. Runs. Wkts. Av.
W. Tate . . 7683 2542 83 30.62
W. Rhodes .. 5790 2616 109 24.00
S. F. Barnes .. 5749 2288 106 21.58
R. Peel .. 5336 1715 102 16.81
Australia.
C. Grimmett .. 9227 3439 .106 32.44
H. Trumble .. 7889 2945 141 20.88
M. Noble .. 6845 2850 115 24.78
W. Armstrong 6812 2288 74 30.91
G. Giffen .. 6325 2791 103 27.09
C. Turner .. 5342 1670 101 16.52
A. Mailey .. 5197 2935 86 34.12
(3) Gregory, Blackham, Giffen and Trumper
(all of Australia) are dead.
* * * *
In the Australian XI tour in South Africa
last year, what were the bowling averages of
O’Reilly and Grimmett in (1) Test matches,
(2) all matches ? (3) In how many Tests did
Fingleton and Brown put up over 100 for the
first wicket? (4) Was Nourse’s 231 the highest
individual effort, and how did he get out ?
3462.
(1) In Tests Grimmett took 44 wickets, av.
14.59; O’Reilly, 27 wickets, av. 17.11. (2)
In all matches O’Reilly bagged 95 wickets, av.
13.67, against Grimmett’s 92, av. 14.81. (3)
In the second Test at Johannesburg Brown and
Fingleton put on 105 in the first innings,
233 in the third Test at Cape Town (only innings
played) and 162 in the fifth Test at Durban
(only innings played). In the fourth Test they
put up 99. (4) Yes; he was c. McCormick,
b. McCabe.
(1) In view of the substantial strengthening
of the Royal Air Force in Britain, is it likely
that recruits would be accepted from Australia
(a) if they hold a pilot’s license, (b) if they
have no knowledge of flying ? (2) Is it possible
for anyone of the age of 25 to learn flying
with the Australian Air Force under the present
campaign for enlistment for home-defence pur-
poses ? —3237.
(1) An application to join the R.A.F. would
have to be made to the Air Ministry, Kings-
way, London. An application will receive little
consideration unless a person has been edu-
cated to the intermediate certificate standard
and is capable of passing a strict medical ex-
amination. The holding of a pilot’s license will
increase a candidate’s prospects of selection if
his all-round qualifications compare favorably
with those of other applicants. (2) Applicants
for a flying training course in the R.A.A.F.
must be under 22 at the time of entry.
* * * *
(1) Who invented the typewriter? (2) Par-
ticulars of the early machines? (3) Who pro-
duced the first really workable machines ?
3441.
(1) Henry Milne, who filed a patent in 1714,
was followed by Burt in America and Progin
in France early last century. (2) Progin in-
vented the type-bar, a lever pivoted at one end,
with at the other end a letter or group of
letters. This, which struck the paper when
the key was depressed, was followed by
Thurber’s invention of the type-wheel—a wheel
with a set of types round the rim. Early type-
writers wrote in capital letters only, but later
small letters were added by two different
methods, the double keyboard and the shift-
key. (3) C. Sholes, in 1873. He made a con-
tract with the firm of E. Remington and Sons
for its manufacture.
* * * *
(1) Aboriginal names suitable for a property
consisting of high undulating downs, lightly
to heavily timbered, the headwaters of several
creeks ? (2) Books containing such names ?
3381.
(1) Aldinga, “plenty of creeks and water’ ;
Beltana, “running water”; Bingara and Bil-
leroy, “creek”; Binnowee, “a green place”;
Bodalla, “several waters”; Boggabri, “place of
creeks”; Boonduabbi, “a good watering-place”;
Coolowie, “plenty water”; Nimmitabel, “source
of many streams”; Pindari, “high ground”;
Werberdup, “head of a stream.” (2) Aus-
tralian Aboriginal Place-names and Meanings,
James Tyrrell (Simmons, Ltd., Sydney); Abo-
riginal Names, Sydney J. Endacott (Melbourne);
A Vocabulary, James J. Baylis; Australian
Museum list (Australian Museum, College-
street, Sydney).
* * * *
Meaning of the word Wundaree ? —3355.
The word in that exact spelling is not found
in any list of aboriginal names, the nearest
being Wandaroo, “a shower,” or alternatively
“a grass net bag,” the slightly varied spelling
of Wondaroo being given as meaning “a bag
made from the fibre of cottonbush,” Wundur
also signifying “a large net bag.” Wonda,
Wanda and Wunda all mean “a white man”
(ghost), Wanda also being given as “cocka-
too.” With the easy changing of vowels
common in aboriginal words your example
could easily be a derivation or variation of any
of the foregoing.
* * * *
Where can I get a copy of the commis-
sion’s report on the recent Victorian police
inquiry ? —3380.
Not available; the report was not published,
nor was it tabled in the Vic. Legislative
Assembly.
* .-f * *
(1) Names and locations of banks operating
in Sydney between 1850 and 1870 ? (2) Also of
upper-class boarding-schools in or around
Sydney in the same period? —3lol.
(1) Bank of Australasia, 262 George-street;
Australian Joint Stock Bank, 373 George-street;
Bank of New South Wales, 337 George-street;
English, Scottish and Australian Chartered
Bank, 365 George-street; Oriental Bank Cor-
poration, Pitt-street North; London Chartered
Bank of Australia, 243 George-street; Savings
Bank of New South Wales, 13 Barrack-street;
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney;
248 George-street; Union Bank of Australia,
106 Pitt-street; City Bank, 410 George-street;
Mercantile Bank of Sydney, 247 George-street.
Not all of these banks were operating through-
out the entire period, and the list is roughly
in chronological order. (2) Yearly publications
of the period list well over a hundred schools,
a proportion of which would have accommoda-
tion for boarders. The Sydney Grammar School,
College-street, was opened on August 3, 1857,
under W. J. Stephen, M.A., the head from
1867-1912 being the famous A. B. Weigall;
The King’s School, Parramatta, which opened
January, 1832, was closed from 1864 to 1869,
reopened under G. F. Macarthur; the Austra-
lian College, founded by John Dunmore Lang
in 1835, was closed 1854; under Methodist
auspices the college at Newington was opened
in 1863, under president J. A. Manton and
headmaster J. E. Moulton.
* * * *
(1) Is the Stunner apple well known in
Australia ? (2) To what extent is it exported ?
(3) Is it realised that this apple would have
a good market in Glasgow and Edinburgh in
June and July, when it would not clash with
any English-grown dessert apple ? —3457.
(1) Yes. (2) Large quantities of this apple
are shipped to the U.K. each year. (3) Cannot
say. Ultimate destination of the apples ex-
ported to Britain is more a matter for the
importer.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of Flora Macdonald and hei
exploit? (2) Did she bar the door with her
arm in order to allow the Prince to escape .
—3322.
(1) Born 1722 at Milton, South Uist, Outer
Hebrides. Became an orphan early, and was
adopted by her kinswoman, Lady Clanranald,
wife of chief of the clan. She was in the
Hebrides when the ’45 rebellion broke out,
and although not a Jacobite, and never in love
with Prince Charles Edward, she undertook
after the battle of Culloden had put an end
to his hopes of recovering the throne to en-
deavor to guide the hunted fugitive to safety.
Disguised as her Irish maid, the Prince in June,
1746, travelled in the girl’s company from Ben-
becula to Skye, thence to Portree, from which
point he was able to escape to France. Marry-
ing a Macdonald of Kingsburgh, who emigrated
to South Carolina and on the outbreak of the
War of Independence became, with his five sons,
British officers, she returned to in
1779, and died at Kingsburgh, March 5,179 U.
(2) Catherine Douglas in 1430 thrust her arm
through the staple of a door from which the
bolt had been treacherously removed in an
endeavor to enable King James I. to escape
from assassins in the monastery at Perth.
* * * *
Biographical details of David Gariick, the
(ictor —3341.
Born February 20, 1717, at Hereford son
of Capt. Peter Garrick; educated at the
Grammar School, Lichfield, the home of the
family. In 1737 he went to London where for
a time he studied law, later going into the wine
business with his eldest brother. The part e
ship was dissolved in 1740, and Garrick in
1741 made his first appearance at Ipswich with
success as Abaon in Southerne’s Oroonoko.
In October that year he appeared in London,
and was a great success as Richard 111. _ He
became manager and joint owner ot Drury
Lane Theatre, in addition portraying a number
of roles. He retired from both acting and
managerial work in 1776, and, dying in 11 ,
was buried in Westminster Abbey. In 1749 he
married Eva Maria Violette, a celebrated
dancer, who died in 1822.
* * * *
Is it correct to use the expression different
from” or should it be “different to” ? Can you
quote an authority? —34o4. _ ,
Webster: Different is properly followed by
from.
* * * *
(1) What are the possibilities of f orchid-
growing commercially ? (2) Can orchids be
grown under ordinary greenhouse conditions.
(3) Approximate cost of plants and/or cuttings,
etc. ? (4) Where in N.S.W. are plants obtain-
able ? (5) Any books on orchid culture ?
33 (1) Certain of the hardier orchids should be
very profitable, particularly Cymbidiums. yt.)
Some will grow under ordinary bush-house or
glasshouse conditions, but heat is required lor
many of the choicer kinds. Some will do in
sheltered positions under trees. (3) Prices vary
according to size and other factors. Small
plants of some of the hardier sorts are obtain-
able for a few shillings. (4) From J. Bisset, 48
Warremba-street, Abbotsford; H. Taylor, 5
Acacia-street, Belmore, and Leaney, Dalrymple-
avenue, Chatswood. (5) The Orchid Society,
Sydney, has a publication that will probably
give you the information you desire. More ex-
pensive works will be found helpful later on.
* * * *
Where to plant the orchid Cymbidium lowia-
num, and what treatment does it need to grow
successfully ? —3342.
This variety is very hardy and can be planted
now. Plant in a mixture of three parts of good
fibrous loam (not too fine), one part charcoal
and one part chopped fibre. They can be grown
in a bush-house or under the shade of trees.
After planting, they can remain in the same
mixture for several years, with, after they have
become established, occasional doses of weak
liquid manure. Water with care until plants
are growing well and roots vigorous.
* * * *
Some particulars of the Ivory Coast ? —3348.
French West African possession between
Liberia and Gold Coast Colony. Bingerville,
once called Adjamc, is the capital, and ports
include Grand Bassam, Assinie and Sassandra.
Rice, rubber and maize are grown, and the
chief exports are palm products and mahogany.
The area is 122,000 sq. m., and the population
1,742,500.
* * * *
How to paint Portland cement with oil
paint ? —3449. ,
The cement must be thoroughly hardened
and dry, and preferably should stand for a
year before paint is applied. The durability of
the paint will be assured by first brushing
over the surface with dilute sulphuric acid—one
part of acid to 100 parts water —and allowing
to dry before painting. A further preparatory
coating for oil paint is a solution of common
water glass in three or four parts of water.
Two applications of this, followed by a washing
with water, and then another application of
water glass, will be found effective.
* * * *
(1) What is “the flash” as an article of mili-
tary clothing ? (2) What regiment is entitled to
wear it ? (3) What regiment wears the cap
badge both in front and at the back of the
cap ? —3364.
(1) It is a black ribbon once used to pro-
tect the back of the tunic from being soiled
by the grease of the pigtail. (2) It is still worn
by the 23rd Royal Welsh Fusiliers, who were
in the Indies when the order for removing the
pigtail was issued and were the last to crop
their heads. This regiment resisted, with
success, an attempt made to discontinue the
wearing of the flash during the Great War. (3)
The Gloucestershire. The custom dates from
their bravery at Alexandria under Abercrombie
in 1801, when, being surrounded by French
cavalry, they repulsed them, fighting back to
back. A larger back badge has been granted
this regiment in recognition of a similar back-
to-back defence at Givenchy in 1916.
Brief Answers.
R.8.C.: (1) Depends on circumstances. In-
quire from the Registrar of Patents, Canberra,
F. or the Deputy-Registrar, Melbourne.
(2) Yes. For procedure and cost inquire from
the Registrar-General, Queen-street, Melbourne.
(3) Information insufficient; you should see the
Chief Inspector of Factories, Melbourne. (4)
No. (5) Inquire from Postmaster-General’s
Dept M.C.: Ordinarily a maintenance order
is applied for, in which case a summons is
issued. The Crimes Act, however, makes it an
indictable offence for any person legally liable
to maintain his child wilfully and without
lawful excuse to desert such child and remain
absent from his home for the space of 30
days, leaving the child without means of sup-
port. In such a case a warrant may issue....
G. : (1) No. It was not desertion, but a
separation in which you concurred. (2) Your
wife would have a claim against the estate.
(3) Cannot see how it applies. Extradition is
“the act of sending by authority of law a
person accused of a crime (not being a political
offence) to a foreign jurisdiction where it was
committed in order that he may be tried there.”
You are not a criminal... .N.M.H.: (1) If the
solicitor became bankrupt the articles may
be discharged or assigned to another person
by the Court. Should he die fresh articles may
be entered into with another solicitor... .W.C.:
Murphy’s Moa, by Pat Lawlor, obtainable
from Simpson and Williams, Ltd., Box 941,
Christchurch, M.L 8.5. M.: Cannot on
facts stated see how such a transfer could be
effected. Best advice could be given by counsel
practising on the Equity side, with the will
before him. This would involve considerable
expense.... A.N.: “Twopenny Trash” was
a term used to deprecate Cobbett’s “Weekly
Political Register” when he reduced its price,
in 1816, from I2jd. to 2d V.T.: Gaekwar
is a title of the ruler of Baroda, one of the
Indian native States. Once a caste name, it
means “cowherd” — i.e., protector of the sacred
animal... .CJ.M.L.: Nothing you can do ex-
cept keep the surface watered daily so that
it is damp enough to form a hard cake; if
allowed to dry, nothing can stop it from pow-
dering into dust... .J.H.: Secretary, Air Board,
Defence Dept., Melbourne... .J.A.H.: She is
a Maorilander and the author of several
novels... .G.W.C.: Johnson and Sons, 203
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .F.G.: Consult
any of the regularly published statements issued
by the League of Nations’ Convention for
Limiting the Manufacture and Regulating the
Distribution of Narcotic Drugs....A.A.: The
council is entitled to be paid out of the estate.
. ...M.S.: Pensions Dept, advises that the par-
ticulars are not available... .8.D.: Write
Q’land Govt. Tourist Bureau, Gibbs Chambers,
17 Martin-place, Sydney... .C.W.: Write
Administrator, North Australia, Darwin....
J.M.W.: Verse “Nine Miles from Gundagai”
appears in Jack Moses’s Beyond the City Gates.
. ...C.L.: Write Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6
Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London....
T. 8.: New Writing, John Lehmann (Bodley
Head, 9s. 6d.)... .N.H.: “Ships and Ships
Models” (6d., monthly), 13-16 Fisher-street,
London, W.C.I T.R.: Luigi Pirandello, 111
Villino, via Onofrio, Panvino, Rome, 37, Italy.
. ...F.J.K.: (1) and (2) Two-inch governor,
complete with valve and cut-out, obtainable from
Scrutton’s, Ltd., 161 Clarence-street, Sydney;
£l6 10s A.M.K.: He can have a search
made in the Index of Marriages at the office
of the Registrar-General, Brisbane, cost 2s. for
a certified copy. Same with regard to births
or deaths... .H.S.M.: (1) and (2) Both reliable.
(3) Ye5....D.D.: Under-Secretary, Dept, of
Agriculture, Brisbane, for pamphlet, “Parasites
of the Horse,” by Dr. F. H. S. Roberts....
R.J.U.W.: Australian medical authorities know
nothing of the aims and standing of this insti-
tution, nor the address of any offshoot. Write
to the editor, “Journal of the American Medical
Association,” 535 North Dearborn-street,
Chicago... .F.M.H.: Write Will Andrade, 173
Pitt-street, Sydney... .A.H.M.: There are few
openings in the Pacific Islands for boilermakers,
electric welders or oxy-welders, as machinery
requiring the attention of experts is usually sent
to one of the main ports in Australia for
repair. Write to the agents in Sydney of Island
cos W.W.S.: Symptoms are probably due
to deflection of the nasal septum or to enlarge-
ment of the turbinal bones in the nose. Polypi
also cause troubles of the sort. Condition
cannot be diagnosed without medical examina-
tion G.0.G.: Solicitors do not disclose the
affairs of their clients to strangers. As you are
a party to the divorce, you should write direct
to them asking for the information you require.
W.C.B.: (1) £4 4s. a fortnight. (2) As
long as the Education Board considers it neces-
sary for the child to remain at school, provided
the board is satisfied that there are reasonable
prospects of the object being attained
A.W.: The preparation you mention is a trade
line, ingredients not known. Best use soda
bicarb, or salt as footbath powder. Add two
heaped tablespoons to basin of warm water to
soak the feet; after drying, massage with equal
parts olive oil and methylated spirits. Dust
freely with boracic powder after morning tepid
wash 1.C.: Cannot diagnose from your de-
scription. True herpes demands medical atten-
tion; quinine may be given as a prophylactic.
Meanwhile apply equal parts liquid witch-hazel
and calamine lotion freely. If thin-blooded or
anaemic, calcium lactate may be taken thrice
daily, as there is usually a calcium or lime
deficiency in the b100d... .J.A.: (1) You can’t
renounce your agreement. (2) Can’t say. It is
a matter within the discretion of the depart-
ment. (3) Yes, it may be let by the owner and
rented by a tenant. (4) In view of your agree-
ment and payment of rent under it for so long
a period cannot see any prospect of a refund.
... .J.G.: Know nothing about the financial
standing of either firm... .M. 0.8.: Liquid
soaps used in bathrooms in metal drippers are
made by processes beyond the home worker.
You can make a good imitation thus: Take a
cake or two of a favorite soap, shred it into
a basin, and barely cover with hot water. When
it has dissolved, add sufficient glycerine to make
it nearly soft enough for your purpose, then
add rainwater... .(Many others mailed.)


MORE
OLD COURT
is Sold in Australia, than
any other Whisky /
A
REASON
The smoothness . . . the mellowness
that age alone can give a quality
whisky at a commonsense price . . •
that’s the reason. The back label on
every bottle of Old Court Whisky is
the Distiller’s guarantee of its except-
ional age, its mellowness and maturity.
Nowhere can you obtain such an aged
whisky at such a reasonable price.
No wonder Old Court has enjoyed
such widespread popularity for so
many years.
THE DISTILLERS
(pivara nte*?
that the BLEND of Old Court
in this bottle is comprised of
whiskies aged in the
following proportions:
50% Distilled in the Year* 1926’28
50% „ „ „ 1929-30
FEDERAL DISTILLERIES
PTY. LTD.
Exceptional Age
620
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
A Military Road in N.Q.
There is neither road nor telegraphic
communication between Cooktown (N.Q.)
and the rest of Australia. Not even an
insolvent railway to overcome the isola-
tion. If an enemy landed troops on that
portion of the coastline several days
might pass ere Canberra became aware
of the intrusion.
Just now political parties agree as to
the necessity for national defence. Mr.
Parkhill is therefore giving us caps with
peaks and extra pay. Something more is
needed.
I suggest something more for Cook-
town—and the idea is capable of exten-
sion.
Formation of one regular infantry bat-
talion, of militia strength (about 400
men), with headquarters in N.Q. Pay
on present militia scale: Bs. per day for
a private, one-half to be deferred, one-
fourth thereof being allowed as soldiers
go on annual leave ; balance to be paid
on completion of enlistment period. Each
company in turn to bivouac for one
month in every four. Company in
bivouac to .be allotted on the construc-
tion of a road from Cairns to Cooktown
for four hours on five days each week.
Assets at close of the three-year period
should then be —provided war did not
intervene: (1) An infantry reserve of 400
trained Australian soldiers, each with a
fund of developmental experience and
about £165 in his pocket; (2) a defensive
road built at minimum cost; (3) the open-
ing for further settlement of one of the
best mineral, timber and agricultural
areas in the North. —C. F. W. (N.Q.k
A Stepping-stone
Melbourne local-government opinion
is twitching like a chameleon on a tartan
over Dunstan’s Metropolitan Council Bill.
The Board of Works, Tramways and Fire
Brigades boards are all to be taken ovei
by the proposed Metropolitan Council.
With the addition of clauses providing
for more recent public-utility develop-
ments like town-planning, motor-buses,
traffic-regulation, housing and slums, the
Dunstan measure is much the same as
those brought before the Vic. Assembly
by Watt in 1914 and Peacock in 1916.
When Watt’s bill was thrown out, Mel-
bourne contained 593,237 people ; to-day
it has 999j63Q.- , Population density in
areas affected by the Dunstan bill is 33.4
people to the acre in Fitzroy, 27.7 in
Richmond, 26.5 in Collingwood, 23.9 in
St. Kilda, 22.9 in Prahran, 20 in Bruns-
wick, 18.8 in South Melbourne and 12
in Melbourne city. The real density is
still greater, as there are nearly 9000 acres
of parks in this area. In the outer por-
tions of the 194 square miles affected
by the measure, the density drops to 1.5
—in Moorabbin.
These are hard facts in the way of
slum abolition, one of the functions of
the proposed body. Improved transport
methods since Watt’s day have removed
the necessity for area-crowding. In spite
of the Municipal Association's change ot
front on the idea of the Metropolitan
Council it sought so strenuously as re-
cently as a year ago, adoption of the
Dunstan measure would give Melbourne
a stepping-stone towards the ideal.—
M. L. (Vic.).
The Referendum
Referring to the proposed referendum
on Section 92, “S. M. Herald” (16/10/’36)
states:
There is to be no tinkering with
Section 92 ordaining that trade, commerce
and intercourse among the States shall be
absolutely free.
Again:
The proposed new Section 92 a simply
stipulates that Section 92 shall not be con-
strued to defeat marketing laws which the
Commonwealth Parliament may make.
I trust I am not more obtuse than
the average Australian, but I cannot see
otherwise than that the proposed amend-
ment does not only tinker with but actu-
ally renders Section 92 as full of holes
as a colander.
Further, we read:
A certain independent trader found a
defect.... and since it was to his personal
profit to exploit this defect he did so. But
in invoking the law he has threatened with
ruin the whole marketing structure which
has benefited himself and his fellows.
How is it that the law benefits him in
its existence as well as in its non-exist-
ence? Again:
It is not merely that a Privy Council
decision has, upon a fine point, upset Com-
monwealth legislation.
What “fine point”? Section 92 seems
to me concise, clear and unambiguous.
In Quick and Garran’s Annotated Con-
stitution of the Australian Common-
wealth it is stated :
Freedom of Inter-State Trade. —This Sec-
tion [92] is intended to provide for the
perfect freedom of trade and commerce
among the States. In order to secure that
object the strongest possible words have
been used. Nothing has been left to im-
plication.
Should this referendum succeed it is
possible to foresee the time when a resi-
dent of, say, Victoria may be prohibited
from buying anything from a hat to a
pair of boots—or any object or produce
required between the hat and boots —
from N.S.W., and vice versa. — Mitta-
GONG (N.S.W.). \
Historical Parallel
Brother James remonstrated with
Charles the Second as to his not taking
sufficient precautions against assassina-
tion. The Merry Monarch replied, “No
one would want to kill me to make you
King of England.” To-day Mr. Stevens
is in a position not to care whether his
actions be right or wrong, popular or
unpopular. No matter what he may do
or leave undone, the electors will not dis-
place him to make J. T. Lana Premier
of N.S.W.—G. A. (N.S.W.).
Just Like Old Times
Three Tasmanians were dismissed from
a Government unemployed-relief job be-
cause they refused to join the A.W.U.
The Premier had stated in Parliament
that such work would be offered only
to union members. He twitted the leader
of the Opposition, as a solicitor, with be-
longing to a powerful and exclusive
union. An utterly fallacious compari-
son.
The A.W.U. is a political union ; por-
tion of its funds, directly or indirectly,
is applied to forward the propaganda of
one political party. It may well be that
a Tasmanian worker fails to see eye to
eye in many respects with the Labor
Premier, yet he is denied the right to
share in the work provided from the
country’s funds unless he is prepared to
contribute to maintain in authority a
man of whose policy he may entirely
disapprove.
The writer in old days in England wit-
nessed many a case of political oppres-
sion on the part of the village squire and
the Primrose dame’, his wife. The pen-
dulum has swung over, but the tyranny
is just as nauseating. —H. C. (Tas.).


FOR FLEMINGTON.
Wakeful Stakes: Siren; next,
Korimako.
Mackinnon Stakes: Young Idea;
next, Sylvandale.
Maribyrnong Plate; Lochlee;
next, Delight.
Victoria Derby: Shakespeare, 1 ;
Talking, 2 ; Boongarry, 3.
Cantala Stakes: Prittle Prattle ;
next, Counter Patrol.
Hotham Handicap: Salamander;
next. Young Crusader.
Melbourne Cup: Young Cru-
sader, 1 ; Desert Chief 2 ; Shake-
speare, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Quality Handicap: Djojka ; next.
Fireman or Autoland.
Moorefield Handicap: Distin-
guished or Autoland ; next, Sally.
Flying Welter: Distinguished or
Wise Boy ; next, Stalin.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne is to enjoy the privilege,
denied to Sydney, of seeing all the repre-
sentative three-year-olds in training race
on Saturday. There was no three-year-
old from Melbourne at Randwick on
October 3.
In the Victoria Derby, Prince Quex,
Beechwood, Windbag’s son Boongarry,
Conandale —whose preparation has been
interrupted by lameness—Arbalest and
Arabian Night will represent the home
State. Talking, Shakespeare and Rob
Roy will be there from N. S. Wales ; and,
though Custos has gone back to M.L.,
Mala, unquestionably a better colt, will
be saddled up for the Dominion. And
Veilmond’s brother Limond Lad is over
from Adelaide.
They are an interesting lot. Better
than the 1935 three-year-olds, taken by
and large? This Page questions it, while
allowing that there was no proved two-
miler among Feldspar, Allunga, Homer,
Garrio, Palfresco, Young Idea, Bustard,
Donaster, The Trump, The Chanter and
the rest. The sale of Talking for £19,000
has drawn more attention to the Magpie
colt than was bestowed on any two colts
of the 1935 vintage, but when all is said
and done Talking’s Caulfield Cup per-
formance was not as good as Palfresco’s,
Palfresco ran his race in time faster by
a second than the race in which Talking
was beaten, and finished three lengths
ahead of Marabou, the subsequent Mel-
bourne Cup winner.
Palfresco failed in the Victoria Derby.
The blue riband was won by Feldspar,
sixth in the Caulfield Cup. Rarely has
the Caulfield Cup been a good guide to
the Derby result; Peter Pan was a Caul-
field failure in his Derby-and-Cup year.
No doubt Talking will be favorite on
Saturday; and perhaps he will win. But
The Bulletin still harbors the notion
that Shakespeare’s defeat of him in the
Rosehill Guineas was no fluke, and that
Shakespeare, though a son of an un-
fashionable sire (Tippler) who has no
Derby winner on his list, is a good stay-
ing colt.
Homer’s half-brother Rob Roy is dis-
tinctly promising, though he may require
time. He is built on stouter lines than
Mala (Lackham-Lucretia), albeit Mata’s
second in the A.J.C. Derby was a pretty
good performance. Victorian opinion is
that Prince Quex will go the distance,
but students of breeding may doubt
whether a son of Lord Quex-Princess Pat
falls into the category of stayers. Beech-
wood has proved himself a brilliant
miler. Boongarry, third in the Caulfield
Guineas to Beechwood and Prince Quex,
may see out a mile and a half better
than either.
Sylvandale (9st. 81b.) and Silver Ring
(9st. 41b.) are the heavyweights in the
Melbourne Cup field. Sylvandale is a
much better horse in Melbourne than
Sydney, but the weight should stop him.
The M.L. horse had been favorite be-
fore his failure at Moonee Valley, a dis-
tinction he scarcely earned considering
his age and performances. He has cer-
tainly won a few w.f.a. races in Sydney,
but only opposed to old-stagers like
Lough Neagh and Oro and nags really
not in the w.f.a. class.
Talking, Mala and Rob Roy are solid
in the betting ; there has also been sup-
port for Shakespeare. The Derby winner
will almost certainly be the Cup favorite.
But on paper the claims of the three-year-
olds are not superior to those of the
four-years-olds, notably Young Crusader
(7st. 91b.), Silver Standard (7st. 81b.) and
Desert Chief (7st. 71b.), as well as Allunga
(Bst. 101 b.), Donaster (Bst. 71b.) and Bus-
tard (Bst. lib.). Then there are two good
mares, not handicapped out of the race:
Sarcherie (Bsf. 71b.) and Amalia (Bst. 61b.).
If Young Crusader retains his Rand-
wick form, what is going to beat him?
Winner of the Metropolitan in almost the
fastest time on record—and he galloped
for half the journey against half a gale—
the son of Caledon-Bonny Lady is won-
derfully well treated. What other Metro-
politan winner has got into the Cup with
7st. 91b.? Young Crusader is capable
of making all his own running, though If
he could be pulled in behind a pace-
maker like Talking his prospects would
be enhanced. Of course, the chestnut
may not relish galloping from left to
right, and he may not do well on the
track this week, but such chances have to
be taken in backing horses for Cup races.
If Silver Standard has a Melbourne Cup
chance, the horse that beat him by five
lengths in the Metrop., and on whom he
wasn’t making the slightest impression
at the finish, must be treated with even
greater respect. And Dark Chief (7st.
131 b., up 21b.) has now come into the
picture.
The Cantala Stakes seems open.
Pamelus (9st.), Young Idea (9st.), Charles
Fox (Bst. 121 b.), The Chanter (Bst. 61b.),
Ogwell (Bst. 41b.), Prittle Prattle (7st.
121 b.), Silver Standard (7st. lib.) and
Counter Patrol look the best. The
Chanter failed to go a mile and a half at
Caulfield, but he has proved himself
almost a first-class rniler. Unfortunately
he has not done well since his race in the
Caulfield Cup, in which he met with a
mishap.
* * * *
Worth £2OOO cash and a £2OO trophy,
the Moonee Valley Cup went to knight
Hugh Denison’s Dark Chief, after a
thrilling tussle with another Sydney-
owned horse, Sylvandale, and the M.L.
mare Queen of Song.
In the autumn of 1935 Dark Chief gave
Melbourne folk an indication of his
quality by finishing second to Burlesque
in the Bond Cup at Caulfield. Subse-
quently the aged son of imported Dark
Fox was runner-up to Akuna in the
Sydney Cup. Last season he had four
profitless outings (August-September),
and then disappeared from the training
list for many months. The present Mel-
bourne visitation was preceded by five
failures at home.
The betting on the Cup had some re-
markable phases. Tote punters fought
shy of Dark Chief, who paid nearly
25 to 1 in the win pool; yet he firmed
from 20 to 1 to 14 to 1 with the book-
makers. Queen of Song was the medium
of a big plunge, and came down from
20 to 1 to eights, while Sylvandale was
backed in the reverse order, the original
offer of 8 to 1 being extended to twenties.
Queen of Song would have taken mqre
money out of the ring than Sporting
Blood, Amalia or Balkan Prince, who
shared favoritism at 11 to 2.
None of the short-priced candidates
made a decent showing in the Cup. Up
to date punters have been woefully
astray in their judgment so far as the big
spring handicaps of 1936 are concerned.
Dark Chief didn’t deal them such a
bodyblow as Capris in the Epsom or
Northwind in the Caulfield Cup, but his
victory will not inspire confidence con-
cerning the picking of the two-miler at
Flemington.
To lose the Valley Cup by a mere half
neck after being in the picture through-
out was bad luck for Sylvandale. Un-
questionably this stallion is a better gal-
loper in Melbourne than in his home city.
Taking into consideration the poor dis-
play given by Silver Ring in the W. S.
Cox Plate, it looks as if there will be
money for Sylvandale’s owner in weight-
for-age events over a distance at Fleming-
ton, and he must be reckoned with in
the Melbourne Cup.
Art (the 1935 winner) and Tapestry
made practically all the running in the
Valley Cup, but they faded out more
than a furlong from the judge. Dick
Devon and Break Up were at the head
of the unplaced division. They ought
to be worth following. Dick Devon did
much better than his stable-mate Hot
Shot. Nearing the home bend Warlaby
(50 to 1) made a spectacular dash
towards the front, but he ran off the
course.
Young Idea, from whom such great
things were expected last season as a
three-year-old, has vastly improved since
he entered the stable of Jack Holt. The
Mordialloc trainer has Percy Miller’s
stallion at the peak of his form, and it
will take a champion to beat this fellow
in middle-distance events, to which his
attention is being wisely confined. Quite
evidently the Memsie Stakes victory on
Caulfield Guineas day was no fluke.
Backed confidently against Silver Ring,
Sarcherie and such leading three-year-
olds as Mala and Shakespeare in the
W. S. Cox Plate the Constant Son repre-
sentative staged a wonderful finish to
beat Mala by a head. Only half a head
separated Mala from Shakespeare, who
ran a great race, and was hampered a bit
in the run home. He finished strong —>•
more so than did Mala, who did a lot of
pacemaking.
The pace in the early part of the W. S.
Cox Plate was slow. It took 2min. lsec.
to cover the 9j furlongs. Manfred, who
beat The Night Patrol by the proverbial
eyebrow in 1924, ran it in lmin. 57sec.,
while Heroic set lmin. 58sec. a year later
when he downed Limerick, who ex-
perienced a wretched passage. Neither
of those contests is more deserving of
remembrance than Young Idea’s victory.
Harold Skidmore excelled himself in
timing the run made on Holt’s elect.
Valley punters found the juvenile
events easy to pick. Dan Lewis annexed
the colts and geldings’ event with
Theolos (Excitement-Queen Elizabeth),
who belongs to A. Louison and N. Lun-
dern. Favoritism was shared by Theolos
and Madero (Drake-Miss Milligan). The
latter is trained locally by Bill Tindall,
and did well to run third after hanging
out wide in the straight.
Hegemonic’s success in the first divi-
sion of the fillies’ race was so easily regis-
tered that this youngster from Adelaide
may be a danger to Lochlee in the Mari-
byrnong Plate. She has won five times
in six starts. However, an outstanding
colt invariably will vanquish a brilliant
filly, as was proved in the Wolowa-
Tadanga match at Flemington many
years ago. Tadanga was the pride of S.
Aus. at that time, but she could not
extend Wolowa.
Delight (Galadeer-Clarte) always was
at odds-on for the second division of the
fillies’ section of the St. Albans Handi-
cap. After Mat Sawyer’s flyer had over-
taken Lady Quex, who gained an advan-
tage at the start, it was “no race.” De-
light scored, easing up, by a length and
a half from W. R. Kemball’s banner-
bearer.
Like Sylvandale earlier in the after-
noon, Regular Bachelor showed a par-
tiality for Melbourne tracks by smother-
ing L’Elite at the finish of the Dundonald
Handicap. The Queenslander is getting
cherry-ripe and will be heard of again
soon. Odds of 8 to 1 were obtainable
about Regular Bachelor. Charles Fox
(7 to 2) let his backers down sadly. It
could not have been his true form.
Heroic Faith-’s third at 15 to 1 gave
promise of better things to come.
* * * *
Pastoralist V. White showed good judg-
ment when he decided to keep High in
training despite his horse’s Epsom
failure, to which a bad start contributed.
High won the Club Welter at City Tatt.’s
meeting on October 17, and scored again
at Warwick Farm on Saturday.
Apparently because many doubted
High’s ability to run out 10 furlongs in
the Homebush Handicap, fours could be
got —a wonderful price ;it was threes at
the finish. Irish Morn and Gipsy Moon
cut at each other until they were dog-
tired. Then High put in his claim. He
was going faster than anything else where
the doubters expected him to stop, and
easily accounted for Egfnont. Neverthe-
less, Egmont’s performance was attrac-
tive.
Newcastle owner-trainer E. F. Smith
sprang a surprise in the Varroville
Handicap with Bundar. This nag
was backed solidly from eights to fives,
although he had not sported silk since
May, and looked a picture. He is trained
on a private track. Wise Boy and Thebez
set a solid pace, and in a great finish
Bundar, on the outside, got the verdict
by a long head from Raleigh, With Wise
Boy, on the rails, a head away, and Thebez
at their quarters. Gay Sheik, backed for
a ton of money, beat only one home.
Form pointed to Autoland’s being a
good thing in the Macquarie Grove Han-
dicap, but for some reason or other some
bookmakers took liberties with him. He
started at 7 to 2; many punters had
taken 5 to 2. There was nothing wrong
with Autoland’s appearance ; as a matter
of fact he looked better than when he
went under to High and Cid at Rand-
wick. McMenamin rode him cleverly,
waiting for the last run. Autoland got
it, and scored cleverly from Cool Spell
and Flamari. Queenslander Un Brave,
after having every chance, was fourth.
His owner complained to the stewards
about Shean’s riding, but afterwards
apologised.
Dubbo studmaster R. C. Brown was
present to see his Excitement filly Pier-
rette sport silk in the Greystanes Juvenile.
She was having her first run, and started
at sixes. A little chestnut, she com-
menced smartly, bounded to the front,
and was not in danger of defeat over
the last three furlongs. Byculla and Poly
Joy filled the places. Bristol, a Pantheon
colt, trained by Kelso, was fourth.
Silver Rose has scarcely grown a bit
since she ran second in the Gimcrack
Stakes two years ago. She made an ex-
hibition of her opponents in the first
division of the Maiden Handicap, start-
ing at eights. Knight Colin Stephen,
chairman of the A.J.C., was present to
see his filly Sal Volatile romp home in
the second division. She went out at
sevens.
Because he had not been well served
at the start, Djojka (4 to 1) had to be
ridden out to win the Farm Stakes from
Tuckerbox and Joycilla. But he is a nice
cut of a horse, and the best is yet to be
seen of him. Speardale was badly placed
most of the way and did well to finish
fourth. He will do better on a bigger
track. Chatham’s half-brother Minne-
sota, last at the half-mile pole, was run-
ning on well in fifth place.
* * * *
“T”: A.J.C. chairman Colin Stephen
was unfortunate to lose the services of
Fidelity this season, but he has a good
substitute in Sal Volatile. This daughter
of Salmagundi-Voleuse exhibited great
speed in the race she won at Warwick
Farm on Saturday, and evidently could
have cut something off the time recorded,
though it was pretty good—“six” in
lmin. 13sec. She was ridden by Crack-
nell, a good hand with young horses.
Voleuse, the dam of Sal Volatile, was
herself a speedy youngster, but was re-
tired to the stud early. Salmagundi, the
sire, is the sire of Salamander.
o Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
The Englishmen’s batting gives every
promise of being stronger than for many
years. Hammond got another century
(107) against the combined Australian
team in Perth, and Fishlock (91), Worth-
ington (89), Allen (65) and Fagg (35) all
shaped soundly and hit up their runs
quickly. The total reached 497. The
bowling wasn’t of Test-match standard.
Grimmett had another bad match (one
for 137), and it looks as though his wiles
are becoming well known. The Westra-
lians did better: Halcombe, 4 for 124 ;
Wilberforce, 2 for 60 ; and Zimbulis, 2
for 107. The English bowlers were not
exactly impressive. Voce got Fingleton
for 1, but then Badcock (167) and Hor-
rocks (140) put on 311 for the second
wicket, a record for Australia against
England. Badcock, though he was missed
twice off Voce, showed splendidly, and
was more aggressive than usual. After
them only McCabe (24), out to a shooter
from Allen when the wicket was wearing,
and Grimmett (30 n. 0.) did much. It
was all out 436. Then Copson had 4
for 82, and Hammond 2 for 38. Batting
again the visitors lost 4 for .120 before
it finished—a draw.
“Whitecoat”: Halcombe has had an
unlucky career in big cricket. Some
years ago the fairness of his delivery was
questioned, and, though moving-pictures
have proved this to be absurd, the charge
has kept cropping up—it invariably does
in such cases. It is a great pity. Given
a decent chance earlier in his career Hal-
combe might have proved a worthy suc-
cessor to Ernie Jones. Like Halcombe,
Jones was accused at various times of
throwing and bowling to hit the ma'n,
but the charges were soon laughed out
of court.
o Continued on next page.)


'He Needs the besft..
Always
uses
ZEISS
I E)ll«OCU LARS
s* Sold by leading Jowellers and Opticians.
Particular s and literature from, the Australian Representatives
< E. C. HEYNE PTY. LTD. 100 Flinders Street
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner"
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
liuilding, Sydney; A. G, Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt,
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Under the Whip
Rarely does a horse from Queensland
win “first up” in Sydney. Un Brave
accomplished this feat in the Flying
Handicap at Rosebery on Wednesday.
His success was so little expected that
he was allowed to go out at 20 to 1 in a
field of 11. Being strange to the track,
he covered a lot of unnecessary ground,
but in the straight he cut down five
horses, including the 5-to-2 favorite,
Belgravia, a winner at Ascot, and beat
that horse by a length, running “six” in
I min. 13|sec. Falstaff was third, half
-i length away.
Un Brave was bred in N. S. Wales:
he is a four-year-old chestnut stallion by
Legionnaire-Narkunda. He hadn’t raced
for just on two months, but in August
he was very consistent, winning once,
being second three times and third in
his only other start. Apparently a mile is
his best distance, but he can go a mile
and a quarter. In the Exhibition Handi-
cap at Ascot on August 22 he was second
to Hastate in 2min. ssec. ; in Tattersall’s
Cup on Aug. 29, he was second to Spear
Prince in 2min. 4fsec., finishing fast on
each occasion. He should pay his way
in Sydney, in better company than he
met at Rosebery.
* * * *
The club at Werribee (Vic.) got so
many acceptances for its Cup race that
it ran the thing in divisions. A notable
instance of the healthy condition of
country racing in Victoria, and an
example to N. S. Wales, where once-
flourishing country racing clubs which
nowadays have to compete with “the
dogs” and with city meetings broadcast
to s.p. bookmakers
and punters have
almost been taxed
out of existence by
the Sydney Govern-
ment.
The Werribee Cup
is a nine-furlong
affair. Pasha, from
Sydney, was favorite
for the first division,
but it must have
been one of his bad
days—in Sydney he
was reckoned un-
sound for his
showing was unim-
pressive. Victory
went to Aitchengee
(6 to 1), who, helped
by Percival’s vigor-
ous methods and
favored by a 241 b.
advantage in weight,
settled Dick Devon
after a sharp tussle ; a thing called Gilt
was third. Somerset, the favorite for the
second division, was also beaten out of a
place, Radiant Star (6 to 1) winning
from Watchful and Heroic Dove, both
outsiders. Radiant Star took three-
quarters of a second longer than Aitchen-
gee, whose time was lmin. 51sec., but
he ran as if a middle-distance would suit
him better. Apparently he was kept at
sprinting too long.
Ins and Outs
The Englishmen beat Westralia at
Perth by an innings and 180 runs. The
second shot of the Westerners brought
only 147 runs, all the batsmen save
Bryant (43) and Ho’rrocks (32) finding
the slow tempters of the lathy Sims too
much for them. Sims took 5 for 37.
* * * *
“Erka”: A surname commencing
with the last letter of the alphabet is a
rarity among first-class cricketers. Only
two Australians are so distinguished—
Zimbulis, the Westralian who played
against the M.C.C. team, and Zschorn,
who represented S. Aus. in one Shield
match and played against the 1910 South
Africans. Curiously, Zschorn played
against Zulch.
$ % * *
“lodine”: The English cricketers are
starting early with injuries. In the match
against Westralia Robins’s bowling hand
was hurt, and it may be some weeks
before he can play. However, another
good slow bowler is available in Sims,
who is also a useful bat, if not as danger-?
ous as the amateur. And Duckworth
suffered a finger dislocation. It should
not trouble him long, but the fact that
Ames is on the sick list may complicate
matters.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: Quite the most interesting
of the newcomers in the English XI
is Barnett, a professional batsman of a
type that old hands thought had joined
the dodo and the auk. Going in first
against Westralia. Barnett straightway
began to hit fours, some of them actually
over the heads of fieldsmen. Of course
a deafening chorus of condemnation has
gone up from “experts.” Barnett’s
rashness in lifting the ball into empty
places in the field to go for four instead
of playing a golfing putt along the grass
for a single is bemoaned, and the quid-
nuncs forecast a disastrous season in
Australia for him. Folk who recall
that players like Grace, MacLaren,
Ranji, Trumper, Darling and Hill
quite frequently raised the ball off
the grass and kept the scorers busy from
the opening over have an idea he will
be the most popular batsman in the team
and one of the most successful.
* * * *
The Orient Co. is out again with its
souvenir booklet for the Englishmen’s
tour. As Attractively put together and
printed as each of its predecessors, it
contains photos, of all the visitors, as
well as a record of their individual per-
formances and a list of fixtures. Copies
may be had on application to the office,
Spring-street, Sydney, or from any of the
co.’s agencies.
“Wot, on the nip again? I just give y'r a deener for a feed!"
“Well, a bloke's gotter 'ave a bet, ain't 'e?"
“Aigburth”: London “Daily Mail”
supplements the comment that “nobody
pretends the Australian cricketers are
amateurs”' with the confession that some
of those who pose as lilywhites in Eng-
land are frauds. The journal goes
further and asserts that one county paid
some amateurs £9 a week during last
season. In writer’s youth in England
there were one or two professed ama-
teurs taking money. W. G. Grace was,
of course, the shining example, but an-
other was W. W. Read, of Surrey, a
mighty run-maker of the ’eighties and
early ’nineties, who was in Australia with
Lord Hawke’s side in 1887-88.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The conference of
Sheffield Shield States at Adelaide
decided that when one State wants to
put the hard word on a player in an-
other State with a view to pinching him
it must first get the permission of the
pinchee’s State. This rose out of the case
of Billy Brown, of N.S.W., who was
spirited away to Queensland by the
fairies before N.S.W. could intervene.
Also, it was resolved to cut the number
of free tickets issued to managers of
visiting Sheffield teams from 100 to 50.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Board of Control has
asked State cricket authorities to do their
best to discourage offensive barracking
this season. It is about all that can be
done. A help would be to persuade
ground trustees to refuse press passes to
papers that glorify barracking by featur-
ing the alleged contributions of bar-
rackers.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Stout-hearted Tim Wall
has notified the S. Australian selectors
that he will not be available for inter-
state cricket in future, though he in-
tends to carry on in district games as a
medium-pace bowler. Recurrence of an
old back injury is blamed. Wall went
to England with the 1930 and 1934 teams
and took 105 wickets at 29 and a bit.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. cricket heads have
fixed prices for the S.C.G. this season:
two bob to the outer for the Tests and
four bob to the grandstand, with children
half-price. For other Englishmen’s games,
adults Is. 9d. and kids 9d., with grand-
stand 3s. 6d. and Is. 6d. For the Shef-
fields, prices are Is. 6d. and 6d. and
2s. 6d. and Is.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne City Council
believes in honoring a cricketer in his
own country. Three new ovals have
been completed at Royal Park and are
to be named after Peter McAlister,
Vernon Ransford and Jack Ryder.
McAlister did great things for Victoria
before he went to England with Noble’s
1909 XI. His selection was much criti-
cised, but Peter confounded the ob-
jectors by coming fifth in the averages.
Ransford, one of our greatest left-handers,
dropped out of the big stuff as one of
the 1912 strikers, and is now a noted ad-
ministrator in the game. To write of
Ryder would be merely painting the sun-
set and gilding the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
The 1935-36 report of the V.C.A. is a
handy compilation of Victorian cricket
records and of Australian records in
Tests against South Africa and England,
all of which are brought up to date.
Financially, the season, the report dis-
closes, was a flop, loss amounting to
£2BOO-odd. Receipts for the three inter-
State matches played in Melbourne
amounted to £2047, the Vic.-S.A. game
—Bradman led the visitors —contributing
£1578 of it.
>fc * #
“Old Q.”: Cricketers of an earlier
generation will hear with regret of the
death, at 57, of Ratu Pope Epili Seniloli,
paramount chief of Fiji and in his day
the M. A. Noble of Fijian cricket. He
was captain of the Fijian side which
toured eastern Australia over five and
twenty years ago, and made a creditable
showing. The team played in snowy
lava-lavas and bare feet, and were a
draw in more ways than one. The Ratu
took over 100 wickets on the tour, and
was up to inter-State form with the ball.
He was a good bat, too, and reached
three figures against Tasmania at Hobart.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: A cricket match that
seems for once to have been worth
watching was recently played at Witter-
sham in the South of England. A cen-
tury ago two Kent professionals, Mills
and Wenman, challenged and beat an
entire Wittersham XI. The return match
was played as stated, the challengers
being Ashdown, of Surrey, and Wensley,
of Sussex. Wittersham batted first, the
two professionals bowling and wicket-
keeping alternately, and were out for 153.
The challengers then batted and ran to
186 before Wensley was out for 96, Wit-
tersham thus taking the knock by 33
runs. Bowling without any field, Wens-
ley took five Wittersham wickets for 66,
and Ashdown 4 for 82. There was one
run-out.
* * * *
“Wirral”: “Aigburth” slipped when
he sent Bosanquet to Cambridge (B.
21/10/’36). The inventor of the googly
was at Oxford. Also the Liverpudlian
chronicler omits Bosanquet’s most stag-
gering feat with the ball against Aus-
tralia. That was at Trent Bridge in 1905,
when he took 8 for 107 on a perfect
pitch and won the match when England’s
chances had been looking blue. Bosan-
quet was a fine forcing batsman in his
earlier career, and twice scored twin cen-
turies for Middlesex.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland golf
heads are so satisfied with the showing
of their amateur golf team at the Aus-
tralian championships in Melbourne that
they have resolved to send another to
next season’s show at Sydney and a pro-
fessional team as well. It had been in-
tended to do that this year, but time was
too short to rake in enough brass. How-
ever, there is £3O in hand from the first
fund, and this will form the nest-egg for
a collection big enough to send a double
set of competitors to Sydney next year.
* * * *
“Rus”: N.S.W. country golfers ended
their annual jamboree in Sydney at Kil-
lafra when W. Brandon and G. Phillips
fought out the championship, Brandon
winning 6 and 5. Both players hail from
Wollongong, so will have plenty of
chances to fight their battles over again
at home.
* sjc * *
“Divot Digger”: Jimmy Thompson,
the Scottish Yank who came to Australia
as a freelance from the U.S.A. and won
the £lOOO Melbourne centenary open
championship, was heard of the other
day in California when he won a long-
driving competition with 347 yards. It
was a mighty wallop, but fairway con-
ditions must have been of the hardest
and fastest to make it possible.
* * * *
“D.H.”: Sydney “Sun’s” betting table
on the open golf championship (B.
30/9/’36) was another case of ingenuity
gone wrong. It would have been
simpler, and quite within the law, to
give the prices straight out. The N.S.W.
Gaming and Betting Act (Section 46 b)
bans the publication of pre-post odds on
horse, pony and greyhound racing.
There is nothing about other sporting
events. Yet all Sydney dailies religiously
cut out betting details in boxing and
other sporting cables.
Racquet and Bawl
“Milton”: Queensland’s tennis cham-
pionships next month look like being a
washout. Perry, who was to have been
the king hit of the meeting, is not leaving
America. If that wasn’t enough Quist
says he is dog-tired of tennis and will
probably not come, while Crawford also
pleads inability to toe the mark. Even
McGrath and Bromwich are uncertain
starters.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: N.S.W. tennis heads are
shedding briny tears over the defection
of Perry. It is estimated that the N.S.W.
lads will drop £lOOO over his failure to
show in the State championships. Woe
has been increased by the fact that
N.S.W. is staging the Australian cham-
pionships this season, and pays all the
costs, receiving a fifth of the gates to
make up.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Just when pros-
pects looked bright the Tilden-Vines
visit has blown out. The people this end
offered 50 p.c. of the net gates and a
guarantee of £2750 with first-class travel-
ling from Japan to N. York via this
country. The tourists asked for a £5OOO
guarantee or 50 p.c. of the gross takings.
The Australians made certain stipula-
tions, and as the Yankees boggled at
these the deal fell through.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Even Borotra is not
impervious to the dentures of Old Man
Time. Jean has held the British indoor
tennis championships for eight years, but
the other day he went down to Karl
Schroeder, a Swede, who is reported to
be the tallest tennis-player in captivity,
even counting the American Stoeffen. In
the semi-finals he beat Austin.


X®
ex*'
‘Vai
the
the
-Chrome”
name tells
quality chr o m e
vanadium steel, the
toughest steel known.
From this material
the wrenches are hot
forged in the "double-
hexagon” pattern,
which gives a firm,
non-slip grip on the
nut with greater
turning power.
These are the best
wrenches obtainable.
For a slightly higher
price they will give
many times the ser-
vice you get from
ordinary wrenches.
A splendid gift for
your motorist friend.
Good Tools Are Cheap
m
“VAN CHROME"
SOCKET SET No. §A-72V 2
STANDARD SERIES-Vfe" DRIVE
Tl.e set consists of 16 pieces: 10 “Van-Chrome” 12 point
sockets, 7/16in., 9/16in., fin., 21/32in., 11/16in., fin.,
25/32in., 13/16in., fin.; Reversible' Ratchet, Speed Handle’
Sliding T Handle, Extension sin. long, Extension lOin long
with revolving grip, and Universal Joint. Packed in a metal
tool box. Weight, llflb. Price, complete 67/6.
With this set the mechanic can build any combination required
to suit the need of the moment.
c
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney
546 Collins Street, Melbourne
And at Adelaide, Perth.
Meetings.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
THE FORTY-NINTH ORDINARY GEN-
ERAL MEETING of Members will be held at
the Company’s Offices on TUESDAY, 3rd
NOVEMBER, 1936, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th
September, 1936.
To elect one Director in place of Owen Esmond
Friend, Esq., who retires under Clause 82
of the Articles of Association and who
offers himself for re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. Robert
W. Nelson and Co., Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.), (who retire under Clause 131
of the Articles of Association and are
eligible for re-election), and to fix the
amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance
with the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
The Share Register will be closed from 20th
October, 1936, to 3rd November, 1936, in-
clusive.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
20th October, 1936.
Patents.
AUSTRALIAN LETTERS PATENT
No. 9114/32
ELECTRO DEPOSITION OF ZINC.
IT is desired to bring the invention subject
matter of above Patent into use in Australia,
and, with that object, inquiries are invited from
Metallurgists and others who may become inter-
ested.
The Letters Patent will be sold outright or
License granted for the whole of Australia or
any State. Particulars obtainable from GEORG
VON GIESCHE’S ERBEN, C/o H. H 7 RAY-
WARD, Patent Attorney, 18 Martin Place,
Sydney.
FROTH FLOTATION TREATMENT OF
ORES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
14702/33 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
FROTH FLOTATION ORE SEPARATION.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
14703/33 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Probate Jurisdiction —In the
Matter of the Estate of CHARLES WILLIAM
McGILL late of Neutral Bay in the State of
New South Wales and formerly of Merbein in
the State of Victoria Retired Fruit Grower
who died intestate at Sydney New South Wales
3/3/1935 and Administration of whose estate
was granted to the Public Trustee Sydney New
South Wales on 20/9/1935.
The deceased was born in England in or
about the year 1867. He was the son of David
McGill (son of David McGill) and Harriet
McGill (daughter of John Collier) who were
married at Dudley Worcester England on
3/8/1861.
According to information furnished to the
Public Trustee
(1) The deceased was married to Mary
Catherine Reilly at White Cliffs New South
Wales on 10/3/1912 and the Certificate of
Registration of such marriage describes the
deceased as being a Widower at the time of
such marriage. flhe said Mary Catherine pre-
deceased the deceased without any issue
having been born of such marriage.
(2) The deceased’s parents both predeceased
him and were each married once only and
the deceased was survived by three brothers
and one sister namely James Frederick Mc-
Gill David Willmott McGill Arthur Tait
McGill and Gertrude Kate Foster formerly
McGill and two brothers namely Herbert
Plant McGill and Max Ernest McGill pre-
deceased him leaving issue who survived the
deceased.
The group of persons claiming the estate as
the next-of-kin are the said brothers and sisters
and the children of such deceased brothers and
in the absence of any claimants of a nearer
degree of kinship or entitled in priority under
the laws of distribution of intestate estates it
is the intention of the Public Trustee to dis-
tribute the estate among such group.
If the deceased had married prior to his mar-
riage on 10/3/1912 any child of such marriage
for the lawful descendant of any such child)
who survived the deceased would be entitled
in the distribution in priority to the said group.
Therefore let any person claiming to be a
ffiild grandchild or great grandchild of the de-
ceased or to be entitled to share in priority to
the said group TAKE NOTICE that unless
a claim by them or any one of them (or the
legal personal representatives of them or any
one of them) to be the next-of-kin or to be
entitled to a share in the said estate is received
by the Public Trustee 107-9 Elizabeth Street
Sydney New South Wales Australia on or be-
fore the 11th January 1937 the Public Trustee
will proceed to distribute the estate of the said
deceased having regard only to the next-of-kin
of whose claims he then has notice.
DATED at Sydney this 21st day of October,
« r,- GEDDES, Public Trustee.
107-9 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., Australia.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range /
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOELIS’ “THE KELIABLE”
D.8.8.JE. GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
;i2in. steel barrels, botli cboke, rebounding
locks, crossbolt; snap tore-end, half-pistol
S?e £l5/15/
Carriage Paid.
No. 9—CASH3IORE D.8.8.E. GUN, 12G.
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, lefl
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E
t'ore-end pistol grip, walnut . itr\l
stock; weight, about 71b £l4/IU/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 16—MIDI.AND GUN CO. D.B. HAMMER
GUN, 12G., top lever, side clips, i!2in. barrels
both choke, bar locks; weight, ft 1/11/
about 711 b. Price *.ll/ 11/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 24— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.E
IIAMMERUESS GUN, 12G., top lever cross-
bolt, steel barrels, both choke, matted rib,
barrels and lug one-piece, 32in. barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip, tested for nitro
powders; weight, about 81b.
Price
Carriage Paid.
£6/10/
THE FAMOUS “KING’S”
USERS OF MICK SIMMONS’ BARRELS
AGAIN SUCCESSFUL:
O. E. ARMSTRONG (Brisbane) ... 2nd 338
PAT LEE (Albury) 3rd 338
P. A. PAVEY (Caulfield, Vic.) .... 4th 338
The Winner Scored 339. 31.5. Barrels
were only 1 point behind.
The World’s Best!
SPORTING RIFLES
COOEY .22 CALIBRE—A very
superior Rifle, moderately priced at
37/6.
Bolt Action for Short, Long or Long
ql Biflo Cartridges, beautifully finished
Walnut Stock with Pistol Grip. Steel
~ Butt Plate. Adjustable Bear Sight
« and Silver Bead Front Sight. Safetv
u Action. Length over all. 41 inches.
<n Barrel 24 inches. Weight. 4*11).
Wrapped in oiled paper and indi-
. vidually packed. 0-7 hr*
§? Price 37/6
© (Postage, 2/-; other States, 3/0.
COOEY REPEATER—. 22 • Repeater.
Bolt Action, holds 10 Long Rifle or
12 Short Cartridges, Double Safety
Features. Smooth Action. Beauti-
fully finished Walnut Stock.
Pistol Grip and Steel Butt Plate.
Adjustable Rear Sight and Bead
Front Sight. Length over all.
41 inches. Barrel 24 inches.
Weight, 4Jlb. Wrapped in oil
paper and individually >7O In
packed. Price *"/
(Carriage Paid)
THE 3IAINE RIFLE—. 22 cal..
Bolt Action, V-back Sight; for
Short, Long or Long-rifle Cart-
ridges. Round Barrel. 18in. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; weight,
about 3-llb. oi /
Price Zl/-
Postage, 2/-; other States, 3/6,
MANCHESTER SINGLE-
SHOT RIFLE, 3IODEL 67
For 22 Short, Long or Long-
rifle Eimfire Cartridges; 27in
Round Steel Barrel, One
piece Pistol-grip Stock
Safety Bolt Mauser Type
Ladder Rear and Meta
Bead Front Sight; Weight
about 411 b /
Price OU/'
Postage, 2/-; Other States
3/6.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD..
KAYMARKET, SYDNEY, &■ All Branches
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The world’s profes-
sional sprint championships will not
come off in Melbourne this year. One
of the reasons for the cancellation is that
Mistuh Metcalfe, who figured so well at
Berlin and then turned professional, de-
manded travelling expenses for his wife.
Eddie Tolan, who was signed up to
come, has been notified of the cancella-
tion, and so has Glen Cunningham, the
amateur distance runner who was re-
cently converted to the cash game. Next
year the promoters will send an emis-
sary to the U.S.A. and make arrange-
ments on the spot.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman is still
one of the greatest of road cyclists. He
did the stiff 651 miles’ continuous ride
from Brisbane to Sydney in 47 hours,
actually 45 hours 8 minutes better than
the standing record. An amazing per-
formance, the more so that for the fin-
ishing stages the rider had only one leg
in working order.
* * * *
The N.S.W. King’s Prize, shot on the
Anzac Range, was won by an outsider
from Sydney’s Western Suburbs hight W.
Draper. The winner came from well
behind with a strong finishing run and
scored a 339 total. Four others filled
second place with 338 and had to be
graded by the committee for prize-money
purposes, They were placed: Armstrong
(£5O), Lee (£25), Pavey (£2O) and Fel-
tham (£l5).
* * * *
“Vernier”: The British National Rifle
Association will send a team to Australia
in 1938 to return the visit our men will
pay next year. The tour will last five
months and cost is estimated at £4OOO.
As in Australia, the military authorities
will give no help, and the money must be
raised by voluntary subscriptions. It is
about time we had a glimpse of Old
Country riflemen in Australia. The last
time was in 1920.
* * * *
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League addicts
got a horrid shock when they heard that
the League had cleared only £4OO on the
Englishmen’s tour. Usually these visits
mean a nice bit of dough to the good,
and of late years, when takings from
inter-State and club matches have faded,
have been a welcome leg-up the financial
ladder. In this case the actual profit
was £2500, but club attendances for the
season slipped so badly as to show a loss
of .£2107. The League’s net takings for
the English matches in N.S.W. were
£18,377 ; the tourists got £11,374 of that.
Among the expenses were £lOOO for four
matches at the S.C.G. and £1197 for
players.
* * * *
“Stiff”: Alarmed by the. falling-off in
public support, the N.S.W. Rugby League
suggests a “carnival” every four years on
the lines of that run by the Australian
Rulers. Competitors would be N.S.W.
and Queensland, and presumably the
show would always be held in Sydney.
The League would do well to ponder on
the abject failure of the recent triangular
“carnival” held in Sydney by the R.U.
Though costs were much smaller than
those of a League meeting would be,
there was a heavy loss, and that is about
the last thing the League is looking for.
* * * *
“Gate”: The English Northern Union
has sent the expected invitation to the
Australian Rugby League for a Lanca-
shire and Yorkshire tour next season.
Terms offered are 70 p.c. of net gates
for matches with clubs and 65 for the
Tests. In the past our sides, though they
have not been successful in winning a
Test series for a long time, have been
good enough to draw fat gates.
* * * *
“Pivot”: Geelong footballers, who
haven’t set Port Phillip on fire of late
years, resolved to celebrate past glories
to make up. So a gathering of the 1886
team, admitted by every Geelongite to
be the finest combination ever seen in
Victorian football, was held. Nine of
the originals answered the roll-call, and
they were sparking on all cylinders. Two
others could not attend. Only nine
out in 50 years says a good deal for the
preservative qualities of the Geelong
ozone.
* * * *
“Swan”: Henley-on-Yarra will see
something unusual in oarsmen when the
Westralian four for the Stewards’ Chal-
lenge Cup arrives. Jt will be stroked by
54-year-old George Rogers, stroke of all
the winning champion crews in Westralia
last season. The veteran has been extra-
ordinarily successful with Westralian
crews, and one of his outstanding feats
was the stroking to victory in the 1925
Stewards’ Challenge of the ’Groper four
that beat the formidable Hamilton (M.L.)
quartet.
* * * *
“Shinty”: Maoriland is to send over
a hockey team for the All-Australia
tourney at Sydney in July. The M.L.
association will pay fares across the
Tasman, but Australia must find land-
travelling and housing costs. One match
will be played in Victoria. In addition
to taking part in the Sydney shivoo the
visitors will play Australia for the
Manning Cup, which they hold at
present.
* * * *
Australian field sports have known
few more versatile fellows than Percy
Colquhoun, dead last week in Sydney at
70. Colquhoun represented the Ma
State at tennis (he was the L.T.A.’s first
president), Rugby Union (against Maori-
land in 1886 and England in 1888 and
other States), and bowls. He held the
N.S.W. bowls championship and the
doubles tennis title (1893 and 1896) as
well as the mixed doubles title (1896) —
this with Miss Shaw, whom he was to
marry. Golf and billiards were other of
his pastimes, and at cricket he captained
Newington College and played for the
'Varsity. By profession a solicitor, Percy
Colquhoun became a Liberal politician
—he was Mosman’s first representative
in the N.S.W. Assembly, holding the seat
from December, 1913, to February,
1920.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES 7
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
October Issue Now on Sale.
CHAIN STORES
FRANC-DOLLAR-STERLING EXCHANGE
ANGLO-EASTERN OIL
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Can Banks Go on Lending?
Signs and portents precede nearly
every important occurrence, in things
financial. Changes in affairs don’t just
happen.. As regards money matters, in-
dividual developments in business—
whether of a progressive or backward
kind —collectively have a deep effect on
financial conditions.
Commonwealth banking statistics for
the September quarter are just to hand.
Nearly every business uses the facilities
offered by trading banks —as depositor,
as borrower or as a transmitter of money.
Many people interested in investments
and the like use the same conveniences.
A very large number of farmers and
other land men influence banking figures
also ; crops are often financed, as well
as land and plant purchased, with the
aid of bank credit.
Movements in banking averages, as
the summarised returns of the trading
institutions are described, are often of
great importance to investors, business-
men and producers of all kinds. Aggre-
gate deposits represent a large propor-
tion of the liquid investments and sav-
ings of the people, though they exclude
savings-bank figures. Advances indicate
the extent to which the banks are assist-
ing industry, etc., and, when compared
with deposits and other funds, the ex-
tent to which they are capable of further
assisting.
Over the past 12 months total
deposits have shown little more than
seasonal movements. In both September,
1935, and September, 1936, they stood
at £284,000,000 in round figures.
Advances in that time have risen
almost steadily from £258,000,000 to
£266,500,000. At the latest date they
represent 93.7 p.c. of the deposits, as
against 90.8 p.c. a year earlier. The
position is delicate. At few periods in
Australian financial history has there
been such a tight condition of bank
credit.
It was in March last that the trading
banks indicated that a policy of credit
curtailment had been forced upon them
by the steady withdrawal of fixed de-
posits, by their previous efforts to meet
calls for finance prompted by increased
earning and buying power, and by Gov-
ernment borrowing operations. Deposit
and advance rates were lifted an all-
round 10s. per cent.
This constriction of banks’ lending
capabilities had been a short and sharp
development over a period of no longer
than 18 months. These figures illustrate
the change which so rapidly took place:
, Excess
Quarter. Deposits. Advances. Deposits.
June, ’34 £296,972,000 £236,963,000 £60,009,000
Sept., ’34 290,134,000 242,337,000 47,797,000
Dec., ’34 292,039,000 248,147,000 43,892,000
Mch., ’35 292,976,000 249,396,000 43,580,000
June, ’35 291,709,000 253,705,000 38,003,000
Sept., ’35 283,979,000 258,027,000 25,952,000
Dec., ’35 289,603,000 260,835,000 28,768,000
Mch. ,’36 293,398,000 258,563,000 34,835,000
June, ’36 291.483,000 262,403,000 29,080,000
Sept., ’36 284,279,000 266,527,000 17,752,000
Whatever effect revived building, manu-
facturing and internal trading activity
had had on the. position, it was unques-
tionably aggravated by our unfavorable
overseas balance of payments. It is
hoped at Canberra, which is full of
hopes, that this year, as a result of
increased prices for wheat chiefly,
we shall have a substantial surplus of
exports above all imports and charges.
Upon whether that hope is realised or
not will principally depend whether in-
terest rates are to remain at their exist-
ing level or are to go higher.
Mount Lyell’s treatment and produc-
tion figures for the last two financial
periods compare as follows:
1935. 1936.
Ore treated, tons.. .. 564,241 665,422
Electrolytic produced, tons 13,966 13,028
Silver, oz. .. .. 142,642 100,888
Gold, oz. .. .. 7,532 7,015
Electrolytic sterling price,
average .. .. £33/8/4 £4O/16/4*
* Estimate.
Of the 1935 profit (£65,912), £57,879
came from investments and about £BOOO
from mining. Until 1936 figures are
actually published the latest term’s pre-
cise results won’t be publicly known;
but, though the grade of ore dropped
(a lot of it came from the West Lyell
opencut —cheap mining), and there was
trouble at the power-plant owing to water
shortage, most of the increased price of
over £7 sterling a ton received for elec-
trolytic should represent additional
mining profit.
“ Congratulations , Grandad. What's the score now ?”
“ Ninety-fower , V not a grey ’air on my ’ ead .”
Among the stocks which were keenly
bought last week were Henry Jones
Co-op. at 48s. 6d. (up 7s. inside a month,
after a long spell around 415.), Asso-
ciated Newspapers ords. at 235. 6d.,
Broken Hill Prop, at over 81s., Mauri
Bros, at 695., Carlton Brewery at
695. 6d. (up 10s. in a few weeks) and
Electrolytic Zinc prefs. and ords. around
51s. and 48s. 6d. respectively. Bank
shares, especially those of the ’Wales,
were in increased demand. Waldas Shoes
rose to over 40s. Cash Orders (Amalg.)
scrip slipped back a few pence following
a rise prompted by the allaying of share-
holders’ apprehensions in regard to re-
duction of retailers’ discounts.
Talk was abroad in Pitt-street, Sydney,
last week that the proposed abolition of
the 6d. a hundredweight duty on British
cement was likely to be “reconsidered.
Several investors backed the rumor to
the extent of putting Kandos 16s. shares
up to 225. (from 205.) last week. In
Melbourne, Australian Cement shares
sold at 275.
* * * *
India has compromised with Great
Britain over its Ottawa agreement; until
some new arrangement is agreed upon,
the existing basis of reciprocity will be
continued until notice is given by either
party of its intention to terminate. Canada
seems about to denounce its Ottawa con-
tract. The Bulletin has pointed out
several disadvantages which Australian
credit and manufactures have suffered as
a result of Ottawa —present excessive im-
ports can largely be traced to those
arrangements made in August, 1932. It
is a pity that the pact did not operate to
the more, general satisfaction of the
Empire. But it is high time we woke up
to the fact that there are definite dangers
for Australia in Canberra’s interpretation
of things.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam shares, mentioned
here a few weeks back when at 275. 6d.,
strengthened to 30s. 6d. last week on keen
inquiry in Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide. The co. is well endowed with
cash and liquid resources, has the big-
gest line of vessels on the coast, and is
efficiently managed. Its coal interests
have been strenuously written down, and
the fleet is in at a low valuation. Granted
a continuation of present trading condi-
tions, a higher div. soon seems to be
promised. Return at 30s. 6d. is 4 p.c. on a
6 p.c. basis or 4.66 p.c. if last year’s
final rate (7 p.c.) is maintained. The
co. is substantially interested in Aus-
tralian National Airways, though this
investment represents but a small part
of its capital.
* * *
Boring plant left for Mandated Allu-
vials’ Papuan leases last week, and after
E. W. Bonwick’s appointment as consult-
ing engineer to the co. the sharemarket
showed a revived interest in the scrip.
Down to 10s. after the annual meeting,
quotes rose to over 155., then slipped back
a little. By winzing and rising the 600 ft.
line of lode is now being proved, and an
estimate of possible tonnages in the area
worked on is expected inside a fortnight.
* * * *
Our trade balances with different
countries individually are of great in-
terest just now in view of “good cus-
tomer” and “bad customer” talk. Also
they show in sobei- figures our actual
trade relations with Japan—relations at
present strained as a result of the Federal
Government’s trade-diversion experi-
ment. The direction of overseas trade
during 1935-36 has been summarised as
follows:
Year Ended June 30, 1936.
Excess of
Exports+
Imports. Exports, or Imports
£stg. £stg. £stg.
U.K. .. 33,837,522 54,503,794 +20,666,272
Canada .. 5,375,851 1,055,631 -4,320,220
Ceylon .. 960,724 776,104 -184,620
India .. 2,732,145 777,043 -1,955,102
Malaya .. 489,484 1,008,803 +519,319
Maoriland.. 1,773,250 3,510,459 +1,737,209
Pacific Is. 2,455,573 1,441,972 -1,013,601
Other British
countries 1,005,776 2,056,243 +1,050,467
Total British 48,630,325 65,130,049 +16,499,724
Belgium .. 568,083 5,797,179 +5,229,096
China .. 657,178 968,320 +311,142
Manchuria 8,156 670,511 +662,355
France .. 790,108 5,136,601 + 47546,493
Germany.. 2,963,049 1,890,980 -1,072,069
Italy .. 444,141 550,279 +106,138
Japan .. 4,969,571 14,100,784 +9,131,213
N. E. Indies 4,928,025 1,022,945 -3,905,080
Sweden .. 972,096 211,511 -760,585
U.S.A. .. 13,901,857 7,465,594 -6,436,263
Total
foreign*.. 34,557,395 42,716,853 +8,159,458
Outside pack-
ages .. 2,062,275 ' -2,062,275
Allcountries 85,249,995107,846,902 +22,596,907
* Includes all other countries.
The favorable balance with the United
Kingdom is more than offset by the in-
terest, etc., we must pay in London. Out-
side of the Empire we collected a net
credit of £8,159,000; all this went
towards paying our dues in London,
Canada and India, etc.
* $ * *
Mammoth (Tennant Creek) has pro-
duced a crushing which crashed the
market for its scrip. From 280 tons 50oz.
was won —an average recovery of under
3.6dwt. The contribs., up to over 3s.
in recent weeks, fell to Is. 3d. Follow-
ing news of more promising mining de-
velopments in the opencut, there was a
rally in shares, then a further fading of
support.
* * * *
Yarra Falls ords., ex div., slipped to
around 395. 6d. a few days ago, but
quickly firmed to 41s. 3d. last week. An
attractive 4.9 p.c. yield is obtainable here.
Those who put up capital for Austra-
lian Alloy Steel’s venture into the forg-
ing of special steels for wearing parts —
a new kind of ploughshare was one of
the first products—can now see a market
for their scrip at slightly above 225. in
Sydney ’Change vestibule. J. M. Des-
champs was the principal one behind the
enterprise at the beginning about five
years ago, and it goes to his credit to
see a co. born in those uncertain times
having won success.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
United Provisions disappointed the share-
market with profits only, slightly higher than
last year’s and an unchanged ord. div. of 2 p.c.
Australian Glass declared an interim ord.
div. of 6 p.c. (12 p.c. p.a.), compared with an
interim of 5 p.c. last year.
Associated Pulp and Paper contribs., now
10s. paid, changed hands at Bs., after Bs. 6d.
The £1 shares (35,000 issued) in Edments,
Ltd., the chain-store co. recently listed, sold
up to 455., then slipped back to 41s. The scrip
when first listed opened around 30s.


'ms-
Average
To
HOUSEWIVES
and.
SMOKERS
Carefully observe the “AVERAGE
CONTENTS” which must be printed
on every Box of Matches
INSIST on your BOXES containing an AVERAGE OF 60
MATCHES. IF THEY AVERAGE ONLY 50 YOU LOSE
120 MATCHES, EQUAL TO TWO BOXES, PER DOZEN
PACKET.
a
SAFETY FIRST"/
BUY FEDERAL SAFETY MATCHES
AVERAGE CONTENTS, SIXTY MATCHES PER BOX
FEDERAL MATCH CO. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FEDERAL
Safety matchES
MADE IN N.S.W.
Churchills, Ltd.
The co.’s secretary (F, T. Smythe,
f n * i
formerly manager of N.Z. Perpetual
Forests) has handed The Bulletin a
copy of the prospectus of Churchills,
Ltd., registered in N. S. Wales, with its
office at 247 George-street, Sydney,
Nominal capital is £lOO,OOO in £1 ords.;
42,500 shares are offered to the public,
7500 go to “the vendor,” and 50,000 are
held in reserve.
Churchills, Ltd., has the principal
objects of raising capital for new and
existing businesses, 1 the servicing of
clients with investment information, and
the broking of investments on behalf of
Clients The nrmnertns observes that
. clients, the prospectus ? observes mat
business in the. vendor s hands, and
which will be transferred to the co.,
should in itself be sufficient to pay a
reasonable div. for the first year’s opera-
tions.”
Montague Shaw, managing director of
Churchills, and formerly sales manager
for Whakatane Paper Mills (once Timber-
lands Woodpulp), appears to be- the
ven^ or „ ?f!f , tha i 7soo ? rd -/ har ! s , a y
to be allotted to the vendor, few details
of what the vendor vends or the
co buys appear in the prospectus,
The contract may be inspected by a
t> Q na fide applicant for shares at the
office of the co.’s solicitors. The pros-
pectus would be much more informative
if a summary of relevant agreements were
printed in it.
The prospectus says:
with regard to the actual share-selling
policy to be adopted by Churchills, Ltd., it
should be observed that, in view of the
definite safeguards provided against uncon-
***** investments, the responsible nature
of Churchills, Ltd., advice to intending m-
vestors cannot possibly be associa ted with
th e dangers G f unethical share-selling, which
has flourished considerably over recent
years, with resultant loss to investors
generally,
Also,
With the entry of Churchills, Ltd., into
the realm of financial direction an im-
mediate check and guard is provided for
investors which will act as a guarantee
against hasty or ill-advised speculative
ransac ions.
The board which has charge of the
direction and policy of Churchills com-
prises a merchant, a retired master
bmlder and a share sales organiser. The
advisory board is made up of a barrister,
an architect and an accountant. The
qualifications or any or these gentlemen as
investment specialists are not elaborated
on in the prospectus, though The Bul-
letin’s records show that some have, had
fairly lengthy associations with com-
pany activities.
intending investors should consider
whether or not the share-dealing business
is getting overcrowded, and whether
activities of this and other cos. are likely
to be hampered by new company legisla-
tion. If Churchills, Ltd., is successful m
marketing shares m one or two concerns
with favorable results to buyers early in
the piece, it may quickly establish a
profitable connection. The co. already
has in hand one promising proposition—
a s hare issue by Steamships Trading Co.,
Port Moresby—that is on a profit-earning
as j s
It has now t 0 be shown whether the
vendor . s share consideration will be justi-
fled b results , The co ma ’ , 0 allot .
ment on the subscription o£ 5000 shares .
Brok is limited to 71 pc
XT0 ,, 7 i <
N - S ; W - wine-makers on a southern
tour have visited the irrigation settla-
ments on the Murray; Berri (S.A.)
claims to have “the second largest co-
operative winery and distillery in the
world,” with a storage capacity of three
million gallons. The visitors were shown
a new local invention, a blending-pump
which can handle 150,000 gallons of
w j ne j a The v j ne y arc j s were busy
. } J /
experimenting with crude oil, burnt in
pots, as a safeguard against ruinous
nightly frosts ; cost, about £1 an acre.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Ourselves Alone’
The atmosphere of this English film is
that of “The Informer.” Inspector Han-
nay, of the R.I.C. (John Lodge), and
Captain Wiltshire, of the Black and Tans,
love Maureen Elliott (Antoinette Collier).
Her brother (Niall MacGinnis) is a com-
mandant in the 1.R.A., a sort of elusive
Pimpernel, whose nom de guerre is
O’Dea. Betrayed by an informer, brother
is shot by Wiltshire while attempting to
make a getaway. Because he knows she
loves Wiltshire, Hannay says he shot the
man himself. That’s the outline, and
it is interestingly filled in.
Opening is a bar-room scene, more
than a little stagy, but the brogue is
authentic (there are seven Irish names
Walter Abel as the District Attorney
in “Fury,” at Sydney Civic and Cameo.
in the cast) and there’s a singer, Danny
(Cavan O’Connor), who gets new beauties
out of “Rose of Tralee” and “The
Wearin’ o’ the Green.” A clever rescue
of republican prisoners, the kidnap-
ping of Capt. Wiltshire and his
rescue keep interest alive, and a little
Cockney private (Jerry Vernos) enlivens
the grim proceedings with perky humor.
Not by any means a well-polished pro-
duction —Hollywood would have done it
much more slickly—but intelligently and
sincerely directed and acted. At Sydney
Embassy.
“The Three Maxims”
They are acrobats, plucked by an im-
presario from a one-horse circus to star
in a death-defying trapeze act in a lead-
ing Parisian vaudeville theatre. Mac, a
dour Scot (Leslie Banks), is the strong
man of the trio, the other members of
which are Pat (Anna Neagle) and Toni
(Tullio Carminati). They are in no way
related —Maxim is a stage name. Mac
wants to marry Pat, but she refuses him
because her heart is set on Toni. So
the green-eyed monster, assisted by much
green absinthe, preys on the heart of the
Caledonian. When the time comes for
the Parisian show to open it seems quite
obvious that, having them both at his
mercy (the trapeze act is done without
a net), he will let either the girl or his
rival crash to death. It is as neat and
as an intriguing a dramatic situation as
any devised since Frank Stockton penned
The Lady or the Tiger, and the
denouement amply atones for the very
leisurely manner in which the story is
developed and the suspense built up.
Miss Neagle, Banks and Carminati have
roles that suit them, and they extract the
last drops of comedy and tragedy from
them. It is pleasant to be able to say
that the film was made in an English
studio. At Sydney Embassy.
“Ramona”
The principal defect of the technicolor
process in its latest development appears
to be a perverse determination to convert
white people into Red Indians. Hence,
after “Cucuracha” and “The Dancing
Pirate” comes a revamping of “Ramona”
so that the screen may revel for a third
time in bright-blanketed Mexicans,
swarthy Spanish grandees with incipient
side-whiskers, and beauteous blondes in
navy-blue wigs. The yarn, a best-seller
in its day, toys timorously with misce-
genation, marries its heroine to an
Indian, and kills him off so that she may
fall into the arms of her foster-brother.
The theme is unfolded slowly and dis-
cursively. Don Ameche, grievously mis-
cast as the noble Indian, oscillates be-
tween perpetually-grinning savage and
sentimental American cowboy. Loretta
Young, as the half-breed heroine, exudes
real tears with her accustomed facility,
but is unconvincing as a squaw. Kent
Taylor, as her foster-brother, walks
through a placid part. Brightest spots in
a turgid, stagy and oozily sentimental
business are the brief appearances of a
terse rancher (John Carradine) who
shoots the Indian, thereby preventing the
film going on for ever, and of an un-
conventional priest (Pedro Ardoba) who
shoots out explosive remarks after the
fashion of Dickens’s Jingle. At Sydney
State.
“Thank You, Jeeves!”
An effort by Fox’s English studio to
cash in on Wodehouse’s inane chappie,
Bertram Wooster, and his resourceful
butler. It’s a feeble effort. Arthur
Treacher, prince of film butlers, does his
best with Jeeves, but the scenario is too
much for him. Wooster is colorlessly
represented by David Niven. Sundry
villains chase a heroine (Virginia Field)
who has half the blue print of a mar-
vellous new aeroplane. Why the protec-
tion of the British Patents Office wasn’t
sought is one of a dozen unexplained
mysteries. A comic negro saxophonist is
dragged in by the ears so that he may
fall through a trapdoor with Jeeves.
The Wodehousian dialogue, so effective
on the printed page, fails to arouse a
flicker of merriment in this presentation,
and the fooling of the principal char-
acters is unredeemed by any nexus with
common experience. At Sydney State.
“Fury”
The fury referred to is that of a mob
bent on a lynching. Main characters are
a decent, hard-working young garage-
man (Spencer Tracy) and his girl (Sylvia
Sydney). Young man while motoring
far from home is arrested and held in a
country gaol on suspicion of being con-
cerned in a kidnapping case. He’s
addicted to peanuts ; so is one of the
kidnappers, and in his possession is a
five-dollar bill that was part of the ran-
som money. The country-town com-
munity cackles a good deal about the
arrest, and its citizens in time work them-
selves up into a sufficiently excited state
to storm the gaol, set it afire and dyna-
mite the walls. Prisoner escapes, but he
now lives only for revenge.
Eventually 22 gaol-burners are brought
to trial for murder, the supposedly dead
man gloating over the proceedings,
which he listens to per radio. When the
defence raises the point that no body has
been found he writes anonymously to
the Judge enclosing what looks like clear
evidence that he perished in the flames.
The denouement, when it comes, isn’t
much of a surprise, but it rounds off the
story neatly.
Tracy has the most richly-colorful part
of his career, and he fills it with vitality.
The scene in which he walks in upon his
brothers, who are lamenting his death,
and tells them of his experiences and in-
tentions is as good drama as ever was
filmed. Miss Sydney has little to do
save register agony, which she does with
the facility of long experience. A sound
performance as District Attorney stands
to the credit of Walter Abel. At Sydney
Civic.
“The Fighting Code”
Buck Jones, complete with milk-white
steed and six-shooter, is, as usual, the
Galahad who rushes to the aid of beauty
in distress (Diana Sinclair). The locality
in which he operates seems to be swarm-
ing with hired assassins, and every time
he shows his head somebody takes a
pot shot at it, but these cowboy heroes
were born lucky. So Mr. Jones gallops
on unscathed, and after 60 minutes or so
of strenuous adventure takes the heroine
in his manly arms and kisses her with
inflexible determination. At Sydney
Civic.
“Satan Met a Lady”
Hollywood’s celluloid barons obvi-
ously consider Warren William the
screen’s No. 1 dispenser of nonchalance,
so a story has been written “around” this
proclivity. Main object: to concoct situa-
tions stressing Mr. William’s capacity for
indifference. There, is a scene in which
William, a private detective, arrives at
his flat to find one of the villains (an
Oxford-“accent” Englishman, also blase)
ripping his upholstery to pieces in a
search for something. With magnificent
suavity Mr. William takes off his over-
coat (he does this 74 times during the
opus), hoists a ridiculous 10-gallon hat
with a flourish, strolls easily over to a
drink bar, hands the Briton, as re-
quested, a “sherray” and chats with his
enemy about early Saracenic art and
the price of persimmons. When a re-
volver is pushed against Mr. William’s
spinal column he just gives the pusher
a silvery horselaugh and fiddles, with
perfect equanimity, with his side-levers.
So it goes on. What all the fuss that
fails to fuss Mr. William is about is a
Edward Ellis as the Sheriff in “Fury”
legendary trumpet supposed to be filled
with jools. Crooks fall over each other
and pop up at unexpected and illogical
times in their search for this bauble.
Dead men are jostled aside to make
room for fustian comedy, and the end
comes as a merciful release.
William grossly overdoes his stuff,
with Bette Davis abetting. Alison Skip-
worth and Arthur Treacher are respon-
sible for the few bright moments. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Treachery Rides the Range”
Back to the painted Indian braves
and the flourished tomahawk goes this
film, though the. traditional cowboys have
been replaced by the good old troops
who ride forth from the stockade sing-
ing lustily to the accompaniment of an
ultra-modern symphony orchestra. It’s
a way they had in the. deserts.
The old colonel’s daughter, who bone-
headedly insists on coming through
Indian-infested country to see “pop,”
falls into the hands of a gang of vil-
lains who, to wipe out the protected
Spencer Tracy as the lynching victim
in “Fury.”
buffaloes, dress up as troopers and arouse
the. red men’s fury by killing Big Chief
Sitting Donk’s son. Big Chief hits the
warpath. But how can the troops dis-
cover where the colonel’s daughter is?
Simple. Who else could ride the death-
trail and let them know but a marcelled
crooner? It all comes right at the finish,
but not before divers galloping Indians
have nose-dived to the dust and many
whites have got their issue.
Dick Foran, when not crooning, is the
tight-lipped man of action. Paula Stone
just stands there with an awful, immov-
able imitation of a smile. Monte Blue
can be discerned beneath a bushel of
whiskers, and Craig Reynolds is a stage
villain. At Sydney Cameo.
“Piccadilly Jim”
Wodehouse’s scintillating comedy has
lost nothing in this screen version. Witty
dialogue abounds, and the gay plot un-
folds briskly yet smoothly. Acting is in
the hands of a capable sextet'. The
photography deserves a special word of
praise.
As the rising young caricaturist whose
love affair is complicated by the fact that
he has used the hostile family of his
girl friend as the subject of a comic strip,
Robert Montgomery gives a clinking per-
formance. Debonair, cheerful and con-
fident, he dashes with verve through a
part that is a gift for him. Eric Blore
as his “man” Bayliss finishes off Shak-
spearean quotations, assumes paternity
and mends socks all with the bland dig-
nity that has made him the screen’s No.
1 butler. Frank Morgan is a romantic,
young-old hamfat, father of Piccadilly
Jim, who assumes a Danish title in pur-
suance of his romance. He is at his best.
The feminine element is not quite so
strong, though Cora Witherspoon scores
as the dominating member of the Pett
family, who, shocked at first at the pub-
licity resulting from being caricatured,
later gush over the caricaturist and revel
in their new-found notoriety. Madge
Evans improves vastly on her previous
efforts, but that doesn’t make her first-
class. Billie Burke is fairly successful in
a sweetly timid role. At Sydney Prince
Edward.


Some First Nights
The first production of “The Sorcerer”
was an event at the. King’s, Melbourne.
“The Sorcerer” is all on the theme of
love, and when Gilbert dealt with
love he always became evasive. “The
Sorcerer” was probably too evasive, even
for mid-Victorian audiences, who pre-
ferred a hot romance or a good fruity
melodrama, just as do the modern play-
goers who are pouring into His Majesty’s
to hear Gladys Moncrieff and Charles
Heslop in “The Gipsy Princess.” Gil-
bert’s libretto concerns a family sorcerer
who gives a magic potion to the inhabi-
tants of an English village. They close
the first act by collapsing on the stage
at the wedding of Alexis, a Grenadier
Guardsman, to Aline, daughter of Lady
Sangazure. When the curtain rises they
rise too and fall into the arms of the
individual of the opposite sex nearest
them, irrespective of age, looks or social
position. Aline is hurrying to her hus-
band and falls in with the vicar. After
the usual Gilbertian situations have been
exhausted, the sorcerer disappears in
flames and the charm evaporates. Pro-
ducer Lennox Brewer made good use of
his opportunities.
The local performers did surprisingly
well, and, though the variety of costume
on the chorus might have given a J.C.W.
producer a twinge, the singing was com-
petent. Pauli Fiddian as the sorcerer
had evidently modelled himself on Ivan
Menzies, but was mercifully free from
that comedian’s passion for making a hit
at all costs, especially at W. S. Gilbert’s.
Violet Jackson sang well but acted with-
out enthusiasm as Aline, and Douglas
Peart gave an admirable tenor to the
Grenadier Guardsman and looked exactly
like an amateur guardsman looks. Frank
T. Brooks, as the vicar who is left out
of the love deal, was a tall, commanding
figure who carried more conviction be-
cause he indulged in less exaggeration
than the average professional interpreter
of G. and S. satirical characters.
The play was preceded by “Rosen-
crantz and Guildenstern,” a Tragic Epi-
sode in Three Tableaux. It was a queer
business.
•i* •b *J* 4*
“Fata Morgana,” by Ernest Vajda, a
Hungarian play, was produced by Brett
Randall at Melbourne Garrick. Psycho-
logically, the author’s characters are in-
teresting, but as translated this “sex
comedy” is difficult to put over. Back-
ground of this plot is a small village in
the Hungarian Puszta Plain. Everybody
except George, left at home to study,
has gone to a bail in the distant city.
George’s work is interrupted by the arri-
val of Mathilde, a relative whom he has
never met. She, with no morals and “hair
of a suspicious color,” makes short work
of his inhibitions. Next day, to Mathilde’s
husband, he feverishly shouts of his love
and demands a divorce so that he may
marry Mathilde. The experienced lady
soon fixes things and gets the unhappy
lad to swear he suffered from delusions.
Frank Jenkin played George acceptably,
and Irene Mitchell shouldered the
responsibilities of Mathilde in a capable
manner. Edith Bell’s artistry was dis-
cernible in her handling of the part of
George’s mother. Loveday Hills did very
well as a middle-aged relative, Rosalie,
but it’s a gem of a part. Helping the
atmospherics were young people in pic-
turesque Hungarian costumes and off-
stage noises of dogs barking and trains
puffing their way across the plain.
*1- H l* 'l* -s'
Herbert Davis, the Malvern Choral
Society, the Zelman Memorial Symphony
Orchestra and sundry soloists provided
an uninspiring evening at the Town Hall,
Melbourne, on Saturday when “The Can-
terbury Pilgrims” of Dr. George Dyson
was performed. It is based on the Tales
of Chaucer, and while the portraits of the
Knight, the Nun, the Clerk of Oxenford,
the Doctor of Physic, the Haberdasher
and the Wife of Bath made delightful
reading on the programme as a sort of
thirteenth-century Who’s Who of the
English people, there was neither drama
in them nor any connecting link between
the various selections. Probably for this
reason the chorus singing was slack and
timid. The prologue was well played by
the orchestra, but there was no variety
of contrasts in the rest of the proceedings
to keep the attention from wandering
back to the vivid words of Chaucer on
the programme. Muriel Cheek, Frank
Mithen and Newstead Rush have excel-
lent voices, and with the opportunities
provided by a “Messiah” or an “Elijah”
could have given a good account of them-
selves ; but their solos, for the most part,
resembled a series of musical recitations.
»I* •}• ■£• 4*
Edith Lanser, who gave a recital of
ballads at the Forum Club, Sydney, has a
sense of comedy and a pleasing voice
which she uses with a wealth of inflec-
tion. Two Spanish ballads, “The Singing
Mariner” and “Forsaken,” translations by
George Borrow, were splendidly de-
livered. One of the cleverest of her
numbers was “Sir Eglamour,” a satire
on early English chivalry.
Clement Hosking gave assistance with
two groups of folksongs from the Outer
Hebrides and the Isle of Lewis. His ex-
pressive basso-cantante was well suited
to the beautiful “Bens of Jura” and the
“Road to the Isles,” and Kennedy-
Fraser’s “Sea Tangle” was delivered with
a fine legato. “Island Moon,” in the
Lewis group, and the “Child Bridesmaid’s
Plaint” were fine examples of Celtic folk-
songs admirably sung.
•b
Noel Mewton-Wood, the 14-year-old
Melbourne pianist, added to his chances
of obtaining European polish by nearly
filling the Town Hall last week. He has
neither the platform ease, nor the
romantic appearance of Philip Har-
grave, but, like the Adelaide prodigy, he
has the faculty of focusing his attention
on the job he is doing and of accepting
an encore as an opportunity of playing
the next piece a little better than the last
one. His programme was exacting.
Starting with the Bach Chromatic Fan-
tasia and Fugue, he played that ornate
opus with remarkable confidence, master-
ing its problems with a skill as mature
as that of many older virtuosi. He was
less at home in the vigorous last move-
ment of the “Moonlight Sonata,” but
brought plenty of finesse to its placid
opening and the delightful allegretto. In
the middle of a Debussy suite he was
startled by applause, thought a moment,
got up and bowed politely and then
continued without losing his head about
it. After pieces by Chopin Noel surprised
some people by concluding the pro-
gramme with the Liszt “Campanella,”
which is as severe a test as any young
performer could give himself. He used
a piece by Scriabine to show that he is
a competent manipulator of pyrotechnics.
With Nance Osborne to sing it, he played
a song of his own composition. It
sounded like an intelligent exercise in
a sound tradition, and was quite as nice
to listen to as the coloratura stunt flights
of Bellini in which the singularly pure
and clear voice of Miss Osborne was
exhibited in the first part of the evening.
Current Artbursts
The best show of English etchings
ever staged in Sydney occupies a liberal
area of wall space in Anthony Horderns’
galleries. Art with a big A was at the
nadir of the London market when these
prints were bought, and prices are away
down, ranging from half a guinea to
four guineas for first-class work by the
topnotchers of the etching world. The
range is wide—golfing sketches by J. B.
Barclay; Scottish scenes by J. Macintosh
Patrick; vigorous figure studies by Lee
Hankey and Julius Komjati; architec-
tural glories limned by Garth Russell,
Albany Howarth and Leonard Beau-
mont ; Eileen Soper’s laughing children ;
sea pieces by Laurence Walker, Joseph
Gray and W. L. Wyllie; W. Walcot’s
fantasies ; the snappy line of David Rob-
ertson ; C. F. Tunnicliffe’s rural scenes ;
Malcolm Osborne’s impressive portraits,
and the sporting dogs of Vernon Stokes
figure in the collection, together with
work by Frank Brangwyn, Joseph Simp-
son, Frank Gillett, Louis Rosenberg,
Ernest Lumsden and E. Blampied. Among
the etchings and dry points have been
included, too, some exquisite miniature
steel engravings.
\
S.A. Society of Arts has an unusually
good spring show. Portrait-painting is
not yet S.A.’s strong suit; the Melrose
prize, founded to encourage it, goes this
year to Ivor Hele’s sound, if hard, por-
trait of Brewster Jones, the musician;
but Will Rowell’s Scotchman and Harry
Harrison’s red-shawled girl, both from
Vic., have a higher appeal. John Rowell’s
gay beach-crowd, too, is a kind of thing
that Adelaide hardly attempts. In land-
scape, Max Ragless has come on so
rapidly that the judges, awarding him
the annual prize, found that he has
already taken it as often as the condi-
tions allow, and so had to transfer the
honor to George Whinnen. Travis
Webber has been in Centralia, and his
resulting work ccfuld arguably be the best
painting in the room. Heysen has some
masterly charcoal drawings of the same
district. The veteran John White pro-
duces again his old-time wonderfully
effective idea of strong level light on
trees, with the lower part in shadow.
Buckmaster and Dora Wilson also have
charming ’scapes. Fruit or flowers (plus
glass or china) are as fine as usual, with
the versatile Whinnen and Buckmaster
leading.
S.A. State Gallery has bought a Heysen
charcoal, John Rowell’s lively impression
of ski-ing and some lino-cuts by Murray
Griffin and by Ethleen Palmer, of Sydney.
STEPHENSEN v. “THE BULLETIN” AND
PENTON.
The hearing of the N.S.W. Supreme Court action in which
P. R. Stephensen sued The Bulletin Newspaper Cos., G. F. L.
Bombelli and Brian Penton, claiming £SOOO damages for libel,
was concluded before Acting Justice Owen last week. The
jury found for the plaintiff; damages, £750. A stay of pro-
ceedings was granted.
As the case is of importance to all Australian newspapers
which go in for book reviews, and to reviewers and publishers,
“The Bulletin” is publishing an extensive report in two sections.
The concluding part will appear next week.
Mr. Piddington, K.C., appeared for
the plaintiff and put in a pamphlet by
D. H. Lawrence.
In his evidence-in-chief, plaintiff stated
that he was a B.A. of Queensland Univer-
sity and Queensland Rhodes scholar for
1924. At Queen’s College, Oxford, in
1927 he passed the final honors exami-
nation, with honors in Modern Greats,
but did not take the degree, the fee being
heavy. Afterwards he engaged in book-
publishing in London with Jack Lindsay,
son of Norman Lindsay, becoming Jack
Lindsay’s manager. Jack Lindsay traded
as the Fanfrolico Press. Penton, whom
he had known in Queensland, called on
several occasions and discussed Fan-
frolico publications “in a friendly
manner.” A girl employee complained
that Penton had “used insulting words
to her”; informed of the complaint,
Penton said “I will say what I like to
whomever I like,” and plaintiff “pushed
him outside the office,” saying “Don't
come back here again.” What the words
were plaintiff did not remember.
There was trouble over the publication
of Jack Lindsay’s translation of a Greek
book, with a foreword by Penton. Plain-
tiff objected to the foreword on the
ground that it “drew attention unneces-
sarily to the obscenities of the text.” He
left Jack Lindsay, and was succeeded in
the management of the Fanfrolico Press
by Penton. In London in 1931 he met
Norman Lindsay, and with that gentle-
man discussed the matter of a publishing
house in Australia. He arrived at Syd-
ney in October, 1932, having received at
Fremantle a telegram from Norman
Lindsay; at The Bulletin office he saw
Mr. S. H. Prior and “agreed to form a
publishing company and join forces with
The Bulletin.”
The company was called the Endea-
vour Press. Plaintiff became managing
director; the other directors were S. H.
Prior (after his decease, Cecil Mann),
H. K. Prior, G. L. Bombelli (works man-
ager for The Bulletin) and Norman
Lindsay. He entered upon his duties in
November, 1932. One of the books he
published was Pageant, of which before
he left The Bulletin about 5000 copies
had been sold. Another popular book
was The Animals Noah Forgot, by A. B.
Paterson, with illustrations by Norman
Lindsay ; concerning this he complained
to Bombelli and to his fellow-directors
that it was “disgracefully printed.” Bom-
belli said it was “well printed: you
know nothing about printing” ; to which
plaintiff replied, “It is my job to know
something about printing.” He com-
plained also to fellow-directors that
“there was not a sufficient number of
books being turned out to make a profit.”
Correspondence was here produced.
His Honor said he had read it; plaintiff
criticised the get-up of some books; his
criticism was objected to “in fairly strong
terms” ; plaintiff replied that it might be
better if he resigned.
Continuing his evidence, plaintiff said
that his engagement was terminated, the
announcement being made in a Bulletin
paragraph the terms of which were
arranged by agreement between Mr. H.
K. Prior and himself. Plaintiff set up in
business as a book-publisher in Bond-
street. He published three books, one
of which was Teens Triumphant, by
Louise Mack. It had fairly good sales.
In January, 1934, he formed the business
into P. R. Stephensen and Cos., Ltd. ; he
was chairman of directors and managing
director, and he had one co-director —
Mr. Lamont, an architect. Plaintiff had
the whole practical conduct of the busi-
ness. He accepted Mezzomorto for pub-
lication. It appeared in September, 1934.
In the previous June or July the En-
deavour Press had published Land takers,
by Brian Penton. Of Mezzomorto a first
edition of 2000 copies was printed, and
the type was kept standing for further
reprints, if necessary. An article appeared
in The Bulletin on October 10, 1934.
Plaintiff’s counsel put in a typescript
with signature of “Conn Bennett,” and
said it had been admitted that the initials
“C.M.” on galley proofs were those of
Cecil Mann, editor of the Red Page.
Plaintiff, proceeding, said that October
and November were the best months in
which to sell books. From September
10 to October 1 about 500 copies of
Mezzomorto were sold, and during
October an additional 80 copies in round
figures, most of them in the first fort-
night. Not more than 30 were sold
during November and December. In
January the company went into liquida-
tion. With regard to a pamphlet, “Por-
nography and Obscenity,” by D. H.
Lawrence, he had seen it offered for sale
in Sydney bookshops.
Cross-examined by Mr. Curtis, K.C. (for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.), plaintiff
said he had read The Bulletin article
the day it was published. He, took it as a
reflection on himself as a publisher, and
regarded one portion of it as setting out
that he had published something that was
not fit to publish. He realised then, and
must have realised by December 5, that
the criticism had wrecked the sale of
the book.
Mr. Curtis: Do you remember what
you wrote to Mr. Prior on December 5?
Did you write this: “Dear Mr. Prior, l under-
stand you are going to bring out Ambrose
Pratt’s book and Dr. Basedow’s book, both
of which I was not able to do in time”? What
did you mean by “in time”? —Under the terms
of my contract.
Did you mean because your company had
failed?—No. I could see that my company
would fail by December 5.
You must have felt very bitter that the En-
deavour Press had, as the agent for The Bulle-
tin, set out to ruin you?—I did feel rather
resentful.
Did you write this on December 5 when you
have told us you knew the book had failed
and you put it down to the criticism, “1 sin-
cerely wish you the best of success with these
books, and 1 hope that the Endeavour Press
will continue to prosper”? —As a Christmas
greeting to Mr. Prior personally.
You mean it? —I mean it. 1 thought they
had me beaten.
Had things gone badly with you prior to
October 10? —Not hopelessly so.
Did you write this: “Things are not going
well with me. I may have to shut up shop
soon and possibly return to England, but in
any case I feel it was worth my while to come
out here as I did and do my bit as well as
1 could”?- —Yes, now that you read it to me.
The Bulletin gave you how many shares? —
Two thousand five hundred were divided be-
tween me and Norman Lindsay.
Did not you part on perfectly friendly terms?
—With Mr. Prior, yes.
After you left you started to publish other
works. Will you deny that from time to time
those publications were reviewed quite favor-
ably by The Bulletin? —None of them had
a big review.
Mezzomorto was printed for P. R. Stephen-
sen and Co., Ltd.? —That is so.
They would get the profits, if any, and beat
the losses, if any?—That is so.
When you were in London with the Fan-
frolieo Press did you not handle a translation
oi rropertius by Jack Lindsay?—Yes, I
handled some, portion of it. They were all
sold before I joined the Fanfrolico Press.
There were some in the office that still had to
be delivered to subscribers.
Do you as a publisher think it is quite fit for
private circulation? —Certainly it is.
Have you yourself published works of Law-
rence? —Of D. H. Lawrence, yes.
The same man about whom you now make
the complaint?—Yes.
You published a treatise by Lawrence de-
fending Lady Chatterley’s Lover /’--—Describing.
You know that bo.ok, Lady Chatterley’s
Lover ? —I have no knowledge of it at all.
Have you never read it? —No, I have never
read it. I understand there are two distinct
versions. I have read one of them.
Have you expressed an opinion in “The
Foundations of Culture in Australia” in re-
spect of D. H. Lawrence and Lady Chatter-
ley’s Lover? —Yes.
Then you have read it? —There are two
editions of that, I understand.
Which are you referring to, the expurgated
or the unexpurgated?—The expurgated.
Did you express the opinion that the ban-
ning of it here in Australia was on silly moral
grounds? —No.
Will you look at your own words “Banned
on a silly moral ground”?—I think as you
put the question you have misrepresented what
1 have stated here. The whole paragraph
should be read; three words are meaningless.
(To be continued).


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... frong 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
k
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
lfi rage Buying and
Selling List Pree.
Pistablished 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Queen Victoria Club drank a cup
of tea in honor of Premier Stevens’s wife
during the week. The party was held
at the. Australia, and the frocks of the
guests vied in gayness with the flowers
that decorated the ballroom. The presi-
dent, Mrs. Percy White, assisted by Mrs.
F. Sutton and Miss Shaw-Smith, received
the guests. Mrs. Stevens’s frock was of
black satin ; her black hat wore a bunch
of flowers at the front of its rather flat-
fish crown. Blue-and-white spotted
georgette was worn by daughter Lorna.
After the welcome speeches Mrs. Stevens
told of her visit to the home of Lady
Game, and with what pride our ex-
Governor’s wife showed her a corner of
her garden where Australia’s white
flannel-flowers swayed in the breeze. As
is usual with this club’s parties, the music
was a feature of the afternoon. Among
the guests were. Adelaide’s Major Owen’s
wife. She came with the Parker lady.
Thelma Houston’s amber boucle en-
semble was worn with amethyst acces-
sories.
Interesting arrivals in Sydney last week
were the lan Bowaters. Mrs. Bowater
is the daughter of Viscount Dawson of
Penn, who was physician to King George
V. The couple made many friends on a
previous visit to Sydney about seven
years ago. Mrs. Bowater is keenly inter-
ested in baby welfare, and during her
stay in Maoriland on her way here she
visited many of the Karitane (baby) hos-
pitals. She knows a lot about the work,
as her mother pioneered Truby King
methods in England. Mr. and Mrs.
Bowater go to Melbourne for the
Cup. In November she will leave in the
Maloja, reaching England in time to
spend Christmas with her small girl Susan
and the baby Michael. Mr. Bowater will
stay in Australia several months.
The garden party given by Dr. Panico,
the Apostolic Delegate, was a friendly
affair of informal dress. The lawns were
bathed in sunshine. The host, his Vati-
can purple robes a splash of glowing
color against the blue of sky and the.
green of tree and grass, received his
guests on the drive in front of the Dele-
gation. From the top terrace came music
from thie Westmead Boys’ Band, and from
the square porch of the Delegation, with
its yellow and white drapings, the music
of singing voices and of violin and piano.
The Provincials of the various orders
came. Monsignor King and Monsignor
Haydon were there. Father Thompson,
rector of St. John’s (within the Uni.),
Dr. Nevin, director of Manly College,
and Dr. Giles were among the well-
knowns. Dr. and Mrs. W. Burfitt were
early arrivals ; so were Barbara and Hilda
Lane Mullins. Papal Knight John Lane
Mullins was a late one. The yellow and
white of her Papal decoration flashed
against Miss Kate Egan’s black suit.
Knight John McKelvey, his wife and
Marie O’Brien were a trio who had tea
together just outside the beflagged mar-
quee. Captain H. V. Robinson (he repre-
sented the Governor, Sir Murray Ander-
son), the Consul-General for Italy, Dr.
Vita-Finzi, and his vivacious-looking
wife drank theirs in company with the
Apostolic Delegate at a table in the
middle of a sun-drenched lawn. Here,
too, sat Dr. O’Shea, the archbishop-elect
of Wellington (M.L.), L. A. Robb and the
Attorney-General, H. E. Manning. The
T. H. Kellys came, the blue of Mrs.
Kelly’s laces rivalling the summer sky.
With them she wore a tiny black hat
wreathed in blue flowers. Two of the
ladies of the Grail were there, Dr. Van
Kersbergen and Miss C. Bouman. So
were Mr. Justice McTiernan and the
Greg McGirrs ; Mrs. McGirr’s black-and-
silver frock was worn with a brimmed
black hat.
The fame of Sister Kenny’s methods
will soon be world-wide. China and
the U.S.A. are anxious to form clinics.
Months ago in England the Rodney Gar-
deners heard about the method and
brought their small child to Australia for
treatment. Now they are so delighted
with what has been done for her that
Sister Kenny and two nurses are to go
to England in April next with Mrs.
Gardener, all expenses paid. The only
condition is that the nurses stay two
years. This ‘ does not apply to Sister
Kenny. Mr. Gardener, who has returned
to England, reports that already there
are 15 applications for admission to the
private clinic he has promised to finance.
Rodney Gardener and his father belong
to Yardley’s.
This youngster, Moya Beaver, with
the garlanded head is taking the. lead in
“Rococo,” which will be produced by
the Burlakov-Lightfoot First Australian
Ballet to-night. The music, by Rameau,
has been arranged by Haagen Hollen-
berg.
A string of electrics blazed the way to
the'Nieuw Holland and the dance in
aid of the Sister Kenny Clinic Hostel
at the North Shore Hospital, North
Sydney. Red, white and blue, from
stern to bow, up and across the
masts, they rose high out of the shadows
of the wharf, and against the night dark-
ness looked like some fantastic sign sus-
pended in the heavens. At the wharf lay
the all-white liner, the lap-lap of the
water against her sides almost dead-
ened by the band. Bunting and flags en-
closed the decks. Bowls of flowers were
bright spots in the lounges.
The K.P.M. had lent the boat, and
general-manager A. Bakker stood with
Mrs. David Knox to receive the guests
(the Snowden lady, president of the ball
committee, came on after the Tasmanian
dinner). Mrs. Bakker’s short taffeta coat
was one of the most joyous sights of
the night. It was of red-white-and-blue-
check taffeta and had a tiny basque. Mrs.
Knox’s garden-flower earrings matched
the cream roses and nasturtiums in the
muff she wore on her left arm. Her
dull-amethyst crepes were trained. Un-
conscious that she was the most-pointed-
out of the night, Sister Kenny walked
serene in magnolia satins, red roses in
her hand, an ostrich-feather wrap about
her shoulders. The Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
George A. Parkes) and Mrs. Rodney
Gardener were other importants. Tall
Archie Ranken (Newcastle) squired
daughter Margaret to the shivoo. Dr. E.
Harrison, medical superintendent of the
clinic, brought Mrs. Harrison. The choice
of Mrs. Bernard Shuter, vice-president of
the dance, was admirable. She wore
hydrangea-blue crepes with jet acces-
sories. Mrs. G. Bertinshaw, Mrs. F. W. R.
Bradock and Mrs. E. Esdaile were mem-
bers of one of the happiest groups in
the. boat. Health Minister Fitzsimons
and Mrs. Fitzsimons, the Consul-General
for the Netherlands and Mrs. Elink
Shuurman, Mrs. Pierrepont Moffat, wife
of America’s Consul-General, Mrs. Toby
Browne and Mrs. G. L. Barker were all
there. Sister Marie Eade’s taffetas (she
was dance secretary) were coin-spotted
and had a row of daisies at neck and
waist, and medico David Knox saw that
the girl patients from the clinic (they
were the guests of Sister Kenny) had
front seats when a trip through Java was
screened.
Miss Gertrude Drayton, at present
visiting Sydney, is the general secretary
of the Victoria League in London, a
position she has held for 20 years. This,
her first visit to Australia, was made at
the invitation of the league’s S.A.
branch, for the centenary celebrations.
Before returning to England she will
attend the conference of all Australasian
league branches —to be held at Hobart
in January.
Members of the Victoria League, their
cousins and their aunts turned up to its
party at Elizabeth Bay House for
Gertrude Drayton on Thursday. The
league’s parties are famous for their
dressing, but for this one the rooms
were so crowded that hat brims and the
tips of noses were all that could be
seen by the latecomer. As many as could
squeezed into the ballroom to hear what
the tall, slim, fair figure in its blue-
and-white printed silk frock had to say
about the league’s activities. Miss
Sibella MacArthur Onslow introduced
the speaker. The speech was short. Its
finish was the signal for all the 400
to start talking at once. Even the com-
ing of tea didn’t deaden the noise. At
five o’clock long, slim cars drew up,
good-byes were said, and one of the.
nicest parties of the week was over.
In the groups that stayed awhile in
the quietened rooms were Hugh Deni-
son’s lady, whose black suit had its
sleeves braided in white silk, George
Fuller’s lady in beige with navy-blue ac-
cessories, Beulah Bolton, Mrs. Harrie
Vale, Mrs. Norman Lowe, Mrs. Roy-
stone Davey and Miss Agnes McMahon.
And Edmund Barton’s widow made one
of her very rare appearances.
This is Ruth Allen, only daughter of
the Fred Allens, of Point Piper, who
sails on the Oronsay on October 24 for
Colombo, where her marriage to Mr.
Tom Wilson will take place. Mrs. Allen
is accompanying her daughter. Dorothy
Welding photograph.
The grey skies and ruffling water took
nothing from the brilliance of the open-
ing of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squad-
ron on Saturday. Rather did they throw
into relief the summery frocking of
many of the women and the vividness
of the vermilion chairs and tables against
the emerald green of the lawns. There
was a band. A north-easterly blew,
flags and pennants fluttered, the sails
of the yachts billowed as they tacked
down the harbor.
The Governor-General made his first
appearance as commodore of the squad-
ron. After being welcomed, he went a
short cruise on vice-commodore Paul
Ross’s Sayonara. Visitors gathered on
the verandah of the clubhouse and on
the lawns to watch the races. There was
great excitement when Chione beat Mia
in the S.A.S.C. event. Inside the club
flowers bloomed in every corner, on
mantelpiece, table and cabinet. Gladiolus,
delphinium, snapdragon, watsonia and
hippeastrum, rhododendron and hy-
drangea made colorful and fragrant
decoration. Every committeewoman
wore orchids. These came from the
gardens of yachtsman Dick Olds, as
did the marvellous sprays that had been
handed to Mrs. Milsom and the still
more marvellous sprays that had been
sent to Lady Gowrie to console her for
not being able to be present.
Mrs. Paul Ross’s black frock had a
white bow at the neck, her black
hat one at the front of its crown.
Mrs. Don Taylor’s dusty-pink suit
was worn with a tobacco-brown blouse ;
her jaunty tam hat with its white
wing ornament was in the same shade.
Mrs. Harry Cohen wore black-and-white
printed crepes. The three brothers Spain
were there, Colonel Alfred accompanied
by his wife. Judge Backhouse was one
of the enthusiasts. The John Banks
couple had to leave early. The Charles
Lloyd Joneses brought Coochin Coochin’s
Eileen Bell and her mother. Group Cap-
tain and Mrs. Cole motored down from
Richmond and the George Hoskin
couple and daughter Barbara from
Bathurst for the afternoon’s aquatic
event. Mrs. Hoskin’s frock of leaf-green
crepes was patterned in white. Her
white baku hat was banded in green and
red. Daughter Barbara was attractive in
flowered chiffons. Mrs. Dan Kelly was
smartness in black and white. Mrs. C.
Plowman wore a navy reefer coat with
her white skirt. George Fuller’s lady sat
with Mrs. Gwen Wharton and Mrs. Lus-
combe Newman.
The man who “discovered” the gym-
nasium at the party on the Ceramic let
everything else go by the board. What
cared he if the cocktails went round and
round and the band’s invitation to the
waltz was left unheeded! He had a full
physical course during the afternoon. He
tried the punching ball ; he swung
the clubs, and he got the instructor to turn
on the massage machine, which he de-
clared good. He rode the bicycle and
tested the rowing-boat. Vainly his wife
murmured something about a dinner en-
gagement. At the end he suggested hav-
ing a swim, only to be told the pool
wasn’t filled.
In the meantime, the party was going
merrily on in the lounges and in the
verandah cafe. Summery dresses and
large-brimmed hats were worn, but
Mrs. J. O. Meeks’s hat was small, black
and boatlike, and had an ostrich
feather that curled on to her neck. Ship-
ping man T. S. Gordon and his wife
gathered a happy group in their corner
of the lounge. The party, billed “from
five to seven,” was still going strong at
half-past seven. Nobody wanted to go
home. The only tired people in the
ship were its Commander, Captain H. C.
Elford, E. A. Eva, general manager of
the line, and Dalgety’s representative,
H. W. Richards. They had borne the
burden of the day, having stood at the
top of the gangway and welcomed every
one. of the guests.
Lady Murray Anderson and Emeritus
Professor Francis Anderson struck the
same note at the annual meeting of the
Girl Guide Association. Both think that
the future peace of the world lies in the
hands of Youth. Lady Anderson, who
is the State president, said: “To me, the
Girl Guide and Boy Scout movements
stand for the great hope in the world
for peace,” and the professor said: “One
of the most hopeful signs for the future
peace of the world is in the Youth
movement.”
The meeting took place in the Confer-
ence Hall of the State Shopping Block,
and after being welcomed by Edgeworth
David’s widow, who is State Commis-
sioner, the vice-regal lady drew a vivid
picture of the work of the Girl Guide in
the cold outpost of Newfoundland.
They might have been a chorus of
Greek maidens when Athens was in full
flower. They were a company of young
Australian womanhood, 180 of them,
and they marched, danced and mimed
on the sward about Mrs. Macquarie’s
Chair. The girls are student members of
the League of Health and Beauty. They
went barefoot, they were costumed in
black-and-white and they were led by
their instructress, Thea Hughes. There
was an enormous gallery to this out-of-
doors demonstration of graceful well-
being. The Y.A.L. Band, brave in dark-
blue-and-red uniforms, made the music.
Ruth Ainsworth, who has been study-
ing abroad, is back in Sydney. She went
to the Sussex Downs to learn weaving
from an Englishwoman famed for her
design. After that came some months
in St. Ives, working at pottery under
the direction of Bernard Leach, who
knows the art of Asia as intimately
as that of his own England. Hand-
blocked textiles engaged this eager
traveller’s attention also. Examples of
her pottery were accepted by the Art
Schools and Industries Exhibition. Her
studies took her to Moly Sabata, a
large house belonging to the French
artist Gleize. This is at Sablons in the
Rhone Valley. The house is always
filled with artists and musicians anxious
to live the simple life. Anne Dangar, a
Sydney artist, is one of this little colony.
She grows all her own vegetables, is
looking well, and has a glowing com-
plexion. Meals at Sablons consist of
fruit and vegetables. When water is
needed it is drawn from the pump.
Horace Keats has written three num-
bers of a song cycle interpreting verses
by Chris Brennan. Sydney de Vries is
to sing the cycle as soon as the set is
complete.


THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“77ie Macleod Gallery
252 George Street (near Bridge Street).
SPECIAL EXHIBITION OF
PAINTINGS
by Donald Commons.
ADMISSION FREE.
The New Sensational
NAXON
ELECTRIC
WASHING MACHINE
Washes the entire family's wearing
apparel. The first standard type port-
able washer that washes efficiently.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Finish: Double-coated green por-
celain enamel.
Water Capacity: S gallons.
Clothes Capacity: 21b. (dry).
Overall Height: 20in. (with cover).
Price, £lO/10/-.
AMPLION (A/SIA), LTD.,
60 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
Roses rambling profusely over the
fences provided most of the color at the
Moonee Valley Cup meeting. Dressing
was sombre, with furs and tailored suits,
lightweight coats over silk frocks, occa-
sionally bright gloves and quite often
bits and pieces of organdie on hats or
clustered close to necks. An unusual di-
version before the steeplechase was the
parade of Alan Cooper’s Talking, the
most-talked-of-horse in Australia to-day.
In single file, with the clerk of the
course first, Talking next, then his stable
pal Grand Mogul and lastly a mounted
trooper, the procession walked half a
mile down the track so that everybody
could have a look at £19,000 worth of
horseflesh. Afterwards Talking and
Grand Mogul gave an exhibition nose-
to-nose gallop once round the course.
Racing folk were pleased to see Mrs.
A. V. Hiskens, who has been absent
from meetings for over a year. She was
accompanied by her daughter, Mrs.
Ronald Irving. In the stand together
were Marjorie Clarke and her guest for
the racing season, Marjorie Wilson,
daughter of the Governor of Queens-
land. Miss Wilson is having a look at
all the capitals before boarding the
Ceramic for England early in December.
Faith Power’s dress of dark-grey tweed
had an organdie neckpiece, and was ac-
companied by a square-rigged black
taffeta hat. Edric Henty wore a green
hat, and his wife’s dress notion was a veil
of spotty mesh drawn tightly across her
face and pinned at the nape of her neck
in accordance with the traditions of the
early nineteen hundreds.
Lady Huntingfield, who in a light
drizzle of rain presented the gold
trophies for the Cup and the W. S. Cox
Stakes, wore black with red bag and
gloves. Among those who found use for
their popular grey coats and skirts were
Mrs. Snowy Russell, who wore hers with
navy blue, Mary Baillieu, whose blouse
was of London-tan, and Phyllis Mein,
whose blouse was of white chiffon and
lace. A honeymoon couple from Perth
were the Frank Boans, she in a silver
fox and suit of mole tweed. With her
black coat over a black-and-white frock
Mrs. Arthur Bunning wore a giddy little
flower-pot hat trimmed with a tuft of
fluffy veil.
It was all in order that the Governor
and Lady Huntingfield took no risks
about the weather at their reception given
principally for the mayors and mayoresses,
presidents and secretaries of the shires
and boroughs, with a sprinkling of poli-
ticians and their wives. The promise
made by the warmest morning we have
had this season was not fulfilled, the day
finishing with grey skies and coolish
wind. Chairs were placed on the main
lawn and in the fountain garden, but
guests assembled in the drawing-room
and filed through to the ballroom for the
official reception. Handshakes and inde-
terminate “bobs” (this ritual can be classi-
fied as neither curtsy nor bow) from
the womenfolk took only half an hour,
after which everybody gathered round
trestle tables for tea.
Frank Clarke was there with his lady,
who wore one of the few really summery
frocks. It was of chiffon, in a soft shade
of mushroom-pink.
Stanley Argyle was present with his
wife, who was in black with gardenias.
Mrs. H. H. Olney wore pecan-beige crepe
and a tiger-lily. Tall Mrs. W. Kent
Hughes, accompanied by her taller hus-
band, was in navy and a wide-brimmed
hat. The Trevor Oldham couple were
there, she in a frock of bud-green mate-
lasse, for which both corsage and skirt
featured narrow knife-pleatings. H. I.
Cohen, the lump on his forehead settled
down to normal again, was back in his
usual form.
Here is Mrs. John Dye, who with her
husband is leaving on November 7 for
Nassau, in the West Indies, with one
month in the U.S.A. en route. Parties
are falling thick and fast around Uncle
Sam’s departing Consular pair. The
popular couple have dwelt in many in-
teresting places. Married in Smyrna,
they lived in Turkey and Damascus,
and afterwards in Cape Town and Port
Elizabeth. Mr. Dye held a diplomatic
position in Mexico, after which he was
transferred to Montreal, later sojourning
in Wellington, M.L., and Melbourne.
Mrs. Dye, who is by birth an Italian, ex-
pects to find Nassau far hotter than
Mexico, where her home was situated in
such a high altitude that June was the
only disagreeable month. The couple
have four sons, one of whom is remain-
ing with an oil co. in Melbourne. The
other three (two of whom are in
America) will join the Minnesota to con-
tinue studies for their respective profes-
sions. Broothorn made the portrait.
The Gunners’ Ball, voted by the lucky
people asked to it the best ball of the
year, took place on its usual site, the. St.
Kilda Town Hall. Lord Huntingfield
was not well enough to attend, but Lady
Huntingfield came and was entertained
on the presidential carpet by Colonel
and Mrs. W. H. St. Clair. To keep him
from falling into idle habits, Major W. S.
Scrivenor, who engineered the first six
of these dances, was made C.O. of the
reception committee. The Major, who
is Deputy-Director of Medical Services,
never goes near a racecourse, but he had
a lucky bet on the Caulfield Cup, taking
a chance on Northwind for the sake of
his old battery, the 18th, of which
Colonel Harold Cohen (the owner of
Northwind) was C.O.
General Johnston, asked to pick out
some of his “boys,” first gave the chilly
information that they were all dead, but
later discovered a heap of them, includ-
ing Colonel Dave Blake (“of the P. 8.1.
and proud of it” until he joined the
R.A.F.), Lieut.-Col. Beavis and Major
Milford. General M. O. Phillips and
General Blarney, snatching a stirrup cup
together, swore to the truth of a story
that in London during the war they were
always taken for brothers, and once by
a waiter for twin brothers. General
Phillips’s loss of his moustache and a
couple of stone in weight explains present
facial dissimilarities.
Colonel Mathews, who used to be with
the R.A.E., astonished his pals by bring-
ing along an almost grown-up daughter,
Rosemary. Among other feminine guests
(none of whom, incidentally, recognised
the tune of “Officers’ Wives Have Pud-
dings and Pies,” the trumpet call for
supper) were Mrs. H. R. Troedel, in
ivory overrun with silver, Elaine Knox
Knight, also in white and silver, Mrs.
Frank Lukis, in black tulle, Mrs. Teddy
Milford, in black net stitched with white,
Mrs. Scrivenor, in navy-blue moire made
with full skirt and narrow shoulder
straps, and Mrs. Paddy Moore, in sky-
blue satin. She and Captain Moore are
getting ready to pack, having been given
notice of their transfer to Sydney.
The cocktail-party is a whisk of social
activity which starts new friendships and
sometimes is the signal for picking up
old ones. At Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Keat-
ing’s at-home last week Mrs. Loftus Hills
and Sydney and Trevor Hedberg, of Mel-
bourne, drank a glass of sherry to cele-
brate their first meeting since kindergarten
days in Tasmania, when they shared one
another’s barley-sugar and peppermint
humbugs. Mrs. Loftus Hills, who is
down for the races with her husband,
wore a new line of thought in millinery:
her tall black hat had a silk bell-pull
tassel dangling from the crown. Mrs.
Hedberg was in silver foxes, gardenias
and a visor-brimmed black beret. Guest
of honor at the party was Biddy Cum-
mins, of Adelaide. Present also were Mr.
and Mrs. William Mortill, who are much
in request helping everybody with the
pronunciation of the names of dancers
in the Russian Ballet. (Mr. Mortill, who
is an Australian, has learnt a little Rus-
sian from his wife.) An interesting guest
was Best Overend, whose design for an
unsupported concrete staircase is causing
a ripple of interest among architects and
engineers. For some time this tall, clever
young architect has argued with himself
—Why use concrete according to the
limitations which must be made for
stone? His first standing-alone staircase
will be in use in a few weeks’ time when
a block of bachelor flats open in Nichol-
son-street.
The Navy League Bali takes place at
Earl’s Court on November 4. Here is
Mrs. P. E. Phillips, who for the second
year in succession has been elected presi-
dent of the committee. The Navy League
gathers funds towards providing equip-
ment for the lads of 10 to 17 who are
being trained in the theory, practice and
traditions of the Australian Navy. A
Broothorn camera caught this glimpse.
Place-cards decorated with an original
drawing of a quaint infant by Joan
Stanley and carrying the message “The
Babies of the Broadmeadows Foundling
Hospital thank you for coming” were
souvenirs from the Broadmeadows Ball
at the Embassy. The effort is an annual
one to help small citizens aged between
a few hours (when sometimes they are
planted on the home’s doorstep) and two
years. Lucille Meehan and Eileen Crispe
were joint ticket secs. Ena and Pauline
McNamara helped the profits by selling
lucky envelopes and lucky rosebuds
which contained claims to such things as
a bottle of whisky or champagne, a per-
manent wave, silk stockings or theatre
tickets. Julie Murphy, recently returned
from England and America, wore a gown
of ruby-red velvet with a long trained
cloak of the same rich material. Mrs.
Barney Kiernan chose navy-blue velvet,
Mrs. Roy Cahir black lace, and Muriel
Warden, of Geelong, lilac chiffon. Tynka
Lucini was in a foamy frock of palest-
pink tulle.
Guests gathered in Melbourne
Grammar School chapel for the mar-
riage of Madge Calder and John Gowan
found themselves anxiously looking at
their watches before the bride arrived.
With a time limit for officiating padres
to remember, an 8.45 wedding and a late
bride, there was some cause for concern.
Everybody breathed more easily when
there was at last a rustle of white satin
and tulle in the doorway. The reception
at No. 9 took place in an atmosphere
of informality, the leading ladies and
gentlemen occupying a special table, the
other guests sitting or standing as they
felt inclined. Speeches by the ’groom
and the best man, Harley Johnston, were
well sauced with humor, and there were
loads of cheery telegrams to be read
from absentees. After a honeymoon of
golf and surfing in Sydney the newly-
married pair will return to settle in a flat
among their wedding presents and the
antique furniture and old china which
they have collected piece by piece.
One of the week’s welcomes to
Catherine, Sheila and Jane Goulding was
a late-afternoon party given by Mr. and
Mrs. Jack Goulding. The three just-
returned travellers had a wonderful 18
months abroad. Sheila and Jane found
most attractions in London, but Catherine
preferred the Continent, and spent five
months staying with Hungarian friends
in Hungary. For the party she wore a
plainly-cut frock of black crepe vanessa,
Sheila had a dash of brick-red on her
black dress, and Jane tied a brown
ribbon round her head and buckled up
her floral gown with an ornamental piece
of Chinese silver.
Among guests was Mrs. Keith White-
head, who came down from Urana for
the marriage of her brother-in-law, Ralph
Whitehead, to Mary Carroll. Others
present included engaged couple Dorothy
Tutton and Arthur Prytz, Mr. and Mrs.
D. H. Dureau, Ruth Bullen, in a very
attractive suit of blue lacquered cloque,
Pat Van Cooth with emerald-green studs
on navy blue, a group of medicoes, Jack
Cockerill, Len Johnson and Jim Byrne,
and Dr. and Mrs. Charles Byrne, who
since they have started to keep horses
look upon Sunday as the best day of
the week, for they go out riding all day
with their children.
On the first night of “Fata Morgana”
the people behind the footlights were
much gayer than those on the house
side. While the stage was colorful with
Hungarian costumes the audience, mind-
ful of the. patter of rain without,
wrapped itself up in the kind of wintry
wear that has already been through a
rainy season. The Alan Brockhoffs were
there, she in loops of silver foxes. The
Herbert Hookes were front-seaters,
Helene Jacoby pushed a rose behind
her ear, and black velvet and pearls be-
longed to Lynette Young.
On a drizzly, chilly afternoon Lord
Huntingfield laid the foundation stone
of the new Union House. The stone is
secured by a special mechanism of bolts
and rivets, precautions being a result of
the lesson learned a few weeks ago when
the foundation stone of the Women s
College disappeared and when found in
a near-by paddock was tattooed with an
inartistic skull and crossbones.
Legs are to be very much in evidence
on the beach this year. Bathing wraps
have crept upwards to stop at about
fingertip length. Sometimes they are in
wool of the same fancy stitch as the suit
beneath ; others in cotton are appliqued
with fish, sea plants or crazy crabs.
Shorts are almost being pushed out of
the beach parades by the cunningly-
pleated divided skirt, which is accom-
panied by either a bolero and suntop or
a flyaway coat. The halter neck cord
clings to swimming-suits, which may be
any blend of colors. The little flared
skirts, detachable or otherwise, don’t seem
to have survived from last season. Most
costumes are brief and firmly fitting.
Almost as tactless as saying “dogs” to
a huntsman or “sticks” to a golfer is
talking about “toe-dancing” to a member
of the Russian Corps de Ballet. The
technically-minded call it “sur les
pointes,” and those who don’t want any
criticism of accent are safe in “points of
the toes.”


The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL LIONEL FREDERICK SMITH, for-
merly of Glenlee and Tarranyurk, in the
of Victoria, Farm Laborer, and of Staweli, in
the said State, Telephone Linesman
Laborer, and of Warracknabeal, Ararat an
Hamilton, all in the said State, Salesman, las
heard of as residing at Hamilton aforesaic
and in the employ of Cox Brothers (Australia),
Limited, as manager of a drapery establishment
at Hamilton aforesaid in September ana
October, 1932, or anyone knowing his wnere-
abouts, please communicate at once win
MESSRS. TURNER & HOBDAY, Solicitors,
Nhill, Victoria?
JOYCE, EDWARD, born about 1855 at Sand-
ridge, Victoria. Would this person, descendants
or any person knowing past or
abouts, communicate with BERRIGAN, Solici-
tor, South Melbourne, Vic., to their advantage.
THE undersigned are desirous of obtaining
information as to the date and place of death
of JAMES AUBREY FLEMING, . who left
Sydney in about the year 1880, and is believed
to have died in Victoria or South Australia
about the year 1898, being then about 50 years
ROBSON & COWLISHAW,
Solicitors,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
DENNING HOWARD, last heard of near
Adelaide in December, 1934, selling soap sticks
“On the Spot,” please communicate with
Advertiser, c/o The Bulletin Office, 252
George-street, Sydney.
ALLEN, FREDERICK ROBERT, age 49 fex-
A.1.F.), assistant Major Hewitt, of Lever Bros.,
Solomon Islands, 1909, born Cricklewood,
London, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
will hear something to his advantage. Com-
municate WOOD & ARMSTRONG, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO VERNER VON HEIDENSTAMM
ECKARDT of 63 Lakkagt Oslow Norway.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of EFFIE MAY ECKARDT of 256
York Street Launceston in the State of Tas-
mania praying for a dissolution of marriage
In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid within four calendar months
after the 15th day of September 1936 an appear-
ance must be entered at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart.
R. G. BINGHAM, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1037 of 1936.
BETWEEN LOUISA GUILBERT (formerly
Louisa Taylor) Petitioner
And HENRY VINING GUILBERT Re-
spondent.
TO HENRY VINING GUILBERT late of
Railway Heights Casino New South Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said LOUISA
GUILBERT has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of January One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of October,
a.d. 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
COOK & SEDGWICK, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Casino, N.S.W.; by their Sydney
Agent, F. E. McELHONE, Solicitor, 3 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Sezvina #
SeftvinG ike Stale
%
1
on
" Serving You ”... the bank has been
intimately associated with the aspirations,
the plans, the problems and the progress
of the individual. It has financed, advised
and assisted thousands in the realisation
of their aims.
“ Serving the State ”... the Bank has
encouraged and assisted better farming,
increased the value of homes and holdings,
and contributed materially to rural and
urban development in general.
Service has no more practical interpreta-
tion, and the Rural Bank welcomes the
support which makes it possible.
Interest bearing fixed deposits are ac-
cepted and cheque accounts opened at all
branches throughout the State.
<llllll 11H»/IS*
Head Office : 14 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Sydney Branch : 350 George Street, (Opp.
Wynyard Street.)
Commissioners :
C. R. McKerihan (President) : H. Rogers, P. Kearns
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Dickson-Sparke wedding sent
scores of cars speeding from Perth and
the environs of the Avon to Trinity
Church, York, where arum-lilies and
large pink bows decked the altar and
aisle. Bride Betty’s slinky magnolia
satins fitted snugly to the knees, where
a pink rose, submerged in tulle, held the
cunning drapes in place. Her filmy tulle
veil, semi-concealing tinted roses, cas-
caded to the tip of her shimmering train.
Through the hyacinth tulle of Elizabeth
Edward’s ’maid frock was glimpsed a
trail of shell-pink roses, which ran from
waist to hem over her blue changeant
taffetas; two roses bloomed on her
crownless tulle headgear which spread
wheelwise around her head. Scattering
rose petals before the bride went little
Morwenna Vincent, in an exact replica
of the attendant’s frock except for the
wreath of Cecil Brunner roses which
nestled in her golden curls. The
Ormonde took the newly-weds to Ceylon,
where Alistair de Courcey Dickson does
his tea-planting.
Tom Tracy, bewhiskered and girt as
Father Time, made the connecting links
in the cavalcade of dances arranged by
the Dancing Teachers’ Association for
their ball at the Embassy. A minuet, a
polka and a waltz were followed by to-
day’s dances and a prophetic ballet of
1950. In the crowd of teachers and pupils
frocks were carefully cut with an eye to
line for dancing. Linley Wilson’s tulip
black velvets swept into mellifluous
folds, yards and yards of silver-threaded
blue chiffon went to the making of Rene
Esler’s fluffy creation with its matching
ankle-length cloak and an ostrich-feather
cape swung over June Irvine’s sunray-
pleated turquoise georgettes. . Joan
Stacey’s Wedgwood blues were touched
with pink lame, Gwen Callow dotted
her nut-brown taffetas with luminous
coin spots and Myra Kilminster was
draped in a length of lupin-blue crepes.
Betty Hart and Frank Grove paddled
their matrimonial canoe from St. Mary’s,
West Perth, with the Bishop of Wan-
garatta, Dr. Hart, to do the launching,
An old family veil of Carrickmacross
lace fell from a wreath of orange-
blossom to the ivory satin train aft.
Dorothy Flart and Ethel Trigg followed
in the bride’s wake, their eau-de-nil
velvets rippling from crossover bodices
to wavy trains.
The Perth Council Juniors’ shivoo at
the Carlton was a bridge and dancing
affair with bowls of Iceland poppies
dividing dancers from players. A goodly
roll up paused a moment before the
presidential chair, which was occupied
by Mrs. Luber Smith’s gold-lacquered
satins. Joyce Mansfield’s white nets bil-
lowed over pink satin, Mrs. L. Kaiser
slashed black cloque with silver lame,
Rose Saker’s moon-blue crepes were
wrought with silver, and Ada Shimen-
son flung a black net cape over honey
roubaix.
To celebrate the coming-of-age of Mar-
garet McQueen, 80 friends turned up at
the Ambassadors’ Theatre, where Mrs.
McQueen’s violet matelasse swept the
carpeted stairway. After the programme
there was supper and dancing in the
lounge, with the guest of honor in soft
floral pink georgettes.
Another occasion for wassail was the
twenty-first birthday of the, J. J- Ken-
neallys’ son, Harold. For this, over 100
guests were invited to dine and dance at
the R.A.C. reception-rooms, where novel-
ties and games were thrown in as extra
fare.
Roses and honeysuckle scented the Kal-
goorlie kirk when Alfred Kyle and Jean
Hair were made one. The bride’s peau
d’ange satin shone under a long veil of
embroidered tulle which swirled about
her sheaf of gladioli and iris. Tiny Jill
Hocking, in ivory chiffon velvet and
velvet flower cap, carried a basket of
cornflowers and lupins to match the
floral design in Edna Kyle and Marjorie
Everett’s blue-sashed georgettes.
A quartet of visiting examiners, Harold
Elvins, Harold Wylde, John Horner and
James Anderson, shared the honors at
the Music Teachers’ gathering in the
Assembly Hall. President R. J. Bastian,
with Florence Hodd and the secretary,
Miss J. L. Young, were at the portals.
After some short speeches and an address
by Mr. Elvins Florence. Hodd, Kit Sher-
lock, Ida Geddes and Theo Meugens
made music.
Latest recruits to the ranks of the be-
trothed are Dorothy Whittaker, of Swan-
bourne, and the J. C. Murrays’ son,
Phillip.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The reception-room of the Lady
Mayoress at the Town Hall was massed
with pink and crimson roses, arranged in
troughs and green lustre bowls, when the
Lord Mayor gave a civic welcome for
Mr. and Mrs. Milo Smith, of Berkeley,
California. Mrs. Dunstan wore a black
marocain suit with jacket effect, with a
dark-grey taffeta blouse and a cire straw
hat trimmed with black lacquered ribbon.
Mrs. Milo Smith wore a leaf-brown
chenille embossed georgette with a
pelisse frill of cinnamon shade. Her
wide-brimmed straw hat was banded
with pleated motifs in brown, orange
and cream.
The debutante dance Mrs. H. H.
Dutton gave for her daughter Helen at
her picturesque, homestead Anlaby, nine
miles out of Kapunda, was a huge suc-
cess. A two-hours motor run from Adel-
aide means nothing to young people in
these days ; but because of cocktail and
dinner parties guests were still arriving
at 11.30 p.m. There was excitement en
route, as it had rained very heavily dur-
ing the day and was still raining. Two
cars were bogged, and the Government
car that was taking Jean Butler, Isabel
Ritchie and Miss Roberts, Lady
Dugan’s secretary, turned round three
times and smashed against a post. No
one was hurt except the car.
Anlaby is a lovely old home built on
English lines and set in a garden early-
Victorian in its picturesque outlay. Mrs.
Dutton has a great love, for white
flowers ; her daughter’s debut gave her
the opportunity for indulging in her
fancy. The drawing-room was done
with high standing vases of white lilac,
low bowls of lilies-of-the-valley and
white carnations. In the dining-room
were white and pale-pink carnations
arranged alternately, and pastel shaded
candles. Mrs. Dutton had decorated the
huge library with bowls of tulips—it was
the ballroom for the occasion. Just at
the entrance in an alcove she had
achieved a wonderful effect with white
syringa, white roses and cellophane.
Mrs. Dutton and her daughter received
in the drawing-room. The hostess was
in a deep-cream satin beaute, cut on
princess lines. Her ornaments were
ropes of pearls with a bow of diamonds
on her shoulder, and she carried a lovely
white ostrich-feather fan. Helen chose
white tulle veiling white satin, with a
series of white tulle frills arranged on
perpendicular lines from waist to hem ;
tiny rosebuds outlined the corsage, and
silver ribbon defined the waistline ; she
wore a small wreath of white flowers in
her hair. Lord and Lady Waleran
arrived with Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Hay-
ward, whose guests they are at Birks-
gate Glen Osmond. Lady Waleran was
gowned in midnight-blue flecked with
gold and long pearl earrings. Mrs. Hay-
ward chose a slim frock of white mate-
lasse, with a shoulder spray of lilies:
of-the-valley.
A quiet wedding celebrated in the Lady
Chapel at St. Peter’s Cathedral was that'
of Norman Gilbert and Betty, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Tolmer, of Ravensthorpe, Woodside. The
bride, who was given away by her
father, wore a frock of powder-blue
crepe, made with jacket effect, her
straw hat’ matched in tone, and had a
spray of slipper orchids.
The East Torrens branch of the
Mothers and Babies’ Health Association
held a successful fete in the garden of
Mrs. H. Grose, Godfrey-terrace, Lea-
brook, to raise funds. The garden was
beautiful: roses everywhere. The presi-
dent (Mrs. Lloyd Dumas) and the secre-
tary (Mrs. L. A. Lynch) were well pleased
with the financial result, £3O.
Now that Court mourning is over his
Excellency and Lady Dugan are enter-
taining generously. At a dance, Lady
Dugan, who favors pastel shades, wore
fine pale-pink silk net mounted over
taffeta, fitting to the knees with deep
flounce of knife-pleated net, the decol-
letage outlined with diamente, and she
carried a pale-pink ostrich fan. Her
ornaments were a pearl necklace and a
diamond coronet mounted on a band of
pale-pink velvet. Mrs. J. O. Haselden
was in black moire silk, the long skirt
flared and the bodice tight-fitting. Lady
Waleran was in a pale-pink chiffon, flar-
ing from the knees, with a shoulder spray
of pink flowers.
The marriage of the director of the
Zoo (Ronald R. Minchin) to Elizabeth
Margaret, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Malcolm Ashwin, of Statenborough-
street, Knightsbridge, was celebrated at
St. Peter’s College chapel. The bride,
who was given away by her father, wore
magnolia satin cut on princess lines, the
train embroidered in pearls and also the
corsage waistline. Her bridal veil of
magnolia net was held in place by a high
coronet of white blossoms., and she car-
ried a sheaf of water-lilies. The three
bridesmaids were her sister Mary, Joan
Sandford and lola Murray; they were
frocked alike in maize crinkled chiffon,
with three-quarter coats of the same with
long bell sleeves and Mary Stuart caps.
TASMANIA.
At Elwick, weather conditions offered
no inducement to the christening of
spring glad rags. A few of the new
tailor-mades and swagger suits looked
well, and young wearers got away with
some of the vivid shades prevailing. In
the throng were Col. and Mrs. D. P.
Young, the Colin Bisdees, the E. J. Ogil-
vies, the Alan Millers, the Gordon
Blews, the H. C. Ikins, Mrs. W. Wolf-
hagen, Col. and Mrs. Locke, Mrs. C. N.
Atkins, Betty Pringle, Barbara Atkins,
Mrs. J. S. Reid and the Norman Fer-
gusons.
Lady Clark, with Capt. J. R. Johnson,
was at the Golf Union dinner at Hadley’s
which ushered in the State golf cham-
pionship tourney. Enid Reid won the
women’s championship after an exciting
match with Betty Sale.
Bessie Crisp was inundated with
congratulations on her engagement to
lan Maxwell at a party in her own
home. About 50 guests wandered about
the rooms, grounds and verandahs, and
admired a choice selection of dogs. Tea
was served in the dining-room, and the.
big reception-room was gay with masses
of tulips in bowls. Mrs. Crisp played
hostess in a frock of blue in two shades
and a becoming picture hat.
The Ski Club has had a better run
for its money than usual, what with the
snow and all, this winter. It wound
up its activities with a dinner at High-
field Hotel, H. R. Hutchison presiding.
Decorations were realistic, with bowls of
holly and artificial snow and red-shaded
candles in brass holders. Two returned
travelling members, Geoff Chapman and
V. C. Smith, entertained the party after-
wards with movies of scenes in Spain and
in Japan.
Robt. Nqttlefold, Ltd., held their staff
dance and bridge party at' the Continental.
The official pary comprised Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Nettlefold, Mr. and Mrs. Len
Nettlefold, Mr. and Mrs. R. Crick, and
Mr. and Mrs. Rupert Paton. Mrs.
Wishart Smith and Mrs. D. McLaren had
charge of the bridge room.
The Field Naturalists’ Wildflower
Show was a revelation. Very few people
have realised the Speck’s wealth of native
flora, and, though it seems a shame to
put the glory of the bush into bowls
and bottles, there was no denying that it
made a lovely sight. Lady Clark was
specially interested in the number and
variety of orchids.


Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T-H-E SATURDAY
; ffliMTOivu. -•' 1
Is published and circulates in Launceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North-
East, North-West and the Midlands. No ,A
, papers are published on Sundays in Tas-
mania; therefore, advertise in “The >UDir
Evening Express” for the Sunday *“ REAU
readers.
Full information, copies ana advertising rates obtainable from ~
lvalue w°R S L J D ’» 71 ' 75 Paterson St., Launceston.
D N SCOTT 'l sl syl.'" 1 368 C °“ in * **" M ' lb »«™». c -1.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
The Latest Vogue with Horsemen!
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING
BOOTS
Popular for mounted and unmounted
wear.
Easy and quick to put on and take
off.
In Full and Half Sizes.
33/9 Pair.
Send Your Order To-day.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
In Queen Street ------ Brisbane.
NORTH OF
WENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: There is an oft-heard accu-
sation of lack of thoroughness in the
government of our tropical possessions,
but in Darwin, at any rate, they are
thorough. Take the purchase of eggs
for the Darwin Hospital and leper insti-
tution. The Government has called
tenders, and the announcement occu-
pies half a column in the “Government
Gazette.” The eggs are “to be fresh,
of fair average size” and delivered three
times a week to the hospital and once to
the lepers. Tenderers must state the rate
per dozen and how much discount will
be allowed for “prompt payment of ac-
counts (a) within 14 days, ( b ) within 30
days.” A deposit of £2 must be lodged
as guarantee. The lowest tender will not
necessarily be accepted. There are added
thorough instructions for sealing and de-
livering and inscribing envelopes enclos-
ing tenders. But don’t let any egg-
farmer with 10,000 layers get the light
of enthusiasm into his eye too early. The
supply which is the subject of all these
precautions and conditions totals twenty-
five eggs per day.
* * * *
Strange noises being heard in
Brisbane’s new Town Hall, there were
whispers of plots, of masked villains
wheeling barrels of gelignite into cellars
and of thirsty souls undermining the
mayoral cupboard. Also, it was held by
some of the more psychic that the ghost
of the council’s overdraft had come to
roost under the floor. Investigations
have now proved that all the row came
from Queensland’s old friends the white-
ants, who have eaten a large quantity of
maple wall boards and wood paving.
They would pick on something belonging
to the taxpayers.
* * * *
“Somerset”: Seems a pity that most of
Queensland’s unoccupied 47,000,000 acres
should be in the far north. The second-
biggest bit is at the very top of the Cape
York Peninsula in the area to which the
Jardines drove their cattle in 1865. And
the biggest stretches across the Peninsula
west of Cooktown. Yet the country in-
volved, though much of it is rough, has
minerals and timber. The sea along the
edge of the northernmost area is full of
fish and marine products which attract
Asiatic but not Australian prospectors.
And the worst of the land would carry
stock of some sort. Even with goat
flocks it would be better off than with
nothing.
* * * *
“X.T.”: In spite of the presence of the
Government patrol launch, the lapanese
hold on the North' Australian pearling
industry grows. The number of boats
at work has almost doubled since last
year. There are said to be 1000 men
working on the beds around Bathurst
Island and elsewhere in the Darwin area,
but nothing can be done about it because
they are outside territorial waters. There
are now considerably more Asiatics than
whites along the north coast of Aus-
tralia from Broome to Thursday Island,
and most of the whites who are there
are employed either to govern the
Asiatics or to feed those who govern the
Asiatics. If it isn’t possible to prevent
the stripping of shell beds it at least
should be feasible to do something
about mainland population and industry.
* * * *
“Eungella”: Mackay Diggers owe a
lot of thanks to A. W. Cunningham, of
Strathmore, Bowen, who has been their
good friend for 20 years. A few years
ago, when the strain of depression was
being heavily felt, he gave £4250 to form
a trust for the benefit of Diggers in the
district. The money was carefully in-
vested. Some was given out in the
form of loans which have been refunded,
so that in a little over two years the
R.S.S.I.L.A. has been able to turn over
nearly £7OOO in assistance money. Now
the benefactor has weighed in with an-
other £lOOO.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Yes, Nature is lavish
with her gifts to the Kimberley abo. But
especially when the first onrush of the
wet season has passed does Binghi re-
joice. Then the country becomes an
aboriginal paradise. With all the water-
holes full it is possible to seek fresh
hunting grounds; all the wild fruits and
berries ripen during the “wet.” Full of
fish and mussels also are the creeks. On
the hills appear ’roos, wallabies and
native cats, in the valleys snakes,
goannas, possums and bandicoots. The
ground scrub and swamps yield up a
plenitude of wildfowl and eggs. What a
time! —a time for the meeting with related
tribes, for glorious corroborees, for feast-
ing, fighting and love-making. Away
from white contact, Binghi’s life is far
from being the sink of misery which the
superior white man fondly imagines it
to be.
* * * *
“Leirum”: Some years ago, when the
Japanese Tango Maru went ashore off
Goode Island, near Thursday Island,
necessitating the jettisoning of the entire
wool cargo, the Torres Strait skin-diving
Binghis who were enlisted to assist in
the salvage operations concluded that the
millennium had arrived. Binghi, used to
diving for the elusive pearlshell for a
miserly 6d. per pound, found himself
recompensed beyond his wildest dreams
for salvaging cargo ludicrously easy in
location. When this glorious period
ended it left hordes of purse-proud abos.
who loafed around until slack bellies
“’E started tellin' me about ’is trip to Kosciusko !”
again sent them back discontented to their
skin-diving.
* * * *
“Peddler”: Queensland, now that the
Government has prohibited cycle road-
racing, is the only place in the world
where the perilous sport may not be in-
dulged in. If the Government thinks
racing is dangerous it should take a trip
to Holland or Denmark —most Ministers
would be willing to go on far less excuse
—where every child is born with his
flippers moulded to the handle-bars and
where the average inhabitant looks almost
as naked without a bicycle as without his
pants. Still, there is room for regulation.
With the increase of cars and the nar-
rowness of the average Queensland road,
there is a certain amount of peril in
having to meet a dozen hurtling forms
trying to pass each other in a cloud of
dust.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Lord and Lady Hartington—he is a
Dominions Office emissary—had busy
days in Brisbane before they fled to the
peace and quiet of Jondaryan, the Kents’
property on the Downs.
Mrs. Scott Fletcher, president of the
Arts and Crafts Society, is busy arrang-
ing for the annual show, due to open
on November 9. In addition to the usual
array of pottery, raffia and leatherwork,
pewter work and other oddments, there
is to be a display of needlework, lent by
Mrs. Percy Ross. This includes examples
from the days of the Stuarts, Queen
Anne embroidery, early- and late-
Georgian stitcheries, early-Victorian and
modern bits and pieces. The colors are
as fresh as the day when the demure
makers bent over their embroidery
frames.
Another Sydney visitor is Jean Gil-
lespie, daughter of the David Gillespies,
of Rose Bay. She spent some time with
Mrs. Bert Dowling, of Hamilton, and the
rest of it with Madge Dowling, of Clay-
field. Madge Dowling, Gwen Petrie and
Bridget Kennedy are packing suitcases
in preparation for a motor trip to the
South.
The Mackay Association held its first
annual meeting, when secretary Miss
von Ploennies —a niece of Justice Mac-
rossan —produced a report showing that
the membership has doubled in the 12
months. Mrs. Forgan Smith was re-
elected patroness, Mrs. P. H. Staines
president, Mrs. P. McCowan hon. sec.,
and Mrs. F. Keogh treasurer. The Pre-
mier’s lady handed over a crocodile-skin
handbag, on behalf of the members, to
Mrs. McCowan, who has done a splendid
year’s work.
The Mothercraft Association held its
fifth annual meeting with L. C. Morris,
superintendent of Technical Education,
in the chair. During the evening he an-
nounced that the Government would pro-
vide £lOO a year to help the organisa-
tion’s work in schools. And a mother-
craft home is to be built on the site of
the old Lady Lamington Hospital.
Quite a big crop of weddings last
week. Ethel Maud Rich and Leslie
Gordon Carter made their vows at the
Eagle Junction Congregational Church,
the bride wearing her travelling frock of
floral crepe de Chine in cherry, lemon
and jade tones, and a becoming bonnet
with a square crown. Carmel Rich was
the only bridesmaid.
St. John’s Cathedral echoed to the
Voice when Peggy Richards, daughter of
Professor H. C. and Mrs. Richards, was
married to Dr. Norman Martin, son of
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Martin, of Dunedin
(M.L.). Professor Richards gave away
the bride, who wore a trained gown of
old ivory satin, with orange-blossoms on
the high neckline. Her veil of Brussels
lace had been worn by her mother. Joyce
Davies, Alison Nelson, Noel Stephens and
Elizabeth Kuxton (cousin of the bride, and
hailing from Melbourne) were the ’maids,
all wearing turquoise-blue chiffon, veils
of blue tulle and carrying bouquets of
pink roses and trails of woodbine. Hugh
Nelson was best man.
St. Paul’s Church of England, at Cleve-
land, was chosen for the wedding of
Esme Campbell, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. M. P. Campbell, of Wilston,
to Dr. Allan Vernon Henry, eldest son
of Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Henry, of
Hurstville (N.S.W.). The bride’s grand-
parents were among the first settlers in
the district. Her dress was of melon pink,
and was worn with a black picture hat.
An onyx-and-pearl brooch which once
belonged to the bride’s great-grand-
mother was worn, and the wedding
bouquet held a sprig of white heather,
sent from Scotland by Mrs. Peter Rowe.
Dorothy Campbell—a cousin from Bun-
daberg—in a paler shade of pink, was
the only ’maid, and Roy Cribb was best
man.
Dr. and Mrs. Peter Row—she was Dr.
Helen Whiddon, of Sydney—are staying
at' the Rows’ Woody Point home. Mrs.
Peter will go back to Sydney for a few
days in November, to say au revoir to
her sister Enid, who shortly will marry
Mat Knowles and whose future home
will be in South Africa.
Lyn Lutze wore a travelling ensemble
of navy blue when she married John
Lodge at All Saints’ Church. Sister Vera,
one of this season’s debs., and Dorothy
Perry were the ’maids. Urbenville, just
over the border in N.S.W., is to be the
locale of the new home.
A bride in mist-blue and a church
massed with pink flowers harmonised de-
lightfully when Joyce Debnam married
Charles Alfred Turner at the Ann-street
Presbyterian Church. Bessie Dougall
sang, and Hugh Brandon was the organ-
ist. Madge Standen, in bois de rose,
bridesmaided, and
Howard Berg was
best man. The recep-
tion was staged in
the Portland Lounge,
in a setting of pink
and mauve larkspurs,
delphiniums and
roses.
Professor Winifred Cullis, who is stay-
ing with Freda Bage at the Women’s
College, gave an informal address to the
Uni. medical students, after being the
guest of honor at a luncheon party at
the Belle Vue, at which Professor H. K.
and Mrs. Lee were host and hostess.
Professor Cullis also addressed the
Lyceum Club members, and was wel-
comed by the president, Mrs. E. A. D.
Amos. At the same time, the members
farewelled Mrs. J. Brownlie Henderson,
who, with her husband, for many years
Government Analyst, is leaving Brisbane
to make, her home at Dulacca. Friends
presented them with one of Ray Parkin-
son’s water-colors —a corner of the Hen-
derson garden on the river bank.


ANNOUNCEMENT
We wish to advise our many clients that we
have opened a HOBBIES SECTION.
Stocks of Full Automatic Electric Trains, Flying Scale Model Airplane
Kits and Accessories, etc., Are Now Available.
11l I
GIVE THE BOYS A
Make a Lay-
by Now.
LIONEL TRAIN
for XMAS.
Price, from £4/4/- Complete.
OPERATES from CAR BATTERY or
A.C. Mains.
SHOCK PROOF.
REMOTE CONTROL—stop, start or
reverse without touching the engine.
HEAVY DUTY MOTOR will run for
years.
A REAL MINIATURE RAILWAY.
Build Yourself a Flying Scale Model.
We can supply
“Duncan”
“Selley”
“Cleveland”
kits from
1/- to 31/-.
“Mr. Mulligan”
(as illustrated).
20in. span, 6/6
complete kit.
m
Ha
*
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
D. G. Mclntyre,
S and 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
\>
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 16/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/.-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
1 KOYAIi ARCADE, SYDNEY.
THE HOME WORKSHOP
INCORPORATING
RADIO NEWS
MINIATURE ELECTRIC
RAILWAYS.
The "Lionel" Outfits,
By
DON B. KNOCK
Almost ever since Stephenson’s
“Rocket” took the rails in the North of
England, model-railway engineering has
held a keen fascination for boys with an
ingraining of mechanics in their make-
up. It is not surprising that this branch
of engineering should attract, particularly
in later years, for the massive, speedy
locomotive with its rhythmic beauty of
glittering steel is something to fire the
enthusiasm of both young and old, apart
from the thousand and one mechanical
and electrical intricacies that go to make
up the modern railroad.
One of the many types of
"Lionel” model electric locomotives.
Great strides have been made in the
design of model railways in recent years,
and, whilst steam-driven models have their
rightful, attraction for many, electrically-
controlled systems are most popular.
Outstanding in this respect are the
“Lionel” models, produced in U.S.A. and
now distributed in Australia by Amplion
(Australasia), Ltd., of Sydney. Exami-
nation of a layout of one of these sys-
tems convinces at short notice that here
is something more than a mere toy ; it
is an advanced piece of cleverly-engi-
neered mechanism. Operation of these
Lionel trains is either from the Aff.
240-volt mains through a stepdown trans-
former, or direct from a six- or 12-volt
accumulator. Thus it will be deduced
that the motors in the locomotive
mechanisms are of the universal type and
can be used anywhere, irrespective of
power supply. Apart from the fine appear-
ance of a complete “Lionel” railway, the
part which undoubtedly appeals to most
is the method of control. Everything is
remotely controlled by an electrical press-
button box. Trains are started and re-
versed at will, block-working signals go
to “danger” immediately a train enters
a certain section, stations automatically
halt trains for what would be sufficient
time to drop and pick up passengers,
warning bells ring at road crossings, gates
open automatically as a train approaches,
a section “boss” pops out of his shack
and flags a train on, and a remarkably
realistic siren blows on the locomotive
as desired. Then there is, to further
simulate reality, an integral mechanism
in the locomotive giving forth the “chug-
ring” sound of a steam exhaust. All
these things are available in “Lionel” with-
out touching anything other than the
control box. Apart from the faithfully-
duplicated models of the rolling stock of
American main railroads (even the
coaches have the correct number of rivet
heads in the panels) there are swift-run-
ning streamlined models similar to the
latest U.S.A. aluminium high-speed
Diesel-electric trains, freight trains and
rail “buggies,” with two figures energeti-
cally pumping the handles.
The electrical and the mechanical engi-
neer will find, on examination of the
internals of these models, that they are
something more than mere toys, being
instructive. The difference is that a father
buying a clockwork model railway for
his son would take the usual paternal
interest in seeing that son doesn't over-
wind the motor, but with the “Lionel”
electric models he is quite likely to “carry
on” after son has retired. The price of
quite a comprehensive “O” gauge
“Lionel” system is within reach of most
pockets, ranging from £2 15s. up. As an
example of its reliability, Price’s Radio
Service, Angel-place, Sydney, installed a
window display a few weeks ago. The
The control box with adjustable
speed rheostat.
little freight train has been running con-
tinuously, with automatic halting signal,
for the best part of two months. In that
time it is estimated that the distance
covered around the window tracking is well
over 250 miles. Illustrated are a fine
example of a “Lionel” electrically-oper-
ated locomotive and a control box.
D. B. K.
Home Hobbies.
One of the most engrossing home
hobbies is radio. Comparatively new, and
giving good results for little outlay, it has
obtained a firm grip. From the hobby
stage the young man, if keen enough,
graduates to the professional. That is
one of the most important things in home
hobbies for youngsters of school age.
The writer can testify that some first-
class engineers were Meccano addicts in
their youth. The boy who delves into
things mechanical and electrical is most
likely to show preference for these things
in later years. Therefore, if youngsters
show interest in model aeroplanes, rail-
ways, metal work, woodwork, electricity
and the host of other absorbing things
that present themselves, they should be
encouraged to the utmost. But home
hobbies are not for the young alone.
Many a father who dips deep into his
pocket for an expensive model electrical
(or steam) railway for his son puts in
hours himself manipulating controls and
switchpoints.
Into the question of craftsmanship at
home enters the very important one of
tools. The writer recalls the first words
of advice of an aged foreman in a North
of England engineering
shop: “You can’t do good
work with bad tools.”
This holds good in any
type of work, and the
home workshop that
turns out work of high
quality is one that pays
attention to the condition
of its tools. Both in
metalwork and wood-
work the home worker
of to-day has access to a host of
excellently-engineered small machine
tools. In Australia such machine tools
are now to be obtained from many
sources, and they are not over-expensive.
Investment in a good backgeared screw-
cutting metal lathe, wood-turning lathe,
drill press, jig saw. scroll saw, circular
saw or other appliance suited to par-
ticular needs is money well placed. Such
machine tools will be dealt with at length
in the future by this Page.
Readers interested in any kind of
model work-in fact, any hobby what-
soever —are invited to submit their ideas.
Contributions dealing with all subjects,
including the home workshop itself, will
be welcome.
D. B. K.
Workshop Hints.
Soldering-i'ron Hint.
A small electric soldering iron is one
of the most useful items of the home
workshop, and quite often it is impera-
tive that the bit be small in order to
reach restricted positions. If the work
to be soldered is on the heavy side, the
small bit will rapidly lose temperature
and may not retain enough heat to do
the job. To overcome this a sleeve may
be made of asbestos to fit cylindrically
over the heater portion of the iron.
Sheet material is wrapped round the iron
and bound with wire.' After use on the
particular job, this sleeve should be re-
moved, as too much heat would cause
the heater element to burn out.
Soldering Steel.
Difficulty is often experienced in
soldering steel. A useful flux can be
made of loz. oxide of zinc, 2oz. glycerine
and 6oz. alcohol.
Drilling Thin Sheet Metal.
At some time or other, the home
worker is faced with the job of drilling
thin sheet metal, such as aluminium.
Usually little thought is given to the
drill itself, beyond perhaps ensuring that
it is sharp. For thin sheet material, the
angle of the drill cutting edges is par-
ticularly important. About 59deg. is
the general purpose angle, but in this
case an angle of 80deg. will be found
more expeditious. In other words the
drill angle should be shallow. If prac-
ticable, rest the sheet on a wooden
block. This will support the drill point
when the largest diameter is cutting.
Large-diameter holes in thin sheet metal
should be drilled by clamping the sheet
to a wooden block, and first drilling a
small-diameter hole as a pilot for the
large drill. The correct cutting lubri-
cant is a great help in such operations.
For aluminium, turpentine will speed up
cutting, and for thin springy steel turps
with a mixture of camphor gum is suit-
able. In all cases it is advisable to
securely clamp thin sheet metal for drill-
ing by power, otherwise there is a danger
of the work being whirled around, with
possible injury to the operator. In any
case, if the work is held loosely, drills
are liable to be broken.
A Sawing Hint.
How often does one get half-way
through sawing a length of timber only
to run into trouble through the saw wedg-
ing in the cut? Illustrated is a simple
method of prevention. The only point
to observe is that the nail should not be
moved too near the cutting position or
the timber may split apart.
Using Scrap Material.
Electrical conduit in odd lengths is
often to be found on the scrap-heap of
the electrician’s workshop. Short sec-
tions of conduit will make useful sup-
ports, braces or hangers. The ends are
beaten flat and drilled about 3-16 in. for
mounting holes, and can be bent around
tubing of the same diameter as the con-
duit and drawn together by a bolt. Short
pieces are useful as angle braces for
shelves or platforms mounted against a
wall, and the rigidity is even better than
that of strip-iron braces. The conduit
is light, can be drilled with ease and is
thus a timesaver in installation.
Protecting the Eliminator.
There are still many receivers that
derive filament power from an accu-
mulator (often connected to a trickle
charger) and plate current from an elim-
inator. In many of the latter the poten-
tial divider system is of rather high re-
sistance, and does not provide an effec-
tive bleeder network for no-load condi-
tions such as may be imposed on the
apparatus by switching on the high ten-
sion before the filaments are alight.
The following tip may prove of in-
terest. In place of the existing switch
in the filament' circuit a two-way toggle
switch is used connected as shown in
the diagram. A wire-wound resistor is
required capable of carrying E -f R,
when E is the maximum voltage obtain-
able from the eliminator and R is the
value of resistor chosen. (It is recom-
mended that either 10,000 or 15,000 ohms
be used.) The answer will be in amps, as
the equation stands, and it will be neces-
sary to bring this to milliamps.
As an example, for a power pack de-
livering 200 volts at a maximum current
of, say, 25 or 30 mills., a good value of
bleeder would be 10,000 ohms. This
would draw 20ma., and could be made
up of two 20,000-oHm, three-watt metal-
lised resistors in parallel. Whatever the
make of eliminator, the main thing to
observe is that the bleeder current should
come within 60-80 p.c. of the normal
load. Most eliminators not fitted with
low-resistance bleeder systems show poor
regulation, and, unless nearly all of their
normal output is absorbed in the tem-
porary bleeder, the object of it is lost.
It will be seen, of course, that as soon
as the filament current is switched on
the heavy load imposed by the resistor
is removed in favor of the receiver itself.
R. H. A.


4-Valve Battery
BROADCAST SUPER-HET
Cash only.
Complete with Latest Type Valves,
Heavy Duty Batteries, Amplion Speaker,
100-hour Accumulator, High-grade Com-
ponents, Aerial and Earth.
Assembled and Tested £ll/5/-
Fitted in handsome floor model cabinet,
£l3/2/6.
This is a particularly efficient set,
moderately priced. Guaranteed for one
year.
Other models, Broadcast and Dual-
wave, 4, 5 and 6 valve. Prices and in-
formation by return post.
RADIO PARTS.
Our prices are right! See for yourself.
A price list will be posted if you men-
tion this paper.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Radio. ’Phone: FX5194.
XSZfr/
1936 A.V.C.
FENTAGRID POUK,
£6/5/-'
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(TJhe set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send jor Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Rola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mullard Radio Valves.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Victor Hugo said there was nothing
so interesting as a door or a wall behind
. which something was happening. To the
short-wave listener it is most tantalising
to come across a new, unlisted station
of which, after hours of attention, all
that can be guessed is that it is “foreign.”
For several weeks past I had been
puzzled by a station heard every morn-
ing on about 20.15 m. Sometimes it
signed off at 7.30 a.m., sometimes at 7
a.m., sometimes even earlier. It an-
nounced in at least three languages, in-
cluding Italian and French, and con-
cluded with two national anthems which
were neither Italian nor French. It
played record after record (mostly
dance measures of the tango type, but
occasionally a German, Italian or Ameri-
can song) with very little in the way of
talk. The place-name was elusive, but
ended, apparently, in “ora.” Once \
heard “Rumania” mentioned. On the
morning of writing this I heard the call-
sign LZA (or LZR), so knew it must
surely be a Bulgarian station. A glance
at the map suggested Stara Zagora as
its location.
Mystery also attaches to a station
heard every morning on about 28.8 m.
Some listeners report it as LSX Buenos
Ayres, some as the Spanish rebel station
EABAB. Changes in its apparent dial
position are confusing, otherwise it
could hardly be attributed to LSX, which
is on 28.98 m. A careful comparison of
records leads me to the conclusion that
The well-known station of Tom
Consalvi, W3EOZ, at Bryn Mawr,
Pa., U.S.A., prominent on 20-metre
’phone.
there are at least three, and probably
four, different stations operating at about
this position.
In the first place, there is a station on
28.8 m. which regularly calls “Hullo,
Nederland,” followed by a reference to
“Espana.” It talks sometimes in Dutch,
sometimes in Spanish, gives musical
items and news from various Spanish
towns, spells out telegraphic messages
very deliberately, and is constantly test-
ing. I have heard the name “Philips”
mentioned, but my idea is that it’s a
station in Spain. It signs off at a little
after 7 a.m. Second, there is a station
on the same wave-length which has a
studio clock that strikes seven when
Sydney time is 7.30 a.m., and which
announces the time in English every few
minutes. This, I have definitely ascer-
tained, is a harmonic of an Adelaide
broadcast' station. Third, there is a rather
indistinct station a little higher up on
about 28.9 m. which I have heard speak-
ing Spanish and playing Spanish music
but which, much to my surprise, I heard
signing off one morning with the two
German national anthems. I heard this
station again on October 17. The lan-
guage was German, but at 6.25 a.m. a
woman began to call, “Hullo, England!
Hullo, Ireland!” She gave the station-
name as “Radio Canaria,” stated that the
wave-length was 28.9 m. and the power
four kilowatts, mentioned the maximum
temperature at Teneriffe, thanked corre-
spondents and proceeded to give news of
the attack on Madrid, using such phrases
as “Two Marxist aeroplanes were
brought down by our forces,” “National-
ist forces have occupied” “The
Marxists have fortified themselves”
At 6.30 a.m. she said, “That is all our
news in English for this afternoon.”
Afterwards there was talk in Spanish.
The station signed off at 7 a.m. with the
two German national anthems —
“Deutschland fiber Alles” being played
and the Nazi hymn sung—followed by
the singing of the Italian national
anthem, the playing of still another
national anthem, the blowing of bugles
and a band playing a concluding number.
In addition there would appear to be
a station on about 28.65 m. which ’phones
in Dutch early on Sunday mornings.
Above this group of stations there is the
well-known Belgian ORK, and above that
again there is the German DZC.
A few weeks ago ZCK-ZBW Hong
Kong made a boisterous entry into the
31m. band, adding to the interference
already caused by the intrusion of
VPD2 Suva. It announced that it was
transmitting simultaneously in wave-
lengths of 31.49 m., 34.29 m. and 355 m.
On and since October 12 it has been
heard (to put it mildly) in a position on
the 19m. band between DJB and YDC.
Actually, ZCK-ZBW spreads across both
these stations and into GSF as well, and
it is almost impossible during the early
part of the evening to tune in to Berlin,
Bandoeng or Daventry without having
one’s ears assaulted by the monotonous
howlings and bleatings of chopstick
Carusos. Later in the evening Hong
Kong becomes more subdued or its
spread less noticeable, and one is able to
enjoy the really excellent reception with
which listeners are now being favored
on the 19m. band.
Since October 7 the Prague station has
been heard regularly in a new dial posi-
tion—2s.36m. This is very close indeed
to TPA3, and transmissions in French
from the Czechoslovakian station might
easily be mistaken for those we have
been accustomed to hear from Paris.
Listeners should note that the callsign
OLR has now been allotted to Prague.
The quality of the station is improving,
and in strength it
is at least equal to
TPA3. Already it
is one of the best
stations to be found
on any part of the
dial.
Before 3 p.m. on
Sundays KKQ
Bolinas, California,
may be heard on a
wave-1 eng t h of
25.11 m. A peculiar
thing may be noted.
The writer has two
equally efficient
aerials separated
directionally from
one another by not
more than 25 degrees. On the one
KKQ comes in with good strength ; on
the other it cannot be raised at all.
P. R. W.
Amateur-radio Chatter.
The new five-metre transmitter for
the writer’s station has been completed
and tested, and gives excellent results.
Following the 6L6 and RK2S are two
35Ts in push-pull. Contrary to expec-
tations the. adjustments and tuning are
as easy as on 14mc., with just about as
much R.F. output. Two antennae are
erected, each having four half-waves in
phase, and these take in all directions.
Tested on telephony with local stations,
the stability is excellent and the differ-
ence from the usual modulated oscillator
affair very noticeable. Tests are to be
run off with VK4AP, and at the same
time, the signal should travel in the
direction of Victoria with the north-
south antenna. DX tests will be pri-
marily on C.W. All inter-State five-
metre stations are requested to look for
VK2NO, but something different from
super-regenerators in the way of receivers
will be needed. The transmitter will be
operated over long sessions by an auto-
matic calling device.
VK4AP reports 10-metre conditions
very good in Brisbane. This year he has
had about 400 DX contacts and worked
27 prefixes. The most consistent Euro-
pean station is OH7NF, audible, practi-
cally every evening around 6.30 p.m.
Stations worked include KSAY, FBBAB,
FBBAD, ZT6Y, ZTSV, YRSOR,
OK2MV, VPSGM and VU2AU. As 10
metres is very much alive just now, the
time appears appropriate for an on-
slaught on five-metre DX.
VK2NO.
A Direction-finding Receiver.
In Australian centres where amateur
radio clubs stage field days members may
be invited to test their skill in direction-
finding. The scheme usually involves the
hunting down of a transmitter placed
in some hidden location. A great deal
of careful work is necessary to plot the
true position of the station, yet this is
done successfully with quite simple D.F.
receivers. “Television and Short-wave
World” (Eng.) publishes the circuit
diagram of a D.F. receiver (reproduced
here) designed by a member of the
Southall Radio Society. The loop aerial
is tuned by a two-gang midget condenser
with common rotors earthed, and the
detector is a class-B valve with grid-leak
detection. The centre-tapped coil in the
plate circuit gives smooth reaction by
way of the inter-electrode capacity of the
valve. The first audio stage, a triode,
is resistance-coupled, and the output pen-
tode is transformer-coupled. This re-
ceiver is completely screened, and the
metal box includes all batteries.
As a result of experiments many Eng-
lish amateurs taking part in D.F. days
have adopted a “plug-in” system for
erecting equipment in the field. The
receiver is accurately located on a com-
pass table by pins and sockets, and the
loop aerial similarly plugged in on the
top of the receiver. Two teams provide
themselves with alternative loops: a large
one for taking careful bearings and a
small one for exploring on foot to enable
the receiver to be hand-carried. In one
instance this subsidiary loop was fitted
with a “sense indicator,” comprising a
very short vertical aerial and an aperiodic
variable-coupling coil, giving a heart-
shaped polar diagram, and thus indicat-
ing the actual' direction of the transmis-
sion. This was found to be of particular
Circuit of D.F. receiver, using Class-B valve as detector.
value in the exciting last stages of con-
tests when the D.F. team is within a
few hundred yards of the hidden trans-
mitter.
“Bulletin” Radio Review.
{Manufacturer’s products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Tasma Model 310.
There is more of interest to this writer
in testing a battery receiver than one to
be used on A.C. The latter type is de-
signed for use somewhere where cur-
rent economy matters little and the
service engineer is within ready call in
case of emergency. The battery job is
different. It may possibly be used a long
way from the beaten track, and once in-
stalled is called upon to give a long
period of trouble-free operation, for a
repair service is not readily available.
Reliability and economy are most im-
portant.
The latest set tested for such condi-
tions is the Tasma Model 310, a dual-
wave superhet combining these features
to a high degree. It is a five-valve model,
EKI octode frequency changer, IC4 I.F.
amplifier at 470 kc., 75 diode detector
A.V.C., and primary audio stage, type 19
push-pull driver and type 19 Class-B out-
put. The batteries required are a six-
volt accumulator and three H.D. 45-volt
B blocks. The consumption is down to
a minimum, being .96 ampere on the fila-
ments, andxonly lOma. to 12ma. on the
plates. The circuit is a superhet, cover-
ing 18 to 50 and 200 to 550 metres.
As with all Tasma receivers of to-day,
the. well proved Ferrocoil intermedi-
ates are incorporated, and all parts likely
to be affected by moisture are impreg-
nated against the action of tropical
Tasina Model 310 Dual-wave Superhet.
humidity. The tuning dial includes the
bandspread indicator, and the motion is
such that a spin will permit quick cov-
erage of most of the range, owing to a
balance-weight action. Ratio is excel-
lent for short waves and just right for
broadcast. Calibration includes the
positions of main broadcast stations, and
the short-wave bands are quickly located
by wave-length indication. The speaker
fitted is a large-size permag. dynamic,
and volume and tone are almost equal
to those of an all-electric receiver.
The illustration shows this receiver in
its very attractive Lawrence cabinet, sell-
ing at £35 10s. The same chassis is
available in the popular Coronation table
cabinet at £25 15s. The performance
under test brings home the realisation
that there is no longer any handicap in
the matter of national or wide-world
radio reception for the rural dweller. Six
years ago one would have had to “fish”
for stations with the best of receivers.
To-day, with this Tasma 310, everything
marked on the dial is obtainable with
little or no effort. The makers are Thom
and Smith, Ltd. ; new address, 29-39
Botany-road, Mascot, N.S.W.
Radio Question Box.
(1) Are “B-batteryless” receivers run from a
six-volt accumulator likely to give satisfaction
over a reasonable length of time ? (2) Would
battery recharging cost less than batteries ? (3)
Do these sets give better performance than
battery sets ? —-488.
(1) Yes. (2) Depends upon charging rates in
your locality. Average figures for vibrator
against B-battery-powered receivers appear to
be slightly in favor of the latter. (3) Not neces-
sarily. The only difference is in the method of
obtaining plate voltage.
(1) The two circuits enclosed illustrate my
set and a vibrator “B” unit I have constructed.
I desire either to run the two-volt filaments from
one cell of the six-volt battery supplying current
for the eliminator, or to build another set with
filaments in series for connection across the
six volts. What resistors should I connect
across the 32 and 30 in the series connections ?
(2) Would the automatic bias work in both
arrangements ?—489.
(1) Five ohms each resistor. (2) Yes.
* * * *
Suitable textbook for instruction on building
all-electric superhets, and where obtainable ?
—490.
The Book of Practical Radio, by John Scott-
Taggart, from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.


"SILVER
EDGE'*
TRADE (/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service*
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
VEEDOC
m MOTOR OIL
l \ ant pint
v \ it would, itilL be cheap
Yet —It costs no more than
other oils.
Veedol, the world’s best
Motor Oil. 100 per cent.
. \ Pure Pennsylvania.
\' Obtainable everywhere.
yi
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED All Skies
The Steering Column.
THE NEW OLDSMOBILE TRUCK
PUT THROUGH ITS PACES.
GOOD ROAD PERFORMANCE COUPLED WITH
REMARKABLE FUEL ECONOMY.
By FRED BERRY.
THE 30cwt. Oldsmobile truck, latest arrival in the commercial
transport field, has 39 years of automotive manufacturing
experience behind its design. A comprehensive test over the
“Bulletin” course has shown that the vehicle fulfils the require-
ments of users who desire performance and reliability plus
economy.
Particular attention has been given to chassis strength,
the massive side members and rugged construction of other
units indicating a capacity to withstand long periods of rough
and hard usage.
The full floating rear axle and torque
tube final drive relieve the transmission
mechanism of all stresses other than
those due to application of power, an
excellent feature in a heavy vehicle, re-
ducing possibility of breakdown when
heavily laden and operated over rough
or heavy going.
Developing 84 b.h.p. at 3500 r.p.m.
with 6 to 1 compression truck-type head,
the motor provides an unusually favor-
able power-weight ratio. Good top-gear
pulling is indicated by a constant torque
of 152 foot-pounds between 1200 and
2500 r.p.m.
The six cylinders, bore 3 5-16 in.,
stroke 4|in., give a swept volume of 213
cub. in. and an R.A.C. rating of 26.3
h.p. The cylinder block of special
nickel alloy cast iron is cast integral with
the upper half of the crankcase. The
crankcase extends below the centre line
of the crankshaft.
Side-by-side valves are used, operated
by cylindrical cast-iron lifters, pressure
lubricated. Valve clearances, cold, are
intake, 8 thou. ; exhaust, 10 thou.
Pistons are of Anolite alloy, cam ground,
T-slotted and heavily ribbed internally.
Four rings are fitted above the gudgeon
pin. The two top rings are for compres-
sion, with a small step cut in the lower
outside corner. The two lower
rings are for oil control, with
grooves drilled for oil return.
The pison has a heat dam
machined between upper ring and crown.
Gudgeon pins, hollow, are lapped to
exact fit and offset away from the cam-
shaft to reduce side-wall thrust. Con.
rods are drop-forged of I-beam section,
with a drilled oil passage connecting
upper and lower bearings. Small-end
bearing is graphite bronze, pressed into
Rugged construction of rear-spring
shackles. Note flange of bracket extend-
ing under side rails and riveted to exten-
sion of cross member.
the rod ; big-end is interchangeable, of
steel-backed babbitt-lined thin-wall type.,
without shims. An auxiliary oil-spray
hole is drilled in the top of the big-end
cap for a pressure spray to cylinder
walls.
The crankshaft runs on four replace-
able babbitt-lined bearings and is fully
balanced, fitted with integral counter-
weights and a harmonic balancer on the
The new six-cylinder Oldsmobile truck, designed to give high performance, long
life and low operating costs.
front end. Driven by silent chain the
camshaft runs on four bronze bearings,
cams being ground at an angle to keep
tappets turning when engine is running.
The intake manifold is of special
truck type. Carburettor is of Zenith
down-draught type, with oil-bath type
air cleaner and flame arrestor. An A.C.
mechanical pump fitted with filter and
settling bowl draws fuel from a 14gal.
pressed-steel tank, set athwart the chassis
under the driver’s seat. Oil is fed at
pressure through a gear-driven pump to
all main, con.-rod, camshaft, big-end
and gudgeon-pin bearings, while a jet
at the front end supplies timing chain,
and there is a spray to cylinder walls
and pistons. Delco-Remy separate unit
electrical system is fitted. Generator,
pivot mounted, is of heavy-duty, air-
cooled type, with third brush output
regulation. Voltage control and cut-out
relay are mounted on the dash instead
of on generator casing. Starter motor
has positive mechanical gear engage-
ment, actuated by a foot pedal on the of pierced disc type, with integral
toe board. rims. Chassis is pressed steel, channel
Ignition is by coil and battery, six-volt section, side members being of straight-
type, distributor being equipped with
single breaker and full automatic ad-
vance of firing point. An electro-
lock switch is fitted. Plugs are 18mm.
thread-type Pyrox PZ9 ; gap 25 thou.,
breaker gap 20 thou. Firing order
is 1-5-3-6-2-4.
Transmission is through a single
dry plate Borg and Beck clutch 9|in.
in diameter, with anti-friction ball-
type release bearing, to a four-speed-
and-reverse, central change, unit-con-
structed gearbox, with a six-bolt
opening on the left side for power
take-off. Bearings are ball and roller.
Gear ratios are, first, 7.23 to 1 ;
second, 3.48 to 1 ; third, 1.71 to 1 ;
top, direct; reverse, 7.15 to 1. Final
drive is through an enclosed torque
tube with intermediate propeller
shaft. Universal joints, one at rear
and one at rear of intermediate
shaft, are of improved spider type,
with four cylindrical bearings. Rear
axle is full floating, housed in a two-
piece casing. Rear-wheel bearings
are equipped with improved barrel-
type Hyatt rollers. Final reduction
ratio in crown wheel and pinion is
5.43 to 1. Road wheels are cast steel,
Power and torque curves taken from a
standard six-cylinder Olds, truck engine
(see text).
through type with no kick-up over
the rear axle. Front cross members
are double channel. Wheelbase is 131 in.
(157 in. optional).
. Front axle is drop forged, of I-beam
section, reversed Elliott
type, with inclined kingpins
and vertical ball-thrust
bearings.
Springs are semi-elliptic,
overslung front and rear.
Front springs are shackled
at front, rear springs at rear.
Four-wheel internal-expanding
hydraulic brakes with articulated
shoes are fitted. Drums are steel
stampings, 14in. diameter front and
16in. rear. Handbrake mechanically
operates two shoes on each rear wheel
drum.
Steering is of worm-and-sector type,
semi-reversible, fully adjustable, with a
reduction ratio of 14 to 1. Turning circle
is 50ft. Bin.
The standard cab is totally enclosed,
fittings including rear vision mirror, wind-
screen wiper, headlamp dimmer, foot


MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub*
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
gill :sassa
■
■I
.4
m
■
BH
*
m
•'■' '■■■■■■ ■'
Hi
■ ■;
■
B
k
EQUAL TO
THE WORLDS
BEST-
Here at last is an Australian made axle equal in
every respect to the world's best.
Dufor Axles are made from a high-grade chrome-
nickel axle steel, and are machined to precision limits
in one of Australia's best equipped automotive
factories. Always specify Dufor none
genuine without the brand.
DULY & HANSFORD LTD.
MARRICKVILLE. NSW.
DUFOR
A XL E S
switch and cowl ventilator control. In-
struments are grouped in front of the
steering wheel, and include fuel gauge
(electric), water temperature indicator,
speedometer, oil-
pressure gauge and
ammeter.
The vehicle
tested was supplied
by W. H. Lober
and Co., N.S.W.
distributors. Gross
weight is 3 tons
12{cwt.; tare, 1
ton 17icwt.; pay-
load, 1 ton 15cwt.
Speedometer
showed 115 miles,
and the engine was
still stiff and re-
quired further run-
ning-in to give
maximum per-
formance.
In a test of
petrol consumption,
driven at an aver-
age speed of 22.9
m.p.h. over a dis-
tance of 88.2
miles, 3gal. 151 oz.
of fuel was used, giving an average of
22.3 m.p.g. (80.2 ton miles), a remarkable
performance. Coasting was not per-
mitted.
With full pay-load the lorry was tested
for road performance. On a steep grade
(1 in 6) a very steady climb was made,
starting in third gear and changing to
second near the summit, the time taken,
15 l-ssec., being good.
Returning down the steep grade ser-
vice brakes were applied at 15 m.p.h., a
distance of 18ft. being taken in which
to come to a standstill. Reversing,
at the same place and from a similar
speed, emergency brakes required 48ft.
in which to stop.
The vehicle was then required to
ascend the hill again, and on the steep-
est portion come to a standstill, hold
the lorry with the handbrake and start
Improved Y construction used in riveting
cross members to side rails, designed to
withstand bending and .twisting stresses.
up again in order to determine smooth
operation of clutch. This test revealed
that even under such difficult conditions
and with more than rated pay-load, a
smooth and even restart could be
effected. From a steady 10 m.p.h. on a
level bitumen road a speed of 30 m.p.h.
was attained in top gear in 18 4-ssec.,
and from 10 to 30 in third occupied 12
4-ssec. Maximum speed, fully laden,
was approximately 55 m.p.h.
The Trouble Lamp.
L. 8.0. (Cessnock, N.S.W.). — I have run my
’35 sedan for 18,000 miles and have not yet
cleaned air-cleaner or changed oil-purifier. The
car seems to be pulling as well as when new.
Is anything serious likely to happen if l adopt
the old motoring principle of leaving well
alone ?
Not necesarily, but failure to carry out in-
structions issued by makers does not give these
devices a fair chance to do the duties they were
designed for. The air-cleaner on your car is of
the gauze type, and will allow the engine to
function indefinitely in a fashion, but with
steadily decreasing efficiency. To secure best
results, the unit should be dismantled every
2000 miles, the gauze filter washed thoroughly
in benzine, then soaked in light lubricating oil,
left standing in the sun for an hour or so to
remove surplus oil and then restored to casing,
the oil-purifier, even if blocked with impuri-
ties, will not prevent the bearings from receiving
adequate lubrication, as the oil would be
by-passed, unfiltered, to the motor, but far
better results will be obtained if the oil is
thoroughly filtered, and to do this the cartridge
should be changed each 12 to 15 thousand
miles.
* * * *
K.B. (Yallourn, Vic.). — In records of tests
of cars over the “Bulletin” course you men-
tion spark-plug gap and contact-breaker setting.
Do these matter much ? I have been running
my 34 model car now for 21,000 miles and
/ have never worried about these settings, and
the motor appears to function as well as new.
Such settings are of great importance if it
is desired to obtain maximum efficiency from
any motor. As it happens, with the enormous
reserve of power available in modern engines,
motorists seldom are compelled to give atten-
tion to such details. Should you desire practical
proof of the wisdom of making adjust-
ments, compete with a car similar to yours
having plugs, breaker points and valves set to
maker’s specifications and see the result. From
a level start you will be given a clear view
Compact, solidly-constructed and efficient engine. Note clean
exterior and accessibility of essential units.
° f the other fellow’s number-plate in a few
hundred yards, whilst his engine will run
smoo ther, start easier, idle better and possibly
show a more favorable fuel consumption,
* *. * *
to/aW
m n es developed on three occasions excessive
toe-in, a total of three inches. Left top leaf of
fear spring and now main leaf in front spring
have fractured. I travel mostly over rough and
potholey roads, but always keep springs well
oiled. Cause and cure ?
Excessive toe-in is probably due to a bend
S it As h Si S&g
have been applied in the initial correction of
alignment the axle would almost certainly be
softened and would consequently bend easily
should the car be driven over rough roads,
only permanent cure would be to have the axle
straightened and heat-treated by specialists.
Broken springs may be due to slack shock-
absorbers and over-lubrication. Use a light,
penetrating oil, sprayed on, in future.
* 4= * *
P.E. (Cabramatta, N.S.W .f—-Pulling, petrol
and oil consumption are satisfactory on my ’27
four-cylinder car, but I cannot get decent idling
or slow running. The engine is in first-class
mechanical condition, having been rebored and
fitted with new valve guides, coil, plugs, etc.,
and there are no air leaks. Cause and cure ?
Usually the symptoms indicated arise in
your type of engine by reason of either a worn
throttle shaft or because the upper half of the
carburettor body is being warped or out of
shape. Call at Overland service station, Palmer-
street, Sydney, when an opinion will be given
gratis after examination.
* * * *
L.B.S. (Rockhampton, Q.). — Since my ’3l
model six-cylinder car has been decarbonised
and valves ground-in 1 have been troubled with
violent explosions in the silencer whenever
the car runs downhill with the throttle pedal
released. Hill-climbing and speed are as good
as ever. Cause and cure ?
Symptoms indicate either air leak, causing
weak mixture on the overrun, or sticking valve.
Carefully investigate gaskets on inlet and
exhaust manifold for air leaks, also remove
valve-cover plate and have someone turn the
motor with the starting-handle so that you may
note if one or more valves move sluggishly
or stick in their guides.
Motor Oddities.
“A.H.S.”: In Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, a frisky horse attached to a milk-
wagon reared and came down with one
leg inside the rear bumper bar of a
car parked in front. The assistance of
a couple of engineers with hacksaws had
to be obtained before the prad could be
extricated.
* * *
“H.A.L.”: When A. G. Pritchard, the
Adelaide motor engineer, was a lad, he
found working drawings of a petrol
engine in a trade journal. He owned a
foot-power lathe, and decided to build
an engine from the plans. When he was
running the finishing cut on the cylinder
bore he worked the treadle of his lathe
from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. without a pause.
If he had stopped to rest it would have
caused a flaw on the bore where the
tool rested. His legs ached for a week
afterwards, but he turned out an engine
which worked splendidly; it was one of
the first in Australia. Later he sold the
engine and forgot all about it. A few
years ago he received a letter from a
man who wanted to know where he
could buy spare parts for a Pritchard
engine. The engineer had never heard
of such a make, and wrote asking for
further particulars; the reply showed
that it was his old engine, to which he
had affixed a brass plate bearing his
name. For some 25 years that home-
made engine had been used for pumping
water, and the timing gears had at last
worn out. That’s a record which many
of the pioneer engine manufacturers
would be proud of. For a job which
an engineering apprentice made in his
spare time it is nothing short of mar-
vellous.


Ok mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne—. Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Long White Colud
“J.M.”: One Maoriland paper, as a
tribute to Jean Batten’s flight, gave her
a full page, covering her life from in-
fancy to her arrival in Sydney on the
last record-breaking hop. But it shoved
this sub-title over the top: “Jean Batten
May Owe Her Flair to Pioneer Aviator
Louis Bleriot.” The girl herself must
have read it with interest; it was prob-
ably the first time she realised she had
been born six weeks after Bleriot’s Eng-
lish Channel crossing, a flight which so
interested her mother that the good lady
stuck a picture of the machine and its
pilot on her Rotorua mantelpiece. After
that, as the romances say, Bleriot passed
out of Jean’s life.
* * * *
“Trim”: Mount Egmont, for which
Jean Batten headed on her latest flight,
was also the objective of Kingsford
Smith and Charles Ulm on their later
Trans-Tasman flights. Seventeen miles
from the mountain and a few miles but
of New Plymouth is an extensive muni-
cipally-owned airport. When Kingsford
Smith landed there in January, 1933, he
risked hurting the feelings of local resi-
dents by referring to their pride, the
8260 ft. mountain, as a “rubbish heap,”-
explaining with a grin that it looked like
that from 150 miles out at sea. One
curious fact about Egmont is that its
peak is rarely invisible from ’planes
more than a ;few hundred feet up,
although it may be completely cloud-
bound from below. The meteorological
explanation is that it is a solitary peak
and prevailing westerlies keep its top
clean.
* * * *
“Xo”: London “Times” has dug up
the oldest living Etonian ; he is George
Harper, aged 93, of Christchurch (M.L.),
who retired from the legal firm of Harper,
Pascoe, Buchanan and Upham in 1930.
One of four brothers to attend Eton,
Harper was there in 1855, Ihter becoming
a Christ’s College boy in M.L. Return-
ing to England, he was called to* the Bar
at the Inner Temple in 1869. Back in
Maoriland’s most English of cities, he
became a Supreme Court barrister and
solicitor. The discussion in the “Times”
brought him a number of congratulatory
letters from other old boys wearing the
same school tie.
* * # sit
“Mak”: Labor is accumulating the
knowledge born of office. Trade, Mr.
Savage told the Empire Chambers of
Commerce Federation, now follows in-
vestment where it used to follow the
flag. A few days later, Lord Elibank an-
nounced that British capital was becom-
ing wary of Labor’s legislative experi-
ments. Now Mr. Nash, the Minister of
Finance, faces the stiff task of pushing
the sale of M.L. foodstuffs in a Britain
seeking to increase the production of its
own farms ; and in a Britain that knows
Labor is prepared to assist M.L. manu-
facturers to make goods at present bought
in Britain.
*' * * *
“Kiwit”: Strange as it may seem,
Maoriland Labor has a horror of too
much government. Minister of Internal
Affairs Parry is sharpening his legislative
axe for assault upon the “obsolete method
of local-body government.” Amalgama-
tions look like being his method of
attack—and M.L. would not miss a
number of overlapping local authorities.
Most of them originated in the days when
transport and communication were
spelled in terms of horseflesh, and many
of them lacked the constitution and the
vision to adapt themselves to more
modern methods. If essential, services
can be administered efficiently by
economy amalgamations, and the saving
“Look out, here s some men coming!”
“Not the slightest need to Worry —it cant be our husbands.”
is not swallowed by other Labor moves,
the farmer will be grateful to Mr. Parry.
* * * *
“Obo”: Maoriland, as well as Aus-
tralia, has its author-politician. J. A.
Lee, Under-Secretary to P.M. Savage
and boss of the Labor party’s new hous-
ing scheme, has just published his second
book, The Hunted, which is causing just
about' as much conversation across the
Tasman as his first effort, Children of
the Poor. Both deal realistically with
the stony paths stretching before im-
poverished and youthful lawbreakers.
* * * *
“Korero”: Another useful publicity
medium exploited by Maoriland (B.
14/10/’36) is a radio news service for
passenger vessels. A daily hour of M.L.
news is radio-telegraphed from a Post
and Telegraph Department station at
10.30 p.m. in winter and 11 p.m. in
summer. All world oceans are reached
during the hours of darkness by a short-
wave broadcast, and another wave-
length is u,sed for contacting vessels
within 1000 miles of Wellington. Nearly
all modern passenger vessels print daily
news bulletins, and mid-ocean tourists
get selected M.L. items with their
breakfast'.
* * % *
“M.”: Frank Hockly, dead in Auck-
land, was Rotorua’s first representative
in the M.L. House. When Clinkard
headed him by a few votes in 1928,
Hockly had been Chairman of Com-
mittees since 1926, and was mentioned
as Reform’s next Cabinet choice. Presi-
dent of the South Auckland District Mili-
tary Service Board during the war, he
farmed at Makuri, Hunterville and Te
Awamutu before he went to live in his
electorate in 1919. After the ’2B elec-
tion he became chairman of the Auck-
land Mortgagors’ Relief Commission.
He married a McGregor girl, and was a
friend of Hunterville’s Simpsons and
Duncans and of nearly every North
Island public figure. Frank Hockly’s
cheery smile will be missed. He was 71.
* * * *
“Motu”: It is not generally known
that the first man to perform an opera-
tion in the Antarctic was a full-blooded
Maori. He was Dr. Louis Potaka, well
known in Wanganui, who joined the Byrd
expedition in February, 1934, after Dr.
Shirley returned to M.L. by the Jacob
Ruppert. Potaka had just transferred
from the British research ship Discovery
to Byrd’s Bear of Oakland when one of
the party, name of Pelter, went down with
acute appendicitis. Byrd’s book describes
that operation in detail. For Potaka, the
Antarctic venture proved disastrous; he
suffered a painful eye injury which was
still troubling him when a few weeks ago
he died in Nelson (M.L.).
* * * *
“Yoicks”: A high wind blew a rail
car off the Wellington-Masterton line the
other day. Another is operating between
Christchurch and Hokitika. Designed for
mountainous routes, they are speedy and
comfortable, and the Government claims
that they are economical. The type, cross-
ing the Rimutaka Mountains to Master-
ton seats 49 and hits 60 miles an hour;
the South Island dual-purpose car is
smaller, but carries freight as well as 20
passengers. A third type, for immediate
operation on the Wellington-New
Plymouth run, will conform to conditions
existing along most lines. It is to touch
70 m.p.h.
* * , * *
“D.N.”: Timber (B. 14/10//36) has
been exported from Maoriland since the
wild days of the whalers and sealers. In
Vic.’s State Parliamentary library there
is one of the 10 “Port Phillip Adver-
tisers” circulated in Melbourne on
January 1, 1838. Under a copper-plate
“On Sale” intimation, it advised Batman
and his neighbors that Horatio Cooper
and Hugh McLean, of Williams Town,
had in hand a “quantity of very
superior N.Z. pine in log and flooring
boards.” That pine was probably from
the kauri forests of North Auckland.
* 5! * *
“Filibuster”: “Avon” (B. 30/9/’36) is
too sweeping in his statements about
mixed blood in M.L. The Maoris owe
their present position in the social scale
partly to the fact that they proved amen-
able to education, and partly because
they were not numerous enough ever to
become a menace to the whites.
* * * *
“Mac J.”: Maoriland cricket has lost
the active participation of C. G. Botlrill,
whose Taranaki record has done much
to improve the standard of the game in
the mountain province; after 22
summers in pads he has taken to trout-
stream waders. Visiting Australian and
English Elevens met him on New
Plymouth’s Pukekura Park, but an even
better contribution to the game than his
playing record was the years he devoted
to New Plymouth Boys’ High School
teams. Nearly every season one or more
of Bottrill’s schoolboys represented their
province, and when they moved on they
carried the Bottrill tradition into uni-
versity cities and country towns.


The middle-aged man
&
must guard against
KIDNEY TROUBLE
be successful at his job a
man must keep fit . . . Most
of us are fit wben we are young,
and such complaints as Rheuma-
tism, Backache, Lumbago and
other forms of Kidney Trouble
are furthest from our minds.
But as youth slips away and middle-
age sets in, we frequently begin to feel
the effects of overworked Kidneys,
which for the first time are “falling down
on their job” and permitting impurities
to accumulate in the blood streams.
Neglect is Dangerous .
It is when we reach this stage that
we need Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills—
our Kidneys need help, and Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which are an
excellent Kidney Tonic, will give them
just the help that they need.
This remedy can be absolutely relied
upon to make the Kidneys strong and
healthy once again, so that they will
thoroughly carry out their duty of
filtering the impurities from the blood
streams, and so avert serious trouble.
Don’t close your eyes to the early
symptoms of Kidney Trouble, take
Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills immediately
you have any signs of Backache, Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Stiff Swollen Joints,
Dizziness, Puffiness under the Eyes,
Pains in the Sides, Headaches and
general run-down feelings, or any form
of Bladder Trouble.
Gin Pills Will Help You.
You can place every confidence in
Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills, as they
contain no harsh irritants or harmful
ingredients, and their constituents are
such that they cannot help but do you
good. Anyone can take Gin Pills
with absolute safety. This product
is quite unique—
gets right to the
root of the trouble,
bringing quick
and permanent
relief where many
other remedies
fail.
ShAheldom
GIN PILLS
For BACKACHE, RHEUMATISM. LUMBAGO. Joint
PAINS, and all KIDNEY and BLADDER TROUBLES.
flfl
Q? SHELDON?}
27 Pi7/s 7/9
60 Pills 2/9
m
m
mmm
i
V :■■■■:■
S« =:'
I
111
D
ZjPZMF
The pure strong Eucalyptus
with the sweet fresh smell ;
Every drop of Double “D”
Eucalyptus passes through a
special process of double
distillation which ensures
that all impurities and irri-
tating aldehydes are re-
moved, leaving a pure, clear,
strong eucalyptus which is
exceptionally high in medi-
cinal values.
9d. - Enormous Sales - 1/3
Boijble “D”
&ucaly]itu4 Sxtlact
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
o*V"'
\a*. <s' s o^ r
°V>
** e
«v.
S*
.d
►V «*• r«s»'
,v°
A\ 6
„s 6 t o^
\* K \*V .-•••' :•• ,*-.*<
•'" •*’
t s-
o'
*’
ot v°^V^
r vA


- days
aid
to sparkling
HEALTH and FITNESS
"new
‘Pep’ in a Few Minutes
There's nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting momentsl
o,
%
'■tor
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say "('ream
of Yeast is
LIFE!"
‘It has
done me
a lot of
good 9
. UJtm iC
k
W4
mul
■m
* : '/
SS GAIN
XX) NEW ‘PEP’
W TO-DAY—
S'.-V
, ' r s ;-
v
Famous-
A thief es
train on
Cream of Yeast.
A Leading Newspaper says: "Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
est tonic pick-
me-up known.”
Benefit
-or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from tlie nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories.
Square,
• Sydney.
Amazing Vitality To-morrow!
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Create of Yeast
combines yeast arid other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to he thin, nervous and lacking in "yep '
tchen thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained Silts, to 15Ujs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia, in '[ minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 8 miimtes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
(Hears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
ONE
User says?
“I find great
relief in Cream
of Yeast; it has
done me good
in several
H a d hh
been in ’ —j— Hospital’ and Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
—A.E., Young, N.S.W.
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11: S/6 and 6/9.
