

S E RVIC E
LWAYS prepared, ever ready at a moment’s notice to
r\ render instant aid, the Fireman is truly representative
of Public Service at its best.
Likewise the house of Hamiltons (Australasia), Limited,
maintains a service which is always at the call of the investing
public—a service based on a thorough and comprehensive
knowledge of the investment market.
Shares in ESTABLISHED Companies of proved dividend-
earning capacity, backed by adequate tangible assets, form
the basis of all offerings from Hamiltons (Australasia),
Limited.
Furthermore, the Hamilton Service, which guarantees that
balance sheets and full information regarding investments
are available at all times to the investor, ensures both Safety
and Security.
Data covering such service, together with the monthly circular
“PROFITS,” is available free on application to
JHamiltOM (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY,
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O, Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
1H
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Post Office and Amalgamated Wireless
VoL 57.—N0. 2925.
Wednesday, March 4, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised m the Sydney Bulletin.
hly Name
My Address
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize", to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees < have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted-
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter! The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, .will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A NEW
FALLADA
His two earlier
novels, with their
fantastical mono-
syllabic titles,
Little Man, What
Now ? and Who
Once Drinks Out of the Tin Bowl,
clearly established Hans Fallada as one
of the best of living German authors—
that, though the first was so flushed with
the pities and sentimentalities of unfor-
tunate poverty that a version of it was
a popular screen success, and though the
second was bemusedly bent on evoking
similar emotional reactions to a depiction
of low-life so monotonously crude, coarse
and evil as to make the novel virtually
a pathological laboratory piece.
Yet in both there was positive evidence
of a prolific inventiveness, and deep
human feeling, understanding, sympathy ;
a powerful control of narrative ■; a touch
of that humor which neither corrodes
nor condemns ; ability to add the missing
ingredient which art has to give to aver-
age human beings to make them univer-
sally interesting. All those qualities of
authorship and others besides—good
dialogue, consistent characterisation,
cleverly sustained interest .and suspense,
and the like—can be found in those two
earlier novels, underlying the sometimes
somewhat lush sentimentality of the one
and the gross matter of the other.
All of those qualities, too, come to
flower in the latest, and easily the finest,
of Hans Fallada’s novels—Once We Had
a Child (Putnam ; Angus and Robertson :
7s. 6d.). The novel’s simplest theme is one
of hereditary behavior, a theme that im-
portantly conditions the general construc-
tion. But for the brilliant, comedic, in
places uproariously and outrageously
funny representation of the principal
character’s forebears in the first hundred
or so pages, v that character’s behavior
through the rest of the story would often
be very hard to accept, or even to under-
stand. As it is, with such forebears, the
strangest of his actions is immediately
acceptable and strictly in character. The
main setting, too —a northern German
coastal farming scene adjoining the Baltic
—is given by that early retrospect of
life, going back about 100 years, a
strangely eccentric and remarkable
character of its own. If seems that in
such a place the people could not be
other than the oddities they are; it
seems, also, that with such people the
place could not be other than it is. They
are complementary ; they belong to each
other ; are inseparables ; twins born of
life in a fantastic conception. And this —
a fine literary achievement, giving the
novel a broad and strong base —is
brought about in what is really but a
prelude to the projected narrative.
Most often preludes in fiction are mere
encumbrances or, at the best, conveni-
ences to the author’s laziness. They are
encumbrances when—which is mostly—
they merely exhibit the author sparring
about, unable or incompetent to make a
start. In this form they flourish in an
enormous number of unpublished manu-
scripts ; they are common enough,
Heaven knows, in published novels. In
nine hundred and ninety-nine novels out
of a thousand where they appear they
can be blotted out without any loss what-
ever.
The exception to this necessarily sweep-
ing condemnation of so-called preludes
is this use made of the method by Hans
Fallada, whose “Forebears” prelude is
an integral part of the narrative. He
begins with a depiction of the leading
character’s forebears and of the place as
these were several generations ago. It is
a place where “a rpan either gets to
brooding and seeing ghosts, or he. amuses
himslf and his neighbors by the buzzing
of the bees that he keeps in his bonnet.”
The male forebears of Johannes Gant-
schow incline to the second of those
alternatives.
The bees that buzz in the bonnets of
a succession of these independent
farmers are strange and wonderful. The
range is from keeping an extraordinary
collection of scavenging dogs to hoard-
ing the whole farm produce over 40
years, till it is, of course, so much worth-
less decay. Those bees produce astound-
ing effects by experiments in Japanese
ideas of fermenting ordure for fertilis-
ing, and by setting cartridges in a place
where guests at a wedding will certainly
let the things off with the maximum of
embarrassment and confusion to their
unsuspecting selves. Even the scavenger
dogs are infected by their masters’
example. The dogs, a wild and shaggy
pack of them,
would crouch beside a field path and wait
for what might come. Then when a peasant
girl with her market-basket came along
from Kirchdorf, she suddenly saw a muddy
hound fawning at her feet, as though in its
last agonies. If she put down her basket,
and bent over the dying beast, the whole
spectral pack leapt on her from behind and
tore her skirt to rags, and as she shrieked
and tried to fly the apparently expiring
dog darted between her legs and tripped
her up, and the basket, with all its con-
tents, rolled over in the grass. . The dogs
fled, noiseless as ghosts, carrying their
booty with them. But the poor girl had
to wait in the field until the merciful
darkness fell, as she could not go back to
the village skirtless, in her drawers or, as
might happen in the summer, without any
drawers at all. But. however late she
reached home, the story always got about,
and for many a day to come she was pur-
sued by jeers and laughter.
Their house to the Gantschows of
those earlier generations was merely a
place “where they could crawl when the
weather was bad. Indeed, one of the
clan, with his back against the stove dur-
ing a spell of such bad weather, is said
to have observed with a sigh: ‘lt’s a
good thing that houses are hollow so
that people can live in them.’ ” Here-
abouts, evidence that all the bees about
the place were not in the Gantschows’
bonnets; evidence, too, of the warm,
sunny spirit with which the author
drenches the whole narrative, and also of
the excellence of Eric Sutton’s fine
translation:
Near the centre of the garden, to the
right of the main path, stood the apiary,
a clay structure thatched with reeds, quite
six feet high and facing east. Here
stood the yellow hives of plaited straw,
in three rows, one above the other: the
old and wasteful type of hive that involved
the destruction of the entire swarm to get
at the honey harvest. However, here the
straw hives survived. The Gantschows
made no use of their bees. They did not
destroy the swarms. The entire honey
harvest was left to moulder all the winter
through. And so great, splendid multitudes
of bees swarmed in and out of the garden,
on to the lime-trees, the bean-fields and
every blossoming thing.
At the peak of noon, the whirr and buzz
of the bees rose into a roar as though
the very dome of heaven were spinning
round. The wind stirred the leaves. The
foliage shimmered in the light. The earth
was drenched in gold. The birds fluttered
and were still. And the little deserted
garden rocked like a green-and-gold see-
saw in that murmurous noontide splendor.
This, a part of the eventual heritage
of Johannes, invested at birth with the
blend of courage, independence and
eccentricity which is the Gantschow
character, a character which aids and
obstructs him through a wild and excit-
ing boyhood, a wandering youth, love
and an incompatible marriage, love re-
gained and lost again, and in the end
the farm, where strange things had hap-
pened to stranger Gantschows before
him, his real and whole heritage.
It is a long novel—63l pages ; 200,000
words—and yet it is put down at the
end with regret; this because all that has
happened in it, the gallery of people, the
tragedy and the comedy of it, are so
splendid, and because, too, a little more
of the same quality at the end would
have made it stronger.
R. P.
The Australian
Short Story
What has
come of the Aus-
tral i a n short
story? Twenty-
five years ago it
promised to rival
the best in English and American jour-
nals. It was the ordered development of
an idea, clear-cut and realistic—highly
dramatic, genially humorous or cynically
witty. It lingered in the mind, perhaps
with a spice of hostility, but yet with a
sense of satisfaction from good, sincere
work. In the early post-war years it
made a definite advance. More Aus-
tralian papers published it, and Aus-
tralian readers became increasingly con-
scious of it. It was still powerful, and
had improved in technique—especially in
terseness—but it ended, too often in
tragedy and disillusion.
The “depression” came, and swept
away many social shams and the self-
delusions of individuals. People for the
first time faced the primal realities of
life, and saw their real selves stripped of
the aids of so-called civilisation. They
were forced to make unwonted contact
with their fellow-men, and see the ele-
ments of society from new points of
view.
Such change and movement should
have widened human vision, developed
a keener psychological insight and
stimulated intellectual activity. A social
revolution provokes serious thought; the
expression of that thought becomes in
some measure a literary renaissance. Not
so in Australia! Our writers have not
realised the Significance of the era
through which we are passing ; or, realis-
ing it, shirk the task of interpreting it
through the medium of literature.
Tiburon is the only novel dealing with
the subject, which has* been almost com-
pletely ignored by the writers of the
short story.
I have before me a varied lot of Aus-
tralian weekly and monthly journals
(The Bulletin is excluded). They have 13
different titles, and come from five States.
I carefully examined the first 50 short
stories I found in them. About two-
thirds of the stories were by overseas
writers of “quite startling obscurity,”, as
Hugh Benson would say. Neither matter
nor style justified their publication ; for
they were a reversion to the Edwardian
novelette, with all its inanity, but with
an inferior plot. Those of us who pro-
fess to take an interest in Australian
literature periodically protest against the
importation of this kind of stuff; then
the writers sit down and, for the sake
of a market, write similar piffle, and the
readers continue to buy the magazine
containing it.
I tabulated the theme of these 50
stories. Twenty-two dealt with “Love’s
young dream,’’ in the weary old circum-
stances of misunderstanding, masquer-
ade, impersonation, rivalry, test of cour-
age, sudden awareness through shock of
danger or unmasking of villainy. Eleven
were based on the reconciliation of hus-
band and wife or the “travelling-coach”
game between married couples. All the
world could not love the lover in these
stories, for he is without form, and void
of any distinctive human attribute—a
pale abstraction that fades out with the
discarded journal. Of the remaining
stories nearly half dealt with some nefari-
ous design—the nearly-perfect crime of
murder, the clever burglary, the pseudo-
comic confidence trick —all presented
with little grace of style or originality
of treatment.
For whom are these stories written?
Rarely for men, apparently, though in
all the English-speaking countries, except
U.S.A., nearly all the first-class short
stories have been written by men. If
for women, then the editors have under-
estimated their readers’ intelligence, or
modern feminine education has been
vain.
The dabbler in psychology will tell us
that such a blank literary period is in-
evitable in troublous times ; that these
inane stories are “the literature of escape”
from harsh reality. That is but “to give
the ill he cannot cure a name.” Why
should we seek to escape from it? Does
this desire to escape not point to a weak-
ness in our national character?
A short story should be a silhouette
from life. Are we satisfied that the world
should form its concept of Australian
character from the short stories we toler-
rate in our journals?
CLAUN.
Can
Literature
Flourish ,
To-day?
Can literature
of the h i ghest
class flourish
under the condi-
tions of modern
life? Personally,
I do not think
that it can. Con-
sider impartially
these facts.
Books, which once were written for the
cultured few, are now written for the
educated many. Until about the middle
of the nineteenth century, and particu-
larly in the eighteenth, seventeenth and
sixteenth centuries, learning was fashion-
able, Duke and lord, curate and squire
each aired his store of classical know-
ledge, made quotations in tolerable Latin,
and boasted at least a passing acquaint-
ance with the best things in English
poetry and prose. If one could not write
verses one at least accepted the dedica-
tion of the penurious poet. Young
women of standing even believed that
such an artificial aid as poetry was need-
ful in the elemental commerce of love.
And if it happened that one had been
born the son of a merchant, a tradesman
or a clerk and aspired with affluence of
riches to a higher social position, then
one must hasten to the bookseller’s, pur-
chase a set of the works of the standard
authors, delve with an aching head
aipong stanzas, quatrains, monologues,
epilogues and expositions, and strive to
introduce into conversation apposite
quotations with the negligent ease of the
fashionable. But besides all this polite
affectation, so natural to human nature,
there was much sincere love of good
literature. On the whole the bookseller’s
market was almost exclusively for the
wftrks of authors who attained or aspired
td literary excellence.
Books, generally speaking, are no
longer written to provide intellectual and
cultural recreation. The great mental
and educational emancipation of the in-
dustrial classes, the strain imposed on the
nervous system by the cacophonous
scurrying of urban life, and the compet-
ing for public favor of new forms of
amusement have made the greater part of
modern literature merely a mental opiate,
a time-passer. Although the mental eman-
cipation of the industrial classes has
created a new reading public so immense
that thousands of books are sold now
where tens were sold before, this im-
portant event has not given rise to a com-
mensurate improvement of taste. To
the exactions of daily work one must
add the toll of nervous energy which
must be paid for the manifold advantages
of living in a mechanised world. The
introduction of trams, motor-cars and
trains, with the consequent curtailing of
o Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
The Senior Store
While I Live I'll Grow"
Anthony Horderns 1
1
'1
*
f ,
wt
Jo]
m
V.
mm
mKm
\
/ I
t
r
iVii'n”'!
7 7 6 NATURAL WOOL AND
COTTON
UNDERWEAR
SUITINGS
CLOTHS DIRECT FROM
ENGLISH and AUSTRALIAN
MILLS
By ordering your new suit from Anthony Horderns’ you will undoubtedly
have spent to the best advantage. All tailoring is done by our skilled
craftsmen and experienced London cutters. Cloths used are the best
from English and Australian mills and all linings and interlinings are
thoroughly pre-shrunk.
SAC SUITS, prices from . 79/6 to £lO/10/-
TROUSERS 26/6 to 84/-
DINNER SUITS 105/- to £l2/12/-
FULL DRESS SUITS £9/9/- to £l4/14/-
TREE BRAND
SUPER
SHOES
a
e
The well-dressed man could choose no better Winter Shoe than a pair of our
Tree ’ Brand Super Brogues. Made from high-grade Tan Willow. Black Box
Calf with stout, genuine welted soles on a neat and comfortable last. Full and
half-sizes. Also available in the whole golosh bespoke mode. At Anthony
Horderns’, pair 27/6
• Men’s Footwear-Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in
N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
New season’s natural Wool and
Cotton Underwear of soft medium
weight. Warm and durable gar-
ments, full fitting and well finished.
Undershirts or Underpants, sizes 34
to 42 inch chest or waist. Price,
garment, 7/6. Special Price, 5/6.
I0 7 6 NATURAL ALL-WOOL
UNDERWEAR
7/6
A worthwhile offer for thrifty men!
Buy your winter underwear at this
big saving! Natural All-Wool
Undershirts or Underpants in extra
cosy winter weight; made for hard
service. Sizes 34 to 44' inch chest
or waist. Price, garment, 10/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Special, 7/5.
6 6 PYJAMAS, 411
Men’s comfortable Pyjamas of cosy
British Twill Flannelette. Just what
you want for the winter—so buy
them now! A range of colourful
stripes and Small, Medium and Out-
sizes. Price, suit, 6/6. Anthony
Horderns’ Special Price, suit, 4/11.
I 2 X 6 PYJAMAS
7b
Just look at what you can save on a
pair of these Pyjamas! They are made
of smart British Haircord in twenty
different dressy designs. With Polo or
new Sports Collars. Small, Medium and
Outsizes. Price, suit. 12/6. Anthony
Horderns’ Special Price, suit .... 7/6
16/6 PYJAMAS 13/6
Smart Pyjamas for comfortable present
wear. Fashioned of cool Spun Art.
Silk Kayon with a Polo or Sports
Collar. A splendid range of assorted
stripes for selection. Small, Medium,
Outsizes. Price, suit, 16/6. Sjiecial
Price, suit 13/6
® Men s Clothing and Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth


'
mmm
m
mm
m
I
HI
■
mm
a
M
m
;»v-
Hi
m
r •£
V>
H
AN IDEAL PRESENT FOR A FRIEND
AND A MOST INTERESTING AND
EDUCATIONAL BOOK FOR CHILDREN.
“Zoo People”
A series of intimate, unusual and most delightful
Studies in Animal and Bird Portraiture repro-
duced by Photo-lithographic Printing, together
with informative paragraphs concerning the
subjects dealt with.
TWENTY-FOUR PAGES
PRICE
(Postage 2d. Extra)
Obtainable only from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Hi
-...1
l
time wasted in mere travelling to and fro,
has added years of recreation to the life
of civilised men and women But this
lengthening of the periods of recreation
and the introduction of new and divert-
mg forms of amusement have brought
about a continuity of mental and bodily
nf " nkn ™ n m T he yS
frv tifi iffi? and stagnation. In mdus-
r e be^ n
b ff J ! and ‘! lorou g tll ;
h? 1 t r j i tUff of - human and
the struggle, conscious or subconscious,
human mWdSmt Ms nflefible°"dis 8
S often Sin 7dr S „'r‘
vous energy which makes prolonged
mental effort intolerable.
Here are not wanted the doublings, the
readjustings of ideas and he sudden in-
trUt f 1 “J? bLau - t . y Y hl . ch thc
thing clever or dWerSgThfch will SST-
™r| h ullh,g ,h dre n am d s e or roveTieZofh'igh
adventure. Also, it is improbable that
the greater part of the period of recrea-
tion will be spent in reading. Wireless
broadcasting, which offers excellent enter-
tamment for every hour, the motor-car,
wb i cb facilitates a healthy outdoor life
and beneficial social intercourse, and the
talkies, which approach nearer and nearer
to the quality of art, are providing the
strongest competition for public favor,
With good literature estranged to some
extent from the finesse and discernment
of the leisured classes and the native vigor
of the industrial, some modern writers
have fallen into the sin of writing for
themselves alone. The freakish, even
monstrous, forms m which such writers
“express their individuality” incur the
ndicule of all classes. An inferiority
complex drives them to still greater freak-
ishness and incomprehensibility in order
that they may appLe their injured self-
conceit by believing that they are the
initiators of a new movement or the
discoverers of a truth beyond the appre-
hension of the multitude. What a puerile
and fallacious state of mind! In every
age great literature has been vital and
robust, athletic and lucid.
xw csnU, Jo iitoro
Not only is the market for good t ra-
ture smaller now in relation to the book
market as a whole, but the immeasurable
importance of business in modern life has
faK who miS.?ha°ve become aS
oil ” ° fWrl
able authors. More immediately lucra
tive professions, such as advertising, jour-
nalism and publicity work, have attracted
many persons possessing qualities which
might have enabled them to add to the
treagury of English literature. In li.era-
ture itself, Mephistopheles, in the form
of the best seller, offering riches and
fame, has lured many authors from the
higher but stonier paths.
The most cursory survey of history
. . J J
supports the theory that great literature
is generally the expression of periods or
epochal change, of vast expansions of the
mental and material horizons But it is
doubtful whether the almost incredible
progress of science m the twentieth cen-
tury is so stimulating the thought of the
people as to produce the rich beds of
emotional and mental fermentation from
which springs great art. Literature
flourished in the Elizabethan period as
it had never flourished before in Eng-
land because the thoughts of all classes
-—nobility, clergy and commoners—were
bursting the bonds of insularity which
previously had confined the minds of
Englishmen, and were flying to the
borders of new worlds of action and of
thought All these influences—the
struggle between Protestant and Catholic,
the R ena i ssance a nd the New World—
had become the commonplaces of life
. the Restoration and the eighteenth
century Then, although there was
much competent literary craftsmanship,
there was , ittle writing 0 f the highest
merit and no constellations of genius,
Not until the cat aclysm of the French
Revolution rent the beliefs and traditions
of a thousand years did literature flourish
again And scarce ly had the last thunders
Q | thg Napo i e onic wars died away before
the progress of social reform, the expan-
of industry and the rise of seience,
with its bounty of material benefits, again
set the minds of men in a ferment of
creative activity. But in our time all
these things form the familiar environ-
ment of life. Wireless, the aeroplane, the
conquest of disease and all the other
manifestations of the march of science
are becoming as commonplace as steam-
engines were to our grandparents. The
mental and emotional impetus which
literature has received for more than 100
years is becoming exhausted.
Think over these facts impartially and
then ask yourself again whether the age
of miracles would not yet be over if
modern writers, faced with all the
obvious and overwhelming disadvantages
of the organisation of modern life, were
to rival the greatest authors of the past?
TOOWONG.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Inside Europe John Gunther
Once We Had a Child ... Hans Fallada
WELL written, exceptionally well in-
formed, John Gunther’s Inside
Europe (Hamish Hamilton ; 12s. 6d.) has
additional special qualities making it one
of the liveliest and most entertaining
books obtainable on current and recent
European affairs. Its general scheme is
a grand tour of all the countries of
Europe, with an eye chiefly for the lead-
ing personalities toying with destiny in
each. A veritable Who’s Who and
What’s What of present-day Europe. The
tour begins in Germany, whose system
Mr. Gunther dislikes. Hitler, of whom he
gives a full-length and mostly unfavor-
able portrait, he describes as “irrational,
contradictory, complex... .an unpredic-
table character ; therein lies his menace.”
“To millions of honest Germans he is
sublime, a figure of adoration ; he fills
them with love, fear and nationalist
ecstasy. To many other Germans he is
meagre and ridiculous —a charlatan, a
lucky hysteric, a lying demagogue.”
More of his Hitler:
He is not nearly so cultivated, so sophis-
ticatedly interested in intellectual affairs as
is, say, Mussolini. He reads almost noth-
ing. .. .To many who meet him Hitler seems
awkward and ill at ease. This is because
visitors, even among his subordinates,
obtrude personal realities which interfere
with his incessant fantasies. He has no
poise... .He is no “strong, silent man”....
Hitler rants. He orates. He is extremely
emotional. He never answers questions.
He talks to you as if you were a public
meeting, and nothing can stop the gush of
words He believes absolutely in what
he says—at the moment... .Hitler, at 46,
is not in first-rate physical condition....
His physical presence has always been in-
different ; the extreme sloppiness with
which he salutes is, for instance, notorious.
....He is deeply musical... .When he is
fatigued at night, then his friend and
associate Hanfstaengl may be summoned
to play him to sleep.... He dams profes-
sion of emotion to the bursting point,
then is apt to break out in crying fits. A
torrent of feminine tears compensates for
the months of uneasy struggle not to give
himself away.
Of Hitler’s positive qualities, Mr.
Gunther' names highest his single-
mindedness, his intense fixity of purpose.
“His tactics may change; his strategy
may change ; his aim, never.”
His brain is small, limited, narrow, sus-
picious. But behind it is the lamp of pas-
sion, and this passion has such quality
that it is immediately discernible and recog-
nisable, like a diamond in the sand.
Multiply the variety of detail and the
mordant bite of all that by about ten,
and that’s Mr. Gunther’s Hitler—a very
thorough portrait and a savage one. As
most likely successor, if Hitler should
die to-morrow, he names Goring, “a ter-
rible possibility.” Goring, in his view,
is “as carnivorous as Hitler is frugal—
brusque, impulsive, cruel.” Gobbels he
describes as “the most vicious man in
the party, the most virulent—the best
educated.” Streicher he depicts as “a
man of fifty-one, barrel-chested, shaven-
headed, in appearance the incarnation of
brutality.” Depictions of Hess and
Frick are more kindly, but on the whole
the leading personalities of this Ger-
many infuriate Mr. Gunther as much
even as their dictatorship does. Through
this personal approach he goes on to a
sharp depiction of the general conditions
prevailing now in Germany, blending in
graphic descriptions of such outstanding
significant national events as the Reich-
stag fire and trial (which he attended
personally) and the wholesale “execu-
tions” of Rohm and other Nazi leaders
in 1934. He also views Germany in its
relationship with the other countries of
Europe ; its aims, ambitions and inten-
tions regarding them ; what retards or
promises to aid its progress ; to what ex-
tent its policy, system and personalities
may be shaping towards war. Then, in
turn, he enters the other countries of
Europe and deals with each similarly,
with the personal note dominating
throughout. The shape of the tour is
next into France, thence into Spain and
Italy, an interlude in England, then on
again into Austria, into the dozen coun-
tries thereabout, into Turkey, Poland
and, finally, Russia. On the way lively
portraits of Laval, Mussolini, Baldwin,
Eden, Dollfus, Kamal Attaturk, Pilsud-
ski, Stalin and not fewer than threescore
others, with the whole restless, excited
European scene paraded along with them.
In a close criticism of the book such
things as the vehemence of the attack on
German Fascism and Hitler in compari-
son with the lenient, apologist treatment
of the Soviet and Stalin would have to
be considered, in particular the black
depiction of Hitler’s 1934 “purge” com-
pared with the glossing over of Stalin’s
treatment of the Russian peasants in
1932, an example of calculated, ruth-
lessly cruel mass murder that probably
has no equal in history. But taken as
a whole it is a brilliant, detached de-
piction of its huge, widely varied scene,
“a treasury of intimate material and
ideas,” a most vivid account and search-
ing criticism of the great drama of
present-day Europe and the leading
characters now strutting the stage.
Hans Fallada’s Once We Had a Child
(reviewed on page 2) can also be con-
fidently recommended as a book out of
the ordinary.
*
Men Against the Clouds: Richard L.
Burdsall and Arthur B. Emmons, 3rd
(Bodley Head ; 12s. 6d. net). Mr. Burd-
sall and Mr. Emmons the Third went
from U.S.A. to Tibet and climbed a
beautiful mountain, and that it must
have been a glorious adventure is not
wholly disguised even by their dull
account of it.
The Beauty Aspect of Health and
Living: Josiah Oldfield (Chapman and
Hall; 3s. 6d. net). Contains such sound,
sensible dieting advice that it’s a pity
the author felt constrained to express his
views in such an overpowering torrent
of scented gush. Anyone able to swim
in this torrent —some might like it —will
find Mr. Oldfield a wise mentor on bodily
care.
Miss Tiverton’s Shipwreck : Rosemary
Rees (Chapman and Hall ; 7s. 6d.). In-
troduces us to a sort of female Admir-
able Crichton or Papa Robinson (of the
Swiss Family). Miss Tiverton was 36
and a bit of a frump, but after a few
weeks cast away on a Pacific island she
“managed somehow to look handsomer
than anyone. The lines of her figure,
though robust, were decidedly good. Her
skin was beautiful. Her brown hair
had caught glints from the sun and her
eyes were clear and bright.” The three
unattached men among the passenger
castaways propose to her, and she
accepts the worthiest in the last chapter,
after having, by her resource, courage
and commonsense, endeared herself to
all. A straightforward story, with plenty
of incident and no darn psychology.
Sawdust Ccesar: George Seldes
(Barker ; 12s. 6d. net). A most seriously-
intentioned attack on Mussolini, in which
incidents, acts and words that suit the
author’s purpose are represented in an
ugly light. It is, however, so virulently
antagonistic that, instead of detracting
from Mussolini’s reputation, it leaves the
impression that the man who stimulated
the Italian people from lethargy and
depression to energetic nationhood is one
of the most vigorous and forceful char-
acters in history ; and, instead of estab-
lishing the author as a fearless and bold
commentator, it leaves the impression of
a gossip-press reporter trailing a public
figure who is news and in whom the most
moronic might be interested if only the
man can be sensationally enough repre-
sented.
Twenty Years Under the Sea: J. E.
Williamson (Bodley Head ; 15s. net). In-
teresting account of the career and ex-
periences of the well-known undersea
photographer and film-maker, with some
excellent photos, of undersea “forests,"
shark-fighting and fish, including one
that should inspire Scorfield —a giant sea
bat caught by being hooked on a ship’s
anchor. One series of pictures should
end the idea that a shark must turn over
to bite. The shark fighting seen in Mr.
Williamson’s films is not fake. A dead
horse is used for bait to lure the sharks
about, and then the shark-fighters go
down and really fight. Mr. Williamson
has done it himself.
♦
“D.G.”: The writer who referred to
Mary Gilmore as “Mary Mac Commo-
nwealth” (R.P. 19/2/’36) was wrong. That
was one of the many pen-names of David
McKee Wright.


JV
S
<5
6>
Speedy and economical wireless telegraph services are indispensable
to a country’s progress.
Since its inception in 1913, A.W.A. has anticipated, rather than
followed, the needs of the Australian public for modern wireless
telegraph facilities.
The Company established and to-day operates Use Beam Wireless
Telegraph Service, Trans-Ocean Wireless Telephone, and the Beam
Picturegram Service between Australia and overseas. A.W.A. also
operates the Australian Coastal Radio Service and the Pacific Island
Services in New Guinea, Papua and Fiji.
Wireless services are also conducted on ships at sea for the safety
of life and for the interchange of public wireless telegrams between
ship and shore.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the all-important factors that
have resulted in giving the public satisfactory service. To this end
every new phase of wireless has been scientifically investigated and
developed.
The Company invites enquiries in respect to any of its wireless
communication services. An illustrated booklet, setting out the
Company’s activities and services, will be sent post free on written
application to the Company’s Offices at 47 York Street, Sydney, or
167-9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
CsLu-jji>Lcj2LQjf O/z^osruJcotian.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■ HI
p ■ r ' • ■ ‘ ■ **;< M
ilPxl Him 111 sTii m , I.
m
■ I m
1 ifi
f\|i I jyy I
I 1 ii M!
E
si H Ilf' 11
H I ||l
Mitf m
' !'H
■-111 phi ■
_ J
m i
. m
t A II i
B
illlff
IS
«i
m ■
1
gHIH
MB §§
iiill
■
kj|
H rxv|
i n
ttMMHin IS
m
.
■Hi
Hi
Mm
i
ii :
m
-'V
mm
:
■Hi
mm
AmSmAB
■ '?
mm
mm
b -
hßh
■
9
h m
H
BHB
■
a
■
■
t -a:
■
m
wt ■
■
....
i.
.
.
i
i' : I
■
HB
■
u.
u
Hi
m
H
Hi
n
Hi
■
&
mm
mm
:
H
:
■
m
m
11811
i
■
■
■
m
1
■
a
m :
■
;
H
LJ
H
m
m
H
m
■M
Further Interior View of One of the Numerous Storage Cellars.
v me


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0, 2925.
March 4, 1936.
“SAYING HE WOULD NEVER EAT, HE ATE.”
"While deeply regretting’ something or other, the Lang party has rejoined Federal Labor on Federal Labor’s terms—complete acceptance of Federal Labor rules and
constitution, removal of all expulsions, and relegation of Mr. Beasley to a subordinate position under Mr. Curtin’s leadership.”
“Eat, look you, this leek; because, look you, you do not love it!”
“Not for Philcollier and all his goats!”
“Bite, I pray you; it is good for your green wound.”
“I eat and eat; I swear”——
“There is not enough leek to swear by.”
—“Henry Vslightly modernised.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE TOKIO BLOODBATH.
In Tokio last week “young officers” of an infantry
brigade under orders to proceed to Manchukuo “rose
in revolt,” mobilised their men, and, with their help,
attacked Admiral Okada, the Prime Minister;
Admiral Saito, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal and
sometime Prime Minister; General Watanabe,
formerly Inspector-General of Military Education;
Mr. Takafiashi, the Minister of Finance and former
Prime Minister, and Admiral Suzuki, the Grand
Chamberlain. Admiral Saito, Mr. Takahashi and
General Watanabe were assassinated, and a brother-
in-law of Admiral Okada was riddled with machine-
gun bullets in mistake for the Prime Minister, who
found safety in a steel cupboard ; Admiral Suzuki
was wounded. In the progress of the plot the rebels
occupied various strong points, including police head-
quarters. There, unattacked, they remained for three
days ; then they “returned to their barracks.”
There is more to this bloodbath than any
mere sporadic outburst of fanaticism or local attempt
to replace constitutional government with a military
dictatorship. Japan has played with constitutional
government for half a century, and has never made
much of a success of it; but only in an extremely
narrow sense is the massacre related to home politics.
Much more it is a bloody commentary on foreign
policy. Even in that it is no isolated eruption of
feeling. There have been merely lunatic political
assassinations in Japan, as elsewhere; but this is
not one of them. A revolting business, judged by our
standards, it is yet, fundamentally, terribly consistent,
and its roots are deep.
The assassins declared in a “manifesto” that
“senior statesmen had joined the financial clique in
damaging the national policy” ; they had therefore
“decided to eliminate them and direct the nation's
destiny into the proper path.” The Government was
“drifting away from the spirit of Japan,” as witness
“the 1930 London Naval Treaty,” with “the inequality
imposed by other Powers upon Japan” ; if these con-
ditions were to continue, “Japan’s relations with
China, Russia, Britain and America would become
explosive.”
Every item in that is significant, but the vital
one is the reference to the London Naval Treaty.
No other single event has so influenced recent Japanese
policy or action. Just before the signing of that
treaty Japan had emerged from what might be
described as the nation’s second trance. Japan (to
telescope a huge amount of history) had been for
hundreds of years in a trancelike state, until about
70 years ago. Then began its modern stirring towards
empire, with the alliance with Britain early this cen-
tury, the victory over Russia, the annexation of Korea,
the rapid building up of industry and the tremendous
growth of population among the most important
events up to 1914. Then, by Japan’s siding with the war-
winners, the addition to its empire of all the man-
dated islands in the North Pacific.
That, briefly, is the position when Japan went into
its second trance. This brief siesta followed the sign-
ing of the Washington Agreements of 1922. The
navy was ruthlessly cut down, plans for the construc-
tion of warships and fortifications were scrapped or
curtailed, and—this a purely voluntary gesture un-
conditioned by the Washington Agreements—the army
was within three years reduced by 100,000, more than
a third of its strength. The noise that awoke Japan
this time was that made in China in 1929 by Soviet
Russia. The Soviet —not yet whitewashed, not yet
a member of the League, not yet standing beside Mr.
Eden in surely the most hypocritical of all renderings
of “God Save the King”—had occasion that year for
a forceful persuading of China, revealing in the pro-
cess the first real evidence of its much-vaunted mili-
tary strength. The revelation was not lost upon Japan,
and has been conditioning Japanese policy ever since.
By the following year, when the Japanese dele-
gation set off to consider naval equality in London,
Japan generally was awake, the fefvent nationalist
element acutely so. Still, the army’s demands for
immediate strengthening went unheeded by the Gov-
ernment, accused then, as now, of having “j'oined
the financial clique”—a common charge against
Japanese Governments and politicians, and not always
without warrant. The London Naval Treaty, since
almost unanimously described in Japan as infamous,
was signed. If until then Japan had been suffering
a temporary national moral rot, what replaced it was
a national volcanic eruption. First, as a direct protest
against the Treaty, Admiral Kato resigned his post
as Chief of the Naval Staff. Shortly afterwards the
Premier, Eizo Hamaguchi, was shot down, to die of
his wounds a few months later ; and, unforeseen even
in Japan at the time, the train was thereby laid, not
only for the terrible series of political assassinations
that followed, but for events that threatened —and
still threaten —to shake the world.
The most immediate outcome was the sudden
strengthening of nationalist sentiment; the growing
determination in the army and navy also to do some-
thing towards regaining their own and the country's
fallen prestige, in their eyes grievously damaged by
the inequality clauses of the Naval Treaty, and even
more so by the Soviet’s increasingly warlike displays—
actual towards China and wordy from Moscow. From
all these related events and feelings came the Man-
churian adventure.
This adventure, now the dominant inspiration in
Japanese policy, internal and external, began as a
mere minor local action by way of intimating to
Chinese authority that Japan had had enough obstruc-
tion against its right to construct railways for
strategic and economic use in Manchuria. At least,
that was the version of competent observers at the
time ; and some have declared since that, but for the
arrogant and clumsy handling of this purely local
matter by the high panjandrums at Geneva, a purely
local matter it would have remained. Instead, Japanese
national sentiment, made hot enough already by the
Naval Treaty, the outbreak of political and civil assas-
sinations and the bombast of Moscow, was now thor-
oughly inflamed by Geneva’s muddling. Thus fanned,
that sentiment spread to make history in the conquest
of Manchuria, and it has burned deeply and fiercely
since.
In all this tangled and interwoven history is the
explanation of the Tokio bloodbath. Future events
are unpredictable, as were those which followed the
assassination of Hamaguchi. Violence invariably
starts more than it knows or intends.
TO MR. PEASE—AN IDEA (Stillborn).
Acting-Premier Pease, “the greatest Minister of
Lands that Queensland ever had” (he says so himself),
has been delivered of an idea, and his colleagues
think so highly of it that they have authorised him to
parade it in “the capitalistic press:” This he has done
in three ponderous articles. As might be expected
from the financial record of a Government which got
rid of just on £4,800,000 of loan money last year and
celebrated the completion of six months of the current
financial year by announcing a deficit of £1,224,100, it
is just another plan for the getting and spending of
easy money.
Briefly, Mr. Pease proposes that the Common-
wealth should find “approximately 50 p.c. of the cost
of compulsory (primary) education” —perhaps in
church schools as well as Government schools, though
here he is not express—“on a basis to be deter-
mined.” The “contribution” is to be “continued per-
manently, or at least till financial equilibrium has
been established,” which amounts to the same thing ;
and “the basis we suggest” (it being novv outlined
as an easy-money matter, they are all in it) “might
be at least £5 per head of an average daily attendance
for the previous school year.” Mr. Pease kindly
refrains from mentioning what that “might be,” but
the Commonwealth Statistician gives the 1933 figure
for all the States at 805,334. It was more in 1932
(818,566), and will be still more this year ; and if the
school-leaving age is raised to 15, as is to be the case
in Britain, it will reach 900,000 in no time.
In other words, the Commonwealth is to find
“at least” £4,000,000 a year and get nothing for it;
and “we suggest that the Commonwealth also con-
tribute to the States part of the cost of national health
services on a basis to be determined.” Mr.. Pease lets
it go at that.
Modesty being out of fashion, The Bulletin pro-
claims that it has a much better idea. It is that
control of education should be transferred from the
States, which can’t finance it, to the Commonwealth,
which can. As consideration for the Commonwealth’s
shouldering an annual burden which averaged
£9,540,600 during the five years to June 30, 1934, and
which will need to be increased immediately because
the States have fallen down on the job (witness the
despairing report of the principal of Melbourne Tech-
nical College that “Technical education in Victoria
is definitely in the doldrums”), the States should trans-
fer to it the exclusive right to tax income for “ordi-
nary” purposes.
Every year the expenditure of the States on edu-
cation, inadequate as it is in the technical field, exceeds
what they get from their “ordinary” income and
dividend taxes taken together. For the year to June
30, 1934, these taxes yielded £8,771,700. Education
cost £9,321,600. But in some States education ex-
penditure is greater than income-tax revenue; the
Commonwealth would, of course, have to make up
the difference.
This better idea of The Bulletin's would enable
Australia to dispense with five Cabinet Ministers and
their personal staffs who hang round superfluously.
It would provide a way out of the bog of taxes in
which the community is engulfed ; introduce simplicity
and economy into a region now given over to mad-
deningly complex and often duplicated imposts col-
lected at enormous cost. For control by Big-City
politicians, sometimes ignorant and hardly ever com-
petent, it would substitute control by trained directors,
working on the technical side hand in hand with
industry, and a far greater measure of decentralisa-
tion than exists now. It would give to pupils and
teachers greater opportunities and a national outlook
—the rebirth of provincialism, which has taken a
separatist turn in more than one State, has beyond all
doubt been influenced by discontented teachers (often
justly discontented) with narrow horizons. And it
would not mean a vast extension of the rotten kind
of finance which assigns to one authority the raising
of huge sums by taxation and to others the spending
of. them without responsibility. Mr. Pease’s scheme
would.
POST OFFICE AND A.W.A.
Revival of the broadcasting dispute between the
Lyons Government and certain of its followers may
be expected before the sittings of the Commonwealth
Parliament are far advanced.
The trouble is connected with the long-standing
feud between the Post Office and Amalgamated Wire-
less. The Post Office aspires to sole control of all
communications. It is supreme in most domains, but
Amalgamated Wireless controls beam wireless and the
radio service between the Australian coast and ships
within wireless range. Another of its offences is that
it is progressive, and the Post Office —especially since
its experiment with the picturegram, a dreadful
financial flop—mistrusts progress and resists reform,
particularly when reduction of twopenny postage is
suggested.
The Post Office has refused transfer of B-class
radio stations to A.W.A., or has placed insuperable
obstacles in the way of transfers, on the ground that
a broadcasting monopoly is likely. The contention
is ridiculous, on two counts:
(1) The whole of the inhabited portion of Australia
is served by powerful national stations. No one need
listen to a B-class station unless he has deliberately
rejected for the time being the national programme.
(2) A.W.A. is a public corporation in which the
Commonwealth Government holds half the shares,
plus one. It could not act against the public interest
except with the consent of the Government.
Another important phase of the question, and
one which Mr. McCall, the member for Martin, has
stressed in Parliament, is that there is no substantive
legislation governing wireless. Indeed, Parliament
never had an opportunity of discussing the control of
this great modern instrumentality. One excuse for
inaction was that the power of Parliament to pass
adequate laws on the subject had been questioned, but
a recent decision of the High Court removes all
doubts.
An Act of 1905 gave the Postmaster-General
authority over transmission and reception of wireless
messages, and empowered him to issue regulations
relating to wireless. But broadcasting, as we know
it, was undreamed of in 1905.
In effect, regulations which affect 750,000 homes
and more than 3,000,000 listeners are issued under
an Act passed nearly 20 years before modern radio
entertainment was known. And the party rule is that
any regulation which the Post Office chooses to issue
must be accepted by the national Parliament without
debate, amendment or explanation.
True, a Minister is the nominal head of this depart-
ment, but P.M.Gs. are merely rubber stamps. Labor
or U.A.P., they meekly accept the fiats of the per-
manent head. A son of Britannia, Mr. Brown, rules
the (radio) waves.
Broadcasting gives direct employment to 15,000
people. A.W.A., for its part, has provided a splendid
field for the mechanical talents of young Australians,
and has yielded substantial contributions to the
national revenue, while the telephone and telegraph
branches of the Post Office have shown heavy losses.
No public department should be in a position to
make substantive laws without those laws being sub-
ject to Parliamentary discussion and revision. The
Post Office has been placed in this position with
respect to broadcasting. Thus Parliament has been
shoved aside by the Post Office mandarins. The
permanent head of the department is legislature, judi-
ciary, executive —and executioner. Mr. McCall con-
tends rightly that power to make regulations should
be confined to subsidiary matters of detail.
Just before Parliament adjourned in a state of
turmoil, the Government was heard to promise above
the din that an inquiry would be granted—its invari-
able expedient when hard pressed. It was given out
that the inquiry would be conducted by a 8.8. C.
official, to be brought to Australia for the purpose.
Nothing more has been heard of the matter, but when
members of Parliament return to their labors the
Prime Minister will be asked what he is going to do
about it.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Let Bob Do It!”
The Federal Cabinet is becoming less and less in-
clined to take responsibility. Is there reason to
believe that petrol distribution is not all that it should
be? Well, let a commission inquire and then ignore
its recommendations. Is the banking system what it
should be? It seems all right to us, but someone
wants an inquiry ; so we’ll appoint a royal commis-
sion and go back to sleep. Hours of labor? Order
an inquiry and forget it.
Now a new slogan has been evolved in Federal
circles: “Let Bob Menzies do it.” Mr. Menzies is
now on his way to England to appear for the Com-
monwealth in the dried-fruits case ; but since he left
important questions have cropped up. Each has been
deferred with the announcement that Mr. Menzies
(with Dr. Page to help) will make inquiries while in
England.
In fact,
(1) Mr. Menzies and Dr. Page will investigate the
migration question and report to Cabinet, which will
thus be relieved for another period of the obligation
of framing a policy.
(2) Mr. Menzies and Dr. Page will discuss the air-
mail question. Presumably, there will be no finality
until their reports have been received.
(3) Mr. Menzies and Dr. Page will discuss the Pacific
shipping problem. Meanwhile the Commonwealth has
been warned that unless help comes promptly British
passenger steamers will vanish from the trans-Pacific
routes.
This passing of the buck to Mr. Menzies and Dr.
Page is a shallow excuse for saving the Ministry
from the necessity of making up its mind. There is
a High Commissioner in London of proved ability
and unequalled Ministerial experience. Why not
use him more?
»
Mr. Eden Changes His Tune.
An early reconstruction of the Ministry is predicted
in England, and it is to be hoped that little Amery
will get back. The Dominions have no firmer friend
in the House of Commons and the House has no
sounder thinker. With tongue and pen Mr. Amery
has striven to clear the minds of his countrymen
of cant about the League, and few can now deny
that he is warranted in describing that concern as
“little more than an Anglo-Franco-Russian alliance,
with an obsequious and ineffectual claque of minor
Powers.”
Nor can his warning go unheeded.
We should retrace our steps before it is too late to
extricate ourselves from the blind alley of sanctions. We
are drifting into a position in which the League may be
confronted by a combination of Great Powers—Ger-
many, Italy and Japan, and any lesser State which
might join them in the hope of revenge or loot. If
that new balance of power brings us another Armaged-
don, it will not be on France but on the British
Dominions that the struggle will fall.
This notable utterance was made during a full-dress
debate on Mr. Anthony Eden’s first elaborate speech
as Foreign Minister. It was expected by the
“sanctionist” press that Mr. Eden would go for Italy
with fists and feet, but he did nothing of the kind.
If events in Europe and Asia, as well as in Africa —
—where the Abyssinians have been defeated in the
second of the only two real battles so far fought—
have not chilled the enthusiasm of Mr. Eden for
“sanctions” they have had a profound effect on realist
Conservatives whose influence is too great to be
ignored. So Mr. Eden said that “ ‘sanctions’ were
merely a means to an end,” and that his Govern-
ment desired, “first and foremost, to see peace re-
established between Italy and Abyssinia on a just
basis.”
Mr. Attlee, the Labor leader, protested that “the
only definite statement made by the Minister is that
the Government has not made up its mind about oil
‘sanctions.’ ” To the Manchester “Guardian” as
well as the Labor party the speech was “disappoint-
ing.” Partly for that reason it has been read in Aus-
tralia with a measure of relief.
♦ :
“Collective Responsibility.”
“G.D.” gets down to bedrock facts:
Australians seem to have a very foggy perception of
what a League war against Italy would involve. We are told
that the League is the organ of 54 nations, representing over-
whelming odds against any country challenging it. However,
a list obtained from the London office of the League- by a
“National Review” man shows that only 47 agreed to
Sanctions 1 and la,
Analysis of this list discloses that 17 of the 47 have armies
of 20,000 or less—some have neither army nor navy. Seven
more are partners in the British Empire. Of the remaining
23, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland and Czecho-Slovakia could
not send a man out of their own territories for fear of
Germany; Finland, Latvia and Poland would, all three, be
immobilised by fear of Russia and Germany; China cannot
even defend its own territories; Greece, Rumania, Yugo-
slavia and Turkey are all too busy watching one another
to help any League; and Norwegians and Swedes would be
kept at home because Russia and Germany dominate the
Baltic.
We are left with Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Siam, Persia,
Spain, Portugal, Russia and France. The first seven could be
ruled out as practically useless. Russia backed out of the
last war, and might back out of the next. So it comes back
to the old firm, France and the British Empire. France is
notoriously unwilling to fight Italy. All the rest are ready to
leave “collective responsibility” to the British Empire.
■ ♦
Stewart Steps Down.
That sorry sham “the Under-Secretaryship for
Employment” has been ended by the resignation of
“the Under-Secretary,” Stewart, M.H.R. Successful
businessman, generous employer and humanitarian,
Mr. Stewart might have done good work if he had not
been deprived of authority and status by pitiful fears
about prestige and precedence. He was forbidden to
occupy a seat on the Ministerial bench or to do any-
thing without Ministerial permission. The Govern-
ment went to the length of keeping him out of the
House at question-time, though British Parliamentary
Under-Secretaries answer questions. In short, he was
merely a private member with an empty title.
The Lyons Ministry made an election promise
that a special Minister would be appointed to deal
with employment. It put up a figurehead and then
sheltered behind the improved position, for which
Governments take all the credit, though they have
been more hindrance than help. Mr. Stewart has
rightly refused to be a figurehead any longer,
♦
“More Light!”
Australia’s Department of Navigation might well
hearken to the parting advice of Captain Schilling, of
the K.P.M.’s Nieuw Zeeland, now on his last Aus-
tralian voyage.
Although fully appreciative of the excellent
meteorological wireless reports and good charting,
Captain Schilling considers that there should be a
radio beacon at Booby Island (Torres Strait), another
at Sandy Cape (C.Q.) and three or four more auto-
matic lights between Thursday Island and Townsville.
Booby Island is especially important, as coastal
influences interfere with reliability of bearings from
the Thursday Island station, and currents render dead
reckoning misleading. In certain seasons it is impos-
sible for days together for vessels to get a sun or
star “fix.”
Captain Schilling has been a good friend to Aus-
tralia, and is well qualified to give the advice he
tenders. He has had 25 years’ bridge experience with
big liners in Barrier Reef waters.
♦
Queensland’s Dashed Railways.
Mr. Dash, Queensland’s Minister “for” Transport,
has sounded another blast of the trumpet against
“foreign oil and motor interests,” which he blames
for inciting the opposition to the strangulation of road
transport; against Chambers of Commerce “and other
anti-Labor organisations,” and against motor owners
“who are squealing so much about the actions of the
Transport Board.” The road transport business, Mr.
Dash alleges, is carried on under sweating con-
ditions. The closing of non-paying branch lines is a
ridiculous idea. And much more of the same nature.
On the very day on which Mr. Dash delivered
these few nice words a Toowoomba carrier was fined
£5O and costs, in default three months’ gaol, although
he was paying the Transport Board £B3 Bs. Id. a
month in fees for two trucks. He had applied for
registration for 15 tons; the Transport Board had
granted him only five tons, and he could not carry
on his business or pay his 11 employed hands with-
out the extra ten tons, for which he was perfectly
willing to pay. Partly on this account, mainly because
the board had failed to stop unregistered competition
on a large scale over the route for which he was pay-
ing registration, he had run the two extra trucks.
Another carrier was fined £35 and costs, in default
three months. He had made repeated applications
for registration, but without avail.
Not long before his declaration of hostility to
any alteration in this savage warfare against all other
forms of transport, Mr. Dash informed a meeting
of Government railwaymen that their first duty was
to stand by their department, and that the duty of
the Commissioner and of the Government was to
keep as many men as possible in employment. Shortly
afterwards every railway employee was given notice
by the Government that if he could not produce proof
of active membership of a Trades Hall union he would
lose his job. Employment in the Queensland Railway
Department is thus a close monopoly for financial
members of Trades Hall unions.
Mr. Dash has made his outlook and that of the
railway union bosses, whose puppet he is, abundantly
clear. It is that the Queensland people have got to
take what these union bosses choose to offer in the
way of transport, for that’s all they are going to get.
A reply will be made at a meeting of protest in the
Brisbane City Hall on March 25.
❖
Ways Even Darker.
From J. Malone, Commonwealth Chief Inspector
(Wireless), P.M.G.’s Department:
There is another side to “Ways That Are Dark (B.
29/1/’36). The statement that “the point of real interest
is that Mr. Brown’s minions are ‘averse’ to the use or
military wave-lengths for training signalmen of the Defence
Force” suggests a fundamental misunderstanding of the
department’s position. ‘Mr. Brown’s minions have very
little say in the use to which military wave-lengths are put.
The P.M.G.’s Department is the authority which allocates
frequencies (wave-lengths), and it necessarily takes a very sti ict
stand in regard to those allocated to the Defence Department.
It will not in any circumstances sanction the use of Defence
frequencies by any other person than those authorised to do
so by the Defence authorities. This obviously protects the
communication services of the Defence Forces from inter-
ference.
The letter from which you quote was in reply to a
communication seeking permission to use an experimental
station on an army frequency. The writer of the letter had only
to consult any senior Signals officer of the Defence Forces to
have the wisdom of the department’s decision confirmed. The
department has nothing but admiration for the officer s
enthusiasm to improve his trainees’ usefulness, but it cannot
sacrifice a vital principle to gratify it. Moreover, the view
is strongly held in the department that there is only one
proper way to instruct beginners in Morse, and that is in the
classroom.
What the department actually wrote was that it
could not “allot an exclusive channel to transmit
Morse for tuition of military signalmen,” and that it
was “averse to the use of a channel for this purpose,
as numerous frequencies have been allotted and there
is likelihood of interference being caused to other
services.”
The Bulletin quoted the full text of the para-
graph. If there is any “misunderstanding” about the
department’s position, its letter-writer must be
entirely to blame. And how an exclusive wave-length
allotted within the military zone can interfere with
other services is beyond explanation.
The departmental conviction that trainees can
learn practical field radio in a classroom is not widely
shared. Youngsters with only classroom training on
the D Mark 111 buzzer are about as fitted to read a
pure-tone C.W. signal by ear in the field as if they had
merely learnt to climb a palm-tree and wave a rag.
Actual conditions, especially on low-metre bands, on
which static is often particularly heavy, are the only
ones which can make a neophyte efficient.
Turkey Shows the Way.
The Turkish Government gets part of its revenue from
taxes on cattle and sheep. It is substantially reducing
the taxes on cattle, following “excellent results
obtained by the lowering of taxes on other com-
modities in 1935.”
One of the economic principles of government is
the reduction of prices of the main products in con-
sumption. In cutting the taxes on salt and sugar,
the Government directly sacrificed £T7,000,000 on its
Budget. However, this deficit in the Budget will
easily be filled by the end of the year. For reductions
in question add to the purchasing power of the people
and assure the consumption of products on a wide scale.
Dozens of Australian politicians have streamed
into Britain, Germany and Russia during the last year
or so. More of them are on their way to the bright
lights now. It might do some of them no harm to
stop at Ankara for an hour or so on their way home.
♦
To Revive the Nearly-dead.
“Chota Peg’s” plan—and he would risk its being
pronounced unconstitutional:
“All avenues will be explored to make Militia Training
more attractive to volunteers.” Thus is promulgated the
final effort of the Commonwealth Government to revive the
slowly-dying militia system.
The predominant idea has been to make it attractive
to the potential recruit; and this is persisted in, despite
ghastly results. There has never been any attempt to make
the army popular with the general public. Yet surely if
anything is to grow it must have healthy public sympathy and
active support.
An interesting parallel is the surf lifesaving movement. A
fine thing undoubtedly, but would the clubs have become
so strong or pride of membership so pronounced if sharks and
undertows were referred to as capitalist tricks to sell shark-
proof netting and life-lines, if the men themselves were stigma-
tised as beach-strutters and -posers, if their beach parades
were derided and their buildings stoned? Citizen soldiers
have to put up with the like of all that, and one result is
that members of the permanent military forces never wear
uniform in public when they can avoid doing so.
The pretty-uniform notion of the politicians is useless —
it will merely intensify the cry of “chocolate soldier.” Pub-
licity is no solution, though in N. S. Wales the army does
get a column in the colored supplement of a Sunday
paper. Plain £ s. d. alone is left. Why not use it?
Nearly every infantry unit is raised on a territorial basis.
For this municipal boundaries could be readily substituted,
while technical units could be allotted to cities. Now every
year the Loan Council raises money for the States, and the
privilege is evidently to be extended to municipalities; in
any case, State Governments issue part of what they get to
local bodies. Make the issues to the States conditional on
their providing their full militia quotas. And so with the
issues or subventions to local bodies.
In plain terms, give every fit and efficient soldier an
intrinsic value of, say, £lOO p.a., and make him the currency
by which States purchase public works and municipalities
local works. Then the militia soldier would become a power
in the land. He would be sought after by legislators, and the
drill hall would be metamorphosed into a symbol of wealth,
of added employment, prosperity and, ultimately, true national
protection.
♦
Old Unionists and New.
From “Keg,” who is not so old:
Despite “Feddup” (B. 19/2/’36), Jack Barnes is correct.
The only thing that interests the young unionist is the cert,
for next Satturdee. The Militant Minority Movement realises
the weakness and hastens to profit by it.
Union after union is being captured by these militants,
and it is not with the aid of the old unionist’s vote. The young
man is no Communist, but he has neither the time nor the
inclination to analyse statements of interested parties. He
does not or cannot understand that unionists play as important
a part in this social fabric called democracy as the most
advanced thinker.
What if the “World” did go off the streets? It was an
internal political dogfight that killed it, and Sydney is a
noted graveyard for newspapers.
The “hundreds of honest seamen” did not obey their
union officials; they were crucified by men who also think
that Jack Barnes is an old fogey. The strike was quite justi-
fied, according to M.M.M. plans. An M.M.M. man now
holds the key position in an important transport union.
It is nothing that hundreds are out of work and likely to
remain out or that a once-powerful union is rendered im-
potent ; this “movement” has not “signally failed to adapt
itself to the times.”
Perusal of Communist textbooks will tell “Feddup” what
he is up against. The old unionist has failings, but he is a
vast improvement on the type that is coming into favor with
the young unionist.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clio”: Our office boss
rarely goes into the junior
typist’s cubicle, so when
he entered unannounced
the other day she was
naturally fluttered. His
opening remark, “Isn’t
there something wrong
with your dial, Miss
Smith?” did nothing to
remove her agitation.
Clutching a wisp of hand-
kerchief, and with visions
of being summarily fired,
the embarrassed youngster
strove to remove lipstick
and make-up, murmuring
the while “I’m awfully
sorry, sir; I didn’t know
you were coming in.” “No
need to worry, Miss
Smith,” said the boss
affably as he departed.
“It’s not your fault the
clock has lost a hand.”
Ten minutes later, having recovered her
poise and renovated her countenance, the
young woman threw a disdainful look at
the ancient timepiece on her wall. “Silly
old idiot,” she muttered. “Fancy calling
a clock-face a dial! ”
❖ * %
“Nagheer”: Although Qantas Empire
Airways carry, without question, such
strangely assorted cargoes as day-old
chicks, talkie films, Acts of Parliament
requiring the King’s approval, the ashes
of cremated bodies, orchids, fresh vege-
tables, lizards, parrots, radium, fireflies,
germ cultures, fish, crocodiles, press
photographs, models of theatrical scenery
and sharkskins, there is a limit. A West
Queensland station man applied for a
passage for a goat. After deep con-
sideration, the management' decided that
goats were better left at ground level.
And so they are if aged Williams, but
with New Guinea Airways a cow and a
couple of pigs or so frequently lend a
homely, farming flavor to an air trip.
* * * *
“Foveaux”: Queer house-names!
Nailed on the front gate of a house in
a Sydney suburb is a board bearing the
words “The Result.” Curiosity over-
came me, and the owner was good
enough to gratify it: “I call it that
because it was the result of dashed hard
work an’ sacrifice.”
“8.N.G.”: Schmidt may be the first
white man sentenced to death under the
present regime in New Guinea, but Papua
had a case as long ago as 1905. In May
of that year a prospector heard the death
sentence passed upon him by Judge
Murray for murder of a “boy.” The trial
was held, without jury, aboard the Merrie
England, anchored off the mouth of the
Mambare ; the Governor (Captain F. R.
Barton), who was also on board, re-
prieved the prisoner within what was
probably record time, a matter of a few
minutes only. He did three years in
Samarai gaol.
v
“Kellick”: Not for nothing does S.A.
bear the reputation of being a thrifty
State. During the recent visit of the
Fleet, sailors were informed that owing
to the probability of a second visit this
year—presumably for the centenary cele-
brations —it was impossible to offer free
transport to the visitors. Should, how-
ever, the ships return for the big event,
tram-riding would be free.
❖ ❖ & *
“Binduli”: Gavin Casey’s story “Rich
Stew” (B. 26 /2 / ’36) reminds me of one
Peter Dennis Kavanagh, the smartest de-
tective the Golden Mile ever knew, told
me when the Great Gold Leak Commis-
sion was sitting at Kalgoorlie in 1906.
Kavanagh didn’t mind telling a story
against himself occasionally. But it was
a bar of gold, fresh from an illicit treat-
ment plant, not telluride, which Peter
was after when woman’s resource out-
witted him. He had sleuthed it down to
one of those bandbox shacks that sur-
rounded the big mines, entered the tene-
ment “in the King’s name” and searched
it —dirt floor, hessian walls and galvan-
ised-iron roof —all unavailingly. He had
even pried and probed around the stove,
but had forborne to investigate the con-
tents of the bubbling saucepan atop—-
Kavanagh was always scrupulously cour-
“I regret to announce the death of our esteemed colleague Alderman
Bonehead . I will ask you now to stand in silence as a token of
respect for the ol' cow."
teous to women. “And it wasn’t till
months afterwards,” he concluded a
trifle ruefully, “that I learned what I was
after had been popped into that before
I was over the threshold.”
“Warrigal”: My memory doesn’t go
back to Gordon Ohilde (B. 19/2/’36), but
only 10 years ago a gentleman with “the
body of a coal-heaver and a mind that
Aristotle might have envied” (to quote
his own apt description) occupied the
chair of Comparative Literature at Syd-
ney, and dabbled in Sanskrit, Greek,
Latin, English, French and German. He
filled in some of his hours by writing
verses of more than ordinary distinction."
No man who ever sat at Christopher
Brennan’s lectures met him without a
profound doffing of the hat.
* * * *
“Same Again”: “Daylightsh” (B.
19/2/ —hie —’36) shouldn’t leave poor
borrelsh ou’ in shun. Coursh they change
color—he’d change colorsh too if shome
cruel cow left him out in shun all day
an’ nightsh. It’sh just shensheless cruelty
leavin’ borrelsh out to get shunburnt.
Borrelsh never hurt him —never hurt
anyone. Shave yer life, borrelsh will,
jusht liker good dog. Only a cruel cow’d
leave a good dog what shaved yer life
out in shun all day. Dog’d change color
too. Look at all the explorersh borrelsh
has shaved. Watsh berreran a borreller
beer when yer dyin’ of thirst? Coursh,
two borrelsh ish berrer, but—hie—prin-
ciple o’ the thing! Fackothemarrer ish,
old*“Daylightsh” ish one of the vivi—hie
—shikkerin blokes; lovesh'cruelty. Lemme
shee man bein’ cruel to borrelsh —I’ll
show ’im!
“X.Y.”: The reason why white glass
bottles, exposed for long to strong sun-
light, become either deep green or purple-
red is due to the action of the solar rays
upon metallic oxides. Bottle glass
is usually made from the cheapest ma-
terials, sea sand ; the oxide of iron in this
gives the glass a green tint. To secure
a pure-white glass a small amount of
peroxide of manganese is added; this
destroys the green tint. Glass so pro-
duced, when exposed to strong sunlight,
takes on a tint of purple. To see this tint
in its perfection, one has only to visit
a bottle heap outside a'town in Western
Queensland. Broken tumblers of Bel-
gian glass give a better color still.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Some of our representative or
would-be representative men seem to be
surrendering to a passion for dignity.
An Opposition candidate for one of the
Westralian suburban electorates an-
nounced at the outset of his campaign
that the electors could rely upon his
representing them “with dignity,” repeat-
ing the assurance (sometimes with por-
trait) in his advertisements and posters. It
lamentably failed to • estrange the free
and enlightened from their Labor mem-
ber: Chesterfield or not, he was re-
turned with a terrific majority ; indeed,
the exponent of dignity suffered a more
staggering defeat than any other member
of his party standing alone. Another
champion of dignity is the president of
the Sydney Rugby League. Attending
a meeting of —yes, a hoofball club, he
confessed himself “surprised at the lack
of dignity in to-night’s proceedings.” 1
gather that the League game has lost
some of its appeal. Perhaps dignity is
the explanation.
* * * *
“Jim G.”: A Leeton (N.S.W.) citizen,
one “Texas Jack,” has a quaint and
gracious way of disposing of his old
Bulletins. Every six or eight weeks
he picks from a map the smallest fly-
speck of a town in the furthest outback,
rolls up his red-paged journals, stamps
and addresses them to “Mr. Swagman”
or “Mr. Bushman,” or perhaps Mr.
Smith or Jones, “c/o Post Office, West o’
.Sunday.” There being nothing to show
whence they came, they cannot be re-
turned ; the sender reckons some bush-
man is bound to get them sooner or later.
&
“Bray Rock”: The recent theft of an
Adelaide lady’s jewellery by rats recalls
a voyage in a cargo-bruiser, non-stop
from Adelaide to London, when the rats
fairly took charge. Before we were a
week out they had killed and eaten the
ship’s two cats. Before the 'voyage was
half over the cook was driven out of
the galley by mass attacks, half the
ship’s company were more or less badly
bitten, and we nearly had to put into
Cape Town on account of a fire caused
by the brutes gnawing an electric lead.
The first mate came to breakfast one
morning with a bald and bloody patch,
two inches square, on his scalp. Next
night they stole his false teeth —certainly,
from the washstand glass. A lady rat
nested in the chart drawer —of course,
on the most intricate part of the Old
Man’s pet Channel chart. We did what
we could, but they bested us. Except
for the above-mentioned articles of diet,
a part cargo of fallow, hides and com-
pressed fodder fed them, but to this
day nobody knows how they got water—
maybe they didn’t need it.
* * * *
“Napoosis”: There is nothing curious
in the attraction of the movies for hunted
men (B. 19/2//36). They want distrac-
tion of some sort, and the handiest sort
of distraction is to be found in a movie
show. There, at any rate for the dura-
tion of the show, they know they are
safe. Also it gives them a feeling of
being united again with the community
in a common enjoyment. This point of
view is emphasised in Crime and Punish-
ment.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Please express, per
“Memoria” (B. 19/2/’36), my apology,
penitence, contrition, compunction, re-
pentance, remorse, regret, etc., for ascrib-
ing Norman Lilley’s “Ode to Peter Mark
Roget” to another Australian author.
Printed over the letters “N.L., Vic.,”
when the other N.L. was also in Vie., it
recalled so vividly Lindsay’s whimsical
admiration for Peter Mark’s style, ex-
pressed in a then recent letter, that I
ascribed it to him without dubi-ety,
-tation, -tancy or -ousness. I now per-
ceive that it was an error, fallacy, mis-
conception, -apprehension, -understand-
ing, inexactness, as our mutually-admired
word-tamer so smartly puts it.
*,' * *
“S.T.S.”: Not many hotels are named
after a famous lawyer, as is the Selborne
in Adelaide, now being modernised at
heavy expense. The
explanation is that
it was an invest-
ment, just half a
century back, of
Josiah Symon, who
also built, for him-
self, Selborne
Chambers alongside.
The whole Pirie-
street block on
which they stand
was once the subject
of an amazing will.
It belonged to one
McHenry, who re-
tired to England
after the fashion of
that day; his son, apparently
uninterested, eventually left
the buildings on it to just
whomsoever held the respective
leases —-to the great profit,
mainly, of the Rymill family,
but also of various lawyers
right up to the Privy Council.
“M. Turlutu”: A good-hearted young
Brisbane man has had his faith shaken
with respect to the advisability of helping
nervous old ladies to negotiate busy
street-crossings. He was just bringing his
latest charge, wearing dark glasses and
complaining of her poor old eyes not
being what they was, to the safe haven
of the kerb when he noticed that she
was holding his coat open with one hand
and had his wallet in the other. He
grabbed successfully at the wallet; the
old dame, displaying an unexpected turn
of speed, bolted into the crowd on the
footpath and disappeared. In early war
days I came across a one-time Melbourne
bag-grabbing artist, attired in a smart
frock and a really dashing hat, taking up
subscriptions in Queen-street for our
brave soldiers. Getting them, too.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: The Maheno may have
blessed, in her last days, a properly mar-
ried couple (B. 29/1 /’36), but she was not
always so respectable. Coming off first
night-watch during one of the Maoriland
tourist trips with which the U.S. Co.
tried long ago to anticipate the “luxury
cruises of to-day, a Cockney steward
whom I’d known as an A.B. in half-
deck days whispered tactfully at the
alleyway entrance: “Heighteen, twenty-
seven and forty-one’s hall free jest now
—gent, friends is down to the weather.
Thought yer might like to know. An
hif Hi might s’y so, heighteen’s a ’ighly
hattractive blonde.” But there were
company’s rules.
THE RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL.
“Dr. Maloney said that he welcomed the restora-
tion of unity in the Labor party as gladly as the
father welcomed the Prodigal Son.”
The Prodigal Son came limping home from
somewhere down the line;
He had done his dash and blewed his cheque,
and he sort of yearned to dine
On some more palatable fare than the husks
he had shared with swine.
Empty and bare were his tucker-bags as he
padded a tired hoof,
And he wouldn’t have been surprised to sec the
Old Man hit the roof.
For tales must surely have drifted back of
how he had spent his oof.
But his father glimpsed him far away as over
the rise he crept;
And he overlooked all his son had done and
the company he’d kept.
He only cared that he’d got him back. So he
“fell on his neck and wept.”
He fell on his neck and wept, did Dad. I
always liked the phrase.
There was never a word of the mildest blame
for the unregenerate days,
For the hectic nights of revelry and the wanton,
wasteful ways.
There’s a touch, I fancy, in most of us of
the bad old Prodigal Son.
There’s never a place so sweet as home when
a fellow’s dash is done,
Though it’s rare indeed that a chap returns to
find that he’s the one.
But the Prodigal Son is home again in the
well-remembered spot,
With all his wildness washed away and his
manifold sins forgot,
And a pardon free for the lawless spree when
he made the pace so hot.
There’s a barrel of beer to set a-flow, and a
fatted calf to kill.
Now who will play the father’s part and the
pleasant pint-pots fill
To welcome home the wandering boy? Why,
Doc. Maloney will!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Findy”: Adelaide has been vari-
ously styled “City of Culture,” “City of
Churches” and more recently “City of
Betting Shops.” But no one has pointed
out that it stands out among Australian
capitals as the Place of Picturesquely-
named Pubs. The Plough and Harrow
has been rechristened Hotel Richmond —-
unimaginative name! —but the Maid and
Magpie, Elephant and Castle, Old Colon-
ist, Huntsman, Cross Keys and Thatched
Tavern are still going strong. On the
main road to the hills, what thirsty
traveller could pass by the Fountain Inn,
even in the days when the Vine Inn and
Mountain Hut beckoned further on along
the road? These last two have now de-
generated into soft-tack dispensaries, but
the Eagle on the Hill still survives. In
the animal line, the White Horse and
the White Hart have disappeared, but
the Black Bull and Black Swan remain :
as do the Black Lion and Red Lion,
while the Green Dragon isn’t far from
the Arab Steed.
* * * *
“Morita”: The caretaker of our urban
block of flats recently surprised a caller
gazing intently at the display of feminine
washing waving in the breeze from the
lines high up over the open court. As
proof he was on legitimate business he
opened up a case of fluffy folderols,
and complained of the difficulty he found
in suiting prospective purchasers—ladies
invariably argued that what he showed
them was the wrong style. Having ascer-
tained that the flat folk each had their
own washing days he suggested that the
caretaker might help him by supplying
names and dates so he could gauge from
clothes-line displays just what ought to
appeal to the various parties. . The plan
evidently worked, for a couple of weeks
later the go-getter was heard telling the
caretaker that he owed him a few beers
for putting trade in his way.
*
“Bell O’Drammer”: The stage villain
in “Man of Iron” (B. 19/2/’36) is true
to form in the color of his hair. There
is a long stage history behind these dark-
haired villains, stretching back into pre-
Elizabethan times. In the old miracle
plays the devils were always black-
haired, the angels fair-haired,' because
the feeling was that black was ugly," and
the audience liked to have characters
sharply defined and recognisable at a
glance. The mode persisted up to the
bold, bad baronets of Victorian plays.
There is a record of a melodrama in
which the villain was fair-haired, and the
novelty was regarded as an outrage.
Even in the days of King Charles 11.,
who was himself black-haired, the stage
villain had also to be black-avised. No
one took any notice of the king’s feelings.
* * * *
Breck”: Probably there are far more
Stewarts than Stuarts (B. 26/2/’36), be-
cause the former way of spelling the
name is the older. Even the royal house
and its forebears were Stewarts (or
Steuarts) for centuries. According to the
Ency. Brit., the daughter of James V. —
u l.^ ate d Mary Queen of Scots —was
the first to adopt the “Stuart” mode.
* * *
A. de G.”: Mention of the arrival
a ri . motor peer, “thinly disguised as
Mr. Richards” (B. 26/2/’36), reminds me
that this practice, which used to be re-
served for royalties, has spread to cele-
of lower degree. The governor
ot the Bank of England often travels
under an alias, and an overseas vessel
brought to Sydney a couple who veiled
their identities under the title “Mr. and
Mrs. X.” In their young married days
the Prince Consort and Queen Victoria
used to disguise themselves as “Lord and
Lady Churchill” ; in widowhood the
Queen used to travel abroad as the
“Countess of Balmoral.” Edward VII.
“Was it YOU I heard call me a lousy swine?”
“ ‘Lousy,’ sir, is a Word I never use.”
preferred to disguise himself as Duke
of Lancaster, and when an English
peer wrote to him pointing out that
the sovereign had no real right to
this title, which ought to have de-
scended to the family of John of
Gaunt, he was very indignant. However,
it is as Duke of Lancaster that Edward
VIII. will travel—if he wishes to travel
incognito.
* * * *
“Wallbing”: “Clara Clobber” (B.
26/2/’36) brackets the terms “male”
and “female” as being regarded as lack-
ing in refanement. I wonder if it
would surprise her (or him) to
learn that exception was once taken to
them seriously in Parliament —and that
by a man who became a Premier
before he died. The objector was Henry
Lefroy, a brother-in-law of Bigjohn For-
rest, who entered a protest in the West-
ralian Assembly against the constant use
of the term “female” in legal and official
“If I refuse you, George, will you commit suicide?”
“It’s my invariable practice."
documents as being unnecessarily crude.
Lefroy was a breeder of sheep and cattle,
and there seemed some chivalrous idea
at the back of his mind that natural dis-
tinctions in the case of animals were out
of place in the case of human beings.
But electoral rolls and census papers con-
tinue to schedule the heirs and heiresses
of all the ages as M. and F., without
regard for any finer distinctions, if such
exist.
$ * * ■ *
“Perlmutter”: My friend can show
you suits of armor worn in the Crusades
and doublets, slashed or otherwise, of
Tudor days. But a seventeenth-century
suit which he valued highly got stained
or smudged under recurring fingers, and
“I sent it to a cleaner’s,” he said. “A day
or two after I got a message to say the
shop had been broken into and the pants
of my Jacobite costume were among the
stolen things. I ’phoned back that I
should hold the cleaner responsible. The
reply was that every care had been taken
and no liability was admitted. I asked
my lawyer ; he said it was right. ‘But
I think,’ he added, ‘if you waive the legal
claim I might get you some compensa-
tion.’ I waived it, and after a re-
minder or two the cleaner offered £l.
On the advice of my legal friend I
accepted and sent our typist round to
collect it, along with the Jacobite upper-
garments, while the going was still good.
But she came back with only 17s. 6d :
the other half-crown was deducted for
cleaning the pants!”
“Barbarossa”: Kingly beards may have
gone out of fashion in England with
George V. (B. 29/1/’36), but the clean-
shaved cult exemplified in Edward VIII.
seems far from general in royal circles,
Pictures of the five foreign monarchs
who attended the royal funeral show
four of them liberally moustached, the
exception being the King of the Belgians.
* * * ; i :
“Kerys”: Lottery prizes? A man
who won £250 has an ultra-religious
missus to whom he dared not reveal his
good fortune by paying the money into
their joint account. He opened an
account in another
bank. When, shortly
after, the wife
underwent an opera-
tion, he paid up
cash, telling her he
had got a rise and a
bonus. The lady,
one of the managing
variety, easily ran
that lie to earth,
and under her wilt-
ing cross-examina-
tion he lost his nerve
and said he had got
the money from a
relative who had
gone to another
State on business. A
few days later he
discovered that his
wife, resenting being
under an obligation
to one whom she re-
garded with intense
dislike, had bor-
rowed the amount
from her brother and sent it along to the
alleged owner. At this point the unhappy
speculator gave himself up for lost. He
was saved by the sporty conduct of the
despised relative, who, sensing the situa-
tion, banked the cheque and straightened
the matter out privately on his return.
* * * *
“Billy the Kid”: More rubbish is
written about bushrangers, who were
mostly just as revolting ruffians as
modern American gangsters, than any of
this country’s earlier products. Still, they
may occasionally furnish material for
“human-interest” pars. A Melbourne
journalist revives the story of how
a Perth newspaper made a “scoop,”
some 35 years ago, by identifying a
peaceful civil servant who had just died
there with “the former N.S.W. bush-
ranger ‘Starlight,’ who had committed
murder, been imprisoned, escaped and
been recaptured,” and finally, after serv-
ing a long sentence, renounced his evil
ways and obtained a new start on the
other side of the continent. As an old
Westralian journalist I can still recall the
hectic headlines—though I have forgotten
the reformed bushranger’s name —but I
am sure it never struck the public as a
“scoop,” the details being too vague and
utterly unsupported to carry any real con-
viction that the desperado of other days
had laid down the pistol for the pen
and lived an exemplary life among people
who knew nothing of his previous career.
In any case “Starlight” was a Rolf
Boldrewood label probably com-
pounded of two or three gents, in the
Ned Kelly line of business—and the
whole yarn seemed too thin to be worth
the most credulous person’s examination.
* * * *
“Kellick”: That yarn about the old
captain who tried to pull up his bolting
horse by means of an anchor (B. 5/2/’36)
reminds me. I served in a ship which
had a slightly deaf cable officer. On one
occasion when steaming to anchorage the
skipper roared from the bridge, “Stand
by for’ard.” With hand to ear the c.o.
demanded of the nearest seaman,
“What’d he say?” Bluey the Dag replied,
“Let go port anchor, sir.” The necessary
order was given, and away sailed the
pick. The torrent of abuse which flowed
from the bridge caused the c.o. to in-
quire, “What’d he say that time?” Back
came the answer, “Let go the other one,
sir.” Away went the second pick. Fol-
lowed a burst of vociferous blasphemy
from the Old Man, concluding with
“Where’s your brains, you .” “All
gone for’ard, sir,” yelled the c.o.
* * *
“Duckbill”: “Exdig’s” soldier who got
away with temporary desertion by stat-
ing that he had been a prisoner and
escaped (B. 5/2/’36) doesn’t strike me
as genuine. In any unit that I served
with during 2\ years on the Western
Front, such a man would have been
haled before brigade, divisional and
G.H.Q. Intelligence for interrogation re
troop movements, dumps and aero-
dromes. No man who had not been
behind the lines could have bluffed his
way through ; Intelligence had too many
maps and aerial photographs. One man
I kn,ew escaped from a German camp,
via Berlin of all places, to Kiel. Thence
he went by collier to Sweden, where he
was interned, but escaped to England.
His interrogations only finished at the
War Office. He told me that every step
of his journey and every name had been
checked by accurate maps.
THE DAYS THAT WERE.
“Sometimes I long for the power which I had
during the war, when I could write a law with a
fountain-pen.”— W. M. Hughes, at Newcastle.
I've won a place in the sun once moie,
Once more I’ve weathered misfortune’s
I’ve shown again, as I’ve shown before,
You never can keep a good man down.
But still it makes me a trifle sad,
And I can’t help sighing, now and then,
To think of the days when the power I had
To write a law with a fountain-pen.
I took a rap on the knucks from Joe
When certain views of my own 1 aired.
It was but a hollow gesture, though;
They soon discovered I couldn’t be spared.
On platforms still I’m their strongest draw,
They know—but it’s hardly the same as
when
All that I needed to frame a law
Was a writing-pad and a fountain-pen.
I’ve little to learn of statesmanship,
And less of its incidental arts,
From the pungent phrase and the piquant quip
To the word that withers, the stab that
smarts.
But putting statutes upon the slate
Is a tedious job these days, you ken,
To one who was wont to legislate
With a careless oath and a fountain-pen.
I have battled back to the busy buzz
Of place, and the haunts that of old I knew,
But I’m far from feeling as Hider does,
And as Mussolini well may do.
And I sometimes sigh for the times, my lad,
When I, like them, was a king of men,
And, whenever I chose, the power I had
To make a law with a fountain-pen.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


A
20/<vl'6
10 for 9 d
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
CRAVENA
J. 855
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
w
$
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE
OF THIS
GENERA TION
POLITICAL POINTS
According to Alderman Tait, of Bris-
bane, “it would be a good thing if all
Australian politicians were sent to
Japan.” It is only fair to mention that
he said it the week before last.
Canberra reports that at least one of
our touring politicians is leading an
exacting life.
Dr. Page rises at 6.30 a.m. for strenuous
deck tennis and medicine ball, with Mr.
Marcusson, of the Customs, as a prelimi-
nary to work on butter, meat and sugar,
But surely the gentlemen sometimes
change to oatmeal, fish and poached
eggs?
Revised definition of democracy :
Over-government of the people by poli-
ticians and officials for politicians and
officials.
Canberra, having rejected the British
offer of a seven-day air-mail schedule
from London, proposes to have the
present “relatively fast service” from
Singapore “duplicated”—it is already bi-
weekly on the Singapore-London run —
and accelerated by a day, making the
time to Brisbane 12 days. During Feb-
ruary air mails due on Friday were de-
livered in Sydney days late, and there has
been “insufficient accommodation for
passengers,” so something had to be
done. Presumably postage will still be
eighteenpence per half-ounce —J. Bull
offered to do it for three-ha’pence if
Canberra would come in.
Queensland’s ironically-named Minis-
ter “for” Transport alleges “sweating
conditions” in the persecuted motor-
transport industry. Employees of all
commercial transport concerns are sub-
ject to the award for Carters and Drivers.
If the Minister’s charge is correct, it
shows utter neglect in policing the award.
In beautiful agreement with Mr. Park-
hill, Mr. Curtin “prefers a continuance
of the voluntary system —Labor believes
the voluntary is the best system.” For
protecting the nation, of course ; not for
protecting the trade-union section. In the
case of that minority, “Labor believes” in
stark compulsion ; penalty, the sack for
all who don’t join up and pay up, even
“Crown employees.”
N.S.W. Assistant Minister Shand is
“strongly in favor of the building of
the Eastwood-St. Leonards railway.” Of
course he is, seeing that his Government
has decided to construct the Maryvale-
Sandy Hollow line, estimated annual loss
on which is £90,700, whereas estimated
annual loss on St. Leonards-Eastwood is
a mere £71,700. Presently Ness or some-
body will rise up and demand the build-
ing of the Western Suburbs railway.
Estimated annual loss on that is a mere
£190,700.
Australia is not the only country where
the lunacy laws need attention. Two old
M.L. people, man and wife, were done to
death in their house one day last week.
The report says that “a son, recently dis-
charged from a mental hospital on pro-
bation, was found in a sitting-room with
a bloodstained axe in his hand.”
N.S.W. Auditor-General Spence reports
another substantial loss on the Hotel
Kosciusko, a Government concern with
a license—£s2lB for the year to June
30, 1935. That brings the losses for
seven years to £48,480, and that is “ex-
clusive of interest, exchange and sinking-
fund contributions.” If Stevens’s anti-
socialism is not all humbug, this sink for
public money will be offered for sale or
lease within three months.
In one convulsive .jveek the crowd in
control of Sydney’s City Council kicked
out Alderman Tresidder for the crime of
nominating for Mayor, expelled the re-
porters from council committee meetings
(not even the Stokes regime did that) and
decided to abandon the slogan “No
party, no politics, no creed.” But they
are still “the Citizens’ Reform Associa-
tion.”
Papers keep on saying that Labor-leader
Curtin may move from his present con-
stituency to an easier one in Victoria
because “Fremantle is out of sympathy
with high tariffism.” The tariff issue may
have been raised in Fremantle at the first
two or three Commonwealth elections,
but it has scarcely been heard of since.
It wasn’t because Curtin is a Protection-
ist that he was twice beaten by old Wil-
liam Watson, but because Watson had
a greater local appeal, and because Cur-
tin’s party had gone to the bow-wows in
1931. At the recent State elections Labor
did much better in the Fremantle sub-
divisions than anywhere else, except on
the goldfields, and Curtin may think it
safe to stay.
Forgan Smith’s conferences with the
Dominions Office regarding the appoint-
ment of a Queenslander as next State
Governor are attracting the attention of
Brisbane gentlemen addicted to wager-
“O honorable sure, we have vacancy for most respected Prime Minister.”
ing. “Remunerative” odds are obtainable
against Mr. Smith himself. Mr. McCor-
mack, back from Russia with all the
latest dope on Soviet farms, occupies a
low place on the list.
Australia will sigh with relief to hear
through the “Sydney Snow” —no, “U.A.P.
—Review” that Premier Stevens is going
to London to “fully explore the possi-
bilities of attracting to Australia exports
of money and men.” Nobody is doing it
now—anyway, nobody but Bruce, Heath,
five Agents-General, Earle Page, Menzies,
Forgan Smith, Manning and staffs,
also a few shipping lines and a few hun-
dred Australian businessmen. Mr.
Stevens’s “explorations” will occupy him
six months. He has been Premier since
May 13, 1932, so when he returns he
will have been paid for, roughly, 12 p.c.
of “exploring” and 88 p.c. of work.
There is a vacancy on Queensland’s
Public Works Commission, and some of
the young lions of Labor are showing
decided peevishness over the delay in
filling it. They can’t see why the present
five lucky ones shouldn’t be made up to
even numbers again. In inner circles
the issue is regarded as a test of strength
between the party’s two wings, without
the restraining hand of Forgan Smith to
prevent all-in fighting.
It is given out that Garden, now an
M.H.R., “aspires to a higher place” in
the reunited Labor party, or one of them,
and “S. M. Herald” would not be aston-
ished if he got it. Qualifications? Well,
he helped to run at least a score of strikes,
all failures; he was against the White
Australia policy ; he was on the com-
mittee of the Communist International
in its wildest and most mischievous days,
and he assured his brown, black and
brindle” friends that had
stepped on the stage in Australia.
Proofs of the outlook of the Queens-
land Transpoit Strangulation Boar on
the alleged liberty of the non-union su -
ject continue to accumulate. A Spring-
brook man testifies that he is not allowed
to transport livestock to market in his
own motor vehicle, as anything from out-
side the 25-mile limit must go by rail.
Rail takes 26 hours to dehyei them, tire
and dilapidated ; cost, £4 tor a halt-
waggon. By road, they would reach
market fresh in three hours; cost, £l.
This despite sky-high registration fees.
The people who are reviving the
Country party in Queensland have
formed branches and are summoning
delegates to set up a central organisa-
tion. Old “Country and Progressive
Nationalists,” as they call themselves,
are growling, but Young Nats, approve,
realising that “united action against the
common enemy” has been a dead failure.
In Queensland, as in Westralia, a Coun-
try party, with an allied group of Nats,
or Libs, or whatever they choose to call
themselves, seems the only alternative
to continuous Labor rule, which inevit-
ably degenerates into misrule. While
the Westralian Nats, lost seven seats to
Labor at the 1933 election, the Country
party didn’t lose one. And it gained at
last month’s affair, with the result that
it now has 14 seats to the Nats.’ nine.
The commander of the Russian Navy,
whose name sounds like a machine-gun
burst, says the U.S.S.R. coasts are now
impregnable. Let him try to keep out some
of the Australian union bosses who go
to Moscow every year, and he will soon
see how feeble the defences actually are.
Bondy Hoare, from Newcastle, is the
latest tripper.
Not only in Australia has Government
ownership of railways an appalling finan-
cial record. The Canadian National sys-
tem has in 15 years accumulated a deficit
of $905,190,600: the smallest annual loss
was $24,730,400; the largest (in 1933),
$96,532,459. In the same period the
Australian Government railways ad-
mitted losses amounting to £64,884,000
—and the privately-owned C.P.I. earned
$436,482,300 “over and above interest
and other fixed charges.”
Melbourne, which has no Sunday
newspapers, is permitted to listen to radio
broadcasts, including advertising an-
nouncements. Someone, presumably
after making a noise like Ginger Meggs
and “Speed” Gordon combined, pointed
out the anomaly to McLachlan, the
P.M.G. He pointed out that broadcast-
ing is a Federal matter, and that the
regulation prohibiting Sunday news-
papers is Victoria’s own chicken. Per-
haps Mr. Dunstan will now have a visit
from Meggs, Tony and Dale Arden.
“S. M. Herald” allowed a Langster to
“question” its “statement that Mr.
Dwyer-Gray is one of the ablest cham-
pions of the Lang party in his own
State.” The adjective needed question-
ing, but the Langster went on to blither;
I do not know of a single utterance, on
platform or in press, of Mr. Gray that has
been in favor of the N. S. Wales State
Labor party.
Why, at Lang’s first election meeting last
year, the chairman read a fulsome 800-
word message from Dwyer-Gray. The
“Labor Daily” called it “a rallying cry
to the public of N. S. Wales to throw
its whole support behind Mr. Lang.’
And when the answer to the rallying cry
was 29 members in a House of 90, the
wordy old butter-in moaned that “the
State Labor party and Mr. Lang were
not defeated by the will of the people."
A Victorian volunteer’s testimony to
the “efficiency” of the system:
I have been in the 46th Battalion for
about five months and yet have no uni-
form... .Considering that after a long
day’s work we ride pushbikes 16
miles to attend it is not encouraging
If we want a shot at the range at Williams-
town, we have to lose a half-day’s pay and
then pay our own train fare.
Still, the young man has only himself to
blame. He should have become Minister
for Defence, and then he would have
had a gold pass, a Commonwealth car,
a corporal driver and a busby.
“Boloney” goes to a meeting:
Australia has an imitation Father Coghlan.
He calls himself “The Plain-speaking Gentle-
man,” and has gathered to himself disciples
who listen to his broadcasts twice a week.
Greatly encouraged, the P.S.G. announced the
formation of a “League.” Sydney Town Hall
was crowded with people anxious to catch a
glimpse of him; but evidently the time was
not ripe. Hidden away in “a recess under the
stairs,” the P.S.G. addressed his followers by
means of loudspeakers, claiming that the object
of the meeting was “to establish political co-
operation among the people,” and to “compel
the co-operation of political parties.” .Others
exhibited themselves: a Douglas Credit man
was in the chair ; another demanded “the
monetisation of the real wealth of the
country”; collective security had its advocate;
and a gentleman called upon the workers to
oppose “the rich man’s Government.” Then
the voice from down under appealed to said
Government “to take immediate action so to
adjust our financial policy as to found our
national economy on a basis that will permit
permanent and individual well-being.”
Possibly he is Douglas himself. The major
talks just like that, and in the situation
that is developing in Alberta he might prefer
to become a remote and wandering voice.


HIS WATERLOO.


SUNi FUN! PLEASURE! LEISURE!
ot
mif.
Vi
v0 v>
C/v
Ift
*fcx
yaoi°*
10438
PERSONAL ITEMS
John and William Vicars were an in-
separable pair of brothers and a perfect
business combination. Apart from the
building up of their father’s pioneer wool-
manufacturing business, which seemed a
handful for any pair of organising brains,
their time was always at the disposal of
patriotic movements and business con-
cerns that needed a leg-up. John, who
died the other day, at 78, was a member
of the N. S. Wales State Wool Com-
mittee during the war, and for a time was
on the Tariff Board. He was knighted
in 1924, two years after his brother. He
sat on the boards of a number of big
Australian companies, but their affairs
never interfered with his week-ends, which
were sedulously devoted to golf. In
every sense—physically, mentally and in
character—he was a big Australian.
“Eora”: Let it be recorded of Henry
Bills, head of the firm of wire-mattress
makers, who has just died in Melbourne,
that he never missed a Bulletin from
the first issue. In the old days he kept
a bird shop at Circular Quay, Sydney, at
rear of an early Bulletin office.
Victoria has a new K.C. in E. F. Her-
ring, an old Melbourne Grammar, boy
and the Victorian Rhodes scholar for
1912. The war interrupted Herring's legal
studies—he was a lieutenant-colonel in
the R.F.A. and won the Military Cross
and D. 5.0., returning to England to take
a D.C.L. degree with honors at Oxford.
He was called to the English Bar in
1920 and to the Victorian Bar a year
later. He had a shot at State politics
last year, but was narrowly defeated as
an independent U.A.P. candidate for
Brighton.
Sir Arthur Richards, who has been
named High Commissioner of the
Western Pacific and Governor of Fiji,
should welcome the
change from Gambia
(W. Africa), where it is
too hot to play his fav-
orite squash rackets with-
out melting. He has been
at Bathurst Government
House for two years, and
before that the whole of
his official life was spent
in the East Indies, where
he held a long series of
F.M.S. organisation jobs. He was adviser
to the Sultan of Johore for a year or
two, and was given his first Governor-
ship—North Borneo —in 1930. Last year
he was made a K.C.M.G.
E. W. Skeats, who is to represent the
Australasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy at the conference to discuss
a Federal geological survey, is Professor
of Geology and Mineralogy at Melbourne
University. He took his London B.Sc.
degree in 1902, and became Dean of
the Science' Faculty at Melbourne 27
years ago. He has been president of the
A.1.M.M., of the Melbourne professorial
board and of the Victorian Royal
Society, and is the author of a flood of
scientific papers.
“El V.”: Jap rebels nearly assassinated
three successive Prime Ministers in one
day. Admiral Keisuke Okada was in
office ; he escaped by hiding. He has
held almost every important post
in the sea service from Minister and
Commander-in-Chief downwards, but
is no naval expansionist. Viscount
Saito, who died, was. He was the virtual
maker of the modern Japanese Navy, was
Vice-Minister during the period of the
Russo-Jap War and Prime Minister when
Manchukuo was taken over. He became
Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal —the
Mikado’s most intimate adviser —a few
weeks ago. Why expansionist soldiers
should wish to murder him it is difficult
to understand ; and the case of Taka-
hashi is equally difficult. His bent was
financial, and he was largely responsible
for Japan’s commercial expansion policy ;
he was also last year’s president of the
conservative Seiyukai party, which the
rebels are alleged to support. In private
life, he was one of Japan’s greatest
bankers—president of the Bank of Japan
and Yokohama Specie Bank.
After coming into contact with the
winning personalities of F. D. Davison
and W. E. Fitz Henry, new president
and secretary respectively of the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers, Dubois lost
all desire *to mutilate their features in
caricature, and instead drew these kindly
portraits. Davison is the lofty one, but
he is that long only relatively with Fitz
Henry, who dodges importunate poets
by planting behind his inkwell. The
Fellowship elected good fellows in both
of them. Davison, with his honest Man-
Shy, has probably contributed a lasting
minor classic to Australian literature.
Two highly literary gentlemen.
During Fitz Henry’s 18 years with The
Bulletin tens of thousands of MSS.
have passed through his hands, including
the huge stacks entered for the two
Bulletin Novel Competitions launched
by the then editor, S. H. Prior, those
entered for the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize last year and those already com-
ing in to compete for that prize this year.
Out of that experience Fitz Henry had
the idea for the Australian Authors and
Artists Handbook, which under his
editorship goes on helping hundreds of
young writers towards a footing on the
Inky Way.
W. B. (“Doc.”) Carr, who has left for
England, is a man who goes to the top
in any company. Long ago he was on
Adelaide “Register,” and became its
sporting editor when Moxon Cook moved
over to the “Australasian” in Melbourne.
During and after the Kalgoorlie boom,
Carr gave up journalism for sharebrok-
ing. Chairman of the A.R.C., he moved
over to the S.A.J.C., and soon became
chairman of that. His long-range chair-
manship of the Stock Exchange, 1903
to 1930, with one year away, is a record
not likely to be approached for long.
Incidentally, his English trip is on the
occasion of his fourth marriage.
The N.S.W. Manufacturers’ secretary,
Latham Withall, goes to Britain and
America this month to explore the pros-
pects of new industries for the Common-
wealth. He is an expert in his subject
—Melbourne knows him better than
Sydney as a fine speaker with a gooa
presence and an abundance of tact.
“Inaha”: Dead at Wellington (M.L.)
in his ninety-eighth year, Edwin Bezar
carried to his grave the proud title of
“last of the Diehards,” the historic 57th
Middlesex (Duke of Cambridge’s Own)
Regiment, which took an active
part in the Maori wars. The regi-
ment was stationed in Sydney at
at one time, and its Colonel Shad-
forth, who is buried on the
Nepean, gave his name to a Mos-
man street. Born in Wiltshire in
’3B young Bezar joined the colors
at 17, and was sent almost im-
mediately to active service on
the Crimea. Transferred to the
Diehards, he saw service in
Malta, Aden and Poona before
arriving in M.L. in 1861 for the
wars. When the Diehards were
recalled in 1866 Sergeant-Major
Bezar took his discharge and re-
mained in the colony, being active in
military affairs until he retired in 1892.
“Carvo”: Time has not robbed W. M.
Hughes of his quick wit. He greeted an
old Parliamentary colleague lustily with,
“Hello, Blank; and how are things
going? Is God with you, eh?” “Very
well, Billy ; very well,” said the gratified
ancient. “Making a penny or two and
keeping my hands out of other people’s
pockets.” “Good lad!” said Billy. “And
enjoying the novelty, I hope, old boy?”
And, shaking his finger, he moved swiftly
onward.
“M.H.”: Old John Allan (B. 26/2/’36)
had one oustanding characteristic;
he never bore a grudge. During
1924-27, when his Government held
office with the aid of the Nationalists,
one Melbourne paper persistently
attacked it as “the barnacle Govern-
ment.” It refused to be scraped off the
Treasury benches in spite of successive
defeats in the House. The pressman re-
sponsible for most - of the attacks was
counter-attacked in the House by Allan,
and in a heated moment accused of being
“a liar.” Later, however, Allan met the
scribe face to face, grinned, held out his
hand and said: “Shake hands, ; I’m
sorry.” Then he and the pressman
adjourned for a bite and a drink
and talked it over in friendly fashion.
You couldn’t help liking John; he
was a typical Aussie, easygoing, good-
humored, but full of political sagacity
and shrewdness.
Queensland University has made
several new appointments, including per-
haps the most remarkable quick-change
one in higher scholastic history. Profes-
sor D. H. K. Lee, whose appointment at
King Edward VII. Medical School, Sin-
gapore, was announced only at the end
of last year, becomes Professor of Phy-
siology in the new Brisbane Medical
School. He is a Queenslander, a Byrnes
medallist, and took a B.Sc. at Queensland
University in 1925. Recently he has been
in the Department of Physiology, Phar-
macology and Biochemistry at London
University. The new law professor is
Yorke Hedges, senior lecturer in law at
Victoria University, Manchester. He had
a course brightened with frequent honors
at Victoria, and afterwards won a Rocke-
feller Fellowship at Harvard. He has
travelled widely. Dr. H. R. Seddon, of
Glenfield (N.S.W.), .becomes first veter-
inary professor. Three out of four lec-
turers appointed to various faculties are
Brisbane Grammar School boys with dis-
tinguished scholastic careers outside the
State —Dr. E. S. Meyers (Anatomy), Dr.
T. P. Fry (Law) and E. S. Edmiston
(Industrial Chemistry).
“DRYBLOWER” MURPHY, the West-
ralian poet, as seen by Frith.
The gastronomic life of Melbourne
loses one of its best-known personalities
through the retirement of John Casey,
manager of Menzies for 17 years and
employed in the hotel for over 40 years.
A wise, understanding person with a limit-
less knowledge of human nature, he had
friends all over the world. Tom Car-
lyon, a young sprig of an old Melbourne
family of hosts who, after American ex-
perience, was at Usher’s in Sydney, suc-
ceeds him.
Ernest Thompson, head of the Man-
chester delegation which is visiting Aus-
tralia to promote trade with the Com-
monwealth, was knighted in 1929 and
boasts about the shortest of the 40,000-
odd biographies in English Who’s Who.
It states merely that he is married, is a
company director and lives in Prestbury,
Cheshire. Actually, he has his finger in
a lot of pies, and is particularly inter-
ested in the development of Manchester’s
port, which is tied to the sea by 38 miles
of canal. He is bluff Lancashire through
and through, and has helped to entertain
many an Australian delegation to Man-
chester.
On the passing of a generation:
The death of J. Jardine Graham removes the
last of the old school of N. S. Wales bank
managers from Brisbane finance.- There was in
S. Brisbane James Madgwick Davidson, gentle,
with his flowing white beard, his gallant step
and his twinkling smile. A. C. Davidson, his
son, is now g.m. of the ’Wales. Then there was
George Eddington, who might have contributed
something to the ingredients of Galsworthy’s
Swithin Forsyte; and finally there was Graham.
Tall, erect, his shoulders ever squared, his
grey pot-hat balanced squarely on his head,
his lemon-colored gloves held correctly in his
left hand, his silvery moustache helping out his
gentle smile, J.J.G. was one of the best-loved
figures in the northern capital. Nobody would
have guessed him an Australian, but he was
born in Bathurst among the old cavalier
families of an earlier day, and served his bank-
ing apprenticeship in Warwick (Q.), where Eton
spoke only to Oxford and Oxford spoke only
to Secretaries of State. All his life Graham
was a great clubman and follower of the turf.


IVUU;
u LvAiV
firm t •
iu' n
HI lllil
It i it rta
it I itlt|s
11111 ill
SHE MAY STEER U
#
m
r
>
'i
>
I
m
ck
The New
“Cheekskid”
with
MORE RUBBER
DEEPER CUT
IN
TYRES
TREAD.
I
-fl
7i-
-IIGB-FP3S.
BE SURE—
fit “CHECKSKIDS”
Weaving through traffic , , . speeding the corners and highways , * ♦
your tyres have the last say in the safety and accuracy of your steering.
Is there a chance that their smooth, grip-less treads will let a front-
wheel skid happen? It is a treacherous trick which will discount all
your driving skill. Don’t let it happen. Discard those old, worn-
smooth covers and replace them with Barnet Glass Checkskids.
With unequalled tenacity the Checkskid tread fastens on the road-
taking you where you steer —and not where slip or skid may chance
to land you. Economy? Well, that deeper, broader road-holding
tread gives extra thousands of miles —and you pay not a penny more!
In a jiffy the nearest Barnet Glass dealer can fit Checkskids to your
wheels —It’s the thrifty way to be safe!
New tyres
call for New
BARNET CLASS
“M oulded”
TUBES


CfttfEt COROIAIS
‘Curvilinear” Ore Concentrator
e
THE MOST EFFICIENT Con-
centrator on the market, and
suitable for, all classes of ores.
The unique action of this table
separates the minerals according
to their specific gravity, and so
enables even an unskilled
operator to get the highest
recovery possible. Other advan-
tages are its simplicity, small
floor space and light weight for
transportation. Owing to the
absence of intricate moving parts, annoying and expensive breakdowns are eliminated
and maintenance costs reduced to a minimum. . .
Send for our Bulletin which fully describes the table; demonstrations given by
appointment. , . , . „ .. .
Used throughout the Commonwealth and exported in laige numbers to South Atnca
and the East. , ~ , 4 c
Capacity up to 1| tons per hour. Our 2ft. dia. cone classifier should be a part of
every mine equipment where concentrators are usech
Send us your inquiries for all Mining Equipment, Explosives and Accessories.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Mining Engineers,
10 Parramatta Road, Sydney, N.S.W.
$? /
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDN EY
e- Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
Rjpiot^ntatn'ss.
McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne,, Adelaide,. Perth*
S.S.C.A., Brisbane.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 74,711 10 p.c. = 35,000 39,711 419,034
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 394,034
1925.. 91,546 10 p.c. = 37,500 ),, n , ft ., R nan
To pension reserve, £lO,OOO ) 44,046 438,080
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 413,080
1926.. 66,321 10 p.c. = 40,000 26,321 439,401
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 414,401
1927.. 66,748 10 p.c. = 42,500 24,248 438,649
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 413,649
1928.. 67,403 10 p.c. = 45,000 22,403 436,052
1929.. 66,862 10 „ „ 45,000 21,862 457,914
1930.. 68,231 10 „ „ 45,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,6.39 10 „ „ 45,000 478,784
Unexplained reduction, £lBl6 .. 476,968
Loss.
1932.. 12,022 5 p.c. = 22,500 442,446
Profit.
1933.. 27,140 6 „ „ 27,000 140 442,586
1934.. 49,045 7J ~ ~ 33,750 15,295 457,881
1935. . 38,569 8 „ ~ 36,000 2,569 460,450
For 15 years to the close of accounts in
1927 this old-established fire, marine
and accident underwriter (it set up at Syd-
ney in 1862) paid a steady 10 p.c. div.,
sweetened with £325,000 of bonus scrip,
raising paid capital to its present figure
(£450,000). This was possible because a
run of very favorable underwriting sur-
pluses was available to swell invest-
ments and the returns therefrom ; thus
the said returns, which got a little further
assistance from rising interest rates, kept
pace with the mounting dividend charge.
But with wider policy-writing came
heavier claims, and the gift-giving ceased
about eight years ago. Then slump light-
ened premium income, the contraction
in interest and rents affected returns from
investments, and the London marine busi-
ness became very troublesome. It all
culminated in a loss of £12,022 in 1932,
when the div. was lowered to 5 p.c.
For the next two years there was a
continued shrinkage in gross earnings,
owing mainly to curtailment of marine
underwriting and the cheapening of
money. Still, there was a heartening im-
provement in the net result, thanks to a
steep drop in the loss ratio:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0 „
1920.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 45.7 ~
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1929. .*413,015 185,236 160,916 48.4) „ 38.9) „
1930. .*498,050 261,695 168,124 52.5) „ 33.7) „
1931.. *509,981 290,748 167,101 57.0)„ 32.7) „
1932.. *357,836 256,408 113,450 71.6) „ 31.7) „
1933. .*344,654 198,341 119,390 57.5) „ 34.6).,
1934. .*325,693 144,417 132,208 44.3) „ 40.6) „
1935.. *330,737 165,887 126,281 50.1) „ 38.1)„
*lncludes interest, etc.
)Ratio to net premiums plus interest, etc.
Last year’s net premium, income was
£5490 better at £296,212 ; and the larger
business was handled at £5927 less cost.
But the gains from these two sources
and more besides were gobbled by a
growth of £21,470 in losses. The slip
in the underwriting surplus (£4044)
was £10,053. The return from invest-
ments was £445 lighter at £34,525, or
7.6 p.c. on capital. The net return
from all sources (£38,569, down
£10,476) was 8.5 p.c. on capital as against
10.9, 6, a loss, 9.3, 15.1, 14.8 and 14.9 p.c.
back to 1928. Half a point was added to
the div., making 8 p.c. for the year.
The market, which expects a bit more
when the underwriting result improves,
prices the £lO shares paid to £5 at
£l2 Is. At this figure the return is 3.3
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for a shade under 4| p.c. on
his money counts on a 10 p.c. distribution.
Assets are a solid lot:
1930. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Sundry creditors 164,640 103,466 121,788 124,856
Government
securities .. 503,313 444,970 449,895 449,595
Cash, book
debts, etc. 323,796 284,755 309,377 306,014
Debentures .. 40,688 39,875 44,875 44 875
Mortgages .. 131,729 123,444 124,762 133,763
Premises . . 118,759 118,759 118,759 118,759
When the books closed, policy-holders
could see net tangibles equal to 307 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, whereas 150
p.c. is usually considered adequate.
Carlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 7,631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2,891
1926.. 9,706 1600 10 „ „ 6000 2106 4,997
1927.. 10,675 1600 10 „ „ 6000 3075 8,072
1928.. 12,006 1600 124 ~ „ 7500 2906 10,978
1929.. 13,172 1600 15 ~ „ 9000 2572 13,550
1930.. 5,727 Nil Nil 5727 19,277
Loss.
1931.. 876 Nil Nil 18,401
Profit.
1932.. 4,169 Nil Nil 4169 22,570
1933.. 8,053 5229 7 p.c. = 4200 21,194
Profit sale shares, £12,265 .. .. 33,459
1934.. 12,155 1600 27 p.c. = 16,200 27,814
Assets written up, £79,663 . . . . 107,477
Reserves capitalised, £105,000 .. 2,477
1935.. 14,012 1600 74 p.c. = 12,375 37 2,514
The hotel is well situated in Castlereagh-
street, near the Australia and Usher’s.
The remarkable growth in earnings over
the last four years is witness of the im-
provement in conditions generally and
of the management’s efforts to popularise
the place. For several years after the co.
was formed in 1920 results were dis-
appointing. But the figures brightened
following a change in the control, and
the div. rose from 9 p.c. to 15 p.c. dur-
ing the five years to the close of accounts
in 1929. In that year £88,610 was added
to the outside debt, raising it to £154,641.
The extra money was used to buy the
freehold (£75,000 was the figure spoken
of) and improve thp premises. Then the
boom burst, the weight of the debt made
itself felt, and shareholders experienced
a three years’ dry spell. Earnings have
since bounded along, for reasons already
stated.
Early in the last term £105,000 of
bonus scrip was issued to the ords.,
seven for four. To do it the book value
of the freehold and part of the co.’s
other investments was written up £79,663 ;
the balance was provided out of a
realised surplus of £12,265 on the sale
of shares in another co. and by transfer
of £13,072 from the small heap of exist-
ing reserves. Paid capital was thus lifted
from £BO,OOO to £185,000 in 20,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 165,000 ords.; the latter,
or all but a handful of them, are held by
Carlton Investments, Ltd.
Net earnings (£14,012, up £1857) were
the best yet. They were £37 more than
8 p.c. to the prefs. and 7\ p.c. to the
ords. called for—the p.c. was equal
to 20.6 p.c. on ord. capital as it stood
before the bonus issue.
Assets, which consist of freehold,
equipment, stock, debtors, cash, invest-
ments, license, goodwill, etc., are all
lumped in one untidy entry at £297,816,
up £80,745, due to revaluation of assets.
There was little change in the amount
coming to outsiders, £99,082.
Since the close of accounts earnings
have further improved. Still, the small
amount of nominal reserves (they are
subject to an unspecified amount of in-
tangibles), the revaluation of assets, the
liberal issue of bonus scrip, the amount
of the outside debt, and the slender
margin between last year’s earnings and
distributions suggest that ord. divs. will
remain sensitive to fluctuations in trad-
ing conditions.
Assuming that the investment co.’s
exes, remain steady, a p.c. div. from
Carlton Hotel would leave enough to
enable it (the investment co.) to pay its
own pref. div. and show 9j p.c. on its
ord. capital. Last year it paid 9 p.c.
At 275. the hotel co.’s prefs. return
5.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Marcus Clark (Victoria), Ltd.
, Dividends >, Towards
Prof. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 5,052 5,000 . . Nil 52 10,511
Mav
1926.. 3,991 3,667 Nil 324 10,187
Au g Added preliminary exes., £9647 .. 19,834
£
1927.. 41,009 16,852 8 p.c. = 22,704 1453 18,381
1928.. 24,884 13,600 4 „ „ 10,200 1084 17,297
Premiums on shares, £1750 .. 15,547
1929.. 19,631 14,606 Nil 5025 10,522
Loss.
1930.. 6,032 7,600* Nil 24,154
1931. . 8,716 Nil Nil 32,870
1932.. 7,832 Nil Nil 40,702
1933.. 7.727 Nil Nil 48,429
1934.. 3,730 Nil Nil 52,159
1935.. 1,972 Nil Nil 54,131
*4 p.c.
The drift has been more serious than
those figures suggest; they do not dis-
close the state of affairs in the sub-
sidiaries. Transformed from a motor
agency into a holding concern in 1926,
the co. gathered £378,000 of fresh
capital, raising the figure to £475,000 in
190,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 320,000
ords. —the latter are held by Marcus
Clark, Sydney. At the end of August
last the lot, together with £89,239 raised
on overdraft and £9347 coming to sun-
dry creditors, was invested £9356 in book
debts, £9B in office equipment, etc., and
£510,000 in shares in other cos. The
holdings comprised all the £400,000 of
capital in Craig, Williamson (Melbourne)
and the £105,000 of ord. and £5OOO of
the pref. money in Miller, Anderson
(Adelaide).
Trading results of the parent and its
two subsidiaries over the last three years
compare as follows:
1933. 1934. 1935.
Loss. Loss. Lass.
Marcus Clark (Vic.) .. £7,727 £3,730 £1,972
Craig, Williamson .. 19,668 13,445 25,989
Profit. Profit. Profit.
Miller, Anderson .. .. 23 1,195 3.186
Net loss £27,372 £15,980 £24,775
The combined net result of last year’s
operations was a .loss of £24,775 (up
£8795), making the total net loss over
the last five years £205,236. When the
books last closed there was £83,600 (Bs.
lOd. per share) coming to the parent’s
prefs. in accrued divs.
The £3186 (up £1991) netted by Miller,
Anderson last year was £1614 short of
the annual requirements of its own prefs.
They have agreed to lower the rate of
dividend from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c. cumulative
for the three years to Jan. 31, 1938, and
to accept 5 p.c. in respect of arrears for
the five years since 1930.
The worst of the trouble has occurred
in connection with the Craig business,
which was netting over £68,000 p.a. when
taken over. In 1932 it was relieved of
£530,738 of debt by forfeiting its equity
in the freehold at a loss of £12,408. Last
year the co. stocked up with seasonable
goods in anticipation of a bigger demand
than was realised in connection with the
centenary celebrations. The loss on the
year’s trading was £6223 greater at
£19,668.
Here is a view of the financial struc-
ture of each of the three businesses at
last balancing dates:
Marcus
Clark Craig, Miller,
(Vic.), Williamson, Anderson,
Paid capital— 31/8/’35. 31/7/’35.. 31/l/’35.
Pref .. .. £190,000 £BO,OOO
Old.' .. .. 285,000 £400,000) 105,000)
Mortgages . . . . 5,000 72,000
Overdraft .. •• 89,239 143,815
Sundry creditors .. 9,347 52,954* 35,959
Freehold .; .. 17,216 145,361
Plant, etc 98 73,138 24.392
Shares other eas. . . 510,000 - -
Stocks .. .. 145,692. 67,761
Book debts.. .. 9,356 47,206 35,214
Cash, etc. . . . . — 1 5,675 124
) Held by Marcus Clark (Vic.).
* Includes staff fund, £4732.
The excess of outside liabilities over
more or less liquids was £89,230, Marcus
Clark ; £3196, Craig, Williamson ; £4860,
Miller, Anderson. Combining the figures
of the three cos., we get these results:
■ Freehold .. .. .. £162,577
Plant, etc 97,628
Shares other cos. .. . . 5,000
Stocks . . . . . . . . 213,453
Book debts, cash, etc. . . 97,575
£576 233
Zess: Liabilities .. .. .• 408,314
£167,919
Less: Outside pref. capital . . 75,000
Net tangibles . . . . £92,91?
Disregarding arrears of pref. divs., the
whole of the parent’s £285,000 of ord.
capital, and £97,081 of its £190,000 of
pref. money besides, were thus unrepre-
sented by tangibles.
When the board can see more clearly
where the Craig business stands, recon-
struction of the capital account will be
considered.
The market prices the parent’s fully-
paid pound prefs. at 4s. 3d.
Exec., Trustee and Agency Co. (S.A.)
Added
Writ- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
1925.. 13 675 12 p.c. = 9,000 251 | 3924 83,026
Provident Fund, £5OO )
1926. . 17 760 12 pc. = 12,000 247 I 5013 88>03 9
Provident Fund, £5OO J
1927.. 17,905 12 p.c. = 12,000 256
Providend Fund, £5OO j 5149 88
1928.. 18,506 12 p.c. = 12,000 260 ) Qa Q -
Provident Fund, £5OO J w> " ua
1929.. 16,504 12 p.c. = 12,000 254 )
Provident Fund, £5OO f 3870 102 ’ 74a
1930.. 16,010 12 p.c. = 12,000 307 ( q 9n „ ,ns an
Provident Fund, £5OO J 3 “ 03 105,948
1931.. 10.997 8 p.c. = 8,000 289 ( 2 208 108 156
Provident Fund, £500.... J ’
1932.. 10,118 8 P-C. = 8,000 1218 1 40Q 108;556
Provident Fund, £5OO }
1933.. 8,927 8 p.c. = 8,000 297 ) IQ a ma rsr
Provident Fund, £5OO j 130 108,680
1934.. 11,367 8 p.c. = 8,000 392),,,-- 711 Ifil
Provident Fund, £5OO ) ' ’
1935.. 11,383 10 p.c. = 10,000 393 1 m .-.m
Provident Fund, £650 ) 111,001
The lift in the div. from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c.
fitted in with the expectations of the
market, which still discounts the future.
Over the last 12 months the price of the
pound shares paid to ss. remained fairly
steady around 13s. 3d. On a 10 p.c. div.
basis the return at 13s. 3d. is 3.7 p.c., or
about the same as from Australian
Consols. Still, the latter are fixed-interest-
bearing securities, and the tendency at
the moment is for interest rates to
harden.
Subject to the possibilities of Gov-
ernment interference, the outlook for
these trustee cos. is as assured as anything
of the kind can be under existing con-
ditions. Apart from the chance they
take when investing their own funds,
they haven’t to risk much. If there
is doubt concerning the interpretation of
a will, there is always the Court to go
to for instruction.
This is S.A.’s largest trustee co. and—
with one exception—Australia’s oldest. At
the close of last accounts assets comprised
freehold, £68,000 ; fittings, etc., £6922;
safe deposit, £11,306; Consols, £89,327 :
book debts (mainly advances to estates),
£41,874; accrued interest, etc., £1484.
There was £1413 coming to outsiders.
After allowing for the final div., etc., net
tangibles were equal to 10s. 6d. per
share. Thus capital and reserves com-
bined need turn in only 4.7 p.c. to pay
a 10 p.c. div. That leaves out of the
reckoning returns from the trust business,
and these can be expected to improve as
the volume of trusts grows.
Although the collapse of values and
drop in interest rates affected commission
and other earnings for a while, the figures
are on the up-grade again:
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Expenses. Income.
1920.. £4,568,146 £22,477 £11,388 50.6
1925.. 6,480,945 31,551 18,006 57.0
1928.. 8,302,728 44,439 26,046 58.6
1929.. 9,087,768 44,297 27.733 62.6
1930.. 10,036,608 44,426 28,416 63.9
1931.. 10,320,304 39,173 28,176 71.9
1932.. 10,870,670 38,921 28,695 73.7
1933.. 10,992,675 38,195 27,487 71.9
1934. 10,913,978 38,351 26,984 70.5
1935.. 11,527,693 40,206 28,823 71.7
During the last term the volume of trusts
put on the books exceeded those wound
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


C|G
'HIA
A KETT£ S
Fits your
pocket both
ways
size & price
Still available, of
course, is the familiar
square TIN of 14- > 1/-
è
OUNTRY LIFE
100/ PURE VIRGINIA CIGARETTES


A SURE F RI END IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
HI
Jin,
m
Have YOU a Treasured
DAUGHTER?
WILLIAM BURROUGHS is not his real name,
but it will do for this recital. Mr. Burroughs has
been a member of the A.M.P. since he was 26
years of age. He has two A.M.P. policies on his own
life. One is for £750, payable at death; the other is for
£5OO, payable when he reaches 55. Bonuses are steadily
mounting up on both of them, and he is very happy
about them.
Mr. Burroughs has, also, a treasured daughter, for whom he
has an A.M.P. policy for £2OO, payable when the girl reaches
21.
Many men hesitate to give themselves the comfort of more
policies because they fear that something may happen to pre-
vent them paying the premiums regularly, and that they will
lose all that they have invested in them. The fear is baseless.
After two years, an A.M.P. member can have a policy
converted into a paid-up policy with no more premiums to
pay, provided such paid-up policy is for a sum assured of not
less than £5O. A man CAN’T LOSE when he invests in
A.M.P. policies.
If you, who read this, feel that you need the comfort of more
assurance, ask that an experienced adviser be sent to you at
once, or that the Society get in touch with you by mail.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A. A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A.
Actuary. General Manager,
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone; 84356.
up by £614,715. Gross earnings were
£1855 better, and exes, were up £1839.
Allowing for the amount written off and
the contribution to the staff fund, the net
result was 10.3 p.c. on the £lOO,OOO of
paid capital as against 10.4, 8.1, 8.4, 10.2,
15.2, 15.8 and 17.7 p.c. back to 1928.
Treasury Bills
Treasury bills have become a new
and important factor in the Australian
, T , ...
money market, issued mainly to cover
deficits in the public accounts during the
slump (thev have now ceased to be used
for this purpose), they have thus far been
discounted bv the Commonwealth Bank
discounted ny tne commonweaitn eanx,
as a central bank, and the trading banks.
Sneakina aenerallv their effect nnnn the
Speaking generally their effect upon the
banking structure has been to increase
deposits on the one hand and liquid
securities on the other, thus making foi
maintenance of easy credit conditions and
cheap money.
Now that conditions have changed and
other factors, chiefly the rise in prices,
have further broadened the basis of
credit, the Commonwealth Bank has de-
cided to offer for public subscription on
March 16 £1,000,000 (face value) of its
holding of these three-month bills at a
discount rate of U p.c. Fearing the
effect of this its dep osits, cash re-
a a- nf
sources and credit policy, the Bank of
N- S. Wales, which has rece y
panded its lending connections, has in-
creased lts pnce for fixed deposits *?yjj
half of one per cent., making the three
months . rate P 2 xhis in turn will G f
overdraft rates and tend
. make monev aenerallv a little dearer
1 Lll noints to a
Among othei things, it all points to a
sl lgbt rise m m terest rates for first-class
„ nd tn tbe no ssibilitv of bank
secantes .’ anc ? tne . possiDiiuy oi oamt
credlt bemg tightened up a trifle, On the
Stock Excha nge this has been reflected
i n easier prices for Consols and some in-
dustrials ; brokers have become less in-
dined to extend further accommodation to
clients, and there has been some forced
selling in the mining section. Specula-
tion, both in mines and industrials, has
thus received a definite check for the
time being.
The other trading banks have not yet
announced what they intend to do in
respect of deposit and overdraft rates.
Incidentally, an immediate rise in these
rates would do bank earnings no harm.
The situation that has developed sug-
gests that the central bank, without the
full support and co-operation of the trad-
ing banks, may not be able to effectively
control the course of interest rates and
the volume of credit.
Another fourpenny div. is coming
along from Raub (F.M.S.) —a quarterly
distribution, payable in sterling. On Is.
4d. (stg.) a year the yield at 18s. 9d.
(Aust.) per ss. share would be a shade
under 9 p.c. If a bonus of 4d. goes out
with the final, the return would be 11.1
p.c. Accounts close on March 31. Last
year £83,138 was earned (on capital of
£200,000) from 44,000 tons averaging
9.ldwt. This year nearer 50,000 tons
will be put through. Though grade has
been lower, total gold yield should be
about 2000 oz. higher, and mining profit
should be maintained, out of which
heavier development exes, may have to
be met. Last year’s net profit was equal
to 2s. Id. a share.
*" t- * *
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.), in spite
of a larger crushing for the four weeks
ended February 1, has shown only a
small rise in the market; actually shares
are now lower than before Christmas.
It has been a somewhat phenomenal
producer over a short period; since
lower values have been encountered the
market is inclined to stress the “has
been” when considering the show’s
record. For the four weeks to Feb. 1
3617 tons was crushed for 24400 z.
(average 13.5dwt.), the lowest grade
NEW OCCIDENTAL ANALYSIS
AND VIC. INVESTORS’ GUIDE-
SEE PAGE 38.
treated since November. However, in
four months production of the yellow
metal has totalled 8809 oz.
* * * *
The coming of Marvel Loch, s.-e. of
Southern Cross (W.A.), on to the market
for £70,000 of 10 p.c. debenture money
(£45,000 already underwritten) knocked
the price of the 2s. shares from 4s. 9d.
to 3s. 4d. in Melbourne last week. The
debentures, currency three years, may be
paid off at any time at a 10 p.c. pre-
mium ; holders can convert into ords. on
the basis of 6s. Bd. a share. Cost of
development and plant erection has been
beyond the co.’s capital resources
(£75,500). Treatment of 5000 tons a
month was originally aimed at; a bigger
throughput is now contemplated. Ore
reserves are 250,000 tons, averaging better
than sdwt., with 136,000 tons completely
blocked out.
* * =H *
Great Boulder Proprietary, since it
was formed in June, 1894, has in only
five years of its life (1924-28) failed to
pay a div. Distributions to date have
aggregated over 3600 p.c. Paid capital
at present is £233,333 in 2s. shares. The
share register was increased in 1933 to
provide funds for the new 150,000-ton
wet-grinding and oil-flotation treatment
plant. Grade of ore being treated at
present is about 7|dwt.; owing to s(one
with a lower mineral content being
treated lately, there has been a slight
falling off in recoveries, but output
(about 60,000 fine ounces a year) is suf-
ficiently high to keep the co. in third
place among Australian producers. At
12s. 6d. a share the market values the
show at £1,458,000 (Aust.). In 1932 the
scrip could have been picked up for a
couple of shillings. Present annual div.
of 6d. (stg.) a share is equal to l\d.
(Aust.), less English income tax. Subject
to this charge, the buyer at the current
market price gets an immediate yield of
5 p.c. Visible ore reserves amount to
about five years’ milling.
* * * H=
Paringa (W.A.) offered North Kalgurli
Central 100,000 shares and some cash for
the Central block, which adjoins the
Paringa group to the north. The offer
was declined, and 200,000 shares and
£5OOO cash were demanded. So far no
business has resulted. According to offi-
cial reports, development has revealed
large bodies of just-too-low-grade ore
in Central - ground, but diamond-drilling
indicates that values are improving at
depth. Paringa has ample funds for de-
velopment ; North Kalgurli Central
hasn’t.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is rejoicing over
an important development at 1350 ft.; the
high-grade ore exposed by driving and
stripping over a length of about 50ft.
looks like continuing. The enlarged
North Kalgurli - Perseverance plant,
through which North Kalgurli intends to
put 12,000 tons or more a month, pro-
vides for pre-cyanidation, followed by
flotation, roasting and then cyanidation
of the concentrates.
* * * *
E. Faye, the youthful and long-headed
chairman of the local De Bernales co.
operating the Yellowdine mine (W.A.\
announces that the treatment plant
will be given a trial run early next
month. Rich ore has been met with
at the 50ft. level and in rises and winzes
therefrom, assays ranging from over an
ounce to more than 3| ounces per ton.
The intermediate and 100 ft. levels are
being further developed, and some
diamond-drilling is in progress.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) has
applied for further exemption on its
Yellowdine holdings. The co. intends
to confine its immediate activities to the
old Golden Bar and an adjoining block
at Coolgardie, two shows said to have
the makings of payable mines. The co.
also has its eye on a property near
Meekatharra which is well spoken of.
H* * #
First Hit, adjoining the Lady Shenton
at Menzies (W.A.), has paid £37,457 to
the vendors, leaving £12,543 still out-
standing. In the co.’s last financial year
it registered a small loss. The plant is
now reported to be running smoothly (in-
cidentally, the Lady Shenton, which for
a time put some of its ore through this
co.’s mill, put its own plant into opera-
tion last week). As in the Shenton prop-
erty, First Hit has reported loz. and 2oz.
values. But volume is the question.
* * * *
After 32 years’ association with the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.), first as
metallurgist on the Golden Horseshoe,
then as research metallurgist on the
Boulder Perseverance and finally as gen-
eral manager of the latter property, C. E.
Blackett is off to Cobar to take charge
of New Occidental. He is a front-
ranker among the Commonwealth's
mining and metallurgical men.
H*
Triton (W.A.) is consistently produc-
ing gold ; and it has said very little about
its achievements. So far about £BO,OOO
worth of bullion has been banked;
January’s wad was £17,150. Divs.
shouldn’t be far off.
* * * *
Adelaide-controlled Kimberley Options
continues to rely on tributors for a living.
The co. has collected a fair sum in royal-
ties, but so far shareholders are out in
the cold.
* * * *
Edjudina’s and Western Queen’s are the
latest of Westralia’s new treatment plants
to jib ; reconstructions are talked of in
both cases.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.)
struggles on. January saw a reduced
output, owing partly to the holidays and
partly to slime filtration trouble. Since
the co. began ore treatment nine months
ago, over £40,000 worth of bullion has
been produced. Efforts are being con-
centrated on opening up the No. 3 level,
which is improving but has not yet come
up to managerial expectations.
* * * *
Mining-engineer M. A. Francis, of
Mungo Park and Francis, consultant
engineers to Kuala Lumpur, is visiting
Westralia to inspect auriferous areas near
Mt. Magnet. If these are considered
worth while, £300,000 may be asked for
in London to finance development, etc.
Mr. Francis has hinted that other tin
concerns in the F.M.S. may nibble a:
gold prospects in W.A.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent. Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Adv?.
sje * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys 4SJ
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Dauw.
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). Advt.
9 3j. * H* *
ORES. —Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ons,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, AntiW®;
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Abvt. #
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantabor
valuation surveys, milling plans, ceitifiwt
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, . •
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand)L
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Stieet, Sydn
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS-;
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These too.
fullv illustrated and priced in our 1930 Gen-
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydn..,
lor your free copy. —Advt.


ifSlilft
*. I
■</
lia
m
■
&
v.
§fg§ii:-jlg»
Hn®
i*
1
r /;..; '' :, t
SSES
«; p
a ■
*
IP K I >
S lt§i -i
m
> :; f 'M^WSWM^O^y>" ;;; ''
WiSmsSmk
?W
VKS7: w-v:»<
i-4 4 / | Jp*
**§§
■,&"-■'£* 'A
CONSPICUOUS MILESTONES
i 1 IN TRAVEL MEMORY ■
THE MANY PORTS on the
Orient Line Route constitute an
exhilarating sequence of diverse and
vivid scenes.
Colombo provides a matchless introduction
to foreign travel. There you are awakened by
a running fire of shouts from bumboats, clus-
tered below your great steel walls. Urgent,
high-pitched voices offer brasses, beads, shiny
black elephants, silks, and clothing tailored-
to-measure-in-an-hour-or-two . . . And from
the working barges, also wedged about the
ship, come endless commands and the inevit-
able protests. The strange thing is that in
this hubbub anyone is heard- or any work gets
done at all.
In somewhat less disorder lies a harbour-
full of ships. They seem to run the gamut
from modern leviathan to the galleon that
speaks of barbarous days. Through these
your speedy launch races ashore. By now
you sense exciting medley ... a mixture of
old and new; a real meeting of East and
West; ... of luscious tropic greens and
earthy reddish-browns. Firstly, you note the
small and gentle oxen, which (drawing the
quaintest hooded waggons) seem to have
plodded their patient way down the centuries
. . , Then the rickshaw runners (almost as
tireless as the oxen, but faster, quieter)
. . . next, the modern motor-cars, whose pro-
gress is one long fanfare of foreign sounding
horns . . . and everywhere are those lean and
sinewy forms whose subtle grace becomes a
fascination!
The colours beloved of the native add to
the natural contrasts. In the Forti the bgck-
ground of all this hustle, bustle and colour, is
of imposing western buildings; but in the
Pettah it is supplied by a welter of native
wares. Not less intriguing than the goods
themselves are the passing glimpses of
shadowy shop interiors.
Almost, there is too much to see. What
endless scope for busy eyesl And yet you
ought to visit Mount Lavinia, and, perhaps
make an excursion to Kandy or Negombo,
But this is the charm of Ceylon—that when-
ever you go, whatever you see, you have
been to the right places and seen the right
things !
ADEN, SUEZ (CAIRO), PORT SAID, NAPLES, VILLEPRANCHE (MONTE CARLO and
NICE), TOULON, PALMA, GIBRALTAR. SOUTHAMPTON and so to LONDON I
R O V A L m fl I L ST E fl m E R S
Orient Steam Navigation Co., Ltd., Incorporated In England


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gummy”: Mick, the boundary rider,
had parked his false teeth, as usual, on
a chair beside the bed. In the morning
they were missing. As mum and the
kids searched for them the old man’s
imagination got the better of him, and
he could soon feel something lodged
in his lungs. He was almost a cot case
when a shout from one of the nippers
proclaimed the find —the dog was
mounting guard over them. Mick’s
“pain” instantly disappeared, but his
rage still simmered as he poured boil-
ing water over the set to “kill the germs.”
The plate melted before his eyes, leav-
ing a cluster of teeth in the bottom of
the dish. There was a general scamper,
and only mum was at the door as her
lord mounted and flung his Parthian but
gummy remark that “a decen’ wife’d
stay awake at night to see that the
dog didn’t pinch a man’s teeth.”
“0.W.W.”: Henare was up on the hill-
top with his dogs rounding up the ration
sheep. About 10 chains below his
wahine stood before a bright fire, a
steaming kettle in one hand and her
eyes on her lord and master. “He just
had all his teeth out,” she said as I rode
up ; “an’ I hafe te kettle ready to pop
on when he make te sign to stop the
kuris.” It whistles just as Henare used to.
* * *
“Walkabout”: A spring par. of mine
tipped a good season in n.-w. Queens-
land. I was influenced by observing the
return of the budgerigars for the nesting
season ; during the previous spring the
little birds had given that region the
go-by, and drought followed. One of
the last forecasts of Clement Wragge was
that 1935 would see the close of a cycle
of dry years and that 1936 would be the
forerunner of a series of good ones. To
date Wragge’s prediction is 100 per cent,
correct.
* * * *
“Groper”: Let me introduce the crab
with the periscope eyes. Amber-colored,
capable of sitting on the palm of one’s
hand, and shaped much like an enormous
spider, this little joker resides in the dry
sand of Westralian beaches. By night
he snatches a living beachcombing among
the heaps of weed, and he is a daring and
incorrigible thief of bait when one is
king-fishing. By day he buries himself,
and to keep a lookout for enemies he has
two eyes resembling nothing so much as
a couple of wooden matches broken off
at about three-quarters of an inch from
the head. These, when at rest, fit side-
ways into deep grooves in the shell, but
on the slightest alarm rise upright, being
hinged, and protrude just above the sur-
face of the sand. More curious still, they
are all pupil, and evidently possess the
faculty of looking in every direction at
once.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Brisbane oars-
men are beginning to wonder whether
they had not better go in for unsinkable
metal craft. A year ago, a four-oar col-
lided with a shark near the Grey-street
bridge, and was nearly capsized. The
other day the State sculling champion,
trying a new shell, was attacked by a 10-
footer, who left a dozen teeth-marks in
the light timber, and splintered 4ft. of
the stern section. As the startled oars-
man sprinted for the shore, it followed
him for 20 yards. He gained the bank
just as the boat sank, remarking later that
if he can do as good time in the next
championship meeting as he did during
his dash for dry land with the shark as
pacemaker he will have no doubt as to
the result. Not long ago, another case
of the kind occurred at Townsville, where
a lad collided with a big shark in Ross
Creek, and barely escaped a capsize.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: Away with “Bill R.’s”
butterfly (B. 29/l/’36)! My animated
gum-leaf definitely houses a spider, who
hangs the leaf by a thread of web and,
wherever he goes takes his bungalow with
him. The one I broke open to examine
was typical of all others. The spider did
not attempt to escape, only burrowed a
little deeper into the web cocoon. But
how does he propel it?
* * * *
“Murlonga”: If “Tom Willie” can ex-
plain the mental outlook of a black gin
(B. 1/1 / ’36) he can get closer to them
than ever I have been. Nakedness is a
natural condition with them —admitted ;
but it is not natural for them to associate
a white man and his ways with the nude.
As a new-pfeller boss belongit the camp
I had several boys in flooded country in
W.Q. They, quite naturally and instinc-
tively, stripped and swam, and I as natur-
ally followed. I felt there was something
wrong. By the embarrassed looks and
shameful eye evasions of those boys I
knew there had been a breach of eti-
quette. It' was nothing, of course, though
I was never quite able to live it down,
and even now I’d sooner lose my trousers
at a Government House levee than go
through the same experience again.
* * * *
“Barney Miller”: Big Bill, our district’s
champion walker, hoofed it 250 miles
to the city in eight days when he went
“ D'you think it'll get any Worse ?”
“Oh, I dunno. Might develop into a bit of a blow."
to join the police force. After the
police doc. knocked him back (he had
flat feet), Bill hiked it back again to
Dismal Plains, the return journey taking
him only six days. He started with his
bullock team again, and a few days later
1 met him with his team on the way out
to one of the back paddocks. “Not
riding, Bill?” I asked, pointing to the
pony hitched to the back of the waggon.
“No! I’ll show that silly perleece
doctor I haven’t got splayed feet,” he
said viciously. “Giddup, Bluey, you lazy
.” Somehow I don’t think that Bill
would have lasted very long as a police-
man.
* * * *
“Dyoll”: Bushmen’s ingenuity? Out
for a shot, I came across a horse with
reins trailing, and by its side a man, flat
on his stomach, his face pressed to the
ground and smoke issuing—so it seemed —
from his ears. “Anything wrong, mate?”
I asked. He rose to his knees, wiped some
sand from his lips, and spat. “No, just
’avin’ a smoke,” he said. “You see,
I bin out orl mornin’ lookin’ for some
cows, an’ I come away without me pipe.
I ain’t even got a scrap of noospaper to
make a bush Cameo, an’ I’m fair bust-
in’ for a draw. I just digs a little hole
with me knife, fills ’er up with terbaccer,
bores through to it with a ’oiler stick
and lights up. It’s a smoke, anyhow.”
* * * *
“Maternity Ward”: At what stage
does a fish reach the age of consent?
I’m prompted to ask by fellows recently
writing of mullet fully grown and in full
roe. I’ve caught rock-cods not more
than six inches in length and weighing
only ounces, and they have had roes
inside them that would have done credit
to another old girl of the family I caught
—she was 3ft. long and anything over
401 b. weight. I’ve got kingfish—or the
female of the species—and that fighting
fury of 301 b. to 401 b. has opened with
roes which would delight an epicure.
I’ve hooked others of the same which it
seemed a shame to pull from the water,
so young, small and innocent were they.
Yet they, too, have shown themselves
big with potential life when their innards
were exposed to the vulgar gaze of man.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: As a defier of extinction,
I nominate the cockroach. A lugger or
cutter may be thoroughly fumigated, but
the pest will show up again almost im-
mediately. I’ve known cockroaches to re-
appear on a craft which has been re-
floated after weeks of immersion.
* * *
“Bogaduck” : Fred Knight, a veteran
S.A. drover, used to go out with his
three-seater buggy every Saturday and
cart thirsty navvies from the construc-
tion camp on the Woakwine drain to the
pub at Beachport. Eighteen months after
the camp had broken up Knight, with
the same horses and buggy, was shifting
a mob of sheep near Nora Creina Bay.
He left the buggy to put the sheep
through a gate ; when he looked round
he saw the horses taking it back
to Beachport at a smart trot. He told
his best dog to watch the sheep and set
off after the buggy, running until he was
blown out; then he walked. Upon arriv-
ing at Beachport, 15 miles away, Knight
heard that the horses had pulled in at
the pub, stopped, and then turned the
vehicle and trotted off again before any-
one could halt them. He borrowed a
horse and set off after them again, catch-
ing the runaways seven miles out —they
were waiting at the gate leading to the
spot where the construction camp had
been. Next morning Knight went back
to where he had left the sheep ; they
were all there, in the one mob, with a
very tired old dog still keeping them
bunched up.
*** . *
“Bray Rock”: Beg pardon, but brother
abo. didn’t kill off possums and other
game on coastal islands (B. 29/1/’36).
On the contrary, he kept them stocked
up from the mainland, as a standby for
his periodical visits. Of other animal
colonies on islands, Middle Island, off
Urangan in Sandy Strait (C.Q.), carries
quite a population of rabbits, introduced
many years ago by a Maryborough
sportsman who liked a bit of shooting.
Fraser Island, across the Strait, has mobs
of wild horses, goats and pigs. Moreton
Island (S.Q.) also carries wild horses
and quantities of pigs; deuced wild, too,
some of them, as visitors have had
time to realise from the branches of a
tree. The latter are descended from
escapees from the old pilot settlement at
Bulwer ; the horses, as at Fraser Island,
from breeding stations of long ago.
* * * *
“Womerah”: “Brix’s” par. (B. 5/2/’36)
reminds me of a Sydney surgeon who
was showing English actor Cyril Maude
over his country place at Prospect
(N.S.W.). The doctor was explaining the
habits of possums to the actor. Point-
ing to a knot-hole about six feet above
the ground in the trunk of a box-tree,
he remarked: “By the scratches on the
bark that’s a possum’s hole.” Thereupon
he plunged his hand in, and to every-
body’s amazement (including his own)
produced a sleepy-looking possum. No-
thing would ever convince Maude that
the doctor had not previously planted
the furry marsupial in the hole.
% sj: * *
“Koolpinyah”: Has any Aboliar par-
taken of fresh-water snake? On the
coastal country of the N.T., these rep-
tiles infest the lagoons. I have seen
Binghi throw ashore a dozen in half an
hour ; he would feel them with his feet,
dive his arms under and whisk out the
prize. The snakes, non-venomous, were
up to 6ft. long. Only the old men are
allowed to kill them outright. The execu-
tioner takes the squirming reptile in his
hands, and bites hard just at the back of
the neck, at the same time pulling down
the body towards his feet, dislocating the
spine. The corpse is slit all over with
cuts just deep enough to penetrate the
skin ; the snake is curled into a circle
and the tail placed in the mouth. Hot
ashes are shovelled on top, and in less
than an hour the meal is ready. The
flesh is similar in looks and taste to that
of mullet.
* * * *
“Red Tape”: In the old days in
Queensland all coach-drivers were ex
officio postmasters of the travelling p.os.
which they con-
trolled. Among
their other duties
was that of de-
facing stamps on
road letters. Some
employed a blue
pencil ; others let
’em rip ; but the
majority of
drivers used their pipes.
This made a good
stamp, and it had quite
an official-looking fin-
ish to it. You held the
letter in one hand, and
pressed the open bowl
of the pipe against the
stamp ; with a half-turn of each
hand a ring would be left
on the stamp, indelible, smellful
and black. The most uncom-
mon parcel ever I knew was
one carried from Middleton to
Elderslie station (W.Q.). The
manager’s wife had a pet foal
coming in from Warenda, and
it knocked up at Middleton, 80
miles from Elderslie. Ted
Palmer, then driving the Win-
ton-Boulia mail, reckoned he'd
give the foal a lift, but wouldn’t
put him on the coach till a two-
penny stamp was stuck on his
rump. With that clinging to the long
hairs of the poddy, Ted took out his pipe
and solemnly defaced the stamp. Then,
all being in order, and not breaking any
rules of his contract by carrying free
mail, Ted hitched up and delivered his
parcel at its destination.
He * * *
“Akarana”: Apropos “Heresone’s”
ringed sun (B. 29/1 / ’36). On Jan. 31
the moon appeared to Auckland (M.L.)
gazers a brilliant saxe-blue. Next day saw
the whole North Island in the throes of
the worst cyclone for years. Six and a half
inches of rain in 30 hours in Auckland,
10i inches in places 40 miles north.
Once in a blue moon is once too often,
if its appearance portends such happen-
ings.
* * * *
“Bouloum”: “T.H.” is a long way out
in placing the Australian abo. as the
world’s best linguist (B. 5/2/’36). The
average abo. picks up alien words parrot
fashion, but with less comprehension of
their meanings than, and with about as
much exactitude as, any foreign-going
sailor. Neither can I reconcile “T.H.V
statement that every abo. can speak at
least two or three native dialects. When
our camp attends the muster of a neigh-
boring Territory station, the conversa-
tion is carried on in pidgin, and any im-
portant inter-tribal business is carried out
by medium of an old gin, the only mem-
ber of the two tribes who speaks both
dialects freely. As a mimic, the abo. is
out on his own, but as a linguist he
nearly drags the chain.
THE FINAL CAMP.
There’s little romance that lingers round a
patch of spuds, you say?
Not the sort you’ll find in a stockman s camp
at the end of a drover’s day.
But I’d like to go, when my time arrives, to a
land where the swamps are brown,
Brown with the tinge of a ripened crop when
the tops are flattened down.
I’d like to sit with the “guns” again, and tally
the day’s account,
In a land wheije the diggers will all find work,
and smile as the tallies mount;
Where the mob will talk in the camp at night
of the bonzer crops they’ve seen,
And the records dug by the “guns” they’ve
known in swamps where we all have been.
For shearers vanish, the stories say, to a land
where there’s naught but sheep;
And stockmen rest where the grass is green
and the rivers wide and deep;
So I’d like to go with the mobs I ,know to a
land where the swamps are brown,
Brown with the tinge of a ripened crop when
the tops are flattened down.
VICTORIA.
A. V. N.


“Old-timer”: Three hearty cheers for
“Murlonga” (B. 29/1 /’36), who can “put
up” a beer in my name anywhere. A lot
of people refer to a “Jackie Howe” ; few
know of the champion tong artist who
gave the singlet that name. What about
the “brushers,” long, oarlike blades of
wood we used to brush aside the whip-
stick scrub when mustering cattle out
from the Wakool? They were fastened
to the horse’s chest, and extended on
each side about the level of the rider’s
knees (we rode long). “Strike me up a
gum-tree” is still heard, but few know
of how Speewah Mary spent a night in
a tree one floodtime, and Yanga Ted
asked where she was, said, “Strike me!
Up a gum-tree!” “Douglas,” “banjo”
and “Mad Mick” have ceased to have
any meaning ; and who knows what a
“lowan” is? Or a “persuader” (stock-
whip), a “gun” (pipe) or a “monkey”?
These phrases don’t sort well with the
modern outbacker with his ten-gallon
hats, loud check shirts and Yankee slang.
* * * *
“Kariah”: An unprecedented fall of
spat has resulted in most of the foreshores
of the Karuah River (N.S.W.) being
covered with tiny oysters. The catch
extends a good twenty miles from the
mouth of Port Stephens, and an absence
of floods appears to have given the
midgets a first-class chance of reaching
maturity.
* * * *
“Albarmount”: I know of three Dead
Horse Gullies and two Dead Horse
Creeks, and the popularity of this
wretched name always puzzled me:
our policy has been to burn all defunct
prads. But the other day I passed close
to one in a neighbor’s paddock, bellied
up like a balloon, with heels pointing
heavenward and turning green. Now I
know why the name sticks.
* * * *
“Talahua”: Off Port Essington (N.T.)
we sighted a lugger flying distress signals,
and the old man stood in to investigate.
She approached us from windward, and
I dare swear we smelt her a couple of
miles away. As she lay-to within hail
we understood why. The craft was a
Jap, with her rigging one mass of drying
shark-fins and the air around her a
concentrated essence of dead—very dead
—shark. As she slowly drifted to lee-
ward her boat came alongside with a
request for a doctor. Within a minute
of my arrival there were two darned sick
men aboard her —patient and medico. I
gathered that the shark-fins were destined
for consumption by Chinese in Hong
Kong.
* * *
“Kwakprak”: Horses are certainly not
immune to tetanus (B. 5/2/’36), and
horse-dung is one of the best places in
which to look for the spores if one wants
to start a new laboratory culture of
tetanus. In my bacteriological days, a
scrap of fresh horse-manure usually pro-
vided the goods. The bacillus grows
only when air is excluded, and goes into
the spore stage when it comes in con-
tact with oxygen in any appreciable
amount. Only the growing bacillus pro-
duces the poison which causes the
disease. Anyone who handles any in-
fected animal, or works where one has
been, should be extremely careful to
cover and cleanse any scratch or cut.
Punctured wounds are the most danger-
ous, or those covered by a thick scab, as
the necessary exclusion of air is then
secured by the spores for changing to the
actively functioning bacillary form.
* * * *
“R.D.D.”: I had a fine crop of toma-
toes and beans well set when a horde of
shield beetles arrived and started to
demolish them. Lizards came out from
under stumps, and in no time had made
short work of the pirates. When those
insects’ eggs hatched and things looked
black again for my crops, the lizards put
in a second appearance and cleaned up
everything. The little reptiles are now
on the free-list of my outfit.
“Stop that row, Bert—it sets me teeth on edge."
“J.C.”: A workman at the bottom of
a mine near Tamworth (N.S.W.) had just
straightened up when a razor-edged
chisel, falling from the surface, cut a
clean hollow of skin and bone straight
down the centre of his forehead without
touching a vital organ. As brain and
eye were within an inch or two, the vic-
tim took it philosophically, though he
spent some weeks in hospital getting his
forehead remodelled.
* =l= * *
“J. Rankin”: My experience in run-
ning down dingoes doesn’t quite tally
with “Terah” (B. 12/2/’36). You can
sometimes give a fox a bit of a lead and
catch him; you can even cut a few
corners instead of following dead on his
tracks ; but the dingo is a different pro-
position. I have started a dingo at a
range of 200 yards on a treeless Mitchell-
grass plain, and, although I kept my eyes
glued on him, in five seconds he had van-
ished. Get right on to him unperceived
on a hot day, and, provided the terrain
favors the horse, a sharp gallop, with the
stockwhip going on him all the time, will
do the trick. But the notion of the dingo
never twisting or doubling under the
horse’s nose is contrary to anything I’ve
ever seen or known, and “Terah’s” idea
of trying to knock the dog with a stirrup-
“As you re bein' hanged to-morrow, you can have a packet o' cigarettes."
"No, thanks—they irritate me throat!"
iron swung on the end of a leather has
its drawbacks. One is the extreme diffi-
culty of disengaging the leather from the
dee at the gallop—on most stock saddles
it’s hard enough to get it off for clean-
ing and oiling. The second point is that
the heavy iron, swung in that fashion, is
more likely to connect with the horse’s
hind leg than with the dingo.
* * *
“Jonah”: A possibility often escaped
by prophets of the future is the depletion
of the earth’s phosphorus content. Con-
centra ted phosphate deposits
like Nauru and Ocean Islands
took millions of years to form ;
yet in the course of a mere
two centuries the sea will have
absorbed most of it. The
reason is that super, dressings
on farms have the habit of
coming back to town on the
hoof or in the milk-can.
Under our modern sewerage systems
the largest proportion of this is even-
tually emptied into the ocean. Com-
plete phosphate-of-soil depletion is quite
on the cards within another four cen-
turies unless methods change.
* * * *
“Macjim”: Surprising that “Jimmac”
(B. 29/1/’36) contends that a raw egg
won’t spin and a cooked egg will. It’s
nearly the reverse. A cooked egg will
roll along the table when a raw ’un will
only spin on its axis. - If a raw egg rolled
it would topple from a swaying nest; as
it will only spin it stays secure in all but
a cyclone.
* # * #
“Masilai”: The poison complex is cer-
tainly powerful among New Guinea
natives. One of my “boys” claimed that
when we entered a certain territory the
inhabitants would work “poison” against
him, there being an ancient feud between
his tribe and our hosts. He developed
internal pains, which he treated by rub-
bing his belly with leaves of a stinging-
tree, a painful treatment much used by
natives for many complaints. We left
the district, and his pains vanished, but
the blisters remained for some time. A
“boy” working outside his “talk” takes
care than no bodily secretion, food rem-
nant or anything he has touched can
come into the hands of the denizens,
as all these can be used to make “poison”
against him.
“Maski-Mike”: New Guinea natives
have a substitute for betel-leaf in “daka,”
the long, thin, fingerlike strips of herb
to be found on daka-trees. Mountain
lads resort to the bark of a bush vine,
usually half-dry, with local nuts from
limbon-palm, as a substitute for the real
thing.
* * * *
“Marra”: Self - milking cows (B.
29/1/’36) have nothing on the “bitzer”-
bred dog belonging to a resident of the
Hawkesbury River. The hound will only
take his milk hot from the bovine udder.
Milking-time always finds him with the
one cow on the property rounded up at
the bail. As soon as his mistress starts
milking he sits up and begs, and his
entreaties never fail to win him a few
squirts of the warm milk. Sitting up
four feet away, he is adept at catching
and inducting the milky stream. This
dog turns up a disgusted nose if offered
cold milk in his bowl.
* * * *
“Samarai”: A queer accident befel a
draught mare belonging to a Sea Lake
(Vic.) farmer. While the animal was
being unyoked from the team
it was found that its tongue
was caught in the bit-ring.
They tried to free it: she drew
away; the winkers fell over
a fencing-post; she pulled
back, and her tongue was torn
out. As the owner did not
have a gun handy, he left her
till next morning. The mouth had bled
very little by then, and the mare content-
edly munched a handful of hay. He
decided to give her a chance. That was
three months ago, and now the animal
is fat and working as hard as ever.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: An unusual number of
cases of stonefish-stings have been re-
ported from North Queensland waters.
Most have occurred between Cardwell
and Cairns, but the fish have been found
as far south as Moreton Bay. They are
ugly brutes, running up to 12in. or 15in.,
blackish-green in color, and decorated
with fleshy protuberances which make
them resemble a piece of jagged rock
covered with marine growths. When
touched, they suddenly erect a row of
sharp, stout spines along the back, each
furnished with a poison gland and duct,
through which the milky-looking poison
is injected into the victim’s flesh. The
spines are strong enough to pierce a
leather boot. Excruciating pain follows
a sting, and may last for days unless
treated with morphia or other drugs.
Partial or complete paralysis, with weak-
ened heart action, also occurs, and the
effects are felt for months.
“Williami”: Before the advent of the
white man, native grog in Fiji was made
by chewing the yagona root into a pulp
and mixing with water. The prettiest
girls with the best teeth were given the
job. When the white Government passed
an ordinance against it, its manufacture
became surreptitious. Girls were no
longer trusted, but males noted for their
cunning in dodging officials, and for
their disregard of the law, were made
the camp chewers. It fell to the lot
of one albino with sore lips to prepare
the kava on an occasion when I was
the guest. It was out in the wild moun-
tains at the top of the Wainibuka River.
Pat after pat of chewed yagona was spat
by the albino into the large bowl, and
after the mess had been mixed with
water and strained by the hands with the
aid of coconut fibre, the first drink was
given to me. I tossed it off with what
was, I hope, an excellent simulation of
relish. Seventy black giants sat in a
circle around me, and the puniest one
had hair two inches long on his chest.
He was a mere pigmy of thirteen stone,
but just as fearsome-looking as the rest.
■ic * * *
“Fisher”: The dad was away fishing
for the week-end, and so was the oppo-
sition dentist, when the local blacksmith
wandered up to the surgery with one of
those “Sunday” molars dentists love —
they ache for a month and become un-
bearable just as the extractor is enjoying
a break from work. I told him he’d have
to wait until morning, as I wasn’t quali-
fied to touch his mouth. An hour went
by, and he returned with a tale of misery
that made me decide to chance it, if he
would. Selecting a likely-looking pair of
forceps, I took a grip—l’d had a bit
of practice on the jaws of dead bullocks
—twisted and tugged. Just at the critical
moment the light failed, and the opera-
tion had to be finished with an assistant
holding a torch with a run-down battery.
It finally came out in three pieces, with
about a quart of blood. “Thanks,” said
the butchered victim; “best extraction
I’ve ever had! ” No coc., of course. All
his previous teeth had come out by the
old-style smith’s-hammer-and-long-nail
process.
THE OLD HAND.
“Now listen, me lad,” the old man said, “you’re
noo to the track, I see,
An’ what you need is an ‘elpful word from
an old ’and sich as me.
For I’ve ’umped me bluey an’ ’ummed me
way from the Bogan down to Sale —
An’ I’m wise to all the tricks of the trade, from
Sydney to Innisfail.
Though some may say that the times are crook
and the track is toughish now,
It’s simply a matter of findin’ out jist where
to bite an’ ’ow.
“It’s no use pitchin’ a tale of woe to a
strugglin’ farmer bloke;
’E may be battlin’ same as you, an’ ’e’s prob-
ably just as broke.
The mulga ain’t what it used to be, you’ll
find that the towns are best,
An’ the easiest mark is the well-fed cove, the
man with the bulgin’ vest.
I’ve said before, an’ I’ll always say, that life for
us travellin’ men
Is simply a matter of findin’ out jist ’oo to
nip an’ when.”
The old man shouldered his well-rolled swag
and straightened his battered felt,
“You must always play your cards,” he said,
“accordin’ to ’ow they’re dealt.
There’s no set rules in the travellin’ game an’
there ain’t no guidance books
That’ll show you the way to jump a train or
’andle peevish cooks.
But keep in mind, when your nosebag’s light
an’ your grub-time’s overdoo,
It’s simply a matter of findin’ out jist ’ow to
bite an’ ’oo.”
QUEENSLAND.
ELLENVALE.


adj
APHTNY
AN HOUR
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included—is just Id. f
an hour.’* |
(Extract from “R-an-D” Diesel |
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following: |
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and i
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Agents wanted.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s 1
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
•maoe.i n queen sl a/\j d by
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD
•VALLEY BRISBANE -
PREPARE for PROBATE
ê
"NOW
Few property owners think of Probate Tax
until too late. Dependents bear the brunt of
this neglect. Part of the estate is often sacri-
ficed to pay this heavy tax —the value of the
estate is permanently impaired. Furthermore,
all income from the estate is cut off during
the assessment period—a very real hardship.
P. & C. Probate Assurance pays the tax and
provides money to dependents immediately
and ensures their receiving your estate intact.
Don’t neglect the protection it offers—full
particulars sent on request.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
Co-operative Assurance Co. Ltd.
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: H. FELL.
ë
Chairman of Directors: SIR ARTHUR Iv. TRETHOWAN, K. 8., M.L.G.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET. .
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. •• 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. • • ••
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia-
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E-C.3-
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Fly and Glyceroboric Dressings.
“Ghanam”: The C.S.I.R. continues its
experiments with the new glyceroboric
dressings, which give increasingly good
results in various combinations.
Bulk experiments show that the di-
boric dressing made with pure glycerine
plus alcohol gives the best results, kill-
ing maggots more quickly and showing
quicker and cleaner healing.
Soap-crude glycerine mixtures were far
less satisfactory, sometimes allowing mag-
gots to live for 24 hours and giving
poorer effects on wounds. All mixtures
are improved by dilution with up to 25
p.c. ethyl alcohol, but over 25 p.c. has
bad effects —33 p.c. caused slight swell-
ing and 50 p.c. bad swelling and conges-
tion of the wounds.
The effects of the alcohol are to im-
prove the penetration of the dressings, to
irritate the maggots, which leave the
strike quickly and die miserably from
boric-acid poisoning.
In one typical experiment a three-day
strike was treated. The maggots dropped
to the floor and were collected from one
and a half to five hours later. Few lived
long enough to produce flies. Alcohol
dressings, also, are cleanlier, leaving the
wound fresh and healthy by comparison
with the teetotal brands.
One of the most arresting features of
the newer experiments has been the prov-
ing of the fact that restrike after treat-
ment with glyceroboric-alcohol is not
easy. In one case, under conditions most
favorable to the maggots, 10 attempts
were made between the fifth and one
hundred and third day after treatment
before a restrike was produced.
Out of 141 attempts to produce re-
strikes, running from the first to the
fifteenth week after treatment, 114 failed
to bring recurrence of trouble and 27 —
12 after the fourth week, nine after the
seventh week and six more between the
tenth and the fifteenth week —were suc-
cessful. So that after three months im-
munity was still 67 p.c. The results with
pure glyceroboric and alcohol were best.
Though the conditions were not those
of the field, they were promising enough
to show that the experimenters are well
on the right track, and that the C.S.I.R.
has produced something with great pos-
sibilities as a cure and as a prophylactic.
Attempts to infect 33 sheep—the areas
for experiment were saturated with water
and 2000 maggots were then washed on
to the skin —produced only one slight
strike after the seventieth day on a single
sheep, but no maggots survived. There
was a second slight strike in one case
after the eighty-first day, but only 16
maggots survived.
Kerosene v. Pink-eye.
“Lion”: “Wally D.’s” view (B.
12/2/’36) proves that what suits one
place won’t suit another. Central Queens-
land is hot and dry, has long grass
and every condition (from what he says)
that will induce a bad attack of p.-e. No
doubt he gets a worse form than I do.
I have tried kerosene and diluted blue-
stone, boracic powder and calomel
powder, and except in rare cases I have
found that sheep are best left alone near
water. They don’t go blind.
Of the stuff used, diluted bluestone,
mixed loz. in 2gal. water, seems the
most useful in bad cases. Put two to
four drops into each eye. This is a
kinder treatment than kerosene, which
is too severe.
To use a powder dressing take a stiff
piece of paper folded in the centre. Put
the powder on the crease, and, holding
the eye open, blow smartly but gently.
The powder goes all over the eye.
Wool “Draft.”
“8.0’C.”: The definition of “draft”
among wool terms not fully understood
(B. 12/2/’36) reads like an astute buyer’s
way of putting it. “An allowance to the
buyer to cover loss in transit” might be
supposed by the unsuspecting to mean
loss of actual wool by sampling, rough
handling, short quantity, pillage, etc.
When the advocates of draft are cor-
nered they usually put up at least three
versions of what the impost is meant to
cover:
1. Loss of weight in transit to agents or
manufacturers.
2. Deficiency in weight owing to mis-
takes of weighers.
3. Underestimates by the buyer of the
loss owing to grease, dirt, moisture, etc.
The last is the rock-bottom reason to
which protagonists are driven when
pressed. I suggest a new and adequate defi-
nition: A kind of insurance paid by the
seller to the buyer after sale, in order
to pacify manufacturers and speculators
who may be disappointed by the wrong
estimates of their buying agents.
The preposterous nature of this tax
galls. I recently bought a mob of wool-
lies, relying on my own judgment of the
yield of wool and meat based on exami-
nation of a few samples, just as wool-
buyers do. We get delivery and settle
to-morrow. I have or have not failed
to allow enough discount for grease,
burrs, dust, etc. If I deduct 10s. per 100
sheep for “draft,” I wonder how the
seller will take it?
I might also ask him to throw in the
drover’s dog as a sort of equivalent for
the free sacks I give away with the wool.
8.-H. Persians and Noxious Weeds.
“K. Me.”: “Ghanam,” with first-hand
experience, says of the black-headed Per-
sian (B. 19/2/’36) that “dumped into the
Blue Mountains... .he would imagine
that he had found a paradise. And St.
John’s wort would be caviare to him.”
If, given a trial, he turns out a good
forager of noxious weeds, there is no end
to the menu —stinkwort, hoary cress,
Mexican poppy, khaki weed, saffron
thistle and Paterson’s curse are but a
few items. And in steep, rough country,
badly weed-infested, foraging is the logi-
cal method of control. Pasture-improv-
ing such places to choke weed pests is
out of the question. Annuals such as
stinkwort are very amenable to constant
grazing.
The hardy qualities of the b.-h. P. fully
justify a trial for them. There would be
no danger of the new blood deteriorat-
ing our flocks if the sheep were kept
under proper control.
Facts About Mules’s Operation.
“Corriedale”: If Mules’s operation is
done in the early days of the lamb’s exist-
ence very little soreness and no bleeding
occur.
Mules noticed that flystrike did not
occur on pink, wool-clear areas, and the
aim of the operation is to increase these
areas by cutting away the large fold that
runs down to each back leg from the
tail.
The wool-bearing skin only is cut.
Even quite plain sheep have these folds,
which on top form a fly-inviting cavity.
The cutting starts above and is con-
tinued until the fold runs out. With a shut-
down tail the folds close to it get moist
and wrinkle badly unless removed. Odd
folds, anywhere below the tail level, are
also removed by secateurs, but the cuts
are not allowed to run into the two main
ones.
The operation itself is very neat on
young sheep (under four months). The
Burdizzos make the best job. The folds
are just plucked up by hand (sheep is
on a table, held as in lamb-marking), and
what remains is clamped tight by the
pincers and the fold inside cut off by
knife. Mostly on lambs, the two edges
are sealed by the pressure. Mules, how-
ever, now uses roll-cut secateurs, con-
sisting of a knife and brass anvil, and
made, I believe, for grape-vine pruning.
This speeds the operation.
The basis of the operation is tighten-
ing the skin by taking cuts out of it.
Anyone with experience of such work
will admit that this occurs readily. Mules-
operated sheep certainly recover quickly
as well.
Is It a New Disease?
“Valerin”: In the Riverina, a good
many cases of “swelled head” have been
found among weaners. The head swells
up, the skin becomes yellow and on
opening up a quantity of fluid is found.
The ears grow hard and droop much in
the same way as with “yellows” or
jaundice.
Our experts say it is a form of der-
matitis caused by a poisonous weed,
and that relief can be obtained by keep-
ing the affected animal in an airy, shady
shed.
Swelled head in rams is definitely
caused by a minute bacillus found under
the swollen tissues of the head.
The new disease seems to be different.
Animals and Minerals.
“Aerogenes”: I can endorse “Stump
Jump’s” statements (B. 12/2/’36) about
the way in which cattle grow big and
coarse when moved to country unduly
rich in minerals. Our Queensland dis-
trict is rich in minerals, and our cattle,
Jerseys especially, develop abnormal
frame and bone.
Growth takes place mostly in the first
two or three years, and the horns develop
most. Our young animals have polls
which might make one think they had
sprung from buffaloes. However, the
rest of the body catches up to the horn-
growth, and at maturity the beasts are
fairly well proportioned.
To stuff these cattle with minerals
would certainly be a mistake, as the
animal body may grow bone or beef to
the neglect of the milk output. This is
most apparent with animals indiscrimi-
nately forced with concentrates into
“show condition.”
Johne’s Disease.
“Silky Bag”: Although the incidence
of the disease is low —about 50 head of
cattle only have so far been detected and
destroyed—this was once the case in
Europe and U.S.A., where heavy mor-
talities occur to-day. We have a fair
chance of stamping the disease out, as
herds containing reactors are fairly cer-
tain to be detected, and the job will be
worth while, even though its present
aspect is not as bad as pleuro or anthrax.
There is some confusion with tuber-
culosis, but Johne’s disease is a chronic
enteritis, and does not affect the lung.
The wasting condition and snoring sug-
gest t.b., however. The centre of infec-
tion is the ileo-caecal valve in the intes-
tines (near the blind caecum). Conse-
quently, scouring is a common symptom.
Even so, reactors have been examined
that show no visible internal lesions.
Detection actually is subject to some
doubt. The disease is easy to note in
a herd, because of the wasting of affected
stock and the fact that the cattle do not
react to tuberculin.
The Johne’s equivalent lymph, Johttin,
unfortunately has not given absolutely
infallible results here, as it does overseas,
though a new diagnostic method pro-
mises reliability.
No cure for the disease is known.
Reactors must be slaughtered, as they
contaminate the pastures with their faeces.
J.’s disease is partly hereditary also.
Plenty of dicalcic phosphate lick is the
best insurance.
Noogoora Troubles.
“Agamemnon”: Although Noogoora
burr is usually regarded as a weed pest
only, stockowners should remember that
at certain stages it is poisonous. The
loss of dairy cows through it is reported
from northern N.S.W. Research at Glen-
field Experiment Farm, however, shows
that it is dangerous only before the pri-
mary leaves disappear. Pigs and calves
are most susceptible.
Burry sheep should, when possible, be
shorn before being turned out to pas-
ture. Hand pulling is preferable to hoe-
ing. Disc cultivators, if used before seed-
ing, are excellent, but cultivation encour-
ages the growth of seeds which may be
on the ground.
In Queensland, where Noogoora is re-
garded as one of the worst weed pests,
the C.S.I.R. advises cutting below the
surface of the soil and poisoning with
arsenic pentoxide or sodium arsenite
spray.
Burning is seldom successful. A fierce
burn is needed to reach the seeds in the
woody pod.
Poultry in Canada.
“Zedo”: Australian poultrymen would
be likely to find the methods of bulk
marketing chickens in Canada a revela-
tion. The chicken-meat industry is
highly organised. All birds for the more
important internal and export markets
are graded. There are two classes —milk-
fed and selected.
Milk-fed show white fat deposits, and
the flesh and skin must give evidence that
the birds have been crate- or pen-fatted
sufficiently long to soften out the muscles.
There are three grades of milk-fed.
“Specials” are perfect in fleshing, con-
formation, general condition and get-up.
The hips, pin bones and back must be
well fatted—about 20 p.c. over all. No
pin feathers must show, and there must
be no skin bruises or breaks or tears.
Any bad color resulting from bad pluck-
ing or bleeding rules the specimen out
of the grade.
Birds which have a few pin feathers,
except on the breast, and have not more
than two skin tears, of which one only
may be on the breast, go into the "A
grade, and “B” grade birds are allowed
a few more slight tears and a small show-
ing of pin feathers on the breast. They
(Continued on page 24.)


'
mmm
■Mi
•'? / i
I ■ ■
'< ; l:;» :!
a ,; ■ '.
•7
Lv;
Hill
111
m
i
111
.
■HM
HMI
■
% • :
mm
%&y
m
M
m
m
m
m
.r'2
A A
v *:
tt
■ i"
S
■
m
II
■
1!
ill
ill m
lilt
mi
■
■
: ■>.
»
/
:■*
LCTT*"***
ggasiw
- *
T^^fnpi
< ' . '- i V > v--.<
As REFRESHING-AS
AN OCEAN BREEZE...
TOOHEYS
I
WB
*
HUM
m
ctee.
ojfc/ritths
— irurnp, 4
foretfery
occasion^
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston


&
This Model made in full and half sizes,
with medium and wide fittings. All featuring
the special Ankle Strap holding the Boot
firmly to the Ankle.
Price, 42/6.
AN ALL - PURPOSE
BOOT
No matter what kind of work,
in the yards, in the saddle or
tramping the paddocks, this
Abbey Country Boot will serve
you well.
Every essential for rough, hard
wear is included —a strong,
tough Ooze Calf Upper, Thick,
Stout Sole and Reinforced
Elastic Sidepieces.
It’s an ideal Boot for country
wear.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY .
WAI9.
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
V • /
WMammimm
.JB %
mm?
intA
I wm/
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes ?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney. 59 William St., Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
SCHUTE
BEEIUCSd
rfc
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
WEsamsamt
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM KAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and Sin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 634 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 110/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in cwo
widths, fin. and }in.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
Tears free of charge.
TTuf&'ctlleZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
need not be of the nearly-perfect confor-
mation demanded in the two higher
grades.
Non-milk-fed birds are divided into
five classes. Except for milk-feeding,
“special,” “A” and “B” grades must meet
the same requirements as milk-feds. “C”
grades must mainly be well fleshed. Con-
formation and general condition allow
for most faults denied to the higher
grades except bad discoloration or im-
proper bleeding. And “D” grades merely
need to satisfy the condition that the
birds are fit for human food,
A great deal of attention is given to
packing. The standard farm pack is in
boxes formed to allow for a difference
in weight of 21b. over 12 small birds and
51b. over 12 big birds. This assures
reasonable uniformity in size and appear-
ance. There are two methods of pack-
ing—side pack and breast pack, which is
the more popular. Boxes are set on an
upward tilt for packing. A waxed or
parchment liner covering all sides of the
case is used. The birds are put in in
double rows with the legs forced towards
the breast so that they fit on either side
of the body of the bird opposite. The
head and neck fit under and to the side,
and packing is done from the lower end
of the box upward. Care is taken to lay
the birds in tightly enough to avoid
movement or rubbing.
And all boxes are stringently branded.
Red Clover.
“Hortus”: There is no better standby
in mid-eastern coastal and elevated table-
land pastures. In fact, red clover should
never be left out in any mixture of cocks-
foot and perennial rye. Sow at the rate
of 41b. of clover per acre. It has been
experimented with as a rotation crop
very satisfactorily—l2lb. of seed to the
acre.
Clover, being leguminous, can obtain
nitrogen from the air (more than it needs
for growth).
A vigorous crop of r.c. will produce
as much nitrogen, phosphoric acid and
potash as can be obtained from an appli-
cation of 10 tons of ordinary barnyard
manure per acre:
Nitrogen. Phos. Acid. Potash.
Pounds Pounds Pounds
per Acre, per Acre, per Acre.
Red Clover .. 100-150 30-45 85-115
Barnyard
Manure (10
tons per
acre) 100 50 90
Given a fairly good soil, it is not a
difficult crop to establish. You can get
good results from clayey soils and loams.
Even from- a light loam you can get a
satisfactory return. Of course, the rich
alluvial flats are the best. Don’t tackle
clover on a sandy soil. It’s a waste of
time and labor.
At Albion Park (S. Coast, N.S.W.)
red clover has been successfully estab-
lished by a short-cut method.
Last season r.c. was sown down with
crops of maize and sorghum for green
fodder.
The soil was light and on a hillside.
The ground for the maize was ploughed,
and the seed broadcast in on December
24, 1934. Harrowing followed. The sow-
ing comprised \\ bushels of maize to the
acre and 21b. of perennial red clover. The
sorghum was planted towards the end of
January, 1935, using 401 b. sorghum and
l|lb. of red clover.
The rainfall was below average. The
crops did well. After the sorghum and
maize were removed for green fodder, it
was found that the red clover was well
established. What’s more, it did what
was wanted. It made enough growth to
afford good grazing for the dairy stock
ever since.
In another spot, in spite of bad condi-
tions, clover was established on land pre-
viously carrying bracken fern.
According to analyses of samples,
bracken-fern ash has probably the high-
est potash content of any plant' or tree
in the world except Pinus insignis.
As clover responds to wood-ash or any
ash, it was obviously logical to try the
crop on land where bracken has been
cleared and burnt. Manuring, if soil is
poor, needs to be fairly heavy at the start.
Once the young plants get firmly estab-
lished, they look after themselves. Lime,
however, is essential.
Preparing Tanning Bark.
“Pick”: Keep the trunks of growing
wattles trimmed high. Lateral branches
hamper stripping.
Springtime, when the sap is rising, is
the best stripping season, but wattles
generally strip well after any period of
wet weather.
Oily globules in a row under the leaf
indicate the most profitable tree. Where
these are absent, the tannin percentage
is low.
Two and a half feet from the root,
cut the bark and strip the butt downward.
Grasping successive bands of the upper
bark, detach them with sharp jerks up-
wards to the branches.
Cut the long strips into lengths
and tie them into hundredweight bundles
with thinner bark from the limbs. Hold
with a chained lever to a sound, flat log
and chop the bundles into inch lengths
with a squaring axe. Bag in cornbags
for market.
Efficient Bushfire Brigades.
“Valerin”: If bushfire brigades are
to be efficient, hit-and-miss methods will
have to be scrapped.
To acquire and maintain necessary
equipment, N.S.W. shire councils, it
seems to me, might impose on land-
holders a small levy, say Is. per 100
acres. Voluntary schemes are usually a
washout.
Equipment should consist of tanks
with pumps (nearly every farmer has a
motor-lorry), heaters, rakes, axes, knap-
sacks, etc. These should be stationed at
strategic points, under supervision.
For quick location of an outbreak
fire-indicators should be installed in a
few centres.
The captain and vice-captain should
be chosen for their knowledge of the dis-
trict and capability in handling men.
In the early spring breaks should be
prepared and kept in order.
Everyone makes to a fire with what
fire-fighting plant he has. Often there
is plenty of plant, but if it is not properly
co-ordinated its valuers minimised.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.F.A.”: If there is no raddle handy
for marking sheep (B. 12/2/’36) a knob
of ordinary washing blue, wet and tied
to a stick, marks the jumbucks’ noses dis-
tinguishingly enough. It’s all I ever use
for marking sheep for killers.
“Colon”: On hot days when crutching
in the shed, mark out the four blades
of a fan on a piece of heavy-gauge flat-
iron—say the bottom of an oil-drum.
Bore a small hole in the centre and from
it cut out radial lines to fit your over-
head shafting. Bend out the pieces, cut
a slit to the centre, fit on the shafting
and clamp down by bolting two pieces
of hoop-iron together. Give the blades
a slight twist. Put a fan of this type
between each two machines.
“Pete”: Merino sheep belonging to I.
Lindsay, of Bessiebelle (Vic.), have grown
striped fleeces. A sample taken from a
ewe and exhibited to the Minhamite
Shire Council showed, from the skin,
first an inch of white wool, then a
quarter-inch each of dark brown and
pure white, followed by half an inch
each of brown and white, and ending
with an inch of very dark brown wool.
“Bull-ant Bill”: An interesting private
experiment at Pozieres (S.Q.)' in cold
storage of plums has proved so success-
ful that it is likely to lead to substan-
tial local developments in the marketing
of deciduous fruits. Tired of putting
plum crops on a glutted market, H.
Archibald, of Pozieres, installed a small
cool-storage plant. Ten days after the
glut ceased, he netted 2s. a case above
the price he would normally have got in
the Brisbane market. Negotiations are
now proceeding with the Committee of
Direction for a 10,000-case plant to be
erected at Cottonvale, for enabling dis-
trict crops of deciduous fruit to be spread
over the regular market demand without
producing gluts.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
m
■' * - :■
in
'"f! 11l
ill
Win
f|jp I
sljfc4
mm n:
H
■
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless 1
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“Strychnine: Still cheapest at W ’s. Try
it.” — Advt. in Bathurst “Times.”
The line “Our customers always come
back” would round it off nicely.
*l* -I" 4* *
A Landmark Passes.
“The appointments, service and menu of
the modern country hotel leave little to be
desired in N.S.W.” — Tourists’ pamphlet.
Silas G. Trotter settled himself in the
travellers’ dining-room, and usurped
the traditional place reserved for the
Tacuum Oil representative, while his
wife plumped down in the chair usually
occupied by Teeth and Co.’s man. The
dispossessed ones glared, and joined the
rank and file.
Silas went through the motion of
shusshing flies, but there were none to
practise on. The menu he waved aside,
and called for the landlord.
“Look hyar,” he requested, “as one
free citizen to anather, what would you
recahmend? Goat or galah?”
“Never heard of ’em,” replied Mine
Host. “Perhaps in Melbourne”
Silas shook his head sadly.
“Ten thousand miles we’ve trahvalled,
Sadie,” he observed, “specially tu
sample this pioneer meanyou, ahnd I
guess we’ve lahnded hyar ten years
tu late. Cahm on, my guhrll.”
Mac.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Some of the old Egyptian kings were very
frivolous and amorous,’ says a lecturer.”
Tut, tut!
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Way Out.
Boobkins, M.H.R., stared at Bluffkins,
M.L.A., in bewildered dismay.
They had selected their cabins de luxe
on the most luxurious liner, picked a
small army of favorite secretaries and
publicity hounds, but found themselves
confronted with the awful possibility of
not being able to dig up an excuse for
their trip.
Every excuse they explored became an
ex-excuse because of the hundreds of
blighters who had used it before.
Suddenly Boobkins jumped up with a
shout.
“I’ve got it! A snifter excuse!” he
yelled.
“Don’t tell me there’s an excuse left,”
rejoined Bluffkins in a voice trembling
with suppressed emotion.
“Too right there is,” chortled Boob-
kins. “I’m going to tell ’em that we, as
a committee of two, are going overseas
to investigate all these scandalous ex-
cuses made by our fellow-members for
trips abroad. That’ll fix it.”
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A pickpocket in Sydney was found to have
special pockets in his trousers in which he
had two wallets and three watches.”
He seems to have taken everything in
his strides.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Expensive Forgetfulness.
I noticed the other day where some
doctor stated that people either ignore
altogether or fail to carry out properly
medical advice for which they’ve paid.
I place my Uncle Eustace in the latter
category, though I’ll bet he didn’t pay.
Uncle, an ardent surfer, complained
of ear trouble, and the doc., after re-
moving a miniature beach from his ears,
advised him to use ear-plugs.
One day Uncle forgot to take them
out. He was a bit worried at his hard-
ness of hearing, but was unable to see
a specialist, as he’d been called upon
for jury duty in the fashionable divorce
suit, Splosh v. Splosh.
Four brilliant K.Cs. having been
briefed, the case lasted six weeks, and
Uncle was copping four guineas a day.
As he wore the usual petrified-codlike ex-
pression common to jurors, no one sus-
pected that he hadn’t heard a word of
the evidence. It was not until the
respondent had worn her entire ward-
robe, three of the K.Cs. had developed
clergyman’s throat and several thousand
jokes had been made over the many
co-res. that the awful truth about Uncle
dawned on the other three jurymen.
When the foreman broke the awful
news, the Judge, after angrily suppressing
the cheers from the Bar table, threw a fit.
What he said to Uncle Eustace when he
came to doesn’t matter, as my relative
couldn’t hear a word, anyway.
. But the profits from this affair were
more than offset by the loss occa-
sioned through Uncle’s failure to carry
the doc.’s advice out to the letter. A
few days later he wandered into an
auction-room where a sale was in full
swing. Uncle Eustace is most polite, and
every time the auctioneer looked over
at him and smiled Uncle nodded geni-
ally, considering the hammer expert a
very friendly fellow.
When the sale was over the auctioneer
pointed to an enormous quantity of junk,
and demanded a cheque for £243. The
assistant swore that he saw Uncle nod
at each bid. I’ll spare the harrowing
details following a Court threat, but
“Only one more round, girls , or We'll he late for the vicars temperance
rally!”
Uncle eventually re-auctioned it and
got £l5 for the lot.
He woke up about those plugs a
little after that, but he was a bit late.
S. W. K.
4* 4 1 + +
“New Premiers’ Plan not needed.”
—Mr. Lyons.
Quite so! What we really need is a
few new Premiers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
An Oversight.
A Sydney paper, in a recent analysis
of how a man divides his life, overlooked
beer-drinking. The writer may have
included it under the heading “eating
and drinking,” “recreation,” “religious
observances” or even “working”; but
surely an item like this should not be
dismissed without a section to itself.
In a well-ordered life like my own,
probably 40,000 hours are devoted to
beer-drinking. I have therefore attempted
an analysis of these hours.
Five hundred hours waiting for pubs
to open. (It sometimes seems like
500,000 hours, but I am trying to be
exact.)
One thousand hours borrowing the
money.
Nine thousand five hundred hours col-
lecting the money, when it ought to be
available but isn’t available quickly
enough.
Three thousand five hundred hours
waiting for the barmaid to finish pow-
dering her nose or completing her con-
versation with the sport in the corner.
Two thousand hours wondering whose
turn it is to shout.
Six thousand hours lovingly caressing
the handles of mugs while listening to
or telling appropriate yarns.
Two thousands hours making such
remarks as “Well, this is the last,” “Just
one more then;”
The balance in actual drinking.
Thinking out the excuses to take home
to the wife is grouped in travelling and
working time.
H. M.
“Where the Wealth of Broken Hill Is
Treated.” — Newspaper headline.
Any Barrier resident will point out the
pub.
4- '!• 'l' 4*
Wrong Treatment.
I have no faith in that doctor who is
treating my wife. I consider him defi-
nitely incompetent; indeed, nothing more
than a quack.
My wife thinks otherwise.
Now I don’t pretend to be a medico,
but I consider that that doctor’s treat-
ment is fundamentally wrong. Fancy
advising a convalescent woman to drink
large quantities of stout! It’s not the
thing, definitely.
Although I buy it for her I do so
against my better judgment. I always
feel that I should keep her supplied
instead with something more applicable
to her case, something more stimulating
and not so heavy on the liver. One of
these days I may do so in spite of her
doctor’s foolish advice.
I hate stout!
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Railway cafe fined for breach of Health
Act.” — News item.
We understand they sold a bun that
had been baked only a month before.
4* 4* +
The Torture.
Percy struggled fiercely in an effort to
free himself from his torturers. A 16-
stone man was sitting on his legs, another
held his arms in an agonising position.
He could move neither to right nor to
left. And all the time the pain of his
smarting back was causing him to bite
his lips. Worse was to follow. A scorch-
ing gust of wind drove the hot sand into
his eyes and blinded him.
He decided to make one last super-
human effort. Spitting the sand from his
mouth, he managed to speak:
“If you people will move just a little
I’ll get off the beach and into the surf
again.”
Ced.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
IV. — The Pastimes of Perth.
The chief pastimes of Perth are trot-
ting, visiting King’s Park, prawning and
talking of seceding.
My party prawned one night, but with-
out success. Either we didn’t go to the
right spot or else we didn’t get there at
the same time as the prawns. Mrs.
Loofah, who was very superstitious and
had an uncle who fought in the Zulu
War, said she thought everyone knew
you couldn’t catch prawns when there
wasn’t an “r” in the month, and we
should have known better than to try in
Septembah.
T An old gentleman standing by said it
wasn’t that at all, and the Federal Gov-
ernment was to blame. Prawns were
much more plentiful before Federation,
he said, as well as being bigger and more
succulent.
He claimed that his name was MacCal-
lum Smith, and told us how, while run-
ning a secessionist newspaper, he had
helped to sell the only Westralian bank
to oppressors in anti-secessionist States
and had almost succeeded in selling the
newspaper. Even Jeff Davis wouldn’t
have thought of that!
He then told us how he had gone to
England to present a secession petition,
vowing he would stay in England until
it was accepted, returned with the peti-
tion still wrapped up in cellophane, and
won an election. A remarkable record!
My party was much impressed. Claude
Counterpane said that a State that could
produce beer of the quality this State
produced had no right to be subservient
to any other State, and Miss Birdseed
asked whether King’s Park belonged to
W.A. or the Commonwealth.
Sir Percy Whipsnoodle said he was
quite in agreement with the movement,
and thought it was high time Britain
stopped transporting convicts to Aus-
tralia. He’d have a private bill intro-
duced as soon as he got back to England.
All visitors to Perth should visit the
’Varsity and the Mint.
Read what Miss Birdseed has to say
about them:
....to the University, which, just
fancy! is absolutely free. The guide (such
a nice man) told me that the idea of this
is to attract Scotch migrants (isn’t it a
funny word? It always reminds me of
those what-d’you-callem birds that fly up
to Spitzbergen or Spithead or somewhere
every year). These young Scotsmen are
taught all about how to secede, and are
then sent to the other States in order to
do it. Isn’t it thrilling? I’m not sure
what seceding is, but it must be nice be-
cause they all want to do it.
And the Mint:
.... where they really make money, with
the King’s head on and everything. So
romantic. I tried to get just one little
sovereign for a keepsake, but it appears
they have to account for every single one
they make. So mean, you know, when
the poor men make them so nicely, and
all exactly alike It must be a thrilling
day for a young workman when he is
promoted from the penny to the three-
penny-bit department.
Extract from Claude Counterpane’s
diary:
The beer here is very good, but the
glasses are rather small.
Things no tourist should miss in Perth:
MacCallum Smith; prawns and Senator
Pearce (in season); the Zoo alligators;
one’s step on Moore’s escalator; the Kal-
goorlie express.
Jasby.
Alliterative Cricketers.
“Ward, Waite, Wall and Williams shared
the wickets in Victoria’s two innings, while
wicket-keeper Walker had a hand in the dis-
missal of seven batsmen.”
—Sheffield Shield item.
Ward, Waite, Wall, Williams — W’s the
ticket
When wool and wheat and wine a-win-
ning go,
And wily Walker waits behind the wicket
To work Wictorian willow-wielders
woe.
WEE.
Frustration.
Ah, me! But a minute ago
I thought I was soon to be fired
With a marvellous, passionate glow,
Like a poet who’s deeply inspired.
But now, overcome with dismay,
It was all a delusion I find,
For the lady who lives o’er the way
Has carefully lowered her blind.
HAN.


A Fine Serial Story of Life in Fiji:-
ISAND HERITAGE
BY ALISON SMITH
0 tHLOJUTT RATHE CD CB^
CD. tK TTCD CH (TM CD
[Author’s Note. —All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XIX. —( Continued ).
THE days flowed on. Rod, in a fit of black
depression that did not lift, went about his
daily work. Coward! Easy enough for his
father to say that. He hadn’t known physical fear,
and mental fears that were born of morbid if accu
rate enough imaginings were beyond his comprehen-
sion.
He heard that his father had gone to Suva, that
he was trying to enlist, swearing to less than his years,
boasting of his physical fitness ; but they wouldn’t
have him, and the old man had taken that hard. He
couldn’t realise that he could be done without. “No
good, Mr. Laurence,” they told him sympathetically
but firmly. “You’re too much over the age limit.
You couldn’t stand the exposure, the long marches,
the trenches. We can’t take you. That’s final.”
The old man raged at them for damned fools—
incompetent Jacks-in-office. He could beat the young
men yet. Damned fools —the pack of them.
But he gave it up at last. He came back to
Levuka and prepared to return to Ruvia. But he
went to Rod’s home first.
It was a Sunday afternoon, calm and radiant.
The warm, smooth tide lapped Levuka’s old sea-wall ;
the sea itself seemed to stretch almost as smooth as
glass out to long Wakaya, which fronts the drowsy
town. The old man, turning up a grassy lane, came
to his son’s house.
It slept in the sunlight, a square little box of a
brown house. Thick, colorful crotons stood in front
of it, and at the side there was a straggling patch of
garden. The place had an indescribable air of mean-
ness, squalidness. Laurence gazed at it with distaste.
His son and heir, married to Lola, living in such a
place! It stung his pride. He went heavily up the
rickety steps and through the open door. The place
was very quiet, nor was there any sign of Lola. He
crossed the little verandah, where the strong sunlight
lay in dazzling shafts, and stepped into the dark
living-room. His son lay half-dozing in a canvas
chair, a pile of papers on the floor beside him. He
looked wretched ; he was unshaven, and his bare feet
were thrust into old sandshoes. There was in the room
the taint of stale spirits. The old man looked down
on him.
“Poor devil! He’s a damned ruin,” he said aloud.
“My only son —that I was proud of.”
The man in the chair woke with a start; his
haggard eyes looked up into his father’s. He got up
wearily.
“Don’t you think it would be kinder to leave
me alone?” he said bitterly. “I’ve gone through hell
these last few days. But, if it’ll ease your mind at all,
you may be glad to hear I’m volunteering. I’ve given
up my job. I’ll be out of your way at last.” V
“That’s unworthy of you, Rod —that last thing you
said. But you don’t mean it. And, as God’s my judge,
I’m glad that you’re doing the right , thing at last. It’s
your chance. They won’t have your dad, old man.
Reckon I’m too old—useless lumber. Maybe they’re
right; but I reckon I’d ha’ done my share if they’d
taken me. When are you getting away?”
They descended to the practical.
It was strange, Rod thought, how in that dubious
backroom in Levuka, that calm, hot Sunday, a sense of
peace after turmoil descended on him. He felt like a
man who had been tossed by great waves on to an
isle of refuge, to lie there breathing quietly after the
struggle with overwhelming odds. His father seemed
to share something of the feeling. He, too, seemed to
be resting after turmoil.
Rod knew that when he had finally committed
himself the old fears, the terrors, the pictures his
imagination limned too vividly would return. Perhaps
he would be able to control them—he left the issue
with the future —and he was aware that the strong
old man his father, who in his own way loved him
best on earth, was quaking under like terrors. He
had, after all, enough imagination to picture how
death might come on the field. Looking at the
marred man, his mind went back not a score of
years to the little fair-haired lad he had carried
laughing on his shoulders about Ruvia, then in its
making. Ruvia was one of Fiji’s richest islands now ;
but he, James Laurence, was a man disappointed in
ail his projects.
But this was no time for regrets. The past was
done with. There remained this business of Rod’s
to arrange—Rod, his son, given back to him. Between
them they decided that it would be best to enlist in
Auckland. A boat was sailing early next week from
Suva. Rod could easily be ready.
Sitting there in the shadowed room, his
father enthusiastically making his plans for
him, Rod felt as if he were in some strange
dream. Reality was dreamlike sometim»s.
He felt that outside the little dark room
the bright, slow life of Levuka flowed like a
slow and circling stream. Red hibiscus flowered up
and down the winding ways ; and there were dark,
bland-limbed women moving in them ; and washing
for ever at the wall of Levuka was the warm, blue
sea. An indolent ease possessed the little town, yet
out of it men would go to death. And he would be
one of them. That was strange. Men were fools to
forsake ease and warm, gliding peace. No wonder
Lola had laughed at him. But Lola was late ; sunset
was flaming over Levuka and she had not returned.
He and his father had a makeshift meal together.
The thick dark fell again upon Levuka. He began to
be uneasy about Lola’s continued absence. At eleven
o’clock he said “I suppose I’d better go and meet
Lola. 1 expect she’s stayed late at some friend or
other’s.”
His father was looking at him with comprehen-
sion. He said:
“History’s got a way of repeating itself, Rod.
You’re not the first it’s happened to. The damned slut
has left you. Let her go. She’s not worth troubling
over.”
It was of a piece with the unreal, fantastic day
and night that Rod did not greatly care. A little
stinging hurt to his pride, his vanity—nothing else.
He didn’t want Lola any more, nor she him. He
didn’t very greatly want anything at all.
It was a day or so later that he stood by the
rail of a steamer bound for Auckland. She lay by the
wharf at Suva. There was a light, thin, bright rain
falling ; the people below stood back under shelter.
In a few moments the bell would ring for leave-
takers to go ashore. His father, his hard face broken
by emotion, stood by his side. A broken old man.
Rod knew that in a poignant flash ; and knew, too,
how far he had fallen short of his father’s hopes.
“I’ve been hard, boy. There’s been bad blood
between us. That’s past now for ever. You’ve got
your chance at last, Rod. You’ll come back, and
I’ll be proud of my son.”
The bell rang warningly.
“Good-bye, dad,” the young man said. He put
out a hand, and the old man wrung it hard, kissed
him awkwardly, and turned away. Rod watched him
going stiffly down the gangway —a bent old man in
the fine, mistlike rain.
Chapter XX.
airs wrong! It’s wicked! Just plain, downright
I murder, Vernie says. How can you let your
“*■ husband go? Vernie wouldn’t leave me so
soon.”
It was Kitty Hood, who had been Kitty Kent
and the friend of Ruve’s schooldays, who spoke so
vehemently.
There she sat, a bride of seven months, ardently
championing her Vernie, denouncing the murderous
war. A dainty, modish woman, who achieved some-
thing of a flowerlike appearance in her extremely
becoming pink and grey. Yet, looking at her, Ruve
•saw Flora again, big, strapping, coarsening, in her
habitual print wrapper; heard Flora’s contemptuous
voice.
“You fool, Ruve! Can’t you keep your man?
Is he tired of you already? Married men ought to
stay at home. Let the others go.” Did Flora and
Kitty, poles apart in everything else, think alike on
this one theme?
She shrugged. What was the good of arguing?
Flora and Kitty would never see that the man who
wouldn’t fight wasn’t worth the having. Let them
keep their sorry comfort.
A vibrant pulse beat in this transformed, war-
time Sydney to which she and Dick had returned.
Everything was changed. The, war had swept men
and women out of their accustomed routine. Every-
where —in the houses, the shops, the crowded streets,
the trams and trains, the ferries gliding to and fro
across the blue harbor —one heard talk that shifted
and veered and came back always to that predominat-'
ing theme. And beneath it all was a sense of prepara-
tion, a knowledge that out of the Heads would soon
steam crowded troopships. A sense of tense
expectancy, as if Sydney waited in suspense those
ghostly hours in which the feet of men would march
through its streets to the wharves.
It was at this time that Ruve first felt a passionate
oneness with other women who, too, were giving their
men. Everywhere she saw them, rich and poor, old
and young; and that one new
look on their faces thrilled and
sometimes hurt her almost to
tears. She wondered if her
own face bore, too, that look
that had in it pride and grief
and fear mingled and made
one.
These throbbing, vibrant
days had broadened her aunt’s
outlook amazingly. She seemed
younger, more ardent than the
quiet, gentle woman to whom
Ruve had clung so desperately
at leaving Sydney years ago.
She, who had been somewhat
shy and retiring in nature, now
flung herself heart and soul
into war-work, found herself
without diffidence speaking
valiantly at various women’s
meetings, knitted, sewed, was
filled with a most militant spirit. Her uncle,
too —but one would have expected it of him —was
feverishly active in the same pervading cause. He,
like her father, had tried vainly to enlist and had
been refused ; and, like her father, he had taken it
hard. The new, ardent Ellice laughed tenderly at him.
“You know you are over the age limit,” she said.
“So vain of you to think you could pass for a young
man.” Her soft eyes twinkled.
It was early October now ; in after years the
time stood out clear and distinct in Ruve’s. memory,
with here and there a day more sharply divided from
the others. The day the troops paraded through the
city was one of them ; she never again heard martial
music but she saw the pageant passing once more
in the spring sunlight—company after company swing-
ing by, gallant music that hurt the heart, music that
throbbed out exultation, pride and glorious hope of
victory.
But she did not as clearly remember the day of
Dick’s departure, that day on which pride, exultation,
grief, foreboding touched sharp reality at last. Frag-
ments of it stood out sharply, distinctly: the first ferry
slipping out through dark water, a thin woman beside
her who twisted hard, work-worn hands together con-
tinually, another who could not stop crying where
she sat, the little stocky deck-hand with his chiding
“Easy there—easy, will y’?” when the ferry at last
reached the Sydney wharf.
Confusion then, a sense of moving crowds all
converging in the one direction. At last, sight of
Dick. Women frantic, weeping, half-fainting, cling-
ing to husbands, lovers, sons. She was in Dick’s
arms. “Don’t be afraid,” he said, holding her very
close. “I’ll come back to you. Dinkum, darling.”
It was over ; she was looking at him up the high
ship’s side, trying to smile back through tears. The
transport moving then, a stretch of dark water widen-
ing slowly between.
Back in the bedroom where the red ships still
sailed, as they had sailed in her childhood, Kitty
Hood came to her. She didn’t want Kitty ; she
wanted to be alone. She looked up wearily.
Kitty looked at her curiously. There was about
Kitty something at once repressed and urgent, a
difference. She seemed compelled to a bitter candor.
“You’ve been crying,” Kitty said. “Don’t. Be
proud. I’d give the world to be in your place.”
“You! But you think the war murderous, wrong.
You said you were glad Vernie wouldn’t go.”
“Yes. I know I did. But I lied. I bluffed it
out because I’m ashamed, terribly ashamed.”
Ruve looked at her in amazement.
“Ashamed, I tell you. I’m envious of you. You
did marry a man. Vernie’s a damned coward, shelter-
ing behind me. He says married men shouldn’t go.
That’s not it; he’s thinking of his precious skin. I
wish to God he had your Dick’s courage.”
This from Kitty; Ruve, embarrassed, tried to
stop her. But Kitty took no notice.
“Be glad you’re not what I am—the wife of a
coward,” she said. “He’s had white feathers sent
him; they hurt me more than they did him. It
wouldn’t be quite so bad if he’d own to simply being
afraid ; he shelters behind me, and I can’t stand it.
Be glad, Ruve, whatever happens. You can be proud
of your husband.”
She sat down on Ruve’s bed, dabbed fiercely
with a powder-puff at her eyes.
“I’ll be sorry after that I’ve said all this,” she
said, more calmly. “Oh, I play up to Vernie —I shield
him. Only . .. my brother went to-day. Seeing him
... all those splendid brave men . . . the women
... it hurt me. And Vernie shelters behind me.”
Ruve felt that the real Kitty had flashed out a
moment from the stranger who was Vernon Hood's
wife.
In the strange, blank days that followed, Ruve’s
thoughts went back often to the idyllic life that had
been hers at Vunisesi. From where she moved in the
midst of grim reports of battle and the sacking of
historic towns, of wild, unfounded, flying rumors, it
seemed to glow in still, bright colors, like a dream too
glamorous to last, a dream broken and dissolved by
the war as a fragile, color-reflecting bubble might
have been broken by the touch of a rough hand.
She had heard little from Fiji, but she knew that
Roddy had sailed with the early New Zealand forces.
Poor unlucky Rod, whose dreams had all been broken,
too. Perhaps this new, unlooked for, hazardous
adventuring under arms would make of Roddy a new
man.
It was late March of 1915. Ruve, soon to be a
mother thrilling with alternate hope and fear, turned
her face to the future.
March gave place to the April that was to be
so memorable. On the 29th Ruve’s son was born,
but it was not till a day or so later that they heard


Rod had been killed on the morning of the 25th at
Gallipoli.
The color that had begun to tinge her pale cheeks
ebbed when they did tell her. She wept bitterly for
Rod, who had taken life so joyously until his world
went awry. Tender memories came back out of child-
hood: Rod and she playing on Ruvia beaches and
on the green homestead lawns ; grown older, thril-
ling over the sudden loveliness they found in poetry,
in painting, in the life about them. It was better to
remember the ardent Roddy of those days than the
brooding man they had seen last in the squalid Levuka
setting.
“This will be a hard blow to your father,” said
Ellice, pitying the man she had never liked.
“Yes,” said his daughter. “He’ll feel Rod’s death;
it will break his heart —if he has a heart.”
She was still bitter in her thoughts of him, nor
was the bitterness assuaged by the stiff letter that
came from him soon after. It seemed as if in an
unnatural, half-unconscious humility the broken,
stubborn old man was making some sort of effort to
gain her goodwill, if not her affection. Let him make
every effort, she decided in a hardness akin to his
own. She wanted no more of his dominance ; it was
too late to turn to her.
“He died like a man, our poor Rod,” said her
father’s letter. “I wish to God I could have taken
it in his place. I’ve had my day.”
There was a postscript:
“I would take it kind if you would call your
boy after Roddy.”
She would have been amazed if she had known
the eager interest, the lift of the heart, that had been
her father’s at the news of her son’s birth. Nor did
she guess how overwhelming was the shock of Rod’s
death. Laurence was never the same man again.
Of Elena she heard nothing ; her father did not
mention her. She wondered idly how the dark, once-
lovely woman fared these days at Ruvia.
She was somewhat surprised to get a second
letter from the old man, this time on a subject of
which he confessed little knowledge. He had found
a pile of Rod’s manuscripts thrust away by Lola in
an untidy cupboard, and these he sent now to Ruve
with a touching faith in her ability to handle the
matter. He wanted some memorial of Rod ; and he
could see no more fitting way than by giving his
work to a world now more concerned with events
that were making stirring history than with literature.
Ruve, touched by his blundering, eager desire to
give the boy what he would most have valued, set
forthright about the work with the active and expert
assistance of that eternally interested dabbler in all
things under sun or moon, her uncle. But the work
was worth doing. There in the scattered and tattered,
pinned and loose sheets of pencilled papers was
caught and held the spirit of Fiji. In a line, a stanza,
he evoked it. Ruve felt again the pulsating tropical
life; saw islands lift out of purple waters ; heard the
long, unending surge of waves on reefs that held all
the colors of the world. The loneliness was there,
and the brightness and laughter: there, too. was the
sinister underthrob he may have
got first from Lavinia’s winding
tales. She caught her breath.
“The pity of it!” she said.
“The pity of it! He was only
in the beginning. Imagine what
he might have done.”
Her uncle took fire at that.
He brought down his fist on the
table; his eyes flashed indig-
nation.
“Might have done! ” he cried
violently. “He has done it. He
could never have bettered some
of it.”
But Ruve bent lower over the
stained and scribbled sheets to
hide quick tears. “The pity of
it!” she said again, low to her-
self. “If he had only lived!”
As yet, there was scant com-
fort in knowing Rod’s work
would live.
Chapter XXL
SMALL Roddy’s second birth-
day had come and gone when
Ruve decided to take up art
in earnest again.
It was her aunt who first sug-
gested it. They sat together by the
fire in the May night, two women
peacefully knitting, the leaping
flames making minute points of
light quiver and slip down the
bright needles. The quiet, pleas-
ant room had a pervading mellow
charm. Her aunt broke an intimate silence.
“Ruve, my dear,” she said, “why don’t
you take up painting again? You shouldn’t
let it all go, my child. Didn’t you tell me
Dick wanted you to keep it up?”
“He did, but, Aunt Leila, how could
I? Not at this time ; I feel somehow I
shouldn’t. And there’s Boy. I couldn’t
leave him so long.”
“Why not? / can look after Roddy ;
I love doing it, and you know he’s always
very happy with me. As for feeling you shouldn’t
or couldn’t, that’s just nonsense, dear. On the con-
trary, it would be the best thing in the world for you
to go on with it. It would keep you from think-
ing, tormenting yourself with thoughts of what might
happen to Dick. That never does any good, dear;
life has to be lived even in anxious times like these.”
Ruve was silent. That morning she had had a
letter from France, serene, tender, like Dick.
Ellice’s soft voice went on.
“You have a genuine gift, Ruve, and it shouldn’t
wasted. Go back to the classes; work your
hardest - nut your utmost into developing it. You’ll
> * J and Dick are together
be glaci you am w y s
S • eyer are together again,” the girl said, low.
, f it Dick’s been lucky so far,
j- | n hourly terror of bad news. As women
living everywhere. It’s like a sword—always
to fall ”
“That’s one reason why I want you to take my
k
“Besides Ruve,” continued her aunt in a changed,
more earnest tone “I feel sure Dick will come back,
Yqu know 1 have these intuitions at times. I had
. (e & desponden t mood hanging over me for days
before your father came and took you back to that
island of his. And, my dear, I knew—yes, knew —
I should hear of your mother’s death. Perhaps
jps the Highland blood in me, a kind of foreknow-
]edge> Dick will come back.”
“Aunt Leila, dear, you said you knew Vernie
jjood would enlist. And he hasn’t, and doesn’t seem
as j£ be will.”
“Wait and see! I still hold to what I said. I’m
not o ft en wrong when I feel things so clearly.”
Dear Aunt Ellice! There she sat, peacefully
knitting, a clear-faced, soft-eyed woman whose
brown hair was just beginning to mist with grey. And
it was true that her odd convictions had a knack
of being fulfilled. Rave’s despondent mood turned
to oneof hope andl optmwU she.knew _ m *a.
SSI
st,ll strong within her
‘lll start again, she said enthusiastically. Ihe
thought of it is inspiring. Is that unfeeling ot
me?” .
“Of course it isn t, said Ellice Grey. L ' ste ”’
is that your uncle’s key in the lock? Put the kettle
on, child, and 1 11 make some toast at the fire.
~ , M
Tienand
and * be sßld at th ® top of / fJTn ™ “ *
She threw herself into art with_ all hei otl at• ,
exulted m it. Work hard, unremitting work. . Dra -
ing from life, painting, putting all of herself into the
effort to get just that subtle tone of the flesh, that
pearly play of light down a model m hei gleaming
nudity, that flowing loveliness of line. The old,
familiar atmosphere ot the studios surrounded her.
Contact with other minds, fresh viewpoints, eager dis-
cussions, all stimulated ambition. She grew younger-
Jooking ’. something of a haggard i ook left her eyes.
Rer aunt nodded? well-pleased.
Little Roddy was growing. He was an adorable
c hil d a t this time, rosy, dimpled, with an awakening
seme adventure . Dread touched her heart when
she looked at him at the thought that war might flame
out aga j n when he came to manhood, that the call
tQ co i ors m i g ht ring through the land again.
sh e tkoug b t s b e had touched the apex of fear and
- e £ w b e n Dick had left her, but the thought of her
sQn perhaps facing in his turn a world upheaval was
even more ooignant.
Life had changed again ; only for Roddy, grow-
ing out of his delicious cuddles.ome babyhood into
mischievous little boyhood, she might have been a girl
again like the other girl students in the classes.
Into the striving, intense world of the studio
drifted all manner of folk: ordinary, talented
eccentric, unusual; those who could draw and those
who never would. Ruve, herself a hard worker,
early to arrive and late to leave, yet found time to
note them and wonder sometimes what histories lay
behind them, and which among them would have
some new conception of beauty to give the world.
Perhaps it would be that shy, quiet, seventeen-year
old boy, just now painting intently, lost to everything
but his work ; perhaps that little excitable French
girl with her dark curls and her pointed pale face.
It was fascinating in itself to feel herself part of the
world of the makers of beauty.
Some of the passing figures awakened her pity.
Awkward, persistent Miss Lightfoot—plodding
doggedly, hopelessly after her aspirations of becoming
an artist.
Iris Darke, young and kittenish, yet with a facile
talent —too facile, Ruve thought critically—when she
did choose to work.
The models, too.
Penelope—nearly everyone called her that —was
the friendliest. A pretty creature, Penelope, whose
lissom body took, it seemed unconsciously, the most
entrancing of poses.
She was corresponding regularly now with a
“lonely soldier” ; really thought she’d marry him when
he came back. When the war was over, he said, they
would live on a little farm in the country.
Penelope and pumpkins!
The war went on.
Ruve went with her aunt to a recruiting meeting
at Balmain at which her uncle was to speak.
It was a clear night, sharply chill; stars burned
remote and high above the flaring lights of Darling-
street.
About the edges of the crowd where the mass
thinned out drifted a woman, a tall wreck of a woman
in dusty black and a battered black hat.
“Talk to them, my lovely gentleman, talk to
them! ” she called as the doctor paused for a moment.
Her voice shrilled across the shifting, moving mass.
“Talk to them! Make them go! My boy’s there
doing ’is bit. ’E went with the first o’ them, bless ’im.
Me only boy!”
The little doctor, turning towards her, bowed
gravely.
“He’ll come back to you, madam —God willing,”
he said. “You’ve a right to be proud of him—
we’re all proud of the boys.”
Her uncle spoke well that night.
Ruve, tense herself, saw men come forward to
give their names, saw women holding men back,
women urging them on. She saw a tall boy with an
irresolute face come hesitatingly up to the officer
noting the names down, and then ashamedly falter
back. It was a scene stirring, pathetic, intensely
dramatic ; and suddenly, shrilling over it again, rose
the voice of the woman in the battered hat.
“Join up, my dears, join up!” she cried. “Don’t
let our boys die out there for want of help. Go out
and help them before it’s too late.”
“Who is she?” Ruve asked low of her neighbor,
a sharp-eyed boy of about sixteen.
“ ’Er? Oh, she’s old Mother Gurney. She’s been
a bit dippy since ’er boy went. She’s always at meet-
ings telling the men to go. But she isn’t always so
worked up. Look, she’s going home. She lives down
that street —’er ’ouse ain’t far down.”
Ruve, looking in the direction of the pointing
hand, saw the woman drift off. The street was badly
lit; her gaunt black shape became one with its dark-
(Continued on prge 50.)
The man in the chair woke with a start; his haggard eyes looked up into his father’s.


Look into the future
ė
s'
and comfort; perhaps even travel.
Take out an insurance policy
to mature when this day arrives.
Small regular premiums will secure
future independence for you.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L T . D
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. Darvall. General Manager.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
A Perfect Sales Campaign:-
DROUGHT AT
WOOLBALE INN
Letters supplied by
Bet. Goodwin.
Sketches by
Unk White.
Woolbale Hotel,
Packup,
November 16, 1935.
The Sales Manager,
Tuggitt Automatic Stump Puller, Ltd.,
Sydney.
G. Jefferson Willacy reporting.
Dear Mr. Martin, —
Well, Mr. Martin, here I am at
Packup. There are more stumps in this
place than I have ever seen in one dis-
trict before, and the sole topic of con-
versation among the inhabitants is the
number of stumps their holdings carry to
the acre and the steps they are taking to
reduce the tally. It would appear at first
sighf that I am very fortunate to find
this district, but the march of progress
has left them so far behind that they
refuse to consider any method but the
use of horses, bullocks and other such
extinct and obsolete animals. However,
I have not been idle since my arrival,
but have unloaded and assembled the
Tuggitt Automatic Stump Puller in readi-
ness to give any demonstrations, etc.,
though I have not forgotten that this
demonstration business can be overdone.
You will remember that' I reported to
you while at Forest that I put in a whole
day demonstrat-
ing the Tuggitt to
a Mr. Eberhard,
only to find that
he failed to pur-
chase on the
grounds that
he had no more
stumps to pull.
Thus I put in a
very strenuous day for no
results whatever, and I con-
sider that a memorandum
should be sent to other
members of the sales staff
warning them against this
type of racketeering.
My expenses to date have
Through the fence.
been very heavy, Mr. Martin, and I
would be glad if you would arrange for
five (5) pounds to be advanced to me
against my expense account. I will re-
port to you again within the next day
or two, when I hope to have something
more definite.
Yours for sales,
G. Jefferson Willacy.
Woolbale Hotel,
Packup,
November 17, 1935.
The Sales Manager,
Tuggitt Automatic Stump Puller, Ltd.,
Sydney.
G. Jefferson Willacy reporting.
Dear Mr. Martin, —
I was afraid that it' would be a
very difficult task to make this district
Tuggitt-conscious, and I am beginning to
feel I was right. I have impressed our
slogan—“ When you see stumps, think of
Tuggitt”—on the inhabitants, but so far
my efforts have not borne fruit. It seems
impossible for the settlers here to think
of anything beyond horses and beer at
any time at all, and I feel that' I will
break down their sales resistance just in
time for the Pullem Hydraulic Jack repre-
sentative to take advantage of my
groundwork. I am in a position to know
that he will be here next week, and I
want to have this territory cleaned up
before his arrival. But I always think,
Mr. Martin, that the test of a good sales-
man is his ability to adapt himself to
adverse circumstances, and I
have a plan which I consider
will enable me to clean up
the whole of this district
within the next few days.
At first I was not very
pleased to learn that there
was a circus in the vicinity,
because things like that
distract the attention of
people who have only
got one-track minds
anyway, and make it
very hard to talk busi-
ness with them. Enter-
taining a prospective
customer * (please see
expense account), I
went to the circus last night, and
was very impressed at the way Daisy
—that is their elephant—handled heavy
loads such as logs of timber. Mr.
Hubbard, the prospect I was with,
remarked that such an animal would
be very handy on his block for
the purpose of uprooting stumps, etc. 1
flatter myself that I am in part respon-
sible for this growth of new thought in
the direction of stump pulling, for I am
sure that such an idea would never have
struck him previous to my visit, owing to
the veneration they have here for horses.
It was not until some time later that
the possibilities of the situation struck
me. Everyone seems firmly convinced
that the pulling power of an elephant
exceeds that of a horse, so that if I can
prove that the Tuggitt is superior to the
elephant I am likely to get writer’s cramp
drawing up contracts.
I went to see the circus manager, and
after a good deal of persuasion he
agreed to my scheme. So it is all
arranged that on Saturday afternoon, the
20th inst, there will be a trial of strength
between Daisy aforesaid and the Tuggitt
A.S.P. This will take the form of a
timed stump-drawing competition, using
for the purpose two stumps at the south-
ern or saleyard end of the Packup Sports
Oval, to be followed by a tug-of-war,
animal against machine, governed by
local rules. Under the conditions of the
contest I will toss for choice of stumps
with Mr. Pike, the circus manager, act-
ing in loco parentis to Daisy. The whole
affair has aroused more excitement in
Packup than any event since the hotel
raa !? ut r °ught of 02.
• course, Mr. Martin, the scheme has
involved a great deal of extra work for
me, what with handling all the publicity
myself, drawing out posters, etc., and I
hope the company appreciates the trouble
I am going to on their
behalf. I feel confident
that the Tuggitt will
emerge from the ordeal
with flying colors, and
that as a result there
will be a phenomenal
sale in the territory. I
have been in touch with
the Sydney papers,
which will all have re-
presentatives present at
this unique contest,
which will mean front-
page publicity free for
the Tuggitt. In the circumstances, I
think that I should be given a small
overriding commission on all sales dur-
ing the next month, as all salesmen will
indubitably benefit as a result of my
efforts.
I meant to mention in my last letter,
Mr. Martin, that my expenses this trip
have been very heavy, and I would be
glad if you could arrange for five (5)
pounds to be advanced to me against my
expense account.
Yours for bigger and better sales,
G. Jefferson Willacy.
Woolbale Hotel,
Packup,
November 19, 1935.
The Sales Manager,
Tuggitt Automatic Stump Puller, Ltd.,
Sydney.
G. Jefferson Willacy reporting.
Dear Mr. Martin,-
I have to acknowledge receipt of
your collect wire of even date, which
read —“Cancel this damn’ tomfoolery for
Saturday next and get to work or con-
sider yourself fired stop in future kindly
confine your reports to business actually
transacted stop this office is not interested
in details of local gossip but expects
results' stop.” Mr. Martin, not only did
it cost me 4s. 2d. to take delivery of that
telegram (see expense account), but I
also found that all Packup knew the con-
tents of it before I had heard about it. I
am afraid that you have underestimated
the extent of the local interest in Satur-
day’s arrangements, Mr. Martin, because
I find that I will not be able to cancel
the arrangements even if I want to.
At the present moment there are
several of the local inhabitants guarding
the Tuggitt A.S.P., which is stored in the
stable, and they have intimated their in-
tention of seeing that both I and the
machine are here for the contest. There
is also a point I neglected to mention in
my last report, and that is I signed a
contract with Mr. Pike on behalf of the
firm putting up a side wager of ten (10)
pounds a side, which I consider was a
very wise move, as it will cover expenses
even if I do not make a sale.
Also most of the men who are guard-
ing Tuggitt have wagered very heavily on
the result of the match, and so have a
personal interest in seeing that arrange-
ments are carried out as per schedule.
They are a Very big body of men, and I
feel that we should not disappoint them.
Also, I do not think it a very wise move
to send such instructions by telegram, as
in a place like Packup you might as well
have it told by the town crier.
So you will see, Mr. Martin, that the
arrangements are practically out of my
In playful mood.
hands, and the only
thing to do is to carry
on. Daisy is training
in secret on a block
some distance away,
and I am told she is
putting up some very
creditable times among
the big timber, but I
have every faith in our
product, which has not
put a foot
wrong since I
have been
here. It is
very hard in-
deed to esti-
mate the value
of the perform-
ance, as I con-
sider it will
boom sales all
over Aus-
tralia.
Did I mention that my funds were run-
ning very low? If it could be arranged
I would very much like an advance of
five (5) pounds against my expense
account.
Yours for brighter business,
G. Jefferson Willacy.
Woolbale Hotel,
Packup,
November 21, 1935.
The Sales Manager,
Tuggitt Automatic Stump Puller, Ltd.,
Sydney.
G. Jefferson Willacy reporting.
Dear Mr. Martin, —
Well, Mr. Martin, the contest is
over, and the tumult and the shouting,


m
PEOPLE STAY at PETTY’S
in SYDNEY...
Visitors to Sydney choose Petty's for many
reasons. They appreciate its central position;
they like the comfort, the service, and the
cuisine. And the moderate tariff: Room and
Breakfast from 11/6. Inclusive from 18/-. Wire
or write for reservations-
PETTY'S
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
X
W c
I
k-
SAFETY
AM & A
FIRST/
©
SJP
c&H
vAr-
MAS® IN
pri pd&t
m' W mmJw it & **S " t<. 4
Jg||sc '-%BBm 3K&' ''' \
etc., have died. I will admit that it did
not go off as I had anticipated, but after
all there are some things no man can
foresee. I was very surprised to receive
your wire which read “you are fired,” but
it does not really matter, as you will see.
I would only like to comment that you
are very much more terse when you are
not wiring collect, and I hope you will
not overlook the item of 4s. 2d. m my
expense account, which I am forwarding
erewHh.
The ground was packed to capacity
when Daisy and Tuggitt took up their
positions shortly before 2 p.m. At first
SteET’S risks” being"taken S , 3 £
betting opened at take 5 to 4 the field.
Very soon, however, there was a rush of
money for Daisy, and Tuggitt blew to 6
to 4 ; there was even a little 2 to 1. We
were somewhat late in starting, owing
to the judge and timekeeper being absent,
Mr. Hubbard, whom I have mentioned
Everything went off very smoothly.
before, being chosen to act in that capa-
city. Shortly afterwards he arrived, and
unfortunately elected to drive on to the
ground in his jinker. He drove up very
fast indeed, so that his horse was only
about twenty feet away from Daisy
before he saw her.
The shock was so great that he simply
stopped trotting, dug his feet into the
grass, and sat down in his harness, stop-
ping very short. Mr. Hubbard was less
fortunate. He continued in the same
direction at the same speed, and after he
landed took no further interest in pro-
ceedings. All things considered, it was
just as well his condition was such, be-
cause it took a strong man to cope with
what happened immediately after. Mr.
Hubbard’s horse jumped the fence on the
far side of the oval with the jinker
attached, and when he landed he still
had the shafts, but very little else.
While this was happening, Daisy got
away to a flying start, in spite of the fact
that the barrier had not gone up. I will
admit that she pulled that stump very
smoothly indeed, and even if I had not
been fired I do not think that the Tuggitt
could have beaten her. She seemed to be
in a playful mood, because in spite of
the efforts of Mr. Pike to stop her she
continued on her way, picking up Mr.
Hubbard by the trousers as she passed.
I do not know if I mentioned that Mr.
Hubbard is somewhat overweight, but his
garments were unable to stand the strain,
and he was once more placed on the
ground, Daisy retaining possession of
that portion of his attire.
Her nath then was directlv towards
T ... p . ... . • , f .A , •
Tuggm, and thinking only of the machine
IhfSkedmeSS‘.K
She picked me up m her trunk and placed
me on the ground about forty feet away,
and then gave Tuggitt a gentle nudge.
He collapsed on the ground with a clatter
V f f m aS D v OU t th ‘ S “" e ' ha w
efforts of Mr. Pike began to annoy her
seriously, because she turned and trotted
towards the stand, still dragging the
stump behind her on twenty feet of chain.
She went straight through the fence, un-
fortunately choosing the section where all
the horses were tethered. Inside two
seconds confusion reigned. Most of the
horses were still tied to the fence, but
it was no longer in one piece, but many
detached and movable sections. One had
collapsed on the ground and lay there
shuddering, and the ground was strewn
with wheels, axles, etc., and that was all
that marked the spot.
The grandstand was her next objective,
which before her arrival was a very flimsy
affair indeed. After Daisy had come out
the other side it wasn’t there any more,
but she was wearing the top two rows of
seats round her neck, and all the on-
lookers who had not made for gum-
trees, etc., were strewn on the ground
among the debris. Horses carrying the
remains of buggies and jinkers were gal-
loping round in circles, dragging sections
of fencing with them, and every time
they looked like tiring Daisy would
trumpet sweet and low. It was very dif-
ficult to see anything at this stage, owing
to heavy clouds of dust, and nothing
could be heard but screaming
cursing. .
Shortly afterwards we discovered Daisy
W as missing, and with one accord all the
men on the ground made for the Wool-
baie Hotel. The first thing that attracted
our attention was the fact that about
twQ chains D f the outer fence was miss-
. and then we not i ce d that the Wool-
presented a most unusual appeal-
Thg middle ver andah-post was
missing, together with most of the front
wal , and from t he interior came a low
trU m pe ting sound, followed every now
d then b gur gling noises.
A. firs, all we could pick up Mde
were remai ns of the g , .
over what used to be the bar,
stump from the oval tossed in
the wreckage of shelves, bottles, etc. inen
we could hear a stream of oat s,
and saw the licensee beating Daisy s
with a portion of the grandstand. Her
head was all that could be seen, because
she had fallen through the floor into the
cellar, and the half-size billiard-table was
resting across her back. Every now and
then she dipped down to sample the con-
tents of the broken barrels below. She
paused to pick up the barman and fling
out the door, which unfortunately
was s^ ut \? nc L^ te !; at we 1 not
f ersuade Mr ' Plke f to remove his charge
to more convenient surroundings
ou Wld hardly credit it, Mr. Martin,
hut everyone blamed me for the state of
a .^ air ®’ which shut oft the entire popula-
tion from liquid refreshment as effec-
bvely as the drought of 02.
They failed to realise that I was the
one man who could deal with the situa-
tion that had arisen. Acting on my in-
structions they erected shear-legs with a
block-and-tackle outside the hotel, and I
moored the Tuggitt A.S.P. to a gum-tree
across the road. By this time Daisy was
so much under the weather that it was
easy for Mr. Pike to slip a transport
belt around her waist, and all he got
was one playful tap from her trunk. He
says he will never be much good any
rnore, but I think he is exaggerating. It
ai ?.^ or | un^ e at , Daisy picked up
t J le billiard-table on her way out, and
dropped it before she landed, and also
came out through a section of
*© wall A she , had neglected to knock
down. Apart from that everything went
very smoothly, with all the newspaper-
men taking photos, of the Tuggitt in
a ction, and all trying to get on the phone
a * once -
So y° u see ’ Mr ' Martin ’ that this 1S
the most valuable publicity that the firm
h had f b Monday morning the
Tuggitt A.S.P. will be on everybody® lips.
A 1 before x would consider shifting
Dai and SQ rendering refreshment
j£ , [ s > ned up every
£ in the distric ’ t> and 8 Mr. Pike. 1
would have sold the hotelkeeper also, but
f „ • . _
condition business
c °n dltlon . lor serious business
You will appreciate that it takes a true
salesman to take advantage of an appar-
ently hopeless situation such as, that, and
a true salesman is never long out of a posi-
tlon - \ a y. e been m touch with
Pullem Hydraulic Jack Co., and have
a l rea dy been offered a position. I would
be glad, therefore, if you would confirm
y° ur Wl [ e °f mst and 1 will then
know what to do with the fifty-two (s_)
contracts I hold.
I am forwarding my expense account
to date, and would be glad if you will
give it immediate attention,
Yours faithfully,
q. Jefferson Willacy.
Collect wire to
*
Sydney.
Accept offer of position as pub-
licity manager made in your wire of
even date stop also acknowledge receipt
of five 5 pounds advance on expense
account stop delivering contracts person-
ally tuesday stop yours for success g
jefferson willacy.


HUMOR COMPETITION.
Next Week:
“THE MATRIMONIAL
CODE,”
by
MATT MOLONEY.
RHEUMATISM
PAIN IN THE JOINTS
Decide that you must and you will get rid of
that pain in your joints and you have taken the
first big step along the road to recovery.
The remainder of the way is easy. No pur-
gative salts, no harmful drugs, no embrocations
or rubbing oils. Just an inexpensive box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from your
chemist. Two pills taken with a drink of water
at night, and then, freedom from pain.
When you think of all you have suffered you
may find it hard to believe that such a simple
method of treatment can accomplish so much in
such a short space of time. Here is the reason.
De Witt’s Pills CleanseT Heal
and Strengthen your Kidneys
and thus rid your body of the harmful uric acid
that has been causing the pain in your joints.
You cannot obtain results like this by any other
means, and you cannot get rid of the pain in your
joints whilst that harmful uric acid remains.
That is why De Witt’s Pills
are recommended to you. If you
will give them a fair trial pain
will quickly
disappear and
your health
will improve in
many ways.
e most
convincing
proof of the
efficacy of De
Witt’s Pills is
that afforded
by the un-
solicited testi-
monials of men
and women
I ' J
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
URIC. ACID
who have actually used the remedy and by so
doing have banished the joint pains which tor>
tured them.
You, too, can be freed from your pain. Your
nearest chemist sells and recommends De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and if only you will
take them as directed you will quickly get rid of
the swelling, the stiffness and the pains that
make walking difficult and torture you every
time you move. Your health will benefit in many
ways when you get rid of the uric acid from
your system.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
A few hours after you take the first dose of
De Witt’s Pills, discolouration of the urine will
?rove that they have commenced their good work.
r ou will be able to see that the cleansing, healing
and strengthening ingredients have passed
through your kidneys and bladder. No other
medicine furnishes proof like this, and when once
you have tried De Witt’s Pills, your one regret
will be that you did not do so before.
Take them for Scalding Pains, Gravel,
Stone, Painful Joints, Stiffness, LUmbago,
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica. Give them
to children subject to Bed-wetting and to aged
persons afflicted by Urinary Disorders, and in
every case they will give prompt relief and
lasting benefit.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold
by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger,
more economical size, 6/6. Sold only in the
blue, white and gold boxes.
Beware of imitations. Be sure you ask for,
and see you obtain, the genuine De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills.
Writing from C/o. Birchup P. 0., Victoria,
Mrs. W. Sinclair says :
" Owing to a very bad attack of rheu-
matism / had to stay in bed for over three
months. During that time I completely
lost the use of my limbs. I tried all sorts
of remedies, without result, until 1 was
recommended to try De Witfs Pills.
Then to my surprise and joy 1 found 1
could move my limbs after taking the
first bottle of pills. Continuing with the
treatment 1 completely regained my
health
DeWitt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
Shirlow’s Mind Was Consumed by Suspicion
Until—
CYCLONE
BY VANCE
PALMER.
SHIRLOW awoke before dawn with a
peculiar feeling of apprehension.
.Frogs croaking in the hyacinth-
swamps across the road, a warm, nagging
wind that had rattled all night at the
iron on the outhouse! He had slept
badly, been pursued by uneasy dreams,
one of finding himself suddenly among
myriad niggerheads of coral in a boat
that would not steer.
“Bad weather coming,” he thought,
looking at the platinum sky that had
faint streaks of rose in the east.
And then he knew that what he had
been dreading all night was the journey
up the Sharon River. There was a dark-
ness in his mind as he took his towel
and wandered downstairs to the shower-
bath under the house. Damn this cyclone
season, with, its periodic scares and its
continual suggestion of terrors lurking
on the edge of the skyline! For two
pins he would throw over his contract
with the Sharon River people and lie
up in port till the good weather came.
“It’s going to blow,” he told Flora
when he came up from his bath.
She was bustling around the table on
the verandah getting his breakfast ready,
cheerful as a nesting wagtail. There was
surprise in her face as she looked at his
morose eyes, dark under their heavy
brows.
“I don’t think so, Harry. I haven’t
noticed anything queer.”
“You wouldn’t.
Fine to get me out
of the house for a
few days, eh?”
“Oh, Harry,
don’t be grouchy.
That twenty quid
means as much to
you as it does to
me.”
“A lot of it I’ll
see. There’s bills
a yard long to
meet for stores and
oil, and if they
sting young Mac
for fees at the hos-
pital I’ll have to
see him through.”
It came to him as an added exaspera-
tion that he would have to do this trip
without McLennan. The young fellow
had fallen down the cockpit with a case
of oil on the last trip and had broken
a couple of ribs. It would be hard to
find someone to take his place.
But the thought that really nagged at
him as he dressed was that Flora was
anxious to get him away. That lightness
of step as she passed from the kitchen
to the verandah, that radiance about her
as she stood on the top of the steps
tossing crumbs to the silver-eyes that
were flocking around the granadillas.
“And as soon as I’m out of sight
Gourlay’ll come mooching over. He gives
the place a wide berth till he’s dead cer-
tain I’m gone.”
The suspicion that he had kept under-
ground for so long had risen suddenly
to the surface, rearing its ugly head,
looking at him with snaky, insinuating
eyes. It had been germinating a long
while now. Hadn’t it been at the back
of his mind when he quarrelled with
Gourlay, getting McLennan to help him
with the boat instead?
“I’ll have the devil’s own job to get
someone to take young Mac’s place,”
he growled as they ate their breakfast.
“It’s going to be a lovely trip for me.”
She said brightly:
“There ought to be plenty of men
down there eager for a job. Some of
those fishermen haven’t been out for
weeks.”
“And they don’t intend to go out till
the cyclone season’s over,” he said sav-
agely. “It shows their good sense.”
Then he added with a quick look at
her:
“I’m going to ask Bill Gourlay to
come back again.”
WAS it mere suspicion on his part, or
did she catch her breath, feel her
heart stop suddenly before it fluttered
on again? She did not speak until he
had lit his pipe and was slinging his things
together; then she said abruptly:
“I wouldn’t ask pourlay, Harry.”
“Why?”
“Well, you never got along very well
together when he was on the boat
before.”
“And I won’t this time,” he said
abruptly. “But I can stick his company
for a few days if I have to.”
Watching her preoccupied eyes, her
uncertain movements as she cleared away
the table, he was thinking:
“She doesn’t want him to go. Is it
because she thinks there’s a risk, or was
she looking forward to seeing him when
I’d gone?”
A devil was riding him as he picked
his way through the tea-tree at the head
of the estuary to Gourlay’s place. Now
that the wind had dropped an ominous
stillness had settled on the slaty sky; the
still water and the handful of fishing-
boats lying with their dirty sails reefed
had the look of moulting birds. There
was a breathlessness about the close
February morning, a feeling of ugly
passions stored up in the smothering
earth and windless air.
“Fve let things get me down,” Shirlow
was telling himself. “No nerve ; no self-
control! I’ve never been right since that
attack of fever. Once a good blow was
a tonic to me. Now a capful of wind
can knock me over.”
But it was the look in Flora’s eyes he
was thinking about, the sudden change
that had come over her when he said he
was going to take Gourlay with him to
Sharon River.
There was a grin on Gourlay’s face
when he approached him. The fellow
was frying some bacon over a fire at
the door of his tin hut, slovenly in his
soiled ducks and sandshoes, but power-
ful of build, truculent in manner. He
had been living alone on his few acres
of land since he left the Kestrel, plant-
ing pawpaws and keeping bees.
“Had to come back to me, eh?” he
twitted Shirlow. “Found you couldn’t
get on without me after all? . . . Well, I
don’t mind taking it on. I’ve been look-
ing for a chance to earn a quid or two.”
His pale eyes had a peculiar, glinting
malice in them. He had always boasted
that before long Shirlow would be com-
ing to him, begging him to come back.
An air of hostility hung between the
two when, a couple of hours later, they
got the Kestrel ready for sea. Shirlow
was dour and preoccupied, but Gourlay
whistled as he worked, tossing the cases
aboard with reckless abandon and keep-
ing up a flow of light banter with the
young fellows ashore.
“Yes, I had to come back to the old
tub. She couldn’t get on without me;
bit of the woman about her, eh? I
don’t know whether I’ll remember port
from starboard, though, after these
months ashore. A joke if I piled her
up on the coral, eh? Ruined her for
good!”
Beneath his laughter, his free-flowing
talk, there was always the suggestion of
something sinister. It lurked in his eyes,
which had the pale sharpness of splin-
tered glass, and gave a foxy look to his
face, in spite of his heavy, well-moulded
features. Yet he was popular with
women: how many of the girls in the
hotels along the front had fallen for his
swagger, his air of taking life as a game!
SHIRLOW was exasperated with him-
self as they made up the coast to
Sharon River. The idea of taking Gour-
lay back had come to him as a sudden,
overwhelming impulse, and now he
could have kicked himself for his
weakness. There was an aura of tri-
umph about the fellow as he bent
cursing over the rackety engine. He


8888
liiiissiisfi
msfflm
11111*1*
...
may cause
them
TOOTH DECAY
STUBBORN STAINS
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
IN NEW LARGER TUBES —NO PRICE INCREASE
BLEEDING GUMS
w
If
m
if a®
it*
IZL ■
NEW
LARGE
TUBE
OLD
TUBE
Make sure you use the special film removing
tooth paste which removes film effectively
and safely.
Common sense says that dangerous film should be
removed and kept away regularly. But how? Many
dentifrices may claim to remove film. But are they
safe? To millions of people, Pepsodent is known as
the special film-removing tooth paste.
The simple reason for Pepsodent’s efficiency is the
use of a revolutionary new cleansing and polishing
agent. This material is unexcelled in film-removing
power. No other leading dentifrice contains it and
it is so safe that in impartial tests Pepsodent has been
proved the least abrasive . . . therefore softest —of
16 leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders.
So, if you really want naturally white teeth and
greater freedom from common mouth disorders, take
the first step now. Start removing ugly, dangerous
film daily with Pepsodent Tooth Paste.
Along with daily brushing, eat foods your dentist
would advise to promote strong, healthy teeth. And
be sure to see your dentist regularly twice a year.
MORE PEPSODENT-—SAME PRICE
New processes have cut costs, and we are passing the
saving on to you. The identical time-proved Pepsodent
is ready for you. in the new larger tubes, at no increase in
price.
PEPSODENT
seemed intent on showing his contempt
for the boat and all aboard her.
“Got the old hulk insured, Harry?”
“Why? Feeling scared we might strike
a bit of weather, are you?”
“Me? No ; I’m not scared. It’ll be
all up with the Kestrel, though, if we
do. She ought to have been broken up
or sold to the bulls long ago.”
“She’ll last my time —and yours.”
Clang of metal, of steel upon steel,
sounded in all their exchanges, whether
at meals or work ; yet the same easy
smile always lurked around the corner
of Gourlay’s mouth. Shirlow felt the
core of darkness in his mind spreading
like a blot of ink upon cloth. Why did
Gourlay always seem to be lurking
round the house when he came home
unexpectedly? Why was Flora so
anxious he should not go to Sharon
River?
“Nothing to her if I went under. But
Gourlay—save him at all costs!”
There was a queer look about the sea
as, making a steady five knots an hour,
they plugged up the coast. Colorless
under a dun sky, it moved with a long
swell as if swayed by some tide on the
world’s far edge: Frigate-birds— creatures
of ill-omen —moved about in the high
air, and gusts from the south-east came
suddenly, blowing with violence for a
few minutes, then fading away.
Still Gourlay lumbered about cheer-
fully, making his barbed jokes, spreading
himself over the table at meals. And
Shirlow, morose, shut in upon himself,
thought edgily:
“I’ve lost my nerve. I ought to have
had a long spell when I came out of
hospital . . . Why does he watch me
with that crooked grin? What does he
know?”
It was dark on the second day when
they sighted the headland near Sharon
River, and Shirlow, calculating his tides,
knew it would be a risk to try to get
in over the bar before daylight.
“We’ll lie out under the lee of Old
Woman Island,” he told Gourlay.
“There’ll be shelter there if it blows.”
“Safety first, eh?” Gourlay grinned.
“There’s no hope of getting in over
the bar now,” Shirlow snapped.
He was wondering why Gourlay had
come. Did a few pounds mean so much
to him? Or did he want to boast to the
men on the front that the Kestral couldn't
get along without him, and that its
skipper had to come crawling to him on
his knees? There was a vanity about the
fellow that made it necessary for him
to have something to lick his chops over.
That, as much as anything else, was the
reason he ran after women.
“If he hadn’t come,” thought Shirlow,
“he’d be sitting on the verandah now,
telling her I’d become a joke among the
men at the waterfront and that she was
wasting her life”
He lay sleepless on his bunk, remem-
bering Gourlay’s little chuckle, bracing
his will for action. Now that he had dis-
covered what was happening behind his
back he ought to strike, and strike hard.
On the verge of sleep he suddenly sat
up, all his faculties strained to prick-
eared intentness, the blood gathering
round his heart. A thrumming in the
very wood and metal of the boat, a vibra-
lion in the night’s taut silence, whistle
of myriad wings far off, just beyond the
range of hearing. He sprang out of his
u n ij an<a B ra bbed Gourlay by the
°r f r ,
Get up! Quick!
St^ sleepily -
“Get the engine going. I'll root the
hook up. We’re going to run for Sharon
River.”
MOW that the time for action had come
he was happy, transformed, as if
something had been released in him. The
men who worked with him had always
said that he possessed a sixth sense, a
capacity for seeing things before they
happened, hearing the wind before it
came. There was an inspired energy
about him that impressed even Gourlay,
heavy as the latter was with sleep,
clumsy in his movements with his fingers.
They were well away from the coral
before the wind struck them. It came
with a roar and a leap, heeling the boat
over, flattening it down against the water.
Three minutes of pure fury, and then
silence before the main shock.
“Keep her dead east,” Shirlow shouted.
“We can make the mouth of the bar
and the tide’ll carry us over- Once in
there we’ll be jake. Home and dry on
the pig’s back.”
Rushing walls of wind blew the words
from his mouth. He shoved Gourlay
away from the wheel and took it over
himself, bracing himself against the seas
that broke over the stern, flesh turned to
rock in opposition to the gale’s blind
fury. The whole night was in tumult
now —shrieking wind, toppling mountains
of water, pursuing the boat, seeking to
smash her with their weight.
It was not an ordinary gale ; it was a
cyclone. Shirlow knew it as he clung
to the bucking wheel, felt the mast snap
and crash over. Yet his heart was free,
his spirit buoyant.
“We’ll get through. It’s only a run
of five miles. We’ll get through.”
He had given the wheel to Gourlay
again and was hacking at the dragging
mast with an axe. The boat lifted, ran
free for a moment, went dead again as
the engine stopped. Following seas had
crashed over her, were washing about the
cockpit; they were swinging round,
broadside-on to the gale. Crawling
along to the wheel Shirlow found there
was no one there.
“Gourlay?” he thought. “Where’s
Gourlay?”
He was in the water suddenly, carried
on the crest of a sea that washed the
boat from stern to stem ; he was choking,
fighting for breath, blinded by spray and
flying spume. But though his mind was
numb and deadened the will to live was
keen in him. He had always been a
strong swimmer, and had a belief he was
not fated to drown. Half-unconsciously
he rid himself of his clothes, kicking free
of everything but his woollen sweater.
“Free,” he was thinking. “I’m free
now at last. It was the fear of what was
ahead that paralysed me. Made me
cranky. Got me under.”
And then came a long timeless period
when all thought was blotted from his
brain and there only remained the life
in his body, the will to keep going, f he
instinct to resist annihilation. Sounds
of demons fighting in upper air! Wings
that seemed to lift him high above the
surface, press him down beneath the
water. He fought on automatically, a
desolate speck in a tormented waste.
Consciousness came back slowly with
a sense of being anchored in a quiet
estuary. Sunlight, the cessation of sound,
a still deck beneath him. yFons of time
had passed over his head, but he was
deeply aware that it was the real world
he was in still, with voices around him
he could hear,
almost understand,
Flora’s voice, could
it be? He opened
his eyes and lay
looking at her,
closed his eyes for
fear she would
vanish if he looked
too long.
“Better, Harry?”
He made no re-
sponse for a while,
searching for his
voice that seemed
lost in deep under-
ground caverns.
“Where am I,
Flora?”
“At the port hospital,” she told him.
“The patrol boat picked you up near
Sharon River. Badly battered on the
ro cks just above tide level , . . Oh.
Harrv.”
CHE poured over him the tides of feel-
“ ing sh , e h „ a . d da ”” ed b ?f k *T dayS '
Fragments of half-comprehended news
floated around him. The cyclone had
missed the port but had ravaged twenty
miles of coast further north. They had
found the Kestrel floating bottom up-
wards, but she had sunk while they were
trying to get her in. A lugger had gone
down with its crew north of Sharon
River. And Gourlay—he was still
missing.
“I oughtn’t to say it now, perhaps, but
I couldn’t help loathing that man, Harry,
He used to come hanging around as soon
as you went away. Making love, looking
for an opening. There was something
queer about him—a sort of cold-blooded-
ness in his laugh. I was scared when
you told me you were going to take him
back in the boat . . . But it doesn’t
matter now.”
There was a relief in her eyes, her
voice, as though a cloud had lifted. Shir-
low, painfully remembering back, had a
feeling of awkwardness, confusion, self-
contempt. But he did not want to think
about the devil that had ridden him:
couldn t afford to admit too much. The
image in his mind was that of the Kes-
trel floating bottom upward,
“No,” he said. “It doesn’t matter now.
She was well insured, thank goodness,
and she was only an old tub, anyhow,
We’ll be able to start again.”
Our New Serial. Commencing Next Week.
THE BRIDLE TRACK,
by J. J. HARDIE.
Placed high in the ranking list by judges in the
1935 S. H. Prior Memorial Competition, this is a
splendid story of the cattle and sheep country, written
with the intimate knowledge of a man who is familiar
through experience with all branches of station life.
Outback readers will welcome this story as some-
thing written by a man who has himself shared the
hardships and discomforts of the bush; while those in
the city will find it an absorbingly interesting, yet
authentic, picture of life beyond the bitumen.
Verses .
If I went slowly by
Your house : of where you lie,
What window all the night
Reveals to stars your light,
Of dear sleep-haunting thought
My heart should make report,
Sad, faithful spy.
If this too cold
And dark division were
Spanned by a bridge of gold
Through time’s wild air;
And were I come
In the cool evening home
Surmounting by some grace
The bondage of this place,
Then should I keep
A watch and ward,
About your sleep
I should mount guard.
I have been one
Who doted on the sun,
Drew thought from flowers and birds
Rather than mortal words,
And with the stars at night
Found my most rare delight,
But now undone
In all the natural texture of my mind,
Sun, birds, and stars, and flowers, and
thoughts I find
In you, my sun, in you, my singing bird,
My flower and my imperishable word,
My meaning and my dear philosophy.
S.A.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Without Price.
And now you’ve gone, like spray blown
down to the sea,
And, with you, Kindliness, a lamp most
needed;
And what is left, what heritage for me ?
The memory of a song to sing un-
heeded.
You know, it seems not very long ago,
You said, “Child, here and there, deep
holden in the ground,
Are all the loveliest gems that you could
know,
And wish for, having none” . . .
But I have found,
Beyond the silence of a fast-shut door,
Swept from the gold sufficiency of
spring,
One treasure, without which alone I’m
poor,
And having which, alone, I am a king.
S.A.
MAURICE VIGGS.


MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY
W
? I I
w
r
mm
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
BuVCDEKE CO!' BtUVEOEKE PO!"
Vi
t/y/A
Y
Pay by
CHEQUE !
Payment by Cheque obviously has many advantages. It
eliminates the necessity for, and worry of, keeping
large sums of money in the home and prevents loss by
fire, theft, or when travelling to and from the City or
other places. Then again, a cheque and its butt may
act as a receipt and provide a sure safeguard and
protection should the formal receipt be lost or mislaid.
JU NATIONAL BANK
Branches Throughout Australia
3/12/36
©ldentifies the
more impor-
tant centres requir-
ing specialized lu-
brication such as is
offered by Alemite.
'ALEMITE”
these
«MLEMITE #
Recognizing a higher knowledge ©f lubrication, as exem-
plified by Alemite, saves motor vehicle owners of the
world millions annually. Never "grease,” always w Alemite.”
e
s. jrLCLCKLCS and other miscel-
laneous parts of the chassis
want Alemite Chassis Lubricant
for resistance to frictional wear,
freedom from clogging and
lubricating efficiency at all tem-
peratures. Lubrication at 500
mile periods is best to prevent
squeaks and minimize wear.
ALEMITE CORPORATION
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT ... Chicago
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident
Manager, 554 George St., Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from, the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney „ „
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 8.94 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—9-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
K.E.G.C.: A riot of sloppy words and un-
impressive rhymes J.L.0.: The subject is
as dead as the first swordfish of the Wan-
ganui season K.8.J.: You’re rather weak
on metre, and counting the world well lost
for love is not a strikingly original sentiment.
W.C.: It doesn’t make the rollicking jingle
it might have made 8.H.: Sprightly, but it
doesn’t quite get past... .N.S.: Too tenuous
to be impressive... .L.A.C.: No space for your
tuneful she-angel... .H.J.M.: Very well done,
but a short murder story has to be more
closely packed with ingenuity. Would like to
hear from you again... .A.J.: “Storms” blew
itself out too quickly... .E.C.M.: Mike is on his
way back if he can get a lift W.A.: Haven’t
you used that same plot before?... .Z.V.W.:
And you too? R.A.P.: “Professional Devil”
would be more at home in the flames
F.R.F.: The horror that turns out to be a
camel looking through the tent is an old
stunt... .C.J.R.: A bit too melodramatic;
very doubtful if you can unload elsewhere.
J.M.: Gold, scorching sun, thirst, rescue—
somehow we seem to have heard of those
ingredients before L.N.: Not enough in it.
E.R.M.: Too patchy, and all the patches
are too purple 1.M.: Very poor Jeffo :
Nothing in that brevity A.P.A.: Army
phraseology sound enough, but plot not in
keeping with it... .E.W.: The escaped criminal,
his rescue of the little dog and the dog-
owner’s foregoing of the reward —ah! how
untrue to life R.8.F.: Sandy takes the
count... .R.H.C.: Grin content very low.
. ...J.N.S.: Very well, we’ll let the waves
waft, but we prefer the winds to do it.
D.B.: Treatment good, but the life-spent-
in-search-of-vengeance yarn doesn’t appeal
N.H.: Hopelessly overdone, like a bride’s first
batch of cakes... .M. 8.: Tale about dog, car
and mushrooms is a frequent visitor. Yours
is the first attempt to string it out
to short-story length F.N.8.: Short of
publication standard J.S.E.: Doesn’t make
the grade... .Athos: A man picks up a
Darlinghurst damsel and she robs him. There’s
no story in that N. 8.: Father getting caught
in the treacle recalled to us the old song
“Footprints in the Butter Made by Baby”....
A.V.N.: No space for the harrowing tale of
mad old Morgan; other one not up....
M.H.A.H.:
Solemn I stand and watch each grain of saiid
Shifting so slowly o’er this sunny strand.
You can do it just as well at home with a
sandglass—and boil an egg at the same time.
A.C.: Still a long way from reality
B. Full of the spirit of charity, but it takes
more than that to make verse... .W.H.P.:
Hardly worth a story... .M.O’R.: Afraid you
were unfortunate in your choice. We have
met artists who were almost human... .R.W.:
A long way off... .E. 0.5.: Both miss; prefer
your lighter vein F.S.H.: Still don’t like it.
M.M.: Immature J.H.: There’s plenty
of feeling in them; try again J.L.S.:
O thickly timbered forests with your stately, silent
trees,
Oh, have you ever whispered to the perfume-laden
breeze
The secrets locked within your heart —or told the
birds or bees?
The forests thus appealed to are given two
weeks in which to reply through this column.
... .N.W.5.8.: The verse came closer than
the prose... .R.McD.: Gentle traditional verses
that say very little... .Ivan: Terrible!
E.G.: Not impressed with the verses in which
the Aussies introduced two-up in heaven.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.K.: Faint signs of improvement; pay more
attention to linework A.L.: That old-timer
again!... .R.V.W.: Spinster now resting her
weary limbs in the w.p.b D.H.: An excel-
lent example of what we don’t want... .R.C.:
No room for poster-size drawing of octopus
encircling the globe... .A.M.G.: Its demerits
are largely anatomical... .8.M.: You just
potter around... .A.H.: Stale... .H.S.F.: Sil-
houettes are not welcomed... .T.M.: The aim
should be to make the picture tell the story
K.E.: You have a flair for decoration, but
little sense of humor... .P.L.: We found our-
selves snoozing over that batch.... T.W.:
Cannot understand why Hitler should be doing
a Highland fling on what looks like an ice-
berg... .N. 8.: Suggests a geometrical problem
more than a humorous drawing... .0.J.: Not
gone on lady with hour-glass waist
C. : As yet you are only an artistic toddler.
. ...P.M.: Gag is thick with barnacles, draw-
ing a waste of time... .W.S.: When did you
see a cattle-dog last?... .M.D.: The weak
wheeze caused its rejection... .J.T.: You’d do
better working with pen and ink....5.G.:
Weren’t you taught anything about perspec-
tive?... .M.D.F.: At least the surf line is
moderately well drawn... .A.M.: Poor.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Jack Point”: All the world’s worst
tea-makers aren’t in Egypt and France
(B. 12/2/’36). In most U.S. restaurants
you can get what they call “Russian tea,”
weak, milkless stuff flavored with lemon,
hut the average private householder
doesn’t (or didn’t) bother about our
favorite beverage at all. Coming home
from the war in 1919, we called at Nor-
folk, Virginia, and were entertained by
a remarkable old lady who made a habit
of playing the hostess to soldiers and
sailors of all nations. When we casu-
ally mentioned that our usual drink was
tea she looked puzzled for a while, but
suddenly brightened up. “Ah, yes,” she
said, “I believe I have some—the Japan-
ese sailors here last month gave it to me.”
We had to show her how to make it.
* * * „.
“W : i2/2r3fl 'afa
Greekclub of cthe/days!* It struck me as
a smooth-tasting liquor which brought
results with amazing swiftness. But it
lacked the effect of the Mexican
compounded from aloes or prick y-pear
or some such thing. J. F. Archibald had
some of this stuff, a present (like his
most prized cigars) from his friend Presi-
dent Diaz. The dreams that followed a
few glasses of pulque were remark-
able: the spirit flew through the
vast spaces, a master of them; it
owned the stars and did as it
dashed well pleased. Personally, how-
ever, I doubt whether any foreign liquor
can do more violence to a drinker’s body
and brain than certain brands of Aus-
tralian rum, fortified with tobacco and
old boots, which one is liable to en-
counter at outback shanties,
* * * *
“Miles”: There is a hazy idea that
politicians are mainly if not entirely re-
sponsible for modern wars, and that sol-
diers are merely their instruments to do
the fighting. And if you listen to any
pacifist orator’s address you will gener-
ally learn that business and financial in-
terests, not to mention the unholy greed
of munition-makers, are the indirect
causes of one nation falling on another,
But apparently it isn’t always so. Dis-
cussing the possibility of an armed con-
flict between Japan and Russia, the
Japan “Times” declares that statesman-
ship on both sides is doing everything
possible to avert it and that the only
danger comes from military psychology.
Two great armed forces face one an-
other in Eastern Asia across an ill-defined
frontier, and “everything depends on
whether the generals on either side are
able to hold their officers in leash.” The
contention that, if there is a war, sol-
diers and not statesmen will be directly
responsible is such a rare one that it is
at least worth recording,
* . .* *
Gow s Watch”: Kipling wasn’t known
at school as “Beetle” (B. 5/2/’36). In
Stalky s Reminiscences, Major-General
Dunsterville (of Dunsterforce fame) states
definitely that Kipling s only nickname
was Giglamps, ’ derived from the very
buck: glasses he was obliged to wear. And
J 9 ai ? no , t a § ree Wlt h Rabbits’ Eggs” that
Kipling s housemaster had anything to
complain of for the treatment he receives
m Stalky and Co. He is never cruelly
Tounfript arfTu.tfer Ws “h™
5* «»n » V-
J n ",he other hand could haie had qulle
pulque. , b ’ ; . caricature he
d * owned £
f Kipl ing left the college,
b b *
“Hecagus”: I can corroborate
“Schuit’s” personal reminiscence of a
goer War mix-up of names. Lieut. J. B.
Higginson, of the sth Q. 1.8., was
wounded in the knee at Onverwacht in
190 2, and the last I saw of “Higgy”—l
was j n the same division—was in hospital
a t Charlestown. The 4th Contingenters
a j S(y owned a lieutenant known as
“Higgy,” but his name was Higson. Lieut,
Higson was wounded in the head in the
Zandfontein district, and was invalided,
dying some time later. During the years
that followed I roamed widely over the
globe, and whilst at Monte Video was
greeted by an old cobber of African
days. Yarning over the usual glass, he
told me “Higgy” had passed on. “But
which ‘Higgy,’ ” I asked—“4th or sth?”
He couldn’t tell me. More years ticked
away, and I met another old Boer War
man at Apia (Samoa). Whilst filling
’em up he said: “Suppose you heard
about ‘Higgy’ going west?” “Yes,”
I came back, “but which one, 4th or
sth?” He thought if was the sth. It
was not until I received my copy of the
jubilee number of The Bulletin and
read a R.P. article and saw Frith’s carica-
ture of J. B. Higginson that I knew it was
“Higgy” of the 4th Q. 1.8. to w'hom both
of my old cobbers had been alluding.


QN
BANK
the QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directoks —James Love. Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thia
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banging business.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Booms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVjE- public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart foi the service of Bulletin
fCa The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot las
Bulletin to hand. , .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every mqu y
must be confined to one subject. . . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reservea.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
è
é
probable area of Lake Eyre and the adjacent
flats which would be flooded if the sea could
be turned into that part was about lU,IHJU
square miles. Once the inland sea was estab-
lished, and assuming (though meteorologists
decline to assume it) that it would cause rain
to fall in the interior, Lakes Gardiner, Frome,
Amadeus, Giles, Blanche and a host of others
would be filled or partly filled. The south end
of Lake Torrens, which is between Lake Eyre
and Spencer’s Gulf, is 90ft. above the sea,
however, and it has never been shown that the
centre of the lake is below sea level. The
canal from Port Augusta to Lake Eyre would
be about 2000 miles long, and Lake Eyre is
only 39ft. below sea level. A cutting fro™
170 ft. to 194 ft. deep would have to be made
for many miles. It has been officially calcu-
lated that to provide for evaporation (100 m.
p.a.) from 10,000 square miles of inland sea
(approximately the area that would be flooded),
a channel 12ft. deep and 6000 ft. wide would
be required. The nature of the country to be
excavated —how much would be rock, how
much mud, and so on —is not known, but
estimates of the cost of the work range from
£151,450,000 at 3d. per cub. yd. to
£3,029,000,000 at ss. per cub. yd.
* * * *
What is the normal range of alto, first
tenor, second tenor, first bass and second bass
voices as recognised in part-song writing ?
412.
Male alto may range from middle C to
octave above; his part is generally written in
G clef at actual pitch. As male part songs
often have phrases in unison, both first and
second tenor are often asked to sing from C
below middle C up to octave above middle C.
Second tenor is allotted much the same range
as the first, except that higher notes are not
so often called upon. First bass ranges from
about C below middle C to final E above
middle C; second bass from about bottom F
on bass clef to middle C. When there is no
male alto voice the first tenor has the highest
part. As the highest notes are not so easy
for him as for the male alto they should not
be called upon so often.
* * * =H
(1) Is it possible in Queensland to get an ejec-
tion order against a tenant in arrears without
incurring costs, and, if so, to whom must one
apply ? (2) Is a houseowner liable to pay
commission on rent an agent failed to
collect ? (3) What steps must be taken to re-
cover rent due by an ejected tenant ? (4) If
the agent of an absentee owner permits a
tenant to remain in a house for two months
or more without 1 paying rent, can he be held
liable for the arrears ? —460.
(1) and (3) You may distrain for the rent
subject to the Law of Distraint Act (Q.,
1934). You must give notice of your intention
to the tenant, and if within 14 days thereafter
he does not apply for relief to the Magis-
trate’s Court nearest to the residence in ques-
tion you may forthwith distrain on his goods
and chattels. If, however, he makes applica-
tion to the Court, you cannot distrain until
it has disposed of the matter. The Court
has power to order that the landlord
shall not distrain, except by its leave, before
a specified date, and may fix terms and
conditions, such as payment of the rent by
instalments. It is not necessary to employ a
solicitor if you are capable of carrying out
the prescribed procedure and placing your case
clearly before the magistrate. The Clerk of
the Court would no doubt help you with infor-
mation as to any minor points of procedure.
(2) Commission is payable only on rent col-
lected. (4) No; subject, however, to any special
condition that may have been inserted in the
agreement.
* * * *
Some details about Mary Webb, authoress
of “Precious Bane” ? —494.
She was bom Gladys Mary Meredith, on
March 25, 1881, in the village of Leighton,
Shropshire. In 1912 she married Henry Ber-
tram Law Webb, a schoolmaster, and they made
their home at Pontesbury, Shropshire. She
published The Golden Arrow, her first book,
in 1916. Gone to Earth was issued in 1917,
together with The Spring of Joy; then fol-
lowed The House in Dormer Forest (1920),
Seven for a Secret (1922) and Precious Bane,
her best-known work, in 1924. A book of
poems appeared in 1929. She died on October
8, 1927. Some months atfer her death Mr.
Stanley Baldwin (then, as now, Prime Minister)
praised her art at a Royal Literary Fund
dinner, and her books, reissued, rapidly be-
came best-sellers.
* * * *
Lines by John Dryden in which he links
Homer, Dante and Milton together? —97ls.
The poem, entitled “Under Milton’s Picture,”
is as follows:
Three poets in three distant ages born,
Greece, Italy and England did adorn ;
The first, in loftiness of thought surpassed;
The next in majesty; in both the last.
The force of Nature could no further go;
To make a third, she joined the other two.
* * * *
Translation of the following, and name of
its author:
Omnibus hoc vitium est cant c/rib us, inter amicos
Ut nunquam inducant animum cantare rogati,
Injussi nunquam desistant.
. . . . —274.
Horace wrote it, and in English it reads:
“There is this vice in all singers, that when
asked among friends they can never bring their
minds to sing, but when unbidden they will
never leave off.”
(1) Author of verses beginning "1 think that
I shall never see A poem lovely as a tree” ?
Where can it be found ? (2) Names of some
other tree-loving poets ? —393.
(1) The lines are entitled “Trees,” and are
by an American poet, Joyce Kilmer. They are
included in many anthologies. (2) Other well-
known tree poems are Richard Aldington’s
“The Poplars” and Hilda Doolittle’s “The
Pear Tree.” Several poems of the sort were
written by Robert Frost, Edward Bliss Reed,
Henry Abbey, John Moreland and Ralph Waldo
Emerson. Many may be found in The Home
Book of Verse.
* * * *
What is the poem which contains the words
‘‘To you with failing hands we throw the
torch,” and who wrote it ? —347.
The line is from “In Flanders Fields,” by
Lieut.-Col. John McCrae, a Canadian, who
died in an army hospital at Wimereux, France,
on Jan. 18, 1918.
* * * *
(1) What is the usual method of classifying
books in the large Australian public libraries ?
(2) How are the books in the Melbourne
Public Library classified ? (3) What method of
cataloguing is mostly employed in libraries ?
(4) Systems of lending library recording and
charging ? (5) Where can books on library
work be borrowed in Melbourne ? —SOO.
(1) Dewey decimal system. (2) By Dewey
system. (3) Public libraries usually have what
are known as “dictionary catalogues” on cards.
(4) There are many, but they can hardly be
explained in the space available here. Write
to the chief librarian, Public Library of Vic-
toria, Melbourne. (5) From the Public Lend-
ing Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
* * * *
What is the cause and cure of enlarged and
inflamed papillce at the sides of the tongue ?
Are they due to smoking or stomach disorder ?
—442.
The trouble frequently follows influenza and
febrile conditions. Tobacco and alcohol should
be curtailed. Dental faults should be
looked for. Avoid constipation with fre-
quent saline aperients. If inclined to flatu-
lence or acidity, take milk or magnesia occa-
sionally in the morning. For local treatment,
use glycerin thymol compound with warm
water (one in three) as a mouth wash after
meals and at bedtime.
(1) What are the early symptoms of Bright’s
disease ? (2) What are the causes ? (3) Can
a youth of 19 be affected ? —285.
(1) In mild cases there may be no general
symptoms; the trouble is discovered by
routine examination of the urine. In severe
cases some feverishness is present. Sometimes
the first symptom is headache, with malaise
and shortness of breath. The patient has pain
over the loins, and the face is usually swollen
in a peculiar way. The skin beneath the eyes
tends to sag, the eyes themselves seem to be
watery, and the tongue is dry. (2) Extremes
in any form may precipitate the trouble. (3)
The disease develops at any age; usually after
maturity.
* * * $
What are the correct formula and dose of
‘‘Chelsea Pensioner” for rheumatism ? —317.
The formula appeared in medical textbooks
about 1821. Mix together 2oz. sulphur, loz.
cream of tartar, 2 drachms powdered rhubarb,
1 drachm powdered gum guaiacum, 1 drachm
powdered nutmeg, lib. honey. The adult dose
is one or two teaspoons night and morning,
followed with a glass of hot water.
* * * *
7 am 16, and have always been under weight.
I have tried various fattening foods without
success. What can be done ? —433.
Include starchy foods in the diet and drink
milk freely. Taken between meals, malt ex-
tract is of value. Inheritance counts for much.
Faulty assimilation with lime deficiency in
early life causes slender bone formation and
consequent reduced weight. In such cases
calcium salts, limewater, etc., may be useful.
But you needn’t despair at 16; deposition of
fatty tissue, as the pundits call it, seldom
begins earlier in the male.
* * * *
Is it worth while keeping stock plants which
flowered well last spring ? Are they better
than young plants set out this month ?— 547.
Provided the plants are healthy, they should
flower well this year. Cut off the weak laterals
on the lower part of the stems, also the yel-
lowed leaves that may be affected with dis-
ease, and mix into the soil at the base a
sprinkling of superphosphate. Aphis-infested
plants should be dusted with equal parts of
tobacco-dust and lime. However, young
plants are likely to be a better proposition and
give better results, especially where the soil
is in need of much cultivation.
* * * *
When is the best time to shift established
shrubs (about two years old) to another garden
in the same locality 7 —543.
Leave it until the end of May, when the sap
has gone down. Dig wide around the shrubs
so that the root-growth is not damaged, lift
the shrubs and wrap the roots in hessian or
calico at once. It is exposure to air which
causes failure. Plant the shrubs, still wrapped
in hessian, in the garden: the covering will
soon rot and allow the roots to expand. Do
not apply manure to shrubs when shifting, but
a little rotted leaves and sand is helpful.
* * * *
(1) How to clean the inside of a silver
teapot ? (2) How to remove blacklead from an
old fireplace before applying kalsomine ? —454.
(1) Wash well with hot water and soap, and
scrub as well as possible; then mix whiting to
a paste with household ammonia, and apply
in the usual manner. Allow to dry, then rub
off and polish. Hyposulphate of soda, dis-
solved in only enough water to make a liquid,
may be applied with a rag to very tarnished
silver; rinse well and scald before putting
away. (2) Wash with petrol or kerosene. If
the blacklead has been on a long time it may
be very obstinate. A first coat of kalsomine
applied very thickly and dabbed on would
probably not disturb the blacklead, so that a
good finish should result from a second coat.
ê


1936 Electrical and
Radio Exhibition
(Sydney Town Hall, 4th to 14th March)
w ’ 4
Be sure to inspect the Ever-Ready
display at STAND No. 7
E 3
i mi iiiiii um*ininiii
twciiniiiiaillM'** ll ' l '
H
a
ER
tt::
STAN D ARP
DSgCEU
v x ;rßeadT c?
«juuiiUillUUuUUUß»'
Everße4^
USE ONLY
VER
lAO
MANUFACTURED BT THE EVER*READY COMPANY (AUSTI ITD.. SYDNEY
THE Electrical and Radio Exhibition of
1936 is more comprehensive, more in-
triguing, than ever before.
The Ever Ready Co. has spared no time
nor expense to make Stand No. 7 as
interesting as any in the great display.
Every unit of the complete range of Ever
Ready battery-operated apparatus is
there for you to inspect and test. There
are torches, hand lamps, cycle lamps,
automatic lights for cupboards, etc.,
electric candles and dozens of other use-
ful gadgets, many of which you may
never have seen. Make a special point
of seeing Stand No. 7 when you visit the
Exhibition.
See
Battery operated
CANDLES
GAS LIGHTERS
PENCIL LIGHTS
Etc., Etc.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
For Sterilisation
Yes, the Sodeman case (B. 26 /2 / ’36)
presents a further argument for the intro-
duction of some scheme of racial hygiene
into our national life.
Germany’s law for the prevention of
hereditary disease has been hailed by
scientists as a turning-point in the history
of humanity, by others as a return to
barbarism.
. It was introduced because of the danger
that the mentally defective and feeble-
minded might some day outnumber those
of normal intelligence. People of superior
intelligence have only one or two chil-
dren. They take up occupations entail-
ing long and specialised training, acquire
a well-developed sense of responsibility
and thus rarely marry before they are in
their thirties. People of low intelligence,
being comparatively irresponsible, marry
young and breed like rabbits; many of
their offspring have to be cared for by
the State.
It is only our complex civilisation that
has made the reproduction of the diseased
and inferior possible. It is impossible in
the plant and animal worlds, as well as
among primitive peoples.—R. F. C. (Q.).
N.T. Enterprise
Canberra often voices gloomy views
about the Australian tropics, but one
may well doubt whether any official-
ridden greengrocer beside Molonglo’s
stream would display the business
initiative of a Darwin colleague who has
taken to importing fresh vegetables from
Brisbane by air.
This commercial genius heard that
Qantas-Empire Airways were dispatch-
ing an empty ’plane to Darwin, and
arranged for it to be loaded with 3001 b.
of green peas, beans and other vege-
tables not obtainable in Darwin at this
season. The consignment was sold out
at a handsome profit before the ’plane
arrived, and Darwin enjoyed its first really
fresh green vegetables for months. Ordi-
narily, “fresh” means a fortnight old
on the monthly boat, with a week’s
veg.-less hiatus per month.—C. B. (Q.).
“The Boat Sank”
Why isn’t it made compulsory for all
boats to undergo a buoyancy test? Many
drownings occur because boats will not
remain afloat after having capsized or
become swamped.
The system is simplicity itself. Just
put a weight equal to the crew, plus oars,
anchor, etc., and fill the boat with water.
If she sinks, all that is needed are a
couple of airtight tanks —usually fitted
under the thwarts. Lifeboats of liners
and men-o’-war are fitted in this manner.
—Kellick (N.S.W.).
The Queensland Stock Inspector
“Pleuro” (B. 15/2/’36) objects to
Queensland stock inspectors getting car
allowances. These are on a mileage
basis, and after several years of careful
accounting I found that a friend’s mile-
age allowance was quite inadequate. In
the end, every “beneficiary” is out of
pocket. Depreciation, rough roads, high
petrol prices, accidents and extortionate
charges by mechanics contribute to the
final deficit.
“Pleuro” can remember a time when
cars were not used in the Government
service. Perhaps he can also remember
somebody’s granny telling of her experi-
ences when overlanding in bullock
waggons. Runs that used to be given
over to a few boundary riders and un-
wieldy flocks of sheep or mobs of cattle
are now either reduced in size or cut up
into smaller living areas. Associated
with closer settlement is the great advance
in cattle-breeding, woolgrowing, dairy-
ing, lamb-raising, horse-breeding and
similar activities.
Old-time stock inspectors were chiefly
recruited from financially broken-down
station managers and the like. Fine
chaps, no doubt, but ignorant of even
elementary veterinary science. They
were not able to assist dairymen because
they had no knowledge of dairy science,
or even of simple milk- and cream-test-
ing. A tumor on a cow was, to them, just
a lump. Yet “Pleuro” says their work
was every bit as efficient as, if not better
than, that of the present-day inspector,
who has to pass examinations in animal
anatomy and physiology, in diseases in all
kinds of stock, dairy science and a host
of other subjects, and who has to be
familiar with Acts dealing with slaughter-
ing, poultry, animals and birds and native
plants.
Stock population has increased amaz-
ingly during the past quarter-century.
Diseases have increased, too, as the
C.S.I.R. has proven. Nowadays stock-
owners imagine that it is the bounden
duly of inspectors to leap to their aid
whenever Strawberry overeats on lucerne
or when Mrs. Dobbin is up against some
obstetric problem. But they hate help-
ing to pay for it all. — Pa Pilloma (Q.).
Generic Terms for Wine
Those interested in the wine industry
very much appreciate your frequent and
favorable references to this rural indus-
try, which should be one of the first in
Australia.
For the six months to December 31,
1935, Australia exported 2,290,991
gallons, valued at £594,765, and for the
financial year to June 30 will go very
close to the four-million-gallon mark.
Although this export makes Australia
the second-largest shipper to the United
Kingdom (Portugal stands first), one
rarely sees in the published lists of Aus-
tralian exports any reference to wine.
Referring to the use of generic terms
for wine and the claim of France that
such names as Burgundy and Chablis
should apply only to French wines, that
claim was never upheld at the inter-
national conventions dealing with such
matters. France is now endeavoring to
attain its ends by separate trade agree-
ments.
The weak point in France’s argument
is the fact that Algeria and the South of
France, which supply the Burgundy dis-
trict with so much wine used in blending
Burgundies, are not in favor of the de-
limitation of this district, and of making
the name Vin de Bourgoyne applicable
only to the products of the Burgundian
vineyards.
We remember the riots in Champagne.
Presumably when the Burgundy district
is delimited it will be extended to the
Mediterranean to pacify the vignerons of
those departments, but the wine will still
go out as Burgundy.— Cellarman
(N.S.W.).
The Forgotten Old Men
Victoria has a remnant of public ser-
vants with pension rights under a con-
tract with a forgotten Government. Their
meagre pensions were cut during the de-
pression. All over the threescore-and-ten
mark, and some hobbling on to the cen-
tury, they rubbed their rheumy eyes
when they read a cheery par. in their
morning paper:
The allowance of State Ministers away
from their homes or from Melbourne on
official business has been increased to £1
a day when in Victoria, and £2 a day when
out of the State. The allowance is for
out-of-pocket expenses, and is in addition
to travelling expenses.
The veterans remember that the Pre-
mier promised them “favorable con-
sideration” of their request for complete
restoration of their economy cut. They
remember ; the Premier has evidently tor-
gotten. — Octogenarian (Vic.).


ë
ē
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Regular Bachelor won the Newmarket
Handicap of 1936 like a really great
galloper. A hundred yards from home
no one gave the Bananalander a 50-to- i
chance of success. He had not begun
so well as usual, and travelled somewhat
sluggishly over the first half of the jour-
ney. As a result Regular Bachelor then
was behind at least a dozen rivals. But
Tanwan waited until the son of
Bachelor’s Persse took hold of the bit,
after which horse and rider united their
efforts so splendidly that the favorite
wriggled past obstructing rivals and
fairly smothered the leaders. He scored
by only half a length from Valiant Chief,
but was going right away from Archie
Crofts’s candidate at the end of “six,”
run in lmin. llsec.
As Valiant Chief met the winner on
71b. worse than weight-for-age terms, the
honors of the race might be accorded to
this three-year-old ; but Regular Bache-
lor triumphed over difficulties, and is a
better horse than Valiant Chief.
Cardinal finished only a head behind
Valiant Chief and a similar distance in
advance of Barracker. Many spectators
considered that the latter horse had
gained a place, and Theo Lewis, who
rode the Windbag four-year-old, looked
with visible astonishment at the numbers
over the judge’s box as he rode back
to scale. Barracker is improving. Heri-
tor (sixth) did far and away the best of
the Sydney horses: Cabalist (for whom
there was heavy support on the course),
Grand Mogul, Barak, Gay Blonde and
The Marne performed poorly. Arachne,
who is owned in Melbourne and has
been trained there for several weeks
past, found 9st. 41b. entirely too much to
handle and beat only five horses in a
field of 30. Shean reported that Gay
Blonde, had had every chance, but could
not go on with the business when asked
for a supreme effort two furlongs from
home.
Eight to one could be got about
Regular Bachelor when course betting
opened, but the price shortened to 9 to 2.
Valiant Chief was at 10 to 1 ; Cardinal
at 33 to 1. This Page plumped for Regu-
lar Bachelor, and gave Cardinal a place.
Sylvandale (6 to 4 on) downed Cuddle
in memorable fashion in the Essendon
Stakes, at weight-for-age. The mare
from Maoriland set a terrific pace. This
suited Sylvandale, whose rider simply
had to sit in behind the flying leader and
settle her with a sharp dash half-way
down the straight. But Sylvandale had
to break the Flemington record to do it.
He covered 1| miles in 2min. 2Jsec. This
not only is half a second faster than
the time established by Parsee (imp.) in
the spring of 1929, but verges closely
on the Australasian record of Phar Lap
(2min. 2|sec.), made in the Craven Plate
of 1931.
Marabou whipped-in the field for the
Essendon Stakes, and it would be a waste
of money to take him over to Sydney
for the Easter meetings, as the son of
Marconigram is appallingly out of form.
Hall Mark is mending from the physical
trouble that compelled his withdrawal
from autumn racing in Melbourne, and
his attendance at Randwick may be de-
pended upon if the present rate of im-
provement is maintained. However, Syl-
vandale will take no end of beating in
any weight-for-age event that he is set
for.
Newmarket Day sport was on a high
plane. Gold Rod ran right away from
Fidelity and others in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Previously unbeaten, Fidelity
was in sufficiently good condition, but
the daughter of Constant Son could not
ask Gold Rod to gallop. The colt had
six lengths to spare at the finish, and the
margin could have been greater. As it
was, the race record of Imin. 24isec. for
seven furlongs was equalled. The
course record for the journey is lmin.
24sec., shared by Waranton (a Futurity
Stakes hero) and Great Night. They
are now hailing Gold Rod as “the colt
of the century.” Somewhat premature.
Only the first and last races at Flem-
ington went to local horses. Blackford
put up a world’s record for two miles
over the battens by inflicting a head
defeat on African in the Pines Hurdle,
two miles being put behind in 3min.
34|sec. Greenhorn (Brunswick Stakes,
8 to 1) was the other Victorian winner ;
he just pipped Amalia (5 to 1) on the
post. The mare would have won if
Bastian had made more use of her just
after entering the straight. Greenhorn
credited W. R. Kemball with the Bagot
Handicap on New Year’s Day. He i£ a
bit in-and-out. Hot Shot was not ridden
to advantage.
The Sydney division profited by
Allunga’s success in the St. Leger ; they
did not expect to get 2 to 1, which most
did —it was 6 to 4 at the close of opera-
tions. The backing of Bustard was
chiefly the explanation ; he wound up at
twos; and Young Idea also had sup-
port at fives. Each failed to stay, though
perhaps the weight more than the dis-
tance settled Bustard; and it was re-
served for Viceroy (12 to 1) to make a
race of it with Allunga. He was beaten
by a couple of lengths, but his party
must regret that he was not nomi-
nated for the Australian Cup, in which
he must have got under 7st. Allunga
came home like a good colt; and the
clock recorded 3min., which is respect-
able time ; Young Idea was a couple of
lengths behind Viceroy.
Sydney trainers bagged three races,
Gold Rod taking the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, Sylvandale the Essendon Stakes
and Allunga the St. Leger. Regular
Bachelor, of course, belongs to Queens-
land.
Palfresco is out of the Australian Cup,
for which, at the moment of writing,
Amalia and Allunga are joint favorites.
Both have distinct chances, and Hot
Shot and Greenhorn are a strong pair.
On the strength of a good gallop at
Caulfield, Heroic Prince was backed for
the Brunswick Stakes, but was left many
lengths at the post. On his public form
there is no encouragement to back him
for another Australian Cup, but this
Page has a notion that he will run
well. If he doesn’t show up, he will
have to go back to hurdling or take
to steepling—he has been nominated for
the Great Eastern at Onkaparinga.
Amalia seems back to her fine form
of early summer, when she won five times
in succession, closing with the Port Adel-
aide Cup ; 14 furlongs 74 yards ; time,
3min. lfsec.; “won easily by three
lengths and a half.” That seems good
enough.
* * * *
Three days before the Newmarket,
Heros beat Valiant Chief in the New-
market Trial at Mentone, giving him a
stone —Valiant Chief carried 71b. less
than his weight at Flemington, Bst. 111 b.
—and running the “six” in the course-
record time of lmin. 12|sec. This sug-
gests that a mistake was made in with-
drawing the old Heroic gelding from the
Flemington event, but he doesn’t care
for the straight “six” at headquarters.
Young Idea, a hot favorite for the Open
Mile, was beaten out of a place, the
race being won by Valsard, who couldn t
get a place in the Adrian Knox Stakes
at Randwick. Doubtless an effect of the
colt’s being trained for the St. Leger in-
stead of the Newmarket. In the Caul-
field Guineas Young Idea proved
superior to Valiant Chief and Cardinal
at a mile, and in the Newmarket
he was handicapped to receive weight
from both. In the last race at
Williamstown on Feb. 8 he would
have beaten Belle Silhouette at six fur-
longs had he got clear of the ruck a
little sooner ; and on the following Satur-
day Belle Silhouette won the Oakleigh
Plate. Pity the three-year-old wasn’t re-
served for the Newmarket.
* * * *
“0.M.H.”: R. P. Trihey, who holds
Regular Bachelor on lease for his rac-
ing career, regrets not having entered
him for the weight-for-age Lloyd Stakes.
It remains to be seen how the Futurity
and Newmarket winner will be treated
in the Doncaster at Randwick, where he
probably will join the weight-for-age
contenders. Regular Bachelor has won
at a mile ; and he might be capable of
success over a middle distance. Gordon
Rae, a hotelkeeper at Nanango (Q.),
gave 400gns. for the horse as a yearling,
Trihey having made the purchase on his
behalf. This is the first thoroughbred
that Rae ever owned. Trihey intends
settling in Sydney or Melbourne; he
leans to Melbourne, because stake-money
is so much more liberal than in Sydney.
“S.G.”: Yes, Regular Bachelor won
the Newmarket on the last day of the
Leap Year February, and Cuddle was
second again (though not in the same
race, as at Caulfield). But the girls were
not to be put off this time. Regular
Bachelor was favorite.
* * * *
Penalised 71b., Pasha (Rampion—
Turkish Holiday) won the Maribyrnong
Plate in 1933. He has been a Jong time
returning to that form, but he put up
a sterling performance in the St. George
Handicap at Moorefield, defeating some
smart milers in the style of a real gal-
loper. Over the last two furlongs he
had an exciting tussle with King’s Head.
The latter settled Cid, the early leader,
at the turn, and looked like winning, but
Pasha, served by his pull in the weights—
King’s Head, of whom the handicappers
have a very high opinion, had 9st. 31b.,
whereas Pasha had 7st. 71b. —scored by a
head. Cherry King finished well in third
place ; Regal Star and Cid were next.
The soft track was supposed to be in
favor of Sarcherie, who was in pretty
good shape, and she was made favorite
at fours (Pasha was at sixes). She
jumped away well, actually led for a
few strides, but then dropped out until
she was last half a mile from home.
In the end she beat three horses. Regal
Star will do better, and Cid, Thebez and
Fireman shaped well enough to keep
them in the limelight.
Journal (7 to 4) met a mediocre lot in
the Moorefield Handicap. The Caul-
field Cup winner went unkindly for a
time, but Pike gave him a few cuts with
the whip at the top of the straight.
Journal ran in, but was straightened up,
and won easily from the outsider Brae-
burn and the pacemaker Dango. Egmont
took charge of his little rider and was
always unbalanced, and Foxhunfer found
10 furlongs too far.
The Brewer has won five races, three
of them at Moorefield. Favorite at 5 to
2 for the Three- and Four-year-old, the
Treclare gelding, after being wide out
most of the way, beat Hammerhead and
Bulletin; but he got in Bulletin’s way,
and the latter had to be checked. Had
he finished second there would have
been a protest. Kenya finished fourth,
right under the judge’s box. Sailor
Prince should evidently be kept for
sprints ; on his showing in this race a
mile is too far for him.
The Canterbury-trained Connottar Lad
(20 to 1) gave the bookies a clean sheet
in a division of the Juvenile Handicap.
He showed pace and determination in
downing Earl Sun and Rob Roy, who
will do better on a bigger track. Moon
Flower (7 to 1), who was bred by A.J.C.
committeeman Reg Allan, took the fillies’
division from Home Thrust and Rouge
Blanc, but seemed a bit lucky to beat
both.
In the first division of the Flying
elter, Bullomin was the medium of the
biggest plunge of the day. He was
backed from fours to 6 to 4, and missed
a place. Goorka (7 to 2) took charge
at the Leger and “walked in” from Rem-
brandt and Downham. Goorka was third
to Regular Bachelor at Rosehill; yet fives
could be got. The second division proved
a soft snap for Strathisla, owned by Percy
Stewart Dawson and trained by Mac-
kinnon at Moorefield. He went out at
20 to 1.
* * * *
“Eagle Farm”: Leasing of racehorses
leads to no end of trouble, and it is
surely time the thing was outlawed by
racing legislators. Instead, some of them
practise it. Apropos, W. Nye—not Nye
to whom “Truthful James” “frequent
remarked” —was not allowed to start
Lapfast in a race at Doomben, Brisbane,
because a man alleged to have an in-
terest in the horse had been disquali-
fied over the running of another prad.
Nye was lessor and nominator of Lap-
fast. It would seem that precedent is
against the Brisbane stewards. When the
Purser crowd were outed after the Caul-
field Cup of 1924, the same question
cropped up over Intriguer, a horse leased
by D. Price from Purser’s trainer. The
authorities found that Intriguer, being
leased by Price, was not at the time the
property of the disqualified trainer and
could be entered and raced by Price under
his lease.
* * * *
South Australians and visitors to their
State are going to see some uncom-
monly good centenary-year racing. For
the Harry D. Young Hurdle Race on
Easter Monday the Onkaparinga club
has received 39 nominations, and for its
Great Eastern Steeplechase 74. Also
King Edward is continuing the gifts of
gold cups donated by his father, and the
S.A.J.C. will put on a mile-and-a-half
race for the trophy and £lOOO on
May 16, the last day of its annual meet-
ing, for which £6075 in prize-money will
now be given.
$ * * *
Dead at Penang, “Andy” Norman, for
years one of Malaya’s leading trainers.
His connection with racing, began at St.
Albans (Vic.) in the golden days of W.
R. Wilson, and he held a jockey’s license
from the V.R.C. for years. After the
war he tried his luck in Malaya, and at
once jumped to the front; he had as
many as 40 horses under his eye, and
won every race of importance in the chief
Malayan centres. Australian racing men
travelling Norman’s way were enter-
tained like princes, and he seemed to
know everyone in the F.M.S. and their
neighborhood. Allan Lewis, another Vic-
torian ex-jockey, takes over his horses.
Norman was only 54.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Logan Derby, unbeaten in
the inter-Dominion trotting champion-
ships in Perth (B. 26/2/’36), was bred
by E. Tatlow on his stud farm near Laun-
ceston (Tas.). Evicus, the winner of the
competition on points, though nominated
as a Maoriland representative, was also
foaled in Tasmania. When recommend-
ing Australia as a horsebreeding country,
don’t forget the Speck. Young animals
bred there are not so apt to get sanded
as those raised on the mainland, nor are
they so likely to be driven mad by flies.
* * * *
Harold Brewer, belatedly—and this
ends it:
“Old Reporter’s” assumption (B. 29/1/’36)
that 1 don’t know the difference between a
trotter and a pacer is totally unwarranted; but
I will forgive him and tender some informa-
tion that should be of assistance to him when
he next wanders into the wilderness on trot-
ting arguments. It is usual to describe pacing
and trotting as “trotting” and pacers and trot-
ters as “trotters”; this is done for convenience
and not through ignorance.
In stating that the pacer is no utility horse
“Old Reporter” is wrong again. Mauritius
Bells, a pacer, 22 years old, still pulls a vege-
table cart through the streets of Marrickville
and surrounding Sydney suburbs. The brothers
Byrne, dairymen, of Rosebery, use pacers
as well as trotters. P. Davis, a Campsie milk-
man, Hoskins’s produce store (Waterloo), and
W. Pearce, a baker (Canterbury), use pacers
and trotters in their carts. Hughie Bells, a
well-known Sydney pacer, is often used in a
two-horse waggon. I could furnish many other
instances —could use a whole page for the pur-
pose if The Bulletin would let me.
And it may interest “0.R.” to know that
Lady Talisman, a pacer in Sydney, had two
foals and won a race at her first start after
this maternal effort.
Surely the old gentleman does not think he
is enlightening me when he states that Percy
Miller, Harry Taylor and A. G. Hunter gave
up breeding harness horses for breeding gal-
lopers. He forgets to mention that when these
three went out of the industry many others
came into it. And, believe me, the trio
would return to trotting with rings on their
fingers and bells on their toes if N. S. Wales
had trotting, with betting, at night.
The Afrikanders began fairly well in
the fifth Test at Durban, but could total
only 222 (Nourse 50, Viljoen 56 and
Siedle 36). Grimmett bagged 7 for 100,
giving him 38 for the series, one better
than Whitty’s record. At stumps the
Australians had 239 up with two wickets
down (Brown 84, Fingleton 117 n. 0.). It
was Fingleton’s third Test century in
succession.
(Continued on next page.)


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearm Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.R.
JUST ARRIVED ! Two New Models
of Mauser Bolt-action Magazine
Rifles for 22 cal. long cartridges.
Light Model, 23fin. barrel; weight,
6 pounds.
Heavy Model, 26fin. barrel; weight,
8 pounds.
These rifles group into fin. at 50yds.
Price for either rifle, £lO/10/-.
Postage extra.
Most accurate rifles yet made.
i Firearm or Fishing Tackle Catalogue sent
upon request.
SIL ROHU,
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.’’
EASTBOURNE
THE IDEAL RESORT
1. For leave or retirement.
2. For the education of Y our children.
3. A remarkably equable climate.
4. Accommodation at reasonable
charges.
5. Sport and entertainment at all
times.
6. Music daily throughout the year.
7. Easy access to and from London
(60 miles).
Eastbourne, England's " favoured " health resort,
has a wonderful sunshine record.
-
Make use
of this !
Official handbook , and any information you need regarding
Eastbourne and its amenities , gladly sent on request to
Dept . 80, Information Bureau , Eastbourne, Sussex.
KftF
No. 5598
w
PREVENTS
mm
BACK
BOOT
SAGGING
Boof
GUSSET
SIDES
PEEVE Ml
<*ASS f
EXTI?A
STRENGTH
JROUND
OEMEPfU*
DOUBLE
SCREWED
SOLE
>OINTEO
TOES
ALL SIZES
IN BLACK/
or.TAN CALF
BLACK V/AILABY
\PU
BILOTHEILj
in- Queen. Sirtc*
Bfls
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The hall at Leichhardt, Sydney, has
been reopened for Wednesday boxing,
and pugs and Corinthians (modern
variety) are pleased. Preliminaries at
Leichhardt are generally superior to
those put on at Rushcutter Bay, and the
headliners are seldom inferior. Two
good welterweights in Dick Humphreys
and Cyril Pluto provided the 15-rounder
when proceedings were resumed. Pluto
was the stiffer puncher, Richard the
smarter boxer ; and cleverness prevailed.
But the son of the warrior who fought
Griffo so often was not far behind on
points.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: The years have tinted
with rose the specs through which
“Colonel Bungstarter” (B. 26/2/’36) re-
views the boxing prowess of Alderman
Austin, of Brisbane. There were two or
three contemporaries as good as “Ikey,”
notably “Bluey” Ross. Austin was a far
better Rugby player than boxer, figur-
ing in the maroon jersey against N.S.W.
and M.L. a dozen times. In those days
he had two peculiarities. One was his
objection to being called by his Christian
names, Arthur Edward John ; the other
was his permanent wave. On each side
of the middle parting in his hair were
carefully-kept ripples which nothing
seemed to displace. Many a time foot-
ball opponents have jestingly told him
they would rumple that coiffure before
the final whistle. Many used to try, but
there is no record of anyone succeeding.
Ins and Outs
Natal did well in its second match
against the Australians at Durban, top-
ping _by 16 the tourists’ first innings of
256—the first time it had been done
(Richardson 74 ; Murray, a slow bowler,
5 for 91). Harvey spanked up a good
century for Natal, but Nourse failed
again. Grimmett and O’Reilly divided
the wickets, as usual. Our second try
yielded 326 declared. Fingleton scored 167
—his fifth century—and passed his 1000
runs. Natal had less than an hour to bat
on the last day, and Richardson made a
circus of the innings by putting on bats-
men as bowlers and setting a comic field.
He got a deserved wigging from the
press, and he ought to get another from
the Board of Control. “Rubbing it in”
can be highly offensive. Drawn.
* * * it
“Lansdowne”: A thing that puzzles
me about the S’African cricket tour is
how Durban managed to get two Test
matches. Certainly it is where the Aus-
tralians begin and finish their tour, and it
supplies several representatives to Test
teams, but its population (white) is only
about half that of Cape Town, and the
population of Cape Town and Durban
combined is little more than that of
Johannesburg, where the biggest gates
may naturally be looked for. How did
“poor little Natal” work the oracle?
*!* *l' »i»
Another poor exhibition of batting by
Victoria gave South Australia victory by
an innings and 190 in the last Sheffield of
the season at Adelaide. Most of the
Victorian grief was due to Ward, who
took 9 for 146 in the match. After Vic-
toria had amassed 201 S.A. declared with
6 for 565. Bradman failed, but Badcock’s
magnificent shot of 325 made up for
that. Victoria’s second try panned out
174 (Ledward 47). Ward, new to big
cricket, has taken 41 wickets this season
at 23.5. A cheque to the slow bowler
from the S.A.C.A. was thoroughly
deserved.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Poor old Brer Bradman
has had an awful season. For the first
time since 1929 (except last season, when
he didn’t play) he has failed to score
1000 runs in big cricket, reaching 803
only. His biggest aggregate was 1690
in 1928-29, when Chapman’s team, with
Larwood at his top, was here. However,
South Australia will probably give him
another chance to rehabilitate himself.
Only six batsmen have topped 1000 in
an Australian season. Bradman has»
done it six times, Hendren three times,
Sutcliffe, Ponsford, Kippax and Arm-
strong twice each.
* * * *
The Tarrantulas cast up at Fremantle
in fairly good order and condition.
Ryder gives a jewel-bespangled account
of the tour, which he says was a big
success from all points, the Indian hos-
pitality being exceptional, while the team
made themselves favorites with all and
sundry. Crowds were consistently big,
and the amount of natural talent in Hind
astonished all beholders. In the mind’s
eye one can see an influx of Australian
coaches into India ere long to replace
the English variety. Perhaps even the
Nawab of Collingwood himself may try
the experiment.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: In spite of the evident
fiasco of the Australian golfers’ Ameri-
can tour some of the returned travellers
state that the American P.G.A. proposes
to send a team to Australia in two years’
time to defend The Lakes Cup, which the
States now holds. Indeed, an American
invasion is due this season, Kirkwood
and Hagen having promised to cast up
in this country about June, while Sarazen
“Stand orf ’im in the next round , Alf!”
“Wot with?"
and Helen Hicks will be here for an
Australian tour in July. Kirkwood and
Hagen intend to do some big-game fish-
ing, so the S.P.C.A. and Zane Grey had
better sharpen their tomahawks.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: The club at Lismore
(N.S.W.) has for some time employed
girl caddies, and found them less addicted
than boys to lighting fags with explosive
matches at critical moments. However,
the girls are to go on the two big days,
Saturday and Sunday, when the money
is good and associate players are not
allowed on the course. It is explained
with disarming candor that some of the
members “do not possess placid tempera-
ments,” and that the banishment of
female listeners is “in the best interests
of all.”
Dead in London, at 77, Sam Ryder,
donor of the Ryder Cup. He was a St.
Albans man and a sort of permanent cap-
tain of the Verulam club. Abe Mitchell
was one of the many players he helped
to the front, for he was a veritable fairy
godmother to professional golfers, what-
ever their status. Keen as mustard,
Ryder rose from a sick bed and went
with a doctor and nurse to watch the
Cup play in England in 1935, when the
home side won.
* * * He
“Gregory Terrace”: Brisbane ball-
stealers have evolved a new technique.
If the ball goes out of sight of the
striker it is picked up and pocketed, as
usual. But if the lie is within view of
the player a more subtle dodge is prac-
tised, provided the player is far enough
away ; the thief just strolls across and
drops his handkerchief on it. The wipe
is picked up, and when the player arrives
on the scene ball and stroller are out of
sight'.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland golfers are
not given to pursuing the elusive cham-
pionship in other States, to which may
be attributed in part their failure to rank
higher than they do as players. Von
Nida, the State open and close cham-
pion, intends to have a shy at the Tas-
manian series of championships this
month. Von Nida began as a caddie,
and for a time played as an amateur
before becoming a professional. He is
one of those paid players who are not
eligible for membership of the P.G.A.
owing to their not having served an
apprenticeship to a professional golfer.
The Watermen
Pearce beat Turner in the Olympic
test race on the Parramatta —his third
defeat of the Australian champion
over the distance, 2000 metres, and he
had four lengths to the good. The time
was 7min. 52sec. —7 3-ssec. slower than
the more famous Pearce’s figures at Los
Angeles, but wind and water were against
the scullers.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: A nice point has cropped
up in connection with the Victorian eight
for the King’s Cup. Among those being
considered for selection are a couple of
members of the Corowa (N.S.W.) club,
which, owing to its distance from the
N.S.W. metropolis and the indifference
of Sydney rowing heads to country row-
ing, is affiliated to the Victorian R.A.
A mail vote of the Australian rowing
council is being taken to decide the
matter, since a protest by one of the
other States against a N.S.W. man row-
ing for Victoria might upset the apple-
cart.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The probable appear-
ance of N.S.W. policemen in a boat at
Berlin reminds me how times have
changed. When Roger Hardinge’s crew
went to Henley for the Grand Challenge
it was nearly barred because one of its
members was a policeman. In those
days, of course, there was a ban on men
who did “manual labor,” and a peeler
was regarded as a manual laborer. Tact
and a bit of influence smoothed the diffi-
culty over, but the dreadful secret was
kept as much as possible from the public.
The objectionable old rule was subse-
quently repealed, though the working-
men’s clubs of the Upper Thames and
provincial cities are not encouraged at
Henley.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The London “Times’s”
rowing critic questions whether it pays
to include overseas oarsmen in the Uni-
versity eights. It quotes the cases of
Lewis (Sydney) and Lumb (U.S.A.), who
are rowing three and four in the Oxford
boat, and says the introduction of such
men upsets the combination of the crew
because they find it difficult to forget the
methods of “taking the water and
rhythm” acquired in the wild woods of
their youth. All that has not prevented
men like Sambell and Luxton helping
Cambridge crews to victory.
* * if.
“Blade”: The N.S.W. crew for the
King’s Cup at Perth in May includes
five men from Mosman, Burrell, of that
club, being stroke. Others are Campbell
(Uni.), Fisher (Police) and Dixon (Syd-
ney). The inclusion of a University man
is welcome, since owing to the conditions
imposed by their work the Uni. crews
rarely get a chance to show their mettle
in public. Sid Raper (Mosman) will
coach, the cox is Bowden (Haberfield)
and the emergency McGilvray (Haber-
field). Pearce is to represent the State in
the champion sculls.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: At the meeting of the
A.L.T.A. in Melbourne it was announced
that the Wimbledon people had offered
£125 each for Crawford, Quist and
McGrath to appear at their show. The
offer was accepted, with some comment
on the drop in Australian values since
last' year, when Crawford was champion.
It was stated that the team might go to
Germany, and the association maintained
its reputation as a somersault champion
by deciding that the Cup team would,
prior to leaving Sydney, play an exhibi-
tion match after all.
* * * *
“Spiggotty”: Trouble looms over the
venue of the Australian Davis Cup
match with Cuba. Naturally the cigar-
makers insist on playing on their own
courts at Havana, and precedent is in
their favor. The Australians, after their
experience in Havana some years ago,
want to play in the U.S.A. There is
talk of arbitrators being appealed to,
France and Japan being named. If the
Australians are determined not to yield
to the Cuban point of view, why not
toss for it, and introduce some element
of sport into a rather sordid wrangle?
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Playing in Sydney is a
team of junior tennis-players from M.L.,
the first of its kind from those enchanted
isles: total, seven; ages, 20 to 14. The
Maoriland tennis heads are adopting the


REDUCE YDUR
WAISTLINE ,Va 6
• without drugs
• without dieting
• without exercises
Instead of wasting your time—instead of risking your health
by weakening diets, exhausting exercises and drug-taking
to get rid of a bulging waistline — try the Governa Corrective
Health Belt for 7 days —at our expense.
Fat is Dangerous
A bulging waistline is not only unbecoming, but it also endangers
your health. Insurance companies know the danger of fat accumu-
lations. The best medical authorities warn against obesity, so don’t
wait any longer. The Governa Corrective Belt is the long-sought
relief which brings health as well as a smart figure in the easiest,
quickest and most pleasant way imaginable.
A
jctf
How the Governa Works
The Governa Corrective Health Belt is fitted to your individual
measure, without laces, hooks or buttons. Its elastic action causes
a gentle changing pressure on the abdomen, causing fat to be
absorbed and eliminated, and bringing results formerly obtained
only by regular massage and exercise.
The easy, constant, alternating action of
the Governa Belt increases elimination
and regularity in a normal way, without
the use of harsh, irritating medicines.
Improve Your
Appearance
The Governa Corrective Belt will make
you appear inches slimmer AT ONCE and
in 7 short days your waistline will actually
be 3 inches smaller—3 inches of fat and
“bulge” gone—or it won’t cost you a
penny.
The Belt supports the abdominal wall and
keeps the digestive organs in place—it
quickly gives you an erect, athletic car-
riage and greatly increases your vigor
and endurance. Note how much better
your clothes fit and look without a heavy
waistline to pull them out of shape.
TEST
THE
CORRECTIVE
health belt
FOR DAYS
IT DOES N«»T
REDUCE
YOUR WAIS*
inches in
3 SEVEN DAYS
IT WONiT
YOU ONE PE nNT
Send tor 7 Day
Trial Otter
Let us prove our claims. We’ll send you
a Governa Corrective Health Belt ON
TRIAL. If you don’t get results, the trial
costs you nothing. For the sake of your
health and appearance take advantage of
this Trial Offer at once.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY.
Governa Corrective Belt Company,
International House,
252-4-6 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Gentlemen: Without obligation on my part
send me your illustrated folder describing
the Governa Corrective Health Belt, and
also give me full details of your 7 day Trial
Offer. I enclose 2d. in stamps for postage.
Name
Address.
WOOD
WORKERS!
are
“DELTA"
TOOLS
6-inch JOINTER
For accuracy, convenience and real machine
value, this latest product of Delta engineers
cannot be equalled anywhere, at any price!
Here is a machine that will be a great help
to any shop-—amateur or professional. Pattern-
makers, cabinetmakers, boatbuillders—wood-
working establishments of all kinds, large or
small, should have this new Delta 6-inch
Jointer. Come in for free demonstration. No
obligation.
New
SCROLL SAW
Incorporating many important improvements
and refinements —this latest Delta “Dc Luxe”
model will delight the heart of every wood-
worker. it is ideal for all types of ordinary
scroll saw work, puzzle making, marquetry,
metal sawing, filing, sanding and sabre-sawing.
This saw will cut wood up to two inches thick
—-and is especially adaptable for home work-
shops, factories, sign and display makers,
printers, engravers. Come in and see this
remarkable tool in action.
New 14-inch
BAND SAW
ĕ
THIS is the first
really improved
B and Sa w in
years! Has new
independent Micro-
meter Adjustments
for guides, Tilting
Table on ingenious
Double Trunnion
Supports, Variable
('opacity Frame,
New Safety Disc
Type
Wheels,
new and
convenient arrange-
ment for quick,
accurate adjust-
ment and many
other features.
14-INCH
HAND SAW
No. 000,
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED DELTA
BOOKLET, POST FREE.
ersons
Propneianj limited
51 BATHURST STREET ... SYDNEV.
582 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
1!6 WAY MOUTH STREET, ADELAIDE.
532 MURRAY STREET ... PERTH.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
FRO VI “THE BULLETIN," «/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, <*/ « FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
age championship scheme, realising what
a help it has been to competitive tennis
in N. S. Wales.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: N.S.W. sprinter Hampson,
who made a special trip to Melbourne to
try for a new 100-yard record in the Vic-
torian championship, got a shock. Fare-
welling him, a Sydney scribe patronis-
ingly said that, though Yates would not
be starting, he was sure to find a pace-
maker. He did. Reg Moffatt beat him
out of the holes and won in 9 9-10 sec.
A following wind blew the figures out of
the record book.
* *
“The Gaffer”: What our Australian
runners will be stacked up against at the
Olympiad can be guessed by the per-
formance of the American Gene Venzke
in running 1500 metres in 3min. 49
9-10 sec. indoors. For some recondite
reason, times under cover are never so
fast as those done in the open; and,
listen—W. M. Whyte’s 4min. 4sec. has
stood as the Australian record for a long
time. The world’s best time for the dis-
tance is 3min. 48 3-ssec. by Bonthron, of
New York.
* * * X
“Spike”: At the Olympic Conference
in Melbourne on March 13 a strong
move will be made to hold all Australian
National Games events under Olympic
conditions. This will mean, not only the
adoption of metric measurements in the
field and track events, but changes in
wrestling and boxing rules and the sub-
stitution of real swimming baths for duck
puddles. It would be a good thing for
Australian athletics generally, and make
a comparison with outside performances
easier, if all events, State and otherwise,
adopted the metric system.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L. has not done
the Australian football game good service
by declining to hold inter-State matches
this season. League fixtures in Mel-
bourne will start on May 2 and run un-
interruptedly for 18 Saturdays. In any
other game but the Australian as played
in Melbourne, such a move would be
the first step on to the slippery slide to
oblivion. Cricket without inter-State
competition would be a futile thing, and
other football codes in this country could
not live without the competition with
other States.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Essendon F.C., which has
not been enjoying the best of health, has,
nevertheless, indignantly rejected a move
to amalgamate the “Same Old” with the
Essendon bowling, cricket and tennis
clubs. Essendon, like most of the other
Melbourne League clubs, holds its ground
from the cricket club, and this, like others
in Melbourne, takes the big end of the
money, though most of that comes from
the footballers.
* * =l=
“Gate”: In spite of strong protest the
N.S.W. Rugby League begins its season
in Sydney with a night football com-
petition, beginning on March 18 and
extending over four weeks. A similar ex-
periment was a failure last season, but
the League heads maintain that this was
due to playing the competition in the
cold weather. Another objection is that
football under artificial light is prolific
in casualties, and with an English team
coming in May the risk is not worth
taking for the sake of the profit that may
accrue.
* * * x
“Old Q,”: N.S.W. Rugby League and
its cobber in Queensland are perturbed
over the English poaching of their best
players. The terror has been added to
by an English proposal that a “colonial”
club be formed in London, where the
League game is trying desperately to
establish itself, Australia and M.L. being
levied on for players. North of England
clubs have for years depended on over-
seas and Welsh Rugby Union players to
furnish the stars of their organisations.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The N.S.W. sec-
tion of the Dominions Rugby conference
in London has returned, as The Bulletin
has forecast, with something like a pig
in a poke. Nothing concrete seems to
have been achieved. The suggestion for
an Imperial Board of Control was “not
viewed favorably.” British Unions never-
theless inclined to approve of the appoint-
ment of a special committee of Dominion
and British representatives—six for each
side —to suggest laws and allow modifica-
tions.
“Everton”: English professional Soccer
has been made the of a nation -
wide form of cumulative betting known
as “pools.” Bettors may stake any-
thing from Id. to Is., and are asked to
give eight correct results out of the 35
weekly League matches, or four wins
“away” for their club. The money need
not be sent until a week after the coupon.
This glorified form of betting on the
nod has made the scheme incredibly
popular ; Post Office staff's have been in-
creased all over the U.K., and the presses
are working overtime to supply small
p.os. and stamps. In despair, the League
has cancelled the match draw for the
rest of the season.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland authorities
have dismissed the appeal of the owner
of the Queensland restricted-class yacht
Gwylan (B. 26/ 2 / ’36) against the steers-
man of Tassie 111., and awarded the race
to the Apple Islanders. Jones, owner of
Gwylan, is taking the case to the British
Yachting Association, the equivalent of
the Privy Council.
* ❖ sje
“Backwoodsman”: A mighty bowler
upon the sward is T. Kinder, of New-
castle (N.S.W.), who won the singles in
Country Week. He won the State singles
in 1919, also the State pairs with Mc-
Neil in 1934-35 ; and he was in the
Hamilton club team which took the N. S.
Wales championship in 1928 and 1931.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum reports
something new and strange in billiards
from America—the substitution of purple
for the green cloth for covering the tables.
Walter has played on the new cloth, and
found that eyestrain was reduced, while
the “after-image” which usually troubles
players after a long spell at the table is
eliminated. The champion thinks it will
be a matter of only a few years before
the new color entirely takes the place of
the old.
* * * *
“No. 3”: Likely we shall see that
polo team from the Philippines in June.
H. Munro, an Inverell (N.S.W.) player
who has returned from Manila, says that
the four Spanish brothers Elezades are
a first-class combination. Two Ameri-
can army officers, Captains Gerhardt and
Jones, will probably be the other mem-
bers of the side. Both are in the top
class.


If
|p;
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
If any illustration iii “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you
price for the original.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
ė
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,"
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS. PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
BRANDAUERS
m
X
f\ PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRANDAUEK & CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Sale*
ZZs***.
Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
GERRARD SERVICE
Wire Tying Machines— Wire-Seal Strapping— Flat Band Strapping
Corrugated Fasteners Fountain Stencil Brushes Fountpenci!
Address Markers Automatic Label Tackers—Tack Strip for Automatic
Conveyors—-Packing Equipment
GERRARD tfIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
gaggr
Melbourne. Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
New Occidental’s Accounts
New Occidental’s report and accounts,
dated at Sydney, February 21, make no
mention of the low recoveries experi-
enced since the books closed on Nov. 30.
The difference between October and
November average values (8.44dwt.) and
those for December and January
(6.78dwt.) was about I.7dwt., equal to
approximately 14s. 3d. per ton of ore
mined, with gold at its present price.
Working surplus for the five months
to Nov. 30 was £32,010, or 265. a ton
of ore. The drop in Dec.-Jan. recoveries
is therefore equivalent to more than half
the mine profit (per ton) registered
hitherto. The profit on the Oct.-Nov.
ore, however, should have been higher
than 265. a ton, as it was above the aver-
age grade treated during the full account-
ing period.
Net profit for the period was
£29,493, equal to about 35 p.c. p.a. on
present paid capital. As practically all
surplus revenue has gone back into the
mine and equipment (cash, debtors and
gold slimes, £14,330, were nearly equalled
by sundry creditors, £11,410, at balance
day), no divs. are suggested ; the entire
profit has been applied in writing down
development and mine property.
For the five months 24,617 tons was
treated for 90630 z 7.36dwt.,
though in the initial stages extraction
must have been somewhat more difficult
than at present. Before commercial
operations commenced, 4496 tons of ore
was put through the plant. Costs, instead
of the “245. or 255.” mentioned by Mr.
Arthur Vickery in Jan., 1935, were 38s.
Id. a ton. Improvements here are pro-
mised, especially as tonnage increases.
Lack of skilled labor and hardness of the
ore are blamed. Also, milling capacity
can be quickly increased to 7500 tons
per month, but despite every effort it has
not been possible to advance mine de-
velopment sufficiently fast to consistently
mine an increased tonnage of average-
grade ore.
This statement of the chairman (Mr.
Vickery) might be a clue to present low
recoveries, suggesting that development
ore may be going into the mill. But
shareholders are entitled to more than
clues ; they should be given facts, plainly
and promptly.
The anticipated extraction of 88 p.c. is
being achieved by the plant, it is said.
That is a definite statement. But “samp-
ling and checking of ore reserves con-
firm the previous estimate of 316,000
tons” —that leaves the investor high in the
air on the question of values, a question
which seems to be worrying him a great
deal right now. In two places the
volume of ore reserves is mentioned in
the report, but values are not. North
Kalgurli, Lake View and Star, Mount
Morgan and other mining cos. are most
punctilious on this point, and New Occi-
dental directors must be reminded of the
importance of it. The low recoveries of
Dec.-Jan. apparently came out of ore
reserves, “having a value of between'
Bdwt. and 9dwt.” (annual meeting, 1935).
As the reserves have been “checked and
sampled” lately, the results, even if little
different from those stated a year ago,
would be refreshing in present share-
market conditions.
The auditor (E. S. Wolfenden) gives an
unusual qualification to his report:
In accordance with the terms of my
appointment no audit of the share records
has been made, except that I have verified
that the allotment journal records the issue
of 812,474 shares in the capital of the
company.
The co. should be able to afford a com-
plete audit.
On the matter of development, it is
said that the main shaft was sunk from
840 ft. to 940 ft., and since Nov. 30 a
crosscut was driven 61ft. into the ore-
body, average values being 13.02dwt.
Preparations are being made to sink to
1040 ft. “In the past each level of 100 ft.
has yielded approximately 100,000 tons.”
The balance sheet shows capital at
£203,004. Occidental Gold Mines, N.L.,
appears as a creditor for £6OOO ; on the
assets side shares in this co. figure for
the same amount. Mine property is in
at £90,109, plant at £110,215, under-
ground development £11,827, stores
“Henry, you're keeping eighteenpence from me.”
“Dash it all, a fellow can't be mean when he's been put on the board.”
£16,116, broken ore £2272 and cash,
debtors, furniture and sundries £14,899.
Development account will be wiped
out from last year’s profit, and mine
property will be reduced to £72,444.
Preliminary exes, do not figure in the
accounts, unless covered up under an-
other heading, such as “mine property.”
If the matter of high costs and lower
values is cleared up to shareholders’ satis-
faction at the meeting on March 12, they
appear to have a worth-while asset, mod-
erately capitalised. But short-term in-
vestors especially are entitled to much
more explicit information than they have
been getting. The accounts and monthly
reports are in some directions disconcert-
ingly deficient. If the directors are un-
able to give this information off their
own bat, shareholders might ask for an
independent engineers’ report on the
whole undertaking. The jazzing about
in share prices lately has been accom-
panied by heavy selling—in Melbourne
official sales were 2700 shares on Mon-
day of last week and 4000 on Tuesday.
And a lot of the business is being done
on a forward basis.
Wheat made recovery last week, ris-
ing to 3s. 9d. at eastern ports. Inquiry
came from Britain and Asia, and though
little business was done the tone of the
market was better.
* =(: *
Australia will barely have enough wool
to meet this year’s demand. The price
in Sydney has run up to nearly 17d.,
and sales in several States have been cur-
tailed or cancelled owing to small offer-
ings. In the U.S.A. textile activity is a
record, and local production of raw wool
is a good bit below requirements ; hence
unusually large imports. The position is
much as indicated here some months ago
—that a short selling season would be
reflected in our exports toward the end
of the financial year. Estimated produc-
tion for the current season is 2,930,000
bales. About two-thirds of this had
been sold in the first seven months of
the year—most of it in less than five
months.
* * * *
Australian ’Changes were quieter last
week. Among industrials there was a
good deal of profit-taking, and while
there is a body of floating investment
capital looking for market profits on
’Change there is always the possibility of
minor setbacks. In London there was
heavy selling of industrials and gold
shares on Wednesday; sometimes this
influence reaches Australia, as happened
during the Abyssinian tension some
months back. Lienee the advice here
from time to time to buy stocks on indi-
vidual merits rather than on general
market “tone” ; sound stocks picked up
at reasonable prices are always worth
holding.
* * * *
Electrolytic Zinc shares, pref. and ord.,
were strong last week. Both issues parti-
cipate in any improvement in the div.
rate over 8 p.c. Prefs. were selling
around 425!, ords. at 395. 9d. On Friday
both stocks receded, prefs. to 41s. 3d.,
ords. 38s. 6d. The new mill com-
menced on the Rosebery (Tas.) ore
on February 19, taking a small load
to commence. Initial crushings will be
light for two or three weeks, until plant
and operatives are working smoothly.
The metal continues strong in London,
with forward deliveries at a premium.
Castlemaine-Perkins, Ltd., Brisbane’s
largest brewing concern, is making a new
share issue, as suggested here when the
deal for acquiring the Perkins residuary
assets was announced last September.
Cash totallirig £197,000 passes to old
Perkins shareholders. Those on the
C.-P. register are to be asked for £260,416
in March—4l6,666 12s. 6d. shares, one
for three. When all the new cash is in
paid capital will be £1,041,666, on which
8 p.c. would call for £83,333, within a
few pounds of last year’s declared earn-
ings. The co. has great scope for in-
creasing its profits this year, however.
The shares strengthened to 265. 9d. on
Thursday. To the buyer who takes up
his rights the return will be a little over
4.3 p.c. when the new scrip is fully paid.
* * * *
Some N. S. Wales land men have had
the time of their lives under the Farmers’
Relief Act. They are paid enough to live
on out of the gross proceeds of their
produce; satisfaction of debts comes
afterwards. The scheme from the start
wasn’t foolproof; it is possible, some-
times, for a farmer to send part of his
produce to market in the name of a
friendly neighbor not under the Act.
There has been talk of such things occur-
ring. Still, perhaps, it isn’t often that a
cocky gets the chance to swing the lead.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:' —
Morning Star (G.M.A.) Mines, N.L., de-
clared its first div. (6d. per share). The property
is at Woods Point, near Beechworth. It is
another Vic. show where small tonnages are
being put through for comparatively rich re-
turns. Throughput has varied between 130
and 177 tons a week lately; recoveries have
been as high as 3oz. and as low as 10dwt., with
an average of more like 2oz. It is a dyke
formation 1700 ft. long and 250 ft. wide, crossed
by quartz reefs; these, worked to 800 ft. in the
past, yielded 250,000 fine oz. Diamond-drilling
has disclosed promising formations between
800 ft. and 1200 ft. There are 400,000 shares
out, 200,000 fully-paid to 4s. and 200,000 con-
tribs. called to Is. 3d. Both classes of scrip
are around 3s. 9d. —there was a small rise after
the div. declaration.
New Occidental shares continued to be
heavily traded in on Thursday, 3200 changing
hands during the morning, half on a forward
basis.
Lancefield 4s. shares fell to 9s. lOd. on
Thursday, the lowest price for more than 18
months. These shares have been over 20s.
National Bank (£5) shares were sought
after at £7 155., giving yield of 3.2 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. On a somewhat smaller advances
business this institution has declared higher
profits than the Commercial of Sydney (which
recently paid 6 p.c.) for some years. If the
National’s rate rises to 6 p.c., the return at
£7 15s. would be £3 17s. sd. per cent. Next div.
is due in May. There was a sale in January
at £7 3s.
Heavy forward dealings in Golden Plateau
(Q.) towards the end of the week at around
17s. 6d. a share. Valuation on that basis is
£735,000. Ore reserves (232,300 tons) at
30/6/ ’35 were estimated to contain 92,9900 z.,
worth £790,415 at £8 10s. (Aust.). Total
minirlg costs last year were 18s. 6d. a ton.
Upper Watut now anticipates reaching pro-
duction “shortly after June,” and Irowat
early in May.
Mt. Lyell shares closed at 245. 9d. fol-
lowing reports from the mine and the London
metal market. During the fortnight to Feb.
19, 17,168 tons of ore was mined from West
Lyell opencut out of a total extraction of
28,022 tons. Electrolytic copper produced
since Sept. 30, 5142 tons. Fortnight’s produc-
tion, 511 tons —practically the same rate of
output as last year.
North Kalgurlis were sought after at im-
proved price of 21s. 3d., up 2s. in about a
fortnight. Adelaide market was slightly
stronger. Market valuation of show is around
£1,175,000 (Aust.). In 1934 about 50,000 tons
of ore was crushed. Present throughput is at
the rate of about 85,000 tons p.a., and should
increase. Mining developments recently have
been highly satisfactory—2oz. stone over a
width of sft. and a length of 13ft. was ex-
posed the other day. The general body of ore
ressrves (about 500,000 tons) goes Bdwt.
Absentee management and small plant capacity
are sometimes irritating, but the future looks
decidedly promising.
Buckley and Nunn ords. recovered quickly
to over 18s.


LONDON’S LEADING
HOTELS
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
it bin 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger Lifts.
Garages, Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Running Water. Exchange telephone and
gas tires in all bedrooms. Vegetarians
entered for if desired. BRIDGE. BIL-
LIARDS. TABLE TENNIS and DANCING.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single, from 4 guineas.
Double, from 7 guineas.
Tele: Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
<l6-09 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its new Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 31 guineas Single,
64 guineas Double.
Tele: Padd. 6061.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Tele: Padd. 8022.
Accommodation for 60 guests.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, TV.2.
Tele: Padd. 8431.
Accommodation for 00 guests.
Hotels of refinement, with young and
cheerful society. Delightful rooms
arranged as Bed-sitting Rooms. Owing
to their popularity you are advised to
secure accommodation—if possible—in
advance. Terms: Single, from 3 guineas.
Double, from 5 guineas.
The above hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. ,J. E. Stevenson.
7 eAt foil Month
pprr-
Write for Booklet
and Details
of Trial Offer.
and PROVE that tha
VIBRAPHONE defeats
DEAFNESS
NOW available in Australia.
A perfectly safe hearing aid.
Non-electrical Practically
invisible —No wires No
batteries —No head-bands.
The VIBRAPHONE is
not an artificial ear-drum.
B. NATHAN
37 Austral Buildings,
H 5 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PROCESS FOR
OBTAINING CERTAIN REMEDIAL
PRINCIPLES OF OILS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
17436/24 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
w-
y.
&
Enqland
in
Combine
the charm of the English Spring and Summer with a delightful sea voyage on one of the
great P. & O. Royal Mail Liners and experience the ultimate in travel enjoyment.
FIRST SALOON SECOND SALOON TOURIST CLASS
Fares from £39 SINGLE AND £7O RETURN Plus Exchange
SAILING DATES AND ALL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO LOCAL P. & O. AGENTS.
Cocks Eldorado (Vic.) shares recov-
ered last week after falling to 12s. There
are 250,000 of 10s. issued, priced at 13s.
3d. or thereabouts. The dredge is ex-
pected to be ready by April—capacity,
180,000 yards a month. Property is on
Reedy Creek, Eldorado. The prospectus
(Sept., 1934) spoke of 5,185,185 c.y. of
upper material, and with gold at £8 and
tin at £2BO (Aust.) values were put at
12s. 6d. a yard, costs at 3d., giving a
mining profit in sight of £188,658. In
the lower area 5,807,407 c.y., values 9d.
and costs 3?d., were mentioned, estimated
profit being £118,504. Since flotation a
much greater yardage has been indicated.
Boring has begun in an endeavor to
prove new material. Dredging is to be
carried out to 90ft. below water level,
and the co.’s engineer is of opinion that
trouble from buried trees or old timber
should be nil. Market valuation of the
show at 14s. would be £150,000.
Cocks Pioneer Gold and Tin passed
over the aforementioned properties for
50,000 f.-ps. and £3OOO cash in 1934,
afterwards distributing the scrip among
its own shareholders. The vendor co.
was formed earlier in the year; it re-
tained only the portion of its property
suitable for hydraulic sluicing, estimated
to contain 5,000,000 c.y., tin and gold
values being 14d. and estimated costs
5.47 d. a yard. Profit in sight was put
at £120,625, with a life of six years.
Sluicing began in October, 1935, recov-
eries for the first three months averaging
17.5 d. and costs 8.4 d.; during the next
run the figures were 16d. and 10.2 d. ;
then 20d. and 9.6 d. Since July 27, 1935,
recoveries have been only 11.03 d., but a
margin of profit has been shown, total-
ling £5BOO net. Directors last week ex-
plained that the area treated during this
period had been worked extensively by
miners in other days. This previously-
treated ground is expected to be passed
through by the end of April. The co.
hopped quickly on to the div. list with
shilling distributions in May, August,
and December, 1935. There are 100,000
10s. shares, 60,000 paid to Bs. From
15s. in August the contribs. had dropped
to 9s. 6d. last week.
Wattle Gully G.M., N.L., Chewton
(Vic.), jumped into the spotlight lately
in Melbourne. In January the 9s. 3d.-
paid contribs. were selling at 10s. ; a few
months before they were worth a couple
of shillings. Last week they were up to
19s. 6d., but slipped to 17s. later, follow-
ing considerable forward dealings. The
show kicked off in Sept., 1933, issuing
20,000 £1 fully-paids to the vendors (£250
in cash) and 40,000 contribs. to the
public. A shaft has been sunk to 600 ft.,
and from shaft material 175 tons was
crushed for 630 z. Driving from the
575 ft. level in order to pick up the lode
stabbed by diamond drill (125 ft. away)
has produced payable stone en route,
and 210 tons was recently treated for
1260 z., averaging 12dwt. Hence the
market interest.
* * * *
Gordon Gold’s mine (at Gordon, Vic.)
during the two years to Sept. 30 last
yielded 82480 z. from 952 tons of ore
and 1006 tons of “seconds” and tailings.
Most of this rich ore came from a nar-
row quartz reef above the 187 ft. level.
The reef has been proved at 300 ft., but
it is much wider, with lower values (from
lOdwt. to loz.). Crushing of stone from
this level brought a heavy fall in recov-
eries—average about 16dwt. as against
up to 177dwt. previously. Whereas
hitherto 25 tons a fortnight brought in
big revenue, treatment on a much larger
scale (10 times the quantity or more)
may now be necessary. The recent crush-
ing of 27 tons for 1770 z. came from
stopes above the 187 ft. level, where there
is estimated to be 200 tons averaging
7oz. Below 187 ft., down to 300 ft., there
is reckoned to be 2350 tons averaging
3oz. 13dwt. On a capital of £7030 (in
shilling shares) co. has paid divs. of
£24,605 to date, and a further div. of Is.
a share, payable March 14, was declared
last week. Present market is 13s. 6d. a
share.
* * * *
A drop of sixpence on a price of 88 s.
(sales were registered at 88s. 6d.) isn’t
of much consequence; but Australian
Glass scrip, mentioned (B. 19/2/’36) as
seeming fully priced at that figure, has
fallen back to 87s. 6d. An income equal
to 20 p.c. on present ord. capital (13 p.c.
was paid last year) would give a yield
of £4 11s. sd. per cent, on last week’s
quote. Anything like 20 p.c. (or anything
in the way of titbits that would make
the div. worth that rate) has yet to be
announced. Crown Crystal and Aus-
tralian Window Glass are certainly doing
much better—last year’s div. included 4
p.c. from sources of this kind —and
bottle-making has always been very pro-
fitable. The co. probably has more cash
than it knows what to do with at present.
The recent big rise in the market was
based on rumors of something additional
for shareholders.
* * * *
An option such as that held by the
vendors over 350,000 unissued shares in
Emperor Mines (B. 12/2/’36) may in
future debar such a co. from being listed
on Melbourne Stock Exchange. The
committee “feels that, as a practice,”
share options are “not in the best in-
terests of shareholders and of the mining
industry generally.”
It will be interesting when the share-
market heralds the first crushing of an
Australian low-grade show with a boost.
Lancefield, New Occidental, Rothsay, a
dozen others and now Lady Shenton —
all have slipped in the market at the in-
teresting stage. Shentons, up to 16s.
before Christmas, touched 12s. 6d. last
week on heavy selling in Melbourne and
other centres. A clean-up was due at the
week-end, after shareholders’ nerves had
been tried by a stoppage and rearrange-
ment of the plant and rumors (refuted
by the board) that the whole shooting-box
was unsuited to the ore. A 40-day inter-
val between commencement of crushing
and clean-up is the sort of thing that lets
bears in.
* * * *
A Melbourne opinion is that Lance-
field, Beria (W.A.), lacks little on the
potential side; its troubles are mainly
of the present. Development is back-
ward, and at the metallurgical end things
might be improved. Even at 10s. 6d. a
share the undertaking is valued at only
£525,000. Ore reserves totalled 330,000
tons, Bdwt. values per short ton, at date
of flotation. These values have been
fully realised in the 60,000 tons treated
at the end of January, but recoveries so
far haven’t been much better than 75 p.c.
All-in costs were about 245. a ton, exclud-
ing £25,552 charged to capital during
July-Dee., partly in respect of develop-
ment. Directors need to shake things up
on the treatment side. The low working
costs (compare them with New Occiden-
tal’s 38s. Id. per long ton) indicate that
recoveries of 4dwt. (gold at £8 an ounce)
would be quite profitable.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Dangerous”
A young architect (Franchot Tone),
going by chance into a low-class drink-
ing den, recognises Joyce Heath (Bette
Davis), two years before the leading
actress in New York, now a drunken
derelict. Her fall had been attributed to
a “jinx”—managers, plays, theatres,
actors, friends, everything she touched
met with misfortune. Tone determines
to help her, and takes her to his week-
end cottage. Here she plays the tempt-
ress, and Tone, although telling himself
and her that he is still in love with his
fiancee (Margaret Lindsay), is attracted
(the “jinx” again). He breaks his en-
gagement and stakes his whole fortune
in giving Joyce Heath a chance to stage
Nigel Bruce in “The Man Who Broke
the Bank.”
a comeback, but she lets him down just
before the opening night. A show-down
follows in which he convinces her that
her “jinx” is merely her own selfish
nature that refuses to consider others,
and we switch to a highly-moral ending
—lovers reunited and repentant actress
devoting rest of life to crippled husband.
(He’d have been mentioned before, but
he didn’t turn up till just towards the
end.)
An unconvincing and uninteresting
film. Dialogue weak —Franchot Tone,
instead of being allowed to talk like a
human being, is made to preach ser-
mons —and, although there are some
highly-dramatic scenes, there are many
others, intended to be equally so, which
fall very flat. At Sydney Plaza.
“Freshman Love”
Naturally, this is a “collegiate” film,
but unexpectedly it is genuinely amusing.
Frank McHugh is the rowing coach at
Billings University, but to his disgust
the governors pay more attention to
scholastic successes than to rowing. Aided
by Patricia Ellis and other college
wenches, he inveigles two champion oars-
men and a cox who conducts a dance
band to enrol as students. Comes the
big race of the year. Billings, spurred
on by the band, is leading the field when
a rival orchestra upsets its stroke with
tango music. The race is almost lost
when the home band blares forth
“Dixie,” and the crew shoots past the
finishing post like a speedboat. Ridi-
culous but highly entertaining. Also at
the Plaza.
“Dangerous Waters”
When his captain dies, Chief Officer
Jim Marlowe (Jack Holt) assumes com-
mand, and, ably assisted by seaman
“Dusty” Johnson (Robert Armstrong),
scotches a fire on board and overcomes
trouble with panicky passengers, bring-
ing his ship to port. Grateful owners
give him the skipper’s job, and he is
joined by his wife (Grace Bradley), a
hard-boiled blonde, who tries vainly to
cast her spell upon “Dusty.” Jim is dis-
missed his command on the owners’
learning that contraband had been on
board when the fire occurred. He even-
tually gets a new command, with “Dusty”
as third mate and McDuffy (Charlie
Murray) as engineer, of a ship which,
unknown to them, is to be scuppered for
the insurance. The trio defeat attempts
to sink her, and reach Valparaiso. Just
before landing Jim’s wife, who made the
trip with him, gets drunk and shows her-
self in her true colors. She goes off with
a Chilean, thus leaving the way open
for her lucky husband to cable to the
goil who had. loved him all along to
come and share his vastly-improved for-
tunes. He’s now captain of a big liner,
and Lloyds have given him 10,000 dahlars
as a reward for preventing barratry. The
poor plot handicaps the players, but the
action is brisk,, and Holt has the sort of
role in which he revels. Charlie Murray,
as a chief engineer with a flair for mend-
ing cuckoo clocks and telephones, gives
a good performance, and the others are
capable. At Sydney Capitol.
“His Family Tree”
Also at the Capitol. A homely Irish
stew in which liberal chunks of Hiber-
nian sentimentality float around in Thes-
pian gravy. It all concerns an ould
County Corker going to Americky to see
his long-lost bhoy, who has a shtuck-up
woife, but, ah-h! a grand darter —a thrue
Murphy. But the tragedy is that her
name’s been contorted to Murfree by her
shtuck-up mother. Ould Pat’s son is run-
ning for election as Mayor of Central
City, la., and his dad wades into the
political Donnybrook with ardor and
ability, finishing up with a victory. But
his son has to change his name back
to Murphy, and a brace of romances is
arranged, including ould Pat’s alliance
with the widdy Oulihan. Nothing much
to the plot, but there are a few Irish reels
and broken heads, a bit of fun and lots
of excitement. And the cast! James
Dudley Digges in “The Mutiny on the
Bounty.”
Barton is Murphy, and then there are
Margaret Callahan, William Harrigan,
Maureen Delany and Pat Moriarty.
“The Charm School”
The thread on which this fantasia is
strung is the inheritance of a girls
school by a sportive young man (Jack
Oakie). He converts it into a “school
of charm,” cosmetics displacing arith-
metic, tap-dancing ousting trigonometry
and crooning being taught instead of cal-
ligraphy. There’s a demure, bespectacled
school secretary (Frances Langford)
who becomes a gorgeous butterfly, but
both she and Oakie are outshone by Joe
Penner, Ned Sparks and Lynne Ober-
man, who in combination are expert
laugh-makers. Penner, new to the screen,
suffers from amnesia, and his efforts to
remember his name lead to various
funny situations. Musical and dancing
interludes are clever enough in their way,
but the film begins to drag as soon as
Ronald Colman in “The Man Who
Broke the Bank.”
Penner and co. are out of sight. At
Sydney Cameo.
“Gentlemen of the Navy”
Theme and setting are the same as in
“Shipmates Forever.” In this case the
young rebel who attends the naval aca-
demy at Annapolis considers that a career
as a football professional is preferable
to the navy ; he is weaned from this idea
by the tragic fate of a retired com-
mander who, in an. access of senile de-
mentia, climbed aboard his old ship and
went down with her when she was sunk
at target practice. These efforts to preach
that ideals of public service should out-
weigh dahlars lack conviction. The really
heartfelt sentiments are expressed by the
chaps who consider that a crooner or a
star footballer, earning as much in a
week as a naval lieutenant gets in a year,
would be a mug to sacrifice all that. But
despite artificiality of purpose and its
nonsensical denouement “Gentlemen of
the Navy” is good entertainment. Sir
Guy Standing’s picture of the old com-
modore, living in the glory of one
crowded hour in Manila Bay, is as deli-
cately cut a cameo as his personation of
the colonel in “Lives of a Bengal
Lancer.” Richard Cromwell and Tom
Brown are an enjoyable pair of first-year
middies, and their contest for the favors
of the girl in the case (Rosalind Keith)
is full of amusing incidents. At Sydney
Civic.
“Girls! Please!”
In this typical English farce at Syd-
ney Embassy, Sydney Howard is
physical-culture master at a girls’
school, left in charge during the
absence of the lady principal. It
becomes his duty to prevent an elope-
ment ; this he fails to do, but he recon-
ciles the elopees with the girl’s father.
Humor is mostly a collection of chest-
nuts. Howard walks into the bar of a
village pub and asks for “a clothes-
brush.” He is handed a drink and a
clothes-brush, drinks, has a fit on the
floor and then brushes the sawdust off his
clothes. Bill Nye published that quip
in the ’sixties. Another sample: “If
that’s tea, bring me coffee ; if it’s coffee,
bring me tea.” Howard is mildly amus-
ing, getting tight on gin while masquerad-
ing as the lady principal, but there was
no necessity for his masquerade. Most
of the incidents in the film, in fact, are'
unnecessary and have nothing to do with
the plot. On at least two occasions Mr.
Howard gets palpably drunk, and a few
seconds later has to recover complete
sobriety because the alcoholic interlude'
was just stuck in to get a laugh. Holly-
wood, with all its faults, doesn’t do things
as sloppily as that.
Land of the Nazis
Also on the Embassy programme, a
travel film frankly intended to win
tourists for Germany, with the Olympic
Games as principal bait. In matter, con-
struction and well-sustained interest this
production is a model of its type. The
amount of ground covered is prodigious
—Hamburg, Berlin, Munich and other
cities; the Rhine and its castles and
beer-gardens ; picturesque villages ; mag-
nificent mediaeval cathedrals; Alpine
scenery, industries, recreations; every-
thing but military and naval preparations.
Emphasis is laid on the comfort of the
means of transport—railway, steamer,
’plane or char-a-banc—and the impres-
sion is subtly given that the Germans are
a pleasant, smiling, friendly people. Even
the Fiihrer, in the brief glimpse given of
him, is beaming genially.
“The Man Who Broke the Bank at
Monte Carlo”
Save for the baccarat sequences, which
are well done, .this is a dull affair. A
Russian grand duke in exile (Ronald
Colman) is sent to Monte Carlo by a
syndicate of cooks and waiters in a cafe.
Doubling his stake each time he wins
at baccarat he walks off with about ten
million francs and announces he will
never play again. The Sporting Club
management conspires to bring him back,
employing as its principal agent a
young actress (Joan Bennett). After
thousands of feet of love-making the
duke is lured back, loses all, and goes
back to taxi-cab driving. A good moral
is spoilt by reconciling the lovers. At
Sydney Regent.
“King Solomon of Broadway”
Edmund Lowe, wisecracking as per-
sistently as ever, is a night-club pro-
prietor, Pinky Tomlin is a dance-band
conductor and Dorothy Page is a female
crooner. Crooks threaten to steal the
night club, but the resource, enterprise
and daring of the proprietor carry him
through. Some of the weakest jazz dit-
ties ever inflicted on suffering ears
Walter Connolly in “So Red the Rose.”
occupy most of the film-length in this
opus—first they are rehearsed ; then sung
in public. The gangster sequences are
not very brilliant, but are welcome, as
gangsters don’t, croon. Also at the
Regent.
“O’Shaughnessy’s Boy”
“Windy” (Wallace Beery) is a circus
animal-trainer whose frequent carousals
and philanderings lead to domestic un-
happiness. Egged on by a sister, his wife
leaves him, taking small son “Stubby'


Australian Art
Exhibition
The Macleod Gallery
252 George Street,
Sydney.
The leading Exhibition
of Australian Art.
Latest works by promi-
nent Artists always on
view and for sale.
Special Exhibition of
Drawings, etc., by the
Brilliant Australian Black-
and-white Artist,
Unk White
Opening on
Wednesday, March 11.
Admission Free.
The “Sandringham* designs
A CHARMING
BEDROOM WALLPAPER
from England
Design just to hand. The paper is a
texture or Morene, obtainable in grey or
fawn. The corner motifs are wide
and deep. The panel border is 7in. wide.
See the above as well as designs for other
rooms in tapestries and chintz, also
friezes, corner pieces and panel borders.
All at the most moderate prices.
VISIT DANKS’ WALLPAPER SHOWROOMS
FOR THE LATEST ENGLISH DESIGNS.
324-330 Pitt Street SYDNEY
Phone: M 6505 (18 lines).
391-403 Bourke Street ------ MELBOURNE
Central 8380 (15 lines).
(Spanky McFarland). “Windy” loses an
arm, being mauled by a tiger, and when
he recovers he sets out to find his wife
and son, without success. Years later, a
wanderer, he learns from the circus pro-
prietor that his wife is dead and that the
boy is a cadet at a college. He obtains
from the Court custody of the boy for
three months, “Stubby” being now Jackie
Cooper. The aunt claims the boy before
the allotted time, contending that the
old man is not able to support him.
Desperate, “Windy” again tackles the big
“cats” and, inspired by the boy’s love for
him, brings off a daring act with an
elephant, a tiger and a blazing hoop.
All ends as the audience wishes.
Wallace Beery has his most emotional
role to date, and carries it off well.
Jackie Cooper handles a difficult part
with intelligence, and Spanky McFar-
land, not far removed from the cradle
stage, is chubbily precocious as ever.
Femininity intrudes for but a few
minutes. At Sydney Mayfair.
“Manhattan Moon”
A brilliant exposition of how not to
direct a picture. Admittedly, the
materials are poor, the plot is mushily
stupid and the actors —with the excep-
tion of Ricardo Cortez, who struggles
gallantly against hopeless odds—weak in
the extreme. It all has to do with a
wealthy night club owner’s infatuation
for a female crooner who has a double.
The same thing has been done 100 times
before, but in 99 less clumsily. Dorothy
Page looks beautiful, but can just barely
be classed as an actress. It is also alleged
that she is known to millions in the U.S.
as a radio singer; it explains the craze
now sweeping the States for listening to
foreign stations. Henry Mollison is ama-
teurish as a sweet society lad who gives
phony cheques to pay his gambling
debts, and Luis Alberni overdoes a tem-
peramental press agent. Less an enter-
tainment than a soporific.
“Strange Wives”
Roger Pryor marries a Russian refugee,
and within a couple of months finds it
difficult to enter his own home without
tripping over a brother-in-law, sister-in-
law or mother-in-law. His wife seems
to possess more relations than a queen
bee, and he has to entertain the lot.
Great opportunity here for comedy, but
the producers took the wrong turning
and treated it more or less seriously.
Result—very heavy going.
Some Shorts
Several excellent shorts make up the
supporting programme at Sydney May-
fair.
“Little People” has a message for boys
with a trapping and shooting complex.
Chic Sale as an old outback wood-
getter teaches a boy, during a ramble
through the bush, to substitute a camera
for a trap. The boy is cleverly given
the impression that it is he who is giving
the old man a lesson in kindness to birds
and animals. Dissemination of such in-
teresting brevities as this should make
much easier the work of Wild Life Pre-
servation Societies.
“Desert Death” is a propaganda-
against-crime picture. It is a brilliantly
constructed murder film, the unravelling
of the crime being performed by an
assurance co.’s investigator. Treatment
is novel, and the film is as tight-packed
as an egg. Not a moment has been
wasted with padding.
A colored cartoon, “Poor Little Me,”
is made the more enjoyable by having a
potpourri of Schubert’s light classics as
a background.
“Tit for Tat” is Laurel and Hardy’s
weakest picture to date. Producer and
scenario-writer have let them down badly.
Bankrupt of ideas,
they have gone
back to the pie-
throwing era for
inspiration.
“Splendor”
This seems to
have been de-
vised, like others
of Miriam Hop-
kins’s latter-day
opuses, to enable
sentimental people
to weep over the
hard case of a
perfectly beauti-
ful, innocent, lov-
ing girl forced
into adultery and
desertion by her
husband’s rel a-
tives. Joel Mc-
Crea is the hus-
band, and the
familiar story
drags lamentably
to its foregone
conclusion, where
the sundered pair,
chastened by
their experiences,
renounce the
vanity of riches
and face a future
of poverty and
honest toil. Miss
Hopkins’s tech-
nique includes
letting her face tell her inward emo-
tions. Judged by this criterion an
idea dawns upon her as gradually as the
rising of the moon.
“Diamond Jim”
A vignette of the life and times of
James Buchanan Brady, Noo Yark’s
super-playboy, great spender, good fellow
and champion gourmandiser—the bulky
lad who injected gaiety into Manhattan’s
otherwise rather grey ’nineties. Edward
Arnold is excellently cast as “Diamond
Jim,” as Brady was known. There is a
little romance —his love for Jane
Matthews (Jean Arthur) and the love
of Lillian Russell (Binnie Barnes) for
him; both unrequited. Brady cer-
tainly was a man of affairs. The first
of America’s great go-getters, he made
fortunes, went broke and then cheerfully
set out again to make more. He proved
his faith in the all-steel railway carriage
by sitting in one during an arranged head-
on collision with a wooden one, which it
telescoped. And as he made money, so
he riotously splashed it away. Large-
hearted, lovable, bluff, genial, filled with
the joy of life, he was a spectacular per-
sonality, and Arnold plays him to the
life. The picture is a rarity in that it
possesses no villain and no villainy—if
we except a couple of passing and minor
incidents in which Diamond Jim cleans
up some card-sharpers and again, with
John L. Sullivan, then a young man, deals
with some toughs who attempt to snavel
his gaudy jewels. Altogether, it is a
draught of entertainment that comes as
“Illustration to a Poem,” pen drawing by Unk White in show
of his work which opens at the Macleod Gallery on March 11.
a refresher after a screen surfeit of
crooners, G-men, racketeers, radio try-
outs and marcel-waved gunmen.
Some First Nights
Polly Moran strode on the stage,
winked, laughed loudly at the back of
her throat, thumped herself on the
diaphragm, announced that she would
not give up her beer, told some Holly-
wood gossip, including a sentimental
word about her old pal Marie Dressier —
and Melbourne Tivoli audience was hers
to a man. Polly does a bit of a song and
dance —she has a pair of girlish legs
despite her age (she’s proud of that and
would like everybody to believe that
she’s at least 70). She pronounces her
name Moran, advises girls to get hus-
bands (it doesn’t matter whose) and
removes her neat wig to disclose a mop
of her own hair. She’s an enormous
success.
In the supplementary bill are rubber-
jointed comedians Angus Watson, Ross
Wyse and Roy Rogers ; eccentric dancers
Cornelia and Kirdall; Keith Rosenthal,
who combines playing the xylophone with
tap-dancing ; Alma Victoria, who rides
a bicycle upside down and inside out
and jumps the thing up steps and down
a 9ft. drop, and Jack La Vier, who sits in
a rocking-chair balanced on a trapeze.
June Mann, Phyllis Dixey, little Isabelle
Mahon and the excellent ballet help to
keep things moving at the double.
4* 4* +
Although C. L. Anthony’s “Touch
Wood,” staged by the Independents
at Sydney Savoy, might be termed
“good theatre,” its mechanism is obtru-
sively apparent. The dozen assorted
holiday-makers at the pub in a small
Highland seaside village seem to be, not
guests of their own choice, but deliber-
ately hand-picked and set down there
by the dramatist for character interplay.
Most of them are interesting, and have
viewpoints which they express well, but
in their relations one with another they
give an effect of unreality. Strangers in
pubs do not quickly reach terms of in-
timacy, nor do they parade their
emotions. But the neat dovetailing of
situations, the effective curtains, the brisk
action and pungent dialogue all help to
make good entertainment. There are five
women in the play, of varying ages, in-
telligence and moral tonnage, and their
attitudes towards the male sex constitute
the story. Anne Gordon played the un-
real Mab Lawrence with just the right
note of adopted sophistication and rap-
turous naivete. Molly Brown gave a
thoughtful study of the childless, sym-
pathetic Sylvia Herriot. Doris Fitton,
who also produced the play, fitted in well
as the near-middle-aged spinster who had
had her fling and was now content to be
a sort of mother-confessor to all. Patricia
Cole played a blatant man-chaser with
vigor, and Maisie Littlejohn was a tower
of strength as a practical Scot’s wife.
Among the men Leslie Hay-Simpson—
torn between Mab and Sylvia—handled
a difficult role with finesse. O. D.
Bissett made the best of a conventional-
ised, old, strait-laced bore. David Ratner
touched nature as a sheepish philanderer,
and William Hume persuaded belief in
an almost impossible husband.
4* •5* 4*
A stormy night, an island deep-rooted
in legend, a house-party of crime fans,
including a novelist-criminologist, and
the stage is set for Howard Young’s
“Hawk Island,” presented by Sydney
Thespians at St. James’s Hall on Satur-
day, under Muriel Conner’s direction.
Host Gregory Sloane, fed up at his
guests’ welter of imaginary throat-slit-
ting, enlivens proceedings by faking a
tragedy, and does the job so realistically
that when his “victim,” an amorous lady-
killer, is done in by a jealous husband
he is inevitably principal suspect. How-
ever, a beauteous girl takes up the scent
and unmasks the villain. Colin Kekwick
as the hoaxed hoaxer, Kay Brooks as his
charming deliverer, Arthur Fellowes and
Mavis Corven revelled in the gore, but
the rest of the cast earned no laurels.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
u
I* t |C f .
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
ROMANOFF
and RED KE T A
CAVIAR
CAVIAR-
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Lending Stores and Served at au
Fashionable Resorts.
R epr •FW. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St.. Sydney
ę
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Tree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A'CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again,
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenn)
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. AL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney sat up listening to the rain
and sighing with the wind on Sunday
night till in the second hour of Monday
morning it heard across the ocean of
space its King’s voice. Easy for Aus-
tralia to visualise the slim, almost boy-
ish form, the sensitive mouth from which
the voice issued. Thousands and thou-
sands in this island continent had known
Edward VIII. when as Prince of Wales
he visited what are now his Dominions.
The clear diction —a family heritage, for
King George had it, and so had Edward
VII. and Queen Victoria—came across
with scarcely any static to mar, and only
an occasional fading away. The King
spoke from a studio in Broadcasting
House, and this, his first broadcast since
he succeeded his father, was mostly filial
praise for the dead monarch. It ended,
as any knowing Edward VIII. knew in-
deed it must end, on a fervent hope for
peace, not only for his Empire, but for
the whole world.
By midwinter Government House will
have its new tenants, and the State’s Gov-
ernor, Sir Murray Anderson, and his
wife will be installed. After Newfound-
land even the chill breeze of our July
and August will no doubt seem balmy
to them. There’s one thing at least that
will endear Lady Anderson to the social
writer, and that is her height, which will
make her easily recognisable. Lady
Anderson is almost six feet tall.
Deterred, no doubt, by the arm of the
law, no deluge swept the arena of the
Showground on Saturday. The gloom-
ing clouds got no further than a sprinkle,
and then one glance from the tug-o’-war
stalwarts sent them scuttling. Meek citi-
zens watching from the stands felt they’d
rather take their chance in an embrace
from a grizzly bear than do aught to
bring the arms of Kogarah and Regent-
street, even in gentle restraint, about their
ribs. Physique and fitness made this
1936 police “carnival” one of absorbing
interest to 50,000 onlookers.
Besides the 300 individual competitors
who tossed the caber and threw the 161 b.
hammer or took the running broad jump,
there were drill squads and physical-cul-
ture squads and the exciting motor-cycle
squad. Then there were the mounted
police—nothing to beat them and their
steeds! Were they afraid of the snorting
warhorse within the motor-cycles? Not a
bit! The whole fireworks crescendoed to
a grand parade, in which the navy, the
army, the police and firemen took part.
This ended in a march past the saluting
base, where Premier Stevens (understudy-
ing Lieutenant-Governor Philip Street)
took the salute.
Sheila Sullivan’s wedding to Leslie
Consett Stephen was the whole social
omelette of last week. Sydney, lolling
along between summer heat and Lenten
sobriety, hasn’t yet mustered up energy
for gaiety. Bridal satin and champagne
are the only things' that have stirred its
lethargy since Christmas. St. Mark’s at
Darling Point was completely besieged by
sightseers, and there was a great proces-
sion of guests, for Sheila is the daughter
of the D. S. Sullivans, the ’groom the only
son of A. Consett Stephen, of Double
Bay. Lustrous satin and foam of
tulle were followed by six ’maids—Mary
Harvey, Elizabeth Luxton, Valentine
Adams, Margaret Burns, Sheila Elliott
and Patsy Dangar. Their mist-blue
chiffons over lilac suggested the bloom
of the jacaranda. There was a smart
army of ushers, gardenia in buttonhole.
There were clashing of bells, pealing of
organ, magnificence of flowers and a
fine reception staged by the bride’s
parents at Kilcolta, Darling Point.
Among Sydney folk who had an in-
terest in Gladesville’s recent centenary
party (the Parliamentary spokesmen for
the christening were E. S. Spooner, W.
M. Hughes and W. V. McCall) is Mrs.
Tom Watson., She was a Miss Huntley,
of the Gladesville family that gave its
name to Huntley’s Point on Parramatta
River. The old home still stands. Alfred
Huntley settled thereabouts in 1848.
Memories of Maud Fitzstubbs, in her day
a favorite Sydney singer, revive when
dust is brushed off those times. The
Huntley’s Point of to-day was part of
an early grant of land to Thomas Stubbs,
granddad of Maud.
Maorilanders who rallied to the State
ballroom last Thursday afternoon may
have thought longingly of a nice thick,
cold mist floating over Dunedin hills,
the sharp winds of Wellington or the
ice floes around the Bluff, but they con-
trived to look cool. Not one wilted smile
or hand greeted Mayoress Parkes when
she made her entry. The Enzed Women’s
Association was having its first music
party of the year, and Mrs. Parkes was
the guest -of honor. She wore a wide
black straw hat with her black chiffons,
and the president, Mrs. J. W. A. Pren-
tice, received her wearing rose-patterned
white georgettes and a shady black hat.
Mrs. E. Kenneburgh, of Wellington,
M.L., a sister of Emily Marks (who
arranged the music), was a visitor from
across the Tasman; so were Mrs. E.
Kennitz and daughter Betty.
Malcolm Mclntyre, just appointed City-
Solicitor, is in the very early thirties,
and the salary of £lOOO, plus a retaining
fee of £1275 a year, is a nice comfort-
able income on which to face matri-
mony. Sadie Bedford is the girl in the
case. Sadie is off to Melbourne to play
in a J.C.W. comedy and after that comes
the business of getting more trousseau
frills. Malcolm is a grandson of Mrs.
Julian Caro and a nephew of Mrs.
Harold Weigall. His brother Arthur is
in the wool business in London.
Mrs. Robert Dixson, of Elwatan, is
president of the North Shore committee
working for the Joan Hammond Fund.
Joan, who sails on April 6 for Vienna
and the Schloss Wilheminenberg, is said
to have a voice of starry dimensions, and
the golfers have done much to build up
the fund to give her her chance in
Europe, for Joan is one of Sydney’s lead-
ing golfers. A concert in the King’s
Hall, Gordon, on March 19 will be the
crowning effort. Already applications for
reservations are pouring in. Dayne
photograph.
This Letter waved a pink mitt in pass-
ing to screen actress Polly Moran, who
arrived in the Mariposa, and liked the
look of the flesh-and-blood Polly even
more than the shadow of her that had
given birth to so many laughs. When
Polly declared that she was the laziest
woman on earth, and that her hobbies
were eating, sleeping and drinking, you
knew how hard she had worked in her
life. Only the really hard worker has
the courage to proclaim such a senti-
ment ; only the really hard worker can
revel in the luxury of being thoroughly
idle.
Major-General F. J. Duncan took the
sunshine of his smile from Sydney to
Maoriland in the Wanganella. He and
his 46 farmers (many of the women
in this group are full-dimension
agriculturists) look upon Australia as
one of the richest of Nature’s cornucopias
they have seen. They like Australian
ways and Australian hospitality, and the
tall soldier with the greying hair and
pleasant smile held continuous levee at
the Wentworth throughout the afternoon
and evening of his departure. The party,
arranged by the British National Union
of Overseas Leaugers, will go on from
Maoriland to Canada. The Kelso Kings
helped to make the visitors’ stay in Syd-
ney pleasant; so did the Overseas Club
and many other groups.
The committee of the Far West Chil-
dren’s health scheme has now hopped
straight into the year’s activities. Follow-
ing the recent meeting at the Carlton
Hotel at which Mrs. M. F. Bruxner
presided, Mrs. K. Shipway has taken
charge of the treasury, and will remain
the purse-bearer till the return of Mrs.
N. Paul, who is now touring England.
To-day at Belhaven, 85 Victoria-road,
Bellevue Hill (the Arnold Resch home), a
refreshment buffet is being run to help
the Far West fund. This buffet has been
in full going order since last Saturday,
when the inspection for the great auction
sale drew hundreds of the inquisitive and
the acquisitive.
Winifred Stenhouse, of Maoriland
(she’s a graduate of Dunedin’s Univer-
sity), is settling down with joy to her job
of running the Memorial College of
Domestic Arts and Science at Kirribilli.
Winifred, who rounded off her studies in
London and New York, knows all about
dietetics, and her system of detection
leaves no room for crimes along the
alimentary canal.
Over £llOO was netted from the ball
in the Orion last November. A cheque
for £558 was handed to William Morris
Hughes last week, and that is the half
to go to the Queen Mary Maternal and
Infant Welfare Jubilee Fund. The other
half has already been paid to the Aus-
tralian Mothercraft Society. The Orient
Co., which gave the use of the ship, also
paid all the expenses of the ball, thereby
saving a little bill of £6OO or so. These
great ships exercise a never-failing lure.
Orient’s g.m. D. L. Dowdell announced
that no fewer than 30,000 visitors had
called on the Orion during her maiden
voyage in Australian waters.
A robin redbreast in a cage
Puts all heaven in a rage
wrote William Blake a hundred or more
years ago. Well, there was no robin
redbreast, but there was a Pekin robin
in a cage at the annual exhibition of
the Royal Zoological Society. There
were budgerigars, too, by the dozen;
green and blue and mauve, with here a
flash of orange, there of silver. There
were orange bishops, red-crested cardi-
nals and green and grey finches. Nature
had painted them gaily for the carnival
of sunshine, green bough and tall grasses.
But they were all in cages, rows and
rows of cages in the basement of the
Town Hall, where the light was electric
and there was no tree or grass in sight.
Bird-fancier friends tell this Letter that
caged birds love their cages. All the
more pity that winged gladness should
be broken-in for toys for man’s delight.
But if it is so, and the Zoological Society
continues to hold these exhibitions, let
them at least be held in a hall or room
where there is daylight.
The Hon. Mrs. Leslie Gamage was a
cool and graceful figure at the lunch
given in her honor by the Arts Club.
This Letter often thinks that “hand-
some is as handsome does” should be
changed to “handsome does as handsome
is,” for the best-looking women always
have some good cause which they have
made their own. Mrs. Gamage’s is the
Infants’ Hospital, Westminster, and she
is its chairman of appeal. This hos-
pital was founded 25 years ago to com-
bat malnutrition, but now it is doing
splendid work in the teaching of deaf
mutes. And 13,000 out-patients are
treated each year.
Bonita Appleton, like sister Mrs. Ted
Edwards, of Pindari, Inverell, has put
the stage behind her, and faces with
cheerfulness a country life. Bonita, who
has had successes on the London stage
and has appeared in several films, became
Mrs. Peter Osborne at St. Peter’s,
Bourke-street, last week. With her pink
frock, made tunic style, she wore a
shady pink felt hat and pink sandals.
Mrs. Bedford Osborne, in hydrangea-blue
frock and hat, was her support. Healths
were drunk at the home of ’groom’s
aunt, Mrs. J. S. Bovill. Bride’s mother,
Mrs. Charles Pfeiffer, very trig in a black
satin suit and pink tiger-lilies, received
the guests.
Mary MacGuire, the Queensland girl
who is playing lead in National Studios’
picture, “The Flying Doctor,” has a
trump card in her look of eager unsophis-
tication. It may easily lead her to star-
dom in Hollywood and London produc-
tions. Picture audiences are growing
tired of the standardised beauty of film
heroines, as evidenced by the success of
Elisabeth Bergner. “The Flying Doctor,”
now nearing completion, is being made
at Pagewood, a place full of the sand
and horizon of Maroubra. Out there
last Saturday Mary, as Jenny, dressed in
a Pekin-blue frock, rehearsed a scene in
a settler’s hut over and over again with
unruffled readiness till producer Mander
was satisfied.
Nobody in this studio has an ounce of
superfluous fat. They aren’t still long
enough to develop it. From the pro-
ducer, in his nut-brown togs, to the
amiable “Props” and the script girls in
between, everybody is lean. Continuity
girl Peggy Graham, in her blue slacks
and blouse, is length without breadth,
and greater compliment no woman can
pay another. The studio is made up of
a series of one-storey brick buildings.
Besides the buildings that hold the sets
there is a separate block for the dressing-
rooms and one for the canteen.
Adventurous, provocative, supercilious
—in short, anything but helpful—is the
bulk of this winter’s millinery. There are
hats that suggest the slopes of the Tyrol,
the snow peaks of the Alps. There are
hats that have a parade-ground aggres-
siveness, so military are their peaks and
braidings. Even in feathers the most
fashionable is coque, and we know how
that sprouts from the headgear of mili-
tary nobs. What a woman with an aver-
age face and “I use whatever I’ve got”
brands of powder and lipstick is going to
look like under some of the felt toques
and flower-pot crowns doesn’t bear think-
ing of. The very young, the oval of face
and the ever-waved of locks will wear
them triumphantly. And somewhere in
the back rows of the fashion displays
the rest of us, or we hope so, will find a
friendly hat or two.
Dorothy Hudson and Helen Mann are
making history in Camperdown. They
are the gentle keepers of the Camper-
down Park playground, where from
eleven to six o’clock every day children
from three to fourteen disport them-
selves without undue interference from
the grown-ups. In fact, there are so few
don’ts in the vocabulary of Miss Hudson
and Miss Mann that the kiddies are be-
ginning to believe they are little girls
disguised as ladies. The job is a muni-
cipal one, and these two young women,
judging by the flocks of youngsters wait-
ing every day for the playground gates
to open, are making this corner of Cam-
perdown a bit of Paradise regained for
the neighborhood babes.
The swings in this park have rubber
seats. There are slippery slides and
giant strides and every sort of ball game
for out-of-doors. Indoors (in the small
green-painted house that serves as bun-
galow for the two supervisors and for
storeroom for the games) the chiet
amusement is story-telling. Here to a
rapt audience every day between five
and six the evergreen tales of childhood
are told, the immortal rhymes recited.
Miss Hudson and Miss Mann are gradu-
ates of the board of social study and
training.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 510 of 1935.
BETWEEN JOYCE DOROTHY SMITH Peti-
tioner , „
And ALBERT EDWARD SMITH Re-
spondent.
TO ALBERT EDWARD SMITH formerly of
Moss Vale in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOYCE
DOROTHY SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of May One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six and in the event
of you not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein has been forwarded to you
under cover of envelope addressed to your
mother Lillian D. Smith at her last known
DATED this Second day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
FRANK W. LEE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tiqner, 133 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL JOHN McINTOSH TRAINOR, born
at Pitfield, Victoria, and later a member of the
Victorian Police, stationed at Kensington, Mel-
bourne, who is entitled to a legacy under the
will of his uncle, Hugh Kirkland Mclntosh, late
of Pitfield, grazier, or anyone who can give
information as to his whereabouts, please com-
municate at once with DAVID CLARKE
& SON, Lydiard Street, Ballarat, Solicitors for
the estate of the said Hugh Kirkland Mc-
Intosh?
ROBERT ROBERTSON (late of Waterloo,
Liverpool, Eng.). Parents very anxious to have
news of. Address: 37 Wesley Street, Waterloo,
Liverpool 22, England.
ESTATE OF ALBERT LEOPOLD WHITE.
CHARLES HENRY WHITE, last heard of
in Tamworth, New South Wales, or his next-
of-kin, or anyone knowing their present where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland,
New Zealand.
RE THOMAS ROBINSON, aged 83, formerly
a cook and a native of England, who died on
the 6th July, 1935. Would any person having
information as to the date and place of his
birth or as to the names and addresses of his
next-of-kin kindly communicate with W. B.
GEDDES, Public Trustee, 107-109 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney?
ESTATE OF MICHAEL HOGAN,
Late of Canterbury, New Zealand.
WILL MAURICE HOGAN or the relatives of
the abovenamed, or anyone knowing their
whereabouts, kindly communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Christchurch,
New Zealand, forwarding evidence of identity?
Melbourne
Chatter
So Regular Bachelor won the New-
market on Leap Year Day—everyone
should have something on him, just for
fun, but of course everyone didn’t. There
was no autumnal nip in the air, but as
the sky was dull and the weather pro-
phets’ readings were vaguely “fresh,”
clothes were subdued and careful, with
such a dose of black that lighter colors
looked almost reactionary.
Mrs. Gordon Coulter wore black with
flat folds breaking the severity of the
tailored back and a gold buckle to cheer
the front. Mrs. Neil Mackinnon chose
a duck-egg blue suit in linen tweed, and
Mrs. Ewan Mackinnon played safe with
a swinging, knee-length coat as a contrast
for her floral dress. Something different
in neck accessories was Mrs. Tom Ram-
say’s tie of apple-green velvet, which
went with black and a French poilu hat.
Mrs. John Ramsay wore, a Fascist hat
and silver foxes which will soon go off
with her to England. Jewel Kiddle had
discovered overseas something new in
gloves; they were kingfisher-blue with
fluted chiffon cuffs of the same shade
as the jabot collar on her navy dress.
Mrs. Morris Sallmann’s green gloves
were of suede with ornamental slits, an
echo of the green wax apples she wore
as a posy.
“Report for orders on Feb. 29. Black
tie or naval uniform.” Thus ran an invi-
tation from Dr. and Mrs. Henry Shan-
non. Most of the guests suspected a
yachting party, but the host’s boat is on
the slips, so it was a land shivoo, but with
a highly nautical flavor. Cocktails, star-
board and port (whatever coloring was
used it did not spoil the flavor), were
arranged on the deck of a model yacht
in Mrs. Shannon’s drawing-room. When
everybody was primed up to the deep-
sea atmosphere an adjournment was
made for dancing at the new Williams-
town Yacht Club —the only club so far
which has adopted the novel but very
successful idea of making curtains out
of brightly-colored towelling. Supper
was served much later at the Shannon’s
house, and no one went home to bed
before the dogwatch.
A cocktail party at Maffra lasting from
5 p.m. to 1.30 a.m. was the medium
chosen by Margaret Prytz to celebrate
the news of her engagement to Paul
Whitehead. Margaret was assisted with
her party by her father and her brother
Bill; Mrs. Prytz is still in Melbourne
recuperating after an illness. Paul, who
is one of the Urana Whiteheads, is a
large young man of over 6ft. Margaret
is small, dark and just 21. The ring is
a beautiful sapphire.
The International Club would never
have managed such a large party as the
Swedish evening turned out to be if
there had not been a large untenanted
room available in Kurrajong House.
This was turned into a supper-room.
Among the pretty girls gathered in the
Swedish group were Vanda and Lorraine
Sterborg, who gave a delightful perform-
ance of old Swedish folk dances. Pre-
ceded by Miss Hjordis Nilsson’s explana-
tion of the theme, merry folk songs were
sung by the Swedish group, the men in
blue stockings, yellow breeches and little
blue waistcoats, the girls in scarlet stock-
ings, gaily patterned skirts and aprons,
each curly head or coiffure of long plaits
wearing the “tipin” of a different district
in Sweden.
Miss Nilsson sings charmingly in her
own language. She has lived in Australia
for 11 years, on and off, having had
several trips to Sweden during that time.
In connection with work for a Swedish
firm she has visited Greece, and will
never forgive herself for sleeping through
a revolution in Athens.
The Swedish community worked hard
to concoct national dishes for the party.
Mrs. E. T. Svensson, who organised pro-
ceedings, is Australian by birth. Mr.
Svensson rose to the occasion nobly,
rolling up his sleeves, putting on an apron
and commandeering the kitchen in his
own home to make 300 pepper cakes,
600 meat balls and a cold collation of
crayfish and aspic. He says that all
Swedes can cook, ‘for it is the custom
for a very large choice of dishes to appear
at every meal. A national institution is
the herring breakfast, at which it is pos-
sible to choose herring cooked in 17
different ways.
What a rare being is the perfect
mannequin? The job looks so easy that
lots of young women with pretty faces
and a good air of wearing clothes are sure
that they’d do well at the game if only they
got the chance. But a mannequin parade
is like a radio mike —it exaggerates any
slight defect and throws mannerisms into
prominence. Apart from her beauty
Margaret Vyner’s secret of success seems
to lie in the fact that she is never an
automaton ; she is an elegant but very
much alive human being, and she can
look pleasant without adopting a fixed
smile and leaving it to freeze on her face.
When she does smile it’s at the psycholo-
gical moment, and it’s something quite
intoxicating.
Miss Vyner was allotted genuine and
quite ravishing imported models to wear
at the season’s largest dress parade, which
was continued for four afternoons and
evenings. One black garment, very plain,
but deceptively expensive, had gold kid
roses pressed close to the throat. Miss
Vyner looked lovely in an off-white crepe
evening frock shirred right down the front.
With a black skirt she wore a coat, slim
and belted, of grey Indian lamb, with a
muff and a tiny cap to match. A black
suit, also belted, had a hip-length coat
and its full sleeves trimmed with alternate
bands of Persian lamb and patent leather.
With it went a little kepi cap, a scarlet
chou mixed up with the twin pompoms
on its summit.
A point about the parade was the
beauty of the materials. A cocktail dress,
tailored and cut with a moderately shon
skirt, was of an exquisite crinkled stuff
heavily shot with dull silver, but to the
touch light and soft rather than cold and
metallic. The shot velvets are lovely ; one
such gown was jubilee-blue, shot under-
neath with rose. Dark shades, particu-
larly raisin, damson-plum and Kenya-red,
have superseded pastels to such a degree
that Peggy Shiels, in her ice-blue satin
sprinkled with sapphire-blue rhinestones
at neck and hem, was something of an
event. These colored stones are very
popular as embroideries and as nail-head
studding for belts.
Here is Betty Nicholas, elder daughter
of G. R. Nicholas, of Lansell-road,
Toorak. Betty has chosen March 11
for her marriage with Dr. Edmund
Alcock. Not only the doctor, but his
mother and his sister Shirley have come
out from England for the wedding. Dr.
Alcock studied medicine in Melbourne
and has for some years been engaged in
post-graduate work in England. He has
planned to do more research work in
London, so that he and his beautiful
bride will return to England after their
marriage. They are not sure yet when
and where they will settle down per-
manently. Broothorn made the portrait.
Confetti from two weddings mingled
outside Melbourne Grammar School
chapel within an hour, for the second
ceremony followed so closely on the first
that departing guests got mixed up with
new arrivals, some of whom had to think
hard and make sure they were at the
right wedding after all. Peggy Strutt and
Rod Morell were married in the late
afternoon and toasted afterwards at Men-
zies. This was no conventionally white
wedding. The bride wore gold lace, with
gold leaves clutching her primrose mist
of veil, and her ’maids followed in
rustling dresses of leaf-green faille.
Dorothy Gamble and Robert Kent were
the second pair to take the same stage
later in the evening. As a contrast this
was an all-white ceremony, the bride
wearing chalk-white cloque crepe with
seed-pearl ornamentations and carrying
white tiger-lilies. The only touch of color
in the group was provided by hydrangeas
resting against the attendants’ white
chiffon frocks and petals of the same
flowers wreathing their hair. Grosvenor
was the party rendezvous.
With business as an objective and tea
as an incentive towards business sugges-
tion a number of people interested in the
Alfred were invited to Ben-Ledi, Mrs.
G. J. Coles’s home in Kooyong-road,
Toorak. Mrs. Coles, whose husband is
hon. treas. of the hospital, was elected
president of the committee, which is
planning a charity golf gymkhana at
Riversdale on April 18. It’s to be mixed
foursomes at ss. per pair, and if possible
a competition for associates will be run
as well in the morning. Players will find
that an extra few shillings in their pockets
will come in useful, for there are to be
a cake stall and fizzy drinks, and ices
will be on sale despite the frosts of
autumn. Several of the Alfred’s helpers
have promised to donate trophies.
Pictured here by Jack Cato is Beth
Paxton, who is 18, and who on March
18 will become Mrs. John Cumming.
Miss Paxtor* is at present devoting most
of her time to her trousseau ; furniture
and furnishings come afterwards, for in
a few days the first bricks and mortar
will be mixed for the young couple’s new
home in Orrong-road, Toorak.
One point learned from the Ideal
Homes exhibition is that there’s a lot to
be said for dark furniture. The lemon-
wood and sycamore suites, straw-colored
with curly knots, are dangerous when
put to live with the wrong kind of fur-
nishings. Another idea which is too
clumsy to last long is for twin beds to
be joined together by a solid piece of
wood at the head. One drawing-room
suite has burst forth with cupboards on
the corners just below the wide arms of
the Chesterfield and chairs (what an
accumulation of knitting needles, socks
to be darned and oddments of rubbish
will be stuffed in there out of sight and
mind!). A grand idea is the labor-saving
cocktail bars, neat cabinets which open
up to disclose all manner of bottles, a
shaker and holders stocked with glasses.
There are some all-glass tables to
match the glass and chromium-plated
push-trays. These are glass trays held
in position between two hoops of metal.
As the handle also is a shiny, circular
hoop, one could easily get a cocktail-
party impression of swirling circles and
drinks and savories suspended in thin air.
Mirrors have come back, but they are
not the devitalising objects which reflected
the Victorians’ antimacassars and aspi-
distras. Some of these mirrors have
edges of pale gold and shadow-blue glass.
Gardening and Guiding are two of
Lady Gowrie’s foremost interests. She
always thinks of Melbourne in terms of
the Botanic Gardens, the Fitzroy Gardens
and St. Kilda-road. She knows a great
deal about how to grow flowers, which
plants like morning sunshine, the relative
values of soil and the quantity of water
different plants require. She can also
recognise a great number of trees which
puzzle the majority of people. Lady
Gowrie is Federal President of Guiders,
but her stay in Melbourne was too short
for a Guide rally in her honor. Owing
to Court mourning and the quiet manner
in which she and the Governor-General
slipped into Melbourne (no publicity, no
processions, neither uniforms nor deco-
rations and the minimum number of
receptions), very few people have yet
had an opportunity of seeing the popular
couple who have recently taken on their
high office.
The F. W. Thring couple and their
son Frank have gone off to the U.S.A.
Mr. Thring is in search of a scenario
writer (an expert capable of preparing
Australian scenarios for production).
Mrs. Thring is a most energetic person,
who is always out and about. It’s highly
probable that she’ll be sightseeing and
meeting screen stars at such a rate that
she’ll never be available when wanted
on the telephone at her hotel. Young
Frank is nine, and delighted at the pros-
pect of hearing ship’s bells instead of
school bells.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Morell are in
Melbourne, the reason for their journey
all the way from Queensland being the
wedding of son Rod to Peggy Strutt.
Mrs. Donald Morell was Cynthia Keon-
Cohen, a tall sprightly lass with inclina-
tions towards singing and dancing and
the stage generally. Since her marriage
she has lived on a station in Central
Queensland.
Mrs. W. J. Grey, who is at present in
Melbourne, regularly receives interesting
letters from her son and daughter-in-law.
Mrs. Jim Grey is in Singapore after
enjoying a tour through several Oriental
countries in her baby car; her husband,
Captain Grey, is in North Westralia.
They sailed round and about the islands
north of Australia in the Silver Gull, a
little ship built at Perth by Captain Grey.
The crew consisted of two engineers and
half a dozen sea scouts. Captain Grey
did some cartographic work for the Ad-
miralty and Mrs. Grey, who is a marine
biologist, collected specimens for the
British Museum. She is such a cap-
able person that she made all the lads’
uniforms, knitted their woollen sweaters
and taught the most promising sea-scout
cook how to concoct some appetising
French dishes.
A clever woman who has been visiting
Melbourne is Pauline Leveson, who
comes from Cambridge, where for 14
years she was on the administrative staff
of Girton College. Miss Leveson has
a distinguished brother, Admiral Sir
Arthur Leveson, who was a friend of the
late Earl Jellicoe, and a sister who is
Mary Macleod, a successful London
artist. One of the last farewells for Miss
Leveson before the Anchises sailed was
a luncheon at the Lyceum Club, where a
few speeches were served in between the
courses. Dr. Lucy Bryce, Mrs. R. W.
McKellar, Mrs. R. K. McKenzie, Miss
Gilman Jones, Mrs. Guy Bakewell and
Dr. Constance Ellis were among the
women grads, at the party.
Rosalind Parbury and Joyce Hayden
Smith have returned after a holiday in
India; they stayed with Miss Par-
bury’s sister, Mrs. A. J. Heppell. Madras
was the centre of gaieties which included
dances, races and hunting after jackals
instead of foxes. Even in the heat of
India pink coats are worn by the hunts-
men.


Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery "
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street ).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
55
U
m
i
2*3
I
&
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1485 of 1935.
BETWEEN ALLEN LAWRENCE TOWNS-
END Petitioner
And FLORENCE DOT TOWNSEND
Respondent
And OSWALD BINCENT TOWNSEND
Co-respondent.
TO FLORENCE DOT TOWNSEND late of
Bathurst.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALLEN LAW-
RENCE TOWNSEND has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of adultery with OSWALD BINCENT
TOWNSEND who is herein added as a co-
respondent AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Eighteenth day of
May One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
six and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of February,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
H. R. HUNT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
9 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1788 of 1935.
BETWEEN ABRAHAM CRUM Petitioner
And ELSIE MAY CRUM Respondent.
TO ELSIE MAY CRUM late of No. 11l
Angel Street Newtown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ABRAHAM
CRUM has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of your
wilful desertion of him for three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the 13th day of May 1936
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this 17th day of February, a.d 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
KEITH W. GUNN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1566 of 1935.
BETWEEN ELSIE PRUDENCE PEARL EDE
(formerly Adams) Petitioner
And ARTHUR PAUL EDE Respondent.
TO ARTHUR PAUL EDE late of Murwil-
lumbah in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE PRU-
DENCE PEARL EDE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the 19th day of May One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-six and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of February,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
FREDK. McGUREN, Jnr., Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Union Chambers, 27 Prince Street,
Grafton.
By his Agents, MESSRS. SPORA & PRICE,
Solicitors, 155 King Street, Sydney.
IN THE SHERIFF COURT OF LANARK-
SHIRE AT GLASGOW.
INTIMATION IS HEREBY GIVEN that an
ACTION of Multiple Poinding has been raised
at the instance of MRS. AGNES REID (or
BARRIE) and OTHERS, as Executors Nomi-
nate of the late MISS ROBINA REID, who
resided at 92 Northinch Street, Whiteinch.
Glasgow, and died at Ardrossan on 18th
October, 1934, against ALFRED REID and
OTHERS, in which action the right of the
parties in and to deceased’s estate in the hands
of the Pursuers and Real Raisers will be de-
termined, and in which action the Sheriff has
pronounced the following interlocutor: “Glas-
gow, 9th January, 1936. The Sheriff Substi-
tute of Lanarkshire, having resumed considera-
tion of the foregoing petition, appoints the
Pursuers and Real Raisers to serve a copy
of this interlocutor by registered letter on each
of the defenders whose addresses are known
to them. Further, appoints the Pursuers and
Real Raisers to advertise the import of the
petition and a copy of this interlocutor once
in each of the following newspapers—viz.,
“Kansan,” Kansas City; “Oklahoman,” Okla-
homa City: “Argus,” Melbourne, Victoria:
and Sydney Bulletin, Sydney, and appoints
parties claiming the fund in medio to lodge
their claims with the Sheriff Clerk at Glasgow
within two months from the date of the last
service or advertisement, under certification
that any such party failing to do so will be
held as confessed and not have any claim, and
continues the cause on the Procedure Roll of
14th May, 1936.”
(Sgd.) D. S. MACDIARMID.
A true copy.
(Sgd.) A. MUNRO. S.C.D.
MACROBERT, SON & HUTCHINSON, 69
St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, Solicitors for the
Pursuers and Real Raisers.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
To the North-westers’ river shivoo went
everyone who could lay claim to an in-
vitation as owner, agent or connection.
The Zephyr sailed from the city, picked
up a crowd at Keane’s Point, cruised up
the river, and then anchored at Point
Walter for supper. George Miles did the
honors, and Minister for Agriculture
Wise and his lady’s schooner-blue crepes
had box seats. The John and Mervyn
Forrests were there, the Reg and Archie
Burts, the Ken McGibbons (she in cling-
ing green silk crepes), the A. E. Oakleys,
the Harry Calders (her draperies were
curd white), the Fred Seniors, Hilda Lee
Steere (sweeping a length of bottle-
green georgette), Mr. and Mrs. John
Cummins, Keith Hodge and his black-
lace-clad other half, the Ken Messers
and Josephine and Ursula Goyder.
The Brown-Nelson wedding was a pic-
turesque ceremony at St. George’s
Cathedral, whither came the Rev. F. R.
Frary, of Adelaide, to assist Canon Col-
lick. Bride’s frothy confection had a
foundation of ivory satin surcharged
with silk Brussels net. It was satin-
looped on the full puff sleeves and
V neck and caught at the waist
with pearl flowers; the ground-length
hem was edged with a wide net
ruching, and there were two trains, one
of satin with a net ruching and the other
a billowing one of filmy net. Little
Laurel Laphman was in a replica of
the bride’s gown; Mrs. Kevin Kelly,
Gwen Cranston and Mamie Brown
brought up the rear in pleated apple-
green taffetas sashed with bougainvillaea
velvet ribbon, the same ribbon tying
their multicolored flower wreaths.
Dozens of city and country cars came
to a halt at Northam kirk, where Helen
Dempster’s marriage to Ivan Buhler took
place. The bride’s ivory satins undu-
lated from a pearl-clasped Peter Pan
collar into a long train lined with silver
lame, the whole enveloped in a cascade
of Brussels net mounted on tulle. Muriel
Dempster, Pauline Hamersley and Judy
Hughes followed in apricot, primrose
and eau-de-Nil taffetas respectively ; their
skirts bustled, their bodices tucked to
the shoulder, where they formed full
sleeves, and their haloes of hand-made
flowers matched their frocks.
Mrs. H. McCalmont, widow of Colonel
McCalmont, is here from England as
guest of Mrs. Redvers Bate, of Crawley.
She will visit the Governor-General, Lord
Gowrie, with whom she is connected by
marriage. Mrs. McCalmont is a sister
of Sir Hugo de Bathe, who married Lily
Langtry, and also of Lady Burnham.
Dortea Hansen danced at a party given
by her parents in the Masonic Hall, Mt.
Lawley, in honor of her twenty-first
birthday. Mrs. Hansen’s pastel-blue lac-
quered satin was finished with a lei of
rosettes, Dortea’s snow-white georgettes
were touched with gentian blue, and her
sister, Mrs. V. Barwise, wore Patou-
pink angel-skin lace.
The Fellowship of Arts Society held
its first gathering for the year in the
McNess Hall, where bowls of roses and
dahlias abounded. President Mrs. Flor-
ence Dain outlined the work and aims
of the club and later gave a short talk
on “The Mime in Ancient Times.” Vida
and Gloria Tate gave songs and piano-
forte solos, Elizabeth Hatch recited and
there was a one-act play.
Mrs. J. W. Monteith has returned to
Melbourne after staying several months
in Perth. To say good-bye to her friends
she put on a tea-party in the green
lounge of the Adelphi, where she wel-
comed her guests in a chic frock of
zerkin-blue French crepe.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Frank Villeneuve Smith and his daugh-
ter Lindley gave a dinner dance at the
St. Vincent, Glenelg, for Isabel Gordon,
from Melbourne, who is their guest.
There was dancing in the earlier part of
the evening, after which the party
motored to the Blue Grotto in the city.
Lindley was frocked in blue-and-white
striped taffeta, cut on diagonal lines.
Miss Gordon chose white slipper satin
moulded to the figure, with a cape lined
in a soft tone of green.
ě
flowers. Miss Petersen gave an address
on how to construct a novel.
William Moore (N.S.W.) and his wife
(Dora Wilcox) have been sojourning in
the Speck ; spending most of their time
in a cottage at Rokeby, where there is
plenty of local history to be picked up.
“Laetitia”: “A.K.’s” pilot, who was
prevented from a comfortable landing
by hordes of milling school-children (B.
1/1 / ’36) recalls the experience of another
flying man, aptly enough named Bird, in
Brisbane Domain in 1919. In those days
a ’plane was an event, and when Bird
endeavored to land the crowd surged just
as he commenced the landward glide.
Quick thinking enabled him to gracefully
lift the bus and plop into the river, thus
saving mass decapitation. There he
further distinguished himself by diving
to extricate and save from drowning the
strapped-in passenger in the water-
logged cockpit.
* * * *
“Anubis”: There is an old belief or
tradition that grains of wheat found in
ancient Egyptian tombs have had
their germinating properties unaffected
by the passage of the centuries.
Distinguished scientists have contested it,
but I read that wheat derived from seed
found in Tut-ankh-Amen’s tomb was ex-
hibited at Newcastle (N.S.W.) Show.
Brought to this country, appropriately
enough, by the holder of a Farrar scholar-
ship, and crossed with Australian wheat,
“it germinated despite the 2000 years it
had lain dormant.” The period of sus-
pended animation must have been a good
deal more than 2000 years, if the date
assigned to Tut. by Egyptologists is cor-
rect. One may wonder if people who
believe in the long-distance efficacy of
the curse invoked by the gods of ancient
Egypt on the disturbers of the dust of
Pharaohs would shy at a loaf of bread
made from such resurrected and reno-
vated wheat.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: N.S.W. Judge White has
been moved to protest against the state-
ment that two-up is Australia’s “great
national pastime.” His Honor is, of
course, quite right; the Australian
Encyclopaedia refers to that description
of it as merely jocular. Investigating for
a newspaper, 1 was able to trace only
14 “schools” of a regular character
around Sydney, and the largest of them
would have regarded 200 as an uncom-
mon paynight crowd. In France the
“school” seldom gathered more than
200 men out of the approximate
thousand in the battalion. Even then
curious onlookers and those who only
had a bet occasionally would vastly out-
number the regular players. I’ll under-
take to say that not 10 per cent, of the
men of my acquaintance know what a
“grey” means. Two-up has its virtues —
a parson, Rev. Brandt, has pronounced
it the fairest of all gambling games—
but it certainly is not a national sport.


Renowned
The Hotel Mansions is known far and wide fo;
its hospitality, excellent service and cuisine.
“Our guests are always right” and smiling
service is our unvarying policy!
The most central Hotel in the city. Reserva
tions day aiid night— ever at your service.
Hotel Mansions
King’s Cross. Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines').
e
MAKE MORE MONEY! SELL THESE! Necessities to users in
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra monev weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu
facturer—best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so pel
nianently profitable as your own business. FuH information posted
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUR COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr. Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds., Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
March Issue on Sale Saturday next.
POSITION OF BONDHOLDERS
in
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS.
FINANCING RECOVERY.
TREND OF INTEREST RATES.
MARKET CONDITIONS.
PRICE 2b PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £11216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 202 George Street, Sydney, aDd all States.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“A. 8.”: Exit, at 75, in Darwin, Charles
Manners, one of the most persistent
battlers for N.T. mining and one of those
who, after 40 years of fighting, got next
to nothing out of it. In recent months
he had been working hard for the pro-
vision of portable batteries to help out
isolated prospectors on small shows, but
he made little headway with the authori-
ties, who always enjoyed the excuse that
they could not read his handwriting, a
caligraphy suggestive of a Chinese
peasant trying to write Arabic. Not
long ago he wrote to a Sydney firm for
a “horse bell.” The firm made out the
“bell,” but the “horse” beat them, so
they shipped an electric bell, complete
with fittings, on chance. C.M. returned
the bauble with a drawing of a horse to
illustrate. But the firm mistook the horse
for a cow, and the resulting parcel held
a large-size bullock bell. In private life
Charles was a great yarn-teller, and, like
all his kind, he would go 50 miles out
of his way to do a neighbor a good turn.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Helen Twelvetrees was not
professionally impressed with Brisbane
people. The poor woman —she tried
hard—found “not a single suitable screen
type” among the girls, though she admits
that they have “lovely faces and figures.”
Also, she thinks that the Queensland
men “needed building up, and she would
suggest that they cultivate all kinds of
sport and concentrate on their physique.”
The good lady should tell that to a few
Doughboys who happened to get on the
wrong side of Queensland Diggers dur-
ing certain journeyings in foreign lands
a few years ago. And as for the pro-
duction of screen types —well, we can
always import them. The type of Aus-
tralian who made the North can’t be
imported.
* * * *
“J. Rankine”: “W.J.D.’s” “solution”
of N.T. problems— i.e., extending the rail-
way from Mt. Isa to Camooweal and
replacing cattle on the Barkly Tableland
with sheep (B. 19/2/’36)—suggests that
the author knows little of actual Territory
conditions. The railway would merely
facilitate the trucking of cattle to the
Townsville works, but would add to the
already overlong railway trip for fats.
The suggested port on the coast which
“W.J.D.” deems “impracticable for a time”
would do for the N.T. things beyond
the power of any Queensland railway:
it would be more central; the scheme
would not be at the mercy of an adjoining
State Government; it would mean shorter
distances for fats and cheaper freight.
And it would remove the possibility of
quarantine and isolation under buffalo-
fly regulations. The sheep experiment
was tried for years on Avon Downs and
abandoned. If further testimony is re-
quired H. J. Lloyd, manager of Avon
for 20-odd years, will supply it.
* * * *
“Jeb”: James Cowan, last of the old
guard of Brisbane Grammar School
masters of the ’eighties, has celebrated
his golden jubilee and retired. No master
ever exerted a greater influence or a
greater fascination over the boys. Unlike
other old-timers, Cowan was a product
of the State-school-teacher system l . He was
a great athlete in his day till an injury
made him slow up, and he was always
the school’s drawing and writing master.
His calligraphy was beautiful and un-
studied, and he was perfectly ambidex-
trous in writing, as on the cricket field.
He would write with both hands at once,
sometimes inditing one set of script up-
side down and suddenly changing it to
right side up, while reversing the other
hand. He understood boys thoroughly,
but his fine, deep voice was not used
only for the cry “Come out, that boy!”
which announced retribution to many of
Australia’s future generals and Judges
caught in iniquity. For he was a sound
musician with a wide knowledge of
choral music, and both the school choir
and that of Christ Church, Milton, where
he sang, absorbed a lot of his free time.
In post-war years he was secretary to
the trustees as well as master.
* * * *
“Lawyer Bill”: These times when
heads ache from reading about banking
reform, inflation, deflation, Douglas
Credit, etc., it is cooling to recall that in
the Kimberleys (W.A.), for quarter of
“Thought you called this a stumpjump plough !”
a century or more, the only currency
was the notes issued by Connor, Doherty
and Durack. Similar in appearance to
ordinary banknotes and ranging in value
from 2s. 6d. to £lO, these shinplasters had
for their only backing the high credit of
the firm. I have cashed them in Darwin
and Perth. Later, other firms started
issuing notes, but the W.A. Government
took a hand and compelled the lodgment
of security against issue.
* . * * *
Dalgety’s Brisbane branch gets a new
sub-manager who was trained in the
office —E. D. Macintosh, a Digger. For
some years he was in charge of a ship-
ping department of the firm in Sydney,
and then managed the wool securities
department.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Sad, bad news
comes from the North ; news that will
give sorrow to all who knew Darwin in
its days of pristine freedom, of Paddy
Cahill and the “Cycloon.” A cold-
hearted southern-souled bureaucracy has
condemned Primus Alley as unfit for
human habitation. Primus Alley! The
very heart of Darwin. Why, it was Dar-
win’s very first pub. As if that were
not enough to preserve it for ever as a
historic relic, it housed, after the casks
ran dry, the printing office of the “N.T.
Times” for many years. In latter days,
it has been a lodging-house. But there
is still hope—Primus Alley has survived
several previous condemnations. The
most notable of them occurred during
the war years, when the late Freddy
Thompson put up such a wholehearted
defence that the Federal Government de-
cided that one war was enough to have
on its hands at one time, and called off
its health zealots. Darwin could better
spare Canberra than Primus Alley.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane’s much-needed
vehicular traffic bridge at Indooroopilly
is now an accomplished fact. Built on
the suspension principle, it uses the same
cables as were employed during con-
struction of the Sydney bridge. They
weigh 180 tons, of which 144 tons is
across the water, and carry a load of 960
tons. The decking affords a 26ft.
vehicular track and a sft. 6in. footway
for pedestrians; 1675 tons of locally-
made cement and 1000 tons of Australian
steel have gone into the towers. Cost
was approximately £lOO,OOO, raised by
the Indooroopilly Toll Bridge Co. ; the
original idea, and its successful carrying
out, the work of Mr. W. Taylor, the
co.’s engineer. It operates under the toll
system, which was so vigorously opposed
by Mr. Forgan Smith and Minister of
Works Bruce when in Opposition, and
so enthusiastically approved since they
have been in power. But any tolls are
preferable to Queensland’s appalling
suburban railway services.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
Brisbane Rep. players who visited Too-
woomba and played “The Late Christo-
pher Bean” were honored with the largest
house ever known. There were several
supper parties afterwards, and on Sunday
night Erich John’s orchestra, which also
made the Downs trip, gave a sacred
concert.
Captain Filiberto Quaglia and his
charming wife hostessed at the cocktail
party in farewell to Mrs. Hinkler and
her son George. Italian residents were
there in force.
Beryl Telford and Jim Felgate, who
were married last week, had a round of
really cheery pre-parties. Barbara Sisley
threw a sherry party on the afternoon
of the annual meeting of the Repertory
Society, and the guests, almost Reper-
torians to a man and a woman, went on
to the meeting afterwards. Rhoda Fel-
gate gave a pancake party for them on
Shrove Tuesday—a local sheet made it
“Shove” Tuesday, and this over the head-
ing “Movable Meals.”
Repertory is to stage a show once a
week this year —not necessarily a different
show, but still a show. Barbara Sisley,
Rhoda Felgate and Dulcie Scott all have
lists of interesting plays to produce, and,
what is more to the point, plenty of
young and promising recruits to help put
them over.
St. Mark’s Church of England, War-
wick, saw the wedding of Joyce Cory,
youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. G.
Cory, Braeside, Dalveen, to William
Charles Warren, son of Mr. and Mrs. C.
C. Warren, of Clayfield. The bride, who
was given away by her father, wore
magnolia satin, with long sleeves and
fishtail train. Mrs. Alex. McDonald, of
Inverell, lent the lovely old Brussels lace
veil, and eucharist lilies and pale pink
gladioli made the wedding bouquet. Ruth
Wiseman (Inverell) and Peggy and Edith
Warren, sisters of the ’groom, were pic-
turesque bridesmaids in early-Victorian
frocks of blue moire- made off the
shoulder, and hats trimmed with ostrich
feathers. They carried little, tight posies
of dark-red roses. John Warren (The
Summit) was best man, and Gilbert Cory,
of Booligal (N.S.W.), and Gordon
Douglas (Barrongarook) were grooms-
men.
Frank Keith Thomas, whose Brisbane
address is Clayfield, was married in St.
James’s Church, Toowoomba, to Evelyn
May Bligh, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. C. V. Bligh, of Condamine Plains.
White chiffon with an interweave of silver
frocked the bride, who also wore a tulle
and lace veil and carried a bouquet of
frangipanni. Dorothy Bligh, Phyllis
Thomas and Patricia Lomax (Gore) were
the ’maids, in trained frocks of del-
phinium - blue romaine. Ray
Thomas was best man, and
John Bligh and Jack Good-
rich the groomsmen. ’Moon is
being spent in Sydney.
Arlie Woodhead, daughter of
the Charles Woodheads, jun., of
St. Lucia, who has been staying
with friends in Tanganyika, has
become engaged to Hugh Dal-
zell Stewart, who is in the 6th
Battalion K.A.R., Arusha, Tanganyika.
His father was the late Colonel Hugh
Stewart, with a string of decorations won
in the war, and his mother is Mrs.
Stewart, of Rathgar, Ireland. Marriage
bells will ring in August in Brisbane.
Mrs. Forgan Smith has left for a trip
to North Queensland and the Barrier
Reef with her secretary, Marjorie Norval.
Mrs. Forgan will spend some weeks in
Mackay.
Ex-Premier Moore’s mother, who has
been spending some weeks in Brisbane, is
to return to England in the Maloja.
Eileen Mackay, who is to marry Euston
Moore, is expected in Brisbane shortly,
and Mrs. Z. E. will do a good deal of
entertaining for her.
This is to correct a recent paragraph
to the effect that Mr. Rex Murphy had
been married in Brisbane to a daughter
of Mrs. C. P. Buchanan. Mr. Murphy
is a friend of the family, and is engaged,
but not to Miss Buchanan. The Bulle-
tin regrets the appearance of the para-
graph, which was written and published
in good faith.


• for every
socket in every
receiver
ullard
The Master
Valve
Milliard
Radio Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ia'S'l
\j
-
I mm
\
Thousands of reai
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/*
Radio Accessories at give-away prices,
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
RADIO NEWS
THE CHOICE OF A SHORT-WAVE RECEIVER.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
The judicious choice of a short-wave
receiver for reception of the Empire
station overseas is of paramount import-
ance. In this article the Empire and
Foreign Services engineer of the 8.8. C.
endeavors to explain the results which
may be expected from a modern all-
wave receiver, and to point out the tech-
nical features which are principally
responsible for good performance.
Many Empire listeners write to the
8.8. C. to ask for a specific recommenda-
tion of the make of receiver they should
purchase to enable them to listen to the
Empire transmissions. These requests
cannot be dealt with directly, for it
would obviously be undesirable for the
8.8. C public corporation—to recom-
mend the products of one or other manu-
facturer. It is recognised that it is very
difficult for the completely non-technical
listener to know what receiver he should
buy, and the only advice that can be
offered is that he should get several
makes of receiver and try them out,
selecting the one which appears to give
the best reception under his own condi-
tions. Certain remarks which follow in
this article may assist in comparison, but,
since some of them demand slight tech-
nical knowledge and others rather more
technical knowledge and appreciation,
the assistance of a technically-minded
friend is necessary if the best selection
is to be made. An endeavor is made to
show what may be expected from
modern all-wave receivers generally, and
to point out the technical features which
are principally responsible for giving this
performance.
When buying a receiver it is most
useful to try it in the situation in which
it will be used, and it is desirable that
receivers should be compared, if more
than one make can be obtained, in the
same situation'and at the same time. In
short-wave reception particularly, condi-
tions vary from place to place even in
the same locality, and they may be
greatly different from day to day. It is
realised, of course, that some Empire
listeners cannot try a receiver where it
will ultimately be used before buying it;
but numbers of others can do this, and
it is recommended that they should.
Wave-range of Receivers.
The Empire Service pamphlet (obtain-
able free on request to the 8.8. C. Pub-
lications Department) contains some
notes on the general type of receiver,
whether battery- or mains-operated, for
use in different situations ; but it is well
to set down here what is meant by short-
wave, medium- and long-wave and “all-
wave” receivers. Until a few years ago
there were only two groups of waves
generally used for broadcasting. These
were known under the names of “long
waves” and “short waves.” Subsequently
shorter wave-lengths have come into use
for broadcasting, making it necessary to
use the term “medium” waves for the
original “short” waves, and to define the
newer short-wave bands as “short” and
“ultra-short.”
The designations generally used for
broadcasting waves are now as follows:
Long waves, 150-300 kc. (2000-1000
metres); medium waves, 550-1500 kc.
(545-200 metres); short waves, 6000-
30,000 kc. (50-10 metres); ultra-short
waves, above 30,000 kc. (below 10 metres).
The transmissions from the Empire
station are at present made within the
band of short waves on frequencies
between 21,600 and 6000 kilocycles per
second (13.9-50 metres). A receiver
capable of receiving only this band of
waves, or part of it, or a band from
13.9 to 80 or 100 metres, is known as a
short-wave receiver. A normal Euro-
pean broadcast receiver covers the bands
200 to 545 metres and 800 or 1000 to
2000 metres. An American broadcast-
band receiver covers only the medium-
wave band from 200-545 metres. The
majority of receivers now sold in
America, however, are called “all-wave”
Brisbane’s television worker, Mr. Tom Elliott, with his latest cathocle-ray
high-definition receiver.
receivers, and combine some or all of
the short-wave band and the medium-
wave band, while for export to Europe
they also cover the long-wave band.
The actual wave-length limits vary widely
from one make to another. The most
comprehensive cover from six or nine
metres to 545 metres in four positions of
the wave-change switch, while the long-
wave band is covered from 800 to 2000
metres by a fifth switch position.
The most comprehensive British all-
wave receivers usually have four bands
of approximately 13-32 metres, 30-80
metres, 200-545 metres and 800-2000
metres, whilst others cover only three
bands—namely, 16-50 metres, 200-545
metres and 800-2000 metres. It is, of
course, desirable that Empire listeners
should have receivers which cover all
the waves at present used by the Empire
station. No 70- or 80-metre waves are
as yet used for broadcasting, but it is
possible that they may become avail-
able in two or three years’ time.
Number of Valves —Sensitivity.
Although the number of valves may
give some indication of the sensitivity
of a receiver, prospective purchasers
should not be misled into thinking that
the number of valves is of necessity a
true criterion of sensitivity.
The question of “power output” of a
receiver must be considered. Certain
valves used on modern sets for special
purposes, such as muting valves, tuning
indicators, etc., do not cdntribute either
to sensitivity or power output. In some
sets several of these functions may be
carried out by one multiple valve.
It will generally be found that modern
sets have adequate sensitivity on wave-
lengths above about 25 to 30 metres,
and, indeed, the usable sensitivity is
generally less than that possessed by the
receiver and is determined by the un-
wanted noise due to atmospherics and
man-made static. On waves below 25
metres, however, the sensitivity is not
always great enough, and is often
limited by the noise generated in the
receiver itself. This . becomes more
apparent as the wave-length is decreased.
Experience shows that for satisfactory
signal-to-noise ratio on these low waves
it is necessary to have a radio-frequency
amplifier in front of the frequency-
changer, and for this stage to contain
efficient tuned circuits. This is a most
important point to look for when choos-
ing a receiver.
Type of Frequency-changer.
In a superheterodyne receiver the de-
sign of the frequency-changing circuits
has an important bearing on the per-
formance of the receiver, particularly
from the point of view of noise gener-
ated in the receiver, its sensitivity and —-
in the short-wave band—the ease of
tuning. There are many different types
of frequency-changer namely, the
octode, the heptode, the triode-hexode,
the triode-pentode and the triode-triode,
as well as the auto-heterodyne arrange-
ment for which a pentode is often used.
In the triode-hexode and triode-pentode
connections one valve is used by some
manufacturers, whilst others prefer to
use a separate triode valve. There
is considerable controversy among re-
ceiver designers over the advantages
claimed for one or other arrangement,
but the non-technical purchaser of a
receiver will probably not be able to
tell the difference.
Selectivity.
Selectivity in a modern short-wave or
all-wave receiver is of paramount impor-
tance. Two aspects of selectivity must
be considered in a superheterodyne re-
ceiver. Adjacent-channel selectivity—
the quality which gives freedom from in-
terference from stations in the imme-
diate neighborhood of the frequency of
the wanted station —is determined chiefly
by the intermediate-frequency circuits,
whilst “second-channel” or “image-
signal” selectivity is determined chiefly
by the signal-frequency circuits — i.e.,
those circuits which are tuned to the fre-
quency (or wave-length) on which the
station is working and which come be-
tween the aerials and the frequency-
changer valve. The value of the inter-
mediate-frequency also has an effect on
second-channel selectivity, which in-
creases with increase in intermediate
frequency.
L. W. H.
—Courtesy of 8.8. C.
B Batteries: Where Australian
Users Score.
With the radio user who must, willy-
nilly, obtain his only means of power
supply for his radio equipment from dry-
cell batteries, there is always the feeling
that perhaps the battery manufacturer
could do just a little better and supply a
battery with still longer life. Such bat-
Icries could be made, but naturally they
would cost more, both in manufacture
and selling. An analysis of types of B
batteries used in many countries reveals
that the Australian is better catered for
than overseas battery consumers. The
reason for this lies in the vast size of
the country itself, the inaccessibility of
places and the time taken and cost of
obtaining renewals.
Therefore the Australian manufacturer
has gone to the extreme to give the list-
ener ample value for money. This is well
illustrated in the average type of B bat-
tery in use. Except for special purposes
where equipment within easy reach needs
only small batteries for limited use, the
great majority of B batteries used in Aus-
tralia are at least of the triple-capacity
type. Examples well known are the
Ever Ready Superdyne and the
Diamond Mammoth. Overseas one
finds nothing to equal such batteries in
capacity or reliability excepting possibly
in Columbia (U.S.A.) make. In England
extra-heavy capacity batteries are defi-
nitely not made, the reason being that
there is no demand. Battery receivers
there are smaller, because broadcasting
stations are powerful ; a hundred miles
or so is about the maximum distance
anywhere from the nearest 8.8. C. station.
Higher power is used in broadcasting
stations in European countries than in
Australia, and a small three-valve receiver
used anywhere in England is sufficient
to obtain static-free reception over ranges
of 1000 miles or more. In Australia
stations are more scattered, power is less
and receivers are bigger and more greedy.
Consequently B batteries are bigger and
better. In addition to making the bat-
teries big enough to cope with heavy
drain over lengthy periods, the Australian
battery manufacturer has pat consider-
able research into the important ques-
tion of internal insulation. Consequently
the Australian-made B battery stands up
to climatic variations in fine style. In
the last six years Australian radio equip-
ment has gone ahead in leaps and
bounds, but none more so than the dry-
cell battery for plate-power supply. The
Australian battery manufacturer is to be
congratulated in turning out this im-
portant product in a manner second to
none and definitely ahead of most.
D. B. K.
Casual Comment.
“Ex-8.8.C.”; Writer remembers, in the
early days of transatlantic wireless tele-
graphy communication, a reproduced
photograph of the aerial system at the
old Marconi station at Clifden, Ireland.
This station, a pioneer spark affair of
several hundred kilowatts, worked on
9000 metres. The photograph was taken
at night-time, and showed the aerials as
a mass of glowing wires, owing, no doubt,
to actual overheating of the conductors
under the strain of several amperes. A
more interesting but entirely unexpected
illustration of an overheated aerial
occurred at the old Daventry station of
the 8.8. C. in 1925. The huge aerial
system collapsed overnight owing to the
added weight of frost crystals collecting
along the wires. Hitch in programmes
could not be tolerated in the 8.8. C., and
Daventry engineers had to turn to hur-
riedly and erect a jury aerial system.
This consisted of stranded galvanised-
iron wire, and the zinc coating was relied
upon to keep the high frequency resist-
ance within reasonable limits. Good
results were obtained with this aerial
for a while. Then the engineer on duty
noticed that adjustments needed changing
to compensate for a steady variation in
aerial conditions, to keep everything just-
so. Nobody could explain the reason,
and evening came along with all
engineers pondering over the trouble.
Suddenly the transmitter-room door burst
open and a watchman excitedly imparted
the information that “the aerial was
afire!” Out went everybody, and sure
enough the down-lead was red-hot for
about 200 feet. What had happened was


QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB.
=aMPLK)h=
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
“Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common*
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker.”
“ A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your
new Radio, and enjoy the best
possible reproduction.”
“ Fitted in all quality Re*
ceivers.”
“Publication forwarded on
request.”
AMPLION (A/SIA) LIMITED
70 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
that the zinc coating had burnt' off under
the strain and left the iron wire, with its
high resistance, to carry on the job. The
original aerial was repaired and re-erected
next morning, but several old-time 8.8. C.
engineers will long remember the unusual
sight of a thin red-hot poker stretching
up into England’s night sky.
* * * *
“C.8.X.”: From the earliest days
efficiency has been the keynote of the
8.8. C., and any failure in apparatus or
personnel means a searching examination
into the why and wherefore. As with
all broadcasting organisations, there have
been hitches. I was posted to the Leeds-
Bradford relay station as assistant main-
tenance engineer ; duties included a split-
ting of time on watch at the two trans-
mitters, 15 miles apart, fed from the
one control-room in Leeds. After having
used a motor-cycle to cover the distance
between Leeds and Bradford for some
weeks, I had to train it. The 10.25 from
Leeds landed one at Bradford with a few
minutes to spare for checking lines and
warming up. On this foggy November
morning the train was late, and I waited
at the “Out” platform with rising trepida-
tion. Almost 15 minutes late, in glided
a train and in surged passengers, includ-
ing myself and morning newspaper. Tele-
graph poles flashed by in the murky
atmosphere, but instead of the customary
stop at Shipley Junction the train went
straight on. “Making up lost time,” I
thought, until the collector came along
the corridor. Taking my ticket he ex-
ploded: “Bradford? You’ll be a long time
getting there; this is the Carlisle express!”
Visions of the sack arose, but after 15
minutes or so the collector returned with
the news that a quick stop was to be
made at Shipley to pick up special
passengers. Darting off at Shipley, 20
miles or so from Bradford, I rushed
across tracks and platforms just in time
to catch a Bradford-bound train. My
arrival at the transmitter-room was at
12.15 p.m., with the programme time
almost completed for the morning. All
telephone indicators were down, and,
ringing control, I was informed that the
chief engineer had an ambulance on the
way in case I had been electrocuted! The
report to H.Q. was accepted, but frigidly.
* * * =t=
“Enno”: One would think that after a
decade of QSL cards between amateur
transmitters, the craze would suffer from
lack of novelty, and the insistent “QSL,
please?” would be on the wane. Far
from it. If I go on the air, particularly
in the 20-metre band, for a brief session,
whether on key or telephony, a month
or so later shoals of QSL cards arrive
from all parts of the globe. The con-
firmation card of an unusual contact is
acceptable between the stations con-
cerned, and readily exchanged, but this
s.-w. listener-report business is overdone.
The most prolific source of listener-
reports is Nazi Germany. One gathers
the impression that the population there
does little else than turn the dials of
short-wave receivers, print thousands of
Deutsche Kurzwellen-Empfangsstation
cards and mail them to every ham that
punches a key. Maoriland also doesn’t
lack enthusiasts who take their DX
clubs seriously and lose hours of sleep
in DX chasing. The Australian amateur
has a bad name overseas for QSL failure.
Who can blame him? He is an elusive
bird for Europeans, and in the thrill of
such DX they shower him with countless
cards. But only a few send the necessary
return postage.
* * * *
“Sach”: R. Humphrey, mentioned on
this page recently, has been in the British
Army and the A.1.F., and holds a com-
mission in Signals, 2nd Division, A.M.F.
He went to sea as a wireless operator
after the war, and when one can find him
with the spare time (he is a busy man,
holding an important position in A.W.A.)
can entertain with his reminiscences of
life on the ocean wave. Should any
man be slow on Morse, Humphrey
will go out of his way to help him bring
up his speed ; and once “Humph” gets
on the key he can move.
*** '!» H*
“Amatol”: Passing the window of an
old-established radio dealer in Sydney I
was attracted by a display of ancient
valves, arranged, no doubt, as a reminder
that valves were once mostly glass bulb
with elements and a fair amount of gas
inside. Prominent in the cavalcade was
a French “R” valve, which brought back
memories of early post-war days. These
valves were, in 1920, about the only
means available to the experimenter of
making a start in the mysteries of C.W.,
and they were expensive ; in England
they cost 30s. each, and had a greedy six-
volt filament that burnt itself away very
visibly and speedily. Nevertheless they
worked, and to some tune. I well remem-
ber listening to the historical broadcast
by Melba from Chelmsford ; the receiver
was a galena crystal detector cum loose-
coupler, followed by an ex-army
C MKIII amplifier with three “R”
valves, and a loudspeaker made from a
2000-ohm earphone and a long brass
horn. The distortion was awful, but the
thrill was there.
All Round the Dial.
“Avon”: Maoriland’s new Labor
Ministry proposes to put its islands very
much in the position of those old
Greek republics which were so demo-
cratic that their Parliament consisted of
the whole nation. Priminister Savage
isn’t going that far, but he proposes to
broadcast all important Parliamentary
debates so that the Avhole country can
listen-in if so disposed. At first sight
the notion is one to conjure up groans
and jeers—the debates of lawmakers are
so often ineffably dreary —but Savage
reckons that if the speakers know they
are directly addressing the nation they
will “give greater attention to the matter
and manner of their speech.” Further-
more, Maoriland seems to be on the verge
of legislative experiments relatively as
daring as those of Ballance and Seddon,
so the big debates shouldn’t lack interest.
Philips Television.
A new Philips television transmitter
was recently demonstrated before mem-
bers of the Royal Institute of Dutch In-
ventors at the Philips laboratories in
Holland. The transmitter has been de-
signed for a modulation frequency of
three megacycles, and employs an Icono-
scope tube. A wave-length of seven
metres was used, and outdoor scenes of
crowds were transmitted direct and not
by the intermediate film method. The
Iconoscopes used were made in the
Philips laboratory. It will be interesting
to watch developments from Philips
laboratories. Philips have always been
pioneers in radio, and their co-operation
must be to the good of television.
Aladdin Iron Core I.F.T.
Some months ago the description of
a three-valve superhet in “Radio”
(U.S.A.), by Frank C. Jones, attracted
much world-wide attention. So success-
ful was this receiver that the Silver Radio
Co. went into production with kits. It
is claimed to be the equal in performance
of many costly multi-valve single-signal
superhets, is easy to make and is inex-
pensive into the bargain.
The secret of the performance, how-
ever, lies with the single intermediate
stage employed. This uses a special vari-
able selectivity iron-cored transformer,
made with Polyiron core by Aladdin
Radio Industries Inc., Chicago. The co.
forwarded a sample of the type AlOO
transformer used in the Jones superhet,
with the information that the Australian
agents are Stromberg Carlson, Ltd., Berk
House, 72 William-street, Sydney.
The advantages of iron-dust cores are
at long last being realised in Australia,
and gradually such important com-
ponents are being placed on the market.
For those interested in the Jones super-
het (intended primarily for amateur
transmitter use) the application of the
particular I.F.T. specified is a distinct
advantage. This Aladdin product is par-
ticularly well made and surprisingly com-
pact. If such transformers are to be
used for replacement in multi-stage super-
hets, the Polyiron data sheet No. 1135
stresses that decoupling should be used
in the primary as a precaution against
instability with high-gain valves. The
sample supplied is illustrated.
New Multi-tester.
All forms of high-quality radio-test
apparatus are covered in the wide range
now manufactured by Paton Electrical
Instrument Co., and, in succession to the
Palec cathode-ray oscillograph recently
produced, an exceptionally neat portable
radio tester is available. This is the Palec
“Compleat” multi-tester illustrated. The
circuit arrangement of this tester is
unique, and permits a remarkable num-
ber of checks upon radio apparatus m
a quick and convenient manner, whether
by an expert or a novice. The instru-
ment is a portable laboratory type, com-
pletely self-contained and housed in a
black leatherette case. It is equipped
with its own power supply for making
all measurements and tests enumerated.
The meter is accurate to plus and minus
1 p.c. in horizontal and vertical position,
the knife-edged pointer making for accu-
rate readings. The movement is semi-
deadbeat (not over-damped) and covers a
105-degree angle scale. Resistors and
shunts in the instrument are accurate to
within 1 p.c.-; temperature co-efficient is
negligible.
Ranges are:
(1) Volts, D C., A.C. and Output: 10,
50, 250, 500, 1000.
(2) Milliamps: 1, 10, 50, 250.
(3) Ohms: From 1 ohm to 10 megohms.
(4) Capacitance: Paper and mica con-
densers from .OOlmfd. to 10mfd., measured
and tested for leakages and open circuits.
(5) Inductance: Chokes, transformers,
etc. —readings in two ranges from 1 to
10,000 henries.
(6) Impedance: Measurements at 50
cycles (unless otherwise stated) —two
ranges from 1 ohm to 1 megohm.
(7) Electrolytics: Tests electrolytics, bqth
8 and 25 microfarad types, at working
voltages, registering condition as good,
poor or faulty. . ,
(8) Insulation Test: An invaluable fea-
ture is the provision for testing circuits,
sockets, bushes and valve elements, etc.,
for leakage at 250 D.C.
The two leads provided are plugged
into the respective sockets on the panel.
For inductance, capacitance, impedance
and resistance measurements the zero is
set by shorting the leads and setting the
adjuster. The instrument then reads
directly. Electrolytic condensers are
tested by simply clipping on to the termi-
nals of the condensers, and reading the
scale when the condenser has formed,
i.e., in three minutes or under. A shorted
component can be tested without damag-
ing the instrument. The price is £l3 10s.
plus tax ; analyser-adaptor unit (includ-
ing metal tubes), £2 19s. 6d. plus tax.
Ultra-short Wave Progress in
Great Britain.
During 1935 several commercial appli-
cations of ultra-short waves have been
employed successfully in Great Britain.
The most notable was the opening of
the Post Office circuit between Scotland
and Northern Ireland. This was actually
in operation under experimental condi-
tions at the close of the previous year,
but has been rapidly developed into a
stable commercial circuit.
The waves used lie between four and
six metres, 12 frequencies, six in each
direction, being used. Individual send-
ing and receiving apparatus is used for
each channel, the output of each trans-
mitter being about five watts. Directive
rays and reflectors are employed for con-
centrating the waves in the required
direction. The Scottish station is at Port-
patrick, and the Irish at Ballygomartin,
a few miles from Belfast. Both sites are
elevated so that there is an optical path
between the stations, which are about
37 miles apart.
The equipments work unattended, the
circuits on the Irish side terminating at
Belfast, those on the Scottish side being
extended to Glasgow, Liverpool and Lon-
don. This is a noteworthy circuit, being
the first multi-channel ultra-short-wave
radio-telephone link in ordinary commer-
cial use.
Another, simpler, five-metre telephone
circuit with an automatic calling device
has also been constructed and brought
into operation by the British Post Office
between Lerwick and Walsay-Skerries in
the Shetland Islands, and there can be
little doubt that circuits of this kind will
be found most useful in the future for
linking up islands with one another and
with mainlands.
Developments are taking place in the
working of ultra-short and micro waves
in many countries, but very few commer-
cial services are yet in operation. It is,
however, in the development of com-
munication by these very short waves
that great advances may confidently be
expected during the next few years.
Latest in the Trade.
Edited by Dr. W. G. Baker, B.Sc.,
D.Sc., Eng., the “A.W.A. Technical Re-
view” for January contains many articles
of interest to the radio engineer generally.
Dr. A. L. Green, of the co.’s research
laboratory, deals with “Service Areas of
Broadcasting Stations,” illustrating the
standards of service required and the im-
portant aspect of daylight coverage. Dr.
G. Builder, also of the research lab.,
discusses the problems of “Noise Inter-
ference in Radio Receivers,” and
“Dummy Aerials for Broadcast Frequen-
cies” are the subject of an article by F.
S. Maynard. The modulated oscillator
is dealt with by L. G. Dobbie, and the
editor concludes the issue with Notes
on the Design of Attenuating Networks.”
The Q. and A. Column.
é


"SILVER
EDGE”
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
VO horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
as to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
OUr brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for Raybestos,’ which has proved itself over many years of service.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
LONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHORT WORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easier
tyre inflation —for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up by
the small high-
p r e s sure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
m
less Gauge
5f m extra
with gauge.
Take /t ease/ with a
RENRUT
aUADFLU PL£
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & PROS., LTD., Sheffield,
England.
The Steering Column.
HAZARDS OF NIGHT DRIVING.
THE MENACE OF GLARING HEADLIGHTS.
BY FRED BERRY.
QOON after electric-lighting equipment was standardised on
automobiles it became evident that if provision was to be
made for brilliant illumination of country roads when driving at
high speeds some method of eliminating glare when operating
in congested areas or when passing on dark highways must be
introduced. Enormous sums have been expended during the
last 20 years in efforts to evolve a perfect headlight, but
statistics show that a very large proportion of accidents
occurring between dusk and dawn have been due to dazzle
caused by imperfectly focused or badly-designed lighting equip-
ment. The problems involved in avoiding such mishaps are
discussed in the following article.
Admittedly hazards of night driving
are greater than in daylight, and as a
consequence motorists are entitled to
use lights of sufficient value to render
objects easily visible well within the stop-
ping distance of the brakes. Unfortu-
nately, far too many drivers in seeking
a long beam and brilliant light lose sight
of the fact that, unless headlights are of
modern design and carefully focused, the
resulting glare will be not only discon-
certing to drivers
coming from the
opposite direction,
but may cause
temporary blind-
ness, with conse-
quent risk of
serious accident.
Miniature search-
lights may be en-
joyed by those sit-
ting behind them,
but their use shows
disregard for the
comfort of other
road-users or for
safety - first prin-
ciples.
Obsolete Typ es.
Possessors of old-
type cars with
plain glasses in the
headlights are the
greatest offenders.
Among experienced
motorists the
opinion is unani-
mously held that
the use of plain
glasses in head-
lights fitted with
parabolic reflectors
is dangerous and
should not be per-
mitted by traffic
authorities.
Satisfactory illumination for any
normal driving is possible without accom-
panying glare or dazzle.
In the early days of motoring speeds
were relatively slow, and first kerosene
and later acetylene lights proved satisfac-
tory. As speeds increased these old light-
ing methods became increasingly ineffi-
cient owing to the restricted range of
vision, but electricity and improvements
in storage batteries came to the rescue
of worried designers. For some time
electrical lighting equipments provided a
brilliant and lengthy beam which, though
eminently satisfactory from the driver’s
point of view, became a source of danger
as the number of vehicles increased,
whilst the position was aggravated by the
indiscriminate use of lamps of increas-
ingly high candle-power and reflectors
which concentrated the beam.
Faulty Adjustment.
Restrictive measures introduced by
traffic authorities requiring headlights to
be so positioned as to throw the major
How to align and adjust modern headlights: Top, correct
light pattern for right lamp; centre, left lamp; bottom, even
and regular reflection from both lamps. (See text.)
light beam on the roadway some speci-
fied distance ahead of the car had the
effect of somewhat mitigating the glare
nuisance, but it was found that the beam
angle was seldom uniform, whilst in-
stances where one or both lights pointed
to the heavens instead of the highway
were common.
An insistent demand by motorists for
relief from the menace of glaring head-
lights resulted in the production of many
novel types of equipment. Ray filters, in-
terposed between light globe and glass,
effectively eliminated glare and enabled
drivers to pass on narrow country roads
with the same facility as in daylight, but
so much light was absorbed in the pro-
cess of filtering that globes of high
candle-power were required to provide a
beam of sufficient length for fast night
driving. The resultant heavy drain on
batteries and the necessity for frequent
charging doomed this otherwise excel-
lent principle.
Tinted or “daylight” globes failed to
solve the problem for similar reasons,
while attempts to secure a “half” or flat
beam when using plain glass headlights
were not wholly successful.
Modern Ideas.
Tilt beam, dual-filament globes in head-
lights fitted with cast-glass fronts, now
standard equipment in almost every make
of car, have greatly reduced the hazards
of night operation by providing a long,
powerful yet soft driving beam reason-
ably free from glare, coupled with a
passing beam of equal value which can
be dipped directly in front of the car
by pressure of a foot switch.
Despite the undoubted improvement in
driving conditions made possible by these
new-type headlights, much unnecessary
inconvenience is still caused by motorists
who, on possessing a modern car, take
the lighting equipment for granted and
fail to pay attention to either alignment
or focus. Although headlights of different
shape and make are used on the various
popular type of modern cars, the accom-
panying illustration will show how the
majority of driving beams can be tested.
Place the car on a level floor with
headlights located about 25 feet from a
garage door or a light-colored wall.
Draw a horizontal line, “A,” on this
surface at the height of the headlight
centres. A centre point should then be
located on this line by sighting through
the centre of rear window and lining up
with radiator mascot. Equidistant from
this centre point two vertical lines should
be drawn at a distance from each other
equal to the distance between centres of
headlights. These two lines should then
be immediately ahead and in line with
the respective lamps.
Correct Setting.
With the right headlight covered and
the lighting switch in the high-beam
position, aim the beam of left headlamp
so that the zone of greatest intensity
appears centred on the vertical line “B”
and immediately below the horizontal line
“A.” With the left headlight covered
the right-hand lamp should then be ad-
justed in a similar manner, the beam
centring on vertical line “C.”
With both headlights uncovered cor-
rect adjustment should show a reflection
on the white surface similar to that of
the lowest illustration.
Irregular or distorted light pattern is
sometimes due to replacement of a cast-
glass front in the wrong side headlamp.
These lenses are not interchangeable, the
left lens being designed to illuminate the
left and centre of the road, while the zone
of greatest intensity from the right-hand
lens illuminates the right side of the road.
Faulty wiring or reversed globes, re-
sulting in one headlight projecting a low
and the other a high beam, will also give
unsatisfactory lighting, and are in many
instances the cause of glare of which
the driver is not usually aware.
Old-fashioned, plain-glass headlights
are still the greatest hazard of night driv-
ing, but there is no reason why motor-
ists should continue the practice of tem-
porarily blinding oncoming drivers when
it is realised that glare can be consider-
ably reduced without incurring any great
expense.
Cheap Conversion.
First and simplest method is to have
the existing globes frosted by immersing
for a few seconds in hydrofluoric acid
and fitting a resistance in the wiring cir-
cuit in order to reduce current flowing
to headlamps.
The practice of completely dimming
plain headlights and switching over to a
small pilot globe is not recommended,
but a few experiments with resistances
of various values will enable the driver
to soften the light beam and reduce glare
whilst still providing sufficient light for
his own requirements.
In cases where provision is made for
focusing the headlight globe a cheap
but effective conversion can be made by
using a metal mirror as an auxiliary re-
flector and so breaking up the main
beam.
As shown in the illustration, the mirror
is fixed to the headlight glass immediately
in line with the globe. Procure two small
round metal hand mirrors, about 2iin.
diameter, of the convex type which give
a complete image of the face. In the
exact centre of the glass (careful
measurements are important) fix the
mirror, convex side towards globe, using
celluloid cement and keeping in position
for a few minutes until partly set.
When first assembled it is possible a
black spot will be found in the reflected
light, but this will disappear as soon as
the globe is correctly focused.
Regulations prohibiting the use of dip-
ping and swivelling headlights hamper
experimenters in the evolution of a per-
Method of converting old-type head-
lamps to reduce glare without sacrificing
light value. (See text.)
feet headlight, but no doubt the near
future will see a revision of these con-
ventional ideas and allow drivers to see
round corners at night-time, dip on ap-
proach of another vehicle and generally
improve the safety factor of night
driving.


SPARKING PLUGS
give better
performance
in every
engine
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
/
for
MOTOR
CARS
b*£m
JL A Product of British Aus-
tralian Lead Manufac-
turers, makers of famous
‘ Duco ” Lacquers.
mi
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
"Dulux" is the finest, hardest,
glossiest car-finish in the world.
It's impossible to crack or chip
"Dulux." "Dulux" dries quickly,
with a tough film that retains its
brilliant lustre, and has greater
wear-resistance than ordinary
finishes.
Ask your about
"Dulux."
It’s Not what you PAY
it’s what you RECEIVE . .
M “
■A
mm
mm WMmM
mim
mm
mS
mtt*
W 1 iiL^m
IsL * x
iisi*
: ■;..
os
>•«!*
V
mm
<©
: Kmv :
9M
S^JSSxSgS
i' >
t 9
§ss
*55
’ X
555^j*5*55::555*55^»m¥*&*»i>
VaivounE
GREATER
MILEAGE
VALVOLINE Oil gives more trouble-free miles
and makes every engine part last longer,
because it is refined from the world s finest
crudes.
Valvoline, the best oil your money can buy,
comes to you in "tamper-proof” tins, sealed as a
protection against substitution, dirt, adulteration
and short mesaure.
Ask your garageman!
Advt. of J. CARRIGAN. Sydney, Melbourne, and throughout the Commonwealth
ė
ę
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.R.D. (Port Augusta, S.A.).—(l) How do
running costs and maintenance, excluding
petrol, compare in the two cars named? (2)
Have been offered a 9000-mile coupe {named)
at an attractive price, but have heard that
motors of this make are giving trouble. Is this
so ?
(1) Little, if any, difference in running costs.
(2) Not generally.
* * * *
S.F.O. (Swan Hill, Vic.). —My five-year-old
sedan (36,000 miles) has developed severe wheel
wobble when driving with power off on a
rough down-grade. It is all right on the level
or with engine on. Cause and cure ?
Worn king-pins, bent axle, worn wheel bear-
ings or, in fact, any alteration from standard
settings of castor, toe-in or camber might cause
the symptom indicated, and unless you are
prepared to have wheel alignment tested you
might never locate the seat of the trouble.
* * * *
L.C.B. (Nagambie, Vic.).—(l) Would two six-
volt car generators driven by wind give suffi-
cient current to light a house and run a small
wireless ? (2) How could the current be brought
down from the generators through a turntable
on an upright pole without breaking wires ?
(1) Depends on what type and candle-power
globes are to be used for lighting. If six- or
twelve-volt you will require a number of bat-
teries to ensure continuous supply with variable
wind conditions. (2) The wind-driven wheel
should be mounted to drive a vertical shaft
through wheel and pinion, the generator being
mounted at ground level and driven by a
fixed gear from the base of the shaft.
F.J.A. (Glen Innes, N.S.W.).—/ have a
'3O model four-cylinder tourer and wish to
improve performance. (1) What would the
compression ratio be if the head were ground
and a thin copper gasket used ? (2) Would
special pistons be required to stand the in-
creased compression ? (3) What top speed
should 1 now obtain and by how much would
the raised compression improve this ? (4) Back-
end ratio is now 4.5 to 1. Would a 3.5-to-l
axle give better performance ? The car has
done 25,000 miles and is in good mechanical
condition, and there is practically no wear in
cylinders, pistons or valves.
(1) Depends upon thickness of metal taken
from block. Best plan would be to mill about
|in. from head and block and use standard-
type copper-asbestos gasket to be sure ot a
gastight fit. Compression will then be approxi-
mately 6.5 to 1. (2) No. Standard pistons
should do. (3) 65 m.p.h.; increase, if any, will
depend mainly upon balance of reciprocating
parts in the motor, correct alignment ot trans-
mission and road-wheel balance. Best you
might expect is an increase of 5 to 10 m.p.n.,
but slow running and pulling on top gear will
not be so good. (4) Not worth the expense.
Better all-round results will be obtained with
existing ratio.
D. (W. Maitland, N.S.W.).— Have
recently installed a radio set in my ’34 sedan,
and have been informed that the extra drain
on the battery will soon prevent the starter
motor from working. Is there any way battery
condition can be checked without running to
a city garage? . , , f 0
An efficient battery-tester in the form of a
hydrometer can be purchased for a few shil-
lings from any accessory house. The float is
colored to facilitate quick reading, and with-
drawing the electrolite shows instantly the de-
gree of charge held by the battery.
jjj t jj. j|c Jfc
K.E. (Broken Hill, N.S.W.).—Five months
ago I purchased a popular make of sedan, and
although I have only done 2600 miles piston
slap has become decidedly objectionable, and
I must replace crankcase oil at frequent inter-
vals. Is there any remedy ?
It is unusual for a modern motor to develop
such symptoms at the mileage mentioned. It
is possible the trouble may be due to careless
assembly, but the excessive wear is more likely
due to the car being overdriven during the
running-in period.
* * * *
E. (Ipswich, Q.).—Most of my driving
in my 30-h.p. sedan ’34 model (18,000 miles )
is done at night with all lights burning, and
the battery loses its charge rapidly, necessitat-
ing a recharge every few months. 1 have been
informed that further boosting of the charging
rate (10 amps.) may cause an electrical break-
down. Is this so ?
Certainly not. Your generate is fitted with
a voltage regulator and is designed to give a
continuous output of from 15 to 20 amps.
Call at the nearest service station and have the
third brush in the generator shifted forward
until the charging rate keeps the battery up
to its work.
N.E. (Wangaratta, Vic.). —How can I pre-
vent my car from exploding gas in the muffler ?
The trouble only happens when running down
hill with throttle closed, but, although the
motor has been examined several times, the
trouble still persists.
Either valves are sticking or the mixture is
overweak owing to air leaks in the manifold.
If valves are held off their seats gas will be
pumped into the silencer on the overrun and
exploded violently when power is again applied.
Similarly, if serious leaks occur in the mani-
fold, the gas mixture will be too weak to burn
with closed throttle, but will accumulate in
the exhaust pipe and “pop back” when the
motor again begins to fire.
A NOVEL CAR.
Some day I will buy the car novelists
use. In 38 out of 50 novels and short
stories from which I made notes, it was
a Panhard. It snorts. “The big Pan-
hard was snorting up the drive.” “The
blue Panhard passed her with a snort.”
There is a lot to be said for. the novel-
ists’ Rolls-Royce, too. It always purrs.
Both makes jump, throb, quiver, tremble,
whizz, glide or chug. That isn’t surpris-
ing when the engine is considered. “His
head was buried in the intricate and
gleaming mass of copper and nickel of
the engine.” “Count Steigel threw the
bonnet open, and glared at the dancing
pistons.” “He watched the rhythmic
flick, flick, flick of the spark plugs.”
“The whirring of the magneto told him
all was well.”
This type of engine naturally has un-
usual controls. The throttle is impor-
tant, and is controlled by the hands or
feet. “She kicked the throttle open, and
the sleeping car jumped into life.” “He
pulled the throttle out as far as it would
go, and hung on grimly.” “Grace calmly
set the throttle at the 60-miles-an-hour
notch.”
The throttle is likely to get the be-
ginner tricked. Then he can use the
clutch instead. “The car bounded for-
ward as he pressed the clutch in notch
by notch.” “The pressure of her foot
on the clutch gave the car added speed.”
“Kier jambed his foot on the clutch, and
the big car skidded and stopped.”
However, the beginner need not bother
about either if he is anxious to get a
move on, because the novelists’ car stops,
starts and drives itself quite often. It
has a gear lever, but so far the only
use of that I have discovered is as a
hand-brake. The feature of the novel-
ists’ car is the gadgets. “The little meter
before his eyes warned him the hill was
a dangerous one.” “Shirley protested
when he pressed the button that drew
all the blinds.” “She studied the bewil-
dering array of clocks, meters and gauges
on the dashboard. Then the eye of the
self-starter seemed to wink at her.”
But best of all you don’t have to sweat
and grunt to change a tyre or wheel.
“Bruce snatched the spare wheel from
the footboard, and clapped it on in place
of the punctured tyre.”
The motorist has a lot to learn from
the novelist.
C. SHARP.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Jay”: Living and working miles
from the nearest garage, a bush cobber
was bothered with loss of air pressure in
the tyres, caused by slow punctures or a
porous tube. He injected thinned golden
syrup and a little fresh milk through the
valve. The tube was then inflated in the
ordinary way, and remained airtight for
a considerable time.
* * * *
“D.L.V.”: Arriving at a small North
Coast (N.S.W.) town at 2 a.m., the occu-
pants of an old Ford were puzzled when
the engine stalled. On investigation it
was found that the bus had run out of
juice. They were wondering how to get
petrol at that unearthly hour when a
brainy member of the party hit on the
idea of doing the round of all the filling
stations in the township and draining the
bowser hoses. Visits to 12 bowsers
yielded about a gallon of gas, which
enabled them to continue their journey
for at least another 25 miles.


“THE AGE”
' Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its' present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its; accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
if you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Supposing ...
Just
Supposing!
. . . that 4 people
only read each one
that’s printed. Four
times 61,361 is 245,444
. . . practically one
in of S.A.’s popula-
tion . . . coverage ?
Advertise in
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper
Representation :
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE —A. G. Pike, First Floor
NewsDaDer House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F A. Smith. 34-40 Ludeate
Hill, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post’*
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
YJ«-
The Centre of Tas-
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
t .
'"THE EXAMINER’’ is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial, and Tourist Centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 93 years, and is the Newspaper read by Northern
Tasmania to-day.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st.. Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Wo you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers ?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia*
ness. And it was not ten minutes later that out of
that concealing dark a scream, jagged and horrible,
went up into the night. Ruve saw the faces all turn
shocked towards the narrow street —white faces,
listening. There was a silence, tense and dreadful.
Then someone near her spoke.
“Must be old Mother Gurney’s boy,” he said.
“I saw a parson turning down there about five minutes
ago. It’ll be the finish of the old woman.”
That agonised cry haunted Ruve’s night. When
would the war end! Towards dawn she fell into an
uneasy sleep, and woke in cold terror from a dream
that Dick lay near death in a lonely field where rain
turned as it fell to drops of blood.
Chapter XXII.
MORNING sunlight streamed into the room.
The little boy in his cot stirred and woke;
blinked up with drowsy eyes at the red ships
sailing round the wall. Beautiful ships—he counted
them, but when he got to ten he had to start again ;
he couldn’t remember the’figure that came after ten.
From the window you could see “really” ships.
They passed backwards and forwards —gliding ferries,
puffing launches, sometimes little snorting tugs taking
a steamer to the dock, and on Saturday afternoons and
Sundays the yachts. These last, with their spreading
white sails, he liked the best; they were most like
the red ships his glance sought first thing in the
morning, last at night.
Ruve was working hard now for the Royal Art
Society’s annual exhibition —the picture of which she
hoped most was a portrait of Ellice. Ellice herself
had laughed at first at the notion, but Ruve had car-
ried the day. It was almost completed now. Slender
and straight in cloudy-blue, the living Ellice Grey
looked out from the canvas.' A wistful autumnal
grace clung to her ; tenderness was in the blue, soft
eyes and the delicate mouth. Tenderness and a gentle
gaiety pervaded the picture ; the subject looked at it
in amazement.
“You’ve flattered me, dear!”
“No, indeed; what a thing to accuse me of! I
wouldn’t be so untrue to art. It’s you as I see you—
the real, shining, beautiful you.”
“You’ve made an exquisite thing of it, Ruve. But
it really is too good for me.”
“Not a bit too good for you—it isn’t good enough.”
“Will you specialise in portraits, Ruve? You’ll
be popular with your sitters if you treat them all as
you’ve treated me.”
“Not altogether. I shouldn’t like to keep in the
one groove,” Ruve said. “And I could hardly do that
in the Islands. My burning ambition is to put Fiji
on canvas. I want to paint the loveliness of it—and
the harshness ; all of it. Rod got Fiji into poetry ;
1 want to put it as surely and inevitably as he did
into color and black and white.”
Fired with her theme, she swept round, palette
in hand.
“If you could only have seen it as I have, Aunt
Leila! Felt the colors burning into your very heart!
I must paint it all some day. I’ve only done a little
so far.”
In memory she saw the purple lawns of sea ;
the unbelievably-beautiful colors of coral reefs under
the shining veils of transparent water; the islands
flushed under dawn , and sunset. Saw the young men
and the golden, glowing girls in whom ran tinged
blood ; they, too, partook of the beauty of their set-
ting—the tall young men and the golden girls.
“I’ll paint it all,” she vowed* “if it takes me a
lifetime.”
Into the room came the little doctor. He was
smiling.
“I happened to meet that young friend of yours,
Kitty Hood, in town to-day, Ruve,” he said. “She’s
very elated. Vernie enlisted yesterday. How’s that
for a sensation?”
“Isn’t that just what I always said he’d do?”
said Ellice, positively preening herself.
The portrait was hung, as well as two of Ruve’s
other exhibits. One was a vivid water-color of a
Valoa beach; the other a sunlit impression of a
scarlet-veiled Indian woman crossing delicately the
stepping-stones of the Ruvia creek.
It was the first year Ruve had exhibited. Elation,
excitement, triumph, thrilling delight, all possessed
her in turn, till her cup of ecstasy brimmed over.
The Art Gallery trustees bought the portrait. She
felt she could conquer the world.
Into the heart of her exalted moment flashed grim
reminder. Dick, dangerously wounded, was lying
between life and death.
Her triumph dwindled to nothing—Art was noth-
ing at all. She was Dick’s wife, who had lived safely
and lain soft and warm at night while he faced death
and knew the misery, the long weariness of war —
as well as its rushing moments of fierce life, its com-
radeships and sacrifices that kindled fire in the soul
if the body did have to endure the rotting mud of the
trenches. She hated, herself because she had touched
such heights of ecstasy while he . . . she couldn’t bear
to think of it.
“To think I was so pleased, so happy,” she said
over and over again.
“My dearest, you didn’t know,” said Ellice, trying
in vain to comfort. “Dick would not have wanted
you to be always fretting and waiting for bad news.
That’s not courage. And the worst hasn’t come to the
worst yet. He’ll come back to you. I’m sure of it.”
Dick, a gaunt shadow in the little hospital behind
the lines, came gradually out of danger. With that
slow return to life came an utter weariness of mind
and body such as he, the strong and self-reliant, had
never known. Too weary to trouble about anything
at all, he lay almost unmoving and let the outer world
go by.
In the struggle between life and death he had
not clearly distinguished, between the real and the
unreal; between day and night. There had been
times when the narrow, austere ward —once the school-
room of a convent where little French children, sit-
ting at their lessons, had known nothing of war—
gave place to surroundings more fantastic. Strange,
confusing images flowed past him then in an inter-
minable stream. Sometimes the flow of them ceased';
and a calm, exquisite by contrast, brooded about him.
It was then that sometimes he seemed to see his
mother —not as she had lain last in a cold, unheeding
peace—but vividly aware of him and pitiful. The
tender young face and the slim figure faded as he drew
nearer to life, but the impression had been very real.
The deadly weariness still burdened him, but the
thronging images, the strange intervals in which the
real and the unreal had flowed together and been
indistinguishable one from the other had passed.
Eyes closed as-he lay, his thoughts went back to
sunlit Vunisesi: to the little, low hills of that small,
sweet estate ; to the shallow, brown creek gliding out
to the peacock-colored sea ; to the old friendly house
—all that had been so brief a time an earthly Para-
dise. And everywhere Ruve, who had been bride
there and wife and dearest friend. Would they ever
meet again? He slept uneasily and woke again to his
thronging, cherished memories.
The day came when he was able weakly to sit
up—he sat in thin, clear sunlight and wondered
whether the strange lassitude would ever leave him.
He wouldn’t be much use in the trenches when they
did send him back. He asked the doctor about it.
The doctor, a bluff Glasgow man, stared at him.
“Good God, man! Did you think you were
going back to the lines? Not you, my man. It’s you
for home this time. You’ve earned a spell.”
At the look that came into Dick’s weary eyes
he coughed and turned away a moment.
“Get that well into your mind, my man,” he
advised gruffly then. “You’re going home —back to
that young wife you were talking to so often a wee
while back. You’re going home.”
Home—he left Dick savoring almost incredibly
the thought of home. Of Ruve and the little son he
had not seen. Home! Cleanliness . . . quiet .. .
the niceties again of life. The Islands, with their color
and burning light—-he saw them all so clearly, but
the radiance that lay upon them was brighter than
the reality could ever be. Warmth crept round his
heart at last; and presently, lying back there in the
long chair, he sank into restful, dreamless sleep.
A blue Australian morning—ruffled snowy clouds
floating over the blue sky,-quivering innumerable
diamonds of light glinting in the small blue harbor
waves, a wind whose touch was soft as silk. The
morning of Dick’s , homecoming. To Ruve it was
the last perfect touch to happiness that almost hurt
that it should be so gay and lyrical a day.
Could this be Dick? This gaunt, silent man who
had gone from her so strong and young. He looked
years older: there clung a haggardness to him—a
weariness-—something she could not define.
. “Oh, my dear, my dear, what have they done to
you?” she said, clinging closely to him. Little Roddy
looked up in frank curiosity.
She saw then the old sunny Dick in the smile
that began in his blue eyes.
“Ruve,- darling, it’s heaven to be back with you,”
he said, very low. “It’s just I can’t realise it yet.
You’ll have to be very patient with me —I’ve been
pretty well nearly out to it.”
“As for you, Roderick Richard, I’m your old
man,” Dick said, looking down into the clear eyes
of his little son. It was then that he felt how blue
and exquisite was the tender Australian morning-
how good it was to be alive.
And the long war was over.
All had changed again for Dick and Ruve. And
insistent to them both, not to be denied, came the
call of the Islands. Only for the girl was the grief
of parting from the woman who had taken the child
Ruve to her heart.
“But you’ll come and stay with us, beloved,”
she said, her young arms close about the older woman.
“You and Uncle Tim. And when we make our
fortunes —when Dick’s a fat and wealthy copra king—
we’ll come to Sydney every now and then. You won’t
get rid of us so easily. But we’re not going back till
Dick’s stronger.”
They were to go much sooner.
For from Ruvia, the long-silent, came impera-
tive summons. James Laurence was dying.
(To be concluded next week.)


ē
H.R.H.
Prince Charles ot
Sweden.
Lieut.-General
Lord Baden-Powell,
K.C.8., K.C.V.0., LL.D.,
F.R.G.S.,
“The Chief Scout,”
Mr. E. V. Lucas,
Asst. Editor of
London “Punch."
The Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas,
Secretary of State for
the Dominions.
“Pelmanism smooths away all
difficulties . . rr
(Dame Sybil Thorndike;
The Signatures
The signatures In this announce-
ment are reproduced from signed
letters of appreciation received by
the Pelman Institute. Signatures
differ as much as faces differ, and,
like faces, they often surprise us
when we meet them by their un-
likeness to our conception of them.
We are sure that readers of “The
Bulletin” will be interested in these
signatures of well-known Pelman-
ists.
DR, F. IV. NORWOOD, D.D.,
of the City Temple, London,
Who describes Pelmanism ns
“The Key to a Man’s Career.”
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute:
Liege .... 1930 Nancy .... 1933
tieneva .... 1933 Paris 1933
The more important personal qualities
and attributes developed by Pelmanism
are:
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
ou
and a Reliable Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, arguments and useful data of every
kind.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Peltnan
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 33,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 30 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.I.
The Effect of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is a
working course in Practical Psychology directed to the needs of the average man
and woman.
The obvious effect of the Pelman Training, observable very early in the
Course, is a quick and accurate memory for faces, names, facts, figures, business
conversations, for what has been said and what has been read, for what has been done
and what is to do, for cards, languages, and the general material of work or study.
There is a quickening of the natural perceptive faculties reflected in increased
ability to concentrate, greater powers of decision, and much greater confidence, so
that we find Pelmanists in all walks of life accepting cheerfully, inside and outside
their occupations, responsibilities that they were once afraid of.
They seek and get better positions, they are able to speak without notes, they
meet others on terms of equality, they accept office in Lodge, in Council, in
Parliament, and acquit themselves creditably.
In short, Pelmanists carry within themselves a wider range of consciousness,
greater aptitudes, and justified self-confidence, qualities which give personality and
mark their possessors for advancement and progress.
Pelmanism is for anyone who has aspirations
and ambition
The Chain of Personal Reference
Accompanying the textbooks of Pelmanism, containing information and
graded mental exercises of great practical value, there are Progress Work Sheets to
be submitted to the Institute. These Work Sheets are carefully revised by qualified
Examiners and returned with letters of advice.
Progress Work Sheets and Letters combined constitutes a chain of personal
references in which the full scope of the Pelman System is brought to bear cn the
development of the student and on his personal difficulties. This thorough revisional
work is an outstanding feature of the Pelman training.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent. 11255.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “Thie Efficient Mind,” 7G
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Y'our inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Minders Xane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
41S
The late
Mr. Edgar Wallace,
Author and Dramatist.
A
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
m<rfc
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., D.Sc., Governor of the
London School of Economics.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
nil
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
-' Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
M a O W
A^r* '«£%■**<*■
*<o*> e
s®^
ei
a?
o
0
k \' 6
i.V 5 '
o'
O v
'j o ;
•’ * ji^od^-
.-•*
’ *s/***s*
o*; i°
- # 0


VESTA
. INTRODUCES NEW and IMPROVED
types of VESTA BATTERIES
EVER since 1897, VESTA, the quality by which all batteries
are judged, has set the pace of progress.
NOW—AGAIN—Vesta raises the standard of batteries by the
introduction of these NEW and IMPROVED VESTA
BATTERIES for cars, radio, and home lighting. They embody
not only modern container designs, but all the world’s most
recent advances in storage battery design and construction.
The NEW and IMPROVED types of VESTA BATTERIES
not only place quality on a new, high pinnacle, but bring
LOWER PRICES than ever before in QUALITY BATTERY
HISTORY.
THE NEW VESTA
IMPERIAL BATTERY
This is a new VESTA type
introducing improved design of
plate grid, container, and other
important features that place the
VESTA IMPERIAL well in the
lead among the standard types
of batteries. 18 MONTHS
UNCONDITIONAL LIFE-COST
GUARANTEE.
•i
THE NEW VESTA PLATE-LOCK
BATTERY
The only battery in the world with the famous
PLATE-LOCK that keeps the plates always
spaced evenly apart . . . and stops the cause
of nearly all battery failures. No quality
battery anywhere compares with the VESTA
PLATE-LOCK BATTERY from any point of
view. An entirely new design container .. .
improved design of plate grid providing
INCREASED CAPACITY. TWO YEARS
UNCONDITIONAL LIFE-COST GUARAN-
TEE . . . yet costs less per year than ordinary
batteries.
VESTA
BATTERIES
THE NEW DEFIANCE
BATTERY (Made by Vesta)
Embodies totally NEW design and now fitted
with the non-leak type of lead-sleeve cover.
GUARANTEE INCREASED FROM 13
MONTHS TO 15 MONTHS UNCONDITIONAL.
THE NEW DEFIANCE
JUNIOR BATTERY
An entirely NEW VESTA type at remark-
ably low cost. An ideal battery for light
service use, where initial cost rather than
length of service is the consideration. 13
MONTHS (adjustment) GUARANTEE.
FOR CARS, RADIO, MOTOR CYCLES, HOME LIGHTING
From good garages everywhere, or from these central distributors :—
AUSTRALIA: NEW ZEALAND:
New South Wales Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt
Victoria Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland ..... Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston
West Australia . . Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Perth.
Coventry Motor Replacements, Ltd,, Perth.
Wellington. . . Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
Auckland. . . . Vesta Battery Co. (Aust..), Ltd.
Christchurch . Seymour & Turnbull
Dunedin .... Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
J. Brunton, Ltd.
New Plymouth Newton King, Ltd.
Wanganui . . . Colonial Battery Co.
ĕ
PACIFIC ISLANDS AND THE EAST:
Malaya—Philippine Islands Brinkmann & Co. (Singapore)
Hong Kong and Southern China , . Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong)
New Guinea, Papua, Samoa Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
Dutch East Indies (Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.) Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia)
Fiji Islands Marlows, Ltd., Suva. Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva
New Caledonia Maison Barrau
VESTA BATTERIES are manufactured by VESTA BATTERY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA), LTD., Leichhardt, New South Wales, Australia.
V3O
INVEST IN A VESTA ...QUALITY SINCE 1897
