

m
i
' m
THE
a
-
•>
y
%
You re going
f ■'
33j
£
Are you so planning your investments that you can confidently say to your
son 'You’re going to have every chance, Son!”
Such chances can only be made available by skilled planning and best use
of expert financial advice.
Every father owes it to his children to invest his capital in such a manner that
they will be started in life under the best possible conditions.
The science of sound investment calls for highly specialised knowledge of many phases of finance so that regular dividends
and appreciation of capital will be a natural sequence. Expert guidance is an essential to successful investment.
Hamiltons (Australasia), Ltd., offer an unrivalled financial and investment service, enabling investors, whether large or small,
to obtain best results with utmost possible security.
Write for particulars of the advice service, available free on application.
Mam iltons < Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SIDNEY,
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 5752 S.S.)
Branch Office; Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W. ’Phone: Armidale 150. Box No. 123 Armidale.
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building.
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
E 3
C.M.L.
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
The Truth About the Wool Sales
Vol. 57.—N0. 2952.
Wednesday, September 9, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General'Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Jm
Tn.cojiai
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
— CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .. • • v
My Address
5.13. 436
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
VERSE
DRAMA
Jack Lindsay,
now almost a
legendary figure
in Sydney, wrote
in “M a r i n o
a magnificent'verse drama; but
I , S Ub ,V W J eth S h V". te t nde ?v, ,t •? be
acted, which, although it freed him front
certain obvious restraints, is a fault with
drama. Also, he, spoke some universal
truths about society, but in the cadences
and language, especially in the cadences,
of another age ; and the cadences of
contemporary speech are not the cad-
ences of Elizabethan speech. Perhaps the
most successful attempt to adapt the old
blank vprw tn npw cnppnb rhvtbmc
blank verse to new speecft-rnyttims was
the bar-room scene in Eliot s Waste
Land”; —
u ~, , , . _ ~ , , ...
liw ant t 0 k/ low what youve done with
that money he gave you
To get yourself some teeth. He did, I was
there. .
You have them all out, Lil, and get a nice set,
He said, I swear, I can’t bear to look at you.
And no more can’t I, 1 said, and think of
poor Albert,
He’s been in the army four years, he wants a
good time,.
And Jll y i U safd° n t giVC k him ’ there S ° therS
Oh is there, she said. Something o’ that, I
said.
Then I’ll know who to thank, she said, and
give me a straight look.
But haying solved the problem, Mr. Eliot
began inventing new ones, and each new
invention takes him a step away from
the normal speech-rhythm :
I gotta use words when I talk to you
But if you understand or if you don’t
That’s nothing to me and nothing to you
We all gotta do what we gotta do
We’re gona sit here and drink this booze
We’re gona sit here and have a tune
We’re gona stay and we’re gona go
And somebody’s gotta pay the rent
etc., and the rest of the jigging jazz-
rhythms of “Sweeney Agonistes” are
Rood for his Duroosc buf thcv narrow
goou lor ms purpose, nut mey narrow,
not enlarge, the capacity of verse to
present drama ; and as to “Murder in
the Cathedral”:
, . '* '
It is not I who insult the Kmg,
And there is higher than 1 or the King.
It is not I, Becket from Cheapside,
It is not against me, Becket, that you strive.
It is not Becket who pronounces doom,
But the Law of Christ’s Church, the judgment
of Rome; J B
its doggerel balladry is surely at the
furthest possible remove from the easy
movement of the English grand style:
the complete play is truly an academic
tour de force, an amazing hotch-potch of
Greek choruses, pre-Shakspearean metres,
latter-day irony in prose and twelfth-
century manners. As with “Sweeney
Agonistes,” these devices all suit his pur-
pose, but they narrow the capacity of his
medium still further.
So that to me, at least, the arrival of
“Panic,” by Archibald MacLeish, marks
a new era or epoch, or whatever it is that
makes a division. He has written a play
which uses contemporary words, cadences
and people ; it is the kind of verse play to
which the tired might go of
his own accord, without having to be
dragged there for the sake of art by his
daughter or-.his wife or whoever it is
that drags tired businessmen to verse
plays. A play about a bank-smash.
This has the grand style and yet
is contemporary. Here is the banker
addressing the board of bankers: —
.... . r /-. j) , ...
What for Gods sake did you think I’d do?
What can we do but face it—raise the cash—
Carry the wrecked ones till the wind blows
over?
They II sink us with them if we don’t. Look
here —
A hundred million’s easy round this table.
A hundred million does it—stops the runs—
Flattens the fear out. It’s been done before.
Our fathers did it.
And on Communists:
The Revolution! That kind! The sick souls
Herding like hogs in the hang of the dark to
be rid of the
Man’s burden of living their forefathers won
for them!
Also the Communists get their say:
Listen, McGafferty! The day, will come!
This time or the next time —now or after —
One crash or the certain crash beyond!
You’ll sleep between them and forget—but
we won’t.
Once the need has left you you’ll forget.
Men forget in good years with the grass green.
Men will say “That’s done now” —but it’s not
done:
The scene of these doings is
McGafferty’s office in New York and in
a street before an electric news bulletin of
the Times-square type—moving words in
lighted letters. Both are represented on
the same stage without any division be-
tween them; the street upon the apron of
the stage with the news bulletin hidden
by the proscenium arch above it and visible
to the audience only by the moving blurs
of light; office behind. The office,
raised by several steps and enclosed on the
sides by open square columns, at the back
by a double door, consists of a long table,
chairs, a news ticker. The whole scene
is impersonal, bare, huge—on a scale to
dwarf the shapes of men and women.
Instead of a chorus Mr. MacLeish
uses single voices of people in the street
to comment on the action. In a preface
he says most that is to be said about
adapting blank verse; he is as quick to
see the essentials here, and to drop use-
less academic experiments, as he is with
imagery and action:
I have adopted for the principal scenes
... .a line of five accents but unlimited
syllables: the accent falling always in the
position suggested by the sense. Some
lines have as few as five syllables—all of
them accented; others as many as 15 or
17 syllables. ' But the pattern of five
accents, five beats, is as regular as any
convention in any form.
Also:
The rhythm of blank verse and the
rhythm of the spoken language of America
are precisely opposed. The rhythm of
blank verse is spacious, slow, noble and
elevated. It moves forward in muscular
iambic march. Even when interrupted,
even when passionate, blank verse is always
marmoreal, an hysteria, of statues The
rhythms of contemporary American speech,
on the other hand, are nervous, not
muscular; excited, not deliberate; vivid,
not proud
Then he continues in detail; but I think
I have quoted enough to show that this is
no critic talking highbrow, but an artist
speaking of the real problems of his
art. In any case, his theories work.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
South Aus,
Becomes
Venerable
Published by the
S.A. branch of
the Royal Geo-
graphical Society,
The Centenary
History of South
Australia is an
endeavor to cover in a single volume the
first hundred years of white settlement
in S.A.
The society received the approval and
support of the State Government, and
the centenary committee and a. board of
editors was formed. This liaison arrange-
ment probably necessitated a consider-
able amount of give and take among the
editors, and doubtless accounts for the
surprising diversity of tastes for which
History caters.
One can imagine the^ sedate Royal Geo-
graphers giving a scientific shudder at
• *„i fn „ hoo i, whirl-,
putting their seal to a OOOK wmci
records
in Grimmett we have one of the world’s
few great bowlers; in Bradman its greatest
batsman.
,
an d
Table-tennis has developed from the
former pat-ball and is now a serious and
scientific cult with various wholesale houses
and banks,
but probably they had to concede these
historical gems in order to gain a place
for a chapter on zoology in which to
voice the regret that
The free-living worms occurring in the
sea, in fresh water and in the earth have
received very little attention.
I have grave doubts whether the his-
tory of South Australia would have been
any different if table-tennis had remained
in the pat-ball stage or whether the far-
from-free-living citizens of that State
would have been any better or worse off
if the free-living worms had been
neglected altogether. Nevertheless, the
sponsors of the volume have crowded an
amazing amount of information into its
400 pages, and, though one may feel that
some parts could have been omitted to
permit amplification of others, the diffi-
culties under which the editors worked
must be recognised. The main portion
of the work—the history proper—is
sound enough, and forms a useful addi-
tion to the reference shelf.
The early days of S.A. do not possess
the romantic glamor that belongs to early
Sydney or Hobart. There are no con-
victs, no currency lasses, no Rum Corps,
scarcely even a bushranger. Rather is
the story a sober one of a small com-
munity striving to put into practice an
entirely new plan of colonisation in the
face of official blundering, Home Office
ignorance and the gamble of unfamiliar
seasons in untried soil.
The State was fortunate in having
associated with its formation several
truly great men, among them Wakefield,
whose Letter from Sydney (written in
Newgate Gaol while he was serving a
sentence for “abducting an heiress”)
suggested the system under which the
colony was founded. Robert Gouger
(first Colonial Secretary), John Fife
Angas (chairman of the South Australian
'Company—he introduced the German
settlers who put farming on a sound
basis) and Robert Torrens were others.
Above all, there was Colonel William
Light, whose responsibility it was to
choose and survey a site for the capital
of the province. Almost as many sites
were suggested as there were at a later
date for the Federal capital, and Light,
in insisting on the present Adelaide site,
met bitter opposition, including that of
the Governor, Sir John Hindmarsh, “a
bluff, straightforward, but not very pru-
dent sailor.”
Of this outcry Light records in his
Journal:
The reasons that led me to fix Adelaide
where it is I do not expect to be generally
understood or calmly judged at present.
My enemies, by disputing their validity in
every particular, have done me the good
service of fixing the whole of the respon-
sibility upon me. I am perfectly willing to
bear it, and I leave to posterity, and not
to them, to decide whether I am entitled
to praise or to blame.
Subsequent events showed that had the
capital been placed in any of the other
sites advocated the whole experiment
would almost certainly have failed.
The History is a story of steady de-
velopment—of sheep flocks increasing in
number and value, of wheat lands creep-
ing steadily into the drier rainfall areas
and pushing the sheep into the further-
out-still. Some of Angas’s Germans
strike a few vine cuttings ; they flourish,
and the foundations of the Australian
wine industry are laid ; a shepherd turns
over a queer stone near Moonta, and
copper-mining becomes a major industry
(of which Oswald Pryor’s Cousin Jack
cartoons are a relic rather than a by-
product).
There are no spectacular gold rushes,
but settlers trickle in slowly and surely.
Self-government in fact as well as prin-
ciple arrives in the ’fifties; adult man-
hood suffrage and voting by ballot are
among the earliest measures passed by
the new Legislature. Torrens wins the
fight for his reforms in the methods of
land transfers in 1858. Later the State is
the first in the world to grant votes for
women (1894) and the second (M.L. beat
it by a short head) to apply arbitration
to industrial disputes.
Federation comes, and the war —and
the depression. These events, although
discussed in the volume, are too recent
to be viewed dispassionately by his-
torians. By the time the Second Centenary
History is compiled they may have re-
ceded into their proper perspective. By
that time, too, perhaps table tennis wall
have become ever) more scientific and the
free-living worms may have received a
little more attention.
J. B. BLAIR.
“Cobbers”
His Story
When John
Masefield read
Dr. Thomas
Wood’s Cobbers,
he wrote to the
author: “When you return to Australia
you will find yourself canonised.’
Thomas Wood has returned in all but the
flesh in his just-published autobiography
True Thomas. All those Australians who
knew Wood will almost hear the tones of
his voice in this piece of self-portraiture.
Wood was a good mixer. He travelled
over more of Australia than any of its
Prime Ministers ever saw, and he hob-
nobbed with everybody—hoboes, Gov-
ernors, waiters, Premiers, professors, pub-
licans and sinners. The source of this
flair is disclosed in his book: he matricu-
lated as a mixer on his father’s tramp
steamer, which carried him, after the
age of 16, to Irish, Dutch, French and
a great variety of English ports.
Wood got to Oxford rather against
the inclination of his master-mariner
father, and in spite of real impecuniosity.
He plumped for tnusic and got his doc-
torate. He is now an Oxford musical
examiner and a composer of note.
He had an uncanny knack of getting
under the skin of Australians. But he
gave an even abler exposition of that
clinical performance when he, an Eng-
lishman devoted to that Loving Mother,
got under the skin also of Oxford and
saw her in the cold light of objectivity:
Why is Oxford a solace and (forgive
the word) an inspiration when one fives
away from it, and why can Oxford be
so utterly disheartening when one lives in
it? The reason may be climatic —those
river fogs; or the ghosts in well-remem-
bered alleys that only my generation feels
to be there; and certainly, for me, the
attitude of men still living, dons in whose
veins runs no red blood, but the vinegar
of academic caution. They were born old,
like the Schoolmen of the Middle Ages;
they were born chilly; they were born
doubting; and in no circumstances will
they give themselves away.
One of the best sections of the book
is the author’s account of his own tech-
nique in composing:
Just behind the eyes, say two inches in,
there seems to be a room. It has nothing
to do with the eyes themselves or with the
ears on either side of them; in fact the
more effectively external senses can be
numbed the more real does this room
appear to be. I have called it a room
because most frequently it seems to take
the form of one; but the mention of a
stage, an auditorium, or even an open
countryside will give an idea of its extent
and varying nature. For it will expand,
contract and change both in size and
situation according to the music required
to be born at the moment.
Into this space, this concert platform in
the brain, comes the- music you want,
orchestrally colored and orchestrally per-
formed, vividly alive, and as resonantly
sonorous to the mental ear as it would be
to the physical ear. And you must take
a pencil and save what you can of this
stream of sound; pin down a little and
a little to hold on to and work from
after the flow has stopped; when you
must laboriously re-create on manuscript
a version of what you heard in the mind.
The chief remaining theme of the book
deals with the author’s unsought en-
counters with the supernatural. But it
o Continued on page 4.)


\
105/- to 119/6 All wool
TAILORED
TO MEASURE
G Perfection in
•FIT
•STYLE
• MATERIAL
•WORKMANSHIP
EXPERT CUTTERS HANDLE YOUR-
ORDER FROM START TO FINISH
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’—and in evety
“THE SENIOR STORE’’
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
ORDER YOUR SPRING SUIT NOW
Spring is here—and here is an offer of special interest to thrifty men. Have your new Spring suit
tailored to measure at a considerable saving. The fit, style and workmanship of every suit are all
that could be desired, and skilled craftsmen handle your order from start to finish. The suitings
include our regular 105 -,119/6 qualities in a complete range of patterns and Grey, Blue, Brown
and Fawn tonings. Order without delay—you’ll be perfectly satisfied. Prices 105/-, 119/6
Special Price ...................... 89/6
Q Tailoring Ground Flooi , George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in /V.S.fF. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
'Phone M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


would be unfair to summarise these
without the necessary background and
context, which the book leisurely puts in,
though it can be said that, as the author
relates them, they do not encourage the
scoffer. And Wood is too well known
in this country as a strikingly intelligent,
rational, humorous and matter-of-fact
fellow to be the easy dupe of subjective
illusions.
Australia in this book comes again into
the picture, redolent of Cobbers —Syd-
ney, Townsville, Ayr, W.A., the Barrier
Reef. The author’s eye is as hawklike as
ever for the significant detail which sug-
gests a whole Australian picture: the
Swede who had lived long enough in
Australia to learn to open his remarks
with “listen” ; “the traditional last course
of port-wine jelly which ends that meal
called by Queensland country hotels,
astonishingly, tea” ; and so on and so
forth.
Bons mots abound. For example:
“This man had the sort of moustache
that could bring the smell of cavalry
stables right on to the ship’s deck.” We
are told of the journalist in this country
who combines with “the ear for the
exact turn of phrases the reporter’s skill
of taking them down unobtrusively by
keeping one hand in his pocket and
writing there blind on a card.”
The author has impressed himself on
Australia, and there are many here who
will lap up details of the life of this
lover and critic of their country.
HECTOR DINNING.
Red
Spain
Ramon Sender,
the 35-years-old
author of Seven
Red Sundays, is
described by his
translator as “the young hope of Span-
ish literature,” and last year he won the
National Prize for Literature in his
country.
“Seeking a human truth and not a
political truth,” he has taken a contem-
porary political situation as a theme for
a long and impressive novel. Syndical-
ist-socialists and Communists, united in
the latest Spanish crisis against monarch-
ist or Fascist reaction, here attack as
their common enemy the bourgeoisie
abhorred by Marxism. The “seven
Sundays” of the book are really seven
successive days; as “Comrade Villa-
campa Explains” (that is the title of the
first chapter), the sheets of the calendar
on his wall have been put together
wrongly by the printer, so that seven suc-
cessive sheets are Sundays, the Sundays
being printed in red to distinguish them
from weekdays. The first day actually is
a Sunday, when a workers’ meeting is
held in a city theatre. Against regula-
tions, loudspeakers broadcast the
speeches to the overflow crowd in the
street, and when the organisers of the
meeting try to obey official orders to dis-
connect them, through some mechanical
perversity they continue to operate. The
military fire on the crowd, three Labor
leaders are killed, and so begins a week
of revolution. The calendar has gone
mad! Time has stopped ruling. Seven
Sundays in succession, and the seven
with numbers red as blood!
The main characters are Villacampa
and the girl Star, and Samar and the
girl Amparo. Villacampa and Samar are
revolutionaries; so is Star, her father
being one of the three men killed outside
the theatre ; but Amparo is the daughter
of a military officer. It is a crowded,
even jumbled, story. The merely half-
philosophic incentives of the revolution-
aries are inhibitions of their passions.
They are dazed by the pathetic hypnosis
of fixed phrases. “The spontaneous ac-
tivity of spirit or intelligence—that is a
bourgeois conception.” The same with
love and even with death: they are
bourgeois.
Villacampa’s class-consciousness is the
real thing. “I go into the street. A
bourgeois isn’t a person. Nor an animal.
He is less than anything. He is nothing.
Why am I to worry about the death of a
bourgeois when I am going out into the
street to kill them?” The author himself
is big enough to see all round his sub-
ject, though there are passages showing
which way he leans. The post-mortem
examination of the revolutionary martyrs
reveals “none of the toxins familiar in
the lovesick, in suicides, in unbalanced
persons. The brains were healthy. The
only abnormality was an intoxication
about the future.” Mostly he is neutral,
and doctrinaire deadliness becomes piti-
ful, like all cold nakedness. “Samar
looks at Villacampa. His eyes are empty
but resolute. There is nothing in them of
bourgeois heroism, romanticism of
Yestheticism. For Star and him, the revo-
lution must be followed absolutely but
without emotion.”
The uprising is suppressed. Samar is
in prison, overcome by the tragic dealh
of Amparo, who has killed herself when
he renounced her for his ideas. Villa-
campa, accepted by Star as her mate,
goes back to work in a shop to “send off
peas or fulfil the orders of bourgeois
households.” Nevertheless there has been
some sort of consummation of the revo-
lutionary fervor in action. “Why is it,”
says Villacampa, “that, although the ris-
ing has collapsed, I’ve had the odd feel-
ing in the depths of my heart that we
have triumphed? During the day there
have been moments when the revolution
seemed to have been made.” Perhaps
this is merely katharsis, for, when he
looks out of his window into the street,
“it is an evening as if there had been a
bullfight.”
If there is irony in this book, it ex-
ceeds satire, for it is in the nature of the
facts. The discursive elements of the
story are fused with critical sympathy,
and there is a feeling for the lost cause
of each individual in it, otherwise it
would not be the notable novel of
modern humanity that it is. “Freedom
or death!” shouts the distracted Samar
in his prison cell. “And death, meta-
physically and actually,” concludes the
author, “is the only possible freedom.”
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.
A New Life
of Gluck
Largely as a
result of the
almost idolatrous
praise of “Orfeo”
and of “Iphigenie
en Tauride” by Hector Berlioz, and to
the post-Wagnerian discovery that the
composer of those operas was a precur-
sor of the musical drama, Gluck stands
high in contemporary esteem, though his
works are but rarely performed. Most
of the information available about his
life and character is as dry as dust; a
large proportion of his work has dis-
appeared into limbo, and only a few
excellent portraits and a letter or two
remain to give evidence that he was ever
a forceful and vital figure.
By dredging through the score or more
of alleged biographies and consulting
contemporary records, Alfred Einstein,
formerly one of Berlin’s leading musical
critics, now a London refugee from Nazi
anti-Hebrewism, has written for Dent’s
Master Musician Series a judicial ac-
count of Gluck's life and an equally
judicial appreciation of his best work.
Gluck, though a German, had his
greatest triumphs in Paris. He was sing-
ing master for a while to Marie Antoi-
nette, and probably knew the Pompadour
and the Dubarry very well. His portraits
show him as a man with a strong.mouth,
a shrewd eye and a nose that has evi-
dently sniffed many a glass of good wine.
He was equally proficient with violin or
clavier, a good mixer and no fool about
money. In his youth he was a great lad
for the ladies.
As to Gluck’s reform of opera, for 11
or 12 years he wrote Italian opera quite
in the style of Sammartini, his master.
It was only when he met Count Durazzo
in Vienna in 1752 that he acquired from
that gentleman a contempt for the con-
ventional mode —a set of pretty songs
linked together by recitatives —and it was
not till 10 years later that the poet-
adventurer Calzabigi (he was a pet of the
Pompadour’s, and under her wing he ran
some highly profitable lotteries) put into
his hands the strongly-dramatic libretto
of “Orfeo,” and, as Gluck himself
honestly admits, practically dictated to
him the way in which some of the music
must be phrased to fit the words. But
Gluck was no fool. Give him an idea
and he would digest it, slowly but thor-
oughly, and then commence to develop
it. Long after Durazzo had passed out
of his life and Calzabigi had no more to
teach him, he produced “Alceste,” “Iphi-
genie en Aulide” and “Iphigenie en
Tauride,” the last on a libretto that owed
most of its inspiration to Euripides.
In his last days the French Court
wanted to pit Gluck against Piccinni, but
the oldster wisely dodged the combat and
went his own way. He died at 73, the
result of drinking wine, which his physi-
cian forbade. A jovial, reasonable, clever
man, as honest as a mightily corrupt world
would let him be, he lived a pleasant life,
took his successes as equably as he sus-
tained reverses, and died with a lot more
friends than enemies. He wasn’t a pro-
found musician in the academic sense
(Handel said Gluck knew no more about
counterpoint than did Waltz, Handel’s
cook), but he was the greatest master of
his time, not even Handel, Bach or the
young Mozart excepted, of the art of
wedding music and drama.
A. D. WYLIE.
Reviewed Briefly.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY . . .
True Thomas: Dr. Thomas Wood
(Cape; 14s. 6d.). Another thoroughly
enjoyable book by the author of
Cobbers. See “ ‘Cobbers,’ His Story,”
p. 2.
BIOGRAPHY . . .
Gluck : Alfred Einstein (Dent; 4s. 6d.).
Tiptop. See “A New Life of Gluck,”
0 .
POETRY . . .
Panic : Robert MacLeish (Boriswood ;
75.). An outstanding verse drama. Re-
viewed by Ronald McCuaig, p. 2.
FICTION . . .
Seven Red Sundays: Ramon Sender
(Faber and Faber ; Bs. 6d.). Striking and
forcefully written novel of contemporary
revolutionary Spain. Manner of telling
and style unusual, but clear enough. See
Frederick T. Macartney’s article “Red
Spain.”
The Man Without a Home: Rupert
Hughes (Jarrolds; 7s. 6d.). The story of
American actor John Howard Payne.
Shelley, Byron, Washington Irving and
the three Godwin girls all figure
in it. Hughes credits Payne with hav-
ing written music as well as words of
“Home, Sweet Home,” the refrain being
a Tyrolean trumpet call. The song came
in a play by Payne. Henry Bishop was
musical director at the theatre where it
was performed, hence his connection with
the ballad.
Christina Strang: Alison Fleming
(Hodder and Stoughton ; 7s. 6d.; from
Dymock’s). Life of poor folk in a Scot-
tish Lowlands town. Incidents are impor-
tant only as’ they help to limn character.
Writer of this first novel has a fine style,
and has produced some really beautiful
prose. Christina, dour, elderly, narrow,
lion-hearted, is presented as by a literary
Phil May.
The Weather in the Streets: Rosamond
Lehmann (Collins; Bs. 6d.). Book
Society choice. Core of it’s an affair
between a wife, separated from her un-
satisfactory husband, and an early ac-
quaintance who’s married to a neurotic,
is eager for the affair, but hankers to
preserve the decencies. Longish and over-
written, but miles better than most on
the theme of the Woman Always Pays.
A good readable novel with especially'
fine character drawing.
CRIME AND DETECTION . . .
In Face of the Verdict: John Rhode
(Crime Club ; Collins; 7s. 6d.). Major
Walter Bedworthy and, a few days later,
his brother Ernest are found drowned.
Nothing complicated about drowning;
but how the two brothers were lured to
the fatal plunge takes a bit of working
out. A will and telepathy are other in-
gredients in a well-mixed but slightly
stodgy offering.
The President’s Mystery Story (Bodley
Head ; 7s. 6d.). President Roosevelt hav-
ing asked “How can a man disappear
with five million dollars in any nego-
tiable form and not be traced?” five
authors here collaborate to prove that it
could be done, each chapter being by a
different hand. Makes a good yarn with
plenty of movement.
GENERAL
The Centenary History of South Aus-
tralia (Hassell and Co.). Royal Geo-
graphical Society book. See “South Aus.
Becomes Venerable,” page 2.
Australian and Maoriland Ski Year
Book, 1936 (N.S.W. Ski Council, 3s. 6d.).
Attractively produced record of N.S.W.,
Vic., Tas. and Maoriland moun-
tain activities for the year. General-in-
terest articles for the ski fiend, with
splendid snow and action illustrations.
Skiers being skiers, it should stimulate
overseas interest in Australian and M-L.
snow resorts. Vic. section includes three
articles and a number of: alpine photo-
graphs by C. J. M. Cole, who died after
having been caught in a blizzard on the
Bogongs.
Training to Reason: Marjorie Hill
(Melb. Uni. Press ; 25.). A pedagogical
discussion of intelligence tests, with many
examples of these.
University Reform and Finance:
Alfred Hart (Melb. Uni. Press). A plea
for increased Government subsidisation
of Melb. Uni. The grant has been re-
duced from £45,000 in 1923, when there
were 2098 full-time students, to £36,000
in 1934, when there were 2659.
100 Garden Games: Sidney Hedges
(Country Life, Ltd.; 25.) : Outside flir-
tation, rose-pruning and shoving the cat
off new-sown seeds this commentator
didn’t know there were any. But Mr.
Hedges boldly brings in lawn tennis,
bowls, fishing, croquet, lawn hockey,
clock golf, skittles, quoits, badminton,
see-saws, swings and stilts, after which the
way is quite clear for the other 88 pas-
times. A copious flock of diagrams
accompanies descriptions and rules.
What of To-morrow ?: Dr. Walter
Fisher (Ramsay Publishing Co., Mel-
bourne). Advocates the establishment ot
an International Council having at its
disposal an army and a navy stronger than
those of any nation, with a view to end-
ing war. Author also advocates that the
British Empire should make itself “un-
conquerable by land, sea and air,” in
pursuance of which Australia must de-
velop a great aerial fleet and go in for
compulsory military training. Abolition
of party politics, voting on an * educa-
tional qualification basis, sterilisation of
the unfit, an Anglo-German alliance and
other proposals more or less drastic are
put forward. There’s a case for these
views, but they don’t seem to trot very
comfortably as a team.
Various Verse
Truth.
“Our universe may be but a sand grain on the
shore of some unimaginable sea.’’ — “Popular Science. ’
“The gate of Heaven opened... .nothing but blink-
ing great stars!” — Lord Dunsany.
Over the hills lies Hearts’ Desire,
The gate of gold, the rose of fire;
But I have turned away my face
In fear lest I should seek that place
And, peradventure, turn the key,
And so find Death, and dying see,
Beyond the gate of Hearts’ Desire,
Height over height, for ever spire,
Gulf beneath gulf, unmeaning, reel,
And Revelation’s self, reveal,
The guerdon of the Truth we ask
As—but a mask behind a mask!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Psycho-analysis.
The psychologist
For ever obsessed
With troubles that vex
His own little soul,
Problems of sex,
Will wallow and roll
In sexual books,
And, all in a fog,
Pry into nooks,
With Freud as his guide,
And sniff like a dog
At ordure and muck,
And puff up with pride
Hoping we’re struck
With his knowledge terrific
And pose scientific;
Yet here is the Spring,
The root of the thing:
As kids in the street
Wander along
On loitering feet
With chatter and song,
Says Fanny to Gerty,
Keeping look-out
To see they’re alone,
And peering about,
And dropping her tone,
Says Fanny to Gerty,
“Let’s talk dirty!”
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
Petition.
To-day, my dear, I wished that you were less
' So gifted with possessions, girt with power,
That 1 might share my little happiness
In shy delights that linger in the hour;
That you were such as quietly would come
To me at evening, up a trellised path,
A door set wide to greet your coming home,
A fire burning brightly on the hearth.
I knew such wish to share my small content
In sun and shadow latticed on a wall,
In moods most utterly to laughter lent,
In doing, so I please, no thing at all;
In wattles by a red road splashing gold,
In flashing silver of a river kissed
By dawning skies that delicately hold
The hues of amber and of amethyst.
O darling, for to-day, forget, forget
That you hold power at your fingertips,
That ever clinging would your feet be set,
That only words of wisdom pass your lips.
I’ll show you how, though you would be a
king,
Though very heights of power you attain,
You could not find a jewel to match the
Spring, v
You could no lovelier hour than this gam,
When Love can in his cap a feather set
(A pigeon’s feather, mauve and smoky grey)
And dance and dance. O sweet, forget
That there is living other than to-day,
When Love can lead down winding ways and
lie
With dreams day-long in some sequestered
dell,
Fern fronds a filigree against the sky,
No foolish fears foreshadowing farewell.
Sweet, play the part of gay Love, and you shall
But beckon, and I’ll follow where you will;
And all the earth will ring glad carnival
In laughing winds that shout from hill to
hill;
And valleys shall go deck themselves in clover,
And mint and thyme will richly spice the
air,
And T shall sing a song to you, my lover,
And place a scarlet poppy in your hair.
And do you play the part of lover well
(Forget, forget, till all else shadow seem),
Why, then you’ll match my mood, and in
some del!
Gay Love shall take unto himself a dream.
n.s.w.
DAWN EYRE.


A Complete 500-page Novel
in
FOUR BIG INSTALMENTS
free to
“BULLETIN” Readers
COMMENCING NEXT WEEK
“ALL THAT SWAGGER”
the book that won for Miles Franklin the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize for 1936, will appear in four big instalments in specially
enlarged issues of
with delightful pencil studies by Douglas Pratt
These few extracts from early instalments
will make you eager to see the whole story —
which critics have acclaimed as the finest novel
of Australia ever Written.
'""T HE scientific O’Neill had not punished Delacy too
‘ heavily. But for the closed eye and slight
dizziness he was quickly himself. He made no remark
to his men but quietly mounted his horse: with his
long, heavy stockwhip in hand he rode towards
O’Neill.
“You’ve beaten me at that noble art,” he said
mildly. “I met you because otherwise I would have
been open to the insinuation of cowardice, but I fear
no man in heaven or hell, and I’m no man’s servant
but me own. Me brave gladiator with the pistol and
fists, acting for another who’s too craven to represent
himself, now it’s for the second round. The first
was to your pattern, the second is to me own. Your
horse is better than mine, and you have a whip the
same, and I hereby give notice that I’ll skelp you off
me premises. Arrah! Begin!”
O’Neill took up the duel. Delacy was on him
with a yell, getting the first stroke at the horse’s flank
and sending him rearing and plunging. O’Neill had
as little chance when agility was demanded as Delacy
when it was weight. The little man got in two cuts
for the big man’s one. O’Neill soon had a wale
across his face, and his shoulders had not so stung
since he had been on the triangle. As Delacy gained
the ascendancy he ordered his men to round-up the
trespassing cattle, and with dogs barking and biting
they were driven into the river.
Danny had earned the men’s respect. A polish
was put on it when he made no reference to the
incident. He gave instructions as to where the cattle
were to be pastured, and rode home.
He explained his eye to Johanna as the result of
a fly-bite, then prevalent, took a meal and rode away
to Mr. Moore. The upshot was that Moore used
his influence with the Commissioner for Crown
Lands and Delacy was allowed to add to his holding
land to which those already settled wanted the right
without payment. Seeing that he had a protector,
Butler and Fullwood desisted from open hostilities.
They feared they had gone too far in setting a lag to
attack a freeman.
The tale spread from the Heulong and Glenties
men to the stockmen of Quebarra, and the facts soon
returned to Johanna from Florry’s mother. Mrs.
Fullwood was perhaps the only one who did not
know of the encounter and she did not withdraw her
neighborliness from Johanna. Gossip was that
Fullwood discarded O’Neill for exceeding his duty in
carrying the issue to a physical fight.
“Time will test the whole pack of them —which
are min and which are crawlers!” grunted Danny.
t N his transition from parent of nestlings to middle-
| aged man maintaining his manhood among matur-
ing sons Delacy ran parallel with the progress of the
colony.
Conditions generally were against the squattoc-
racy entrenching itself as a squirearchy. The
squattocracy it had to remain, with the difference
between the Australian bush and the English county
so firmly marked that the Australian squatter and his
missus—save in lamentable examples—have always
been noted for a physical independence, a dignified
ability to fend for themselves resembling that of the
higher animal world.
Thus, in attacking with singlehanded hardihood
the wilderness beyond the fringe of the transplanted
squirearchy, Delacy was a symbol and a portent of
an Australia which still pecks at its shell a hundred
years after his arrival.
Absence of backward breeds abolished the
flunkey class: the transformation of the peasant
element was the contribution of the horse. No man
can remain a peasant and go a-horse. Willy-nilly the
blood saddle-horse will limber him out of his peasant
characteristics. This four-footed brother cannot
supply what Nature omitted and liven dunces into
intelligence, but she can change their bovine peculi-
arities into those of jockeys or Caballeros of sorts.
Horses! Horses!
The whole population took to horse. Wishes
were horses from the ’forties onward.
Those congenitally unsuited to excel in horse-
manship nevertheless climbed on to nags and were
forbearingly carried about. Even Delacy’s Chinaman
used an aristocratic Nullah-Mundoey. The stodginess
of the yokels from Europe was swiftly massaged into
something more flexible. The bumpkin was exercised
towards a swagger. The galoot, for good or ill, was
transformed into a stockrider, a jockey, a spieler, a
drover, a horse-breaker, a horse-coper, a horse-
breeder —a caballero of one kind or another. He
plodded no more on foot, not even in infancy, nor
preceding that. Only derelicts walked.
The man at one with light horses may be a brave,
dashing gentleman at large, a cavalry officer at heel,
a soulless, undersized simian, or any of the inter-
mediate grades, but he ceases to be a peasant. Aus-
tralia has remained a peasantless Commonwealth, a
peonless community.
Cavalier qualities were heightened in the Aus-
tralian by the class of horses available. He rode no
mustangs with strawberry hides borrowed from their
horned brothers, but animals with a dash of good
blood. The brumby of Australian beginnings was an
escaped blood on one side of his family tree. Never-
theless, the dearth of menials, which forced pioneer
tasks upon the squatter, likewise saved the yokel from
developing into a full-blown caballero. The Austra-
lian horseman lacked the leisure and the arena
furnished with peons and flunkeys in which to develop
picturesque flourish in manners and to pursue amour
as a fine art. Complementary to his responsibilities
as wood-and-water joey and general rouseabout, all
the pioneer women who pulled their weight on the
frontier had to cope with toil which in Great Britain
was relegated to “general slaveys.”
The roughrider had little time for serenades and
genuflections, his lady less to accept them. That,
perhaps, is why the Australian has been described
as the world’s worst lover, though he developed his
own commendable qualities and habits. Australian
women, though inured to hardship and deprivation,
had true mateship and the large measure of marital
faithfulness attendant upon monogamy enforced by
conditions: the dignity of equal citizenship was early
theirs.
THE return journey began as soon as the new leg
was ready. When approaching the Gib they
were stuck-up by one of the intermittent bands of
bushrangers that had arisen to attack the mail-
coaches. All teams and other travellers were
mustered in the hollow awaiting the mail from Goul-
burn. The contents of the drays were ransacked.
Tea, currants and flour were emptied on the earth
and the teamsters left to salvage what they could
from flies, ants and grit.
Mrs. Delacy had a triumph remembered by her
descendants. She was still bright-eyed and handsome
and plied a fearless tongue against the robbers. She
was set to cook a meal while the men were bailed-up
until disarmed and relieved of valuables.
Danny was for chastising his gaoler with his
crutch, to which he still clung. Johanna reassured
him. “Sure, "they’ll do no harm to an old woman
hurrying home to four children as well as the wan
that’s crying for her now.”
“The dam of five, and that for a sire! Were men
so scarce?” guffawed the leader of the gang. “Does
he put that forty-gallon hat on to make him
important?”
“No—to contain his brains,” said Johanna.
“And he, the preposterous vaygabond,” shouted
Danny, “by the same token would need nothing but
a paynut-shell! ”
The man let Johanna keep her trinkets. “Begob,
we can afford that to the only lady with us.” Another
had been ordered to halt but had whipped her horse
into a gallop. She was a bride, and her husband was
forced to gallop with her. “Let them burst,” the
man had decreed with a coarse imprecation concern-
ing newly-weds.
Johanna tried to silence Danny. The leader set
her at ease.
“We’ll not hurt your tomtit, missus. He has a
voice and a beard, and a pipe in the middle of it like
a real man ; and, by cripes, what there is of him is
worth a dozen of the pot-bellies swelled with
importance and ordering the lash for their betters.
He has no weapon with him but his crutch.”
When the coach came and the mailbags were
rifled the travellers were released without further
molestation, but Johanna’s taste for journeys was
ruined. After that day she talked of trips to Sydney
but never took them. Henceforth the growing city,
as well as the mountains, dropped out of bounds for
her.
THE wrench of departure remained unrecorded by
Danny until reflected in the final perspective of
memory. When years had taken the strength
though never the courage from Daniel’s spirit the
old eyes would rest upon that poignant drama.
He could be seen with all his worldly goods in
a box on his shoulder, walking away from his home
to take the coach where the lane met the highway
to Limerick. He had few goods and little pelf ; a
tool or two, a new suit, a second pair of boots, a few
pairs of socks, some shirts and a Bible and a book
of poems. All the currency that his parents could
collect was in his belt, but there was a fortune in his
sound storrfach and high heart.
“Sure, me father kissed me the only time he
ever did, that I remember. He handed me his own
frieze overcoat and turned and went into his school-
room and shut the d00r... Me mother sat on
a milestone and flung her apron over her head and
buried her head in her arms. That’s how she
remained as I looked back —all the way to the turn
of the road. That’s how I remember her always...
All those years, and I never saw her again . . . dead
a lifetime ago ... but in me moind I can see her
sitting there still .. . The moind! The moind!”
On that summer day, when the heavens matched
his eyes in sparkle and color, he glanced blithely
towards the coomb, with the stile at his feet, where
he and Johanna had sealed their plan of action w-ith
sacred promises. He took the parting from- his
family lightly—going to Johanna as he was, and full
of impatience to be accumulating that fortune which
would bring him back to them or them to him—but
it clung in his memory and deepened in poignancy
as the road lengthened. Later he found a song to
voice his emotions, and this he would rune over and
over, forgetting his listener—if any—his fading eyes
on the sweet distance of old County Clare:
/tn sitting on the stile, Mary, where we sat side by
side
On a bright May morning long ago, when first you
were my bride.
The corn was springing fresh and green and the lark
sang loud and high.
And the red was on your lip, Mary, and the lovelight
in your eye.”
On that June day young Delacy was taking with
him the comprehended soul of Ireland, a tangible
entity wrought by countless generations to a
nourishing cloak for the ego. Stored for sustenance
later was the spiritual grace of concrete places, that
supra-mundane presence which gave reality to the
musical names, the long-trodden ways of Eire. His
heart and eyes were ahead on adventure.
Book your order now to avoid disappointment.
First Instalment “The Bulletin,”
SEPTEMBER 16.
Price as usual.


t
ROYAL
PURPLE
1
I u
mm
!
H
2
»
ii
ii
li^N
m
m
IrCX
gls
M
Hi
S\i
•V’.'/l
‘
H
®vv
BIS
•••.• ■ : :
s
■ *sS
mm
H
m
m
as
\
V*
SE^
i
-1
an
,■;: »■;
-
mmmmmmmm&mmmmmt
”% 5T
-
\
B6&I3
mm
2g85
' IB
s
I >T&
■■Hill
siiKa.:
H I
H
HHHBI
■
■H
mm
.
s
mm
11
=;:■ - ■' '■■
—
m
pPBBP
3^28
Hi
HH
■
Hi
■k 1
m&SZ
■ \< .;•- .W&V
:
■
' *■ > ' M I - o'. ■ - - mil
' ;
■SI
11111
>;:; :
■H
■
H ..
1
,.. ■ ■ ■■; .
$ip \f■}■:,'%.-:U/[[■,::(0-"'
m
.
I m
BPI iisKim
s< :<Ki
■ -■ ■
Some Idea of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars.
cfsia/ie mid Jmiq/uei?


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2952.
September 9, 1936.
“FIXED ON FUTURITY.”
“It is at Canberra that the dispute with Japan will be subordinated to the Coronation jaunt.”
“I see trouble hovering about you. It’s connected with a little man—a foreigner—and a lot of wcol."
“That’s enough about that. Now tell me about the voyage to a far country.”


The Bulletin
The National] Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE TRUTH ABOUT THE SALES.
The opening of the 1936-37 wool-selling season was
preceded by propaganda very like that of a show-
man’s advance-agent, and crowds flocked to it as they
would flock to a theatre. City people jambed the
passages of the saleroom. Graziers clung to a swaying
rail at the back of the visitors’ section. Japanese
buyers were in their seats, silent and aloof. Usually
they take possession of the first day’s sales.
Next morning Canberra and U.A.P. newspapers
professed to be jubilant. By a singular coincidence
Mr. Gullett and Mr. Murai had arrived at a basis
for discussion of Australian-Japanese differences—a
fortuitous event calculated to spur the Europeans to
steady buying before agreement and returning Japanese
competition sent prices rocketing. Mr. Thorby, the
Assistant-Minister for Commerce, expressed “keen
satisfaction” with the competition. He felt that the
sales realised “every prediction” which he had made
to the woolgrowers:
Ever since my return to Australia in August last
year 1 have emphasised that growers have nothing to
fear from either market prices or competition with other
fibres.
No less pleased and inaccurate was the “S. M.
Herald.” That old lady was so consumed with ecstasy
that to express it adequately she had to suppress a lot
of the statistical information which normally she
prints when sales open—day-to-day sample prices and
tabulated averages. But by the end of the week she
had to admit that, while “the market for good wools”
was “reasonably satisfactory,” “the weakness in
demand for average to inferior lines” was “dis-
appointing.”
Australia this year has the biggest clip on record
—estimated at 3,036,000 bales. Much of it has suffered
from the season—there are more medium standard
and inferior lines than in a normal year. To this is
added a carry-over of 75,000 bales which would have
been sold last season had there been no quarrel with
Japan. The National Wool Selling Brokers have
budgeted to sell 2,760,000 bales in Australia. They
have allocated 12,000 bales to every Sydney sale-day
till Christmas and 11,500 bales per sale-day thereafter.
Brisbane sales are on a 12,500-bales-per-day basis.
For the rest, 650,000 bales have been distributed
among the other continental centres for sale before
Christmas, and the balance between them and
Tasmania after Christmas.
A comparison with last year shows what prospects
are:
SYDNEY OPENING SALES—I93S and 1936.
Bales Allocated. Bales Offered. Bales Sold.
1935. 1936. 1935. 1936. 1935. 1936?
First day .. 12,509 11,766 11,511 11,067 10,843 9,987
Second day 11,885 11,799 12,216 8,205 11,887 7,113
Third day.. 11,672 12,080 11.546 12,150 11,154 9,867
Fourth day.. 11,933 12,354 11,973 12,426 11,270 9,245
Totals .. 47,999 47,999 47,246 43,848 45,154 36,212
The figures for bales passed in were: First day,
1935, 668 ; ’36, 1080 ; second day, 329 and 1092 ; third
day, 392 and 2283 : fourth day, 703 and 3181. Totals,
1935, 2092 ; 1936, 7636.
In effect, allocations for the first four days of
the 1935 and 1936 sales were the same. Offerings
showed a difference of 3398 bales. Actual sales in the
1936 period were 8942 bales down; the carry-over
on a single day (leaving skin wools out of the ques-
tion) was 1089 bales heavier than the carry-over on
the four 1935 days. On the second day offerings
were so drastically curtailed that one firm submitted
only 1964 bales out of 5066 budgeted for. Neverthe-
less, prices for everything but the eyes of the market
weakened and became irregular.
Last year wool actually sold on the first four days
averaged 12.9 d. (Australian) per pound ; the average
for the whole allocation was about 12.4 d. This year
actual sales averaged 12.5 d., but the allocation, sold
and unsold, must be reckoned at round 10j-d., even if
the big carry-over is sold later. Average quality of clips
offered was slightly better than in the first week of
the 1935 sales. Then the top price for greasy was
22fd.; last week it was 20-Id. In Adelaide, where
there were two sales, on Thursday—the fourth day of
the Sydney auctions —“prices were lower than at th 2
opening of the Sydney sales.” On the second day
20 p.c. of the catalogue was withdrawn, and prices
were 5 p.c. below Sydney rates.
Yet Europe is almost bare of wool, and even mild
Japanese competition would clear the market of daily
quotas and send prices of average to best lines to
higher levels than at present. Why did the Government
deprive the industry of that competition? Import and
export figures for 1935-36, now at last available
and published very unobtrusively, have made the thing
a greater mystery than ever. The Japanese imports
that were alleged to be “establishing a monopoly” turn
out to have amounted to £4,959,600 sterling, compared
with £4,624,700 in 1934-35, whereas exports to Japan
advanced from £9,657,000 sterling to £14,094,700
sterling. Wool exports to Japan were worth
£14,593,100 Australian, a rise of £5,913,000. Even
a Lancashire schoolboy should be able to see
that the cutting-off of such a bulk of income must
impair our ability to pay our London interest and buy
British goods.
So far the sales have proved that Bradford’s
promise to Mr. Stevens that it would see us out of
our wool difficulties was as worthless as Mr. Thorby’s
assurance that the trade war with Japan would make
no difference whatever. Even if it means dropping
Mr. Gullett, and Mr. Thorby with him, the Japanese
must be brought back into the market. The Govern-
ment owes that to the woolgrowers and to the nation.
Products of Pre-selection.
The result of the Vaucluse Assembly by-election is
a distinct threat to the power of the political machines.
In N. S. Wales it sent shudders down the spines of
“executives” and politicians who live by courting their
favor or that of their satellites. For when Vaucluse
revolts against pre-selection, how can the thing be
preserved in electorates which can’t muster even the
half of 1200 U.A.P. ladies and gentlemen for a bob-
a-nob ballot? And if pre-selection goes, what sitting
member’s billet is safe?
Nor are these fears by any means confined to
U.A.P. bosses and servants. There is a considerable
body of Labor supporters who are sick of pre-selection
and the evils associated with it—among them log-
rolling and rascality, intimidation of elected repre-
sentatives and expulsion of those who refuse to be
dummies—and the Vaucluse lesson may inspire them
to present awkward demands for unfettered elections.
Australia has 616 politicians, of whom 73 at the
moment are Ministers. In salaries and perquisites
and upkeep of establishments, including those of the
seven Governors, they are reckoned to have cost
£983,927 in 1933-34, the latest year for which the
Commonwealth Statistician gives particulars ; but this
was only portion of the actual expenditure. For all
the Ministers have secretaries, and often the secre-
taries have secretaries of their own; and Opposition-
leaders are also supplied with secretaries. None of
ihese secretarial bills figured in the Commonwealth
Statistician’s estimates; nor did travelling expenses
of Ministers other than the Commonwealth lot (and
State Ministers are always travelling), nor the cost of
industrial tribunals, “boards and so forth” (Premier
Dunstan’s expression), which also make laws or issue
regulations having the force of laws. As to “boards
and so forth,” Mr. Dunstan blithely informed the
House in which he is supposed to shine that Victoria
alone has 58 —he used this as an argument for the
appointment of another Minister.
Other omissions from the list of expenditure
detailed by the Commonwealth Statistician are the
cost of drafting, printing and reporting the debates
on unnecessary bills, and the expenses of preventible
litigation, such as the two James actions and the swarm
of taxation cases arising out of overlapping systems
and muddled measures which are never properly
debated. If the outlay on maintaining superfluous
or duplicated departments—taxation, electoral, navi-
gation, health, education —were added, the total bill
would be nearer £3,000,000 than £1,000,000; and if
proper allowance were made for the cost of buying
support and silencing clamor, a policy long followed
and still continued, it would be nearer £10,000,000
than £3,000,000.
Most of the 616 members are products of pre-
selection. Taken by and large—there are exceptions
—4hey are not much of an advertisement for it. If
those whose business it is to report Parliamentary
proceedings could be gathered together with those
whose business it is to study them, none would be
found to deny that there has been a serious decline
in the quality of the debates.
“Hansards” are full of sorry stuff. The national
Parliament recently exhibited the spectacle of seven
members —three of them ex-Ministers and one the
leader of a party —demanding that the Government
should take sides in a flapper-paper wrangle and have
a girl hurdler sent to the Olympic Games. In the
N. S. Wales Parliament there have been two debates
on the alleged practices of women who cut other
women’s hair. Time can always be found for such
discussions, but there is an increasing tendency to
leave matters of urgent public importance to the
Government or the board or the commission and to
take Government measures “as read.”
And our Governments singularly fail to grow
in wisdom with their increase of powers. We see
the Lyons Government lightheartedly launching trade
wars on Japan and the U.S.A., in the process gambling
with the industry which provided nearly half the value
of Australian exports last year, when it was already
engaged in a trade boycott—supported in the k Medi-
terranean by its only two cruisers—on the only other
country with striking power in the Pacific —it rounded
off these proceedings with the admission that “Aus-
tralia has no defence at all.” We see the N. S. Wales
Government, in the absence of the Premier and the
Minister for Education (they are recruiting their
energies by foreign travel), engaging in an unem-
ployed-relief brawl which may conceivably break it
and shatter the U.A.P.-C.P. alliance. One faction
demands more sand-shifting for the unemployed;
another insists that they should all be engaged at
full award wages” on “works” like golf clubhouses
and Olympic swimming pools; both expect local
bodies to risk insolvency raising the wind.
In Victoria the Dunstan Government pigheadedly
refuses to place part of the Crown land at Fisher-
men’s Bend at the service of the country for an air-
port, though everyone but the Dunstan Government
knows that Melbourne needs a modern airport, that
Australia needs it, and that Fishermen’s Bend is far
and away the best site. In Adelaide the Butler
Government carries on in its fourth year in spite of
the triennial-Parliament tradition, and, in conjunction
with the Perth and Hobart Governments, demands
more huge grants from the Commonwealth, while
refusing, on grounds purely provincial, to grant it
additional powers. In Brisbane the Forgan Smith
Government pronounces this attitude “unfederal’
while imposing grossly unfederal taxation on residents
of other States trading in Queensland.
Australia has entered upon an age in which third-
rate rulers and exploded methods will not suffice.
It can no longer afford to maintain 616 politicians,
who require upwards of £95,000,000 of tax-money
from 6,750,000 people (of whom 540,000 are old-age,
invalid and war pensioners) to keep their out-of-date
system going. Its easy reliance on public borrowing
and on the might and persuasive diplomacy of Britain
is also due for the axe. Australia’s situation calls
for fewer and better politicians. Open elections, by
freeing candidates from the necessity of employing
ignoble arts that win nominations —a necessity to
which many good men not driven by poverty or
overwhelming ambition will not stoop —and bringing
about more interesting elections would set up condi-
tions under which better and fewer politicians might
be got. That pre-selection can never do.
Gas and Air Attacks.
There is a fairly general impression that war has
become progressively more horrible. This is true
in the psychological sense only. The terror which war
can engender has become more intense ; but, physi-
cally speaking, war is not so inhuman now as it was
in the past. Physically, the last war (in which I was
engaged) was more humane than any other war in
history.
In classical times it was perfectly normal for a
defeated army to be put to the sword ; and there was
no such thing as soldiers’ leave. During the World
War belligerents on short commons maintained huge
bodies of enemies taken in battle, and made other
sacrifices so that their soldiers might get away from
the war for a stretch. Again, in the Middle Ages all
camp followers were killed, the victors having no
other means of disposing of them. We could parallel
this in the last war only in terms of air raids;
but air-raid figures look insignificant beside the figures
for British road casualties. In 111 air raids over
Britain the Germans killed only about 1400 people and
wounded some 4000. On the roads of N. S. Wales 360
persons were killed and 5333 injured in 1935 alone.
Let us get a right perspective about the power
of gas attacks and air attacks. They have both been
grossly exaggerated, probably purposefully exagger-
ated by potential combatants who are aware that
sorcery in a martial form will be a feature of the
next war.
Dr. Freeth, of Imperial Chemical Industries, at
a meeting of the League of Nations Union said “the
amount of nonsense talked about poison gas is beyond
belief.” He added that the most deadly gases could
not be used in war, and even if they were they would
not be so deadly. Carbon monoxide is one of them.
It is given off in large quantities by cars, but because
of the ventilating powers of the atmosphere we do
not usually become casualties to it. In fact, all the
most killing sort of 'gases are so light that they are
dispersed by the atmosphere, and the heavier gases
are so heavy that they are practically immobile. The
most useful military gas in 1915-18 was mustard gas
(actually a heavy oil made of alcohol, sulphur and
chlorine), but it did not spread rapidly and could be
easily decomposed.
Gas is not nearly so. dangerous as the possibility
of people being so thoroughly frightened by its exag-
gerated potentialities that they may render themselves
unable to co-operate in simple defensive measures.
Again, we are told that in the next war every-
thing will depend on the air arm. The truth is that
masses of men are still the basis of the principal
European and Asian forces, and that the idea of
moving one army against another is still uppermost in
the minds of military chiefs. Every war—even the
little one in Abyssinia—has been fought on this
approved pattern; the technique is essentially the
same to-day as it was in the days of Alexander the
Great.
The air arm is important, but its usefulness is
restricted ; moreover, bombs cannot be dropped with
any high degree of accuracy. Aeroplanes are depen-
dent on fuel, and for offensive purposes on ammuni-
tion, The supply system of an army can easily be
thrown out of gear, and with every increase that is
made in the mobility of aircraft a corresponding
decrease is made in the mobility of armies.
Air raids on enemy territory apart from the seat
of war are not likely to be favored if they are likely to
evoke reprisals. Further, modern air forces depend
on a large ground organisation, which is intensely
vulnerable, as is also an aeroplane when not in the air.
In Australia we do not need air-raid shelters half
so much as we need to get rid of all military targets
from the neighborhood of cities. And we need to
instil into the minds of the people that most of the
stories about gas and its effects have been greatly
exaggerated, so that if a raid comes they may know
that their fate rests, to a very large extent, in their
own hands. We can adequately defend ourselves with
comparatively small forces if we reduce to the mini-
mum our range of vulnerability.
EX-IMPERIAL OFFICER.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Conceived in Ignorance.
Like so much of the stuff that has appeared in the
same quarter about the crazy trade war with Japan,
1935-36 import and export figures published in
Great Dailies on August 28 and here reprinted on
September 2 were wrong in an essential respect. The
value of imports from Japan was exaggerated by
upwards of a million sterling.
Corrected official figures were issued iast week.
They show that not only has a serious wrong been
done to the public—more particularly to the section
to which the Government owes most and for which it
has done nothing—but absolute misrepresentation has
been added to suppression of material facts.
Not deliberately, of course. The Lyons Ministry
is not that sort of Ministry. But in its eagerness to
present Britain with an advantage which the British
Government regards with a significant lack of enthusi-
asm it has been appallingly careless about its facts.
In a speech broadcast on June 25 the Prime
Minister accused “Japanese manufacturers of arti-
ficial-silk and cotton piece goods” of aiming at
“an absolute monopoly of this great import market
within the Commonwealth,” asserting that “in the
case of artificial silk they practically achieved their
objective last year.” His own statistician records that
for the year to June 30 the value of Japanese artificial-
silk piece goods imported was £1,391,054 sterling in
1934- and £1,392,618 in 1936, an increase of a
whole £1564 sterling. In the “Overseas Trade Bulletin”
for 1934-35 the value of imports of artificial-silk
piece goods from all sources is given as £2,355,097.
But “the main purpose” of the Japanese, accord-
ing to the Prime Minister, “was the capture of the
whole of the Australian market in imported cotton
piece goods.” Actually, the value of the Japanese
cotton piece goods imported dropped from £928,468
sterling in 1934-35 to £861,328 in 1935-36.
“Cotton piece goods,” the Prime Minister said,
“represent our greatest single import,” and the
malignant effort towards “the capture” of “the
whole of the market” for “our greatest single
import” panned out at £67,140 sterling less in 1935-36
than in 1934-35. In that year Australia bought tea
to the value of £1,261,290 from one “bad-customer
country,” the Netherlands East Indies, alone.
The Prime Minister again:
Our action is as completely protective to secondary
industry in Australia as it is to the primary producer.
To this an extract from the “Adelaide Advertiser”
may be appropriately appended, since the “Advertiser”
is one of the L.A.P. newspapers which have been
blindly supporting the Government.
Imports from Japan during the year to June 30
were £4,959,648 sterling, compared with £4,624,740 in
1934-35 and £3,676,737 in 1933-34. The most remark-
able feature of the larger purchases of Japanese goods
is the increase in artificial-silk yarn from £18,805 in
1934-35 to £110,442 last year.
So while there was a reduction of £65,576 in
the value of imports of artificial-silk and cotton piece
goods, there was an increase of £91,637 in the value
of imports of artificial-silk yarn, which is made up
in Australian factories.
There was a still greater increase in the value of
Japanese raw silk (£195,224 in 1934-35, £326,623 in
1935- Raw silk is also made up in Australian
factories alleged by the Prime Minister to be im-
perilled by Japanese competition, though not perhaps
in such deadly danger as British factories —“the Aus-
tralian market for British artificial-silk and cotton
piece goods was doomed to extinction but for the
new duties.”
In sterling values exports to Japan rose from
£12,095,514 in 1934-35 to £14,094,736 in 1935-36.
Following Mr. Gullett, the Prime Minister, in another
speech broadcast on August 17, asserted that “Japan’s
purchases were confined almost entirely to raw wool.”
Certainly it bought wool to the value of £14,593,103
Australian ; but it also bought £1,923,596 worth of
wheat (Mr. Gullett did not know it bought Aus-
tralian wheat), also zinc bars (£241,787), iron ore
(£158,064), scrap metal (£126,574), tallow (£71,117)
and other commodities (butter, cheese, milk and
cream, beef and Queensland cotton), to the value
altogether of £3,060,500 Australian in excess of its
wool purchases.
As a result of a tariff schedule conceived in
ignorance and sprung on Parliament and the people
without any warning, this vast trade vanished in a
night. Its disappearance incontinently arrested the
movement towards recovery, especially in N. S. Wales.
For lack of Japanese buying the wool sales, except
for superfine exhibits, have been a virtual failure,
and many growers who have been unable to find
buyers for their clips are bitterly wondering how they
are to carry on.
Parliament is about to meet. It should at once
instruct the Government to get Australia out of this
mad mess or give Australia a Government that will.
"Triath In Advertising."
The wireless receiving set is a blessing to the blind
and the bedridden, the lame and the lonely ; but it
is no unmixed boon to other sections.
Racing clubs and showmen protest that radio is
' increasingly injuring their businesses, and even the
sort of philosopher who holds that all is for the best
in the best of all worlds can discern no particular
social value in the new Saturday-afternoon craze for
listening to the racing broadcasts. This has devotees
of both sexes in every city, suburb, country town and
township ; and they would be much better occupied
in playing or watching open-air games.
Musicians also object to the quality of much of
the music transmitted from broadcasting stations.
They bitterly contend that a great opportunity of
providing listeners with at least the rudiments of a
liberal education in music is being wasted and worse,
night and day being made hideous by gramophone
records of syncopated rubbish and Tin Pan-alley songs
written by illiterates for imbeciles.
The reply of broadcasters to these criticisms is
that they are giving the public what it wants ; and
no doubt this is true to a very large extent. But in
some cases they are not playing the game with the
public. There is a descent to advertising methods
which are not honest.
Nowadays the public has little to complain of in
the character of newspaper advertising. For their
own protection, as well as that of their readers,
proprietaries are very careful about people from whom
they accept advertisements, and about the matter
published in them ; and their efforts have been
seconded by business houses of repute whose word
is their bond. “Truth in advertising” has become
no empty motto. But daily and nightly over
the air extravagant claims are made by and for adver-
tisers, claims presented in language larded with
personal pronouns, and apt to convey the impression
that the announcer has first-hand knowledge of the
articles he recommends to the public and that all
his statements are endorsed by the station.
There is nothing analogous to this in reputable
newspaper practice. Probably no great harm has been
done up to the present; all the same, it is discreditable
and may become dangerous.
Commercial broadcasting is supposed to be under
Post Office control. The Post Office refuses liquor
advertisements for its telephone-book, but it permits
them to be broadcast. Again, tipsters are forbidden
to advertise in newspapers, but they are permitted to
broadcast advertisements. In such matters our many
masters should at least try to be consistent.
A Two-edged Weapon.
“Art is a weapon,” says a scroll above the stage of
Sydney’s New Theatre League. In the hands of
some people art can also become a hara-kiri sword.
On July 22, N. S. Wales Chief Secretary Chaffey
prohibited a public showing of an alleged play called
“Till the Day I Die” ; that night a scene from the
alleged play was done in public ; last week the secre-
tary of the New Theatre League was fined £3 for
a breach of the Theatre and Public Halls Act.
The “play” is a dramaticised argument against
Nazi-ism, with Communist trimmings. The setting
is Berlin ; the author is an American, and his intense
desire to make every passage serve the treble purpose
of discrediting Nazi-ism, scoffing at Capitalism and
lauding .Communism stuffs it so full of propaganda
that it soon becomes tedious. It has, of course, been
extolled by Reds and Pinks as one of the master-
pieces of the age. But, like cartloads of other Bol-
shevist “literature,” it was born with the death-dew
on its brow.
This is not to say that production of the rubbish
should be banned. With a general changing of shirts
and a few Communist substitutions in the script, "Till
the Day I Die” would serve for a portrayal of Stalin’s
Russia. The hero commits suicide; in Russia Zino-
viev was shot; in Australia Communists may curse
Mr. Lyons and still enjoy next Sunday’s dinner.
For a politician of the Right to ban “Till the
Day I Die” is bad politics as well as a stupid exercise
of authority.
Parliament at Work Again.
There is no lack of “broad national questions” for
the Commonwealth Parliament to consider when it
meets at Canberra to-morrow after its four months'
recess.
The list includes th& trade disputes with Japan
and Belgium, Section 92, the future (if any) of com-
pulsory marketing, the Budget, the deferred duties
on cement, American competition with British ship-
ping in the Pacific, the use of flying-boats for the
Anglo-Australian airmail, the Anglo-Australian meat
agreement, trade negotiations with Canada and Maori-
land, additional defence measures, leasing of the
Newnes shale field, progress of the plans for
building aircraft and cars in Australia, and arrange-
ments for Australian representation at the crowning
of King Edward.
There is enough here to keep both Houses at
work till late in December. If the practice of recent
years is followed three months or so will be frittered
away, and the last three or four weeks will be given
over to a rush for recess, with the legislative mill
turning out ill-digested bills, many of which will
become the subject of High Court injunctions and
appeals.
The people of Australia may well demand a
departure from the practice of recent years. The
times are too serious for scamping and for idiotic
discussions (like the one about the girl who wasn’t
sent to the Olympic Games) on motions for adjourn-
ment.
Info the Stratosphere.
The Federal and Queensland Taxpayers’ Associations
have collated damning information about the balloon-
ing of Australian taxation.
In Queensland, with the population index
increased since 1915 from 100 to 140, the taxation
index has swollen from 100 to 686. In 1915 Treasurer
Denham collected £954,000; Mr. Theodore the next
year bumped the total up to £1,455,000. In
1918-19 it was £2,772,000, though there had been
scarcely any increase in population. Another ten
years saw this amount doubled —for the year ended
June, 1928, the charge was £5,393,000. The 1935 taxes
extracted £6,546,263, the population being round
960,000.
In 1914 Commonwealth and States’ taxes pro-
duced £4 14s. per head ; in 1935, £l4 4s.
In tax revenue per head Britain leads the world
with £l6 3s. 7d. British taxes fall to no small extent
on proceeds of overseas investments. And Britain
supports the world’s largest navy, an efficient regular
army and an air force which makes Australia’s look
like a sparrow flight, apart from bearing the diplomatic
burden of the British Commonwealth and a number
of other loads.
Taxation, however, is no real guide to expendi-
ture. The public debts of the States were
£423,022,779 at June 30, 1920. They have doubled
since then.
Motor-carriers' "Rights."
The secretary of (he State Transport Board has been
telling Westralian farmers about the “rights” they
“enjoy” under the local Strangulation Act. Provided
they take out a “producer’s license” they may use their
own vehicles “to convey livestock, perishables or
wheat produced by themselves from the farm to Perth
or any other place.” But not wool —wool-carriage
is the perquisite of the Government Railway Depart-
ment, and the Government Railway Department
charges as much as the traffic will bear.
From Perth the man with a “producer’s” license
may return with “stores, petrol, manures, netting or
other goods for use in producing his livestock, perish-
ables or wheat.” But not wool, nor “goods for other
persons, whether free of charge or not,” nor “goods
intended for sale,” nor any goods whatever “unless
he has carried his livestock, perishables or wheat on
the forward journey.”
This information was embodied in an official
letter to the “Primary Producer.” Alec Thomson,
M.L.C., who used to be leader of the Country party,
conveyed it to the House. He added some acquired
on his own account.
It is a criminal act even to carry parcels. If a.
man wants to take back to his farm about 30s. worth
of provisions, he has to pay 10s. for the “right” to
do so; and it is necessary to get a permit for each trip.
Then Mr. Thomson dived into history.
When the Act was going through, a permanent
official of the Railway Department sat in this House.
He was officially in charge of the bill; as was stated
here, he prepared it. He was subsequently appointed
secretary of 'the Transport Board, and continued as
such until the whole of the motors were pushed off
the roads. As soon as that form of traffic was elimi-
nated, the gentleman went back to the Railway Depart-
ment.
This would have been unimaginable to the big
Australians who wrote Section 92 into the Constitution
(“Trade, commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall
be absolutely free”), and who have now become the
scorn of little Australian politicians; but something
of the kind is a feature of transport-strangulation
policy almost everywhere. In Queensland the Com-
missioner of Railways is chairman of the transport-
strangulation board.
Dealing with the Pervert.
Judge Foster, of Victoria, made some strong remarks
when sentencing “a laborer” to ten years on a charge
of gross indecency. The man, 46 years old, pleaded
guilty and admitted a conviction.
The Judge said he thought it “outrageous” to
have to inflict the sentence, but lack of facilities for
segregating such offenders, except in gaol, left him
no alternative. He imposed the maximum sentence
to protect children.
As long as you are out of gaol you are a menace
to yourself and the community.
His Honor added that the case might be amen-
able to medical treatment. But what medical man
could guarantee that the treatment has been effective?
Sodemann, hanged recently for a series of murders of
little girls which stretched over years, was not even sus-
pected of aberration until caught after his last crime.
Had he been caught after his first offence he would
possibly have received only life. He would
almost certainly have been released after years in
gaol under medical observation. Then he might have
gone the way of his predecessor in horror, Bennett,
who, sentenced to life imprisonment in W.A., cele-
brated his release by indulging in a further series
of revolting perversions, the last of which sent him to
the gallows in Victoria.
It can be said for the retention of gaol as a
punishment for sexual perverts that while it lasts it is a
punishment, and therefore some sort of a deterrent.
The knowledge that the worst that can happen is free
keep, even for life, in a comfortable asylum watched
over and cared for by specialists might increase the
temptation to men who, save for the one kink, are
otherwise sane. They might not have the same horror
of such consequences as would be felt if they knew
that there was only one of two punishments waiting
for them —the cat or the rope.
Though, of course, there are cases which are so
definitely mental that the asylum is the only thing
for them.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hobble-strap”: Our local exchange
has a new batch of “hello” girls fresh
from school, and the patience of sub-
scribers is being sorely tried while a
harassed postmaster is trying to teach
them the rudiments of the job. My boss’s
liver is never at its best before noon, so
that I wasn’t surprised when, after violent
churnings of the telephone this morning,
the following one-sided conversation
floated past my desk: “Exchange? Ex-
change? Exchange? Bother the girl!
Hullo! Are you there? Been ringing
an hour. Must have heard me. What?
Oh, all right. Take a telly. Yes. Ready?
Right. Brown and Smith. What? Right-
oh! B-r-o-w-n a-n-d S-m-i-t-h. Yes.
Mugsville. M-u-g-s-v-i-l-l-e. Yes. Con-
signing. No! Con-sign-ing. No! C-o-n-
-s-i-g-n-i-n-g. Two. No, dash it! Not
’flu! Two! T-w-o. One, two. Two!
Yes. Bulls. No! Bulls—bull, the cow’s
husband. What? Spell it? Oh, hell!
B for blarsted, U for useless, double
L for lazy and S for stupid. Hullo!
Hullo! Are you there? Confound the
girl, she’s gone!”
* X X X
“Tiffy”: To me the most shattering
item in the records put up by the Queen
Mary is the flinging to the winds of all
traditions regarding the Boss Greaser.
All chief engineers of the many ships
I have sailed on have hailed from the
Clyde or the Tyne. The name of the
Queen Mary’s head chauffeur is Lewellyn
Roberts—the first Taffy tiffy I have ever
heard of.
X * X x
“S.G.”: British newspapermen of the
thank-God-we-are-not-like-other-nations
order have been angrily pointing out that
wicked Germans and Italians are fighting
with the “rebels” in Spain, and demand-
ing that their Government should rise
up and do something. It is difficult to
see what the Government can do, for
it has been established that British ’planes
are being used by both sides, and the
probabilities are that there are as many
British auxiliaries in Spain as there are
Italians or Germans, if not both.' Actu-
ally the British volunteer has been a
feature of every Spanish civil war since
the Napoleonic invasion. Canning, in
one of his most famous speeches, ridi-
culed a British peer, the fattest of the
day, for hurrying in “the heavy Brighton
coach” to devote his person to the
cause of legitimacy in Spain ; and Can-
ning died in 1827. A year before his
death Canning “protected Portugal from
Spanish intervention.” Baldwin has given
the present Portuguese Government a
similar guarantee.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
“Garda”: The tram-conductor looked
suspiciously at the small girl. “It’s all
right,” said the child’s mother, “she’s
only four.” It was not until he had
reached the other end of the car that
little Audrey realised that something im-
portant had been left unsaid. “Mother
is 33,” she shrilled.
X s|l X
“Wah”: Dubois’s chum who bathes
in the tank and returns the soft answer
that he is not using soap (B. 26/8/’36)
was anteceded by the late Judge Paul.
On circuit during a very dry spell his
host at one hotel found him splashing in
a well-filled bath tub. When Bung
paused for breath in the process of
relieving his mind, ’Sonah urbanely re-
marked “But, my good man, I am using
no soap!” It was the same Paul, J„
who went to open the assizes at Roma
(Q.) after no Court had been held there
for many years. When the Judge’s train
arrived at the station the platform was
thronged with members of a large un-
official welcome committee, many of
whom had put in the time waiting in
convivial manner. A spokesman, wel-
coming on behalf of the Roma citizens,
rounded off his speech with the pun:
“Paul has come again to the Romans.”
Paul, J., surveyed the jovial crowd, and
declared that Paul appeared to have
come again to the Titans.
¥¥.'¥¥
“D.E.”: Two or three months ago on
the deck of a Sydney ferry there flashed
on my startled eyes a sight I hadn’t seen
for years—a young woman without
make-up. She was no beauty, but her
honest unadorned phiz stood out alto-
gether pleasantly from the painted faces
about her—an island of naturalness
totally surrounded by rouge, lipstick,
plucked eyebrows and stuck-on eyelashes.
I suspect now that she was the pioneer
of a revolution, for hundreds of girls
“Our little Minnie's home, daddy dear!"
with well-washed frontispieces, not even
powdered, can now be seen in the public
places. There seem to be more of them
about every day. Newspaper photo-
graphers will get to hear of them in
time, and then, perhaps, there will be a
slump in pictures of misguided females
grinning in a ghastly fashion because
the stuff they smear on their lips prevents
them from smiling—one of the minor
horrors of the age.
* * * *
“Hedum”: A Jap jeweller in N.Q. 40
years ago made the neatest double-header
I have seen. He borrowed my dental
engine, foot-power, and using a carbor-
umdum disc cut out the tail side, leaving
the overhanging rim intact. He had
previously made a wafer disc of a head
side. This he inlaid and soldered. The
result defied examination by a magnify-
ing-glass and rang true. It was a two-
hour job and a work of art.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: I saw them at our Show, a
sleight-of-hand practitioner and his assis-
tant. A glance at the former’s wizened
features set me recalling a gathering at a
Melbourne pub, near the stockyards, over
30 years ago. Among the dealers waiting
for the sales to commence appeared an
obtuse youth, with the Mallee dust thick
upon him, who asked plaintively if any-
one had seen “a gentleman on a big bay
horse.” He went on to explain that he
had yesterday obliged the “gentleman,” a
perfect stranger, with the temporary loan
of one pound, which was to be paid back
in that pub before the sales that morn-
ing. Stung by the laughter of the dealers
the youth insisted that he had not been
the victim of a spieler, and truculently
offered to back his opinion with hard
cash. Amid renewed laughter, several
of the dealers took him up. The stakes
had hardly been placed in the publican’s
keeping when a well-mounted stranger
rode up, singled out the youth and osten-
tatiously handed a pound to him with the
remark “My word, my man, you cer-
tainly did oblige me yesterday.” Yes,
they were the same pair! The urger for
the old ’un was the youth, now no longer
callow.
* * * *
“Saddle-flap”: Preservation Island,
Bass Strait, where the crew of the
wrecked Tasmanian ketch Phyllis were
marooned a week or two ago, got its
name, for harboring the castaways of
the historic Sydney Cove until rescued in
1797. The boat’s crew that set out from
her to Sydney for assistance were the
first whites to land in Victoria; they
were blown ashore on the Ninety-Mile
Beach. A low, narrow, treeless, storm-
lashed isle not two miles long, Preser-
vation is unhabited, but is a favored
anchorage for small vessels in the strait’s
trade. Richly grassed, it is used by the
Maclaine family, of Clarke Island station
fame, for topping bullocks for the Laun-
ceston market. The ruin of a hut in
which a romantic Dr. Allen lived 85
years ago and an old stockyard are the
only signs to-day of civilisation. The
place is renowned for large flocks of rare
Cape Barren geese. I’ve seen as many
as 60 grazing in one mob.
* * * *
“G.D.”: “D.A. ’ asks whether there
ever was a district called Cabramatta on
South Creek near the Cowpastures (B.
26 / 8/’36). The Australian Gazetteer or
“Dictionary” of William Henry Wells for
1848 supplies the information, listing four
Cabramattas. The first is a parish, the
second a creek, the third a town in the
parish, and the fourth :
CABRAMATTA. —One of the original
districts of the county of Cumberland
(N.S.W.), bounded on the n.-e. side by the
Prospect Creek, on the s. side by George’s
River and Cabramatta Creek to the Cow-
pasture road, thence by that and the Brin-
gelly road to the South Creek, on the w.
side by the South Creek.
* ❖ sk $
“Westernhaugh”: Hollywood has com-
mitted another hideous solecism by pre-
senting Bothwell, in “Mary of Scotland,”
in Highland garb. James Hepburn was a
Borderer of the Borders, and would turn
in his Danish grave if he knew he was
being held up to modern eyes in the garb
of the obscene caterans who then in-
fested the northern mountains. The Bul-
letin's reference to Bothwell as “a gal-
lant chieftain” also calls for comment.
On the evidence of half a dozen con-
temporaries Bothwell ranked high as an
unscrupulous ruffian. His life was one
long record of intrigue, murder and
rapine, and he finished up as a pirate
whose atrocities shocked even his cal-
lous countrymen before he was seized
by the Danes and imprisoned for life.
* =8 * *
“Sixenate”: The missing will of melo-
drama has turned up in Sydney. An old
man whose strong religious views had
not prevented him from illegally draw-
ing the old-age pension died leaving an
estate of over £3OOO. A reimbursement
of the pensions drawn was made to the
Government; the disposal of the bal-
ance remained a problem until, after 15
months, the will turned up. Six Bibles
belonging to the testator had been handed
over to his landlady after having failed
to elicit a bid when the personal effects
were sold. A rainstorm beating through
an open window had damped the books
and the landlady put them in the oven
to dry. When she took them out she
found the will folded inside the back
cover of one of them.
* * * *
“Tyke”: “A. de G.” (B. 2/9/’36) is
running late when he suggests that King
Ned’s cruise in the Adriatic will bring
the Dalmatian dog back to favor. The
spotted tyke, once kept to trot behind
carriages while the running footman
footed it ahead, came back to the
English show benches just after the war,
and is highly popular. He is really a
pointer type, but has long outgrown his
original purpose—in Britain, at any rate.
As to maraschino—writer developed
a head with it at Rockhampton in 1891
which is remembered to this day. It
lasted through the long train journey to
Barcaldine and the subsequent ride to
Blackall through flooded country, with a
couple of swims at the Douglas Ponds.
If H.M. brings the almond-flavored
muck back to favor I’m turning Bolshie.
¥ ¥ ' ¥ ¥
“Pardon Me”: Might I politely hint
that “S.T.S.” (B. 2/9/’36) does not know
what he is talking about? All together
does not mean “all in company,” but
“all in one place” or at one time. The
compound — altogether —is an adverb,
meaning entirely. And, in spite of Young
Australia, alright will never be all right.
Even “0.K.” is preferable.
“Oxmead”: “Alright” seems to me too
well-established a word to be affected by
disapproval of grammarians ; still I notice
that all the standard dictionaries con-
tinue to shy at it. The modern ten-
dency is certainly to convert two words
into one wherever possible, but it is a
slow process. It must be 60 or 70 years
since Calverley wrote whimsically:
Forever! ’Tis a single word.
Our rude forefathers deemed it two.
Can you imagine so absurd
A view?
The single word has a pretty wide accep-
tation nowadays, but even in Webster I
find a reminder that “in England this is
usually written ‘for ever.’ ”
* * ¥ *
“Ex-Officer”: “Greenhide” (B. 2/9/ ’36)
knows little of the regular army. I was
at Sandhurst, and we knew we had been
commissioned when the final examina-
tion results were published, before leav-
ing the R.M.C. If there was a “beatific
moment” it came when we were handed
(the handing was done by a staff n.c.0.)
our Sam Brownes, swords, revolvers, etc.
The posting in the “Gazette” followed
about a month later; meanwhile we were
all walking about and behaving as
officers and (I hope) gentlemen. Inci-
dentally, purchase of commissions was
not abolished in the British Army until
1872. Even officers who fought in the
Crimea did not get their original com-
missions until they had left the army—
after serving a lifetime in it. The Queen
had so much writing to do that she
could never get up to date with the docu-
ments. Now they are rubber-stamped.
The expression “handed a commission ’
is purely and simply a meaningless vul-
garism.
$ $ $ $
“Hattie Hop”: In the article “The Syd-
ney They Won’t See” (B. 5/8/’36) it is
asserted that “Mossman” is the correct
spelling of “Mosman.” I question it.
Admittedly, when the twin brothers
arrived in Sydney by the brig Civilian in
August, 1828, their names appeared in
the “Sydney Gazette” as “A. and G.
Mossman, charterers and merchants.”
But they were the sons of Hugh Mosman,
Deputy Lord-Lieutenant of Lanarkshire,
and the double “s” was almost certainly
a mistake. Alexander Mosman, after
whom Mosman’s Bay was named, is
buried at St. Jude’s churchyard, Rand-
wick, and the name is spelled with one
“s” on the gravestone. Also, his wife,
who died 20 years later, was buried as
“Harriett Mosman.”
A DYING INDUSTRY.
“Concern has been expressed by meat interests
that afternon bridge playing is affecting meat sales,
as many wives now rely on the more easily prepared
tinned foods.”
’Tis causing butchers serious perturbation,
This mania that modern wives have got
For following post-prandial recreation,
That fascinating urge to “go the lot”;
And sales of beef, once viewed with some
elation,
Have, in the brisket’s proxy, gone to pot,
Where husbands read the cryptic “’Case . I’m
late,
I’ve left the opener beside your plate.”
Ah, the old-fashioned wife! She consecrated
Her life to the embellishment of scran;
With roast and chop and steak she captivated,
She snared devotion with a frying-pan,
On red meat fed her chap till he was sated
And smacked his lips, a very alderman.
She didn’t sling her lord, homing from toil,
A tin of microscopic fish in oil!
1 doubt if there’ll be any true solution
For starving butchers, or for you and me,
Till lesser halves in torrid elocution
Assert themselves—until the victims see
There definitely is a diminution
In wifely irresponsibility.
In theory, at least, it sounds all right—
The chances are, I fancy, rather slight.
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


“First Blue”: Although the days of
the horsewhip have passed, the ancient
custom of going out to one’s vehicle for
the means of beating sense into an editor
still survives. In a small Gippsland town-
ship the other day an indignant cocky
strode into the editorial • sanctum and,
seizing the occupant by the collar, dragged
him out into the roadway, where he be-
labored him with a tyre-lever snatched
from an ancient Ford. The cocky was not
enraged at an attack on any human
being; an uncomplimentary article on
his exhibit of pigs in the local show was
the reason for the assault.
* •;< * *
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Lucy’s accident with
her skirt while singing in public (B.
26/8/’36) recalls the horrible fate of a
lady the 8.8. C. engaged for an early
television performance. She accen-
tuated her slimness in a clinging black
frock of thin material, but, while the
lady came through perfectly, the frock re-
fused to televise adequately. Inciden-
tally, there seem to be rules of etiquette
even in the display of scanties. It all
depends on the place. I know one damsel
who spoiled my night by insisting on
being taken straight home 'after a lin-
gerie accident on a dance-floor. When
I drew her attention to an inadvertent
exposure of a companion set' the follow-
ing day at a picnic, her response was:
“What’s it matter? We’re at the beach,
aren’t we?”
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: It is at the sheer inartis-
try of Australian postage stamps that
bricks are hurled (B. 2/9/ ’36). I would
make a blind bet that the group of Aus-
tralian stamps that won the prize against
all comers at Washing-
ton (U.S.A.) were
ranked on their as-
sumed philatelic merit,
certainly not for their
artistic composition. In
this respect we have a
lot to learn from other
countries. I doubt if
any Australian stamp,
past or present, is the
artistic equal of, say
the current one and two
cents of Marruecolos,
which is, I think, a
Spanish protectorate.
Deep green and rose
respectively, these
stamps depict rugged
rural scenes beautifully
etched and finely
printed: they are not
microscopic blue prints
of ugly administrative
buildings or patchwork
posters clumsily pictur-
ing the flora and fauna
of the country. My
own grievance against
Australian stamp-de-
signers is that they con-
sistently try to say too
much in too confined
a space ; they attempt
to make advertising hoardings of what
should be etchings in miniature.
* * $ *
“Claudel”: These holdup men are an
unreasonable lot. “S. M. Herald” tells
of a case in point. One of them who had
hired a cab in town alighted at Darling-
hurst and, presenting the conventional
blue pistol, ordered the driver to “Hold
uo your hands and give me your money.”
This is like asking a man to stand on
his head while you give him a marcelle.
“ Yarragundry”: Add to muscular
Gyppos (B. 26/ 8/ ’36) the wharf- (not
coal-) lumpers of Port Said and Alexan-
dria, recruited mainly from the Sudan.
Their daily menu consists of chupatties
morn and noon ; more chupatties, with the
"Look, pop — We've found your collar-stud!"
addition of a saucer of beans and oil, for
tea: Light Horsemen will remember the
Sais of the Gyppo labor corps in Sinai
and Palestine, mostly 14-stoners, six feet
or over. Members of the 2nd Brigade
will also remember the goats who gave
one of these a tin of devilled ham minus
label at Hill 70, showing him the label
after he had eaten. The poor beggar
became so ill through losing caste that
he had to be sent away.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An Adelaide accountant
has been allowed by a local Court to
deduct from his income-tax assessment
the cost of a voyage to England and the
U.S.A., as “undertaken for the purposes
of his business.” The “pleasure and en-
joyment were incidental only,” but were
there ;■ so expenses of maintenance, and
also of an incidental journey from Lon-
don to Birmingham, were cut out. De-
duction allowed, £250, with £lB costs.
# * * *
“Queen St.”: Absent-mindedness has
cost a Brisbane citizen £lO or three
months. He relieved a fellow tram-
passenger of a wallet containing a £5
note and invested some of the loot in
the Golden Brisket lottery. Then he went
“Thinks she's a bloomin' duchess since she became a co-re.!"
on the spree. On recovery it occurred
to him that the owner of the wallet
might need some papers which were in
it, and he considerately posted the thing
back. But he forgot to take out the
lottery tickets with his name and address
on them.
“Ampere”: As an ex-telegraphist, I
can breast the public counter of any
suburban post office, and listen to the
dot-dash expert sending and receiving
messages that only the P.M.G.’s stall
should hear. The fault is the P.M.G.’s
in not having telegraph instruments
parked where there is absolute privacy.
Silence boxes are provided for telephonic
talks because everyone understands Eng-
lish. There are hundreds of ex-telegraph-
ists who can interpret telegraph messages.
* $ * *
“Ron J.”: Curiosity in* a tattered, be-
grimed Bulletin wedged in the load of
a bullock wagon brought out its history.
Starting its career in a Mechanics’ In-
stitute, it subsequently went to a hospital.
After passing from bed to bed, it was
posted by a wardsman to a sleeper-
cutters’ camp on the North Cbast,
N.S.W. Spots of candle grease told of
lonely bush nights, and drawings slit out
meant new decorations on the walls of
some isolated humpy. It still had a kick
in it. The teamster reckoned, when he
had had his fill, there were several re-
mote corners where the warrior would
be welcome.
* * * *
“Yachtsman”: Why is it that the Syd-
ney Harbor Trast persistently disregards
the danger to seacraft in the Sow and
Pigs reef? Here is a group of rocks,
awash at low tide, in the fairway of the
safest harbor in the world, unmarked
except by a 2in. pole 10ft. high with an
iron hoop atop. Frequently it cannot be
seen in the daytime at high tide, and at
night one has to guess its position.
Years ago a red lightship marked the
danger rocks. It should be restored.
“Sandy Mack”: Anachronisms aren’t
confined to films and newspaper pictures.
On the St. Kitts Nevis postage stamps,
particularly those issued in 1903 and
1920, will be found a picture of Colum-
bus viewing the just-discovered America
through a telescope, which instrument
was not invented until a century later.
The design was used up to 1929, and there
are 41 separate varieties, ranging in value
from \d. to 20s.
He # % #
“Tyll Owlglass”: I’ve seen a great deal
of gipsies in the English countryside, and
1 have never heard of a serious case of
theft by them (B. 26/8/’36). A friend
of mine left a kit of tools near a large
encampment on the top of the Quantocks,
where the gipsies gather to repair and
paint their wagons and caravans. When
he returned three days later, it was
handed over to him be-
fore he asked for it.
And the gipsy does
settle down. There are
plenty of them settled
through the west of
England, and it is
usually difficult to dis-
tinguish them from the
dark - skinned, dark-
haired, dark-eyed people
of Celtic stock in
Somerset and Devon.
One thing does distin-
guish the gipsy from
the native Englishmen:
his ability to sell you
anything he has to sell.
I’ve resisted a gipsy
woman at my door for the best part of
an hour, and then bought a broom
and a bag and a set of dishcloths for
about twice the price I would have paid
in a store.
sjs ijl jjc *}•
“O. de V.' 5 : The man who drank his
bath water is no legendary figure in
Parkes (N.S.W.), and, far from resenting
the practice, they appear to encourage it.
In the main street a large signboard
reads:—
OLYMPIC SWIMMING BATHS.
SWIM IN DRINKING WATER.
* * * *
“Mac”: Vivandieres weren’t quite the
little angels “Piou-Piou” paints them (B.
26 /8 / ’36), and tneir disappearance in
1870 merely preceded the institution o!
the more formal Bordel Militaire de
Campagne, to supply certain hygienic
needs in the French Army. Unfortunately
for the prestige of the whites, the same
department served France’s native levies.
It was a bit upsetting in France during the
war to see the queues of “Turcos.” There
were long waiting lists for this service up
till 1918. Undoubtedly the British regu-
lar system, with its married quarters, is
better than the isolation of thousands
of young bachelors under the Continental
conscript system. Up to the time of
Napoleon, such questions didn’t arise, as
conquering armies lived on the country
they traversed, in this as in all other re-
spects.
* * * *
“Poopoonbah”: It was during the
screening of a programme of talkies at.
Townsville (N.Q.). In a piece entitled
“Way Down Fast,” the wronged outcast,
Rochelle Hudson, was shown standing
outside the front gate of an imposing
mansion, jobless and hungry. After two
half-hearted attempts to enter, she evi-
dently decided that the tradesman's
entrance looked less awe-inspiring. As
she turned away, a word of advice came
from the back of the hall: “Don’t be
frightened, sis; they had to get rid of
their Alsatian.”
* ' * * *
“C. 8.”: No Australian Town Hall
calls more urgently for removal than
Melbourne’s, which adjoins the second
busiest intersection in the city. At the
last genuinely popular concert, there was
a traffic jamb of cars and trams for four
blocks on one side of the building' and
down to and across the Yarra on the
other. Owners of limousines find it im-
possible to enjoy a concert unless they
are discharged direct on to the front
steps, and this involves their chauffeurs
bullocking their cars across a pavement
crowded with pedestrians going about
their own business. The city fathers are
considering a proposal to sell the existing
site for an anticipated one and a quarter
million, and build a new civic centre on
the site of the present general hospital,
when that institution will have been
transferred to the pig market. The city
will have to pay the State £300,000 for
the new position, and the rebuilding will
cost £2,000,000, but it is contended that
the ratepayers won’t suffer, as the annual
income from the rates on the present
Town Hall site would meet the interest
bill. The aesthetic benefits should be
considerable, too; a really imposing
Town Hall would combine with the
National Gallefy and Library to make a
fine central block.
GETTING THEIR DESERTS.
“A clergyman, preaching in Grafton (N.S.W.),
said that the district was being afflicted with drought
because of its indifference to things spiritual. To
the north, on the Richmond, arid to the south, on
the Bellingen, there had been good seasons, but
pleasure-seeking and Sabbath-desecration furnished
the reasons for the drought in the Clarence district.”
So it seems there may be reasons for a differ-
ence in seasons
And a change in meteorological affairs
Twixt two scenes of rural labor and their
intervening neighbor
Based on principles ignored by Mr. Mares.
He’s admittedly a wizard at predicting storm
or blizzard,
He can read the weather portents any
amount,
But it seems a bit surprising he’s so slow in
realising
The importance of some other things that
count:
Such as really righteous livers dwelling on
the banks of rivers
Where the Bellingen and Richmond gently
crawl,
Folks who go to church or chapel when not
raising spud or apple—
It is there that rain feels most constrained
to fall;
While his Rev.’s, confirmed conviction is that
Grafton’s dry affliction
Is a token of that town’s ungodly vein ;
Nor till Sabbath-desecration and all pleasures
have cessation
Will the water tanks (and pews) be filled
again.
n.s.w.
MIDFORD.


Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
POLITICAL POINTS
Bulcock, the Queensland Minister of
Agriculture, says he is disgusted with “the
anti-Federal spirit so much in evidence
at the Premiers’ Conference.” Bulcock’s
own Government has been notorious for
excluding produce from other States by
various subterfuges, and for imposing
arbitrary taxation on factory goods from
other States. Perhaps Bulcock regards
these practices as expressions of the
Federal spirit.
N.S.W. owes a bit over £13,000,000
sterling in New York and pays interest
averaging £4 17s. Id. p.c. p.a., plus ex-
change. When obtained—largely by
Lang—it was alleged that the money was
cheap, but it has become dashed dear.
Stevens, being in New York, consulted a
group of underwriters about conversion.
He was told that the time was “unpro-
pitious.”
The Whiskard-Gullett tariff has led
to Australia being struck off Washing-
ton’s list of most-favored-nations. One
result is that a reduction of the U.S. wine
duty per gallon from 125 cents to 75
cents, which came into force a couple of
months ago, has been refused to this
country.
Pleading for loan conversion in the
U.S.A., Stevens asserted that “our recent
import restrictions are only temporary—
we want to sell more and buy more.”
That isn’t what Lyons and Gullett have
been saying ; but it seems beyond these
U.A.P. celebrities to tell the same tale.
One curious feature of Collier’s retire-
ment made Westralians smile. He was in
his place as Premier at the opening of the
new Parliament, and was congratulated
by Latham, the Opposition-leader, on
having regained his health. Within a few
days he had ceased to be Premier and
Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell had sworn in his
successor, Willcock —in hospital.
Canberra will get a lift from the de-
cision of the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures to establish there its new
secretary (Withall, sometime secretary
of the N.S.W. Chamber), with a staff
and a statistical library, from which
official information will be transmitted
to State Chambers. Suitable accommo-
dation is the difficulty, but it is not in-
surmountable.
Following discussion at the Premiers’
Conference, it has been tentatively agreed
to give the Commonwealth control of
civil-aviation transport. It would be a
step towards Commonwealth control of
all transport, and when this occurs to
provincial narks they will probably
block it.
There were 618 division's and counts-
out in the N.S.W. Assembly last session,
and only Gollan (Parramatta) and
Sweeney (Bulli) were present at all of
them. Another 10 out of 87 scored 600
or more. The booby prizes were won
by Goldfinch (152) and Stevens (69).
Most of the time they were touring.
From one of those woolgrowers who
get it in the neck from all quarters:
In B. 2/9/’36 you mention that the new
minimum livestock value for taxation purposes
is 4s. per head. Many graziers, like myself,
elected to omit natural increase from returns
until the said increase is sold. All my sheep
are now natural increase, and now have to be
shown at 4s. per head —that is to say, at an
imaginary profit of 4s. per head.
A once-familiar cry is missing from the
latest N.S.W. Labor Donnybrook. No-
body has rushed into the thick of it
shouting “Lang is Roight!”
G. J. Coles, in a public statement:
Mr. A. W. Coles agreed to announce
to the annual meeting in 1935 that three
directors had drawn over £lO,OOO each
The amounts actually paid were in excess
of the figure suggested by Mr. Tait [£63.000
in 1935 and £57.000 in 1936].
The shop motto (obviously they never
hang it in the board-room) is “Nothing
Over Half a Crown.”
Canberra is now issuing monthly
Notes on Foreign Affairs. The Septem-
ber budget has a reference to Italy:
The feeling is apparently latent that her
importance in Europe is more the negative
one of a potential nuisance-value than the
positive one of an ability to contribute to
the common security.
Germany, it seems, is “an object of sus-
picion” to some newspaper or other.
Journals of the Right are accused of “an
almost hysterical anxiety” to prevent the
French Government intervening in
Spain (the Socialist press “urges” inter-
vention “more and more strongly,” but
Mr. Lyons’s chronicler does not find this
hysterical), and it is asserted that Portu-
“Dr. Page demands a referendum.”
“Bob, he’s crying for the moon!”
“Well, promise it to him, Joe—promise it to him.”
guese sympathies in the Spanish affair
“appear to be almost entirely pro-rebel;
there has been a steady flow of
munitions from Lisbon to the rebel
forces.” As for Japan—well, there is a
full and particular account of “the
Japanese military rising of February.”
It seems queer stuff for one Government
to publish about other Governments.
In 1911 18 private members of the
Federal Parliament went to England at
the expense of the British taxpayer to see
King George crowned. Labor was in
office then, and the tourists consisted of
ten Laborites and eight “Liberals” ; there
was no Country party in those days.
During the coming session another
happy band of coronation trippers will
have to be chosen. Party rooms will be
hotbeds of intrigue till the selection is
finally made.
Lyons, in the speech that was broad-
cast to the nation on June 25:
Clearly the aim of Japanese manufac-
tures of artificial-silk and cotton-piece
goods has been to establish an absolute
monopoly of this great import market
within the Commonwealth. In the case
of artificial silk, they practically achieved
their object last year.
It now transpires that imports of their
artificial-silk piece goods were valued at
£1,391,054 in 1934-35 and £1,392,618 in
1935-36, up £1564 ; of their cotton-piece
goods, at £928,468 in 1934-35 and
£861,328 in 1935-36, down £67,146. Oh,
Joe!
Thorby has been going round Aus-
tralia with a tale that Britain has in 10
years bought Australian produce to the
value of £600,000,000 and “paid spot
cash for it, too.” Now he has been con-
fronted with the case of the prune-
growers, whose “industry,” it seems, “is
suffering from a depressed export market,
which makes it impossible for them to
receive a reasonable return”:
The Government paid an export bounty
of |d. a pound in 1935 and Id. a pound
in 1936. Now it has been requested to
raise the 1935 bounty to £2O a ton.
Shippers of apples and pears, exports of
which are likewise bounty-fed, have also
found the export market unpayable this
year. But Thorby persists in believing
that Australia can become rich and
powerful by growing things for one
export market —the British.
The fiction that the U.A.P. machine is
kept ready for any emergency was shat-
tered in the Vaucluse by-election. The
secretary of the Vaucluse “electorate
council” pronounced the organisation
“tenth-rate,” and blamed U.A.P. head-
quarters, which “did not contribute a
cent to the campaign.” And that isn’t
the only argument U.A.P. headquarters
has on its hands. It had the gall to
advertise that the candidate it labelled,
who was licked so dreadfully, was stand-
ing with the support and confidence of
the aldermen ’ of three councils. A with-
drawal has been demanded.
Hitherto the “Argus” has been kind to
Argyle, but last week it astonished that
gentleman and his supporters in the
U.A.P. Opposition by allowing “our
special reporter who toured the elec-
torates” to say that the Cockies are sure
to win the Benalla and Goulburn Valley
Assembly by-elections, because:
(1) There is no U.A.P. organisation in
the electorates; (2) U.A.P. prestige has
suttered because it moved into opposition
against a non-Labor Ministry; (3) there is
evidence of a desire for new and vigorous
leadership.
Argyle is just on 69. It is now expected
that he will take what the “Argus”
evidently regards as a delicate hint.
Harold Bell, Winchcombe, Carsons’
chairman of directors, remarks approv-
ingly that about 10 p.c. of the Austra-
lian wool clip is bought by Australian
manufacturers. With twice the population
they would be “most influential” buyers,
whose buying would have “decisive effects
on values,” and corresponding effects on
the markets for other land produce and
factory goods. And in the matter of
defence a population of 13,000,000 or
14,000,000 would be able to take care of
itself. Put in that way, “twice the popu-
lation” is well worth striving for. Wise
tariff action can help (the Broken Hill
Prop, is a living and utterly unprovocative
example); revival of past Government
methods, such as loan settlement, could
only hinder.
The Vic. C.P., now run by a group
which had an agin-the-Government
tradition until it got a taste of office, has
been spreading its gospel or its tentacles
or something in other States, and Archie
Cameron, the C.P. member for Barker
(S.A.), has come out with a picturesque
protest. He says the idea, as far as
S.A. is concerned, is “to foster an illegiti-
mate infant of the V.C.P.,” the ultimate
object being “to instal in Canberra a
Ministry relying on Labor for support.”
Such a Ministry would soon find itself
placed as Premier Dunstan was at Adelaide
when moving for a 40-hour week. His
maiden effort at rail-sitting, unpremedi-
tated and unrehearsed, drew sighs of relief
from U.A.P. Ministers, groans of despair
from Labor, gasps of astonishment from
Mr. Bruxner, blushes from his colleagues,
but a seconder from none.
And then, of course, Dunstan voted
against a substantive motion for the
introduction of the 40-hour week.
Red Russia, with a standing army of
1,300,000, is .lowering the conscript age
from 21 to 19, and is also building
5000 ’planes a year—at least that is
the report that a Government Aeronautic
Commission has taken back to Paris.
Simultaneously, the Australian Govern-
ment is trying to get 7000 more volun-
teers so that it will have 35,000 alto-
gether. Its efforts to beat up recruits
have been interrupted by a Red distribu-
tion of anti-recruiting leaflets. Australia
has been very tolerant of Communist
propaganda, but this is too much. In
Russia anti-recruiting would be a shoot-
ing matter ; in Australia it ought to be a
gaoling matter, with deportation for alien
offenders.
From “Young Turk”:
Curtin’s worries seem to be getting him
down. It was positively announced—though not
by him —that he would arrive in Sydney on
Sunday, August 30, to act as mediator in the
latest A.L.P. hullabaloo. Actually he had set
off from Perth on the previous day bound for
Canberra and was back in Perth on the Mon-
day, having been taken ill at Kalgoorlie. At
Kalgoorlie he may have learned that Millington,
the Westralian Works Minister, holding forth
at the Premiers’ Conference, had described
Forgan Smith as “the Rock of Gibraltar of
the Australian industrial world.” Curtin has
no liking for the long journey between west
and east, and on at least one other occasion
he cancelled his trip after making a start from
Perth. It might be a good thing, for personal
as well as political reasons, to transfer him to
a Victorian seat.


SPRING CALLING.


m
rCr*Z
m
m
m
Make “The Australia” Your Headquarters
FOR THE SPRING MEETING, COMMENCING OCTOBER 3rd.
Of course, “The Australia” will again be the centre of all the social gaiety. With the com-
pletion of the magnificent and enchanting Martin Place Extension, “The Australia” assumes
pride of place as the largest and finest Hotel South of the Line.
Our regular patrons should not fail to confirm their reservations.
ROOM ONLY RATES: Single Room from 10/6; Double Room from 20/-.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel. Sydney
ustra
n
m
8
v-n
m
1
k
zmu
PERSONAL ITEMS
The R.A.N.’s old friend “Teddy”
Evans, of the Broke and the Antarctic,
has moved on since he left the Austra-
lian command in 1931 as ar rear-admiral.
A couple of years in charge of the
S’African station saw him a vice-admiral,
and he was knighted when transferred to
take command at the Nore. Now he has
become one of Britain’s 10 full admirals
—about the youngest' of them.
Top of the last examination list for
surgeon-commanders in the R.N. was an
Australian, Lionel Lockwood, who was
senior medical officer on H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia when she took the Duke of
Gloucester home. His marks were the
highest gained in the examination for a
decade.
Cyril Hughes, returning to Australia on
the Oronsay, left his native land in 1914
as a Ist Light Horse trooper. A civil
engineer by training, he transferred to
the R.E., and after the war became suc-
cessively Deputy-Director of Work on the
Graves Commission at Gallipoli, senior
British representative on the Anglo-Turk-
ish Graves Commission and Chief W.G.
Administrator in the East. He is a lieut.-
colonel these days, with the C.B.E. and
an M.C. He was born in Tasmania 46
years ago.
One of the biggest' and most persis-
tent knitters in Australia is F. F. Robin-
son, of Yarra Falls, who has been 36
years in the textile business, in which he
started in a small way at Richmond
(Vic.). He joined the Falls plant' as man-
aging director in 1917, and is reckoned
one of the best employers in Victoria.
Works are air-conditioned, wages are
on the highest level, and everything pos-
sible is done to combine comfort with
efficiency. Robinson, keeping thoroughly
up to date in textile methods, visits Eng-
land every two years. He is a Mel-
burnian, Scotch College educated, and
A Knitting Champion.
in his younger days played cricket and
football. In 1910 he was Australian
bowls champion. Latterly, he has added
the turf to his interests, and has owned
some good horses, including Burlesque.
J. W. Mathewson, g.m. of the Union
Steamship Co. of M.L., has taken his
last voyage. He was returning to Maori-
land from a trip to England in connec-
tion with the building of the Awatea. He
had spent 39 of his 55 years in the co.'s
service, two as g.m.
Malcolm Sargent, now in Australia to
conduct for the A.8.C., is a tall, lean
Lincolnshire man who has packed a tre-
mendous orchestral experience into his
41 years. Sargent has been director of
the Cortauld - Sargent concerts in
London since 1929, of the Leicester
Symphony Orchestra since 1922, and of
half a dozen others for 15 years and up-
wards. He got his basic musical educa-
tion at Peterborough Cathedral, was a
doctor of music at 24, has a long record
of operatic and concert successes and is
making a name for himself as a com-
poser. He is a companionable person,
served in the war with the Durham Light
Infantry, is an inveterate horseman and
has a passion for zoos.
Although Captain J. U. P. Fitzgerald,
captain of the new H.M.A.S. Sydney,
has had 33 years’ service, he crossed the
Line for the first
time on his recent
voyage to Aus-
tralia. He joined
the navy in 1903,
went to sea next
year in H.M.S.
Cornwallis, and
early in the war
was torpedo-lieu-
tenant on the Col-
lingwood, flagship
of Vice - Admiral
Stanley Colville, on
which he was first
lieutenant at Jut-
land. In 1917 he
went to the 14th
destroyer flotilla, to
be commander in
1922, followed by
Staff College, a
term in China, cap-
tain (1929), com-
mand of the Cale-
don (1930), and the
following year
British Naval At-
tache in Paris.
It is a curious
anomaly that, while
Australia gives less
attention to fores-
try than most
countries, the chair-
man of the British
Forestry Commis-
sion comes from
these parts. A
Westralian and an
Adelaide Rhodes
scholar (1905), Roy Lister Robinson
swept everything before him at Oxford.
Among other things he took a first in
Natural Science, and found time to play
in the Oxford XI for two years'and re-
present the university in athletics and at
lacrosse for three. A knighthood came
his way in 1931.
“X.T.”: When S. Australia celebrates
its pioneers, it should not forget A. W.
Howard, whose son still lives at Prospect
(S.A.). A.W., walking by a spring on
Frame’s old farm near Mt. Barker —
Lavington Bonython now owns it—
noticed a clover which was strange to
him. In 1889-90, he established it round
Penola ; he collected a couple of pounds
of seed and dropped pinches about the
H.M.A.S. Sydney’s Captain.
town environs from his bicycle. It took
him 20 years to make even a few far-
seeing farmers realise its value. To-day,
the clover—subterranean clover —is the
basis of most Australian pasture-improve-
ment schemes, and has been worth mil-
lions of additional stock per annum to
the carrying capacity of Australian
coastal areas.
Alex. Melrose, of Adelaide, was among
those present when the N.S.W. Society
of Artists opened its annual exhibition,
and John Lane Mullins handed him the
society’s bronze medal. A patron of the
Adelaide Gallery for many years, Mr.
Melrose has crowned his gifts of fine
paintings with a donation of £lO,OOO. He
has contributed verse to The Bulletin
for many years, and—himself a'member
of a pioneer S. A. family—has written a
just-published ode “To the Pioneers.”
C. R. Hall, who replaces Latham
Withall as secretary to the N. S. Wales
Chamber of Manufactures, has been in-
dustrial officer since 1929, about which
time he became well known as a voice
over the wireless; he was one of the
earliest’ non-professional broadcasters on
public affairs. But this was not his first
wireless experience ; he had that before
the war and trotting round Mespot. and
Persia with Charles Marr’s signallers.
“Zedo”: I nominate the Parer family
as Australia’s most wide-ranging pub-
keepers. You used
to be able to start
at one of their hos-
telries in Darwin
and finish at an-
other in Melbourne.
Now I see that
John Arthur Parer
has a license at
Wau, on the New
Guinea goldfields.
Still, they are not
the farthest north
beer-pumpers from
these parts in the
Pacific: the leading
tourist pub outside
Hong Kong is run
by an Australian.
Command of
Brisbane Ambu-
lance Transport
Brigade could
scarcely have been
better placed than
in the hands of
A. E. Beach,
deputy - superinten-
dent. Beach is a
tireless, lean i s h
person who was
first noticed about
the Q.A.T.B. prem-
ises in 1911, when
half the messages
came by boy-on-
bicycle and bearers
were to be seen
dashing about at
six miles an hour
with a white pony
attached to a stretcher. The new super-
intendent was at the Anzac Landing, got
a commission in the 7th, became ga§ in-
structor to 2nd Brigade headquarters and,
after the war, returned modestly to a
bearer’s job, from which he has worked
up.
Dead in Melbourne, at 80, Samuel
Fripp, managing director of Rocke
Tompsitt. In another year he would have
been 60 years with the firm. A Lon-
doner, nearly related to knight Alfred
Fripp, King’s surgeon and philanthro-
pist, he was on the Melbourne “Herald”
board for 23 years, and was a vice-
president of the Victorian Old Colonists’
Association.
The Commonwealth’s penchant for
appointing schoolmasters as Administra-
tors worked all right when it chose
Walter Ramsay McNicoll to go to
Rabaul. He is a hard worker and a born
handler of men. When war broke out
he was head of Geelong High School —
he held a Melbourne University B.A. and
Diploma of Education. He led the 6th
Battalion at the Landing; later he nar-
rowly escaped going west when an in-
experienced youngster of the Deal Bat-
Rabaul’s Administrator.
talion stuck a bayonet in him, as well as
shooting his own colonel. McNicoll saw
the war through in France, commanding
the 10th Infantry Brigade, and returned
a brigadier with a bagful of decorations.
He became head of Goulburn Ladies’
Presbyteriap College, held the job for 10
years, went into the House of Reps, for
Werriwa, remained there for a. single
Parliament and has since made a success
of managing Mandated Territory affairs.
He 'has a quaint Scottish humor when
he likes to exercise it, is musical—once
conductor of the Goulburn Liedertafel —-
and plays golf and tennis enthusiastically.
National Mutual Life loses its Tas-
manian manager, W. T. Emmerson,
through ill-health. Emmerson was a
popular figure in life assurance in the
Speck. He had been in the co.’s office
there since 1908, when he became ac-
countant. He was promoted manager in
1930, just in time to handle the depres-
sion.
Brisbane chemist Sidney Cowell, passed
on at 68, owned, with daughter Betty as
partner, the Queen-street pharmacy busi-
ness of McGuffie and Co., and had been
50 years a chemist. An old B.G.S. boy,
Cowell was known all over Queensland.
He was for many years secretary of Bris-
bane Liedertafel, now the Apollo Club.
His hobby was bowls.
The new Mayor of Collingwood (Vic.),
Cr. Laurie Marshall, is proud of having
designed, built and flown the “first bi-
plane invented in Victoria.” A photo-
graph of the machine adorns the Colling-
wood Town Hall, where Marshall has
been a councillor since 1924. His biplane
took the air in 1907, after five years of
experiment. As a trooper, Marshall
fought in the Boer War and was a mem-
ber of the first executive of the S’African
Returned Soldiers’ Association. Power-
fully-built, he has always been keen on
athletics —he was addicted to foot-racing,
cycling, boxing, wrestling and hockey. In
1905 he won six foot-racing and cycling
heats and finals on the same afternoon at
a Heidelberg carnival. In one event he
beat Donaldson, afterwards world’s
champion. As amateur champion
weight-lifter, he put aloft a record with
a right-arm body lift of 2871 b.


Hsi
mm
ISS
l?3
r
-xx
SSS
ciX'.
2 s
5?£s
5£
S-l
h~:
Rft
xm
S3
i
•rm
m
:! '0
via
SJTdi
V®
I
7 A
iff
\
C?
>K ; V'B
3k : -
sf&Bi
Tr. l !i! | !|i | MN l
w
; i!:::l-J
• M'll’.l'i
Y*V.
I'lMl.i iii
::::;:i!;;i
J;j;;|;!‘m
l -x
vx4Tr*5i^;;
***^—-
•'• * I * Mil
HM.'J'i!:
M • i
»Ml#,
111 1 1 ill
■ i • ■. i
in I,
-
* '
i!:iii;ii;:
••'I •»••,!.
•; •; •; I *;!!
• i •• »i|i' !•
!' '•••1,1,1
A
• • • i •«
»■ Mil I M 1 * I
1 [«••*»•«#,
j'U'll.l,
wiililfi
M 11 MU?
i:;:: iiii
jwsgRgj*^
ir
Model 6608 j 27 guineas.
DE in tune with the world ... buy
° a PHILIPS RADIOPLAYER
to make your home complete.
Whether you live in the heart of the
city or on the fringe of the Never-
Never, you can keep closer to
happiness with a RADIOPLAYER
—the Key to the World.
OBTAINABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL
ACCREDITED RADIOPLAYER RETAILER
Here is the Heart
of the Radioplayer
—the Sentinel Unit
which is the secret
of the amazing effi-
ciency of the world-
wide models. An
exclusive Radio-
player feature.
BROADCAST MODELS
A.C. OPERATED
Model 6506, 5 valves 15 gns.
Model 6507, 5 valves 19 gns.
WORLD-WIDE MODELS
A.C. OPERATED
Model 6608, 6 valves 27 gns.
Model 6709, 7 valves . . ... . , 34 gns.
BATTERY-OPERATED
RECEIVERS
Model 6517, for Broadcast
Reception, 5 valves ....... 27 gns.
Mode] 6612, for World-wide
Reception, 6 valves 37 gns.
* -
»
i
MAKERS OF THE LAMPS THAT LIGHT YOUR HOME
PHILIPS LAMPS A/ASIA, LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or- a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free , on request.
Directors *.
0. E. FRIEND F. N.. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) .1. 11. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
62,398
1928.. 52.030 2,250 12$ p.c. = 34,792 14,988 47,410
Net premiums on new shares, £27,426.. 19,984
Reserves.
1929.. 74.996 6,193 124 p.c. = 45,800 23,003 3,019
Premiums on new shares, etc., £23,024.. 26,043
1930. .78,057 12,000 124 p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 „ „ 47,690 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new shares, £4500 .. 54,754
1932. .80,535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
Premiums on new shares, £44,050 . . 118,839
12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154,449
Written off, £5OO 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 . . 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 124 p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 ( £54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) . . . . 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 124 p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Shareholders are to be called together
again on Sept. 23 to adjudicate upon
three questions which, in the first place,
arose out of differences of opinion among
the directors —G. J. Coles, A. W. Coles,
E. B. Coles, F. P. Derham, K. F. Coles,
M. B. Moffatt and F. G. Coles. The
questions are:
(1) Whether it is desirable to make
any change in the management of the
company.
(2) Whether it is desirable to appoint
additional directors to the board.
(3) Whether it would be in the best
interests of the company if in future the
directors published in the annual accounts
the total remuneration of the directors.
As for the first, the history of the busi-
ness, which has expanded rapidly and
been very prosperous, leaves no doubt
about the efficiency of the management.
Concerning the second, there is much to
be said in favor of more representative
control. It is in the third that the chief
bone of contention is buried. Payment
of undisclosed bonuses to executive
directors has become a more or less
common practice in many big concerns.
Among other things it makes for a high
standard of efficiency. Still, that does
not make non-disclosure a desirable prac-
tice in joint-stock enterprises. Indeed,
recent legislation in N. S. Wales and else-
where on the subject is all for full dis-
closure.
At Coles’s annual meeting in 1935 it
was announced that three high executives
who were members of the board had
received over £lO,OOO each. At the last
annual roll-up (Aug. 26), J. B. Tait, a
shareholder, said he had reason to be-
lieve that six of the seven directors re-
ceived for 1934-35 a total of £63,000 ( = 8|
p.c. on ord. capital), and for 1935-36 an
aggregate of £57,000 (= 7 p.c. on ord.
capital). For each of the two years
the ord. div. was 12? p.c. . The chair-
man (A. W. Coles) refused to dis-
close to the meeting the actual
gmounts in question. One point for
shareholders to consider is whether a
limit should be placed on the amount of
bonuses to be drawn by executives. An-
other is to avoid damaging the business,
and therefore the market for the scrip,
by public wrangling. For a history of
the dispute, see page 39 of this issue.
During the last term 13 new stores
were added to the chain, six in Vic. and
seven in N. S. Wales, making the total
47, scattered throughout the metropoli-
tan and country centres in the two
States. Most of the 13, opened during
the last half of the term, made no con-
tribution to net result. Gross earnings
(£1,059,325) were up £119,186 —inciden-
tally, 80 p.c. of sales was merchandise
manufactured in Australia. Including
provision for taxation (£48,000/ up
£3000), exes. (£904,474) took £95,779 of
the increase, leaving the declared net
result £23,407 better at £154,852. Tak-
ing £14,074 dropped into freehold de-
preciation reserve (now £74,074) into the
reckoning, there was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 19.6 p.c. on average
ord. capital, compared with 18.7, 13.8,
16.3, 14.1, 11.5 and 16.8 p.c. back to
1930. The div. was kept at 12? p.c., but
it was sweetened with £72,360 of bonus
scrip, of which £54,000 came from a
reserve created by giving goodwill a
book value of £54,000.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect'
continued expansion of the business:
1928. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Ord. capital. £288,165 £480,000 £723,600 £800,775
Pref. capital 75,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft . . 11,679 62,730
Sundry creditors 30,613 37,146* 103,727* 106,650*
Freeholds .. 86,300 331,817* 483,205* 572,181*
Leaseholds .. 25,205 61,214 143.163 174,919
Fittings, etc. 31,857 94,087 231,917 251,251
Stock . . 237,914 224,345 373,139 484,645
Debtors .. 1,356 1,448 2,190 3,603
Cash, etc. . . 1,773 40,489 65,303 8,467
* Not including balance of unpaid purchase money
on freeholds: 1931-34, £130,000; 1930 £149,904 -
1936, £144,130.
During the year 4815 new ords., which
brought in £9630 of share premiums,
were issued to employees, making the
growth in capital £77,175. To add
£88,976 to the book value of freeholds,
£31,756 to leaseholds, £19,334 to fittings,
etc., and carry £111,506 more stock, the
co. went outside for an extra £65,653.
The shrinkage in the more or less liquid
surplus (£183,385) was only £3616.
Since the close of accounts arrange-
ments have been made to open another
half-dozen stores. To meet the outlay,
it is intended to make a new issue of
ords., one for five, at £2 each, date not
yet specified.
On the market the ords. fetch 80s. 6d.
as against 635. a year ago. Allowing for
the new issue the return at the higher
figure is 3.4 p.c. on a 12? p.c. div. basis,
or a shade over 4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. dis-
tribution. The prefs. at 365. return 4.4
p.c. At June 30 the net tangible cover
was £7 19s. Id. prefs. and 265. ords.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 12 J p.c. Off. serves. Reserves.
£> £/£,£,
1926 .. 31,651 20,000 2209 9,442 176,954
1927 .. 31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 .. 33,552 21,875 2583 9,094 194,350
1929 .. 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
9 p.c.
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6,427 224,314
7 p.e.
1932 .. 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
1933 .. 20,760 14,000 1000 5,760 237,260
8 p.e.
1934 . . 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
1935 . . 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
10.5 p.c.
1936 . . 29,212 21,000 4000 4,212 252,261
To commemorate the fiftieth anniversary
of the business, a 2} p.c. bonus was sent
out with the 8 p.c. div., making 10y p.c.
for the year, and reserves hadn’t to be
tapped to do it either. It was originally
the Perpetual Trustee, Executor and
Agency Co., which set up at Sydney in
1885 —Edmond Barton, subsequently first
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth,
was on the flotation committee. The
name was changed to the present title by
special Act of Parliament —S. A. Stephen
introduced the bill, during the Parkes
Ministry—in 1887. J. R. Fairfax was the
first chairman, and with him as manag-
ing director was J. K. Street, father of
Phillip Street, lately Chief Justice in
N. S. Wales.
For many years the co. had to fight
hard to overcome prejudice, despite the
many obvious advantages of a corporate
trustee. It is now the largest of its kind
in Australia ; indeed, in the whole world
only a few American cos. can show bigger
figures, and they combine banking with
their trust business. Progress has been
most marked since the war, as the fol-
lowing table shows:
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1928 .. 34,231,040 127,009 96,343 75.9
1929 .. 36,358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
1930 .. 39,023,614 147,893 115,555 78.1
1931 .. 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 83.6
1932 . . 42,364,572 127,070 1i0,115 86.6
1933 .. 43,910,904 126,230 109,727 86.9
1934 .. 45,812;450 132,468 112,379 84.8
1935 . . 48,115,327 140,427 118,543 84.4
1936 .. 49,843,142 150,994 125,983 83.4
The business kept on expanding, despite
slump, though the collapse of values,
mortgage and other difficulties, and re-
ductions in interest and rents slowed
down the ra>te of earnings. Still the div.,
which had been steady at 12? p.c. for a
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1930, never dropped below 7 p.c. ; and
the outlook is as assured as anything of
the kind can be. * v
During the last term there was a net
growth of £1,727,815 in the volume, of
trusts on the books. Gross earnings
sprang £10,567, of which exes. . took
£7440. Deducting" the £4OOO shown as
written off in the table, but including an
unexplained net addition of £3866 to the
commission reserved account (£114,984)
and of £335 to the premises reserve
(£541), there was enough to show 12.5
p.c. on capital as against 10.4, 10.9, 9.8,
10.5, 12.2 and 17.9 p.c. back to 1930.
In addition to commission earnings
from the trustee section of the business,
growth of which can be expected to con-
tinue, there are the returns from the
co.’s own funds. Freehold figures at
£lOB,OOO ; equipment, £2795 ; mortgages,
etc., £119,899; book debts, £4125;
Consols and cash, £254,189. The amount
coming to outsiders was £13,748. Paid
capital is £200,000.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, prices the £lO
shares paid to £2 —the other £8 includes
£5 callable only in the event of liquida-
tion —at £5 Is. as against 775. two years
ago. At the higher figure the return
would be 4.1 p.c. on a 10| p.c. div. basis.
The book value of the net tangible cover
is £4 10s. sd.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers (S.A.)
To Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 37,419 8 p.e. = 26,952 10,468 75,897
1927.. 37,480 8 „ „ 26,952 10,528 86,425
1928.. 28,286 8 „ „ 26,952 1,334 87,759
1929.. 24,259 7 „ „ 23,583 676 88,435
1930.. 15,831 4 „ „ 13,476 2,355 90,790
1931.. 13,817 4 „ „ 13,476 341 91,131
1932.. 14,130 4 „ „ 13,476 654 91,785
1933.. 14,058 4 „ „ 13,476 582 92,367
1934.. 13,642 4 „ „ 13,476 166 92,533
1935.. 8,594 2£ „ ~ 8,422 172 92,705
Loss.
1936.. . 2,683 Nil 90,122
The collapse of earnings over the last
couple of years is due to price-cutting,
following competition from Victoria,
where manufacturers of super, enjoy
lower railway freight-rates than in S.
Aus. During the last term, this co., in
which Mt. Lyell is interested, made more
super., but had to cut its selling prices.
The drop in gross earnings (£15,798) was
£11,493. Owing to a heavier tax bill,
there was a saving of only £316 in exes.
(£18,381). The net result was a loss of
£2583, the first thing of its kind since
the war. Shareholders, who had had
an average of 5.3 p.c. over the decade to
the close of accounts in 1935,. were passed
by.
Until inter-State differences in the trade
are patched up, it is difficult to say what
the future holds for those bn the share
register. Fertiliser manufacturers in S.
Aus. have decided to go on the market
together, and a new sales subsidiary, Fer-
tilizer Sales, Ltd., has been formed, the
idea being to reduce selling and distribut-
ing costs. Much also depends upon main-
tenance of the Federal Government’s sub-
sidy of 15s. a ton on super, used for pur-
poses other than wheatgrowing. Demand
for nitrogenous manures continues to in-
crease, and the rise in the price of wheat
should help to further strengthen it.
Financially the co. is well equipped for
a struggle:
1925. 1932. 193/5. 1930.
Paid capital. . £336,900 £336,900 £336,900 £336,900
Liabilities .. 40,016 24,323 25,506 37,032
Freeholds, plant,
etc... .. 215,649 247,034 233,303 225,432
Stocks .. 75,642 121,285 84,106 69,530
Debtors . . 34,824 23,669 27,136 43,696
Cash, etc. . . 143,182 76,496 132,988 129,395
Price-cutting is again reflected in a con-
traction of £14,576 in the book value of
stocks. To carry an extra £16,560 of
book debts, the co. added £11,526 to the
amount coming to outsiders. The net
reduction in the book value of fixed assets
was £7871. The year’s slip in the more
or less liquid surplus (£205,589) was
£13,135.
On the market, the fully-paid pound
shares have been fairly steady around
14s. The return at 14s. would be 4.3
p.c. on the basis of a 3 p.c. div., which
would call for £10,107. The net tan-
gible cover is 255. 4d., of which 12s. 3d.
is surplus liquids.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
June, Profit. Dividend Tax. Off.t Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 41,499 10 p.c. = 27,442 2,057 65,000
1927.. 40,554 10 „ „ 29,885 2,169 73,500
1928.. 41,145 10 „ ~29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 12J „ ~37,356 1,702 87,000
1930.. 39,674 10 „ „ 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931. , . 31,167 8 „ ~23,908 7,259 93,000
Contingency reserve included, £40,973.. 133,973
To Re-
serves.
1932.. 21,365 7 p.c. = 20,920 445 134,418
1933.. 20,924 7 „ 20,920 4 134,422
1934.. 22,406 7 „ „ 20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Ord.
5 J p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8,613 20,920 732 136.640
1936.. 33,326 10,957 ’ 20,920 1,449 138,059
fAdded to contingency reserve.
Expansion of the business on more
solid foundations is the outstanding
feature of the accounts over the last four
years. Together with Castlemaine-
Perkins, the co. supplies most of the beer
consumed in Queensland, especially in
the thirsty west and south-west of the
State. With reduction of unemployment
and growth in trade generally, turn-
over is on the increase, and the manage-
ment has anchored much of it by pur-
chasing hotel freeholds, which is the form
competition in the trade takes, there
being no price-cutting.
Since the close of accounts in 1932
£673,349 net has been added to the book
value of fixed assets, including hotels.
To do it £199,234 of 5\ p.c. pref. capi-
tal was gathered in 1934, and the board
leant upon outsiders for an extra
£442,792, raising the debt to £540,171, or
£42,086 higher than paid capital, at
June 30 last:
1920. 1932. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid £ £ £ £ £
capital ..112,500 298,851 298,851 498,085 498,085
Creditors . 31,476 97,379 183,504 280,473 540,171
Fixed assets 73,643 286,433 407,520 709,246 959,782
Stocks . . 44,795 77,055 82,021 93,719 100,212
Book debts 45,804 167,862 130,319 117,950 120,560
Cash, etc. 9,846 8,265 8,864 10,223 11,731
During the last' term more hotels were
bought, and additions had to be made
to the brewery. The net increase in the
book value of fixed assets was £250,536,
and in the outside debt £259,698. Stocks
were up £6493. Debtors’ balances (up
£2610) are £47,302 less than they were
four years ago, which probably means
that more of the turnover is on a cash
or very short-term basis. When the
books closed, liabilities exceeded more
or less liquids by £307,668, an increase
of £249,087 over the twelvemonth.
To lighten the debt, 249,043 new ords.
were offered at par, one for two, and
oversubscribed since the close of
accounts. The old scrip commands a pre-
mium in the market, so the issue was in
the nature of a bonus to shareholders.
When all the new money is in, paid capi-
tal will be £747,128 in 199,234 5| p.c.
cum. prefs. and 547,894 ords. The pref.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


, MM
t ■
A J
The Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney ,
Australian
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company, Ltd.
Incorporated 1895.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian
Metropolitan is one of the old-established Life Offices.
It has 40 years of faithful service to the public behind
it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and
sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
As its liabilities are conservatively valued, its Funds are
ample for all purposes —but, even so, these Funds are
backed by substantial Reserves, so that its financial
position is impregnable.
At the end of 1935 the Assets were made up as follows:
Government and Municipal
Securities
50.75 per cent.
Loans on Mortgage . . . . 18.56 ~
Freehold Properties . . . . 16.99 ~
Loans on Policies . . . . 6.67
Cash and other Assets . . 7.03
Assurance Funds at 31/12/’35, £1,366,713.
DIRECTORS:
DR. A. MURRAY WILL.
W. A. H. ALLWORTH.
D. F. STEWART.
J. A. HENDERSON.
F. J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER:
J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL SECRETARY :
FREEMAN J. EATON.
ACTUARY:
W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
BRANCH OFFICES:
Victoria:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Queensland:
METROPOLITAN BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia:
22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
BARNET GLASS COMPANY’S
JUBILEE
Sixty Years of Progress
HIGHER PROFITS LAST YEAR
The great progress made by the Barnet Glass Rubber
Company, Limited, was described by the chairman (Mr.
Philip Glass) at the annual meeting of the company
on August 31. This year the company is celebrating its
diamond jubilee, and Mr. Glass gave a short account of
its history.
Mr. Glass said: —“The founder of the busi-
ness was the late Mr. Barnet Glass, who, in
1870, was operating a factory in Manchester,
England, his first large order being for rubber
ground sheets for the French Army during the
Franco-Prussian war. A lew years later he
came to Australia and pioneered the rubber
industry in the Commonwealth by establishing
a factory in Melbourne in 1876. By 1890 the
firm was soundly established, but progress was
hampered for some time by the generally un-
favorable conditions then existing. In 1894 a
factory was established in Adelaide, in partner-
ship with myself. Subsequently, a complete
and up-to-date rubber plant was shipped from
England and erected in Macaulay-road,
Kensington.
“Incidentally, I may mention that Mr. W. A.
Watt, a director of the company, was present
at the opening ceremony in 1899. In 1900 the
business was converted into a proprietary
company, and five years later its ramifications
were further extended.
“With the development of the automobile
the company devoted its attention to the manu-
facture of rubber tyres. The present company
was formed in 1908 with a paid-up capital of
£35,000. Four years later it was well on the
high road to success, paying 12| per cent, on
ordinary shares. Additional capital was con-
stantly required, and this was raised by share
issues to shareholders and the public, while in
1914 a bonus issue of £22,500 was made to
shareholders. During 1918-1919 a further sum
of £73,750 was taken from reserves to make a
bonus issue to shareholders, but in the follow-
ing year strikes, floods and a fire at the com-
pany’s works caused a substantial fall in profits.
In that and the following year very extensive
additions were made to the mills at a cost of
£60,000.
“In 1920 capital was again increased, and
1750 preference shares and 5000 ordinary shares
were issued to the Employees’ Share Purchase
Association.
Collapse of Prices
“In common with all other rubber com-
panies, however, the company suffered a setback
on the collapse of rubber prices in 1921. To
meet the situation there was a general reorgani-
sation, and Mr. W. A. Watt was appointed
chairman of the board. There was a slight
improvement in 1923, and preference share-
holders received a dividend. Improved condi-
tions prevailed in 1925, and the works were
enlarged. This was the company’s record year,
and it synchronised with the jubilee of the
establishment of the business. Again in 1927
the company enjoyed favorable conditions with
a much larger turnover, while substantial addi-
tions to plant and buildings were made. In
pursuance of their policy of consolidating the
position, the directors commenced to build up
a substantial reserve fund, appropriating
£50,000 for the purpose during the year. The
improved results achieved were shown by the
fact that for the financial years 1926 and 1927
the company paid arrears and current dividends
totalling £125,298, and in addition wrote up
ordinary shares by £90,000.
“The most important event in the history of
the Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd., occurred in
1929, when the Dunlop Rubber Company pur-
chased the ordinary shares of the company.
The Barnet Glass preference shares were left
undisturbed. The Dunlop company guaranteed
that for 10 years holders of preference shares
would participate equally with Dunlop ordinary
shares in dividends up to 10 per cent., and
would have the right within five years as from
March 1, 1929, to exchange their preference
holding for Dunlop ordinary shares.
“A little later, on the completion of the
amalgamation between the Dunlop and
Perdriau companies, Mr. W. A. Watt re-
linquished the chairmanship of the Barnet Glass
Rubber Co., Ltd., and became chairman of
directors of the Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co.,
Ltd., and I was appointed chairman in his
place. The company operates as a separate
entity,'but it derives substantial benefits from
the arrangements made for the bulk purchase
of raw materials on behalf of the whole
Dunlop Perdriau organisation and in many
other ways.
“From such a small beginning 60 years ago,
seven large factories and several smaller ones
are operating throughout the Commonwealth,
in all giving employment to more than 8000
Australian men and women. It is estimated
that the total value of rubber products manu-
factured in Australia for the year ended June,
1934, was £5,174,000, and wages paid during
the year amounted to £1,073,864. It is, there-
fore, apparent that an industry of so great a
value to the country is worthy of support in
every way possible.”
Manufacture and Sales
Reviewing the manufacture and sale of the
company’s lines, Mr. Glass said: —“Tyres and
tubes for motor-cars, motor-cycles and cycles
are still maintaining their popularity.
“As the tractor is the modern advancement
on the horse-drawn vehicle and implement, so
the pneumatic tractor tyre assembly is super-
seding the steel spade-lug type of wheel. In its
train the pneumatic tractor tyre brings to the
farmer definite savings in labor costs, speedier
work, greater comfort for the operator, longer
tractor life with savings in repairs and main-
tenance, and a far wider range of usefulness.
With the increased prices for primary products,
larger turnover is anticipated in this section oi
our tyre business.”
Mr. Glass said that footwear, general rubber
goods, sporting goods and many other lines,
too numerous to mention, had had increased
sales, and were giving satisfaction to users.
Accounts
Moving the adoption of the directors' report
and balance sheet for the year ended June 30,
Mr. Glass said that on the liability side the
items were: —Capital, which remained unaltered
at £750,000. Deposits had been increased from
£15,660 to £19,300. Sundry creditors had
decreased from £120,719 to £89,799. Reserve
fund had been reduced from £220,000 by the
bonus dividend of £120,000, and now stood at
£lOO,OOO. Bonus dividend of £120,000 had
been reduced by the payment of £25,000, leaving
the amount unpaid at £95,000. Reserve fund
for marine insurance registers showed a slight
increase from £6OOO to £6002.
ASSETS. —Property account had declined
from £229,809 to £226,363, showing a decrease
of £3446. Plant, machinery, rolling stock,
office furniture, etc., was decreased from
£227,218 to £210,214. The plant had been
subjected to a careful revaluation, and fully
depreciated, and the book value was very con-
servative. In addition, substantial expenditure
for maintenance and reconditioning of plant
was' debited to the profit and loss account
during the year.
Sundry debtors had declined from £207,379
to £182,112, and were lower by £25,267. Stock
in trade, from £525,768 to £463,592, showed a
substantial reduction of £62,176. Cash in hand
and at bankers stood at £10,201, compared with
a debit balance last year of £50,658, and good-
will remained the same at £22,500.
Net Profit Higher
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.—The
gross profit for the year of £332,419, compared
with £340,003 last year, showed a reduction of
£7584, and was due to the higher cost of raw
materials, particularly rubber, without a com-
pensating increase in the selling price of the
finished article. Trading expenses decreased
from £294,298 to £283,592, a reduction of
£10,716, mainly brought about by economy
in distributing expenses, and net profit for the
year at £48,836 was increased by £3131.
The amount brought forward at June 30,
1935, was £55,395. From this was deducted
final dividend paid in October, 1935, amounting
to £34,000, which left a balance to credit of
profit and loss account of £21,395. To this
might be added the net profit for the year
under review, amounting to £48,836, making
a total of £70,231, out of which was paid an
interim dividend in March on cumulative pre-
ference shares, amounting to £BOOO, leaving a
balance of £62,231.
APPROPRIATION. —The board recom-
mended for approval the payment of a final
dividend for the year on 200,000 cumulative
preference shares at 4 per cent., making 8 per
cent, for the year, £BOOO and a dividend for
the year on 550,000 fully-paid ordinary shares
at 8 per cent., £44,000, absorbing £52,000,
which would leave a balance to be carried
forward of £10,231.
New Directors
Continuing, Mr. Glass said: “During the
year two of the directors —Mr. Ernest Glass
and Mr. Clifton Ormiston—tendered their
resignations from the board. These were regret-
fully accepted by their colleagues. Mr. Glass is
a son of the founder of the company, the late
Mr. Barnet Glass. Mr. Ormiston is a son of
the late managing director, Mr. F. S. Ormiston.
Both have been associated with the business.
for many years.
“To fill the existing vacancies, the following
appointments have been made by the board:
Mr. W. A. Watt, former chairman of the
company, Major-General F. G. Hughes and
Senator Sir Walter Massy-Greene, thus restor-
ing the directorate to its original strength of
five members.”
Mr. Glass thanked the members of the stall'
for the energetic way in which they had handled
their responsibilities, and had maintained the
highest standard of efficiency both in the
manufacturing and selling organisations.
In reply to a shareholder, Mr. Glass said
that there was no truth in the rumor that the
company’s works at Footscray were to be
closed.
The report and balance sheet were adopted.
Mr. J. H. Tait was re-elected a director of the
company, and Messrs. S. J. and R. S. Warpock
i were reappointed auditors.


AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA 1
Twenty uses for
A.M.P. Policies
«jt/| Y A.M.P. policies have an extraordinary range of
|WI usefulness,” said a doctor recently. ‘‘They keep me
from worrying, and they’ll pay off my mortgages
when I’m gone”—and then, with a twinkle in his eye—“may-
be they’ll make it unnecessary for my widow to marry again.”
The Society would like as many citizens as possible to benefit
by the service it renders the community, and so it prints this
list of uses for its policies. Maybe members, out of their
experience, will be able to add other uses to these:—
They end worry.
They prolong life.
They ease the sick.
They comfort widows.
They feed children.
They preserve homes.
They build up assets.
They keep families together.
They provide schooling.
They increase self-respect.
They pay off mortgages.
They provide dowries.
They pay out partners.
They pay death duties.
They encourage marriage.
They perpetuate incomes.
They give peace of mind.
They provide cash in emergencies.
They make provision for employees.
They are badges of good citizenship.
If you, who read this, see in this list some benefit that you would like
to enjoy—or would like your family to enjoy—’phone, write, or visit
the nearest A.M.P. office. The Society offers the service—it is for you
to seize upon itl
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary, General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN.
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all St~ f es.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse v’Jayi Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. IV rite
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
div. and 7 p.c. to the ords. will then call
for £49,310, or £15,984 more than was
netted last year.
Alter allowing for contingencies, last
years net result (£33,326, up £3061) was
sufficient to pay the pref. div. and show
7 7 P i C * m a° rt i7 7 3pit a as ; lp ltnst
mod ’■£ V 1 14.7 p.c. back to
. ' ,J e^n lV ,'i, WaS a £pT f to
At 235. 6d. the ords return 5.9 p c on
LL P s d,v V b f‘ s : The prefs. at 225.
, P m’ i nc 'w dln ? tb ! f w ,i s . sue " tbe
net tangible backing is £4 Bs. lid. prefs.
ana zds. ords.
"
New Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), has
bought the New Cobar near by for
£50,000 in fully-paid ss. shares. T. G.
Murray, chairman of the vendor co.,
says there are 350,000 tons of ore, aver-
age value about 575., available in the
New Cobar. C. E. Blackett (g.m. of New
Occidental) put the figure at 140,000 tons
positive, of which 102,000 tons have been
proved to average 7.3dwt. gold and 1.75
p.c. copper, and 102,000 tons probable,
Using the all-flotation method,,he figures
gross extractable value of the proved ore
at 635. per ton. Mining, treatment and
realisation costs are put at not more than
425., leaving a net profit of 21s. a ton.
At the start it is proposed to treat 5000
tons of this ore monthly, and to increase
the flgure t 0 7000 tons The extra
plant, etc., required is expected to cost
about f 7 0,000. Xo he f the
om , ay 200000 new 5s ,g
lalive participating prefs. will be issued
ear|y . in 1937 *; T g e £ wiu be rede emablc
at t h e co ’ s option at the end of three
years at a premium of 10 p.c.; mean-
while they will participate with the ords.
in any distribution beyond 10 p.c. New
Occidental’s own mining and treatment
costs were lowered from 355. 6d. for
June to 31s. 3d. for July, and further
reduction is expected. The working sur-
plus for the quarter ended May 31 was
£9532, and capital expenditure £7141.
For the next two months the working sur-
plus was £14,532, and capital expendi-
ture, now practically ceased, £3995. At
the end of February ore reserves were
figured at 362,500 tons, of which 261,500
tons was positive ore, averaging B.4dwti,
and 101,000 tons probable ore. Recent
developments on No. 7 level have dis-
closed a lot more 7dwt. ore.
For the year to June 30 last B.H.
South claimed a net profit of £486,197,
or £143,687 more than for the previous
year, thanks mainly to the rise in the
price of lead. Including a special jubi-
lee bonus of 2s. 6d., divs. total 12s. 6d.
a share as against 6s. for the previous
term. The pound shares fetched 115 s.
last week-end, a rise of 4s. over the last
couple of months.
* * * *
Queensland Gold Development Syndi-
cate, representing overseas interests, has
50-odd men at work on the old Hodg-
kinson field (N.Q.). Here the Tyrconnel,
richest of the early-day mines, has been
dewatered, and driving is in progress at
No. 6 level (430 ft.). The co. is also busy
dewatering the old Hodgkinson United
workings (750 ft. deep) in order to explore
the General Grant and Britannia reefs,
which yielded some very rich ore in the
’eighties. Another shaft is being sunk
to cut the Britannia and Vulcan reefs;
the idea is to work back towards the
United.
* * *■ t-
The first 112 tons put through its new
10-head battery by New Gympie Gold
Mines (Q.) returned 290 z. 9dwt. of
smelted gold. Most of the ore came
from No. 6 reef, which has been extended
to 138 ft. north of the crosscut. Work is
also in progress on Nos. 4, 5 and 7 reefs,
all carrying colors.
**• . * *
A new reef, Marjorie P.C., has been
discovered and traced for 200 yards on
the surface near Miclere, Clermont (Q.,).
The first two crushings, aggregating 58|
tons, have returned 70oz. of gold. Sink-
ing is to be started shortly. In the same
district Hurley Bros, have been doing
well out of the Southern Cross, from
which the last 40 tons of picked ore
yielded 970 z. 4dwt. of gold.
* * * ■
.With tin at £lB9 (London) a lot of
ore at Mt. Bischoff, Waratah (Tas.), is
unpayable. The co.’s lode at Mt. Cleve-
land is 15ft. to 25ft. wide in the open-
cut, a large low-grade ore-body has been
proved on the Khaki workings, and a
small area carrying t.o. per c.y.
has been disclosed on alluvial flats sou’-
west of the battery. For the six months
to June 30, 7931 tons ore was crushed
and 4200 tons of slimes re-treated for
129 tons tin concentrates, average assay
being 67.8 p.c. tin. Dry conditions im-
peded alluvial operations at North
Valley, where 7300 c.y. was sluiced for
13.2 tons t. 0.; average assay, 65.4 p.c.
tin.
* * * *
The recent decrease in the monthly
working surplus at Wiluna (W.A.) was
due mainly to the lower grade of ore
treated, power shortage and a slight con-
traction in the average price of gold.
The outlook for the undertaking, how-
ever, has lost none of its lustre. Develop-
ment work keeps on adding to ore re-
serves, while both throughput and re-
covery figures are being stepped up;
unit costs and net earnings can be ex-
pected to benefit. The quantity of ore
put through the mill has increased from
27,000 tons at the inception to approxi-
mately 50,000 tons last month ; it was
41,480 tons in April. Last year’s gold
recoveries increased by 4 p.c., reaching
80 p.c. Introduction of smelting is ex-
pected to lift the figure to 88 p.c. or
more, as well as permitting treatment of a
lot of ore not amenable to pres;
methods because of its heavy antimony
content. Recovery of the antimony will
also help to swell earnings. At the end
of March ore reserves were figured at
2,413,000 tons, average value 23.25.
Compared with the estimate at the end of
August, 1935, there is a gain of 373,000
tons of ore and a shrinkage of approxi-
mately 3s. in the average value. Recent
drilling and other developments at the
lower levels suggest a further substantial
increase in ore reserves, but values are
decreasing with depth. On the east lode
a bore has disclosed a width of 10ft. of
21s. 6d. ore at a depth of 1600 ft. On
a treatment basis of 50,000 tons a month,
an 88 p.c. recovery, gold at £8 13s.
(Aust.) an ounce and with costs as they
are, the management puts the annual
working profit from the mine at £500,400.
Another £40,000 p.a. is expected from the
treatment of residues, of which 145,000
tons will be available for smelting.
* * * *
South Kalgurli Consolidated (W.A.)
has sufficient ore (averaging sJdwt.)
blocked to keep the mill supplied for
about 3| years, while recent develop-
ments on the 1600 ft. level promise to
augment the supply. Here some rich
lenses, with low-grade stuff in between,
have been located. Hopes are that the
make extends to the upper and lower
levels. A new fine-grinding plant is to be
installed at a cost of about £12,000. The
saving in working exes; is expected to
cover the cost within three years.
* * * *
The most important development at
Youanmi (W.A.) is declared -to be the
intersection of good values over widths
of Bft. to 17ft. by crosscuts east of
Pollard’s shaft. A “considerable” ton-
nage of payable ore has been dumped
on the surface, and no difficulty is
anticipated in keeping the mill supplied,
after the wheels begin to turn at the end
of this month. The co. is London-
controlled.
* * * *
On the basis of assay plans, Yilgarn
Gold (W.A.) has 5349 tons, going from
eight to 17 ’weights, blocked above No.
3 level, and values are expected to hold
underfoot. With costs at £2 per ton, a
profit of £17,000 from the measured
block is expected with gold at £7 per
ounce. Water is coming in at the rate of
4500 gallons per hour ; installation of a
9000-gallon pump is spoken of.
* * * *,; .
The chances of Paringa exercising its
option oyer North Kalgurli Central
(W.A.) are by no means certain. So far,
one crushing of 895 tons from develop-
ment averaged 24-dwt., and ore from a
drive extended some distance bulks about
s+dwt. The property adjoins Paringa’s at
the northern end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile.
9 * * *
B.H. Prop, has decided to offer its con-
trolling interest in the Enterprise group,
Kalgoorlie (W.A.), for public sale be-
cause the deposit can be more economi-
cally worked by one of the cos. alongside.
The principal blocks adjoin Boulder on
the north and South Kalgurli on the west.
According to T. R. Victor, Linden
Gold, Joiner’s Find (W.A.), has at least
600 ft. of reef, 18in. to Bft. wide (average
4ft.). This should give between 12,000
tons and 15,000 tons of ore for each
100 ft. of lift. Where opened up, the reef
is expected to average an ounce and a
half over the plates. A formation from
which floaters come in is expected
to be found about 30ft. west of the main
reef. A lot of work needs to be done
before any reliable idea can be had as
to the value of the property.
* * * *
Having suspended operations in Nov.,
1934, Ratrut Basin’s two dredges worked
little more than a month for the year to
Sept. 30 last. Revenue was £3402. After
allowing £14,613 for depreciation, a loss
of £21,424 showed up, increasing the
accumulated deficit to £36,966. Pref. div.
arrears—£93,296 of the £119,537 of capi-
tal is 10 p.c. pref. money—now amount
to £18,981. For the current term the co.’s
quota has been fixed at 158 tons of tin
oxide. The dredges were reconditioned
at a cost of £9500, and debentures for
the amount have been issued to Burma-
Malay Tin, which also holds a five years’
option over the co.’s 12,094 unissued first
prefs. No. 2 dredge, calculated to have
ground sufficient for two years’ profit-
able operations ahead, set in on July 4.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Method of separating copper from gold when
smelting ? —2702.
If cyanidation process is used, the residue
after dissolving the zinc by sulphuric acid is
smelted with the usual fluxes and the addition
of a little sulphur to the top of charge. The
copper present combines with sulphur to form
a copper-matte above the gold bullion. If
treating only small quantities of gold-copper
residues, dissolve the copper with nitric acid
and smelt gold in usual manner.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Share Buyer: (1) No. (2) Yes J.R.: (1)
and (2) Not listed. Write secretary, Kembla
Buildings, Margaret-street, Sydney. (3) Not
bright D.S.: Continue payments. Pros-
pects for bonuses not good. See “ ‘Wild Cgt’
Monthly,” January, 1936 H.S.M.: (1) No
record. (2) Prospects not encouraging
1.W.H.: Hold B.H. Prop.; others speculative.


\ VN \ ---
m
'SA
11l
TfS,
Man and Nature
join forces in-
AMERICA
YtW,
SlYs-,
fijOfti
\w\
si
\
A deep mountain gorge blocked by Boulder
Dam and a.vast desert becomes an in*
land seaI—-Lake 1 —-Lake Mead. Colossal sculptured
heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln
and Theodore Roosevelt bring to life the
sheer rock face of towering Mt. Rushmore.
In New Mexico’s Carlsbad Caverns, fantastic
limestone decorations are made available to
everyone . . . far beneath the surface of the
earth. Such Man-and-Nature teamwork adds
salty fascination to travel through America.
Travel is outstanding in comfort and econ-
omy because of far-flung railway systems that
make all America a neighborhood. Trains in
which it is a pleasure to sleep, a satisfaction
to dine, a restful interlude free from annov-
ance or responsibility. Modern
air-conditioning makes its own
perfect climate. Safe speed
takes you 3000 miles in 75
hours. Club and observation
cars for diverting hours with ,
interesting companions.
Valet, inaid, barber, assure your arrival re-
freshed and ready for the day. Stop over
most anywhere without additional cost.
From the time you sail for California aboard
the luxurious “Mariposa” or “Monterey” of
the Matson-Oceanic fleet, you find a new
measure of romance, coupled with gratify-
ingly low fares and incidental expenses.
Eighteen glorious days on the Pacific—stops
at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii—
then across America via your chosen route.
Finally, a wide selection of trans- Atlantic
liners—for this is the short, quick, natural
highroad to England. Secure a copy of
“England Across America”, a fascinating
booklet telling the interest
of this Antipodes-to-England
trail via Matson-Oceanic and
America. You’ll appreciate its
luxury, flexibility and cease-
less, ever-changing parade of
wonders. Free upon request.
df
(Incorporated in U.S. A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
A MIXED GRILL.
It appears that a “group of Manchester
firms” is providing £500,000 of capital
to set up a cotton-piece-goods factory in
Australia. That is all to the good ; but it
may be necessary to reconsider some of
our recent tariff concessions to Lanca-
shire if such an enterprise is to survive.
Davies, Coop, a Victorian concern
endeavoring to market denims of its own
manufacture, hasn't done anything spec-
tacular for shareholders so far.
* * * *
The Bank of England’s gold holding
is now £243,800,000 —it has risen by
nearly £50,000,000 in a few months, in-
fluenced by the flight from the franc.
Britain abandoned gold in September,
19-31, when the bank’s holding had
dropped to £130,000,000.
* * * *
“Duggai”: There is no necessity to go
to California to see the wax spray for
fruit (B. !2/8/’36). For years we have
preserved both lemons and oranges with
a thin coating of para wax. After that
they are packed in sawdust and kept in
a cool and dry place.
* > * He *
“F.L.W.”: Brisbane traffic authorities
have a strange conception of what consti-
tutes road dangers. Local papers usually
report the traffic-court proceedings with
the heading “Speedsters Fined.” The
“speedsters” were timed to have been
travelling—over 220 yards of good,
straight bitumen —at 30 m.p.h. to 45
m.p.h. ; penalties range from £2 to £lO.
Then come “Minor Breaches.” They in-
clude such trifles as driving at night
minus lights, faulty brakes, turning with-
out signalling and passing a red light.
The fine? Ten shillings, plus costs!
* * * *
“Jobber”: When I was a youngster I
could knit as well as many girls, but
turned it in as a man until I found
myself in a military hospital, with a long
stay ahead. Nearly all the Diggers in
the ward were working on linen in some
way, so I gave it a burl. I’m open to sub-
ject two handkerchief sachets and a table
centre for expert criticism from any-
one who cares to browse into my dugout.
One of my designs was worked from
tracings of dinkum gum-leaves, one of
which was put in every letter my mother
sent me while I was abroad.
* * * *
“J.S.P.”: “The Politics of It” (B.
29/7/’36) raised a question in my mind.
In deciding a constitutional matter the
High Court has to listen to much argu-
ment from both sides, put forward by
men who at Federation were not much
past the schoolboy age, as to what the
framers of the Constitution meant by
certain sections. If, as in the case of
some ancient script, no contemporary
records were available, that method
would seem to be justified, but there must
be records, and very definite ones, of
what pre-Federation politicians had in
their minds when the Constitution was
drafted. “Hansards” of that day should
show beyond all doubt what effect the
Constitution was desired to produce.
Does it not seem that the actual words
spoken by these men would form a more
logical basis for argument than what is
turned over in the minds of lawyers of
the present generation? Even in 35 years
words can take on fresh shades of
meaning.
* * * *
“Matelot”: Not only is bulk wheat
capable of generating gas fumes in a
ship’s hold; it is just as capable of
drowning a man as a hull full of water.
Filled to the hatch covers a ship will
ride comfortably ; only partly full, the
loose wheat will make “shifting cargo”
of the most threatening description. Then
those sent below to put things right need
to look out. A heavy roll, and perhaps
fifty or so tons of the slippery grains may
surge over a man, and he is liable to be
suffocated before his mates, sunk knee-
deep and shovelling desperately, can
locate him.
* * * *
“Shep”: While our gas-masks were
improving towards the end of the war
the German ones were deteriorating
owing to the shortage of rubber. At our
post at Strazeele in 1918 were experts, who
had buried somewhere handy containers
of a new gas—it may have been Lewisite.
It was claimed that it would penetrate
the German mask and immediately
cause vomiting. Unlike our Balaclava-
type gasbags, which were long enough to
be buttoned into the necks of tunics,
Fritz’s mask just covered his face, so he
would have to lift the mask to dispose
of the mess, and a sufferer could not
vomit and hold his breath simultaneously.
The experts, however, waited weeks with-
out any favorable wind ; they were
scared even of our own masks if the stuff
should blow back on us. Possibly in the
“'7„?“A h i‘ ng ,here w f e . "° chanc f s
°S? ° f u ‘ * h ® new ,f s ’ b “' 11 do
“ s b “ ot horror ln the next war-
££r; *, „ „ * ._* *
. k. W.H. • A.I.F. crowd was a
I P OS hy from S. Aus. or Queens-
and, and there were many good-natured
arguments regarding the relative merits
°- the two States. One Croweater in
serious-minded felfow, however
grossly we exaggerated the size and
quality of Queensland fruit he never
seemed to realise that his leg was being
pulled. Just before the Armistice, through
ill-health, he was sent back to Australia
and his orchard. We followed a few
months later, and at Adelaide he was
on w hat’f with a gladstone bag to
greet us. Our transport was a “dry
ship,” and our powers of deduction rela-
tive to that bag were keen. “A couple
of bottles of whisky,” said someone;
“you could bet on good old Jackie doing
the right thing,” and when he came on
board we crowded round. “Not here,
Jack,” I said warningly; “come below.”
At the mess table we clustered round our
old pal, who tenderly placed the bag on
the table and with a dramatic flourish
snapped open the lock. Out rolled the
biggest orange I’ve ever clapped eyes on.
“There,” said he triumphantly, “can you
beat that in Queensland?”
* * * *
West Australian Newspapers, Ltd.,
which bought all the shares in the
Perth “Daily News” last term, showed a
profit of £69,884 from the “West Austra-
lian,” “Western Mail” and “Broadcaster,”
and declared a div. of 2s. 2d. per £1 ord.
The “News” was a loser to the close
of accounts (June 30), but better things
are expected now. Paid capital is
£477,000, including £lOO,OOO in 7 p.c.
prefs., and there are £152,251 of 64 p.c.
debentures and £78,385 of other debts.
Reserves of £165,090 partly offset £299,033
of goodwill. Ord. shareholders are to
be offered two new ords. at par for every
five now held. Present earnings would
be sufficient to maintain the div. rate.
* * * *
Another year of good service to the
N.S.W. community by the Rachel Forster
Hospital was rounded off at the yearly
meeting. This institution, which grew
from the movement started by Dr. Harriet
Biffin and Dr. Lucy Gullett, treated 548
inpatients and 55,223 outpatients during
the year. It is intended that the hospital,
which is entirely staffed by women doc-
tors, shall be a still greater blessing: a
building with accommodation for 200
patients is planned. This year there are
three new departments: a pathological
laboratory, a clinic for children suffering
from rheumatism and a clinic for the
treatment of speech defects in children.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Metwurst”: Up in the Barossa (S.A.)
vine country, just after the grape harvest,
I came upon a little band of strapping
young German-Australians reducing a
mighty pyramid of pie-melons by the
truckload. They made a great picture of
sunburnt mirth with a hayrick behind
them and the spire of the little Lutheran
church half-hidden in trees in the back-
ground. After I had finished with the
camera I inquired what the pie-melons
were for. “Quince yam,” was the laconic
reply. Of course I should have known.
* * * *
“ ’Strawdnary”: The world is a small
place, what? I mean to say, what a bally
coincidence! Only last week, when en
route to my brother in the interior, I
saw at no great distance a huge flock
of sheep in the care of two mounted
shepherds (three, counting the driver of
the covered vehicle bringing up the rear —-
this conveyance, I was assured by a local
bushwhacker, is used for carrying lame
sheep and those numerous and unfortu-
nate animals that fall prey to snakes and
dingoes). And now I read your contro-
versy re the true call of the sheep! Abso-
ballylutely! Can I butt in, what? I saw
very little of the flock, owing to the rising
dust, but I did particularly notice their
calls, because, in addition to those cries
like “Baa” and “Me-h-h,” several, appa-
rently, were barking like dogs!
* * * 3=
“Kerriki”: Pulling out teeth with the
bare hand is as old as Oriental civilisa-
tion. Young Japanese start on wooden
pegs, graduate to nails and asses’ jaw-
bones, and end up on the human fang.
News to me, though, that Chinese went
in for it, except as patients. Many Euro-
pean dentists have tried to master the art,
but only constant practice from child-
hood avails to acquire it. There are many
literary references, the most unreliable
concerning Sexton Blake, who “learned
the knack of grip from a Jap dentist.”
* * * *
“Jobber”: A station-owner near
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) is such a lover
of wild life that he had the whole of
the place gazetted as a sanctuary, and
anyone caught with a gun would get a
warm reception. In a kind of private
zoo, with acres of freedom, there are
kangaroos, emus, deer and birds of all
description. Woolbales had a keen
desire to introduce the koala, and wrote
to the Chief Secretary seeking permis-
sion, pointing out that' the little chaps
would have perfect freedom in the bush,
and no expense would be spared to give
them everything they needed to make
them happy. The reply was a stiff depart-
mental intimation that permission could
not be given to keep the koala in cap-
tivity.
* * * *
“L.A.S.”: A winner among discordant
bush noises is the Barcoo dog—an
elaboration of a baby’s rattle that some
genius long ago invented for scaring
sheep up into the forcing pens and down
the drafting race. It consists of a number
of tin lids threaded on a foot or two of
No. 8 fencing wire, and you can smack
“ I'll show ’er she baint the only one that be pig-'eaded!"
a woolly three sheep ahead harmlessly
but noisily on the back and make it jump
and break a jamb to keep them running.
You can throw it at a lazy dog, a tired
jackeroo or abo.’s back with pleasing
effect. Shake it just once at a ram com-
ing up fast behind you, and he’ll stam-
pede back so lively that you will somer-
sault in the vacuum. You can rattle it
to drown the woe of full yards of mother-
ing ewes and lambs, and you can also
get yourself cursed and damned by all
hands; and after a bit you will whoop
hoarsely at the sheep rather than annoy
yourself with such a confounded con-
traption.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: It was a beautiful morn-
ing, and the boss came down to the draft-
ing yards feeling lyrical. “There’s some-
thing exhilarating about a scene like
this,” he said, waving a hand at the green
paddocks, sheds glistening in the morn-
ing dew, sheep, the eager dogs, the blue
smoke from the cookhouse and the good
horses standing by the yards. Then the
drafting got under way. The boss was
foolish to stand with his back to a cranky
old merino ram on the edge of the full
dip. The hands rushed to help him, each
striving inwardly to preserve a straight
face at the sight he presented as he came
out. Knowing his choleric temper, every
man feared the worst, until, quietly scrap-
ing off the slime, the boss said, “There’s
something exhilarating about a scene like
this.” The roar shook the gums on the
distant river.
* * * *
“Sti”: The strangest place I’ve found
a bees’ nest was in a rabbit burrow. The
dogs jibbed at going near the burrow,
so we decided to dig it out, expecting to
find snakes or native cats. The spade
went into honey. Rabbits were in the
same burrow. We strained the honey to
get the fur out, then sold it to our worst
neighbor.
* * * *
“Kali”: Dog courage is a patchy thing.
In Java I had a bull-terrier that would
stop at nothing. The kampong dogs
were easy meat for Buffer, and he had
the wind up every Javanese for miles
around. Small snakes were treated the
same as pythons, a 16ft. specimen that
wandered into the compound being killed
in quick time. We took him over the
strait to Bali on one occasion, and he
tried conclusions with a wounded tiger ;
he made an excellent showing until a
second shot saved his life. But take
Buffer anywhere near the local' grave-
yard and his tail would drop ; he would
whimper and growl while glancing ner-
vously around, and would never venture
away from my heels. Once clear of its
environs he would be his normal fight-
hunting self again.
“K.C.”: Cormorants were reported
to be causing havoc among trout
in the F.C.T. and at Yass. Shooters
assembled, and there was considerable
slaughter. Many stomachs were exam-
ined, and the conclusive evidence was
that yabbies and shrimps were the
cormorants’ main diet. Fish were cer-
tainly present —but every one was an
introduced carp ; there wasn’t one trout
among the lot! Carp are universally
recognised as inveterate consumers of
trout ova. The verdict was an unquali-
fied one in favor of the cormorant. So
much for the wholesale destruction of
game fish by shags. Investigations in
S. Aus. have produced similar results.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Much as a farmer hates the
rabbits he does not like to see them
walking off his place in a body like
strikers. It’s a sure sign of a prolonged
drought.
ij:
“Barangkali”: They certainly breed
outsize fish at Darwin —one has taken up
permanent residence beneath the jetty,
its chief diversion being robbery. Several
anglers have hooked the sport-spoiler, but
it has had no difficulty in straightening
the hooks or breaking the lines. Using a
big shark hook and a length of half-inch
manilla rope Dick Gun suffered a badly
burned hand when he tried conclusions
with the fish recently. During the struggle
he ran a bight of the rope around an iron
bollard, but the rope snapped like a piece
of string. It is claimed by those who have
seen it to be the biggest fish ever seen in
Darwin. It will have to be a monster to
compare with the groper I saw a Greek
fishermen land on the same jetty a few
years ago. The services of a crane were
needed to lift it from the water. It was
hoisted on to a two-ton truck and ex-
hibited around the town. Its jaws were
kept open by the insertion of a long stake
and inside the gaping mouth, seated on an
ordinary kitchen chair, was a Chinese
youth.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: How long can a man
live on sea water? Some of the abo.
tribes in the Gulf country (Q.) used to
make for the tidal waters when turtles
were laying and dugong were plentiful.
Leaving behind them the fresh-water
springs of their own town, they had
nothing but the tidal stuff of the coast
—and that was as salt as sea water can
be. Three weeks was their limit of
gorging on the delicious diet; then they’d
hurry back to the fresh water of their
own country, carrying with them what
coastal tucker they could.
* * * *
“Nor’-West”: The old-timer to whom
I served a brief apprenticeship belled
every horse when he turned the mob out
at night. Frequently waking, he listened
for the bells. They were like a book to
him. A dong told him exactly what that
horse was doing. Feeding quietly, a
horse would give its head a sharp jerk,
with revealing dong, at every bite. Walk-
ing, the dong came at regular intervals,
timing every stride. Cantering or gallop-
ing, the clang was fast, and faster. The
old un knew the note of each horse s
bell and, remembering the direction, had
a fair idea of where to look for each
prad in the morning. If all bells were
silent he turned over and went to sleep
again—to get some rest before turning-
out at daybreak for the almost inevitable
trudge necessary to round up the strays.
:i-. * =!= *
“Walkabout”: “Ride-and-tie,” a once-
popular method of getting over the coun-
try, seems to have been knocked out by
“rattler”-jumping. It was worked with one
horse between a couple of mates. Mount-
ing the prad, and taking swags and nose-
bags, ope would ride for a certain time,
then tie up and set off on foot. Reach-
ing the horse, the mate would ride for
the allotted time; and so on. Forty
miles was just a fair day’s jaunt. I knew
of 50 a day being done for a fortnight;
there was need for hurry—-the prad had
been pinched.
THE PARROT.
I have a cage in a garden green, set back
from the city street;
I have a perch whereon to swing, and plenty
of corn to eat.
Here I am safe from danger, but the ways of
man are strange,
And I remember a gum-tree in the grey
Macpherson Range.
My prison is large and airy; there is even a
tree or two;
And underneath the grass is green, and above
the sky is blue;
Down through the bending branches the gold
of the sunlight spills,
But 1 remember the sunlight on the wide
sweep of the hills.
The children gather about me, here in the
garden cool;
They call to me as they pass me, hurrying
home from school.
How could 1 help but love them, the bonny
babes of the towns? .
But I remember a maize-patch, high in the
Darling Downs.
1 have a mistress, gentle of heart, sweet as a
mountain-rose;
She sits in a chair beside me, and talks to
me as she sews.
I am learning to speak her language, but the
words are hard and strange,
And I remember the white mist that hovers
about the Range.
1 have a master, tall and strong, who whistles
to me and sings;
Sometimes he takes me upon his knee, and
smooths my neck and wings.
1 would be loath to leave him, he is so brave
and fine —
But I remember the tall cliffs at the head of
the Condamine.
They point to my perfect plumage—each deep
and delicate shade;
They call me the loveliest creature the gods
of beauty have made.
“My radiant living rainbow,” my mistress
murmurs and smiles —
But T remember a rainbow with a span of
fifty miles.
A river shines in the distance, far to the
dreaming south;
1 hear them speak of the ocean-ways beyond
the river’s mouth;
l hear them tell of the east wind, lashing the
waves to foam —
But I remember the west winds, the wild
winds of home.
The smoke of a thousand chimneys darkens
the noonday skies,
And the nights are unfamiliar with alien
lights and cries;
Strange buildings lift their ramparts; strange
highways twist and turn —
But I remember the smoke-drift where the
cornstalks burn.
My prison is large and airy; my keeper is
kind and sweet;
I have a bough to swing upon, and plenty
of corn to eat.
1 preen my wings in the sunshine, 1 screen
my wings from the rain—
But I remember a hidden pool, afar on Sunday
Plain.
QUEENSLAND.
L. O’NEIL.


“D.P.L.”: “Yairs, mate, it is ’ot,”
said the swaggie as he dropped his knot
and ordered a pot. Gazing round, he
sighted a fly, caught it and popped it in
his beer, left it for a second or two, and
then hooked it out with his finger.
“That’s how much I like beer,” he said
as he raised his glass.
* sfc * *
“Zirk”: I nominate Wyndham, Nor’-
Westralia, as having the queerest gaol in
Australia. The boob is a baobab-tree
known as the Hillgrove Lockup, and was
used in the early days of the Kimberley
goldrush for keeping Binghi in overnight.
It could securely hold six natives, who
were chained to a big iron bolt, which
is still there for the curious to see. Its
most infamous occupant was Pigeon, who
killed five white men before a bullet
fired by a Derby police blackboy brought
his career to a close.
# * * *
“H.R.S.N.”: Catching crows is easy if
you can get hold of one of them. Peg
him to the ground on his back and with-
draw. He will kick like billyo, and, if
his brethren are as thick as they are this
year in our S.A. district, one will soon
be at him. Then all you have to do is
knock the attacker on the head, or re-
lease him and peg him out elsewhere:
the crow on the ground having gpt his
grip on something will never let go. My
youngsters got 17 that way in an after-
noon.
* * * *
“Kellick”: Timbered country along
our northern coastline is freely criss-
crossed with lanes from 10 to 15 yards
wide, some of the clearances up to three
miles long. Necessary in having bear-
ings on prominent landmarks accurate,
they represent merely part of survey-
sloop Moresby work. Men from this
ship, with four abos., have done all that
solid tree-felling. Who said sailors don’t
work?
* * * *
“Betul”: Fossil discoveries in the Wed-
dell Sea prove that the penguin’s ances-
tors were giants 8ft. to 10ft. high, but
differing only slightly otherwise from the
wonderful swimmer we know to-day.
Penguins now are divided into two
varieties. The smaller is the Fairy pen-
guin, common along the N.S.W. coast-
line ; the larger, the Emperor, rarely
leaves the colder seas of the south. This
chap attains a height of 4ft. when fully
grown, and tips the scale at over 1001b.
For speed and grace in the water he has
no equal.
* * * *
“Gamma”: I used to have a dachshund
for rabbiting; his bag would average a
couple of hundred pairs a day. That
was when he was a pup; when
he grew to full length I lost him.
He went down one burrow, and as there
wasn’t anything in it, came out what
was probably the back door just in time
to see his tail disappearing down the one
he had entered. Thinking it was a rabbit,
he made for it, following himself into
the open air again just in time to see his
other end once more vanishing. Before
the day was out he’d worn himself to a
shadow, and, of course, as soon as the
sun set, he disappeared.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The ordinary green house-
hold frog of the south reaches Brobding-
nagian proportions in the north, resem-
bling a half-grown kitten in size. He
becomes easily domesticated, and I have
one who adapts himself to a regular
routine, taking up a strategic position on
one particular chair every night at dusk
and there devouring a host of insects.
Should the chair be removed he dwells
sulkily on the floor until it is replaced,
when he mounts with alacrity to his
accustomed perch. He ceases duty
punctually at ten o’clock each night.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: The giant crayfish of
northern waters, because of his variegated
hues, is an easy mark for Binghi spear-
men, who pursue him
into the rocky fastnesses
of the submarine reef
caverns. But the Cray’s
vulnerability to the
spear-thrust is offset by
the shark’s partiality
for the crustacean and
the fact that the latter
emits a bleating cry
when speared which
serves as a powerful
magnet for sharks. Ac-
cordingly, Binghi is
quick to transfer the
transfixed cray to the
dinghy. Old Nawi, now
on Banks Island, bears
an abbreviated arm to
witness the occasion on
which he allowed his
desire to bag a second
cray to override his
normal caution, and
held the first quarry too
long. The shark in one fell swoop took
cray and forearm and made as neat a
job of it as any surgeon’s knife.
* * * *
‘Tver’: I picked up a young jackass
which had apparently fallen from the
nest; but he was sick, and investigating
I found a large tick embedded in the
back of the neck. Despite its removal
Jacky died. Is this tick an ordinary
enemy of the kookaburra or was this
young Johnnie just stiff?
* * * *
“Green Checquer”: The historic
American homer pigeon which broke a
wing and walked home from New
Orleans to San Francisco has been
rivalled by a N.S.W. bird. Released in
a long race to Lithgow eight years ago, a
champion pigeon did not return. Its
owner gave it up as lost; later he
migrated from Lithgow to Hamilton.
Recently a Lithgowite saw a battered-
looking pigeon meditating like a feathered
"Here, where did you get that liquor?"
"You mind your own business—you tinkit I bin put Mr. Henessy
away?"
Marius on the ruins of what had once
been its loft. Caught, it was identified
by its leg-ring and restored to its owner.
It declined to reveal its activities in the
interim.
“L.W”; If bushmen knew the value
of the cane-knife used in the sugar fields
it would be part of the equipment of
every outbacker. It will take and keep
an edge as sharp as a pocket-knife, clear
a track of vines and undergrowth as well
“ Cripes, if Sarah doesn't turn up soon we'll be late f the milkin'!"
as a brush-hook, split kindling wood
better than the finest tomahawk. It
weighs less than a frying-pan, and is
specially designed for carrying in the
belt. And it is the ideal instrument for
turning a pancake or a panful of eggs,
for fanning a sluggish fire and for set-
ting a bed of coals for a damper. The
best costs about four shillings.
* * * *
“Western”: To suggest that the octo-
pus wouldn’t dine on giant or any other
clam if it got the chance is to betray
a meagre working acquaintance with the
eight-armed gentleman. He will dine
on practically anything; if big enough
he will take on a live human. Anyway,
if the octopus doesn’t prey on the giant
clam, what does? Why the clam’s haste
to close when lying in a foot of water?
In 20ft. of water the ever-hungry groper
provides a sufficient explanation, but at
low tide there is no other possible enemy
than the octopus.
“Saddle-flap”: For the most widely-
distributed Australian bird my vote goes
to the wagtail. I’ve fed him crumbs in
the Cape York Peninsula and cheered
him for catching flies in western Q. mus-
tering camps. I’ve seen him riding on
woolly-backs right down the Darling and
Murray rivers into S.A., and I’ve met
him in the Speck. I’ve watched-Mr. and
Mrs. build nests in the jarrah country,
and I’ve welcomed him on the stock-
route near Marble Bar in the far nor’-
west. Where can’t Willy be found?
* * * *
“Dingo”: Grandpa was down from the
mulga for a short break, and Joan, hang-
ing a few pairs of scanties on the line to
dry, decided to shock the old boy. “What
do you think of those, grandpa?” she de-
manded as he hove in sight. “ ’Struth! ”
yelled the old chap with a perky twinkle
in his eye, “I didn’t think there were any
of the old pioneer women left round these
parts. What about askin’ her round fer
a hand of euchre to-night?”
* * * *
“P.M.”: The tramp who asked for a
feed and a job at my South Gippsland
(Vic.) farm smelt horribly of booze, and I
told him so. For years, he explained, he
had worked on the largest farm in the
world in the fertile, heavy-fainfall country
of N.Q. He was driving a tractor in the
barley paddocks, which were 36 miles
long by two miles wide. It took an
eight-hour shift to do the length of the
paddock. The tractor dragged a plough
and drill, followed by a mile and a half
of chain, to which was coupled a har-
vester. The crop grew so quickly that
it was ready to strip as the harvester
came on. At the end of the 36-mile sec-
tion he tipped the bin of the harvester
into a shaft, at the bottom of which a
powerful air fan pumped the grain into
a tunnel and conveyed it straight to the
seaport, where it was fed into the holds
of waiting ships. One night he was
emptying his day’s harvest, when he fell
into the shaft, striking his head. When
he regained consciousness he was lying
on top of a cargo of barley well out at
sea. Next day the ship sprang a leak ;
the barley, absorbing water, fermented
and gave off alcoholic fumes which made
everybt Jy drunk. Then the barley
swelled and wrecked the ship, and,
washed ashore, he had walked to my
homestead. I told him to sit near the
fire and dry his clothes. He had been
sitting there a few minutes, giving off a
steamy, boozy vapor, when there was a
terrific explosion. The kitchen was
wrecked, and the only trace of the un-
fortunate traveller I could find was a
bloodstained shirt-button on the ver-
andah.
* * * *
“Colon”: My geography primer in the
Old Dart used to stress the “fact” that
the lowest on the intelligence scale of
the sunburnt races dwelt in Australia ;
and I believed it until I became a jackeroo
in Queensland. When goanna grew
scarce and white pfeller niggardly in his
handout, the camp blacks would set to
and weave a rough net of vines which
they erected across the creek, suspended
from convenient saplings. At sundown
a mob would converge a few hundred
yards downstream at a swamp that was
the feeding-ground for hundreds of
ducks, and amid the hideojus din they
kicked up a few flights would turn up-
stream flying low, to finish up with their
necks thrust through the meshes of the
net. Then they were quickly dispatched.
If they appeared to be flying too high
a watcher, stationed below the net, flung
a boomerang with a hole drilled in one
end over their heads; this made a shrill
call like that made by a local hawk, and
the ducks instinctively ducked to meet
destruction.
BIRDS IN SEPTEMBER.
Now calls the cuckoo all night long;
The wagtail in the kurrajong
Contributes joyful scraps of song.
So, too, the little fluffy owl
Reminds the possum on the prowl
That here is wisdom’s chosen fowl.
This solemn statement he will make
Till dawn, till kookaburras wake
And loudly laugh at this mistake.
Gh, hear the skylarks on the wing!
The alien warblers sing and sing
Anthems for an Australian spring.
Above the paddocks where the weed
Is glittering so, it seems indeed
The harvest of some star-born seed.
All day, all day their notes are hurled
From heaven, till sunset’s flags are furled
And peace bedims the evening world.
By bush and town the hour grows late,
And from the broken orchard gate
A cuckoo cries his feckless mate,
Saying, “The time flies on; remember,
My lazy love, this is September.”
The day goes out in ash and ember.
A bat begins his circling flight;
The powdered sky with stars grows white;
A blackbird bids the world “good night.”
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


<ursAGMrre
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
r*" -
I I J**
m
c '
**-2
*3*^
~ jSV
•a.j
Vi.
pSj3§g f^?~yi?p&.
•"
*t *fe «V'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
ETC.
G
N ETTIN
W I
W I R
S"
H
A
G
Y
C
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Woolpressing Complications.
“Bungaree”: Graziers should study the
new pastoral award, particularly clauses
affecting woolpressing, before finalising
shearing arrangements. Not only has
there been all-round increase in rates,
but there are variations and additions.
Pressers are signed on weekly, at per
bale or per cwt. (net). The first two
rates are fairly simple, but at the cwt.
rate a clause sets out that any bale weigh-
ing less than 2cwt. 3qr. net, or 3081 b.,
shall be paid for as weighing 3081 b. net
or 3191 b. gross. If a bale weighs 2691 b.
the presser is paid for 501 b. he did not
press. There seems to me no justifica-
tion for this. Early-shearing stations are
incensed.
One grazier who insists on heavy
bales was half-way through shearing
before the meaning of the clause dawned
on him. He discovered that out of 300-
odd bales pressed and averaging 3711 b.
gross, he would have to pay for the press-
ing of 23251 b. which did not exist. He
promptly instructed the classer that in
future all bales must weigh over 3191 b.
The classer was faced with the option
of making mixed bales —which meant
the broker’s displeasure —or of breaking
the station rules by merging the wool
of one flock into that of the next with-
out attemping to clear out his bins.
The outcry from early sheds will be
nothing to that from late-shearing
districts. Many fine-wool growers refuse
to press more than 3001 b. of fleece wool
to a bale. The average is nearer 2801 b.
In some districts, it js next to impossible
for a presser working alone to bale 3081 b.
of certain types of high-yielding wool.
So graziers must decide whether to pay
at bale rates and thus bear the cost of
additional woolpacks and a higher rate
than necessary or put up with the cwt.
rate and pay the difference in under-
weight when lighter bales at cutouts be-
come necessary.
When a cutout leaves from 450-5001 b.
of wool in each bin, it is better to make
two light bales of each than to make a
3501 b. bale of fleece, a similar bale of,
say, broken, and a bale containing the
balance of the fleece and what is left in
the BKN bin. The mixed bale is regarded
by the broker as the worst sort of orphan,
which can be sold only in the star lots
to a repacker.
Lamb-marking Memories.
“W.D.Mc.”: “Pannikin” (B. 5/8/’36)
and “Thorley” (B. 12/8/’36) on lamb-
marking both know their jobs. I en-
dorse their methods, which are practi-
cally the same as I have used for 50
years.
We always tried to have a small
“mothering” paddock as close to the
yards as possible, and as a lad it was
my work to head the flock gently back
to the yards at nightfall, so that they
could “mother up” on camp.
One of the best dressings, judged by
results, is Stockholm tar thinned down
with kerosene. Whale oil and spirits of
tar have been used in Scotland for the
last 150 years as a fly repellent, and there
is nothing better to-day. I do not know
what a speed merchant’s tally is for
a day’s marking, but my father marked
22,000 in five days, with eight catchers
and one man earmarking.
The hot iron and emasculator are too
slow and are no improvement on the
knife.
Australian v. M.L. Fat Lambs.
“A.J.8.”: “Ghanam” (B. 12,/8/’36) has
not given the real reasons for the differ-
ence between M.L. and Australian lambs.
Three months ago I was through the
South Island, and a meatworks I visited
in Southland is typical of the rest. They
export 400,000 each year. There are
only three breeds or crosses used in
that district: Southdown-Romneys, E.
"Well, now y've seen the crops, the cows and the pigs, y' better come
an meet the missus .”
Leicester-Romneys and Romney Marshes.
The result is a wonderful uniformity of
type.
In Victoria, away from its special
Southdown grade, two or three types are
noticed in even the best grades ; in the
lower grades there is not any distinct
type.
In the M.L. meatwotks supplies are
drawn from an area of 50 miles^-no
more. Large numbers arrive by motor-
truck, which means that they leave their
native pastures in the morning and are
in the carcass stage in the afternoon.
Thus there is no loss of weight or
“bloom,” two essentials in the sale of a
carcass. Ours come 200 or 300 miles,
and take perhaps two or three days from
pastures to works.
Maorilanders grade their lambs at the
works, and those not fat are usually put
on turnips. They have very few rejects
for quality. We have large numbers.
In only one phase of the meat industry
are the Enzedders inferior to us, and
that is in their meat inspection. We can
teach them something about that.
Hydatid Cysts.
“Ghanam”: Hydatid cysts form the
larval stage of the canine tapeworm, a
little fellow never as much as iin. long.
The cysts are usually fibrous along the
walls and firm, varying from small
marble to man’s head in size. They
affect every animal—even the kangaroo
and man. In sheep they often extend in
a series through lungs and liver.
Rate of infection is high: in many
Victorian districts in sheep and cattle
over 20 p.c., and on the N. S. Wales
tablelands over 30 p.c.
The adult worm is found only in the
intestines of dogs and other carnivora
which pass them to the grass or dust
where they are eaten with the pasture
by grazing animals, or picked up by
coats. The embryo is hatched in the
animal, pierces the intestinal wall and is
carried by the blood stream to the liver
and sometimes to other organs or into
general tissue. Growth then is rapid.
The life cycle is completed when some
dog eats the internal parts of the sheep
or other animal.
Man is not infected from sheep or
cattle. The dog is the sole danger to
him. Children, especially in tableland
country, should be kept from too closely
handling dogs: there is no protection
known except lack of contact.
"Prevention is in keeping dogs from eat-
ing raw offal. All should have regu-
lar eight-weekly treatments with areco-
line hydrobromide, given as tablets or in
water, ranging in dose from one-sixteenth
grain for small puppies to grain for
terriers, \ grain for small kelpies and
from i to~ 1 grain for larger dogs (heavy
sheepdogs, greyhounds, kangaroo-dogs,
etc.).
It is most difficult to diagnose the
hydatid tapeworm in dogs. Often it is
present in large numbers when the animal
seems in perfect health, though young
dogs which develop a habit of rubbing
their tails on the ground or rolling, or
which show alternate periods of dulness
and unnatural excitement, are open to
suspicion. So keep dogs clean, feed
cooked offal and treat regularly.
Cowpox.
“Spring”: Cowpox, caused by a germ,
is highly contagious, especially in dairy
herds, among which it' is rapidly spread
by milkers’ hands.
In winter cracked teats may develop
a similar disease through yard contamina-
tion.
Trouble begins with teat soreness, fol-
lowed by slight swelling, which causes
the cow to become restive during milking.
Soon, pimples about the size of a pea
form and fill with pus. These increase
to about the size of sixpence, and then
rupture, forming into an evil-looking
scab, especially on the teats. The course
of the disease is about three weeks unless
reinfection occurs.
Prevention lies in scrupulous teat and
udder cleanliness. Carefully wash your
hands before milking a healthy cow or
one recovering. Wash affected parts with
an antiseptic solution at blood heat
say boracic acid or alum. Apply
boracic ointment.
The washing should be done before
milking, and the milker should milk with
the ointment on his hands, rubbing on
more when it is finished. On no account
practise wet-milking.
For fever, dose with fib. to lib. Epsom
salts once ; then give 2oz. daily until the
fever passes. In fever the cow’s appetite
goes off, and rumination may cease.
If this happens, feed something extra
appetising, such as a bran or pollard
mash.
The disease is seldom serious if taken
in time, but should be rigidly dealt with
in dairy herds.
Fattening Pigs.
“Sandy”: We took The Bulletin’s
advice nine months ago and grew sweet
potatoes for the pigs—with definite suc-
cess. The ration was sweets, separated
milk and, when available, boiled calf.
Our baconers are 1201 b. dressed in 22
weeks from birth.
Also, for the dry sows we grew arrow-
root, planted in August in rows 3ft.
apart, 2ft. 6in. between plants. The
crop is ready in six months, and lasts
another six before going sour. If boiled,
the tubers are excellent for fats.
Sweet potato vines, if not the best, are
certainly the most palatable of foods
for milking cows, which will leave any
other fodder for them. A sweets ration
is the natural one for South Coast
Queensland, where sweets grow prolifi-
cally—yields on very rich ground up to
35 tons to the acre.
Curing Sidebones.
“Stump Jump”: Sidebone is the ossi-
fication of the lateral cartilages firmly
attached to the third phalanx like wings.
There is no cure, as “Horsey” (B.
12/8/’36) suggests. Bone so formed is
permanent, and all that can be done is
to prevent further foot injury and ex-
tending sidebone growth.
“Horsey’s” remarks are true only of
the preliminary stage, when the coronet
is swollen and hard. It then will yield
to treatment —particularly to rest.
“Horsey” states that sidebone is not
due to concussion, but it is indirectly,
because mostly it occurs in horses not
well enough built to distribute pounding
effects on hard roads. Sidebone is
seldom seen together with a long sloping
pastern and full hoof, as these possess
sufficient elasticity to absorb most of the
road shocks.
It is the short, straight-pasterned foot
with a narrow coronet and small hoof
surface that' develops sidebone, unless
continuous precautions are taken.
Wheat-belt Pastures.
“Granova”: Apart from wallaby or
white-top grass on land that has never
been ploughed, N.S.W. wheat-belt pas-
tures are steadily deteriorating.
Owing to a succession of wet summers,
summer grasses are in complete posses-
sion of land on which native grasses have
{“Land.” continued on page 24.)


. ; ./ ■
BmMML -a-
mpHi
''i ■'.
M
i-v#
n I
■
/ •„ ; ...
i:il:llli::l!:i::iillliillliii:il!llli;
1
H
r
mm
m
k
WssM Wrf? ISM£ 1
lgj|ff % j||V ®
gg g s
■nn
■
: :
111
: i
hhi
■a
: •■';.■•
Wm
I
a
famous
WHISKY
*
- - ;
M <#
Wmmrnmm
m
• -■ ■
SP
a» \
i
IS
“N
/T
3*
a?
:
: j^ggyuK,
Ml
\
m
W :
:#• wMM*"?
i;
:; f :
U
B
/ Ajjk*
2r^
, v
• ...• '
'•>• .<
V ”•:'
/..;V
A *
«$
A
’
nc-
-7
/
*>*
©
JKIx
'•••• •
~£,; " r ;^j


PLEASING STYLE
MOST men like to look neatly
dressed, but few realise the
important part that their shoes
play in this direction.
Some shoes, even when they
are new, look crinkled and out
of shape, but this is not the
case with Abbey Shoes.
Illustrated at right is one of our
latest designs, featuring the
broad, rounded toe, and it is
definitely a man’s shoe. There s
plenty of comfort and wear here,
and the price is very economical.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
WRITE NOW FOR
LATEST CATALOGUE.
32/6
Order by post, stating size and
fitting, and also ask for a tin of
the correct Abbey Polish—Price
6d. per tin, for a better shine.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
LUCK
VI
ALL
WANT
ST?
v
IT
2
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
C
m
i
em
I
&
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
BRANDAUERS
m
PENS
ft
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUER * CO- Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Stuart Crystal of exquisite design,pro-
duced by a master craftsman, cannot
fail to add charm and dignity to your
home. English hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
Sole Representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House, 204, Clarence St., Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
been destroyed by cultivation. Clover
growth is confined to the heavy soils, and
the lighter soils are providing no feed
from April to August.
Some farmers have tried combine
sowing of Wimmera rye and sub. clover
on top of the pasture. This season some
good germinations have been obtained,
but it is too early to claim success for
the experiment.
Pastures sown with wheat crops have
been successful so far. One of the few
stubble paddocks around my place show-
ing a good growth of green feed had 21b.
per acre of Wimmera rye sown with last
year’s wheat crop.
Now that wheat is profitable, many
old cultivation paddocks could be
cropped again and pastures sown with
the last crop.
Introduced Grasses.
“El V.”: It is a strange fact that in
most countries introduced grasses are
staple pasture.
There is plenty of room for new ex-
periment in Australia, as is shown by
the work done by the C.5.1.R., which has
handled a number of introductions over
the past three years. The crested wheat
grass, common in s.-eastern Europe and
Asia, looks a sound bet for some of our
colder districts. One of its varieties gives
a thick growth about 18in. high, resists
drought and cold and recovers quickly
after a long, dry spell. The grass used
for Australian experiments came from
Saskatchewan (Canada). The sheep
rushed it when put on it. Another
variety brought from the U.S.A. gave
even more promising results. It is a bit
slower to establish than the Canadian
strain, but grows to three feet high—
culms 4ft. —is drought resistant and, in
Canberra winter, remained green. It is
indigenous to North America, Europe
and Asia.
Another good drought-resistant feed
tried out was the awnless brome grass
(Bromus inermis ), which comes from the
sandy interior regions- of eastern Europe
and western Asia. I have seen this doing
very well indeed on the high plateaus
of Asia Minor. There the busy Turk
helps it along with irrigation channels.
It responds readily to good treatment,
and in dry times shows a nice gratitude
by living on a root system which keeps
it going when everything round it dies off.
It stands trampling, and the best
strains are leafy, dense and vigorous, ft
has acclimatised well in America, and on
our irrigation settlements. In back
N.S.W. country generally it should be an
asset, and though sheep do not like it'
as well as some other pastures, they
graze it readily enough.
Cluster-packing Bananas.
“X.T.”: The N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment has issued a useful booklet on
cluster packing of bananas, a system
which has not been popular for a long
time. The retailer has always looked
for as many fruit to the case as possible,
hence the single system has been en-
couraged.
• The department argues, however, that
a skilled pack will give as big a content
by the cluster as by the single method.
The advantages of the cluster system are
obvious. Single packing calls for the
handling of every banana, thus much in-
creasing the danger of injury and putting
up labor cost. There is more wilt and
wastage in single packs than in cluster
packs, and stalk injuries caused by un-
skilful separation lead to black end, stem
rot and squirter.
The new departmental brochure is
easily the best thing of its kind which
has been done. It is copiously illus-
trated, and it is free. Copies can be
had for the asking from the department
—Box 36A, G.P.0., Sydney—or from the
Banana Growers’ Federation, Murwil-
lumbah, N.S.W.
Dry Ice ajnd Tropical Fruits.
“Fruitrep”: I agree with “Zedo” (B.
12/8/’36) that there is a wonderful future
ahead in the use of dry ice in Australia,
especially in long-distance transport of
perishables, particularly into the interior
where refrigerated transport is not avail-
able.
I question his reference to successfully
preserving strawberries from season to
season. Some method which will keep
the fruit away from close contact with
the ice will overcome a lot of trouble.
Some system of air circulation will also
be necessary to make the temperature
fairly even throughout; insulation with-
out air circulation will not do the job.
We have been handling Queensland
strawberries in Melbourne for at least
five years during the winter months, and
the most successful means of transport
has been by boat, in cool chambers with
a temperature ranging from 37 to 38
degrees. Anything lower than this freezes
the fruit too hard, with heavy loss when
it is thawed. The berries are carried in
chip boxes, in air-tight tins, with hinged
lids, containing from 18 to 20 boxes
each, and the cost of transport is less
than the transport with dry ice, when the
cost of the dry ice and rail freight is
considered.
This year large quantities of Queens-
land strawberries were transported by
mail train to Melbourne in early winter.
These berries were specially selected in
Queensland, packed in chip boxes, in
half-bushel cases, containing 20 boxes
each, and were carried in the guard’s
van of the Sydney and Melbourne ex-
presses. Most arrived in excellent order,
despite the transhipping at Albury and
the comparative lack of ventilation.
However, once the weather started to
warm up en route, ripeness developed
and waste was rather severe. The appear-
ance of the fruit was not quite as bright
as that carried by boat, and keeping
qualities not so good, but for a short
journey this means of transport is well
worth while. Its greatest handicap is in
varying climatic conditions, which cannot
be foreseen. Sydney, of course, has been
receiving Queensland strawberries by
mail train for many years.
For the present dry ice should have
more opening in the interior than on
the coast.
Hints for the Farm.
“Agamemnon”: A good leather pre-
servative is neatsfoot oil, 840 z.; olive
oil, 20oz. ; castor oil, 300 z.; beeswax,
120 z.; beef tallow, 3oz. Always clean
machinery belts with warm water and
soda before treating.
“Wah”: More use might be made of
the oil-engine for driving the farm grind-
stone. Two or three iron pins can be
driven into the bench to act as guides
when the plough discs are being sharp-
ened.
“Zedo”: Bluestone broadcasting
against fluke should be done before
December. Put the job on the diary
now. It costs about 19s. an acre —201 b.
bluestone at sd. per pound. Powdering
takes about half a day of a man’s time,
and another half-day is needed to apply
on average land.
“X.T.”: All woolshed chutes should
be provided with some device to prevent
small bits of wool being carried out when
sheep are released after shearing. It is
surprising how much wool can be lost in
this way.
“Ammon”: The best time to feed off
wheat is when the crop is about 4in. high
and in dry weather. In wet weather the
ground pugs and the wheat gets trampled
in and bruised. Also, feeding-off should
be done quickly. Put on plenty of sheep,
and if it starts to rain shift them at once.
“Ekka”: It improves the holding
ability of a tank to put a mob of sheep
into it in damp weather before it fills
and allow them to impact the bottom
by trampling. Keep them moving while
in the tank so as to make a thorough job.
“Lam”: For thrush in the frog, clean
the hoof thoroughly, dry it and put pure
calomel into the frog cleft with the blade
of a blunt knife once a day for four
days. Keep the hoof dry —damp causes
the trouble.
“Anti”: Use no ropes in throwing
calves. For anything under a yearling
let two do the job. One at the head
places a hand in the corner of the ani-
mal’s mouth and twists the head gently
to the left. The tailer lifts the nearside
flank and the youngster goes over gently.
To hold, for branding or marking, the
header keeps his knee gently on the neck
and holds the muzzle and near foreleg.
The tailer pulls the near hind leg back-
wards and presses the other forward with
-his foot. There need be no violence.
“W.D.Mc.”: Tell “Ghanam” (B.
26/8/’36) that arsenic and tobacco
drench will cure lungworm at any stage.
I have cured thousands of cases, and so
have other graziers that I have given if
to. If any M.O.L. reader interested
will write to me, I will tell him how to
go about the job gratis.
“J. Want”: E. A. Kendall, the Victorian
Milk Board chairman, in the third
Kendall memorial lecture, advocated
organisation to wipe out tuberculosis in
cattle. He admitted it would be a costly
job, but pointed out that in U.S.A.
3,000,000 tuber, subjects had been wiped
out of herds and that the incidence of
the disease in killing cattle had been cut
down from 2.35 to .4 p.c. The Kendall
memorial lecture was endowed as a
tribute to E. A. Kendall’s father.


SMOKE-OH!
“Tennis club presents vicar wtth racquet.”
— “Courier-Mail.”
To speed up his service?
4* 4* 4* 4-
“It is not generally known that cloth that
is nearly bullet-prbof can be made of Aus-
tralian wool.” — “World’s News.”
Well, that’s a tough yarn!
4* 4- 4- 4*
“Hollywood producers are scared of experi-
mental plots.”— Film magazine.
Anyhow, what’s wrong with the old
one?
4* 4* 4* *l*
“Would Labor abolish the Navy?” — “Sun.”
If it did, it would still have a destroyer
in Lang.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In this world there is a place for every-
thing.”—'“S.M.H.”
Except for the horses we back at
Randwick.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“After the death of all these sheep he
abandoned his rum.”— “D.T.”
He must have lost his spirit.
Bye-bye Bacteria.
According to a scientist bacteria will
play an even more important part in
industry in future than they do now.
Well, what’s the Arbitration Court
going to do about it? Isn’t the working
man ever going to get a fair go?
Consider the millions of mites working
for a bare pittance in cheese factories. Is
the child-labor law a dead letter? The
injustice of it makes my blood curdle.
And beer! Why, our breweries could
absorb the whole of our unemployed
Fer the Lord's sake, lad, tuck y'r ears under y'r 'at an' stop wastin'
my time!”
(who would in turn rapidly absorb the
breweries) if it weren’t for the scab bac-
teria labor employed in the industry. If
I couldn’t make better beer than a lot
of uneducated bacteria working on mass-
production lines, I’d resign from the
Froth Blowers.
How can you expect' bacteria to take
an interest in their jobs when they’re
working only for their tucker? They
would be better on the dole.
Comrades, let us get rid of this menace
to our jobs. Let your slogan be: “Banish
Bacteria from Business!”
We’ve made a start in our factory.
Someone dropped a lump of iron on
the foreman yesterday.
Angus O’Cohfn.
“ ‘There are not many men worth marry-
ing,’ says a spinster writer. ‘l’m sure I am
right.’ ”
Both right and left.
“Although it was nearly midnight, if he
went home now his wife might have a friendly
greeting for him.” — Woman’s paper.
Another case in which “might” is
right.
* * *
Economic Matters.
“And what is that?” asked the visitor
from Mars, surveying the riven land-
scape, where huge jets of water were eat-
ing out the hillside, amidst the clatter
of hydraulic shovels.
“Gold,” explained his guide ; “it’s valu-
able here. We dig it out of the earth.”
“From that hole in the ground?”
“Yes.”
They came to a different scene—a
gigantic and austere building.
“What is that?”
“The Treasury keeps all the gold that
comes from the mines here in a vast
basement.”
“In another hole in the ground?”
“Yes.”
“I see.”
Cloon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Popularise the Parks!
I am astounded and enraged to note
that a seaside alderman has suggested that
all park seats in his suburb be labelled
“Seating Accommodation Only.”
A visit to any public reserve, especially
if the grass is wet and the weather
drowsy, should be sufficient to convince
the most sceptical that almost everybody
is continually being overwhelmed by an
inclination to lie down. What are such
inclinations for if not to yield to?
All park seats should, by means of
springs, be yielding instead of ache-mak-
ing. They should invite recumbency in-
stead of defeating it, and they should, as
well, be constructed in such a way as to
be suitable for beer-opening, thus mini-
mising the ever-present risk of hand-
bruising.- The breweries doubtless would
co-operate by equipping all public seats
with bottle-opening facilities gratis.
Cushions and berths should be available
at moderate rentals.
For the Late-risers and Bed-lovers’
League,
Dregs (President).
“When a man fell in the bar of a hotel,
dislocating his neck, he was given prompt
attention by a doctor who happened to be
in the hotel.”
It was fortunate that the doctor was
on the spot.
4* 4- 4* 4-
“The average woman, when placed in an
annoying situation, does not know what to
say.”— Woman's paper.
And says it for hours.
v 4* 'l* ►!«
“Noticing the number of marriages of the
ordinary kind that turned out unhappily, he
decided to seek his future wife through’ the
pen friendship.”— Woman’s paper.
And, ot course, he got a correspond-
ing result.
Sheduck the Magician.
Sheduck awoke oppressed by a dread-
ful feeling that something terrible was
not going to happen. That, of course,
would mean missing an instalment.
Having turned himself inside out to
inspect his liver and remove the obstruc-
tion placed on it by the Black Gopher
while he slept, he called his trusty assis-
tant, Balderdash, who instantly entered
* mu’ wall.
to-day •“’ ’ arc "° " 1U ’
It was true. All the best murderers,
having obtained extensions of time, were
too busy faking their income-tax returns
for deeds such as it was worth Sheduck’s
while to frustrate. Still, Sheduck re-
fleeted, he was after all a few instalments
ahead. He might take a holiday. There
were the races.
“Divorce case, eh? Her 'usband used to come home with the
milkman, didn't he?”
"No, one morning he came home before the milkman had gone”
The appearance of Sheduck in opera-
hat and cloak naturally created a sensa-
tion. Racecourse officials were on the
lookout ready to warn off if there was
a variety outbreak. One ol them, who
spoke insultingly to Sheduck was left
standing on his head near the Leger
entrance for half the afternoon, to every-
body’s astonishment, including his own.
The racing was sensational Racegoers
may be used to seeing horses running
dead; but they were astonished to see
them stop, suspended in air. They were
more astonished when a horse that was
running last one second, the next second
flashed past the post winner by a fur-
long. Sheduck went wrong there ; the
animal was disqualified for inconsistent
running.
Nobody w a s more astonished than
Moses McShortodds when Sheduck sud-
denly appeared before him. Sheduck
immediately recognised his enemy the
Black Gopher in one of his many dis-
guises This was cheap stuff for him, but
his odds were murder. Sheduck set out
to foil him in his scheme to ruin an
honest bank clerk who had brought out
some of the bank’s money (with the full
intention of paying it back) to make a
fortune.
This instalment closes with Sheduck
walking home.
H. M.
o*
How to Boil Two Eggs.
Purchase incubator and 200 specially-
elected eggs. When specified period has
elapsed, dump 103 dud eggs in garbage-
can and put remaining 97 chicks in warm
place. After six months sell the 96
cockerels to wholesale poulterer, lock
pullet in coop and await developments,
When pullet lays first egg, buy another
egg from local grocer and plunge both
in boiling water.
If eggs are desired hard-boiled, clock
will stop at moment of immersion, one
minute will seem like five and, when
removed from water, eggs will be semi-
raw. Serve with tumbler and beater.
If, on the other hand, eggs are pre-
(erred sol (-boiled, climb on rail of fence
and enter into discussion with neighbor
regarding the respective prospects ot
Egmont and Loud Applause in Metrop.
In due course go out and have a grill.
I G. IVI.G.
Some Little-known Facts About
Russia,
I.— General Knowledge.
.
Russia ts the largest country in the
wo, * cb F bad to be, to provide room on
the map for the thousands of place-
names like Eskadinavoradosknov. Russia
used to be even bigger, but, with the then
limitations of the language, they ran out
of names ending in -nov and -sk (the
»"'y ones permitted), so some parts of
lhe counlr >’ such as lhe Kurile Islands,
were given away to Japan, while others,
including Alaska, were sold to the U.S.A.
Some years afterwards Zckxsk, the
brilliant glossographer, experimenting
with a human epiglottis and a mincing
machine, evolved a new Russian letter,
thus revolutionising the language. It
being then too late to demand return of
the ceded territory, the Romanoffs, justlv
angered at Zckxsk fpr his inconsiderate'-
ness j n having been born too late to
rna ] ce f u i[ use of his discovery, ordered
his confinement in the Siberian salt mines,
~. . . .
Wlth . £ ec,t, "S tFe new al P habe ‘ as s .P ec,al
punishment. He was released owing to
the^ h, g h suicidal rate among the gaolers
and eventually bec a me the Court s Racial
contortionist.
The morbidity of the Russian tern-
perament, exemplified in Russian music
and literature, can be traced to the dual
source of the difficulty experienced in
mastering their language and to the fact
that there is only one drink, the vodka
(Russ, vodk, meaning vodk, and a,
ab brev. of Eng. a). Vodka is a distillate
m angelwurzels, rye, saltpetre and
tripe> treated with trinitrotoluene. The
iiq UOr i aws have recently been tightened
strictly forbidding the sale of
vodka to anyone under five years of age
. _ ~ . T v . ,
, As well as Bashkirs Letts (who popu-
laflsed lhe phrase shall us? ), Per-
mians, Kalmuks, Mongolians, Tartars (a
race of wives), Uzbegs, Turcomans,
Ostiaks, Ghilyaks and Yashmaks, Russia
is also inhabited by Russians,
qp be g rea j rivers, notably the Volga
and t j ie j3 on 5 a re under the authority
°f lhe Moscow Conservatorium, which
controls the enormous output of dirges
manufactured by the chain gangs along
their banks. The rivers are also used
f or floating goods along. As they freeze
up j n w i n t er and fl r y U p j n summer, the
ships and barges only rarely get wet, thus
lasting much longer than those of olher
countries
. V xl , . ' .
Owing to the long winter (May to the
following April), the summer, necessarily
short duration, is sometimes shorter,
as occurred in ’24, when many swimmers
Were knocked conscious as they dived
into the rivers on the first day of sum-
mer, only to find that ice was already
forming again.
a p a thy with which Russia viewed
f or so t ong tbe possibilities of her tour-
ist lrade can be , raced to the trea , me nt
, d t , Halfoll, the bureau's first
head He , hough , up a slogan . . The
tourist sees Russia’s Steppes—and
stares!” of which he had millions of
copies distributed. When the ad. was
explained for a week to the Czar, he in-
ferred that it contained humor and had
the perpetrator shot as a traitor to his
country
S.W.K.
Almost.
i ••••right at his top, and connections believe
he will nearly win.”— “D.T.” racing comment.
I took the tip and in Ike’s bag
/ plonked a quid to back this nag.
But I was feeling far from pleased
When at the start my hope was squeezed,
And into gloom my soul was cast
When three from home the cow was last.
Then, riding hard with heels and hands,
His jockey drove him past the stands
And I waxed hoarse as, stride on stride,
That moke unwound a mighty run.
And, as it had been prophesied
That very morn, he nearly won!
P. O. M.C.
Spurious Lady.
Her hair was more like brass than pre-
cious metal,
Her brows were neither honest nor
ornate,
The rose on her right cheek had lost a
petal,
But, worst of all, her lips were not on
straight!
M.C.
In and Out.
Our pals are many when we win ;
Their households greet us with a shout ;
But when it’s trouble that we’re in,
’Tis then we find our best friends out.
H. M.


Bright, Brief Australian Serial of Real Horses and Men:-
AMATHEA
BY Henry G. Lamond
CHAPTER I X—(Continued).
AMATHEA was restless. She objected to being in
the yard alone. Her mates were in the next yard
and the gate between them was open. She was
inclined to go to them. But the man stood in that
gateway! She swung around the yard a couple of
times restlessly, edging towards the open gate and
her mates, and sheering off when she came near the
man.
A couple of times Kilgour walked to the mare,
petted her, coaxed her and soothed her. Each time,
as soon as he turned to go back to the open gate she
was inclined to go towards it. But she would not
come to him, coax her as he might.
He got a handful of small pebbles. When the
mare turned from him, and when she showed no
desire to work towards the gate, he flicked a small
pebble at her and stirred her into uneasiness. Each
time she turned to him again, and every time she
advanced half a step towards him, the man went to
her and recommenced his petting and exaggerated
coaxings.
At last she came straight up to him. She did not
come because she wanted to come. She came because
she was irritated by pebbles if she stood in the far
side of the yard ; also because her inclinations led
her to go to her mates, which were beyond the man
and through the open gate in which he stood.
“Well done, little mare!” Kilgour petted her
effusively.
Of course he could have done the same thing
with a whip. He held that a whip’s a damnable thing
to use on a young? or an old, horse ; that it brings
the vice to the surface, frightens them.
He played with the mare till lunch-time.
HE had no doubt about what Mrs. Kilgour’s atti-
tude would be towards his riding, that young
green mare. He kept the news till next morning.
“Kiss me good-bye, Nell,” he said then. “I’m riding
Amathea to-day. I’m going round by Gumboil Bore
and across to Tooringa. I don’t know which way I’ll
go from there. But I’ll be right; the guardian angel,
Woppida, will be on the job.”
“I wish you wouldn’t joke of such things,” Mrs.
Kilgour said. “You’ll take care of yourself, won’t
you?”
“Who —me? Let me tell you, Nell, when old
George Kilgour’s in danger I watch him closer than
a brother. I’ve saved that old fool’s life no end of
times.”
Whistling, but with an odd little quiver inside
him which he would not like to try to explain, Kilgour
went to the yards. He caught Amathea and saddled her.
“Steady, old girl,” he murmured to her.
He thought: I’m fifty. I’m not a has-been, but
I ain’t as good a man as I used to be. I’m not fright-
ened, even if my nerves ain’t as good as they were.
Amathea was a little agitated. It was a cold
morning ; she held herself stiffly ; her muscles were
drawn and tensed, and she moved in a proppy fashion
—“tight,” in the language of the stockyards.
He completed the saddling, slung the reins over
the kneepads, and let her go in the yard while he
walked across and pretended to find fault with the
way Woppida had saddled old Belsize. Amathea
flinched from the girth, tightened herself for a second,
then walked casually and freely about the yard, shak-
ing her head in the automatic fashion in which
western horses learn to ward off the flies.
KILGOUR caught her and mounted. He thought:
I’m not frightened. It’s just old nerves.
Amathea moved away freely, and with Woppida
riding behind they passed the house. Kilgour would
have given a pound to take his hat off and wave it.
Instead, he rode past —interested in something over
to the left.
They rode out through Gumboil. As they left the
miles behind them the man and the mare seemed to
breed a confidence between them. Amathea was
swinging along, her tail swaying from side to side as
she walked, her strides long and springy, and when
she put her hind hoof down it was six inches ahead
of the track left by the fore hoof on the same side.
Kilgour had dissolved and swallowed the distress-
ing lump in his throat. He gloried in the action of
the mare under him and the fact that he, old George
Kilgour, was riding a young ’un that he had bred
himself.
He thought: I’m not in any hurry, but I’ve been
fair dying to try this mare’s canter for the past five
miles, only T ain’t been game to test it. It’s got to
come some time. Why not now?
He gathered the reins together and leant forward
slightly.
Amathea knew the meaning of that signal. She
reached out in a canter. Her rider swayed to her
action as she swept along. She stretched freely with
her front legs and gathered her hind legs under her,
gripping the earth powerfully and springing forward.
It was an effortless action. She seemed to draw dis-
tance to her, churn it into miles beneath her, and lay
streams of them behind her. Further, and better, she
was under perfect control and balance. She pricked
her ears and looked about her. She took an interest
and an apparent pleasure in what she was doing.
Suddenly she put her near fore hoof on a bit of
rotten ground which crumbled under her. She tripped,
quivered slightly and recovered, all in one action. But
that sudden heave and strenuous effort jerked her rider
slightly; the girths slipped and pinched. Amathea
snapped at the bit, whipped her head down and gave
four flying bucks straight ahead. That eased things
for her and made everything comfortable again. She
stretched once more to her flowing canter.
Kilgour thought that if he’d known it was coming
he’d have fallen off with fright. As it was he had
given a life-like imitation of a horseman.
AFTER dinner at Tooringa they rode round the back
of Mingeri and turned for home.
As he rode along Kilgour was thinking: It’s
about forty miles. Fellows talk about riding a colt
forty miles the day it’s broken. That’s a picture-book
tale. If a colt was ridden that far the day he was
broken, that would be the only day he’d ever do ’iU~
he’d be a useless frame from that on and for ever.
Forty miles is a good day. Any decent horse ought
to do it without turning a hair. Plenty can’t —more’s
the pity. Still, with you only a youngster and me
riding nearly thirteen stone all told, it’s a good day
for you. You ain’t going to be pampered, lady.
You’re going to do your work. If you’re good, I’ll
know it. By the way you’re shaping now you’re going
to be what Harry said you were: the daddy of the lot.
“Hulloa!” he said aloud. “What’s wrong now?”
Amathea had stiffened, drawn herself together.
Her sensitive nostrils had picked up a dread taint
before the blunter feelings of the man had become
conscious of anything unusual. She shortened her
stride, lifted her head, pricked her ears and snorted.
Then, as they swung round a clump of gidya,
the thing was plain: a wandering bull camel stood
out from the shade, and the wind brought a strong
whiff of the brute.
Belsize was old, seasoned, used to anything, and
too sluggish to care. He plodded along, barely deign-
ing to lift an ear or raise an eyelid. Amathea was
young, sensitive, and her one and only previous
meeting with a camel had left a lasting impression.
She snatched at the bit, turned and attempted to race
away. But strong thighs swung her; firm hands held
the reins, and the crooning rumble, which she knew
and was beginning to understand, sounded:
“Steady, the little mare. Steady, there. You ain’t
frightened, old woman! That’s the style. Stick to
it, girl!”
As Amathea neared the camel she was flaccid
with terror. Gradually, slowly, she gathered confi-
dence from the man who rode her. That strength
gained her a new courage she did hot feel, his will
asserted itself and overcame her fear. She responded
to the soothing calm of the man, braved the danger
and passed it.
At the yard, where the horses were let go, Kilgour
rubbed the mare’s ears, took her muzzle in the crook
of his arm, laid his cheek on hers and crooned to her.
Then he stepped back and watched her as she trotted
over to the dust patch out from the saddle-room.
Amathea lowered her head and sniffed. She
turned a couple of times, bent at the knees and
hocks. When her breast was about a foot from the
ground she flopped to the earth with a satisfied grunt,
stretched her neck out flat on the ground, rubbed
her head backwards and forwards. With a heave and
a twist she rolled over on her back, her four legs
wriggling in the air with ecstatic pleasure. She rolled
back again. Then, with a greater heave, she balanced
on her back again, wavered for a second, rolled
right over and rubbed her head and neck on the
ground on that side of her body. She gave a couple
more half-hearted heaves which did not get her more
than half over. Then she placed her forelegs stiffly
before her, gathered her hind legs under her. With
a lift and a strain she stood on her four feet, braced
her legs widely, shook herself vigorously and freed
her coat of dust, dry sweat and dirt.
Kilgour, watching her as she whinnied to her
mates and trotted towards the creek, shifted his hat
to one side and scratched his grizzled head. Quietly
he asked himself: “I wonder if it’d be considered a
sacrilege if a man offered up a bit of a prayer for the
welfare of a mere horse?”
Chapter X.
SECONDARY EDUCATION .
AMATHEA’S education continued. During the
breaking process she had been taught to stand
where her reins were tied to any post, stick or
limb of a tree.
She now had a new lesson. This was to learn
to stand wherever and whenever her rider dismounted
and dropped the reins over her head to the ground.
Kilgour used a bridle with an extra-long pair of
reins. He rode the mare away from the yards, and
when distant less than half a mile, while her mates
were still within clear view, he dismounted and
dropped the reins over her head to the ground, then
turned and walked briskly away from her.
Amathea swung and started to trot towards her
mates feeding in the horse-paddock. She took about
six steps, the loop of the reins trailing on the ground,
and then she put a hoof on them. Her action snagged
' the reins and snapped the bit in her mouth. She
threw her head up, jerked and bounded. That released
the rein from under her hoof and was free. But
every few strides the same thing happened again.
Finally,-the loop of the reins slipped over her hoof
arid locked itself under her fetlock joint.
Kilgour went to her, petted her effusively. So
the lesson went on till Amathea knew, definitely, that
the reins trailing on the ground were as sure a tie
as any halter attached to any stout post.
MUSTERING cattle down Pituri, Kilgour mounted
Amathea. He rode slowly from the men before
they had saddled their horses. A hundred yards clear
of them he dismounted, dropped the reins to the
ground, left the mare standing and hurried back to
his swag. He unrolled it hastily, rapidly searching
for nothing, with one eye all the time on the mare
standing out on the flat.
She never moved ; even when the mounted men
rode round her on their way out to the cattle she
merely shuffled uneasily.
GRAND NEW SERIAL
In Next Week's "Bulletin."
“ALL THAT SWAGGER”
By Miles Franklin,
The big novel which won the S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize for 1936.
“All That Swagger” will appear in
instalments of approximately 20,000
words each. The story sweeps over
a full century of Australian life—l 833
to 1933—from the coming here of
Danny Delacy and his “brave
Johanna,” through the generations to
a descendant of that courageous pair
carrying on, aloft in the air, their
splendid tradition.
Illustrations by Douglas Pratt.
Mr. Pratt’s fine pencil drawings will
not “illustrate” the story in the ordi-
nary sense; instead, they will give the
artist’s own pictorial depiction of
aspects of the Australian scene, match-
ing the sensitive word pictures that
arise from the writing.
“The Bulletin” will be enlarged to
carry the big instalments of the story.
First Instalment Next Week .


“Th’ boss’s showin’ off.” Harry grinned at the
man beside him. . “He’s fair married to that mare.
An’ he’s doin’ pretty good work on her, too! He’s
goin’ to be terrible pleased when 1 ask him to take
a cut this afternoon.”
Kilgour remounted and caught up with his head
stockman.
“I thought I’d left , that notebook at home,” he
explained. 7
“That; mare stands good,” said Harry.
“Don’t she? Ain’t she’ a gem, Harry! Really,
that was only a bit of kidstakes about me rushing to
the swag. -*• I’ve been training this mare,. Harry. I.
wanted to see if: she’d stand. But a man would look
a fool doing ;it without some reason, wouldn’t he?”
ilTmnim! ” \Harry agreed. “I made sure you’d
forgotten somethin’. 1 1 : though you’d been bitten by
a snake, you was>so terrible busy.”
Kilgour irode ;round the camp of cattle, pretend-
ing to look at them, wanting his head stockman to .
invite him to take his mare in and cut out some bul-
locks, i That was thfc higher art.. He wanted to test
Amathea. He could hint that he would like to do
it; he : might insist that, he should do it;' but the
observance'of unwritten rules of etiquette Helped to
make 'work run smoo'thly. The head stockman was in
charge of the camp. The manager could direct the
camp as a whole ; but to the head stockman was
reserved the right of individual direction.
As Kilgour quickly noted, there were only from
twenty to thirty bullocks in that mob to cut out and
put with the fats. The men, used to working together,
fell into place without any orders. Charlie and Joe
rode round the tail to steady the back of the camp ;
Mick and Billy worked on the face of each wing ;
Terry took the middle of the face and Andy waited
to hold the cut. Harry, riding Splinter, rode into
the camp to commence cutting out. Kilgour hovered
about, working round the cattle, and finally took
station on the face.
Amathea was palpably excited. She may not
have known the work, but in her breeding were
many sires who were noted progenitors of stock-
horses. Some instinct told her it was her work, the
labor for which she had been bred, and the little taste
of it she had been given before Harry had returned
her to the head station had whetted her appetite for
some more. She held her head high, her ears pricked.
When her rider reined her to a standstill she pawed
the earth in her impatience.
Harry commenced the cut. Splinter, wise old
camp horse that he was, made play of those quiet-
running bullocks. One, two, three, four, five, six came
out. Kilgour counted them. Harry took out another
four.
Kilgour, impatient to take a cut, flashed Amathea
past Harry on the face, taking the cut from -him and
showing his easy mastery of the mare. He pulled
her back on her haunches and wheeled her on a pin’s
head. He would have indignantly denied any charge
that he was showing off.
Harry came out of the camp and rode across to
his boss.
.“They’re runnin’ pretty good, Mr.- Kilgour,” he
said, “OF Splinter don’t seem to be workin’ too well
I think he’s a bit lame. He might be wantin’ a bit
of a spell. That Amathea’s pretty handy. Would
you take them ten or a dozen what's left?”
“H’mmm,” Kilgour assented. “I saw the old
fellow wasn’t doing too well. It’s a shame to sour
a good horse, Harry. I’ll take that dozen or so out
sooner than see a good horse cruelled.”
AMATHEA stepped proudly among the cattle.
Perhaps she was a shade nervous, a little fright-
ened. But she went bravely, picking her way care-
fully, her ears pricked confidently. She gained con-
fidence from the strong thighs which held her, from
the firm hands which guided her. She walked through
the cattle.
Kilgour spotted the bullock he wanted. He
dropped his hands level with the pommel of the
saddle, drawing the reins slightly, balancing on his
thighs, rising in the stirrups.
It may have been the mare’s heritage to know
and to interpret those signs. She also gathered her-
self together, holding herself balanced as she followed
the guidance of the reins, and she was ready.
Man and mare worked the beast out to the face
of the camp. They put it through the last fringe of
cattle, out on the dust-strewn open, and for a flash
of a second the bullock hesitated. With a quick little
patter of racing hooves, Amathea forced him out.
Like a hawk Splinter swept in between the bullock
and the mob, and that beast trotted over to the cut.
They put out six more cattle which ran quietly,
the only trouble —if trouble it could be called —was
in threading them through the camp to the face.
The last bullock there, a raking red and roan
beast, had a dash of cunning allied to a strain of
wildness. He had purposely been left till last, not
to disturb the camp unduly. Kilgour sighted him,
rode towards him.
Harry, riding past Terry, whispered quietly:
“Give ’em plenty of room, Terry. I know that beast.
Don’t you go to come in too quick. Let th’ boss
take it right out himself.”
Gradually man and mare forced the beast through
the camp and had it on the fringe of the face. There
the bullock hesitated, swung to the right, snapped
about and was racing in the opposite direction in an
effort to lose himself again in the heart of the camp.
Blend of the blood of begetters of incomparable
stockhorses was matched against that bullock. The
beast had taken but three strides and a half, shoot-
ing like a bullet from the gun, when a red lick of
chestnut flame ranged up beside him. Amathea had
seen the move coming. With her animal senses read-
ing the bullock’s mind, she was prepared for it. In
her youth and inexperience, though, she bungled her
start slightly, losing ground. Once set on the job,
she had drawn on the racing beast with the ease of
a hawk striking a dawdling finch.
The bullock thundered along the face, boring in,
lifting clouds of dust, head down, tail flying. Beside
him, lying up on him, shouldering him and forcing
her weight on him in an effort to turn him out, was
the maiden mare Amathea on her first camp! She
was playing with the bit, flirting her head slightly,
grimly determined, apparently enjoying herself hugely.
In a spurt of dust, a short-cut gasp, a momentary
sliding of hooves and a raking of horns, in the snap
of an eyeflick, the bullock turned and raced in the
opposite direction, boring in and striving as desperately
as before to regain the mob.
The bullock was racing confidently, knowing he
had shaken off the man and horse which worried him.
He doubled himself to turn in and gain the safety
of the mob. But before the turn the chestnut flame
ranged up beside him again, leant over him, forced
him out.
The bullock took it in long runs, right along the
full face of the camp. That was to the mare’s advant-
age. She could hold him cheaply for pace. She
enjoyed racing him. She revelled in the sport of it.
He tired, rolled his eyes towards the cut standing
about a hundred yards distant, stuttered in his stride,
propped, turned arid trotted over to them.
Amathea, her heart pounding, the full joy of life
tingling her veins, breathing in sharp gusts, flirted her
head. The wind rippled her mane. She turned to
go into the camp for another one. Undoubtedly
“this is the life!” expressed her feelings.
“Steady, the little mare,” Kilgour soothed her.
“Take that mob away and steady ’em before you
lets ’em go,” Harry called to a couple of the men.
“She’s a good ’un,” he continued to Kilgour, riding
beside him and admiring the mare. Under his breath
he added, including the man with the mare: “They’re
a pair of good ’uns.”
“Yes,” Kilgour replied casually. “She ain’t a
bad mare. She’s got the makings in her, Harry.”
Chapter XI.
GRADUATION .
THE committee of the Iladda
Picnic Club met. They
decided to hold a one-day
meeting at the usual time. The
station work was too constant
and too strenuous to devote
more ( time to racing. A one-
day meeting would give the men
two days to recover. A two-
day meeting meant that a week
would be required for the men
to get over it.
Harry was interested in the
committee’s deliberations.
' “Holdin’ a meetin’?” he asked.'
. “We are,” Kilgour said. “One day only, Harry.”
“Runnin’ Amathea?”
“I don’t know. You see, Harry, there’s too much
work to do. We’re not paddocking this year. We’ll
send up half a dozen horses. We’ll work ’em good
. and solid in the camp. They’re not to be galloped,
though. A week before the meeting we’ll give short
bursts as pipe-openers to clean their winds. They’ll
be strong enough. All they’ll want will be clean
wind. And they’re only to have one start each. We
can’t knock onr horses about too much with all the
work ahead of them.”
“Runnin’ Amathea?” Harry repeated.
“What’s your weight, Harry?”
“Ride ten-seven easy enough.”
“Evans has challenged me to meet him in the
Breeders’ .Plate. That’s welterweight-for-age. For a
four-year-old that’s about ten-ten, I think. I’ll look
it up and find out. He’s got a three-year-old, by
Lapidist from Seething, that he fancies. He hinted
I wasn’t game to meet" him with Amathea. What
about it?” r
“Of course I’ll ride for you,” Harry said quickly.
“I don’t like that -Plate,: ,though. It’s too short for
the mare: it’s only five furlongs.”
“Don’t make any error,” Kilgour demurred. “Five
furlongs is one of the most difficult races there is.
It’s a tough race, Harry.”
ON May the twenty-fourth the one-day meeting
was held.
The men gathered there knew that in the next
six or seven months they were to pass through the
fires of hell, each twenty-four hours of every day
stretching in an eternity of drudgery. But this was
a break, a snatch of pleasure. For the moment they
were intent on taking a deep draught of the fun of
living.
The first item on the programme read: “Breeders’
Plate, for district-bred horses, bred by members or
stations on which the members are employed, welter-
weight-for-age, distance five furlongs, for horses that
have never won a race.”
Amathea, strangely excited by the awakening of
an hereditary instinct, looked about her in wonder
at the many people and various strange sights.
When Harry mounted her in racing colors with
slight saddle, sweat broke out on her shoulders. It
was only when she swung into the straight and thun-
dered down between the lanes of people in her pre-
liminary that she seemed to grasp the full meaning of
the whole thing.
Then her heart pounded in great thumps, and she
knew. The desire of her breeding woke in her. Good
as it might be to cut out a rogue bullock, it was
infinitely better to measure her paces with her peers.
That was the insistent demand of her breeding.
THE field lined up at the start. It being the first race
of the day, and the only meeting of the year, the
jockeys were a little excited. The horses, all maidens
that they were, were some trouble to handle.
At last, to a wildly-waved flag and a stentorian
“Go!” from the starter, a spurted cloud of dust pro-
claimed to the spectators that the race had begun.
Lapthing bounded out in front, scampering along
the track like a harried hare, doubling himself together
and stretching out with almost the action of a fox-
terrier dog.
It was entertaining; it was attractive ; it was, in
its way, even pretty. But it was not galloping.
He drew away from the field, the others in hot
pursuit. At the turn, where the angles were confusing
to judge distances accurately, he seemed to lead the
others by at least six lengths.
Evans, with his quiet voice and staid manner,
murmured behind Kilgour: “I thought those Lapidists
were the best-bred horses about the district, Kilgour.
I knew it was a mistake to send those mares to Bluff
Downs. When they meet on equal terms, and without
the aid of handicapping, they show their superiority,
as I told you.”
The field turned into the straight. Lapthing was
still prominent.
Then a chestnut, a thing with a clean-cut,
crooked stripe on its face, began drawing on the
racing leader. The chestnut stretched confidently,
picked itself up cleanly. Skimming low, it swept on
Lapthing. It reached him, gathered him in a stride,
left him, and, alone and hard held, took the lead.
“Amathea!” was the cry. “Amathea! Come on,
Amie! Amathea on her own! Come on, Amie!”
KILGOUR did not hear the clerk of the scales
announce that the weight was right, neither did
he hear the judge declare Amathea the winner of the
Breeders’ Plate. There was a curious lump in his
throat which forbade speech.
He took his mare away, leading her about until
she was cool, and Woppida was condemned to eternal
damnation for the slowness with which he obeyed
the many orders given him.
Kilgour stayed with his mare, crooning to her,
taking her muzzle in the crook of his arm and laying
his cheek on hers while he swore at her affectionately.
He sat on a log and admired her, finding pleasure
(Continued on page 50.)


THE
’TUMBA,"
"PRIDE
OF THE
ROAD,"
£lO/15/-
(COMPLETE)
A hi g h-grade
saddle with the
narrowest possible grip
and non-chafing seat.
First-class material and
workmanship throughout.
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
No. 404. —Stand-back Throat, Ring-head
Bridle, lin., 20/-. Post: 1/6 N.S.W.
Write for Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
For over a century the Bank has maintained
its stability in times of economic stress,
expanding its activities in times of pros-
perity, and prudently administering to the
needs of its customers and their descendants.
HEAD OFFICE
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and at Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
ISttfillftt
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE, ,
Wingcllo House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Comedy of a New Bonanza:-
KELLY'S RUSH
BY W. CHARNLEY.
KELLY stood at his hotel door gazing
disconsolately down the empty
street. The last of the motor
vehicles to pass had gone by a good two
hours before, and it was beginning to
look as if there wouldn’t be any others.
Not that many had stopped: they had
all been in too much of a hurry to get
out to the new find.
Kelly spat his contempt at the idea of
a “new find.” For two days they had
been racing past —sedans, tourers, trucks,
some sound, some decrepit, and a buck-
board or two with a genuine prospector.
“Out to the Red Flag,” they had said.
“Sheep-farm prospectors!” Kelly had
privately and expletively described them
to his wife.
His gaze wandered to the flat
across the road. At one time it had
been an important part of the town site.
Houses had stood there; shops even,
when the big mine that made the town
had been in full swing. Gradually the
mine had petered out, and with it the
town. The flat had slowly become de-
nuded of buildings until Kelly’s hotel,
which once stood right in the heart of
things, was now on the outskirts of the
outskirts. As if that wasn’t bad enough,
here were these new finds all over the
place draining away the last battlers who
had stood faithful to the town in its de-
clining days. Damn the new finds, any-
way . . . Now, if only someone would
go and dig in that flat and find gold! . . .
An idea suddenly struck Kelly that fairly
made his brain sizzle.
Calling one of the “gurls” to take
charge of the bar, he settled himself m
his office to survey his resources. First
there was that “poverty pot” that Big
Mick Doolan had handed across the bar
before starting on the booze-up which
landed him first in the hospital and later
in the cemetery. Mick had reckoned
there was all of four ounces in it—good
alluvial gold, just the stuff he needed.
From the depths of the safe he un-
earthed various little parcels that he had
accumulated over the course of years—
mostly acquired from niggers in exchange
for beer.
Reckoning everything, between eight
and ten ounces; with gold selling at £8
the ounce, between £6O and £BO. It was
a fair lump to speculate. But if it missed
he could go out and gather most of it
up again, and if it came off it might
mean a buyer for the hotel.
T - ' WO nights later Kelly attended the
t monthly meeting of the Progress
Association. It was a disconsolate meet-
ing, for the recent rush to the Red Flag
was weighing heavily on what was left
of the town’s businessmen. Only Kelly
struck a note of optimism.
“Mr. Chairman, ’tis no use deplorin’
the success av other places. ’Tis energy
and vigorous prospectin’ that we nade
ourselves. There’s gold in this locality
just as well as innywhere else. Maybe
all that it nades is a stroke av the pick
to uncover it. Now take that flat beyant
me hotel: ’tis virgin soil, and for all
innyone knows to the contrahary it may-
be covering another Golden Mile.”
“Why don’t yer give it a go yerself?”
asked Radford, who’d been in on the
town’s first rush and hadn’t bothered to
move on.
Kelly turned dramatically. “And I
will. Provided ye’ll come wid me and
provide the requisite mining knowledge,
I’ll provide the tools.”
“I’ll give it a go, Kelly, if only for
the novelty of seeing a publican work-
ing.”
NEXT morning Radford arrived early,
and with him quite half the town.
With due solemnity Kelly selected and
pegged a claim, taking in two men’s allu-
vial ground. Then with the dryblower’s
paraphernalia inherited from the late
Mick Doolan they set to work. Two
hours of digging and sieving: then Rad-
ford declared it time for a trial clean-up.
Business in the meantime across at the
hotel brisker than it had been for years.
Radford was an experienced digger
and, emptying the screens of the shaker,
he soon had a cascade of tailings pour-
ing from dish to dish. The cascade grew
thinner. Suddenly he stiffened. “Gold!
By God, Kelly, you were right!”
THE town went mad. Such few fences
as were left were rapidly denuded
of pickets as even staid and solvent busi-
nessmen joined in the rush to grab a
claim. Soon the flat was a forest of pegs,
and long before sundown a cloud of
dust was rising from where a hundred
or more enthusiasts rattled every form
of shaker from the aristocratic Lorden
to the simple sieve propped up on three
sticks. i
Shortly after noon Kelly resigned from
mining to assist Mrs. Kelly and the girls
in the bar. The almost constant jangle
of the cash register sounded to him
sweeter than a chime of cathedral-bells.
Before nightfall he became burdened with
an almost overwhelming anxiety—that he
might run short of beer before the
brewery wagon could arrive with the
rush order he had dispatched to the
agent at the siding twenty miles away.
The thing had just started, he told him-
self. To-morrow the newspaper reporters
would arrive, and after that the rush
really would set in. He could see a
buyer for the pub and a season for him-
self and the old woman and the girls
down in the city.
But the gods had gifts such as he had
never dreamed of. Close on sundown
the next day an extra wave of excite-
ment surged across the field. A man de-
tached himself from a shaker that he
had been cleaning up and, accompanied
by an admiring and envious retinue,
came across to the bar.
“What do you think of that, Mr.
Kelly?” The slug hit the counter with a
thud. “Fifteen ounces if she’s a grain.”
Half aghast at the marvel, Kelly’s brain
raced over the possibilities. Real gold!
Fifteen ounces! Twenty years ago Bob
Sutton had complained of losing a fifteen-
ounce slug whilst “sleeping it off” some-
where on the flat. He had reckoned
he had been robbed. This might be the
lost slug at last come to light; or it
might have been dropped there by a
nigger ages ago ; or, most incredible of
all, the flat might really be a goldfield,
and he, Patrick Kelly, a public benefactor
in calling attention to it.
With a voice vibrant with emotion he
set ’em up. “Bhoys, this round of drinks
are on the house!”
KELLY’S first real notification that the
rush had really arrived came when
two strangers invaded the hotel backyard
and planted a stake in the centre of the
tiny flower-bed which Mrs. KeJ,ly and
the girls had nurtured with a minimum
of water and a maximum of care for
over fifteen years.
“Sorry, lady,” the less hard-bitten
stranger had apologised. “But we’re
taking up twelve acres as a reefing pro-
position and this is one of our corner
pegs.”
All through that night Kelly could see
the headlights of cars and trucks miles
out in the scrub where sheep-farm
prospectors were optimistically pegging
out their claims.
“They’ve got it pegged for miles in
every direction; all the town site’s taken
up—even the cemetery,” the “Miner” re-
porter informed him next morning.
But the flat right beside the hotel was
the real centre of interest. The sheep-
farmers didn’t matter. They wouldn’t do
any work, only await developments and
endeavor to sell options. In the mean-
time, however, they talked—and grew
dry from talking. Kelly’s only despair
now was the brewery agent at the siding,
who seemed quite incapable of rightly
grasping the situation.- “For God’s sake,
send twenty hogsheads without delay,”
was Kelly’s last anguished message.
The two strangers who had taken part
of the flat up as a lease had now erected
a tent on the area which represented their
original alluvial holding. Inside the tent,
so rumor had it, was a lode. Mick Don-
nelly had been the original holder, but
these two later arrivals—they gave their
names as Thompson and Jones —had
bought him out for £lO cash and a fifth
share in all developments.
Mick was liquidating the tenner and
declaiming eloquently on the wonder of
his discovery. “At almost the first
shtroke av me pick I shtruck ut. Likely-
lookin’ shtuff, I thinks, and there’s gold
in ut. Didn’t thim fellies show me the
gold? Real quartz dug out before me
eyes and wid the gold shinin’ in ut. And
I’m shtill a fifth shareholder.” Mick
dropped his voice to a confidential huski-
ness. “Pieces like grains of wheat shtick-
in’ out av ut all over.”
But, though Mick was liberal with his
information, the two new owners were
like oysters. The tent was kept rigor-
ously closed, and inquisitive persons
hovering round were gratified only by
the undoubted clash of a pick breaking
out stone. Moreover, the lucky owners
slept on top of their find —and with a
Winchester close handy, it was whispered.
Milling in and out of Kelly’s bar the
sheep-farmers grew almost frantic in their
thirst for information. The several min-
ing reporters wrote reams of copy.
Stowing away the day’s takings long
after midnight, Kelly realised that the
£6O or £BO which had represented his
first investment had been the merest flea-
bite to what he was going to collect.
Twice during the day he had repulsed
would-be buyers. Not that he wasn't
going to sell, but his price was rising.
IT was the chairman of the Progress
t Association, the local baker, who
diverted Kelly’s thoughts to another tack.
“It’s a bit rough,” said the baker, “after
us townspeople holding the fort, as it
were, all these years, that a couple of
strangers should blow in and pick up the
plums right under our eyes.”
Kelly was more practical. “Why
shouldn’t we form a syndicate and try
to buy them out?”
But the lucky leaseholders repulsed the
suggestion with considerable firmness.
“Not on your life! Not for a couple
of thousand. We’ve got a bonanza here,
and we’re meaning to hold on to it. Eng-
lish capital is what we’re after.”
“Well, we might make it a thousand,”
ventured the baker. “If the lode is really
that rich.”
There was sadness in the leading lease-
holder’s smile. “I only mentioned two
thousand tentatively like ; probably when
we get her opened up a bit more five
thousand won’t buy her.”
Kelly really didn’t mind the rejection
of his syndicate’s offer. When the details
got round among the sheep-farmers it
took the combined efforts of his entire
family to cope with the general inquisi-
tiveness and thirst.
A LAS for the best-laid plans of men
and mice! Two days later a tele-
graph messenger called at Kelly’s bar.
“Urgent telegram for a Mr. Thompson.
Any idea where I’ll find him?”
Kelly indicated the tent that covered
the golden lode. “There’s a Thompson
over there. He may be your man.”
A few minutes later Thompson and
his partner came in for a drink. Thomp-
son called for whisky. He obviously was
shaken. “Luck!” he muttered brokenly.
“Just as soon as a man strikes a bit of
luck misfortune comes.”
Kelly raised eyebrows inquiringly.
After some slight hesitation Thompson
passed over the telegram. “Read it.”
“Agnes dangerously ill. Imme-
diate operation imperative. Come
at once if possible.”
“My wife,” Thompson explained with
a catch in his voice.
“My sister,” Jones added, not without
emotion.
“We can’t go. Not and leave this,”
Thompson added mistily. “The first real
chance I’ve ever had.”
Kelly had it on his tongue-tip to repeat
the syndicate’s offer. But he hesitated ;
it seemed too much like trading on mis-
fortune.


“403,000 trouble - free miles
THROUGH WAR ZONES, JUNGLES
AND ACROSS DESERTS,"
SAYS
FAMOUS WORLD TRAVELLER
wmmm
fm
AND LECTURER
m
m
ililßii
*
:
ti
in
■I
m
mi
m
or a
ll
iiiyiij
“The present car I am driving has
only done 23,000 miles without any
major repairs- or delays, my
previous car, running on Texaco,
travelled a mileage of 380,000, and
you can be sure that after this
trouble-free experience, where a
failure at any time would have
meant a major catastrophe, inas-
much as I have travelled through war
zones, jungles and across deserts,
you will realise the reliance 1 placed
in Texaco to get me through
—says ALOHA BAKER.
Ten years’ experience in 75 countries, under
some of the world’s worst conditions of
travel, proves beyond doubt that Texaco
Motor Oil lubricates with the utmost effici-
ency and means longer engine life with con-
siderable saving in repair bills.
Fill up now with Texaco Motor Oil and
you, will get these benefits, too.
1 15.276
TEXACO MOTOR OIL
The baker later had no such qualms.
‘Now’s the time to rush them if Thomp-
son wants so bad to get away.”
Thompson declined to be pushed. “I’m
a bitter-ender,” he said firmly, “and so’s
my wife. She’ll pull through and be glad
that I didn’t sacrifice my chance to make
a fortune.”
'T'HAT night brought more trouble for
1 the worried leaseholders. In the
small hours a couple of shots rang out.
In the morning Thompson displayed a
slit in the calico tent. “After our speci-
mens. But I let them have both barrels.
Saltpetre! There’s someone in this
camp’s got a sore hide this morning.”
From the tent he produced a sugar-
bag half-full, and, discharging the con-
tents on to a ground-sheet, displayed
specimens that made the onlookers blink.
“That’s what they were after. And
there’s more where that came from.”
Throwing back the flap of the tent, he
allowed them to feast their eyes. There
was no doubt about it: the reef cer-
tainly was a trifle narrow, but she was
rich; free gold showed in a score of
places.
“The Golden Bonanza, that’s my name
for it,” said Thompson as he again
screened the treasure hole.
Noon brought him another telegram.
And the message was such that it re-
quired a couple of whiskies to steady
him. With a shaking hand he gave the
telegram to Kelly. “I’m capitulating,
Mr. Kelly. A man can stand just so
much and no more.”
The telegram certainly was a staggerer.
“Operation unsuccessful. Agnes
sinking fast. Come at once.”
Jones, too, was visibly affected. “Just
when we’ve got a chance. It’s my wife
sending those telegrams. She’s at the
hospital night and day.”
“It's five hundred we’re offering,” said
Kelly.
Thompson left the matter to Jones.
“Negotiate with him; my mind’s dis-
traught.”
“1 think we mentioned a thousand,”
said Jones.
“Five hundred’s the offer,” said Kelly.
“What about splitting the difference
and making it seven-fifty?”
“Five hundred!” Kelly repeated.
Thompson became impatient. “Five
hundred. Let it be five hundred! How
can we stand here chaffering about
money when a woman lies dying?”
“Right-oh, then!” agreed Jones. “We’ll
take five hundred. The tent’s wide open
for any test or inspection you care to
make.”
“Cheques would do, gentlemen,” said
Thompson about an hour later, “but we
prefer cash if possible. Not that we
doubt anyone’s solvency, but with my
wife dying we want to get away as soon
as possible.”
So they made it five hundred in notes,
Kelly in his new-found prosperity taking
six full shares in the syndicate.
KELLY passed the mug across and
looked through the door at the flat.
In the near distance a couple of grizzled
dryblowers still toiled, hoping against
hope that the now well-riddled flat might
even yet yield a crust. A low ridge of
turned soil marked the costeen which
represented the developmental work done
on the Golden Bonanza goldmine. But
no cheerful clash of pick on stone came
from the cutting.
Three months had passed since he and
Radford had broken the soil of the flat
and proved the presence of gold. Well,
it had been a good time while it had
lasted.
“And so, Mr. Kelly,” the “Miner”
man remarked as he cooled his teeth on
the edge of a pot, “the reef’s proved a
duffer. The ten-ton crushing panned
out, what?”
“Left us in debt. She’s as barren as
Barney’s bull.”
“Salted, eh?” suggested the “Miner”
man.
“Salted is a nasty word,” said Kelly.
“That night they fired those two shots
was when they did it. That’s an old trick,
shooting gold into a lode with a shotgun.
But surely you could take some action
against them?”
Kelly yawned slightly. “Well, maybe
we could, but it’d mean a lot of trouble.”
“But five hundred pounds was a pretty
hig slug to take out of a few not over-
prosperous townspeople,” urged the
“Miner” man.
Kelly nodded agreement. “It was. But
ye see we weren’t greedy: we weren’t
averse to the inthroduction of a little
outside capital. We didn’t want the
whole mine to ourselves, so we sold out
half the interest in the syndicate to the
sheep-farmers”—his eye twinkled—“at a
slight profit ”
Buying Pigs:-
ADEAL
BY J.H.WEIGALL.
OLD Tom Smith came up to me in the
town.
“ ’Day,” he said. “Might be com-
ing up your way one day. I’ll be taking
a cow up to Johnston’s Wednesday.’
Smith did odd jobs for the district, and
did them with an air of holy importance,
investing them all with an air of
Big Business —giving an impression of
Confidence and Secrecy to the smallest
transaction.
“Suppose you’ve got a few porkers
left,” he said, knowing as well as I did
that I had dozens. “I wouldn’t mind
getting a couple —going to Melbourne
Thursday.”
“Right,” said I. “When will you be
coming?” Old Smith’s utter disregard
of time always made me feel as if some-
one ought to be .in a hurry.
“I’ll be along probably in the morn-
ing,” said the old chap, refusing to be
tied down.
WHEN Wednesday came I realised
that Tom was liable to show up any
time, so I just pottered about the garden.
1 had been caught
before by him
while on a job, and
I had decided not
to let it happen
again. Watching
other people work
was his hobby.
Lunch-time came
and went without
h i m appearing,
though he had an
uncanny knack of
arriving just at
meal-times. Possibly he had honored
someone else on the road from the town.
The afternoon dragged on, and I real-
ised that I could have done quite a lot
of work if only the old blighter hadn t
told me he would be coming early. How-
ever, it was late now, and so I kept on
pottering with one eye on the road, wish-
ing the old devil would come and get
it over.
1 knew that even if he did come the
sale of a couple of pigs would not com-
pensate me for the wasted time. I knew
he was patronising me this time only
because he had not been able to buy
them cheaply enough to suit him in the
local market.
For his part, he knew I had too many
pigs, and that I had to buy all their feed,
and that there was no market for an-
other fortnight. And so I knew that he
knew that I was keen to sell.
But it was not as simple as that really.
Other men came to see pigs. I quoted
a price, and they either agreed or made
an offer, all in the matter of a few
minutes. But this was too crude a way
of conducting business for Smith.
When he did arrive late in the after-
noon he behaved as if pig-buying was
the one subject he preferred not to dis-
cuss. In fact, I couldn’t even attract
him near the pigyard until we had
thrashed out to a conclusive end such
subjects as the flooding of Johnston’s
paddock, Hitler, the increasing preva-
lence of milk fever and the general
futility of the younger generation.
“U/ELL, Mr. Smith,” I said at last,
VV “how about these pigs? Come
and have a look at them.”
“Pigs weren’t selling too well last
market,” he remarked. “A man can buy
’em cheap enough these days.”
We leant over the pen and stared at
the four porkers I had selected as being
suitable for his requirements. After star-
ing silently for some minutes, he levered
his bulk over the fence and began a
closer examination of the porkers.
“Things aren’t too good at home,” he
said. “The missus is crook, and I had
to do the milking myself this morning.”
“That’s bad,” I said. “Hope she’ll
soon be fit again. But about the pigs.
You can have the lot at 355. a head ;
how’s that?”
Old Smith picked up a bit of straw
and started to suck it, seeking inspiration.
“That one’s a bit light,” he said, indi-
cating the smallest.
“That makes up for it,” I countered,
pointing out a super porker.
“Johnston had some nice pigs a couple
of weeks back, even as peas in a pod,”
said Smith.
“Yes,” I said a trifle impatiently.
“Pork might be cheaper next week,”
he suggested.
I was pleased with myself for refrain-
ing from remarking that also it might
be dearer.
o Continued on next page.)


A man’s best friend
is his
VALET
A razor that goes on year in, year out
that gives a keen new edge for every
shave—that saves time in the morning
that saves no end of money in blades
isn't that a friend of man? That's the
"Valet" Auto Strop. Every man can
enjoy the speed, the comfort, the
economy of "Valet" shaving. This razor,
so easy to operate, so reliable in use,
was the original self-stropping razor—
and it's still the simplest and the best.
“VALET
MADE IN ENGLAND
■3
rr
No. 101 SET. This Set is packed in a richly coloured Mouldrite case.
Contains self-stropping razor, strop in nickel-plated hinged Q j
container, and three blades in plated sheath ----- jp m
OTHER SETS FROM 4/6 TO 65/- • OF ALL DEALERS • BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
“Oh, well,” I said, knowing it would
help bring things to a head, “leave them
there. I’ve plenty of feed, and I’ll send
them down next market.”
Smith produced an old envelope and
a stub of pencil and started abstruse
calculations while 1 waited for his next
pronouncement.
“Too much money,” he remarked.
I knew well that the price was too high,
but with him one had to put a few shil-
lings on so that one could knock them
off again for his satisfaction.
“Give you £5 the lot,” he said, “and
that’s a good price ; there won’t be any-
thing in it for me.”
“Couldn’t think of it. That’s only 255.
each. Doesn’t matter, Mr. Smith ; leave
them,” and I started to walk away.
“Hay’s selling well,” I added, show-
ing I was finished with pigs and bar-
gaining.
“I’ll tell you what I’ll do with you,”
he said ; “275. 6d. the lot, not a penny
more ; it’s not in ’em.” -
“I couldn’t think of it, Mr. Smith,”
I said, “but to make a sale I’ll come down
a couple of and that’s
that.”
“Split the difference,” said Smith, “and
I’ll take them.”
“Not a hope,” I said. “I could get
more in the market.
“Still,” I added with a final air, “to
a neighbor it is not so bad. You can
have them for 325. Take it or leave it.”
“Pity to lose them just for a couple
of bob,” Smith remarked, and we both
wandered off; we were not going to
discuss pigs any more.
I GAVE him a hand harnessing his
' pony, and was just about to say good-
night to him when he suddenly remarked,
“30s. 6d.; come on now, don’t be too
hard.”
“No,” I said firmly.
“Well,” he said, “what’s your last
word?”
“I’ll come down another sixpence,” I
said; “that makes it 31s. 6d.”
“Only a bob between us,” said Smith,
almost as if he regretted that the game
was nearly over.
“Good-night, Mr. Smith,” I said.
“Sorry we couldn’t do any business.”
“ ’Night,” he said. “Full moon to-
night.”
He started off and had travelled about
one hundred yards into the gloom when
I heard him shout: “31s. the lot.”
“No,” I yelled. “It’s all right; they’ll
keep.”
He continued towards the front gate
until he was out of sight. “31s. 3d.,”
came booming out of the darkness.
“Right,” I said.
It was a deal.
The Drama of a Cyclone:—
TEMPEST
BY VANCE PALMER.
THE tiny flag fluttering up to the top
of the post office mast turned the
port into a disturbed ants’ nest.
People sleeping on verandahs tumbled
out in pyjamas to stand barefooted on
the grass, staring with sleep-heavy eyes ;
boys on bicycles shouted along the front;
windows were flung up, women called to
one another across ragged strips of
garden. In a few minutes hammering
began, a multitudinous clatter of sound.
It was coming. The straggling port had
suddenly taken on the unity and concen-
tration of a ship intent on making every-
thing fast. Yet beneath all the frantic
activity there was a feeling of relief that
the period of suspense had ended.
Fishermen whose boats had been laid
up for weeks in the estuary looked with
reckless bravado at the quarter from
which the big wind might be expected to
strike.
And yet there was something of terror
in the thought of that wild thing moving
across the sea-wastes beyond the still
horizon.
Gessler, hurrying around his hangar
to make the ’plane secure, had bitter
memories of the last time the big wind
had struck the port. He had been carry-
ing a patient into the hospital from a
timber camp in the ranges, and had
crashed in a nightmare of wind and
scudding cloud among the mangroves at
the head of the estuary. His blind eye
and the scar that badly disfigured one
side of his face were legacies of that
calamitous night.
“Don’t worry, Don—she won’t come,”
grinned Collett, his partner. “It’s the
third scare this summer. And last year
the flag was up every second week.
Strikes me those boys out at Willis Island
like putting the wind up us” ——
He broke off with a half-suppressed
exclamation as a dark-haired woman
came running down the hill with the
dazed look of one just awakened from
sleep.
Gessler glanced quickly up from the
guy-rope he was bracing around an iron
peg. The little bunch of weatherboard
cottages on the edge of the port was alive
with people scurrying about, calling to
one another over back fences, but the
woman passed them like a blown leaf.
Hatless, her short hair tumbled over her
eyes, she looked distracted, as if the tiny
flag fluttering from the staff was all,that
she could see. Gessler left his work and
went over to her.
“What’s wrong, Claire?”
She hardly seemed to see him. Breath-
less with running, she was letting her eyes
search the strip of still water beyond the
headlands.
“Harry’s out,” she said with a des-
perate effort at restraint. “He went off
yesterday with ice and stores a little
before sundown. I asked him not to go,
but he wouldn’t listen.”
“Oh, is that all?” said Gessler.
There was a deliberate roughness in
his tone, in the way he flipped the butt
of his cigarette into the sand. He was
tired of these scares about Harry. Tired,
too, of seeing Claire move about the
front like a ghost whenever the fellow
was a day late or the wind had blown
up a lively sea. She was as mad about
him as the day she had married him.
“I asked him not to go, but he wouldn’t
listen,” she repeated. “I felt in my bones
something was coming. There were
frigate-birds flying low over the bay.”
“Nonsense,” he said. “That’s just the
talk of old shellbacks. Anyhow, there’s
plenty of places where Harry can run
for shelter if it catches him.”
“He won’t get any warning out there,”
she said bitterly. “You know that.”
“Then he’ll have to take his chance.
He’s always reckoned he could handle
the Kestrel no matter what kind of sea
was running.”
She winced ; her glance fell like a shot
bird. !
“It’s nothing against him if he takes
pride in the boat,” she said.
“Nothing at all,” he repeated blandly.
“God knows, a man must have some-
thing to take pride in. Anyhow, don’t
you worry about him, Claire. He’s all
right.”
He turned to go back to the hangar,
but she followed him, her eyes desperate
with the plea she could not bring herself
to make. Gessler knew what it was, but
shut his mind against it. There would
be a full morning for him and Collett
making everything snug on the hotel
they were building near the wharves. If
the blow came that part of the town
would get the full force of it.
“Don’t worry about him,” he repeated.
“There’ll be other boats out. And he’s
always had the devil’s own luck —or per-
haps it’s the crab’s gift for hearing the
wind before it comes and getting well
under cover.”
THE petulant crying of a child in a
house up the hill called her away,
and Gessler watched her run back along
the paling fence in her queer, fluttering
way, like a bird with its wing broken.
There was still no change in sky or sea.
The air was dead and windless: the
signal to which everyone’s eyes turned
was limp as a wet rag.
“What did she want?” grinned Collett.
“Thought you’d make a special trip out
to the Reef to warn Monaghan, eh?”
Gessler was standing with a spanner
in his hand staring up the beach. “She
didn’t ask that. Didn’t ask anything.”
“They don’t,” said Collett. “They
think you’re so damned softheaded that
a word is enough. Think you’re any-
body’s fool. ‘There’s a man with a
broken leg up at Old River ; ask Gessler
to go and bring him in. Gessler’s always
ready to oblige.’ You keep the ’plane for
the blasted town’s convenience.”
Something snapped in Gessler’s eyes.
“Get down to the front, Joe, and see
what the men are doing. They’ll need to
run wires over the scaffolding and clamp
it down. I’ll be with you in half an hour.
She may be on us any minute now.”
“She won’t,” said Collett. “The real
blow’ll hold off until nightfall.”
The spluttering motor-bike took him
speeding away along the breakwater
where the tattered palms hung lifeless in
the still air.
Gessler slipped back into the darkness
of the hangar and stood with his arms
resting on the wing of the ’plane. He
was seeing, as he had so often done be-
fore, Monaghan’s big body floating about
among the wreckage of the Kestrel with
the sea-birds hovering over it; but the
lips were twisted into a triumphant grin,
the sightless eyes still held their old
truculence. He could never imagine him
utterly broken and defeated.
Instead of hurrying into the port in
his car, Gessler found himself drifting
up to the ramshackle house on the hill,
his nerves keyed like strings by the ham-
mering going on around him, the sense
of urgency in the air. A curly-headed
youngster of five or six was standing by
the paling ffence, idly pulling bits of dead
vine from the granadillas ; the very spirit
of Monaghan stared at him through the
sulky darkness of her eyes, fringed with
their long lashes. He crawled through
the broken palings and approached her,
an easy smile wrinkling one side of his
face.
“Hullo, Dulcie! Coming for a ride
with me? Tell your mother”
A high-pitched scream cut him short.
The youngster had been staring at his
scarred face with bulging eyes, and now
her mouth was wide open, her little body
stiffened in a paroxysm that froze Gess-
ler’s blood. Picking her up he tried to
soothe her.
“It’s all right, girlie. You know me,
don’t you? I’m a friend of your
mummie’s. I’m not going to hurt you.”
But the ear-splitting yells drowned his
words, the frenzied fists beat at his face.
“Mummie! Mummie! It’s Pop-eye.
Pop-eye’s taking me away.”
From the trellised underhouse Claire
came running with a towel in her hand,
the startled look passing from her face
when she saw Gessler. In a moment she
had soothed the screaming youngster,
hidden the weeping face on her shoulder,
her disconcerted eyes seeking the man s
in apology over a tangle of hair.
It was only one of Harry’s jokes, she
explained. Harry had been frightening
the poor kid when she was naughty by


HELPFUL IriTMICE
1
TRAVELLERS
r »'
If you contemplate a visit either abroad
or within Australia, the Bank of New
South Wales Travel Department can
smooth the way for you.
This Department of the: Bank arranges
world and local tours, makes bookings
and reservations for travel by sea, land
and air, secures accommodation, advises
on Income Tax clearances and pass*
ports, and arranges baggage insurance.
The Traveller thus starts out with
every detail of the tour arranged in
advance and is supplied with a com-
plete schedule of movements and
accommodation. No charge is made
for the services rendered by this
Department.
an
a C/o i
isTttns«i t mi
TRAVEL DEPARTMENTS
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Wellington (N.Z.) t
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Suva, and London,
Enquiries may be made at any
other of the Bank’s 770 branches.
UNION
LINE
JT
s
a\IIJ9
OUILQ.
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ... 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
(Subject to sufficient inducement.)
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ...
Saturday, January 2nd, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a m.
First Class only. Fares from £5.
Full
particulars
from
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island of New Zealand
(Subject to sufficient inducement.)
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. 1.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney, Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
For ly
bookings
recommended
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Agent
telling her that Gessler would take her
away in his ’plane. “She’s all nerves
lately. It’s this cyclone-weather. Dulcie’s
been on edge ever since her father went
out.”
GESSLER laughed jerkily as he went
down the hill again. He had for-
gotten why he had gone up to see Claire,
what he wanted to tell her. It didn’t
matter, really. For the first time he had
had a vision of himself from outside:
it was like seeing his own skeleton
through the living flesh. Pop-eye, the
bogeyman! “Be a good girl or Pop-eye
will carry you off in his ’plane!”
“That’s Monaghan,” he thought, “rub-
bing in the dirt. His hooligan’s idea of
a joke!”
Hatred of the man seeped through
him, making the blood burn behind his
eyes. He copld still feel the tiny fists
beating against his scarred face.
Yet when Collett came roaring back
from the front on his motor-bike to see
why he had not come he found him with
the Moth wheeled out along the beach,
all his attention concentrated on a strut
that seemed worn. Something like heat
showed in Collett’s eyes.
“You’re not going out?”
“Only for a flip around the inner
edge.”
“You’ve let her put it over you.”
“Nonsense. Monaghan’s not the only
man out.”
Collett’s face darkened as he stared at
the dead sky. “If you’re going l‘m going
with you.”
“Don’t be a fool,” snapped Gessler.
“You’ve got plenty to occupy you. I’ll
be back in a couple of hours —before it
breaks.”
He did not know why he was going
except that there was release for him up
there in the high air. That was why he
kept the little ’plane. He felt master
of himself only when he was skimming
above the world, his hands on the joy-
stick, the engine thrumming in his
padded ears.
“You’ve let her put it over you,” Col-
lett repeated as he spun the propeller,
THE ’plane took off from the strip of
hard beach and spun over the town
before turning out to sea. Like a flock
of sheep the houses rushed together,
huddling on the edge of the bay. Beyond,
the ranges humped themselves in a shape-
less mass, gunpowder-blue in the dull
light of morning.
It looked incredibly peaceful from
above. The tiny flag fluttering from the
post office staff was no longer visible.
Above, the sky was aluminium, and
below the sea lay meadow-smooth, the
shape of its floor showing through like
a valley covered with thin mist. Wastes
of white sand, humps of coral, acres of
shadowy turtle-weed. Far out a faint
thread of cotton marked the Outer
Barrier.
Gessler, shut in his cell of whirring
sound, thought of seven years back, won-
dering what his life might have been if
he hadn’t crashed that night among the
mangroves, wondering whether a man’s
destiny was written in the stars, why he
carried around with him the illusion of
free will.
Claire. He had never been able to
forget her! Her eyes flinching away from
him in the hospital ward, her face hard
beneath its seeming softness. Protesting
that looks didn’t matter, that nothing
could change her feeling, yet letting a
self-pitying note creep into her voice,
making loyalty a martyrdom.
“As if I were a load she’d have to carry
all her life. Damn it all, what did she
take me for?”
He climbed to a high altitude and,
moving around like a seahawk, surveyed
the empty water. There was not a craft
to be seen. It was as if the sea had been
swept smooth, as if some miraculous
signal had gone forth telling the small
boats to run for cover. But where was
the Kestrel? She had gone out, without
a doubt, the evening before.
SEVENTY miles up the coast, where
a little river wound to sea in a glit-
tering snail’s track, he spotted her, lying
among the mangroves in an arm of the
estuary.
Heading towards the mainland he flew
low along the line of beach. It was a
small sugar-settlement with cane-farms
making splotches of vivid green among
the dark jungle and a mill raising its thin
pencil, plumed with smoke. On the head-
land half a dozen blacks tumbled out
of their gunyahs and ran along the beach,
staring up at the ’plane.
There was no need to warn Monaghan,
sheltered as he was ■ in the quiet water,
and yet some impulse drew Gessler down!
He made a landing on the strip of firm
beach and climbed from the cockpit.
Through the mangroves a big fellow in
blue dungarees came sauntering casually,
pipe in mouth, felt hat perched on the
back of his head. It was McEvoy, mate
of the Kestrel.
“Hullo, Don,” he greeted Gessler, “out
for a joy-ride?”
“There’s a cyclone-warning out.
Where’s Monaghan?”
McEvoy grinned. “Harry? Oh, dead
to the world.”
“Eh?”
“I don’t mean he’s drunk,” explained
McEvoy. “But it’d take more than a
cyclone to get him away from that doxy
up at the pub there. She’s got him at the
end of a short rope these days.”
His indolent laugh was that of a man
absolved from all responsibility. Cold
rage took all the blood from Gessler’s
face. For a moment he stood looking in-
decisively at the still ’plane, the clouding
sky.
This was the explanation then of those
long trips to the edge of the Reef that
kept the Kestrel out for weeks at a time.
Trips from which she came back with
no fish in the iceboxes, in spite of the way
the dealers were clamoring for them and
the good price they were fetching on the
market!
“We’re snug enough here if it blows,”
McEvoy was saying, “but I’m sick to
death of the place. I’d like to see a big
wind level that blasted pub flat and
choke the river up with silt.”
Gessler strode ahead through the man-
groves. In the yard of the pub overlook-
ing the river Monaghan was fooling with
a pea-rifle, taking pot shots at the ripe
pawpaws that hung by the paling fence.
Ah air of dissolute well-being clung about
his thick, pyjama-clad figure, about his
swarthy face over which drooped a heavy
forelock of black hair. He was slightly
drunk. The woman, a secret anxiety in
her eyes, was urging him to put away the
rifle, her hand resting on his shoulder,
her fixed smile showing a gleam of gold.
“Look out, Harry,” she said, going
back into the bar, “there’s someone
coming.”
Monaghan followed her through the
open doorway as Gessler came along the
verandah with the mate. A jocular greet-
ing was forming on his lips, when he
saw the look on Gessler’s face ; and then
he stiffened, something defensive and
cantankerous came to life in him.
“Well?” he snapped. “Come to spy
out a new landing-ground, Gessler?”
“No,” Gessler muttered, “I’m looking
for the place where you get your hauls
of fish.”
“What?”
Gessler’s eyes flashed a challenge.
“I was sent out after you.”
“Who by?”
“Your wife. She was worrying. Now
I can go back and tell her you’re safe.”
Anger flashed lightning-bright from
Monaghan’s eyes. “You damned sucker!
Moving round with your swivel-eye.”
In a flash the two men were at each
other’s throats, clutching, swaying, all the
passion they had suppressed for years
swelling their bodies, giving convulsive
strength to their figures. They went down
together, Gessler’s head striking the edge
of the bar. He was conscious of a weight
cracking the frame of his chest', of a
steely hand squeezing the life from him,
of the far roaring of surf. Then voices
faintly penetrated his ears and he floated
up from the sea floor to the surface.
“VOU oughtn’t to have tackled
I Harry,” said McEvoy afterwards as
they stumbled back to the beach. “He’s
a tiger when he’s roused. Belle and I
had our work cut out to pull him off.”
Gessler said nothing. He hardly heard
McEvoy telling him that the weather
looked ugly, that he had better stay.
“This is the finish,” he thought. “I’ll
tell her the truth. Tear the wool off her
eyes: make her face things out. Even
if it brings her whole jerry-built world
crashing about her ears.”
He took off in a wind that was scatter-
ing the fine sand in a fusillade against
the wings. Blackness had covered the
sea now, making it a well of ink, and
the summits of the coastal ranges were
lost in streaming cloud. Through all
the darkened afternoon there was a low
boom and mutter that transcended even
the thud of the engine.
Shut in on himself, he thought: “I’ll
let her know everything, even if it
breaks her. She didn’t spare me: now
it’s her turn. Pop-eye! This time there’ll
be a real bogeyman.”
An eddy of wind dragged him down,
brought him almost to the treetops and
he had to fight to gain altitude. He could
feel the gale now, rocking the ’plane,
making the controls vibrate in his hands,
and before him stretched a moving barrier
of cloud, lit by dazzling flowers of light-
ning ; thud of cloudbursts near at hand
that shook his heart like the explosion
of shells ; a sense of chaos rising from
the earth itself,
He was flying blind now, trusting to
the compass. “In half an hour I’ll be
through it. It can’t have any depth.”
But he had to climb high to avoid the
tall peaks of the ranges ; keep on climb-
ing through the murk that rose like the
smoke of battle. Every now and then
there was a harsh jerk and clamor as a
whirlpool sucked him down. He knew
what was going on below. Cataracts of
wind pouring over the earth, uprooting
trees, smashing in the roofs of houses ;
heavy branches flying about like leaves ;
people lying on their beds with their
arms over their heads, waiting for the
terror to pass. And whirring on above
the storm’s wreckage his sole clear
thought was: “I’ll give her the truth. Yes,
the whole truth. After all these years,
It’s something I owe myself.”
Dropping low to try to pick up his
bearings he was suddenly conscious of
tempest-whipped water rushing up to
engulf him. No sign of land! Only that
heaving water with the flying spume
covering it in a curtain. The truth pierced
his brain like a needle.
“I’m lost . . . Lost utterly. Blown
right out over the Reef.”
He soared up once more into the suffo-
eating darkness of cloud. A madness
seized him to climb above it, to reach
once more the light of the sun. He felt
the world he knew had dissolved in chaos
and that he himself was a leaf, whirled
round and round in an infinity of night,
Where was his burning desire to meet
Claire face to face and with brutal candor
strip her of her illusions? Gone, all gone
now! He was seized with a horror of the
violence that had consumed him. It was
no part of himself: if was like this idiot
leviathan from the outer spaces that had
turned earth and air into a meaningless
welter of sound and fury,
“Light,” he prayed inwardly. “Let me
out into the light!”
And then through the fraying clouds
radiance streamed from above, turning
the machine’s fabric to silver, to gold,
bathing it in a glow. He was transfigured
by the liquid brightness that came pour-
ing, that spread upward from the floor
of cloud as from a cresseted sea.
Free in his corner of the sky for a little
while, knowing that the end must come,
knowing more deeply what had been
saved from destruction.


more
4MF
% m. '/////*
m
5$
m
i
&
7a
m
II
*2i«
s
mm
n
m
m
SSS!
1
IS
as
li
&
s
<ST^
mm
m
IS SOLD IN AUSTRALIA
THAN ANY OTHER WHISKY !
THERE'S A
REASON
The mellowness and maturity of a truly
aged whisky, offered at a commonsense
price—that’s the reason.
Age alone gives the delightful smooth-
ness and rich flavour that makes a really
GOOD whisky. The back label of every
bottle of Old Court Whisky bears the
Distillers’ Guarantee of Exceptional Age.
OLD COURT WHISKY
is bottled in bond under supervision
of the Commonwealth Customs, which
means that the contents of every
bottle must be absolutely true to label.
THE DISTILLERS
tikt*
that the BLEND of Old Court
in this bottle is comprised of
whiskies aged in the
following proportions:
50% Distilled in the Years 1926"28
50% „ „ „ „ 1929'30
FEDERAL DISTILLERIES
PTY. LTD.
EXCEPTIONAL ACE V
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.K.L.: Not much of a joke... .T.H.Y.:
“The Song of the Cocky” will not ring around
the bars of this cage R.J.K.: Hardly worth
sending that all the way from London....
L.M.: Some swing, but not enough to carry
.i .u u on i .
them through 0.W.: Pretty, but on the
thin side... .C.P.: Found “The Call of the
Timbers” very wooden R.G.C.: “The editor
. . ... . f
of the local paper thought this a good effort
and suggested my sending it to The Bulletin.”
Yet we are not conscious of ever having done
him any harm... .C.8.C.. Curlews may wail
and herons cry, but this is the first time we
ever heard of a turtle (the marine variety)
“sighing”.. . .D.H.L.: It’s a comprehensive
subject and you don’t throw any new light
on it Anon: Unimpressive J.P.: There’s
no “spritely pace” about your octosyllabics
K.C.M.: It’s about as unsuitable as any
hash-up of stale images and outworn phrases
could be Four lines, as a sample
of the stuff we don’t want:—-
Spies and traitors strut in Spain with swift and
, s i l . ent , , „ . , . „ . .
And the hot blood of Spaniards is flowing in the
street,
And countryside that once did thrill to guitar’s
sweet refram ,
Now writhes like tortured serpents with the weight
of human pain-
_ .W.A.S.C.: If you want rejects back, you
must send sta mps... .D.P.: You’re no epi-
grarnmatjst J.S.A.: Quite pleasant jingle, but
j t doesn ’t score more than an outer 8.D.:
There are some fair lines and more very bad
ones, e.g., “a heart replete with contentment
and a constantly wandering 50u1”... .C.H.F.:
Story that has been already published no good
to us; other failed R.K.D.: “Seat” sketch
unsuitable R. 0.: As a “perfect murder”
plot, “The Ladder” had too many holes in it.
J.M.: Not enough humor... .F. 8.: Reads
like the “recounting of a humorous incident”
by the vicar at a guild meeting... .D.1.C.:
Touch of mirth, but insufficient to rattle the
cashbox Mrs. B.: Nice, style, but story
rather trite; might get through elsewhere....
H.F.W.: Well enough done, but too late
V.C.: Sketches like that need to be packed
with humor... .C.M.W.: “The Road” too
rambling, not to mention its bumps
M.V.O’R.: Too American... .F.W.D.: Sud-
denly rebellious wife not convincing... .J.E.:
Off the beaten track, but thin R.W.: Shows
improvement, especially in dialogue, but yarn
lacks appeal J. 8.: Ventriloquising stunt
worn out SJ.H.: Not in our line, but shows
insight into the child mind. Try it on Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., Sydney, for book publi-
cation D. 0.8.: No niche for travel sketches;
try a daily S.A.R.: Misses, narrowly
M.M.M.: That would make the pet cow about
45 years 01d!... .J.C.: It wanted only a few
dahg-gahned coyotes and some mesquite to
make it read like a Zane Grey R.8.Q.:
Dopor of £lO had more cash than 10gic....
E.J.S.: As dull as most park-bench stories....
H.W.N.: Over-stresses the melodramatic....
R.J.R.: Incident not of sufficient interest to
string a sketch 0n... .M.S.T.: True, but rather
ugly... .G.O’S.: Even the snap ending couldn’t
save it from mediocrity... .F.H.W.: You
haven’t said anything interesting in either;
nothing wrong with the rhyming sense.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.S.: You show distinct promise, but need
to attend a life class R.H.P.: Disfigured by
ugly cross-hatching J.D.: Looks as if you
have turned up something you did in infancy.
. ...8.L.: Drawing hardly illustrates the joke.
. ...A.M.N.: Can’t see you making a living
out of art F. 8.: Fair examples of showcard
writing, but not humorous sketches... .R.L.F.:
Six received, but only one —the impulsive fire-
man—came within coo-ec of the mark....
J.M.: Mostly the person who regularly turns
in silhouettes has artistic faults to hide
W.R.H.: Bait not tempting... .H.C.: You
seem to have raced through your studies with-
out learning anything about perspective
N.T.: You haven’t much sketching ability
and you shouldn’t claim the gags as original.
. ...0.L.: A Saturday afternoon at the Zoo
should teach you what a hippo, looks like
A.E.D.: Trio of cow cockies resemble a
prickly-pear bush gone mad... .M.L.R.: Your
sketches need more life and humor... .W.K.:
What is the swagman doing with a cabbage for
a head and pipe-stems for legs? ... .D.G.: Any
line but a straight one appears to get you
into difficulties B.B.: No applause for the
oversize matron standing on her head beside
the lopsided sundial N.J.W.: It made a
1200-mile journey for nothing... .H.E.: You're
better with the pen than the brush, though no
great shakes with either J.P.: Owing to lack
of a fixative, your charcoal sketches arrived
in a deplorable state C.8.W.: Slightly Bowd-
lerised version of current smoking-room gag
firmly rejected... .S.M.A.: Despite the anti-
quity of the jest, we are willing to believe
that the illustration never saw print before
H.A.: Save gag for coronation year; you may
be able to draw better by then S.G.: To
quote a popular song, we “would rather die
than say yes.”
“Sach"’: In a Sydney police court the
other day a taxi-driver was fined 10s.
for refusing a fare. It may convince
more of the tribe that such refusal is
illegal, though they can generally find a
plausible excuse. Some years ago an inter-
state steamer arrived in Sydney, hours
behind her time. As my job was to get
to the bank before closing-time to col-
lect the pay-day money I hailed the first
taxi on the rank ; the driver shook his
head. The time was too short for argu-
ment, so I called a policeman, who con-
vinced the driver he had to take me or
get off the rank. From that time forward
the shipping company arranged with a
garage to supply the cars, and other
companies were soon following suit.
* * * *
“Lon”: Who mentioned long-range
rifles? I was surveying for the Oriental-
proof fence round the Arnhem Land
coast, and, finding it impossible to put
pegs in the rocks, I tried using bullet
splashes. Setting a rifle in a vertical
position with the aid of the theodolite,
l would fire it at sundown when the wind
had dropped, and the bullet when it re-
turned to earth made a splash on the
rocks soft enough to take a punch mark.
It worked well until my supply of
Schneider bullets was exhausted and I
had to use my Knockem-Tobitz h.v. rifle.
After half a dozen shots had failed to
come down, I gave it up and went for
my evening swim. Before I had got 50
yards from the shore a bolt from the
blue dented the lower rear portion of
my shark-proof bathing-suit, and the
truth hit me almost as quickly as the
bullet. The firing point was on a pro-
montory running north and south, and
I had forgotten to allow for the rotation
of the earth while the bullet was visiting
the stratosphere.
jf: H* H? *
Two mining men in the West view
the question of additional goldmining
taxation from different standpoints. Pro-
fessor Whitfield advocates collection of
higher taxes from profitable mines, pro-
ceeds to be used for the benefit of the
industry generally. A. J. Macgeorge con-
tends that increased taxation would be
adding to the industry’s many burdens,
including high costs. Because gold has
. more than doubled in price, he continues,
some people believe that the increase
represents additional profits. But profits
have not advanced in proportion to the
increase in price. What has happened is
that lower-grade ore is now mined; that
is to say, profits are being obtained from
ore which, at the lower price level, was
unprofitable. Furthermore, as the
result of recent mining activity, mil-
lions are being spent annually on the
search for gold, wages have risen and
rail freights have soared. It all helps
to bulge the State’s revenue.


SICK
TRAI
ESS
Speed
Comfo
in
I
Moth
e
s
s
kort Story
Writing
fyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sidney
%
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. , , .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Experienced man offers services as relieving
manager to owner of hotel or catering business
contemplating visiting England for the corona-
tion. Refs. —2821.
Chauffeur (23), Sydney, able to dismantle and
reassemble any car, desires employment in
country. Refs. —2805.
Commercial clerk, Vic., 11 years’ exp. all
office work, leaving certificate, seeks employ-
ment—2Bo9.
Lady, typist, Sydney, will type authors’
MSS.; punctuation attended to; corrections
made if necessary.—2B34.
Words of poem “Who Goes Home,” by
G. K. Chesterton.—2Blo.
To buy copies of the “Lone Hand,” or will
exchange early issues for late issues.—2B63.
To buy half-plate enlarger, complete ; also
f. 4.5 lens to cover half-plate. State full
particulars.—2B43.
To buy books by Edmund Shaftesbury and
of a similar nature; also courses of instruction
on personal magnetism and similar subjects.
—2783.
To buy The King’s Caravan, by E. J. Brady,
and other Australiana. —2830.
Information Sought.
(1) Who holds the records for the fall of
wickets in Tests between England and Aus-
tralia 3 (2) The longest-standing of these
records ? —2659.
(1) England—323 for the first wicket, 262
for third, 192 for fifth and 130 for tenth;
Australia —451 for second, 388 for fourth, 187
for sixth, 165 for seventh, 243 for eighth and
154 for ninth. (2) That for the ninth wicket,
made by Blackham and S. E. Gregory at
Sydney during the 1894 series.
$ * H= *
When was the old home known as Dangar
Castle, Potts Point, built and by whom ?
2774.
According to a paper by J. Arthur Dowling
in the Royal Australian Historical Society’s
journal the house was built on part of Judge
Wylde’s grant by Caleb Wilson and named
Caleb Castle. Date of building is not on
record. Afterwards it was known as Grantham
Ville, and was owned by F. Parbury. It then
passed successively into the hands of Henry
Dangar and his son, Henry C. Dangar, who
almost rebuilt it in 1870, and changed the name
to Grantham. Since the death of H. C.
Dangar, the property has been subdivided and
sold, and the building occupied as a boarding-
house.
* * * *
(1) When was the W.A. Secession referendum
held ? (2) Result of the voting 3—2807.
(1) April 8, 1933. (2) For Secession 138,653,
against 70,706, informal for Convention,
88,275, against 119,031, informal 9974.
* * * *
What are the rates of pay for ship’s officers
and masters employed on the Australian coast 3
—2825.
Rates, determined by awards, vary accord-
ing to tonnage and nature of ship. Pay of a
third officer ranges from £l6 Bs. to £23 12s. 6d.
per month; second officer, from £l7 Bs. to
£2B 2s. 6d.; a chief officer may advance from
a minimum of £2l Bs. to a maximum of £32
2s. 6d. The monthly salary of the master of
a cargo boat of 125 tons is £2B Bs. The
commander of a passenger ship of more than
10,000 tons receives £B4 2s. 6d.
* * * *
(1) How to become a pharmacist in Sydney 3
(2) Price of a small pharmacy 3 —2819.
(1) Necessary to be apprenticed to a registered
pharmacist for at least three years, to attend
courses of lectures at Sydney Uni. for two
years while serving the apprenticeship, to pass
examination in the subjects taken, and to
pass a final examination. Before being appren-
ticed, the applicant must pass in Latin, English,
mathematics and one other subject at the
leaving certificate or equivalent examination.
Terms of indentures for apprenticeship are
arranged to suit parties, and indentures must
be sent to the Pharmacy Board for registration,
together with fee. Uni. fees run to about
£56; other fees have to be paid to the
Pharmacy Board. (2) Not less than £6OO.
* * * *
Names of Melbourne domestic science col-
leges that take boarders 3 —2675.
The Emily McPherson College of Domestic
Economy has a hostel with accommodation for
20 to 24 students; and several schools with
large boarding establishments, such as Method-
fist Ladies’ College, Glenferrie-road, Haw-
thorn, and Lauriston, Mercer-road, Malvern,
teach domestic science as part of their curri-
culum, and also have provision for practical
training.
if. H= * *
Is the Sydney eisteddfod an annual affair 3
When does it occur 3 Does it have a literary
section 3 What is the secretary’s address 3
2769.
It has been conducted annually since 1933,
and its scope includes music (instrumental and
vocal), dramatic art, speech training, public
speaking and dancing. A literary section is
under consideration. The address of the hon.
organising secretary (D. G. Macdougall) is
fifth floor, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) A few particulars concerning the two
authors signing themselves M. Barnard Elder-
shaw 3 (2) How do they collaborate 3 (3)
Titles of their novels 3—2776.
M. Barnard Eldershaw is the joint pen-name
of Flora Sydney Patricia Eldershaw and Mar-
jorie Faith Barnard. Miss Eldershaw, born at
Wagga (N.S.W.), graduated in Arts at Sydney
Uni., and is now teaching at the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, Croydon (N.S.W.). Miss Bar-
nard, born at Ashfield, near Sydney, took her
Arts degree at Sydney Uni. with first-class
honors and a medal in History, two years later
won a University prize for a historical essay,
and is now librarian at Sydney Technical Col-
lege. (2) The writers are said to so work
over each other’s manuscripts that no part of
the novels can be ascribed to either alone, and
certainly there is no sign of any division of
labor. (3) A House Is Built (first prize winner
in 1928 Bulletin novel 'competition), Green
Memory and The Glasshouse.
* * * *
Particulars of a book of one-act Australian
plays, to be selected by William Moore and
T. Inglis Moore, for which contributions are
being invited 3—2784.
Writers are asked to forward manuscripts
to William Moore, 61 Kangaroo-street, Manly.
Stage, radio and talkie rights are reserved to
authors. Final selection will be made before
the end of the year, ; and the book will be
published next March. It is hoped that works
submitted will deal with some phase of Aus-
tralian life.
:js * * *
What prizes are being offered by the Anzac
Festival Committee, Sydney, for (1) poetry,
(2) playwriting, (3) fiction, and (4) art this
year ? General conditions governing compe-
titions ? —-2785.
(1) Patriotic poem suitable for setting to
music. Entry fee, Is. Prize, order for books
to the value of £1 Is. (2) One-act play to
last about 20 minutes (winning play will be
produced at the Anzac Eve Festival). Entry
fee, 2s. Prize, order for books, £2 2s. (3)
Short story about 3000 words. Entry fee, Is.
Prize, order for books, £1 Is. (4) (a) Design
for bookplate in any medium, symbolising the
British ideals of valor, endeavor, truth and
beauty, having an essentially Australian atmo-
sphere or subject, for Anzac Fellowship Com-
mittee. Prize, £5. ( b ) Design for a showcard
for the Anzac Eve Festival Performance.
Entry fee, Is. Prize, order for books, £1 Is.
(c) Design for programme cover, two or three
colors, for Anzac Eve Festival; size, 9in. by
s|in. Entry fee, 2s. Prize, order for books,
£2 2s. Closing date, November 30, 1936.
Entries and fees to be sent to the secretary,
Anzac Festival Committee, Scot Chambers,
Hosking-place, Sydney. Competitors may sub-
mit as many entries as desired, provided each
is accompanied by fee. Manuscripts—either
typed or in clear handwriting-must be signed
by a nom-de-plume and accompanied by a
sealed envelope containing the author’s name
and address inside and the nom-de-plume on
the outside. Art entries must bear the com-
petitor’s name and address on back.
**...**
(1) What is the ruling price of kaolin per ton
and what firms in Sydney buy it in its crude
state ? (2) Is there any difference between
coastal and inland deposits 3 —2708.
The term kaolin properly designates a pure
hydrated silicate of aluminium resulting from
the decomposition of the mineral felspar. In
common usage, however, the term is applied to
white clays such as are suitable for the manu-
facture of pottery, and is synonymous with
china clay. Prices paid by potteries for suit-
able clays vary with quality, but are generally
from £1 to £2 per ton delivered at works.
(2) There are great differences in clays from
different deposits; the only means of determin-
ing value is to submit samples to pottery manu-
facturers for practical tests.
sjc i|i »!' *!*
Information regarding the literary and other
activities of Ernest Favenc 3 —2833.
Born London, 1846, and educated in Berlin
and at Temple College, Cowley, Oxford. He
arrived in N.S.W. 1863, pioneered in Queens-
land 1865-78, and explored in Central Australia,
Western Queensland and the Gulf country
between 1878 and 1883, as well as exploring
the headwaters of the Gascoyne and Ash-
burton (W.A.). From 1888 he engaged in
journalism at Sydney, his literary activities
being chiefly concerned with Australian geo-
graphy and geographical history. His published
books include The History of Australian Ex-
ploration, The Explorers of Australia and other
standard works; also a volume of verse,
Voices of the Desert. He died December 4,
1908.
***. . * .
If an employee of a N.S.W. Shire Council
meets with an accident while engaged in his
work, what are the legal responsibilities re-
garding payment of wages during the time of
forced idleness, medical expenses, compensa-
tion when the accident necessitates the ampu-
tation of a finger, and future employment by
the body concerned ? —2531.
The N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act,
1926-1929, provides that a worker who has
received a compensatablc injury shall be entitled
to receive a weekly payment not exceeding two-
thirds of what was his average weekly earnings
for the 12 months prior to the injury, or for
any less period that he may have been employed
by the same employer. Maximum is £3 per
week. Additional payments of £1 per week in
respect of a dependent wife and Bs. 6d. per
week in respect of each child or stepchild under
the age of 14 years are payable. The total
weekly payment, however, is not to exceed the
worker’s average weekly earnings or the sum
of £5, whichever is the less. Medical and
hospital expenses not exceeding £25 in each
case may be claimed. Under section 16 of the
Act, where the injury results in a permanent
loss of a specified nature, the worker may take
a lump sum in lieu of weekly payments. If
he elects to do so, any payment, allowance,
benefit, salary or wages received from his
employer in respect of the period of incapacity
are to be deducted from the lump sum. For
the loss of a thumb, the sum of £225 is pre-
scribed, and for the index finger £150; the
lump sum prescribed for the other three fingers
is £ll2 10s. The payment of compensation for
incapacity does not of itself terminate a
worker’s contract of employment, but the em-
ployer has the right under the general law to
terminate the services of an employee subject
to the giving of any notice which may be
required by law or by the worker’s contract of
employment.
jJ{ :fc % H*
(1) What is dry ice 3 (2) Can it be used to
preserve fish and game 3 (3) Any special
packing necessary? (4) Is the substance
poisonous ? (5) Where obtainable in Tas-
mania 3 —2753.
(1) Trade name for solidified carbon dioxide.
Weight for weight, it has 15 times the cooling
effect of ice. Its decomposition product is
gaseous, and thus the moisture attendant upon
the use of ice is eliminated. (2) Yes; fish kept
in an atmosphere of carbon dioxide for six
months have suffered no ill effects. See article
in “Ice and Refrigeration,” October, 1926. (3)
When compressed into blocks the solid may
be packed in cardboard cartons for short
periods. Larger quantities are packed in in-
sulated boxes. (4) No; but very large quan-
tities of the gas would cause suffocation owing
to lack of oxygen. (5) Try Bender and Co.,
Launceston.
* * * *
(l) How many miles is Bulawayo, Southern
Rhodesia, from London and Johannesburg, and
what height is it above sea level 3 (2) What
is the climate like ? (3) Currency 3 (4) Names
of some of the leading hotels 3—2864.
(1) 6601 miles from London, 452 miles from
Johannesburg; 4440 feet above sea level. (2)
From September to April hot, especially in
September and October; for the rest of the
year comfortably warm. Rainy season, from
November to March. (3) Pounds, shillings
and pence of the same denominations as
English money. (4) Grand, Carlton, Cecil,
McGarry’s, Palace, Royal, Selbourne.
* * =!= *
Titles of two newspapers published in Eng-
lish in each of the following countries: China,
Japan, South Africa, Malay States and India,
and in South America 3—2829.
China: “North China Daily News,” Shang-
hai; “South China Morning Post,” Hong
Kong. Japan: “Japan Times and Mail.”
Tokio; “Japan Chronicle,” Kobe. South
Africa: “Cape Argus,” Cape Town; “Rand
Daily Mail,” Johannesburg. Malay States:
“Times of Malaya,” Perak, Ipoh; “Malay
Mail,” Selangor, Kuala Lumpur. India:
“Statesman,” Calcutta; “Times of India,”
Bombay. South America: “South Pacific
Mail,” Valparaiso, Chile; “Review of River
Plate,” Buenos Ayres, Argentine.
% :■! * *
(1) What measures can be taken to prevent
brown spots appearing on water-colors six or
..eights years after painting, and what is the
cause 3 (2) When framing, I paste paper to
a white pulp-board backing, using as an ad-
hesive flour-paste with the addition of a little
alum 3 Is that wrong; if so, what is the right
method 3 (3) How long should a water-color
painted with Winsor and Newton’s first-quality
colors last, if proper care be taken of it ?
2594.
(1) Cause is a fungus. To safeguard against
it cleanliness is essential: clean pigments, clean
brushes and distilled water. Before framing,
the glass should be cleaned with alcohol. (2)
It is not advisable to paste water-colors on
anything with either flour-paste or any other
medium. If the paper has been properly
stretched (using distilled water) before render-
ing, it is only necessary to gum the top edge
to the board, as with photographs. (3) With
insect-proof frames and periodic dismantling,
cleaning the glass on both sides, water-colors
should last as long as the paper they are ren-
dered upon.
* * * *
(1) Has the turbine principle been applied
to the internal combustion engine ? (2) Ad-
vantages of this machine ? (3) Reasons for
failure 3 (4) Any books on the subject 3
2803.
(1) The internal combustion turbine has been
a dream of inventive minds. Hundreds of
patents have been taken out, but few engines
on this principle have yet been constructed,
and none has so far passed the experimental
stage. The machine most nearly approaching
practical success is that designed by Holzwarth
and built by Thyssen in Germany. (2) Per-
fect balance due to its purely rotary motion;
small bulk in relation to output. (3) Most
serious difficulty is that rotor and blading have
to withstand high temperatures without scaling,
loss of form or undue reduction of strength.
(4) The Gas Turbine (Constable and Co.)
gives a description of the early experimental
machines and Kempe’s Engineers’ Year Book
(1936) makes a brief reference to later types.
*■■ * * *
English translation of the following passage
by Montaigne: “On peidt couvrir les actions
secretles; mais de taire que lout le monde scait
et les choses qui ont tire des effects publics et
de telle consequence, e’est un default inexcus-
able’’ 3—2794.
“One may cover over secret actions, but to
be silent on what all the world knows, and
things which have'had effects which arc public
and of so much consequence, is an inexcusable
defect.”
Brief Answers.
E.G.S.: (1) Write N.S.W. Govt. Tramways,
Sydney. (2) and (3) No exact records avail-
able. . . “Tasma” was the nom-de-plume
of Jessie Catherine Couvreur. Among her best
known works are Uncle Piper of Piper’s Hill
(1889), In Her Earliest Youth (1890), Not Count-
ing the Cost (1895) and A Fiery Ordeal (1897).
... .H.E.8.: If the copper plates are not
wanted again, the simplest method of removing
the gold is to make the plate red-hot and
sprinkle sulphur on it. The gold will blister
up and may be readily removed N.A.C.:
Write Forestry Commission of N.S.W., the
Assembly Hall, Margaret-street, Sydney
A.D.: N 0... .A.H.W.: Write C.5.1.R., 314
Albert-street, East Melbourne... .1.H.8.: (1)
You do not state what the misrepresentation
was. You must have some clear ground of
action before it would be wise to enter on an
action at law. (2) Yes W.F.C.: Maggots
in mushrooms are produced by small black flies
which lay their eggs in cracks in the casing
soil. The eggs hatch, the maggots feed on
mycelium and mushrooms, and eventually
change to pupae which, in turn, produce flies.
Means of combating this insect pest are
described in the leaflet, “Mushroom Culture,”
obtainable from the N.S.W. Agricultural Dept.,
Sydney.... W.H.: Particulars not available....
TJ.G.: Victorian Year Book states that,
apart from Sundays, trading is permitted in
Victoria on every day of the year except Anzac
Day (April 25), this exception having been
made in the Anzac Day Act 1925. The trading
hours are from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m A.E.F.:
No sample received F.S.: If protected
animals are injurious on a N.S.W. holding,
the Chief Secretary’s Department may license
killing a limited number. Skins of marsupials
taken under such authority may be retained or
501 d... .F.M.: Only explanation advanced of
the difference in wheat prices at Adelaide and
Melbourne is that the demand for wheat for
local use is smaller in S.A. than in Vic. About
40 p.c. of the average Vic. wheat harvest is
exported as grain, whereas the S.A. proportion
is about 70 p.c 1.D.: The books listed are
worth about 2s. each... .E.A.E.: Rather a
waste of time to attempt to polish tiles, but
you can try calcined magnesia and benzine,
mixed to a semi-liquid paste. Rub with this
on a cotton wad until the tiles are bright and
finish with a clean cloth... .F.G.: (1) Elliotts
and Australian Drug, Ltd., 20 O’Connell-street.
(2) Australian Glass Mfrs. Co., Waterloo;
Crown Crystal Glass Co., Dowling-street,
Waterloo. (3) John Sands, Ltd., 41 Druitt-
street; Colortone, Ltd., 16 Dowling-street;
Marchant and Co., 321 Pitt-street. All Sydney.
R.E.: The keeping of angora rabbits in
N.S.W. is restricted to the counties of Camden
and Cumberland, near Sydney... .E.G.S.:
Length of tram route from Circular Quay,
Sydney, to Maroubra Beach is 7 miles 37
chains J.W.S.: A paratactic construction in
grammar is an arrangement of clauses and
propositions one after another, without showing
their connection or interdependence, leaving
their logical relationship to the reader....
R.P.: The methods of working may be faulty.
The tannin penetrates only the flesh side when
the hair is left on the skin. Give the skins
plenty of liquor and handle daily. If possible,
warm liquor to 70 deg. Fahr H. 8.: The
“roaring forties” is a sailors’ term for the .
area of the southern oceans lying between 40
and 50 degrees south, where westerly gales pre-
vail... .H.K.: The secretary of the N.S.W.
Gould League of Bird Lovers is D. Leithhead,
Royal-street, Maroubra... .0.D.F.: Know of
no “lightning process” worth recommending.
A.G.L.: Norman Brookes R.M.: Holes
punched in coins destroy their collector value.
At the present price of gold the metallic
value of your half-guineas is greater than
their collector value would be if in perfect
condition... .L.W.J.: The trouble with the
bitch is acidity of the milk. Give a pinch of
bicarbonate of soda after each meal for at
least a week before and a week after whelping.
. ...N.T.: Particulars are of a private nature
and are not available... .0.J.M.: Parts obtain-
able from E. Hassett and Sons, 626 Bourke-
street, Melbourne, C.l. Charles Walker and
Co., Lydiard-street, Ballarat, Vic., were the
manufacturers... .A.J.: The President of
Czecho-Slovakia is Dr. Edvard Benes, born Koz-
lany, Bohemia, May 28, 1884. He succeeded
Professor T. G. Masaryk on December 18,
1935... .M.C.G.: The restraint must be reason-
able. “The Courts [Anson on Contracts ] will
look into the whole transaction and inquire
whether, having regard to the consideration,
the extent in time and the extent in space of
the restriction, the law will support a contract
by which a man promises to withdraw from
the community the benefits it might derive from
the exercise of his commercial skill.” In the
case stated the agreement does not appear to
be a reasonable one and should not be signed
by you H.P.: By Candle Light was written
by Siegfried Geyer, and translated into English
by Harry Graham R.L.: The trouble you
have had with the solicitors suggests some diffi-
culty in the way. You might write to the
defendants calling their attention to the long
delay and saying that if a settlement is not
come to forthwith you will call the attention
of the Court to their contempt of its order.
What you need is counsel’s advice, but that
would be expensive C.R.L.: Letters of
administration are the legal authority granted
to certain persons, usually relatives, on their
application for power to adniinister or manage
the estate of a deceased person in the absence
of any will by him. Probate is the official
proving of a will. For such a small estate as
you mention to take out letters of administra-
tion would, as the solicitor says, be useless
expense. Absence of 1. of a. will not prevent
payment of the insurance money P.H.: (1)
Blade shearing: In 1892 Jack Howe shore 321
sheep in eight hours at Alice Downs, Blackall
(Q.). Machine shearing: In 1910 Dan Cooper
shore 316 sheep in eight hours at Bundoran,
Lower Flinders (Q.). (2) The world’s record
for machine shearing for ten hours is held by
Percy dc Malmanche, who shore 412 Romney
ewes in a Taranaki shed, near Wellington (M.L.),
in December, 1933....J.D.: Get in touch with
the secretary, Child Welfare Dept., Sydney.
About 800 adoptions are arranged through this
department annually... .(Many others mailed.)


■fl (jjoocL ‘lnvestment
A Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank has
many attractions for investors. It is a
lawful investment for trust funds. In-
terest is paid half-yearly and the yield
is uniform and certain. The capital sum
is returned intact at the end of a specified
period, or may be re-invested.
Interest is paid at current bank rates,
viz:—
3 per cent, per annum for 24 months
2J » »j » » »> 12 »
A a a a a » 6 »
2 a J» >» » it .3■' M
Fixed Deposits are received and cheque
accounts opened for all sections of the
community at all Branches of the Bank.
The RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office - - 14 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Sydney Branch: 350 George Street, (Opp
Wynyard Street)
Commissioners ,t .
C. R. McKerihan (President). H. Rogers. P. Kearns.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
J - • • \ • : J: *' c- \ > .
to the MANAGER, who will quote-you price for the original
I
I
■t
MODEL C-30
r
A Demonstration Will Convince You!
Unusual power, speed, comfort, economy, attractive lines and an attractive price-
international presents all these features together, and many more, in Model C-30,
the most outstanding 35-cwt. truck investment you can find anywhere today . . .
STREAMLINED?—just the right touch of it to indicate elegance allied with stability and power.
ADAPTABLE? —Model C-30's capacity is just right for economical everyday haulage runs—far and
near.
DURABLE?—This truck is International quality built; and you know what that means. If you don't,
experienced truck drivers will tell you that International trucks will last a
man the best part of his working lifetime—ask them!
But see your local agent or write to us for a free demonstration. Try out I
this matchless modern truck yourself. Start her! Stop her! Run her at I
speed. Set the sense of stability—power—perfect control. International
Model C-30 is a truck you'll be proud to own—always.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W 1975
J
LOW PRICE
♦
35-CWT. CAPACITY
♦
SIX-CYLINDER
ENGINE
78.5 HORSEPOWER
♦
HARDENED
EXHAUST-VALVE
SEAT INSERTS
♦
TWO WHEELBASES:
133 AND 157 INCHES
. ♦
HYDRAULIC BRAKES
♦
FULL-FLOATING
AXLE
♦
SOLD AND SERVICED BY
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER COMPANY
CHASSIS PRICES
FROM
“f/t
£379
(Plus tax)
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Mac Sporran”: “Hoot Awa” may be
right in his statement (B. 5/8/’36)
that every Imperial soldier had to ac-
count for every item of his kit before
lifting his discharge. But, apart from
my “Highland hero,” a one-time cham-
pion piper of the W.A. goldfields always
appeared in his old regimentals. And no
member of the half-dozen Caledonian
Societies ever disclaimed him, though
plenty of them were Scottish-born and
knew the tartans accurately. He cer-
tainly wasn’t a deserter, for more than
once he used his discharge papers as
references of character.
* * * *
“Coif”: A neat legal point comes from
N’York. Creditors claimed the right,
under an order for levy and distress, to
take two diamonds set in the front teeth
of one Ashby, a negro, but were knocked
back by the court. Under the common
law, while valuables not actually on the
person of the distrainee, such as money
in a bag, may be taken, creditors are
powerless to touch cash or other valu-
ables carried on the person of their
debtor. If Ashby’s diamonds had been
in what the Yanks call a “denture” and
had been left lying on the radio set, say,
the bailiffs would have been within their
rights in grabbing them. As it is, they
can only stand and watch Ashby’s
dazzling smile of triumph.
* * * *
“Deucer”: La Linea (B. 12/8/’36)
must have fallen- on evil times if it has
been reduced to staging “alleged bull-
fights for tourists.”' There was. nothing
.“alleged” about the show I saw there 15
years ago. . “Coldblooded” and “inex-
pert” the slaughter was; but I should
be delighted to meet any matelot bold
enough to lead away any one of the six
bulls I saw butchered. They were mag-
nificent beasts. One charged round the
ring with a horse (rider atop) impaled
on its horns. Eight nags met an
even more sordid end than the bulls.
The only sporting act was provided im-
promptu by an embryo toreador of 14
or so who, while a bull was finding it
difficult to decide which way to charge,
scaled the barricade. Coat in one hand
and a short stick in the other, he en-
gaged the infuriated beast. He fell, and
was nosed to the edge of the arena, where
he was retrieved practically unhurt. In
spite of being walloped straightway by
his dad, he must have been the proudest
kid in Spain.
Luxury.
(By “MIRSKOV.”)
“The Russian Food Commissar is setting a
production goal of 10,000,000 bottles p.a. of
champagne, and is encouraging the workers
to drink it. M. Mikoyan said that Russians
should be persuaded to take marmalade for
breakfast with their bread and butter.”
“I would like,” I said to the comrade
waiter, “a plate of porridge and a chop.”
He looked at me darkly.
“But, no,” he said, firmly. “Since pro-
duction has been speeded up the Food
Commissar has ordered bigger meals.
The comrade will have a bottle of cham-
pagne for a start.”
“Champagne for breakfast! ” I pro-
tested. “I’m not recovering from a
bend”
“After the champagne a little —a very
little —porridge, perhaps,” continued the
comrade waiter. “Then some caviare, A
large portion of roast duck”
“For breakfast!” I exploded.
“For the good of the producers,” he
insisted quietly. “Loyal comrades must
remember that.”
“I do,” 1 said stubbornly. “And yes-
terday 1 saw a man having a plain lunch
of beer, bread and cheese.”
“Ahski! ” said the comrade waiter, “he
is an American millionaire. He can
afford to pay the fines. As for you—
here comes the champagne. And no heel-
taps.”
I woke up. I expect the comrade
workers will also wake up to find that
their lot is a little plain black bread and
an onion.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There was no colt as brilliant as
Hadrian in the Canterbury Guineas on
Saturday. Victory went to Billy Boy
(8 to 1), who outstayed the others,
though thought to be not quite ready.
He was laid at 14 to 1, and a very little
money brought him to 8 to 1. Custos
(6 to 4) and Tonga (2 to 1) were the
elect of punters.
Tonga did flatter his backers. Jones,
the little Rampion colt’s rider, let Kaleon
and Water Waggon do the early pace-
making, and took his mount to the front
at. the top of the straight; but, instead
of coming away, as Hadrian did, Tonga
compounded. Momentarily Otto had the
lead, but over the last furlong he was of
no use to Billy Boy, and Lasting, who
improves with every run, beat him for
second place. Custos ran unkindly. Un-
suited by the track, he lugged badly, and
McCarten had a job keeping him from
running off at the turns. There was a
lot of interference, and no doubt some of
the beaten ones will do better, but none
of them is likely to prove superior to
Billy Boy at the Derby weight. He is a
fine big bay colt by Pantheon—Earloona,
trained by Williams for Miss “Lorna
Doone.”
There was another great battle for
favoritism in the Canterbury Stakes.
Cuddle and Arachne each opened at 7
to 4 ; the Victorian-owned mare closed
at 6 to 4, Cuddle remaining at the initial
price. Ridden out of the barrier, Arachne
was soon clear, and, approaching the
turn for home, she increased her lead.
It was a wise move on the part of W.
Cook. The advantage thus gained proved
decisive, for Arachne, though stopping
badly, was able to hold off Cuddle and
score by half a neck. Cuddle made up a
lot of ground from the half-mile post.
The time, lmin. 12sec., equalled the race
record held by Chatham. Some Boy,
second into the straight, surprised by
running third, two lengths away. Cabal-
ist was on his girths, and Sporting Blood
was a creditable fifth.
A. Parr, who mixes riding over hurdles
with training, made a good purchase
when he gave 150 guineas for El Paraiso,
his principal being M. Kiely. Seven to
two for the Canterbury Handicap, the
son of El Cacique chased Curator into
the straight and won easily from Golden
Treasure and Curator, who was 10 to 1
in a field of five, showing that he needed
the race.
“W. Carleton,” the pastoralist and busi-
nessman who won a Sydney Cup with
Crucis, has a smart galloper in Thebez,
who is by Satelles (sire of Crucis) out
of Bernadette. Thebez was having his
first run since May, and was backed
from eights to fours for the Flying Han-
dicap. Whittingham whipped round
when the barrier was released and caused
interference to several runners, including
Kaylah. Later Siren almost came down,
and when Turbine looked to be dan-
gerous in the straight he veered away and
finished almost under the judge’s box.
Thebez settled Goorka in a short tussle
over the last furlong; Turbine came
again to run second. Autoland, one of
the also-rans, will soon be in the lime-
light.
Manly sportsman A. J. H. Gray, who
races Imbiber on lease from Hunter
White, scored with the Tippler gelding
in the Ashbury Handicap. Imbiber went
out at sevens. Kilfern got a break seven
furlongs from home, but right on the
post Imbiber caught and passed him;
Toriwa was a good third. Babili did
well to finish fourth; he nearly came
down going out of the straight. The
Freak, an Epsom candidate, lost his
chance at the start.
Ezra Norton’s Stalin (7 to 1) was too
speedy for his opponents in the first
division of the Park States ; Stalin led
throughout. Maoriland-bred (he is by
Chief Ruler—Rosellate), he will win in
better company. Dick Wootton’s Prince’s
Son (5 to 4) had to be punched out to
capture the second division. In the third
Haughty Clare (10 to 1) gave most of
the bookmakers a clean sheet.
* * * *
Valiant Chief, who never before had
won beyond a mile, was tested anew for
stamina in the Memsie Stakes at Caul-
field. Last season, as a three-year-old, he
ran fifth in the Underwood Stakes, (one
mile and 55 yards), sixth in the W. S. Cox
Plate (9| furlongs) and seventh in the
Victoria Derby. That caused the bril-
liant son of Heroic to be written down
as a non-stayer, and it was with some
reluctance that Archie Crofts entered
him for the Caulfield Cup.
Opening in equal demand with Charles
Fox at 5. to 2, Valiant Chief firmed to
7 to 4, while Sol Green’s five-year-old,
who was meeting his doughty rival on
71b. better than weight-for-age terms,
receded to fours. Young Idea (like
Valiant Chief, carrying a penalty) and
Riddle (claiming 71b.) were the only
other runners at less than double-figure
quotes.
There were both pleasing and disturb-
ing elements in the performance of
Valiant Chief. He had to be led to the
post, and when there gave some trouble
to Voitre, who was at pains to make his
mount face the barrier. Though Valiant
Chief is far from being as unruly as was
his sire, his prospects in a big handicap
field must be affected by the propensity
to veer round at a critical moment. On
Saturday he plunged as the barrier lifted,
and, taking some time to get balanced,
dropped back second-last after two fur-
longs had been covered. He had
threaded his way through the ruck at the
half-way stage and was third to Prince
Quex and Charles Fox entering the
straight. Naturally, this took a lot but
of the handsome fellow, and he did well
to make a dead-heat with Charles Fox.
Many spectators reckoned that he had
lost.
Immediately after the race Sol Green
announced that Charles Fox would not
run in the Epsom, in which the Son o’
Mine —Brilliance stallion had Bst. 121 b
exactly what he is asked to carry in the
V.R.C. Cantala Stakes.
Riddle (Baralong —Wilhelmina) set a
snorting pace in the Memsie, and this
largely accounted for the nine furlongs
being run .in lmin. 541-sec., a quarter-
second outside the course record, which
Chatham established in the spring of
1933 and Cuddle equalled in the autumn
of last year. Riddle faded away when
real business began. This suggests that
the colt doesn’t stay. Yet why was he
left out of the Caulfield Cup and entered
for the two-miler at Flemington?
Jack Holt must have viewed the
Memsie Stakes with mixed feelings. He
was represented by Young Idea (Percy
Miller’s) and Marabou (C. B. Kellow’s).
Young Idea was at fives, Marabou at
twenties. Young Idea shaped decently,
but never looked like winning. On the
other hand, Marabou trailed the field
until the straight was entered and then
came with a rush down the centre of the
track to beat Prince Quex on the post
for third and pay nearly 4 to 1 on the
place machine. Allendale, unbacked,
ran pretty well.
Marabou is coming into his own again.
He landed the Melbourne Cup like a
champion, but lost form after leaving
the stable of Lou Robertson, and in the
autumn let Kellow down so badly that
the idea of an Easter visit to Randwick
was abandoned. Marabou has filled out
into a magnificent-looking five-year-old,
and Holt proudly directed attention to
his improved appearance on Saturday.
Recovering from a recent serious illness,
Kellow was at Caulfield.
Heatherlie Handicap running did not
throw much light on the Cups. Places
were filled by Chilperic (25 to 1), In-
truder (33 to 1) and Bustard (14 to 1).
So punters burnt their fingers. Attempt-
ing to pick it in two, they had taken
11 to 4 Golden Promise and 9 to 2 Royal
Messenger. Holt trains Golden Promise
for J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C. committee ;
Royal Messenger belongs to T. Hogan,
who had a half-interest in Marabou
when he won the Melbourne Cup.
Robertson, trainer of Royal Messenger,
has a partiality for the progeny of Mar-
conigram, but so far Royal Messenger
is a long way from the Marabou class.
Royal Messenger finished down the
course; Golden Promise did a little
better, after having a rocky passage. The
Limond stallion should be given another
chance by punters. Chilperic landed the
Toorak Handicap of 1933 as a six-year-
old and was sixth in the Caulfield Cup
that year. He seems too ancient to be
dangerous this spring.
Donaster received a severe knock at
the back of the course. This settled his
chance. Bustard’s third —less than a
length behind Intruder, who lost to Chil-
peric by a head —shows that the Queens-
land-bred stallion is getting back to the
form that enabled him to beat Sylvandale
in the Williamstown Stakes of 1935. In-
truder improved vastly on his form in the
Epsom Cup a week before.
■ Ted Temby, the former W.A. trainer,
has got hold of a good three-year-old
in Conandale by the sire of Bustard.
Conandale defeated Illawarra and Boon-
garry (they dead-heated) by a length in
the Warriston Handicap. However, he
wouldn’t bring as much in the sale ring
as Boongarry; the latter, a giant, was
burly and will benefit greatly by the out-
ing. By Windbag, he is in ther stable of
Fred Foulsham.
The Blizzard, newly-arrived from .Syd-
ney, where in December he finished
second to Ilium, was the medium of a
plunge in the Doona Trial. As much
as 25 to 1 was laid against this colt, but
he firmed to 7 to 2. Possibly the left-
handed direction of galloping didn’t suit
The Blizzard, who finished tenth in a field
of 21. Aurie’s Star (8 to 1) carried Voitre
to an all-the-way victory. He hails from
S.A. and has won a number of races on
end.
Tindall annexed the Whittier Handicap
with Sculpin, a heavily backed second
favorite, who vanquished consistent old
Heros by a length, with Suncharm a
close third. Aureus, the main choice of
backers, did not rise to the occasion, by
any manner of means.
Draconic turned the tables on his
Grand National conqueror, Santa Casa, in
the Sandringham Steeple, but if the dis-
tance had been three miles and a furlong
(as at Flemington) instead of two miles
Draconic would again have had to play
second fiddle.
* * =l= *
.A. T. Creswick’s capital lot of three-
year-olds put him at the head of the
owners’ list for the 1935-36 season-
-11 successes, worth £10,987 in stake-
money. With Garrio and now Feldspar
out of their spring engagements the Vic-
torian is not likely to do as well this
year; but you never know. E. J. Watt,
the A.J.C. committeeman, was second,
his cheques amounting to £9472 lus. If
Gold Rod is a champion, as asserted.
Watt may be first instead of second in
1936-37.
* * * *
In last season’s sires’ list, Bachelor’s
Persse was second to Heroic, and Spear-
felt was fifth. Bachelor’s Persse was the
father of 35 winners of 73 races, worth
£15,909 to their owners ; Spearfelt of 41
winners of 98 races, total £12,504. A
considerable advertisement for horse-
breeding in Queensland, and the achieve-
ment was better than it looks. Naturally,
most of the progeny of these very suc-
cessful sires race in their home State,
and Queensland prizes, though by no
means to be despised, are lower than the
average of those offered in Victoria and
N. S. Wales. The merit of the Queens-
land performance is enhanced by the
fact that " Pantheon, with Peter Pan to
help, was eleventh with £10,444. Stud-
masters are now recalling with chuckles
that a sporting doctor deplored Spear-
felt’s being kept in Queensland on the
ground that he was wasting his time
there.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Melbourne games could not
alter the composition of “the four,” nor
was there any alteration in positions.
“Sowth” and Collingwood won, “Sowth”
retaining the top-of-the-table position it
had wrested from ’Wood the previous
week ; Carlton and Melbourne lost. Col-
lingwood and Melbourne were the only
top-rankers to meet, a hard game going
to ’Wood by 17 points, 11-18 to 9-13.
“Sowth” had a close call, scraping home
against Fitzroy—’Roy collared the
wooden spoon —by one point only, 11-14
to 11-13. And St. Kilda improved its
position among the also-rans with a one-
point win over Carlton, 16-10 to 15-15.
The others played among themselves.
Essendon (14-8) beat Richmond (11-10);
Footscray accounted for North, 14-8 to
12-10 ; and Geelong trounced Hawthorn,
21- to 9-15.
Next Saturday Carlton will meet Mel-
bourne in the first of the semi-finals, the
winner to meet the loser of the second
semi-final between “Sowth” and ’Wood.
* * * *
Port', Sturt, South and North are “the
four” for the Adelaide League semi-
finals. North kicked the highest tally
of the season, 31-16 against Glenelg’s
7-14, to get in ahead of Norwood, beaten
22- to 18-19 by Port.
* , * * *
The Australian Rugby team in Maori-
land struck fine weather at last for the
first Test match at Wellington. Back
and forward it played well, but it went
down after a hard game 6-11. The Aus-
tralians were 6-0 at one stage. During
the second half vigorous forward play
by the Maorilanders kept the visitors
defending almost the whole time, but on
the wings Kelaher and McLean made a
couple of dashes which nearly brought
tries. The second Test is down for next
Saturday. *
“L.M.”: The wing three-quarters in
Saturday’s match were about the fastest
lot ever seen in Wellington. Hart and
Watt, the M.L. pair, are track sprinters ;
Lfart was a national champion. Kelaher
and McLean are two of Australia’s slick-
est Union men. In Saturday’s game they
all gave the crowd a taste of their speed,
and if the ground is dry in the next Test
Maorilanders should see some thrilling
touchline duels.
“N.P.”: Killeen, who distinguished
himself as inside back in the match
against the Wallabies, played great Rugby
for Wellington in 1933. He lost form
so completely when transferred to Auck-
land that he wasn’t in the hunt when the
All-Blacks were chosen for the British
tour. On Saturday he played outside
Griffiths ; it was with Griffiths and Tin-
dill that he exhibited his best Wellington
football,
* * * *
Western Suburbs is out of the Sydney
Rugby Union premiership; University
beat it by 20-14: five tries to four. The
Students’ forwards were a harder-work-
ing lot than the West pack, and rarely
gave the ball to the backs until the line
was close and open. Only solid tackling
by the West backs kept the score down.
If the ’Varsity forwards can play the
same game against Randwick, their side
should meet Drummoyne in the “grand”
final.
The Drummoyne pack beat Randwick,
though it was a near thing—6-5. Drum
moyne did its scoring in the first half,
Randwick in the second half. Often
before the interval —and always after-
wards —Red backs didn’t run with the
ball, but kicked to make the Randwick
backs turn for it, or kept it among the
forwards.
('Continued on next page.)
“Forest Hills”: American tennis en-
thusiasts are advocating a national drive
to discover a team to regain the Davis
Cup. They are of opinion that the drop-
ping of net-play for back-court work has
been responsible for the falling-off in
their standard, and a return to the vol-
leying game is to be insisted on by the
coaches of all aspirants for the Davis
Cup label.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Joyce Wethered is en-
gaged. The happy man is Sir John
Amory, who is said to be “interested in
golf” as well as golferettes. Nothing is
said about his handicap.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Sarazen is talking of
coming back to Australia for the 1938
shivoo in Sydney. He is uncertain yet as
to his partner or partners, but is to do
his darnedest to bring Lawson Little.
FOR RANDWICK.
Novice Handicap: Barrapiul ;
next, The Athenian.
Tramway Handicap: High ; next,
Lough Neagh or Sarcherie.
Chelmsford Stakes: Talking;
next, Gold Rod or Shakespeare.
Spring Handicap: Journal; next,
Loud Applause or Sarcherie.
Welter: The Freak; next,
Tuckerbox.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
M. V. Stakes: Heroic’s Pride ;
next, Beechwood.
Bungaree Handicap: Golden
Promise ; next, Desert Chief.
Nulla Nulla Welter: L’Elite;
next, Aurie’s Star.


••f’MHtXU TACKLE TO TACKLE EIEIJIK
TROUT
SEASON
fsd
OPENS Ist OCTOBER.
New Season’s Goods have arrived.
Halford —World’s best double taoer silk
lines: 40/-; H.D.H., 42/6;
H.C.H., 45/-.
Kingfisher, double taper silk trout lines,
30 yards: No. 1, 22/6; No. 2, 25/-;
No. 3, 27/6; No. 4, 30/-.
Sil Rohu’s single taper silk trout lines,
20 yards: No. 1, 13/6; No. 2, 14/6;
No. 3, 15/6.
Quality Taper Casts, 9ft., in IX,- 2X, 3X,
4X —Foster Bros.’ English “Camouflage,”
3/6; Fallow Hewitt’s semi-invisible, 3/6;
Hardy Bros.’ Houghton, 3/3; Bartleet’s
Red Loop, 3/3.
Bird’s Sinfalta, AA Quality, 2/6.
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU,
Quality Firearms and Fishing Tackle,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street).; ’Phone; MAS 540.-
\
n
ith HARD CARBON/
-it spoils acceleration
Slow acceleration oiten means that hard
carbon is caked in your engine. Full, pow-
erful sparks instantly ignite and bum fuel
completely and retard the formation of car-
bon, Why drive a sluggish, noisy car? Keep
carbon at a minimum by installina new
Champions once every year.
Oa,
%
t
Pi, Sparking
Lanampitm piu gs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
v.
MADE IN WIN PS OH ■ CANADA ;
• -an empire product-
w
m
MADE IN
W AUSTRALIA
BY
IOSE
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne:
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The “National” Boxing “Club” has had
another eventful week. At the beginning
it put on a dull bout between one of
its Americans and a Port Kembla man
whose merits as a boxer were discussed
during a lady promoter’s action for
damages (she recovered £35) against
Leo Kelly. Kelly had pulled out of an
engagement to box the Port Kembla
man; he suggested that £lO would
be enough for Port Kembla, as Port
Kembla wouldn’t last a round. Port
Kembla’s mill with the other American
went six rounds, it being unduly pro-
longed. Next day Palmer and Rosen-
bloom gave exhibitions in the ring at
Rushcutter Bay, it having been an-
nounced that they were to meet on the
following Monday. Within 24 hours
or so Palmer was on his way back to
Melbourne, alleging that the “club” had
altered the conditions on which he had
agreed to return to the ring. If there
is any light it will be a Supreme Court
affair.
❖ ijc *
Norman Green, the youngest member
of a fine Australian fighting family to
become a professional boxer, was one
of the principals in a ten-rounder at
Leichhardt on Wednesday. He is a
bantam like his great-uncle, Teddy
Green, who was a champion at the
weight 30-odd years ago, and in out-
pointing Hickey, who was 41b. heavier,
he showed no little amount of the Green
skill and zest. And Hobbs got a decision
over Carroll, after having him down at
the fourth round. Hobbs looks like
becoming what the Australian boxing
world has not had for years and years
—a first-class lightweight.
* * * *
Jones, the negro middleweight, has
been matched with Henneberry for “the
Australian championship,” having, it is
alleged, qualified by residence to box
as an Australian. Yes, it was Tom
Paterson, the peaceful cow-farmer from
Gippsland, now Minister for the Interior,
who said that negro boxers were admitted
to Australia for “only a limited period.”
Ins and Outs
“Aigburth”: After running second
last year, Derbyshire, though beaten in
the last match by Somerset, has won the
county championship. Derbyshire has
contributed more than one fine player
to England elevens, notably that eccen-
tric ’keeper-batsman Storer, who was
here with Stoddart in 1897-98. Worth-
ington and Copson are the county’s rep-
resentatives in the coming English team.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: After a bad start, Ham-
lond has finished the English cricket
season with a devastating burst of run-
making. Against Notts he made 317 in
64 hours, the last 113 in 80 minutes.
His aggregate of 1281 runs for August
is the highest total in one month in
English cricket; it tops by three runs
the record of “W.G.,” which had stood
since 1876. This is the sort of stuff
Hammond gave us in 1928-29, when he
totalled 1553 runs for an average of
91, scoring 251 and 200 in Tests.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The English cricket team
has been strengthened by the inclusion
of Wyatt as seventeenth man. The
return of this fine sportsman will be wel-
comed in the Commonwealth, and an
asinine English newspaper comment to
the effect that he was picked to complete
a bridge four of amateurs left Austra-
lians cold. The choice was largely influ-
enced by the need of a non-bowler ama-
teur to act as vice-captain in Allen’s
place.
* * *
“Tenth Slip”: F. R. Foster, the left-
handed Warwickshire amateur bowler
who was in Australia with Warner’s 1911-
12 team, has been going through the
Bankruptcy Court in spite of the fact that
he was drawing a salary of £4OOO a year
for a long time. He attributed his insol-
vency to betting on horses and at the
dogs. Foster was the first to exploit
regularly the leg trap, of which so much
fuss has been made of late years, and
he did so, as O’Reilly did in South Africa,
without maiming batsmen. He and
Barnes were one of the most formidable
bowling combinations ever sent from
England, and the pair cleaned up the best
of Australian batting. England won four
of the five Tests, and Foster headed the
bowling with 66 wickets —Barnes took
59. Foster was a class batsman as well.
* * 5: *
•“Jolimont”: The N.S.W. selectors
made a good job of picking the teams for
the Bardsley-Gregory benefit match in
Sydney. McCabe will lead an Australian
XI which includes all the South African
tourists save Barnett, Sievers and
O'Brien: O’Brien has been included in
The Rest team, skippered by Bradman ;
others are Tallon, Morrisby, Leather,
Badcock, Robinson and White.
**■ . * *
Grade cricket in Sydney begins on
September 26 and ends the first week in
March. Public interest in this class of
cricket diminishes each year, and, as most
of the club cracks will be absent during
the season in Sheffield matches and en-
“I don't like this game at all. There have been two men following us
all the afternoon."
counters with England, this season is
likely to be duller than usual. In Mel-
bourne it is different; there the pennant
matches arouse some interest and draw
fair crowds. And the finals are gener-
ally interesting.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Adelaide is to be
honored by the Board of Control —that
august body meets there on September
20 for the first time. It will appoint a
captain for the Australian team and
make final arrangements for the English-
men’s tour as well as the 1938 trip to
England by the Australians. Most im-
portant of all, it will fix the rate of
emolument to be handed to amateurs
chosen for. Test matches, while the
broadcasting of Tests wil also be con-
sidered.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Brisbane is getting in
early with preparations for the Test
match in December. Some £6OO is being
spent jin increasing seating accommoda-
tion, and the reserved-seats plan has been
opened. The booking fee is £l, and ad-
mission prices—2s. outside the grand-
stand and 4s. 6d. for that exclusive en-
closure —must be paid as well. Brisbane
set the rest of the States an example in
this matter of reserving seats for big
cricket and football events. The inno-
vation has proved a pronounced success.
Footbrawl
“O. Ren.”: One of the things wrong
with the Australian Rules game was illus-
trated in Adelaide when Glenelg, playing
Port Adelaide, kicked 20 gaols 11 be-
hinds and was yet beaten by 57 points,
or the equivalent of 9 goals 3 behinds.
In the match 47 goals and 37 behinds
were scored, and if one reckons, at con-
servative estimates, a half-minute’s inter-
ruption of play for each goal and a
quarter-minute’s for each behind, about
a third of the total playing time was in-
nocent of play. In three other games
on the same day, 92 goals and 83 behinds
were scored, giving a total of 139 goals
120 behinds: average per game, approxi-
mately 35-30 ; average waste of time,
approx, one-quarter of each match, at
least. The remedy is obvious: narrow
the spaces between the sticks.
H! H* * *
“Taihoa”: Persisting in trying to play
fine-weather football in rain and mud,
the Australians were beaten 19-13 by
Wairarapa and Bush districts at Carter-
ton. A Maoriland message, commenting
on the statement that the pack in this
match was best, says there
were far too many loose forwards in it,
thus echoing a Bulletin criticism of the
Australian vanguard when it was selected.
“Amateur Pro.”: There are signs that
many Rugby Union supporters in Sydney
are finding the strung-out season too long,
running, as it does this year, from April
18 to September 19. Year by year it
grows longer, and the reason is that the
Union’s absorption of League ideals has
made the prospect of extra gates more
and more tempting. Two rounds of
competition are plenty, the team with
the highest percentage being premiers.
“Special” finals and “grand” finals call
for the axe.
* * * *
“North End”: There has been a mild
breeze in the N.S.W.R.U. because the
semi-final between University and W.
Suburbs was set down for Western’s
ground, whereas Uni. wanted a neutral
arena. There is a well-founded belief
among footballers that to play on ones
own ground is a distinct advantage. This
is particularly true of English Soccer,
in which adherents of the most poweriul
clubs are never surprised when their
fancy goes down away from home.
There is a classic instance in the story
of the argument between the English
and the Scots Tommy during the war as
to the merits of their fighting men. “Ony
way,” said the Scot, “we lickit ye weel at
Bannockburn.” “W’ere’s that?” asked
the Cockney. “In bonnie Scotland, ye
gomerii.” “Ah,” replied Atkins, “that
accounts for it; we was playin’ away.”
* $ * *
“Cottesloe”: The King’s School foot-
ballers from N.S.W., on their way to
Britain to play Rugby schools there,
tackled a Westralian side at Perth and
were walloped 32-6. Condition may have
had something to do with it, but most
of The King’s players have been playing
together in G.P.S. football this sdason,
and this was Westralia’s first combined
gallop. Pity the Westralians cannot get
a chance to develop their game against
the States to the east of them.
* * =l= *
“Stir”: A somewhat delicate question
cropped up at a recent meeting of the
Ma State Rugby League. A country
delegate wanted to know how the domi-
cile of a player who had been transferred
from his own district to one of H.M.’s
jails in another was to be defined. The
meeting did not settle the question, but
it was the general opinion that the trans-
fer, not originating with the player or
the League, should be ignored.
* * * *
“Gate”: There has been a horrible
slump in Sydney Rugby League takings
this season, revenue to the end of August
being £3BOO less than in the previous
year. This has been attributed to the
loss of interest in club matches after the
departure of the Englishmen. Actually
the drop has been steady from the start
of the season. The truth is that Union
Rugby is now more attractive to watch
than the League game. In the latter
there are too many scrums.
“Tenakoe”: The M.L. Soccer folk
have asked Australians to share in the
tour of an English Soccer team next
season. It is to last nine weeks, and
Australia may take four at an estimated
cost of £l5OO. The Englishmen are to
leave Britain in April. Given decent
weather conditions, they should earn
their passages if their form is good. The
professional team which came to Aus-
tralia in 1925 cost £20,000, but even then
there was a small credit balance.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Marino”: Two Maoriland girls were
left in the final of the Australian cham-
pionship at Adelaide. Oliver Kay, the
winner in 1933, gdt it again, beating Mrs.
Fullerton-Smith (Betty Gaisford) 5 and 4.
Daughter of a M.L. professional, Miss
Kay has played golf since babyhood.
Her game at Adelaide was as near fault-
less as could be.
Well as the Maoriland girls did in
those singles, their team was beaten by
the Australians, matches to 2j, in the
inter-Dominion clash at Adelaide for the
Tasman Cup. It was neck-and-neck all
the way. Scores were even in the singles
when Mona McLeod, of Victoria, and
Mrs. Horwell reached the last green. The
Victorian got down in four; her oppo-
nent missed the putt for the half, and
all was over.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian golf
championships provided surprises. For
the foursomes title, Whitton and Ryan
downed Williams and Payne by a stroke.
The game was over 36 holes of the east
course at Royal Melbourne, and the win-
ners returned a card of 152. But N.S.W.


W:
DON
ATHALDO
•‘Super Man
of the
Afire”
7 IQTFN t 1 have made the
greatest and most
amazing discoveries about MUSCLE-
building and SUPER-STRENGTH
that you ever heard of! I have
learnt that STRENGTH and SEX
are connected! I have put the whole
story into a brand new book
crammed full of marvellous pictures
—and for a little while you can
have that book FREE.
“Book is for MEN OHLY !”
VUHKTHER you are weak or strong—
» ” sickly or healthy—young or old
overweight or underweight—regardless
nf WHAT your condition may be. send
NOW. It will show you how WEN
JTST like YOFRSEEF have grown
.STRONG. It will show you the way to
a superbly-built body—to broad shoulders,
powerful muscles, a deep chest, a slim
wmstline, {symmetrical legs—to splendid
health, and vitality in every organ «f
your body. FREE
Put your name and
address on cou-
pon and get
Your FREE
Copy NOW
from—
DON
ATHALDO
305
PITT ST.,
SYDNEY
1/
ar
Kr
All in the patent
Everfresh 2~oz . tins at 2/6.
Don’t think of changing
If you have found a Tobacco
which takes the place of true and
trusted friends, and sometimes (if
need be) even of food or drink—
be thankful ♦ ♦ * don’t think of
changing*
But, if you are still seeking such
a Tobacco, one that you want to
discover for yourself and forever
after cleave to ♦ ♦ ♦ try one of the
cheery, chummy, fully satisfying
Barney blends*
There are three: Punchbowle,
a full strength Barneys; Barneys,
the ideal medium strength; and
Parson’s Pleasure, the mild blend*
All are equally good, differing
only in strength to suit the palate
of the discerning pipe smoker*
oAt all good tobacconists . . . ask for
The Ideal Tobacco
golfers suffered the worst shock, for their
idol, Jim Ferrier, was beaten 4 and 3 in
the third round of the singles by
Williams. Ferrier was outplayed in all
departments. He may be a bit stale after
his European tour; his form in the
foursomes earlier in the tourney sug-
gested this. All the same, the Victorian
has beaten the Manly lad on the five
occasions they have met. Ferrier’s luck
may turn in the Australian amateur at
Melbourne.
Williams went on to the final after a
hard match with Jackson. In the final
he beat Ryan, 4 and 3.
* * sis H:
“Sandy Gallop”: Loud and furious
was the acclamation at Brisbane when
the State open and close champion, Von
Nida, beat Gene Sarazen in their match
for £5O a side, two up. The play was
close all the way, Sarazen being only one
down and two to play at the sixteenth.
Von Nida halved the next and took the
eighteenth with a three. The Queens-
lander will be figuring in the Australian
championships which start in Melbourne
on September 19, and if he can get used
to the heavier southern courses should
do well. He had some experience of them
on his recent successful Tasmanian tour.
“Woogaroo”: Norman von Nida will
probably dig-in in Sydney after the Aus-
tralian championships. He has been
offered a job with one of the big Sydney
clubs. Playing in Sydney against oppo-
sition superior to what he can find in
Brisbane is bound to sharpen up his
game.
* * $ *
“Hamilton”: Sarazen is to give £5O
for a caddies’ competition. It is stated
that it will be confined to N.S.W. and
Victorian caddies, who will play quali-
fying rounds, the winner in each State
meeting in the final in Sydney, when
Gene will referee. Gene’s object is to
encourage the game among caddies, from
whose ranks many of the best profes-
sionals have sprung. It is to be hoped
Sarazen will include Queensland in his
scheme. Von Nida won an annual
tourney for caddies founded by a Bris-
bane newspaper.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland golfers, who
have been at odds with the Australian
golf authorities because the latter will
not allot them an Australian champion-
ship meeting, have now turned on one
another, and for much the same reason.
Gailes, which is some distance out of
town and cheek by jowl with a large
mental hospital, has been pressing for a
long time for a State championship meet-
ing on its course. Finally turned down,
it proceeded to give Brisbane and Royal
Queensland the rounds of the kitchen,
alleging that these clubs have an arrange-
ment with the State authorities to keep
the championships to their own courses
so that they may profit by the money
involved. It is a wild and whirling accu-
sation ; the profits on golf championships
in Australia, in Brisbane especially,
could be. shoved in a pillbox and would
rattle then.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
tennis heads have been compelled to
crawl down over the prospective Tilden-
Vines visit, as they had to do over
Cochet’s, and from refusing to counten-
ance the professionals have consented to
notice them. The N.S.W. body, which
followed the Australian lead originally,
has also somersaulted, and has cabled
about terms to Tilden and his mate. It
was a case of “had to,” for the powerful
N.S.W. hardcourt body backed the tour
from the start, and Queensland was in
favor of it. The A.L.T.A.’s excuse was
that it feared the effect the professional
visit would have on State and Australian
championship “gates.”
* * * *
“Milton”: John Bromwich recently
fell foul of the tournament committee
at Southport (Q.), and that body has re-
ported him to the N.S.W. hardcourt asso-
ciation, under whose banner John was
in Queensland. The accusers say he first
refused to play in singles, but consented
after a lengthy argument. He added to
this wickedness by later refusing to play
doubles in company with Gilchrist.
Many will sympathise with the youth.
He and his kind are hawked all round
the country giving exhibitions for which,
as amateurs, they receive no reward,
while the concerns promoting the tour-
neys pouch good profits. McGrath is a
shocking example of this exploitation.
Another young player, Lindo, has just
been compelled to withdraw from these
circus tours and take a much-needed rest.
Miscellaneous
“R.D.”: Sydney is to stage the 1938
Australian bowling carnival. It is anti-
cipated that the winners of singles, pairs
and rinks will be chosen to represent
Australia in the Empire Games. Vic-
toria holds the record for the largest
number of entries in any Australian
tourney of the kind —314 rinks and 1070
singles in 1928. John Scott, president
of the A.8.C., Percy Pidgeon, N.S.W.
president, and Charlie Smart, secretary,
have vowed to see those figures well
beaten in 1938.
* * * *
“Red Disc”: Macleod of The Bul-
letin was the second president of
the N. S. Wales Bowling Associa-
tion—for three years, 1906-1909. In
1909 there were 30 clubs with approxi-
mately 2000 members ; to-day there are
161 clubs (with another 30 in formation)
and 9000 members. Taking Australia as
a whole, there were then 8000 players ;
to-day’s number is over 30,000. Did
William Macleod or his predecessor,
John Young, ever visualise such an in-
crease? In the Waverley (N.S.W.) club-
rooms are two or three oil-paintings by
W.M.; and James Wall, patron of the
N.5.W.8.A., exhibits an oil-painting of
himself by the same artist, proudly hang-
ing in the ancestral hall. “Hop,” of The
Bulletin, was an active member of the
Mosman club for many years. A bronze
statuette of “Hop” bowling, executed by
himself, has been presented to the Mos-
man Club by L. Ponsford, of Kensing-
ton.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: In a recent speech in
Queensland, Arthur Postle, one of the
best professional sprinters the world has
known, blamed the Australian failure
at Berlin to lack of specialisation in sport.
Young athletes attempted supremacy in
half a dozen lines, with the result that,
eventually, they did not go beyond medi-
ocrity in any of them. On this text The
Bulletin has preached time and again,
with special reference to Metcalfe’s
efforts early in his career at Sydney
Uni. to take every event from javelin-
throwing to hurdle-racing. If that young
man had specialised in one or other of
the jumping events, for which he showed
outstanding aptitude, he might not have
been beaten at Berlin. Already there is
another Sydney schoolboy athlete who
is attempting whole programmes while
obviously a natural high jumper.


■lt
Iff
'Sif-
m-
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 221-
m
HOTEL
SYDNEY
S'.V'':-
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
September Issue Now on Sale.
THE WOOL QUESTION
WILL SHARE PRICES HOLD?
TRADING IN COMMODITY FUTURES
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC..
Unlisted Securities, Ltd.
Registered in Canberra on August 18,
1936, this concern has issued a pros-
pectus dated two days later. A copy of
it was last week brought to The Bulletin
office by one of the co.'s directors, Wil-
liam C. Hewitt, a Maoriland barrister
and solicitor, and formerly a director of
the British National Trust, one of the
McArthur cos. He subsequently worked
with the N.S.W. Public Trustee for five
months on these cos.’ affairs.
Mr. Hewitt subscribed for 150 £1 ordi-
nary shares at the formation of Un-
listed Securities, and H. J. Perkins, an-
other director, took 50. The pros-
pectus says there are no founders’, man-
agement or deferred shares, no pro-
moters’ consideration, and that no
material contracts have been entered into.
Mr. Hewitt is to receive £l3O in respect
of preliminary exes, paid, and H. J.
Perkins and S. Grange (also a director)
will be “entitled to receive commission
at a rate not exceeding 10 p.c. of the
nominal value of any shares hereby
offered for which they shall procure sub-
scriptions.”
Nominal capital is £250,000 in £1 ords.
The principal idea is to acquire “shares,
bonds, debentures and other issues not
officially listed” in exchange for the co.’s
scrip. Shares may also be issued for
cash. Mr. Hewitt has intimated that
forestry bonds and shares will receive
particular attention.
The prospectus says: “To invest with
safety to-day requires a wide experience
in investments, sound judgment and an
.ability to ascertain fact's on which to
base such judgment.” Also,
To ensure safety, investors in unlisted
securities require the assistance of those
who specialise in investigating the posi-
tion and prospects of uniisted securities,
in watching the conditions -affecting such
securities, and in the scientific marketing
of such securities.
The hazards of the investment field are
such that only by co-operation can the
maximum of efficiency be obtained.
There is a quantity of such counsel in
the prospectus. It is a document in which
more than usual detail is given to the
prospective investor —it was the first pros-
pectus filed in N. S. Wales under the new
Act. But there are fundamentals to be
considered, chief of which are manage-
ment, prospects of large-scale co-opera-
tion of investors in such a scheme, the
means by which securities will be valued
for exchange purposes, and whether the
services of the co. and its officers will
have the result of bringing in to share-
holders more than they are at present re-
ceiving from their unlisted securities.
Two of the three present directors
(Perkins and Grange) are sharebrokers.
They are not members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange. Even if they were
it would be no guarantee of expert-
ness in the matter of making profitable
investment changes. Mr. Perkins and Mr.
Grange are to be allowed up to 10 p.c.
commission on the shares they sell—not
an excessive amount, if it covers all sell-
ing exes. But it is a percentage of capital
lost in making the change in investments ;
and there will be, of course, other ex-
penses of a capital or revenue nature.
The question is whether advantages
gained will offset these disadvantages.
If this co. succeeds in creating a market
for forestry bonds and shares it may do
good. Where a person holds sound
revenue-producing securities, however,
even if they are unlisted, though there is
a possibility that he may do better by
a change into this co.’s shares, there is
also the chance that he may do worse.
He may know the basis on which his
securities were taken from him ; he does
not know whether other shareholders
have given equal value, unless they have
exchanged similar securities. This is
one of the inherent weaknesses of any
scheme where shares are issued for con-
sideration other than cash.
Mandated Alluvials is the latest min-
ing stock to put cash into Sydney share-
brokers’ pockets on the grand scale.
There are only 46,300 ss. shares issued
(20,000 of them were taken by two
affiliated cos.), but in the week to last
Thursday official ’Change dealings, ex-
clusive of vestibule sales, numbered
27,000. Brokerage on the basis of 31s.
a share—the scrip touched 41s. on Thurs-
day, but dipped sharply to 325. on Friday
following announcement of a new share
issue—would amount to £1350 on that
lot. If dealings at last week’s official
rate and prices went on for a year
brokerage raked off would amount to
more than six times present paid capital
of the co.
Are shareholders likely to be re-
munerated at that rate —600 p.c. p.a.?
“Where Were YOU all night? There ain't a Word in the paper about
a burglary!"
Les Davies, who reported on the show
early this year, and who has taken an
active interest in it since the beginning,
liked prospects. Other mining opinion
has been favorable. But last week shares
were bought less as an interest in a mine
than as gambling counters —forward deal-
ings show that. The usual “wishing” to
higher prices was going on —£5 was to be
touched, according to Pitt-street gossip.
That sort of thing does incalculable harm
to mining. It would be interesting to
know how many people who bought at
40s. last week are prepared to sit tight
to the production stage.
* * * *
Following the acquisition (in February)
of a large block of ord. shares in Men-
zies Hotel, Melbourne, Norman Bede
Rydge, of Sydney, who was associated
with the recovery in Carlton and Usher’s
hotels, was made managing director of
the Bourke-street pub. The shares rose
from 6s. 6d. to 15s. 9d. in no time in
expectation of big things ; but profits for
the year to June 30 (£10,601) have shown
a regression of £l2. A threepenny div.,
the same as last year, has been paid, and
the sharemarket offers 12s. 3d. for the
scrip, sellers asking 13s. 3d. Premises
are being renovated and other improve-
ments made. It will require a lot of
effort to pay reasonable divs. on the con-
cern, which is capitalised at £310,000,
plus £102,000 of liabilities.
* t- * *
Stout-hearted people, unafraid of the
big bad wolf at Canberra, who be-
lieve that the cement industry has reason-
able prospects, will find that “arbitrage”
is again a factor in the cement-share-
market. The Kandos Co. (N.S.W.) and
Australian Cement (Vic.) each hold
1,000,000 shares in the operating co. At
21s. per 16s. share, Kandos scrip is at
265. 3d. per £1 ; Australian Cement is at
28s. Because of a slightly lower capital-
isation, 'the N.S.W. co. is the better
equipped to pay divs., and is more attrac-
tive buying.
* * * *
Australian textile mills absorb a tenth
of our clip, a condition of things which
has shown little variation since it was
pointed out in The Bulletin in 1932, fol-
lowing the effects of restricted overseas
buying power. We couldn’t buy all the
overseas goods we wanted, so some had
to be made here ; and it was natural
that wool, our staple land product,
should figure more largely in Australian
manufacture. Our millowners are
already a factor in toning up wool prices ;
with Australia’s population doubled, the
chairman of Winchcombe, Carson says,
they would be most influential buyers:
❖ * * *
Michael Nairn and Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
made a profit of £31,780 from linoleum
manufacturing last year, as compared
with £26,370 in the preceding term. On
paid capital of £300,000 it represented
almost 10.6 p.c. Accumulated losses are
being wiped out with earnings ; the sheet
should soon be clean. The Lino. Mfg. Co.
of Aust. received 80,000 shares for the
old business, bought from the bank,
which the Nairn Co. took over at
Meggitt’s request in 1928. Meggitt, Ltd.,
is interested in the Nairn’s Australian off-
shoot as a shareholder and supplier of
linseed oil, which constitutes one-third
of the bulk of lino.
Associated Pulp and Paper 7s. 6d.-paid
shares have had a stronger market since
disappointed stags unloaded. -Quota-
tions in Melbourne were firm at 6s v lid.
last week.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam, with a final distribu-
tion of 3| p.c., brought its total year's
distribution up to 6 p.c., the same as in
1934-35. At 295. 6d. the shares yield 4.1
p.c. Though the co. has a big capital
(£2,325,135), there is every indication that
asset-values are conservatively stated in
the books. It is a good stock, though not
very active.
* * * *
The yield on Commonwealth bond*
continues to creep up. The average on
all issues, including redemption, is now
around £3 19s. per cent., as against
£3 14s. p.c. in January.
* * * *
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd., a Vic-
torian concern making shirts, underwear,
etc., early in 1934 decided to commence
weaving cotton tweeds, drills and denims.
A large additional outlay on plant was
necessary, and the new section had hardly
got going when the Government repented
of its action in granting tariff protection,
and permitted the entry of competing
Lancashire piece-goods under license.
This has continued, and earnings have
suffered, though turnover for the year
to June 30 was up 36 p.c. Net profits
(£21,442, after allowing £24,919 for de-
preciation and £llOO for bad debts) im-
proved £11,511 —conditions in the weav-
ing section got better towards the end of
the year. A 5 p.c. ord. div., after attend-
ing to the prefs., took most of the profit.
Depreciation, a very important item,
seems to have been well provided for.
»{•
Gold yield from the Bendigo field for
August was 28590 z., compared with
30560 z. in the same month of 1935. The
first eight months of the current year
has 24,3510 z. to its credit, as against
22,0660 z. in the corresponding part of
1935. No Bendigo show looks like com-
ing up to Morning Star’s (Wood’s Point)
output figures. Over the range from
Warburton, in wild country, this rich
little show was top-scorer in Vic. in
1935, and may be again this year, though,
because of a breakdown in the old air-
compressor, operations were suspended
on August 19, and will not be resumed
until the new plant comes into full swing
about the end of this month.
* * * $
In Melbourne last week: —•
Dunlop Perdriau, in a preliminary state-
ment, showed a profit of £305,680, up £185,660,
equal to 5.6 p.c. on ord. capital, allowing for
pref. requirements. A 5 p.c. div. was declared.
It is the best showing since 1930, when 6 p.c.
was handed to ord. shareholders.
Wattle Gully (Chewton) announced a
crushing of 204 tons for lOOoz. A good deal
of development ore has been going into
millings, and the sharemarket fancies the scrip
at 30s. The co.’s own battery should soon be
working. It has been a consistent little pro-
ducer to date.
The contribs. of Morning Star (Wood’s
Point) number 200,000, paid to Is. 3d. They
sold at 3s. 6d. The fully-paid 4s. shares
(200,000 of them also) changed hands at a
penny or so higher. At 3s. 6d. all round, the
valuation is £70,000. There have been two
sixpenny divs. (paid in March and July), total-
ling £20,000, and the outlook is promising.
Plant is being reorganised, and should com-
mence work again this month. In July, 9400 z.
of gold was won, making 2888 oz. in four
months.
Central Nell G Wynne (Bendigo), following
announcement of another shilling div.,
strengthened to 345.
Broken Hill South shares sold to £5 17s.
6d., the highest quote for some time, follow-
ing profits declared at £143,687 higher for the
year. Norths, at £9 155., were also strong.
Were’s Investment Trust lifted its div.
from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c., and announced that
300,000 new ss. shares are to be issued at par.
The co. started off during the boom year,
1928; after the vicissitudes of the slump it now
shows an investment portfolio valued at £16,429
under the market.
- Howard Smith ords. firmed to 19s. 6d.
following resumption of quarterly divs.
Myer ords. were much firmer at 365. 6d.
Accounts and div. are due next month.


MONEY CANT BUY THESE
EXCEPT IN
i
:*uv*v.
NO OTHER CAR IN THE WORLD HAS ALL BUICKS FEATURES
One, two or a dozen of Buick’s features, would not make another
ear “as good as a Buick.” To be “as good as Buick”—well, it
would just have to be a Buick—buflt as Buick is built—with all
Buick’s features—and the 33-year-old Buick quality hammered
into every bolt and forging. What other car can give you all this—
Buick Valve-in-head Straight
Eight Engine. 10% more efficient
than other types —giving more power
from every drop of petrol—and
silent all its life. The wellspring of
Buicks all-conquering performance.
Buick Anolite Pistons. A new
metal to meet the year-ahead per-
formance of that phenomenal engine.
As durable as cast iron yet 50%
lighter—prolonging bearing life by
150%.
Buick’s Genuine Knee Action.
The fact that the world’s most
modern racing cars use Knee Action
speaks volumes for its safety and the
extra margin of road-control it gives.
Comfort is not the only virtue of
Knee Action—although a day in
Buick is less fatiguing than a few
hours in ANY conventionally sprung
car.
Buick Torque Tube Drive
Another reason for Buick’s famous
“gliding ride” and freedom from
back lash and chassis shudder.
Torque tube drive puts no driving
strain on back springs—their only
job is cushioning the car.
Buick Perfected Tiptoe Hy-
draulic Brakes. Buick’s pheno-
menal performance needs super-
brakes. That’s what these are. Not
just a case of liquid doing the work
of rods—but the whole braking
mechanism perfected for the quickest,
smoothest straight-line stop of 1936
—at a toe touch!
Buick Built-in Luggage and
Tyre Compartment. Ample
capacity —and helping instead of
hindering the graceful lines of the
body.
Buick’s Beautiful Safety Body
by Holden, with"Armourplate”
Safety Glass Windscreen. The
smartest, safest, strongest body built
—luxuriously upholstered and fitted,
and endowed with more head-
room and legroom than you’ll ever
need.
Buick Centre Control Shock-
less Steering. Keeps road shocks
from being transmitted to wheel and
takes all the “fight” out of the
steering.
Buick Sealed Chassis. Keeps
dirt and water from all moving
parts, protects from wear and
erosion.
Buick Girder X Type Frame.
Built like a battleship, keeping the
car firm, stable and levehkeeled.
Buick Automatic Starting,
Ignition, and Heat Control
for convenience, efficiency, economy.
Buick Ride Stabiliser for
elimination of sidesway at speed or
on curves.
'(Licks
G.M-H. Car Radio.
The most mellow pas-
senger your car could
have—G.M-H. “Airchief”
9-valve performance with
6 valves, £27 plus tax.
8358-44.
Those are but some of the things that money can’t buy— except in a Buick. There’s more than
could be told here—the many other mechanical features—the “feel” of driving a Buick the pride
of possessing a car with beauty and quality that are more than duco-deep. Take the wheel of a Buick
and let the car speak for itself! GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD,
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED BUICK DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Buick dealers throughout Australia
The Coles Hullabaloo
It isn’t often that a disturbance occurs
on the board of a prosperous public co.
% . , , . ,
Sydney people were highly entertained a
few years ago by the annual meeting and
y , 6 ' . . . , ■ ®
adjourned meetings of Associated News-
papers, about the time the “Evening
F „ a r 5
News and Daily Guardian passed
out. The row in that case was mainly
around the question of who had been
to blame in the Past and who was to
have control in the future. The ord.
shares sank to a couple of shillings on
’Change ; profits of the surviving papers
were down, and finances were strained.
Squabbles over and half the ord. capital
jettisoned, the business quickly made
recovery.
The conflict on the board of G. J.
Coles and Co. is in different circum-
stances; 121 p.c. divs. are being paid,
and the £1 ords., up to 86s. a short time
ago, are still above 80s. The pivotal
question is whether working-directors’
remuneration should be disclosed to
shareholders, of whom there are 2500,
the largest proportion in Victoria and
Maoriland.
There are, perhaps, two sides to the
argument; but G. J. Coles, founder of
the co., seemed to have a case that
called for every investor’s attention when
he * ast wee^:
, 1 want to I P ake perfectly clear that I
have always been in favor of paying the
executive officers—indeed, all employees—
salaries commensurate with their responsi-
bilities. That is a policy which 1 myself
have pursued since the inception of the
business. But I do say that shareholders
are entitled to the fullest information
regarding the salary and bonuses paid to
executives who are directors, particularly
under the present system by which they
J™ ena F “f t d he , ° ifi s e q4e° wroVforTuch
directors to take the stand virtually that
they own the company and will tell share-
holders only as much as they think fit in
relation to these matters.
G.J. further said that the working-
directors’ remuneration figures (£63,000
in 1934-35 and £57,000 in 1935-36) men-
tioned by J. B. Tait, a shaieholder, at
the annua l meeting, were actually under-
estimates.
G. J. Coles wants two investors
outside of the business on the director-
ate “in order to modify the present
system of directors who are also execu-
tives making contracts with themselves
under which they draw large sums with-
out the knowledge of shareholders.”
G.J. says he was given to understand by
his brother, A. W. Coles, chairman of
the annual meeting, that such a change
would be carried out, two other directors
having agreed to resign; instead, A. W.
Coles and F. P. Derham resigned, and the
board (G.J. was three minutes late for
the meeting) decided to call a general
meeting of shareholders on September
23 to ask for directions as to manage-
ment.
Three questions—on the desirability or
otherwise of a change in management, the
appointment of additional directors, and
the matter of publishing total directors’
remuneration —are to be put to the meet-
ing.
A. W. Coles has expressed regret that
the present disagreement has arisen ; and
says: “I believe the questions asked by
the board will be of such a nature as
will fully satisfy all shareholders and
my brother.”
There the matter stands for the
moment. Provided that a sincere en-
deavor is made at the meeting to fall in
with the wishes of shareholders, and no
time is wasted in useless wrangling, the
upset in the co.’s domestic affairs should
be all to the good of shareholders. Out-
side holders should have adequate repre-
sentation on the board ; and they should
have full say in the principle (at least) on
which directors are remunerated. There
are also some points made by G. J.
Coles in the matter of allotment of
employees’ shares and his removal from
the chairmanship that call for inquiry.
Sargent’s, the Sydney caterers, with a
final at the rate of 12 p . c . p.a., handed
shareholders an average of 81 p.c. for
the year to June 30. Net profits were
slightly over 10 p.c. on capital. A link-
j n g w ith Tate’s tearooms in Sydney and
Way’s, caterers, of Newcastle, has been
effected.
* * * *
R. Keith Yorston and E. E. Forfescue
are q rst j n t he field with a textbook
covering the new N. S. Wales and other
State Companies Acts: Australian Secre-
jarjal Practice and Manual of Company
p aw> published by the Law Book Co. at
355. An excellent guide and reference
book for secretaries, directors and
accountants, it is straightforward read-
ing, fully supplemented with footnotes
of cases (Rex v. Kylsant is one), and
there are chapters on share-hawking,
issue of prospectuses and publication of
accounts as required by new Acts, as
well as a wealth of guidance on ordinary
secretarial duties and responsibilities,
There are 15 specimen forms of company
documents, all acknowledged to leading
Australian public cos.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Fang and Claw”
Another of Frank Buck’s expositions
of the art of bringing jungle denizens
back alive. That the scenes shown are
film records of actual trapping exploits
is incredible—a good deal of the action
takes place in the dead of night, for one
thing—but that they illustrate Buck’s
method is believable. Among the
trophies of his chase on this occasion are
a crocodile, two pythons, elands, mon-
keys, a huge tiger, a baby rhinoceros and
a bird of paradise. No time is wasted ;
Buck’s comments are terse and to the
point, the photography is excellent, and
showmanship unobtrusive. At Sydney
Civic.
Marie La Vane’ in “Yes, Madam?" at
Sydney Royal.
“The Last Outlaw”
Harry Carey is an old-time bank
robber, released after 25 years in clink,
a reformed character. He mates up with
iwo other old-timers (Hoot Gibson and
H. B. Walthall). Walthall used to be
sheriff, but is now understrapper to a
pushing young man with modern ideas.
To the small town comes a gang of
desperate bandits, hiding after a big
robbery. In coping with these bad men
the old fellows, who can handle six-
shooters, prove that there is something
to be said for the style of crime-discour-
agement that flourished in their day.
Acting is good, action brisk and interest
well sustained. There’s a girl in the case
(Margaret Callahan), but she’s only a
sideline. At Sydney Civic.
“The Mine with the Iron Door”
A Harold Bell Wright silly symphony,
without the symphony, billed as mystery
drama. Mystery is confined to specula-
tion as to what has become of the drama.
Two quarter-witted goldbrick-buyers go
into partnership and search for a sup-
posed treasure. In desert they find pretty
young girl, her granddad and elderly
ga-ga scientist living in ’dobe hut.
Quarter-wits look for mine while ancient
half-wit ogles p.y.g. On Seeing younger
q.-w. falling for his goil, h.-w. goes right
off nut. Plans horrible r-revenge. Frus-
trated. Dies. Sixty-six minutes too late.
Of course reveals treasure before shuf-
fling off. Younger q.-w. and p.y.g. clinch.
Highlight of brilliant directing is clue
in shape of thin Bft. stick on mountain.
Sun casts its shadow strongly on door
five miles away. Marvellous thing, the
sun.
Richard Aden’s manliness and Cecilia
Parker’s scrumptiousness are wasted on
this opus. Stanley Fields is heavily
humorous, and Henry B. Walthall does
the best possible with the material given
him. At Sydney Capitol.
“Crash Donovan*
“Calling All Cars” is the nasally fami-
liar burden of this film, which is a riot
of furious action and breathless thrills,
with the scream of sirens and the stac-
cato bursts of machine-guns as an obbli-
gato to the incessant roar of police
motor-cycles.
Jack Holt of the stern-lipped, twisted
smile is “Crash,” who used to do a death-
defying motor-cycle-jumping act in a
circus, but has become a speed cop. Of
course he fires straighter and faster,
king-hits the gangsters harder, and per-
forms crazier cycle contortions than any-
one else in the force. But he crosses
friendly swords with a police pal for
the affections of a sweet young thing,
and youth beats him to it. So, bestow-
ing on the lady a fatherly labial peck,
he heaves a vasty sigh and returns to
the sawdust.
Hazards of a police cyclist’s life
are vividly portrayed, with fine shots
demonstrating the rigid training of guar-
dians of the highway.
John King is “Crash’s” successful and
friendly rival, and Nan Gray the girl
who preferred a lover with a girth some-
what less thick than J.H.’s. Eddie Acuff
squeezes a morsel of humor out of a
sap role. At Sydney Capitol.
“Nobody’s Fool”
Central figure (E. E. Horton) is a small-
town waiter with several bees in his
bonnet. His pet obsession is slum-aboli-
tion, and the subject is one on which he
can unwind reams of eloquence on the
slightest provocation. He goes to New
York, falls into the hands of the lady
member (Glenda Farrell) of a gang of
real-estate racketeers and is used by these
people, because of his innocence, as a
go-between in negotiations with .a
gambling-joint gangster (Cesar Romero).
Leo Franklyn in “Yes, Madam?”
But he’s so utterly soft that the sus-
picious N.Y. underworld comes to the
conclusion that he must be a G-man. He
foils the plots of his employers by doing
exactly what he is told to do, and eventu-
ally has the satisfaction of seeing a large
city property made the site of model flats
entirely as a result of his efforts. The
part suits Horton as if it were tailored
for him, enabling him to exercise every
trick in his repertoire. Chuckles are fre-
quent. At Sydney Regent.
Some First Nights
“The Merry Widow” is back to the
footlights at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
with Gladys Moncrieff’s warm notes clear
and true as a bell. Gladys is slimmer than
of yore, and, with the backing of good
leads, confidently handles the part of the
Widow Sonia. Close on her heels for
honors comes comedian-dancer Don
Nichol, whose Nisch is delightful. His
body is supple and his sense of rhythm is
balanced by his sense of comedy. Cecil
Kellaway is a droll Baron Popoff. In
the last act he gives the audience a mild
attack of convulsions with his gait, and
his red boots and yellow pant's. Frank
Leighton, long of limb and light of foot,
plays Prince Danilo with assurance.
Charles Heslop in “Yes, Madam?”
Miriam Lester’s voice is true and sweet
in the songs allotted to romantic Natalie
(wife of Popoff), who is given to linger-
ing in summer-houses with Camille de
Jolidon, played by Arthur Glarke. Lois
Green is Frou-Frou from Maxim’s, and
John Fraser is De St. Brioche. Choruses
excellent; dressing in modern style.
•I* ❖ *l*
An enormous crowd packed Professor
Heinze’s sixth “celebrity” concert at the
Town Hall on Saturday, when the Sym-
phony No. 3 of Arnold Bax made its
first appearance in Melbourne! The im-
pression the symphony conveyed to this
critic was of a huge portmanteau into
which the composer had thrown all his
musical belongings haphazard. The Fan-
tasia and Fugue in C Minor of Bach re-
set for the modern orchestra by Elgar
seemed more Elgar than Bach and pro-
duced the same effect as would an etch-
ing by Rembrandt if a modem painter
colored it. An “Argument” for clarinet
and strings, by the local Margaret
Sutherland, was the only other orches-
tral item. It was a severe test to
put Miss Sutherland’s work in juxtaposi-
tion to two such distinguished vocalists
as* Madame Rethberg and Ezio Pinza,
but it emerged with considerable credit.
Miss Sutherland conducted the clarinet’s
side of the argument in person, but for
some reason had written herself up the
least attractive part of the opus; the
voice of the strings was far more ingra-
tiating. Nevertheless the work had un-
pretentious charm and engaging variety.
The second half was a banquet of
Pinza and Rethberg, served singly and
jointly, exclusively in operatic items. The
Rethberg does not stand comparison, in
this writer’s opinion, with Austral when
she sings such songs as “Ocean, Thou
Mighty Monster” ; she hasn’t the vocal
tonnage of her Australian confrere ; but
in her own realm of rapturous bright-
ness she is unexcelled. Pinza sings
worthier songs than Crooks and probably
sings them better; and he has an even
greater faculty of completely subjugating
his audience. The extraordinary aptness
of his expression, whether he is being
grave, gay, amorous or tragic, seems to
come from spontaneous feeling, and
people take the depth and richness of
his bass and the art with which he uses
it for granted ; as, of course, it should
be. Such was the enthusiasm for the
male vocalist that the lady might have
been unconsciously dethroned by the
audience if she had not re-established her
position by her singing in the arias from
“The Magic Flute” and “Don Giovanni.”
*;• *l* v *l*
Witty dialogue in Philip Johnson’s
comedy “Lovers’ Leap,” produced by
Gregan McMahon at Melbourne King’s.
Cedric Norreys, a humorous cove slightly
below normal intelligence, and Sarah
Traille, who imagines herself a very
hard-boiled young person, are consider-
ing seriously the pros and cons of
marrying or living in sin. Sarah inclines
towards the latter because the marriages
of her mother, two aunts and sister
Helen have proved unsatisfactory. Then
to the country-house atmosphere enters
a husband, Roger, who took the dog for
a walk eight years before and had never
since been seen. He and his wife, Helen,
progress fairly well, and the.pair plot to
look happy and so influence the other
couple towards the straight and narrow.
There comes a thunderstorm, and Helen
reverts to type, which is to hide herself
in the boot cupboard with a bottle of
sherry. Next morning Sarah, having de-
cided upon virtue, sends a red rose de-
noting matrimony to Cedric. But it is too
late ; the two men have sat up all night
talking Egyptology, and Roger has meta-
phorically vaccinated Cedric with a virus
of mummies and sarcophagi. There is
high comedy in the breakfast scene,
where the men hog into bacon and eggs
with the glassy glitter of the Pharaohs in
their eyes. As an afterthought, before
the pair leave, Roger, remembering the
safe plain face and kindred mind of a
female Egyptologist, asks Helen for a
divorce.
Julie Cotton, with a combination of
good acting and captivating appearance,
put over Helen in fine style. Dick Webb
gave an excellent comedy sketch of
Cedric. Wilbur Reed did well as Roger
and Judy Price was sufficiently sophisti-
cated as Sarah.
While Chekhov’s “The Three Sisters,”
presented by the Independents at Sydney
Savoy, has interest for students of pre-
Lenin Russian philosophy, most modern
playgoers must find it a dreary affair.
Still, as an essay in morbidity the play is
craftsmanlike, and the Independents
captured its mood. Outstanding were the
three sisters, Olga, Irina and Masha
(played by Prudence Vanbrugh, Anne
Gordon and Elizabeth Ripley), who
wanted to go to Moscow in the first act
and were still chained to their provincial
home in Act IV. Each was interpreted
Robert Coote in “Yes, Madam?”
with grace and realism. Marie Rosen-
feld as Natasha contributed a vigorous
study of a shallow-minded shrew. John
Alden caught the nobility of Vershinin,
Maxwell Osbiston made an admirable
Tusenbach, Alfred Race added heavily


KNEE ACTION FOR YOUR
BICYCLE.
Float over rough roads and bumps with the
smoothness of a 1936 saloon. Ride miles farther and
faster without getting tired. Can be attached in
two minutes to any make of bicycle. Lasts a life-
time. Be the first in your town. Send 2/6 P.N.
for easy plans to build; or ready to attach, 8/6.
PRACTICAL, PRODUCTS,
429-431 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Tenders.
TENDERS will be received for the purchase
of 8 Lightning Automatic Totalisators (25
Horse) or sections thereof now installed at the
Epsom and Mentone Race Courses, Victoria.
The Machines are in first-class running order
and may be seen operating at Mentone Race
Course on Saturday, 19th September, 1936.
Enquiries should be made from and offers
submitted to
EPSOM TURF CLUB,
482 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Feature the latest from England In Morene, Futuristic and Tapes-
tries. The artistic vogue of the day is followed, though devoid
of exaggera+ed or freakish effects.
l]f
%%
1
ms
Example of laie English Wallpapering.
Call and inspect in our naturally lighted Showrooms Prices are moderate.]
‘Phone M 6505 [lB lines). Open daily 8 a. nr,. Late Shopping Friday 9 p.m.
Visit our exhibit—Strand Building Centre—S+rand Arcade,
JOHN DANKS & Son Pty. Ltd.
324-330 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage
Board, Sydney.
£1,000,000 LOAN.
INTEREST, 4£ PER CENT. PRICE OF ISSUE, £99.
REPAYABLE 1951.
LOAN CLOSES 14th SEPT.
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Board from
whatever source arising. Subscriptions to the Loan may be
paid in full with application or by the following:-
Option 1 : 10 per cent, with the application.
30 per cent, on 16th October, 1936.
30 per cent, on 16th November, 1936.
29 per cent, on 16th December, 1936.
Option 2: 10 per cent, with the application.
89 per cent, up to 16th December, 1936.
Prospectuses and Applications obtainable at Common-
wealth Bank and Board’s Office.
WHY YOU SHOULD INVEST!
THE LOAN PROVIDES A SOUND INVESTMENT
WITH REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
ASSURED. IT WILL BE LISTED ON THE STOCK
EXCHANGE AND THUS PROVIDE READY MEANS OF
REALISATION.
THE LOAN WILL PROVIDE REPRODUCTIVE WORK
FOR THOUSANDS OF UNEMPLOYED AT FULL-TIME
AWARD RATES.
100,000 HOUSES IN METROPOLITAN AREA AWAIT
PROVISION OF SEWERAGE SERVICE.
MAIN OUTFALL SEWERS REQUIRE AMPLIFICA-
TION.
SEWERAGE FACILITIES LESSEN TOLL OF DISEASE.
TYPHOID ALMOST NON-EXISTENT IN SEWERED
DISTRICTS.
TREATMENT WORKS AT OCEAN OUTFALLS
REQUIRED TO IMPROVE CONDITIONS OF SYDNEY’S
SURFING BEACHES.
SYDNEY.
T. HAYNES UPTON, President.
F. J. HENRY, Secretary."
to the gloom by his representation of
the doddering Tchebutykin, and Clive
Coppard oozed defeatism as the frus-
trated Andrey Prozorov. Two neat por-
traits were sketched by Trafford White-
lock as Solyony and John Mant as
Kuligin. William
Hume and Margaret
Ackhurst were also
good. Harold Abbott
deserves a pat for
his scenery.
•h •£■ 4*
Arthur Macrae's
“Flat To Let’’ pro-
vided Ida Gough
with a comedy part
after her own heart
in the Thespian pro-
duct i o n at St.
James’s Hall, Syd-
ney. The audience
enjoyed her hilari-
ous portrayal of
Mrs. Coney, the
widow so interested
in the matrimonial
futures of her youn-
ger daughter Carol,
her maid Minna and
herself. The crux of
the play is an off-
stage bedroom scene
at midnight. Carol,
well played by Cree
Jackson, takes Alan
Plowman, her new
fiance, to her bed-
room to see a photo-
graph of herself as
a child; just then
Eveline Shearer, as
Minna, the delight-
fully wooden-faced
maid, and Osmund
Wenban, as the irri-
tating Tony intent
on marrying Carol,
barge in and look
shocked. Fenton Dobson, the tongue-
tied Lord Java belatedly seeking Mrs.
Coney’s hand, played his difficult part
well, and Lillian O’Toole, as elder daugh-
ter Susan, contributed to the nonsense
dialogue by always starting in the middle.
Arthur Fellowes looked well as Alan
Plowman, but his voice was the weakest
thing in this Alan Stone production.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre for its
latest show produced a play-cluster
exactly suited to Repertory needs;
Aubrey Ensor’s “Perfect Plot.” The
familiar theme of jealous husband and
wrong flat is worked out in variations in
“Jean,” by Eric Wilson, in the Society of Arts exhibition,
Education Department’s Gallery, Sydney.
the manner of Barrie, Chekhov, Coward,
Sean O’Casey and Pirandello—five clever
kits burlesqued style. The varied
7 e " ln S, ™ n,ained also , Ca
study of the supernatural, And Now the
journey,” and a lighter trifle. Fred
j am es, Arthur Fay and Henry Roberts
were the producers. The Rep., remem-
bering that these short-play evenings were
originally meant rather as experience
and test for “coming” players, found
room for over 20 —mostly good. Notable
among them were George Shaw as a hen-
pecked husband, Edna Heysen as a
bullied (and eventually strangled) wife
and Lois Thomson as the typical garru-
lous neighbor.
Current Artbursts
The Society of Artists’ show at the
Education Department’s Galleries, Syd-
ney, is the brightest this group has spon-
sored in recent' years, its especial interest
lying in the emergence of painters, not
hitherto very distinguished, who show
work of outstanding merit. Such pillars
of the society as Hans Heysen, Elioth
Gruner, Sydney Ure Smith, Norman
Carter, B. E. Minns and Lionel Lindsay
show work of the character and standard
expected of them and give the exhibition
substance, but they have no surprises to
offer.
More interesting are the excursions
into oils of Lloyd Rees, master of the
pencil, who seems to have learned a lot
about the brush as well. J. Muir Auld
is best represented by one of his delicate
latter-day landscapes, a sort of palette-
knife mosaic. Max Meldrum is a prize-
winner with an interior.
Eric Wilson, in addition to a still-life,
“Days of Cobb and Co.” —which for
technique is equalled only by E. A. Har-
vey’s “Green Apples and Fife”—shows a
clinking good portrait, “Jean,” the most
effective effort in this line in the show.
J. D. Moore’s “Sydney Harbor,” which
has caught the eye of the Gallery trus-
tees, disappoints this critic ; the coloring
seems utterly false. Douglas Dundas, in
“Harbor at Morn,” experiments with the
most delicate and beautiful effects of
iridiscent light with charming results.
E. A. Harvey’s “Torch Singer,” of gigan-
tic size, hardly rises above sign-painter
technique ; yet he has done splendid work
in other fields. H. Badham continues
to improve. His “Breakfast Piece,” a
cleanly painted, unaffected piece of work,
goes to the Gallery.
In the water-color section Ronald H.
Steuart makes a bid for fame with
“Canal,” a striking and effective bit of
realism. J. R. Eldershaw continues to
conquer his earlier aversion to color, and
finds rich veins of it in everything. His
pictures now glow richly. Kenneth Mac-
queen is also finding room in his peculiar
style for the warmer tints of the paint-
box.
There is an English section, very well
selected, which unobtrusively says a
word, per the brush of Gerald Kelly,
R.A., for the much-abused “academic
style.” Kelly’s portrait, “Jane,” and nude,
“Loretta,” are excellent bits of texture
painting. A still-life by Frampton,
A.R.A., all beautiful smooth contours
and suave modelling, is another evidence
that the distortionist schools haven’t con-
verted everybody.
4* 4* ,4* 4*
Essentially feminine is the art of Thea
Proctor, yet its backbone is sound, vigor-
ous drawing. Her figures have strength
as well as grace. Among the score of
water-colors on show at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, such compositions as
“Fancy Dress,” “Girl in White,” “The
Shell,” “1875,” “1885” and “Interior with
Figure” appeal by reason of this sure
touch. In flower pieces, particularly
those on silk, there are charm and deli-
cacy. Some beautiful pencil-drawings
and some very effective lithographs and
woodcuts round out a demonstration of
Miss Proctor’s most characteristic styles.


AT
THE
GATEWAYor SYDNEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by all.
Yet. just around the
corner, wfthin two
minutes' walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There should be good sales at the
Society of Artists’ show this year, for
Mammon came to the opening. He was
brought by Mrs. Swan, whose husband
modelled him. The powers had put him
behind the curtains in the entrance gal-
lery, but Mrs. Swan gallantly carried him
out and placed him on a chair in front.
It was the one big moment in the affair,
which otherwise pursued a smooth, not
to say complacent, way. Lady Murray
Anderson, who was scheduled to do the
opening, had left for Sutton Forest with
her recuperating Governor, so Professor
Wilkinson boomed the right words over
a tidal wave of heads. It is said to be
the greatest crowd ever known at an
opening. Even the Mayoress had to
crush her way through to the platform,
Jimmy MacDonald, head of the National
Gallery, clearing the path for her. Mrs.
MacDonald, by the way, wore one of
the most engaging hats of the afternoon.
It was black, and its brim had a sort of
scuttle scoop.
Percy Lindsay, Bim Hilder, Julian
Ashton and Julian’s grandson, who has
sold his painting of gulls in flight, were
within arm’s reach. B. E. Minns, the
delicate charm of whose work sings like
a lyric, was there with Mrs. Minns. With
B.E. walked Bulletin writer Alex. Mel-
rose, who has been handed the society’s
bronze medal for service to art. He car-
ried this with him in his breast pocket.
Marie Bremner’s black hat was large
as a cartwheel —well, a small cart. John
McKelvey’s lady wore her hat small,
and of postillion shape. It was of black
satin. Black, too, was her frock and lush
her furs.
The wife of the Chief Justice added
one of the few spots of color. Her frock
was printed in tones of blue and red.
Her coat of dark-blue repp had a knot
of cornflowers in the lapel. The Gordon
and Owen ladies were black-suited. Mrs.
E. Wunderlich’s fair complexion was
framed between a black velvet hat and
a high fur collar. Young art students
slipped in a dash of scarlet tunic or a
flash of daffodil hat. Syd Ure Smith,
Howard Hinton, Norman Carter and
John Lane Mullins gave the right bouquet
to the afternoon. Barbara Lane
Mullins’s coat swaggered its primrose.
Gladys Marks, of the University, came ;
so did Mrs. H. S. Dettman. There were
tea parties in the little rooms behind the
galleries. The beaten silver ware, Adrian
Feint’s bookplates and the gold gleams
of Wal Taylor’s bindings were part of
the friendly whole.
The Charles Lloyd Joneses cast a wide
net for the week-end garden party that
welcomed Dr. Malcolm Sargent. It
was a swagger party, replete with band
music and strawberries and cream. Dr.
Malcolm Sargent did not conduct the
band. His labors with the A.B.C. com-
mence this week. There were no mar-
quees ; a few gay garden umbrellas
studded the lower lawn. But nobody
sought shade ; everybody hugged the sun.
Most of the women guests wore the
black or navy suit that has become
almost a uniform in Sydney, but added
furs of luxuriance. Mrs. Jones, however,
wore the sheerest of white organza
frocks, and her large white crinoline hat
had a stitched crown of the organza.
Dr. Malcolm Sargent was slim, almost
lissome, in navy, and showed a pretty
taste in the palest of blue shirts and a
spotted navy tie. In fact, the tailorings
at this party rather outdid the frocking.
Everybody musical, including the A.B.C.’s
chairman Cleary, was there. The Alex-
ander Gordon couple came ; so did young
Alexander with his Elizabeth Shand and
Anne Gordon. Anne added to the after-
noon’s millinery a hat that was a twist
of black velvet and a fringe of veil. The
Waler Swinsons were there ; so was Mrs.
J. U. P. Fitzgerald. She was one of the
graceful in a long blue silk net dress
spotted in white. Her hat was large and
navy.
Mrs. David Cohen wore red foxes
with a terra-cotta suit. Dr. Ernest Jones
brought his wife, whose hat and suit
shone cornflower blue in the sun ; Mrs.
Bill Jones walked with Mrs. Clarence
Edwards. The Chief Justice Jordans,
the Philip Streets, Rosemary de Saus-
marez, the Jimmy Banckses, Syd Ure
Smith and all the Consuls and their wives
were among the noted.
Pretty Margaret Adams spends most
of her days careering around the blue
skies. Last week this young aviator came
to earth to lead the mannequin parade
she had arranged for the Girl Guide Ex-
hibition. Margaret is a Guider, so
mayoe she 11 soon be leading a blue-clad
company along the skyey ways and show-
ing how to boil a billy between the even-
ing star and the crescent moon. Much
of last week she spent in company with
the mother of Jimmy Melrose. Mont-
gomery Dunn photograph.
One of the brightest spots at the
Mayoress’s party last week was the corner
where Dame Constance D’Arcy held
court. This brilliant woman surgeon is
famed for her dimples, and the recipe
for these seems to be laughter. With her
were Philip Street’s lady, Mrs. H. S.
Dettman, all in brown, Lady Poynter,
very vivid beneath a small black hat
decked with a white camellia, and Mrs.
A. McElhone, who wore real primroses
in her black suit. Mayoress Parkes is a
good hostess, and her graceful black
frock and waist-length fur cape made
many journeys the length of the room
seeing that her guests had all they wanted
in the way of cigarettes and introductions.
There were strawberries and clotted
cream to round off the tea. The mantel-
piece at each’ end of the room was
massed with the yellow of Iceland poppy
and daffodil, their richness reflected in
the mirrors above. Mrs. Edwards was
handsome, her suit was dark, her toque
had a queenly air. Myrine Collins
fastened a rich cluster of Sturt pea on
her brown fur coat. Mrs. Maurice Gul-
son flashed a brooch of gold daisies each
with a topaz heart; Mrs. Frizelle's velour
hat had a moss-green sheen. Deputy-
Mayor Parkes brought his upright figure
and fine head to his wife’s party. Manly
charm also lurked about the doorway in
the persons of Frank Crane and the
deputy Town Clerk. Mrs. Stephen Her-
ford was there ; so were the Rickard,
Wilson, Walder and Butters ladies.
The social committee of the Musical
Association showed what it could do one
afternoon last week, when it filled the
ballroom of the Australia with over 200
guests in the interests of the association’s
newly-formed benevolent fund. The
guest of honor was Lady Murray Ander-
son. The programme was well balanced,
the music just the right weight for such
a party. Marie Bremner and Clement
Williams were the vocalists. Marie wore
a Persian-red outfit, the sleeves of her
frock inlet with heavy lace. Mr. Wil-
liams included in his group “Girometta,’
the song Ezio Pinza sang so often for
encore. Olga Krasnik and Laurence
Godfrey Smith at the piano, Beryl Ault’s
violin and Kathleen Tuohy’s ’cello pro-
vided other musical interludes.
A basket of flowers plucked from the
gardens of Mrs. Hope-Gibson, Anne
Mills and Mrs. Harold Bott was pre-
sented to Lady Anderson, whose frock
of black boucle wore a dash of white
in a large pique flower. With her was
Rosemary de Sausmarez. Carrie Lance-
ley was a bright incident of the after-
noon. Her hat was springlike ; so was
the spray of flowers on her suit. Singer
Alice Prowse’s blouse had Tyrolean em-
broideries. Mrs. Harold Bott smartly
contrasted navy and white. Alice
O’Donnell wore the latest in tarn berets,
Mrs. Florence Taylor the same period
in a large-size plumed black hat. Mrs.
W. Ainsworth, Mrs. Lashmar, Mrs.
Edgar Bainton, Faunce Allman, Roland
Foster and Neville Smith were scattered
about the gathering. Thelma Houston
and Mrs. de Cairos Rego extracted the
money painlessly.
Half the gazers at the Society of Artists’
show (or so it seemed) turned up again at
the Queen’s Club around six to drink a
farewell sherry with Mrs. Charles Regan.
The party was arranged by daughter Mrs.
McEvilly Jordan, who has been on a visit
to Australia and returns to London in
company with her mother, brother Laur-
ence and his small son. They all sail in
the Port Townsville. The mantels and
every niche in the room were fragrant
with flower pieces good enough to be
Heysen still-lifes. The savories included
the club specials, such as the stuffed
prunes. There was a new way of serving
a strawberry that is worth recording.
The strawberry was in the middle of a
biscuit thinly coated with cream cheese
that had been lightly peppered.
Mrs. Regan’s chiffon frock was mul-
berry-toned and was worn under a
ground-length coat of black velvet with
a Medici collar. Mrs. McEvilly Jordan s
chiffons were patterned in amber. This
frock was graceful with flounces. Mary
Regan was there, very bright-faced ; so
was tall Ena Edwards. Mrs. Tom
Hogan, in black and white, spoke hap-
pily of going back to settle in Melbourne,
her home town. The Frank Chaffeys and
Mrs. Frank Wharton in an ice-blue suit
and small brimless hat were part of the
scene. Mr. and Mrs. Roystone Davey
were surrounded. Dorothy Porter, un-
usual looking and black-suited, came
with Mrs. Norris. Mrs. Stacpoole (a re-
lation of the novelist), the Claude Healy
couple, the Denzil Macarthur Onslows
and Mrs. Kenna helped swell the chatter.
Mrs. Harold Bott is secretary of the
newly-formed social committee of the
Musical Association. Seventy-nine letters
were written (not typed) by this gooJ
worker in connection with last week’s
afternoon party. The Philharmonic, too,
recently benefited from a music party
which she gave in her Killara home,
Dayne photograph.
Ambrose Pratt, fairy-father of all lyre-
birds, came up from Melbourne to visit
the baby of the species that has brought
fame to Springwood. This little heir or
heiress (sex, as yet, unknown) is the only
one of its kind to be born in captivity,
and ornithologists from everywhere are
busy looking up Springwood timetables,
The John Coyles, the humans on whom
this honor has been thrust, are sensible
of their responsibility, and shower care
and affection on the inmates of their
bushland sanctuary. Novelist' Miles
Franklin called on the birds in company
with Ambrose, and reports the father
cordial, the royal infant rather bored, the
mother distant and somewhat suspicious,
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
celebrated poetess Mary Gilmore’s birth-
day with a bright night at the Feminist
Club. President Frank Dalby Davison
led Mary up on to the platform, where
she sat in her black silk dress with a
Roman scarf draped over her shoulders
while complimentary phrases wreathed
themselves about her head and flowers
and books were piled around her. Little
Kylene King and baritone Walter Kings-
ley arose to sing for Mary. The pink-
iced cake stood on a high salver. The
president lit the candles, and Mary blew
them out with two mishty puffs and then
cut the first slice. ~
The Girl Guides are an independent
race. They are not allowed to beg, so
when the treasury runs low, from the
Brownies up they have to earn money.
Local Guides and Brownies put on a
bright handicrafts exhibition last week,
and filled the Empress ballroom at Mark
Foy’s with stalwarts in the blue and the
brown uniforms come to look at the
work of their own and their friends'
hands. Stalls were covered with stitchery
from kettle- and pot-holders to an ex-
quisite example of Carrickmacross. There
were weaving and spinning, and knitted
garments of a satin-smooth finish. But
nothing made greater appeal than the
dolls' houses and bedroom, dining-room,
drawing-room and kitchen furniture
made of safety matchboxes. There was
a two-storey house made of the same
timber. The outside walls had been lac-
quered, and so had the brown shingled
roof. A very grand house, with chimney
and chimney-pots and windows. There
were bookbinding and other entries from
the little blind and the little deaf and
dumb girls who are in the movement.
The Governor’s wife, Lady Anderson,
a Guide herself, came without her badge,
because she couldn’t find it, and opened
the exhibition in one of her typical,
friendly speeches. She told a story of a
friend of hers, a Girl Guide enthusiast,
who was trying to foster the movement
in its early days. She could not gauge
the reactions to her labors, and was feel-
ing a bit depressed. Her work took her
to, among other schools, an orphanage.
At the end of the class one day, she heard
one small girl, skipping off, say to an-
other “You know, I never feel an orphan
since I’ve become a Girl Guide!”
In the crowded lift a small boy whistled
shrilly in anticipation. Just outside the
lift, a great bowl of waratahs, topped by
an equally large one of eriostemon
(you’d probably think it a pale boronia),
told that the Bushland Exhibition was
just around the corner in the Blaxland
Galleries. Here were all our shy bush
beauties in picture and in flower. Pic-
torial between the silken fringe of the
red flowering gum and the native rose
was the green berry of the native currant
with its fine green spears. There was a
flutter of bright blue wings and vivid
green in the rows of cages that formed
the other side of this walk. Around the
corner were the lizards and a real ’roo,
all amber brown's and soft eyes.
This year the show drew a great
attendance. There was no more popular
corner than that depicting the landing of
Captain Cook at Botany Bay. Here was
the gallant captain in a tail coat, his
buckled shoon amid the flowers that
Banks the botanist greeted with cries of
pleasure. Opposite the landing party
were two tall aborigine warriors, clasping
awe-inspiring red shields. In a gunyah
on the floor sat two of their descendants,
before them the boomerangs of their race
and the small shell shoes that civilisation
has taught them to make. A good idea
for future shows might be to have the
gunyah on a small platform. This would
enable it to be seen clearly and allow of
more fresh air reaching the occupants.
S. G. Drummond, superintendent of
the Far West Children’s Health Scheme,
is wearing a smile that simply won’t rub
off. A friend, concerned about the finan-
cial responsibility and worry on Mr.
Drummond’s shoulders since the opening
of the new home in Manly, has offered
to liquidate the whole existing debt of
£12,000. A further £4OOO is being pro-
vided by the same generous donor to
pay for additional property adjoining the
home, which will become the staff quar-
ters. At the meeting of the Far West
Building Fund, Philip Street’s wife pre-
siding, Mr. Drummond suggested that
the committee should now be inspired to
raise sufficient funds for additions to
accommodate 30 more children. And
when that 30 is provided for, the benevo-
lence and financial genius of Mr. Drum-
mond will discover and succor 30 more.
Just around the corner from the
Society of Artists’ exhibition Thea
Proctor has a show on her own. This
is in the Macquarie Galleries, and for its
opening the artist wore with her navy
crepe suit an unusual blouse made or
sheer white muslin, navy-spotted. It had
an upright frill around the throat, and
was finished at the waist with a sash.
The Langer Owen lady, all in brown,
made the preliminary remarks, and then
several buyers pointed out where they
wanted the red seals stuck. Mrs. Wilfred
Fairfax was among the many who ad-
mired a small relative, Virginia. This
little Fairfax, fair and blue-eyed, and the
portrait of young Peter Halliday are two
very likeable bits of work. Dr. and
Mrs. Halliday were there, and must have
heard many compliments on Peter.
Among the artists were Eileen Crowe and
John Eldershaw, from Tasmania. The
flower arrangements were as decorative
as the artist's compositions on silk.


IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
For Sale.
A BLOCK of 5 freehold, absolutely self-con-
tained Flats, situated in the best part of Glebe
Point, Sydney, and very handy to the City. A
splendid investment —incomings £339 per
annum, outgoings £29. An opportunity for a
rent-free home and a steady, sure income.
Price, £2150. Owner, Box 3127 P, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Miscellaneous.
Would any camping enthusiast interested in
car camping trip Tasmania, December 23-
January 26, get in touch with N. PERKINS,
6 Murray Street, Waverley, N.5.W.7
Next of Kin.
Would the children of the late MAURICE
BROSNAN (native of Knockanimirish, Kil-
larney, County Kerry, Irish Free State), who
died in Australia upwards of twenty years ago,
communicate with Mr. Cornelius Healy, Soli-
citor, Killarney, County Kerry, Irish Free
State, from whom they will receive particulars
of information to their advantage?
Europe
tVv c
V**% to Vl
• '
m
W?
GW
e tvt »**'
« Va nd A sVvtP'
lap al1 ’ v cci^ c ° tS
prises- a pius
to° ard tree 4 ” C»» a *
.• * Aot' ieS ' c uis^ e
tr avei paC \ftc scr vi cC -
di»f „etS<>» al ,_.
d t saii' ft6S ecti aa
frea a !£ a
\iners a
o,ud < ri'oU l "' s, il 0 r
an!) doe> lcJ
QvtUtJi
UOM.'
World’s Greatest Travel System
59 William Street, Melbourne.
247 George St., Sydney. 15.6.7
Melbourne
Chatter
This being an age of change, the
A.B.C. is doing its bit of innovating.
Lady Huntingfield, present at one of the
Rethberg-Pinza concerts, was not placed
—as in the past —in the front row of the
hall or even the front of the balcony. A
space was scooped out amid the seats
in the middle of the hall, the best place
for acoustics; there an oasis of table
and chairs accommodated the vice-regal
lady and other special guests. The Gov-
ernor, weary after his long journey (he
arrived back from Queensland only that
morning), elected to stay at' home. Mrs.
Pott and Lieut. A. W. P. Robertson, he
swathed in his naval cape, accompanied
Lady Huntingfield. Others in the group
were Senator and Mrs. A. J. McLachlan,
the H. P. Browns, C. J. A. Moses, the
Basil Kirkes (Mrs. Kirke in a balck velvet
coat with Tudor puffs to her sleeves),
Prof. Heinze and his wife, who was
cloaked to her toes in white velvet, the
Herbert Brookes couple and Mrs. Claude
Couchman, whose gown under her wrap
showed a glitter of gold and green lame.
Madame Rethberg wore stiffened net
in a deep shade of amethyst, a layer of
the net forming a loose cape over her
beautiful neck and shoulders. In the
main body of the hall was a spot of
deep wine-red —a tiny cap of flat velvet
flowers and tulle worn by Mrs. Fred
Haig, who accompanied her tall hus-
band. Mrs. Haig has studied singing for
years ; she had a joyous few weeks of
the world’s best music while in New
York last year. Others present were
Prof. Scott, Miss L. Bentwich, Sheila Sul-
livan and Janet Thomas, whose snuff-
brown coat emphasised the lights of her
auburn hair.
Large galleries turned out to watch the
final rounds of the amateur golf cham-
pionship at Royal Melbourne. Barrier
holders, as well as being armed with
ropes, carried tall bamboos (some of
them must have been 20 feet long), which
they found even more useful for keeping
the crowd back. Plus-fours seem to have
had their day ; most of the champions
played in slacks. A notion picked up
abroad by John Baillieu caused a mild
stir but didn’t bring the best of luck to
the demonstrator. Wide black braid was
stitched down the seams of his grey
slacks, which accompanied a grey sweater
and a green hat.
John Longstaff was last to arrive on
the opening afternoon of his exhibition,
but when he did come everybody wanted
to pat him on the back and say nice
things, for there is a special warmth of
affection in Melbourne for John. One
point about him is that he doesn’t criti-
cise other painters’ pictures. He either
doesn’t look at them or else dismisses
them with a word of mild humor.
The opening was automatic, without
speeches or public eulogies. Among
viewers was Mrs. E. Thompson, known
to palette-holders as Madge Freeman.
She looked very distinctive in her color
duet of deep-blue and coral-rust, with a
Russian embroidered blouse that had gay
twin brooches of glazed pottery clipped
on the lapels. The Louis Nelken couple
were there ; also Mrs. Tom Hudson, Mrs.
Roy White, with violets pinned to her
silver foxes, and Mrs. A. W. Foster, tall
and tailored. T. F. Fink was in his usual
fettle, which means that everybody else
was three laps behind in repartee. The
Ruttledge lady, Cr. Baron Marks, Joyce
Hammond and the Miles Evergoods were
also observed. Mrs. Evergood says that
this is the coldest winter she’s felt since
leaving her native New York five years
ago. Even in New York it’s only in the
street that one freezes. The buses which
Mrs. Evergood used every day to get to
and from the rug factory where she was
a designer were so heated that the pas-
sengers used to compare themselves to
toasted flapjacks.
Dora Wilson was at the opening of her
friend Vida Lahey’s exhibition of water-
colors last week. This pair of Australian
artists last met by chance in Bruges in
1928, when both were holidaying and
painting along the highways and byways
of Europe. Miss Lahey is a Queens-
lander who studied art in Melbourne, but
not all her friends of National Gallery
days recognise the Vida ; as a student she
was known as Elizabeth. She had an
earlier trip abroad during the war, when
she did her bit driving wounded soldiers
from place to place and growing potatoes
on a country allotment. She is now shar-
ing a studio in Brisbane with sculptor
Daphne Mayo.
A fussless marriage ceremony in the
house of the bride’s mother, followed by
a large reception at Grosvenor, was
part of the wedding plans of Helen Ben-
jamin and Dr. Leslie Kirsner. Pink,
white and gold flowers filled Mrs. Louis
Benjamin’s home in Marne-street, and in
the drawing-room, where the service was
performed by Rabbi Brodie, the light of
shaded lamps shed a soft, pinky glow
over the white canopy, the small bru-
nette bride in her tulle and white satin
threaded with gold, three little ’maids,
Anne and Jill Brendon and Helen
Michaelis, a-rustle in white taffeta, and
the handful of intimate friends and rela-
tives. At the reception supper was
served at a buffet, champagne bubbled
in a marquee, the young folks danced,
some of the older generation played
bridge, and everybody between times
drifted into a long room a-sparkle with
presents. Among crystal, silver and
lalique were bride’s gift to ’groom, a
watch on a thin gold chain, and ’groom’s
to bride, a pale-green enamel dress-
ing-table set. Green is her favorite
color. She wore chiffon of a soft mig-
nonette shade for her going-away gown,
which was not a conventional travelling
suit, but a dinner frock worn under a
long cloak of white brocade.
Herewith a Broothorn glimpse of
Eileen Ragg as she is in real life ; on
the other side of the footlights her bloom
of youth is overlaid by character make-
up. Miss Ragg is to play Mrs. Wood-
man in the Gregan McMahon production
of “The Crime at Blossoms,” which com-
mences a short season at the King’s on
September 12. Mordaunt Shairp’s
comedy is not so much a spine-tickling
thriller as a satire on the way the murder
was publicised to make money for people
who charged admission to the scene of
the crime. Other big parts in which Miss
Ragg has done well are the gipsy woman
in “The Old Ladies” and Gwennie in
“The Late Christopher Bean.”
Jean Dann and Alice Deasey, who
were students together at Janet Clarke
Hall, became brides last week. Miss
Dann, who did well at chemistry and
bacteriology, is combining matrimony
with her job, research on milk at one of
Melbourne’s big dairies. Her marriage
to Alec Whitelaw took place in Mel-
bourne Grammar School chapel. The
three ’maids, Margaret Pearson, Betty
Wilmott and Marjorie McKay, were a
picture of spring in their pale-green chif-
fon gowns. Instead of flowers they
carried wallets made of the same chiffon,
to which sprays of japonica were pinned.
Marriage at high noon with no atten-
dants was the matrimonial plan of Alice
Deasey and Grant Pringle. Notwith-
standing that the ceremony, performed
by the bride’s father at Christ Church,
South Yarra, was without frills, and that
the reception was a small luncheon party
for relatives and intimate friends at
Grosvenor, the leading lady decided that
a bride is not really a bride without a
train, a veil and flowers in her hair; hence
a cloud of Limerick lace, the rustle of
ivory moire and gardenias and hyacinths
and lily-of-the-valley in her hands and
piled high on her head.
Here is Dorothy Whitehead, an exhibi-
tion of whose pictures opened at the
Athenseum yesterday afternoon (Bth).
Miss Whitehead comes from Warrnam-
bool, and has many relatives in the
Western District. She studied painting
with Archie Colquhoun, and has a studio-
flat at No. 9 Collins-street, an address
which claims the distinction of being the
only building in Melbourne erected for
the purpose of artists’ studios. Broo-
thorn photograph.
Handfuls of confetti blew on the late
winter’s breeze outside the Toorak kirk
last week when Mrs. Cleve Kidd’s only
daughter Betty and Vere Hunt kept an
afternoon wedding appointment. The
reception was at No. 9. Later in the
month the very youthful pair will paddle
their matrimonial canoe to England,
where their future home will be.
Although a comparative stranger (he
arrived in Australia only two or three
weeks before the wedding), the ’groom
had no difficulty in securing the services
of henchmen as efficient as Ron Plant,
Tom Mather and Colin McKay. Bride
and ’maids let their fancy play upon a
blossom-pink color scheme ; satin wed-
ding, gown and tulle veil were in the
palest shade of pink, and attendants
Dorothy Raws, Marjorie Carney and
Betty Sheppard were in two tones of pink
chiffon. Their headdresses were veils of
stiffened tulle which stood out sharply
from their faces.
It is a very up-to-date 1936 “Merry
Widow” who has strolled into Mel-
bourne. Gladys Moncrieff, singing like
a bird and more handsome than ever,
wore two super gowns. Her first was of
silver lame, shirred down the front, with
a long creepy train and a swaying cape
lined with pale pink, very flat over the
shoulders and full at the fingertip-length
hem. Her Russian costume was black,
embroidered with gold, and at Maxims
she was a-glitter with inky sequins, the
skirt tight tiered. Every seat in the
theatre was occupied, applause was tre-
mendous, and the gallery girls, a race
thought to be almost extinct, turned up
as a solid phalanx outside the stage
doors. In her speech Miss Moncrieff
called up the memory of the last time
she played in Melbourne under the
Firm’s banner at the old Royal, with the
wreckers smoking their pipes waiting
for the final curtain before starting to
pull down the theatre. Cecil Kellaway
contributed three sentences and half a
dozen chuckles which he called his
maiden speech—surprising that he’s
escaped so long.
In the audience were Mrs. Richard
Casey, whose black gown was elaborated
with floral motifs ; Dr. Bob Strong; Mr.
and Mrs. Catanagh, she in a squirrel
coat with a flower behind one ear; Mrs.
Hugh Hamilton, wrapped in black velvet
and white fox; Myra Marsh, in pink ;
Harry Kaufman; and Mrs. H. C.
Norman, with a shoulder-spray attach-
ment of white hyacinths. Very distinc-
tive was blonde Laurie Stein in hail-
spotted black net, her fair hair smoothly
brushed and twisted into a plait round the
crown of her head.
To-morrow afternoon the American
Ball will have a happy climax at the
Children’s Hospital, where the American
Women’s Auxiliary will produce a
cheque for £6OO. The money will pro-
vide equipment and maintenance for a
ward where unhappy youngsters may
shake off effects of such operations as
removal of tonsils before being taken
home.
Members of the American Women’s
Auxiliary are already busy on yet an-
other good work, a cookery book com-
piled from Uncle Sam’s most delectable
recipes. Copies will be sole stock of one
stall at the Union Building Fund Fete
in December. The complete book will
be priced at about 12s. 6d., but smaller
pamphlets, neatly bound and attractively
wrapped in cellophane to look Christ-
massy, will be obtainable at 2s. One
dealing with pasties, hot breads, dough-
nuts, waffles-and-maple-syrup and flap-
jack cookies sounds a particularly tempt-
ing mouthful.
Yet another Australian journalist has
gathered up a job outside his own coun-
try —not in Fleet-street this time, but in
Hong Kong. Alec Pratt, who resigned
from a Melbourne daily a couple of
months ago to spread his wings on spec,
over other parts of the world, has been
made editor of the Hong Kong “Daily
Press,” which sounds very satisfactory
for a young man of 30 or thereabouts.
Alec didn’t expect to get a job, much
less an editorial one, so soon ; he thought
he had more chances at lecturing or
broadcasting, and he’d booked his pas-
sage through to Japan. The Hong Kong
“Daily Press,” established in 1857, is a
morning paper operating from the
piquant address of 11 Ice House-street.
For the first time in the history of
Vic.’s R.A.S. a woman has been invited
from overseas to judge in sections other
than women’s industries. She is Mrs.
D. F. Whitwell, tall, slim and very attrac-
tive, who at the Royal Show, which com-
mences on the 17th, will judge gun-dogs,
toy dogs and several odd breeds. Mrs.
Whitwell is travelling with her knight
Ren wick uncle, who will judge certain
classes of dogs and horses.
With the assistance of a man and a
trained kennel-maid Mrs. Whitwell runs
kennels as a hobby at her home in
County Durham. Kennel-maids are
usually sure of jobs when they complete
their practical and theoretical course,
which includes some veterinary science.
The work is exacting and responsible, but
it makes an appeal to out-of-doors girls.
Mrs. Whitwell considers that dogs are
as temperamental as human beings.
Some preen themselves for the show and
the judges ; others get irritable and ner-
vous as soon as they approach a ring. Mrs.
Whitwell likes all dogs, but breeds for
which she cherishes a special affection
are English and Irish setters, pointers,
pekes and smooth foxies. So far she has
not seen a kelpie, but from what she’s
heard is inclined to believe that this
breed may some day become fashion-
able in England. Mrs. Whitwell and her
friends motored over to Adelaide last
Saturday, and expect to return to Mel-
bourne in about a week.


&
m
m.
VN
%
& %
M
Frans Josef Glacier
See the SOUTH ISLAND
|§|gf| : ? on your
%r
inn
No one can be said to have seen New
Zealand who has missed the majestic beauty
of the South Island, or the historic associa-
tions of the cities of Christchurch and
Dunedin, or of Lyttelton and Akaroa, or the
spa of Hanmer. you will be thrilled bythe
inspiring Fox and Franz Josef Glaciers,
Lakes Wakatipu and Wanaka, or the beau*
tifui bush-clad Butler Gorge and the pic-
turesque Otira Gorge enraptured by the
glories of Fiordland, Milford Sound, and the
Marlborough Sounds entranced by the
most glorious scenery in the world.
Come to the South Island when you come
to New Zealand.
For full particulars, write, call or ’phone:
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
14 Martin Place, Sydney. 'Phone B 7043
(directly opposite G.P.0.)
Collins House, 360 Collins St., Melbourne
'Phone Cent. 3110.
King House, 79 Queen Street, Brisbane*
(and all Travel Agents)
SOUTH JT ISLR Nl
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1089 of 1936.
BETWEEN ELSIE LOUISA KELLY Peti-
tioner
And HAROLD KELLY Respondent.
TO HAROLD KELLY late of Rita Island Ayr
Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Elsie Louisa
Kelly has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
third day of November 1936 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 27th day of August, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JAMES W. YOUNG, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1136 of 1936.
BETWEEN HENRY ERNEST HALL Peti-
tioner
And ISOBEL ELEANOR CHALMERS
HALL (FORMERLY BROWN) Respon-
dent.
TO ISOBEL ELEANOR CHALMERS HALL
late of Grafton in the State of New South
Wales. , _
TAKE NOTICE that the said Henry Ernest
Hall has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit in the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Thirteenth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of August, 19j6.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SPORA & PRICE, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 155 King Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
T u r'Urr tv • * t .
The City of Perth Regiment celebrated
its diamond jubilee with a ball at the
Embassy. Fligs were draped round the
galleries, sandbags piled in front of stage
and loges, and a tucket of trumpets pre-
luded the official party’s arrival. The
Lord Mayor, with Mrs, L. E. Barrett’s
embroidered black taffetas at one side,
was received by the C. 0., Lieut.-Col. W.
Jones, and Mrs. Jones, whose cloudy-
pink floral ninons wafted over satin,
Dressing was as bright as the uniforms.
Mrs. Wieck was wrapped in mimosa-
green pebble crepe, Mrs. Schofield
rustled shrimp pink taffetas, royal-blue
crepe romaine was wound round Mrs.
A. J. Proud, and Mrs. Baxter-Cox was
girt with parchment lace.
, , , ~ -»«■
Five of the six attendants at Mol he
DArcys marriage to Gerald Clarke
ceded her up The aisle of St. Mary’s
Cathedral wearing long buttercup georg-
ette frocks with gold Juliet caps and
sandals. Mollie s magnolia satins shim-
mered neath an enveloping Brussels veil
which swooped to the hem of her long
train and half-concealed a bouquet of
white camellias and snowdrops. Bring-
ing up the rear were Cissie, Nancy and
Nellie D’Arcy and Connie Fowells, in
lilac knop satin gowns with matching
velvet hats and furbishings, set off with
sprays of violets and pansies. Yet an-
other sister, Doreen, played the wedding
march, and Tom Powers sang O Salu-
taris’ and Ave Maria.
Makeshift furnishings were used in the
recently-completed additions to the
Claremont Yacht Club when members
gathered for a cheery dance. Colored
lights festooned the verandahs, where
flags served as breakwinds, and flags
were suspended in the billiard-room,
which was converted into the galley.
Commodore and Mrs. Long, she in
pastel-pink and blue floral chiffons, were
at the tiller, with a half-dozen honored
guests, alongside. Mrs. N. Shaw was on
deck in clinging black Chantilly, Mrs.
J. C. McFarlane pinned a large gold rose
to her karri-brown laces, and Audrey
Long patterned her black velvets with
gold. Dollar spots twinkled on Gwen
Laurence’s azalea-pink taffetas, Mrs. A.
Pool slipped a Russian tunic over her
black satin skirt and fragrant flowers
bloomed on Mrs. Baden Lathlam s
lavender taffetas.
From England comes news of the mar-
riage of Doreen Robinson, only daugh-
ter of the late Herbert Robinson and Mrs.
Robinson, of Albany, to Dr. D. M.
Garson, of Ballybay, Ireland.
Mrs. L. E. Barrett wound silver-fox
furs about her trim navy ensemble when
she entertained in honor of Gertrude
Drayton, C.8.E., at the Council
Chambers. Other functions with the
t of thp victoria I eaone in
secretary ot the Victoria -League in
afranieS by thi
the Karrakatta Club, arranged by me
Victoria League morning-tea at the
*!° me o£ . M f s - F - Davls " 7* wullfn
f >ra !'' a ho “ sl =| ue v st ’ anba
Womens Service Guild in the
Luff rooms. . .
The Presbyterian Ladies College cele-
brated its coming-of-age with high tea
lr ) the gymnasium. The candles on the
birthday cake (which was made by the
domestic science class) were lit by Mrs.
Lambert, one of the first pupils, and the
toast of the college was proposed by
the Rev. Tulloch, Moderator ot the
Assembly. After tea the present pupils
gave a concert, finishing up with a merry
f ketc h, “The Poison Party.”
Nedlands Golf clul y s associate presi-
. , nted Mrs . Mal i abone w [th a
bas^t p of violets and daffodils , Mrs.
Baird a ed a musical 0 .
d during the
® ’ nrp „ pntpd
P ’ ■
Aileen, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. C. Lee Steere, of Peppermint
Grove, has announced her engagement
to Harold Cooper, of Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
The Minda Ball> held in the Palais
R al> made the fourth large effort f or
charity within four weeks, and helped to
bring the total to £6OOO-odd. The Gov-
ernor and Lady Dugan were present,
with Commander B, Phillips in atten-
dance; they were received by the Lav-
ington Bonythons (he is president of the
Minda Home), with Mr. E. A. Anstey,
treasurer, and Miss D. Elms, secretary,
Others in the official party were Lord
Mayor Cain, the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
H. Dunstan, the George Ritchies and
Isobel Ritchie. Lady Dugan looked well
in a Parma-violet chiffon toilette on slim
lines with fuchsia velvet outlining the
corsage. The Bonython lady chose a
black flat crepe with Renaissance
jewelled embroidery on the bodice, and
she wore a three-quarter coat in
geranium-pink ring velvet.
Immediately following supper, served
j n ca baret style, some fearsome-looking
pj rates dragged a treasure chest on to
the fl oor> an d the pirate chief, mounting
the stage with his keg of rum, made a
speech in rhyme. The chest was opened,
an d o ut came jewel girls, 19 in all, each
gar bed in the color of the jewel she repre-
sented. Every girl recited a couple of
explanatory lines composed by the
Bonython lady ; they then sold envelopes
containing real jewels, several hundreds
of which had been given to the com-
mittee by Adelaide jewellers.
At Tattersall’s Club races at Morphett-
ville, Mrs. H. Allan Morris, wife of the
chairman, was hostess to wives of visiting
Premiers. Mrs. Morris looked smart in
a black tailored suit with a biscuit satin
blouse, and a small black velvet hat with
a bronze coque’s feather at the side.
Mrs. T. Flint entertained Mrs. N. F.
Bruxner, wife of the Deputy Premier of
N. S. Wales, Mrs. Spooner and Mrs. A. J.
McLachlan at morning-tea at the Went-
worth cafe. Mrs. Flint wore a smart
black tailored coat with skunk fur collar
over a henna-toned wool toilette and a
felt hat.
The Old Boys of Queen’s College were
the hosts at a dance held at the Liberal
Club Hall. Guests were received by the
president (J. S. Rees) and Mrs. Eiiv,
Hamilton, who was smartly gowned in
suede crepe ; she carried a bouquet ot
yellow freesias, pansies and boronia.
Mrs. John Horner wore a delphinium-
blue georgette toilette. Helen Seppelt
was in a modish frock of blue-and-green
organdie, backless, with a high neckline
in front. Mrs. Eric Bonython’s mist-blue
chiffon toilette had diamente at the neck-
line, and she wore a coronet of pale-blue
and pink hyacinths and forget-me-nots.
Lady Dugan presented the trophies
after the golf matches at Seaton. Miss
Una Clift, in introducing her, said hos-
pitality and sporting goodwill had been
outstanding features of the success-
ful meeting. Mr. Dudley Turner, cap-
tain of Royal Adelaide, and Mrs. Turner
entertained at afternoon-tea; Miss Clift
and members of the A.L.G.U. had pre-
viously entertained delegates, associates
and officials at luncheon at Seaton, when
Miss Joan Goode was presented with a
dark-blue leather golf bag in recognition
of her work as secretary. The visiting
golfers did not have a dull moment. A
bright cocktail party was given by five
hostesses in their honor at the home of
Mrs. Hugh Davis, Edwin-terrace,: Gilber-
ton. Miss Oliver Kay was toasted on
every side.
Another festivity for the visitors was a
delightful sherry party, when Mr. and
Mrs. Ross Sawers, Toth keen golfers,
entertained about 100 guests at their
home, Grove-street, Unley Park.
After months of nothing but picture
shows we now have the Gilbert and Sulli-
van operas at the Royal and Richard
Crooks at West’s Olympia. Incidentally
many would like to know why the G.
and S. operas are the only fare served up
to Adelaide theatre-lovers. Granted they
are delightful, we all know them back-
wards.
TASMANIA.
The Wilfrid Hudspeths gave hn even-
ing party at which Donovan Clarke read
a paper, “The Relation Between Poetry
and Music,” with gramophone illustra-
tions, followed by discussion.
The Governor and Lady Clark
attended the dog show in the City Hall.
Victorian judges said it was the best turn-
out of its sort we’ve had for a long time.
Lady Clark has an Australian terrier
which has presented her with some lovely
puppies. Terriers are growing in popu-
larity and were the predominating feature
of the show.
Molly Shoobridge gave a jolly dance
at her home at Glenora. Guests rolled
up from Hobart and all over the Derwent
Valley district. Japonica, narcissi and
co. made the house a bower of blossom.
The young hostess’s frock was of black
stiffened net with black sequined belt
and frilled . cape.
Mary and Helen Bethune’s evening
party at their home in Fitzroy-place was
masked —full-face masks, not the black
velvet eye-and-nose affairs —and identi-
fying wearers was great fun. Mary’s
frock of white hailstone net had pastel-
tinted flowers on the bodice. Helen
chose a printed taffeta in cream, red,
and blue.
The Masonic Ball at New Norfolk,
with a record roll-up, netted a goodly
sum for charities.
The Lyceum Club had a reception for
Mrs. C. W. Grant and daughter Dora,
just home from a world-tour. Mrs.
Grant wore a soft blue woollen turnout,
and Dora’s navy tailored suit went with
a silver fox fur.
Mrs. W. Keverall Mclntyre came to
Hobart from the north and gave a
lecture for the Repertory Society on
Noel Coward and his work. The
Mayor’s parlor was well-filled with a
theatre-minded audience, which enjoyed
the lecture and the reading of scenes
from some of the plays.
The Governor opened the new
Veterans’ Home at Launceston. Bad
weather reduced the attendance, but those
who turned out were delighted with the
new premises.
The winter exhibition of the Art
Society of Tasmania remained open for
a fortnight. During the session there
were two parties, an informal social with
supper and music, and .a bridge evening
to wind up the exhibition. The black-
and-white work was a strong feature of
the show.
News comes of the marriage in Eng-
land of Margaret, second daughter of
Mrs. and the late H. T. Waller, formerly
of Hobart, to George Stead, of Hawk-
hurst, Kent.
Our Zoo is to be turned into a park
and bird reserve when death removes the
large carnivora. The authorities find
them too expensive.


ft
o#
HP
H
■
I
■
H
111
1
m
U ; :
H
M
m
:•:’ ••: - '
rnmmmm
■MHH■
NORTH OP
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Donnelly, M.L.A., com-
plained the other day that fish roes from
Brisbane were being exported to Italy
and Egypt and there made into caviare
instead of being processed locally. Bris-
bane’s Fish Market manager rejoined
that 80,0001 b. of fish roes was exported,
frozen hard, from Queensland to Port
Said and Athens, but that only the broken
roes —10 p.c. of the total —were used to
make caviare. About the cheapest caviare
that can be bought in Australia still bears
the coat of arms and name of the late
Czar, but the margin between its price
and that of the dearest is nothing to
write home about: you can reach into
your pants pocket for 18s. if you want
a pound of it, and the container is in-
cluded in the weight. Fish roes are about
18s. a dray-load around Moreton Bay in
some seasons. We apparently —vide the
Queensland fishery man—have not ac-
quired a taste for caviare (which seems
inexplicable considering its rare cheap-
ness), and. anyway, we “do not properly
understand the processing of the deli-
cacy.”
* * * *
New Guinea gets P. N. Warrington,
vicar of St. Ignatius, Sunderland (Eng-
land), as new Anglican bishop, succeed-
ing Henry Newton, who was there for
13 years before he resigned in 1935. War-
rington is a Cambridge man in his early
forties, ordained in Durham. He was
curate of St. Mark’s, Tyne Docks, a thor-
oughly “Geordie” parish, before moving
to Leeds and his latest job.
* $ - $ $
“Kaloa”: All New Guinea is laughing
over the breathless account given by
London “Daily Sketch” of the alleged
adventures of the crew of the Sydney
vacht Sirius, which has arrived in the
Thames. At Rabaul, according to the
“Sketch,” the good ship was boarded by
scores of cannibals:
“The cannibals carried spears and war-
like weapons, but, although they looked
ferocious enough, we came to no harm.”
But the voyagers might have. Some
savage might have sold them a motor-
car or a life-insurance policy—they are
a fierce crowd, the Rabaul men. I re-
member one brave who tried to sell me
a ticket in a raffle for the local calaboose,
which he declared was the ancestral
stockade.
* * * *
“Hall’s Creek”: In B. 2/9/’36 some-
body suggested a £20,000 p.a. subsidy
from the Commonwealth and States for
the Australian Aerial Medical (“Flying
Doctor”) Services. The same night, open-
ing the new Wyndham (W.A.) radio
station by ’phone, the Prime Minister
weighed in with a promise of £5OOO p.a.
from Canberra. It’s the States’ turn
now.
* * * *
“E.D.H.”: Residents of Amity Point,
Stradbroke Island, who recently acquired
land on perpetual lease from the Govern-
ment are concerned over the rapid
erosion of the shores. Inquiries as to
who was responsible for the preservation
of the water front brought the frosty
answer that “individual owners” must
accept the responsibility. News of the
death of a small boy who was buried
under the fall of a huge mass of sand on
the beach has just reached Brisbane.
To the untutored mind, it seems that the
Government, in accepting yearly rents
for land that stands a good chance of
falling into the sea, should also accept
responsibility for making the water front
reasonably safe and preserving the land,
on which numerous out-of-work Diggers
have built homes in which they hope to
spend their old age without being a
charge on the State.
* * * *
“Treebird” : Within a fortnight of the
possum-season opening 140,000 skins
were ready for market, which suggests
lhat there are some mighty quick possum-
catchers. At the fourth of the fort-
nightly sales, 257,000 skins were sold ;
total to date, 1,103,000. Prices for special
blues run to 1275. a dozen ; smalls and
roughs were sold at 445. minimum for
southern grades. Prices are lower for
central district and northern skins. There
will be two more sales, and it looks as
if the fur industry through possums alone
will be worth at least half a million to
Queensland for the season.
“Dangi”: Queensland Public Works
Commission is trying to wish another
£1,500,000 railway on the Government —
this time from Dajarra to Camooweal. Of
course, that is only the estimate; it
would probably cost a great deal more.
But it is to “develop the vast sheep areas
of the Barkly, tap the admittedly best
cattle-breeding country in Australia and
give it access to the meatworks, and lead
to increased wealth production and
national revenue.” It would mean that
cattle would have to be driven 158 miles
less than formerly; also, there was a
line some distance into the country which
“Better mend that 'ole in the curtain, ma—it'll make the place a bit
more private."
has been pulled up, so the P.W.C. seem
cheerful optimists. As for the land being
the best for cattle in Australia, I’d like
to swap a piece of it for a slice of good
farm land half the size in some other
parts of Queensland that I know or in
the Riverina. When it comes to revenue,
£66,000,000 has been spent on Queens-
land railways, and they have lost
£9,000,000 since 1926, while towns are
dying along the railway to which the
new burden is to be tacked, though that
line runs through country about 50 p.c.
better than that along the Dajarra-
Camooweal project. If the Government
spent its loan money on providing water
along the Georgina and in the foothills
of the Selwyns, it would be doing some-
thing worth while.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Lady Wilson and Marjorie presented
the year’s trophies at the Girls’ Friendly
Society sports rally. Besides Brisbane
teams, there were two from Toowoomba
—St. Luke’s and St. James’s.
From their tenth trip to England, the
Blaikie Websters arrived bright and smil-
ing in the Orford. The lady wore Lon-
don’s latest sartorial features in black and
white, and her plateau beret had the
quill with which London designers are
giving an illusion of height to the newest
chapeau. After a few days in Brisbane,
they go to Mt. Isa, then by air to New
Guinea.
Brisbane saw its first Medical Ball at
Lennon’s on September 2. Roger Salter
was president of the committee, and
George Bagley secretary. There was a
rumor that the decorations were to be
medical, and first arrivals heaved sighs of
thankfulness when they discovered that
this did not mean relics of major opera-
tions. Two nice girls, D. Harding Frew
and E. Reilers, were official hostesses.
The Kable twins, Margaret and Lionel,
were guests of honor at a dance at the
Canberra, at which their mother and
father were host and hostess. Roses,
sweet-peas and pink streamers gave a
festive air to the party.
Pauline Row, who marries Dr. Athol
Quayle, was guest at an afternoon party
given by Bonnie Gore at her home at
Clayfield. Mrs. Edward Gore helped
her hostess daughter to entertain.
Yvonne Lochner, who marries Archie
Nixon Smith early this month, is one of
our leading amateur dancers. She has
decided on an unusual wedding gown—
it is to be pinky beige, even to the veil.
Instead of bridesmaids, there will be two
matrons of honor, Mrs. Venn Cox, sister
of the bridegroom-elect, and Mrs. H. V.
Hansen, Yvonne’s sister. Archie Nixon
Smith is building a new home at Green-
slopes for his bride —near R. E. Nixon
Smith’s home. R.E. is an elder brother,
and was vice-mayor under the Jolly
regime.
The Legacy Club benefited by the
Radio Ball, a gay affair preceded by cock-
tail and dinner parties. Among the
official guests were Minister H. A. Bruce
and his lady, she wearing a posy of
violets at the throat of her silvery-grey
gown, which was covered with a squirrel
fur coat.
Colonel and Mrs. J. S. Bladin, who
have had a lifetime of experience in
Salvation Army work all over the world,
have been spending a few days in Bris-
bane, during which the lady arranged
five women’s meetings.
The Aero Club’s ball at the Trocadero
was a huge success. Mr. and Mrs. Ray
Galloway—he is president of the Aero
Club —received the guests, the lady wear-
ing a caped delphinium-blue model.
Commander E. C. Rhodes and his/wife,
Colonel and Mrs. O. V. Hoad, Colonel
and Mrs. J. Hill, Colonel and Mrs. G.
H. G. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. J. Orwin and
Dr. and Mrs. R. P. Rheuben were the
official party.
The annual ball arranged by the
Toombul sub-branch of the R.5.5.1.L.A.,
always a cheery affair, was held at the
Carlton Cabaret. Plenty of flags and
balloons and a wealth of spring flowers
decked hall and tables. President W. G.
Hamilton and his wife received, and the
committee were Messrs. S. E. A. Slocock,
C. H. Bennett and A. D. Allanson.
Thousands of cars parked round the
clubhouse of the Royal Queensland Golf
House and an army of humans congre-
gated on the green and followed every
stroke, both of Helen Hicks in the morn-
ing and Gene Sarazen in the afternoon.
Judith Beit, of Beaudesert, the pretty,
dark-haired daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Beit, won the laurels from Helen. Sara-
zen was not in his best form, ’flu
bothering him throughout the three days’
play.
At the Ann-street Presbyterian Church
Betty Richardson and lan Thompson
kept the altar date. Only the bride’s
mother and Mr. and Mrs. lan Mcßain
were present, and Rev. F. W. Pearson tied
the knot. The bridegroom is the younger
son of the late Mr. and Mrs. P. Thomp-
son, of Melbourne, and the bride, a
Brisbane girl, had her home at New-
market.
Nancy Elphinstone, off to England to
be married, was farewelled by a number
of guests' at her own home. She leaves
by the Niagara to marry Lieut. James
Meyer, R.N.R’, whom she met on a
recent trip to England.


What YOU GET WHEN YOUR
RADIO IS POWERED WITH
EFFICIENT DRY BATTERIES
*
¥
*
*
*
¥
¥
Distant or local reception without background hum or
noise.
Maximum tone quality—only possible where batteries
are present to supply smooth flow of current.
Absolute reliability—-no mechanical parts to cause
breakdowns.
Economical operation, obviating the necessity of ser-
vice calls by your dealer.
A proven product - years past the experimental
stage.
Lowest possible drain on your accumulator re*
charging reduced to a minimum. Extra large A
battery not essential.
The choice of all critical radio enthusiasts and tech-
nicians where smooth, noiseless power is required.
E very S et is a B etter Set . 0 „
Vowered with FVER READY
Radio Batteries
MANUFACTURED BY THE EVER-READY CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY & LONDON.
Battery “International'''
7-valve Dual-wave,
£l3/17/6.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/—, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. halves.
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6; i 1.4, 4,0:
42 6/-- 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOYAG ARCADE, SYDNEY.
RADIO NEWS
AMATEUR CHATTER.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Possibly the most discussed topic
among Sydney 20-metre phone men is
that of aerial systems. Directional
theories don’t always work out; and
radiation pattern, distorted by garage,
greenhouse or other objects, may put the
maximum signal just where it shouldn’t.
The best aerial is the one that best suits
you, and to get that it is worth while
digesting the new Antenna Handbook,
by “Radio,” and trying them all, one
after another. The reason Colin Gal-
braith, of VK2ABD, has piled up more
DX ’phone contacts than probably any
other station in a similarly brief period
of operation is equipment with an effi-
cient transmitter and apparatus that has
solved this station’s aerial problem. Gal-
braith had no difficulty in working
Americans and Canadians with the usual
half-wave twisted pair doublets, but
Europe was the snag until a simple idea
suggested by Kruse in “Radio” for two
half-waves in phase, fed by twisted pair,
was acted upon. The result is that
VK2ABD is working the Englishmen on
’phone with R 7 and R 8 reports as
quickly as he hears them. This type of
aerial has a broadside directivity effect,
so that if it runs north and south maxi-
mum signal will be east and west.
An interesting test was conducted on
the night of 30/8/’36 between the
writer’s station and most of the techni-
cal staff of “QST,” in West Hartford,
Conn. (U.S.A.). Ross Hull and George
Grammer were at W1JPE, and “Roddy”
at W1SZ. The stations were using
rhombic aerials, the one at W1JPE being
particularly directive for Australia. Com-
munication was by ’phone, and the test
went on to see how late signals could
be held. The final fadeout after several
peaks was at 12.15 a.m. Sydney time,
and even then it was possible to work
on the key with W1SZ. It is unusual
to be able to work with Eastern U.S.A.
stations so late as this, and undoubtedly
the rhombic aerial systems were
responsible.
VK2NO.
Improved Wide-World Two.
An improved version of the Wide-
World Two was described B. 21/8/’35,
and, although not orimarily intended for
use on the broadcast range of 200 to
550 metres, it has been found particularly
effective for this purpose by E.8.C.,
of Charleville (Q.). He writes: “I am
more than' pleased with the performance
of this wonderful little set. Not only
does it perform exceptionally well on
the short waves, but in the broadcast
band its performance is fully equal ro
a good four-valve superhet. All Asiatic
stations are heard at full loudspeaker
strength. I was surprised to find that,
by manipulating the serial coupling con-
denser, all the closely-packed B stations
can be tuned in separately without over'-
lap. This is not possible with the
Four (not a Bulletin receiver). I use a
23-plate midget aerial condenser for the
broadcast band and a three-plate for
the short waves. Aerial is about 45ft.
overall.”
Progress of Television.
Some assert that television is at least
five years away, and that even when it
comes it will never be a popular form
of public entertainment, as the eyes
quickly get tired of watching the pic-
ture. From another source comes a
glowing announcement that television is
a complete technical success, that thou-
sands of receivers are ready for launch-
ing in England, and there is complete
confidence in the future of this form of
entertainment. The editor of “Television
and Short-wave World” writes of a
demonstration he attended:
We were first shown the electron image
camera in operation. In appearance it
resembles an outsize in box cameras
mounted on a substantial tripod. It was
simply pushed through a gap in the cur-
tains of a window, and there on the screen
of the receiver appeared the view with an
amazing amount of detail. A quite re-
markable feature is that this camera can
be used for distant scenes. It is possible
to secure pictures of distant objects tele-
scopically with a mere alteration of controls.
For example, a clock tower a third of a
mile away normally occupied a small por-
tion of .the screen. With a small adjust-
ment of controls it could be made to fill
practically the whole picture area.
Although the day was cloudy and dull there
was no lack of brightness or detail in
the picture. There was no noticeable
difference in the results of television by
line or radio, and, if anything, the im-
pression formed was that the radio trans-
missions were slightly better than those
obtained by line. Although trams were
passing within fifteen yards and the house
is situated on a main road carrying a great
deal of motor traffic, the amount of inter-
ference to the picture was scarcely appreci-
able.
It is stated that this was no special
demonstration. The receiver was in-
stalled in Anerley under usual private-
house conditions.
A British weekly has this to say about
television and the trade:
Isn’t the radio trade falling over back-
wards in its anxiety not to allow television
to disorganise radio sales? In the not very
distant future American and other foreign
television sets will begin to flood the
market. Against that time the British
radio trade will have built up an impres-
sion in the public mind that it is
technically unprepared, sceptical and almost
hostile to a form of entertainment which
the consumer will take up with an en-
thusiasm beside which the interest in radio
will seem half-hearted.
Farnsworth, the U.S.A. televisioi
leader, says:
Amateurs can and should be permitted
to share in the development of television
by building their own television receivers.
Television presents no more difficulty to
amateur receiving-set builders than did
radio in 1921 and 1922. Of course, there
will be no crystal-set days, but there will
be manufacturers of cathode ray tubes and
component scanning units. There will be
published circuit diagrams of usable short-
wave receivers, and 1 should not be sur-
prised to find amateurs building television
receivers competing favorably with those
developed in the large laboratories.
D. B. K.
British Television-’Phone
Development.
A recent issue of “Television and
Short-wave World” (England) contains a
description of television-’phone equipment
developed by J. H. Reyner, prominent
research engineer. A two-way loud-
speaking telephone apparatus is provided
with one-way vision, and the subject
being televised may be seen to walk into
the picture, sit down and proceed to
carry on a conversation. Ninety-line
definition is used with quite satisfactory
results for head-and-shoulder portraits.
A lOin. cathode-ray tube gives a satisfy-
ing image. To be able to see a person
sit down in a chair and commence to
talk and to speak back without con-
sciously speaking into a microphone is
quite uncanny, a foretaste of the tele-
vision telephone of the future.
Possible Source of Interference.
It is not generally realised that a break
or bad connection in the house wiring,
or a break in the filament of an electric
lighting bulb, can cause serious interfer-
ence with the wireless set. A poor con-
nection in the house wiring sometimes
only causes interference when there is a
small current passing through the wires,
such as that taken by one bulb, and
this interference will be intermittent.
Heavy traffic passing the house may
cause outbursts of interference ; it may
be put down to radiation from the
ignition systems of motor vehicles.
A more uncommon source of interfer-
ence is a bulb which has come to
the end of its useful life and
has a small break in the filament.
This break is liable to cause high-fre-
quency interruptions in the current flow-
ing through the bulb, owing, possibly, to
the expansion and contraction of the fila-
ment. A bulb which is causing interfer-
ence may sometimes be heard emitting a
high-pitched note, and if the filament is
examined it will be seen that there are
one or two spots on it which are glowing
very brightly.


p
ADIOTRON
a
fds
The Importance of Good Valves
The most vital part of a broadcast receiver is its valve equipment. No Radio
can give good performance without good valves. Radiotrons conform to
the world's highest standards in design, material, construction and perform-
ance. See that your set is equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
SNOmOIOVU
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
VI 6.6
fAdvertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company Ltd.l
THE AUTOTUNE AERIAL COUPLER.
MODERN receivers, broadcast or short-wave, rely on high
circuit efficiency for results. Aerial circuit, a most
important part of the receiver network, is neglected. Yet,
whatever the frequency, an aerial system tuned to resonance
raises signal strength appreciably. The unit here described is
for short-waves, but the idea can be extended to cover the
ordinary broadcast range.
In early days of broadcasting, re-
ceivers gave remarkable results consider-
ing the relatively inefficient valves. Selec-
tivity didn’t matter much then, but DX
did (and still does). The aerial was not
just hitched to the grid circuit of the
input valve, but was carefully tuned. It
was a properly-insulated, well-elevated,
Fig. 1. —Schematic diagram of the aerial tuner.
generous affair, with a counterpoise to
boot. To compensate for inequalities
in aerial design, a change-over switch
provided for series or parallel tuning of
the aerial coupling coil. As a result,
ranges of several thousand miles were
common on spark, with only a sensitive
(for those days) crystal receiver.
In the last year or two this writer has
applied various aerial tuners to short-
wave receivers, always with advantage.
The effect has been to raise signal level
two or three points, no matter what the
type of receiver, and this without valve
noise, which must occur where a coupling
valve is introduced.
Requirements of the Tuner.
Testing receivers of all kinds, includ-
ing “ham” types and commercial dual-
wavers, the writer felt the need for
an aerial tuner —primarily for the short-
wave ranges—that could be used quickly
and effectively at any frequency between
at least 30mc. and 3.5mc. There was no
technical objection to plug-in coils;
merely that of inconvenience. It is
annoying when a quick comparison is
wanted on a logged signal to have to
hunt for the appropriate aerial coil.
Therefore, some arrangement for coil
changing without complication was
sought, the aerial tuner to be capable
of securing resonance with any aerial
system, not merely one designed for
short wave on a special aerial.
The Idea and Result.
An old bakelite drum dial of the once-
popular Pilot type provided the means
of rigging a simple turret, carrying coils
to switch by rotation of the drive
knob. This led to the aerial tuner out-
lined in the diagrams and illustration.
Fig. 1 indicates the application, and
Fig. 2 the wiring and coupling to the
receiver input. Mounted on small insu-
lating pillars fixed just inside the body
of the drum are four spider-web coils,
Adjacent to each coil and protruding
from the surface of the drum are two
contact pins. As the drum is rotated,
each coil in turn makes contact with
two stiff brass springs fitted on a bakelite
strip at the rear of the drum. These
springs are in the aerial circuit with its
associated tuning condensers. The par-
ticular coil, when in contact, is in induc-
tive relation to the receiver pick-up coil
(marked LX), and this coil is fitted on
a swivel mounting, made (in this in-
stance) from an ancient honeycomb coil-
holder. Coil LX can thus be swung
nearer to or farther from the aerial coil
Fig. 2. —How the tuner is coupled to the receiver.
in circuit. LX is coupled through a
twisted line link to the usual aerial coil
in the receiver. If the receiver has no
aerial coil and uses a condenser coupling
a coil will have to be provided. For the
short-wave bands this coil needs about
five or six turns near the “earth” end
of the grid coil (detector or R.F. stage).
Coil LX also has five or six turns. In
Fig. 2, the connections are shown as
for a doublet aerial, with alternative
connections for plain aerial and earth
in dotted lines. The variable condensers
Cl and C are lOOmmfd. midget variables,
and the two marked C, in series with
feeders or aerial
and earth, are
ganged, and in-
sulated from each
other. This is
done with a small
bakelite coupling.
In use the action
of the tuner is
simple. A signal
is tuned in on the
receiver, coil LX
is swung fairly
close to the aerial
coil for the par-
ti cul a r range,
and Cl adjusted
for best signal
strength. Series
condenser gang C
is then adjusted,
and a balance be-
tween the con-
denser system
and the variable
coil coupling
works wonders.
The Coils.
As the diagrams and illustration show,
the coils are all of the spider-web type,
outside diameter of Spider-webs
are not essential, but are somewhat more
efficient than solenoids wound on valve
bases. All coils are wound with 26
D.S.C., and the sizes are: LI, 3 turns,
L 2, 5 turns ; L 3, 10 turns; L 4, 25 turns.
These coils will cover, with the tuning
condensers, all the useful short-wave
bands up to around 90 metres. If ex-
tended range is wanted, somewhat
smaller diameter coils could be used with
finer gauge wire, thus permitting the plac-
ing of six or seven coils round the drum.
Owing to the lOOmmfd. parallel tuning
capacity of Cl, two coils would be needed
to secure aerial resonance over the nor-
mal broadcast range; these, depending
upon the size, would be a matter for ex-
periment. The correct inductive relation
between coils must be observed if spider-
webs are used.
When there is heavy electric interfer-
ence, causing resort to noise-reducing all-
wave aerials, this unit could be made to
include a Faraday screen between LX
and the aerial coils. In this case, coil
LX must be completely screened off —
except for the Faraday arrangement —
and contained in a metal box. The out-
put leads to the receiver would also need
to be screened in copper braid. But
unless a receiver is itself well screened,
Fig. 3. —The complete tuner. The two terminals at the top
right are for the leads from LX to the receiver.
a Faraday screen is of very little con-
sequence.
D. B. K.
Improved Empire Service.
The Empire programmes from Daven-
try can be heard well at some time in the
24 hours in Australia, even in an aver-
age flat location with a makeshift aerial,
and the 1936 Daventry technical arrange-
ments will .appear insignificant in com-
parison with those of 1937. For the 8.8. C.
has ordered erection of a number of
high masts to hold new aerial systems.
There will be 25 directional radiators,
giving transmission on 13 different wave-
lengths, including long- and short-path
routes to Australia. When the old SXX
was the parent station of Europe, the
Daventry site occupied 50 acres. It now
covers 130 acres.
Casual Comment.
“Radiolink”: The “fop-hat” trans-
mitter recently appeared in U.S.A. ; now
comes the “walking-stick station.” The
oscillator is actually contained in the
stick, and is built around an acorn-type
valve. The B-battery power supply is
carried in a waist belt, using miniature
cells, and speech amplifier and modulator
are contained in a binocular case, car-
ried over the shoulder. Microphone, of
the small crystal type, is carried in the
coat lapel or worn as a wrist-watch.
Wave-length is in the region of \\ metres.
Various components are connected by
flexible wire concealed in the clothing.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) What is the spacing between LI and L 2
for the short-wave coils of the Companion
Portable ( B. 5/ 8 / ’36) ? (2) What alteration
does broadcast coil need to increase tuning
range above 500 metres ? —462.
(1) Approximately l-16in. (2) Extended
range will call for two separate coils, owing
to the small tuning capacity. Make another
coil similar in arrangement, but with 100 turns
for LI and 60 turns for L 2.
* * * #
My A.C. receiver lias been tried from the
Barron Falls hydro power supply, but there
is a great deal of noise. Why, and what can
be done ? —464.
The noise is carried along the overhead
cables from the power station. The remedy
(which may be only partial) is to use a line
filter. This does not affect the A.C. input to
the receiver, but, if correctly designed, will
filter a considerable amount of the noise to
earth.


DE SOTO AIRSTREAM SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 10 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft.
Maximum speed, 84.5 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 22.4 m.p.g.
••SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-B EL ACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND .
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
LONG EXPERIENCE
makes SHORT WORK of pumping
the large cylin-
der. This large
volume is then
taken up by
the small high—
p r e s sure
cylinder and
delivered t o
the tyre with
surprising ease.
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easiei
tyre inflation —for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
\
less Gauge
extra
with gauge.
Take it ease/ with a
RENRUT
aUADP^UPU
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield,
Eugland.
The Steering Column.
DE SOTO AIRSTREAM SIX TAKEN
OVER TEST COURSE.
ECONOMICAL FUEL CONSUMPTION AT HIGH
CRUISING SPEEDS.
BY FRED BERRY.
DESIGNED by Chrysler engineers and built to the high
standard of other products of th : 3 maker, the De Soto
Airstream Six, tested recently over the “Bulletin” course, pro-
vides motorists with a car which, while giving an extremely
snappy road performance, is heavy enough to ensure a high
degree of passenger comfort over all types of roads, is econo-
mical to operate and reasonable in price.
Developing its maximum power at
relatively low engine speeds, the car
cruises most economically at about 50
m.p.h., with a noticeable absence of fuss
or vibration. The newly-designed steer-
ing assembly permits fingertip control
throughout the speed range, and gives the
driver a sense of stability and confidence
under all road conditions.
Refinements in the design of the in-
dependent front-wheel suspension system,
coupled with the fitting of the ride
stabiliser in front, instead of over the
rear axle, have considerably improved
roadworthiness when compared with the
previous series, the car now maintaining
complete balance even when driven at
high speed on difficult bends.
Suspended in the chassis on Chrysler
patented “floating-power” mountings, the
six-cylinder engine, with bore of 3fin.
and stroke 4yin., has a swept volume of
241 cub. in. (3957 c.c.). R.A.C. rating is
27.34 h.p., but the motor actually de-
velops 87 b.h.p. when fitted with cast-
iron cylinder head and 100 b.h.p. at
3400 r.p.m. when fitted with high-
compression aluminium head.
Cylinder block and upper half of
crankcase are cast integral,
the crankcase being heavily
webbed to provide a rigid
support for the crankshaft
bearings.
Special attention has
been given to the coring of
the cylinder block to
ensure efficient cooling and low oil con-
sumption. Water jackets extend the full
length of the cylinder barrels, and a
copper distributing tube extending the
full length of the block directs the cool-
est water in the circulating system on to
the metal adjacent to the exhaust-valve
seatings. Side-by-side valves of sili-
chrome steel are fitted, the exhaust-
Plan of new steering mechanism; note
individually mounted tie rods.
valve seatings being in the form of hard-
ened chrome steel inserted into the iron
block. These hard inserts tend to stabil-
ise tappet clearances over long periods,
minimise pitting and increase the period
between “top overhauls.” Tappet clear-
ance with engine hot are: Exhaust,
eight thou.; inlet, six thou. Inlet opens
at top dead centre.
The T-slot, aluminium alloy, anodic-
coated pistons each have four rings
located above the gudgeon pin: two top
rings compression, two lower slotted oil-
retaining type. Con. rods are of forged
steel, I section, with thin-wall, precision-
type, removable big-end bearings.
The crankshaft is unusually rigid, and
runs on four main bearings, thoroughly
balanced. Seven integral counterweights
An attractive car —the Airstream Custom De Soto, in which quality, comfort, and
performance are outstanding features.
and a torsional vibration damper at the
forward end are fitted. The camshaft is
driven through a silent chain with a
large contact area.
Full-pressure lubrication provides for
positive circulation of oil to all vital
parts of the motor. Oil is drawn by a
submerged gear-type pump through a cir-
cular strainer in the sump and forced
through rifle-drilled passages in crank-
case and crankshaft to main, connecting-
rod and camshaft bearings. A cartridge-
type oil filter is included in the circuit.
Cylinder walls and pistons are splash
lubricated. An efficient crankcase ven-
tilation system prevents contamination
of sump oil, air being drawn through
the crankcase breather, fitted with a
gauze filter. After circulation it is ejected
beneath the engine tray through an outlet
pipe. Fuel is drawn from a 12gal. tank
at the rear, and delivered to the car-
burettor through pipes outside the chassis
by a diaphragm-type mechanical pump
driven from the camshaft.
Carburettor is of plain tube down-
draught type, with fixed jets, and is fitted
with automatic choke, accelerating pump,
auxiliary manual choke control, air
cleaner and silencer.
Inlet and exhaust manifold assemblies
have a “hot-spot” controlled by thermo-
stat to provide smooth operation during
warming-up and the correct fuel mix-
ture tempera ture
throughout the entire
speed range. Exhaust-
pipe muffler and tail
pipe are connected to
engine and frame by
flexible brackets.
Electrical equipment
is six-volt separate-
unit type. The heavy-
duty air-cooled gen-
erator, driven by a
flexible rubber belt
from the crankshaft
pulley, is fitted with a
voltage regulator, and
is capable of continu-
ous charging at 16 amperes without over-
heating. Starter motor is solenoid-
operated, the ring gear being placed in
engagement before current is applied.
Starter button is located on dashboard.
Ignition is by coil and battery, the dis-
ribuor head being equipped with a
vacuum-operated automatic-spark ad-
vance. Firing order is 1,5, 3,6, 2, 4.
Plugs are 14mm. diameter; gap, 25
thou.; contact breaker gap, 20 thou.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry-disc clutch, air-cooled by slots cast
in the housing, to a three-speed-and-
reverse gearbox with central change
speed lever. Clutch pedal is
mounted independently, to
eliminate engine vibration,
and the clutch pedal travel
has been shortened to give
easier and more positive
control.
Pinions in the gearbox are
helical cut. The second
speed gear is in constant
mesh, low and reverse being
of sliding type. Shifting into
second or top is accom-
plished by a sliding clutch
sleeve which, in conjunc-
tion with the synchroniser,
results in easy and quiet
shifting of gears and avoids crashing of
teeth in the event of unskilful or careless
operation. Transmission ratios in gear-
box are: Top, direct ; second, 1.55 to 1 ;
first, 2.57 to 1 ; reverse, 3.48 to 1.
Final drive is on the Hotchkiss prin-
ciple, the open propeller shaft being
fitted with needle roller universal joints,
front and rear. Rear axle is semi-float-
ing, in a pressed-steel banjo housing.
Crown . wheel and pinion are hypoid
drive, with helical-cut teeth, the reduc-
tion ratio being 4.1 to 1.
The frame is of double drop X-girder
type with box section channel members.
Wheelbase is 118 in.; minimum road
clearance, B|in.
Suspension at rear is by conventional
semi-elliptic springs with single-action
adjustable hydraulic shock-absorbers.
Springs are totally enclosed in metal
sheaths; shackles are rubber-bushed at
front and of silent U-threaded type at
rear.
The pantograph type of independent
front-wheel suspension is fitted, in con-
junction with fully-adjustable double-
acting hydraulic shock-absorbers,
which, in turn, are coupled to a
spring-steel ride-stabilising bar.
The steering gear has been rede-
signed, and is particularly adaptable
to independent front-wheel suspen-
sion, Two individually mounted tie
rods are pivoted to a stationary
centre hanger, and are free to follow
the up-and-down motion of the wheels
without affecting steering. No direct
thrust can be made against the pitman
arm ; the result is a complete elimination
of road shocks from the steering wheel.
Steering box is worm-and-roller type,
with provision for adjustment for wear.
Service brakes on all four wheels are
of internal-expanding, self-equalising
hydraulic type. Brake cylinders are
stepped, the rear shoe cylinder slightly
larger than front. Brake drums are
centrifuse, with cast-iron liners. The
emergency brake, operated by a hand-
lever, is located behind the gearbox.
Pressed-steel flour and heavy X bracing at back of
rear seats in sedans, to give greater rigidity and
prevent distortion.
Body, by Richards, is of the Safe-t-
-steel type. All windows and windscreen
in closed models are fitted with armor-
plate safety glass; provision is made for
ventilation in front and rear quarter


I •
Mmmm
m
~ , s
• •.•.•:VV:--^ w «'v A X...
-S. ■■:■■■.;■.>::. : "'-'••r-v
•••• .:, : :•.-••
- ■ „
••••':•:•;
SJSs*
Swig
Proved by the Past...
Improved for the Future
"WHAT CAN WE DO TO MAKE THEM
BETTER?" Constantly Ford engineers
are seeking the answer to that question.
They ask themselves. "Is this the best
part for the purpose? Have any newer
designs, materials or manufacturing
methods been devised that will enable
us to make this part more reliable, more
efficient, longer lasting?" This constant
effort to "make them better" has provided
the finest of modern Truck features, in-
cluding: V-8 Truck Engine; Full Floating
Rear Axle; Heavier Axle Shafts; Needle
Bearings in Universal Joints; Improved
Steering; Heavy Duty Truck Clutch and
Transmission; Improved Cooling System;
Rugged 7-inch Frame; Oil Bath Air
Cleaner; Quick-action Safety Mechanical
Brakes; Safety Glass All Round in Cab.
Ford V-8 Trucks have been proved by the
past and are improved for the future.
Arrange with your Ford dealer for an
"on-the-job" test. Easy and convenient
purchase terms may be arranged.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-8 TRUCKS
.Fogg MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY, LTD. (Jncorpor.gted in. Victoria)
-VM-.97'
windows. The front seat is adjustable
for length. The instrument panel is
neatly designed and indirectly lighted. •
The car tested, a touring sedan, driven
by W. Lowrie, of Buckle and Harden,
Ltd., was fitted with a standard cast-iron
6-to-l high-com-
pression cylinder
head. (The Custom
“overdrive” touring
sedan is fitted with
six wheels, rear
wheel shields and
automatic over-
drive transmission.)
Speedometer read-
ing of the car
tested was 2735
miles; the car
weighed, with
driver and observer
and full fuel tank,
34cwt. (registered
weight 30cwt.).
The newly-de-
signed steering gear
renders the car
very easy to
manoeuvre in city
traffic ; top-gear ac-
celeration from
low road speeds is good and brakes are
smooth, even and powerful.
Cruising at 50 m.p.h. on the open
road appears to be the most economical
pace, for once that speed has been
reached the throttle is seldom opened
past the fast-idle position, and on quarter
throttle average main road hills are nego-
tiated in top.
In a test of coasting from 15 m.p.h.
in neutral the car rolled 736 yards in
the face of a strong wind, proving free-
dom from friction and correct alignment
of all transmission details.
Weather conditions rendered a one-
way test of maximum speed over the
Cutaway section of rear-axle housing,
showing how pinion is mounted below
centre in hypoid drive.
measured mile impracticable. Two runs
against and with the wind were made,
involving an additional three miles of
full-throttle operation. Time taken on
the first run was 44 2-ssec., averaging
81,08 m.p.h., and in the reverse direc-
tion 40 4-ssec., averaging 88.23 m.p.h.,
the mean speed, 42 3-ssec., averaging
84.5 m.p.h.
Over the rough, unmade road through
Grose Vale suspension and roadholding
were satisfactory, and in the hill climb
of the final 2 1-5 miles of Kurrajong
Mountain the time, 3min. 4sec., revealed
the possibilities of the De Soto for high
speed and comfortable touring over dif-
ficult roads.
On the cross-country road via Castle-
reagh to Penrith the hydraulic brakes
stopped the car in 22ft. from 25 m.p.h.
without swerving.
Acceleration from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
top gear took 7sec. ; 10 to 30 in second,
4 4-ssec. ; from a standstill to 50 m.p.h.,
10 2-ssec.
Slow running, 350 yards in 2min. 2sec.,
averaged 5.9 m.p.h., followed by 350
yards accelerated in 15sec., averaging 48
m.p.h. and crossing the finishing line at
65 m.p.h., indicating excellent top-gear
flexibility.
At the conclusion of the trip, 121 miles,
at an average speed* including all tests,
of 38.8 m.p.h., sgal. 3| pints of fuel
were required to fill the tank, an average
consumption of 22.4 m.p.g. (38 ton
miles). This is an excellent result.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
R.C.W. (Talwood, Q.). — 1 intend buying a
second-hand car and converting it to a utility
truck for use in this district, total expense not
to exceed £lOO. Please advise make, type and
model most suitable, best place to have con-
version done and approximate cost.
Unless you are very fortunate a chassis in
suitable mechanical condition to withstand
utility work will be difficult to locate at the
price. Too risky to offer advice upon.
* * * *
M.K.A. (Torrens Park, S.A.). — I wish to
buy a car suitable for long-distance touring,
one with power and endurance and able to
stand up to rough work. What is your order
of preference of the five cars named ?
3,4, 5, 2 and 1.
* * * *
A.G.E. (Lismore, N.S.W.). — I read recently
that if plug gaps were widened to 60 thou.
the engine would give a better performance.
My instruction book prescribes plug gap of
25 thou. Which is correct ?
, his instance bolh instruclions are correct.
y ests s |,ow that the wider gap enhances engine
performance, particularly at low and idling
speeds, but as the coil fitted to your motor
(1) Automatic choke. (2) Circulation water by-pass thermo-
stat. (3) Automatic manifold heat control. These ensure
easy start from cold and efficient operation at all speeds.
was not designed for such an increase in load
it would be unwise to experiment without suit-
able equipment.
* * * *
F.R.S. (Hobart). — Method of application
and approximate cost of method of preserving
exterior finish mentioned on this page, and
can materials be obtained in Hobart ?
•No information as to process methods. Ma-
terial cannot be purchased, the work being
done only by specialists in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. Approximate cost £5 per car.
M.P.R. (Wyndham, W.A.). — Can you give
me particulars of trucks {named) with refer-
ence to their suitability for use in my dis-
trict ?
Particulars will be sent to you direct from
distributors handling types mentioned.
J.G.L. (Maxwelton, N.Q.).—(l) Following the
fitting of oversize tyres on the rear wheels
of my car I notice a lightness in steering and
tendency to wander at speed. Will fitting over-
size tyres on front cure this ? (2) What toe-in
is required on a '3l model 8/50 Buick ?
(1) Oversize tyres on front wheels frequently
affect alignment and cause trouble similar to
that described, but larger tyres at the ,rear,
though they tend to unbalance the machine,
are seldom responsible for steering troubles.
Whether oversize tyres on front would improve
matters depends mainly upon their effect on
castor and camber. (2) 5-32 in.
* * * *
W.D.R. (Peranga, Q.). — Is it possible to
have a sedan body fitted to an old model seven-
passenger tourer ? Where could the work be
done, and cost ?
Possible but not practicable. The new body
would cost £l5O to £3OO, more than the car
is worth.
* * * *
2517.— 1 s it possible to fit an overdrive to the
Ford A ? Where can l get information on the
subject, and what would be the cost?
Write Ford Motor Co., Geelong, Vic. An
auxiliary nine-speed gearbox can be obtained
designed for use in trucks of this make, at a
cost of about £35.
* * * *
W.C.A. (Mulwala, N.S.W.). — My ’36 model
coupe is fitted with a 3.5 to 1 back axle and
6.50 oversize tyres. I get 68 in second and
84 in top, but acceleration in top from below
45 m.p.h. is too sluggish. I desire to enter
competitions. How can I improve performance,
and would copperising the cylinder head assist ?
Copperising is as yet not done locally, and,
even so, it is doubtful whether it would be
much assistance, as your present head is alu-
minium. Speeds mentioned, if accurate, are
excellent for your type of car, and increase in
maximum would entail considerable mechanical
alteration. Suggest fitting a standard back axle
ratio to secure improvement in top-gear accele-
ration from low speeds.
* * * *
.P.A.C.P. (Brisbane). — Although my ’36 model
touring sedan has done only 1700 miles and
is performing well, I desire that no errors be
made in early running operations. Please
advise: (1) Is the water-cooling system con-
trolled by thermostat, and, if so, where located
and at what temperature operated ? (2) Has
the generator a voltage regulator ? (3) 1 am
told that the pistons are cam ground. What
does this mean, and are they noisy until warmed
up ? (4) Instruction book advises changing
lubricating oil at 300, 1000 and 2000 miles and
thereafter at every 2000 miles. Would it not
be better to change every 1000 ? (5) How and
at what mileage should tyres be changed to
obtain best life ?
(1) Yes, two thermostats are located in the
branch header pipe immediately above the
cylinder blocks. They are adjusted to open
when circulating water reaches a temperature of
between 140 and 150 degrees F. (2) No. (3)
Pistons are T-slot anodic-coated aluminium
allby and are cam ground. This means they
are ground eccentric, greater clearance feeing
given across the line ot greater mass of metal,
thus taking expansion into account and ensuring
a more exact fit under operating conditions
than when conventional types are used. They
should not be noisy when cold. (4) With air
cleaners, oil purifiers and crankcase ventilation
installed, there is no risk in using a high-grade
oil for 2000 miles. If, however, it is changed
more frequently the risk of failure is corre-
spondingly reduced. (5) Under average running
conditions (10,000 to 30,000 miles per annum)
maximum efficiency from tyres can be obtained
by changing position once each month.
Sequence of changing is as follows: Spare to
left rear, left rear to left front, left front to
right front, right front to right rear, right rear
to spare, adopting same rotation in subsequent
changes.
Motor Oddities.
“Canopus”: Road corrugations are
caused by the vibration set up by t'asl-
moving self-propelled vehicles, coupled
with end thrust. If the road-roller makes
the ripples, as suggested by “K.H.” (B.
12/8/’36), will he please explain why they
occur on natural black-soil tracks and
on gravel roads which have never heard
of a roller?
“X.”: I believe the wind plays a large
part in producing road corrugations.
Such effects are always most acute where
the road is most exposed.
sji *ji -i»
“L.W.”: Driving through Waugh’s
Pocket (between Babinda and Innisfail,
N.Q.) after a heavy shower, the front
wheels skidded into a rut while I was
climbing a red-soil hill. I pulled out at
once, finished the climb, went down the
other side and over another long hill.
Then the engine died, and I investigated,
to find the battery missing! Over a
mile back, when I bounced in and out
of the rut, the battery was torn out of
its housing, and I had climbed two dif-
ficult hills without it. Call me a liar if
you like, but it was a battery-ignition car.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS’—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication.’ The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totalis of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and thait its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
"THE MAIL"
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE— A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY —P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON —F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of '.The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post’’
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
liEl' "
“The Barrier Rfliraer”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, l«td., Adelaide.
fsd
nutter
Women’s
Supplement
It not
“The Examiner” publishes every Wednesday a supplement
for Women containing all the social news and specialised
features concerning the woman and the home. It is tne
woman’s own newspaper, and rivals Australia s best,
only reaches the home, but stays there. You can reach
the women of Northern Tasmania only by advertising
in “The Examiner’s” Women’s Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
Chamber*
'AUDIT
•BUREAU OF-
CIRCULATIONS.
W R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C. 1.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia,
in the way the mare looked about her and in the
red flare of her funnelled nostrils.
He was disturbed from his reverie by Harry, in
jockey’s costume, coming towards him.
“Hulloa, Harry!” he called. “I haven’t shouted
for you yet. Come on and we’ll go and have one.
What’s all the row about?” he asked as a sudden
cheer burst on them.
“That’s th’ declaration of th’ Templeton Handi-
cap,” Harry explained. “Mr. Hopkins won it with
Changwagee. We run fourth with Destinous.”
“Has the Templeton been run?” Kilgour de-
manded in surprise. “I wanted to have a bit of a
bet on that. I was thinking of other things. This
dry time’s got me going. I can’t help worrying about
it. Never mind. We’ll go and have a drink now. You
stay here, look-out belong-it that one mare, Woppida.
I’ll skin you alive if you go away and leave her.”
THE races finished, the men returned to the stations,
and the drudgery of endless work continued.
Scarcely had the fats been delivered and the last of
the sale cattle started on the road when water-holes
required attention. Those which usually lasted till
October and November commenced to dry about the
end of June. Cattle running there had to be shifted
to other waters, distributed to avoid congestion, and
pumping plants on the bores commenced to work.
That was a further worry to the management, and
it necessitated endless work for the stockmen and
horses.
Kilgour used the car more frequently to get from
place to place more quickly, supervising work and
seeing that all was as well as was hpmanly possible.
But his two riding horses, Amathea and Cherry, re-
ceived their full quota of work.' Each of those mares '
knew what it was to pace along through the long
night, their hoof beats sounding. singularly sharp and
clear in the night air, and to be let go at the home
yards little before daybreak.
“It’s all part of your graduation course. Amie,”
the man told his mount. “You’ve got to stand up to
it, mare. It ain’t much fun for either of us. It’s the
endless monotony of the thing that takes its toll, even
though you do seem to go more freely at night than
in the daytime—the same as nearly every other horse.
You passed the first big test when you whipped that
Lapthing affair at the races. One more test, whatever
it’s going to be, and you’re fully qualified. And I
don’t pass you, me lady, until you do qualify!”
With summer’s heat coming early in October
cattle had to be handled in a hurry, and handled care-
fully. Waters went away with appalling rapidity.
Almost, it seemed, the scorching sun burnt the nutri-
ment out of the grass.
'"THEN a new danger arose. From away in the
I south-east a black pall hung in the sky, and at
night that horizon was lit with a red glimmer of
distant flames.
A fire, starting abopt Boulia somewhere, swept
up the western side of the river. Its right wing fol-
lowed the course of the channels, unable to cross that
bare-eaten strip. Its left wing was away over in no-
man’s-land somewhere, three or four hundred miles
out in the Territory.
“We can’t do anything,” Kilgour remarked to
Harry. “We haven’t the manpower in the district
to handle it. We must have a starting point,
a base, and we ain’t got that with a fire
that size. Anyway, we might as well puff against
thunder with a kitchen bellows as try and cope with
that thing. It’s out of our class. We’ll take a ride,
over to-morrow —you going down the river and me
up it —and we’ll see what’s happened.”
On the morrow, riding Amathea, Kilgour went
across the river. The fire, with the whimsical fate
which seems to control all bush fires, had burned
erratically. For no apparent reason it had left un-
touched and unscorched patches of a thousand acies
or more. But in the main, the western side was swept
bare and presented a black scar on the face of the
earth.
Kilgour rode up to the face of the fire. It was
burning easily, hissing and crackling. Its shroud of
smoke was pierced by sweeping hawks. . They used
the flames as beaters. They knew by instinct that
the flames would hunt quail and other ground-running
birds from the protection of the thick grass. When
these bewildered atoms rose from the flames the hawks
took a turn.
When the leaping fires reached a patch of rotting
canegrass in a low-lying swamp, and with a rush the
flames leapt in the air, crackling and roaring, Amathea
wheeled in terror and tried to break away. In less
than half an hour she was stepping unconcernedly
through low flames, taking no notice of them, obey-
ing the guidance of the rein and thigh of her rider as
equably as if the fire did not exist.
The cattle were shifted across the river and put
on new waters and feed. It was a job fairly big in
its magnitude to gather about eight thousand cattle
on horses which had to be handled carefully, but it
did not require meticulous care: any few stragglers
left behind could eke out a living on the patches the
firegod had spared. Still, it was a work which took
its toll of the horses.
EARLY in December, when summer’s hot breath
swept like a blast from the furnace, storms
gathered. One played on the western side, lightning
ripping and thunder rolling. From that western side,
when eddying puffs of wind swung from it, there
came the heavy smell, sweet of wet earth and rain.
“Go across and have a look what happened,
Harry,” Kilgour ordered next morning. “Take Paddy
with you and send him up the top end to see what’s
on up there. I’m afraid it ain’t much. It was like two
bulls sparring : all bellow and dust, I think. Have
a look and let me know.” ,
Next night Harry made his report: Nothin
doin’. Might ’a’ been twenty points all told. Nothin’
any good nowhere. That storm dragged a lot of cattle
back over that side. There’s fifteen hun’red or more
waterin’ at Brolga.”
Kilgour surprised his head stockman by asking:
“Are you any good at prayers, Harry?”
“Never tried much,” Harry admitted.
“Then give it a flick. You might be good.”
Chapter XII.
MAN AND BEAST.
THE cattle were shifted out after feed and water.
Then, less than a week later, the storms started.
Lightning ripped across the sky in streaks of
flame, while thunder rumbled and rocked the air.
The rain pelted in driving waves ; gradually water
commenced to collect. Pads and gullies started to
trickle ; they fed creeks and streams which flowed
into the river, then that mighty monster came with
a rush. Laughing deep down in his throat, carrying
froth on his breast and foam in his teeth, he swelled
and burst his banks.
Almost overnight, it seemed, the ground clothed
itself anew in green, and, bursting with life, the earth
responded to the full season.
Birds chirruped and sang, going about the busi-
ness of life which called to them. Flies, mosquitoes
and sandflies sought what they might devour. Frogs
with pulsating throats vibrated the night air and
throbbed a clamorous bedlam from every swamp.
The stock themselves, responding as the earth
did, seemed almost as if they too had been lying fallow
in waiting for the rain. They fattened and grew
almost while a man looked at them. They played and
waged sham wars, bucked and skipped in the joy of
life and the pleasure of living.
ABOUT the middle of March Harry took a ride
down the bottom end. He wanted to note how
the cattle were running, and to make his preparations
for the first branding muster.
Returning- to the station that afternoon, riding
the chestnut mare Cissie, he opened the gate into
Mingeri, deciding to go through that paddock and
have a look at the stallion and mares. He found
them out on the Turkey Plain, clustered together and
swishing their tails to combat the flies.
Tooley Street came out of his mob. He pawed
the earth and raked the ground, and as the man rode
round the group the stallion also swept about them,
keeping between horse and the brood. He
held his head low, his ears lopped and the whites of
his eyes showing.
“You’re a bit above y’self, me joker,” Harry
commented. “Th’ feed’s a bit too rich for you. It s
lyin’ crossways in you.. Get back, there! Keep back,
I say, or I’ll cut you in slices! ”
The stallion was uneasy. He swung on his hind
heels, reared, struck at nothing and squealed, lowered
his head and sniffed the ground. Then, bursting into
a flame of fury, he launched himself straight at the
man and the ridden mare.
(To be concluded next week.)


n masterpiece is (Perfection
j the spirit he always serves •
\t
' i
ws
--TV
53$
Cse
r*sE
A
m
i
&
M
t~&r
i^s
0
«fxs!
&
t?r
yj
7*
r
. • >
OM^>Utlßu:ttmiM««iivMt'nm , »mm»ic^-t«»**>«T*xtMt«««-»m«tm»tvpo<'~-w<A^A.«annni^t > tm<tCTrtTnp.n»amu.
(I) c GiUuit)*s
yAo fIM/sAy
/S”*" ,
(DTdllums
Scots (Übisky
&. sA&r^
%•«»* *v«kH ( r«v>««0 iJo?J h«*h«<
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
m.
-
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street,. Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and Neu'
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
O*- ?*'
V .V
el’
L<o» (
tA*t - v,e ,-CvV r v e .j
> * t OV V' .*•*
Ov
0<
Tv^
kW „V^ b •••' •••■ •• 1*
w# -- ,-•• ~
k ' tf* ,••- ~"* >s*B*
0^
#' S ' ..*■' ~•**’ .0^


The acorn has grown to a mighty oak,
sheltering thousands of policyholders.
sis
t % \ [
S’
iP :
■0' !
1869
9T
1 \
%=
A*
9
§
iXP- : v • / -
ip.
I"*"
Si,
tow
Conducted on the mutual principle of benefits to
policyholders only (there are no shareholders) the
National Mutual, through 66 years of capable
service and sound investment, has grown to be the
largest mutual office in Australasia transacting only
“ordinary” life business.
■ i' - v '' V-y \ v.. • ‘■.'■/../■t.-’V: v' ' f' /; ■'"/ y.';y. ' .. • ’ y .. .x •-> ■ V ■'
INCOME FOR YEAR 1935, £5,233,822
OFFICES:
VICTORIA: 39S COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W.: 3S0 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, India, Ceylon }
South Africa and Straits Settlements.
Premium quotations for any class of Life Assurance furnished on
application. A Special Representative will call if requested.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION o/AUSTRALASIA.LTD.
a
omjcI ute
MIGHTY
OAK
1956
