

1*11
m
Z'-iy.W'.i
m
m
m
* i
■ • :v
y}»i
■
i
...T
mm.
i«
■.$:*.
|>j % v. .. :>* $
UK
ii&SKJ;
There can be sunshine, when a
widow has the A.M.P. to lean upon.
THE young wife with a brood of babes
has her responsibility at any time. The
responsibility is enormously increased
should her husband die, BUT IT NEED
NOT BE OVERWHELMING. There can
be sunshine even in so great a responsibility
if she have a stout heart and the A.M.P. to
lean upon.
Recently there died suddenly, in what
seemed the prime of his life, a young
husband who had early learned the comfort
and security of A.M.P. membership. He had
invested wisely in two policies, and, though
he had paid only a few years’ premiums, his
widow was able to draw well over £3000.
Not a fortune, to be sure, but what a com-
forter! What a guarantee of well-being, at
least, until her family grows up!
Every young husband should consult with
one of the A.M.P.’s expert advisers and
learn just what he can do to ensure this sun-
shine in HIS widow’s life; aye, and in his
own life, for nothing gives a man a better
feeling than the knowledge that he has
made the future safe for himself and his
family.
Write to-day. Even to-morrow may be too
late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager. C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
The Bulletin
HoW “Tiburon ” Closes
Vol. 57.—N0. 2917.
Wednesday, January 8, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
P WUI atHOMFI
Particulars Free to You!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
OUT HERB AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your Special Course in STATION BOOKKEEPING,
as advertised, in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 238
S. H.
Conditions for the Second Annual <
PRIZE,
June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the, late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his’son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A
“BULLETIN”
EDITOR
[The writer of
this article is sec-
retary of the S. H.
Prior Memorial
Prize, and was
one of the late
S. H. Prior’s sec-
retaries during the last ten years of his
editorship.]
The 1936 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
closes on June 6 next. At the moment
of writing a number of entries are al-
ready in hand. Judging from the interest
displayed in the forthcoming competi-
tion, hundreds more must be in pro-
cess of being written. Will they include
another piece of writing as virile and
Australian as Tiburon ?
Commenting upon Tiburon, one who
knew S. H. Prior well remarked the other
day that “It is a piece of writing that
Prior himself would have been proud
to discover.” That is true enough.
Firstly, because S. H. Prior had a fond-
ness for simply expressed, strong writing
based on observation and experience;
secondly, because he had a deep faith in
the younger school of Australian writers.
In her Introduction to the Study of
Australian Literature Zora Cross pays a
handsome tribute to the encouragement
S. H. Prior gave to Australian writers.
We who served under him for many
years had daily evidence of his helpful-
ness to local authors.
Despite his keen interest in politics, he
was often “out” to Cabinet Ministers,
but he was always “at home” to a circle
of Bulletin writers —Henry Lawson,
Rod Quinn, Dowell O’Reilly, Ted Brady,
Randolph Bedford, Steele Rudd, Chris
Brennan, Jack Abbott, Louise Mack,
Mary Gilmore, Dora Wilcox and others.
His kindness to Henry Lawson is too
well known to need more than bare
mention here. The help he gave to many
others is constantly being recalled in
journalistic circles. Respect for con-
fidences prevents one from enumerating
some of the instances in which he came
to the rescue of some hard-pressed con-
tributor. He had a particular regard for
those who had written for The Bulletin
in its early days and who had fallen by
the wayside. He encouraged some to
take up the pen again and support them-
selves ; others he helped by way of pen-
sions, introductions to influential per-
sons and the like. He was unfailingly
generous in cases of illness or death, and,
while often angered by impostors, sel-
dom turned them down.
S. FI. Prior must have written thou-
sands of letters coaxing copy from
authors, and concerning rejected manu-
scripts he must have written thousands
more, patiently giving reasons for rejec-
tion and offering suggestions for improve-
ment. He must have sub-edited and re-
written hundreds of accepted stories and
verses, giving them a new strength and
brilliance that doubtless surprised their
authors.
With purposeful persistence he ham-
mered at first-rate authors to produce
more and better stories and verse. Let-
ters to Vance Palmer, Edward Dyson,
Katharine Susannah Prichard, Bernard
Cronin, C. J. Dennis, Marie E. J. Pitt,
Alys Brown, Mabel Forrest, Kathleen
Walker and others used to emerge from
his typist’s Remington in a regular flow.
Each letter was individual, an expression
of his alert and humorous mind and
based on his knowledge of the person to
whom it was addressed. For some reason
or another he never kept copies of such
letters. A pity, for a collection of them
would be invaluable to some future bio-
grapher or historian of the Australian
literary scene.
These letters were not confined to
Australian writers resident in their own
land. He remembered the exiles, such as
Albert Dorrington, Dale Collins, Har-
rison Owen, Will Ogilvie and Jack
McLai'en.
In his unceasing search for copy he
did not allow his pursuit of the estab-
lished writer —in many cases established
earlier by himself —to blind his eyes to
the possibilities among unknown writers.
It has always been The Bulletin’s boast
that it publishes more good stories by
new writers every year than any other
paper in Australia. During his eighteen
years of editorship S. H. Prior made
many “discoveries.” He took scores of
borderline and outside-the-borderline
novices and, without seeming to do so,
instructed them in their craft and
brought them along by easy stages.
Whenever a young and promising writer
appeared on the horizon he would in-
struct the preliminary reader not to let
any of the writer’s work be sent back
until he had seen it first. Some of us in
the office can recall his keen interest in
the early Bulletin writings of Osmar E.
White, Walter Wynne, F. S. Hibble,
Eleanor Dark, Chas. S. Gilmour and
Velia Ercole, to mention a few.
His influence is not confined to the
short-story and verse -fields. It extends
to the wider field of the novel. The
renaissance of the Australian novel
which occurred in the late nineteen-
twenties was directly due to his efforts.
It was he who conceived and directed
The Bulletin Prize Novel Competitions,
and it was The Bulletin Prize Novel
Competitions which brought to light
those three fine novels A House Is Built,
Coonardoo, The Passage and scores of
others. These competitions set half the
writers of this country writing novels, and
created a demand on the part of the
local reading public for Australian
works.
W.E.F.
McCrae's
Prose
and Verse
Might I make
a few comments
on the apprecia-
tive review (R.P.
27/11 /’3 5) of
Hugh McCrae’s
My Father and
My Father s Friends ? In friendly
fashion you take me to task for some
remarks in the foreword. Now, I agree
with you that McCrae’s poetry and prose
have his distinctive cachet set well and
truly on them both. But I still think
that there is a real difference between
them: that the prose is much more dis-
cursive than the poetry, not in the sen-
tence structure, which is concentrated in
its fine economy, but in the broader pro-
gression of thought from paragraph to
paragraph. This waywardness is perhaps
more marked in the prose because its
stretch is longer than particular poems,
and in the latter it is bounded by the
formal limits of verse.
It was this element of caprice, fancy,
humor, etc., I had in mind when I used
the epithet “feminine,” which obviously
in its context did not mean “effeminate,”
as you rather took it. It carried associa-
tions, not with teacups, but with the prose.
of Stella Benson and Virginia Woolf —■
The Waves, in particular—where fancy,
delicacy and waywardness are united.
But it is not the personal point I wish
to raise, but the larger critical one of
McCrae’s style. You describe it as
“boyish,” “almost boisterous,” etc. It
is, indeed, to use a phrase from McCrae
himself, “full of fire and lusty hardi-
hood.” But it does not bellow in the
rigging all the time. Even in the quota-
tions you use for illustration, the style
as such, apart from its subject-matter, is
not boisterous, but cat-stepping in its
niceness, treading its delicate cadences
with a fastidious exactness. Isn’t your
critique rather astray in tending to per-
petuate the legend fostered by Ken
Slessor and the Lindsay family of
McCrae as only a bold buccaneer?
McCrae is so very much more than this.
In prose the Du Poissey Anecdotes are
highly sophisticated, even elegant. And
in his poetry the lustiness is far over-
shadowed by other and more mature
qualities: its essential delicacy and
subtlety; the exquisiteness of moon-
haunted beauty (“O Deep and Dewy
Hour,” “The Music of the Moon,”
“Below the Moon,” etc.) ; the “fey”
touch of magic (“Colombine,” “Lament,”
“Song of the Witless Boy,” “Mad Mar-
jory,” etc.); the dramatic value of the
ballads and mediaeval poems ; the clear,
fresh painting (“Ambuscade,” “June
Morning,” etc.) ; the light-footed lilting
(“I Blow My Pipes,” “The Robin,”
“Heigh an’ Scrape,” etc.) ; the grace,
wit and humor (“The Gallant Captain
Plate,” “The Mouse,” “The Return,”
etc.) ; the simple, warm feeling (“The
Bairnie to the Birdie,” “Song of the
Rain,” “Creative Effort,” etc.) ; and the
deeper music and philosophy of “Credo,”
“Down the Dim Years,” “Courage to
Conquer” and “To My Mother.” The
fact that McCrae has been published only
partially or in de luxe editions militates
against his full appreciation. But he
contains such richness of variety within
his individuality that it is a great pity
to seize only on a single aspect —and
that the most obvious —of him as just a
rollicking bully-boy. The buccaneer hap-
pens also to be an exquisite artist.
T. INGLIS MOORE.
A Batch
of Verse
Poetry is fine
thought beauti-
fully enmeshed in
words: verse is
merely the net
cast into the
winds. That is no drastic, disparaging
definition: the net itself, without much of
a catch, can be a thing of brightness in a
bad-tempered world ; and to this happy
category belongs all such pleasant versi-
cal casts as that with which C. J. Dennis
returns to the craft— The Singing Garden
(Angus and Robertson ; 65.). Without
having any noticeable quantity of the
poetic enmeshed in it, this pleasant, lilt-
ing singing is prettily, lightly, humorously
descriptive of the home Dennis has made
among trees and birds in Victoria, with
also—forming the body of the book-
versical descriptions of all the feathered
visitors. The birds, all happily possess-
ing a gift of self-description in felicitous
lines, speak on their own behalf, each
having a verse to itself. Thus the
Kookaburra:
I am cursed with a cackle whenever I tackle
A soulful and lilting refrain;
But a frivolous snicker, like some fool in
liquor,
Is not what I seek to attain.
For I have, on the whole, quite a musical soul
Which I seek to express as I may.
And it’s simply absurd to suppose that a bird,
Such as I, makes a laugh of his lay.
And so on. Dennis must be one of
the most innately domestic-minded men
ever to practise the versical craft. He
has always given evidence of that, and
here all his feathered visitors not only
have the gift of pleasing English speech,
but all take on a human semblance, and
embrace domesticity, too. The Kooka-
burra “in early October” is “specially
sober and loaded with household
affairs.” The Firetail Finches, “like little
children out from school, come in bevies,
primly gay.” The English Blackbird
quests “a home” amid these alien trees.
The Butcher Bird might charm you with
song, could you but forget his “trade.”
The Ground Thrush is “a business man.”
The Starlings compare their better lot in
England with their degradation here to
the lowly status of “pilferers and
thieves.” The Indian Myna perpetuates
“the tough metropolitan push,” known
to Ginger Mick and the Bloke. The
Crow is “the aerial gangster, the bird
racketeer.” The Yellow-tailed Thornhill
represents a number of them in prefer-
ring human apparel ; its choice is “a
kilt.” Even the most dismally human
of all things “the dark, funereal
cortege”—can be witnessed here in the
Black Cockatoo’s flight.
It is part of the breach that separates
verse and prose expression that that
great liberty of humanising non-human
creatures can be taken by Dennis with-
out causing one who loathes the same
thing in prose to feel a twinge. Rather
it enhances the air of quaintness which
pervades the book —the quality that re-
mains to give it a sound balance on the
credit side after any deductions for lack
of poetic content and for no lack of such
lines as “In the grey twilight tall trees
seem to yawn.”
Inspiration of and background to
Henry Boote’s The Siren City (Worker
Trustees ; 3s. 6d.) are a long,association
with the Labor movement in Australia,
not out of superficial political interest,
but with the genuineness of one sincerely
troubled by the unbalance of the world
and those who suffer thereby. The city
depicted in this narrative is fairly evi-
dently Sydney, though but for its border-
ing of sea it has universality enough. It
is envisioned through the eyes of a young
poet, Youth, placed where are
Vales softly shadowed, and high hills superb
In purple might against the golden morn,
Or in the night forbiddingly forlorn
Save for the spangled splendor of the moon,
Smiling among the stars and dancing to their
tune. -
All these absorbed Youth's thoughts, but even
more
The sentient wild things touched his being’s
core —
The winging, singing creatures most of all,
That from the sun’s upleaping to the fall
Of dusk spilled liquid music everywhere....
Versical descent from the tone of those
early lines comes immediately the re-
quirements of the narrative call for dia-
logue, in the presenting of which in
rhymed lines all the best poets in litera-
ture are to be seen at their worst. Per-
haps, there is only one escape from the
monotony which is the inherent defect
of rhymed dialogue: to break into blank
verse forthwith. At any rate, whenever
this narrative of Boole’s turns into dia-
logue, the versical level is comparatively
low. Nor is the narrative itself excep-
tionally arresting. It tells how Youth
goes to the city intent upon writing great
poetry, is befriended by a prostitute and
vainly spurred to write by a revolution-
ary, visits the slums, is shot in a hunger-
march and dies in the presence of the
ideal woman whose side he left to go
adventuring. The interest of the work
is that it pulses with understanding feel-
ing— not merely of the lip-service sort,
but deep and heartfelt —for all down-
trodden humanity.
Application of poetry-testing acid to
both the foregoing books might conceiv-
ably be described as an impertinence, or
false criticism, at least. The writers of
both were doubtless out to enmesh
poetry if they could, and poetry-addicts
may not be impressed. But each has
written a book that has unity and com-
pleteness and considerable character.
The writers in the interesting little
sheaf New Zealand Best Poems of 1935,
edited by C. A. Marris (H. H. Tombs,
Ltd.; 2s. 6d.), stand or fall by virtue
wholly of ability to bear the aforesaid
test. That is, the intent is poetic, and,
save in one or two instances, the work
is to be judged accordingly. Arnold Wall
o Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Always. ‘‘THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
2*
A
■
m
■
MADE-TO-MEASURE
SUITS
89e
IN ALL-WOOL
WORSTEDS
A special Sale offer! Your
suit will be tailored to your
own measurements from
our £6/6/- range of high-
grade Wool Worsteds in
Greys, Browns, Fawns or
Blues. Careful attention is
given to every detail, and
English pre-shrunk linings
and interlinings are used.
Price £6/6/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 89/6
'"The Sole of The Sole Season" Commences To-morrow
BARGAINS IN MEN’S WEAR
j'6-
2
n
2
/
&
6
36
2
/•v,
m
ms
m
2
/
II
Cellular Underwear
Ideal summer underwear of cool, open mesh White
Cellular. Shirt's with short sleeves and trunk drawers.
Sizes 34 to 44 in. Price, garment, 3/6. Anthony
Horderns’ Sale Price 2/11
Hordura Half-hose
Half-hose that will give plenty of
hard service. Fashionable designs
in tones of Blue, Grey, Brown,
Fawn. Sizes 10 to 12 in. Price
2/11. Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price, pair 2/6
Cream Athletic
Singlets ,
Cream Wool Cashmere £
finish Ringlets. No sleeves.
Sizes 34 to 44 in. chest.
Price 3/6. Anthony
Horderns’ Sale Price, 2/11
Usually
£B/8/-
and
£9/9/-
ENGLISH SUITS
Quality Worsteds
ķ
You must see these smart English suits
to realise the truly remarkable value
they are. Expertly hand-tailored in
the latest London styles from English
Worsteds, selected for their smart
appearance and durability. Prices,
£B/8/-, £9/9/-. Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price £5
1 liiinii
I |mm ™™ ■
a
ill
■ll
w
1 m
iii
..
50i
FLANNEL
SAC
SUITS
ĸ
Smart ready-for-service three-piece Sac
Suits that will prove invaluable for the
summer wardrobe. Tailored from All-wool
Light Grey Flannels, in sizes 3 to 6 and
4% to 3-|. Price 50/-. Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, each 25/-
-
;
Ml
■«1
n
♦‘V^V 4 •'.;
HBiftg
I#S?s
Vjf «?!/
im
m
lfS^\4^0 r tS3
■•V
uA'*':
W
/ I
I
y V :
SPORTS COATS
Donegal Tweed Sports Coats, incor-
porating all popular style features,
patch pockets and well-fitting tailored
backs. A comprehensive range of sizes
up to 46in. chests. Price 29/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
each 21/-
BLAZERS
Thrifty men will welcome this oppor-
tunity to secure a smart Sports Blazer
at half price! These Blazers are in
our own dependable full-fitting make
in All-wool Flannels. Maroon and
Royal grounds in newest stripes.
Sizes up to 46in. chest. Price, 22/6
Sale Price 11/3
MEN’S TROUSERS
Don’t hesitate to secure a pair
immediately, because the number is
limited. These Men's Trousers are
made from English riding twists,
guaranteed to wear and wash splen-
didly. Olive shade only. Price,
pair ~. 28/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
pair 18/6
• Men’s Clothing and Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
/m:
lie
•■
n
m
im. m
m m
■
m
f HI 1
i
a a\j»
ab
ipP l
HP
.
Cepea
Pyjamas
Durable Twill English
Cotton Pyjamas, made
in our own work-
rooms in our usual
full fitting style.
Dressy stripes on
Cream grounds. Small,
Medium and Out-
sizes. Price, suit.
12/6.
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, Suit, 11/6
600 AH-wool
Cardigans
Secure one for the
coming season at this
worthwhile saving!
These smart Cardigans
of ribbed all-wool are
well fitting, and in a
range of dressy Marl
shades, Grey, Brown,
Heather, 36 to 42 in.
chest. Price 17/6.
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price ... 11/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, Limited
Pitt, Goulburn and George Streets, Sydney
’Phone: M 2401, Postal Address:
Day and Night. Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


' ■ : : :
f
';>■ '
1 '
KI9
■
mm
■
“Zoo People”
A series of intimate, unusual and most delightful
Studies in Animal and Bird Portraiture, together with
informative paragraphs concerning the subjects dealt
with.
The unusual portrayal by a Master Photographer
and the reproduction by Photo-Lithographic Printing
make Zoo People a book of great interest to young
and old and a welcome addition to your bookshelves.
We commend this book to you as a work that reflects,
in a striking manner, and one hitherto unattempted,
the beauty, strength and quiet philosophy of many
of the “Zoo People.” Only great patience and the
nerve and ability to obtain “close up” photographs
of these interesting “folk” made this possible.
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
PRICE I'6 (Postage 2d. Extra)
Obtainable only from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
1
g 1
m
iSIXiIS
may be excused. He has his own
comedic quality: an essence distinct from
the pure poetic, and one by which he
may continue to be enjoyed long after
most of this present company have gone.
Of the others, the one that seems least
questionably to have the stuff of poetry
in him is Douglas Stewart. There are,
in fact, not many young poets in this
part of the world at all so surely, indi-
vidually poets as he. This opinion is not
based on the two poems here included,
but from reading almost all his output
over the past two or three years. From
this he seems a poet with his own
integrity: one who writes poetry as
inevitably as most who practise the
versical craft write only verse. The
touch of it is in one who writes of a
Poplar in the Mimi Valley that
She holds a golden coin between her teeth,
This winter-singer who is not afraid,
And wind or the dark audience of trees,
Watching and envying, on the grass beneath
Have showered tribute, even as I do now,
Guinea on guinea, a golden cannonade....
What differentiates Stewart from the
bulk of these others—Wall, as before,
an admired exception—is the general
detachment which always does mark
out the true poet from the common or
album verse writers. It pervades, too,
The Great City, by Alan D. Mickle
(Shakespeare Head Press, Oxford ; 55.).
Mickle, though he is of these parts,
here commits a poetically satiric on-
slaught upon London, turning from ob-
ject to object in the great city’s streets,
clubs and parks, and —with occasional
lapses into praise—dressing each down
for the sham or mockery it seems to be.
One example:
This is the tale of a tomcat told
On the big board strapped on the shoulders
slim
Of the sandwichman with a nose blue-cold
And whiskers growing all over him.
It tells how Terry the tomcat has strayed:
Last night his mistress made the discovery;
And now five pounds will be duly paid
For the roaming rascal’s rapid recovery.
And the sandwichman walks up and down:
For the cat’s recovery five pounds reward!
And the sandwichman is paid half-a-crown
For walking with that on his sandwich
board!
In that vein, it is rich stuff, with force,
feeling, flashes of thought.
A thistledownish voice comes in
through Llywelyn Lucas’s The Garden,
a little binding of verse published to
endow a small scholarship for girl
students at Burnley School of Horti-
culture, Victoria.
Most of the book is of the color and
fragrance of flowers—not the usual still-
life word-picturing, but a potpourri of
light fancies, with occasional massed
richness, as in the depiction of Zinnias:
Transfigured stand, O bright barbaric hordes!
Motionless, silent; flaunt no richer hue
Of amethyst or flame or purple-red!
Princes and potentates rise upon thrones
Of gold and ruby; part their streaming robes
Of royal purple, and unsheathe great swords,
Tempered and bright, from scabbards jewel-
set! ...
Come then ye, jealous-blooded, dark-haired
queens,
And fill the flagons up with yellow wine!
A thousand at a time rise ye and fill
The madness-tinctured cup
That we may dream a thousand misty dreams
Of forests ’neath the moon and river-banks
Where wild beasts prowl and creatures come
to drink,
And Night, like a great bat, spreads ebon
wings
Over the jungle, shrieking for fter prey,
And tearing with her claws the moon’s silk
veil.
C.M.
The Inland
Scene
With the
author’s two
earlier books
about the famous
Inland Mission —
Camel Pads and
The Man from Oodnadatta —The Boun-
dary Rider, by R. B. Plowman (Angus
and Robertson ; 65.), completes a trilogy.
Though last to be published, it deals
with the beginnings of the writer’s career
with the Mission, and is the most inter-
esting of the three.
Mr. Plowman’s inland “parish” in-
cluded a block extending north and south
from Birdsville in remote s.-w. Queens-
land and Beltana in even remoter n.-w.
South Australia. This book deals par-
ticularly with his visits to the solitary
men and married couples marooned in
their lonely huts far from civilisation,
the men boundary-riding the fences of
the vast paddocks and the wives endur-
ing the deadly loneliness as best they
could. This was before the day of the
motor-car, radio and the movies, and
the help the missionary could afford was
confined to second-hand novels and a
cheap magic-lantern show. Yet his
people are full of cheer and brightness.
Apart from the humans, too, are many
interesting characters. One was a two-
horse buggy which had done service in
the outback for 22 years before it came
to Plowman’s hands. When he left it
10 months later it was still muddy but
unbowed. The other was a cockatoo
which would never go to bed until it had
wrapped itself up in its blanket and
stretched out on the floor.
J.B.H.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
England Speaks Philip Gibbs.
The Jew of Rome .... Lion Feuchtwanger.
Artifex Richard Aldington.
PHILIP GIBBS’S European Journey
had among its thousands of admirers
W. M. Hughes, who quoted from it in
the work over which he was kicked out
of Cabinet. To the present booktaster
the Journey seemed based on a fallacious
idea. Gibbs went through France, Italy
and Central Europe recording the
opinions on current affairs that he
expressed by chiefly ordinary average*
people. The fallacy appeared to be in that
such opinions could not possibly have
any real value: they would be vague
echoes of newspapers, at the best. About
the only real ideas and information were
conveyed to the itinerant knowledge-
gatherer by a cardinal. Otherwise, a
futile lot of words.
Gibbs’s latest book, England Speaks
(Heinemann; Angus and Robertson;
9s. 6d.), though built on the same plan,
is an animal of much better points. For
here nearly all the average people inter-
viewed talk about what they know very
well —that is, themselves. Scores of them
—so many that the title seems amply
justified—talk of how world troubles or
improvements are affecting them person-
ally in their work or in denying them
work. When opinions are given on affairs
they are mostly those of men competent
to give opinions—specialists in the things
they talk about.
In the excellent description of the
jubilee procession with which he begins
a couple of wenches backchatting a
policeman in the crowd seems support
enough for his finding that essentially
the English haven’t changed much since
Shakspeare knew them. “There is,” he
finds, “a terrific resistance in the English
character to standardisation,” through
newspapers, radio, films. Standardisation
is going on, “killing some of our char-
acter and some of our beauty every
day” ; but still England remains “a nation
of individualists,” and also a place
where: “One can breathe freely and talk
freely, for we still keep our liberties.
There is no intolerance in our minds.
There is no need to look over one’s
shoulder in a public place lest a police
spy should be listening, or lest a gang
of boys should be waiting with rubber
truncheons to beat one’s brains out.” It
may be gathered from this that he thinks
less highly of Hitler’s Germany than he
had done. But of the German nation
without Hitler he thinks as highly as
ever ; and still rather savagely of France.
On many counts it is a good book. It
is sincere ; it gets much deeper beneath
surface appearances than its author
usually manages ; it has human feeling
and thought.
In Lion Feuchtwanger’s The Jew of
Rome (Hutchinson; Bs. 6d.), the fine
patterning of detail excuses what in any
less excellent historical depiction would
be a rather exorbitant length. Even as it
is, there are near-tedious sections in this
second volume of the author’s large
trilogy of Josephus, taking the story on
from the death of the Emperor Vespasian
through the reign of Titus. The cause
of that seems to be given in a postscript
by the author, in which he explains that
the story was originally done in two
volumes. “But when the National
Socialists looted my house in Berlin in
March, 1933, they destroyed the manu-
script of that final volume, as well as
the historical material that was also
there. To restore the lost part in its
original form proved to be impossible. I
had learned a great deal more about the
theme of Josephus —Nationalism and
world-citizenship—the material burst its
earlier mould, and I was compelled to
divide it into three volumes.” Probably
the chief loss in that vicious vandalism
was original freshness ; but to have writ-
ten it all again, in this extended form,
with this patterned detail out of which
the scene of Rome, and much of the
Roman Empire as well, arises before the
reader as a visible reality, linked over
the centuries with the condition of Jewry
in Hitler’s Germany—this thorough work
is high proof of its author’s great
courage. From it Josephus emerges—in
spite of the contempt of the Romans,
the disdain of his fellow-Jews, and his
own frailties —a heroic figure, embodi-
ment of the universal idea of Jews as
above all citizens of the world. The
choice of English slang which the trans-
lators put into the mouths of the Romans
fails badly of its object, often cheapen-
ing and never convincing. For the rest
it is a notable piece of historical fiction,
excellent in character, fine and natural
in theme and plot, thoroughly success-
ful in the re-creation of its period.
Worth a whole bagful of the sort of
things that usually wear its sub-title of
“Sketches and Ideas,” Richard Alding-
ton’s Artifex (Chatto and Windus;
Angus and Robertson; 1 Is. 3d.) is
mainly essays of the kind that say some-
thing. Even those that are chiefly
descriptive of place—finely descriptive
these are, too —are lit with ideas and
general comment. It is tight writing,
packed with clean, intelligent thinking of
a literary mind savagely amused at
sundry sentimental stupidities of mankind.
Pearls and Men, by Louis Kornitzer
(Bles; Bs. 6d. net). Not within long
coo-ee of the author’s other book of
pearling adventuring in the South Seas,
at Broome and elsewhere. Trade Winds
was novel, fresh and crowded with inci-
dent : these like recollections are after-
thoughts rather beaten out.
The Cold Table (Cape ; Angus and
Robertson; 11s. 3d.). Anyone still suf-
fering a recovery from recent surfeit of
hot seasoned duck and suchlike judici-
ously Australian Christmas fare should
turn to the contents of this book with
great relish. One of the most appro-
priately Australian books ever compiled
for an English public—by, as it should
be, an Australian: Helen Simpson—it
contains the choicest parade of cold-
table food, fruit drinks and the like that
this Satchel has ever witnessed. It is
so good a recipe book that it could even
be recommended as entertaining reading.
The First Hundred Years, being the
history of Tooth’s Kent Brewery, Syd-
ney, has one picture in it that will make
honest men throughout the Common-
wealth burst into tears. It depicts with
a realism too painful to dwell upon the
brewery being destroyed by fire in 1853
(“the stock was not insured”!). But
there are many compensating pictures:
one of them a whole half-acre vat with
a head on it! In addition to the fascinat-
ing pictures, there is the story of Tooth’s,
quite as good in its way as their interest-
ing products.
The Happy Mariners, by Gerald Bul-
led (Dent; ss. net). Pirates, ships,
attacks, treasure and suchlike favorite
ingredients mixed into a jolly story of
wild adventure for small folk of no age
in particular. One of the brightest of
the recent seasonal productions.
The House in Half-Moon Street, by
Hector Bolitho (R. Cobden-Sanderson;
7s. 6d.). Four of the yarns have a super-
natural basis —the story from which the
book takes its name, “The Albatross,”
“The Crying Grate” and “Taureke’s
Eyes.” The last-named is the only story
that recalls in any way Mr. Bolitho’s
days in Maoriland. Taureke, descendant
of a chieftain who ate his enemies’ eyes,
goes to London as a medical student, and
researches in optics. He is found dead
in the laboratory, choked by half a dozen
glass eyes. What glass eyes have to do
with the study of optics isn’t explained —
neither are the unusual happenings in
the other stories.
Hurricane, by Vance Palmer (Angus
and Robertson ; 4s. 6d.), originally pub-
lished in 1924 as The Outpost, by “Rann
Daly,” is interesting as a yardstick to
compare Palmer’s progress in the past
decade. It is not up to the later books in
general technique, and particularly in the
handling of character, but it has a fresh-
ness which some of the later books lack.
Man Scent, by Samuel Alexander
White (Country Life ; 6s. net). Like the
small Australian masterpiece its title so
closely follows, it depicts animal life
with nice observation. Scene, Canadian
wilds.


Your Garment is not
Aertex unless it bears
this label.
AERTEX TENNIS
SHIRTS. Prices from
7/- for White, S. Sleeves.
Color Stripes and Checks
at various prices.
Since keeping fit means
Daily Care, wear “AERTEX”
Cellular Underwear.
"I’ve worn Aertex for years —simply
because it’s comfortable and healthy.
It stands to reason—to keep fit you
must let your skin breathe. And
Aertex does prevent your being stifled
one moment and frozen the next . . .
Chuck over my shirt, will you? . . .
Thanks. . . . Oh yes, that’s Aertex,
too."
Aertex underwear is made in many
styles and a variety of weights and
weaves. You can be sure of fit and
comfort, whatever the price you
choose to pay. Men’s Athletic Vest
and Trunks (illustrated). Chest or
waist, sizes 32 in. to 44 in.
Vest or Trunks, in qualities 88, 931,
1616, 1989, at various prices.
Stocked by all good Men s Stores and
Drapers throughout the Commonwealth.
Wholesale only: THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LTD..
313-315 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Distributors throughout Australia: DENT ALLCROFT & CO. LTD.,
Branch or Agent in Every State.
If any difficulty in obtaining, write to Cellular, Box 1274 L, Melbourne.
I
s
as
RICKS
THE art of making bricks is an ancient one, practised by the
Babylonians and Egyptians in the grain-producing valleys of
the Euphrates and the Nile, where both stone and timber were
lacking.
In the early colonizing days of New South Wales many build-
ings were constructed of hand-made bricks, and t°"day a
number of them, including the historic churches of Windsor,
Richmond and Camden, are still in a fine state of preservation.
But old methods have been forsaken. Immense brickworks using
modern machinery now manufacture enormous quantities ot
bricks, of which a large proportion is used for building homes.
During 1933-34, 168,075,000 bricks were made, as well as
4,927,000 roofing tiles. There are 2,438 em P*°y e ® s . ir ? this
industry, and employment is found for nearly 3,000 bricklayers
and labourers.
lathed ly
In twenty-one years the Advances for Homes Department has
made £19,469,859 available, the loans being repayable by easy
monthly instalments. The Bank depends on its ow s\. res
and upon the support and co-operation of the public for th-
funds that make the credit possible.
The Bank accepts Fixed Deposits and opens cheque accounts
for individuals, companies, firms and societies.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET.- SYDN
SYDNEY BRANCH : 3SO GEORGE STREET, SY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS. P. KEARNS
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“2995”: Whether dum-dum bullets
were actually used in the Great War is
questionable. Charges were frequently
levelled against the Turk. I never knew
them to be supported by evidence that
a Court would accept, but the inhabi-
tants of isolated villages in the Holy
Land certainly had no qualms about
letting daylight through any of the in-
vaders —Turkish or Australian —with
anything ranging from a home-made
dum-dum to a charge composed of
nails, broken glass and even small
stones. An Arab who was captured by
one of our patrols creeping through the
lines had a rifle of ancient vintage,
almost as tall as himself. A handful of
cartridges was found in various portions
of his clothing, and these, almost 3in.
long and thicker than a man’s finger, had
deep incisions criss-crossed on their flat-
tened noses. The damage inflicted by
a direct hit from one of these projectiles
would have been almost sufficient to
stop a tank.
* * * *
“L. 1.8.”: The British War Office has
hardened its heart and decided that all
cavalry regiments except the Household
Cavalry and half a dozen other mounted
units shall be mechanised. It considers
the efficiency of mechanised mobility has
now been proved, and that reconnaissance
from the air can supersede one of the
chief duties of cavalry in the past. It
is a dangerous generalisation. If Britain’s
wars were confined to nice, hand-made
terrains and bitumen roads the idea
might work. As it is, the Imperial army
has to scrap in all sorts of unexpected
surroundings and under conditions which
can’t always be foreseen. Mechanisation
failed badly on occasion in the mild of
Flanders. Air reconnaissance did not
record the massing of the Germans
before the 1918 break-through, nor did
it reveal the advance on Romani of
30,000 Turks over an open desert with
guns and transport in 1916. On that
occasion discovery of the enemy, after
it had got half-way to the Canal, was
made by the mounted Anzacs. We saw
the same thing after the Boer War, when
the bayonet was marked down for scrap-
ping as useless. It proved a potent arm
against the Germans, just as the hand
grenade of Dettingen and Fontenoy was
to do nearly a couple of centuries after
its abandonment as useless.
He * ¥ *
“Pat McGinty”: The entire agreement
of the patriotic press that the title our
G.-G.-elect has chosen —Baron Gowrie of
Canberra and Dirleton —’fits like a glove
(B. 4/12/’35) contrasts strangely with the
unwillingness of my own countrymen to
allow an Irish title to a Scot. Lord Aber-
deen had two periods of vice-royalty in
Ireland, extending over many years, and
when he was raised to a marquisate he
wished to add Tara to Aberdeen to per-
petuate his connection with Ireland. A
loud outcry in Ireland was the result.
Eventually the ex-Viceroy was allowed
to blossom out as Marquess of Aberdeen
and Temair, the latter being the Gaelic
version of Tara.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Of man-made holes (B.
27/11 /’35), the biggest I’ve seen—includ-
ing S’African diamond mines, the Yal-
lourn Cut and a few more —is the open-
cut coalmine, not far from Mukden, in
South Manchuria. It is operated by the
Japanese-controlled South Manchurian
Railway. Haven’t got exact measure-
ments handy, but from the figures sup-
plied to me at the time it would come
near containing all the rest of those men-
tioned to date in these veracious columns
lumped together. What about man-made
earth heaps? I’d be disposed to back
the world mass of railway embankments
against all the barrows, burial-mounds,
prehistoric forts and the rest that were
ever scratched up in the history of man-
kind prior to the introduction of rail-
ways.
“Como”: That story of the fake execu-
tion of Gideon Scheepers during the
Boer War is doubtless a furphy ; never-
theless, personal friendship does some-
times count in warfare. A man I know
was engaged in clearing out a trench
of surrendered Germans, and at -one
corner saw the shadow of a hand hold-
ing a pistol. He pushed his own pistol
round the corner and fired first, killing
the enemy. Then he was astounded to
hear a voice from further along the
trench call his own name, with the ex-
planation “I told the silly cow not to
do it, but he would.” The speaker was
a German whom the Digger had known
as a woolbroker in Sydney before the
war. Another man I know —in the Brit-
ish Army —was in the Caucasus towards
the end of the war. Able to speak Rus-
sian, he was sent into Soviet territory,
and was made welcome by the Red com-
mander. They became fast friends.
One day the Bolsh officer sought him hur-
riedly and said, “You’d better escape ;
we’ve got orders from Moscow to have
you executed. I don’t know what for.”
My friend took the tip, mounted a motor-
cycle and got across the border in quick
time. He never discovered the charge
against him, but the Bolshies didn’t
bother much about law in those days ;
they fired first and inquired later.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
2L*
m
m
pt
m
**■
>?>
•e
»**
m '
PWJSJBML
I9INHIH
mm
■ ■
Ym
111!
fills
.
H
SH
m
M
k u
«fe
1 e" W??P
•V -*Li
:> «* JjP
■
::
Labelling Department —Stocks of Matured Wine Over 4\ Million Gallons.


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2917.
January 8, 1936.
OUT OF THE HOUSE OF BONDAGE.
“Mr. McDonald, an American, resigning as High Commissioner for Refugees from Germany, says that over half a million people , ~,
can be made except that they are not ‘Nordic’ —not only Jews, but ‘non-Aryan’ Christians who are treated as ~ews are
“Veil, United Schtates, I don’d see any Moses among dem,”
“But there might be another Monash or another Reading.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
.. 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Sou™ Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings," 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d •
3 months, 7s. {Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s •
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebtides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
WE NEED A LAVAL.
For the present, at any rate, M. Laval has saved
himself from the fate accepted by Sir Samuel Hoare
saved himself by his cleverness, and by his deter-
mination to save his country.
The French Prime Minister won a vote of con-
fidence from the Chamber after a speech of extra-
ordinary ability in which he neither apologised for
his peace proposals nor blamed Britain for rejecting
them, though he suggested that the negotiators had
not received from Italy the consideration they had
every right to expect.
Without offending Rome, Berlin (a! vays on the
watch) or even London, League fanatics excepted,
he said, in effect, that his Government had “loyally
and strictly applied sanctions,” and would be faithful
to the declaration made to the British Ambassador
“when England asked for our aid at sea, on land and
in the air in the event of an attack,” but would
continue to strive for peace within the League. Uni-
versally believed to be against an oil boycott, he con-
trived, without committing France one way or
another, to throw the responsibility on the U.S.A.
At present there is no question of oil sanctions.
That depends on the United States, where Congress
wj.l nor come to a decision before January 15. The
League Council meets on January 20.
Certainly the cleverest politician of his time.
“What do sanctions mean now that the peace
plan has failed?” asks a London correspondent who
figures in the Sydney “Morning Herald” as Our Special
Representative, though he becomes a mere imper-
sonal Wireless Service in the Melbourne “Argus.” The
London gentleman acknowledges, though the “Herald”
tefuses to admit it, “that the sanctions so far imposed
have not solved the problem ; moreover, they have
inspired enthusiasm in Italy for organised resistance.”
A result which might have been foreseen by all except
dreamers, pedants and leader-writers ; for foreseeing
the “empty-gesture” part W. M. Hughes lost his place
in the Ministry. The ineffectual effort to “solve the
problem” has cost Britain its export trade with Italy
and involved it in a huge expenditure on military
measures in the Mediterranean. While Italian steamers
continue to call at Australian ports, Australia has
shared in both forms of sacrifice ; and neither country
has the consolation of knowing that other members
of the League have accepted even one form.
After giving his assurance that France has “loyally
and strictly applied sanctions,” M. Laval significantly
added: “I do not raise the question whether it has
been the same everywhere.” It is improbable that
it has been “the same” in Rumania, whose inhabitants
claim to be kin to the Italians, and who can supply
them with wheat, rye, barley, oats, maize and cattle,
as well as oil. Their Government is in default to British
bondholders. Political considerations may possibly
have restrained the Russians from trading with Italy,
but if they wish to play false with the League there
is nothing to stop them. Fellow-member Uruguay
accuses fellow-member Russia of having played false
in Uruguay, and has given the Russian Minister at
Montevideo his marching orders, a decision with
which other South American members of the League,
themselves plagued with seditious movements stirred
up by the Communist Internationale, must thoroughly
agree. And the Italian Government claims that it
has concluded “financial arrangements” overriding
sanctions with Austria, Hungary, Belgium, Switzer-
land and Germany, nor has the claim been denied.
Germany has, of course, retired from the League.
Austria and Hungary remain in it, but declared against
sanctions. Belgium and Switzerland are among the
sanctionist countries (50, it is alleged), and Switzer-
land is the very home of the League. But times are
bad in Switzerland ; 10 per cent, of the Swiss are
Italian, and Italy is not only a neighbor but an
excellent customer. So Switzerland goes on trading
with “the enemy” at the risk of losing the distinction
of housing the delegates who periodically flock to
Geneva to make speeches and the bureaucracy which
has grown up there and does itself proud.
Mr. Bruce is about to take his seat as chairman
of the League Council. Early in the piece he was
reported to be doubtful of sanctions, and his tem-
perament and training are such that he is more likely
to restrain Mr. Anthony Eden than urge that gentle-
man on ; all the same, he should not be left without
explicit instructions. Persons who have been long
at Geneva seem to get into the habit of making deci-
sions compromising their countries without consulting
their Governments. Witness the case of the Canadian
gentleman who suggested to the Committee of
Eighteen that sanctions should be extended to “oil,
coal and by-products, iron and steel.” He was recalled
immediately the news was communicated to his aston-
ished Government, which ordered him to tell the
committee before he departed that “the proposed oil
embargo must not be called the Canadian proposal.”
Mr. Bruce’s first duty is to his Government, and
his Government’s first duty is to its country, whose
greatest interest is peace. Therefore the High Com-
missioner should be instructed to exert all his influ-
ence to prevent Australia being dragged into a war
in which there could be neither gain nor glory nor
any possibility of even moral compensation for the
losses that would be suffered —a war in which our
R.A.N. cruisers, along with the ships of the Royal
Navy, would have to fight in an almost landlocked
sea near a hostile Egypt, and which could only result
in another world war.
THE SHIPPING STRIKE.
Members of the Seamen’s Union asked for it, and
they got it. They deserve what has happened to them
as a union, even though the worst crime of the bulk of
them individually is that they have been gullible fools.
Through the strike which has destroyed their
union shipping has been disorganised all round the
coast at the one time of the year when this could be
most disastrous to everybody. Producers—especially in
Tasmania, which depends upon an efficient shipping
service for its existence —have been faced with ruin,
and even as it is have suffered loss from which it
will take them years to recover. People wishing to
take holidays or do business in other States or in
Maoriland have been seriously inconvenienced.
Medical and other necessities have been denied to
islanders from Lord Howe to Papua.
There have been other results, some of them
sinister, and all —along with the foregoing—demand-
ing a continuance and extension of the firmest
Government action to prevent their repetition. Unem-
ployment has been increased by thousands, with the
consequent individual suffering of those unemployed
and their dependants. Again, American ships on the
Australian run have been materially assisted, to the
detriment of the fading remnant of the British
passenger service in the Pacific once supreme.
But the menace to the country’s welfare is not
restricted to the achievements of the strike itself.
Continuous effort has been made to spread the
trouble into a general strike, involving the coalmines
first. This effort is still being made, the strike-
leaders recognising that their only hope now lies in
shifting the responsibility from themselves to unionism
generally.
Failure at every move has forced them into other
equally shabby shifts. In the first place, their strike
was a wholly illegal assault upon an Arbitration Court
award. With more patience than the occasion war-
ranted, this was pointed out to the strikers by the
Government in announcing its intention to issue
licenses to men willing to go to sea, non-unionists
included. The seamen were gulled into believing that
the Government was bluffing. The licensing system duly
introduced, the strike-leaders then tried to shift the
reason for striking from being against the award to
being against this system —a shyster move which took
in nobody but the wretched victims of their leadership.
Other diverting tactics of the same description
were tried. These included incrimination of the general
secretary, his indictment for the crime—a heinous one,
according to Communist doctrine—of advocating legal
methods to have the award amended, his expulsion by
a gathering at which he was assaulted (and robbed, he
says), and—the strike-leaders now coming into the
open in a paltry scramble to get his job—the appoint-
ment in his place of Mr. Keenan, an admitted Com-
munist.
This miserable dogfight into which the great
strike has degenerated has succeeded in diverting the
real victims’ interest temporarily from what is hap-
pening to them. What is happening is simply what
their general secretary warned them from the start
would happen to them. They have lost their union
and their jobs together. Their places have been
taken by licensed volunteers. When the manning
of the few ships now idle is completed more than 50
per cent, of those who had jobs when the strike
started will have lost them.
The only vessels now remaining to be manned
are inter-State passenger vessels, and a begin-
ning has been made with them. The stewards have
declined all along to have anything to do with the
strike, and the cooks, after sampling it, have cried
quits and gone back to their ships. Failing the efforts
of the Communist brethren to yet induce other unions
to take the responsibility for all this mess of failure,
the strike peters out and the methods employed by
the Commonwealth Government to combat it emerge
as successful as they were certainly justified.
But if the Government stops at this minor success
it will be shirking several decidedly necessary jobs
plainly given to it by this outbreak of lawlessness.
The seamen’s award needs simplifying. It is the sort
of document, overloaded with conditions, which can
come only from a legal mind. A legal training is
required to understand half of its learned jargon, and
even lawyers could misinterpret it. It urgently needs
replacing with a simple agreement, to be reached
between the employed and the employers; something
that could be understood by anybody. Such an
agreement cannot be expected from a system which
insist upon lawyers single-handedly framing awards
to govern whole industries.
Further, to supplement the men who are willing
to work the ships and to ensure at the same time a
necessary supply of the right sort of men for Aus-
tralian shipping, the Government might profitably
look into the suggestion that the percentage of appren-
tices and other youths permitted in a ship’s com-
plement should be doubled by amendment of the
Navigation Act. There is plenty of Australian youth
not only requiring the employment this would create,
but already specially trained for it. This eager supply
is the boys of the Naval Reserve, so well trained by
the time the law permits youth to go to sea that any
competent skipper could make first-class seamen of
them in a few months. As it is, though specially
trained for a sea career, they never go to sea, Aus-
tralia being the only country having such a reserve
which permits this wastage of it.
Most important of all in these plainly necessary
jobs is that of rooting out altogether the element
responsible for all the damage, threatened destruction,
brutality and shabbiness brought out in this strike.
NORTHERN SETTLEMENT SCHEMES.
Judging by the present tumult and shouting, settle-
ment of the Northern Territory will be a live issue
during the next Commonwealth Parliamentary session.
The latest move is by a combination of Barkly
Tableland and coastal lessees, who want the Govern-
ment to lend them £1,000,000 to build a road to the
McArthur River, establish a port on Vanderlin Island
and make improvement advances to lessees.' The
security is in the country itself —about 40,000 square
miles, some of which is poor, sour coastal land, some
turbulent mountain “jump-up” and some rolling bull
Mitchell-grass plain with unreliable sub-artesian
water. The best of it was valued in 1930 by the
Government Surveyor at 4d. per acre ; the second-best
at 3d. per acre ; 10,600 square miles was put down as
worth £94,133 unimproved and £119,000 as then
improved. Its 57,000 head of stock, at the compara-
tively low valuation then ruling, were reckoned at
£91,468 —the stations’ own estimate. The country
was classified generally as being able to carry from
10 to 15 beasts to the square mile. The Mitchell-grass
areas were considered as being able to feed up to
one sheep to five acres after acclimatisation.
Rents are from 3s. to Bs. per square mile,
which can scarcely be called burdensome. Across the
border in Queensland, on somewhat similar country,
they pay up to 20s. per square mile and considerably
heavier taxation. Additional freights place the Terri-
tory at a disadvantage. Where inland towns in N. S.
Wales get flour at a maximum of £l3 10s. per ton,
Creswell Downs, which is only 80 miles from the
Carpentaria coast, has to pay £44 to £5l, according
to season. Charges for other commodities are
commensurate.
Present economic conditions would not induce
any private concern to lend £1,000,000 against the
40,000 square miles of properties, many of which are
already being financed by loans. Approach to the
problem of settlement, therefore, needs caution.
History in Queensland —as in the Dawson River case-
shows how the soft political heart can sometimes
squander money on roughly-conceived settlement
plans which do not work out in practice as they do
on the floor of Parliament.
The Barkly Tableland is not absolutely isolated
from the coast —there is a track to the McArthur
River which was passable for cars even ten years
ago —but it is isolated from a port, and it has no
shipping service and no meatworks. At the same
time, there is no certainty that provision of either port
or meatworks would make the Tableland blossom.
Arnhem Land has a port at the capital—Darwin—
and a railway running down its western side. But
much of Arnhem Land, in spite of its regularly-flowing
rivers—Daly, Mary, Alligator, Liverpool, Goyder and
Roper—some of which are navigable for considerable
distances inland, is still almost unoccupied. On the
Kimberley side, the same conditions apply. Darwin
has a fine meatworks at railhead which has been idle
for over a decade. Wyndham has a meatworks which
has been a losing proposition for the Government
from establishment. With the resources of Wave
Hill and the Victoria River behind it, it can pay only
a low and sometimes unpayable price for stock, and
stations which depend on it are in a bad way.
There is no doubt about the northern part of
the Territory having cattle-breeding possibilities, but
they will not be developed by the mere pouring in
of capital. If they could, interests like those of the
Whites, who hold Brunette and who have been in the
cattle business since 1827, would surely have fully
capitalised the Territory long ago. But there is much
to be said for a combination of private enterprise
and Government aid. A sane experiment would be
to take one of the best stations of the Barkly Table-
land —say Brunette —with one or two stations nearer
the coast which have fattening country, and form
them into a national company on the model of
Amalgamated Wireless ; if it succeeded, other stations
could be added. There would have to be reduc-
tion of freights through the building of a good road
to the coast and a regular shipping service; pasture
and stock improvements; water provision through
windmills and perhaps a canal. Above all, freedom
from political control.
Emptiness is a disease from which not only Arnhem
Land and the Barkly Tableland are suffering. It afflicts
Cape York, the Gulf of Carpentaria and North
Westralia, including some of the best-watered portions
of the continent. Extension of A.W.A. principles to
the North seems well worth while.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two Kinds of Frightfulness.
Anticipating the proper date by exactly three months,
Our Glorious Press chose January 1 to launch its
latest cable stories of Italian frightfulness. The cables
are worth examining, for the performance is certain
to be repeated, with contradiction following upon false
report, and then more false report, to be followed
again by contradiction.
War is a horrible business. Its occurrences are
not to be judged by standards of civilised behavior
in times of peace. Once started, it acts as a form of
madness, under the influence of which hotheads are
always liable to do lunatic things. The actions of
such hotheads are to be judged as such. The cables
of Our Glorious Press represent such isolated acts as
general tactics. The hotheads of the pen have a job
to do, also.
Thus, the first story was that Italian aeroplanes
had bombed the Swedish Red Cross ambulance
near Dolo, Abyssinia, and killed all the members
of the unit, including nine Swedes. The Swedish
Consul at Addis Ababa was called as a witness —he
described the bombing as “a dastardly crime, which
only barbarians could have committed.”
By January 2 hysteria was running wild. “Britain,
as well as Sweden, has been shocked by reports that
nine Swedes and 23 Abyssinians, members of the
Swedish Red Cross Ambulance unit, are believed to
have been either killed or injured.” The ’planes had
been counted: there were 10; no, 12. “The Primate
of Stockholm declared that the bombing meant that
‘the old year is setting in blood, not only for Africa,
but for the world.’ ”
The wildest stuff, however, was not shared by
all members of Our Glorious Press. Sydney “Tele-
graph” had the very choicest item as a “scoop”: the
Minister for Propaganda at Rome had declared that
the bombing “which cost the lives of nine Swedish
and 23 Abyssinian hospital workers,” was “justified
by the fact that two Italian airmen who landed near
Daggahbur were decapitated and their heads borne
in triumph to Harar.” Further, it was stated that
“the Swedish people were struck dumb with horror”
at the “terrible evidence of the ferocity of Italian
warfare.” And the basis for all this inflaming talk
and report was “a wireless report from Ras Desta”!
It was sufficient nevertheless for “S. M. Herald”
to come out with a leading article entitled “A Red
Cross Outrage.” “The Italian bombing of a Swedish
Red Cross hospital in southern Abyssinia is just the
sort of incident that arises at times to take the con-
duct of a delicate situation out of the hands of
Government” —that was the beginning, and there
is no space here for more ; but the article should be
read by everybody who enjoys the utterly ludicrous.
When feeling had been thoroughly worked up,
and it was gleefully announced in Our Glorious Press
that the Swedes would now be sure to demand oil
sanctions, the bland contradiction arrived:
The Swedish Consul at Addis Ababa has telegraphed
that statements issued by the Abyssinian Foreign Office
arouse hopes that the bombing of the Swedish Red
Cross unit was less serious than was originally
announced.
Less serious it proved to be.
During the bombing, one bomb fell on a tent of the
Swedish Red Cross encampment. It seems that two
Swedes were wounded and that a number of Abyssinians
were killed or wounded.
One of the Swedes wounded has since died.
In effect, the hotheads of Our Glorious Press
improved upon the hotheads of the Italian air force.
Then the cable factory at once got busy making the
wildest possible sensation out of the “revised” report.
It tells us that the Italians dropped 200 aerial bombs
in this raid, and put 425 bullets through one tent!
The factory is still working overtime at this sickening
business.
■ ♦
Let Japan Have It!
It has been bruited abroad in Canberra that there
is to be another investigation of Australian fishery
possibilities. Why it is needed only Canberra knows ;
there is already enough information available to
admit of the Commonwealth Year-Book announcing
that “Australia has an abundant and varied fish fauna,
both tropical and temperate varieties.” But while the
Government is burbling about “the desirability of
establishing an experimental trawling unit to explore
resources,” foreigners are quietly taking our fish away.
No Australian newspaper has mentioned this
development, except as a possibility. The “Straits
Times,” published in Singapore, records the actual
facts.
During the middle of December the Shinkyo
Maru, a Japanese 480-ton motor trawler, with a range
of 4000 miles, turned over to her depot ship in Singa-
pore 157 tons of refrigerated fish caught off the
North Westralian coast. Singapore has now been
made a regular trans-shipment point. The vessel —
the largest of her kind that ever entered Singapore
roads —had sent 180 tons previously to Japan. She
will now unload a cargo there every two months.
The Shinkyo Maru is doing nothing illegal. She
is merely following the lead of a host of untaxed
Japanese pearlers who are driving Australian tax-
payers off shellbanks outside the three-mile limit.
And Canberra talks of “investigating possibilities”
and “exploring resources”!
9
Collier Goes to the Country.
Westralia’s Labor Government, whose majority
dates from April 8, 1933, is to put its fortune to the
touch on February 15. The majority is 10 in a House
of 50 members ; 30 Laborites, 12 Agrarians and eight
Nats., who have a friendly understanding with the
Agrarians. Sydney “Daily Telegraph” predicts that
it will be retained, but this is unlikely.
Westralia is not a Labor State in the sense that
Queensland is and N.S.W. was till Lang came along.
The electors have to be very tired of or very angry
with the other side before they give Labor a chance.
Three years ago they were very angry with the Mit-
chell Government for a number of reasons. It had
failed to pull them out of the depression taken over
from the first Collier Government; it had continued
the Premiers’ Plan pay-cuts and introduced a wages
tax ; it had antagonised newspapers as well as city
people by banning crossword competitions for money
prizes. Also it had alienated real nationalists by
championing secession, while Labor, with its tongue
in its cheek, promised to abide by the result of the
referendum.
So the Mitchell Government was defeated, losing
seven seats. The Nat. Premier and two Nat. Ministers
went down, and a C.P. Minister was beaten by
another C.P. man.
The situation has changed. Secession and cross-
word competitions are dead. Emergency-relief taxa-
tion has been increased. The Government has been
helped by the goldmining revival, which will enable
it to retain goldfield seats, and it has received from
a complaisant Commonwealth Government colossal
grants which have been utilised for increases to all
“Crown employees,” politicians included. But it has
offended relief-workers by insisting on their taking
out A.W.U. tickets, and infuriated the farmers by its
method of distributing Commonwealth wheatgrowers’-
relief money—-“political” is the term applied to the
method by the chairman of a Leg. Council select
committee. It has also excited sarcastic comment
by granting a free pardon to a Labor Leg. Councillor
adjudged guilty of an offence against the Electoral
Act, and thereby disqualified, and by straining the
Constitution to permit another Labor Leg. Councillor
to remain the paid chairman of its Lotteries Commis-
sion. . *
Among the electorates gained three years
ago were Roebourne, which had never gone Labor
before (the majority was 23), Northam, which
had only once elected a Labor man, and Perth,
whose last Labor representative was defeated in 1914.
In Albany the Labor member had an absolute majo-
rity of 116; in suburban Canning and Maylands
cross-voting put the Labor candidates in after each
had been in a decided minority at the end of the
first count. And in divisions like Bunbury, Gascoyne
and Kimberley a fairly strong Nat. always has a
chance. By-elections for Avon and South Fremantle
showed a substantial falling-off in the Labor vote.
Election punters would lay long odds against its
being 30-20 again. The Trades Hall will be well
content if it is 26-24.
♦
The Lindberghs.
The persecution of the Lindberghs has not ceased
since their first child was kidnapped and murdered.
They have been threatened by criminals and pursued
by yellow newspapers. One good result of the shame-
ful business, which every decent American must regard
as a national humiliation, is that it is leading to a
round-up of criminal aliens, beginning with those
who have entered the U.S.A. surreptitiously.
Precautions taken for the protection of the volun-
tary exiles suggest fears that gangsters may emulate
the miscreants in P. G. Wodehouse’s “Little Nugget’
and cross the Atlantic to continue their kidnapping.
But Britain is no happy hunting-ground for the
criminal. There witnesses are not afraid to come
forward as they are in the U.S.A., and the certainty
of capture is many degrees greater. Again, if con-
viction means smaller sentences, the certainty of
going to gaol is sevenfold greater.
The experienced Yankee crook just “laffs off”
an arrest for robbery or kidnapping or even murder.
Even if he hasn’t a pull “higher up” or an attorney
who can fix things, the jury can always be assured
by his pals that if they convict they will be bumped
off within a week. In Britain, the prosecution with
good evidence can rely upon sending its man up for
a solid term even if it does not approach the Ameri-
can in severity. And all criminologists agree that
certainty, rather than severity, of punishment is the
best deterrent of crime.
♦
The Rewards of Science.
The taking of university courses involves sacrifices.
The science graduate has to be maintained at school
till he is about 17 ; by that time he has passed matric.
He then embarks on a four-year course, including
the intensive study of one subject, to which, in the
last two years, he will devote the bulk of his time.
Apart from living expenses, £l2O will go west
in fees if he takes an honors degree, £lO5 if he takes
a pass degree. Books and materials and travelling
will probably cost another £lOO. At the lowest
estimate our science graduate will have lost £525 in
wages by not becoming an office boy at 15 and gradu-
ating to be a junior clerk at 20, entitled to a minimum
of £3 7s. 6d. per week. Reckon the total cost to him
and his parents at £750.
Then he will probably get practical experience
for a year or two, at any price. After that, if he is
bold, he is on top of the golden heights:
Applications are invited for the Position of Bio-
chemist at the Australian Institute of Anatomy,
Canberra. Salary, £3OO per annum. Applicants must be
graduates in science, who have fully qualified as Bio-
chemists, should state age, marital state, University
degrees, any papers published and provide references.
The duties embrace “general biochemical work, with
special reference to the physiology of the Australian
fauna.” There will be a rush for the Position of
Biochemist —it is quite well paid for a science job.
Perhaps, however, the student has decided on
a practical rather than a scientific education. At
20 or so he may possess a diploma from Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, earned by three years study.
In four or five years after graduating what vistas ol
luxury open up to him!
Dairy Instructor, Department of Agriculture. Pay,
weekly equivalent of £2Bl per annum (reduced under
the Public Service Salaries Act to £255 per annum).
Applicants must hold the Dairying Diploma of the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College, or its equivalent, also
Testing and Grading Certificates under the Dairy
Industry Act, should preferably have had three years
training in cream processing and butter manufacture
under commercial conditions. Ability to grade butter
is desirable.
Perhaps his gaze will shift with envy to the N. S.
Government estimates, which show, for example, that
shorthand-typists get £298 p.a. and “attendants in
the letter-delivery department” up to £269 —together
with annual leave, sick leave, long leave, all public
holidays and superannuation rights. He may even
wonder whether it would not be better for him to
answer the advertisement offering ships’ firemen £22
a month, plus overtime and sustenance.
But in the end he will probably reflect that as
a dairy instructor he will become a professional man,
and that a country with an annual milk yield
of about 370 gallons per cow really needs competent
dairy teachers.
Other people who help to support universities
may also do some reflecting —on the fact that science
courses are unpopular and that honor degrees are
largely taken by women.
The wages which “encourage” young scientists in
Australia are a crying shame.
♦
Afforestation—Sane and Insane.
Planting of imported softwoods has been a failure
in two States. Victoria, according to Lands Minister
Lind, has pinus insignis areas ready to cut for which
there is no demand. N. S. Wales, according to Forests
Minister Vincent, has 38,000 acres of softwoods,
chiefly pinus radiata, which are not worth marketing.
In each State the plantations were listed as “per-
manent and reproductive works” and charged to
loans.
Queensland is having better luck with plantations
of native hoop pine and kauri pine, and Mr. Vincent
proposes to copy its experiments —he reckons north-
eastern N. S. Wales would be a suitable field. Mr.
Lind says he won’t sanction any more attempts at
raising softwoods, pronouncing a condemnation of
indigenous as well as imported varieties. This is too
sweeping. And Mr. Lind goes much too far when he
denies that unscientific felling of timber has been
responsible for surface soils being swept from tens of
thousands of acres of good land and for waterways
being filled with silt.
Severe Victorian floods of the past few years have
directed considerable attention to this particular sub-
ject. All those who have investigated it without
prejudice, save only Mr. Lind, have arrived at the
same conclusion —that not only the destruction of soil
and the interference with rivers and creeks but the
actual floods themselves are largely due to the craze
for clearing land without thought of the morrow.
And it is not only in such districts as Gippsland,
where the rainfall is heavy, that destruction has been
wrought. In the Mallee the position is, if anything,
worse. The sweeping away of Mallee scrub has
left the soil free to be converted into dust in dry
spells. Winds carry the dust hundreds of miles, to
become a nuisance to city-dwellers and others, and
to leave what were wide stretches of fertile soil mere
bare patches of subsoil incapable of growing anything
but prickly-pear.
Mr. Lind asserts that he speaks from experience-
experience gained on his holding in Gippsland. In
other words, he generalises from an isolated instance.
Victoria would be well advised to pay less atten-
tion to Mr. Lind’s observations from his back veran-
dah than to the investigations of men who have
devoted lifetimes to studying the question, and who
have at their command the results of world-wide study
by other scientists. Further, Victoria would do well
to make provision against further destruction of its
rural areas by compelling all owners of properties in
defined danger zones to plant belts of trees to prevent
further difficulties due to excessive rainfall and exces-
sive windstorms, and rigorously to plot out the
sections to be reserved for trees in all land hereafter
thrown open for settlement.
The losses on Government softwoods plantations
add another chapter to the dismal history of State
loan expenditure, but, deplorable as they are, they
constitute no reason for forbidding sane afforestation
recommended by scientists.
• ♦
“Pests” and Outlooks.
“Notaden” is puzzled:
Talk about doctors differing—they are angels of agree-
ment compared with the man on the land talking “pests.”
Durine a recent few hundred miles of motoring, I’ve
heard sheepmen curse the crows as lamb-murderers, and
farmers laud them for their deadliness on insect pests. In
rabbit country I’ve seen goannas treated almost as personal
friends because of their liking for young rabbit on the menu;
amongst poultry-growers I’ve listened to flaming denuncia-
tions of their evil qualities as world’s champion egg-stealers
and chick-assassins, and to demands for a Goanna Extermi-
nation Act, with Minister and clerks all complete.
A pastoralist friend gave credit to the Cactoblastis for
having rescued his best grazing country from beneath a vast
and impenetrable jungle of prickly-pear. Two hundred miles
away, another pastoralist wanted to know why the (brilliantly
tinted) Government got fooling about interfering with the
course of Nature, and robbing his stock of good pear-fodder
in a drought season.
A farmer clearing a lantana-grown flat wondered long-
ingly when the promised lantana-bug would be released. A
sugar-man gave me a 10-minute lecture on the value of-lantana
as a land-refresher and fallowing agent, suggesting that it
should be studied to secure faster-growing varieties of greater
nitrogen-fixing powers.
Isn’t there some way of co-ordinating it all? At present
there seems no attempt to do so, merely a collection of Acts
and regulations and ordinances, mostly originated by clerks
in city offices, without knowledge, outlook or experience. It
looks to me like a Federal job, and a man-size job, too; a
job for someone with the breadth of outlook and scientific
knowledge of a Rivett.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Selma”: Mention of the mispronun-
ciation of the name Menzies recalls the
experience of a young M.L. woman of
Scottish ancestry who arrived at Mel-
bourne and instructed a taxi-driver to
take her to “Mingies.” “Where is it,
lady?” the man inquired, and
on being told it was one of
the best-known hotels in the
city he said he had never
heard of it. “Must be in one
o’ them back streets,” he
hazarded. His passenger in-
dignantly insisted that it was
nothing of the sort. The
argument went on until the
taximan had a brainwave and
inspected the lady’s luggage.
“Ho, you mean Menzies,” he
observed relievedly. “You
was pronouncing the name
all wrong.”
* * H=
“Mironton”: A minor con-
troversy has been raging in
Sydney “Herald” over the
origins of “Malbrouk,” most
folk supporting the popular
idea that the famous old air
—many know it better as
“We Won’t Go Home Till
Morning” —is French. It
was authoritatively established years
ago that it is a Saracen military
march brought to Europe by the Cru-
saders. Australians who used to go to
the Esbekieh Gardens on Sunday to hear
the Egyptian Police Band play were more
than once surprised by the familiar tune,
heavily orchestrated for brasses and tym-
pani, like all Arab music.
* * # *
“Adelaide”: “Little Mount Lofty,”
which stands close to the Mount itself,
behind Adelaide, and from the sea looks
like a twin, has, at the request of mari-
ners, been given a definite name. It is to
be Mount Bonython, in honor of Lang-
don Bonython, knight, newspaper pro-
prietor and original M.H.R., whose recent
gifts to State and University have broken
all local records. His son Lavington has
a title, too, mainly earned by municipal
services.
* * * *
“El Verdugo”: There are other
authentic Tiburons besides the one men-
tioned in Mexico (B. 25/12/’35). Per-
haps the best-known of them is in Haiti.
There is also a Tiburon in the suburbs
of San Francisco, whence prison trains
are shunted off to the frowning peniten-
tiary of Alcatraz. It was a curious
name to tack on to an Australian inland
town ; tiburon is the Spanish word for
shark.
“Oxmead”: It is rather interesting to
read in the cables that Uruguay, smallest
of all South American republics, has
“severed diplomatic relations with Rus-
sia” and handed the Soviet representative
his walking-ticket. The area of Uruguay
is 72,000 square miles; its population
is just about two millions. The
area of modern Russia is 74 million
square miles, upon which 165 millions of
persons have their being. Taking these
figures in conjunction with the vast dis-
tance separating the two countries, it is
hard to understand why Russia should
have ever set any store on “diplomatic
relations” with Uruguay. But, tiny
though the republic is, it has in its capi-
tal, Montevideo, the fourth largest city
on the South American continent. And
this, at once central and accessible,
seems to have been made a focal centre
for Communist plots.
*■* * *
“Fiona”: I have seen some interesting
celestial phenomena, including the ring
round the sun as described by “A.E.K.”
(B. 25/12/’35), the Aurora Australis,
lunar rainbows, a complete rain circle
(caused by the spn at the zenith shining
on a shower straight below with the effect
of two rainbows lying flat on the sea)
and sundry meteors and comets, but no-
thing gave me the surprise a blue moon
did. This was at Goulburn (N.S.W.),
where the crescent moon was distinctly
vsible behind a bank of pink cloud. Seen
through the cloud, the moon appeared
as a bow of clear blue. Distant' bush-
fires were supposed to be responsible.
* * * >i
“Findy”: The new S.A. licensing laws
may be very welcome to those whose
spirit moves them to celebrate frequently,
but they don’t encourage imagination and
initiative in the way the old ones did.
BABY, Jenkins? You, of all servants , should he aware that We
NEVER allow our butlers to become fathers .”
Formerly a club might obtain a limited
license for the consumption of liquor
up till 11 p.m. not more than once in
six months. If urgent necessity de-
manded another celebration within that
period another club had to be evolved.
The favorite invention in my time was a
“table-tennis club.” Investigation of the
records of the Licensing Department
would reveal that ping-pong players are
the most inveterate “celebrators” in the
community.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The ironical suggestion
that certain hostile criticisms in Mel-
bourne “Age,” published before the
British general election, deprived Jimmy
Thomas of any chance of a continuance
of his job as Dominions Secretary (B.
18/12/’35) takes me back 40 years. The
Westralian Government, with Bigjohn
Forrest at the helm, had passed some new
regulations or revised some old ones
about the rights and disabilities of abo-
rigines—as far as I remember one of
them was a cheerful reminder that Black
Brother could ride second-class on Gov-
ernment railways, whatever the distance,
without troubling about tickets, and the
other a grim warning to him about the
perils attendant on trying to obtain strong
drink from publicans. It is undeniable
that there might have been considerable
difficulty in diffusing this information
among the persons to whom it was
addressed, but Authority was content to
publish it in the “Government Gazette”—
and leave it at that. I called on a gold-
fields warden about a mining case, and
found him scanning the official publi-
cation. “Seems to me,” he said drily,
handing it across the table with pencil
marks on the extracts, “that our Gov-
ernment thinks this constitutes the staple
reading in blackfellows’ camps.”
* * * t-
“C.H.S.”: “Scribe” is a bit mixed
when he says “Kodak’s” “story of the
man who found a lioness as he was eat-
ing at a restaurant on wheels amused all
Australia” (B. 1/1 / ’36). It amused Aus-
tralia all right, but the man found the
lioness a long time before he reached the
pie-stall. He had time to share a lob-
ster with her, go back and vainly search
for the lobster, and scare a late way-
farer before he —and the lioness —put
the pieman to flight.
* * * *
“Ex-Asco”: If the Paringa has dis-
appeared for keeps, I have lost a very
old friend. I first remember her when,
as a small boy, I saw her spick and span
in Port Augusta on her first visit. That
would be about 1909. Later she was a
familiar sight to me in Port Adelaide.
There was a gap of a few years while she
ran in the Queensland trade in place of
larger vessels absent on war service;
then she reappeared in S.A. on her old
run —known officially as “the Gulf
Trip” and unofficially in Pirie and
Augusta as “the Tea and Sugar Boat.”
My last recollection of her is when she
was lying in the North Arm of the Port
Adelaide River —the ships’ graveyard—
a more modern vessel having usurped her
position. In one respect the Paringa
was a temperamental ship. Her funnel
resolutely refused to “take” the Adelaide
S.S. Co.’s familiar “pea-soup” color;
after each repainting, as soon as the fur-
naces were fired, it reverted to its favorite
pinky-orange shade.
% * sf« He
“Fiona”: I was in our corner green-
grocery when a family party stopped on
the way home from a holiday outing and
filed in. Dad inquired if the cherries were
sweet, and the fruiterer, anticipating a
good sale, affably invited him to try a
couple. Dad did, and so did mum and
the six youngsters. To make sure the
fruit was all right they had a second
round. “Not bad,” said dad finally. “I’ve
tasted worse. Gimme ’alf a pound.”
* * * *
“Becko”: My hero is seldom seen with-
out a Bulletin under his arm on pub-
lishing day. A week before Christmas
he was in a Sydney bar, and paid his shil-
ing for a ticket in a raffle—the prize,
two dozen bottles of beer. “What’s that
bloke’s name?” asked the barman. No-
body knew ; but, remembering the pink
cover under the little man’s arm, the
barman wrote down “Bully.” Next night
he again came in for his pint. “What
name shall I put down for you in the
raffle?” asked the barman. “Johnson,”
he replied. On Christmas Eve the bar
was crowded with husky wharfies and
seamen. On a blackboard was chalked
up the name of the winner of the two
dozen. “Who’s this ‘Bully’ Johnson?”
asked one tough six-footer. “Must be
that big Swede bloke olf the coal-barge,”
someone suggested, while another
reckoned it was “‘lrish’ Johnson that
skittled the John at Pyrmont.” “Any-
how, ’e oughter crack a few bottles ’ere,”
said a third. This seemed the general
opinion, but, as time slipped by and
no giant appeared, the crowd grew im-
patient. “Where’s this ‘Bully’ Johnson?”
they asked the barman. “Just gone out.
That little bloke with the glasses.” There
was a stampede for the door ; the thirsty
ones were just in time to see a little man,
five feet one in his spectacles, starting off
gingerly on a bicycle, a crate of beer
balanced precariously on the handle-bars.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter” : May 1 suggest,
with all deference, that Mr. Lyons apply
a parental slipper vigorously, and in the
right place, to that one of his small sons
who was recently shown in a press
photo, holding up the Attorney-Generai,
in approved gangster style, with a cocked
revolver? It doesn’t' matter that it was
a toy. Any person, child or adult, who
points anything in the shape of a fire-
arm, whether believing it to be toy,
empty or otherwise, at any other person
needs, in the public interest, a prompt,
old-fashioned belting. If some other
youngster, following the illustrated
example of the Lyons kid, puts a real
bullet into the breadbasket of some inno-
cent citizen, nobody would be sorrier
than Mr. Lyons; but that wouldn’t
revive the perforated citizen.
“Hamer”: Snoring? At a
Quirindi (N.S.W.) hostelry I
was once accommodated in a
three-bed room, to be greeted
by an elderly gentleman with an
anxious inquiry whether I
snored. “If anybody snores I
can’t sleep a wink,” he assured
me. It was after midnight that
I awoke to find the third occu-
pant had arrived and was filling
the room with gasps, gurgles and
nasal bugle-calls. The e.g. sat
up in bed and groaned dismally.
I said I had heard that holding
a lighted match near a snorer’s
nose was a good cure, and sug-
gested that he should try the ex-
periment. He leaped out of bed
and did so, at first, it seemed,
with some temporary success.
But the snoring invariably re-
started before he regained his
own blankets, and he was still
striking matches when I dozed
off. In the morning I met the
third man at breakfast. “I
hadn’t too good a night,” he
confided to me. “Slept solid till
nearly four, and then that old
gentleman in the other bed
began to snore and woke me up.
I don’t snore myself, and I can’t
sleep if anybody snores; and
that old bloke is the worst I’ve
ever struck!” I’d noticed it
myself.
“Kellick”: In Sydney “Telegraph” (B.
25/12/’35) appeared an article entitled
“They Call It Christmas Day.” Referring
to Scott’s second Antarctic expedition
the writer says that the leader, “with a
party of four, Wilson, Oates, Bowers and
Evans, spent their last Christmas on earth
alone on the ice. On their return jour-
ney [from the Pole] they perished.”
On another page was a photo, of Vice-
Admiral Sir Edward R. G. R. Evans in-
specting a guard of honor on the occa-
sion of his taking over command of the
Nore. Apparently everyone does not yet
know that the Evans of Scott’s expedi-
tion and the Evans of the Broke are
identical persons.
,i. jfj «J>
“Schuit”: That death from a bullet
wound received long before (B. 1/1 / ’36)
reminds me of an experience of my own.
In the Boer War a man with the same
initials and a similar name to mine was
shot through the brain. He recovered
and returned to Queensland, whither I
also returned, wounded, later. Some
two years after, my near-namefellow died
suddenly as the result of his wound. Not
being in Australia at the time, I missed
the flattering press references and letters
of condolence written by people who
were under the impression it was I who
had gone west. When I came back, a
couple of years later, my relatives had
kept one of these letters. It was from
a young person who, I was convinced,
had held me in the highest esteem. It
sympathised with the relatives aforesaid,
and ended with the expressed conviction
that, all things considered, the swift end
was the best thing for all concerned.
TOO BLUE.
“E. J. Tait, returned from a visit to New York,
said most of the successful plays presented there
were too obscene and full of loose adjectives to be
palatable to Australian audiences.”
They’re blue, too blue for us. Those dramas
frisky
That move old Uncle Sam to mirthful cheers
Are just a bit, a little bit, too risque,
Too near the knuckle, for Australian ears.
Though naughty adjectives may give the
Yankee
No jolt at all in this plain-spoken age,
We shy at any coarser word than “blanky,”
Even upon the stage.
Some “bedroom plays” have been good money-
catchers ;
We stood them once, from curtain-rise to
-fall;
We never blinked a ’lash at “Cradle-Snatchers”
Or snorted at the end of “Aren’t We All?”
We stood those ribald scenes, those words
insidious.
Without a single flicker of the brow.
But that was years ago. We’re more fas-
tidious
And far more proper now'.
The jest that hinges on a person’s gender
Gives us embarrassment—and nothing less.
We lack the liking for the “double-intender”
That Frenchmen unashamedly profess.
In short, the stuff wherewith New Yorkers
dally,
And whereabout they make no fret or fuss,
Is quite beyond the bounds. Emphatically
It wouldn’t do for us.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Rouge Dragon”: Sydney is asking
for a charter permitting it to confer the
“freedom of the city” on visitors deserv-
ing such a distinction. Some people
imagine that such freedom enables the
grantee to travel on the trams without
paying ; others even believe that it carries
with it the privilege of walking into
theatres and picture shows, and races and
tin-hare gatherings without sparring up
at the turnstile. But, actually, there are
greater privileges than these. The man
who has been given the
freedom of a British city
is permitted to enter
through the city gates
without paying dues or
complying with any for-
malities. The only obli-
gation is to hand to the
head halberdier his
sword, which, if it be
more than the statutory
length, is thereupon cut
down by the official
swordsmith. The fact
that Sydney has no gates,
no halberdiers and no
swordsmiths doesn’t seem
to matter.
* * *
“J.H.P.”: How is this
for efficiency? I lost my
returned-soldier’s badge
10 years ago, and
thought that an interest-
ing souvenir had gone
for ever. Lately a
cobber suggested writing
to Base Records, Mel-
bourne ; there was just
a chance, he said, that
it might have been
handed in there. In answer to my note
giving particulars, the long-lost badge
came back by return.
* * * *
“Selma”: Stories of the ingratitude of
the nearly-drowned recall a middle-
aged lady who took an involuntary
plunge off a Sydney ferry. It was near
a wharf, and sundry onlookers and decic-
hands plunged in to rescue her. She was
hauled out, dripping and indignant, and
immediately turned on the nearest gasp-
ing lifesaver. Giving him a fierce prod
in the back, she demanded “Where’s me
bag o’ bananas?”
* ❖ * Jfc
“Kwakprak”: Most people realise
nowadays that there is a distinct risk of
disease from the saliva of cats and dogs,
but the cases of psittacosis which are
occurring in Australia should put bird-
petters on their guard. Cocky, who is
always ready to kiss or to take food
from its fond owner’s lips, is liable to
transmit a disease as severe and fatal
as typhoid, which it greatly resembles.
Budgerigars, grass parrakeets and the
white cockatoo are known to have
caused outbreaks in other parts of the
world, as has the big Brazilian parrot.
Australia has more species of parrots
than the rest of the world put together.
It cocky seems sleepy and thirsty, shivery
and depressed, and inclined to diarrhoea,
put him in close quarantine and burn his
droppings. He’s a household risk with
those symptoms.
“G.P.”: Psittacosis is a striking
example of the fact that parasites
which work havoc among lower
animals seem suddenly able to adapt
themselves to a diet of human beings.
How long the parrot disease has
been transferable from birds to our-
selves is unknown ; but the human variety
wasn’t spotted until ’79. The “louping,
1 "” of the sheep is also a case in point:
and some think that the Australian “dis-
ease” is a present to us from the same
meek animal. Then there’s the disease
called tularaemia ; it was not known to
exist in man until 1904, but there is now
proof that he may receive the germ (very
like that of plague) from coyotes, wood-
ticks, horseflies and rabbits in the
U.S.A.
H* 3{»
“Walkabout”: Like “T. 8.” (B.
1/1 / ’36), I’ve encountered the “new
Scotch maid.” In addition to our ten
bob a week, we silvertails in an island
outpost were entitled to have our laun-
dering done by the quarters’ cook-
waitress-laundress. The arrival of anew
Scotch lassie coincided with the annual
visit of the company’s pastoral inspector,
an event that brought an invitation to the
big house for Sunday dinner. Jessie got
busy on our best rags, leaving the iron-
ing until Sunday morning. Yells of
indignation brought her along at the
double. Trousers were unearthed from
beneath the neatly-folded linen ; but
Jessie couldn’t get the hang of things or
the reason for complaints. “That’s the
way I iron my own,” she said in her
broadest as she walked away. The lass
had creased our strides along the seams!
* * * *
“Como”: The bursting—more prop-
erly, disintegrating—of emery wheels is
a fruitful cause of death and injury to
workers in the steel plants of the North of
England, but it is so rare in Australia that
the narrow escape of a Werribee (Vic.)
man recently attracted some attention.
There are few emery wheels used on a
large scale here ; but they are not the only
bits of machinery which disintegrate with
disastrous results. One of the most
“Some of your volunteer crew, eh ?”
"No —just a few members of the Shiplovers ’ Society on the Way to their
annual convention .”
dramatic fatalities Melbourne ever ex-
perienced was when the flywheel of a
winch on the Equitable Life building
going up in Collins-street went to pieces
as a huge stone was being raised 30 or
40 years ago. The pieces of iron decapi-
tated the man on the gantry, leaving his
bleeding corpse on the top of the scaf-
folding. A second workman was killed
by the falling stone, and a third —a man
walking down Flinders-lane 100 yards
away—was hit by a fragment of steel
and died on the way to the hospital. So
great was the centrifugal force developed
by the weight of the stone that this last
piece of steel had been thrown over the
roofs of a dozen tall buildings and fallen
from a high trajectory.
* * ❖ *
“Red Bluffer”: Thirty or forty years
ago St. Kilda (Vic.) municipality half-
built an ornate town hall. It was designed
in accordance with recognised principles
of town-hall architecture, and, had St.
Kilda ever had the money to cement its
surface, it would have become as appal-
ling an atrocity as other civic head-
quarters about Melbourne. But as the
years passed creepers grew over the red
brick, and to-day it is one of the most
picturesque buildings in the metropolis
and unquestionably the most beautiful of
all the town halls. The desire to find
work for the unemployed and to splash
money as proof that prosperity has
returned is impelling sundry people to
advocate the completion of the structure.
If there are sufficient artists with organ-
ising skill to raise a defence league the
proposal should be promptly squelched.
* ' * * *
“Yo Ho”: Add to the unexpected risks
a sailorman may have to face a cargo
of green coffee. Years ago when the
Ceylon coffee industry flourished, a sail-
ing-ship set out for London with a cargo
of unroasted coffee-beans in bags. Man
after man sickened and died of some
mysterious disease, and long after the
remainder of the crew had abandoned
the vessel it was discovered that the sick-
ness was due to the fermenting of the
green beans sweating in the confined
holds. Clark Russell built one of his
sailor yarns round the happening.
* * * *
“Old Roundsman”: The discovery of
two bodies in wells in N.S.W. recalls the
Dandenong (Vic.) murder of 30 years
ago. The wife of a prosperous orchard-
ist and her boy friend decided to get
rid of the husband, and in due course
the tertium quid stabbed and bat-
tered the man to death. The body was
thrown into a well on the premises, and
the accomplices reported to the police
that the man had destroyed himself. But
suspicions had been aroused, and before
long the police had obtained full confes-
sions, the man being hanged and the lady
reprieved because she was about to be-
come a mother. I did the trial at Mel-
bourne Criminal Court, and heard one
witness give evidence which would have
strained an Edgar Wallace yarn. The two
accused, it seemed, had at first decided
on getting someone else to do the job.
, . . . .. , , a, ,
The boy friend was dispatched o Mel-
bourne to seek a steady, reliable mur-
derer; m Flmders-street he picked up an
utter stranger placed his proposition
before him and offered him £lOO to
carry out an efficient homicide. The
stranger testified in the witness-box that
he agreed, and together they went out
to Dandenong, where the prospective
victim was pointed out, the boy friend
offering a loaded gun to the witness.
But you agreed to kill him, said the
Crown Prosecutor. Why y° u
carry out your bargain. The witness
looked indignant. Because, he ex-
plained, I was frightened they’d slip
me up for the money.”
❖ ❖ ❖ %
t4r , „ T r T j j
: n . f case of Lord de
Clifford, charged with manslaughter after
a motor-collision, the verdict of acquittal
was doubtless the same as a Judge would
have directed and a jury have given, but
the robes and the flummery and the
cocked-hat foolishness seem to have im-
pressed upon the British public that it is
time to abolish trial of a peer by peers,
Probably it is, but while the reformers
are about it they ought to make a clean
sweep of other anachronisms. How many
people know, for instance, that a mem-
ber of the University of Oxford (and it
may be the same with Cambridge)
charged with a crime may claim to be
tried by a University tribunal instead of
the ordinary courts of justice? The
right, I believe, has been exercised only
twice in the last 50 years, but it is still
unassailable. And the Vice-Chancellor
of Oxford University still retains, by
statute, the power to sentence an offender
within his jurisdiction to be hanged, or
to undergo any punishment short thereof.
* # * *
“Tom Willie”: Melbourne is the only
capital city in Australia that has two
G.P.Os. The real one is in Spencer-
street, though few people are aware of
it. It was built to relieve the Elizabeth-
street premises, but apparently the public
wouldn’t have it, for the citizens stuck to
the old love; the postal authorities
humored them by sending all incoming
G.P.O. mail matter to Elizabeth-street.
Eventually both post offices may lose the
title, for the building now on the corner
of Elizabeth and Bourke-streets is too
cramped for the business it has to do,
while the location of the Spencer-street
G.P.O. makes it unsuitable as head-
quarters.
* * * *
“Sixth Divvy”: Re the much-talked-of
privilege of certain British Army units
of marching through London with fixed
bayonets, I was one of an A.I.F. unit
which set all the precedents at defiance.
After Buflecourt the Sixth Division,
A.1.F., was formed in England from
wounded men from convalescent camps
and n.c.os. from France. On moving
from Salisbury Plain to the Australian
Engineer Depot at Brightlingsea, Essex,
we marched from the railway terminal,
across London, to the Liverpool-street
railway station with fixed bayonets, much
to the enjoyment of the London crowds.
Our unpardonable betise was not real-
ised till afterwards.
*
“Mudurup”: A memorial tablet has
been unveiled on Rottnest (W.A.) to
Willem van Vlaming, who gave the island
a look-over and its name in 1696. A few
days later he landed on
the mainland with 86
well-armed men, dis-
covered the Swan River
and explored it for
some 40 miles. It is
curious to reflect that,
over 30 years before
James Cook was born,
a well-equipped expedi-
tion from Europe was
marching through the
bush where Perth and
Fremantle stand to-day.
But Vlaming (like Dam-
pier, who was exploring
the nor’-west and north-
ern coasts of New Hol-
land nearly 10 years
sooner) formed a poor
opinion of the land
which has just been
honoring his memory.
He “neither found good
country nor saw any-
thing worthy of note,"’
according to his own
narrative, with the pos-
sible exception of some black swans.
And, when he finally left the Nor’-west
Cape for Batavia, he “fired guns as a
signal of farewell to the miserable South
Land.” It is as well for our race that
he was a pessimist.
* *
“Yacko”: Joseph Murrell, of J. H. M.
Abbott’s story (B. 18/12/’35), recovered
from the brutal assault made on him by
Yankee sealers, to become head man of
a band of sealers working at Kangaroo
Island in 1806. In those days the
island provided an abundance of animal
food —fortunately, for the party’s meagre
stores were destroyed by fire three
months after they landed. Wallaby
liver, baked hard, was substituted for
bread ; the leaves of the swamp tea-tree
were utilised to make a quite palatable
beverage. On old maps Murrell’s sojourn
on the island is perpetuated in the name
of Murrell’s Bay ; it is better known as
Harvey’s Return, so marking the landing
spot of a later-day sealer.
“Little Marx”: Melbourne temperance
bodies are once more agitating for the
prohibition of liquor bars on football
grounds. The existence of the bars is
undoubtedly the cause of some of the
disorder which takes place, but it
seldom results in anything more serious
than a few bruises and an occasional
black eye. If the bars were abolished,
the regular drinkers would take their
liquor to the grounds in bottles, and
when the liquor was consumed there
would be a perfect arsenal of dead
marines ready to be utilised as weapons
when any difference occurred among the
barrackers regarding the merits of the
game. The black eyes of to-day might
be supplanted by fractured skulls.
THE WOG TO HIS INAMORATA.
Omy love my own bacillus! Ere the anti-
toxins kill us, let us sport, like Amaryllis,
In the shade. , , .
On our future, too, we 11 ponder while this
bloodstream takes us yonder; right
around our host we’ll wander,
Woggy maid.
When your slim bacterial beauty first
attracted me, my cutie, I recall that
stern, hard duty
Claimed us both.
We were setting up some “itis far from
enemies who’d sight us. Aye! ’twas
there we swore to plight us
Of our troth.
Though you coyly bid me tarry, yet 1 would
that we might marry. Do not let our
plans miscarry.
For you, pet,
I’d put up with all vexations of your billions
of relations; in some quiet inflamma-
tions
We’d be “set.”
We shall never be too wealthy—this damned
fellow’s far too healthy . . . Quick!
Duck down! but be quite stealthy . . .
Stop that sigh!
Come, my own, we’ll have to hustle. Hide
behind that little muscle. There’s a
great big red corpuscle
Floating by!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


e
l-
-20M6
10/
9 d
or
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
'Jk
m
sjSr
y.
THIS GENERATI
C
POLITICAL POINTS
In a day or two it will be determined
whether the seamen or the coalminers
have the silliest set of leaders. As the
old year closed it seemed that for
abysmal asininity the boss-mariners stood
alone, but if the boss-miners buy into
a lost strike with what is left of their
union membership and funds the leather
medal will have to be awarded to them.
For weeks these extraordinary persons
have been hissing “mechanisation” out
of one side of their mouths and mutter-
ing demands for “hydrogenation”— to
cost £6,000,000 —out of the other. A fat
lot of “hydrogenation” the miners will
get if they let these fellows have their
strike!
“A stoppage of the coal resources of
Australia is desirable,” says Bondy
Hoare, “president of the northern dis-
trict of the Miners’ Federation.” N.S.W.
coal - export figures declined from
5,524,700 tons in 1921 to 2,690,000 tons
in 1934. Haven’t these blatherskites
done enough stopping?
Yugoslavia claiming to have suffered
as a result of “sanctions,” the British
Government has granted it “unilateral
concessions,” among others, two-thirds
of the duties off dead birds and “free
entry of eggs, limited to 20,000 cwt. p.a.”
That may spoil the British market for
many Australian poultry-farmers, who
are not doing famously just now, but it
is not expected that the Lyons Govern-
ment will grumble. Obedience is the part
assigned to them by the Anthony Edens,
and meekly accepted.
Vic. Premier Dunstan is overwhelmed
with pride at the achievement' of his
minority Government, which took office
in April. “We passed 84 bills,” he says.
Eighty-four bills in one session of one
of seven Parliaments in a country with
barely 6,750,000 people!
11l fares the land, to hastening bills a prey,
Where boards accumulate and men decay.
Victoria is to have compulsory voting
at the next Leg. Council poll. S.A. needs
it too; at the by-election for one of
the Adelaide districts (Central No. 2),
though so considerable a South Austra-
lian as E. W. Holden was in the field,
only 25 p.c. of the electors turned up.
Really, people who won’t exercise the
privilege of voting for Second Chambers
don’t deserve to have them.
Thanks to Bruce, £21,657,000 of N.S.W.
5 per cents, is being converted into 3
per cents, (actually, the yield to investors
is £3 6s. p.c.), with an annual saving in in-
terest and exchange of £526,000 (Aust.).
A creditable operation, but in the full-
ness of time the credit will be awarded
by Premier Stevens to Hartigan of the
N.S.W. Railway Department.
Times have changed from those brave
days when Mr. Jacob Johnson, very par-
ticular about the correct sounding of the
initial letters, was gallantly leading the
hardy seamen of Sussex-street against the
capitalistic octopus. Who could then
have foreseen that a day would come
when he would be thrown out of a Sea-
men’s Union meeting, losing in the pro-
cess his glasses and, he reports, seven
good Australian pound notes? Coming
as he does of a thrifty race, he doubtless
feels the loss, but, after all, it affords a
fine practical demonstration of socialism.
The success of Casey’s loan has in-
spired Premiers to demand an early con-
ference anywhere but at Canberra to con-
cert plans for more loans and arrange
another method of distribution, if the
Financial Agreement can be circum-
vented. It inspired K. M. Niall, of
Goldsbrough, Morts, to point out that
£130,000,000 has been borrowed in four
years, “with very little in the shape of
tangible assets to show for the expendi-
ture.” But he’s only a leader of the
industry that pulled Australia out of the
worst of the mess.
Earle Page, who leaves for London at
the beginning of February, is at least
not going to make the Grand Tour and
write articles about it—he plans to finish
his London business in a week. Last
time he visited the other side he got
through in less than that time. He will
return via Canada and Maoriland, where
he will try to end the snake-headed trade
war- —evidenced in the embargo on Aus-
tralian citrus fruits and the ban on
Maoriland potatoes—which is no credit
to the politicians of either country.
Some N.S.W. farmers say they can
put in an acre of wheat for lOd. In
1934-35 a Commonwealth Government
with more money than it knew what to
do with scattered among Westralian
farmers, through the State Government,
£435,087 at 3s. an acre and £300,491 at
3d. a bushel, adding £137,000 for wheat-
farmers who had “suffered hardship.”
Now a Leg. Council select committee
has reported that, of this £137,000,
“Premier Forgan Smith and N.S.W. Attorney-General Manning have begun the overseas
pilgrimage. They will be followed by Dr. Page, Attorney-General Menzies and...”
“War in Europe, be jiggered! Look at all them politicians goin’ aboard!”
£84,919 went to “2361 clients of the Gov-
ernment Agricultural Bank” and £23,831
to “764 clients of other institutions,” the
chairman adding, on his own authority,
that the money had been “allocated on
political lines.” N.S.W., Victorian and
Queensland taxpayers furnished most of
this easy money.
The Commonwealth Government has
a representative in Westralia through
whom it distributes its bounty on fer-
tilisers, but its wheat bounties and wheat-
growers’-relief money it hands over to
the State Government. The Leg. Council
select committee thinks the wheat, as
well as the fertiliser, payments should be
made through the Commonwealth man,
and so would the taxpayers think if they
were consulted. But in these matters
they never are.
For 29 years (1904-33) the Northam
(W.A.) Assembly seat was held by James
Mitchell, twice Premier and now Lieut.-
Governor. Three years ago Mitchell lost
it to A. R. G. Hawke, a smart young
man from Adelaide. As a legislator
Hawke has not quite fulfilled the rosy
anticipations of his admirers, and the
Nationalist, if anything like Mitchell,
will give him a run for his money. There
is a pretty big railwaymen’s vote in
Northam, and that will help Hawke.
The New Tyranny has been relaxed
somewhat in Westralia, where the chair-
man of the Transport Board has granted
the following indulgence to farmers:
If a farmer owns a motor-truck which
he has used for the carriage of livestock
or produce, the truck may be used for
the conveyance of such goods from the
farm to any other place in the State. And
on the return journey he may carry back
with him any goods required for domestic
use or for use on the farm.
It was thought by Westralians that this
was one of the rights won for them by
their forefathers. Now it returns to
them as a concession, granted to them,
temporarily perhaps, by a non-elected
board.
Whichever way it' goes, Australians
will have noble bills to meet when James
v. the Commonwealth is decided by the
Privy Council. Attorney-General Menzies
is going back to London to appear for
the Commonwealth, and with him will be
a K.C. and another gentleman. Sir Staf-
ford Cripps and a Mr. Paul Springman
will represent Westralia and Tasmania,
who are intervening against the Com-
monwealth, and N.S.W. Attorney-
General Manning is to speak up for his
State and Queensland, which are inter-
vening on the Commonwealth’s side.
Manning will be in London months
before the case is likely to come on.
South Africa, with about 8,600,000
people, of whom 6,600,000 are colored
(they, of course, have to be governed),
manages with a Governor-General and
four hard-working provincial Administra-
tors (at £2OOO p.a. apiece), instead of
seven more or less ornamental occupants
of seven Government Houses. It has 358
politicians—l9o national and the rest
provincial, of whom 13 are Ministers.
Australia, with 6,750,000 people, requires
616 politicians, of whom (with one post
vacant) 74 are Ministers, and when last
counted at the end of 1933 there were
196,113 Government employees as a re-
sult of doing things in the grand style.
South Africa is a Union ; Australia, a
Federation.
Once more N.S.W. taxpayers have
been told that “the Premier and the rail-
way authorities estimate that the railway
deficit will be reduced to £500,000 this
financial year.” If the expectation is
fulfilled the Auditor-General will tell
them that the railway deficits (£2,083,511
in 1934-35 and £26,495,100 for the nine
years to June 30, 1934) will be increased
by £1,300,000, an annual £BOO,OOO from
tax-revenue being coolly included among
railway receipts. Auditors-General are
like that.
Trippers to Sydney for the holidays
included A. G. Ogilvie, the wandering
Tas. Premier. Ogilvie has evidently for-
gotten all about his promise to tell Aus-
tralia “the truth about Ireland,” but he
never runs short of subjects when there
are reporters about. So he repeated his
demand for a Commonwealth line of
steamers (as if it hadn’t been tried!) and
his equally familiar reference to “Tas-
mania’s claims on the Commonwealth,”
which is showering the Speck with loan-
and tax-money; and in the pettiest spirit
of provincialism he “expressed the belief
that a State tariff would be the salvation
of the State.” As for secession:
The movement is not defunct. It is
merely at the back of people’s minds.
But may people who nurse the secesh
idea these doubtful days be said to have
minds?
Proston (Q.) affords one of the star
examples of the transport-strangulation
policy. To make a week-end visit' by
rail, the visitor needs to leave Brisbane
on Friday evening, and after a night of
discomfort he will reach Proston at 8.30
a.m. on Saturday. To get back he must
wait till Tuesday, and after another
ghastly night will reach Brisbane on
Wednesday morning. By car he can
leave at 8 a.m., reach Proston at 5 p.m.
and be back in Brisbane at 5 p.m. the
following day. At least he could until
the board suppressed the road service.
About the time Maoriland’s new
Minister of Works was promising “a
revolutionary change in the monetary
system” the new Minister of Education
was saying: “There is no necromancy
about money. You cannot wave your
arms and spirit it out of the clouds.”
There must be some chatty discussions
going on in Cabinet.
Curtin has made a good impression as
Federal Labor-leader; obviously, brief-
ness of Parliamentary experience has
been no handicap to him. Looking back,
it seems strange that Caucus preferred
“Texas” Green to Curtin as Westralia’s
representative in the Scullin Ministry.
Green is an excellent fellow, but nothing
but length of membership could have
turned the scale in his favor.
“S.G.”: We are promised uniform
income-tax legislation, and here and
there bills have been introduced, but will
they ever be passed? A paragraph in my
U.A.P. paper fills me with gloomy fore-
bodings:—
The bills are designed to operate during
the next financial year, and therein lies
a difficulty—the task of persuading seven
Ministries and seven Parliaments to con-
sent within a period of 12 months to legis-
late for what is really identical action.
Of course, the U.A.P. paper is an un-
bending supporter of the system under
which there is “difficulty” in “persuading
seven Ministries and seven Parliaments
to consent” to a commonsense reform.
No such difficulty ever arises in Britain,
Maoriland or South Africa, for there no
such system exists.


Jan 1
Jan 8
RESOLUTION—AND REACTION.


pendable service. The
known in ev<
to manufacjg
conceivably
they ar*jjj?use
w ay aala U
out
Id
mo
en
neers
m
mow,
its pi
es at
?fre sa
prudes
Kg' an
TOalit
t:
pl£c
resc
orist.
ion
in refi:
failing
renown
is behind t?
is impossible*
and only tbe
your car.
DRAIN and REFILL^
with the NEW
SHELL
MOTOR
OIL
before you start
your Holiday
Jin g
users,
nditure.
century
lKoils have given de- •
ter in the system make one complete
circulation in a given time, resulting
in greater cooling of the cylinder
walls, &c. The factor of temperature
is one of the greatest enemies of
chat
poafesflaaffihe low-
tinae is
all moving pear-
ls anosurfaces apart,
iemperatures
with, ffien,
"Rubricate
jeraturgg. T:
;, when
using
mough to permii
"circulating to all parts.
The trend of modern motor engines
use a
fficiently
li%*»e hot
§e engine is i
b thin ouiu
f its reader
SHELL COMPANY'S NEW OIL
3T LUBRICANT
lessons
grad# of i
rightly affe
ences of p,
ances^SOTDn
ir recommending, $#j^'J n t
.ljtor
ne-
o tfifvarying features
erent ca» models, which
differ-
anrfclear-
en-
uture, crankshaft speed,
Capacity, design rings
.d diameter ofjj^»^f^r^a^j|o r cor_
•espondir^S^Sereni^siatf^ubHcation.
capacity, it
Tan understood that the
frthe capacity of the water
pump, the more frequently will the wa-
PERSONAL ITEMS
Henry Burton, K.C., linked with Aus-
tralia as a S’African director of the
Colonial Mutual Life, which has its
head office in Melbourne, died in Cape
Town on Christmas Day. For 14 years,
1910-24, he was a member of Union
Ministries, and in 1918 he became
a member of the Imperial War Cabinet.
On his retirement from Union office in
1924 he was made a Privy Councillor,
and later served as Attorney-General of
the Cape.
Stuart Peterson’s sketch shows Jacob
Johnson as he looked at the beginning
of the seamen’s strike. In the struggle
JACOB JOHNSON smiles.
the smile has worn off —he has suffered
assault and an attempt to depose him.
Originally a sailor of Danish stock, Jacob
has always been a fighter for what he
considered seamen’s rights; but with
years the militancy which led to his tem-
porary exile on Garden Island has worn
thin.
A. H. G. Drury, the Q.T.C. judge who
collapsed in his box at Ascot the other
day, had been almost 40 years a solicitor
and for 30 years a racing judge. He
came of a well-known Queensland bank-
ing family, and at Brisbane Grammar
Sqhool and afterwards was noted for his
strength. Rowing was his earliest love,
and he was a member of the Queensland
crew which won the inter-State eights in
1891, and afterwards for many years
captain of the Brisbane Rowing Club.
The last days of the old year saw the
amalgamation of two of the oldest law
firms in Sydney, Cape, Kent and
Osborne, who attend to The Bulletin’s
legal business, and Dibbs, Parker and
Parker, solicitors to the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney, having merged
as Dibbs, Crowther and Osborne. The
principals are J. G. Crowther, R. C.
Osborne, C. R. Dryhurst and F. M.
Osborne, and the new firm’s offices are
in Barrack House. The Cape, Kent
firm goes back to 1865, when A. J. Cape,
son of W. T. Cape, headmaster of Syd-
ney College, began to practise. A. J.
Cape took in F. D. Kent in 1884, and
T. B. Gaden joined them. Following the
death of the last of the Capes, Ronald
Charles Osborne, who served in the Fifth
Brigade Artillery, A.1.F., with H. K.
Prior, now The Bulletin’s managing
director, joined the firm, his brother,
Frederick Meares Osborne, coming in
shortly afterwards. Dibbs, Parker and
Parker dates back to 1884, when Tom
Burton Dibbs, son of the Thomas All-
wright Dibbs, who was g.m. of the Com-
mercial Banking Co. for 48 years, com-
menced practice with Leonard Gibson
as Dibbs and Gibson. The firm was
afterwards joined by the Parker brothers,
B.F. and A.L. (afterwards Lord Mayor).
John Gordon Crowther joined them in
1920 after lengthy N.S.W. southern and
western districts experience—also the
training ground of Ron Osborne. C. R.
Dryhurst, another partner of Dibbs,
Parker and Parker, is a nephew of J. R.
Dryhurst, the late general manager of the
Commercial Banking Co., and a son of
the present secretary, E. R. Dryhurst.
A. H. Angel, retiring from Vic. “Han-
sard” staff, has been on it for 30 years,
and chief for the last 10. Before that
he was on S.A. “Hansard” and Adelaide
“Advertiser.” His brother Walter is
manager of S.A. State Savings Bank;
and the four Angel brothers at one time
formed the first team of a leading Adel-
aide tennis club.
The Bulletin lost probably the last
friend who was present at its birth when
F. T. Wimble died in Sydney. This par.
was in the first issue (Jan. 31, 1880):
We are not inclined to go to press....
without thanking Messrs. F. T. Wimble
and Co. for the businesslike way and
despatch with which they supplied all the
necessary material for the production of
this journal. The order was given one
day, and Mr. Franks had our office com-
plete the next.
And a page in the paper to this day
carries the caption “And it’s printed
with Wimble’s Inks.” F. T. Wimble was
89 when he died. The son and grandson
of printers and ink-makers, he came to
Australia in 1867, and the next year
made the first Australian printing ink in
Melbourne. Within a few years he had
established branches of his business in all
the States and M.L., and from 1877 his
headquarters were in Sydney. His con-
cern became a limited-liability company
in 1906. In 1883 he left the firm for
several years and lived in North Queens-
land, where he founded the Cairns
“Post” and became the first M.L.A. for
Cairns, which he represented for five
years.
Zane Grey is a palish, interesting
Ohioan with silvery hair. He was born
in Zanesville and
married a lady
named Zane —it
was also his
mother’s name. He
looks more like a
commercial lawyer
or doctor than a
two-gun Wild West
novelist, and 30
years of cowboy
fiction have not
made his 60 years
sit heavily on him.
He has averaged
nearly two books
a year since he
began writing, but
latterly he has sub-
stituted deeds for
words, and has be-
come one of the
world’s best-known
fishermen. He
made Maoriland
world-famous as a
game-fishing resort,
and is now seeking
fresh fields, backed
ZANE GREY, novelist and fisherman.
hy a highly-organised team of movie
cameramen, in Australian waters.
W. R. Schwilk, who died in Sydney
at the week-end, had been secretary
of the N. S. Wales Employers’ Federa-
tion for eight years, and before that
assistant secretary and industrial officer.
He was a quiet, unassuming fellow, who,
never in good health, had managed to
squeeze his way past' the recruiting
doctors into the 19th Battalion, out of
which he was invalided in 1915. The
rest of the war he spent doing clerical
work on Garden Island. He had an
immense knowledge of industrial law and
decisions and was a capable advocate.
A lot of Australians, either personally
or by correspondence, were friends of
Tang Yu-Jen, who was assassinated the
other day. Director of Economic Re-
search for the Bank of China, he had
an insatiable curiosity about Australian
financial affairs and methods during the
early years of the depression. From 1932
onwards he was secretary of the Kuo-
mintang Central Political Council —the
Archdale Parkhill of China, so to
speak—and when a Cabinet system was
introduced in 1933 he got a minor Min-
isterial post in the Foreign Affairs De-
partment. It was his bad luck that he
happened to have been educated in
Tokio and to show Japanese tendencies
at a moment when a number of students
were talking economics with pistols.
From “El V.”:
The turmoil of the career of Rufus Isaacs,
Marquis of Reading, lay so far back that it
seemed astonishing that he was only 75 when he
died. A lot of nonsense has been written about
his early life as a runaway cabin boy;
actually he was the son of a fairly prosperous
City of London merchant, who gave him a
cosmopolitan education at Brussels and in Han-
over, and eased his way to the Bar in the Middle
Temple. His early days were not unusually
brilliant, but he was a K.C. at 38. When,
however, he took to politics in 1904, six years
later, he found his metier, and a superb gift
of financial analysis, combined with an ability
for clear thinking and endless tact in negotia-
tion, soon made him a useful man in the
Asquith Cabinet, in which he was the first
Attorney-General to sit. Isaacs’s supremacy as a
commercial counsel gave him close connections
with the financiers and larger industrialists of
several countries, and his linguistic ability and
cosmopolitan connections were great assets
during the war, when the world saw the un-
usual spectacle of a man who was still Lord
Chief Justice, after only nine years an M.P.,
acting as chairman of an Anglo-French Loan
Commission and as Ambassador to U.S.A.
After the war he became Viceroy of India, and,
returning in bad health, was in virtual retire-
ment till he answered an SOS to strengthen
the National Government in 1931 as Foreign
Minister. He married twice —his second wife
was his secretary, Stella Charnaud, one of the
most brilliant of women linguists. His heir,
a barrister, married a daughter of the late
Lord Melchett, of Imperial Chemicals.
Australia lost one of the most bril-
liant of the younger school of cancer
specialists when
Dr. Leila Keatinge,
of Sydney, died
after an urgent
appendix operation.
Victorian-born, she
graduated in medi-
cine at Sydney
University in 1925,
and after wards
signed on as sur-
geon of the cargo
ship Port Lincoln,
on which she made
a romantic voyage
to outlandish parts
of the Indian
Ocean and Medi-
terranean on her
way to London.
She did a special
course in radio-
therapy at London
University and at
Cambridge, where
she took a dip-
-lom a. She re-
turned at the in-
stance of the Syd-
ney Cancer Research Committee, and
later joined Dr. A. T. Nisbet in a Mac-
quarie-street partnership. For some years
she had been honorary deep X-ray ther-
apist to St. Vincent’s. Dr. Keatinge will
be remembered for her original work
with Dr. Leslie Utz on Hodgkins disease.
She was a vigorous and original per-
sonality, generally regarded in the pro-
fession as destined for a great career.
Staffordshire sent Australia T. W.
Heath, as it did many other good colon-
ists —the Horderns among them. T.W.
was born at Wolstanton on the fringes
of Arnold Bennett’s Five Towns. His
father, of course, was a potter, and he
was apprenticed to the well-known firm
of Wade at 12 years old, but continued
“Mr. President” — N.S.W. Bowling
Association.
his education at night schools. At 28
he came to Australia to represent the
Middleport Pottery, and, having travelled
the Commonwealth thoroughly, he de-
cided to stay here. His primary interest
is T. W. Heath and Co., of which he is
managing director, and he is on the
boards of half a dozen other companies,
but still finds time for bowls, which he
has been playing assiduously for 22
years. He has been president of the N.
S. Wales Bowling Association for four
years, and from 1931 to 1933 he was
president of the venerable Sydney City
Club, which celebrated its jubilee in his
first year of office.
“Whom the King delighteth to honor”:
At the New Year the Commonwealth handed
out one K.B.E. —to Charles Connibere, a Mel-
bourne softgoodsman who has been an unob-
trusive giver to charity to the tune of £150,000,
to which he added a donation of £30,000 to
the King’s jubilee fund to build a maternity
hospital. W. R. Carpenter, who, since the out-
break of the war, has built up a vast shipping
business, got a knighthood. He has been a
heavy giver in the interests of destitute chil-
dren, and contributed £20,000 to the jubilee
fund. E. S. Cunningham, the veteran ex-
editor of the “Argus,” has also been made
a “Sir” after 63 years of journalism. And
Robert McComas, retiring director of the
Commonwealth Bank, becomes a C.M.G.
N. S. Wales got a K.C.M.G. for Chief
Justice Jordan—there is already one K.C.M.G.
in Justice Bavin on the Supreme Court Bench;
and A. K. Trethowan, chairman of the N.S.W.
Country party and its chief financial organiser,
is now a knight bachelor. Victoria’s one
knighthood goes to H. B. Devine, whose
abdominal surgical technique has made him
known throughout the world. John Spence,
the N.S.W. Auditor-General, gets a C.M.G.;
Mr. Cerutty already has one, but Mr. Casey
did not get it for him. In S.A., Justice Angas
Parsons is knighted. The usual list of minor
medals and ribbons has been bestowed on
charity-workers, heads of returned-soldier
bodies and civil servants, with a sop or two to
music and the arts. For the “S. M. Herald’s”
young man at Canberra there is an M.B.E. —
if it is intended as a compliment to the press
gallery, it is a poor one. Low down on the
N. S. Wales list appears the name of Con-
stable J. T. Arthurson, who receives a King’s
Police Medal for intrepid work at Bargo
(N.S.W.). Queensland, W.A. and Tasmania
recommended no honors. It is one of the
anomalies of the system that when a Labor
Government is in power a severe drought sets
in over a large part of the Commonwealth.


Banish BACKACHE & BLADDER
WEAKNESS this quick new way
* s The intestinal tract is the most prolific source of disease”
states Prof. K. Sclimeidler, the famous German Doctor.
“A cruel annoyance” is prob-
ably the best way to describe
either backache or bladder
weakness. Movement is pain-
ful and sleep at night is dis-
turbed by constantly having
to get up. You feel depressed,
you have no vitality, your
back, legs and feet ache, you
Clogged Colon
have frequent
headaches. Urina-
tion is often smart
and painful. But
these troubles are
now rapidly ban-
ished because
science lias discovered that
the basic cause of backache,
kidney and bladder weakness
can be traced to the physical
reason for self-poisoning, i.e.,
a clogged colon.
The Cause of Autoxima
The colon, the most important part
of the intestinal tract, has two
functions. It must remove essen-
tial minerals from passing food,
and it must see that all waste mat-
ter is promptly ejected from the
body. Modern foods and feeding
give insufficient exercise to the
colon walls, and they lose their
power of normal movement, boon
the walls fail to extract the essential
minerals and fail to eject the de-
caying waste. The folds become
clogged with putrefying matter.
Virulent poisons and bacteria form
and seep into the bloodstream.
The entire system is attacked—
every important organ in your
body is undermined by autoxima,
i.e., self-poisoning.
CLIP OUT
J 3.
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book on
Autoxima. Also send me my demon-
stration jar of COLOSEPTIC, for
which I enclose 1/- in penny stamps.
NAME *
! ADDRESS
Long Standing Case Relieved
“I have much pleasure in telling
you what COLO SEPTIC has
done for me. It has cured me
of long standing weakness in
kidney and bladder. I could not
walk any distance with pleasure
and my rest was disturbed at
night. Now I can say in truth
that COLOSEPTIC has done its
work—I am cured. What joy to
go out and tvalk without trouble
note.” — Mr. E.A.S., Feilding.
FREE
This Absorbing
Book
Mail coupon to-day for a demon-
stration jar of COLOSEPTIC,
and you will receive, under
plain cover, by return mail, a
book telling you all about Au-
toxima, an intimate and highly
important subject. The book is
absolutely FREE—
so fill in and mail
the coupon now.
A clogged colon is one of the
prices we pay for civilization.
The modern foods we eat
make it more and more diffi-
cult to maintain the active
functioning of the colon.
Until your clogged colon is
cleansed and revitalised and
the cause of autoxima thus
removed, you can-
not hope for per-
manent relief from
many ills. Science
has discovered a
new and effective
remedy- It’s name
Vnelooged Colon
is COLOSEPTIC (Wayne’s
Improved Formula).
Coloseptic’s Vitalizing Action
To regain perfect health you must
remove the encrustations which
line your colon. Normal bowel
movements cannot do this, the
walls have become too sluggish,
and opening medicines only purge
the lower end of the colon. Look
at the two illustrations and see
how COLOSEPTIC clears your
colon. It tones up the walls, giv-
ing back their power of normal
movement, it corrects acid condi-
tions, and stimulates the action of
the pores of the skin, the respira-
tory system, and the kidneys—the
three other important organs which
eliminate poisons from your sys-
tem. Remove the main cause of
disease by drinking COLOSEPTIC
and enjoy perfect health ALWAYS.
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIG (Aust.) LTD.. 26 O'Connell St.. Sydney.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Wool and Germany
“Quayeau” (B. 1/1 / ’36) is entitled to
his opinions, but he doesn’t know any-
thing about wool or wool markets. In
the first' place, it is wrong to describe
either wollstra or vistra as an artificial
wool. They have none of the characteris-
tics of wool—neither capillary insula-
tion to give warmth nor crimp which any
wool man would mistake for wool
crimp. Moreover, such are the qualities
of wollstra—l have examined a wide
range of samples—that except in com-
bination with lots 75 p.c. wool it will
not produce the kind of cloth which most
civilised people wear, unless under dire
compulsion. A lot of artificial wollstra
is made from wool rag. And it is not
cheap.
“Quayeau’s” figures are mere moon-
shine. The increase in artificial produc-
tion, from 142,000,0001 b. in 1924 to
795,000,000 in 1934 consists mainly of
rayon, or artificial silk. It does not
include wollstra.
In 1924 virtually no commercial arti-
ficial wool was manufactured. I im-
ported the first samples of it (vistra) from
Italy in 1925, and exhibited them amid the
jeers of the pastoral industry, which had
been made to knock at the knees by
the same sort of sensational press propa-
ganda as is now going the rounds.
There are two essentials to be estab-
lished before artificial wool can oust
real wool or imperil its market. The
counterfeit product must be like wool
—not merely to the man in the street but
to the spinner. It must be capable of
being felted and woven whole and not
in highly-diluted mixture, ak at present,
and it must be cheaper than wool. In
spite of yards of promises none of these
conditions is in actual sight of accom-
plishment. „
Meanwhile, it may comfort “Quayeau
to know that, in spite of the increase ot
550 p.c. in artificial products which he
misrepresents, Australia sold 3,040,000
bales of wool in the 1934-35 season, or
only 135,000 bales short of double the
amount we disposed of in 1924-25,
which he sets as the beginning of the
period of growth of the artificial menace.
We could have sold more of some quali-
ties if we had had it.
There is a school of propagandists bent
on persuading the wool industry to allow
itself to be controlled and “saved” by a
central semi-Government organisation
and advertising pools.
Bradford encourages the idea —an
advertising campaign for wool paid for
by Australia would be a free advertising
campaign for Bradford industries.
Australia has all it can do to keep up
with the demand for wool. Any propa-
ganda that is needed is internal—to en-
courage growers to maintain standards
and produce more fine wools.— El V.
(N.S.W.).
Why the Difference?
Among the peculiar features of
Queensland’s Government railways is a
fare system under which certain resorts
are favored substantially against others.
For example, from Brisbane to South-
port, 50 miles south, one pays Bs. first,
ss. 6d. second ; 10s. and 6s. 9d. excur-
sion. But if one wants to go to Lands-
borough, 51 miles north, in order to
reach Caloundra, one pays 10s. first,
7s. second; 17s. and 11s. excursion.
Should one prefer Coolangatta, 60 miles
south, the obliging department takes you
there for 12s. 9d. first, Bs. 3d. second ;
16s. and 10s. 9d. excursion. Any recal-
citrant who insists on going to Palm-
woods, only 60 miles north, in order to
get to the Maroochydore beaches, is
charged 12s. first, 9s. second; 19s. and
13s. excursion fares.
The railways continually cry for
more tourist traffic. Why only to the
southward? —M. Turlutu (Q.).
Train the Parents!
I spent a week-end in a district where
many families are on the dole. The
owner of cottages near the waterfront
told us that for more than a year he had
received no rent from two of his three
tenants, but he hadn’t the heart to put
them out. The third tenant, jobless also,
had transformed the patch of stony land
into a terraced garden. Round the fences
he had grown runner beans, and his
crops had helped to pay the rent as well
as supply his family of four children.
Besides beans he had grown other
vegetables, had set up several beehives
and had built a safe raft for fishing in
the tidal river. He hawked gumtips in
the city one day in the week, fish and
prawns another day. His children, when
home from school, were trained in garden
work, and were already interested.
The other two families lived in quarrel-
some and most unhappy idleness, the
children filthy, the boys a nuisance be-
cause of their fruit-stealing habits and
disgusting language. If our educational
system included training of parents, and
if a hobby and handicraft training were
added to the curriculum for youngsters,
a vast deal of good might be done. —
Chloe (N.S.W.).
“English English”
At the Naval Conference two types of
English have been heard, each of which,
we are told, is now acknowledged as
orthodox, each in its proper place. They
are classed as “English English” and
“Imperial English.” “English English” is
orthodox in England and “Imperial Eng-
lish” in the Dominions; “English Eng-
lish” is spoken by Mr. Baldwin, “Im-
perial English” by Mr. Bruce.
If that is so, Australia must be counted
out. Mr. Bruce, for law and order, says
“lorandordah.” The man in the Sydney
street would not say it that way if he
could. His accent needs a somewhat
stronger post to lean against than is
needed by the Bruce type, which saves
a bit in evading the “w”-before-“a” com-
bination but misses the restful benefit that
the Australian gets from dropping the
“d” before “o.” The saving of vocal effort
by cutting out the final “r” being neither
here nor there, he lets that go. Still, on
points, Bruce is not in it with Billjim.
Much, however, depends on the
referee. The Oxford curate, after reprov-
ing his churchwarden for calling the plate
the “plite,” went into the pulpit and said
“he that hath yeahs to yeah let him
yeah.” He would be given out' leg before
wicket by some umpires.
Then there is that famous bout between
the eminent lawyer Edmund Butler and
the aboriginal witness. “You have
jusht schworrun that you were at Braza
on that day,” said Butler in cross-exam-
ination. The child of the wilds denied that
he said any such thing. When the great
counsellor was directing attention to the
unreliability of a witness who flatly
denied his own statement, the indignant
blackfellow protested that he was never
in Braza and never claimed to have been
there. The place he said he was in was
Breeza. And such is the way of it.
Until all men have exactly the same
shaped noses never will any two among
them, black, white or brindle, ispeak
exactly alike. —C. T. (N.S.W.).
“No Bag Limits”
Born in N. S. Wales, I became a
Westralian 14 years ago, and proud of
it. But when I read in the “West Aus-
tralian” that “the open duck season
would commence on December 24” and
would continue until May, 1936, and
that the Chief Secretary had stated that
there were “no bag limits in Westralia,
as in other parts of Australia,” I felt
ashamed of my adopted State.
“No bag limits” means slaughter of
birds, young and old, and eventual ex-
tinction of “wild” ducks so friendly that
I have seen them by the thousand on
lakes and ponds in Perth parks.
Unless we bestir ourselves in the in-
terests of furred and feathered creatures
posterity will look back on us with anger
and contempt and curse our “open
seasons.” —M. McF. (N.S.W.).
Letting Everybody Know
Those reflections on bombing in the
next war (B. 1/1 / ’36) remind me that
Britain, with its usual affability, has pub-
lished details and pictures of its new “24-
hour bomber” —so-called because it can
operate by day or night, unlike other
types —for the benefit of its friends and
enemies. The new machine is fitted with
two automatic gun turrets which make
shooting at the other fellow a blissful job
for the gunner, since, once on the target,
the gun follows it, saving the shooter the
old-time trouble of hauling it about with
a considerable expenditure of cursing
and perspiration. It is claimed that this
is the greatest' advance in war ’planes
since the synchronisation of the m.gs.
enabling them to fire through the revolv-
ing propeller. To the layman, the most
attractive innovation is a jolly little cabin
for the bomb-dropper. Situated under
the nose of the machine the operator and
his instruments are nice and private, en-
abling concentration on the job in hand.
—Aileron (N.S.W.).
Say It with Music
One of the things that help to boom
Honolulu is the pier band which greets
every arriving vessel with Hawaiian
melodies. The visitors are touched at this
delicate compliment to themselves, and
the people waiting on the pier have
something to break the monotony. The
suggestion is being made in Melbourne
that Australian ports should adopt the
practice, and it seems to be a good one.
The cost of a band would not be great,
and it would serve to send the tourists
ashore in a good humor. —G. Trotter
(Vic.).


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Melbourne Co-op. Brewery
Net To Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1929. . 114,595 23.3 p.c. = 100,795 13,800 261,560
Unexplained addition to reserves, £19,163.. 280,723
1930.. 110,134 22.5 p.c. = 97,196 12,938 293,661
1931.. 74,585 17.0 „ „ 73,797 788 294,449
1932.. 58,565 13.3 „ „ 57,597 968 295,417
1933.. 60,241 13.3 „ „ 57,597 2,644 298,061
1934.. 63,006 13.3 ~ „ 57,597 5,409 303,470
1935.. 70,547 15.8 ~ „ 68,397 2,150 305,620
This co. has a gilded history. Formed
by a few Melbourne hotel-keepers in
1904, it paid divs. ranging from a mere
20 p.c. p.a. to 110 p.c. p.a. over the
next 26 years, and for a long time the
ss. shares fetched around 255. in the
market. In 1920 each ss. share was ex-
changed for one fully-paid £1 share.
Five years later the business passed to
Carlton and United Breweries for
£650,000 in ord. shares, equal to one-third
of C.U.B.’s total capital. At the same time
£71,974 of bonus scrip was issued, fol-
lowed by another £143,993 worth in
1928, when the face value of the pound
shares was split in halves. That raised
paid capital to the present figure,
£431,981, in 10s. shares.
During the last term C.U.B. made a
one-for-two gift issue, raising the
Co-op.’s holding to 975,000 shares, which
figure at £650,000, no account having
been taken of the gift in the books.
Other assets consist of hotel freeholds,
etc., £36,034; Government securities,
£51,180 (cost); mortgages, £15,600;
cash, etc., £3093. Apart from share
capital, the only liability was £306 of
unclaimed dividends.
What the shareholding and other assets
have turned in and the cost of handling
the income the next table shows:
Income. Exes.* Income. Exes.*
1930. . £120,519 £1'0,385 I 1933.. £69,641 £9,400
1931.. 88,231 12,810 | 1934.. 69,792 6,786
1932.. 70,322 10,990 | 1935.. 76,583 6,036
including taxation.
The 1935 income (up £6791) includes
only a half-year’s div. on the increased
holding in the C.U.B. Still, the Co-op.
was able to lift its distribution from 13.3
p.c. to 15.8 p.c., the final being at the
rate of 16 2-3 p.c., which looks like
being maintained.
For the year to June 30 last, the
C.U.B. lowered its div. to 8 p.c. ; but
this called for £36,000 more than 10 p.c.
did in the previous term. On this basis,
the annual return on the Co-op.’s hold-
ing would be £13,000 greater at £78,000.
The Co-op.’s other investments turn in
about £5OOO p.a. Allowing, say, £6OOO
for exes., including taxation, a net return
of about £77,000 p.a., or 17.8 p.c. on
capital, is indicated, with possibilities of
a bit more later on.
At 41s. the fully-paid 10s. shares
return a shade over 4 p.c. on a 16 2-3
p.c. div. basis. Each rise or fall of 1 p.c.
in the div. would affect the return by
4s. lOd. p.c.
Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1925.. 109,459 8 p.c. = 60,000 14,691 319,218
Special depreciation .. 27,861 291,357
1926.. 71,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
Special depreciation .. 30,431 258,301
i:27.. 45,881 6 p.c. = 45,000 11,560 247,622
Special depreciation .. 10,632 236,990
1928.. 14,669 3 p.c. = 22,500 10,951 218,208
1929.. 31,634 3 „ „ 22,500 10,752 216,590
1930.. 28,939 ii „ „ 18,750 10,374 216,405
1931.. 1,201 Nil 11,601 206,005
Loss.
1932.. 14,700 Nil 11,250 180,055
Profit.
1933.. 22,095 2 p.c. = 15,000 11,159 175,991
1934.. 31,978 3 „ „ 22,500 11,429 174,040
193 5.. 52,604 5 „ „ 37,500 12,692 176,452
The recent revival in building has
brought a welcome turn of the tide in
the timber trade. This business, which
has always been well handled, is spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
V’.aoriland, and two-fifths of the £750,000
of capital is bonus scrip ; but it was
handed out in 1919, when £135,000 of
capital was also returned. After that
the more general use of reinforced con-
crete and steel and competition from im-
ported timbers brought years of sorrow
to the industry. Then, weakened by the
prolonged struggle, slump sent a number
of timber-traders to the wall, and the
market became flooded with liquidation
stocks, making it impossible for the sur-
vivors to earn satisfactory returns on the
capital invested, notwithstanding that the
said capital was often assisted by sub-
stantial reserves. Since the close of
accounts in 1925 shareholders in this
Kauri co. have averaged 3£ p.c.; but
reserves have had to be tapped for no
less than £142,766 to pay the meagre dis -
tributions and cover trading and other
losses.
The tide turned three years ago, and
has continued to rise since. Gross earn-
ings (£105,341) sprang £33,386 last year.
After allowing for depreciation, shown
as written off in the table, the net result
benefited by £19,363 of the increase,
reaching 5.3 p.c. on capital as against
2.7 and 1.3 p.c. and losses of £25,950 and
£10,400 back to 1931. A couple of
points were added to the div., making it
5 p.c.
Though the activity in building con-
tinues, it is doubtful whether anything
better than 5 p.c. need be looked for
at present. The market, therefore, prices
the fully-paid 255. shares at 235. as
against 19s. a year ago. The return at
235. is 5.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 30s. lOd. in net tangibles.
The contraction in turnover left the
co. with more money than it could find
employment for in the business, though
the position in this respect improved last
year:—•
1922. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 161,178 13,275 19,348 36,242
Freeholds . . 155.646 98,891 72,525 70,97,3
Leaseholds . . 133,409 57,795 36,460 57,614
Plant, etc. . . 162,605 169,196 124,598 121,274
Stocks, etc... 412,997 226,303 118,887 175,885
Book debts .. 116,718 74,218 74,425 106,821
Shares . . 93,166 148,471 148,495 152,978
I n v e s tments,
cash, etc... 94,072 223,549 390,491 314,649
To add £21,154 to leaseholds, £56,998
to stocks, £32,396 to debtors’ balances
and £4483 to shares in other cos., invest-
ments, etc., were drawn upon for £75,842
and the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors was increased by £16,894. Invest-
ments, mainly Government securities,
loans and debentures, figure at £313,004
(face value or less), equal to 10s. sd. per
share. How much of this will ultimately
be required for trading purposes it is
difficult to say at the moment; a part
return of capital is a possibility.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. Towards
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 8,870 5201 Nil 3,669 250,455
Added to intangibles, £791 . . 251,246
1927.. 19,183 5567 Nil 13,616 237,630
Part foreign rights sold, patents
reduced, £152,824 .. .. 84,806
1928.. 21,348 5567 Nil 15,781 69,025
Reserved for depreciation,
etc., £19,400 .. .. .. 88 425
1929.. 23,362 5567 Nil 17,795 70,630
1930.. 15,281 5567 Nil 9,714 60,916
1931.. 977 Nil Nil 977 59,939
1932.. 2,535 Nil Nil 2,535 57,404
1933.. 7,787 5567* Nil 2,220 55,184
1934.. 12,082 6124 Nil 6,558 48,626
7* p.c.
1935.. 13,400 6531 Nil ). rl .
New. share issue exes., £350 j 4^,107
*Met by issue of fully-paid B prefs.
Early in the term the 50,000 A and
11,237 B prefs. (both were 10 p.c. non-
cumulative) were consolidated into first
prefs., carrying a fixed cumulative
p.c. To provide for further expansion
of the business an extra 38,763 new prefs.
were issued at par, making paid capital
£350,000 in 100,000 prefs and 250,000
ords.—all the ords. were taken by the
parent, the Hume Pipe Co., for patent
rights at the start, a little over 11 years
ago.
The co. turns out concrete-lined steel
pipes from Australian plates fabricated
by B.H.P. The chief source of earnings
is public expenditure on water-supply
schemes, etc. ; hence the collapse of the
figures in 1931 and their subsequent re-
covery. When the books last closed con-
tracts in progress figured at £39,064 as
against £14,773 a year earlier ; also, im-
provements in the co.’s process of manu-
facture further reduced costs. Declared
net earnings were £7lB better at £13,400
or more than twice the amount the prefs.
called for. Allowing for the bare pref.
requirements, enough remained to show
2.7 p.c. on ord. capital ; no div. was
paid.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
further reflect the year’s better trading:
1925. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £302,010 £305,670 £311,237 £350,000
Liabilities .. 17,343 106,987 84,407 70,476
Freehold and
leasehold . . 3,975 14,814 15,464 15,500
Plant.. .. 17,680 87,510 95,577 102,305
Stocks . . 7,758 27,508 24,690 32,091
Contracts . . 23,960 20,473 14,773 39,064
Book debts . . 5,433 45,814 44,721 37,101
Cash and de-
posits . . 7,563 9,239 14,916 15,817
Shares in other
cos. . . 174,528 174,528 174,528
The new capital, together with the year’s
surplus earnings, was used mainly to
reduce the outside debt by £13,931, add
£6728 net to the book value of plant,
£7401 to stocks and to finance an extra
£24,291 of contracts in hand. Debtors’
balances were down £7620. Including
stocks but not shareholdings, the more
or less liquid surplus (£53,597) was
£38,904 stronger than at the previous
balance, owing to the introduction of
new capital.
The co. sold its foreign rights to the
Steel Pipe and Lining Co. for £500,000
in f.-p. ords., and took 20,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. for cash. The ords. it took into its
own books at £154,528, reducing the
patents item (now £100,900, not treated
as an asset herein) by £152,824. Sub-
sidiaries have bought the rights for S.
Africa, India and part of the U.S.A.,
those for Japan have been sold on a
royalty basis, and Hume Pipe (Far East)
holds those covering the F.M.S., Straits
Settlements and China. No hint is given
as to when these rights are likely to turn
in anything.
The market sums up the risks by pay-
ing 21s. for the pound prefs. At that
price the return is 7.1 p.c. on a 7y p.c.
div. basis.
West Australian Finance, Ltd.
Towards
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £13,413.. .. 13,413
1927.. 2,152 7J p.c. = 1947 205 13,208
Added preliminary exes., £1736 .. 14,944
1928.. 5,018 74 p.c. = 50L1 15,007
1929.. 8,704 8| „ „ 6546 2158 12,849
1930.. 7,674 6i „ „ 4687 2987 9,862
Loss.
1931.. 13,522 Nil 23,384
1932.. 7,987 Nil 31,371
Capital written off, £30,000 .. 1,371
Capital returned, £7500.
Profit.
1933.. 1,650 3 p.c. = 1125 525 846
1934.. 1,696 3 „ „ 1125 571 275
Reserves.
1935.. 2,258 3 „ „ 1125 1133 858
This little co., which set up at Perth in
1926 to discount paper in the farm-
implement trade, soon got its toes
trodden upon. It put out 150,000 £1
shares called to 10s. at a cost of £15,149
—brokerage, etc., is inevitably heavy
where shares are not paid up in full.
Then, tempted by marginal gains on the
use of borrowed funds, the co. went to
its bankers. Divs. averaged p.c.
for the four years to the close of
accounts in 1930. With the change in
conditions, mortgages on future farm in-
comes, especially in the wheat areas,
became dubious assets ; creditors began
to ask for their money back, as they
usually do in such circumstances,
and moratorium and interest-reduction
legislation complicated the position.
Much of what the board had pre-
viously called profits turned out to be
losses, which made the amount of capi-
tal unrepresented by tangibles £31,371
(= 4s. lOd. per share) at Sept. 30, 1932.
Of this £30,000 was rubbed out by strik-
ing 4s. per share off capital, and another
shilling (£7500) was returned in cash, re-
ducing paid capital to £37,500 in ss.
shares.
Freed of the deadwood in the accounts,
the co. has since been able to show
moderate profits. Last year’s £2258
(up £562) was 6 p.c. on capital. The
div. was kept at 3 p.c., equal to
H p.c. on capital originally put up
by shareholders. That leaves out of
the reckoning £2271 charged against the
reserve for bad debts, etc. (now £14,999),
on account of losses made prior to 1931.
Subject to economic developments, pros-
pects of the co. continuing to pay
moderate divs. appear to be bright
enough.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. £74,928 £75,000 £37,500 £37,500
Liabilities.. .. 49,659 142 2,343 6,686
Advances, book
debts, etc. . . 116,504 35,595 38,883 44,159
Sundry assets . . 267 5,938 1,815 1,415
After deducting the reserve for bad
debts, etc., and £4680 interest in suspense,
the year’s net' growth in debtors’ bal-
ances was £5276. The growth in the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
was £3743.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £,
1925 14,307 124 p.c. = 9375 4,932 38,896
1926.. 13.913 12* „ „ 9375 4,538 43,434
1927.. 12,980 12| „ „ 9375 3,605 47,039
Brisbane preliminary exes., £6lO 46,429
1928.. 11,376 12* p.c. = 9375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £ 60.. 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7710 2,727 38,717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = 4000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 „ „ 5000 1,728 43.191
1933.. 7,072 6 „ „ 6000 1,072 44,263
1934.. 9,311 7 „ „ 7000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 „ „ 8000 2,256 48.830
This co., which trades throughout the
Commonwealth, specialises in the manu-
facture of all kinds of commercial station-
ery. Its earnings, therefore, reflect the
activity of business generally. For the
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1929 a steady 10 p.c. div. was paid, with
a 2j p.c. bonus added when things were
going extra well. In ’2B £12,500 was
transferred from reserves to capital to
pay 10s. on each of 25,000 new £1 shares.
Then the Brisbane branch became more
of a hindrance than a help; slump
brought the ’3O profits down to less than
one-third of the ’29 figure, and share-
holders were passed by for the first' time
since the public became interested in
1910.
Since then there has been a steady
annual improvement in the demand for
the co.’s dockets and other requisites,
costs have been lowered, the Brisbane
branch has been put on a more secure
footing, and the co.’s earnings have
maintained a steady advance. The im-
provement in gross earnings (£42,689)
for the last term was £3553. Exes.
(£32,433, including £1062 sent to the
superannuation fund) took £2608 of the
increase, leaving the net result £945
better at 10.2 p.c. on capital as against
9.3, 7.1, 6.7, 3.6, 3.1, 13.5 and 15.1 p.c.
back to 1928. Another point was added
to the div., raising it to 8 p.c.
The outlook for the current term
favors a continued growth of earnings.
The market prices the pound shares at
355. as against' 335. a year ago. At the
higher figure the return is 4.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 295. 9d. in
net tangibles.
Movements in balance-sheet figures re-
flect general expansion of the business:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
„ Liabilities .. 13,619 9,746 7,756 13,287
Premises .. 41,526 41,875 42,397 42,233
Plant, etc. . . 45,074 39,656 41,624 44,447
Stock.. .. 29,701 31,861 33,004 39,202
Book debts . . 24,734 19,861 23,748 24,687
Cash & sundries 1,565 12,184 8,559 4,423
Shares other cos. 17,500 17,500 17,500 21,125
To add £2823 net to plant, £6198 to
stocks and make an advance of £3625 to
the Westralian subsidiary, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £4136 and £5531 was
added to the amount coming to trade
creditors, which includes provision for
taxation and insurance. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£58,650, including stocks and the
advance already referred to) was £1095.
The shareholding (£17,500) is in the West-
ralian subsidiary, which lifted its div.
from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c.
Trufood of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1924*. 42,142 26i p.c. = 32,812 9330 23,261
1925.. 17,948 12J „ „ 15,738 2210 21,051
1926.. 7,818 5 „ „ 7,500 318 20,733
1927.. 18,014 10 „ „ 15,000 3014 17,719
1928.. 26,791 12J „ „ 18,750 8041 9,678
1929.. 20,635 10 ~ ~ 15,000 5635 4,043
1930.. 16,850 8} ~ „ 13,125 3725 318
Written off, £5784 6,102
1931.. 7,650 5 p.c. =; 7,500 150 5,952
1932.. 6,976 4 „ „ 6,000 976 4,976
1933.. 8,344 44 „ „ 6,750 1594 3,382
Reserves.
1934.. 12,676 6 „ „ 9,000 3676 294
1935.. 9,950 5 „ „ 7,500 2450 2,744
*lO months.
This co., which has an enterprising
management, has been manufacturing
dried and other milk products for the
last 26 years. Of its £150,000 of paid
capital £90,000 is bonus scrip handed
out about 12 years ago, chiefly from the
proceeds of harvests gathered during the
war period. For the seven years to the
close of accounts in 1930, divs. averaged
a shade over 12 p.c. Then slump brought
price recessions and keener competition,
while exchange and the rise in the price
of tin kept the bill for tinplate (used in
manufacture of the co.’s containers) high.
Still, shareholders never failed to receive
a div., the average since 1930 being
4.9 p.c.
During the last term a good season
increased the supply of fresh milk and
reduced the demand for the powdered
article. Gross earnings (£20,039) fell
away £3449. After setting aside £l7OO
for the taxgatherer and £4572 for depre-
ciation, the net result was £2726 lighter
at 6.6 p.c. on capital as against 8.4, 5.5,
4.6, 5.1, 11.2, 13.7 and 17.8 p.c. back to
1928. The 1 p.c. bonus, paid from non-
recurring profits in the previous term,
was not repeated, leaving the div. at
5 p.c.
The co.’s trade with Eastern Asia is
developing steadily, and appears likely
to increase, the chairman says. Investi-
gations have shown that manufacture of
certain new milk products is not likely
to be satisfactory. The new sub-
sidiary, Kestner Evaporated Food Pro-
ducts, formed to turn out vegetable and
fruit powders, etc., and in which Tru-
food has £21,810 invested, has not yet
begun production, owing to difficulties
with its plant. Much depends upon the
outcome of this new venture.
The co. is well equipped to finance
further expansion of its activities:
1929. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 11,340 11,878 12,206 11,939
Freehold . . 22,918 19,068 16,928 15,964
Plant, etc. . . 41,488 40,266 33,456 30,581
Shares other
cos., etc. .. 11,500 21,810
Stocks . . 39,640 31,273 32,808 31,u02
Book debts . . 23,653 9,741 9,547 12,074
Cash, etc. . . 38,973 62,555 69,664 62,634
Including stocks (down £1756) but not
shares in the subsidiary, etc. (up £10,310),
the more or less liquid surplus (£93,821)
was £5992 lighter than at the previous
balance. As for depreciation, the reduc-
ing values of freehold, plant and motor
vehicles are written down annually by
about 5 p.c., 10 p.c. and 20 p.c. respec-
tively.
During the last term the pound shares
rose from 245. to 275. on the market, but


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, S'crap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House,
Sydney.— Advt.
$ # *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
ķ
ĸ
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for Fi_ATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGELTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD„ CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
THE KING’S SCHOOL
(PARRAMATTA)
m
V
I
mm
mm
m
Extensive modern additions made in
1934-35. New classrooms, laboratories,
dormitories, modern swimming pool.
Vacancies for 1936
APPLY THE HEADMASTER
have since fallen to 225. 6d., owing to
disappointment concerning the new sub-
sidiary. The return at 225. 6d. is 4.4 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover is 21s. 3d., of which 6s. Id. is
cash and Government securities.
Gold production of the Australian
States over the last three years compares
as follows:
1933. 1934. 1935.*
Oz. Oz. Oz.
Westralia .. .. 037,207 651,348 644,875
Queensland .. . . 87,595 112,261 105,461
Victoria . . .. . . 58,183 70,196 87,517
S. Aus. .. . . 6,361 6,870 4,841
N. S. Wales . . . . 29,252 36,123 47,706
Tasmania .. .. 6,673 5,622 7,973
Other 700 1,150 1,500
Total . . . . 825,971 887,490 899,873
* Approximate.
Although last year’s total was 12,3830 z.
better than the 1934 figure, it is not a
true reflex of the headway made in pro-
duction. In Westralia, operations were
suspended for six weeks early in the
year, owing to a dispute in connection
with working hours. At Mt. Coolon
(Q.) treatment was checked for several
months by a strike and by shortage of
water. The increase in the N. S. Wales
figures is due largely to New Occidental
coming into production. Provided out-
put is not interrupted by labor or other
troubles, a substantial increase in the
figures, especially for Westralia, can be
looked for at the end of 1936.
* * * *
On the recommendation of the N. S.
Wales Conciliation Commissioner, G. J.
Baker, the board of the Silverton Tram-
way Co. has conceded the Christmas
bonus (4d. in the £ on wages earned)
demanded by the men. Because the board
had refused to pay the bonus, following
an increase of 6s. in the regular weekly
wage, plus another 6s. a week as a “pros-
perity” bonus, the co.’s employees ceased
work on Dec. 19. Since then railway
traffic on the co.’s 35-mile track, which
links Broken Hill with the S. Aus. Gov-
ernment railway system at Cockburn, has
been at a standstill. Passengers and
goods have been transferred between
these two points by all sorts of vehicles ;
since they did not compete with a Gov-
ernment railway, the Transport Act
apparently did not apply. Still, lead
and zinc concentrates were piling up at
the Barrier —they are railed to Port Pirie
for treatment —which means that, had the
rail stoppage lasted much longer, most
of the 3500 men at the mines would have
been idle, too, and the output of con-
centrates and mining costs would have
suffered.
* $ $ $
Warramulla, the name of the desert
blacks who roam west and sou’-west of
Tanami, is also the label attached to the
eastern line of lode on the Tanami field,
Centralia. Here the formations run un-
broken through 12 leases (240 acres),
over which Central Gold, Wallace Smith’s
newest enterprise, holds options. The
Warramulla consists of a solid free-
milling quartz reef, up to 10ft. in width,
flanked on hanging wall by a lode for-
mation of felsite, altered andesite and
makes of ferruginous quartz and jasper,
the whole contained in a fissure 20ft.
wide. Walls, well defined, carry the mass
down with slight easterly underlie. Water,
for a while more sought after than gold,
is no longer a problem, except for bail-
ing. Crushings have shown regular pay-
able averages, which engineers Campbell
and Powell are now checking up. When
engineer-explorer Allan Davidson found
Tanami in August, 1900, he knocked
15oz. and 20oz. prospects off the outcrop.
At Bendigo (Vic.) the outstanding
features last year were the large amount
of development work done and an in-
crease of 25280 z. in the quantity of gold
produced, 33,0080 z., of which nearly one-
third came from the cyaniding of old
dumps. New Red, White and Blue was
the largest contributor, with 38510 z.
from 27,203 tons, drawn from a system
of spurs at the 1530 ft. level. The main
reef is being explored from the 1828 ft.
level, where the ore wears an improved
appearance. The large sand dump at the
old mill site is being cyanided. Her-
cules was second, with 33840 z. from 9790
tons. The co. expects to meet richer ore
in the 600-odd feet of new ground beyond
the advanced workings north. Bendigo
Mines, Ltd., and its five subsidiaries,
in which London and American in-
terests are well represented, have spent
a lot of money on shaft-sinking,
etc. During the current year devel-
opment of the reef zones will be entered
upon. Carshalton, one of the subsi-
diaries, has discovered a new make of
profitable ore at the 350 ft. level. At
North Blue, ore from the spurs at the
633 ft. level is expected to soon keep the
new 10-head mill working to capacity.
Here the neck reef at 1363 ft. is showing
improved prospects, and the lode at
1563 ft. is to be further explored. Little
180 is working the upper reaches of its
reef from the 593 ft. south level, and the
ore has shown some improvement.
Reefs at the deeper levels will receive
attention presently. At South New Moon
the 10-head of new stamps are expected
to fall this month; feed will be
drawn from various points between the
270 ft. and 500 ft. levels.
* * * *
Erection of a central electric-power
station on the Tavua field, Fiji, is under
consideration by the Emperor and
Loloma cos. This suggests that the pair
may have decided upon the nature and
capacity of their respective treatment
plants, though no details in this connec-
tion have yet been broadcast. In his
report on the Emperor, T. R. Victor said
the Nasu River, about half a mile from
the mine, was worth consideration as a
source of power. One alternative is the
use of crude oil for fuel.
* * * *
Shareholders in Lakekamu Goldfields
Development, which has abandoned its
options in Papua, will presently be asked
to say whether the co. should continue
the hunt or put up the shutters. The
decision will rest largely upon how much
the co. still has in the bank. Formed
early in 1935, it took options over the
Twisty areas, a dredging property on
the Lakekamu field, and then over the
Amalgamated Kuku Kuku claims in the
same district.-
* * * *
The rush to the Wampit River, New
Guinea, has fizzled out. Most of the
recoverable gold appears to be in the
Reward claim, which is still held by the
finder, W. Babington, who brought in a
30oz. piece in a parcel of 150 ounces, and
is still doing well. It cost some men over
£5O to go and have a look at the ground
without washing a dish of dirt.
* * * *
Dividends paid by Westralian gold-
mining cos. aggregated over a million
in 1935. Wiluna topped the score with
£311,781. Lake View was next with
£270,000, followed by Sons of Gwalia,
£81,250; North Kalgurli, £78,500; Gt.
Boulder, £58,333; Golden Horseshoe,
£55,000; South Kalgurli, £43,750;
Norseman, £41,343 ; Associated Mining
and Finance, £34,776; Boulder Per-
severance, £31,198. So far, the 1936
declarations are Lancefield, £50,000;
Golden Horseshoe, £27,500 ; South Kal-
gurli, £12,500.
* * * *
American Smelting Corp. has been wait-
ing for the Westralian State Government
to say whether it will build a railway
from Cue to the Big Bell mine ; it now
says it will if the option over the
property is exercised. When the option
was taken about two years ago it was
stated that diamond-drilling by the
vendor under Government supervision
had disclosed a low-grade ore-body 80ft.
wide over a length of 1000 ft., and that,
if a grade of 4dwt. or thereabouts could
be assured, the American co. was pre-
pared to spend a million or two on
development and a treatment plant with
a minimum capacity of 1500 tons a day.
Since then drilling and exploration by
the option-holder are said to have been
satisfactory.
* * * *
In some quarters prospects at Paringa
(W.A.) are reckoned to be very bright.
Hopes hang chiefly on a geological
report that the property is “one of the
most important north of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile,” and upon the manager’s
statement that another eight to ten
months’ work will probably warrant
erection of a suitable mill, capable of
dealing with between 4000 and 5000 tons
of to 6dwt. ore monthly. A
profit of £1 (Australian) per ton is spoken
of. A less optimistic section of the mar-
ket prefers to reserve its judgment until
more work has been done.
* * * *
On the recommendation of T. R.
Victor, Australian Gold Development
and other interests have taken 12 months’
option over Freeman’s Discovery, 40
miles north of Lake Darlot (W.A).
Floaters, some of them carrying highly
payable values, outcrop for 700 ft. along
the main line of lode. There are two
other lines of reef not yet explored.
What arrangements, if any, have been
made for testing the property have not
yet been announced.
* * * *
A further £62,334 has gone into Gold
Fields Australian Development’s till as
the result of a Is. 3d. call, making 3s. 9d.
paid, on 997,352 of the ss. contribs.
The new money will be used mainly in
connection with the co.’s Moonlight
Wiluna group and for the provision of
treatment plant elsewhere.
* * * #
North Kalgurli Central (W.A.) hasn’t
been very lucky, but it has hopes. The
ore-bodies so far exposed are mostly too
low-grade to be profitable, even at the
present price of gold. Still, recent boring
has indicated better values at depth.
Ninepence a share was called last year,
and enough remains to finance develop-
ment for some time.
* * * *
For the year to Sept. 30 last Golden
Horseshoe (W.A.) re-treated 367,620
short tons of dump material for an aver-
age return of 4s. sd. (stg.) per ton. Costs
were 2s. 3d., leaving a working profit of
2s. 2d. Only another 270,000-odd tons
remained to be treated. The manage-
ment is now negotiating with Great
Boulder Prop, with a view to re-treating
about 2,000,000 tons of that co.’s dumps.
* * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.), groping in shallow
workings, is putting low-average-value
stuff over the plates. The management
mentions a new development at the 50ft.
level, but the co.’s prospects at depth
are doubtful.
* * * *
Lomah Rhodesia’s Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
venture is the old Hannan’s Reward and
Mt. Charlotte properties, now known as
Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated, which a
Melbourne crowd sampled and decided
not to purchase some time ago. Lomah’s
chairman is C. S. Beale, who is also
chairman of the Paringa.
* * * *
Timoni, which has property at Mt.
Ida (W.A.), is seeking financial assistance
from the State Government. Refractory
ore is the trouble; an expensive plant
was put up a little prematurely.
* * * *
Rich returns from small parcels from
new finds at old spots in W.A. continue
to be obtained as far north as Pilbara
and as far south as Dundas. The latest
are 7400 z. from 29 tons, Bamboo Creek ;
540 z. from 3| tons, Broad Arrow ; 1230 z.
from 2001 b., Laverton.
* * * *
It was a dismal tale that was unfolded
at the third annual meeting of North
Kalgurli Central in Melbourne recently.
The co. has large bodies of ore just too
low-grade to be payable; still, diamond-
drilling to the west has raised hopes, and
these have been further encouraged by
developments on the 500 ft. level, though
values are irregular.
* * * *
Edjudina (W.A.), which has just com-
pleted its new battery, spent £6120 on
development for 10 months to June 30
last; flotation exes, amounted to £16,120.
The mine is valued in the books at
£30,800; plant, £13,121; liquids total
£3495.
* * * *
Concord G.M. Syndicate has aban-
doned its option over the Fortuna lease
at Parkers’ Range, south of Southern
Cross (W.A.); this is one of the oldest-
worked auriferous areas in the State.
The co. is still developing its lease at
Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
Claude de Bernales has induced the
Westralian Mining Association, which
supported him in the gold-bonus cam-
paign, to canvas the State with a
view to increasing membership by tens
of thousands. The idea is to make the
enlarged organisation a powerful mouth-
piece of public opinion on mining
matters in the West.
* * * #
Associated Mining and Finance, a
London-controlled concern which is
interested in Lake View and Wiluna, and
which also holds blocks of shares in
S. African and Canadian goldmining
cos., netted £54,839 for year ended June
30 last. A lOd. div. took £34,775, and
£17,672 was carried forward. On the
market the co.’s investments were worth
£129,031 more than their book value
(£376,713).
Lake Austin-Eureka (W.A.) share-
holders have decided to get an opinion
on the mine from mining-engineer
Bowry. Some of the directors have re-
signed, and the others have asked two
local men to join the board.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Notaden”: For the first time in a
long bush experience I have seen Billy
Bluegum waddle down to a creek and,
after coyly dipping his Hebraic nose
once or twice, take a good snifter of
the beverage to which Adam was limited.
Several pet bears, known for years, never
drank —though one of them did have a
fancy for the wet tea-leaves from the
domestic pot. Probably the water content
of the leaves which constitute their main
diet is sufficient for their bodily needs
under ordinary conditions. Mr. Bluegum’s
drinking outbreak occurred after a long
dry spell and a fire which had destroyed
some of his favorite grazing trees. Even
bushfolk do not often realise that any
kind of gumleaf will not do Billy—he
sticks to a very small range of species,
and unless he can get these he will not
live long. Want of proper food is the
real reason why pet bears seldom thrive.
But, alas! Billy is doomed as a free race
—tree-destruction and a tapeworm.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: That Austral Downs
bull buffalo (B. 18 /12/’35) was a long
way from being the vanguard of the
wanderers. An old bull lived for years
in the country between Camooweal and
Burketown; how he managed to get
through the fence into Queensland re-
mains a mystery.
H*
“Bray Rock”: An interesting fact is
stated in the Queensland Fisheries De-
partment report with reference to the
breeding habits of the sea-mullet.
Mullet caught in the southern portion
of Moreton Bay were tagged with num-
bered steel labels and liberated. In May,
1935, one of these was taken near .South-
port, not far from its original place of
capture. It was then a typical full-grown
specimen, 23in. long, and in full roe.
Three other tagged fish had previously
been captured, but none was mature.
All were netted not far from where they
were first marked. Although the figures
are too small to have definite significance,
they suggest that the periodical spawning
visits of sea-mullet to south Queensland
estuaries are part of a migration between
sea and rivers, rather than a coastwise
migration northward, as is generally
supposed.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: I found a curled dead
gumleaf hanging by a thread from a
scrub at Mittagong (N.S.W.). Taking
the leaf home, I placed it on the table
in the kitchen and forgot about it. Two
hours later it was hanging in the open
doorway. Of course, it was the same
leaf; but scoffers wouldn’t believe me,
so I pulled it down, marked it with a
dab of pipeclay and placed it on the
table again. Nothing happened for a
time, but when no one was looking the
leaf got up and hung itself from the
same place in the doorway. There it
stayed until late at night, and then moved
to the crosspiece between the dining-
room and the kitchen. All hands
watched, but it remained suspended and
still. We poked it and teased it and
coaxed it, yet it wouldn’t shift until we
went away. Then it found a new possie,
and when we turned in it was hang-
ing from the mantelpiece over the fire-
place. In the morning it had another
address, this time the open back door-
way. The distance travelled was about
ten yards, not counting the climb from
the table. The propelling power was a
small blackish spider many times lighter
than the weight of the leaf. How
does the leaf become curled, and how
does the spider drag it about and climb
with it? The spider didn’t come out, but
seemed to remain packed with web in
the centre of the cylinder.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: At Loch (South Gipps-
land, Vic.) Nature does everything on the
grand scale. There the blue-gum and
mountain-ash grow to 300 ft. in height
and the best part of a chain around ;
and the usual length for worms is 6ft.
They are just the
ordinary earthworms
grown under suit-
able conditions, but,
being giants of the
family, they like to
distinguish them-
selves. Burrowing
into the earth, they
make a hole large
enough for a navvy
to insert his finger
comfortably; and
all the time they are
at work they grunt
like little pigs. This
noise is said to be
caused by the ex-
pulsion of digested
“All right, you beast — l'll have a piece of you for this!”
earth. One of these worms would be a
good-sized meal for an emu. Smaller
birds break them into lengths, and on
gala days make a banquet for the whole
family.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The remark-
ably thorough work which used to be put
into Cobb and Co.’s coaches has recently
been demonstrated in one of the genuine
old-timers, brought up from Windorah
to Winton for conversion into a drover’s
waggonette. It was the last to run on
the Surat-St. George mail route, last of
Cobb and Co.’s Queensland contracts.
In spite of nearly a quarter-century of
exposure to sun and wind and weather,
the wood- and ironwork is still in good
condition. Even the leather thorough-
braces, invariably used by the firm in
place of metal springs, are still so sound
that they will be refitted to the waggon-
ette body. They are at least 25 years
old, and have had no dressing or treat-
ment of any kind since the coach ceased
running.
* * * *
“Dian”: Starting by gouging holes in
a green stump, filling these with soil and
planting seeds of different species, the
natives of interior New Guinea have
raised immense trees that bear from the
one stem a multitude of dissimilar
branches, which in turn produce a varied
assortment of highly-colored flowers.
After the seedlings are raised, long slits
are cut in the bark of the stump, into
which the roots are forced, and the bark
fuses over them. From the time the
young saplings are a few feet high and
until they reach a height of about 10ft.
their bark is scored, and they are bound
together with strips of green bark. This
causes the saplings to grow together,
and when they become trees they have
the appearance of being one trunk.
* * * *
“Marsh”: About those foxes and rab-
bits in n.-w. Queensland (B. 18/12/ ’35).
Like “Bogan Boy,” I’ve seen Reynard
away north beyond Boulia, once attempt-
ing to gallop one down on the Leich-
hardt, out Dobbin way. The fox won.
Rabbits have for many years been estab-
lished near Cloncurry, and last time I
passed through Devoncourt station I
saw enough to make one think of what
the bunny population might increase to
should a run of good seasons eventuate.
Anyway, why is it that rabbits haven’t
acquainted themselves with the good fod-
der invariably available about the inner
central-west? Government netting fences
don’t exist as barriers.
ijs ;|i }Jc
“Ned Kelly” : There are reasons other
than those given by “Speewaa” (B.
11/12/’35) for cabbage-tree hats going
out of fashion. Each year the cabbage-
tree palm produces, in the centre of the
top, a group of “hands.” These, as new
ones come to take their place, work to
the outer edge, die, and fall to the
ground, leaving a ridge around the
trunk of the palm where the base of the
“hands” was attached. Upwards of 150
ridges may be counted on any moderately
tall cabbage-tree—one for each year of
its growth. Only the tender white cen-
tral “hands” from the taller trees were
used for hat-making. The trees were
felled, one providing material for only
a couple of hats. About 50 yards of
straw was used in the making, this being
hand-plaited after the bleaching and
stripping process. A four- or six-straw
plait was used, and £1 was easily obtained
for the finished article. The best hats I
ever saw were made by the wife of the
pilot at Swansea (N.S.W.) Heads. Her
daughters wore them as late as eighteen
years ago ; but she could produce a hat
as light and pliant as a leghorn.
* * * *
“C.W.D.”: “M.P.’s” par. (B.
27/11 /’35) re the crow’s nest on a
strainer-post can be easily beaten. In
1920, near Caramut, Western Victoria, I
found a nest with four eggs built on the
ground in the branches of a fallen
honeysuckle tree. In this part crows and
magpies build their cribs of wire, from
No. 8 to tie-wire, on windmills, tanks,
telephone- and fence-posts, and even on
the ground. We found a big dog-
fox asleep in one nest about 30ft. from
the ground. The tree was the only one
standing in about 1000 acres.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Comparatively few north-
erners appreciate the full range of use-
fulness of the pawpaw. Besides being an
excellently flavored fruit, when ripe, it
makes an equally delectable vegetable
when green. Papain, a medically-valu-
able drug, used in certain types of in-
digestion, is obtained from it. So is a
well-known ointment. The heart of the
tree affords a good flavoring for cakes,
when dried lightly and grated up. The
thick, milky juice is a first-rate bush
remedy for some skin eruptions, and has
a reputation for removing warts. It is
also rumored to play a part in the im-
provement of the complexion of the
northern female of the species when sup-
plies of face-cream run out. The outer
bark, dried, is used in rope manufacture,
giving great strength when mixed with
other fibres. The green leaves, wrapped
round a tough steak, will soften it to ten-
derness. It is even claimed that an ob-
durate tropic maid is best wooed under
a pawpaw tree —but that’s about enough
for the present.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”: Tell “Runa” (B. 11/12/’35)
that there are several reasons why bees
don’t molest children ; one is that the
young ’uns are mostly clad in light-
colored or cotton garments. An experi-
enced apiarist never robs in flannel clothes.
Another reason is that children seldom
suffer from b. 0., which is a thing that
bees abhor. My youngsters move with
impunity among my bees ; but the best-
behaved buzzers may be expected to
attack when an inquiring kid places his
eye to their front door.
* * * *
“Plankton”: “Pisces” (B. 4/12/’35) is
sceptical about certain marine delicacies
I recommended, and ironically suggests
that I sample ink-fish. Well, I have
eaten squid—and cuttlefish—in addition
to various species of octopus. As to ink-
sacs, all cephalopods have them (except
nautilus), and their elimination is a
simple matter. Any of the foregoing
are No. 1 kai-kai, particularly small ones
braised with onions and tomatoes and
served with rice. Large octopuses myst
be made tender by beating gently against
a smooth stone, meantime repeatedly
sluicing with water. Octopuses are regu-
larly sold in the fishshops of Japan, and
they are much appreciated in all Euro-
pean countries bordering the Mediter-
ranean. Small octopuses preserved in
olive oil (imported from Spain) are a
delicacy actually on sale in Australian
shops.
“Groper”: If “Pisces’s” ink-fish is
anything like the animal of that
name found occasionally on Westralian
beaches, I -wouldn’t care to eat it
even if it were boiled for 10 hours. Our
ink-fish resembles nothing quite so much
as a derelict and slightly decayed bul-
lock’s liver that might have been tossed
overboard from one of the nor’-west
cattle-boats. It is precisely of that com-
plexion, and while possessing a head and
tail of sorts, found only with difficulty,
its most conspicuous feature is a large
sac filled with sepia, which in other
times and other climes might have served
as the foundation of a dye industry. As
it is I doubt if Kelly the crow or even a
starving abo. would tackle a W.A. ink-
fish.
* * * *
“Ophir”: How’s this for a snake
record (Murray River flats are barred
from this competition)? At Aus-
tral Downs (N.T.) the T 5 floods left a
line of debris a mile long in front of the
homestead on the bank of the Georgina.
Dan Weir, the gardener, reckoned that
was just the stuff he wanted for his
vegetables. He gathered it. In put-
ting that stuff in heaps old Dan’s nerves
got a devil of a twitch, and a nip
every night had to be applied to steady
’em. Snakes! Casualties were over 200
in a shade over a fortnight, all within
200 yards of the house, and of so many
varieties and mixtures of breeds that a
man couldn’t place them all.
* * * *
“Lizard Passage”: Reference to the
use of box-tree gum as a dysentery speci-
fic (B. 25/12/’35) reminds me that for
many years the gum from the red-gum
tree has been recognised as a useful
dysentery palliative, and has had a place
in the British Pharmacopoeia. When I
first departed for British New Guinea
from Cooktown I consulted Dr. Koch,
famous for his fever cure and an aviary
in which goura pigeons and birds of
paradise mingled as for useful additions
to the medicine-chest. He gave me pow-
dered red-gum and a large bottle of
his fever cure. This, from the taste
of it, was based on quinine, with several
other unpleasant ingredients to give it
the bite we all expected in the medicines
of those days. I found both work well,
the fever mixture especially—and this, I
think, because the quinine was in solu-
tion. The powder or the cast-iron tab-
loids of those days didn’t get in their
work so quickly—some tabloids failed
to dissolve during the whole digestive
process.
THE HORRORS OF HABIT.
I must have looked amazed to see my room-
mate at the pub, old Mick,
Belaboring his single bed with vigor and a
hefty stick,
For, glancing up, he caught my eye fixed on
(i him, whereupon he laughed;
“1 s’pose,” he said, “y’re thinkin’ that a
blasted man is going daft.
“It’s just a habit with me since the time I
found, some years ago,
A six-foot wriggler in me bunk which sank
5 its fangs into me toe;
An’ so I take no risks of gettin’ caught again
by any stray,
And let me tell yer that I’ve stonkered quite a
lot no other way.
“I must admit there ain’t the chance of strikin’
one while at the pub
As much as when I’ve pitched me camp right
in the middle of the scrub;
But habit’s strong—at times too strong. On
one occasion I was stiff;
In fact, ’twas just that habit caused this conk
of mine to go skew-whiff.
“I’d lobbed here with a decent cheque, as
usual handin’ it to Bung,
An’ long before the day was out they had me
well an’ truly ‘sprung.’
I staggered up the stairs that night an’, gropin’
round there in the gloom,
Fair moler, cripes, I lost me way—got into
someone else’s room. /
“I’m seein’ snakes, and, as me hand closed
on a waddy by the door,
I lathered into that there bed —then felt a
punch an’ heard a roar . . .
It took five blokes to drag him off, an’ then
they picked the pieces up;
He was a champion heavyweight who’d come
from Sydnee for the Cup.”
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


“A.N.M.”: The best picker-up I ever
saw was Barefooted Joe. Any shearing
contractor would find a job for him ; he
always managed to keep the board clean
and the wool away from any six of the
fastest “guns.” One day strict unionists
among the shedhands spread tacks along
Joe’s track to the table, but they didn’t
stop his gallop. “You mugs!” snorted
Joe, picking out a tack embedded in the
sole of his foot; “y’ could put red-hot
coals on the board if y’ liked. Me old
man was one of them Fijian fire-walkers.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Death adders vary greatly
in color. I’ve seen them of a light-brown
tone in some parts of the South Coast
(N.S.W.), while in others they have been
quite grey. Still others have been grey
with brownish bars. In every instance
the tint harmonised with their surround-
ings.
* * H= *
“Hellas”: I have seen that lavender-
blue hibiscus (B. 4/12/’35) growing in
profusion on the sand plain near Mul-
lewa (W.A.). One day I discovered a
large paddock of these tall trees all in
full bloom. A slight incline formed a
really artistic background. It was a
never-to-be-forgotten sight, and I found
it difficult to believe I was actually in
the heart of the Australian bush.
* * * *
“Icona”: Sense of direction (B.
27/11 / ’35)? As a youngster I could
wander round in the bush, constantly
altering my course, but never failed to
make a beeline for home. Such is not
the case now. Is it due to one’s sub-
conscious mind being overruled by the
active mind, which, perhaps being less
observant, nullifies the homing instinct?
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Again has a man been
shot dead by a dog. This latest victim
was found in a sulky, 70 miles from Tara
(Q.), which contained also a discharged
rifle and a dog. The evident facts were
that he had pulled up to get a drink
from the waterbag, and had leaned the
loaded weapon against the seat. The dog
had in some way made contact with the
hammer or trigger, shooting his owner
through the heart. A few years ago there
was another fatal shooting through a dog
knocking down a shotgun which was
leaning against a tree. A third case was
that of a man shot dead in his camp by
his dog pulling the trigger of a loaded
and cocked rifle which it was the vic-
tim’s dangerous custom to leave leaning
against the tent-pole for fear of intruders.
But of all shootings by animals, per-
haps the strangest was that of last year,
when a Maori boatsteerer was shot by a
whale. The whale rose under the boat,
and in the ensuing flurry the Maori got
the contents of the harpoon-gun.
* * * *
“Main Beach”: What is literally a
queer fish was captured by some Queens-
land net fishermen near Southport. This
was a 16ft. sawfish, 6ft. of him
saw, which came ashore with
a netful of mullet, and inci-
dentally played old Harry with
the net. The sawfish, armed
as he is with a fearful toothed
saw, is one of the mildest and
least belligerent of the car-
tilaginous fishes. He has a prac-
tically toothless tiny mouth,
and uses the saw, which ought
to be spiking whales and
sharks, for mincing up his
food. He gets into a shoal of
fish and makes play with side-
wise sweeps of his saw ; then
he goes round picking up the
bits and mumbling them in his
gummy mouth. If ever there
was an elderly curate got up as a Chicago
gangster, the sawfish fills the bill.
* if * *
“Horse-tailer”: Touching on emus eat-
ing Victorian wheat (B. 4/12/’35), most
of the fowls are N.S.W.-bred. On Tam-
mit station (Lower Murray, N.S.W.) for
years I noticed that nearing the hot
season the emus used to come in from
the north on to the frontage country and
join forces in a mob of about 40. Every
billabong on the 45 miles of the station’s
river frontage was the week-end home
of a mob. But we were always glad to
see them swimming across the Murray
with only their necks sticking up above
the water like periscopes. They were
bound for the Vic. wheat crops, whence,
at intervals, they came back home to
rest and break our fences.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: Dunedin (M.L’.) now
boasts a friendly sea-lion, who strolled
in from the Ant-
arctic and parked
himself against the
verandah-post of a
pub as in the man-
ner born. As the
humans proved
friendly, too, the
lion decided to put
in a few weeks
there ; he enjoyed
himself thoroughly
on the beach, giv-
ing the kiddies
rides, receiving
peanuts and hav-
ing his coat
groomed as pay-
ment. On a few
occasions he has
endeavored to have
a ride on the
trams, but a cal-
lous conductor has
always shooed him
off. He is a free-
and - easy sort of
sea-lion, and once
he was found fast
asleep on the
drawing - room
couch of one of
society’s leaders.
Holidaying ashore
during daylight, he
"No, thanks—the wife has already told me that .”
returns to his native element at sundown
and makes several hearty meals of other
denizens of the deep.
* * * ,*
“Diba Tau”: Brown Brother in Papua
has developed a great liking for clocks ;
as time is no object to him, even if he
could read the hands, the urge to steal
them from taubada calls for explanation.
He wants the innards, his objective being
springs. These he attaches to small bits
of bamboo, sticks a bird-of-paradise
plume on the end, and then plants the
contraptions in his mop of hair. There
the feathers, by the action of the
springs, wave ever so bravely in the
breeze at the dance.
* * * *
“Nifty”: In suggesting that flies had
blown the rotten wood of a hollow tree
which smelt badly and was emitting
clouds of buzzers, “R.W.” (B. 25/12 / ’35)
has got things mixed. Ten to one that
tree contained a defunct possum or some
other beastie sufficiently matured to
satisfy the palate even of an English
game epicure.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: Though the giant toads im-
ported by the Queensland Government
may be no menace to the sheep-owner
(B. 18/12/’35), the beekeepers won’t
welcome them. Even the toad’s best
friends admit that the only insect that
takes his fancy in the daytime is the
honey-bee. He’ll wait at the entrance
of a hive and snap the bees up as they
come out. This fact rather discounts
the argument put forward that the toad
works only at night,' when the noxious
pests are abroad, and therefore all
“Where d y like the chesterfield, lady ?”
friendly and beneficial insects are safe.
If the honey-bee heads the exception
list there seems no certainty that the toad
may not add to it several other dainty
morsels among the good daylight insects
in the canefields. And it is said he
multiplies enormously.
“Golden Mile”: What about queer
escapes for a change? Back in the days
when the Chaffers mine (W.A.) was a
rather one-horse show, a night-shift
worker walked into the shaft, the pro-
tective bar having been left up. Death
beckoned, but the sleep-walker escaped
even minor injury owing to a descending
cage having just passed the level. He
fell a lot quicker than the cage, but,
both travelling in the same direction, it
slowed him up almost gently. Again,
reopening a desperate wild-cat which
had been earning a crust by bailing salt
water and selling it to the real gold pro-
ducers, we were sinking to 1000 feet,
using kibbles and the ancient wire ropes.
To empty the kibbles a sloping door was
dropped across the shaft at the top
brace, the ring at the bottom of the
kibble being at the same time hooked to
a short chain and the engine-driver let-
ting out slack. This automatically
turned the kibble upside down, its whole
weight for the time resting on the door.
One afternoon shift whilst so resting, the
slack rope suddenly broke. There were
two men at the bottom of that shaft,
and they had just sent that kibble full
of dirt up from the 900 feet. They
climbed the ladders sooner than trust to
the other kibble hanging on the other
rope. »
* * * *
“Gnoolooma”: Talk of the old border
Customs between N. S. Wales and
Queensland (B. 25/12/’35) reminds me of
a war some friends and myself had with
them which ended in our triumph. The
sister of one of us had won a £25 Ladies’
Bracelet at St. George grassfed races. It
was known that the order for the prize
had been placed in Sydney, and the
Queensland men from Mungindi to Angle-
dool were determined to nab it coming
through. They never did, though the
whole countryside knew that the
smugglers had sworn it would come in
by that route and no other. When the
bracelet came to Yerambah, on the
N.S.W. side, a jackeroo rode to Noon-
doo on the other. He was fresh from
England in a day when every knut wore
a thin gold bracelet, and he was no
exception. The watched-for bracelet was
just a thin wire circle, but on one side
a turquoise set with diamonds could be
screwed in. The smuggler wore the
bracelet itself, which was the dead spit
of the one which brought daily ridicule
on him wherever he went. Planted in a
shotgun cartridge in one barrel of the
12-bore he carried on the chance of bag-
ging a turkey was the jewel, and, though
the blokes who were waiting for him at
the border rabbit-gate pretty well
pulled the youth to pieces, they found
nothing.
“Mclntyre”: Those Customs officers
of the old colonial days didn’t always
miss their prey. One very aggres-
sive drinker made a habit of getting
full of beer on one side or other
of the border and then crossing the
bridge and defying the Law’s minions to
make him pay duty. One night when on
a solo performance he failed. He was
found in the morning on the Queensland
side with a duty stamp pasted on his
waistcoat which showed he had paid duty
on 25 gallons of beer. His loose cash
was missing, but he could never give an,
explanation of the happening.
* * * *
“Rats”: Queensland has become so
obsessed with its Transport Act that it
has even forbidden motorists to give free
rides to footsore rabbits. At least, a
recent ukase orders all border Customs
officials to inspect every car, lorry and
motor-cycle coming under notice for live
rabbits. It is suspected in many quar-
ters that the number of rabbits jumping
the rattler in consequence of this action
has increased out of hand, and thus
brought the Government directly into the
picture.
* * * *
“H.E.J.”: Fish will drown all right
(B. 6/11/’35). In dry weather in western
Queensland we used to get good hauls
of bream and yellow-belly by puddling
up the drying waterholes. As the water
became muddy the fish would rise to the
surface to breathe ; a skilful blow with
a waddy would leave them floating on
the water. Any fish that are missed
smother in a few hours. The only dis-
advantages in this type of angling are
bruises inflicted by wild hitters and the
slightly muddy flavor of the cooked
article.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Few people would
give the domestic goose any credit for
being able to put up a really good
pedestrian performance, but on occasion
it certainly can. I was reminded of this
recently by meeting a neighbor’s gander
steadily plodding across country, a good
five miles from his home. Whether he
feared the approach of Christmas or was
merely on a hiking trip for amusement
I could not learn, but inquiry made when
I returned him after an undesired lift by
car showed that he must have done the
distance in under two hours. Two thou-
sand years ago geese were making trips
over the Alps on foot from France to
Rome, where they were a favorite dish.
In Bavaria I’ve seen big flocks marching
along the roads on the way to market.
The owners shoe them by making them
walk through tar and then through sand.
In this asphalt footwear they can tackle
the roughest country without getting
footsore. Intelligent birds, too —in Java
they fill the place of watchdogs.
* * * *
“Jae”: In the Adelaide hills I noticed
boys putting a bull-ant into the abode
of a trapdoor spider. In a few moments
the door lifted and the intruder came
out on his neck ; as he staggered away
I fancied I heard the landlord remark:
“Get out! Don’t you know it’s after
six?” Rather reluctantly the ant went
down again, having a speedier exit, well
sozzled. A fresh ant was then press-
ganged, and evidently a great scrap took
place below, for a twig placed over the
closed door proved that neither ant nor
spider emerged again.
* * * *
“0.P.”: We had arrived at the camp-
ing ground late, and after hurriedly pitch-
ing our tent we turned in. We were just
dropping off to sleep when a whisper
roused us. “Keep still, boys! There’s a
snake crawling over my neck.” With
one accord we left the tent by the near-
est getaway, carrying tent-ropes and pegs
with us, and bringing the canvas down
upon the ribald laughter of the party's
practical joker.
* * * *
“Ned”: “Pinjarra’s” par. (B. 11/12/’35)
on the increase of watsonias when grow-
ing wild reminds me of an occurrence
in the Maitland (N.S.W.) district. Jon-
quil bulbs grew wild so profusely in a
paddock that one man was seized with
the bright idea of converting them into
pickled onions. He did a prosperous
door-to-door trade with them, taking
care, of course, never to visit the same
house twice.
THE LONE RIDER.
He rides aloft, and scornful sees
The small birds hurrying to the trees,
Exchanging many a startled squawk —
“Whit! whit! . . . Beware! ... The
hawk! the hawk!
The foe that nothing will appease.”
He is not of the breed of these:
He towers above the prey that flees;
Dingo and cat may creep and stalk,
He rides aloft.
Setting his pinions to the breeze
(Cut jet upon the sky’s white frieze),
While humbler mortals doomed to walk
Look upward, pausing in their talk
To watch him pass, with royal ease
He rides aloft.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


i.
M
A PINNY
/IN' IIOUR;
| “The whole cost of fuel—freight
| and cartage included—is just Id.
| an hour.”
| (Extract from “R-an-D" Diesel
| Engine user’s letter.)
| All details from any of the following:
| ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
| PERTH: Agents wanted.
| AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD.
.-■VALLEY vy.-v • BRISBANE ■ ■
ASSURE
ķ
ouim. yuuh aum oumfiGMu
The P. & C. is owned by the primary producer and
operated co-operatively for his benefit. It is YOUR
company and offers you the advantage of co-operative
assurance specially designed to meet your needs.
Through it you obtain more liberal treatment and
maximum benefits from your policy.
Credentials? The P. & C. is linked with the foremost
co-operative bodies of the primary producer in each
State, who give it their enthusiastic approval and
support.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
Co-operative Assurance Co. Ltd.
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: Chairman of Directors:
H. FELL. HON. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
£1,250,000
1,250,000
£1,250,000
1,000,000
Capital Paid Up ..
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Diagnosing Entero-toxaemia.
“Lion”: On all rich properties and
those being continually top-dressed e.-t.
is likely to make an appearance.
First, note that affected sheep die,
usually, with two legs at least sticking
up in the air, the belly being distended
as if death had been caused by bloat.
This characteristic has led many astray.
A p.-m. examination should be made.
Affected sheep also decompose very
quickly, and have an offensive smell, the
skin around belly and back legs often
being purple-red in color.
Open the carcass carefully to avoid
anything bursting. Great pressure is
often present, particularly in hot weather.
The small intestines will be found full
of air and practically empty of all but
a little liquid material. The kidneys will
be pulpy, and after a few hours often
like a melting jelly. This is a certain
sign of e.-t. The liver should then be
cut open in several places. If e.-t. is
present it will be congested with blood,
and blood will ooze out where cut. The
heart should be inspected with care. In
e.-t. the sac is full of a straw-colored
liquid—another almost certain sign.
In all cases the contents of the abdo-
men will be greatly inflamed, even to
the most inexperienced eye.
Therefore, if inflammation, coupled
with pulpy kidneys and empty, inflated
intestines, is present, act immediately
for e.-t. Best get the stock inspector out,
in the meantime removing sheep to the
barest paddock or starving them in a
sheepyard, before feeding roughage such
as lucerne hay in quantities.
If only an odd sheep has died and
there is any doubt, half-fill a three-ounce
bottle With the juice from the small
intestines, which lead out of the fourth
stomach, cork tightly, and send to the
nearest Government veterinary research
station.
Smears may also be taken and for-
warded. Keep clean glass slides, dipping
the short edge of one in the intestinal
juice, and drawing it across the flat sur-
face of the other one. Allow the smear
to dry in the sun for a few minutes.
Wrap in thin paper, mark and pack
carefully.
Smears will usually tell a competent
examiner whether death was due to e.-t.,
although it must be remembered that the
Bacillus ovitoxicus is a normal inhabitant
of sheep’s intestines. The certain test
for e.-t. is inoculating another sheep with
the filtered bowel contents of the sup-
posed affected sheep.
Black Sheep for St. John’s.
“K.Mc.”: Following the report by
S.A.’s Butler and Spafford that black-
headed Persian ewes crossed with Suf-
folk rams produce all-black progeny, the
Cudgegong Council (Mudgee) has asked
the N.S.W. Agricultural Department to
import a number of ewes with the idea
of breeding dark-pigmented animals to
combat the menace of St. John’s wort.
White-skinned sheep are affected by the
toxic qualities of the plant; these, com-
bined with the action of sunrays, cause
the destruction of non-pigmented skin
tissues. A local grazier experimented
with 14 black sheep, and found that they
thrive on St. John’s, but the difficulty
of getting a sufficient supply of these
throwbacks is too great.
The B.P. are hardy mountain animals,
and should thrive on the rough hills
where St. John’s mostly grows.
Rotation on the Downs.
“J. Want”: In 30 years’ experience of
Queensland farmers I have often wished
that there were as many good producers
of cropping systems as there are eager
harvesters of difficulties.
The Darling Downs presents some of
the toughest problems in the State, owing
to its seasonal nature, but it seems to me
that a lot of these would vanish if some-
body would devise a “regularity” scheme
which would ensure against bad times,
and persuade all farmers to practise it.
In the ultimate shakedown it will be
surprising if D.D. country is not regarded
as basically stock-raising country—
sheep, on the one hand ; on the other,
dairy stock, pigs and poultry. Nobody
in a big way need sneer at the “poultry” ;
if they had some of the D.D. country in
the Argentine it would be carrying mil-
lions of export turkeys.
The aim, then, is .regular year-in-year-
out production of a maximum amount
of farm feed for each class of stock.
Well, let’s try this:
First year: March-sown wheat, har-
vested in October or November. Put in
maize in November.
Second year: Harvest maize green in
February, or for grain in March. Fallow
in winter, and sow cowpeas, soya beans
or some similar crop in late spring.
Third year: Plough in the peas in
February or March as fertiliser, or feed
off, according to needs. Sow wheat
March or April.
Each farm besides should have its
quota of lucerne.
Repeat the programme. There is room
for some substitution to lend variety—
oats and barley, *to be used as a winter
crop, instead of wheat; sorghum or
millet in some years in place of maize.
But the general objective should never
be varied—wheat alternately with maize,
with usually a catch crop to renew the
soil every third year, though some soils
in some seasons will be better for a
summer fallow to preserve moisture for
the following season’s wheat crop.
It seems to me that under this system
it should be possible, with farms properly
divided, to keep stock as the backbone
of a regular income and an insurance
against bad wheat seasons, through
storage of home-grown fodder.
Control of Stock Standards.
“Ghanam”: The report of the British
Livestock Improvement Scheme shows
how far ahead of Australia is “effete”
Britain. Sixteen years ago a Better
Bulls Association was formed in N. S.
Wales under the presidency of Anthony
Hordern, but it received little support
from breeders, who have always shown
a strong distaste for compulsions in re-
gard to the standard of their stock.
Thanks to Walter Elliott, there is now
no squeamishness in Britain in dealing
with the undesirable sire. Since October,
1933, every bull calved must be regis-
tered. If it is rejected for licensing it
must not be kept unless permission is
given to fatten and slaughter within a
prescribed period. There is an appeal to
a referee.
Bull standards on the average are
much higher in Britain than in Aus-
tralia, and the problems of applying the
Act are, therefore, far easier there than
they would be in Australia. Only 9.5 p.c.
of 22,600 bulls was rejected last year,
but this, under British conditions, sug-
gests rigid insistence on fairly high
quality.
In Australia, if the same degree of ex-
cellence were insisted on, rejections in
some districts would be much nearer
90 p.c. Any improvement scheme would
have to be gradual and backed by a sub-
sidiary plan for providing better sires.
Most European cattle districts —even
the poor mountain valleys of the Tyrol
—have co-operative bull schemes, and in
dairying, at any rate, there is no reason
why the same idea should not be worked
in the Commonwealth. It should be easy
enough to finance.
A levy of one thirty-second of a penny
per pound on all butter and cheese would
yield about £60,000 p.a. And this would
be sufficient to purchase 2400 sires at
£25 each. If this number were distri-
buted for four years among districts
which needed them it would mean that
in that period one first-class herd bull
to every 325 head of dairy cows had
been added to those already operating,
and the cumulative effect would be such
that even in that short period there would
be a decent bull in every herd.
A certain amount could be recouped to
the fund from service fees. And the great
bulk of those levied on should get their
money back and more after the first year
or two in increased output. Even in the
record season, milk output in Australia
reached only 392 gallons per cow, and
not only should this be doubled but the
butter-fat content should be considerably
improved.
The greatest difficulty in operating an
improvement scheme would be to find
the stock rather than the money. But if
the herd-book societies knew that such
an idea was afloat the extra bulls could
be made available on a couple of years’
notice without difficulty.
Dealing with beef cattle is a different
and more expensive problem, and calls
for a more gradual process, since main-
tenance of beef standard and type will
for many years call for large importa-
tions.
Pigs in S.A.
“Pappamosca”: No State has reason
to take the export pig market more
seriously than S.A., where dwindling ex-
port leaves a large annual surplus of
barley and general conditions are favor-
able.
The Minister for Agriculture recently
complained about the lack of interest in
pig competitions, but that is only to be
expected in a community which has not
yet appointed an official expert and in-
structor to organise the industry. The
winners of the maize prizes which are
presented by G. A. Cooper, a whole-
sale butcher of Portsmouth, England,
who is enthusiastic about the chances
for Australian pork in the British market,
were the Inspectbr-General of Hospitals,
Roseworthy College and G. A. Dawkins.
Ascarid Worms in Pigs.
“G.H.M.”: The “Maclean County
System” was inaugurated in U.S.A. The
principle of the system consists in rearing
litters free from all possible sources of
infestation. The breeding sow is treated
for worms when mated. She is again
treated after eight weeks, i.e., half-way
through her gestation period.
A day or two before she farrows she
is brought into the passageway adjoin-
ing her farrowing pen and very thor-
oughly washed—first, in a mild antisep-
tic such as lysol solution, then with fresh
water, and rubbed down until she is dry.
She is then placed in the farrowing pen,
which must have impervious floors, and
which has been thoroughly scrubbed out
since last occupied. The cleansing of the
pen should first be done with a strong
antiseptic, then flushed with fresh water,
then either with boiling water or dried
out with a blowlamp.
The sow should be mucked out care-
fully each day from the time she is
placed in the pen until she and her litter
are removed.
Three weeks after farrowing the sow
is removed in a clean crate on a cart,
with her litter, into a paddock specially
prepared for her. The paddock should
not have been occupied by pigs for at
least six months previously. Prior to
her removal, the paddock may have been
harrowed, ploughed or cropped. A light
portable shelter should be provided in
the paddock.
The young pigs remain in this paddock
until they are about four months old,
and may then be removed to a con-
venient quarter, where ordinary cleanli-
ness is observed.
For success the smallest detail must
be observed. On paper it sounds com-
plicated, but in actual practice it makes
less work than attending to such pigs,
and it is much cheaper than producing
semi-invalids.
Severe Laminitis.
“Horsey”: Laminitis usually attacks
the front feet of horses only, but, of
course, it can attack all four, especially
after severe cases of wheat-poisoning.
Extraction of from four to six quarts
of blood from the jugular vein by a
qualified vet. is useful. The amount
depends on the condition of the affected
horse. Don’t bleed from the legs, as it
often upsets the circulation to the hoof.
The horse should be made to lie down
as much as possible, to ease the pressure
on his feet. If he won’t, rope and care-
fully throw him.
Walking the horse through or stand-
ing him in cold water is beneficial. Give
him as much as he can drink. Laminitis
makes a horse very thirsty.
Feed on green laxative food if possible,
and keep his bowels open with mild pur-
gatives and enemas. When green feed
cannot be had, feed a linseed mash with
about Jib. of soda bicarb, once a day
only. If the animal will not' eat this,
feed the mash alone, arid drench with
2oz. of b. of s. in a pint of water twice
a day. If very bad, three times.
Shoe carefully with broad shoes hav-
ing the heel wide and thin, and exercise
the horse (no work) only for about
one to two months after the illness,
according to the severity of the attack.
Sowing Maize.
“Bill R.”: Broadcast for ensilage,
maize should be spread over well-
loosened soil from a sheet, as when hand-
sowing wheat. Cover by deeply cross-
harrowing.
For a small crop, the readiest method
of planting is by heeling in the seeds.
Traverse the land in parallel lines, at
every two yards dropping three grains
together. Stamp them in with the boot
heel, and cover with a sweep of the toe.
Furrow a big field, and drop the seeds
at intervals along the bottom of the
furrow. Cover them by harrowing. This
method always gives the better yield.
The grains come into immediate con-
tact with sub-surface moisture, and ger-
minate quickly.


Flock.
Bale
Nos.
AAA. AA.
A.
CLIP SUMMARY,
1st 1st
Com. Com. Fig. Bkn.
1935.
Pcs.
Bis.
Total
Lox. Bales.
Sheep
rallies.
Av. per
Head.
Five-year
Wethers
7-33
8
3
1
1 —
3
4
4
-1
1
27
811
8,91b.
Hoggets
34-86
13
5
2
3 2
6
7
7
4
4
53
1356
6.7lb.
Young
Ewes
87-144
20
6
-1
4 —
3
6
6
3
3
53
897
8.11b.
Older
Ewes
145-183
10
3
2
— —
8
5
4
3
1
36
745
7.21b.
Totals..
51
17
7
8 2
20
22
21
12
9
169
3809
7.71b.
ffw~stxxlleiz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
AN IDEAL SHOE
for Everyday Wear
For everyday wear a
man needs a Shoe
which will give him
service.
A Shoe which is
strong and pliable, and
also a Shoe which is
reasonably priced.
Here it is ideal in
every way ... a typical
Abbey Model, carry-
ing the usual guarantee
of Abbey Quality.
Write for a Catalogue.
An Abbey Model with a good wearing upper
and stout single sole.
Made in Black or Brown Calf and in full
and half sizes.
Price: Black or Brown, 29/6.
316
ABBEY SHOES
GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
WAII.
cutd At/umtjr
®K» T€
Its body strongly made all in one
piece, reinforced with nickelled
corner guards, Slobite Travel
Case No. 1858 is smooth-finished
like glossy leather, but lighter in
weight and lower-priced.
PLUM PMQR'CMARD
/ r
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle ...... 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., Jin. and Sin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AXTKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors m
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Kazors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept iD order for two
years free of charge.
A Useful Clip Summary.
“Murrawong”: The following system
of tabulating the clip is recommended to
help in keeping track of small lots, in
reporting to the broker on the clip and
as a permanent record to keep for future
comparison. The back page of the shear-
ing-shed wool-book may be ruled off
to accommodate it, or it may be made
out on a separate sheet of paper to be
filed.
In the left-hand vertical column is en-
tered the distinguishing name of the flock
and the year. The next column indi-
cates the “breaks”—the first and last
bale of that flock —which is of primary
importance to the broker. The remain-
ing columns show at a glance how many
bales of each quality were cut.
Each flock should be analysed and en-
tered from the pressers’ book as soon as
that wool is pressed.
The larger the clip, the greater will be
found the need for this table, as it is
almost impossible in the hurry and
bustle of shearing to keep mental tally
of every odd line of a few bales that may
later match another small line and lift
both out of the star lots.
It is a concise record that shows at a
glance such useful information as what
proportion of AAA or how much tender
wool any particular flock yielded. As a
further check, the sum of the bales cut
by each flock should tally with the final
totals of the vertical (quality) columns.
The yield and the reactions of any
flock to varying seasons and pastures
over a period of years may be gleaned at
a glance. There should be no need to
stress the value of the second column.
To know where to find the shearing tal-
lies of each and every flock without the
need to hunt through almost undecipher-
able entries in some old notebook is
alone worth the trouble of making the
table.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pick”: To prevent mould in ensilage,
the greenstuff must be forked thoroughly.
There is always a tendency for mildew
to appear under large forkfuls of fodder
in the silo if they are not freely spread.
“Silky Bag”: Where once-a-day
separating is done, the previous milking’s
product should be warmed. If immersed
in a copper of boiling water and spun to
and fro quickly, a four-gallon can of
milk may be heated to blood heat in
half a minute. It is weightless also in
water, so the job is easy.
“Pick”: For home-made axle grease,
mix 2gal. heavy motor oil with of
tallow and lylb. powdered resin. Melt
together over a fire. In another vessel
dissolve ylb. soda lye in two pints water.
Mix and stir thoroughly. The compound
will be ready for use in 24 hours.
“J.M.”: Another difficulty with sub.
clover (B. 18/12/ ’35) is that it grows so
vigorously as to exclude other pastures
and dries off in early summer, leaving
the ground bare. This is, of course, over-
come in areas where long springs are
encountered. However, lush growth can
be controlled by rotational grazing and
mowing. Surplus growth can be used
for silage or hay.
“Silen”: Oddities in formation crop up
frequently in animal life, but a forked
tail was among those noticed on a Terri-
tory cattle muster recently. The append-
age was O.K. till half-way, and then
branched, forming into slender ends, each
perfect in formation and hair. The tail
was one of the longest on record.
“Valerin”: Success is claimed for Mule’s
operation in minimising blowfly trouble.
Has anyone considered trying it out to
lessen the effect of corkscrew-grass
seed on sheep, especially weaners and
hoggets? Quite a number of sheep have
small skin folds under the jaws resemb-
ling a pouch, which are worthless and
only collect grass-seed.
“The 0.D.”: Australia’s lamb cheque
from Britain for the last half of 1935
is expected £2,000,000 and
establish a new record forthe 12 months.
Last season it reached £3,500,000, and
£2,900,000 for the season before. Large
supplies now arriving and due to arrive
in the next two months have caused an
easing of prices in London, but, although
peak is passed, demand is still keen and
prices satisfactory.
“J.W.”: A sow owned by J. A.
Anderson, Blancheview, Helidon (Q.), has
produced a litter of 21 without breaking
any records—Hawkesbury College had a
lady named Warren Sweetheart, a
Large White, who weighed in with 23.
But even she has to surrender to a
matron I saw in a Bavarian village—the
proud mother of 24, which she delivered
in three lots over a week. Mr. Ander-
son’s piglets came in two consignments
of 10 and 11, 30 hours apart. This
sort of family, however, is not to be
encouraged. The sow has no chance
of suckling them —litters of 10 or 12 are
the reasonable limit.
“Sheepo”: “Mattocky” (B. 4/12/’35)
raises a point that needs more investiga-
tion — i.e., does frequent dosing of sheep
with bluestone injure the stomach and
intestine linings? Experiences in a
worm-infested area indicated that young
sheep suffered minor ills when bluestone-
and-mustard dosings were given too
frequently. Actually, I never knew
any sheep to die, but many wan-
dered, went off their feed and were
languid for days. The strength and
quantity of the dose were right, and
the deduction we formed was that blue-
stone did have some harmful effects if
a fresh dose was given before the pre-
vious one had time to work out of the
system. But I think the bluestone-
mustard drench the best destroyer of
stomach worms.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
After a good run of seasons in our district,
we have stocks of both maize and lucerne
silage. Which would be the better to feed
in the ration of a big-framed producer giving
65 1 b. milk?—' 9B26.
There is little difference in feed values.
Maize is a bit richer in starch, but lucerne
is on top with proteins. Try a daily ration of
201 b. lucerne silage, 201 b. maize silage, 201 b.
lucerne hay, plus a meal mixture beginning
with 21b. and working up to 81b. when maxi-
mum production is reached —four parts maize-
meal, two parts ground barley or oats and one
part linseed meal.
* h= * *
Plan for a sheep dip—materials to cost about
£BO ?— 9842.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Department sug-
gests an inclined race to a small landing, and
from this small landing a gravity conveyor
7ft 6in. long into the dip proper; the dimen-
sions of which are: Dip at top, 40ft. long,
24in. wide; bottom, 24ft. long, lOin. wide;
depth, sft. 6in. The plunge end is vertical,
and the ramped or exit end runs from 24ft. at
bottom to 40ft. at top. Walls and floor are
6in. thick, suitably reinforced with steel, and
the interior surfaces rendered with cement
mortar to make it waterproof. The cost of
materials for this dip—Sydney prices—is about
£75. At the exit end, the walkout is ribbed
after the style of saw-tooth to afford a foot-
hold, and this leads into the draining pens.
The floors of these are drained to sumps,
which in turn are connected by pipes with the
dip or bath so that as much dip as possible
is returned. The gravity conveyor consists of
short pieces of galvanised pipe set quite close
togther with bushed ends and revolving on
short pins. This carries the sheep into the dip
so perfectly that it is rarely that an animal
is injured. The department would send you
a plan on request. Others prefer a dip with
a decoy pen, which attracts sheep to a trap,
where they are thrown into the bath. This is
a type that is not favored by stud-breeders.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G. 8.: Just pretty nothings A.M.L.: Has
strength, but not enough to tinkle the bell.
. ...K.T.: Too artificial; ask yourself can-
didly whether it would ever happen
J. Le B.: It started promisingly, but didn’t
last the distance G.R.F.: Doesn’t reveal
much promise... .V.W.: Good thoughts and
some good phrasing, but there’s nothing vital
in them... .L.G.: Trite “popular song” senti-
ment... .D.C.: There may be some merit
hidden in it; all we could find was a dis-
pute on the relative attractions of England and
Maoriland... .J.M.C.: Your experiences at the
seance differed very little from those of scores
of others who have written on the subject
W.D.G.: A worked-out type of yarn....
D. : Has its moments of robust humor,
but isn’t quite good enough... .R.F.8.: Too
many outworn cliches —“life’s fast-fleeting
span,” “silver sheen,” “lambent beam”
G. 1.5.: You write with feeling, but with too
little regard for form L.G.C.: Doesn’t
make the grade... .Z.V.W.: Not quite
E. : Not suitable for us, but it might get
home elsewhere H.G.P.: Piling on the
agony with a trowel is bad enough, but to
cap it with a dream-ending is the limit in
bathos... .A.J.S.: The triteness of the plot
fails to do justice to the excellent style; try
again... .E.R.A.: Too long, and not the type.
....Ajax: Neither interpretation leaves any
lasting impression... .N.S.S.: “An endeavor to
recall a happy holiday in the mountains.”
And, as such, probably successful, but you
don’t make poetry of it E.J.S.: Doubt if
your entry would win much applause from
the Liars’ Club A.T.P.: Hope we’re
not included in that grouch against editorial
turpitude... .F.C.: That style’s too good to
waste on so light a theme... .W.M.S.: That
type of essay is always prone to fall a bit
flat if the humor isn’t kept simmering....
J.W.: Had you finished it off better it would
have stood a chance... .H.G.A.: Nicely done,
but not enough in it....M.E.: Satire should
be satirical.... 8.C.: Lurid melodrama....
W.8.P.: An interesting encounter, but not suit-
able for story section... .J.W.T.: You don’t
play fair; too much essential information is
concealed from the reader until the finish
R.W.: Not up to standard. Subject too close
to reality anyhow J.W.O’K.: Hope the
“Hard Case” arrived home in time for the New
Year... .F.M.L.: We are not passing comment
on Humor Competition stories through this
column. Rejected yarns will be held until final
judging takes place, unless competitor especi-
ally requests prompt return Evora: We re-
luctantly chose the alternative you suggested....
R.V.W.: It doesn’t give the sense of tragedy
you intended it to Pick: It doesn’t appeal.
E.H.: Cheerful verse, with little else to
commend it S.N.: Not up to standard.
E.W.: Humor good, but vehicle wobbly.
S.J.R. (London): Article of only limited
interest; try a short story in the same setting.
P.G.: The w.p.b. creaks every time a ghost
yarn disappears into its maw E.W.F.:
Spirit of the lake had too much water with it.
. ...A.S.: Style all right, but plot doesn’t com-
vince 8.C.: Dialogue improving, but you
haven’t given a new twist to salted-mine yarn.
A.H.: By no means badly done, but not
quite up to standard... .E.T.: Dialogue runs
easily, and style good. Now get a suitable
subject.
. n e . UT , CTir ,
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDEN IS.
D.W.S.: The backgrounds are all right; it
is the figures in front that do the damage....
8.L.: Ham told Shem that jest in the Ark.
. ...J.S.T.: The wrestler with the withered
forearms was counted out... .H.L.J.; Your
Santa Claus arrived too late... .A.F.: You
have only the foggiest idea as to what Binghi
looks like... .S.P.: Original composition spoilt
by scratchy linework.... W.M.: Heavy as last
week’s porridge... .K.T.: We would need an
adding machine to count the artistic errors.
P. 8.: You don’t explain why the entire
Federal Cabinet is perched up the gum-
tree N.V.: You’re improving slowly; too
slapdash still... .E.L.: Spend a month at a
day nursery before you try to sketch toddlers
again F.W.: You might have given the belle
of the ball reasonably good 100k5... .D.D.: We
hope that 1936 will bring us no more atrocities
like that... .R.P.H.: Make your figures less
angular, and think up some gags with laughs in
them... .M.N.: Ideas lifted from other papers
cut no ice... .A.L.C.: All show signs of
promise—aim for a smoother line and less
crowded drawings... .C. 8.; Lady with gaspipes
for arms and her crumpled boy friend were
ushered 0ut....5.N.; That jest turns up every
month... .AJ.M.: We found room for it—in
the w.p.b C.D.R.: Your liberal use of
Chinese white has but half hidden your artistic
sins... .H.L.H.: No merriment in it... .T.J.8.:
Your caricature of Phil Collier might intensify
Westralia’s secessionist tendencies S.S.D.:
Same old park dossers making the same old
moan about soap and water... .N.A.: Conver-
sation between turkey and cattle-dog wasn’t
worth listening t 0... .G.F.W.: Stiff figures and
tame jests... .R.C.J.: Unimpressed by the
spectacle of the bishop dancing on a bull-ants’
nest.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M J Rvan Esa •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm; A. Jolly, . Esq., C.M.G ' ’
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
YVith offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory) Melbourne Svdnev- and Ofi
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. r S. Wales also Ssentotion
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World tfiis
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone, M 4601.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (19), educated, wants position as gover-
Refs —9830 yeaiS CXP ' ° n Stati ° n in Centralia -
Jaclceroo or overseer (20), Sydney, wants
position with bachelor; can cook. Refs. —9828.
Whereabouts of relations of the late Alfred
Vincent, one-time Bulletin cartoonist. (To
£i h “ r c R A M - Xl nc 5 nt .’ Post ° ffice > Victoria
halls, Southern Rhodesia.)
Words of verse by “Lance Jack” beginning:
WC after dark™ suburbs * and we trained her
At park* UP ° n thC Botan y- road J at others in the
awC-S. “ Plyine Ka “ ”
Words of song “God Be with You,” by
Maggie Menzies Elinhlad. —9833.
To buy second-hand books on carpentry and
shipwnghting.—9Bl4. *
To buy King’s jubilee supplements of “Lon-
n™l] UStrated News ” and London “Times.”
—9796.
9784 bUy Musicians °f the Southern Cross.—
Jo buy or hire hand printing press and type
lor small country magazine; also would like
" | et m touch with unemployed printer.—
7/00.
Information Sought.
(1) What was the boxer Griffo’s real
( 2 ) Where and when was he born ?
(3) Where and when did he die? (4) Where
and when was Larry Foley born ? (5) Where
and when did he die? —9798.
(1) Albert Griffiths. (2) At Sofala, near
Bathurst, N.S.W., March 21, 1871. (3) New
York, December 6, 1927. (4) Sofala, De-
cember 24, 1847. (5) St. Vincent’s Hospital,
Sydney, July 12, 1917.
»jC jj; jJj
(1) What was the last occasion on which
Fred Henneberry fought Ron Richards ? (2)
Where, and who won? (3) When did Jack
Carroll and Richards last meet ? (4) Where,
and who won ? (5) Had they fought before ?
9978.
(1) November 10, 1934. (2) At Brisbane.
Henneberry won on points. (3) July 23, 1934.
(4) At Sydney Stadium. Carroll stopped Rich-
ards in 13 rounds. (5) No.
* * * *
(1) What was the charge against Morant and
Handcock, tried under martial law during the
S. African War? (2) Was “A Shooting Match
to Make a Dutchman’s Holiday” written in
the prison cell; if so, by whom ? —9713.
(1) They were charged with 20 murders of
civilians and prisoners of war, of 12 of which
they were adjudged guilty. According to Lord
Kitchener, there were no extenuating circum-
stances. Morant and Handcock, together with
Witton and Picton, were court-martialled at
Petersburg on January 16, 1902, Picton being
cashiered, and Morant, Handcock and Witton
sentenced to death. Witton’s sentence was
later commuted to imprisonment for life.
Morant and Handcock were shot at Pretoria
on February 25, 1902. (2) Some verses headed
“Butchered to Make a Dutchman’s Holiday”
and commencing “In prison cell I sadly sit”
were written by Morant during his imprison-
ment, and a photograph of the MS. may be
seen in Bushman and Buccaneer, an account of
the known incidents of Morant’s career, pub-
lished shortly after his death.
* * :'s *
About 18 years ago The Bulletin conducted
an Australian Nursery Rhymes competition,
and several of the rhymes submitted were after-
wards printed in book form. Is a copy of the
book now available ? —9799.
The book, the proceeds from which were
handed to the Children’s. Hospital, Sydney,
has been long out of print. The Service De-
partment will be pleased to forward a printed
sheet containing all the verses printed in the
book to any reader sending a Service coupon
and a stamped and addressed envelope.
* 3|i
(1) Is Mrs. /Eneas Gunn, who wrote “We of
the Never Never,” still alive ? (2) Is the old
homestead depicted in her book still in
existence ? —9610.
(1) Yes. (2) During 1904-5 the homestead
was taken to pieces and carried piecemeal 30
miles down the Roper, where it was rebuilt
on a site overlooking McMinn’s bar. The old
position is still easily identified by the oleander-
trees in the garden, four miles east of the War-
locks on the Stanley billabong.
* * * *
(1) What children are eligible to receive
help under the Returned Soldiers’ League
(Vic.) Scholarship Fund? (2) What are the
benefits ? (3) To whom should application be
made ? —9843.
(1) Children of soldiers whose deaths were
directly due to war service. (2) Children over
the age of 13 years receive assistance in the
purchase of school books, requisites and fares,
where such assistance is not available from the
McCaughey Bequest. For all eligible children
tuition fees, or boarding fees in special cases,
are paid, and special scholarships are provided,
available from time to time. (3) Chairman,
Returned Soldiers’ League Scholarship Trust
Fund, Anzac House, Melbourne.
What are the prevailing winds in Bass Strait
during the four seasons of the year ? —9767.
Summer (December to February): Very vari-
able. Easterlies, southerlies and westerlies are
about equally frequent in Western Strait;
north-easterlies, westerlies and south-westerlies
about equally frequent in Eastern Strait, both
in morning and afternoon. In the afternoon
sea. breezes are very prominent towards Port
Phillip and near Launceston. Autumn and
winter (March to August): Chiefly north-west
to west. Spring (September to November):
Chiefly north-west to south-west.
* * * *
Australian trade with Italy for the last five
years?— 9Bsl.
1930-31: Imports from Italy, £658,301; ex-
ports to Italy, £3,494,885. 1931-32: Imports,
£453,891 ; exports, £3,631,915. 1932-33: Im-
ports, £676,139; exports, £3,275,500. 1933-34:
Imports, £588,260; exports, £4,600,423. 1934-
35: Imports, £557,438; exports, £995,827.
* * * *
How to prepare cold solder ? —9645.
Make a flux of 1 part metallic sodium to
50 parts mercury. These combine on being
shaken in a bottle. The amalgam must be
kept in a stoppered bottle closed from the air.
For the solder make a weak solution of copper
sulphate, about loz. to 1 quart of water.
Precipitate the copper by rods of zinc, and
wash the precipitate three times in hot water.
Drain, and add for every 3oz. of precipitate
6oz. of mercury. Add also a little sulphuric
acid to assist the combination of the two
metals. When combined they form a paste
which sets hard in a few hours. While the
paste is soft make into small pellets. To use,
heat one or more of the pellets until the
mercury oozes out in small beads. Wipe
these off and rub the pellet into a soft paste
with a small mortar, and pestle until it is
smooth and soft. This, when put on a surface
previously amalgamated by the sodium-and-
mercury flux, adheres firmly and gets in about
three hours.
* * * *
(1) Principle of the absorption type of
refrigerator ? (2) Refrigerant used ? (3) Pres-
sure generated ? (4) Inventor’s name and date
of invention ? —9622.
(1) The working substance is placed in such
conditions that it will extract heat from the
refrigerator and later give up the heat from
the refrigerator, and the heat added during
the process, to a material at a temperature
higher than that of the refrigerator space.
Thus, water absorbs or dissolves ammonia
vapor from the evaporator at a low tempera-
ture and pressure, and then it is made to give
up the ammonia vapor at a higher tempera-
ture and pressure. (2) Distilled water and
ammonia. (3) Typical values would be: Con-
denser pressure, 1701 b.; absorber and
evaporator pressure, 301 b. (4) F. Carre;
about 1858-1860.
* * * *
(1) Solution for silver-plating small objects ?
(2) Is the process expensive, and can proficiency
be gained in a reasonable time ? (3) Books on
electroplating in general ? —9687.
For small quantities of solution dissolve
2oz. of the best crystallised silver nitrate in
one quart of distilled water. Dissolve 2oz. of
best potassium cyanide in one pint of distilled
water. Add this slowly to the silver solution,
stirring well with a glass rod until no white
curdy precipitate is caused by the addition of
a few drops. Allow the curds to settle down,
then pour off all the liquid. Pour on water,
allow the curds to settle again and repeat this
process several times; finally, drain off the
water. Dissolve these curds in a solution of
potassium cyanide and add a little surplus to
make it work freely. (2) Depends upon the
magnitude and nature of the work. (3)
Electroplating (Amateur and Work Hand-
books), 2s. 6d. post free from any of the
larger booksellers.
* * * *
(1) How to fill cracks in a cement sheep-
dip ? (2) Can buildings made of sun-dried
bricks be faced with cement ? —9654.
(1) Cut out the cracks to a depth of lin.
with hammer and chisel, making the cut wedge-
shaped, say fin. wide at the top and lfin.
at the bottom. Make a semi-dry mixture of
one part cement to two parts sand containing
sufficient water so that when squeezed in the
hand it will just retain its shape. Place this in
the cut and smooth over with a trowel. Keep
mortar damp for seven days, and finally paint
with cement mortar mixture of consistency of
thin cream. (2) Assume you mean cement
mortar. This mortar will not adhere directly
to the bricks, but the building can be surfaced
by stretching fin. galvanised-iron wire-netting
oyer the face of the building, keeping it about
fin. from the face and subsequently plastering
with cement mortar through the netting to a
thickness of about fin. on the outside of the
netting, netting being held in place by nails.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for sticky flypapers ? (2) Mixture
for spraying with atomiser? —8167.
(1) Take boiled linseed oil 60z., gum thus
loz., castor oil 2 fluid ounces. Mix with
gentle heat until dissolved. The quantities of
the ingredients may be varied according to
viscosity of the linseed oil. Use a good-quality
paper and spread the composition with a stiff
brush while hot. (2) Pyrethrum powder fib.,
oil of wmtergreen (methyl salicylate) 30z.,
kerosene 1 gallon. Allow to stand, shaking
occasionally. After a week strain the solu-
tion off through two layers of muslin.
What is the English art group “Unit One”?
—9374.
A group of English painters, sculptors and
architects. Formed in ’33, it has 11 constituent
members, modern in outlook and with estab-
lished reputations. Paul Nash, the founder, has
stated that it stands for “the expression of a
truly contemporary spirit, for that thing which
is recognised as peculiarly of to-day in paint-
ing, sculpture and architecture.” Members:
Architects, Wells Coates, Colin Lucas; sculp-
tors, Henry Moore, Barbara Hepworth;
painters, Edwards Wadsworth, Ben Nicholson,
Paul Nash, Tristram Hillier, Edward Burra,
John Bigge, John Armstrong.
* ❖ * *
(1) In what country did Franz Hals, the
painter, reside ? (2) To what school of paint-
ing did he belong ? (3) What are his best-
known masterpieces ? (4) Did he paint a
portrait of Mary Queen of Scots ? —9404.
(1) Holland. (2) He was the founder and
one of the greatest exponents of the Dutch
school of genre painting. (3) “The Laughing
Cavalier,” portraits of Maria Voogt and
Madame van Berestyn, “The Flute Player,”
“Nurse and Child” and “Banquet of the
Shooting Company of St. Joris.” (4) No, she
died in 1587, when Hals was barely six.
* * * #
Who was Fandino ?— 6564.
A Spanish official in South America who
was accused of having cut off the ear of Cap-
tain Jenkins, the master of a British ship,
about 1731. Jenkins produced his ear in a
bottle before the House of Commons, and
Walpole, unable to withstand the public
clamor, after futile negotiations with Spain,
declared war in 1739—the “War of Jenkins’s
Ear.” Fandino himself was captured 11 years
later by an English frigate.
* * * *
Has Marjorie Bowen, the authoress, also
written under the name of George Preedy ?
9426.
Yes; though Who’s Who for 1935 lists both
names, George Preedy is one of the pen-names
of the writer best known as Marjorie Bowen
(Mrs. Arthur Long). She has also used the
pen-names of Robert Paye and John Winch.
She was born Gabrielle Margaret Campbell,
and has been twice married. Bowen is a
family name.
* * * *
Scottish place-names signifying ‘‘down the
vale,” ‘‘under the hill” or “sheltered nook” ?
—BBB4.
Lythe neuk is the literal Scottish equiva-
lent of “sheltered nook”; glen, strath and
howe signify vale, and the Gaelic for hill is
tiilach or tulloch; knock or noc also means
hill ( knockan, little hill), while ault or auld
and its variations mean a glen or the heights
on either side. Any of these latter, in con-
junction with the surname or some descriptive
adjective, should be appropriate.
* * * *
Pronunciation of “Villa d’Este,” and its
meaning ? —9195.
The Villa d’Este (pronounced Des-tay) on
Lake Como was built in 1549 by the Cardinal
Ippolito d’Este, whose family took their name
from the town of Este (anciently Ateste) in
Lombardy. The villa was at one time the
home of the musician Liszt.
* * * *
Professional name .of Miss Lanceley, a
Sydney singer, with some information concern-
ing her career? Is she an operatic star? —
9377.
She has always appeared under her own
name. She made several Australian concert
tours, and has appeared in London at the
Albert Hall and Covent Garden. She has
not appeared in opera.
* * * *
Particulars concerning John Skelton, a fif-
teenth-century English poet ? —9367.
Born about 1460, studied at Cambridge, per-
haps also at Oxford, was tutor to Prince Henry,
and became rector of Diss in Norfolk, but
seems later to have been suspended for keep-,
ing a mistress. He had produced some trans-
lations and elegies in 1489, but now he struck
into an original vein of satirical vernacular
poetry, overflowing with grotesque words and
images and unrestrained jocularity. In this
kind his chief productions were “The Bowge
of Courte,” “Colyn Cloute” and “Why Come
Ye Not to Courte?” The first is an allegorical
poem; the second, an unsparing attack on the
corruptions of the church; the last, a sustained
invective against Wolsey. Wolsey tried to
arrest his libeller, but Skelton took sanctuary
at Westminster till he died on June 21, 1529.
Chief among other poems are “Phyllyp
Sparowe,” “The Tunnyng of Elynour Rum-
myng,” “Garlands of Laurell” and “Magny-
fycence.”
* * * *
/ purchased some lily-of-the-valley crowns
two years ago and they have failed to bloom.
What is the probable cause ? How many
colors are obtainable in this plant ?— 9708
Generally the lily-of-the-valley will bloom
in the year after planting. Much of the cause
of non-flowering is wrong setting of the tubers.
A shaded position and light loam well en-
riched with rotted cow manure are necessary.
Only jin. of soil should cover the crowns, and
light watering should be given. A soaking of
liquid manure is helpful. Should the plants
fail to bloom the year after planting, cover
the crowns with well-decayed and pulverised
manure and flowering is almost certain. Lily-
of-the-valley colors obtainable are white and
pink ( Convallaria majalis) and golden
(Sandersonia aurantiaca).
* * * *
Method of propagating begonias from
leaves ? —9685.
Cut off the leaves (leaving about jin. of
stalk), and on the underside make small cuts
where the veins join the leaves. Fill a shallow
box with a compost of sharp sand, rotted
leaves and light loam, water thoroughly and
lay the prepared leaves on it. A warm con-
servatory or glass-frame will assist growth.
When the joints take root and throw out
leaves, cut up the sections and set them in
small pots. Damping-off from overhead water-
ing causes losses in this venture, but these can
be reduced to a minimum if the soil is
moistened by placing the boxes in water-
troughs.
Brief Answers.
J.H.F.: In Melbourne all dogs aged six
months and over • must be registered; fee, ss.
P-a R.8.G.: Write Dept, of Agriculture,
Perth C.T.: The Y.M.C.A. was founded in
England in 1844 by George Williams, later
knighted, while he was a clerk in a drapery
establishment A.M.F.: Sinclair Lewis was
born on February 7, 1885. He was educated
at Yale University A.W.C.: See Ambrose
Pratt’s David Syme: The Father of Protection
in Australia H.8.H.: (1) At Jan. 1, 1935,
Willoughby (N.S.W.) general rates were £53,018
14s. 2d. in arrears. (2) Amount outstanding at
Nov. 23 was £29,872 10s. 6d. (3) Levy on 1935
rate with respect to Sydney Harbor Bridge was
£4960 R.F.: Zymotic is a term applied to
diseases caused by certain micro-organisms. It
was originally intended by Dr. Farr, the in-
ventor, to designate diseases promoted by pro-
cesses analogous to fermentation. It is now
applied to the chief acute infectious diseases:
typhoid, cholera, smallpox, measles, scarlet fever,
erysipelas, etc T.M.S.: Tcheka was the old
name for the Soviet State Political Department,
since 1922 known as the O.G.P.U T.D •
The altitude of Broken Hill is 1000 ft.; mean
annual temperature, 64.6 deg. Fahr.; mean
summer, 77.4 deg.; mean winter, 51.4 deg ;
highest recorded, 115.9 deg.; lowest, 27deg .’
A.K.: Jonathan Cape, 30 Bedford-square,
London 8.5.: Louise Mack’s booklet of
poems, Dreams in Flower, was included in
A Southern Garland, published in 1904....
A.W.J.: John Haynes left The Bulletin early
in 1884, was M.L.A. (N.S.W.) for Mudgee
from 1887 to 1904, and then returned to
journalism, conducting the “Newsletter.” He
was M.L.A. for Willoughby from 1917 to
1919.... A.J.C.: Write Director, Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney E.J.P.:
Australian General Electric Cos., 93-95
Clarence-street, Sydney, and Queen and Little
Collins streets, Melbourne; General Electric
Cos., Magnet House, Kingsway, London;
International General Electric Cos., 570 Lex-
mgton-avenue, New York P.S.: It was
Napoleon who said: “There are two levers
for moving men —interest and fear”
N. 8.: The chairman of the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Standing Committee on Public Works
received £3 3s. for each sitting of the com-
mittee, and the other members £2 2s. each
A.A.: There does not appear to be any species
of that name, but it is possible you mean the
Kochia, a broom cypress shrub, of which there
are many varieties distributed throughout the
whole of Australia. It is an evergreen, and
usually does not attain a greater height than
2ft. to 3ft L.W.: The Murray River is 1609
miles long; 1203 miles within N.S.W. The
Darling is 1702 miles long; 1626 miles within
N.S.W E.P.J.: Of the 585,450 private
dwellings listed in N. S. Wales at the 1933
census, 213,438 were owned by the occupier;
were bein ® purchased by instalment,
270,740 were tenanted, 16,385 were occupied by
a caretaker, 8859 were occupied otherwise;
nature of occupancy of 13,155 dwellings not
stated... .S.R.T.: Royal Academy of Music,
York-gate, Marylebone-road, London, N.W.I,
and Royal College of Music, Prince Con-
sort-road, London, 5.W.7 S.C.: Magnus
Merriman was written by Eric Linklater, Man-
hattan Transfer by John Dos Passos and The
Postman Always Rings Twice by J. M. Cain.
••••L.L.: The old Russian verst equalled
1166.66 yards or 0.66288 mile E.M.: The
1925 Villiers Stakes was won by Hemisphere,
with Quan Tart second and Meenah third
N-®-' tbe bate Mu Lang’s dismissal in
1932 the state of parties in the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly was Labor, 56; U.A.P., 21; and
U.C.P., 13. The election that followed resulted:
U -£-r P r”™ ; U.C.P., 23; U.P. (both U.A.P.
and U.C.P.), 2; and Labor, 24 J.M.H. : (1)
Under ideal conditions hardly at all, although
a gas from wood is more troublesome to pro-
duce and to free from tarry matters, etc. (2)
Yes; either from consulting engineers, or, for
tractive purposes, from the Department of the
Interior, Canberra. (3) Much information is
scattered throughout technical journals and
reports. Consult Department of the Interior.
. ...J.P.N.: Meyer’s Motors, 29 Pyrmont-road.
Pyrmont (N.S.W.), is the agent for the Mer-
cedes truck; Leyland Motors, Ltd., 153
George-street, Redfern (N.S.W.), for the Ley-
land truck. Prices and particulars on appli-
cation E.H.D.: Yes, write Presbyterian
Church office, Assembly Hall, York and Mar-
garet streets, Sydney... .N.T.: From Point
Danger, along a diagonal line to the south-west
corner of N.S.W.—a distance of 850 miles—
the greatest dimension of the State is found.
The length of coast, measured direct from Point
Dangar to Cape Howe, is 683 miles, the actual
length of seaboard being 907 miles. The
greatest breadth, measured along the 29th paral-
lel of latitude, is 756 miles. The shortest
dimension, along the western boundary, is
about 340 miles... .E.H.E.W.: (1) Apply any
of the overseas shipping lines. (2) Write Con-
sul for the Argentine, 72 Pitt-street, Sydney....
R.A.: The tree is probably the Queensland
bottle-tree (Brachychiton rupestris), a native of
the Atherton district. It belongs to the same
family as the kurrajong (Brachychiton popu-
lueus), which is native to Victoria. Cannot
say if the Queensland species would be likely
to succeed in N. Vic. So far as is known it
has never been tried in that locality N.F.W.:
All applications for positions are to be made
to the general manager of the Wyndham Meat-
works, Treasury Buildings, Perth. Should a
position be vacant the conditions of employ-
ment will be made known to the applicant.
. ...R.S.: Write S. W. Stokes, 88 King-street,
Sydney, and.N. Stevenson, Normanby Cham-
bers, 430 Little Collins-street, Melbourne....
A.J.: There are no acids suitable for the econo-
mical destruction of stumps. For small stumps
grubbing out and burning is the simplest and
most economical method W.L.A.: The
letters “S.R.D.” on the rum jars issued during
the war indicated Supply Reserve Depot, Dept-
ford... .S.M.C.: Write Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary’s Dept., Sydney M.W.: The Aus-
tralian Authors and Artists’ Handbook will be
issued every second year. The 1937 edition
will be published at the end of this year
(Many others mailed.)


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
>■
I
ftjbmt*
in
ii i
11111 l 111
■
WH
If
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE," Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
The Martyr.
“I’m not complaining,” he said bravely.
“I know that every man must sooner
or later be called upon to make a sac-
rifice like this. I realise the risks I run,
but I must face them. And I might
come out of it all right. It is, of course,
only for her sake that I am doing it. 1
tell you I’m scared stiff. I tremble when
I think of it. Ah—but I must go.” And
with a courageous smile he went to the
bridge party to play as his wife’s partner.
Ced.
•h '%•
“But Nourse’s bat spoke again.”
— “Telegraph.”
Making cutting remarks?
“What Do They Know of
England”....
“ ‘The vast majority of Englishmen display
an appalling ignorance of Australia,’ says a
just-returned businessman.”
Old Jasper Ziderperry, smock-clad, sat
in the common-room of the village
inn at Snaggesville-on-the-Wold-under-
Giggleswick, a noggin of old English ale
before him. He waved a letter in his
hand.
“This ’ere Orstrelly moost be a queer
plairse an’ all,” he said to the yokels
around. “Oi’ve joost ’ad letter from
yoong Aalbert what went oot there a
year agone coom Maundy Thursday.”
“Oo aye, Jarsper,” said one of them ;
“that be coontry soomaires by Chiney.”
Jasper gave him a withering look.
“Thaht shaws y’ iggerance, Ezra ; it’s
joost ’longside plairse called Equairter,
oop Arfrica way.”
“Boott thaht’s”
“Shoott oop, Ezra laad. I be tellin’
thee. Doan’t Oi naw wi’ me. awn soon
Aalbert theer? ’E sez in this yere letter 'e
be workin’ on stairtion ridin’ ’oorse all
day. What say thee t’ thaht?”
“Fancy Aalbert a poorter! It moost
be long stairtion ’ave t’ ride a ’oorse along
it. S’pawse they ’ave na platform an’
thaht’s t’ way they gets ’em off trairns.”
“Or lookin’ for they bushrangers I
’eerd tell of wunst,” said another.
Jasper conned the letter again.
“An’ listen t’ this an’ a’,” he said.
“E sez yere: ‘Oi been fishin’ this arter-
noon, so will close naow as Oi ’ave to
clean squoire in river.”
“Clean Squoire!”
“So ’e sez.”
“Well,” said Ezra, “Oi pull forelock
to Squoire when Oi see ’im in High-
street, but Oi’ll be danged if Oi’d wash
’im, not Oi. An’, loike as not, this yere
Squoire’s a nigger.”
“Oo aye,” said Jasper ; “it be foony
plairse, this Orstrelly. Oi can’t see why
Aalbert stays there, ’avin’ to wash black
Squoires an’ ride oop an’ down trairns on
’oorseback.”
Bokio.
v 'l* *
“Lecturer advises girls to save their kisses.
Yes, but nobody’ll want ’em if they’re
saved too long.
“Lawrence was a great man. Upon his
shoulders he set out to carry on an almost
superhuman task.” —Sydney “Truth.”
Doubtless he was the forerunner of a
great people—the Gofas!
v *l* *l* *1"
Surfing Hints.
Pick a hot, cloudless day to make your
debut. Just turn your face to the sun
and go gloriously to sleep; after you
wake up turn over and get it on your
back. This will put you in the right
mood for “cracking the ice.”
On entering the water, don’t adopt a gait
similar to that of a condemned man on
execution morning, wading in miserably,
your knees twin blue knobs, with the
water creeping up gradually over what
was once your spinal
column. Make a dash
straight in. Your
first impulse will be to
swear luridly and at
length. This will prove
THIS WEEK'S FAIRY STORY.
Lifesaver: “Help!”
impossible, as, firstly, you won’t have the
breath, and, secondly, your numbed
brain will refuse to eject the words. Stick
it out, however, and after the first half
hour you’ll begin to get used to it.
Now is your chance to emulate those
experts whom the dailies refer to as
“sun-bronzed Greek gods,” and try shoot-
ing a foaming express for a “beacher.”
Hang around in about 3ft. of water.
As the wave curls up let yourself go with
it. You will feel yourself lifted off your
feet and spun round like a Catherine-
wheel, taking the impact of the sea-floor
with your ear. This is technically
termed a “dumper,” and the picking of
this from a genuine breaker is an art
which you will take years to acquire.
Don’t get discouraged, however ; just
keep trying, and eventually you simply
must get a proper shoot. When it comes,
take a deep breath, put your hands to
your sides and your head down. A dull
thud and a queer ricking sensation in the
neck after you’ve gone a few yards will
proclaim that you have missed the soft
15-stone woman and belted into the bony
navvy just coming in. The swallowing
of about a pint of pure ocean may be
taken as concomitant and inevitable.
Now comes the test of your true surfer.
Instead of tottering to the shore and cast-
ing yourself down on the sand, wretched
and waterlogged, just take a brisk trot
up the beach, blithely whistling the while
to test your respiratory power. A further
sunbake in the hot sun will complete a
good opening day.
The next morning you will find that
shaving has an entirely new meaning,
while the delicious agony of pulling on
your braces will bring vividly to mind
the comforting thought that those cranks
who advocate only half an hour’s sun-
baking the first day won’t have half the
color up that you have—or will have
until you start to peel the next week.
S. W. K.
Wanted!
A newspaper-delivery boy who doesn’t
throw the Saturday edition on my seed-
lings.
A milkman who doesn’t “know things’"
for the races.
A librarian who can’t recommend
anything.
A landlord who forgets to call for the
rent.
Sef.
4* 4* + +
“Squatter Marries His Cook.”
—News headline.
Love at first bite.
*5- *l* *l-
-
Miggs was moving. “I don’t want to
stay in this house another minute,” he
said, “now that my wife has left me.
Twenty-two years it was”
“I understand,” sympathised his
friend. “Every minute of the day you
would be haunted by the memory of
some past incident, some little pleasantry.
You must get right away from here—
right away from the memories of one
who was so dear.”
“Aw, cut it out,” snapped Miggs, “and
let’s hurry. I’m not frightened of the
memories, but I’m scared she might
come back and find me here.”
S. Esq.
“Aviator says that airmen should always
dress in clothes that will be serviceable in
emergency.”
In crash suits?
•b
In the Public Eye.
There is nothing imposing about my
appearance. I am in every way an ordi-
nary man. Yet crowds of people stop
and stare at me ; they push and jostle
just to get a better view of me. Office
workers forget to have their lunch
because they are so interested in follow-
ing my every movement. No actor or
sportsman could continually hold such
audiences.
Does this prominence worry me? Not
at all! I ignore the crowds and go right
ahead—digging up the pavement in
Pitt-street.
D. S.
How Fair ’Twould Be!
I thought you were my heart’s ideal,
My dream-girl, my affinity.
You touched me with your sweet appeal,
Your radiant femininity.
So my persuasive tongue, grown grave,
Petitioned that we never part.
And your ears assiduous gave
My urgent message to your heart.
But what’s the use of grieving ? Pish !
That Love lacked vision, dear, I knew.
And yet l can’t subdue the wish
That Love were deaf and silent, too!
P.O.M.C.
Inspiration.
After I was introduced to Muriel I
was delighted with my performance.
I literally swept her off her feet. I
made her gape with astonishment as I
poured forth a sparkling sea of witti-
cisms, which seemed to flow from my
lips without the slightest effort.
I made such an impression that, when
I invited her to come out with me soon,
she actually stuttered in her eagerness to
accept.
And when we were parting I took her
in my arms with the utmost confidence
and kissed her passionately on the lips.
For a moment she looked as though she
would take offence, but when she beheld
the self-reliant mastery in my eyes she
just nestled closer.
But, alas! I’m afraid I won’t be able
to continue like this. After all, a chap
can’t have a pint of port under his belt
every time he meets her!
T.W.N.
My New Year Party.
My Uncle Timothy, being called away
to Long Bay on urgent business, placed
his palatial Darlinghurst residence at my
disposal. Finding it sumptuously fur-
nished with 20 gallons of metho. and a
barrel of Fly bane, I decided t o throw a
New Year party.
Considering the short notice, there was
a splendid muster.
P.O.M.C. was the first to arrive. Rais-
ing his hat to a portrait of Chloe (after
Young and Jackson) in the hall, he de-
claimed :
1 thought, my dear beloved, when first we met
That you were one apart —a pearl of price.
It seemed to me, my dear, that we were set;
That life with you would be a paradise.
But now
He was interrupted by the Scottish burr
of Angus O’Cohen demanding a receipt
for his bottles before handing over his
supplies.
“Ah juist brought a wee drappie ta
help things along,” he explained.
Percy Pawnticket and M.D.S. came
along together, carrying a crayfish and a
covey of prawns respectively.
“A preshent from the wife,” said
Percy.
“Merry New Year!” hailed S. Esq.,
who arrived in a taxi just as I was let-
ting Ced in.
Things were beginning to move.
Already half the Flybane was gone, so
Sef filled the barrel up with metho., and
everyone settled down to a little heavy
drinking.
H.M. was late. He’d bet himself 10 to
1 in watermelons he could race himself
there, and had decided it would be more
economical to lose, particularly as he’d
staked himself in the first place and
wanted to keep an eye on himself to
be sure of getting his money back.
S.W.K. was late, too. He explained
that, what with navigating his ship to
Broken Hill, taking a quick aerial trip
to Abyssinia for a supply of bousa and
trying to patch up things with his
Queensland uncle and his Melbourne
aunt, he’d had his hands full. They were
still pretty full, but we relieved them of
their burden.
“Let’s have a sing-song,” cried Uco.
“I’ll sing ‘Drink to Me Only.’ ” He began
“Der-ink t’ me on-n-lee wi-ith thy neyes.”
Sef passed him a dipper of metho.-
Flybane, and he subsided. Then P.O.M.C.
started reciting and H.M. began to relate
one of his most intricate betting transac-
tions. S.W.K. was in a fighting mood, but
Bokio quietened him with a handful of
prawns.
Just then Nat and T.W.N. burst in.
They’d been to Gasher Sharp’s plonk
party and were in a mood for anything.
Up till then I’d been feeling pretty
clear on Flybane and metho., but after
Nat had forced a couple of schooners
of plonk on me things got a bit confused.
1 think it was H.M. who threw the piano
at me, and it must have been Quayeau
who chopped up the sideboard. Then
things got lively. The last I remember
was Becks and Uco standing over me
with a couple of stair-rods, accusing me
of stealing their copy.
Next morn I awoke to a scene of deso-
lation and destruction. All the guests
had gone. Well, not quite all. Angus
O’Cohen was just staggering downstairs
with a load of empties.
“Losh, mon, but yon was a grran
parrty,” he farewelled.
I feel sure it must have been.
JASBY.
Labor of Love.
Sweet labor ! How I love to feel
My muscles tense like rigid steel,
What time my hand encloses tight
The metal tool with eager might.
Sweet labor! How I love the strain,
E’en though it oft amounts to pain ;
For well I know how pain will stop
After the stubborn cork goes pop !
NAT.


:: : 55«;V:Tx
SS.
‘iidl
KISMET
GAUGE
40 YEARS TO
■ MAKE A.
■ GAUGE/
You may buy many tyre gauges cheaper than a
KISMET, because accuracy and finish are sacrificed
to price. They lack the forty years’ experience
which has produced the KISMET’S “Accuracy above
all.”
The KISMET is made to the highest possible standard
of perfection.
lib. units clearly marked on wide, flat surfaces,
smartly finished in plated metals, and complete in
a leather wallet.
Remember that the KISMET represents the accumu-
lation of experience gathered over 40 years —no other
gauge has a record such as this.
Price 8/6
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
“SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different 'RAYBESTOS products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
The Steering Column.
SMARTENING UP THE OLD CAR.
HINTS FOR AMATEUR MECHANICS.
BY FRED BERRY.
A BOUT this time of the year most busy motorists become
aware of the fact that New Year resolutions are hard
to keep, and that the promise to smarten up the old car for
another season’s work remains unfulfilled. But there is no
reason to be daunted by the task. An astonishing improvement
can be made in old-type cars both in appearance and mechani-
cally without great expense or the necessity of specialised
knowledge or preliminary experience.
Strangely enough, the three-year-old
car is about the most difficult to handle,
for at this period, with normal usage,
much will have to be done to restore
new-car condition. Indeed, the owner
must seriously consider buying a new
vehicle if he desires to maintain a modern
standard of transport. On the other
hand, the older the car (within reason)
the less likely it is to be affected by
fashion changes, as for several years
prior to 1932 outward appearances at
least did not alter greatly. It is there-
fore in cars older than three years that
motorists can do most to improve per-
formance and appearance, and at the
same time ensure a higher resale value.
The first step in any smartening up
must be to decide what can be spent. It
is surprising how the total will mount
should haphazard methods be adopted.
Having reached a decision on this point,
part of the money must be allocated to
mechanical details and the remainder to
appearance.
Commencing at the motor, if the car
is of the comparatively modern type and,
owing to wear of pistons, cylinders and
valves, has fallen away in performance
and become expensive to operate by rea-
son of high petrol and oil consumption,
it is usually advisable to have the engine
completely overhauled. This includes a
rebore, new pistons and valve seats, thus
bringing it into perfect mechanical con-
dition and assuring some years of econo-
mical and trouble-free service, together
with an enhanced resale value.
Types Compared.
With regard to older types, the cost
of a major overhaul may exceed the
value of the car, and consequently is not
warranted. In these circumstances a top
overhaul, valve-grind and new piston
rings—work which can be undertaken by
any amateur mechanic —will rejuvenate
the motor and reduce operating costs.
Regardless of type, every owner should
attempt to secure reduced fuel consump-
tion. The details mainly affecting this
issue are carburettor and induction sys-
tem, electrical equipment and brakes.
So far as the induction system is con-
cerned, the most that can be done is to
see that all gaskets on the intake mani-
fold are in good condition and that the
throttle spindle of the carburettor is
reasonably free from wear —in short,
eliminate air-leaks.
Tuning the carburettor is not quite
such a simple job, as the procedure is
governed by type of unit fitted. For-
tunately, older models were as a general
rule equipped with a carburettor with
removable jets, and in such a case the
fitting of anew needle-valve, a checking
of the fuel-level in the float chamber and
a few experiments on the road with dif-
ferent jet sizes will usually give much
improved results. Fast idling is respon-
sible for excessive fuel consumption
more frequently than is generally sup-
posed, and, particularly where down-
draught-type carburettors are used, every
endeavor should be made to so adjust
idling control that the motor will tick
over at lowest revs, without stalling.
Caution Necessary.
Motorists should, however, refrain
from going to extremes in the quest of
high fuel mileages, for the reason that
an unduly weak mixture plays havoc
with valves, seatings and plugs, and any
saving effected will be more than offset
by damage to these important units.
Neither is the policy of buying cheap
oil and petrol a wise one, as tests have
repeatedly shown that the annual repair
Twenty-six years of progress in the popular Austin 7. The 1910 and 1936
models compared.
bill cannot be kept at a minimum unless
high-grade fuel and oil are used.
Spark plugs are as a rule deemed satis-
factory so long as the motor fires regu-
larly on each cylinder, but here again
the motorist should realise that as plugs
grow old their efficiency falls away,
involving higher fuel consumption and
poor acceleration. These matters may
immediately be restored to normal by
fitting a new set of plugs.
Though brakes are in no way con-
nected with the efficiency of the motor,
it is essential that they should be in good
order and correctly adjusted if the out-
put of the engine is to be used to best
effect. Dragging brake shoes will, in
extreme cases, increase fuel consumption
by as much as 15 p.c., and reduce per-
formance correspondingly, so that no
scheme of mechanical tuning would be
complete without carefully inspecting
shoes, linings and gear, and doing what-
ever may be required to prevent excess
friction when in the “off” position and
render them efficient for the purpose for
which they are fitted.
New Car Appearance.
Bodywork next must receive attention.
Before dealing with exterior finish and
coachwork it is advisable, in the case of
touring bodies, to look to the side cur-
tains. Thousands of touring car owners
at the end of last winter stowed the side
curtains away in a more or less hap-
hazard manner, thinking they might be
needed any day. This day never came,
and there they still remain, rapidly be-
coming unfit for service. Take them out
at once, lay a soft cloth between each
fold, tie securely together and stow them
carefully away, thereby saving a pound-
note for new celluloid panels next season.
Successful renovation of exterior finish
will depend in some measure upon
whether the existing coating is paint and
varnish or lacquer. Should it be the
former, it will be impossible to touch
up with lacquer without lifting the paint,
and matching the existing faded color
with the original paint will inevitably
result in a patchy job. Fortunately, such
great progress has been made in the
application of lacquer finishes that there
is no occasion to remove the paint com-
pletely. After carefully cleaning and rub-
bing down, a neutral undercoat can be
sprayed on, which, after being rubbed
to a smooth and even surface, acts as
a base upon which any desired lacquer
can be applied without fear of lifting the
original finish.
Where lacquer has originally been
used and the surface is in reasonably
good condition, improvement can be
made by using brushing lacquers for
touching up. The surface must be first
thoroughly cleaned of grease and rust
before proceeding with the final applica-
tion.
Door handles, windscreen frames and
radiator shells on the older models were
usually nickel-plated, and such plating,
when affected by rust, seriously detracts
from the car’s appearance. These fixtures
should be dismantled and chrome-
plated, in which case they will remain
bright for many years.
Cleaning Upholstery,
Attention to upholstery and hood will
complete work on the body. In cases
where the material used on seat-covers
and squabs is artificial leather (fabric), it
will usually be found that cracks have
developed in the folds and that the ex-
terior coating has peeled away. Here
again a brushing lacquer of similar color
will remove the shabby appearance and
New-type speedometer fitted to ’36 Air-
flow Chrysler, giving engine revs, both in
conventional gear and overdrive at all
road speeds.
protect the fabric base from further
wear, while in places where the material
has been torn patches of suitable material
can be affixed by using a lacquer cement.
Mohair or Bedford-cord upholstery
soiled as the result of grease- or oil-
stains can be dry-cleaned successfully by
vigorously rubbing with a soft cloth
saturated with carbon tetrachloride.
Imitation-leather hoods cracked at the
folds should also be touched up with
black brushing lacquer, and afterwards
coated with a suitable hood dressing.
Lubricating Hypoid Gears.
Motorists and even garage proprietors
still doubt the necessity for special lubri-
cants for use in certain types of trans-
mission details.
Until recently the differential assembly
almost invariably used a straight-cut
tooth for both crown wheel and pinion,
and, as a consequence, if the casing were
oiltight, almost any lubricant could be
used, the general mistake being to fill with
too heavy an. oil, and so lose efficiency
by generating unnecessary friction.
Latterly developments in engine, chas-
sis and body design have given rise to a
rather serious problem, for higher power
output and lower bodies have been
responsible for the evolution of a new
type of differential gearing. In the con-
ventional assembly the pinion wheel was
meshed at a point coinciding with a line
drawn through the crown-wheel bearing,
and this relatively high position imposed
certain defined limits upon the floor-level
With the new-type hypoid drive the
pinion is meshed in a much lower posi-
tion, permitting a corresponding lowering
of body details without affecting ground
clearance. As, however, the principle of
hypoid gearing involves approximately a
25 p.c. sliding and 75 p.c. rolling motion
of the meshed teeth, extremely high tooth
pressures occur, which require a specially
prepared lubricant. Oil technologists
have therefore evolved what is popularly


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
WEBBING GRIPPJNG FILLER CAF
1
PINCERS TURNED IN DIRECTION OF ARROW
How to remove an obstinate
radiator cap without damaging
the metal, using a strip of flex-
ible webbing and a pair of
pliers.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driver*
What to do and when to do it.
FROVI “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
It’s Not what you PAY
it’s what you RECEIVE
m
m
m
ami
m
m
m
m
m
m
k*sss*
it
m
SfS;
YWNt
WEBms&m
SMOOTHER
RUNNING
SINCE 1869 Valvoline. the finest lubricating oil
money can buy, has been the standard by
which all other oils are judged.
Use this superior oil in your car and enjoy
smoother running and all-round performance.
Sold only in "tamper-proof" tins, sealed as a
protection against substitution, dirt, adulteration
and short measure.
Ask your garageman!
Advt. of I. CARRIGAN. Sydney, Melbourne, and throughout the Commonwealth
H1/36
©
Marks the important
points of lubrica-
tion in most types of
modern motor ve-
hicles for which
ALEMITE ajfords
the greatest meas-
ure of protection.
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
m
LEMITE'
~nat
Clutch Release Bearing
Performing important duties, special lu-
brication is required for different types.
ALEMITE SERVICE covers ALL types.
Haphazard greasing is the
chief cause of old age in
young motor cars. Highly
specialized lubricants, ap-
plied under great pres-
sure, are the contributions
of ALEMITE to the effi-
ciency and increased econ-
omy of modern motoring.
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT . . . Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Fitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Ptv), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—7-33
SPARE
THE, LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
termed an E.P. (extreme-pressure) lubri-
cant to look after these unusual condi-
tions. Motorists using these gear types
will be well advised to see that such oils
are used when recommended by the
manufacturers of the car.
E.P. lubricants, because of certain
chemicals used in compounding, lose
much of their effectiveness after from
3000 to 8000 miles’ running. Conse-
quently, they must be flushed out and
replaced at least every six months or
between the mileages stated.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.L.K. (Hawthorn, Vic.).— After 3000 miles
the fan belt on my new car has broken. Belts
on my old model lasted 15,000-20,000 miles.
1 also notice particles of rubber and fabric
chipping off the new belt. Any suggestions ?
The belt on your car drives fan, water pump
and dynamo. Obviously pulleys are out of
line or fan-pump shaft tight in bearings.
sj:
G.L. (Unley Park, S.A.). —(1) My ’34 model
car (17,000 miles ) still has good compression,
is speedy and will take any ordinary hill on
top without labor, though pinking if checked
and then speeded up on a steep incline. I am
advised to have the motor decarbonised and
valves ground, but I believe in letting well
alone. What should Ido ? (2) Exterior finish
of my car, two tones of blue, shows rain spots
chalky-white even if wiped off on entering
garage. Have tried cdl polishes. Any cure ?
(1) Every new car should be top-overhauled
before the 15,000-mile mark to make certain
that valves are seating perfectly and cylinder
bores are wearing truly, and to remove carbon.
This done, the engine may be operated for a
further 20,000-25,000 miles without requiring
attention. (2) No cure except rubbing down
with cutting compound, but this can be done
only a few times before removing exterior
finish and exposing undercoat. Darker colors
are not susceptible to “chalking” after rain.
* * * *
J.M.C. (Te Aroha, M.L.). — After studying
your summary of car performances, I propose
changing over to a new make (named). Will
this car give petrol consumption stated in the
hands of an ordinarily skilful driver?
Yes. Petrol consumption figures obtained
over the difficult test course should be bettered
in normal touring.
* * ?: #
A.McL. (S. Grafton, N.S.W.). — I have been
troubled recently by the spark from two plugs
in my six-cylinder motor jumping from the ter-
minal to the metal body. This occurs more
frequently in wet weather. Plugs have been in
only about six months. Cause and cure .
Either the insulator is covered with a film
of oil or it is cracked. Wash the plugs
thoroughly in benzine, and see that the points
are no wider apart than 25 thou. If this fails,
the insulators have broken down, and, although
new central electrodes can be fitted to certain
types of plug, it is safer to buy new ones.
* * * *
E.H.B. (Rockhampton, Q.). — There is an
elusive squeak somewhere in the front of my
new car, and several mechanics have attempted
to cure the trouble without success. Any sug-
gestions ?
Without inspecting the car, locating squeaks
is simply guesswork. Smear canvas tapes at
radiator and scuttle on which bonnet rests
with vaseline or grease and note the effect.
* * *
W.S.B. (Newcastle, N.S.W.).—My new sports
roadster has done only 9000 miles. Yet when-
ever I drive it fast for more than a few miles
the front compartment becomes filled with
smoke, which dulls the windscreen. Any
remedy ?
Next time the motor is hot after a fast drive,
pull up, lift the bonnet and, with the engine
revving fast, note whether the vapor from
crankcase breather is excessive. If so, oil
vapors are due to blowby past the pistons,
and it will be necessary to fit new rings or
perhaps rebore cylinders to effect a cure. A
temporary expedient would be to fit a flexible
hose over the crankcase breather and carry the
fumes under the tray. Only other possible
reason would be cracked exhaust pipe or
muffler immediately below driver’s seat, the
fumes entering through control slots or floor-
boards.
* * * *
E.J.McD. (Preston, Vic.). — Being a firm be-
liever in carefully running-in a new car, I
should be obliged if you could tell me any way
that the engine of my new car can be governed
so as to prevent abuse by the several different
drivers that will use it.
A governor would be expensive to fit, and it
is doubtful whether one could be procured
locally. It is possible, however, to limit power
output to any predetermined degree by remov-
ing the carburettor and replacing the existing
gasket between the carburettor and inlet mani-
fold with one having an opening of smaller
diameter. This controls the volume of gas
entering the cylinders even with throttle wide
open. After engine has been thoroughly run
in, the original gasket can be replaced.
* * * *
S.K.S. (Junee, N.S.W.). — The brakes of my
’34 model car (28,000 miles ) have been twice
relined, but until last occasion never squeaked.
Now, although appearing free when wheels
are jacked up and pulling on evenly when
applied, the offside front squeaks badly. Cure ?
The trouble is due to the new lining “bed-
ding in,” and should disappear after a further
hundred miles or so.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Mail Car”: In 1928 the overseer of
Evesham was taking the station truck to
Longreach (W.Q.). When jacking up the
vehicle to repair a puncture, the jack
slipped and imprisoned his index finger.
All tools, including the handle of the
jack, were out of reach ; the only thing
that he could grasp was a tomahawk.
Quick action was vital ; so with a well-
directed slash he severed the digit. He
then applied a ligature, finished the
repair and drove the remaining miles to
town and a doctor.
* * * *
“C.G.D.”: “Slipper’s” speedometer
reading of 17.6 miles for a 15-mile trip
was nothing to brag about (B. 13/ 11/’35).
A resident of my Victorian township did
a 27-mile trip after 192 points of rain.
Twelve and a half miles was on the metal
and the rest on formed earth roads over
flat country. The speedometer reading
is logged every night, and 41 miles was
ticked up on this run. The utility truck
he was driving had bog chains fitted, too.
* * * *
“G.M.”: During the hearing of a
prosecution of a motorist for having no
tail-light, it was elicited at Prahran
(Vic.) court that the police refused to
permit an indicating light-globe on the
dash. The driver whose tail-light fails —
as it often does —must thus remain un-
aware of the fact until he gets a sum-
mons. There may be some reason for
prohibiting the dashboard indicator, but
the police have not given it, and nobody
else seems able to guess it.
* * * *
“Pick”: With a disabled car in tow, a
Dry River (N.S.W.) mechanic had con-
stant trouble from the derelict over-
running him as he changed gears or
descended the downhill grades. From a
wayside house he procured a length of
iron piping, which he slipped over the
towing-rope. The semi-rigid connection
this provided effectually prevented further
trouble.
“Flash”: I reckon the windscreen is
t h e g rea test thing that ever happened to
cars Ag youngster driving a horse .
J ® ’ f .
drawn buggy, Ive often had the idea
that my eye was knocked clean through
{ 0 the nape of my neck by a blundering
grasshopper when riding over the downs,
j dreaded the first old-fasl?ioned open-
work car in which I drove, and it was
only by superb management that many
an old bull ’hopper didn’t knock out
my eye and leave it squirming in the
dust. Then I got my first windscreen
car, and the tables were turned. Many
times and oft I’ve seen a ’hopper com-
ing downwind, with an evil glint in his
eye and a wicked smile on his naughty
old chops. There’d come a tap from
which I wouldn’t even duck, and which
would once have sent me reeling on the
ground, and all that would be left of the
felonious attacker would be a dirty
smudge on the glass of the screen.


THE STORY SO FAR.
The prologue related how, when James
Laurence’s dark mistress ran away from
him and their infant son, Roddy, he
made a trip to Sydney, where he met
and married Madeline. They returned
to his plantation at Ruvia. A daughter
( Ruve ) was born, but Madeline died at
her birth.
After a couple of years Laurence
meets a beautiful half-caste girl, Elena
Woodley, from Valoa, an island near
Ruvia. Laurence is a “strongly-made,
dominant man with a proud sense of his
own physical power and endurance.”
Elena is capricious, passionate and
pleasure-loving, and they have very little
in common.
They are married.
Opening Chapters of a Fine Serial :-
ISLAND
HERITAGE
[Author’s Note. —All characters
in this story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
BY ALISON SMITH
0 ELCLQJiJU (RATTIE ED '
CD. [K .TT(D CH [EM CD
Chapter II. —( Continued .)
PERFUME —oversweet, haunting—was asso-
ciated with Roddy’s early memories of
Elena. In later life the scent of jasmine,
of lily-of-the-valley, brought vivid and clear
before his eyes the beautiful dark face, half-
tinged with a becoming insolence, that had been
Elena’s at that period. She trailed in bright colors,
and perfume clung to her gay silks—the color-
ful rich silks that Laurence loved her to wear—as if
she symbolised for him all the loveliness and romance
of life gathered and held in one dusk-eyed, red-
mouthed, lissom woman. Like a bird-of-paradise, this
dark bride. The little boy thought her wonderful, but
he was secretly afraid of her. Afraid a little of her
laughter ; of the velvety, dark eyes that dwelt indo-
lently and, as yet, without malice on him. He fol-
lowed her ; he stared solemnly at her with big eyes.
She was irritated. “Run away—run away and
play,” she said fretfully.
But there was for Roddy a fascination in what-
ever made him afraid, whatever intrigued him.
Queerly he felt in his strange little soul that his
father’s handsome young wife disliked him, though
as yet it went no farther than a disinclination to be
bothered with him. Little dark brat! She left him
to Lavinia.
He remembered one scene.
It was late in a brilliant morning. He stood in
Elena’s room —by her dressing-table of shining amber
wood and swinging mirror that fascinated him. A
round red powder-bowl stood on it —a flaming note
of color —and there were intriguing glass phials that
caught minute glints of fire from the sunlight. He
stroked the beautiful shining wood and, standing on
tiptoe, looked at himself in the mirror—a little intent
boy with big eyes and a wave of hair tossed back.
He could see, too, the soaring trees and the slope of
glowing hill that showed through the open window
behind him. Another Ruvia lay in the oval mirror—
another Ruvia, yet the same. Perhaps all their images
moved in it. Look! There was Lavinia moving
past; she turned, and he saw her strong dark face
against the light. She passed.
Tiptoeing up again, he touched one of the shin-
ing bottles, its slender, gold-ribboned neck alluring
his fingers. He slipped, and caught at it. It fell to
the floor, shattered in a hundred pieces, and a per-
vading sudden fragrance seemed to fill the room of
sunlight and stillness that had been broken by the
thin ringing of splintered glass. He saw suddenly
Elena’s angry face.
“Little brat! Clumsy little brat!”
He shrank back from the fury in her eyes —her
hand uplifted to strike. But her hand fell again
without touching him —he saw fear cross the angry,
wilful face.
His father stood in the doorway, a big man with
blue eyes that blazed anger.
“Stop, Elena! You’ll not strike my son.”
His father was angry with the glowing, dark
Elena ; he spoke in a voice she had never heard from
him, but with which many a sullen laborer, sweating
that Ruvia might bring forth abundance, was too
familiar.
She changed. She dissembled. The anger dropped
from her face like a mask. She ran to Roddy, she
stooped and kissed him with soft lips, and the per-
fume of violets seemed in the swift, soft embrace to
enfold him. But her eyes were still angry with him,
though she spoke so softly. He knew she hated him.
“Poor Roddy!” she said caressingly. “But you
broke mamma’s perfume.” Her caressing glance went
to his grim father, whose eyes had softened again to
the indulgence they kept for his young wife.
“I’ll buy you more, lass,” he said ; “but if any-
one is to punish Roddy it’ll be myself.”
Elena’s smile was too subtle for him.
Roddy played on the beach. The sand was dry
and hot, and when it slipped down his neck it made
his skin tingle uncomfortably and flush red. His bare
legs and feet were brown, but where his thin shirt
opened the skin showed milk-white except for the
patch the sun had burned.
He built houses of sand, and as he built he
sang—a tuneless song of his own making in the
Fijian that was a second and, indeed, a mother-tongue
to him.
“The blue sky! The shining sky!’’
It went like that.
A big sandhouse for the copra-shed—and behind
it the little huts of the workers. He patted the last
sloping roof and sat back on bare
brown heels to contemplate it. It
was beautiful to him—the pride of
the artist filled him. He was a
slim, beautifully-made child, sun-tanned, with a beauty
of face that was more than the beauty of childhood.
He had great, dark-blue eyes, full of intelligence, and
his fair thick hair was soft and fine.
The green thick lawn ran down to the yellow
beach —under a branching tree his father and Elena
stood watching him. They had paused on their way
back from a morning stroll. In the shadow, inter-
laced intricately with quivering sunlight, Elena in
her yellow dress was an arresting figure. The little
boy loved the picture she made as she smiled lazily
down at him. As he bent absorbedly over his play
again his father’s voice softened —the woman saw the
pride and affection in his eyes.
Her dark gaze brooded on him.
“You love him more than me,” she said. He
laughed at her.
“More than your white Ruve,” she persisted, with
a kittenish flash of spite.
Laurence’s face darkened—she knew how damn-
ably the stain in his son’s blood stung his pride.
“Don’t be foolish,” he said harshly.
She quivered back as if he had struck her, tears
willing up in her lovely eyes. On an impulse of
tenderness, he took her in his arms ; the touch of her
was still a joy to him. But even she could sometimes
go too far—with every year he grew more despotic.
“There, lass,” he said, awkwardly tender. “I spoke
rough to you. But never forget Rod’s more my son
than that loose woman’s that left him. Look at him
—he’s as fair as any other white man’s son. By
God, Elena, he’ll be the equal of any one of them.
He’ll be master of Ruvia, and his wife will be white
and his children after him. Yes, by God —I can see
to that for him. My son.”
Elena, held close, felt the trembling of his strong
arms, and was afraid of the tempest she had raised.
But in her heart she laughed at him. What did he
know of tinged blood? How at times it was as if
an intangible, strong cord drew you to that easier,
more simple life of the dark folk. It was nature ;
Jim couldn’t conquer that in her or in Rod. Still
held, her thoughts went back to Valoa, where her
girlhood had passed suddenly into womanhood. For
a moment before her shut eyes the dark face of Peter,
her lover of that burning time, rose vivid and com-
pelling—Peter, whose soul was closer to hers than
ever her husband’s would be. She slipped from
Laurence’s arms, her scarlet, kissed mouth sullen. But
his gaze was again on the boy, prattling over his
houses of sand.
It was a pity Roddy was so fanciful —unreason-
ablyssand nervous. That troubled Laurence ; but
he was a fine little boy, and as sharp as a needle. His
father supposed vaguely that Roddy would grow out
of his nervous timidity. He was afraid of the dark,
and screamed sometimes if they left him without a
lamp. Laurence, glowering, had once insisted on its
being blown out, and Rod had worked himself almost
into a fit. Laurence gave in after that, but he said
it was only till Rod was a little older. He, the father
of a coward! It was not to
be borne. But, after all, Rod
was barely six. His father did
not know or guess what fan-
tastic tales the child had heard
from the Fijians about him—
even old Lavinia was not im-
peccable in that respect. For
her long, winding tales, when
he could coax one from her,
fascinated Roddy. Shudder-
ing, he would beg the one that
terrified him most again and
again. Wrinkled old Lavinia,
telling it impressively to him,
half-believing it herself, did
not imagine the terrors she was
sowing in the young, strange
soul of him. He made stories
and little songs for himself
and crooned them happily as
he wandered by a stagnant,
slimy creek that had almost
dried at the other side of
the homestead. Great land-crabs scuttled there
in and out of the holes they had tunnelled in
the dark earth. Long, winding passages they
must be, decided the little boy, lying flat on his
stomach to peer down into their darkness. They
would twist and twist through the earth and come
out maybe deep dowm in the black ooze. He knew
a song about the lairo. Supposing a lairo big as a
cow chased you! He squirmed up, almost expecting
to see the monster at his back. He was never afraid
in the day, though ; and sometimes even the darkness
was kind and enfolded him like the wings of a big
black bird. Ruve, his baby sister, wasn’t afraid of
the dark at all; but she was too little to know what
strange monsters would creep out of the night. But
Lavinia wouldn’t let them touch Ruve.
Time that as yet she did not heed beyond the
light of day and the velvet dusking of night brought
Ruve smoothly to her third year. She prattled all
day long now in a quaint medley of Fijian and
scanter English. Barefoot of mornings, Roddy and
she played and fell out and played again, pattered
after Lavinia, watched Elena sewing or lying idly in
the hammock slung beneath the latticing of granadilla-
vines, plagued Timi in the kitchen, chased the scared,
squawking chickens, and escaped often to the entic-
ing yellow beach that was, as yet, forbidden to the
baby girl without Lavinia or some other guardian —
and was, therefore, irresistible.
Inevitably her environment was moulding the
white child. Impressionable as Roddy, the sunlit,
throbbing world about her colored the days that were
long and, to her, filled with event. At that tender age
she took for granted the dark faces about her ; they
made her world. Her father —but she was scared of
him, and hung back when Roddy dashed joyously
after him —was a different color from the other. His
face and hands were tanned, but when his shirt was
open at the strong, thick throat the skin showed
white. She was that color, too, and Roddy was fair;
but most certainly mamma —she called Elena that,
as did the little Roddy, at first unwillingly—was not.
She asked Lavinia in her lisping baby Fijian why
mamma was different. A malicious light glinted a
second in Lavinia’s dark eyes.
“Mamma is a kai-loma,” using the native word
for half-caste.
“What is—a kai-loma ?”
“What you are not,” Lavinia answered enigmati-
cally. “Go—play with Roddy. Have I all day to
talk?”
Why didn’t they all have dark faces?
Lavinia took her solemnly to the lonely grave.
Held there in the woman’s arms, she gathered that
deep down in the earth slept someone who had been
that same uncommon color. That was being dead!
Her baby mind struggled with that mystery. One did
not move —one grew colder and colder. Like the little
white bird she had tried to warm at the kitchen fire
while lazy Timi laughed good-naturedly at her? Was
that being dead? That was being dead, Lavinia told
her heavily ; and they turned and retraced their way
along the sunlit path that wound between the shining
grey trunks of the coconut-trees.
There came an opaline dawn when Ruve, waking
early, heard stir and movement and the quick, urgent,
hushed voices of women. Lavinia’s voice and Elena’s,
weak and exultant, and, overriding them, the voice
of Elena’s mother, who had come over from Valoa
three days ago. Lying still, the quilt thrown back
from her little warm body, she pondered the unwonted
stir. There came then a faint, strange cry that set her
thrilled curiosity all aquiver. She stood up, blinking
a little with sleepiness, and achieved with com-
plete success the perilous adventure of climbing the
railing of her cot and letting herself drop in a panicky
second to the matted floor. Lavinia, arriving oppor-
tunely, met the small, white nightgowned figure at
the door, picked her up, scolded her indulgently, and
had her presently ready for the day in a blue morning
frock. She carried her to Elena’s room.
Elena lay back, rather pale-looking among her
pillows. Her black hair, in two scarlet-ribboned plaits,
made her look even younger than her nineteen years.
By the bed her father sat, stroking Elena’s forehead.
He looked rather dazed. But it was not to Elena or
her father that Ruve’s eyes went rapturously. She
struggled from Lavinia’s arms and went with a gurgle
of joy across to Elena’s mother, sitting in a low chair
with something folded in a fleecy shawl in her lap.
Ruve, ecstatic at her knee, looked down into a
puckered face, took very gently in her own two hands
the tiny fingers of the new-born girl-child. Batila
chuckled pleasantly above them both, but Elena from
the big bed sent a curious glance, half a faint pleasure,
half anew antagonism, at the elder child cooing her
joy in the unconscious babe.


Chapter III.
LAURENCE sat vigilant on the greasy table
behind the scales in the big copra-house, weigh-
ing the sacks the men had carried up from the
long black punts. They were like blurred smudges
now, swaying out on the risen tide that was a medley
of waning colors in the almost-faded afterglow. The
light lay tenderly on Ruvia, glamoring crude outlines
and giving to the new arched bridge over the shallow
homestead creek something of a Japanese effect.
Within the copra-shed itself were cavernous, mys-
terious darknesses between the rough wooden pillars
that lost themselves, too, in darkness near the high
roof. The smoking lantern on the table beside
Laurence cast a yellow, glimmering circle ; the light
sprayed up on his strong face and hard blue eyes,
setting him in sharp contrast to the shock-headed, big-
muscled, half-naked, sweating islanders. The oily
stench of them mingled with the overpowering odor
of copra itself, which dominated every other smell in
the shed. Almost imperceptibly into it, too, drifted
a faint saltiness from the sea. Within, all was stir
and bustle; heavy grunts of men bearing in their
sacks ; deep-toned voices rising and falling ; occasional
laughter at some crude witticism.
Roddy had followed his father into the shed.
He stood close up against his knees, watching with
interest, though he had witnessed the selfsame event
more times than he could iemember. In the lantern-
light, and sharply against the surge of dark humanity,
he showed delicately fair, his bright hair tossed back
in that manner peculiar to himself. Laurence looked
down at him indulgently.
“You’ll have to weigh for dad soon, old man,”
he said, letting his rough hand stray over the fair
head. “I’ll be making you my overseer one o’ these
days. D’ye think you could weigh for dad, Roddy?”
“Yes,” said Roddy confidently. “I could weigh
for you, dad.”
There was an indefinable accent in his voice,
though his father did not notice it. It was the accent
of the half-caste, the native-born, that haunted faintly
even Elena’s liquid tones. Roddy, who spoke Fijian
and English alternately with the same ease, had it
to the full.
“You’ll have to go to school soon, son,” his
father continued. “You’ll learn more than ever your
dad had a chance to, Roddy.”
“What’s school?” asked Roddy, his clear eyes
looking up at his father.
But his father was no longer looking at him ; his
intent, suddenly angered eyes were on the little gnarled
Solomon Islander who had been a source of trouble
ever since he had landed.
Roddy, shrinking back afraid at the sudden silence
of the men, his father’s furious voice and the defiant
eyes of the little Solomon, kept that clear memory
long ; it came back often with the smell of copra
or the smoky flare of a lantern.
“Bring his sack over here,” said his father curtly.
An obsequious Fijian swung it forward.
“Out with it here —in front of me,” said his
father, lowering the lantern. Its contents strewed
themselves on the cement floor —ivory-white coco-
nut, discoloring now ; but from the bottom of the
sack rolled three large and heavy stones.
“Damned swine!” Laurence said in sudden rage.
He had scant patience with men who shirked their
task. His eyes blazed and his neck seemed to thicken.
He made two steps to the little Solomon, who faced
him in a snarling rage, baring strong teeth like a dog.
“Stand up to me, would you?” said Laurence, half-
pausing in surprise. In the second’s space the Solomon
whipped out a copra-knife and ran viciously at him.
Laurence’s fist took him across the jaw, and he
dropped and lay motionless. His knife had caught
Laurence across the fleshy part of the arm ; the blood
started from it. He tore his shirt and got one of the
men to twist and knot it round his arm to staunch
the flow. He looked down at the little Solomon.
His rage seemed to have left him.
“Plucky little black devil —you’ve got guts,” he
owned. “But I’ll have no damned shirking ; you’ll do
the work I pay you for. Hey,
Enoki, bring water and throw
it over this Solomon fool. I’ll
talk with him in the morning.”
He turned on his heel, to
discover Roddy in frightened
tears, and was angry again in a
moment.
“Stop it!” he said, so
fiercely that the little boy gulped
the sob back in his throat and
stood looking at his formidable
father with terrified eyes.
“You should have been a
girl like the other two,” said his
father, stinging contempt in his
tone. “I’ve no use for milk-
sops. Clear out of it.”
Roddy fled ; and Laurence,
treading slowly behind him, felt
the first insidious doubt creep-
ing furtively through his mind.
Elena had come to meet
him on the bridge. She was in
white—a tender figure in the
dimming light, her baby in her
young arms, its soft round head
cuddled drowsily into her beauti-
ful neck. He forgot his vexa-
tion at the sight of her: out
there in the peace of the Pacific
twilight it was as though that
moment of intense life in the
reeking copra-shed when the
Solomon had struck for his
heart had never been. But
Elena herself shattered the ex-
quisite moment; she cried out,
shocked and startled.
“Jim! Jim! Your arm’s bleeding. What have
you done?”
“Knocked that Solomon swine out,” he said
laconically. “He tried to knife me. Let’s get on to
the house, Elena, and you can bathe my arm for me.
I’ll wager Uka’s got a worse headache than he’s had
for months. I’ve an idea he’ll do as I tell him from
now on.”
Elena hurried him to the house.
Wind stirred in the palms that night, and the
rustling of the innumerable fronds made a sound
like rain. The night was dark ; outside the lighted
verandah where Laurence and Elena sat it brooded
thick and impenetrable, and the sound of the sigh-
ing leaves was like the voice of Ruvia itself. Set
there on the dark island ringed with dark seas, the
lit homestead seemed an island itself, ringed also in
mystery. Laurence was not given to introspective
moments—his were practical visions—but to-night the
power of earth dominated his senses. He had always
had that strange, half-unconscious conviction that
Ruvia had an intense, sentient, individual life. It was
at this moment strong within him, but for the first
time he felt it mightier than his own desires. He
glanced across at Elena, sewing in the lamplight; she
raised her dark, passionate eyes and let them rest
dreamily on him. He wondered what her thoughts
were, and whether she, too, felt the power of Ruvia
brooding over them all. She looked very young, but
her eyes were guarded. He thought sometimes that
Ruvia didn’t entirely content her ; she wanted more
than the reflected glory that was proper to his wife.
Well, she was young: she’d settle down in time ; but
it irked him to know that her soul set up a barrier
against him. He wanted all.
Roddy, in pyjamas, sidled out on to the veran-
dah. He was shy of his father since he had fled
from him in the copra-shed. Poor little motherless
lad! His father’s heart warmed to him. After all,
he was very young.
“Come here, son,” he said in the old indulgent
tone, and the child, noticing it, came forward at
once. Elena had put down her sewing and was
watching them both.
“You’re growing a big boy, Roddy,” his father
said gravely ; and the boy, standing still, fixed blue
eyes thoughtfully upon him. “Boys have got to be
brave. Do you think I want the men working here
to think my son a coward? White men don’t show
the white feather, Roddy.”
The little boy looked up only half-comprehend-
ingly. Looking down into the limpid, innocent child
eyes, Laurence felt a rush of affection. Elena’s own
eyes, watching, were suddenly harder.
Ruve came out on the verandah. She seemed to
slide out of the darkness—a little, slim thing in
a white nightgown. She was desperately afraid of her
father, and this dread business of the good-night kiss
was always an ordeal. She saw him as someone big
and awe-inspiring—a hard, red cheek that presented
itself coldly to her soft, quivering mouth. Elena’s
eyes lost something of their brooding hardness. She
smiled at Ruve, and the little girl came forward
confidently to her knee.
“Good night, Elena,” she said, lifting up her soft
child face.
Laurence frowned.
“Say ‘Good night, mamma,’ ” he corrected coldly.
“Upon my word, Elena, you might at least see that
the children address you properly.”
“Oh, poor baby! She hears everyone call me
by my name,” his wife said heedlessly. “Good night,
dear. Kiss your father, and run off to Lavinia.”
The small girl crossed obediently to him, her
bare feet catching the light as they moved noiselessly
over the thick mats. Her soft lips touched diffidently
his cheek. Moved by a sudden impulse, he put his
hands on her shoulders and held her, startled, facing
him.
She was growing ; her fair hair hung past her
shoulders. He was aware then that her eyes—the
eyes of dead Madeline —were inimical; they looked
steadily at him as though they were enemies. For a
moment they did not look like the eyes of a child
at all. Then her lips quivered ; she looked as if she
were going to cry. He let his hands drop, and she was
gone as silently as she had come.
“Upon my soul,” he said, aghast, “I believe the
child hates me.”
“Poor baby,” said Elena with compassion. “She
knows you never wanted her.”
He decided glumly that women and girl-children
were unfathomable beings ; a plain man would never
understand them.
The day that followed was a Saturday, but it
happened also to be a holiday. It dawned indolently
over the neighboring blue coastline of Valoa and the
dark, calm waters between it and hilly Ruvia. It was
like the island Sundays, on which no jangling labor-
bell disturbed the dawn. And, as on Sunday, the
household slept later, though Laurence, an inveterate
early-riser, had demanded his cup of strong coffee at
six. Elena, cuddled up in warm, adorable sleepiness,
refused flatly to join him. She would trail out later,
her hair curling to her waist, and looking, in her rose-
silk kimono, not a day over seventeen.
Laurence strolled to the labor-houses later in
the blue morning. They were two long buildings, with
wide wooden benches for beds built along the wall
and a narrow aisle running between. There the men
slept—their locked boxes between them and the wall —
and maybe an odd sulu, a towel or a grey shirt hang-
ing overhead. The smell of coconut-oil was heavy
in them.
A couple of cement tanks flanked each building.
On top of one a Fijian woman, comely in her youth
and superb strength, was drawing up a bucket of
water. She was the wife of Joeli, Laurence’s head-
man, whose reeded house faced the long buildings,
separated by a common of tramped grass. She smiled
greeting at Laurence, who nodded carelessly at her.
She stared after him, and called out to a woman in
a neighboring hut.
The little Solomon sat in front of the long labor-
house, watching a pot simmering over a slow fire.
Behind him burned the blue sea, and into it ran a
craggy, low headland of rock with a couple of plumy
palms leaning out over the slow-rising, silken tide.
Beyond were the white line of the reef and the piled,
billowy clouds drifting on the purple rim of the sea.
The little Solomon did not move ; there was a
furtive cluster of men in the door of the labor-house
peering out. He sat there like a thing isolated; and,
if he felt dejection, his sullen, brooding attitude
showed nothing but indifference. He got up awk-
wardly as Laurence’s shadow fell over him. There
was a snicker from the shadowy doors.
Laurence was speaking then.
“What tevoro got in you yesterday, Uka?” he
demanded easily. “You deserve a damned good
hiding, but I reckon you got enough, by the look of
your ugly jaw.”
Uka said nothing. He had been stoically pre-
pared for a flogging, with transportation to Valoa
and a sentence of imprisonment to follow. But it
seemed that the boss considered the affair done with
and buried. A great turaga. A flicker of life woke
in his sullen eyes.
“Next time, my man,” said Laurence in a tone
that carried conviction, “I’ll take the bloody hide off
you. D’ye savvy?”
“Savvy, saka,” said Uka. “I good man, b’long
you all time. Too much I savvy.”
That ended it; but Uka was Laurence’s sworn
man from that day.
He could deal with men, but the women bewil-
dered him.
(To be continued next weekd
“Damned swine!” Laurence said in sudden rage.


m
You can buy
with the money
you save by
using MUL-
LARD MARK
I and MARK il
Radio Units
Milliard
MA S TER
(01- I v l I l i l I * ‘ t • c o v »-I Ii'ioan
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
liadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
£
EVERY note
AS THE Ji*Vbwt PLAYS IT.
m
Stromberg
•Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
Dealers throughout Australia
=4MPLI0H^
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
“Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common'
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker.”
“A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your,
new Radio, and enjoy the best
possible reproduction.”
“Fitted in all quality Re*
ceivers.”
“Publication forwarded on
request.”
AMPLION (A/SIA) LIMITED
7f> CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY .
RADIO NEWS
EUROPEAN VALVE DEVELOPMENT.
The Renode Detector .
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Many revolutionary valve applications have been brought to light in
European laboratories in the short history of radio. Examples are the
early double-grid tetrode and the octode, from Holland, and the first
“double-ender” screen-grid valve of the 5625 type, from England. Now,
from Denmark, comes the Renode, an unusual form of detector
apparently inspired by the familiar cathode-ray tube.
Details of the new Danish valve
development are given thus in “Wireless
World” (England), which takes its in-
formation from “Skandinavisk Ror-
fabrik” (Copenhagen):
The valve is a radical departure from
accepted practice, and has no grid in the
ordinary sense of the word. The ar-
rangement of the electrodes is shown in
Fig. 1, and it is seen that the emitting
cathode K is surrounded by a screen
Kc, which has a lengthwise slit parallel
to the cathode. The auxiliary anode Ha
also has in it a slit of the same size.
The electrons emitted by the cathode
pass through the cathode slit and are
thus formed into a beam, which passes
through the slit in the auxiliary anode
to the main anode A. Between the two
anodes the beam passes between two
deflecting plates X and Y.
In action the cathode and deflecting
plates are operated at the same potential,
while the anode and auxiliary anode are
positive with respect to them. The
cathode shield Kc, termed the concen-
trator, has a negative bias applied, and
when this has a certain value the electron
beam between cathode and anode is con-
centrated into a straight path, as shown
at (a) Fig. 2. When the negative bias is
reduced the beam widens out (b), and
eventually some of the electrons hit the
deflecting plates (c). This last condition
is the one normally employed, and the
application of H.F. potentials to the
deflecting plates by a circuit such as that
Fig 1.—ln the Renode, the cathode K is
surrounded by a shield Kc, which has a
slot to permit the exit of electrons.
of Fig. 3 causes the beam to be deflected
alternately towards one or the other of
the plates. The particular plate towards
which the beam is deflected at any instant
collects in consequence an increased
number of electrons, and there is a rise
in current in the external circuit.
Linear Detection.
With the circuit of Fig. 3 full-wave
rectification is secured, and the action
seems very similar to that of the ordinary
push-pull diode detector. As a result of
rectification, a steady potential appears
across the load resistance R, and the
polarity is such that the deflector plates
become negative with respect to the
cathode. If the R.F. input be modulated
Fig. 2. —Depending upon the potentials
applied to the electrodes, the beam of
electrons between cathode and anode can
be made narrow as at (a), brush-like as at
( b ) or it can strike the deflecting plates (c).
this “steady” potential fluctuates with
modulation, and both plates fluctuate to-
gether at the same average potential,
although their instantaneous R.F. poten-
tials may be quite different. As a result,
the anode current is varied at the modu-
lation frequency. The action of the
external circuit is very similar to that of
the Wunderlich valve, which is the
equivalent of a push-pull grid detector.
The internal structure of the Renode,
Fig. 3. —A push-pull input circuit for
use with the Renode when it is operating
as a detector.
however, and the internal mode of opera-
tion are quite different.
It is not essential to employ the Renode
with a push-pull input circuit, and if the
two detector plates be joined together a
conventional input circuit can be used. The
linearity with the Renode is well marked,
and it is claimed that it extends to an
input of at least one volt. As an R.F.
amplifier the valve is also more linear
than an R.F. pentode, and damps a tuned
circuit to which it is connected to a
lower degree, thus leading to improved
selectivity. The stage gain obtainable is
somewhat higher than with conventional
valves, but not greatly so.
This new valve promises to be an
extremely interesting development. The
external appearance differs little from
that of an ordinary valve, and the dimen-
sions are of a similar order.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Owing to the continuance of unfavor-
able conditions, early-morning reception
recently has been hardly worth while.
Often the only station heard well has
been W3XAL on 16.87m., and even that
weakens considerably towards 7.30 a.m.
The only time 2RO is free from signal
interference appears to be before 7 a.m.
on Mondays; on December 16 it was
heard in an excellent performance of “La
Boheme.” The Belgian station ORK is
but a wraith of what it was two or three
months ago, yet occasionally it comes
through with good strength, as, for
example, on December 14, when it gave
a number of splendid items by men’s
choirs. The new German station DJJ
on 10,042kc. announces in several lan-
guages, and on December 13 gave a long
talk in English. Usually, however, it is
too indistinct to be readable.
The principal change in the early-
evening programmes has been the altera-
tion from December 16 of the hours of
the Empire transmission No. 1 to 8.30-
10.30 G.M.T., with news at 10.15. GSB
and GSF are used throughout, with the
addition of GSG, 8-8.50, and of GSJ,
9.10 to 10, G.M.T. While waiting for
the commencement of the Empire trans-
mission listeners may seek for the new
German pair, DJP and DJR, on the 25m.
and 19m. bands respectively. These have
been heard as early as 5 p.m., the former
very clearly.
There has been
much speculation
recently as to cer-
tain “mystery”
stations on the
31m. band. One
of these is on the
same wave-length
as DJN, and is best
heard during the
half-hour after 10
p.m. when DJN is
off the air. It may
easily be confused
with DJN, because
it ceases at the
point (11 p.m.)
when the German
station resumes;
but just before that
time DJN’s folk-
song call can be
distinctly heard in
the background. The stranger is,
I think, LKJI, Jeloy, Norway. An-
other “mystery” station, less frequently
heard, appears a little above GSB.
It plays for a long period at a
stretch without any announcement, the
instruments giving out hollow, reverberat-
ing sounds suggestive of muffled drums.
No list of stations will help here —it is
a harmonic of a D.E.I. station on 63m.,
as a swift transition to that band will
prove.
On December 11 at 6 p.m. a station
was heard a little above EAQ ; it was
probably the Japanese JYS on 30.49 m.
EAQ itself was heard at good strength
at 6.30 a.m. on December 15, giving an
interesting account (in English) of the
newly-formed Spanish Ministry. This
station has a practice, which others might
well follow, of repeating and spelling
any names which the foreign listener
might not readily grasp.
On December 8 a fine programme of
yodelling was heard from a station a little
above 29.2 m. It ceased at 6.30 a.m.
with the announcement in English: “This
programme comes from the heart of
Germany, by the courtesy of the National
Broadcasting Cos., New York.” The
position indicated DIQ, a station which
broadcasts irregularly, to the constant con-
fusion of listeners. The next morning at
7 two stations were heard phoning in
about the same position. These were,
apparently, the two Argentine stations,
LSL2 and LSK3, on 29.13 m. and 29.27 m.
respectively. The former spoke in Eng-
lish, very awkwardly.
On December 11 a concert programme
from the new German station at Saar-
briicken was relayed by DJB.
Many short-wave listeners no doubt
followed the progress of the first Test
match against South Africa from 3LR. In
the writer’s location it was difficult to
hold the Lyndhurst station at an even
strength, while each evening, towards
9.30, the tone-quality deteriorated ; the
commentary was accompanied by a dis-
mal moan, and the effect suggested that
the microphone had been parked in a
kerosene-tin.
P.R.W.
Amateur Chatter.
The festive season was responsible for
the usual complement of amateur greet-
ings over the air, but in Sydney, at
least, such greetings were of a local
nature. The weather gods were unkind
to amateur radio, and, with the country
covered by thunderstorms, incessant
static on the DX bands made inter-
national handshaking difficult. Unfor-
Military portable radio telegraph and telephone equipment
in action during war exercises at Cecil Hills, N.S.W. This
complete station is carried easily by two men.
tunately, the 20-metre band particularly
has suffered from a virulent form of
crackling static. Even so, some DX has
been done, and one interesting QSO was
with WSEZA, who put an R 6 signal into
Australia with only eight watts input and
B-battery plate supply for his transmitter.
It is surprising how great distances can
sometimes be covered with exceptionally


FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmeh Chassikits!
Write (enclosing 3<i. in stamps) for the 30 x 20
" L 'h lavishly Illustrated Constructional T,ildeau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 V/iiliam St.. Sydney
They use this type
in the THIRSTY West
COO-EE
WINDMILLS
Enclosed
Gear.
On the far-flung plains of Western Australia they rely on mills
of the Coo-ee type for their stock water.
The Coo-ee is a self-governing mill and turns freely in the lightest
airs, but is so constructed as to be perfectly storm-proof.
Why not follow the lead of the West and instal Coo-ees, whether
it be north, east, central or southern Australia?
Nothing but perfect safety for your stock and absolute satisfac-
tion to yourself can come from, Coo-ee Windmills.
With the Coo-ee it is necessary to oil only once every 12 months.
Our sole agent for Western Australia is W. D. Moore and Co.,
Fremantle.
Write for Illustrated Windmill Catalogue.
DAHKS
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
low power, and in this instance there
was no question of unusually good DX
conditions, owing to the ever-present
deluge of atmospheric interference.
Consistent DX can be done, particularly
on 20 metres, with less than 10 watts ;
but the amateur expectant of such results
should do the obvious and put every
ounce of efficiency
into the radiating
system, for therein
lies the solution. A
transmitting station
is only "as good as
its antenna, and with
very low power this
consideration is of
paramount import-
ance
In an editorial, “T.
and R. Bulletin”
(England) points out
that 10-metre sta-
tions are congregat-
ing at the 28.000 kc.
(low-frequency) end
of the band, and
that DX contacts
are being missed by
stations at the high-
frequency end. This
may be just coinci-
dence, and due to a
con c e ntration of
listening at the other
end; but, on the
other hand, there
may be a wide differ-
ence in the DX be-
havior of radiations
at the two extremes.
Australian 10-metre
men have already
concluded this latter to be the case,
owing to repeated failure to raise DX
near 30,000 kc.
Short tests were run between the
writer’s station and portable VK2NU on
56mc., and no other stations were heard
on the band. Two or three months will
probably reveal a return to popularity
of this most useful band, when new ap-
paratus is completed to overcome the dis-
advantages of receivers and transmitters
used previously. Several new ideas for
transmitters and receivers have come
to light recently.
VK2NO.
Aerial Control Panel.
A. G. Mackie (Mf. Isa, Q.) passes
on a good idea for doublet aerial tun-
ing:—
Herewith details of the manner in
which I have been using a Radiokes
matching transformer. People who do
not mind twirling an extra knob or two
can by this means secure a marked im-
provement in reception.
I am using a standard Genalex MlBs
four-band all-wave A.C. receiver with a
doublet (30ft. per side) with transposed
lead-in. I found that changing the
secondary taps was too tedious, and
therefore made up an auxiliary control
panel as in the diagram. This permits of
a combination of tapping points being
connected to the receiver, or even the
use of a direct aerial and earth. For
some wave-lengths it may be found neces-
sary for best results to earth the aerial;
that is, earth the terminal of the match-
ing transformer. However, individual
experience will indicate the best posi-
tions for operation for a given frequency.
One constructional point requiring at-
tention is that the tapping switches must
have good, reliable contacts ; otherwise
reception is marred by the noise of bad
contact.
Casual Comment.
“Teleblurb”: There’s nothing like
enterprise. Ambulating through the city
streets the other day, the wife and I
flattened our noses against a shop win-
dow to help others see a television
scanner at work. Assuming the most
infantile expression she could, my better-
half went in to interview the custodian
of the gear. She was informed that prac-
tically any type of motor would do, that
the scanning disc was cheap at half the
price, that we could hook up our radio
to see the transmissions (and on a
pentode output tube, too, mind you).
Apparently the scraggy little motors
shown us never overheat and never
“hunt,” the thin aluminium disc would
never wobble, as does a circular saw, the
round holes in the disc would give good
pictures, and the fact that two separate
prime movers supply our State with
alternating current wasn’t worried about.
Maybe what we were told was true, but
long experience with high-speed rotating
gear, my respect for multi-stage ampli-
fliers and sheer detestation of pentodes
and superhet quality will, I fear, long
guide my itching fingers with caution
where television is concerned.
The Amateur and Television.
“The amateur will be pushed forward,
rather than out, by television. The radio
amateur has been a pioneer in the high-
est sense of the word, exploring new
fields that have later been taken up by
others,” said Philo T. Farnsworth, vice-
president of Farnsworth Television In-
corporated, and inventor of the devices
used by his company, in an interview in
New York.
He had been asked
what part the amateur
might expect in the de-
velopment of television.
Some have taken the atti-
tude that television should
first be absolutely per-
fected in the laboratory
before being released to
the public, thus eliminat-
ing the amateur com-
pletely. This, however,
is not Mr. Farnsworth’s
attitude towards the prob-
lem.
“As soon as technical information can
be released,” said Mr. Farnsworth, “ama-
teurs will have an opportunity to make
receivers.” This information would be
available to the amateurs in the near
future, and before very long component
parts would be procurable at prices that
would not be prohibitive.
“Amateurs have actually been re-
sponsible for exploring the short-wave
bands required for high definition tele-
vision,” continued Mr. Farnsworth, “and
as a partial compensation for this I feel
that they should at least have oppor-
tunity to participate in the development
of television, and if this opportunity is
given amateurs I feel that they will con-
tribute substantially towards television.”
A striking photographic representation of H.M. the King, illustrating “This
Great Familyduring the Empire broadcast of Christmas, 1935.
(By courtesy of the B.B. C.)
He pointed out that television will open
a tremendous field for engineers and
technicians, and predicted that not a
few of these television engineers will
come from the ranks of the amateurs.
Two-thirds of the men forming the
highly-technical staff of the Farnsworth
laboratories were at one time amateurs.
—“Radio” (U.S.A.).
Micro-wave Experiments.
Two English amateurs, not content
with the usual ultra-short-wave work in
the region of five metres, have turned
their attention to waves around 60 centi-
metres, and have succeeded in communi-
Micro-wave Experiments.
eating across London, reports “English
Mechanics.” They are Dr. C. G. Lemon
and Mr. J. G. Hobbs. Contact was es-
tablished between the “Daily Telegraph”
building and Regis House, near London
Bridge, with very inexpensive apparatus.
The transmitting and receiving stations
were screened and hidden from each
other by the huge mass of metal form-
ing Cannon-street railway station, indi-
cating that micro-waves are subject to
the same screening characteristics as
ordinary ultra-short waves.
During the test, the nature of the
transmissions was in the form of a
narrow beam, being at the. transmitter
only a few inches wide—this diverged so
gradually that at a distance of one mile
the width was less than six yards. It is
in this development that the secrecy of
the system becomes apparent, as the
signals from the station can be picked
only only when the receiver is in the
direct path of the beam. If another
station attempts to pick up the trans-
mission, the receiver for which the mes-
sage is intended indicates immediately
that the channel is being tapped.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the Tattersall Club’s Cup at Rand-
wick on New Year’s Day Spear Prince
justified the high opinion formed of him
by this Page on the strength of his Bris-
bane performances and his Sydney track
work. Backed from sevens to fives, the
Spearfelt—Pale Lavender gelding was
almost first to move —he had the rails
position—and going out of the straight
little Hanley took him to the front.
There he remained. The jockey did not
bother to clap on the pace till his mount
had traversed about half the 12 furlongs ;
then he quickly set up a lead of six
lengths. Thenceforward nothing ever
got close enough to Spear Prince to occa-
sion his supporters the slightest worry,
and he won at his ease by three lengths
from Broad Arrow (8 to 1), who had an
interesting tussle with Vice-Royal (11 to
2) for second place; the pair were
lengths ahead of the rest of the field.
Spear Prince completed a good job
in 2min. 33sec. He has been taken back
to Brisbane, but may go south again for
the Australian Cup. In a sense it is a
pity his form has been so thoroughly
exposed. A horse that can make his
own running, as he can, and stay almost
any distance would, with 7st. or there-
abouts, win four Sydney Cups out of
five. It is now clear that if he had been
brought from Brisbane in time to settle
down he would have won both Summer
and Tatt.’s Club cups. Queensland han-
dicap form is obviously good. A bit
better, perhaps, than Sydney form if Peter
Pan is left out.
* * * *
Randwick witnessed a “demonstration”
after the unexpected improvement of
Ilium, a two-year-old. Moorefield was
the scene of another on Saturday. After
Cherry King (14 to 1) had won the Peter
Moore Gold Cup backers lined the
weighing enclosure, making uncompli-
mentary remarks, and Leger people sup-
plied a boisterous contribution. George
Price had saddled up Loud Applause and
Cherry King, and the three-year-old was
heavily backed; the older horse was
neglected. He seems to require plenty
of racing to bring him to his best.
Bachian was favorite. He essayed to
lead throughout, but Silver Jubilee kept
him going, dropping out at the turn.
Bachian then looked “home,” but Flamari
(backed from tens to sixes) put in his
claim and quickly settled the Queens-
lander. The three-year-old just failed
to hold off Cherry King, ridden vigor-
ously by Shean; half a neck was the
margin, Bachian being a length and a
half away and Prittle Prattle fourth. The
time for the mile, lmin. 40sec., beat Cave
Dweller’s course record by quarter of a
second, and Cherry King’s owner, M.
Shaw, collected an additional £lOO on
that account.
Windbird was a very false favorite (at
evens) for the Moorefield Handicap. He
failed to run out the 10 furlongs—was,
in fact, beaten three furlongs from home.
Repere (15 to 1), Bathurst-owned but
Moorefield-trained, extorted grins from
the bookies when he flashed up on the
rails in the last furlong, to beat Dul-
cedo (from Brisbane) and Cockpen;
Fairoic and Windbird followed. Tin-
galba ran a sound race, and is an early
winner. So is Dulcedo, who eased in
the betting from threes to sixes.
Ezra Norton, of “Terewth,” owns a
nice colt called The Palmist. The Palm-
ist was a hot favorite for the Juvenile,
but he bumped a really smart one in
John o’ Groats, by Heroic —Winter.
Though he had No. 15 barrier position,
Heroic’s son was backed from tens to
sixes, and he bounded away smartly to
win comfortably from The Palmist —he
will do better on a bigger track —and
James Murdoch’s filly Rouge Blanc —
second most of the way.
Walgett-owned and -trained Goorka
made light of his list. lib. in the Corin-
thian Plate. Ridden expertly by R.
Carter, he went out at 7 to 2, a fine price
in view of his win in similar company
a. Rosehill. Guardafui made a good
effort to catch Goorka, but was well
beaten in the run home. Kenya Green
was a poor third.
Hammer Head (6 to 1) looked lucky
to beat Misnomer and Beaupre in the
first division of the Three- and Four-
year-old. The trio finished in line with
heads separating them. Beaupre went
wide at the turn, and Misnomer after
passing the furlong pole appeared to
stumble. The second division was won
by Patusan (5 to 1), with Honan Boy
(from a long way back) second, and
Sancta third. The favorite, Overique, a
Cessnock mare, was never in the hunt.
Fernacre (2 to 1) proved too brilliant
for Short' Wave and Canegrass in the
first division of the Flying Welter. The
high scale suited him, and McCarten,
hopping him out, had the race well in
hand from the top of the straight. The
second division went to Mrs. Clayton’s
Dazzle (9 to 2), on whom Munro waited
on the leaders; coming with the last
run Dazzle scored cleverly from Launce-
lot and Imbiber. The favorite, Silver
Song, went sourly.
Si * * *
In the 1935 Standish Handicap Press
Gang was first and Ogwell second ; in
the 1936 Standish Handicap Ogwell was
first and Press Gang second. “And if
Ogwell and another horse hadn’t cut
across me, and if my fellow hadn’t hung
in after that, the result would have been
the same as last year,” wailed Skidmore,
Press Gang’s rider, afterwards. It was
Ogwell’s third successive victory, and in
the circumstances 7 to 1 was a good
price. Press Gang (11 to 2) was defeated
by half a length ; The Monarch (50 to 1)
was a fair third. Cardinal was favorite,
chiefly because Voitre had the mount,
but he was never sighted, and another
heap of currency was thrown away on
Barracker.
e f & 0 • 0
Skidmore was also on the runner-up,
Hot Shot (3 to 1), in the Bagot Handi-
cap—he actually rode four seconds on
his most unfortunate day at Flemington.
At the finish Hot Shot was fast catching
Greenhorn ; another stride and he had
passed W. R. Kemball’s horse, who went
out at 25 to 1. Musste was third and
Ruach fourth. W. R. Kemball’s string
has been the means of putting tens of
thousands into the bookmakers’ bags this
year.
* * * *
Though the prize-money aggregated
£2OOO, fields were lamentably small at
Ascot (Melbourne); only 48 horses
sported silk during the afternoon—eight
per race. Handsome stakes are wasted
on shortsighted owners. The truth is
that quality gallopers are scarce in the
off-season, while plenty of the mediocre
variety can be found for “down-the-line”
fixtures, such as Epsom and Mentone,
where Purse and Trial events are staged.
There ought to be a good time coming
for Ascot when the remodelling is
finished and new grandstands and ad-
ministrative buildings are erected at the
back of the course.
Multudo (Moabite —Pulcritudo), who
raced in Perth and Sydney before com-
ing to Melbourne, revealed a belated
recovery of form by taking the Ascot
Handicap of six furlongs, worth £4OO to
the winner. On December 21 he set a
terrific pace in the Welter Handicap at
Moonee Valley, but tired, and was beaten
by Ogwell and Chelandric. Subsequently
Ogwell landed the Standish Handicap
and Chelandric (who cost C. B. Kellow'
1400gns. as a yearling) was seen in win-
ning brackets at Epsom. Favorite at
Ascot, Multudo again dashed to the front
as soon as the barrier rose, but Skid-
more did not adopt “go-for-the-doctor”
tactics; he was content to establish a
lead of two lengths from L’Elite, who
chased him all the way. Barracker came,
home fairly well, half a neck behind
L’Elite, but he has fallen from his high
estate as a sprinter.
When Petau (Cyklon—Begonia) an-
nexed the V.R.C. Stand Handicap as a
four-year-old, James Scobie thought he
had an excellent chance of winning one
of the Cups for E. E. D. Clarke with
this handsome bay; but Petau trained
off that spring. Last season he won
the Ascot Cup (beating Sarcherie) and
the Ascot Thousand, and he lowered the
colors of Gold Trail in the V.R.C.
Autumn Elandicap. After that Petau
retrograded. On Saturday he was
weighted at 81b. less than Dick Devon
in the Commonwealth Handicap of
miles and 40 yards. Outside of stable
followers, none wanted to back Petau,
and, at 14 to 1, he was the longest-priced
of half a dozen starters. The Cyklon
stallion is trained within a stone’s-throw
of Ascot, and likes the course. Villius
tried to steal the race, but Petau ran
him down at the home turn, and went
on to score nicely from Dick Devon and
Villius.
Another and even bigger surprise to
Ascot punters was the victory of Gold
Tier (Royal Divorce —Gold Necklet) in
the Empire Welter. Gold Tier had not
raced since May of last year, and on
that account was allowed to t go out at
20 to 1. Ridden with admirable judg-
ment by Ashley Reed, the former M.L.
gelding overtook the pacemaker, Your
Honor, at the half-distance and van-
quished him comfortably, Eglonite being
a close third. Gold Tier belongs to Wal-
lace Mitchell, the paddock bookmaker,
and is trained by C. T. Godby. Before
coming into Mitchell’s hands "the black
gelding was tried over hurdles at Caul-
field without success. He now has won
three times out of four starts for the
new owner. On Saturday Mitchell fielded
heavily against five horses and got a
“skinner.”
8 fi » • • §
Bought for 65gns. as a yearling, Patra
(Drake —Palladia) promises to develop
into an extremely useful filly. Her win
in the Royal Handicap for two-year-olds
at Ascot was registered in most attrac-
tive style. Patra took some time to find
her legs, but when she settled down to
galloping it became evident that the
opposition was outclassed. Smothering
the leaders, Patra won with a lot in
hand from Claroveldt (Fernkloof —Claro-
let), with Pataleen, a daughter of Great
Star, third. No juvenile in Melbourne
has shown more promise as a stayer than
Patra. She has been turned out for a
spell, and may be one of the autumn
celebrities in her class.
Rhodes Scholar, a brother to Bon
Cretien and Charles Fox, let his backers
down with a thump in the Sandringham
Handicap for three-year-olds. Piloted by
Voitre, he went out at cramped odds, but
was in trouble from the beginning. The
race went to Nissa, who, like Patra, gave
Drake a good stud advertisement.
* * * *
When Purser was disqualified, on the
ground of inconsistent running, after the
Caulfield Cup of 1924, it became neces-
sary to dispose of Heroic and other
horses in which the Purser crowd was
interested. The V.R.C. committee re-
fused to endorse the sale of Heroic to
the late Martin Wencke. History has
repeated itself, in a way. J. T.
Jamieson, who was disqualified over
the running of Country Party at
the Melbourne Cup meeting, trans-
ferred the lease of Closing Time to
Joe Pyke, a Melbourne friend. After
the horse had been entered and weighted
for the Standish Handicap his nomina-
tion was rejected without explanation.
The lease to Jamieson has only a few
months to run, and the future of Clos-
ing Time is indefinite. He may remain
in the Caulfield stable of P. B. Quinlan
and be raced in Melbourne, but only by
some person approved of by Hunter
White, the A.J.C. committeeman-owner.
* * * *
Cueesun’s effort to win the Perth Cup
for the third time was a failure ; he was
not even placed. The race was run in
slow time (3min. 29isec.) and three out-
siders, Picaro (20 to 1), Staunch (20 to 1)
and the Derby winner Yaringa (12 to 1),
had the finish to themselves. Picaro, who
was bred in Victoria (he is by Devizes —
Emilia), won by two lengths and a half,
and Yaringa was another length and a
half behind Staunch. The tote paid a
better price than the ringmen offered ;
Picaro dividends for ss. were £7 Is. and
£2 3s.
Four days before Spear Prince won the
Tattersall’s Club Cup, Faith Australia
cleared out with the Newmarket Handi-
cap at Ascot, Brisbane, and cut the State
record for a mile and a half to 2min.
30Jsec. This is the mare that ran third
to Soft Step and Spear Prince in the
Queensland Cup, in which the Austra-
lasian record for two miles was lowered
to 3min. 2lf sec. She was a bad third
on that occasion, and her easy first on
Saturday week must have increased the
confidence of the Spear Prince party, so
noticeably exhibited in the betting ring
at Randwick on New Year’s Day, and
on the totes.
* * * *
Doubles-tote divs. paid on Christmas-
New Year races, all for 55.: At Perth,
£52 2s. on Jongleur (Officer Handicap,
7 to 1 s.p.) and Desert Hero (Railway
Stakes, 16 to 1 s.p.); £4l 195., Desert
Hero and Aguenor (State Handicap, 4
to 1 s.p.); £3O 9s. Aguenor and Dame
Gossip (Lee Steere Handicap, 10 to 1
s.p.); £142 Is., Dame Gossip and Trem-
ney (Swan Handicap, 10 to 1 s.p.);
£7O 25., Jongleur (Breeders’ Plate, 3 to 1)
arid Picaro (Perth Cup, 20 to 1). At
Cheltenham (S.A.), £ll 18s. 9d. on
Amalia (Port Adelaide Cup, 2 to 1) and
Parados (Croydon Highweight, 7 to 1);
£1 155., Amalia and Clearness (second
Croydon Highweight, 7 to 1). At Eagle
Farm (Q.), £174, 18s. 6d. on Wolantina
(Trial Welter, 25 to 1) and Sam Flick
{third Novice, 4 to 1). For the second
leg of this double no tickets were taken
out on the .first or second horses (Merry
Force won and Star Scholar was runner-
up), so backers of Wolantina-Sam Flick
scooped the pool. Had the thing hap-
pened on a Sydney course, instead of
being £174 18s. 6d. richer, each would
have lost his money.
* * * *
Harold Brewer, secretary of the N.S.W.
Trotting Progress Association, in reply:
“Cat’s-meat” (B. 18/12/ ’35) certainly chose
a suitable title for his absurd outburst against
the proposal to hold night trotting at Brisbane.
He sneers at the idea of racing for “sport
only, no betting,” and performs verbal Cather-
ine wheels over the suggestion that trotting is
an unimportant industry. In the insolence of
his ignorance, he assures all and sundry that
the trotter is a “squib,” a “cocktail,” “a hater
of hard work,” and of “mongrel blood.”
Melbourne has some very successful speedway
trotting clubs racing for sport only. Trotting-
men in Adelaide raced for years for sport only
and without betting. Not two years ago they
received permission to race at night, with bet-
ting. Now, on the average, 22,000 people
attend trotting meetings on Saturday nights at
Wayville. Perth (W.A.) was in a similar posi-
tion in 1914; now the attendance on Saturday
nights amounts to slightly more than l-12th
of the population of Perth. In February this
big club will hold the inter-Dominion trotting
championship, with £6lOO in stakes. In N.S.W.
there are 22 clubs in operation. One, the
N.S.W. Trotting Club, has paid £40,169 in
taxes to the Government in five years.
A conservative estimate of the capital in-
vested in trotting in N.S.W. is £550,000 (one
stud alone cost £37,000), and over 12,000 in
the mother State are directly interested in and
dependent on trotting for a living.
As for being a “squib,” a “cocktail” and “a
hater of hard work,” the trotting horse, it is
true, has not the breeding background of the
English thoroughbred galloper. But so quickly
has he developed (purely from trotting stock)
that European experts recently declared Mam-
brino King to be one of the finest horses in the
world, and a committee of the best British
judges pronounced Auditor 13 (by Robert Mc-
Gregor, a Hambletonian), “the very best type
of English officers’ charger.” In Russia,
France, Italy, Belgium, Holland, Austria, Ger-
many and Japan trotting is subsidised by the
Government because the immense value of
the trotter for military and general utility
purposes is realised.
R. C. Simpson, of Armidale (N.S.W.), one
of the biggest breeders of trotting horses
in Australia, states that “Roy Redmond” —his
trotting stallion —“can travel 80 miles a day,
walking or trotting (military gaits), carrying
a military load.” As he claims, “such a horse
is an asset to the horsebreeding industry of
any country.”
Three months ago Joe Dash (a trotter) was
driven 35 miles, from Canterbury (N.S.W.) to
Menangle, competed in two races (a mile and
a half each) and was then driven back —73
miles in one day.
In 1912 James Cavanagh drove A. Z. from
Temora to Young (54 miles), won a race (a
mile and a half), and was then driven back
the same day—llo+ miles. Yet “Cat’s-meat”
asserts that trotters are squibs.
Trotting is a poor man’s sport. Any man
can use a trotter in his business, drive his
family out for pleasure on Sunday and race
him at trotting meetings the following day.
He has no need to employ a trainer or a
jockey—he can do all this involves himself.
With millions all over the world who love
him, I say, “Give me the trotter before any
other breed or class of horse.”
“Troller”: Zane Grey’s first shy at the
big fish will be at Montagu Island, off
the southern coast of N.S.W., where the
great marlin congregate during February
and March. The first of these fish to be
caught on game tackle came aboard the
launch in 1934. Since then the possi-
bilities of the sport have caught on, until
early this year a small party landed 40
swordfish, weighing up to 3701 b. The
Bulletin stood alone for years in point-
ing out the possibilities of big-game
fishing off Australian coasts.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Park Stakes: Fair Diana ; next,
Many Fril or Jovial Son.
Flying Welter: Heritor; next,
Moaenza.
Canterbury Handicap: Dulcedo or
Tremayne ; next, Limbohm or Sally.
Campsie Handicap: Dulcedo or
Sally; next, Spear Belle or Chat-
terelle.
FOR EPSOM ON SATURDAY.
Moorabbin Handicap: Radiant
Star or Ruach ; next, Steer Clear.
Frankston Welter: Radiant Star
or Capris ; next, Strymon.
Epsom Plate: Chelandric.
Epsom Purse: Vim ; next, Nissa.


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearm Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
THE WONDER RIFLE’’
There is no better rifle made
than the “WALTHER.” It uses
22 cal. long-rifle cartridges, is
a single-shot, repeater, and
automatic ALL IN ONE RIFLE.
Price £lO/10/-, postage extra.
SIL ROHU,
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
k
ķ
'Heoct to- iwuAetjP-
b.v/A:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
fOR
mm
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
• UNDERWEAR
The
Latest
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING BOOTS
A great advance on the ordinary elastic-side
boot. The “Zipp” allows you to step out
quickly and easily. Made of strong, tan calf
leather, sewn soles. Ideal for riding or general
use. “Zipp” Fastener on front or at side.
State which is preferred. oo /q
Price, per pair 00/tf
Exclusive to
PIKE BROTHERS
QUEEN STREET - -
LTD.,
BRISBANE.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
At 86 the negro pug Starlight is re-
counting his ring reminiscences in Mel-
bourne —not writing them, for the old
man never learned to read or write. In
his preliminary publicity, Starlight asserts
that though he met royalty he never got
swelled head, and though he mixed with
the scum of the earth he never lost his
self-respect. He claims to have been the
oldest “practising” pug in the world ; he
was 60 when he fought his last fight.
* * * *
“Sapristi”: Poor old Camera has no
luck. When it was announced that he
was to fling himself into the Abyssinian
battle-line, all approved his patriotism.
It turns out that he was flung in ; paying
a flying visit to Italy under the impres-
sion that he was immune from service,
he was pinched by Musso’s men, who
were deaf to his stories of contracts wait-
ing in America.
Ins and Outs
After all, the Australians were unlucky
to lose the second Test at Jo’burg. With
399 to get, they lost Brown for 6. Mc-
Cabe joined Fingleton, and at once
walked into the bowling, his partner play-
ing a praiseworthy defensive shot. Fingle-
ton went for 40, but Darling partnered
McCabe, and.the pair were together when
an appeal against the light was upheld,
and was followed by rain which made
it a drawn match. McCabe was 189
and Darling 37 ; three hours to go and
only 126 to win. The appeal against the
light was made by Wade on the ground
that his close-in fieldsmen could not see
the ball.
The luck of the Tests, against the Aus-
tralians in the second match against the
Afrikanders, turned decidedly in their
favor in the third match at Cape Town.
After rain had washed away what was to
have been the first day’s play, Richard-
son won the toss, and Brown (121) and
Fingleton (112) gave their side a great
start. Nobody else did much against the
bowling of Balaskas (4 for 126). After
more rain on the second day (which was
to have been the third), the umpires de-
cided that the wicket was good enough:
Richardson closed at 8 for 362 ; and the
Afrikanders were skittled for 102
(Nourse 44 n.o. ; Grimmett 5 for 32,
O’Reilly 1 for 24, F.-Smith 2 for 21).
Next day the pitch had improved suffi-
ciently to admit of Wade (39) and
Siedle (59) putting on 87 for the first
wicket. After that Grimmett (5 for 56)
and O’Reilly (25 overs, 15 maidens, 35
runs, 4 wickets) found spots, and the
last man fell at 182. Australia by an
innings and 78.
* H-- * *
Victoria won outright from N.S.W. at
Melbourne, scoring 392 and 210 to 295
and 219. Lee was Victoria’s star bats-
man in both innings, making 94 and 75.
Cooper, for N.S.W., came out of the
match with 7-178. Queensland took a
horrid walloping at Adelaide—an innings
and 266.
* * * S: .
N. and Queensland put on a dull
show at their second meeting in Sydney.
N.S.W. won: 366 and 9 for 376 (closed)
to 344 and 216. Attendances for four
days totalled 14,612 ; in Melbourne Brad-
man drew a lot more than that on a
working day.
* * * *
Bradman has made a spectacular
return to first-class cricket, and inci-
dentally has assured the State associa-
tions concerned of a decent profit out
of what threatened to be a lean season.
In his first match for S.A. at Adelaide
he made 117 against N.S.W., and fol-
lowed with 233 against Queensland on
Christmas Day (there were 11,795 on-
lookers). In Melbourne, 39,777 cus-
tomers attended over two days to see
him hit up 357 against Victoria —his
fifth triple century and the highest
notched against Vic. in a Shield , game.
Next day there were only 2000-odd when
the home team did its stuff.
The South Aus. total was 569;
Parker (63) was next-best. Victoria
made 313 (Gregory 80, Quin 52, Lee 52)
and 5 for 250 (Rigg 124). S.A. on the
first innings.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: S.A. is a moral for the
Shield. The last time the Wheatfielders
collected the trophy was in 1926-27. With
Bradman in the side the State is prom-
ised a return to the old days when Clem
Hill proved a match-winner off his own
bat. Even more reassuring are signs that
a real new bowler or two has been dis-
covered after a long drought.
* H= H= *
“Shabash”: Spice was added to the
Tarrantulas’ nine wickets’ victory over
Bengal-Assam by the fact that when the
Australian team was chosen 8.-A. pro-
tested against it as consisting mostly of
museum pieces who were in their prime
in the days of Mahmud the Idol-Breaker.
Macartney, appearing after his illness,
knocked up a bright 85, and others
battled solidly to make the total 308.
8.-A. went for 136 and 184. Oxenham
(6-66) and Mair (7-123) led the Aus-
tralian attack.
The team went on to trounce All
India by eight wickets in something
under two days. Oxenham bagged 7 for
"No bathing costume, auntie? Just Wait awhile and I'll lend you mine.”
37 and Macartney 8 for 59. Bryant hit
up 29 out of 99 in the tourist’s first dig
and Bill was 45 n.o. at the finish.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queenslanders got a laugh
at least out of their licking in Adelaide.
Scott, once of N.S.W., was one of the
umpires. Gilbert accidentally bumped
a delivery on the leg side. Bradman, who
was batting, “frowned at the little abori-
ginal,” to quote the report, and Scott
hastened to reprimand the astonished
darky. Another bumper, this time on
the off, struck Badcock on the wrists.
Again Scott took a disapproving stand.
Tumbling to what was going on, the
crowd went into fits. “Scotty,” in his
Sheffield days, was reckoned the wildest
fast bowler we have produced in Aus-
tralia.
In the N.S.W. v. Queensland match at
Sydney, Gilbert was no-balled and
“warned” by umpire Borwick after the
new fashion. The public knew nothing
about it till the last day ; then, going out
to bat, the likeable black was received
with sympathetic cheers by a small but
sporting crowd. The incident will be
noted by the historian of the Decline and
Fall of Cricket, now a game fit for any
lady to play.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rube”; N.S.W. Country Week, which
opens at the White City next week,
promises to be a record for State tennis,
There are 127 entries, 53 from women’s
teams. By a new arrangement elimina-
tion rounds are abolished, and every team
will get a show, if only in knock-out
rounds. Competitors will play six sets
a day, instead of eight, as heretofore.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Crawford has
plenty of reason to say that he is fed
up with tennis for the time being. Since
1928—missing ’29, ’3O and ’3l—he has
toured Europe and America playing
Davis Cup tennis, in addition to taking
part in any championships knocking
about. By way of a spell, on his return
to Australia he has figured con-
tinuously in State and national cham-
pionships, as well as against visiting
tennis celebrities. At time of writing,
though he says he is badly in need of a
rest, he is in the country playing exhi-
bitions against third-rate performers “in
the way of business,” as one tennis
chronicler puts it.
“Baseline”: Perry’s injuries still con-
tinue to give trouble. He is going under
a manipulative surgeon who treated him
for a previous injury of the kind. It is
more than likely, however, that his en-
forced spell from tennis will do him
more good than all the surgeons. Like
Crawford, the Englishman has now been
playing five consecutive years, almost
literally from China to Peru.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Jim Ferrier leaves for
Britain about the middle of February,
which should land him on a British golf
course some six weeks before the British
amateur at St. Andrews—not too much
time to get the hang of things. He is
entering, too, for the open, which starts
at Hoylake on June 22. Australians will
wish the lad the best of luck ; but, how-
ever he fares, the tour and the oppor-
tunity of watching the world’s best in
action should improve his game out of
sight. We have seen how that happened
in a degree as the result of the visit of
the American professionals last year, and
further improvement may be counted as
a certainty.
“Hoylake”: St. Andrews has formally
invited an Australian team to Britain in
1938. A South African side will make
the tour in 1937. There will be no inter-
national matches, the visitors being
stacked up against something compara-
tively soft like leading clubs.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland is annoyed
with Tasmania. Golfers in both States
have been wangling for years to have a
championship meeting allotted them.
Queensland recently announced a big
increase of prize-money for the next
State championship meeting, the idea
being to attract such a glittering
galaxy of players that local national-
championship claims could not longer
be denied. Now Tassie is to stage a big
tourney from March 28 to April 11. It
has bit the Government’s ear for a sub-
sidy which enables the brass for the pro-
fessionals in the open events to reach
£5OO.
Miscellaneous
The All-Blacks beat London Counties
at Twickenham, by 24 to 5. But in their
last match, also at Twickenham, England
trounced them (for the first time) by 13
to nil —three tries (Prince Obolensky got
two) and a field goal. Maoriland still
produces great footballers, but they have
taught other countries how to beat them.
“R.U.”: “G.M.” has been badly
briefed (B. 1/1 / ’36). Little exception can
be taken to Owen Smith’s inclusion in
the English team against the All-Blacks.
He is an Afrikander and therefore not
a “foreigner,” while he fulfils one of
“G.M.’s” requirements by being practi-
cally a permanent resident of Britain,
where he practises medicine. Also he
has played several times for England
without protest. Prince Obolensky is a
prad of another color. An unnatural-
ised Georgian, he has no earthly right in
an English team, and the selection has
been strongly criticised in England itself.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: They have been argu-
ing in Britain as to who holds the record
for 100 yards, some admirers of Wyckof
rating his 9 2-ssec. as better
than Donaldson’s 9|sec.
The best way to settle the
matter is to work the times
out to one-hundredths. This
gives Donaldson’s time as
9 37i-100sec. against the
American’s 9 40-100 sec.
Worth noting, while on the
job, that Tolan’s 10 3-10 sec.
for the 100 metres (109|
yards) at the last Olympiad equals
Donaldson’s figures for the 100 yards.
* * * *
“Ped.”: At the biennial conference of
the A.A.A.U. at Hobart, Queensland is
to make a praiseworthy attempt to have
walking races cut out of future cham-
pionship meetings. Of all the egregious
stunts which cling to the skirts of athletic
sports, walking, so called, is the worst.
Competitors do not walk, as walking is
ordinarily understood, but travel at a
sort of fast amble.
* * * *
“Ship’s Runner”: The Anniversary
Regatta on Sydney Harbor will witness
a revival of races between butcher boats,
which once figured prominently on the
programme. In the old sailing-ship days
ships entering Sydney Harbor were the
prize of the first ship’s providore who
could get a boat’s crew on board and
grab the order for provisioning the ship.
The boats were specially-built craft
manned by a tough lot of gentlemen, and
half a dozen of them racing for an in-
coming ship was a regular sight in the
good old days. A close finish generally
meant an all-in scrap between the crews.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Last Outpost”
Opens with an officer of Kurdish
irregulars (Claude Rains) in a lambs-
wool hat delivering to his commander a
prisoner—a British captain (Cary Grant)
whom he has dragged, bound, for five
miles over rough country at the tail of
his horse. Impeccable condition of cap-
tive’s uniform is fine tribute to the
honesty of his tailor. After the Kurds
have massacred some native prisoners
Rains reappears, discloses that he is an
intelligence officer in disguise, and re-
leases Grant. The two then skirmish
Leo Carrillo in “Love Me Forever," at
Sydney State.
off to warn another native tribe, pos-
sibly the Wheys, that the Kurds are on
their track. Mild flirtation between
Grant and Wheyish maiden with beauti-
fully plucked eyebrows. The Wheys are
induced to trek over wide rivers and tall
snowclad mountains. In a skirmish with
an English spy, during which Rains saves
Grant’s life, Grant gets a broken leg and
has to go to a Cairo hospital. There
he meets Gertrude Michael, beauteous
nurse (married, but hasn’t heard of her
husband for three years). At this stage
it appears probable that the husband is
Rains, that a triangle will be conducted
and that Rains will be conveniently killed
off, and in the course of half an hour of
slow love-making and another half hour
of campaigning against fuzzy-wuzzies in
the Sudan forebodings in this respect are
fully justified. Rains is impossibly
pompous and -melodramatic, and Miss
Michael has little to do but to suffer,
but Grant puts up a snappy perform-
ance, and so do hordes of monkeys, ele-
phants, goats, hippopotami and other
fauna. Photography is splendid. At
the Prince Edward, Sydney.
“Here Comes Cookie”
Gracie Allen is an acquirable taste.
Once it is fathomed that she is incurably,
incredibly, inevitably cuckoo, she be-
comes amusing. In her latest comedy at
Sydney Prince Edward she soars to
heights of idiocy hitherto unsealed. Her
millionaire poppa (George Barbier), to
shoo off a fortune-hunting suitor who is
after his other daughter, deeds his entire
fortune to Gracie for 60 days, and goes
off to the village of his boyhood. Having
heard that many actors are hungry,
Gracie fills the house with down-at-heel
troupers and their performing pets, turns
the mansion into a theatre and gives a
show, charging 20 dollars a seat so that
it won’t be overcrowded. The show (it
includes a performer who does marvels
with xylophone-sticks on chairs and
walls) is so successful that Gracie lands
a Hollywood contract. As this will keep
her in the far west, George Burns, who
intends to remain in New York, consents
to marry her. That’s the framework,
but it is filled in with such a flood of
brisk, snappy comedy that the audience’s
chuckles are a non-stop performance.
“The Black Room”
Consternation reigns in the aristocratic
Berghman family when twins are bom
into it in the early years of the nine-
teenth century, for that, according to
centuries-old legend, means that one twin
will kill the other in the “Black Room”
of the family castle. Years later Gregor,
the elder, now the baron and a homi-
cidal fiend, sends for his brother Anton,
who travels extensively. Anton arrives
to find his morose brother hated by the
peasantry and suspected of Bluebeard-
ism. Threatened with exposure, the
wicked baron voluntarily abdicates, but
then murders his brother and takes his
place, adopting his refined manners and
bulldozing everybody. He lays siege to
the heart of Thea (Marion Marsh) after
secretly killing her colonel-father and
cunningly getting her lover condemned
for the crime. He is about to lead Thea,
who thinks him Anton and her only re-
maining friend in the world, to the altar
when his brother’s dog, which he stupidly
forgot' to kill, causes his exposure. Dash-
ing back from the church with the pur-
suing dog as his Nemesis, he falls down
the pit in the Black Room on to the up-
turned dagger his dead brother is hold-
ing. Thea and her lover, whose execu-
tion has been conveniently delayed, are
reunited. Setting and photography are
superb.
Boris Karloff in this thriller has a
chance to act without the excessive
burden of weird make-up and padding
which characterised his previous pic-
tures. Here he takes dual roles as the
twins ; the difference in the characters is
marked by his expression. Both as the
sadistic monster and his refined brother
he convinces. Marion Marsh is a lovely
Thea, and Thurston Hall looks the part
as her dignified father. Minor parts are
smoothly done, and crowd scenes are
well handled. At Sydney Capitol.
“After the Dance”
Jerry Davis (George Murphy), dancer
at a night club with Mabel (Thelma
Todd) as his partner, is unjustly con-
Claude Rains in “The Last Outpost,” at
Sydney Prince Edward.
victed of manslaughter, Mabel un-
accountably refusing to be witness on his
behalf. As a prison trusty he escapes,
and joins up with Anne Taylor (Nancy
Carroll) in a successful cafe dancing
turn in which he always appears masked.
Mabel, still in the theatrical rank-and-
file, recognises him and tries blackmail.
When he refuses to pay she tips the police
off, and Jerry is re-arrested. But true
love, like murder, will out, and he
clinches Anne before his return to
prison. In the uplifting knowledge that
his goil will be waiting for him at the
gates on his release, the noble fellow
throws his head up in the approved
manner and departs for the little hard
bunk and the cold cell. Acting is fair,
and there is some really good dancing.
Also at the Capitol.
ft .
Highlights of 1935
So far as the American output of
celluloid was concerned, 1935 gave evi-
dences of progress and development in
cinema art only on what may be called
the engineering side. No new ideas in
George Barbier in “Here Comes Cookie,"
at Sydney Prince Edward.
presentation were exploited by directors,
the standard of acting remained station-
ary (with a few lapses into bad old
gaucheries), and the number of films that
showed a reasonably high standard of
intelligence on the part of the construc-
tors of scenarios was no larger than in
1934.
But photography has continued to
show steady improvement, and really
remarkable progress has been made in
the use of natural colors. All the
examples seen in Australia have been by
Technicolor process. In previous years
this was used effectively only in cartoon
work. In the last year it has been applied
to natural subjects with ever-increasing
success. “Becky Sharp” was not quite
satisfactory in its rendition of the scale
of color-values, but in more recent pro-
ductions a very close approximation to
nature has been achieved. In sound-
recording, also, particularly in the repro-
duction of vocal music, perfection has
been brought nearer.
Quite a lot of time, talent and money
seems to be expended by American film
producers in keeping up to date in the
minutae of jazz, torch-singing and tap-
dancing, and in bringing to the screen
people who have made some sort of local
reputation in broadcasting. For the
U.S.A. market this may be good business,
but it cuts no ice with the export trade,
and Australian picture-goers have a right
to resent the placing of such heavy accent
on matters that don’t concern them.
British films made their first palpable
forward surge in the year just past.
Even the comedies of the type that
exploit Walls and Lynn, Hulbert and
Buchanan have been improved—dialogue
is snappier, action brisker, and the actors
are beginning to realise the difference
between stage and screen technique.
“The Thirty-nine Steps,” “Java Head”
and “Escape Me Never” were efforts, on
a much higher plane than bedroom
comedy, which demonstrated that the
English film now has the services of
talented directors and actors, and of
photographers whose work cannot be
improved upon anywhere.
Australian film history has had almost
a blank year—apparently a pause before
a period of much greater activity than
ever before. The quota has set all the
established film cos. and some new-
comers into production. What the har-
vest will be can only be guessed, but if
an export market is to be sought it
would seem wise to keep the flavor Aus-
tralian. Imitations of Hollywood and
Elstree productions are not likely to win
favor on any market.
Some First Nights
On of the first day of the year Pad-
dington (Sydney) was athrob with sounds
which, to Sassenach ears, suggested a saw-
mill crossed with a hyena. These sounds
were easily traceable to the R.A.S.
grounds, where the Scottish community
was staging an orgy of piping, dancing,
caber-throwing and the like. There were
more kilts on view in any one moment
than will be seen in Aberdeen in a long
day’s ramble. There were six full bands
of pipers on the ground (one of them,
that of the N.S.W. Scottish Regiment,
brought a company of kilted soldiers with
it), and enough lads and lassies in the
Highland regalia favored by exponents
of reel and strathspey to make up a
regiment. Moreover, many a decent old
kilt and Glengarrie were given an airing
by mere onlookers. It was a great day,
and the crown of it was the winning of
the pipe band championship of the State
by the Highland Society’s manipulates
of drone and chanter—very fitting, as
the H.S. organises the festival, and has
been doing so for 68 years. A Mackay
pipe-majored the winning, band —fitting
again, as the chief of the clan is, by
adoption, a good Australian. A dis-
covery which came about lunch-time and
gave great gratification to all was that
Sydney’s new Lud Mayor, A. Howie,
hails from Gleskie —nae exactly Hielan’,
ye ken, but the richt side o’ the border.
At night there was a concert in the
Town Hall —a concert in the fullest sense
of the term, for everyone sang “Auld
Lang Syne” and joined in other choruses.
Pipers piped stirringly, Lionel Lawson
curled his fiddle bow round Scottish airs,
there were national dances, and four
braw singers—Jenny McLauchlan, Vera
Wright, Stanley Clarkson and John
Gilding—obliged with ballads without
which no such gathering would be com-
plete. Fiddler Lawson, having exhausted
his Caledonian repertoire, let loose Rim-
sky-Korsakov’s bumble-bee upon the
audience, remarking that the insect
sounded as if it came off the heather.
•i* *S*
In the half-century since their birth,
“Ghosts,” now haunting Sydney Kursaal
under Scott Alexander’s direction, have
become familiar. The play, in which five
persons talk their way through three
acts without change of scene, lumbers
heavily nowadays unless there is posi-
tive genius in the acting. Wilson
Luis Alberni in “Love Me Forever."
Irving as the cringing Engstrand and
Raymond Irons as nerve-shattered Alving
made most of the morbid business, with
Shirley Geddes, Henry Messent and
Phylis Busby in support.
The year 1935 was stronger in music
than in drama, so far as Australia was
concerned. The Fuller opera co.’s season
filled nearly the first quarter of the year;
then came Menuhin, the Budapest Quar-
tet and the Viennese Choir. Boy-pianist
Philip Hargrave had a brief season, and
boy-violinist George Farrell made his
debut in Sydney. As for the stage, the
most important thing that happened was


% NEW POWER
7 uk tha
MOTION PICTURE INDUSTRY
i
PIETTO
JjOOOOO LAVISHED
ON-PROnUr,TION /
blooded
1 lomance
Jspicedwith
SfthrLlls and
iue/
MM
0
i
!n Elbs spaslCarralar
Garrett Klenrera":
Production.,
O -^1
:U:
A WOMAN
LONE'
A story of a
woman’s great sac-
rifice—told against
the colorful back-
ground of pre-war
Russia.
v-onung to Omertaui
All Australia/
Csil yourJoealpteatreTHm^erdodit.
UIORLD OTMDfIRD PRODUCTION)
that the Sydney Cri. closed in July,
leaving only one decent-sized theatre in
the “second city of the Empire.” During
the year seven or eight comedies and
nine musical comedies (three were revi-
vals) were produced by the Firm, which
also had two Gilsullivan seasons, one
commencing in May and the other in
November. One Australian play of im-
portance, “The Cedar Tree,” was pro-
duced. A “Drama Week” in Sydney late
in the year aired a few locally-penned
one-acters. In Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide amateur and quasi-amateur
organisations put into production a vast
variety of dramatic material. Ernest
Rolls and Frank Neil have kept the torch
of revue and vaudeville burning in Syd-
ney and Melbourne.
Current Artbursts
The Macleod Gallery, Sydney, seldom
gets mentioned on this page—another
case of the shoemaker’s wife going the
worst shod —but it presents such a wide
range of examples of Australian art that
it can’t be permanently ignored. The
great names of the past—Hilder, Streeton,
Fullwood, Longstaff, Blamire Young,
Cumbrae Stewart, Julian Ashton, Zel-
man, Dattilo Rubbo—are well repre-
sented. Painters who, on the black-and-
white side, have helped to make The
Bulletin, such as Norman and Percy
Lindsay, B. E. Minns and G. K.
Townshend, demonstrate their mastery
of brush technique, and such fine
colorists as Syd Long, Fred Leist,
G. V. F. Mann and H. R. Gallop be-
jewel the walls. Hanke, who since his
“Morning on the Cox River,” by Robert Johnson,
at the Macleod Gallery, Sydney.
Archibald Prize win has never looked
back, shows that he has as strong a flair
for landscape as for portraiture. Will
Ashton indicates the difference in
atmosphere between Australia and colder
lands. Landscapists such as Robert
Johnson, J. R. Jackson, J. Muir Auld,
H. B. Herbert, Charles Wheeler, Norman
Carter, C. E. S. Tindall, Peter Bousfield
and Gwen Barringer reproduce the Aus-
tralian scene with vivid fidelity.
Really beautiful paintings of the old
meticulous-detail school, the flower
studies of R. W. Phillips hold the mirror
up to Nature without a single flaw.
Bernard Hall’s nudes and interiors carry
on the same tradition, an effective foil
to the galaxy of bold impressionistic
works in which they are set. In etchings
there are three styles to choose from —
Warner’s, Norman Lindsay’s and Max
Ragless’s.
That’s the current state of the gallery,
but its walls are ever changing. At one
time or another every Australian painter
of high degree has been represented
there Lambert, Heysen, Gruner,
Roberts and the rest of a gallant com-
pany. If William Macleod, who loved
good pictures, could see his memorial, he
would be proud of it.
In spite of times still bad enough to
be hard on many artists, the gallery
(sixth floor, Bulletin Buildings) reports
a satisfactory year. Altogether buyers
took away 99 works of art —oils, water-
colors and etchings— to a value of £1393.
The figure is all the better, in view of
the fact that no special one-man show
was held during the year, many artists
profiting in the sales. As usual, a host
of visitors looked in during the year to
enjoy the continuous show of the most
representative collection of works by
Australian artists.
•j* *l*
The doubling in size of Adelaide Art
Gallery, for which Alex. Melrose, lawyer,
pastoralist and Bulletin writer, has given
£lO,OOO, was estimated by the Govern-
ment as requiring about as much more
from Government. The contract is, how-
ever, for £27,000. It goes to H. S. C.
Jarvis, who is just finishing the Bonython
Hall close by for the University, whose
Barr Smith library he built, too. The
gallery is to be ready by next Christmas.
4*
“Lorenzo”: The statement (B. 1/1 / ’36)
that Melbourne Public Library has pur-
chased for £l2 12s. the only copy in Aus-
tralia of reproductions of D. H. Law-
rence’s pictures is not correct. The
Public Library of N.S.W. bought the
volume as soon as it was published in
1929. And that wasn’t the only copy
that reached Sydney.
A MIXED GRILL.
Defending his transport-strangulation
taxes, the Queensland Labor Premier
bleated that they were not as stiff as the
N.S.W. schedule.
A vehicle running between Brisbane and
Toowoomba, taxed at £775 12s. p.a.,
would over a similar mileage in N.S.W. be
charged £2900 p.a.
“The Premier’s argument would be
sound,” the “Courier-Mail” retorted
tartly, “if such cars were actually run-
ning in N.S.W. ; but they are not.” A
true bill; the transport commissars have
taxed them off the roads.
* * * *
“Beni Soeuf”: Oxyrhynchus, the dead
city in Western Egypt where for years
priceless Greek and other manuscripts
have been recovered from the rubbish
heaps, was for a time one of the abiding
places of the Ist A.L.H. before the entry
into Sinai. It is on the banks of the
great Bar Yusuf,
a canal said to
have been dug by
Joseph to carry
water from the
Nile to the oasis
of the Fayum.
Australians were
mostly interested
in the phosphate
mine, which was
worked on a 70ft.
deep face. The
great mound con-
sisted of tiers of
graves piled one
above the other.
In the top strata
these were Mos-
lem, showing
skeleton and cof-
fin fragments. As
the face of the
open c u t went
down Moslem
fragments dis-
appeared, and all
that remained of
the Roman, Greek and Egyptian dead
was a rich reddish-brown mould.
The mine - workers employed their
spare time in trying to sell the Aus-
tralians trinkets, scarab and other odd-
ments found in the dust, which was
loaded into barges and floated down the
canal to the Fayum for fertiliser. The
very air one breathed and the food one
ate tasted of the dead centuries.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Supporters of the develop-
ment of Welshpool (Vic.) as a port have
been heartened by evidence given by
knight Edward Mitchell. The eminent
K.C. is acting for a company which aims
at producing fertiliser composed of the
brown coal which lies around the town-
ship—7o,ooo,ooo tons of it, it is esti-
mated—mixed with phosphatic rock
from Nauru and other ingredients. He
has studied the processes, and won a
compliment on that score from the in-
vestigators. Apart altogether from the
potato and fishing industries, which are
expected to develop without having an
adequate seaport, the fertiliser concern
alone would justify expenditure on a
pier and other necessities.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: While Senator Guthrie’s
strictures on Australian films which
have been exported are generally justi-
fied, it is worth recalling that the silent
picture of the “The Sentimental Bloke”
received probably more laudatory notices
in the London papers than any outside
film up to that time. I was present in
the Alhambra at its preliminary screen-
ing, and so highly did the trade think of
it that Frank Talbot (now of Melbourne
Athenaeum), who was handling it, closed
a deal during the interval and before the
purchaser had seen the complete story.
He made no mistake either, for “The
Bloke” went big in Britain. “Australia
must now be regarded as a serious com-
petitor in the film market,” wrote the
“Times” critic. That was in 1921 ; 1935
finds Australia anything but a serious
competitor.


n
m
m
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
e- Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne,^Adelaide,. Perth*
. E.S.C.A.,- Brisbane.
. w $
c . '
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
January Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PROSPECTS FOR 1936.
ARE SHARE PRICES TOO HIGH?
OUTLOOK FOR BASE METALS.
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £11216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
Business,Robbery,Etc.
Mines and Manufactures
Nearly all influences operating within
the country promise a comparatively
smooth-running year for Australia in
1936. Employment, investment, returns
from industry and capital—all should im-
prove, given freedom from international
complications or labor troubles. No one
can afford strikes at the present time.
The N.S.W. textile-workers’ strike of two
years ago and the Westralian miners’
stoppage of 12 months ago represented
a dead loss to everyone in the industry.
The present shipping dispute will finish
the same way, with a considerable loss
also to the N.S.W. coalfields. The Metro-
politan Gas Co., Melbourne, has already
placed an order for 17,000 tons of Eng-
lish coal.
A lot of people are still interested in
goldmining, an industry which should be
much farther ahead than it is at present.
The principal gold-share boom
occurred in 1934. The opening of the
Stock Exchanges in 1935 indicated a
collapse in most speculative stocks;
before the year had half run better-class
Westralians were also affected, and the
position was made worse by an efflux of
speculators’ capital to Fiji (though a lot
of it stayed in promoters’ pockets in Mel-
bourne and Sydney). The Avoca (Vic.)
boom, ending in a fiasco which has
never been properly explained to those
who “did” their money, also distracted
attention from producers and near-
producers.
In 1936 the mines crushing promise
to be more in the public eye, though they
may not be the gambling-counters of
rapid turnover beloved of sharebrokers
and some types of punters. A note-
worthy number of mining floats of recent
vintage have reached profitable produc-
tion during 1935, and during the current
year, in most cases, higher tonnages and
improved recoveries should be achieved.
Prominent are Lancefield and Triton in
Westralia, and New Occidental in N. S.
Wales. These are low-grade shows
which, in the case of the two Westralians
particularly, have considerable tonnages
proved and large ore-bodies indicated.
Lancefield has declared a dividend after
less than a year’s run ; Triton and New
Occidental are less advanced, but on
present figures are highly promising.
Edjudina and Westralia Renown are
two W.A. low-grade shows of lesser con-
sequence now crushing in a small way.
Each has possibilities, as well as diffi-
culties to overcome.
Edna May Amalgamated, at Westonia,
is endeavoring to dewater its mine,
worked in other days when gold
was cheaper; plant is in course of erec-
tion. Marvel Loch, s.-e. of Southern
Cross, anticipates treating 4500 tons a
month soon ; there is 212,000 tons of ore
going better than sdwt. in sight, and
ample water.
Lady Shenton, First Hit and several
others are in comparatively rich ore of
unproved permanency. Results of Lady
Shenton’s first crushing in its own plant
should be available shortly.- First Hit
has been treating ore on a small (and
unprofitable) scale for some time. Better
results are expected.
Wiluna, on the East Murchison field ;
Lake View and Star, the North and South
Kalgurlis, Boulder Perseverance, Great
Boulder and Golden Horse Shoe, on
the Golden Mile ; and Sons of Gwalia at
Leonora still represent the backbone of
the Australian goldmining industry. Mt.
Jackson has produced a small quantity
of the yellow metal, its last div. having
been paid in October, 1934.
Mount Morgan and Golden Plateau
in Queensland are the principal pro-
ducers outside Westralia and Bendigo,
where the Hercules and New Red, White
and Blue continue to pay good divs.
Bismarck (Lucknow, N.S.W.) will need
to strike something fresh to continue dis-
tributions at the level of the last two or
three years. Sulphide Gold, at Man-
durama, should do better now that
money for new plant is in hand.
Lead and spelter, despite recent falls
in prices, are much more profitable than
at this time last year. Silver is lower.
Manufacturing industries promise con-
tinued progress in 1936, though some-
what at the mercy of tariff policy. From
an investor’s viewpoint those industries
which are comparatively economic offer
probably the best broad field of invest-
ment in the Commonwealth. Australia
has to move, however slowly, in the
direction of economic independence ; ex-
“ Ain't you the bloke Wot advertised for an ‘Aggressive Salesman'?”
cessive overseas purchases under present
conditions mean external borrowing,
which is unthinkable. Defence and
reasonable tariff protection go practically
hand in hand.
A Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment, Ltd., subsidiary, Moonlight Wiluna
G.M., Ltd., is to have its ore treated
shortly by the big Wiluna Co. The
Moonlight leases adjoin Wiluna’s north-
ern boundary, near the Bulletin area now
being developed. Claude de Bernales
and J. A. Agnew are prominent
on the boards. The Moonlight con-
centrates are to be treated by smelt-
ing, and a change-over from roast-
ing and cyaniding to smelting has also
been recommended in the case of
Wiluna, which is at present treating
45,000 tons of ore a month. By smelting
an improvement of 9 p.c. in extraction
(bringing overall recoveries to 88 p.c.) is
anticipated, worth £42,000 (Aust.) p.a.
more to Wiluna on a 50-000-tons-a-
-month throughput. A further £41,000 a
year (for four years) is looked for from
smelting the accumulated cyanide tail-
ings. Treatment of 7000 tons of Moon-
light ore per month is also scheduled for
shortly after March next. Wiluna ore
differs considerably from Moonlight
stone ; arsenopyrite (mispickel) character-
istics at Wiluna give way to stibnite
(antimony ore) in the Moonlight ore-
bodies. But a pilot plant has been
operating for three months on both ores,
and designing and erecting of the
smelters are now being pushed rapidly
ahead.
Paid capital of Wiluna Gold Corp.,
whose sole asset of importance is the
entire capital (£1,200,000) of Wiluna
Gold Mines, the operating co., is
£1,558,912 in £1 shares. The scrip was
quoted at 745. when the Exchanges closed
for the holidays. The mine earned a
profit of £411,857 (Aust.) during the
term to Aug. 31, 1935, being now the
largest profit-earner among Australian
goldmines. Positive ore reserves (aver-
aging 6dwt.) have a gross value of over
£5,000,000 (Aust.), excluding large bodies
of probable ore. The Bulletin lode is
opening up promisingly. During Novem-
ber 45,127 tons was treated for an aver-
age recovery of 395. lid. (Aust.) a ton.
Costs took 20s. Id., leaving a working
profit of 19s. lOd. a ton. The average
for the past three months has been about
£1 a ton —a very comfortable margin
that should be increased when the new
plans are put into operation. Profits at
the rate of £600,000 (Aust.) a year ought
to be on the cards (granted freedom from
labor troubles) within 18 months or so,
giving a gross return of over 10 p.c. p.a.
on present share prices.
* * * *
Amalgamated Press, Ltd., has been
registered in Sydney, nominal capital
£750,000. It has no connection with the
Northcliffe enterprise of the same name.
E. G. Theodore and D. F. H. Packer
appear as first directors. Presumably
this is the co. which takes over
the “Women’s Weekly” and the “Tele-
graph” in a month or so’s time, as
well as the “Evening News” building and
plant. For the “Weekly’s” goodwill
£265,000 is payable in shares ; £125,000
in shares for the goodwill of the “Tele-
graph.” For the building and plant
£95,000 in cash and £35,000 in shares
are to pass to Associated Newspapers. It
has been indicated that £250,000 of work-
ing capital will be required. Assuming
that the cash consideration to Asso-
ciated is paid out of this, and that in any
case it is forthcoming (from the public
or otherwise), the show most likely will
kick off with a paid capital of £675,000.
A 7 p.c. div. on that would call for
£47,250 a year. Associated Newspapers,
with the “Sun,” “Sunday Sun,” “Woman”
and other papers on its string (including
the “Telegraph”), acknowledged a profit
of £156,771 last year, after reserving
£20,000 for depreciation. The “Sun” has
a monopoly in the evening-paper field,
and the Sunday “Sun” has things much
its own way also. The “Telegraph” at
present is not an established profit-
earner ; what the “Women’s Weekly” is
turning in has not been made public.
* * * *
Gold production in N. S. Wales
reached 48,3560 z. fine for 1935, an in-
crease of 33 p.c. over 1934, and more
than six times greater than the 1929
output. At £8 10s. an ounce the effort
was worth £411,026 (Aust.). New Occi-
dental (Cobar) has been producing for
five or six months now ; for the quarter
ended Nov. 30 its production totalled
60650 z. fine. During the coming year,
if hopes are realised, this mine on its
own should turn out nearly three-fourths
of last year’s total State output. Of
recent years Bismarck (Lucknow) has
been the principal producer.
* * * *
The new year opened with copper
firm and all other important base metals
weak, though tin showed signs of rally-
ing. The red metal was quoted at
£39 15s. (stg.) for electrolytic, £3B 12s. 6d.
for best selected and £35 for standard.
It is still at a figure profitable to Mt.
Lyell and Mt. Morgan. Lead sagged
to below £l6, with spelter at £l4 12s. 6d.
Though much lower than two months
ago, these prices are considerably better
than in 1934. Tin at £2lB is a good deal
lower than the average of the past three
months, though still profitable to most
producers, especially under the 90 p.c.
quota now operating.
* * * *
There have been “conversations” be-
tween Cinesound Productions (of the
Union Theatres group) and Mastercraft
Film Corp., the concern floated towards
the end of 1934 to produce talkies at
The Avenue picnic grounds (Lane
Cove River, Sydney), in which Sydney
Ferries is interested. Much, of course,
will depend on terms and conditions. The
Avenue should make an excellent studio
and “lot.”
* * * *
From April up to the end of Novem-
ber there was a consistent rise in the
number of N.S.W. new car registrations
each month. For November the new
models put on the roads totalled 1596;
lorries and vans aggregated 736. These
figures must make the Department of
Road Transport grind its teeth. At
November 30 there were 170,043 regis-
tered cars and 58,519 lorries and vans in
the State.
* * * *
“Erua”: Maoriland has recently dis-
covered a new minor industry —the ex-
port of trout-fry to Java. Ten thousand
rainbow trout ova were dispatched as
an experiment, and in due course the
joyful tidings reached M.L. that Java
was richer by 8000 young trout. The
consignment was specially packed and
kept at suitable temperatures, and after
a pause at Sydney went on to Batavia
and a successful hatching.


MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
\
11> it PVi
11/ I
%/' "'W'
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
EASTBOURNE
THE IDEAL RESORT
1. For leave or retirement.
2. For the education of your children.
3. A remarkably equable climate.
4. Accommodation at reasonable
charges.
5. Sport and entertainment at all
limes.
6. Music daily throughout the year.
7. Easy access to and from London
(60 miles).
Eastbourne, England's " favoured " health resort,
has a wonderful sunshine record. His Majesty The
King stayed at Eastbourne before the Silver
Jubilee Celebrations.
Shut
Make use
of this !
Official handbook 3 and any information you need regarding
Eastbourne and its amenities , gladly sent on request to
Dept. 80, Information Bureau , Eastbourne , Sussex.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Christmas may be a time for the
babies, but middle-age gets its own back
at New Year. Everywhere that gaiety
sounded the tocsin on December 31
middle-age was well represented in the
throng. Overseas visitors, too, were in
the forefront of the battle when 1935
slipped into 1936 to toasts drunk in any-
thing from champagne to gin. The New
Year’s Eve Ball brought out 12,000 to
dance for the Canterbury District Hos-
pital (Tasmania’s Premier Ogilvie was at
this party). Scattered about the Yacht
Club at Kirribilli, Romano’s and the
Australia were Lord and Lady Bridport,
the Gervas Huxleys, Helen Twelvetrees
and Elsie Pertka (she sported the white
gardenia on her black frock), J.C.W.’s
new star. The Automobile Club out-
shone all previous convictions. Three
floors whirled with the razzle, there were
three orchestras, and the club’s president,
Bradley, K.C., was the life and soul of
them all. Honorable mention is deserved
by the club’s flower decorations, also by
Mrs. Harold Bott’s clinging magnolia
satins with the latest thing in pleated
trains.
While the boys of the village were
busy singing in the New Year with a wee
deoch and doris, the storks were busy
bringing a few wee Dorises, Johns and
Jennies to greet the new dawn from Syd-
ney hospitals. Twenty new Australians
reported themselves present when the
first roll call of 1936 was taken.
Mr. Zane Grey having given his views
on sharks, in the interests of fair play
Skipper II and 111, of Sydney’s Taronga
Park aquarium, were asked for their
view on Mr. Zane Grey. At first they
were a bit coy. Skipper II said: “Well,
you see, I’m practically a public servant,
and I shouldn’t like anything I say to
interfere with my superannuation.” “No,
indeed,” interjected Skipper 111, swallow-
ing half a ton or so of mullet; “these
quarters are very comfortable, though
somewhat lacking in the altogether
appeal of the beach.” “Of course, the
awkward part for my fellow-sharks,”
ruminated Skipper 11, “is that this Zane
Grey isn’t a man, he’s a company.” “Yes,”
flung in Skipper 111, “and Double Fang,
the shark general, is nonplussed —com-
panies are sometimes wild cats. There is
no precedent for a struggle between a
shark and a wild cat.” “Some companies
have been known to have sharks sit-
ting on the board,” mused Skipper
11. “That would be very nice,”
and Skipper II rolled his eyes with
something approaching a sentimental leer.
“I’ve always been very artistic, and the
ladies with the fisherman’s camp change
into different-colored shorts every day.”
“Not for us,” gloomed Skipper 111.
“Once you let the Government put its
rubber stamp on you and take your fin
prints there’s nothing for it but a
suburban life. Still, if I weren’t on the
retired list, I’d attack him on his balance.”
Three New Year comers have entered
Sydney’s goodly list of knights’ ladies.
They are the wife of Chief Justice
Jordan, the wife of Walter R. Carpenter,
shipping merchant, and Arthur Treth-
owan’s lady—he is the co-operative and
Country-party man. In addition to
tennis, golf and motoring, the C.J.’s
lady is keen on music, and is to
be seen at almost every concert of classic
dimensions. She also shares her hus-
band’s taste for languages (how courtly
that word sounds in the plural; how
police-courtly in the singular!). The
Carpenters are North Shore line people,
island traders and shipowners. The wel-
fare of children particularly interests
them.
The shipping Patricks’ new home at
Darling Point blazed with light and
movement on New Year’s Eve. The
Patricks are as Scottish as the thistle and
the heather (and, by the way, daughter-
in-law’s name is Heather), so they greet
the New Year’s dawn in proper style.
The house is right on Darling Point,
and has a view that takes in the whole
sweep of the harbor, down to the Heads.
Its wide staircase is flanked with tiles of
Persian red, and it has a swimming-pool
that would make even a Hollywood star
respectful. This was illuminated from
below, and helped put a further glow
into the night. Supper was piped in by
Pipe-Major Tom Mackay. Mrs. Patrick
sprayed the shoulder of her flowered
chiffons with lily-of-the-valley ; daughter-
in-law Mrs. Ken Patrick wore gleaming
pink satin. The Brigadier-General
Hardies, Colonel and Mrs. R. Jackson,
the Van Gelders and the Ken Priors, her
frock the softest of straw-colored lace,
were among the 150 guests.
The Royal North Shore Hospital’s bio-
chemist Lemberghs had a party in their
Chatswood home on New Year’s Eve.
This was to welcome gynaecologist
Ludwig Fraenkel and his wife, and to
introduce them to some of the medical
brotherhood. The dinner, cooked and
served in German style, was of many
courses, and the rooms were still decked
with the fir-boughs and candles of
Christmastide. Here and there on chair
and sofa occurred colorful bits of Ger-
man embroidery. The Fraenkels come
from Breslau, where he directs a famous
clinic. He has lectured in Perth, Adelaide
and Maoriland, and at the conclusion of
his lectures at Sydney Uni. they go by
invitation to Manila. He has a beard
and no small chat in English ; she has
a neat curling crop, and sparkles in our
language. At the party her chiffons were
flowered and tied with navy velvet. The
Dr. Sydney Morrises were at this merry-
making ; so were the medical David
Knox couple. Three little stars gleamed
in her hair, and her frock was long and
black. Dr. Ingram was a guest; so was
Dora Peyser.
Sydney’s Mayoress by invitation, Mrs.
George A. Parkes, will start her year’s
work in earnest next week. In the mean-
time she is busy getting into training by
devoting an hour or two every day to
her Town Hall duties. Mrs. Parkes is,
however, no stranger to civic procedure,
her husband being an alderman of some
years’ experience. Dorothy Welding
photograph.
With fourteen hundred booked, the
Mad Hatters’ Ball decided nearly a
week before the eve of 1936 that it
would be very complete, so no more
tickets were sold. On the night itself
David Jones’s was clamorous with
revelry, and sprouted a crop of hats that
might have been considered a trifle ultra
even in Wonderland. There were prizes,
and the ingenuity displayed in designing
these fancy lids made the judges put
on their considering-caps. The institu-
tion for the deaf and dumb and the
blind children at Darlington benefited.
Organiser Norah Frost, the diamond on
her engagement-finger glittering nobly,
was an active worker in a crowded night,
and secretary Mrs. C. B. Yates hostessed
a party of fifty.
Sydney has been making the acquaint-
ance of Mrs. Arved Kurtz, wife of the
violinist whose recitals over the air are
featured by the A.B.C. At home in
Adelaide, Mr. Kurtz is on the staff of
the Conservatorium. All Europe and
almost all its languages are known to
this lady, who previous to her marriage
was for a time attached to a Berlin news-
paper —her job, translating. May Moore
photo.
Hollywood is dowdy. That is Mrs. F.
Woods’s verdict. Mrs. Woods is just
back from the city of screen glamor,
where she spent three months installing
son John into a natty though small
hacienda, or whatever the Spanish is for
bungalow. Film heroines apparently get
a glut of clothes in the studios, and when
they do rush down from their mansions
on Beverley Hills all the boulevardes see
is, something plain and serviceable be-
tween sun-smoked glasses and neat
ankles. The ankles, Mrs. Woods con-
cedes, are worth a third glance. Syd-
ney’s old friend “Snowy” Baker reigns
a sort of uncrowned king. Mona Barrie,
known here as Mona Barlee, one of
J.C.W.’s brightest, has no fewer than
three cars, with chauffeurs to match.
Her mother and sister are settled close
by to Mona’s home. Agnes Doyle
rushed through California on her way
to New York, the real stage still making
a stronger call than the screen. Mary
McGregor was having her debut in
Hollywood studios the day Mrs. Woods
left. She was to twinkle among some
really big stars.
When Nancy Bruce-Smith, of Point
Piper, left for Maoriland last Friday,
she took with her her mother and her
wedding dress. The dress is of magnolia
satin with a pleated train, and it will be
misted over by a tulle veil lent by Mrs.
Deric Pearse, of Melbourne, when the
Sydney girl marries lan Angus Arthur
in Dunedin to-morrow. Mrs. Eric Trist,
of Christchurch, will be matron of honor;
Dr. Murray Arthur will be best man.
The wedding is to be rounded off with a
dinner party given by Mrs. Bruce-Smith.
The new Consul-General for France
has arrived in Sydney with his wife and
four children. Their name is Suzor, and
they come here from Vancouver, where
they have spent the last 10 years. Before
that they were five years in Cape Town.
They should find much to talk over with
this State’s new Governor, for they have
lived in Newfoundland. Mrs. Suzor was
born in the island of St. Pierre, off the
coast of Newfoundland. The children’s
names are Pierre, Paul, Yvonne and
Jeanne.
Sydney’s old friend Mary Whidborne
(she was on the staff of Frensham for
some years) is a recognised exponent of
Dalcroze eurhythmies in England. She
has established a school at Brighton, and
in addition has had Roedean and such-
like schools on her list. On New Year’s
Day Mary gave a demonstration in the
Great Hall, University College, Gower-
street. Jacques Dalcroze travelled from
Switzerland to London specially for the
opening of the Ingham Memorial House,
the society’s headquarters in Fitzroy-
square; afterwards, at the ceremonial
lunch at Frascati’s, he greeted his bril-
liant pupil and disciple with delight.
Commissions have been coming Syd
Long’s way, and, through lack of time, he
has had to give up his job as instructor
at the Royal Art Society’s classes. But
the students didn’t let him go unhonored
and unsung. They gave him a party at
the school, and brought along their
fathers and mothers to meet the teacher
of whom they are both proud and fond.
They also brought a gold watch engraved
with the right sentiments. H. Hanke,
winner of the 1935 Archibald prize, has
taken over Mr. Long’s work with the
classes.
Some wretched man has poked his nose
into the vanity-box and found that
Britain and the U.S.A. spend a thousand
million pounds on their yearly cosmetic
bill. This Letter ventured to suggest to
the Office economist that the talkies were
responsible for the consumption, and he
said he had never doubted it, but he
regarded the whole business of paint and
powder as irrational. No man could
possibly understand the moral support a
lipstick is to a woman. It is to the sex
what the machine-gun is to the gangster,
what the parachute is to the airman.
Time was when only the wives and
daughters of the rich and noble had a
powder closet from which to emerge with
rosy cheek and cherry lip. But dem-
ocracy marches ; now a complete color
outfit is the recognised right of every
businessgirl. Probably the prisoner of
to-morrow will be asked: “Is your color
scheme natural or sun-tan?” and be
handed out the powder ration according.
A group of Australians and Maori-
landers at a recent Greenwich Village
Sunday-night show were stirred to loud
applause by hearing, away in far New
York, two of Alfred Hill’s compositions,
“Waiata Poi” and “Tangi.” The singer
was Irma Caron, of whom The
Bulletin’s Edmund Fisher used to pre-
dict great things. Her voice is a soprano
of dramatic quality, and has developed
greatly since her Australian days. Miss
Caron undertook the entire programme,
and illustrated her talk with opera arias,
ballads and songs in English, French
and German; she even did Frank
Brown’s “Abo. Love Chant,” singing it
unaccompanied, and in a complete black-
out.
From Calthorpe-street, London, Nettie
Palmer drops a line to say that novelist
husband Vance is working hard at a long
novel. Nettie herself has not seen
Europe for twenty years, and finds it
even more interesting now. Vance had
seen it when he was with the A.I.F. and
in 1930, when he went across on pub-
lishing business. Among Australian
friends around them is Gwen Hughes.
Gwen, whose specialty is putting over
.'cookery demonstrations, often in the
form of original short plays, is still busy
with the gas co. that took her to Eng-
land three years ago. During the long
summer vacations she has visited Yugo-
slavia and Czecho-Slovakia, and is now
a sort of unofficial delegate for the two
countries. Gwen has made a dazzling
collection of their costumes and embroi-
deries.
o Continued on page 37.)


The Richardson Chain Hotel
r»!
a*.;
m
BV.
If ai!* 13 i
j !i fi! rl* a? ]! -'
1? 3 3
w
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4 14 1 (10 lines).
&
pn p
n r
P c
ft
nr
n r
Ilcj cjza-jiez
out lack cowie* to c
. . . LLe*
com,-jjo , ct 9 Ao lie look* at
P ett f gj-lotel
Tariff: Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-.
R. J. Langley, Manager.
SYDNEY
ROMANOFF
and RED KE T A
CAVIAR
CAVIAR-
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at ai
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney
H. A
r In-flamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERY WWE R E
RO S E &. Co. Ltd. King St. Sydney,
Melbourne
Chatter
The heat, the flies and the general
hang-over from all-night parties made
the New Year’s Day meeting at Flem-
ington anything but exhilarating. In the
outer reserves many men took off their
coats and collars, and a few tied fly-
veils round their heads. In the members’
stand there were perhaps half a dozen
men in silk suits. (If any of them had
come in tropical whites even the horses
would have been unnerved with shock.)
Members could get cold drinks, but in
other bars ice ran out early in the after-
noon, so that the degrees of discomfort
on both sides of the fence were almost
even.
The G.H. folk, who are all ardent
racegoers, did not do much walking
about the lawns. That’s what Lady
Huntingfield particularly enjoys, as she
does a visit to the saddling paddock, con-
ducts her own punting on the modest ss.
tote and collects her divs. in the queue
with everybody else. Gilbert Dyett in-
troduced an English visitor, F. Neville
Smith, at the official luncheon. Mrs.
Smith, an attractive Canadian, was in
poppy-red silk sprinkled with a black-
and-white pattern. Straw flowers were
clustered at her neck, and her black hat
had a protruding visor brim. Peggy Tait
wore a pink-and-white medley with a
white vizor hat, and Vi Tivey’s mulberry
hat sheltered a frock of the same shade.
Mrs. Leo Guest was in plumbago-blue,
with starched frills at the neck, and Mrs.
Campbell Guest, jun., was among the
many in navy with white reliefs. Mrs.
John Roxburgh wore two shades of
brown. Muriel Graham Officer chose
a very large black hat for her sulphur-
colored dress of crinkly crepe.
The polo season opened at Ranelagh
with matches between Melbourne Hunt
and Peninsula clubs. It was very hot
and the flies swarmed out of the tea-tree,
but residents and annual visitors to the
Frankston district were loyal to the
national sport of the Mornington Penin-
sula. Mrs. Helme Pott and Hermione
did their duty nobly, and were rewarded
by seeing Colonel Pott hit' two goals for
Melbourne B team. Among the many
folk who preferred white washing dresses
was Mrs. Alan Robinson, who held as a
contrast a striped sunshade and bag.
Mrs. Percy Alderton was in beige, and a
glimpse of pink was credited to the linen
dress chosen by Mrs. Charles Daniels.
From the shade of a car Mrs. G. H.
Knox watched her husband umpire and
her son John assist with goal signalling.
There was a women’s polo match as a
curtain-raiser before the final of the T. B.
Guest Cup on the second day of the
polo at Ranelagh. With three a side
the Toorak Old Collegians, consisting of
Mary Bright, Mary Hope Campbell and
Lynette Dunstan, defeated the Busy Bees,
who were Mrs. Ken Moore, Helen
Bright and Gwen Stead. People who are
knowledgeable about polo were im-
pressed with the general improvement in
the girls’ play.
The members’ and the face-in-the-sun
stands were the most crowded for the
exhibition tennis at Kooyong on Satur-
day. Cochet was the attraction, but
there’s little excitement about exhibition
games; by the time the singles were over
and the one doubles match of the day
came on people were getting restless, and
the stands became a buzz of conversa-
tion pertaining to every subject but
tennis. Madame Cochet wore a sulphur-
colored suit made with a three-quarter
coat and short puffy sleeves. Mrs. Harry
Hopman, sitting in the uppermost row
of the stand, was glad of the extra
warmth of her little green coat. Mrs.
Gib Shaw had no illusions about the
weather, and brought along a white rain-
coat. Mrs. Charles Littlejohn wore a
scarlet spotty scarf with a blue tweed
suit, and carried an initialled handbag.
Marjorie McWilliam, all in deep wine-
red, accompanied Phyllis Aspinall, who
wore a suit of white silk tweed with
pleats round the hem of the skirt. Mrs.
Mel McPherson Smith, who sat with her
husband, was in white with a short beige
coat and a claret-colored hat. Edith
Wood, who came up to the stand with
some other women players for a breather
in between sets, wore a short tennis frock
and cherry-rimmed glasses. Deirdre
Grantham’s choice was floral-patterned
silk, with a bunch of scarlet ribbons to
balance at the back the large vizor brim
in the front of her white hat.
Home again after eighteen months is
Mary Mitchell, author of the best-seller
Warning to Wantons, of Pendulum
Swing and of What’s Time, to be pub-
lished early in 1936. The first draft of
this third novel was written in Majorca,
in a quiet little country hotel where the
scenery is superb and visitors must
endeavor to speak French, Spanish
or the national language of the island.
Returning to England, Miss Mitchell
travelled through Spain. In London her
agent is a woman, Miss Campbell
Thomson. For an author who lives away
from England an agent is almost a neces-
sity ; it is his or her job to give advice
about translation rights, film rights, etc.,
and to act as a go-between for author
and publisher. What is more important
to new authors is that an agent knows
which publishers are most likely to
accept various types of MSS.
As a novelist Miss Mitchell finds that
she must keep on increasing her store of
general knowledge. Reference-books
and her own notes are a tremendous
help, and she missed a library badly in
Majorca. She considers that the hardest
part of novel-writing is the revision with
a typewriter. In the first fountain-pen
and exercise-book copy the characters
are liable to run away with the author,
and mistakes and technical errors are
unavoidable. For instance, tedious
adjustments must be made to the plot
when a writer discovers that she has
provided only five minutes for her hero
to walk 20 miles. Miss Mitchell is no
quitter. She knows all about the dis-
appointment of rejection-slips, for she
wrote for five years before she had any-
thing accepted. Broothorn made the
portrait.
Wetting the head of baby 1936 was
done with innumerable “niners” and
bottles of everything from champagne to
Vichy—the latter swallowed with aspirin
by night revellers who sought their pil-
lows when the sun was already high and
hot. Some people didn’t go to bed at
all, for by the time they finally arrived
home it hardly seemed worth while.
At' Frankston . there was a party
which started on New Year’s Eve with
cocktails at the Bill Taylors’, proceeded
to the beginning of a dinner at Mrs.
Edward Collins’s, to yet other courses
of the same meal served by Dr. and
Mrs. Sidney Plowman and Mr. and Mrs.
J. J. McComas, and finished up with
liqueurs and coffee at Mt. Eliza with
Roy Grounds and his American wife.
By that time most of the last day of
1935 had been used up, and everybody
went on to the dance given by Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. J. Lucas and their daughters
at Yamala. In between dancing in the
lounge and on the verandah guests could
take their choice of a buffet supper of
Christmas cake and other conventional
fare near the fernery or else wander
under the trees to a real Biergarten —fat
sausages, cheeses, check cloths on small
tables, and tankards with frim handles.
Much later there was a rush for bathing
costumes and a swim.
Another different kind of party was a
barbecue given by the Bill Swansons up
at Ferny Creek. The pig, which had
been roasting all the afternoon over a
slow bush fire, was beautifully cooked
when it was time to carve him for 50
people. Tables and chairs (and pig) were
arranged in the garden, which commands
a wonderful view as far as Westernport
Bay. Twinkly colored lights were
moored among the old gums ; there are
hydrangeas and old-fashioned flowers
like Canterbury bells and foxgloves, and
there’s a silver-birch wood. It’s a lovely
home for a party.
Another do was at Barwon Heads
Golf Club —a really Scottish welcome
for 1936. Acting-president Reg Camp-
bell and his wife received the guests, Mr.
Campbell being recognised for the night
as chief of the clans. Everybody who
had them wore kilts, and the steaming
haggis was piped in with the customary
bottle held high, for there’s only one
drink to go with haggis—whisky neat.
A travelling horse caravan, which con-
tains a modest marionette show, has left
for a holiday jog along the coast. The
three young women who provide the en-
tertainment represent a variety of pro-
fessions: Vera Horton is a nurse, Mar-
jorie Carr’s a teacher and Jean Duncan
paints. The jehu, who does odd jobs
like chopping wood as well as driving
and grooming the motive power, came
over from W.A. specially to make the
trip. The same people did a similar
journey last year.
Mary Guthrie, known to her friends
as “Possum,” has announced her engage-
ment to Dr. Oswald Gough, of Geelong.
Mary is the only daughter of Senator and
Mrs. Guthrie, of Coolangatta, Moora-
bool.
Wearing the draughtboard-patterned
blouse is Liberty, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Harold Brookes, of Woodend.
Liberty and her elder sister Margaret are
bound for Europe by the Orama. Photo,
by Broothorn.
Many people go abroad and enjoy
themselves immensely but have few tales
to tell on their return to armchair
travellers at home. Mrs. John Garvan
Hurley is an exception. She is full of
information and enthusiasm about her
first trip overseas, and for observation
must be credited with full marks. Dr.
Hurley didn’t miss much, either, except
for a fortnight after leaving Tangiers,
where he went ashore with only his
auburn hair as protection against the
sun. The bout of sunstroke which fol-
lowed nearly put him past the need of
any protection.
In London Dr. and Mrs. Hurley be-
came very friendly with Halliday Suther-
land, the t.b. specialist and author. Dr.
Sutherland is greatly interested in Aus-
tralia and Australian economics, and
hopes to visit this country. The couple
have six children, of whom the eldest is
Judy, aged 16. Judy is very charming,
her father’s best pal, and likes nothing
better than a day’s fishing in his
company.
Motoring up into Scotland, Mrs.
Hurley was struck with the larger hold-
ings, which reminded her a little of Aus-
tralia, and the varieties of sheep (for she
comes from Corowa, N.S.W., and knows
something of jumbucks). The women of
Vienna walk like queens, although they
may be only wearing cheap cotton
frocks. Shoes, Mrs. Hurley found, are
very cheap in Vienna, but the desperate
poverty of the people is depressing—old
women are seen washing cars in front of
the hotels; families are still living on
the proceeds of their pictures, jewellery
and furniture, and there are food-
queues. The only other food-queues
the travellers noticed were in Milan.
Mrs. Hurley was amazed at the Hitler
idolatry in Germany. Even the children
are militant; a raggedy little newsboy
will click his bare heels and give a Nazi
salute after selling papers in a restaurant
or street-car. The Hurleys liked the
Tyrol, with its beautiful scenery, where
quaint Biblical pictures are painted on
the walls of peasants’ cottages nestling
tight against the mountains ; and they
loved Switzerland, even though their
chauffeur dashed through mountain vil-
lages at 60 miles per hour with both
horns going full blast —one horn wasn’t
enough to frighten away the goats, fowls
and people.
Sylvia, only daughter of Prof, and
Mrs. Young, is the first Australian girl
to be appointed to the Colonial Service.
She has a medical job in Jerusalem. Miss
Young took her degree in Melbourne, and
then went to Brisbane for two years for
hospital experience and to fill locums’
jobs, which she decided was her quickest
way of making money. Last May she went
to England, and put in an application
for the Colonial Service. Hundreds of
highly-qualified professionals apply for
these positions, so that the Melbourne
girl’s success is a credit to her brains,
vitality and initiative and to her father’s
reputation—for she was pleased to find
that dad had not been forgotten by his
numerous colleagues of 20 years ago.
A Colonial Service job is a step in the
dark —a successful applicant might be
sent to the hot, sticky Gold Coast, to
healthy Kenya, or up country in Burma
where the mosquitoes are as big as
swans. Dr. Young is pleased to discover
that her salary is not subject to heavy
taxation, and so far she is not worried
about the fact that she must resign if she
marries. Her medical work in Jerusalem
will be principally among women and
children, Jewish, Arab and possibly
European.
In March Prof. Young goes off on
12 months’ leave of absence. He and
his wife are planning to spend four or
five weeks in Jerusalem en route for
Europe where the Professor will repre-
sent the Commonwealth at the Inter-
national Conference of Refrigeration at
The Hague.
In the Vic. and Tasmanian census
there are still 67 children who have not
yet received their Christmas presents.
Father Christmas is shipping the goods
on the Cape York, which is sailing later
than her usual schedule, owing to her en-
gagement to search for the Paringa. The
little Cape York visits 14 Victorian and
six Tasmanian lighthouses. At Deal Island
all cargoes are hoisted up the cliff by a
crane and taken along the rocky road by
bullock waggon. For 12 years Esme
Allee has superintended the packing of
toys for the lighthouse children. She
has been offered a passage on the Cape
York, but has not accepted because, like
Father Christmas, she is a bad sailor.


Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
"The tJVlacleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
Personal.
SHORT-STORIES WANTED; Romantic plots
with Australian atmosphere but no slang
figures of speech; for publication in English,
American and Indian periodicals. Lengths,
1-5 thous. Send stamp with MSS. (NOT
stamped envelope).—S. CHRISTOPHER
ROBINSON, Film, Dramatic and Literary
Agents, 37 Mortimer Market, London, W.C.l,
England.
Legal Notices.
Re John Morgan, Deceased.
PURSUANT to Order of Chancery Division
High Court of Justice dated July 16 1934 and
made in re JOHN MORGAN Deceased (late
of Lower Cefn Carnddu Farm Llangibby Mon-
mouth who died November 23 1933) Morgan
v. Morgan and Dean 1934M. 1695 the follow-
ing inquiry was directed: “What person or
persons upon the death of the abovenamed
Intestate JOHN MORGAN became beneficially
entitled to any property of his as to which he
died intestate and for what estates and inter-
ests and in what shares and proportions and
whether any such persons are since dead and
if they died entitled to any vested share or
interest who are their legal personal repre-
sentatives.”
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said inquiry
are on or before March 4, 1936, to send by
post prepaid to WILLIAM JOHN EVERETT,
of Pontypool, Monmouth, England, their full
addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims, or in default thereof they
may be excluded from the benefit of the said
Order. Wednesday, March 11, 1936, at 12
o’clock noon is the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims before Master Haw-
kins, Room 168, Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand, London, England. A claimant not
residing in England or Wales must send with
particulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in England or Wales to ivhom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this Third day of December, 1935.
W. F. S. HAWKINS,
Master.
Note. —The following persons or their issue
respectively may be entitled, viz., Elizabeth
Jones and John Gordon Edwards, who were
last heard of as being in Australia; John
Brown, who was last heard of as having been
seen in Worcester, England; and William
Edward Moore, who was last heard of as
being in Iraq.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
Australia.
No. 779 of 1935.
BETWEEN KATELIN MAJSEN (falsely
called Stahr) Plaintiff
And THEODOR JOSEPH BERTHOLD
STAHR Defendant.
TO THEODOR JOSEPH BERTHOLD
STAHR.
NOTICE is hereby giveq. to THEODOR
JOSEPH BERTHOLD STAHR whose last
known address was at Goolgun in the State
of South Australia that a writ has been
issued in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia in an action in which KATELIN
MAJSEN claims an order for nullity of mar-
riage on the ground that the said Katelin
Majsen never voluntarily or of her own free
will consented to any marriage and in such
action the said Katelin Majsen intends to ask
for an order for costs and an order for such
other relief as the Court deems fit and if
Theodor Joseph Berthold Stahr desires to be
heard in opposition to the claim for any of
such orders he must file an appearance in the
office of the Master of the Supreme Court of
South Australia within 35 days of the publica-
tion of this advertisement otherwise orders may
be made against him in his absence.
ALDERMAN, REID & BRAZEL,
Albion House, Waymouth Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
ĸ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Pree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence .
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t Annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
A FEAST OF FUN
“The Great Book of Humor”
768 Pages—50 Masterpieces of Humor by 50
World-famous Authors. Wodehouse, Priestley,
Milne, Jacobs, Chesterton, Peacock, etc., etc.
Special Concession Offer to Headers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue.
On Sale All Newsagents—PRICE 6d.
MAKE MORE MONEY!
Men or women earn good incomes selling
Gilmour Products.
Highest Quality Essences, Spices, Medicines,
Soap Insecticides, Foods, Ointments, Toilet
Preparations, etc. — NECESSITIES ALWAYS
IN DEMAND —sell to friends and neighbours
—NO RISK —no capital needed —we can finance
you to buy at manufacturer’s low prices—ad-
vertising, sales training, everything supplied—
PROVED SUCCES'S —full time pays £5 TO
£10 WEEKLY.
Own Your Own Business—
NOTHING MORE PERMANENT —state whether
interested full or part time —send your name
and address —receive illustrated booklet and full
information. Address: The John Gilmour
Coy., Ltd.,- Dept. 113, Corner Parramatta
and Pyrmont Bridge Roads, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
All the way from Reigate, Surrey,
Hilda Brockwell came for her wedding
to English actor James Raglan, now
broadcasting with the A.B.C. St. Jude’s
at Randwick blessed the vows, Stuart
Osborne squired the bride to the altar,
and the reception was in the Rose Bay
home of Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones. The
bride wore mauve orchids on her blue
crepe frock; white gardenias trailed
across the grey chiffons of the hostess.
If the proposed alterations to Sydney
Hospital go through what are the nurses
and patients of the future to do in times
of procession? For immemorial years
they have occupied the ideal site for the
viewing of every bit of city pageantry.
When the soldiers went away they were
there to wave; when the warriors re-
turned they were there to cheer. For the
passing of princes, duchesses, visiting
navies or religious ceremonial serried
ranks of whitely crisp nurses have been
a pleasing part of the interested back-
ground. Now it is suggested to turn the
hospital around with its face to the
Domain, and line the street with Govern-
ment offices. That means a gallery of
peering politicians. Who then will want
to be a royal visitor? Who will want to
be a national hero?
A recent returnee from overseas tells
of Boughton House, where the Duke of
Gloucester and his bride spent part of
their honeymoon. Of Queen Anne
period, it is French in style, the main
building having been designed by Ralph,
first Duke of Montagu, who had been
an ambassador at the Court of France.
The house has four wings, one for each
season of the year ; 365 windows, one
for each day; 52 chimneys, one for each
week; and seven entrances. Another
Duke of Montagu, known as John the
Planter, planted the 70 miles of avenues
for which the house is famous. He did
that because he wasn’t allowed to plant
trees along the roadside all the way from
Boughton House to Bath. The mansion
came to the Dukes of Buccleuch through
Elizabeth, heiress of the last of the Mon-
tagus, who married the third duke in
1767.
Perhaps it’s Mussolini and Abyssinia.
Whatever the cause autumn clothes will
have a military swagger. Epaulettes for
the shoulders, belts for the coats and
angles for the hats, which will often
sprout cock’s feathers. Capes are to be
hem-length or waist-length, and will
appear with propriety at any hour of the
day or night. Costume skirts are to be
short and narrow, coats of the square,
stick-out variety. Everything is to look
bustling and hustling except the Greek-
line dresses for the evening, which even
in the modern version suggest a night
with TSschylus rather than with a
Cochran revue. Not that' Sydney has
one of them to show at the moment. If
you can’t afford the Persian lamb coat
of the hour, velvet and astrakhan
make a pleasant substitute.
Sydney has at least two sets of stage
jewels that can claim to be historic. The
rings, bracelets, earrings, chains and
even the shoe buckles which Nellie
Stewart wore as Sweet Nell are in
daughter Nancye’s possession. The
others, worn by Milano Garti in a Tur-
kish operetta which he composed, have
appeared in most of the great opera-
houses of the world. One hundred and
fifty years old, they are still intact. An
Italian beauty and singer, Frezzolina,
passed them on over a century ago to
her pupil Persiani, who was making her
debut at La Scala. Finally they came
into the possession of Orme Darvall, who
lived in Sydney for some years.
It has been coolly proposed to Min-
ister Paterson that the Government
should add a wing to the “temporary”
Parliament House at ’Berra to provide
cheap accommodation for Parliamen-
tarians. All because the licensee of the
Canberra (it cost £160,980 and accumu-
lated losses of £217,852 when the Gov-
ernment was running it) dared to put
two Parliamentarians in one room at a
time of great rush. In other days Fed-
eral members could walk into a Gov-
ernment hotel, book a room on Tuesday,
leave on Friday night and have the room
reserved without cost until their return
the following Tuesday, this no matter
what the pressure of 100-p.c. paying visi-
tors might be. What with franking privi-
leges reduced to £5 a month, and the
likelihood of having to pay as much for
one’s accommodation as the travelling
public, a Federal member’s life is hardly
worth living these days.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
At Perth races the smooth green sward
was dotted at intervals with brilliant beds
of massed phlox and cannas, pink and
golden roses climbed over walls and
fences, and delphiniums and petunias
bordered the enclosure. Racebooks were
fanned vigorously to mitigate the heat,
and dressing was bright and summery.
President Lee Steere’s lady bowed
graciously in beige crinkle georgette inlet
with lace. Mrs. Frank Lefroy joined in
her husband’s shouts of joy when their
filly won the blue ribbon. Betty Merry-
weather’s scarlet toenails gleamed ’neath
the hem of her sweeping navy chiffon;
twins Dorothy and Beatrice Baker kilted
the ankle-length skirts of their cool green
georgettes ; intriguing splashes of black
were spilled over the filmy black-and-
white-patterned silks girding Mrs. Frank
Davis, and Nancy Parker’s faggot-
stitch oyster satin yoke was revealed by
the flung-back cape of her black satins.
Intermittent shirrings appeared on Mrs.
Fred Senior’s pastel georgettes, with their
bands of blue velvet, and Mrs. James
Monteath combined royal blue and black
with her white chiffons.
Very best bibs and tuckers were
brought out for the Weld Club ball, the
one occasion each year when womenfolk
may enter the sacred-to-men precincts.
Shades of the garden were brought to
bear in the dance-room, where tubs of
living hydrangeas were ranged around
the walls. President Frank Leake stood
at the portals, with Mrs. Leake along-
side in black crepe chiffon misty with
the impress of gold and red roses. Mary
Forrest’s satin caught the eye ; it started
lilac at the shoulders and deepened in tone
to a rich red-purple at the hem. Mrs.
Charles Osborne, the president’s sister,
brought her classic black satins from
England ; Betty Wood dangled long gold
earrings and accoutrements over ice-blue
matt crepe, and Mollie Learmonth’6 fine
aertex was a skilful combination of King
blue and white.
The world and his wife turned up at
Gloucester Park to watch the night trot-
ting. Dressing was extraordinarily varied.
Trailing carry-overs from the races stood
next straight - from - the - beach sports
wear, ice-cream suits jostled pessimists in
winter coats, and hats and no hats were
fifty-fifty with both sexes.
From Singapore comes news of the
wedding of Mollie Reading, of Bunbury,
and Findlay Green, of Jahore. A filmy
tulle veil fell over the bride’s magnolia
satins, which were cut into an oval train
held by Joyce and Desmond Hardman,
the former in white net over blue taffeta
and the latter in white satin shirt and
long blue satin trousers.
The Whittaker-Bolger wedding was a
cool-looking ceremony. The bride
stepped down the aisle of St. Mary’s,
West Perth, in suit, hat and shoes of
atmosphere-blue linen, with soft jabot of
silk net and an armful of delphiniums.
Mavis Webb followed, trim and slim in
dusty-pink linen, with navy accoutre-
ments and ospreys waving on her hat.
Rejoicings were at the Embassy.
Mrs. Frank Downing started the bride-
elect parties for Dorothy Solomon by
shaking quarts of cocktail at Toby’s.
Mrs. Ray Cockburn was next in the
field with a kitchen-tea at the Green
Gate.
Latest recruits to the ranks of the
betrothed are Lorraine, lone ewe lamb
of the F. W. R. Goddens, and Dudley,
scion of the R. O. Laws, of West Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
There was a very large party at Mount
Osmond Country Club on New Year’s
Eve. Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Holden were
host and hostess, in the absence of Dr.
and Mrs. Darcy Cowan, who have gone
for a trip to Colombo. The decorations
were most unusual, featuring floral
inverted parasols. Greens and lawns
were brilliantly illuminated, and rockets
were fired off at midnight.
Beautiful weather favored the wedding
in St. Peter’s College chapel of James,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Nicholls, of Plympton, and Arini, third
daughter of Mrs. A. M. Rutherford, of
Unley Park, and the late Andrew
Rutherford, of Parnassus, M.L. The
bride was gowned in cream satin cut
on princess lines, merging into a train.
A tailored hip-length coatee with buttons
of orange-blossom was finished with a
Peter Pan collar. The long sleeves were
fitting to the wrist. Bride’s sister
Elspeth Rutherford and two little train-
bearers, Jill Tolley and Ann Bonython,
were all frocked alike, in hydrangea-
blue georgette made on Grecian lines,
with blue saris over their heads.
The reception after the ceremony was
at the South Australian; there were 170
guests. Mrs. Rutherford was gowned in
pale-grey georgette cut on long lines with
full bishop sleeves; her wide-brimmed
straw hat was of grey, swathed in georg-
ette. Bridegroom’s mother Mrs. Arthur
Nicholls chose peach-bloom georgette
with a pleated train from the back panel
of the skirt and a long, pleated cape, the
long ends caught on the corsage with a
diamente cabochon. Her large straw hat
was trimmed with ostrich-feather tips to
tone.
Brigadier P. M. McFarlane, who is
leaving Adelaide to be Military Com-
mandant in Perth, was host at a cocktail-
party at which he entertained Staff
Corps officers and their wives.
Mrs. Albion Tolley gave a cocktail-
party at her flat, North Adelaide, to
introduce four Melbourne visitors —her
daughter-in-law Mrs. Tom Patterson,
Mr. Patterson and Mr. and Mrs. Oswald
McEwin.
The engagement is announced of T. E.
Barr Smith, second son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. E. Barr Smith, of Birksgate, Glen
Osmond, to Nancy, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Leland Greene, of Camperdown,
Vic.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark went
to Launceston to unveil the monument to
Colonel Paterson, who founded the settle-
ment in the north of the Speck in 1804.
There was a pageant, with Paterson and
his men from the H.M.S. Buffalo in cor-
rect period uniforms. The landing was
re-enacted, and crowds rolled up to the
show. Priminister Lyons was there.
Muriel Constance (Topsy), youngest of
Col. and Mrs. J. E. C. Lords’ girls, and
Kenneth Rule, were married at St.
George’s, Battery Point. The bride’s
frock, of fine white lace, had a small
train, and the tulle veil was clamped to
the head with a wreath of orange-blos-
som. Her sister Phyllis, Corris Chan-
cellor and Winifred Masters followed in
white lace, with silver girdles and silver
leaves in their hair.
Hobart has had a visit from one of the
Speck’s Rhodes scholars, now Major C.
S. W. Rayner, of the Indian Army. After
a short visit to his home folk, he goes
back to take up a job in the Judge Advo-
cate-General’s Department.
The Merson Coopers (Melb.) are
spending a short holiday in Hobart;
they came over in time to spend Christ-
mas Day with their daughter and son-in-
lay, the F. X. de Bavays.
Commander and Mrs. Trevor Eardley-
Wilmot are back from their trip to Eng-
land. Mrs. Fairthorne (Launceston) host-
essed a cheery cocktail party which
served as a welcome home.


BRAN DAL ER’S
wags*
gSfcrP
cS**
PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. bRANDAUER & CO., Ltd-, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
At Sydney’s
Social
Centre
You will find every
modern convenience,
first-c lass service
and an excellent
cuisine.
_ mi
mm \
* e . ■
! M
Hotel Mansions
Is situated in the most central part
of Sydney, and is the real home for
visitors from all over the world.
Excellent catering for Wedding Break-
lasts, Dinners and Private Lunches, etc.
King’s Ci oss, Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
FRASER’S CLAW HAMMER
The CLEVHAM Trade Mark, a clever, useful all-
round tool lately invented; all steel. Send
free leaflet showing some of the many things tm»
combination Olevham will do, for it is a cleve
hammer. It should be found on every farm and u
every -home and in every tradesman’s kit, M>d it soi
pays for itself. When ordering one OLE v H-'-
.send postal note for 6/6; for four or more sen
4/6 each (wholesale price) to: —
JOHN FRASER,
CLEVEREIE, GLEN THOMPSON. VICTORIA,
and they will be sent post free to any
Australia or New Zealand. When paying by cheq c
please add 6d. exchange.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE REDUCTION
OF ORES, OXIDES AND THE LIKE-
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent v'.'
14,895/23 is prepared to negotiate for the s
of his rights in the above, or for the g*"?™ .
of a license to make, use and vend the in
tion within the Commonwealth of Aiistra •
Particulars of the invention obtainable t
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, P a en
Attorneys, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“El V.”: Two years ago Australia
became alarmed by stories of Oriental
sampans, fitted with the latest shell-
fishing equipment, which were stripping
banks and taking away the livings of
Australian taxpayers. Some of these “in-
vaders” were so daring that they landed
on Australian soil, and in Mandated New
Guinea they were alleged to have fired
a copra-shed. Another vessel was
taken to Rabaul and confiscated.
Around Australia nothing was done for
some time. Then the Commonwealth
decided to build a patrol boat or two.
That' was 18 months ago, and, as it was
quite obvious that no Australian firm
could be trusted to turn out a deep-sea
launch to carry three men, an order was
placed in Britain. The North is still
without its launches ; and now there are
reports of aliens landing on Bathurst
Island and near Cape Flattery and Cape
Upstart (in defiance of quarantine and
immigration regulations), and of a fast
craft appearing off the Cairns coast and
picking up a parcel dropped from the
Chan’gte. The Collector of Customs says
he is helpless without the means of
pouncing on the lawbreakers. However,
in a few months or a few years, the first
new launch will be ready. And with
that and its three men patrolling 4000
miles of coastline no Oriental will dare
to brave official wrath.
* * * *
“X.T.”: For the life of me I cannot
understand why the Queensland Govern-
ment does not turn some of its more
mountainous northern country into a
sporting reserve. There is much of Cape
York which will remain a long time un-
settled, but in it various kinds of game
would flourish if imported and accli-
matised—l don’t, of course, recommend
the carnivora. If buffalo-shooting could
be had and there were a few decent
shooting lodges a good many people
would go for the sport. And what is
wrong with a crocodile farm? Florida
has alilgator farms and does a rare trade
in saurians and in their skins and ‘by-
products.
* ! * * *
“R.S.”: All Queensland Diggers are
ready to congratulate S. R. (“Dad”)
Richardson on the 0.8. E. which came
to him in the New Year honors, and to
wish that it had been something more.
For 17 years he has been honorary secre-
tary of the Sailors and Soldiers’ Fathers’
Association. In the early days when
money was scarce, his hand was always
in his own pocket, but donations, includ-
ing a single one of £l5OO, later made the
way easier. He volunteered for service
at 55, but the doctors would have none
of him, and he had to be content to be
represented at the front by two sons.
* * * *
“Magnetic”: While other districts are
rolling in prosperity, Townsville and its
surroundings are suffering the driest spell
for 66 years. The rainfall was 9.03 inches,
and over six inches of that fell in Febru-
ary and May. The most alarming fact
is that there has been a steady-decline
throughout 55 years. The first 20 years
showed an average of 51.44m.'andJhe
next 44.74 in., the last 15 ."years only
36in. Townsville is anxiously asking
itself whether the change is due to loss
of vegetation or some other cause
brought about by settlement or whether
the district is merely going through a
natural cycle. ‘ :
* * * *
“Plankton”: Bartle Frere, altitude
5000 ft., is generally ."referred to as the
highest point in Queensland. As a mat-
ter of fact, the distinction belongs to a
peak named Wooroonooran, 200 ft.
higher. It is also in North Queensland,
and forms part of a range bearing the
same name.
¥ * ■]: *
“Samson”: During the last nine
months the Mackay (N.Q.) outer harbor
ambulance branch has attended about
1000 cases. Over 300 are employed
around the clock—a little over 100 per
shift. Tantamount to saying that every
person employed there —it is a quarry
job—must expect to be injured four times
per year.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Queenslanders are learning
not to expect any consideration from the
Government in respect of road transport.
They pay petrol tax like other Aus-
tralians, and at the same time are taxed
to build roads; when the roads are
built they are prevented from placing
commercial vehicles on any but pre-
scribed routes, and then under a system
of exorbitant additional taxes. Private
road travellers are having their turn
now. The nearest real beach to Brisbane
is Redcliffe, but the most direct route to
this has been provided by the Horni-
brook Highway across Bramble Bay. On
this tolls are charged, apart from the
fact that rate- and taxpayers bear the
“Good enough for the talkies, mine tinkit!"
cost of the magnificent speedways which
have been built at each end to connect
the Hornibrook people’s bread and butter
with the source of supply. A Govern-
ment road runs Jo Burleigh, Southport
and Coolangatta in the south. At Logan
Bridge there is a toll on this too, as there
is on the road to Tambourine Mountain
and Cairns to Yungaburra. The Min-
ister says that this is justified because
building is expensive, and, anyway, these
are luxury roads, and any panting tourist
who seeks rest in the heights or on the
shore has money in his pocket. It is
proposed that if Bruce Highway traffic
grows,. travellers upon it too may be
under surcharge when they go to view
the beauties of Buderim or the
Maroochy. The authorities seem to
think that a toll is particularly justi-
fied on roads which are used by
inter-State visitors —who > bring a lot
of spending money to the North. There
is nothing like encouraging the tourist
traffic!
* * * *
“X.T.”: It seems to me that the present
“all-in” system of awarding university
scholarships in Queensland gives an un-
fair advantage to Brisbane, where young-
sters least need the help. Among the 20
awards made a few days ago, 14 went
to Brisbane and Ipswich, which have a
combined population of about 35 p.c. of
the State. The several big towns on
the coast from Brisbane to Cape York
were awarded one scholarship—it went
to Bundaberg ; the whole North received
only two, both from Charters Towers, and
the Downs and the west one. It sounds
as if a zoning system would be fairer.
* * * *
One of Queensland’s oldest politicians
—Tom Glassey is the oldest —is George
Jackson, who celebrated an 80th birth-
day last week. A Lancashire lad, he
came to Queensland in his youth and
worked up from a mine-worker’s job
to the ownership of batteries. In the
great days of Ravenswood he was a
notable figure in the North, and in ’93
he defeated Isidore Lissner, then Thomas
Mcllwraith’s Mines Minister, for Ken-
nedy. He himself was Mines Minister
in the Kidston-Morgan Ministry of 1909
for a short term before the fusion of
the Kidston-Philp parties. He was once
known as a writer of short stories.
* * * *
Dead in his fifties, at Wynnum (Q.),
Harry Vowles, one of the State’s best-
beloved headmasters. He served in
many schools, and in a day when discip-
line was stern and the swish of the cane
was heard throughout the land he ruled
his classes on the honor system and
with a minimum of punishment. He was
the son of a school inspector and brother
to William Vowles, leader of the Oppo-
sition in the later davs of the war.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
Our vice-regals spent Christmas on
Peter Wilson’s' station, and went into
church at St. George on Christmas morn-
ing. They also attended a picnic race
meeting at St. George. They returned to
put in a few quiet days at Government
House before packing up for Caloundra.
Some folks always have shown a pref-
erence for Caloundra ; the Ray Cilentos
are there again this season, with the
family. Mrs. J. D. Story, with son Bill
and daughter Mrs. Norman Johnston and
son-in-law Norman also are there ; and
the C. Byrnes have a big house party,
including Judge Wells, from Darwin, the
George Mocattas, Lieut.-Commander
Carl Oom, of the Moresby, and Peter
Taylor.
In spite of the blowy weather, the bay
has been covered with white wings: and
the staccato pop-pop of motor-boats has
haunted the night hours in every anchor-
age. Holidaying on their yacht, the Der-
went—recently stolen and recovered—are
the Maldwyn Davieses. Others who are
afloat are the C. R. Christmas pair and
the F. Z. Eagers. The Eagers’ launch
was not. large enough to hold all the
guests bidden to the cocktail party on
New Year’s Eve, so they went ashore
and celebrated at the Pacific Hotel. C.J.
and Lady Blair are at the Pacific.
Mrs. R. Lord, of Augathella, has done
a lot of entertaining at Southport this
season. Daughters Margaret, Dorothea
and Elaine are with her, and they usually
have a covey of young things round
them.
Besides dancing and surfing, the chief
amusements are motor-boat racing in the
stilly night—not so stilly when the race
really gets going—and speed contests in
the miniature motor-cars which are one
of the big attractions on the beach, and
which must have reaped their enter-
prising owner a decent sort of harvest.
Fifty beaming lasses, who came from
various spots in Queensland as far apart
as Cairns, Isisford, Bundaberg, Jundah
and Brisbane, left by the Kyogle express
en route to Tasmania, on a tour organ-
ised by the Y.A.L. They are from 12
to 18 years old, and Kitty Hillcoat is
the chief chaperon, with Eleanor
Carter, Ruth Parker, Eileen Mackay to
help her, and Mollie Bryant as nurse.
E. M. Hanlon and his family are at
Mooloolaba —he seems to be the only
Minister of the Crown who is not at
Southport. Speaker Pollock is at the
Surfers Paradise, and together in a neat
garden city close handy are other Minis-
ters and quite a few heads of Govern-
ment departments.
Kathleen Wand’s nice English fiance,
Michael Addison, went back to England
on Boxing Day, and the lady hopes to
go there herself during the coming year.
Michael saw quite a lot of Queensland,
and went fishing on Heron Island with
the vice-regal party.
The usual crop of Christmas engage-
ments. Geoff Herring has annexed a
pretty Stanthorpe girl, Mary Wilshire,
so he turned his back on the beaches to eat
Christmas dinner with the lass and her
family. Bill Stephens and Gwynneth
Hooper also are engaged. They are con-
stant attendants at first nights of Reper-
tory Society ; and Gwynneth was one of
the ’maids when Tom Stephens married
Babette Fergusson a few weeks ago.
Mrs. Duncan Nelson is taking her three
daughters, Mary, Janet and Ruth, on a
tour of England and the Continent. They
sail early in April, and expect to be away
for about a year.
Tom Welsby, one of the oldest of the
sailing men, who long has owned a
seaside home on Amity Point, cheered
all the small folk of the hamlet by enter-
taining them at a party.
Professor and Mrs. Michie are spend-
ing the vac. in Toowoomba, and Mrs.
Sword, Mrs. Michie’s mother, has a
house quite near. All the daughters will
be with her this year, as Mrs. Strickland
came over from India and Mrs. Cowie
from South Australia just in time for the
turkey and mince pies.


The S. H, Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XXIX.
I.
ONE load was sufficient to remove the Whites’
furniture, but Bill had to bring the dray back
on two more trips before the Mulver chattels
were at last disposed in their new home. Bill cursed
Mrs. Mulver because he had sold the dray and
promised to deliver it by midday.
It was mid-afternoon before Mrs. Mulver had
fussed over the last set of butterboxes and the last
group of jam-jars. She would not leave behind a rusty
nail. The Mulvers had demolished their dwelling, and
they wanted the old iron and bags carted away with
the furniture because they might come in handy some
day.
Bill boiled inwardly at having to transport
what he termed a “blasted lot of rubbish” to
the new residence. It seemed to him he had never
known a hotter day, nor a more aggravating set of
kids than the Mulver offspring. They squirmed up to
sit beside him on top of the load. They squealed and
fought with his small brothers and sisters, who were
also determined to make every trip and lose not one
crowded hour of glorious life.
“It’s a damn’ good job I’m not sharing any house
with the Mulvers,” Bill thought. “I’d get that mad
with these kids I’d tear them apart.” As it was, he
dealt out sundry cuffs and smacks all round, so that
half his squealing load was almost in tears by the
time they reached the town.
On the last trip Bobby, sitting with Speckly in his
arms, piped up, “Bill, ’ow are we goin’ to school from
this new place?”
“You’ll go to school in town,” Bill answered.
Bobby thought it over. “Aren’t we goin’ to the
Warning Hill school any more?” he asked.
“No.” Bill savagely smacked a fly behind his ear.
Bobby looked at the heat dancing on Warning
Hill and the corrugated-iron of the shelter-shed. He
sniffed loudly once, and then drew his hand across his
nose.
“Now then,” Bill said nastily, “what’ve you got
to whine about? Y’ don’t know ’ow damn’ lucky y’
are.”
Third time proves it, he thought. There’s no
coming back this time. He and Paul had got their
travellers’ tickets. They couldn’t come back.
He creaked up sullenly to The House and pro-
ceeded to sort out children and dog-kennels and tools
and pots on the front verandah. Mrs. MulveV came
to the door with Mary.
“And na thet’s the lot, is et, Bill?” she asked.
He grunted. He wanted to get away and take the
dray out the two miles to Hinton’s farm. Then he
had to see Andy Forbes about a mattock he had sold
him. It would take over an hour to do all that.
“I’ll just show y’ where to put tha beds,” Mrs.
Mulver said busily. “An’ mind where ya put y’r feet,
because we’ve been scroobin’ the pleece oot an’ we
don’t want no mood tremped in, do we Mary? Them
gret big loomberin’ boots av y’rs. Mind! Mind!
Little Claudie! Claudie, coom oot o’ thet. Ya don’t
want Bill t’ drap et on ya, do ya? Dear, dear, Ah’m
drippin’ with sweat, I been workin’ thet ’ard. Look at
me, Mary ; me bodice is wringin’ wet. You roon in
an’ poot the kettle on an’ we’ll ’arve a coop o’ tay.
Won’t ya, Bill?”
“Can’t stay,” grunted Bill. “Got to get back.”
“Well, jus’ before ya go, Bill.” She took him
firmly by the arm into the kitchen. “Seems t’ me tha
dresser’d be more ’andy-like if ya poot et over near
the sink. What d’ ya think, hinny?”
“Yes,” Mary responded. “Y’ could get at things
easier.” The overcrowded clamor of the house had a
brightening effect upon her. It reminded her of the
old days at the peasey hut before anyone went away.
Bill finally managed to escape from the kitchen.
And then he had to try to convince Bobby that he
could not come back to the Hill. Bobby was stub-
bornly determined that he was not going to stay at
The House.
“But I’m not goin’ back to the ’ut,” Bill argued.
“I’m goin’ out to ’lnton’s place. ’Ere. Get down
off that, or I’ll pretty soon shift you.”
“Damn’ kids!” he muttered. “They’d give y’ a
pain in the gizzard.”
He wasn’t going to have any kids, not if he knew
it. He got back to the Hill about five o’clock. He
had stopped to have a drink with a couple of chaps
and forgotten to buy some of the things he should
have bought in town, and on the whole he was feeling
happier.
The peasey hut was only the shell of its former
self. It made him restless just to look at it, and weary
to be gone. After all, the life of the track wasn’t so
bad. He might fall into a good job or meet a decent
girl. With Paul it would be different to going alone.
Paul was sitting outside the hut on an old chipped
log. He had stayed behind to see that no one stole
the stuff they were going to take with them on the
sulky. Bill slipped from Blasted’s back and turned
that patient animal out to forage.
“Anythin’ turn up?” he asked.
Paul shook his head.
“Old Grey’s back,” Bill remarked, glancing up
the slope.
Paul showed no interest.
“You’d better go over an’ see Staines about a
spare bit of chain he doesn’t want. Otherwise the
dogs’ll be headin’ back.”
Bill strolled away, stopping to have a yarn with
Old Grey. By the time he came back Paul had got a
fire lit and was cooking a slab of steak over it.
“Why didn’t you tell me where you put the
steak?” he asked.
“Thought you’d find it.”
“I’m not any damn’ crystal-gazer,” Paul said bad-
temperedly. “You’ve forgotten the chaff.”
“Oh, well, I guess I can shake a bag as we go.”
“You could of got one as a good-bye present from
old Jeff Harper.”
“Well, I didn’t.”
The two brothers ate their tea in silent preoccupa-
tion. After tea they sat out on the log side by side in
the deepening dusk and fed scraps to a kitten. Down
by the Chinamen’s garden the last gold washed the
lucerne flats and spread out the shadow of the big
gums like dark clothes on the grass.
Paul broke the silence.
“We’ll make an early start. For one thing, we’ve
got to call out to Hinton’s place and get the money
for the dray.”
Bill nodded. He tacitly accepted Paul’s leader-
ship, just as he had accepted Jim’s.
“That’ll take us out of our way. Then I s’pose
we ought to call in an’ say good-bye to Mary.”
“I said good-bye to Mary,” Bill said defensively.
He wasn’t going anywhere near the Mulver household
if he could help it. Mary would be having a fine time
with Bobby and Evie to-night. “We’ll write to them.”
“We’ll go down there to-night.”
“You go down.”
“We’ll both go.” Paul rose. “Old Grey’ll keep
an eye on our things.”
He strolled over and had a few words with Old
Grey, then headed down the slope. Bill followed
resignedly.
They tramped into town and out to The House.
Both were tired and little inclined to talk. After their
silent walk the Mulver house broke on them like
Bedlam. The Mulver dogs rushed forward and snarled
at their boots, the children crowded on them with
howls of welcome, and Mary, seated with Mrs. Mulver
on the edge of the front verandah, greeted them
thankfully.
“Y’ don’t know ’ow glad I am t’ see y’!” she
cried. “I don’t know what I would ’ave done if y’
’adn’t come. ’Ere’s Evie cryin’ ’cause ’er cat’s been
left behind.”
Bill looked at her aghast. “Damn it all, didn’t I
bring in four cats this afternoon?”
“Yes, but this is the little kitten. A little grey
chap. Evie won’t go to bed without it.”
“Well, you don’t think I’m goin’ back there t’
’unt round for a damn’ cat, do you?”
“Pussy,” Evie wailed against his knee. “It’s my
pussy.” He picked her up and nursed her, and she
clung round his neck, damp and tear-stained. “She’ll
die an’ starf. I want my pussy.”
“Oh, orright,” Bill said, putting her down with a
sigh. “Don’t fret. I’ll get your damn’ pussy.”
“Come on in,” Paul said to Mary ; “I want a
word with you.”
He wanted to make sure it was she who collected
the five shillings a week rent for the peasey hut. He
only nodded briefly to the Mulvers, with whom he
shared a mutual dislike.
Bill trudged grimly back to the hut, feeling that
if ever he hated any place it was Tiburon. When he
finally arrived he regarded the sulky wistfully, but it
was loaded with the stuff they’d take to-morrow. Only
the bedding remained to pack. He couldn’t unload
the sulky now. Besides, Paul would be cross. He lit the
bit of candle on the window-sill and started searching
in the dark. The kitten was miaowing plaintively, but
it showed no inclination to be caught. At length, by
dazzling it with the light, he managed to make a
successful grab, pushed the frantic kitten down into
his pocket and started out on the long trail back.
“There’s your damn’ kitten,” he said sullenly,
depositing the panting scrap of fur on the Mulvers’
kitchen table. Evie fell on it with a shriek of joy. The
Mulvers insisted on a farewell cup of tea, and then
Paul and Bill, after submitting to a stranglehold from
their relatives and a hail of kisses, shook themselves
free and started home for the last time.
Bill was so tired that he had become doubly wide-
awake. Every sound and shadow seemed to grave
into him. Paul strode along beside him, saying
nothing. Paul was thinking of Bill Sorrell, to whom he
had not said good-bye. He did not want to say it, for
he felt, as Denny had, that Sorrell might offer help.
It was not until they got to the bottom of the slope
that they noticed the light in the peasey hut.
“Old Grey, I s’pose,” Bill said.
“Hope you’re right.”
Old Grey was in the hut sure enough. He had a
fire going, although it was such a hot night, and to
help the firelight he had the stub of candle balanced
above him on a nail in the wall. The old man was
peering over his steel-rimmed spectacles at a book,
but he put it down and shook his head gravely as the
boys came in.
“Books aren’t what they used to be in my young
days,” he remarked. “Now, Shakspeare —William
Shakspeare. There was a great writer if you like.”
He spoke as though he had known Shakspeare
personally in his youth. But the boys were not paying
him any attention. Their eyes were fixed on a familiar
bulk in the far corner from which heavy snores were
proceeding.
“An’ ’ow the ’ell did ’e get ’ere?” Bill said,
thrusting out his jaw.
Old Grey regarded the sleeping form of Dave
through his glasses much as he had regarded Paul’s
book.
“1 thought at first it was someone tryin’ to snatch
somethin’,” he said. “Seems he’s only drunk. I heard
sulky-wheels. Someone dropped him at the corner, an’
a fine time he had getting up the track.”
“Must have forgotten he’d moved,” Paul
remarked. He walked over and shook Dave, and
Dave grunted a protest as he slowly came awake.
“Wonder where 'e got the money t’ get the
booze?” Bill pondered.
“Better wake him an’ find out.”
“See if ’e’s got any money first.”
They ran through Dave’s pockets and produced
a ten-shilling note and some loose silver.
“Looks funny. It’s not his payday yet.”
Paul looked at Bill grimly.
“You know, I got an idea where it’s come from,”
he said. He kicked his parent unkindly in the ribs.
Dave blinked awake.
“Where’d y’ get that money?” Paul asked.
“Eh?”
“1 said where’d you get that money?”
“Dray,” Dave said explanatorily. “Good old
Barry Hinton.” He lapsed again. “Sold dray.
Money.”
“I thought so,” Paul said gloomily. “Damn’ fools
we were, not to make sure of getting the money from
Hinton this afternoon.”
“If I could have got the dray out there at lunch-
time, ’e’d been home.”
“Oh, well,” Paul said, “if it’s gone, it’s gone.
We’ll stick to the change, anyway.” He walked over
to the door and leant against it. “One of us ought to
take him in. Mary’ll be worried.”
“I’m damned if I’m goin’ to. Let ’er worry.”
Bill saw before him the horrible prospect of another
trip into Tiburon.
Paul nodded. “He can sleep where he is,” he
said. “Won’t hurt him.”
But Dave was waking up. He made an indeter-
minate noise rather like a seal dissatisfied with its
keeper.
“It’s you, is it?” he said, truculently opening one
eye. “Get outa me sight.” He sat up. “Where’s
Mary?”
“At The House.”
“Where th’ hell’s this?”
“The peasey hut.”
Dave shut his eyes and attempted to straighten
the muddle out.
“She’s jus’ like ’er mother. Jus’ like ’er mother,”
he murmured. “Sure to be somewhere elsh.” He
thought again for a while. “Brought you shome
money,” he said. “Never say I didn’t give y’ anythin’.
Goo’ boys.” He turned over sleepily. “Never come
’ome no more.”
“Huh,” Bill grunted. “A fat lot ’e’s left. That
ought’ve lasted us a fortnight.”
Paul said nothing. He stared out into the dark-
ness as though he would summon something from it
that Bill could not see.
“I remember the day I first started out,” Old
Grey was saying. “I’d got a job shearin’ away from
home. Ah, those were the days! I could two ’em
then, lads.” He shook his head appreciatively. “In
those days the men on the track were men. Not
broken-down city shop-assistants. An’ the shearers.
They have only puftaloon shearers now. Why, little
Fluff up at the camp could give ’em a hidin’.” He
peered across the top of his glasses at Paul. “Been
grafting all my life. First one thing, then another.
Timber-getting, mining, harvesting, boundary-riding.
There wasn’t much I didn’t do in my young days.”
He peered at Paul again as though he saw his
own youth standing staring into the shadows. “An’
Ive been a navvy. In those days the navvy was the
gentleman of the country. They were free with their
money, and didn’t think anything of lendin’ a man
ten pounds they knew they’d never see again. Free
an’ easy, they were. Easy come by, easy go. I’ve
known chaps pay twenty pounds for a suit of clothes.
But bein’ on the relief these days takes all the heart
out of the young fellers. It’s hurt their pride so they
don’t care about nothing. Why, they only marry an’
have children so that they can have more relief work.”
He shook his old head. “What a shameful thing that
is!”
“Shuldren!” Dave woke up soggily. “Shuldren’s
no good—bring ’em up, g’-bye, go away.”
Old Grey regarded Dave scornfully. “Over twenty
years -I been travellin’ round this beautiful country,
an’ I ain’t seen anything more beautiful than children.
I’m an old man now, and I haven’t got none of my
own. But let me tell you I’m not any the better for
it. If I had my time over again”—he looked out
of the ruins of his rusted manhood —“I’d say there’s
nothing like sharin’ the hard times an’ the good times.”
He was not so much talking to them as to himself.
“Even little Fluff, no one would believe what com-
pany that little dog’s been to me. No, no one would
believe it. An’ when I started out, a fine young man
like you boys, I didn’t think I would be endin’ my
days in a turnout with only little Fluff for company.”
“Where d’ y’ think there’s a chance of work?”
Bill said. “Say you were startin’ out, which way would
you ’ead?”
(Continued on page 42.)


Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
55
I
tm
&
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Teleg raph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
p?:|
Canadian Pacific
Luxury Trains
k
Either going to or
returning from Eur-
ope you should know
the delights of the
Speedy and Comfortable
Train journey across Canada,
including 600 miles of un-
surpassed scenery in Canada’s
Rockies.
Canadian Pacific trains are
like hotels on wheels —ob-
servation cars, dining cars.
White waiters. Get booklets
and details from:
Any Tourist Hooking 1 Agency or
CANADIAN 1'VCIHC,
217 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Qreatest Travel System
TRAINS — STEAMERS — HOTELS
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted,
C. Darvall, General Manager.
A
1
A
-, r — 1 l
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney: Melbourne.
m
Imudiutk&ttMumiMnmfinii
Tells of a Colorful Identity of Old Sydney:—
THE FLYING
PIEMAN
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
ur\ F all the strange characters I have
II encountered during my long
career in Australia,” wrote the
Baron von Big, “I think that entirely
the most remarkable was William Fran-
cis King, better known to fame during
the heyday of his reputation as ‘The Fly-
ing Pieman.’
“King was born in London in 1807,
and was the son of an official in his
Majesty’s Treasury—a paymaster of
petty accounts. He was educated with
the idea of taking holy orders, and, had
this intention been carried out, Great
Britain —possibly this country, too —
would have enjoyed the spiritual minis-
trations of one of the most diverting
‘muscular Christians’ the world had ever
known. However, it was noticed that he
was far more devoted to physical than
to spiritual exercises, and that his love of
field sports and athleticism militated
against his interest in matters ecclesias-
tical, so the idea was abandoned and
a partnership found for him in a firm
of stock- and sharebrokers.
“The Stock Exchange and its activities
proving uncongenial, the young man
presently managed to obtain a clerkship
in the Treasury Office at the Tower of
London. But the spirit of restlessness
that possessed his soul did not allow him
to occupy this position long, and in 1829
he emigrated to New South Wales, pro-
vided with a letter of introduction to
my friend Archdeacon afterwards
Bishop—Broughton. This eminent eccle-
siastic, scholar and Christian gentleman,
noting that, at least, King appeared to
be possessed of considerable bodily
energy which might be useful in the
bush, found employment for him at Sut-
ton Forest, on the southern highlands,
in the dual capacity of schoolmaster and
parish clerk. He remained in this billet
for a while, but, tiring of its somewhat
monotonous routine, resigned from it,
and supported himself for several years
as a tutor in various private families.
“During the early part of his colonial
experience he was in receipt of a small
allowance from his father, and, as most
‘remittance men’ do, eventually drifted
to Sydney. Becoming hard up, he ob-
tained employment as a barman at the
Hope and Anchor, a public-house at the
corner of Pitt and King streets, which
later on changed its name to that of
the Rainbow Tavern. But even this pic-
turesque occupation could not hold him
long, and he presently abandoned it to
become a pieman.
{{THIRTY years ago—l am writing
* this in 1874, moved thereto by the
news of King’s recent death—the hot-
pie men were very familiar figures to
the citizens of Sydney, and their brightly
polished pie-cans, with their glowing fur-
naces of charcoal, were characteristic
features of the streets. But Bill King was
by far the most noted and noteworthy
of these itinerant restaurateurs, mainly
by reason of his somewhat eccentric
appearance and the rapid gait he em-
ployed in moving from place to place.
He became an institution of Sydney, and
when he began his truly remarkable
pedestrian feats it was not long before
his nickname of ‘The Flying Pieman’ was
known from one end of New South
Wales to the other.
“The first of the strange feats which
made the Pieman famous was that of
accomplishing a walk of 1634 miles in
five weeks and four days, and it was
all the more remarkable from the fact
that during this period he met with only
nine days of really fine weather. More
than forty miles a day he travelled, for
the most part through rain and gales. A
truly wonderful performance!
“There can be no doubt that his
physique was exceptional, or that his en-
durance and stamina were much out of
the common. On two occasions he beat
the coach from Windsor, on the
Hawkesbury, to Sydney (34 miles) by
several minutes. He walked from Syd-
ney to Parramatta (15 miles) and back
twice a day for six consecutive days—
that is, sixty miles a day, or 360 for the
week. For three days in succession he
walked from St.
J ohn’s Church,
at Parramatta, to
St. Matthew’s, at
Windsor, and
back again a
distance of 434
miles. On the
first' day he took
eight hours to do
the trip, on the
second 1\ hours,
and on the third
7 hours and 25
minutes. Most of his feats were of an
utterly unprecedented description—as,
for instance, when he carried a dog
weighing 701 b. from Campbelltown to
Sydney. The distance is 33 miles, and
he backed himself to accomplish the
journey in eight hours. He left Camp-
belltown half an hour after midnight,
and reached the obelisk in Macquarie-
place at 8.40 in the morning, losing his
bet by ten minutes, but nevertheless
carrying through a most remarkable per-
formance. It is of this exploit which 1
presently propose to recount the cir-
cumstances.
“A similar, but more difficult, feat was
that of carrying a goat weighing 921 b.,
with 121 b. dead-weight besides, from
Watkin’s old Talbot Inn, on Brickfield
Hill in Sydney, to the Woolpack Inn, at
Parramatta, in twelve minutes under
seven hours! At other times he walked
500 half-miles in 500 half-hours and
1000 quarter-miles in 1000 quarter-hours.
**DILL KING was a good-natured and
u somewhat foolish individual, and
there were many sporting characters of
the period in which he flourished not at
all unwilling to take advantage of his
simple, easy-going disposition. He was
perpetually being urged by such as these
to carry out performances over which
they made large sums of money by back-
ing him. He was at all times scrupulously
honest, and invariably gave of the best
that was in him to carrying out his extra-
ordinary undertakings. His backers made
money—Bill got the glory, and, indeed,
was generally quite cpntent with such a
division of the spoil. The best years of
his life were devoted to trials of endur-
ance, strength and skill which brought
him little profit, so that, with the waning
of his powers, he fell upon evil days.
He gradually lapsed into an aimless
sort of existence, going about Sydney
with his stovepipe headdress decorated
with ribbon streamers and fantastically
worded business cards, and with a long
staff or wand in his hand similarly
decorated. He would at the same time
declaim semi-insane, rambling proclama-
tions, as if he imagined himself to be
some distinguished visitor from another
planet.
“At the time of which I write —the
early ’forties —Sydney was a town of no
great size, though already of much im-
portance, in which such a character as
Bill King was personally known to al-
most every man, woman and child in-
habiting the shores of Port Jackson. He
was, of course, a notorious eccentric, but
the fame of his deeds long outlived their
performance, so that, though his appear-
ance in the street might have been ridi-
culous, it would have been a bold urchin
or rough who would have dared to flout
public opinion by deriding or annoying
such a popular and notable personality.
“His singular career, however, led him
nowhere but to the asylum for aged and
destitute men established in Liverpool
some time before his career closed. Long
before that he had become only a
memory, as had the old stage-coaches,
with their guards and tooting horns,
which he used to outpace along the
Windsor-road. He died at Liverpool on
August the 12th last in this present year
of grace, 1874.
ND now I come to my own share
■*"* in his never-to-be-forgotten trans-
portation of that big dog from Camp-
belltown to Macquarie-place in Sydney
so long ago. I think I number it
among the most amusing of my many
experiences of colonial life and diver-
sions. Were it not that both Bill King
and Mr. Charles de Graun are dead
I do not think that even I, Augustus
von Big, would have the temerity to re-
late my share in what took place, for I
am not altogether without shame.
“Mr. de Graun was a bombastic per-
son of means who loved to pose as a
sporting character, was sometimes a
little unscrupulous, and of such boastful
proclivities that I cannot regret what I
4id |o him, even though, at the time, it
resulted in a sore disappointment to my
very good friend the Flying Pieman.
This is the inner story of that extraordi-
nary walk from Campbelltown to Sydney.
“Charles de Graun I have always re-
garded as a scoundrel of that description
which, like the poet, is born and not
made. He had once, to my everlasting
chagrin, got the better of me in a cattle


HUMOR STORY
COMPETITION.
Points to Remember:
Closing Date: January 31, 1936.
Length:
Anything up to 3000 words.
Prizes:
Ist, £l5; 2nd, £7; 3rd, £3.
All entries published will be paid
for at usual rates. Prizes are addi-
tional payments.
DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
DEAF
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
42 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: 83100.
AtterxCcetfs Call
fl
AllICIRIIIS
si
fimm
m
'm*
m
(ow Combined ‘jfeAILund.Hctcr Fare*.
Famous visitors from all parts of the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest _ glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares.
DRIVE
YOUR SALES MESSAGE
HOME!
Put it in the
tttlS
Westralia’s Dominant Weekly
with the solid
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
ersi
o
SEASICK REMEDY
Guarantees Travel Comfort
X
CAItVf
AY*
£
£
2>
£
to funds uihen
TRAVELLING
Pleasure and Convenience in Travel is not so much a
question of Funds as the ease with which you can
secure them, and in the currency of the country in
which you happen to be at the time. The National
Bank’s Letters of Credit are accepted in any Country,
and provide a safe, convenient, and readily-cashable
form in which to carry whatever funds you may
require. The Bank’s Travel Service Department will
make all arrangements for you.
BANK
of JjsrtitecL
Branches Throughout Australia
2/12/36
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
deal, and, although we were ostensibly
upon good terms, that miserable trans-
action had always rankled in my mind.
It is true that I had a little restored
the balance between us by seducing his
wife, who spent a week with me at
Pampeluna during her husband’s absence
in the Port Phillip district upon some
doubtlessly ignoble business enterprise.
But that was not enough to restore the
amour propre of Mr. Augustus. Some-
thing else was owing to me. So when
he one day confided to me, in the Wool-
pack Inn at Parramatta, that he had
backed the Flying Pieman to carry a
dog on his shoulders from Campbelltown
to Macquarie-place in Sydney —the dog
to weigh seventy pounds avoirdupois—in
eight hours, I scented an opportunity.
“ ‘And how much money have you
wagered, then, my dear De Graun?’ I
asked him, affecting a polite interest.
“ ‘Two hundred and fifty pounds,
Baron —and I think I’ll win. Bill King
is in fine condition these days, and has
no doubt whatever that he can accom-
plish the task well within the time.
The only difficulty is about the dog. As
you know, there are not many dogs who
would be content to ride a man picka-
back for over thirty miles, however
securely fastened to the human charger.
It is not easy to find a seventy-pound
dog docile and well-trained enough to
behave with propriety throughout such
an undoglike journey. I am a little
anxious as to that aspect of the affair,
I must confess, my dear Baron.’
“My heart leapt within me. Himmel!
The kind gods had delivered the insuffer-
able fellow into my hands.
“ ‘Ah, my good De Graun, how fortu-
nate that you have mentioned the matter
to me —fortunate indeed! I have the
very animal you are looking for the
very animal. A large sheep-dog, much
more intelligent than most men, and
docile and obedient to a superlative de-
gree. He will do whatever he is told,
and I am certain that, after a couple of
rehearsals with the Pieman, he may be
absolutely relied upon to permit himself
to be carried the distance without fuss
or bother.’
“ ‘Baron,’ he said, with tears in his
eyes—the wretch loved and worshipped
money —grasping both my hands in his,
‘you are a credit to your great country.
I have always admired and respected
Prussia. Thank you —thank you from
the bottom of my heart!’
“I am a Hanoverian myself, and do
not like to be named a Prussian ; but I
let that pass. The robber was delivering
himself into my hands. Nothing could
have been better.
“ ‘Pray, do not mention it, my dear
fellow,’ I said generously. ‘My gig is in
the yard of the Woolpack, and if you
are agreeable I will drive you out to
Castle Hill, to my estate of Pampeluna,
and we will weigh the dog ourselves.
Then, next week, you may bring King out
there, and we can have a rehearsal. I
feel sure that my Darkie will answer your
every requirement, and that the £250 is
as good as in your pocket.’
“He overwhelmed me with his detest-
able gratitude, and drove with me to
Pampeluna, where we found that Darkie
weighed exactly seventy-one pounds.
He dined with me, and stayed the
night, and I put him to sleep in the
very room occupied, all unknown to
him, by his wife during that memorable
week. Somewhat paltry, perhaps, but
he deserved it. The next day he departed
for Sydney, pouring blessings upon my
head, Darkie —that most intelligent of
canine creatures —having shown himself
to be exactly the kind of dog he was
looking for and had well nigh despaired
of finding.
“There was one accomplishment of
Darkie’s which had not been demon-
strated to Mr. de Graun. Whatever he
might be doing I had trained him to
relinquish on hearing a peculiar sort of
whistle, and to come to me at his utmost
speed through, over or around every sort
of obstacle. I would place my second
and third fingers in my mouth and blow
a shrill whistle or call, consisting of a
long note, two short ones and then
another long one. Unless he were
restrained by a chain or a leash, or shut
up in some enclosure from which he
could not escape, the faithful creature
would leave anything to hasten to his
beloved master. No difficulty that it was in
his power to surmount would stop him.
“The day of the Flying Pieman’s at-
tempt upon this extraordinary perform-
ance approached, and a large number of
people betook themselves to the pretty
village of Campbelltown, to be present
at the start and to follow the man and
dog to Sydney along the road. It had
been stipulated by King that the walk
was to start in the night, for the sake of
coolness, and that the night must be a
really fine one, after a succession of such,
in order that he might not be hampered
by muddy conditions along the highway.
Also* that it must be fairly moonlight.
«rv N the first night arranged for the
vl business a passing storm about
eleven o’clock cancelled its undertaking,
but, the next day being fine, and being
succeeded by a night that was equally so,
King decided to make the attempt. My
own arrangements were all well in hand.
The chief of them were that I had one
of my best and fastest saddle-horses
with me at the inn in Campbell-
town where I was putting up, and that
a messenger was to summon me to Syd-
ney on the most pressingly urgent busi-
ness a couple of hours before the time
arranged for the Flying Pieman to set
out, which was to be half an hour after
midnight.
“My beautiful Darkie had been well
rehearsed by Bill King in the part he had
to play, and seemed to understand thor-
oughly this new game and the conduct
that was expected of him. I had myself,
of course, assisted in every way
I could to bring this about. He was
slung across the Pieman’s back, his hind
legs coming over the man’s left shoulder
and the forepaws coming over the right.
Both fore and hind paws were also
loosely secured by a strap, quite apart
from the hold the man had of them in
his hands.
“Mr. de Graun and King were at the
same inn, of course, as myself, and scat-
tered about the village were all manner
of sporting men, drawn from every class,
who proposed to follow the Pieman to
Sydney in gigs, dogcarts and on horse-
back. A truly motley collection. At
dinner Mr. de Graun gave me a toast.
‘“To Bill and Darkie, Baron!’
“ ‘To Bill and Darkie, my dear De
Graun,’ I responded heartily. ‘And to
your well-deserved winnings!’ I added
maliciously.
“ ‘What do you stand to win, Baron?’
“ ‘Three hundred pounds,’ I lied cheer-
fully, not having, of course, a single
penny on the result, either way.
“‘Ha, ha!’ he roared delightedly;
‘that’s the spirit, Baron!’
“ ‘So !’ I thought to myself with satis-
faction. ‘So !’
“At half-past ten my messenger ar-
rived, and I departed immediately,
lamenting my misfortune loudly and
wishing Mr. de Graun every kind of
good luck. But my business would
not wait. I must admit that I felt some-
thing of a Judas as I shook the Flying
Pieman by the hand—but only in respect
of that good fellow.
“A few miles on the Campbelltown
side of Liverpool the road passed through
tall timber, and on a small rise on the
right-hand side I posted myself and
waited, at a spot where 1 knew I had
a clear track through the forest to re-
gain the road further on. It was dreary
waiting, but at length —one could hear
them coming for miles —the Pieman and
his retinue arrived opposite to where I
was sitting on my horse. I gave Darkie
his whistle, and almost instantly there
was a hullabaloo and an uproar down
in the road. I knew I could trust Darkie.
Then I turned and raced away through
the timber, coming presently again on
to the road, along which I urged my
mount at his best speed. I had three
changes of good horses arranged for —
one at Liverpool, one near Parramatta
and one at Home bush—and arrived at
the Royal Hotel in George-street before
daylight. There I bathed, refreshed my-
self and breakfasted early. By eight
o’clock I was one of the waiting crowd
in Macquarie-place.
“Half-past eight came, and the Pie-
man had not arrived, so that I knew I
had at length got even with Mr. de
Graun ; but the dauntless fellow reached
Governor Macquarie’s obelisk ten
minutes later. After greeting poor Bill
King and my splendid Darkie, I turned
to commiserate with Mr. de Graun. He
was livid with fury.
“ ‘Damn you and your dog!’ was all
he would say, and we never spoke again.
I sent, anonymously, to the Flying Pie-
man £250. My peace of mind with re-
spect to Mr. de Graun was well worth it.”


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
oc your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circxi-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
The truth about
Advertising!
We invite you to
take our word, of
course . . . but in
case our story
sounds too good to
be true, ask the
man who advertises
in
“The Mail”
South Australia’s leading Week-
End Newspaper.
Net Sales , 61,361
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. Q. Pike. First Floor.
Newsnaner House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Buildint. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth. 3 >-40 Ludeate
Hill. E.C.4
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, ia
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post'’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LKT
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages Irom tne mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; B. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
in ADVERTISING
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner” (Est. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
THE EXAMINER’S” ADVERTISEMENTS
REACH THE HOMES IN LAUNCESTON
AND THE NORTH
Full Information, Copies, Advertising: Rates from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
We’re IN THE MIDDLE
... and Like It!
SAM’s unique position
gives it State-wide cover-
age. And our new power
of 1000 watts means a
million opportunities for
the advertiser.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
“Now, let me see,” Old Grey pondered. “There’ll
be grape-pickin’ at Orchard Hills from about the first
of February.”
Hungriest cockies on earth,” Bill said gloomily.
nodded. Yesh, ’he said. “That’s what I
say.
There 11 be grapes at Mildura, and the currants
and sultanas. And you can follow the peas right
through Orange and Tiburon.”
How much would y’ get at the pea-pickin’?”
All depends, lads. I’m too old for it now. It
You might get o. shilling or two
shillings a bushel ; but remember that peas sweat and
you 11 lose three pounds’ shrinkage on every bushel
you pick.”
And how many d’ you think a man could pick
in a day?” Bill asked.
Paul still stood staring out the door, and Dave
was looking for his pipe, which he swore he had
dropped somewhere about the floor.
Well, forty-four bushels a day is champion’s
picking, sunrise till after dark ; but you might pick
twenty-three bushels. Then there’s currants and
in the Riverina and the fruit round Griffith,
but you’ll find there’ll be a hundred more men after
the fruit-pickin than can ever get a job. Remember,
1 ever take on the P ea_ P'ckin’, lads, that it’s an
old dodge to shove in a clod of earth when the
owner’s not looking. Ah, I’ve known men put a pump-
kin in their sack ; but downright dishonesty, that is.
Ah, downright dishonesty.”
“Well, if we start from here and move south”
Bill began.
Paul turned abruptly in the doorway. “We’re
going down to the coast,” he said, frowning. “If
we ve got to starve, we might as well starve in the
kind of country we don’t know as the kind we do.
I want to see the city.”
“Now, that’s no way to talk, lad,” Old Grey
reproved. “ ’Tisn’t a matter of starving. It’s wonder-
ful how little a man can live on when he has to. I’ve
walked thirty miles a day for a week on a handful
of sugar and a pinch of tea. That was outside Wil-
cannia in the old days when the tanks dried up. But
starve! A man can usually manage to find or beg a
bit of tucker. Flowers made of feathers aren’t bad,
though a bit overdone these days—like everything
else.”
‘‘Everything’s done,” muttered Dave, like an
inebriated Greek chorus. All done. Fine man I was
in me day.” He swayed over and pigeonholed Old
Grey. “Ah, I was a fine man, jus’ like you said.”
He shook his head in maudlin sorrow. “An’ look at
me now.”
Old Grey detached himself from Dave’s vicinity
with a contemptuous dignity. “Well, lads,” he said,
“1 don’t doubt we’ll meet again.” He turned to Paul’
“Now, you never read Carlyle, I suppose? Ah, a great
man, Carlyle; a great man. Good night, laddie,
good night.”
“You’ll be like that in another fifty years,” Bill
said with a yawn. “Still yappin’ about books an’ got
no further. Where’d you stow the nap?”
Paul dragged out a couple of blankets.
Too blasted 'ot in ’ere,” Bill remarked. “I’m
gettin outside.”
Paul, without a word, tossed a blanket to old
Dave, who was uncertainly lighting his pipe from the
fire. Dave only grunted. Paul followed Bill. He
guessed it must be late, because there was a faint
glow on the horizon where the moon was about to
rise, but the few lights of the town had not gone out.
Tiburon lay under a haze of dust. The dust in the
town in summer sometimes made the air as thick as
a tog, but the air of Warning Hill was always fresh.
The night seemed to hum with myriads of mosquitoes.
It was stirring with life, with beetles and moths and
flitting things, and others whose presence was only a
tiny stirring in the grass, while above all the faint
sounds the frogs were carrying on an interminable
rhythmic brek-kox antiphon by the lagoon. As Paul
gazed at the faint glow over Tiburon a dark shadow
sloped past where some owl was hunting.
Bill was curled up like a log on the ground, and
back in the hut the old man, having accepted the
situation, sprawled against the far wall, with the eleva-
tion of his boots to the door.
“Where’re y’ goin’?” Bill called sleepily. Trust
that damn’ fool of a Paul to be stumbling round tread-
ing on sticks. Couldn’t sleep himself, and wouldn’t let
anyone else.
“Up on the Hill,” Paul replied from the dark-
ness, and Bill snarled as he turned over restlessly.
11.
Bill woke just before sunrise to find Paul standing
over him.
“Come on,” he said. “Got to be going.”
There was nothing to show Paul had been up all
night except his eyes, and his eyes always had shadows
under them these days. They raked up the fire and
had a drink of tea, finished loading the sulky, caught
Blasted, and were ready to start.
“ ’Ow about the old man?” Bill asked, with a jerk
of his head. “Goin’t’ drop ’im in town?”
“Got too heavy a load. Do him good to walk.”
“That’s so.” Bill rubbed his chin doubtfully. “We
got to make Euabolong before the heat’s too fierce.
Right.” He seized the reins. “Let’s be goin’.”
Paul did not even bother to glance at the pleasant
fields that still lay in the shadows, or at Tiburon,
sleeping like the pearly city of some lost dream where
Dave still snored.
the wheat silo lifted its towers above the trees and
the flourmills stood dark and dour as a devil’s strong-
hold. Tiburon to him was already a bygone thing, a
heap of dust and familiar bitterness. For even the
field where now the birds were calling about their
business he had lost his liking. Dwyer’s fields that
he had ploughed were no more to him than the
thousand other fields that he would pass with unsee-
ing eyes. The ruffled steel color of the lagoon might
have been the lame on a woman’s dancing-dress for
all the glance he gave it, though now it was faintly
flushing with the upward surge of daylight. To him
the colors of day and night no longer meant more
than a chequered bandage wrapped about his eyes to
keep him in the narrow darkness of his life. For it
is hard to be blinded to everything but heartache
when a man is twenty-two.
Bill jerked old Blasted into the track, and they
creaked slowly away.
“We didn’t say good-bye to the old Bill
said as they reached the road.
“Want to go back?”
Bill grinned. “No chance.”
The other camps on the slopes were stirring. A
thin coil of smoke rose from beneath the two big
applegums where Old Grey had slept. There was no
one in the travellers’ shed at this time of the year,
the usual occupants being scattered about under tents
of bags when they bothered with any shelter at all.
One man was walking towards his horse with the
halter in his hand, clicking his tongue against his teeth
encouragingly ; but the horse, with its ears pricked,
considered him as though he were a stranger and
snorted, hardly decided whether to canter away or not.
A man and woman were talking to each other sharply,
and their voices came loud across the grassy tranquility
of the slope.
“Well, I never asked you to,” Paul heard the
woman say in a bad-tempered voice. “It was there
when I last saw it.”
A crossbred cattle-pup with a wavy plume of tail
was sniffing about a pile of rubbish inquisitively, and
Granny Staines’s fowls were already marching out in
a clucking, quarrelsome squad to the day’s task of
searching for food. The cool before daylight was
changing to the dry heat of dawn.
“It’s goin’ to be another scorcher of a day,” Bill
ventured, but Paul made no reply.
Down the slope the sulky creaked, and out on to
the road where a chipped white sign said twenty-five
miles to Euabolong.
“Well,” Bill said, “we started, son.”
He drew a deep breath, hit Blasted with the slack
of the reins, and then glanced at Paul. Paul, his eyes
on Blasted’s rump, seemed not to have heard. Some-
how there was comfort in Paul sitting there, taciturn
as a graven image, sour and certain of himself. Bill
began to whistle cheerfully as the slope below Warn-
ing Hill was lost in the trees. They were past Dwyers’
now, and then even the pearly towers of the wheat
silo. The last sign of Tiburon was gone.
Back in the peasey hut, his feet to the door and
his head to the wall, with his old hat tilted over his
eyes, Dave still snored, though now and then he
raised a hand to smack at a fly that came back again
and again to crawl on his stubbly cheek. As he slept
he muttered under his moustache, but what he was
muttering there was none there to hear.
THE END.


o
vfytyfl} syr
S-amiRM)
s*dwm d
m
■■l
W/A
*
■
111
W/.w,
ms,
m
Wmm
V/////,
1.-K
■M
1
1
■Amk,
m
m
l'-
wmm
wmy/mm
%
f!|'!
ti
(W
wmmm
Jam ir r) s
m
mmm
Wm.
Wmm
m,
MyM
wmmA
m
Wm
m
WM
m
wm.
m
m
WMm
mm
W///////A
v/mm
m
■i
ililliil
li
■
■■■■
Wm
wm
wm
wm
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ķ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
<b
P** 3 * °^.lC t <£'
/v' Ai e °\r.
\> e
X
o
a*
V
0
yj
&
srav
£
a^ e
y^5>
vS*
6 <vO vV o<
tf>°
©
>>
&
<* S^VV
A $ e r A >\


o-
\
a
vm
<s<\
v>v.
AMERICA .. . giant redwoods, 300
feet high, uncounted centuries old; breath-
taking Bryce Canyon; vaulted recesses of
Carlsbad Caverns; great cities, all unlike
each other—Los Angeles, Omaha, Chicago,
St. Louis, New York; Indian mounds in
Arizona, mountain lakes in Maine; muse-
ums, skyscrapers, sports pageantry, bustle,
solitude, things happening. ★ Seen by
rail ... fast trains, air-conditioned through-
out, frequent schedules; Pullman sleepers;
smart club cars; complete valet service; su-
perlative meals; speed (across the continent
in 75 hours with but one change of cars);
stopovers at no extra charge. ★ Reached
by ship ... on the new, swift Matson-
Oceanic liners “Mariposa” and
“Monterey”, twin sovereigns
of distinguished service, whose
regular schedule is 18 days to
California. ★ Via romantic
ĸ
route . .. through the glamour of the South
Seas, with memorable stops at New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii. ★ Economically
. . . costs, throughout the voyage, compressed
to a minimum. Ship and railway fares are loiv
and incidental expenses negligible. Hotels,
amusements, luggage—all at the lowest point
in years. ★ Easily planned . . . every-
thing may be arranged before you leave, but
you are privileged to change your plans at
any time thereafter. Everyone speaks y our
own tongue; courtesy, simplicity and cheer-
ful assistance your constant companions.
★ To England . . . the sea-and-land high-
way across the Pacific (via Matson-Oceanic)
arid America (any route you choose) is the
short, logical way to ENGLAND!
ir Fuels .. . secure now our illus-
trated booklet, “England Across
America”, containing full details.
Free upon request.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL and INFORMATION RSTRF^fj
Matson Line • Oceanic Line
(Incorporated U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney • Phone: B-7981-3 IR-1A
