

h
LAMP
V
m
■
ia>
&
a
l\
ms
€
The Greek Philosopher lived long
before the days of Condor Lamps
hence he had to use but the feeble
light from his oil lamp
Today Condor offers the utmost in
lighting efficiency the greatest pos-
sible amount of light for the lowest
possible current consumption.
The new Condor Coiled Coil lamp
offers yet greater economy in that it
gives up to 20% more light without
the slightest increase in cost.
There is a Condor Lamp for every
lighting need Wherever a lamp is
used use Condor,
YOU CANNOT BUY A BETTER LAMP
THAN CONDOR.
It is said of Diogenes—the Greek Philosopher of old —-
that he discarded all his belongings other than his
cloak , his purse and a wooden bowl , declaring that the
more a man had the greater were his needs Another
story tells of Diogenes walking the streets of Athens
carrying a lamp , searching , he said. for truth and an
honest man.
• : :
sssss:
.
tbubh ukj
D COIL ELECTRIC
p
i mi
mi
EXTRA
-
L I
G H T T'H 0 T
a
COSTS V 0 U NOTHING
Advertisement of Condor Lamps (Australasia) Ltd
*C6
The Bulletin
First 10-Page Instalment of “All That Swagger”
Vol. 57.—N0. 2953.
Wednesday, September 16, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
ujkjk
hujkhjuk
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without Obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
,1/y Address
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, Worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year's Prize.
The Red Page
ELLEN
DYMPHNA
CUSACK
Dymphna
Cusack, author of
Jungfrau, to be
published shortly
by The Bulletin,
is a name that will
be new to readers
of Australian fiction. Her previously-
published work has been most limited ;
yet Jungfrau, her first novel, bears little
evidence of the hand of the novice. The
explanation would seem to lie in the fact
that Miss Cusack is so conscientious a
craftswoman that she has actually with-
drawn a second novel, accepted by a
London publisher, because she felt she
could improve it by rewriting.
“Dymphna” is an old Celtic name,
meaning “poetess,” which was presented
to Miss Cusack at her baptism as a family
heirloom—the name had been in the
family for generations. Her parents
were Australian, of Irish descent.
Born at Wyalong (N.S.W.) and spend-
ing most of her childhood there* and on
the northern tablelands (Guyra and
Armidale), Miss Cusack at the end of her
schooling went to the Teachers’ Training
College and Sydney University, got her
Dip. Ed., and graduated B.A. with
honors in History and Philosophy in
1925. Since then she has been continu-
ously employed as a teacher in State
high schools.
Her principal interest hitherto has been
the amateur stage, and she has concen-
trated on the writing of short plays. Her
“Anniversary,” the material for which
was derived mainly from the diary of
an uncle who was wounded at Gallipoli
and died in Egypt, won a prize in the
Anzac Fellowship competition, and was
produced at the Conservatorium by the
Independent Theatre; “Shallow Cups”
was published in the Centenary Book of
One-act Plays; “His Honor Comes to
Tea” was a prize-winner in the 2UE
radio play competition, and “Second
Rhapsody” was selected by the Inter-
national One-act Society for presentation
at its dramatic festival. She has also
completed a three-act drama, set in the
Macquarie period.
The search for a suitable title, unless
one is obvious, is often the greatest diffi-
culty of the novelist. It causes more
headaches than the satisfactory opening
or ending of the story. In the case of
Jungfrau (“white, proud and untouched,”
the usual fate of which is to be soiled),
the name of the mountain in the Bernese
Alps whose fate it was to have a funicu-
lar railway built to the top of it and to
be soiled by swarming tourists, this name
came as a symbolical title before the novel
itself was thought of, and its application
to thp fate of the principal character in
the book, a character that one would say
is obviously drawn from life, was so apt
that the problem of title was no problem
at all.
The structure of the story, though,
Miss Cusack says, was determined by a
chance discussion on the loyalty of
women to each other. “Are women as
loyal to each other, in all circumstances,
as men?”
The author has taken a modern prob-
lem —whether a woman should or should
not bear the unforeseen consequences of
an unlawful love; “go through with it,”
as we have it in current phraseology,
when she finds that the man she has
loved regarded the whole affair as an
interlude, an incident. This, of course, is
a problem as old as society, but its
modern aspect lies in the freer considera-
tion permitted nowadays to the applica-
tion of medical science to sociology, with
ethics relegated to a minor position from
which it emerges inevitably to dominate
and decide the argument.
Though born and bred in the bush,
Miss Cusack has set her story in the
city. The three young women around
whom the story moves —the men are as
incidental as the chief male actor re-
garded his “affair”—are Thea, the
teacher, who “left herself open to the
world, which rushed in en her” —Thea,
who at 25 was almost unreal in her in-
nocence, abandoning herself in her in-
fatuation for a married university pro-
fessor ; Eve, her coldly wise doctor friend,
whose professional ethics and religious
scruples placed a definite limit on her
loyalty; and Marc, the cynical sophis-
ticate who had had lovers and counted
nothing permanent, whose loyalty and
whose ethics knew no limitations. There
is wisdom for the modern miss who
knows everything in the advice of Dr.
Eve:
“When you talk about getting in touch
with reality and finding out what life is,
all you really mean is following your in-
stincts in spite of the consequences.
Only ... I'd advise you to learn a little
more about physiology than you know at
this moment. You can’t safely combine
what your modern friends rather euphe-
mistically call ‘experience’ with a degree
of ignorance that is almost mid-Victorian.
You’ll need to be practical if you’re going
to be a realist.”
Miss Cusack has a knowledge of feminine
human nature that is true and profound ;
she has studied life and character with
conscientious care, and presents it with
the judicial detachment of the artist.
With admirable restraint she has not
allowed the tense drama of the. story to
become either melodrama or propaganda,
as could easily have been done by a less
capable hand, while she has refrained
from following those writers who cannot
novelise the problems of sex without
stripping the women naked.
T. D. MUTCH.
A Perfect
Library
I read the other
day of a lady,
a potential fre-
quenter of public
libraries, who was
actually too fearful to enter any of them
without introduction, without guidance.
I can well imagine her trying to sum-
mon up courage to enter one of the tomb-
like buildings in which we harbor public
books. Of course she would never get
in. The whole external atmosphere
is too stupendously chilling. I feel quite
certain that hundreds of citizens often
make pilgrimage to these ghastly-looking
public libraries: and, of course, they
never get any farther than the threshold—
simply because these libraries do not
look like places in which one could read.
I rejoiced, to the limits of rejoicing,
the other day when there came into one
of these places a smallish boy who was
part of a family—“looking round.” I sup-
pose books, even in a library, look just
the same to a smallish boy as books any-
where else. On the outside, at any
rate. So this smallish boy very intelli-
gently essayed to have a look inside one
of the books. He approached the vast
shelves, took out a book, and was re-
turning to a table to read it when he
was intercepted by an attendant, who
whispered, with bated breath, that it was
against the rules to take books from the
shelves. Then she pointed to a notice
which read:
Please Do Not Touch the Books.
I never heard what the smallish boy
said in reply. Doubtless he thought,
reminiscently, of the zoo:
Please Do Not Make Faces at the
Triantiwantigon,
and probably he accounted for this
eccentricity at the library by deciding
that maybe at feeding-time he would be
allowed to look at the books to see what
they contained. But I should love to
know what that smallish boy really
thought of our absurd adult world!
I have often dreamed about the per-
fect public library, which, in the first
place, always has a notice like this above
the door:
PUBLIC BOOK HOUSE.
COME RIGHT INSIDE—NO CHARGE.
YOU MAY SLEEP IF YOU WISH, BUT WE
WOULD RATHER NOT.
HERE YOU CAN CONTRACT LIFELONG
PARTNERSHIPS.
THE HELPERS WILL INTRODUCE YOU.
THAT IS WHAT THEY ARE THERE FOR.
The book attendants in this perfect
public library welcome you at the en-
trance. In secluded nooks they seek out
the lonelier patrons—of course we
allow conversation in the perfect public
library, because We are all so tre-
mendously buoyant, with, the good fare
provided.
Nothing is inaccessible. The place
is warm in winter and cool in summer.
There are most delightful balconies on
which you can sit out and read. You
can get meals there too —at very reduced
rates, of course. All the pens provided
can be written with, and the ink is kept
entirely separate from the water with
which they scrub the floors. The library
never shuts. You can sit there all night
reading if you wish.. The walls are hung
with the most delightful pictures, for the
perfect public library is also the perfect
art gallery and the perfect museum rolled
into one, but the museum atmosphere has
been done away with. They have also
done away with the gaol atmosphere and
the public-institution atmosphere. In fact,
this perfect public library is so perfect
that all the folks have taken to going in
there. In some parts of the library you
can always happen on an interesting talk
about books. There are halls there in
which real Australian poets give readings
of their own verse. Well-attended read-
ings, too. And real Australian authors
discuss their books at other times, and
invite criticism from the audience —which
is but grudgingly given, because the
folks are so tremendously patriotic.
And it was while I was dreaming this
dream one night that I saw that ageing,
lonely and book-eager woman come in.
She had come right up in the lift, but
the attendants saw that she was ob-
viously unbookish looking and a little
bit astray. At the threshold the princi-
pal book-assistant went forward and led
her to the nearest armchair. Then he said
in such a kindly voice: “Put your feet
right up there” —motioning to some
copies of the Oxford Dictionary which
were lying on the floor—and then, after
he had brought her a cup of tea, he said:
“Well, where would you like to begin?”
And she said: “Well, maybe I won’t live
long enough to get through all —I mean
all the literature I’m dying to read.” And
he replied: “Fear not, madam, from this
day forward you have entered on a new
lease of life.”
GERALD DILLON.
On Shaw,
in Reply
The whole
tenor of my tri-
bute to Gk B.
Shaw on his
birthday, which
M. G. Skipper deprecated (R-P.
19/ 8 / ’36), was that Mr. Shaw has all
along had the courage of the opinions
of others, that he is the chief borrower
of this age, that he stole his plots along
with his ideas and that he wickedly ran
off with the credit (or the publicity) _of
making many sensational claims which
he never advanced at all. I deduced
also that he had made his way in the
world, not by the sheer force of genius,
but by his singularly enterprising and
versatile employment of the modern art
of ballyhoo. Is this anvthing but the
truth?
It explains, for one thing, the singu-
larly infertile Shavian mind in the matter
of ideas. It explains (if you cast your
eye over his plays) his taking the stock
C«sar and changing him into a cunning
old rat, taking the conventional man of
strong morals and proving by paradox
that he was weaker than a paranoic
poet (a matter we may leave to the
psychologists), taking the immortal Bard
himself and showing him, to the fury of
his devotees, as a poor scribbler of tags
of verse in the wake of Mary Fitton.
The endeavor here illustrated is that to
shock, to surprise; the purely nine-
teenth-century effort to astonish the
bourgeois.
Now these methods might not be re-
grettable if Mr. Shaw had anything of
the first importance to say. But when
one approaches the body of his teaching
it is to find that there is little he has
said which he has not flatly contradicted
somewhere else. In religion he has said
that he is no more a Christian than Pon-
tius Pilate was a Christian, and in the
next paragraph has declared that he sees
no better way out of the world’s troubles
than the way of Christ. In politics he
has sold the idea that he is a Socialist,
and then has made a hero out of
Mussolini and praised the negation of
Parliaments. In the World War, as he
himself admitted, this anti-militarist did
not assail the Government because “the
danger of discouraging enlistment was
too serious.” And while assailing war
in the abstract he has declared that he
would not have anything to do with a
Socialism which did not have “a highly-
developed sense of nationality.”
He never developed any theory of
politics ; his opinions were always deter-
mined by the last thing that had come
into his head, and his own contributions
to the better approach to life amount to
exactly nil. Shaw, in short, is nothing
but Marx cum Henry George cum
Buckle cum whoever was last on the
reading list. His ideas, or such of them
as have had validity, have not been his
own, and somewhere in the mass of his
writings he has denied them. He is no
philosopher ; where is his philosophy? He
is no leader; where are his followers? It
should be clear that he has done much
work in popularising the (unacknow-
ledged) ideas of others in England and
that he led a campaign in the theatre
which has left that theatre in a better
position. But, to repeat, his own suc-
cess in this field undermined him. He
strove to introduce new themes into the
drama, yet ran away from therh himself
—what is this same “Widowers’ Houses”
(of which Mr. Skipper makes so much
use) but a retreat at the end? And
his essential prudery, his lack of genuine
emotions as apart from intellectual enthu-
siasms, have fatally handicapped him in
the role of dramatist. Besides which
the world in which he strove has
vanished. The tail-end of Victorianism
(Continued on page 4.)


■
iiiifcii
PUT
«MMH '*so^ i * % ***^^
•i «■"■■
■6? '.WPU*^|
'" :l ?
■
*
- 1
*
■
C?:@tS
■I
g^|||PM|
fcai.
lr > 4flra*LssL
mm
mmm
1 H^n
■
t | IPs
j
■
S 5
-A
:!MBfcißl
lilfi!
a
siitf*
«■
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE"
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
Dependable
f/
/1
Adds to the Enjoyment
of your Sport
£) A " f Honv Horderns’ specialise in Fishing Tackle
with a varied and comprehensive stock from the
world’s best makers. Rods, Reels, Lines, Traces,
Lures, etc., for Barrier Reef angling as well as a
big range for every class of fishing from Marlin
to Blackfish are stocked. An expert staff, too, can
give you first-hand information on all angling
problems.
SPLIT-CANE TROUT RODS
Split Cane Trout or Blackfish Rods. 9ft. Cork grip.
With extra top. Light or medium weights.
At Anthony Horderns’ 25/-
GREENHEART BEACH RODS
Greenheart Beach Rods, with two joints. Porcelain
rings. Cork grip. 7ft. Heavy weight.
At Anthony Horderns’ - 40/-
nnmiji%£U
ALCOCK'S IMPERIAL SPLIT-CANE ROD
Three joints, lock ferrules. Cork grip. Extra top.
Closely whipped, superior finish.
Price £ l 0 / l 0/-'
BARTLEET SPLIT-CANE ROD H h - * h "'
joints, extra
top, suction ferrules. / Cork grip, rubber button.
Price £5/10/-
HARDY'S DE LUXE FLY ROD 9 i«
joints, hxtra
top, suction ferrules. Weight, 6oz. Price . . £l5/17/6
BARTLEET SPLIT-CANE TROUT ROD
three joints. Cork grip, suction ferrules. Extra
top. Price 67/6
hujkjk
Aluminium Fly Cases
Aluminium Fly Cases, with com-
partments. Size 6J x n inches.
Price, each 18/6
Smaller size, x 2\ inches.
Price 10/6
Also style with clips. 50-clip
size 5/6
100-clip size 7/6
Best Quality English
Trout Flies E ng -
r . hsh-made 1 rout
Mies. Price, dozen 3/9
Dry Flies. Price, dozen . 5/6
TAPERED TROUT CASTS
"Trout Casts, well made and tapered—
Farlows, length 3 yards, 2x and lx. Price 3/6
Red Loop, length 3 yards. 2£ to lx. Price 3/-
Also Jto lx. Price 3/.
Q Fishing Tackle—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
hkĵ
BEACH CASTERS
Polished Wood Hand Beach
Casters, for surf or beach
fishing. No trouble in
casting with these. Bottle-
shape—Small I Od.
Medium, 1/3; Large, 1/9.
Circular shape—6in., 1/3;
Bin 1/9
Sfeelite Reels
Steelite Centre-pin Reels,
with optional check.
Sizes, inches
n 4 5
Prices, each—■
17/9 18/6 22/6
Plain, prices
7/6 8/3 12/-
With Optional Check—
-9/6 11/- 16/-'
jkhjkj
r
m
Steelite Beach Casting Reels
Dependable Beach Casting Reels. Well-made
and weather-resisting. Optional check, steel
spindle. Sizes, inches 4 5
Prices, each 19/6 24/6
English Trout Reels
Reliable make, with aluminium
drum. Ins. 3 3l
Prices ...... 27/6 37/6 45/-
With Agate
guide .... 45/-
Eng. Gunmetal Trout
B oa l fi Good quality English
Gunmetal Trout Reels.
Ins. 2\ 31
Prices, each 13/6 27/6
Free delivery city and suburbs only.
n
hkj
hkj
Triangular
Folding
Trout Nets
Secure Nets. Strong,
dependable quality.
Prices
22/6, 28/6, 45/-
Saline Braided Silk
Fly Lines
Saline Braided Silk Fly Lines,
made to give long service. 25-
yard coils. Four connected.
Sizes H G F
Dry test ... 14 18 24
Price, per 25 yards—
-6/3 6/9 8/6
U*: t
"TRIUMPH' 1
These Lines, made from finest Silk,
ness throughout the whole lengtl
hjuk
GUT LINES
, are the original gauge in thick-
h of line. Obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’ and fully
guaranteed.
Nos 2 3 4 5
40yds.. . 4d. Gd. Bd. lOd.
80yds... Bd. 1/- 1/4 1/8
100yds... 1/8 2/1
Nos. 6 7 8 9
40yds I/- 1/4 1/6 1/8
80yd5.... 2/- 2/8 3/- 3/4
100yd5.... 2/6 3/4 3/9 4/2
Nos ' 10 11 12
40yds 1/11 2/2 2/8
80yds 3/10 4/4 5/4
100yds 4/9 5/5 6/8
Willow Creels
A well-made Creel completes
the fishing gear. Made of
willow.
Sizes, ins. 14 16 17
Prices, each 6/6 8/6 10/6
Also Fishing Bags.
Prices, ea., 8/6, 10/6, 18/6
ujk
‘NIMROD’
Fishing
line
Nimrod Special
Braided Line
Nimrod special-braided Flax
Casting Line. Suitable for
spinning or trolling in fresh or
salt water. 25-yard coils,
eight connects. .
Sizes 1 2 3 4 5
Test 18 30 45 54 65
Price, per coil —
1/9 21- 2/2 2/6 3/-
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
'Phone M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


£55 for Short Stories
For the best short stories, serious or humorous, submitted before
January 31, 1937, “The Bulletin” offers the following prize-
money : —•
First £3O
Second £l5
Third ...1 ..... £5
Special Prize Best Brief Story £5
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will be paid for at
“Bulletin” rates.
Closing date for the competition is January 31, 1937. But it is not
intended to wait till then before publishing entries; any considered to
have a chance will be paid for and published week by week as they
come to hand.. At the close of the competition ALL the entries will
be considered by the judges.
Each entry must be the competitor’s hitherto unpublished original work,
and must be accompanied by a declaration to that effect.
Entries must not exceed 5000 words. The special prize of £5 for the
best brief story will go to the best story of 1000 words or less. It, of
course, will also have equal chance with longer entries of taking any
of the other prizes.
Pen-names may be used, but the full'names and addresses of the winners
will be published when the results are announced.
Each competitor may submit as many entries as he or she desires,
and there is no entry fee.
No member of * The Bulletin" staff may compete.
Entries to be addressed:—
"Short Story Competition,"
C/o "THE BULLETIN."
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
and the Liberalism of the days of sav-
ing the natives from pantlessness and
six per cent, on foreign loans have
merged in a newer, more violent, more
crazily dangerous and exciting world. It
is a world which could use a philosopher
or even a prophet, a minor prophet. But
neither in the heart nor in the cavernous
and echoing mind of Mr. Shaw are there
the qualities to become either.
QUENTIN POPE.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
WAR IN CALIFORNIA
A SIMPLE and powerful piece of work
is John Steinbeck's In Dubious
Battle (Heinemann ; Angus and Robert-
son ; 7s. 6d.). An exposition of Red
tactics and the relentless philosophy
behind them is the end in view. The
story is of a strike engineered among
fruit-pickers in a Californian valley. The
“crop tramps,” itinerant harvesters who
move through the country like a swarm
of locusts, have been forced to accept
a cut in pay by a group of big-gun apple-
growers. Into the valley from ’Frisco
headquarters of the party come two
Reds, Mac, a veteran of many struggles,
and young Jim, his eager pupil.
The idea —Mac explains to Jim—is
not necessarily to win a strike, but to
foment hatred. A lost strike is a won
strike from the Red viewpoint if bitter-
ness and solidarity have been increased.
At the same time it’s dangerous work.
Aside from being men marked for de-
struction by the forces of veiled Fascism
there are the men themselves to fear.
They instinctively distrust Reds. They
suspect their leaders no matter who they
may be. The force of hatred that must
be engendered in them is difficult to
control; it is likely, if things go wrong,
to vent itself on the strike promoters.
Concealing their, identity, they drift
into camp. That night Mac, pretending
to some medical knowledge, brings a
camp girl through a difficult childbirth.
“Don’t know a Goddam thing about it,”
he tells Jim. “But it’s our chance. We’ve
got to use what comes our way. If she
dies—tough luck! 1 hope she lives.”
She does, and the Reds are pointed out
as “the guys that saved London’s daugh-
ter.” Their personal stock is high.
London, a patriarchal character, has
influence among the crop tramps. Work-
ing through him and using their own
recently acquired influence they soon
get the strike started among men already
irked by the reduced pay. The resort to
force comes quickly in America. Follows
a story of machine gunning, gas bombing
and food blockade tactics on one side
and picketing, bashing and incendiarism
on the other. In ruthlessness there is
nothing to choose between them. Mac’s
role is diabolic. “We’ve got no guns,
Jim. We’ve got to use what we can.”
And that is the sight of maimed and
slaughtered strikers and their sym-
pathisers. “What are you going to do
about it, comrades?” Even the death
of another Red is welcomed. It is an-
other scrap of fuel for the flames. “I’d
put my own mother into it,” is Mac’s
cry.
There is a packed significance in the
ending. The strike was a lost cause
almost from the beginning and Mac has
known it. His nerve is breaking ; not
from personal fear, but because he is a
humane man driving himself to in-
humane methods, a man with a spirit
divided against itself. The finish comes
when young Jim is lured one night from
the camp and killed with a bomb. Mac
drags the limp and bloody corpse into
camp. “What are you going to do about
it, comrades? This guy didn’t want no-
thing for himself.”
If ever there was a non-propagandist
social study it is here. The author’s
view is quite detached. His one com-
ment is contained in the title he has
chosen for his book.
* * * *
A GENTLEMAN OF SCIENCE
Leon Leonov, whose Skutarevsky
(Lovat Dickson; Angus and Robertson;
Bs. 6d.) is translated by Alec Brown, has
points in common with Aldous Huxley.
Both writers have minds so crowded
with the fruits of study that the fic-
tional vehicle they' employ sags and
groans under the weight they put on it.
Further, both are humorously impressed
by the gap between man’s intellectual
attainments and his basic animalism-
even the degenerate tendencies that dog
him on his supposed upward climb.
Again, both derive amusement from the
thought of man setting forth on his
scientific conquest of the physical uni-
verse and, far from increasing his
stature as hero, discovering that he is
himself, even to his thoughts, explainable
in terms of the wholly material.
Leonov’s story is of Skutarevsky, a
scientist of renown in Czarist days, who
comes over to the Soviet Union and,
with resources previously undreamed of,
sets out on what he hopes will prove
an epoch-making experiment. He fails,
but retains the confidence of the ruling
powers. During the period of his re-
searches he inadvertently unravels a
wrecker’s plot planned by a group of
malcontents and has an old man’s Jove
affair with a young girl, whom he —quite
without ulterior motives—rescues from
poverty. There is little enough in that,
but the author, by virtue of a decided
gift for character drawing, by packing
it with scenes from Russian life and by
his manner of telling, makes a good deal
of it.
Skutarevsky’s personal story, though
interesting enough, is unimportant; it is
Russia under the Five-Year Plan that
the author is exhibiting. Seen from a
distance there is something naive about
this adoration of horse-power. More
and bigger machines. Multiply some-
thing indefinitely and a condition of
lasting satisfaction will eventually be
reached ! But perhaps proletarian Russia,
in swift transition from illiteracy, is
passing rapidly through mental phases
that Western Europe experienced in
more leisurely manner. The author com-
ments obliquely through the character
of Skutarevsky’s artist brother. He en-
deavors to paint Progress, and achieves
an allegory that would land him in
trouble if it were seen by the wrong
people, so —not without humor—he re-
sorts to faking old masters, discovering
them in dusty cellars —where he has pre-
viously planted them—and selling them
to rising members of the Soviet bureaus
at a couple of roubles each.
The book is tough reading. Russians
don’t appear to have a graduated emo-
tional register. There is as much fuss
over a lost tram ticket as over a top-
pling throne ; this leaves a reader a little
at a loss as to how much significance to
attach to the various incidents as he
comes to them. Again, Leonov—or his
translator —is too sparing in the use of
proper names. The reader has often to
choose between going back a para-
graph to find out which “he” is referred
to, or of continuing in the hope of pick-
ing up a clue. Further, Skutarevsky is
a living person, which indicates a topi-
cal significance difficult to follow by
anyone outside the country of origin ;,
and, lastly, the author’s narrative style
is allusive and involved. A good book,
it presents a view.of modern Russia as
seen by a highly-developed mind, but
it is essentially entertainment only for
a mental gymnast.
■ * * ‘ * *
A LOLLY SHOP
If authors opened shops to dispose
of their wares the sign above Mary
Roberts Rinehart’s premises would
read: High Class Confectioner. The fit-
tings would be modern to the minute.
Mary, of course, would be busy in the
manufacturing premises at the rear, but
her counter assistants, pretty girls
dressed daintily and uniformly, would
be smilingly—we aim to please—supply-
ing customers, also smiling, with the
firm’s products, tastefully cartonned and
tied with ribbon bows.
Her latest creation—fashionably bulky
—The Doctor (Cassel; 7s. 6d.), is a tale
of love and honor. Stripped of its pre-
tensions it is trite Stuff. Young Doc
Arden, with no practice as yet, is visited
in his consulting rooms by Beverly, a
rich man’s daughter, young and devas-
tatingly beautiful. Her eyes are abrim
with tears, and under her .arm she has
a little doggy who has a bone in his
throat. Young Doc is not the sort to
sponge on a rich wife, and neither will
he accept indirect help from a wealthy
poppa. He does accept a retainer from
the city health authorities. It is Beverly
who pulls the wires, but as he doesn’t
know this—nor even guess it—his honor
is not involved. However, the job leads
to further complications. An epidemic
breaks out traceable to graft and neglect
by city bosses, of whom Poppa is the
leader. Doc marries his housekeeper’s
scheming daughter, and Beverly marries
Mr. Somebody Else. Then, for a couple
of hundred pages, although they are
occasionally in touch, their tracks di-
verge. Doc becomes an eminent sur-
geon, but as the result of an accident
loses his nerve and the use of his right
hand.
Things are at their worst, but they
soon begin to mend. His marriage turns
out a failure. His wife divorces him.
Beverly’s marriage also comes to a
sticky finish. How the landlady’s daugh-
ter and Somebody Else get along in
the cold, hard world into which the
author casts them we are not told. That
is their business apparently; the main
things are that the reader’s darlings are
united and Doc —the curative properties
of love, no doubt—regains his nerve and
the use of his arm. “He could hold a
knife with it, he could hold Beverly, he
could hold his world again. He got up
with a new lift to his shoulders.” He
has been hastily summoned to the
operating theatre because the other sur-
geons feel that they can’t manage with-
out him! “But I’ll come back to you,
darling. Always I’ll be coming back to
you, my girl.”
The author knows it is the starkly
silly her customers want provided it is
impressively dressed. This she is care-
ful about. The subsidiary characters
are well drawn, the landlady’s ne’er-do-
well family, the doctor’s up-country re-
lations and the members of Beverly’s
gilded set. Well done also are the pic-
tures of the pre-war years, the war itself
and American civic life. In her shop
the author would be entitled to—and
should really be required to—exhibit a
sign: Only Certified Ingredients Used.
* * * *
MOSTLY WELSH
Rhys Davies in The Things Men Do
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.) offers a dozen
short stories all discussable seriously.
His difficulties are with form. If this
time span of the story is long the neces-
sary inversions in the narrative are apt
to be clumsily handled. He is happiest
with a theme that permits of direct
attack ; one of those deceptively slight
things whose packed meaning and beauty
of execution are to be found in the
clear echo they set up in the mind.
One of the best is the first in the book,
“The Two Friends,” a tale of a couple
of middle-aged women, wives of unem-
ployed colliers, who are arrested one
night while stealing a sack of coal from
a disused pit and who, welcoming a
prospective break in their stale lives, go
happily into custody. “Well,” said
Gwyneth, “enjoy ourselves we will,
stepping into the box at court. Better
it’ll be than going to the pictures. Act-
ing oneself.” She shook out her shawl
like a whip. “And I shan’t whine,
either. I’m going to be haughty and
grand like that Greta Garbo. L’ve got
my say to say, I can tell you.” There
is not much in that by way of a plot,
but it is powerful in its suggestion of
lives Jived in an unnatural darkness.
Very whimsical is the one about the
old ladies in a village almshouse who
go on strike against the installation of
a sewer. They beat the committee of
management through sheer willingness to
mention the unmentionable and discuss
the undiscussable.
Among the less successful are “The
Farm,” vital enough, full of the feeling
of Welsh soil and character, but muddled
as to time sense and quite shapeless ;
“The Glimpses of the Moon,” in the
writer's best manner, but lacking in con-
tent —-the echo fails to sound —and “Half
Holiday,”’ passable as a sketch but
static, lacking in that movement with-
out which there can be no story. The
author has a marked peculiarity in that
though obviously a lover of nature he
is not a close observer of her ways. In
one story he has a thunderstorm that
lasts a couple of weeks, and in another
he has sunflowers and chrysanthemums
in full bloom together. Surely he has
seen the latter flowering in the snow.
FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
Various Verse
Sun in the Wood.
Flood you with gold will l, and slab
With daffodils of yellow light
Your deep brown hollows, silences,
To make you laugh with light.
Never again, no, never again
Be night within you, rotting, no,
Nor breathing dankness, touching cold,
Stealthier than your shadows go.
I bring no axe to raze, amaze
Your own essential dark, no fire
To lay you waste, but laugh I must,
Dapple with light your dark desire.
MAOKILAND.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Celtic Fairy Song.
Far, far the herons flying;
Clear sounds the wild swans’ crying;
Low breathes the night wind sighing:
“What will come after? What will come
after?”
Fiercely their wild notes flinging,
White swans to far skies winging;
Over the stream's slow singing,
Small elfin laughter.
Star sheen and moonlight gleaming,
Quiet lake and frail flowers dreaming,
Bird-song and wind-note streaming . . .
“Naught will come after, naught will come
after.”
N.s.w.
EDLIH STERLING LEVIS.
After Winter.
In April came the winter in
To drive the wind about the plain,
But now the clouds are clear and thin
And winds are seldom as the rain.
The almond now, besnowed of trees,
Has kindled white the land around,
Till not a living man but sees
The glory, come without a sound.
And I will watch it while I may
And mind its splendor, for I know
That slumbering men who wait the day
May never wake to see the snow.
They say that it will come once more,
But then it might not seem so fine;
Still it may blossom as before,
But then to other eyes than mine.
September days, they come too soon
To take the fire of snow away—
The trees left barren in the moon
Alone, to wait the coming day.
And since the snow is on the tree
And kindling all the land around
I must go about to see
The glory, come without a sound.
S.A.
LAN L. AUHL.


fflS*
%
Mi
£
ft
#»-^S
mm: *
I
*S
-•
r
M
l
mw,
X
r
)h
Y' ,Jfe
\
v
\\\
%
ft
L
Vf
fi
y
o^fe
CKj
TRAINER: “That’s the stuff for a K.O.
PUGILIST: “OK. SHEAF!”
TOOTH’S
BOTTLES
HALF BOTTLES AND BABY
BOTTLES


bukjb hk
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
''SM
CM
••
ai
mm-i m
Iffl
V ?.<• •,
ImIL **
■
:<***
\iW
: ; ; w
.-.i-
S 'V:
sit
% * J*
est
? x< ■*««
ss i - ;
#. ,
*
«
t
0 >>
& f ■«* ¥
*■-
, -■"
« a flgi
I . ■
IfeMlBWi 3 iSlil ili;»‘»iJijli|||
!■ m
II
m* ■
••p«i
r~
mm
*
. mm
:M
.
m,
Excellent View of Interior of One of the Many Large Storage Cellars.
AtfhtHtine<?fWie meilcii'nedd midlcuq/uet


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2953.
September 16, 1936.
THE THOUSAND-TO-ONE CHANCE.
“Now, Joe, all you’ve got to do is to bring home the bacon.”
“Did you say ‘ALL’?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Austra’ia for the White Man.”
HEAL) : 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
GOOD IN PARTS.
Treasurer Casey had his Budget ready for the
reopening of Parliament, and, although the reopening
didn’t take place till September 10, this was no mean
feat. And it is not altogether a bad Budget, although
there are fairly obvious ways in which it could be
improved.
Australia is the one part of the Empire which has
twopenny postage. The British proposal that air-mail
letters should be carried anywhere in the Empire for
three halfpence (fivepence is the minimum charge on
any Australian route) has revealed twopenny postage
as an outrage as well as an anachronism ; but the
outrage is to remain. It is the worst blot on the Budget.
Something should also have been taken off petrol
taxation, which produces a great deal more than is, or
will be, spent on Federal-aid roads, and off the excise
on beer, which has forced up the price of even the
“cheapest” pint to ninepence. In Britain of recent
years there have been two cuts in the beer duty
without any reduction of revenue to speak of. A
substantial reduction in Australia would be good
national policy, for, besides removing a gross injustice
to working men, it would mean an increased home
market for farm produce, of which breweries are
substantial buyers. But petrol is still to be taxed
74d. a gallon and beer Is. 9d.
Sales tax comes down immediately from 5 p.c. to
4 p.c., and there are to be more exemptions, thus far
unspecified, though “the prime necessities of life” are
(o receive attention. No relief from sales tax is
unwelcome, but it is somewhat confusing to find Mr.
Casey valuing his tempering of the wind at “£3,000,000
for a full year,” the financial year being only 10 weeks
old, and then estimating sales-tax revenue at £8,000,000
when receipts for 1935-36 were £9,342,000. There are
to be primage remissions, reckoned at £170,000. And
income tax is to be reduced 10 p.c. except in the case
of companies, while the “special” tax on property
income is to be abolished. Labor, of course, will rail,
but, as the A.M.P. Board has shown, this impost
has prevented the lowering of mortgage interest, and it
has fallen harshly on people past work who made
provision for their old age. It was always too severe
(10 p.c. at the worst) and has been retained too long.
For the rest, old-age and invalid pensions are to
go up a shilling a week (to 195., total cost being
reckoned at £13,980,000, which inspires long thoughts),
and war service pensions Is. a week, with another
Is. 6d. a week for the children of incapacitated
soldiers. And £1,800,000 or so is to be added to
defence expenditure, making it £8,809,100 or so —
“the highest in the history of the Commonwealth,”
says Mr. Casey, whose memory cannot go back very
far. Moreover, “the salaries of all Commonwealth
employees are to be restored to normal rates,” and
members and Ministers are to get “a partial restoration
equal to 10 p.c. of normal rates,” normal rates in this
connection meaning boom-time rates. The public
received this particular intelligence with philosophic
resignation.
Mr. Casey predicts a surplus of £45,000. His
speech was delivered a day after the Commonwealth
Bank Board came out with its annual report. The
board mentions that the excess of exports for the
1935-36 year, including gold won, was £1,000,000
sterling less than was required to meet interest on
Commonwealth and local-authorities debts, and that
in 1934-35 the deficiency was £8,000,000 sterling.
London funds at present are sufficient for normal
requirements, but arc not sufficiently high to provide
an adequate reserve against adverse circumstances.
Mr. Casey doesn’t seem to be worried about the
position, but he may have cause for worry unless his
Government soon settles its silly dispute with Japan.
American and British Aircraft.
One day last week a Lockheed Electra passenger
aeroplane flew from Melbourne to Sydney at 10,000
feet in two hours 26 minutes. It cruises at 190 m.p.h.,
and passengers who can speak with some authority
voted it as stable and safe as a car—more so than many
cars now on the roads. The only objection that
occurred to them was that it had to take off from
Essendon and land at Mascot. Each is called an
airport, but neither is worthy of the description:
Mascot, in its present condition, is not lit to be
licensed. The Commonwealth Government has pro-
mised to modernise Mascot, and confided to the Lord
Mayor of Melbourne and the President of the Legis-
lative Council —rather odd confidants —that it yearns
to have a modern airport at Fishermen’s Bend ; but
in each case it has surrendered to the inertia which
generally attacks it when the subject is connected,
however remotely, with State “rights.”
On one pretext or other U.S.A. ’planes were kept
off the Australian market for years. Kingsford Smith
and others protested in vain until a passenger Douglas
tootled in from London, second in the centenary air
race. That made the ban look ridiculous, and even-
tually it was lifted.
New England Airways at once dropped the
Fokker and the Monospar for U.S.A. Stinsons, which
brought Brisbane within three hours of Sydney. Day-
light mail carriage to Townsville from Sydney and
even Melbourne became practicable. Holyman’s Air-
ways, working the Bass .Strait route, after unlucky
experiences with a British type turned to the Douglas.
The Guinea Airways people, who have the most
difficult country in the world to serve, have never
been able to see eye to eye with British manufacturers.
They went to Germany for machines. Their problems
have been increased by the fact that, whereas their
maximum one-piece load in 1932 was 69501 b. a
world’s record—they will soon have to face the
carriage of dredge tumbler shafts weighing 80001 b.
Seeking the highest power-to-weight ratio, they, too,
have turned to the U.S.A. The Lockheed Electra is to
go into the New Guinea trade.
At the present rate the whole of the Australian
services in which British Government capital is not
invested will be using U.S.A.-built machines before
long. It may be the only alternative to being forced
out of business by stress of competition. British
manufacturers put splendid material and workman-
ship into passenger machines ; but they pay too little
attention to conditions in distant countries. “Any
car which is good enough for the Brighton road is
good enough for any road”: Australians did not
accept that principle, and they will not accept the
corresponding principle in the aircraft field.
British exports of aircraft declined 20 p.c. in the
first six months of 1936 compared with figures for
the first half of 1935. Perhaps military necessities
accounted for part of the fall, but it is not the only
explanation. Australians have shown that they are
capable of designing and building aeroplanes on their
own account, and Australian manufacture of aircraft
must be ehcouraged. But encouragement should
not take the form of insisting on a blind devotion to
British models.
The removal of the interdict on American
machines coincided with the introduction of measures
designed to effect a sweeping reduction of imports
from the U.S.A., the U.S.A., in Mr. Gullett’s words,
being “a bad-customer country.” But if Americans
found the inconsistency astonishing no Australian did.
Australians have lost the capacity for being astonished
at anything the Canberra Government does.
Condensed History of Long.
He entered Parliament as M.L.A. for Granville on
December 6, 1913. W. A. Holman was then his
leader. Within three years Holman and most of his
Ministers had “automatically placed themselves out-
side ‘the movement’ ” by championing conscription.
Lang remained in “the movement,” being an anti-
conscriptionist, and the antis made Ernest Durack,
M.L.A. for Bathurst, another member of the 1913
vintage, their leader. The responsibility proved too
much for Durack, who failed even to nominate when
(he House was dissolved early in 1917. He vanished,
and what happened to him is a mystery still.
Durack’s place was taken by John Storey, and
—Holman having now formed a “National” Govern-
ment —Storey led the Labor Opposition throughout
the 1917-20 Parliament. At the general election
Holman lost the seat and never regained it. Storey
formed a Government, with Lang as Treasurer.
Storey was sworn in on April 13, 1920. On
October 5, 1921, he was dead.
Dooley carried on as Premier. His brief term
of office was enlivened by a quarrel with Gregory
McGirr, his Minister of Labor, and at the 1922 elec-
tion they fought one another more ardently than they
fought the enemy. Out went the Dooley Adminis-
tration on April 13, 1922.
The Dooley-McGirr feud led to Lang becoming
leader of the Opposition. McGirr drifted away,
bobbing up at the 1925 general election with another
“party,” which sank with the McGirr. Dooley lingered
on till 1927. In 1931 he “automatically placed himself
outside ‘the movement’ ” by coming out for the
Senate against the Lang ticket, losing his deposit
withal.
Lang formed his first Government on June 17,
1925, the other Ministers being Loughlin, Baddeley,
McTiernan, Dunn, McKell, Mutch, C. C. Lazzarini,
George Cann, Flannery, Fitzgerald, Coates and Willis.
Of that lot only Baddeley, Dunn and McKell remain
in Lang’s party, and how much longer they will remain
in it is on the knees of the gods.
One of the Government’s early performances was
the appointment of 26 “comrades” to the Legislative
Council, then a nominee Chamber, in an abortive effort
to swamp it, Council abolition being on the Ministerial
programme.
Of the 26 only Alam, Bridges, Coates, Concan-
non, Culbert, Magrath, Mahony, Murray, Ryan.
Spicer and Tyrrell are in the present Council, and ol:
these only six or seven are Langsters. Most of the
others “automatically placed themselves outside ‘the
movement’ ”; Dickson and Sinclair were expelled
from it last month —Pillans also, though his expulsion
was “lifted.”
Nineteen twenty-five closed rather gloomily for
the Government. Before 1926 was well advanced a
palace revolution was in progress. Lang’s leadership
was challenged by Loughlin, and a vole was taken
in Caucus. A band of Lang’s friends from the Trades
Hall (at least half of them have since “automatically
placed themselves outside ‘the movement’ ”) swarmed
down to Parliament House to encourage the more oi
less faithful and to intimidate waverers. Lang won,
but it was a near thing. By November, Loughlin was
out of the Government and announcing the formation
of what he called “the Country Labor party,” which
soon turned up its toes.
Six tumultuous months passed, and then Lang
reconstructed his Ministry, shooting out Attorney-
General McTiernan (who had sided with him when
Loughlin challenged, sending his vote from the high
seas), Mutch, Dunn, Cann, Flannery, Fitzgerald, C. C.
Lazzarini and Coates. He retained the services ol
McKell, whom he had sent abroad to negotiate a
loan or something, but only for 11 days.
Of the dismissed Ministers, Flannery is dead,
Mutch and Cann turned U.A.P., but are out of politics
(Mutch was beaten by Heffron, now himself excom-
municated), and Lazzarini has been heaved out
again—by the Lang executive this time. Willis, who
was Lang’s right-hand man till Garden was waited
into that precarious position, was expelled in 1934
for contesting the Bulli Assembly seat; Garden was
expelled in 1925 and again in 1936.
The “reconstructed” Lang Ministry lasted Lot
four months and 22 days, and it would not have
endured that long had faith been kept with Parliament
and Governor de Chair. Lang had fallen out with that
elderly admiral, who was currently reported to have
said at an Executive Council meeting, referring to the
distracted condition to which public affairs had drifted
because of the Labor wrangles, “This damned non-
sense must cease.”
The new Ministers included Lysaght, Ratclitfe,
Stuart Robertson and Cruickshank (all four are now
dead). Others were Stokes (defeated in 1925), Gosling
(defeated in 1932), Horsington (expelled from the
party last month), Keegan (beaten for the party nomi-
nation in 1934) and Davies.
Nineteen-thirty was Lang’s great year. On the
strength of his promise that he would borrow enough
to employ everybody and cause the depression to
expire, like Mrs. Leo Hunter’s frog, he was presented
with a towering majority. He was sworn in again on
November 4. By May 13, 1932, he was out for all
time, dismissed by another Governor, who wrote: It
is impossible for me to put the Crown in the position
of being a party to illegal action.”
Of the survivors of the 1927 proceedings,
Baddeley, Lysaght, Dunn, Gosling, Davies, McKell and
Willis took the oath of office again. Added to them were
Tully, Lamaro, Davidson, McGirr, Ely and Concannon.
Lysaght resigned on June 16, 1931, objecting to an-
other” Minister’s attack on the then Chief Justice.
Dunn, Tully, Lamaro, Ely and Gosling were defeated
in their electorates, and the guillotine has now fallen
on Davidson.
Having in one wild twelvemonth wrecked his
Government’s credit, solvency and Savings Bank and
its relations with the other Australian Governments,
three of which were Labor, Lang tried to add the
Leg. Council to the collection. Two ladies and 18
gentlemen pledged to abolition were put on the
strength.
All but eight failed of election to the new House.
One of the eight, King, figured on the August list
of expulsions together with Falkingham and Kilburn,
also appointed in 1931. Two other 1931 nominees,
Fox and O’Reilly, along with “28 organisations
having an affiliated membership of 44,012,” had their
“automatic expulsion” lifted.
Private members beaten in ’32: Fitzgerald,
Cahill, Keast, Ratcliffe, Kelly, Landa, Tonge,
Clark, McDicken, Hoad, McLelland, McClelland,
Connors, Kinsella, Butler, O’Hearn, Donovan, Flan-
nery, Scully, Howe, Folster, Byrne, Flanagan,
Clementson and Martin. Only three —Cahill, Kelly
and Tonge—got back at the 1935 election. Expul-
sions? McDicken in 1934 and Connors last month,
Federal Labor swept the country in 1929, and
by doing so helped State Labor enormously in 1930.
In his policy speech Lang called Scullin “an able
Prime Minister.” Five months after this burst of
eulogy his henchman Beasley had left the able Prime
Minister and was leading a Lang “party,” and for
pronouncing the Lang “plan” “a muddled-headed
policy of repudiation” the able P.M.’s first lieutenant
had been “placed” (“automatically,” as usual) “outside
‘the movement.’ ” Another six months and the Lang-
plan “party” had joined with the “Tories” to defeat
the Government of which Beasley had been a
member, the pretext (now almost forgotten) being
Tammanyism or something in the distribution of dirt
jobs in Theodore’s electorate. Meantime, Lang Labor
had expelled and been expelled by Federal Labor,
and Langism had been carried into Victoria and S.A.
with disastrous results to the Labor Governments and
parties in those States.
Before the “muddled policy of repudiation” was
launched Federal Labor had had 47 members in a
Flouse of 75, excluding the voteless N.T. man. After
the election it had 12 members and Lang Labor five.
Among the defeated were Theodore, Brennan, Chifley.
McNeill, Moloney, Culley, Cunningham (all seven
had been Ministers), Crouch, Curtin, Cusack.
Eldridge, Frost, Gibbons, Keane, Jones, Lacey, Lewis.
Mulcahy, H. P. Lazzarini, Rowe, Tully, Yates and
the elder Riley; of these, Brennan, Curtin, Frost,
Lazzarini and Mulcahy and (in State politics) Culley
and Lacey are all that have come back.
Now, even the meek Baddeley and the once-
ejected Dunn, whose submission eight years ago, was
scornfully accepted, are championing—or, at least,
appealing for —the latest of many scores of political
mariners who have been thrown overboard. Does
this mean that the captain has definitely lost control
over most of the crew, that the arch-wrecker is him-
self to be wrecked at last? If it does, the U.A.P. and
the U.C.P. will mourn him most.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
No Better.
The first series of Sydney wool sales closed without
any improvement in overall average values. There
was a paean of rejoicing from the tincan press at the
fact that average price per pound during the second
week of selling went up from 12.5 d. to 13. Id.; but this
merely meant that there was a little brighter bidding
for better-class lines, speculators and remitters of
money to London having realised the possibilities of
the situation. The leaven of poor wools sold was
smaller. When poor wools are unsold it helps to keep
average price up.
Altogether, 96,000 bales—the same quantity as
last year—were allotted to the Sydney sales: 89,706
bales were offered and 77,993 bales were sold, leaving
a carry-over of 18,007 bales—lB.7 p.c. of the allotment.
In Adelaide, 26,324 bales were sold out of 32,059
bales, so that the total carry-over for ten days’ selling
in two centres was 23,722 bales. It isn’t much when
you say it quickly, but it represents about £300,000
worth of wool, putting it at a low value.
At the week-end nothing had come of the negotia-
tions resumed by Mr. Gullett and the Japanese Consul-
General, but the Japanese Chamber of Commerce at
Sydney issued a reply to statements made by the
Prime Minister. A summary of some features:
As to the alleged monopoly of the Australian cotton-
piece-goods market, Japan’s share in 1935-36 was 41.6
p.c., Britain’s 56.6 p.c. The Japanese figure includes
calico for bag-making, which is duty-free. Exclude that
item and it shrank to 36.7 p.c. And 60 p.c. to 70 p.c.
of other imports of Japanese cotton piece goods were
used in Australian manufacturing process.
Japan’s share of the artificial-silk goods market was
never 90 p.c.; the highest point was reached in the last
half of 1935—85.79 p.c. And this trade was developed at
the expense of Japanese silk piece goods; in 1928-29,
Japan exported to Australia over £3,000,000 worth of
silk piece and artificial-silk piece goods, in 1934-35
£1,848,000 worth.
So far from Japanese exports to Australia consist-
ing almost wholly of manufactured goods, they include
raw silk and rayon yarn, sulphur, pyrethum and
camphor, isinglass, calicoes, ducks for tent-making,
cretonnes, haircords, shirting, cambrics, poplins and
celluloid sheets.
When Japanese manufacturers cut prices it is at
the request of Australian traders, and the cutting is
done in lines that do not compete with Australian
manufactures.
Wool-purchase figures for 1935-36 show that.
Japan bought 28.7 p.c. in quantity and 28.1 p.c. in
value, the U.K. 33.7 p.c. in quantity and 35.2 p.c. in
value.
According to the Casey Budget, wool prices shot
up from 9.75 d. per pound in 1934-35 to 14.01 d. in 1935-
36, and value of clip from £40,400,000 to over
£58,000,000 Australian. Yet the value of our excess
exports failed by £1,000,000 sterling to reach our
external interest commitments for 1935-36. And the
average for such wool as has been sold this season
is 12.5 d. S. Africa is getting 12.5 d. sterling.
The Government is playing a game that isn’t
worth the candle.
"Disabilities" and Real Distress.
The Commonwealth Grants Commission —the old one
—recommended gifts of £2,430,000 this year to the
three States whose Governments have raised the “dis-
abilities” cry—£1,333,000 to the South Australian,
down £170,000; £500,000 to the Westralian, down
£300,000 ; and £600,000 to the Tasmanian, up £150,000.
In the case of the two whose largesse is to be reduced,
it pointedly suggests that the “disabilities” cry is rather
hollow nowadays, since South Australia has had “a
great increase in factory production” and Westralia a
goldmining revival, and suggests also that the latter’s
“disabilities” are largely of the Perth Government’s
own making.
Apparently the Tasmanian section of the report
was written by Professor Giblin, who has now retired
from the Commission. He is a Tasmanian, and his
father was a Tasmanian Premier (he himself was .in
Tasmanian politics for three years), and he has known
what it is to be a Tasmanian fruitgrower. “Tasmania,”
he and his colleagues report, “has allowed its assets
to run down.”
Railways need rehabilitation, forests are depleted
and there is also evidence of soil exhaustion.
Many of the Tasmanian people are on the land,
growing things for export. With this result :
Actually 1934-35 and 19.33-34 were years of dis-
astrously low apple prices, and potatoes were also low
throughout those years.
Mr. Casey continued and amplified the unhappy
narrative in his Budget speech.
Last year a bounty of 4d. a case was provided
to assist growers of apples and pears, the total amount
involved being £82,000. Prices ruling overseas for
these fruits are still unsatisfactory, and a further
£BO,OOO will be provided to supplement receipts
from exports for the season to December 31, 1936.
And there is to be an export bounty of 2s. a case on
oranges. And people interested in the export of
prunes, also bounty-fed, are asking for £2O a ton.
All this is rather melancholy, but it is not expected •
to prevent Mr. Casey’s colleague, Mr. Thorby, from
blithering that wealth beyond the dreams of avarice
will flow from the policy of growing things for the
British market. It may not even prevent the Govern-
ment to which Mr. Casey and Mr. Thorby belong
from inviting the Australian people to vote the inter-
state freetrade clause out of the Constitution in order
that losses in the British market may be made up by
boards at the Australian people’s expense, and getting
the answer where the chicken got the axe.
There seems to be small hope for States with
“disabilities” in growing stuff for the British market.
“Factory production” looks a far better proposition.
"Cultural Relations."
The Bulletin’s few remarks about Perth’s “Society
for the Promotion of Cultural Relations with Soviet
Russia,” of which Archbishop Le Fanu is president,
have been reprinted, with hostile comments, in the
“Daily News” and at least one other Westralian paper,
and have drawn a blast of disapproval from Professor
Beasley, a gentleman from Oxford.
Professor Beasley is “chairman of the executive
committee.” He sees in The Bulletin’s “not very
intelligent article” an “attempt to whip up prejudice
against an endeavor to discover the real truth about
conditions in Soviet Russia,” and darkly suggests that
“if some of the questions were answered” the answers
would “perhaps be a little disconcerting to The
Bulletin.” But he does not attempt to answer them.
The “Daily News” put the rest of the Beasley
narrative in the past tense and the third person.
The membership of the society was approaching the
100-mark, and groups had been formed for the purpose
of examining particular phases of Russian activity and
particular problems. One group dealt with art,
literature and the theatre. Another group was concerned
with education and home life Trade, commerce and
industry were the subjects which interested a third
group.
Two of the groups had held meetings and another
was to assemble on the following night. But, though
the butchery of the Trotskyists was then a week old,
no group had become inquisitive about Soviet trials.
After a trial like that of Marie Antoinette “great
revolutionary figures” or ruffians are shot by other
great revolutionary ruffians or figures—and that in
the nineteenth year of their revolution—and the Society
for the Promotion of Cultural Relations with Soviet
Russia is not interested. Art, literature and the
theatre; trade, commerce and industry; education
and home life ; but not justice.
Archbishop Le Fanu “declined to comment on The
Bulletin’s article,” and told a reporter that he had
“no desire to enter into controversy about the society.”
In that the Archbishop showed himself more prudent
than Professor Beasley, with whom it is evidently a
case of “knowledge comes but wisdom lingers.” Dr.
Le Fanu is also credited with being large-minded,
and, if events in Russia and Spain have not sickened
him of revolutions and counter-revolutions, he will
doubtless cause inquiries to be made as to the state of
justice and religion in Russia —if either exists.
Diet Deficiencies.
The Federal Advisory Committee inquiring into the
dietary of Australians has discovered a lamentable
under-consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables,
especially in remote inland districts.
In its first report to the Minister of Health the
committee gives as an illustration a statement of a
week’s supply of goods landed by the weekly train
at Birdum.
Two bags of potatoes, two crates of Japanese onions,
two cases of cheeses, 17 bags of flour, one case of
soap, five cases of bitter beer, two kegs of rum, a half-
case of tinned milk, a large quantity of tobacco and
many cases of benzine.
The list tells eloquently how the people pioneering
North Australia live. No vegetables or fresh fruit,
no canned or dried fruit—no wonder the committee
reports that “pre-scorbutic” conditions are found
among children of the inland!
The committee finds that Australian bread is
less nourishing than it should be, which indicates that
State Governments are neglecting another of their
responsibilities. Modern milling processes, it is
declared, deprive cereals of essential food values,
and dried milk and more potatoes should be added
to bread mixtures. In effect, it is not sufficient for
State Governments to enforce weights and measures
laws; quality standards should also be fixed and
enforced.
Obviously there is something wrong with the
policy of sending high-quality produce overseas to
be sold for less than Australians are forced to pay
for inferior stuff, but if the politicians have their way
this policy will be greatly extended.
Real National Defence.
In Oswald Pirow the South Africans have a Defence
Minister of very different calibre from Starchy
Parkhill,
• ' Pirow is Minister of Railways and Harbors as
well as of Defence, all forms of transport being under
national control, as they should be in Australia. He
is engaged on such an extension of aerial defences that
within five years his country will possess an air force
of 1000 pilots and 3000 mechanics, together with the
necessary machines. Anti-tank units are also to be
formed, and there is to be a general reorganisation
of the Active Citizen Force, in which hitherto 50 p.c.
of young fellows in the 17-25 age-group have been
liable training “over a period of four consecutive
years.” Those not entered for peace training have to
train four years in rifle associations, which had
120,000 members last year—-the white population was
1,944,000. Australia, with 6,700,000 people, had about
50,000 rifle-club members if miniature-rifle clubs are
thrown in.
As for naval defence, Cape Town Harbor is being
enlarged as part of a plan (originaily suggested by
Admiral Evans) for a naval base bigger than Singa-
pore. Five hundred acres of Table Bay are to be
reclaimed, and a graving-dock sunk capable of hand-
ling ships as big as the Queen Mary. This vill pro-
vide an emergency sea-route, avoiding the Mediter-
ranean and the Suez Canal. And to assist in repelling
raiders there is to be an elaborate network of all-
weather macadamised roads, for which £5,000,000
will be found.
If 15 or 20 members of Parliament must go to
the coronation, two-thirds might be ordered to travel
by the Cape route and find out how South Africa
does it. The Afrikanders have paid off all their Great
War debt, and are steadily reducing their national
debt. And a dreadful rumor has reached Canberra
that their income tax is only a shilling in the pound!
Unintentional Debunking.
Haic. was unfortunate in his biographer, Alfred Duff
Cooper, the present Minister of War. Duff Cooper's
superlatives and selection of extracts from the diaries
entrusted to him .have done more to dispel the notion
that Haig was the equal of Marlborough and Welling-
ton than all Lloyd George’s elaborate invective. Lloyd
George did admit that Haig was an able commander
—under direction.
One indiscreet revelation alone has evoked shat-
tering comparisons of Mr. Duff Cooper’s hero, fine
Scottish gentleman as he was, with Marlborough at
Blenheim and Wellington at Salamanca.
It was before eight o’clock on the morning of
March 21, 1918, and the Commander-in-Chief had not
finished dressing, when the Chief of Staff came into
his room to inform him that the great German attack
had begun.
He had received abundant warnings that the “great
German attack” was imminent —on that occasion
Intelligence excelled itself —and he knew it would
involve the fate of the British Army and might finish
the war. Yet “before eight o’clock” on the fateful
morning (it couldn’t have been long before) he “had
not finished dressing” in his pleasant chateau so many
miles from the front line.
It lends point to Lloyd George’s story of the staff
officer who, visiting Passchendaele after the dreadful
campaign in which soldiers, trying to struggle forward,
were drowned, and smothered in mud, said “Good
God, did we send men to fight in this ?”
Canberra and Yampi.
The Commonwealth Government, which, to oblige a
few Lancashire cotton-spinners, rushed into a quarrel
fraught with peril to wool prices (already down when
they should be up), London balances and the future
of our greatest industry, does not exhibit even ill-
directed energy with regard to the struggling occupa-
tions of the almost voteless and voiceless North.
Australian fishers of pearl- and trochus-shell are
increasingly ousted by aliens in sampans, who pay no
taxes, buy nothing in Australia and, worst of all, are
tearing up the chicken shell. These aliens are stopped
and their sampans are confiscated in New Caledonia,
but not in Australia.
And so far our amazing Government has not
lifted a finger to prevent -the vast Yampi Sound iron-
ore deposits passing out of Australian control.
It is reported from Tokio that a representative
of Brasserts, of London, has agreed with Japanese inter-
ests to form an organisation to work the deposits. It
will be necessary to have an Australian company, but
it is to be financed with £600,000 advanced by a
Japanese investment company. The ore is to be
shipped to Japan.
If Japan had a Yampi Sound, would it let Aus-
tralian interests establish themselves there? The
mere thought of it is fantastic. Yet because Can-
berra meddled in the wool business for Manchester’s
sake, it has been appalled into inaction in a matter
gravely affecting the future of the Commonwealth
when action is required.
Maoriland's Forty-hour Week.
The forty-hour week is already producing trouble
between the Maoriland Labor Government and trade-
unions, in addition to raising costs.
If an industry can be worked efficiently on the
new basis, the Arbitration Court must award a 40-
hour week. But the Court, presided over by Judge
Page, has not automatically granted the shorter week.
In the case of the Waterside Workers, the tribunal —
the employees’ assessor dissenting said that water-
siders did not usually work even 40 hours, and their
application was an attempt to get more money by way
of overtime.
The employees in the printing and related trades
were also disappointed. Some of them still have to
work 42 hours. So a stopwork meeting was held in
the Trades Hill, Wellington, and, as a newspaper
has it, “the crowd marched in orderly fashion to
Parliament House.”
The resolution against the Arbitration Court was
handed to Mr. Armstrong, the Minister of Labor, who
said it was “childish.” “Why march to Parliament
House,” he asked indignantly, “when your own
friends are in control?”
Prime Minister Savage has implored dissatisfied
unionists to be patient. His appeal has had little
effect, and an old-man strike on the waterfront is
no remote possibility.
Australian politicians on both sides are in a hurry
to introduce the 40-hour week in the Commonwealth.
It would be wiser to wait and see how —or whether—
it works in Maoriland.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Squalus”: “If you have tears, prepare
to shed them now.” Skipper II., the shark
which has put up a world’s record by
living three and a half years in captivity
at Taronga Zoo, is on his deathbed.
There is a curious analogy between his
plight and the political one of J. T. Lang.
A number of small unconsidered fish in
the same pond which had for years
bowed to his will attacked him suddenly
and gave him a bad doing. The funeral
is expected daily, Vale Skipper! We
could have better spared a zooful of
land-sharks.
“Crusoe”: I’ve read so much about
the predatory habits of Japs on the N.Q.
coast that when I returned to my island
home after a week’s absence and found
a lugger in the bay with her crew ashore
I was worried to think of what they
might have been doing. They wanted to
know if they could fill their tanks from
a spring behind my house. I asked the
Jap skipper if he had not read the notice
I had left pinned to the verandah. He
replied that he had not come near enough
to see it —“I do not go into another man’s
house when he is not at home.” Next
morning he' came and bought pawpaws,
fowls, ducks, fresh meat and other things.
Had he lived up to the reputation cer-
tain papers would give him there was
nothing to prevent him helping himself
during my absence. I hold no brief for
the Japs, but the only damage which has
ever been done to my property has been
by my own countrymen.
:i; * * *
“Don Ogemawsko”: Sydney has a
link with Spain in the form of
a beautiful chalice and gold altar-ser-
vice in St. Mary’s Cathedral which was
consigned to Archbishop Polding by
Queen Isabel of Spain, grandmother of
ex-King Alfonso XIII. She sent it along
after the destruction, by fire, of the
first St. Mary’s (the second St. Mary’s
was also destroyed by fire). The gift is
said to have been inspired by the then
Spanish Consul (San Just), who wrote
to his Queen telling her of the fire and
reminding her of the Spanish discovery
of Australia.
* * % *
“Piou-Piou”: Cannot accept “Mac.'s”
suggestion that the vivandiere was a
regimental daughter of joy (B. 9/9/’36)
if only for the reason that there was but
a single one officially attached to each
regiment. Moreover, French army
records show that the lady’s regimental
boss was the surgeon, which bears out
my contention that her job in action
was a first-aid one. There is plenty of
evidence that European armies, including
those of Britain, were then well supplied
with the other sort of female society.
These travelled under the wing of the
innumerable “sutlers” who followed the
troops ostensibly to sell provisions, but
mainly to strip and rob the wounded,
this last a job in which their lady friends
were doubtless useful. Even late into
our own times, camp-followers were one
of the problems of our armies in India,
on one occasion following the troops as
far as Kabul, with disastrous results.
* * * *
“Dirck”: I suggest that “Pardon Me”
is a trifle too cocksure when he tells us
(B. 9/9/’36) that “all together does not
mean ‘all in company,’ but ‘all in one
place’ or ‘at one time.’ ” To take only
one instance, didn’t Browning write
Never the time and the place
And the loved one all together!
The last two words are certainly not
capable of any meaning but “all in
company.” T ' -
* * * *
“Sabre Gore”: l had been away
from Sydney a couple of years, and
venturing ashore for the first time prob-
ably committed some breach of the jay-
walking laws. “Come here, you!” a
cop roared at me, and I mildly men-
tioned that I had not the pleasure of
“I've bought two horses — it's up to you to stand the drinks
“Sorry, I'm on the Waggon; but tell y what I'll do—l'll give y' another horse .”
knowing him. He said: “Cut that stuff
out; if it wasn’t for those labels on
your suitcase, I’d run you in as soon as
look at you. Besides,” he went on, “it’s
quite on the cards that the case really
belongs to one of your cobbers, and I
ain’t so sure that these traffic regula-
tions weren’t in force before you Navy
blokes [I belong to H.M.A.S. Australia]
left the country.” I am not overfond
of England, but I own that I sighed for
a friendly talk I had with a London
policeman who had pulled me up in
similar circumstances a year before.
* * * *
“P.M.”: The horses that understood
only broken English (B. 2/9/’36) remind
me of the bush youngster, newly-arrived
in France, who stood watching a French
farmer backing a wagon into the railway
platform. He turned inquiringly to me.
“How the hell do the horses understand
that awful jabber?” he asked.
* H= * *
“Selma”: Stage accidents? I remem-
ber a plump and very popular soprano
who regularly toured M.L. giving con-
certs. One night in the old Choral Hall,
Auckland, the lady, clad in a picture-
gown with an abbreviated bodice held
precariously in place by two narrow
shoulder-straps, took a high note and
burst one of the straps. Her pianist, with
rare presence of mind, seized a presenta-
tion bouquet and gave it to the singer
to hold before her as she backed her
way offstage. Then he followed her soli-
citously to the improvised shelter which
served as a dressing-room on the side of
the enormous stage, and to fill in time a
musical member of the community arose
and gave a little chat to the impatient
audience. Still nothing happened, so he
tiptoed over and gazed into the tentlike
retreat. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he an-
nounced in a subdued tone, “they won’t
be long now. Mr. Scales [the pianist]
is doing a little sewing.” Both Mr.
Scales and the lady received a tremen-
dous reception when they reappeared.
* * * *
“Brix”: Parkes is not the only place
where swimming in drinking water is
popular (B. 9/9/’36). Visiting a home-
-stead near a dam that conserves the
drinking water for a large inland N.S.W.
town, I found that moonlight bathing in
the prohibited area was a regular pas-
time. My hostess was surprised when I
voiced a mild protest. “Oh,” she told
me airily, “we don't drink this water,
so you needn’t worry. We have plenty
of tanks. This water is drunk by the
townspeople.”
* * * ■ *
“Freelance”: Martin-place military
demonstrations are not without their
touches of humor. The machine-gun was
the star exhibit, and was being brought
into action pointing barrel-on to the
crowd. Came the order to fire; instead
of a few sharp clicks, a sudden rattle of
blank cartridges followed. Five men in
approximate line with the muzzle invol-
untarily ducked and fell to their knees!
* * * *
“P.M.”: 1 think “D.E.’s” reference to
“20,000 Diggers dead since 1918” (B.
2/9/’36) is a long way out. It was semi-
officially stated some years ago that as
many Australian soldiers had died since
the Armistice as before —about 60,000.
The late Dr. Pern, president of Leon-
gatha (Vic.) branch of the R.S.L., stated
nearly two years ago that it was offici-
ally estimated then that only 200,000 of
the total of 331,000 Diggers were still liv-
ing. Dr. Pern took a keen interest in
Repat. statistics, and I think his figure
would be fairly correct.
* He *
“Adelaide”: Some nice points have
been presented to S.A. Supreme Court
by. a man who got 18 months for false
pretences. It was a small and arguable
matter, and he promptly appealed against
the sentence as excessive, but fruitlessly.
Then, when he appealed against the ver-
dict itself, the Crown argued that he had
accepted that broad fact when he took
the minor point about the sentence. How-
ever, the Full Court unanimously de-
cided that the two things were quite in-
dependent. So the second appeal was
proceeded with, the Judge at the original
trial leaving the Bench ; but it was as un-
successful as the first.
* * * *
“Edeng”: There are at least two
Queensland timbers that furniture
workers detest (B. 2/9/’36). Yellow iris
produces a dust while passing through
the sand-drums which causes bleeding
at the nostrils. The soft dust affects the
throat so badly that N.Q. sawmillers
will not mill or plane any quantity at
one time. The timber has a pale-golden
hue. Miva mahogany is the other.
When freshly felled, it has the odor of
a swede turnip. It loses this when dry,
but on being worked up or sandpapered
diffuses an extremely irritating dust,
causing violent sneezing. The virtue ol
this timber lies in its rich mahogany
color.
* * * *
“Filibuster”: The statement (B.
19/8/’36) that women were not allowed
as spectators at .the Olympic Games re-
quires some correction. When the
Games first began their presence was
permitted. The competitors wore some-
thing similar to short aprons, and it was
a mishap to one of these which led to
women being barred. After that Greek
athletes wore no covering at all.
“E.W.H.”: Add to piquant hostelry
signs this one, which figures behind the
bar of a Brisbane hotel:
My bankers agreed not to sell beer; so
I promised them 1 wouldn't cash cheques.
Don’t ask me to break a promise.
V ♦ ’!’
“Tuart”: Strange how absurd trifles
stick in the memory. Long ago in “an
open-air theatre at the back of a Perth
pub I heard a serio-chronic sing a fatuous
ditty which went something like this:
D’yew know Susanna Simpson?
She is gent-ull, free from blame.
D’yew know Susanna Simpson?
She’s a modest, trimly-bodiced little dame,
D’yew know Susanna Simpson?
Is she charming? She’s that same.
But d 'yew know Susanna Simpson
Has comcvi-ted t’ change her na-hame?
The young woman had a lisp, and she
was ogling and giggling at jockey-boys in
the front seats. After recounting the
virtues of Susanna Simpson, she whirled
into her dance —three or four steps and
a high kick, repeated until the audience
signified in the usual manner that it had
had sufficient. It all came back to me
when I read about the Mrs. Simpson
who was a member of King Edward’s
yachting party in the Adriatic and the
Levant, and saw photographs of the lady,
and thought of the old girls who went
to the Folies-Bergere circa 1905 and
found it “.vo different from the home
life of our late beloved Queen.” And
now, I suppose, some publisher will ex-
hume the ballad of Susanna Simpson, get
some hack writer to give it a contem-
porary twist and put in some honest sen-
timents about the right of limited mon-
archs to have an unlimited choice of
friends, and make pots of money.
* * * *
“11 Vecchio”: Periodically a discreet
paragraph appears in Granny “Herald’s”
personal column mentioning a cable an-
nouncing that So-and-so has been elected
a Fellow of the Royal Geographical
Society for such and such services. The
word fellowship is one of England’s
most cherished expedients for collecting
membership fees. Anybody nominated
by two others who have paid a five-
guinea entrance and promised three more
a year can become an F.R.G.S., even if
he doesn’t know the difference between
geography and goat-raising. In Eng-
land no conductor of tourists or travel-
bureau paragraph-writer feels that his
equipment is complete unless he has
F.R.G.S. after his name. Motor-car
trippers usually add a few more rs the
Anthropological Society and the Zoo-
logical Society give nice combinations
of letters which look well. But. myself,
when I am going in for fellowships, 1
intend to make a cheaper selection and
get more letters. There are some that
can be had for ten bob and no ques-
tions asked, though, of course, there are
a few that can’t be had at any price
except outstanding learning, such as the
F.R.S. and F.R.C.S.
A SUGGESTION.
“Tli e British steamer Royal Star called at Mel-
bourne with a cargo of Scotch whisky, which is
being carried on. a 26,000-mile journey, via M.L.
and Cape Horn. British experts have agreed that
to send whisky through rough seas for a few months
is better than maturing it for as many years at
home.”
1 used to hear it, in a bygone era.
From connoisseurs in produce of the grape,
That, to be properly matured, Madeira
Needed a trip or two around the Cape.
And now, it seems, some enterprising Scotian
Compounding, in the land of cakes and fog,
His country’s most exhilarating potion,
Has hit upon the admirable notion
Of saying it with grog.
Roll on, ye casks of Caledonian whisky
To circumnavigate the world that go!
And may the winds above be fierce and frisky,
And similarly rough the waves below!
Though skippers wax profane and mates
awaken
In fear of storms aboard the Royal Star,
And other cargo-boats, you must be shaken,
Like certain medicines, before you’re taken —
The physic that you are!
Nurtured in misty glens, you gain by favor
Of Father Neptune and the roaring main
A bite, a kick, a snippy, snappy flavor
Beyond the compass of the home-ground
grain.
Above the seas that roar and froth and tumble
About a toiling vessel’s loaded hulk,
You get the zip—where Scottish castles crumble
And thirsty ghillies with their glasses fumble,
You never get in bulk.
And when across the wastes of whirling waters
Their mountain dew, all oceanised, returns,
I’ll bet they’ll welcome it, the sons and
daughters
Of old Jock Tamson and of Robbie Burns.
But, while I wish them joy, the thought en-
grosses
Whether in our Australian hemisphere,
Where malt-and-hops a far more frequent
• dose is,
Some equally invigorating process
Mightn’t be tried with beer.
N.S.W
T. THE R


“El V.”: Adelaide is looked on as a
quiet and proper place, but nobody,
after reading the advertisement for its
Royal Show which appeared in the
" Tiser” on Aug. 29, can say that it is
not original in some of its attractions:
Buy a member’s ticket, £1 Is In
addition to the member’s ticket the sub-
scription includes two ladies which are
transferable.
* 3= * 3:
“Exdig”: Mrs. Kirby, a wealthy Syd-
ney woman, thought out a generous
scheme for the benefit of returned sol-
diers, but her will has provided the law-
courts with a knotty problem. The
testator left £100,000, to be devoted to
putting returned soldiers with agricul-
tural training on the land, the land to
be virgin soil outside a 60-mile radius of
Sydney. Grants were not to exceed
£500, and were to be confined to neces-
sitous cases. One difficulty is that £500
is not enough for a living area —men
would require more than the £500 to
carry them over until their farms paid
and, having it, they would not be neces-
sitous. An additional objection might be
that the youngest Diggers are now 40 or
thereabouts, which is a bad age to start
pioneering on virgin land, if such were
available. The Courts are now trying
to sort something practical out of the
muddled good intention.
* * * 3=
“Swiss”: They have a dramatic way
of demonstrating against the price of
petrol in Switzerland. From a friend at
Zurich: —
To-day [July 6] we witnessed the one-day
“stay-indoors” strike by Swiss motorists as a
protest against high taxes on petrol. In Zurich
there were over 400 watchers on duty in the
streets. Motorists who ventured out were
stopped and warned, and those who persisted
vvere reported to the motoring clubs. Excep-
tions were made in the case of doctors, but
even they had to drive around with labels on
their cars setting forth “I am obliged to drive,
but I also protest.” Petrol-filling stations were
closed, supply stations being maintained by
the strike organisers for doctors and tourists
motoring through the country. Petrol in Swit-
zerland costs about 2s. fid. a gallon.
3= 3= 3< *
“Pills”: If “Pitt St.” (B. 6/8//36)
wanted to see how many anachronisms
could be crammed into a film he should
not have missed the last version of A
Tale of Two Cities, the alleged date
being 1789. One of the characters
(Darnay) pulls out a modern, stem-
wound watch, and proceeds deliberately
to wind it up. The storming of the Bas-
tille is effected to the strains of “The
Marseillaise,” which wasn’t available
until three years later. Finally, the
statues shown in the Place de la Con-
corde are still there ; only they weren’t
erected until 1850.
* * * *
“Erua”: Those folk who fought in
old Verona with their swords probably
hadn’t half as much excitement as two
Maori ladies who staged a battle in
North Auckland (M.L.) the other day.
When the disagreement developed they
looked round for the nearest weapons,
and found them in a hatpin and a pair
of scissors. Jabbing and snipping at
each other, they were doing nicely when
a passer-by called the police. According
to the Law both weapons had done ex-
cellent work in blood-letting. The affair
ended in court with a substantial fine
for each combatant.
H*
“S.T.S.”: The Savings Bank of S.A. is
making, for this centennial year of the
State, a pleasant offer which can also be
a good advertisement. Each child born
in S.A. in 1936 is to receive (on applica-
tion from the parents) an ornamental
souvenir passbook, with pictures and
facts of local progress. . Each book will
contain a credit entry of half a crown,
to open an account; at the normal birth-
rate, the gifts should be worth anything
"Nice Work, that; nice Work."
“ Yes—if y ’ can get it!"
up to £lOOO. It is likely that any child
born on December 28, the actual date
of the Proclamation in 1836, will receive
a more substantial endowment, from
some public source.
He sfc ❖ #
“Ron J.”: “Ampere” (B. 9/9/’36) is
quite right in demanding that telegraph
instruments in post offices should be
placed beyond earshot of the public.
When about to walk out of a country
office recently, I was stopped by an ac-
quaintance with the suggestion that I
wait for a telegram that was just com-
ing through. He had heard everything
from the counter. I have known an ex-
telegraphist who made a hobby of “lis-
tening in” to all the telegraphed gossip
of the town, and such eavesdropping,
before the days of wireless, sometimes
enabled unscrupulous dot-dashers to pick
up race results and have the winner
backed five or ten minutes before the
bookie received the wire.
“Ned”: Even young love isn’t always
proof against the rough weather in Syd-
“If I'd known I Was going to be treated as good as this I’d have booted,
the missus years ago!"
ney Harbor (B. 2/9/’36). A youth of
15, deeply enamored of my niece, a year
younger, managed, by wearing the family
down, to get permission to take his love
to Manly on a recent Sunday. A storm
came up, and early in the afternoon an
agonised appeal came over the wires
for directions for returning by land, as
the pair were afraid to face the sea-trip.
Dad, with the Sydney man’s faith in his
ferries, replied that if the boats were
running the passage was safe. It was
made, too, but it proved so calamitous
—for both the voyagers —that my niece,
womanlike and blaming him for every-
thing, has broken off relations with her
youthful beau.
“Caballer”: Deadly cargoes (B.
2/9/’36)? When a boy I saw a cargo
of harmless-looking linseed in bulk
arrive at the wharf. Locking bars and
hatches were removed and a wharf-
lumper jumped incautiously down on
the cargo. They recovered his body later
under tons of the stuff. You can’t stand
on it, but it looks solid and men used
to walking about on loose wheat or other
grain forget its oily nature.
❖ * ❖
“Historicus”: “Ike Hollar” has the
wrong boulder (B. 26/8/’36). There is
no “Stone of David.” The “Stone of
Scone,” which is under the coronation
chair at Westminster, was the corona-
tion stone of the ancient Scottish kings,
and was carried off by Edward I. from
the Abbey at Scone. There is a legend
that it had been used at Tara, at the in-
auguration of the Irish Kings, before it
was stolen in a Scottish raid. There is
yet another legend that the stone came
to Ireland from Syria, and that it was
on it Jacob rested his head when he
dreamt of the ladder reaching to Heaven.
Geikie thinks it must have been quar-
ried in the sandstone district between
Argyll and the Forth. England pos-
sesses a more ancient coronation stone,
stiff preserved at Kingston-on-Thames,
on which the Saxon kings were
enthroned.
“Jungor”: Quite a number of Aus-
tralian Labor members have qualified
for election by a sympathetic proletariat
through having served terms of impris-
onment over strikes and suchlike hap-
penings, but Johnny Drew, the recently-
retired State Secretary (several times
over) in the Westralian Government, was
once incarcerated for
an entirely non-politi-
cal offence. That was
41 years ago, when
Drew was running the
Gerald ton “Express”—
and’ the circumstances
did him no discredit.
Somebody wrote a
letter to the paper
under some such signa-
ture as “Constant
Reader” attacking the
condition of things at
the local Government
hospital, and reflecting
seriously on the profes-
sional abilities of the
R.M.O. That aggrieved
Galen bunged in a
libel writ, and the
Supreme Court was
invoked to settle if (and
by how much) he had
been damaged. Drew
flatly refused to give
up the name of the writer of
the letter, and his offence was held
to be aggravated by the fact of the
long-haired Vosper, who was running
the paper for him in his enforced
absence, having airily referred to the
court as “likely to resemble a siege hos-
pital” owing to the number of cripples
who were to be put into the witness-box.
In the end the doctor got a verdict for
£5OO and costs, and Drew got a term
of detention —a month or so—regarded
by the CJ. of the period as needful to
purge him of his contempt. In the years
to come neither bore his opponent any
malice.
* * * *
“Moturoa”: Something fresh in
schoolroom howlers comes froifi
Hawke’s Bay (M.L.). Asked the mean-
ing of “Hobson's choice,” a timid miss
replied: “Mrs. Hobson, I s’pose.”
* * * *
“Quack”: Trials of animals (B.
2/9/36)? Surely the most amazing was
staged at Basle. (Switzerland) in 1474
when a rooster was charged with having
laid an egg! Eggs laid by roosters were
then regarded as possessing evil magic,
and, although counsel strenuously de-
fended the prisoner, the unfortunate
bird was found guilty and condemned
as a sorcerer to be burned at the stake.
The execution, with all ceremonial, was
duly carried out in the Basle public
square.
“Hamer”: Destroying animals which
kill humans may be a survival from
the Middle Ages, but it still has
a wide acceptation. The elephant
Jumbo, showcard of the old N.S.W.
Zoological Society when it ran the
Zoo in Moore Park, was destroyed
on that account; so was a lion which
mauled a keeper fatally. The Wirths’
elephant which caused the death of ring-
master Cooke in Queensland was an-
other to suffer. Bulls and dogs and
other animals in private ownership have
paid the same penalty. It is not only
a matter of destroying an animal which
may repeat its offence ; it is a conces-
sion to public sentiment. The zoo lion
was killed because patrons threatened
to keep away if the death sentence was
not carried out. The Fleishhacker Zoo.
San Francisco, has just destroyed an
elephant on the same grounds. It killed
its keeper. It was suggested that the
animal, a valuable one, should be kept
under stricter supervision and with in-
creased safeguards, but the public
wouldn’t have it.
“Free Companion”: English help to
warring factions in Spain (B. 9/9/’36)
goes back far beyond the Carlist wars,
for one of which a whole English
legion was raised. It began with the
Black Prince leading his English bow-
men to the aid of Pedro the Cruel, not
long after Crecy. Pedro was so grateful
for the timely help that he gave the
Prince the magnificent ruby which is
one of the features of the state crown
of the Empire.
“Uramao”: Dangerous war souvenirs?
An Auckland resident secured four Ger-
man whizzbangs for their brass casings.
Harmless little things, the kids played
with them until dad. using a chisel to
open one, conceived a suspicion that
they might be “alive,” so took them to
the Defence Department. He was assured
that they were, also that the man who
had used a cold chisel on them was
lucky to be himself alive.
ON MOONLIT NIGHTS.
“In the Sydney Divorce Court a husband com-
plained that his wife nagged so much that he used
to spend every moonlit night in digging the garden.”
He delved, like Adam, our industrious father,
But, unlike Mother Eve, she didn’t spin;
Only, she scolded so, he found he’d rather,
When evening shadows fell, be out than in.
He might not make for pubs, his heart to
harden,
Since early closing squelched convivial rites,
Wherefore he took to digging in his garden
On moonlit nights.
He might have faced, undaunted and un :
flagging,
The stiffest blows Fate in his way could
switch,
’Twas only this interminable nagging
(Or so he told the Judge) that queered his
pitch.
Such stress it laid upon his soul, the wigging
That woeful wives reserve for wilful wights,
He’d grab his spade and hoe, and fall to
digging
On moonlit nights.
What did he cultivate? Sweet-peas and roses,
And other fascinating floral buds?
More likely vegetables, one supposes;
Onions, mayhap, and unromantic spuds.
Did the Judge give the marriage-bond sepul-
ture,
And set him free from these nocturnal
blights?
Or is he still reduced to horticulture
On moonlit nights?
But think of “Mrs. Caudle’s Curtain Lectures,”
And how it would have spoiled what Jerrold
writes,
Had Caudle gone a-gardening, one conjectures,
On moonlit nights!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


e^AV
M
20/^l6
10 for 9 a
For real quality Tobacco ...
and for your throat’s sake
—smoke
W 1874
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
iiii
\
m
r.
CORK
PP E D
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENE R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
Butler is right when he says that a
referendum restricted to the “orderly
marketing” issue has not even a thou-
sand-to-one chance. He is wrong when
he says that “no greater calamity could
happen to Australia than unification.”
Why should it be a calamity to Aus-
tralia to achieve what Britain has had
for centuries?
A thing that doesn’t seem to have
occurred to Lang’s latest lot of enemies
(who were his abject supporters for so
long) in their search for rocks to heave
at him is that he is old as Labor leaders
go. He is just on 60, and for 10 years
he has been in one Labor brawl after an-
other. And no elderly politician can
afford to be continually angry. It’s bad
for the blood pressure.
Following a bad Queensland prece-
dent, the Victorian Government is sanc-
tioning the book-keeping jugglery of strik-
ing £30,000,000 off railway capital ex-
penditure. It will only mean camouflag-
ing annual losses and encouraging de-
mands for more freight-rate concessions
and more squandering of loan money on
railway and other transport gambles—
follies which are being committed in
N.S.W. as things are.
More “rebel” victories in Spain, a Red
attempt to force the Blum Government
to espouse an apparently hopeless cause,
a Red mutiny in Portugal and an explo-
sion of mutual defiance and insults on
the part of Berlin and Moscow were
features of the news from Europe last
week. The one hopeful sign is that
Britain is keeping aloof from it all.
Even the Trade-union Congress, leaders
of which demanded military “sanctions”
against Italy, is for non-intervention in
Spain.
It was the massive additions to the
Maoriland pensions bill that forced
Lyons and co. to add a shilling a week
to old-age and invalid pensions. Now
Dunstan and Lyons, by restoring pre-
depression salaries in their departments
will oblige the Sydney Government to
do likewise. And, while admitting that it
went £1,800,000 to the bad last year, it
promised to balance the Budget this
year!
For distributing Communist “anti-
war” leaflets while N.S.W.’s few per-
manent soldiers were trying to beat up
recruits for an army 7000 short of its
paper strength, 35,000, a bunch of
Reds was fined 10s. apiece. About the
same time Stalin, with a stroke of the
pen, was raising the strength of the
Soviet army from 1,300,000 to 1,600,000.
Had anyone interrupted that perform-
ance with a distribution of “anti-war”
leaflets, the penalty would have been a
bullet in the back of the head.
Thus a distributor of “anti-war” (not
anti-civil-war) leaflets, when asked to
take the oath in a Sydney police court:
I’m a member of the Communist party,
and I don't believe in God or King or
country.
He believes only in the Russian (or
Eurasian) system in which Bishop Burg-
mann, whose King is Defender of the
Faith, is so enormously interested.
With vast pride Melbourne’s Tram-
ways Board recently announced a profit,
the first for nine years—£l4lo. Three
or four times as much went west in Syd-
ney last week, when two women were
awarded damages amounting to £2470
for the consequences of accidents to the
Government trams that cumber the
ground in the Bridge City and hold up
traffic, making journeys through the
streets a nightmare to passengers, motor-
ists and pedestrians alike. Half a dozen
times a day a girl could start level with
a tram at Circular Quay and walk along
George-street to the Town Hall —-it is
just on a mile —and beat the jolting con-
veyance. Traffic control in Sydney has
become plain chaos, and it is mainly
because the city is burdened with Gov-
ernment trams.
Hartigan, the N.S.W. Railways Com-
missioner, has been saying that engine-
drivers’ pay is “almost criminally low.”
He followed with a criticism of union
secretaries, and a union secretary smartly
rejoined that there was nothing to pre-
vent Mr. Hartigan giving drivers more.
The Government gave Mr. Hartigan a
free hand, and then substantially in-
creased his screw. Mr. Hartigan then
increased the screws of a lot of gentle-
men in the Commissioner’s office.
The Adelaide and Perth Governments
received such huge Commonwealth
grants last year that they couldn’t help
showing surpluses. This has been
“Supporting the Leg. Council, which objects to a forced election in 1937, Melbourne
‘Argus’ points out that to bring the Council to an untimely dissolution the Assembly must
face the electors twice within a year.’ ”
“Will any gentleman move that we form a Suicide Club to meet right away and
again in six months?”
noticed even at Canberra, and the Gov-
ernment there lost no time in endorsing
a Grants Commission recommendation
that the Adelaide Government should
get £1,330,000 this year instead of
£1,500,000, and the Perth Government
£500,000 instead of £BOO,OOO. But be-
cause the Hobart Government runs “a
State poor in resources,” whose “im-
provement has been less than the aver-
age,” its allowance is to go up £150,000
to £600,000.
Tas. Labor will have to go to the
country before long, so the additional
£150,000 from Canberra will be a great
election-year gift. If it follows Westra-
lian Labor’s example, now several years
old, it will apply the increase (or most
of it) to reduction of local taxes, and
go in flying.
There was a great outpouring of satis-
faction at Canberra last week. The
U.A.P. Caucus was satisfied with the
Government’s explanation of its trade-
war policy; Thorby was satisfied with
the wool prices; the Government was
satisfied that a referendum to secure
“orderly marketing” is necessary; the
civil servants were satisfied with the
restoration of their salary cuts, and
members were satisfied with the an-
nouncement that their salaries are to go
up from £825 to £9so—or as satisfied
as it is in the nature of politicians to
be. Some of them are sure to point out
during the Budget debate that they got
£lOOO in the loan-boom years. When
things were more prosperous and
taxation was really light, they rubbed
along with £6OO a year ; but no nark is
likely to mention that.
It is grand to learn that a representa-
tive of the people—well, a few people—
doesn’t lie and “topped the poll through
cleanliness.” One A. A. Alam has
given N. S. Wales this gratifying assur-
ance, he himself being the party ; and he
said it from the witness-box, too. Though
not precisely correct that Alam “topped
the poll,” he was certainly elected to- the
present Leg. Council by a combination
of Assemblymen and nominee Council-
lors. It was considered astonishing at the
time, for he was addicted to braying like
Balaam’s ass, and his name was on
none of the party tickets ; but it now
transpires that he was venerated by all.
F. A. Cooper, one of Forgan Smith’s
Ministers, has a sense of the fitness of
things. Recently he played Shvlock in a
Brisbane am. dram.’s production of “The
Merchant”—yes, he is Assistant-Treasurer.
Then he essayed a bit of “Hamlet ’ —
as the King. It would have been too
much for the audience if he had im-
personated the Melancholy Dane and
been compelled to shout “Thrift, thrift,
Horatio! ”
J. J. Kenneally is to be chairman of
the W.A. Lotteries Commission at £5OO
a year. The defeated Minister could
have had the Agency-General, and his
choice of Lotteries at a third of the salary
is rather amazing,'especially after Clydes-
dale’s experience. Apparently he still
thinks he has a political future.
Two gentlemen who have figured in
Sydney Labor politics and heard the
hoarse cry of Lang’s executive “You’re
out of the movement!” —one nine years
ago, the other this year—faced one
another in the High Court the other day.
One was Justice Evatt, the other
Trautwein, M.L.C. With the pene-
trating analysis and economy of words
which distinguish his judgments, his
Honor dismissed Trautwein’s appeal
against his Federal income-tax assess-
ment for six years to June 30, 1928,
“with costs against the taxpayer,”
but in respect of the seventh year allowed
a deduction of £16,821 in respect of a
hotel transaction. The department
claimed £162,826; in effect it got a
verdict for £140,000.
T. C. Trautwein, whom members of
the present Leg. Assembly and the late
Leg. Council delighted to honor when
he put up for the elective Upper House,
impressed Evatt, J., as “in many respects
an unsatisfactory witness.”
Much of his evidence I had to discard,
because I was left in doubt as to its truth
or accuracy.
But the unflattering pronouncement
won’t affect the gentleman’s position as
a legislator.
Walter Kingsmill, President of the
Westralian Leg. Council and of the
Senate, for three years in each case, left
his affairs in such disorder that there was
little or nothing for the widow, and Par-
liament granted her a pension of £l5O
p.a. She drew it for only 12 months or
so, dying in Perth last week. Kingsmill
had been a politician for 37 years, and
his case, along with others, suggests that
there should be provident funds for
members who die in harness and
veterans of 10 years’ service and upwards.
The public wouldn’t object if the poli-
ticians made fair contributions out of
current salaries.
Kenneally’s conqueror, T. J. Hughes,
fiercely attacked Westralian Labor ad-
ministration in his first speech in the new
House, When he paused in his philippic
it was to have a go at Senator Bertie
Johnston, a man of many pubs, who is
Country-party:
There were seven applications, all sup-
ported by petitions, for a publican’s general
license at Mt. Lawley. They were all re-
jected. Then Senator Johnston applied,
and he got the license. Another gentle-
man wanted a hotel at Nedlands. In came
Senator Johnston with an application, his
land being on a corner opposite the first
applicant’s land; and he got the license.
The Government has promised an in-
quiry into all Hughes’s allegations.
Presidential candidates have, of course,
to be native-born Americans, but there
is a lot of Scotch in Landon, which is
rather ominous for Roosevelt. In
America, as in Australia, Scottish aspir-
ants to high office are hard to keep out
and to shift when in. Andrew Jackson,
Woodrow Wilson, Andrew Fisher and
Forgan Smith are among the examples.
Baldwin admits shortcomings with a
frankness foreign to other rulers whose
guilt is as great or greater. In a recent
speech he said; “We neglected our de-
fences for years in the hope of general
disarmament”-; that hope having been
shattered, “I can no longer neglect the
primary duty of government—the defence
of the people.” Lyons has neglected this
primary duty even more grossly, and he
admitted it recently, but without a word
of self-reproach.
“Pipards”: The dingy Sydney Trades
Hall scene wherein Lazzarini, M.H.R.,
was a witness to brother Lazzarini,
M.L.A., being sentenced by Lang Labor
was anticipated, after a fashion, in
ancient Rome. Shakspeare’s version:
A Room in Anthony’s House.
Anthony, Octavius and Lepidus seated at
a table.
Ant.: These many, then, shall die. Their
names are pricked.
Oct.: Your brother, too, must die. Con-
sent you, Lepidus?
Lep.: I do consent.
Lepidus Lazz’s brother now says he
would rather go on the dole than go
back to Octavius Lang.


BUT IS IT CRICKET?
“They shell not drink, smoke, or- gamble, bring husbands, relative, or friend,, write for the Press, visit the top deck after dinner or be out of bed by 10 p.m."
—Commandments' Issued in respect of the Australian girl cricketers to tour England.
GO A.NO PUT SOME CLOTHES OH,
TO EE MO BODY- I_>KlE:
BU&MESS »N TH\S tej^m
If
IT SAYS NOTHiWGi j
about tyae crows mest'
\ 1 / >\
ITS ONLY TEVJ TO TEN ANCX TH\S IS NT THE TOP* DECK. f
// /
COME UP
\TS *kPTER TEH "
Top Deck^.


Stott foster WITH the motor oil that is
DRAG-FREE
o
£
r A
S
z
ouf
L.OS3-C
PERSONAL ITEMS
A. B. Triggs, who died at Yass a few
days ago, began life as a ’Wales Bank
clerk with the assets of an almost un-
canny prescience about seasons and a
keen judgment of stock values. These
helped him to the ownership of 25
stations, 600,000 sheep, and a £200,000
p.a. wool cheque. A Londoner, he was
19 when he joined the bank and 68 when
he died. The outbreak of war and the
chaos which followed left him facing
over £1,500,000 in liabilities, but he paid
the lot with accrued interest. The home
near Yass housed a fine collection of
books, pictures and antiques.
T. C. Beirne is a long, lean Irishman
from Roscommon who this year cele-
brates his seventy-sixth birthday and his
fifty-second year in Australia. In 1885
he began as a draper in Brisbane ; 20
years later he was M.L.C. and owner of
Queensland University’s Benefactor.
a big store. To-day the store is one of
the biggest in the Commonwealth, and
T.C.B. is busy giving away the money
it has earned for him. One of his gifts
made possible the law school at Queens-
land University, of which he has been
warden since 1927. He is a director of
the A.M.P. and of the _ Queensland
Trustees, and fills in some of his spare
time with golf and tennis.
Balmain (Sydney) Masons gathered
the other day to honor Dr. C. U. Car-
ruthers on his eighty-third birthday. A
graduate of Trinity College, Dublin, the
veteran fought in the Afghan wars of
1878-79, came to Balmain a year later,
helped found the N.S.W. branch of St.
John’s Ambulance, and for several years
was Grand Master of the Masonic
United Grand Lodge.
K. O. Mackenzie, who retires from the
Sydney management of the Aberdeen
and Commonwealth Line, had a romantic
shipping career which began with 8.-P.
in Cooktown 45 years ago. He became a
pearler, operating from the Arus, quali-
fied as a master mariner, and, when war
broke out, was adopted by the Navy, to
which his local knowledge of the seas
and natives between Australia and Singa-
pore was invaluable. He left the R.A.N.
as a commander in 1920 to become
Queensland manager of the Common-
wealth Line.
No N. S. Wales Government House
staff has been complete without Brigadier-
General Austin Anderson for many years,
but he now transfers to Canberra to
become Lord Gowrie’s secretary. Son of
an Acting-Governor of Mauritius who
had been g.m. of the Oriental Bank,
he was educated at Eton and at the
R.M.C.* Woolwich—the same college of
which both Adam Lindsay and “Chinese"
Gordon were inmates. The Brig, fought
in the Tochi and Tirah campaigns and
in the Great War, in which he earned six
mentions in dispatches, the C.M.G. and
a troublesome wound while C.R.A. to
the British 62nd Division. He has written
several volumes, The Gunners’ Cate-
chism and a history of Lucknow among
them.
That deeply-rooted Australian Francois
Robert de Castella —his mother’s family
landed in 1801 —turned up at Mel-
bourne’s annual wine-tasting to shout
that, though on a cost basis Australia’s
living standard should be high, our food
is “too often deplorable and our drink
even worse.” After 50 years’ experience
of local wines and some previous train-
ing in French vineyards, Francois is one
of the Commonwealth’s most ardent
advocates of the idea that wine should
be Australia’s national drink. For 24
years he was viticulturist to the Victorian
Agricultural Department, during -which
time his beard was about the most suc-
cessful in the public service—a fine,
healthy, phylloxera-resisting growth.
Australia has given two Prime Minis-
ters to Maoriland—Joseph Ward and
Mick Savage. Maorilanders who have
become Australian Premiers are T. R.
Bavin, now on the N.S.W. Supreme
Court Bench, and Arthur Moore
(Queensland). In Westralia W. D. John-
son, born in Wanganui, was deputy to
Daglish, Westralia’s first Labor Premier,
and was reckoned unlucky in later years
to have to play second fiddle to the late
Scaddan. Now Brownhill-Ivanhoe,
Scaddan’s electorate when he was
Premier, expects F. C. L. Smith to better
Johnson’s record and equal its former
member’s. Smith has been elevated to
the Cabinet. Maoriland-born, he reached
Victoria at three years. He was a West-
ralian “Worker” man, like Federal
Opposition-leader Curtin.
When Norman Lindsay joins in his
first broadcast to-morrow, his part-
ner in a discussion
of the censorship
will be an old friend,
Max Montesole,
who, with his wife,
Elsie Mackay, once
leading lady with
Cyril Maude, is tour-
ing the national
broadcasting st a-
tions. Montesole is
a happy person who
in his day played in
many- famous com-
panies—with Beer-
bohm Tree, Frank
Benson and the
Barry mores and
with Ellen Terry
during her final
tours of England.
America, S’Africa
and the Far East. In
the war he was with
the R.F.C. until he
walked on in his
part at the same
time as a machine-
gun bullet in a
hurry. After that
he was chief in-
structor in aerial and artillery camouflage.
Later, Maurice Maeterlinck invited him
to produce “The Burgomaster of Stile-
monde” in New York, and it was Monte-
sole who, meeting Paul Robeson and
hearing him sing, introduced him to Mrs.
Patrick Campbell and started him on his
stage career. Spending three years in
Hollywood, Montesole there won the
Writer’s Club prize with his play “The
Birth of the Triangle.” If the stage ever
failed him, he could keep comfortably
afloat as a chef.
R. M. Campbell, who succeeds Colonel
Annand as manager of the Brisbane Per-
manent Building Co., was manager of the
Federal Deposit Bank when that co. was
forced to suspend in 1931, and was later
taken over by the 8.P.8. Co. Campbell,
born at Cobbitty (N.S.W.), where his
father owned the smithy, joined the
Federal Deposit Bank around the begin-
ning of the century. Depositors or share-
holders didn’t lose a penny following the
1931 closure.
William Hill, of Plympton (S.A.), just
past his ninety-sixth milestone, was
among the S.A. youngsters who sought
quick fortunes at the Victorian diggings.
He travelled there from Adelaide, once
by boat and once by horse and cart,
and at least once he walked home. His
parents stepped on to .S.A. from the
Royal Admiral in ’3B. William was
born two years later at Scott’s Creek.
The new importance of the air in war
was emphasised when Air-Marshal
Arthur Longmore, in command of the
British coastal air area, was appointed
head of the Imperial Defence College.
. Longmore was at Jutland with the navy,
also fought in France and Italy, and
holds the oldest flying certificate in the
R.A.F.
Bob Chalmers, who gets the job of
managing Granville (Sydney) Olympic
pool, is the game chap who dived off
the rocks at Ben Buckler, Bondi, into a
boiling surf to rescue a girl who had
been caught by a big wave and swept
out. His brother Jack is another surf
hero ; he dashed into the surf at Coogee
and fought off a shark which had seized
a surfer, later, with swimmer Frank
Beaurepaire, helping the victim out.
Jack, Frank and Bob were given awards
of the Surf Lifesaving Association.
After spending half his life on the job,
Tom Burrell ceases to be mentor to Syd-
ney’s Lord Mayors. He has served all
sorts of Mayors, from the kindly Howie,
who now rules, to Paddy Stokes ; and
he has seen more turmoil and knows
more secret history than almost any-
body in the world except Haile Silassie.
But neither secrets nor trouble have ever
MAX MONTESOLE.
weighed on Tom.
Each year has seen
him bigger and
better, and at 52 he
weighs out at 14
stone odd.
Britain’s Deputy
Controller of Civil
Aviation, F. G. L.
Bertram, arrived un-
obtrusively in Aus-
tralia a few days
ago to discuss next
year’s overseas air-
mail arrangements
ani. the linking up
of Maoriland. An
unassuming Channel
Islander by ances-
try —his family have
been ages in Jersey
—he is by accident
of birth an Irishman
from Cork. He
went to St. Paul’s
School, took his
M.A. at Pembroke
College, Oxford,
speci a 1 i s ing in
mathematics, and
became an inspector
of schools. In the war he drifted
into the Munitions Department, and
went to the Air Ministry on its forma-
tion. He has sat on a number of impor-
tant committees since, and has had wide
flying experience—he was on the first
mail ’plane from London to Cape Town
and the first from London to Brisbane.
Malcolm Mclntosh, a Victorian, was
lawyer, grazier and fruitgrower before
the formation of the Country party
brought him into S. Australian politics
in 1916. M.H.A. for Albert (S.A.) since
1921, he is now serving in his second
Ministry: he was Public Works Com-
missioner and Education Minister, 1927-
30 ; now he handles Crown Lands, Re-
Lands Minister MCINTOSH ( S.A. ).
patriation and Irrigation. In the last-
named subject he became an expert dur-
ing his fruit days at Renmark.
Almost unheralded, great changes took
place in the King’s entourage a few
months ago, when Godfrey Thomas,
royal private secretary, who visited Aus-
tralia with the then Prince of Wales,
melted into the background along with
Lord Wigram, King George’s private sec.
The new p.s. is Major Alexander Har-
dinge, heir to Lord Hardinge of Pens-
hurst. The father was viceroy at the
time of the Delhi durbar and King
George’s coronation. Hardinge, junior,
was wounded in the war and won the
M.C. Afterwards he served as A.D.C.
with the British Military Mission in
Berlin in 1919, and later became adjutant
to the Grenadiers. He was King's
equerry and assistant private secretary
from 1920 till he received his present
appointment.
The eternal Hugh D. Mclntosh, who
was 60 on Sept. 10, has turned up in a
new role in London, whither he went to
introduce the Cockney to the milk bar.
Hughie, as Who’s Who records, has be-
friended leading hospitals and benevo-
lent societies to such an extent that
sundry of them have made him life gov-
ernor. He founded the Australian Egypt
Exploration Society, was “the recipient
of an illuminated address from the 42
surviving holders of the V.C.,” and an-
other from the R.5.5.1.L.A., was presi-
dent of the Returned Soldiers’ Band, and
ran and promoted fights (Burns-Johnson
and bun-), hot-dog shops, hostelries,
theatres, Sunday newspapers and the
British Empire League, of which he and
Archdale Parkhill were the most fervent
members. Now he appears as bail
bondsman for the Young Orsbornes, who
are charged in England with pinching a
trawler, the Girl Pat. He says he ad-
mires their courage and finds their dar-
ing “praiseworthy.”
“Johnhop” farewells an identity:
The Murray has lost one of its best-known
identities with the passing of “Snuffler” Hogan.
An amiable soul possessed of a cleft palate,
he drifted for years among the river settle-
ments, odd-jobbing. There are many legends
about his doings. Once, professing experience,
he was set to build a fowlhouse for a Wai-
kerie (S.A.) fruitblocker. The following year
he called again and was met with the angry
query: “I thought you said you were a good
rough-carpenter?” “Yeth, thathright.” “Right,
is it? That fowlhouse you built was blown
down by the first wind! ” “ ’Thruth,” said
Snuffler, “wathn’t that rough enough for yer?”


i.V 8 ®
\S“\ ~ iy ~ >
%
m\%
o
mi
m\\s=
tO
10l
■
V*\
o
m\
W
%\\ to
o<s
IMi
ikiiUiilliiHLi'A
M Trade Sg> . Mark ,#
SS\\\\\v
<**&!*>
sf®
V'^
&, V
-***
gSffiTjl
mm
n
mttt
o&L
mm
M
m
lit
SM
"■ #* I',*®®.
p?
fAN
CAP 5
0k
m
•m
$
-nl D L
4428 B-9.6
Why is CAPSTAN the
best selling cigarette
in Australia?
Because . . . “it’s the
Tobacco that counts”.
Capstans are made
from specially reserved
VIRGINIA TOBACCOS—
Capstans own blend.
That is why no other cigarette
can duplicate the renowned
Capstan flavour —no matter
what price you pay.
m
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
10 for 6d : 20 for V-
Also Flat 50's, Flat 100's and
Round Airtight 50's.


How long is it since
you read your WILL?
sg
Too many people are prone to make a will,
place it in safe custody, and never look at
it again. And they consider their duty to
their dependents has been done. The lapse
of years between the making of the will and
the administration of the estate often plays
strange tricks with the maker’s intentions.
Changed economic conditions, fluctuations of values, and
innumerable other factors can cause considerable hardship
to beneficiaries if not adequately guarded against by
regular revision of the will.
See your legal adviser at once. Ask hint to consider your
expressed intentions in the light of existing conditions.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us, we will
be glad to discuss with you and your solicitor, the
important aspects of practical administration of your
estate. ,
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees.for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray. John
Fordyce, Sir Claude Reading, K.C.MG.,
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White,. K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms; 6/- and B,'- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double; Rooms; Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for r amilies.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 pan.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone. JM4WI.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926. . 224,600 7f p.c. =180,198 44,402 305,872
1927.. 230,901 8 „ „ 186,011 44,890 350,762
1928.. 182,836 7 „ ~162,759 20,077 370,839
1929.. 149,755 5* „ „ 127,882 21,873 392,712
1930.. 162,726 6 ~ „ 139,508 23,218 415,930
1931.. 112,756 4 „ „ 93,005 19,751 435,681
1932.. 119,427 ii „ ~104,631 14,796 450,477
1933.. 126,243 5 ~ „ 116,257 9,986 460,463
1934.. 149,489 6 ~ ~ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 „ „ 139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ „ 139,508 9,804 490,391
The board wrote net profit for the year
at £139,312, or £339 less than the pre-
vious year’s and £196 less than the 6 p.c.
div. called for. That was after £lO,OOO
dropped from somewhere into the insur-
ance account (£290,000); the repairs, re-
newals and replacement reserve was un-
changed at £200,000. Taking the unex-
plained addition into the reckoning as
genuine profit, the year’s net result was
6.4 p.c. on capital as against 6.4, 6.3,
5.4, 5.1, 4.8, 7, 6.4 and 7.8 p.c. back to
1928. The div. was kept at 6 p.c. Still,
the three-for-one gift of 1920 makes 6
p.c. worth a lot more to old holders.
Nevertheless, the year’s result dis-
appointed the market, which shortened
its bid for the fully-paid pound shares
from 325. 9d. to 295. over the last 12
months. The Manoora, the new pas-
senger and cargo m.-v., which took up
the running in the inter-State trade
shortly before the close of accounts in
1935, was expected to make a difference.
But whatever gains there were in this
and other respects were offset by the
unhappy labor disputes which interrupted
passenger and cargo earnings for a
couple of months during the peak of
the tourist season. At 295. the return is
4.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible cover is 245. 2d., of which
12s. sd. is surplus liquids, mainly Gov-
ernment securities and cash.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1929. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital . . £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors* 245,562 74,236 54,857
Steamers, properties,
investments, etc. 2,531,147 1,322,532 f 1,266,1i1t
Consols, cash, etc. 483,650 1,279,089 1,277,614
Shares in subsidiaries • —• 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 58,014 42,729 51,679
Book debts, etc. 142,575 408,5201 467,236;
* Not including- provident fund, £ 229,317, 1933 ;
£236,558, 1934; £239,656, 1935; £247,377, 1930.
f Excludes investments, t Includes investments.
The reduction of £56,421 in the book
value of shipping property and premises
reflects the sale of the Paringa, erection
of new offices at Port Adelaide and the
year’s allowance for depreciation.
Debtors’ balances, etc., were up £58,716,
and £19,379 was clipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors. Taking the
provident fund (£247,377, up £7721) into
the reckoning, but excluding shares in sub-
sidiaries, the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,494,295) was £77,849 stronger than
at the previous balance. Government
securities, debentures and cash were to-
gether equal to over 10s. 6d. per share.
Obviously the co. will not need to go
outside to pay for the two new 5000-ton
cargo vessels now on order, or for the
new seven-storeyed premises it is erect-
ing at Perth.
Subject to industrial developments,
prospects are for better earnings during
the current term, while abolition of the
Federal special tax on income from
property and the cut in other taxes should
help to keep overhead down. Little or
no help need be expected from the co.’s
coal interests. The old Abermain and
East Greta cos., in each of which Adel-
aide Steam' was largely interested, are
now merged with the Brown interests in
J. and A. Brown and Abermain Seaham
Collieries, which paid 2\ p.c. for each
of the three years to June 30, 1934, but
nothing since.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. . serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
36,076
1926.. 31,251 8 p.c. = 21,810 9,441 45,517
1927.. 42,678 8 „ „ 29,212 13,466 58,983
1928.. 48,741 10 „ „ 37,396 1 10 345 C 9 g 9B
Provident fund, £lOOO J 10,d45 09,rf-»
Perkins’s business absorbed; added
reserves, £20,000 .. .. 89,328*
1929.. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59 934 ) 18 859 108,187*
Provident fund, £l5OO j
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,841 ) 5 993 n 4) iBo*
Provident fund, £l5OO j 9
1931.. 59,007 8 p.c. = 49,958 ) g 049 12 2,229*
Provident fund, £lOOO )
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 .. 90,129
1932. . 62,242 8 p.c. ” 50,000 )-j r» 940 ion
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 10 ’ 242 100,371
1933. 71,676 8 p.c. =* 60,000 1 18 575 118>946
Provident fund. £3OOO j ’
1934 69,255 / p.c. = 50 000 l i6 755 185> m
Provident fund, £2500 )
1935.. 83,539 8 p.c. = 57,115 ) 2g 924 169 ,625
Provident fund, £2500 5
1936.- 93,739 8 p.c. = 67,415 1 23,824 183,449
Provident fund, £2500 j
*Subject to an unspecified amount of intangibles.
Over the last eight years the story has
been one of expansion and the anchor-
ing of turnover by purchase of hotel
freeholds, etc. Until 1929 it was Castle-
maine Brewery, Quinlan, Gray and Co.
Then Perkins’s Toowoomba brewery, part
of its Brisbane plant and the ’ trade of
some 70 hotels were bought, and the
name was changed to the present title ;
later some of Perkins’s and a lot of
other hotel freeholds were purchased.
Early in the last term the remaining
assets (excluding cash) of Perkins and
Co. were taken over for £197,000, or
£47,000-odd less than their value in the
vendor’s book at the end of February,
1935. These assets consisted mainly of
11 hotel freeholds (four in Brisbane and
the rest ‘ mostly at Ipswich and Too-
woomba), 14 leasehold houses and the
old Mary-street, Brisbane, brewery
premises.
To help finance the deal, buy a
number of other hotel properties and
make extensions to the brewery, plant,
etc., shareholders put up an extra
£260,416 of capital (one for three, at
par), and £181,405 was added to the
amount coming to creditors, etc. —the
etcetera is an unspecified provision for
contingencies:
1927. 1929. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. £372,694 £622,425 £781,250 £1,041,666
Liabilities .. 69,361 116,386 251,984 433,389
Brewery, plant,
etc. .. 159,029 310,370 I 329,733 418,815
Warehouse.. 23,580 32,188 )
Hotels • • 151,095 268,471 774,170 1,141,547
Stocks .. 66,516 108,257 74,244 79,754
Debtors . . 107,269 148,903 64,710 84,326
Cash, etc... 8,429 11,363 13,715 22,727
The year’s net addition to hotel proper-
ties was £367,377 and to brewery and
plant £89,083. The increase in book
debts was £19,616, and stocks £5510. At
the end of July, outside liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £246,582,
a growth of £147,268 over the twelve-
month, which suggests that depreciation
is not being overlooked. Since 1927
£668,972 has been added to paid capital,
£364,028 to the debt and £990,452 to
the book value of hotels, while stocks
have increased by £13,238 and debtors’
balances have been reduced by £22,943 —
encouraging movements.
After setting aside an extra £30,000
for taxation (£50,000), the year’s de-
clared net earnings were £10,200 better
at 11.1 p.c. on average capital as< against
11.7, 11, 11.4, 9.9, 9.4, 11.1 and 13.4 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was kept at 8
p.c., sweetened with the par issue already
referred to. Prospects of better than
8 p.c. later on are encouraging.
The price of the fully-paid 12s. 6d.
shares has been fairly steady around
235. 7d. over the last 12 months. The
return at 235. 7d. is 4.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 14s. Bd. in net
tangibles.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 30,445 15 p.c. = 27,403 3,042 57,470
Profit on sale assets, £6550 .. .. 64,120
1927.. 38,859 15 p.c. = 32,686 6,173 70,293
Profit on sale assets, £6749 .. .. 77,042
1928.. 37,022 15 p.c. = 36,641 381 77,423
1929.. 40,007 15 „ „ 39,375 632 78,055
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£9908 68,147
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£10,238 .. .. .. .. 57,978
Loss.
1931.. 5,087 Nil 52,891
Unexplained reductions, £1582 .. 51,309
1932.. 1,293 Nil 50,016
Unexplained reductions, £21,053 .. 28,933
Profit.
1933.. 3,505 Nil 3,505 32,438
Written off, £13,390 . . .. .. 19,042
1934.. 9,319 21 p.c. = 7,292 2,027 21,069
Taxation, £5OOO .. .. 1. 16,069
1935.. 18,100. 5 p.c. = 14,683 3,517 19,586
Share premiums, •. £1403 . . . . 20,989;
1936. . 30,019 8.5 p.c. = 25,213 4,806. 25,795
Sydney has eaten this old-established
and once highly-prosperous catering and
refreshment co. out of the worst of its
troubles, thanks largely to growth of
employment and to reorganisation of
the business. A vigorous policy of prop-
erty purchase, largely on borrowed
funds, was responsible for much of the
difficulty experienced when the boom
burst. Contraction of spending and
growth of competition in the tearoom
business aggravated the position, of
course.
However, the Melbourne section of the
business, and with it a £lOO,OOO mort-
gage, was passed to Lucullus, Ltd., for
23,000 8 p.c. prefs. and 37,000 ords., all
issued as fully-paid, about seven years
ago. Also, one of the co.'s Sydney prop-
erties was sold for £12,000 (in scrip) to
City Property Estates. These trans-
actions account for most of the reduc-
tion in the debt since 1929:
1924. 1929. 1930. 1936.
Capital . . £175,000 £272,050 £291,666 £298,682
Liabilities .. 82,646 371,693 200,806 198,100
Freeholds .. 128,550. 576,428 297,426 297,420
Leaseholds . . 14,500 12,536 0,861 I (),184
Plant, etc. .. 106,020 95,325 94,500 ='93,952
Stocks.. , ... .'.20,324 29,431 5,788 ~ (1)782
Cash, debtors, ’
etc. .; .. 53,129 25,788 41,072 4.0,239
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,988 7.7,348,: 92,615
During the last term the co. bought
Tate’s Tea and Coffee House, Ltd., at
an unstated figure. Payment included
7016 f.-p. pound shares, issued at a pre-
mium aggregating £1403, which has been
added to reserves; the balance is due
in half-yearly instalments over the next
three years. The growth in the amount
coming to sundry creditors (£58,123) was
£8765, while £10,459 was clipped off the
overdraft (£10,761) and £312 off the
mortgage (£129,916). Shares in other
cos. increased by £15,267, and leaseholds
by £3323. Including stocks, but not share-
holdings, liabilities exceeded more or less
liquids by £151,079 when the books
closed, an improvement of £2867 over
the twelvemonth.
Turnover continued to improve, the
spring in gross earnings (£208,049) being
£24,504. Exes. (£178,030) took £12,585
of the increase, leaving the net result
£11,919 better at a wink over 10 p.c. on
capital, compared with 6.2 p.c. and 3 p.c.
for the two preceding terms. Share-
holders, who went without for the three
years to the close of accounts in 1929,
got an extra p.c., making 81 p.c. for
the year, the final being at the rate of
12 p.c. p.a. No harm would be done if
the div. was kept at 8 p.c. until the prop
for capital was substantially strengthened.
As for the current term, the immedi-
ate outlook is bright enough. The open-
ing of a new branch in Clarence-street,
near Wynyard Station, is expected to
assist earnings, and the cut in Federal
taxes should help to keep exes. down.
Also Sargents (Newcastle), Ltd., has
been formed to take over the catering
business of Way’s, Ltd., Newcastle, for
£10,500. Nominal capital is £50,000 in
£1 shares, of which the parent takes 6000
f.-ps. for rights, and 35,000 were offered,
one for eight, to those on the parent’s
register.
At 295. the fully-paid pound shares
return 5.8 p.c. on an 81 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 21s. 9d. in net tangibles,
nearly all freeholds.
Trustees, Executors & Agency Co. (Melb.)
. ' To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 24,615 14 p.c. = 19,600 5015 97,219
1927.. 22,472 14 „ ~ 19,600 2872 100,091
1928.. 26,693 14 „ „ 19,600 7093 107,184
1929.. 25,175 14 „ ~19,600 5575 112,759
1930.. 22,447 14 „ ~19,600 2847 115,606
Profit sale freehold, £13,440 .. 129,046
1931.. 16,099 9 p.c. = 12,600 3499 132,545
1932.. 8,552 6 „ „ 8,400 152 132,697
1933.. 9,882 6 „ „ 8,400 1482 134,179
1934.. 11,342 6 „ „' 8,400 2942 137,121
1935. 12,510 6 ~ 8.400 7 2no 139 , 23 1
To provident fund, £2OOO j
1936.. 13,844 7 p.c. = 9,800 4044 143,275
Earnings are derived from corpus and
other commissions and from investment
of the co.’s own funds. Returns from
the two sources are not separated in the
published accounts. But when the books
closed there was £143,275 of reserves
supporting and assisting £140,000 of share
capital, so the two combined need turn
in only 3.4 p.c. net to cover a 7 p.c.
div. The lot was invested in freeholds,
etc., £121,100 ; mortgages, £21,767 ; book
debts, £3623 ; public securities, cash, etc.,
£145,385. There was nothing coming to
outsiders.
The year’s net growth in the volume
of trusts on the books was £558,374:
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1910.. £9,013,807 £11,814 £6.820 57.7 p.c.
1920.. 13,533,081 41,924 25,538 60.9 „
1925.. 15,776,909 62,202 37,813 60.8 ..
1929.. 22,348,537 77,447 51,272 66.2 „
1930.. 23,574,354 76,260 54,373 71.3 „
1931.. 24,746,447 69,521 53,422 76.8 „
1932.. 26,675,821 63,161 54,609 86.4
1933.. 27,009,070 69,260 58,378 86.0 „
1934.. 27,842,502 72,040 60,698 84.2 ..
1935.. 28,328,553 73,818 61,308 83.0 „
1936.. 28,879,927 76,540 62,696 81.9 ~
Gross earnings sprang £2722, and exes,
took £l3BB of the increase, the larger
business being handled at 225. per cent,
less cost. The net result (up £1334) was
approximately 9.9 p.c. on capital as
against 8.9, 8.1, 6.1, 11.4, 16, 17.9 and
19 p.c. back to 1929. The div. (it had
been steady at 14 p.c. for seven years to
the close of accounts in 1930) was lifted
a point, making it 7 p.c., and prospects
are encouraging.
Since the close of accounts the co.’s
fine new building in Bligh-street, Sydney,
has been completed and most of the
available space let. It has also been
decided to go ahead with erection of
new premises, with plenty of letting-
space, on the site of the old London
Bank Chambers, Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, bought in 1930. The estimated
cost, and how it is proposed to finance
the work, have not yet been disclosed.
The £140,000 of paid capital is in
60,000 £2 10s. shares paid to 305., and
100,000 paid to 10s. each. On the market
the former are priced at 50s. and the
latter at 20s. 3d. At these figures the
immediate returns are 4.2 p.c. and 3.4
p.c. respectively on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
Obviously the market counts on another
ss. being called on the scrip now paid
to 10s. The net tangible cover is 40s.
sd. per pound of paid capital.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


s>
m
m
1
m
A
5?
t
o
HY
9>4
(28 i3O i>
'o
<£>
\3
ilOt"
*o£
* 4 e •^ s '°''
BftT^ s
ntU
Tbu*.
Itflmf
['ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO LTD. INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
WHY HENRY NEVER CAME TO SEE HER!
GRACIOUS//
15 THAT THE TROUBLE, HENRY?
15 THAT WHY YOU^^jnW
don't VISIT ,-SZ^ZL. —~~—^
ERMINTRUDE3
A NICE GIRL,
HENRY / .
YES, MUM -
//
BUT
HER NOW?
THAT 5 JUST
IT. MUM /.
'/ i.
vW /!
b
sfl
m
m
?£. if/
iIK/i
/henry NEVER COMEs]( MY DEAR,
YES, M 155 BLOG6S.THESE PWILIPS\
VALVES WILL CURE
\YOUR RADIO SET OF <
M&j, ( *' VALVITI 5" //j
TO SEE ME NOW. 1
CANT UNDERSTAND
WHY ! '—-d
I ' ITS A
nd// DELICATE
SIT
DOWN AND ILL
EXPLAIN
WHAT YOU,,
must yfcr'<y
o\v\
.A**
€2
DO
<£^s
%
m
OH. HENRY/ DO YOU REALLY
—MEAN YOU WANT TO i
. . i
%DO,DARLING Hi \\ \ \
For HEALTHY RADIO
REPLACE WORN-OUT VALVES With
[HIMHI 91El(fi
/gto '—
MM
PHILIPS
VALVES
GOO
cure “Valviiis 1 ’
N.B.—‘‘Valvilis is baa
radio reception, caused
by worn out or inferior
valves.
mi l
la
JL
2
"ALEMITE”
never just grease
these parts
*JLLEM |T E"
jWjk 7?Of Cjx&CtfrZ. f
©Marks the important
lubrication centres of
modern motor vehicles.
Alemite high pressure lubrica-
tion and lubricants developed
for individual requirements
give assurance of protection
and efficiency impossible by
haphazard " greasing ” methods
IJnLversat joints
Some types of this essen-
tial duty unit need a fluid,
others a fibrous lubricant.
jk
Alemite Service provides the one best suited to increase resist-
ance to wear and thus prolongs useful life of universal joints.
Alemite Corporation
CHIC AGO,-ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT ... Chicago
Full particulars from MB. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Fitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—s-33
SPARE
THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
Good. investment
A Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank has
many attractions for investors. It is a
lawful investment for trust funds. In-
terest is paid half-yearly and the yield
is uniform and certain. The capital sum
is returned intact at the end of a specified
period, or may be re-invested.
Interest is paid at current bank rates,
viz:—
3 per cent, per annum for 24 months
2 S 12
*> » » » » *■£, »
A
*2 » >» >» » » ° »
» « »i » it 3 „
Fixed Deposits are received and cheque
accounts opened for all sections of the
community at all Branches of the Bank .
The RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office - - 14 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Sydney Branch : 350 George Street, (Opp
Wynyard Street)
Commissioners :
C. R. McKerihan (President). H, Rogers.
P. Kearns.
■
M
■
:;:'T I’
s MC!Sw
jv < . ,* v ,*wr?
mm
U 4
\
■
, • !
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


fi
s
hjk
hjuk
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for Fi_.ATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all sus pended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE, MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
For Sale.
FOUR N.Z. Perpetual Forest Bonds Ist issue,
block 88, £l5O cash—H. BARNES, Cabool-
ture, Queensland.
hk
THE WOR D’S TOUGHEST
AND MOST DURABLE LINING
METAL FOR BEARINGS.
Stocks in all States.
Write for “The Hoyt Book.
HOYTS METALS (AUST.),
49 Hardware Street, Melbourne.
Cent. (5601.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane)
Net Towards
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 3,710 lOp.c. = 3312 398 29,515
1929.. 12,234 10 „ „ 8250 3984 25,531
Goodwill sold to associate co., £5000.. 20,531
Nominal
Reserves.
Taxation and depreciation reserves in-
cluded, £34,280 13,749
1930.. 15,992 5 p.e. = 7537 8455 22,204
Unexplained additions, £7598 .. .. 29,802
1931.. 6,000 Nil 6006 35,808
Unexplained additions, £12,099.. .. 47,907
Depreciation (£48,457) and tax (£519) Deficit.
reserves disclosed, £48,976 .. .. 1,069
June, Reserves.
1932.. 2,223 Nil 2223 1,154
1933.. 6,818 31 p.c.= 6003 815 1,969
1934.. 8,230 4 ~ „ 7203 1027 2,996
Added intangibles, £75 . . .. .. 2,921
Special reserve taken in, £220 .. .. 3,141
1935.. 14,886 6 p.e. = 10,805 4081 7,222
1936.. 19,341 83 „ ~15,007 4334 11,556
Though drought played ducks and
drakes with pastoralists in the northern
State last year, it did no harm to this
co.’s earnings, which benefited by Gov-
ernment and other spending in the metro-
polis. The result was the best yet —10.7
p.e. on capital, compared with 8.2, 4.5,
3.8, 1.2, 3.3 and 10.6 p.e. back to 1930.'
That was after raising the tax provision
£5098 to £lO,OOO and passing £9053 to
depreciation reserve (now £82,339, equal
to 65.3 p.e. of plant cost). The
handout was lifted to 8 1-3 p.e., the final
being at the rate of 10 p.e. p.a. The
remaining £4334 lifted free reserves
£11,556 in excess of intangibles (£23,075,
not treated as an asset herein).
Using the Sydney parent’s patents,, the
co. paid 10 p.e. for the first two years.
Then slump upset the applecart, and
shareholders were passed by in ’3l and
’32. Still, the financial structure was
sound, manufacture had been extended
to Rockhampton and Townsville (rights
for N.Q. were sold for £5OOO in scrip)
and the business of two Brisbane com-
petitors was absorbed. So the co. was
well equipped to make whatever pro-
gress opportunity offered.
All spare earnings that became avail-
able last year, and more besides, went
into fixed assets:
1928. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £67,181 £180,086 £180,086 £180,086
Liabilities .. 5,520 17,723 4,697 6,865
Freehold . . 4,174 101,928 102,070 112,487
Plant, etc. .. 17,797 100,478 108,194 126,368
Investments ~ - 35,848 30,561 29,938
Stock.. .. 2,149 4,262 7,663 10,143
Book debts . . 2,233 4,765 2,958 6,145
Cash, etc. .. 23,196 658 25,049 14, <66
Freeholds are up £10,417 and plant
£18,174. Creditors were leant upon for
an extra £2168, while £2480 was added to
stocks and £3187 more debtors was car-
ried. The more or less liquid surplus
(£24,189) slipped £6784. But for the
N.Q. offshoot, which netted £3481 last
year, distributing 7 p.e., the subsidiaries
are still operating at a loss. The co.
intends to sell its holding in subsidiaries
when opportunity offers.
The market offers 225. for the 15s.
contribs., as against 20s. a year ago, ob-
taining a yield of 5.2 p.e. at the higher
figure. Tangible backing amounts to
21s. 3d. per £1 of paid capital.
Yampi Iron-ore Deposits
According to a Tokio report, an un-
named Japanese mining co. and H. A.
Brassert and C 0.,. London, have tenta-
tively agreed to register a co. in Australia
to work the iron-ore deposits on Koolan
Island, Yampi Sound (W.A.), for sale
to a Tokio distributing concern to be
formed by the two interests already re-
ferred to. The Japanese mining co. is
said to be willing to advance up to
6,000,000 yen (about £600,000 Australian
currency) for mining equipment and
other exes., and quarrying at the rate
of about 500,000 tons of ore annually
is expected to begin next year. Bras-
serts exercised their option over the
Koolan Island deposit in February, 1936,
but up till a week ago their Perth attor-
ney had no official intimation of the re-
ported agreement.
Early in 1928 Jock Thomson, a former
Westralian M.L.A. and mining man,
visited Tokio, where some ironmasters
were prepared to purchase hundreds of
thousands of tons of the Yampi product
annually at so much a ton. Thomson
hurried to London to secure the neces-
sary backing to deliver the goods. Later
the Japanese wanted to cut the price, but
Thomson’s backers would not consent
and withdrew their support. Later still
Tin Options, a Melbourne concern, took
an option over the deposits in question,
but nothing came of it. It has been esti-
mated that there is over 77,000,000 tons
of hematite available above water level
at Koolan, averaging about 65 p.c. metal-
lic content. The stuff can be worked by
quarrying and gravitational delivery to
the ship’s hold.
During the last few years the Japanese
iron and steel industry has expanded very
rapidly, and ore has been bought from
China, Maoriland and elsewhere. Early
this year a Melbourne syndicate took and
exercised an option over Iron Island,
about 40 miles north-east of Rockhamp-
ton (Q.), and is now selling ore to Japan.
A few years ago Australian Iron and
Steel took a long lease from the West-
ralian Government of the iron-ore de-
posits on Cockatoo Island, Yampi Sound.
Here there is over 23,000,000 tons of
68 p.c. ore above water level. But it
was found cheaper to buy supplies from
B.H. Prop.’s Iron Knob deposit on Eyre
Peninsula.
B.H. Prop.’s most recent offshoot,
Wellington Alluvials, Ltd., has a nominal
capital of £250,000 in 2s. shares, of which
217,680 paids, plus £23,700 cash, went
to the vendor. The parent took 2,282,320
for cash —50 fully paid and the balance
paid to Is. each. Of the 2,282,270 con-
tribs., 1,791,615 are to be offered to
those on the parent’s register at Sept. 15,
two for five B.H. Prop, fully-paids and
one for five B.H. Prop, contribs., pay-
able Is. application and the balance
when required in 3d. calls. The co.’s 13
leases, which have been very thoroughly
tested by two independent engineers as
well as by the parent’s own mining men,
cover approximately nine miles of auri-
ferous river flats, near Wellington, on
the Macquarie . (N.S.W.). About
38,000,000 c.y. • has been proved to
average 7jrd., with gold fetching £4 an
ounce in Australian currency. With
gold at £8 an ounce not only is the value
of the yardage already referred to
doubled, but it is figured that a further
-22,000,000 c.y., making 60,000,000 c.y.
in all (average value not stated), could
be treated at a profit. Neither estimated
working costs nor capacity of the dredge
have yet been disclosed. The dredge,
which is to cost about £125,000, and
will weigh approximately 2600 tons, will
be the largest of its kind in Australia.
ifc # #
Excluding the Regent lode, H. J.
Conolly, consulting engineer to Emperor
on the Tavua field (Fiji), figures the
co.’s ore reserves at 720,000 tons—worth
£3,000,000 with gold at £8 10s. an
ounce. Developed ore amounts to
620,000 tons oxides, averaging lOdwt.,
and 50,000 tons tellurides; partly de-
veloped ore (mainly tellurides), 50,000
tons. T. R. Victor believes the ore
can be got out by opencutting at a cost
of not more than 4s. a ton. When mill
extensions are complete, the plant will
be capable of handling 12,000 tons a
month, or 144,000 tons annually. On
this basis there is five years’ work
measured up, with prospects of further
pay-ore being developed on the eastern
side of the main shear.
* * * *
Speculative interest in Borneo Explora-
tions (a Melbourne co. formed a couple
of months ago to test- some 27,000 acres
of auriferous alluvial in Netherlands
West Borneo) rests mainly upon A. Gil-
fillan’s opinion of the possibilities of the
area. Thus far, only a surface examina-
tion of the ground—it is covered with
jungle and intersected by rivers and
smaller streams —has been made. Test-
boring is about to begin, but it will be
some time before anything definite is
known as to the extent and value of
dredgeable dirt available. Paid capital is
£30,000 in £lO shares, of which 2250
are contribs. paid to £3 each.
* * * *
Over the last three months George-
town Gold Mines, near Georgetown
(N.Q.), treated 1327 tons for 379 fine
ounces gold; plant troubles interfered
with crushings. One of the most prom-
ising shows in the district is Balmoral,
at Forsayth, where crushings have aver-
aged about 2oz. ; the last 174 tons re-
turned 370 z. gold and 1740 z. silver. On
the Croydon field, in the north-west,
several old mines are being operated
with indifferent success. From 1886,
when gold was first discovered there, to
the end of 1924, when operations ceased,
Croydon yielded 770,9470 z., valued at
over £3,500,000. The old Richmond
mine was the richest, yielding upwards
of 20,0000 z. Here the shaft is down
640 ft., and there has been talk of opera-
tions being resumed on a large scale,
but nothing has been done so far. Six
tons of ore recently picked from the
Richmond dumps returned 14oz. of gold.
MANDATED ALLUVIALS.—
SEE PAGE 38.
With £26,250 of capital, Reedy Creek
Alluvials, Ltd., is being floated by Beech-
worth Alluvials to take over the latter’s
Beechworth (Vic.) property. The area con-
tains some 51,250,000 c.y., average depth
2lift. Based on estimated recoveries of
Is. Byd. a yard, and with costs at 8.45 d.,
annual profit is figured at £lO,BOO, after
providing for amortisation over 21 years.
An £BOOO plant to roast 20,000 c.y.
monthly is under consideration. As pro-
moter, Beechworth Alluvials will take
56,000 2s. 6d. f.-ps. and £6OOO cash ; the
co.’s shareholders are offered, until Sept.
26, one share in the new show for each
share now held.
* * t- *
Treating 2459 tons ore, 847 tons resi-
dues and 163 tons concentrates, Maude
and Yellow, Glen Wills (Vic.), recovered
2171 fine oz. gold for the six months to
June 30. Head value of ore was 17.7dwt.;
loss in residues was reduced to less than
one ’weight a ton by flotation. A six-
penny div. absorbs £1500; £5OOO has
been earmarked to sink a shaft 240 ft.
below No. 5 adit level, open up two
new levels and work the shoot in the
north end of the mine from which most
of the gold won to date has been
obtained. At June 30 current assets
stood £6383 in excess of liabilities.
* * * *
Unless something unexpected happens
the old Yankee, Trentham (Vic.), re-
opened by Goldmines Development,
N.L., threatens to be a blue duck. There
is a lot of ore going sdwt., or there-
abouts, available, but better is needed to
show a profit' with costs as they are. The
loss for the six months to June 30 was
£366. Liquids then exceeded liabilities
by £1683, part of which has since been
gobbled by further losses, and some
3000 ft. of diamond-drilling has failed to
disclose anything worth while.
# * * *
Murchison Consolidated, one of De
Bernales’s Westralian group, announces
that it will crush in four months at the
Riverina and in nine months at the Emu.
Monthly crushings at Riverina are ex-
pected to be 1500 tons, and at Emu
3000 tons. The figures are to be gradu-
ally increased as the two shows are
opened up. Emu’s lode, which has a
length of 3400 ft. and a width of from 3ft.
to 50ft., is the largest yet exposed in the
De Bernales group. Compared with
Emu, Riverina’s gold-carrier makes up
in values what it lacks in size. Aus-
tralian Mines Management and Secre-
tariate bosses both.
Yellowdine Areas, N.L., which has
three slender strings to its gilded bow,
hopes to broadcast something cheering
by-and-bye. It holds an area adjoining
the so-far-rich Yellowdine mine, at
Palmer’s Find (W.A.), and has been en-
couraged by ’ recent diamond-drilling
results. Other strings are a Coolgardie
mine with a little gold showing, and
another with a chance at Mt. Ida, on
which a 12 months’/ working option has
been obtained. With everything going
out and nothing yet coming in, the direc-
tors have decided to reduce their fees
by one-third.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder (W.A.) will buy the plant
necessary to increase its mill capacity
from 15,000 to 25,000 tons a month
from the Kalgoorlie foundry. Since the
Coolgardie rush, millions of pounds’
worth of plant and equipment has been
bought and installed by mineowners in
the West, but only a small proportion
was made locally.
* * * *
Retreatment of Great Boulder’s dumps
by Golden Horse Shoe is now in full
swing. No. 1 dump contains 1,900,000
tons, assaying I.sdwt., and No. 2
1,000,000 tons, assaying I.o3dwt.
* * * *
Retreatment of tailings at' Kalgoorlie
(W.A.) is to be extended by a local co.
to the old residues of Oroya Brownhill,
South Kalgurli and Kalgurli. Profit is
estimated at 3s. to 3s. 6d. a ton.
■** * *
Gambier Lass, which handed out
£7500 cash and 60,000 paid shares for a
show near Leonora (W.A.) that it is un-
able to work at a profit, has now
arranged to purchase another property
in the same locality for £6lOO cash and
100,000 paid shares. The reef “gives
every indication of living at depth and
of carrying values over a considerable
length.” Many shareholders would like
to believe that the board had a lot more
definite information before making the
second plunge.
* t- * *
Central Norseman, one of the most
notable recent goldmining resurrections
in the West, seems to be doing well.
August’s return was £B4Bl (Aust.) from
3341 tons treated. Since the mill kicked
off in the middle of April, 12,000 tons
has been put through for a yield of
£28,000. Western Mining Corp. has a
controlling interest in the show, which,
years ago, was declared dead, and was
buried by the now-defunct Mararoa co.
$ $ $ *
Plant troubles multiply in the West.
Few mill and cyanide plants installed
there during the last couple of years
have been a success from the start. Some
have had to be remodelled. In one in-
stance part of the plant has _ a different
capacity from other parts; in another,
the mill is making desperate efforts to
free itself from its foundations. It seems
likely to succeed.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.C.P.: Immediate outlook favors further
increase in earnings, but investment one that
needs to be watched... .W.J.H.T.: An annuity
may be regarded as a means of liquidating a
debt carrying a specified rate of interest, the
original sum owing being the present value of
the annuity. For full explanation of theory,
see chapters three and four, Institute of Actu-
aries’ Text Book, Part / R.S.E.: Question
does not admit of brief answer. See Stock
Exchange, by N. B. Rydge Lake View:
Yes, 29 samples No. 3 adit assayed 16dwt.
22gr. gold and 1.5 p.c. copper J. 8.: In a
limited liability co., the liability of any share-
holder ceases when he has paid the full face
value of the scrip.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Ann’.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 453
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If vou want to sell Ores, Metals. Scrap,
or buy Refined fin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sinus House,
Sydney,—Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENS'OMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.—Advt.


: W '
■n
■ . *
.. ' ,>
• « .v.
■
- -
This-is White Horse
M
■
• • 9
“H ow do I know?
Why, you can’t mistake
it!”. . . There’s no mis-
taking this whisky, it
has such rare bouquet.
Breathe that rich frag-
rance, just faintly peated.
Feel that soft smooth-
ness, velvet and dew...
Then wait for the glow
that suffuses your being,
that wonderful warmth
without fire . . . Who
could be wrong when a
whisky is as fine as a
fine liqueur! It must be
White Horse of course !
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
WH 48-36
hjk


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hanko”: Without recourse to re-
search, I’d say offhand that the crow has
strutted in the Abo. columns more often
than any other thing, animate, inani-
mate or petrified. In an attempt to place
subjects on a frequency-of-interest basis,
I’d marshal them: Crow, Murray cod,
goanna, with what might seem a forlorn
outsider a surprisingly close fourth, wood
—you know, the best sort for maul-
handles.
* * * *
“E.M.T.”: We were crossing the Dam-
pier Straits in the centre of a cyclone.
The waves lashed the top deck as I
fought my way to the chart room.
Jimmie, the skipper, sat there, pipe in
mouth and compass in hand, his chart
on the table before him. Things were
not so good, as Jimmie had lost his
bearings and was going on dead reckon-
ing. “How goes it?” I asked. “Well,
Ted,” he replied, “it looks as though we
may be a ‘nine days’ wonder.’ We’re in
the hands of the gods.” Jimmie refilled
his pipe and rolled the chart. “I’ll smoke
this pipe,” he said, “and then I’ll drop
anchor.” This he did, and the gods were
good ; in the morning we were lying with,
our stern six fathoms off a reef.
$ * * *
“Saddle-flap”: Charley, the black boy,
explained his coming by a new pipe
simply: “I find this pfeller pipe sheep-
yard. I ask boss this pfeller pipe
b’longum him. Boss say no, this pfeller
pipe no b’longum him. I ask boss this
pfeller pipe b’longum anybody. Boss
say this pfeller pipe b’longum nobody.
I ask boss this pfeller pipe b’longum
Charley. Boss say this pfeller pipe
b’longum Charley.”
$ * * *
“Ah Fat”: He’s dead now, the best
bush Pong ever I knew. That was Jimmy
Ah Yee, who used to knock about
Boulia (W.Q.), always laughing, working,
slinging himself about and doing his job.
In his younger days Jimmy used to be a
good shearer with the blades, without
being a “gun.” He was a fencer, stock-
man and general useful, and among camp
cooks there were few as good. But his
strong point was his horsemanship. He
must have been touching 50 when, for a
lark, I put him on a horse. Jimmy swung
on with the grace of a finished rider,
swayed in the saddle and rode on his
thighs as to the manner born, and flashed
around the wing of a mob of horses and
swung ’em in a style that showed camp
work was no new thing to him. When
he dismounted, he explained in the sole
Chinese characteristic he retained —his
pidgin English—that he had broken in
colts on many of the old stations up and
down the river.
“Barcoo Bill”: The bush ain't what it
was. Some weeks ago a bloke writes to
The Bullateen and says that chlorodeen
useter be a pop’lar bush medsin because
it’s ninety per cent, alkohol. I think to
meself, 1 won’t right in and tell The
Bullateen what the medsin’s real name
is because a few thousand bush blokes
will right in and do it for me. But, strike
me fat, nothing happens for a coupla
weeks, and then some galoot ups an’ says
he don’t know what the medsin is but it
can’t be chlorodeen because there’s no
alkohol in that. Then I thinks I’d better
right to The Bullateen meself to tell
them that the medsin the bloke ment was
good old painkiller. When blokes have
forgot all about painkiller that’ll cure
anything but a broken leg and’s a won-
nerful pick-me-up inter the bargain, the
bush ain’t what it useter be. When 1
was on the Diamantina years ago stations
useter order it be the gross, and a lot of
blokes, including me, useter drink it be
the quart.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Binghi often displays
more initiative in an emergency than his
white brother. A Torres Strait island
native was severely mauled on the leg
by a shark, and bled profusely till his
lugger mates promptly immersed the in-
jured member in a 501 b. bag of flour.
Though not hygienically commendable
“Boy, I bin forty year in this spot, an when I first come this ’ere tree Was a straight young saplin'!"
the method was successful and the other-
wise fatal blood flow was stanched. In
another case a severely-mauled native
whose injuries virtually covered the whole
of the body from the neck down was
sewn in sail-canvas-so tightly that it
functioned as a ligature which at least
stayed the blood flow till white medical
aid saved the situation
* ' “ * « *
“Laetitia” * On Yam Island in Torres
Sir lit lives old Maino th- son of
the miehtv Kebisu fhouih nowa-
days somewhat spoiled by white contact,
Maino’s life has been crammed full of in-
cident. He was aide to MacGregor on t e
Merrie England when the dour Scot was
after the head-hunters of Tugeri. Mamo
tells knowingly of the occasion on which
the Merrie England came between a
flotilla of war canoes and their native fast-
nesses in the Fly estuary after they had
staged a raid on the islanders of Boigu.
Very few cannibalistic pot-hunters re-
gained the shelter of the Papuan littoral,
The Tugeri still live there to-day in the
Dutch Territory, but they never venture
out. Maino enjoys a Commonwealth
pension in return for his services to
MacGregor
* '' * * *
“Eureka”: Yes, you can keep goanna
oil in a bottle, but that’s more than can
be done with sna water from Rock Flat
Cooraa NS W The gas in t
wiff lift anv bUlvcan iid and blow any
cwk lMhe cork is fastened down the
fivelv stuff bursts the botffe
lively stott bursts the bottle.
“De Bee”: On the opposite slope
a goanna has caught a happy, innocent
bird, and its screeches stir my blood dur-
ing the casual swallowing process of the
go. I reflect on the horror of raw
nature. But on looking over my own
shoulder I note that my own species in
civilisation is using its best brains to
create instruments for the slaughter of its
own kind. The go. is hungry and knows
no other law. I cannot reprove him, I
who belong to a more brutal race. The
same force is working in each. Nature
in its crude brutality is everywhere mani-
fest and refuses to be civilised.
# * * *
“Yarragundry”: No need to test the
dried blood in possum-skins to trace
cyaniding (B. 26/8/’36). Cyanided skins
always show the veins clearly outlined
when dried. Those obtained in the law-
ful manner rarely do.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Anyway, what’s wrong
with crow as an article of diet? South
Australians got the name of Croweaters
because, overlanding to the Ballarat dig-
gings, they were glad to fend off starva-
tion by dining on the ever-plentiful bird,
and in a mutton- and beef-glutted com-
munity the jeer and prejudice have stuck
ever since. Personally I have never
sampled crow, but I have eaten cor-
morant—and Kelly with his mixed diet
must be capon compared with the odori-
ferous fisheater. Still when one is
marooned by bad weather on a barren
island even stewed shag tastes like a
course from the table of Lucullus.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Toilet by tongue and
paw isn’t limited to cats and rabbits.
The ant practises the same methods, re-
ligiously grooming every part of its body
with its antennas, and finishing by wiping
those organs with fine hair combs attached
to the forelegs. That explains why little
Formica, although an earth borrower, is
always so scrupulously neat and clean;
also why it is possible to poison almost
an entire colony with yellow sheep-dip.
Caught on the delicate hairs of the feet,
the poison powder is licked off and swal-
lowed, practically by accident, after
which the corpse is eaten, the social
cyntm.y
J/ le each 'ingestion until only a few sur-
vjvorSj t h a t have either lost their appetites
or |, ecome immune, remain.
* * * *
“Ela”; To primitive man civilisation
j s often an unaccountable thing. A native
house-servant at Port Moresby was con-
vic ted of stealing and eating a pedigreed
Manx cat and was given a month. He
said disgustedly, as he was led away to
the calaboose “Strike me lucky”-™
wor ds to that effect— a moon for scoff-
ing a cat. and there wasn’t a couple of
mouthfuls on it!
*** . *
“Darwinius”: Has any scientist ever
explained how the kangaroo came by its
remarkable speed? Nature in the evolu-
tionary struggle never provides a creature
with an unnecessary factor. Thus the
long neck, the coloration, the terrific
galloping kick of the giraffe constitute its
defence against the larger carnivores,
The Aptness of the deer is similarly ex-
plained. Hunger, with pursuit'of fleet-
footed prey, endowed the dog tribe with
speed. And so on. Conversely the pon-
derous bear, endowed with claws and
prodigious strength, merely ambles. Un-
appetising beasts such as sloth and ant-
eater don’t hurry at all. Nor does the
shell-armored tortoise or turtle. The
law runs through all animal life. Why,
then, should our larger marsupials have
developed racehorse speed and endur-
ance when their only enemies have been
slow-footed man and the dingo, and
these both presumed to have arrived
long after the present marsupial form
had completed its evolution? Is it pos-
sible that the dingo really has been here
from the beginning, and greater
numbers, and at one time the ’roo was
harried incessantly, thus developing its
tremendous initial leap and subsequent
gallop?
* * * *
“Teopina”: The overseas boat which
transports my New Guinea copra
has a Chinese crew that has been
a source of tobacco-income to the
natives. The steamer entering the harbor
was the signal for canoes loaded with
bananas, pawpaws, betelnuts and kulaus,
and before the anchor hit bottom the
ship was surrounded by hundreds, vying
for the favored trading positions, much
to the annoyance of the white officeis
trying to get the surfboats down. After
last loading I noticed the canoes massed
together and a lot of shouting and ges-
ticulating. Soon the whole fleet pulled
towards me, and a deputation came
ashore to ask if I would help them “make
court” against the “kong-kongs.” They
had sold their wares for cigarettes, and
produced one for examination. It con-
tained about a quarter-inch of tobacco
£ ac h er ’^ c
kong. ®° mind '/ f ’ he caddied
Brolhei s summing ip p
awa\. _ , i:
... ... . prevents a
Kellick That pressure PicvcnU, , *
solid object from reachm
of the oceani may oi may not be tru
but when H.M.A.S. Moresby was investi-
gating an alleged reef somewhere in the
Indian Ocean and bottom was touched
a t just under three miles, we couldn’t get
thal lead up again! Why? If pressure,
how did we get through on the way
“Emcey” : Resource? Dad’s old Lizzie
was lurching so alarmingly that I asked
«7mno riohi ” he said
} the front tyre. The tube’ blew out’,
t filled her ud with corn and soaked
, . , G. • ht r t 'n carrv us
f nter » g y
* :S . * *
“Western”- There-ire other stimrers in
the the Reef 8 s tone-
p ]lin •„ ]lis net one dark n j e ht
f witha small
. h-
stingray, e P_ 8 .
m the tip of a forefinger. Following the
first 24 hours of searing agony came
weeks of constant pam thc finger taking
on tbe aspect of a
mg the swelling the doctor found the
bone^ actually decaying. The removal ot
the first joint, which operation failed to
remove the poison, was followed finally
by the loss of the entire finger. This
from a ’ray no bigger than a man*
hand! What would be the result from
a stab from a tull-sized .ay.
THE BRAND.
Tt was time to get the cattle off the hills and
safe below,
For the winter days were on us with their
threatening of snow.
So we drove them from the ridges, through the
blue-gums, down the spur
To the clearing in the foothills where the yards
and sliprails were,
Made our tally, and decided —we were short
of twenty head—
That the others keep them moving while l
combed the hills instead.
So 1 rode back round the hillside in the
waning winter light,
With a glance through every thicket for a
splash of roan or white;
Chased a white stump in the tree-ferns, left
the horse to graze below,
For a horse can scarcely follow where the
mountain cattle go;
Up the hills and down the gullies, and the
yards were miles away,
When the mountain mists came rising, trailing
streamers cold and grey.
And I knew I’d lost my bearings, and was
settling for the night,
When I heard a dog’s near barking, crossed
a spur and saw the light.
Just a slabbed and shingled, cottage in a
thickly timbered ring,
But they met me like a brother, and they led
me like a king.
And they told me where I’d wandered, and
declared I’d have to stop,
And they made a bed of blankets with a green-
hide rug on top.
1 was fed and warmed and grateful, 1 was
anxious to repay,
Though I knew the mountain settler and his
independent way,
For it puzzled me by daylight when I saw
the timbers tall
How on earth in that wild country they could
keep alive at all.
But before I left the bedroom I began to
understand,
For I idly kicked the greenhide and I recog
nised the brand.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNUI.


“Showman”: Andy was noted for the
thickness of his skull, but, for all that,
when he was thrown from his horse head
first on to a jarrah stump some concern
was felt for him. Dismounting, we rushed
to help, but he rose unassisted and shook
his head from side to side. “Y’awl
right?” anxiously inquired Dad. “Aw —
I think so,” replied Andy, tenderly feel-
ing his brow, “but I wus lucky the flamin’
stump broke me fall.”
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Lighting fires in the rain?
I've seen men who should know better
trying to start a blaze with soggy ma-
terial in a stringybark forest. No matter
how hard it rains, when the outside bark
is peeled from a stringy there is exposed
a fibrous, tinder-dry material.
* * * *
“Wah”: The bank manager’s wife was
learning to drive her husband’s new
streamlined sedan. Crossing the bridge
the b.m. grabbed the hand brake and
stalled the engine in time to avoid strik-
ing Harry’s bullock team head on. Halt-
ing his bullocks, Harry roared: “Can
yer back yer car an’ let me get these
bleeders orf the flamin’ bridge?” “Now,
Stanley, we’re not going to back just for
that insolent fellow,” said the b.m.’s wife
to her husband. “All right, mate,”
yelled Harry, “I’ll try an’ back. I know
’ow it is with yer—I’ve got a blankard
like her at home meself.”
* * * sfc
“Buckra”: A medico has been telling
the Sydney press about a complaint
“peculiar apparently to the aboriginals,”
the evidence of which is the outward
bending of the shinbone. This has been
noted as a characteristic of the African
negro from time immemorial. In Mar-
The old tub’s gettin' ’er teeth Well into it now, skipper !”
ryat’s Midshipman Easy there is an
account of seamen landed from a man-
o -war to suppress a negro riot in
Jamaica. The men lay about them with
boat stretchers, but make no impression
on the darkies’ skulls. A wise old bos’n
then orders them to aim at the sickle-
shaped shins of the rioters. Result, order
restored in no time.
“Quareef”: Emu steak or kerosene
cutlets? A Sydney man spending holi-
days on a Wilcannia (N.S.W.) station ac-
companied a rifle so assiduously that one
scarcely dared to thrust a head outside
lest it intercept a meandering ore-lode.
At the close of each day the menace
handed over some class of game, which
our chef, dreading to disturb the tem-
porary quiescence of that rifle, uncom-
plainingly cooked. Thuswise we sampled
some weird dishes. One day the rifle
delivered emu steak, which was duly
“ Peek-a-boo! I see you!”
fried with the breakfast meat. Hungry
men lined up. The hunter took a mouth-
ful. Then his eager jaws slowed down
and his eyes sought surrounding faces.
“Hey, cook,” yelled Cantankerous
Charlie, “did you fry my chops in kero-
sene?” “Damned idjit!” exploded the
bab. “That flamin’ emu has tainted all
the meat!” Aboliars answer: Are all
emus kerosene-flavored, or had that bird
just oiled his turbine shanks?
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Neighbors complained
about Henare ill-treating his dogs, so an
S.P.C.A. official kept watch, and one
morning caught him walloping a tyke
with a stout manuka. Glancing up,
Henare promptly cast away the stick, but
continued chastisement with his bare
hand. Then, beaming at the angry-look-
ing official, he explained: “Py korry,
poss, this te werry dirty district, orrite.
Every day I got to dustte kuri.”
* * * *
“Alsatian”: A dog might be able to
catch an emu by the neck and give it
the flying mare, but it’s different with
a fleeing old-man ’roo. The marsupial
will gather the tyke in its arms and settle
its hash in two ups. The dog that knows
how to tackle a ’roo springs from behind.
The old-man, going for his life, with the
dog gaining on him, is vulnerable at one
point only—under the armpit. He’s got
no break for that hold, and, thrown off
his balance, his only hope is to go to the
mat and try to win there. It is then the
dog goes to the throat; but if he’s a
second late the ’roo will be up with his
back against a tree. There he can defy
one dog till the cows come home.
“J.8.C.”: Australian snakes’ venom
diffuses rapidly, and both suction and
Condy’s fluid become minor vehicles of
treatment after a few minutes. The tour-
niquet, followed closely by a crosslike or
encircling incision, is the prime immedi-
ate requirement if a limb is involved—as
it nearly always is. Condy’s crystals (un-
dissolved are useless. The exaggerated
prestige of the solution is sometimes due
to the fact that many bites are
ineffective; e.g., an attack through a
trouser-leg may disseminate most of the
venom in the garment. Besides, it is safe
to confine the poisoned blood to a limb
for two or three hours with a tourniquet,
after which it can be flushed out with the
patient’s own blood —a surgical pro-
cedure which involves opening a vein
and alternately easing and tightening a
tourniquet sufficiently to allow fresh
blood at high pressure to enter the limb
from the trunk, yet not’ slackening it
enough to permit any low-pressure,
venous return of contaminated blood to
the trunk. Unlucky is he who is bitten
effectively where a tourniquet cannot be
applied. In the writer’s experience these
cases are rare.
* * * *
“Johnhop”: The frequency with which
the wallaby produces young depends
almost entirely on the season. In com-
mon with the kangaroo, it possesses the
very useful ability to postpone pregnancy
for long periods. Consequently, it
is impossible to determine the actual
gestation period without artificial impreg-
nation.
“Ex-’rooer”: J. Skipworth, a one-time
kangaroo-shooter in Westralia was a
champion at capturing brumbies. His
method was to pick out a decent-looking
young animal and fire a bullet that just
grazed the top of the brumby’s head. An
onlooker would believe the
animal was shot dead, but it was
only knocked unconscious. It
was at once securely tied, ready
to be handled when it recovered.
The skin was barely broken where
the bullet passed, though a frac-
tion of an inch lower may have
been fatal. But “Skip” was a
master of the rifle, and only once
did I see him score a dead ’un.
That was when a lovely creamy
scented danger and threw up its
head.
* * *
“Janies W.”: My staghound,
at the age of three, held the all-
weights canine stoush belt of our
N.Q. district, and was the only
tyke there game and able to swap
slashes with a dingo. Up till his
third birthday, he was a bad
second on the championship list.
The snag was his immediate male
ancestor, who had trounced him
soundly and regularly till he
wouldn’t face pa at all. One day
the old pot cornered him in the
cow bails, and left him no
option. Pa lasted about 30
seconds, and departed, yelling pro-
tests, at top speed. Son assumed cham-
pion's status and maintained it worthily.
The old man was a redoubtable snake-
killer ; son abhorred all things that
wriggle ; but, whereas the young chap
would take to the water after anything
from a .’roo to a rat, external wetness
was to pa as is pork to the sons of the
Prophdt.
* * * *
“Showman”: A pretty hefty steak
would be needed to go with a mushroom
recently found at Napier Creek, about
20 miles from Albany (W.A.). It
measured 33in. in circumference, had a
diameter of 11 in., and was 3in. thick. It
weighed lib. lOoz.
“Dominic”: Caged originally behind
wire-netting in Kelly’s pub, the big carpet-
snake soon won the freedom of the bar,
and from licking its chin after contact
with spilt beer rapidly acquired the drink
habit. Then it started nosing in used pots,
after which regulars always left “a drop
for the snake.” Before long its tipple
passed from beer to whisky. Full to the
back teeth, it would follow the regular
drunk’s schedule —unable to sing,' it
would try to dance. It learned to steal
drink, taking a couple of turns around
the bottle and ripping off the crown seal
with its teeth. The “horrors” came next,
though whether it saw snakes can onlv
be surmised. But one day it took violent
exception to the local health inspector, a
bewhiskered Rechabite who had called
in to inspect the glass washer. Kelly was
warned against supplying intoxicants to
the genus Reptilia. Placed under the Dog
Act and banished to the kitchen to catch
mice the Axminster, still following its
rake's progress, acquired a taste for
“white lady.” One night, full of metho.
but still looking for more, it came across
the barman’s cigarette-lighter and set
about getting it open, following the
method so successful with crown seals.
Pressure on the spring caused the lid to
fly open, and—well, the local abos. had
cold roast Axminster next day and voted
the flavor unique.
* v * *
“Pisces”: I’ve handled a few reef eels
from the Barrier, and the black-and-
white-banded fellow is certainly one to
be treated with care. Venomous, it will
charge at sight. Luckily it is rare and
clumsy. The commonest reef eel is the
brown, up to 3ft. or 4ft. long, as lively
as lightning and with an appetite out of
all proportion to its size. I’ve sampled
its bite without much inconvenience be-
yond a stabbing puncture, but it can
put up a great fight. The main charac-
teristics of reef eels are insatiable hunger,
viperish tempers, ability to eat anything,
and the trick by which they can swallow
a bait, turn themselves inside out like
a stocking, rid the hook, swallow them-
selves again and come back for more.
* * * . *
“Bimbo”: Hoop snakes take some
beating. I was humping my bluey when
I saw a big one alongside the track. 1
pelted a rock at it, and it promptly
grabbed its tail in its mouth, formed itself
into a hoop and started after me. I
ditched my knot and hit out for the hori-
zon. By doing even time, I just man-
aged to hold my own. After about an
hour I came to a town, but the snake
was so close that I went straight through.
About a mile on the other side I looked
back and saw no sign of it. I had
just started back for the town to replace
some of the sweat I had lost when I
met a motorist. Yes, he said, he’d seen
the snake; it was at the garage getting a
retread.
* * * H?
“Bluegum”: The only cottontails I’ve
seen with burrs in their coats have been
milky does or rabbits that were either
moulting or sick. All others have been
free of them even in the thickest of
bindi-i country, which burr will break up
and stick to a marble slab.
***!(:
“M. Mulga”: During the recent
drought in W.Q. a neighbor visited us
showing such signs of conflict as to sug-
gest a spill from a bucking outlaw or a
head-on car collision. He had been
working at a non-flowing bore pumping
water with a petrol engine into a tank.
Camped with his blankets practically
against the engine, so that he could restart
it easily when it stopped, as it always
does in the coldest hours of the night,
he woke up suddenly to find the engine
shooting flames sky-high. He sprang to
his feet and dashed straight into the warm
embrace of an old man ’roo coming in for
a drink. Frenziedly disengaging, he leapt
in the opposite direction, came in con-
tact with a barbed-wire fence and cata-
pulted over on to a spiky log. It’s such
a deadly quiet life in the bush.
“GIVE THE COOK A SHOW.”
To lend cold print a rustic touch
When featuring the bushman’s ways
Historians rely too much
On sayings such as “Spare me days!”
Have all of them forgotten quite
That lullaby the old hands know
Which bush cooks crooned at nine each night:
“Lights out, lads! Give the cook a show!”
In station huts in days gone by
Men ate and slept beneath a roof
That kept them fairly warm and dry
Provided it was weather-proof.
Beneath it, too, from day to day
The peevish poisoner punched the dough
And blared at those who blocked his way,
“Look out, lads! Give the cook a show!”
The voices raised in argument
Cut short their noisy chaff and skite;
The dealer, on his cards intent,
Sighed, “Double up; last hand to-night”;
The writer gathered up his gear,
The reader closed his book, although
Not one of them seemed pleased to hear
“Lights out, lads! Give the cook a show!”
An edict of some distant day
Which station-hands had learned to keep
Was this old rule that, come what may,
The cook must get a chance to sleep.
And though I gave the backblocks best,
And left them gladly years ago,
The night wind, blowing from the west,
Still whispers “Give the cook a show!”
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNEIR.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRVUA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
£1,250,000
1,250,000
Capital Paid Up ~
Reserve Fund .. ... ••
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET. E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All visual
banking business transacted*
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
*4
a
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
n
W!
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA l
hk hk
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY e- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne. Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A-. Brisbane.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Make the Most of the Clip.
“Murrawong”: The usual plan of
mustering one paddock for shearing after
• another, to suit musterers alone, may add
a lot to shearing costs, as the wool left
in the bins at the cutout of one flock
may not match that following on. The
only alternative is to stop the machinery
while the pressers go all out to clean up
bins, the balance being put away in
butts which occupy much-needed shed-
room until they can be worked into an-
other flock.
The best plan is to have one flock fol-
lowed by another as close in age and
type as possible. Which sheep are
shorn first depends on various factors —
the season, fly-attack, sheep sold off
shears, age of lambs or ewes heavy in
lamb.
As a rule, it is best to start on the
roughest sheep from the shearers’ point
of view; and the scheme should be
worked to eliminate as many cutouts and
delays between flocks as possible. If it
is intended to start on dry sheep, put in
the biggest wethers and follow with a
mob a year younger. Put the hoggets
between the dry sheep and the ewes.
The fleeces of young rams may often
be worked into hogget lines, and the
older rams’ fleeces, which come in
slowly and can be accommodated in a
spare bin or in a corner of the wool-
room, give the pressers a chance to clean
up the bins before changing to a dif-
ferent type of wool.
Similarly, when shearing ewes, start
preferably with the youngest and finish
with the oldest, or vice versa. It is a mis-
take to follow a mob of maiden ewes
cutting a long, well-nourished staple
with a mob of pensioners with short,
hunger-fine wool. The classer can keep
the fleeces apart if he has bins enough,
but if the bellies, broken and pieces are
mixed, all the care taken in breeding and
feeding the sheep will have been
defeated.
If the property is mixed country, such
as black- or brown-soil frontage, with
back paddocks of red soil or sand, don’t
shandy the two.
Apart from the different appearance
of the fleeces in the clean or red-tinged
tip, there will most probably be a large
variation in the percentage of vegetable
matter affecting the skirtings.
Frontage country sheep may have deep
burry skirts, resulting in a bulky line of
broken, whereas the red-soil flocks may
carry only a light sprinkling of burr, or
may be stiff with grass-seed, in which
case the pieces should be lotted strictly
apart.
If the wool is properly classed, one or
two small delays are unavoidable for
cleaning up between flocks. But if the
classer knows his job and the sheep, his
advice should be worth taking on the
subject of flock-sequence.
Should it be necessary to shear ill-
assorted flocks of ewes and lambs in suc-
cession, shear the lambs after the ewes
so that the pressers can clean up the
fleece bins while the Jambs’ wool is
worked into butts. Then all will be clear
for the next lot of grown sheep. The
lambs’ wool can be got out of the way
while the pens are being counted out.
Whenever practicable, keep a run of
lambs to cut out the shed. This will give
the classer a chance to supervise the bin
clean-up and get his books in order, and
the pressers will not be kept working for
long hours after the last sheep has been
shorn.
Blowfly Traps.
“Albarmount”: C.S.I.R. experiments
in N.S.W. and W.A. show that thorough
trapping reduces the incidence of fly
strike by more than 50 per cent.
Sheep of similar type were used in
both the trapped and check areas, the
country in each case being similar but
“Betcha two to one in goannas Jacky knocks ’ im!"
widely separated. The boundaries of
the test paddocks were heavily trapped
to check invading flies.
The record of strike incidence for
N.S.W. was:
Sheep. Strikes. Per Cent.
(1) Trapped .. . • 2323 4 0.2
Untrapped .. .. 2300 31 1.3
(2) Trapped •• •• 936 34 4.0
Untrapped .. .. 936 107 11.0
(3) Trapped .. .. 901 51 6.0
Untrapped .. .. 918 97 11.0
The results seem to have blown out
the contention that traps mostly catch
secondary flies. As the maggots of the
secondary flies are said to feed on those
of the primary flies trapping has been
condemned on the ground that it upsets
the balance of nature and increases,
rather than reduces, the incidence of
strikes.
Lamb-marking.
“Out West”: Many of the differences
about lamb-marking are due, I think, to
the different conditions ruling in widely-
separated localities; also, to the varying
numbers to be marked at one time.
No M.O.L. writer in the current dis-
cussion has mentioned either the lamb-
marking cradle or stags.
The cradle (two patents are known to
writer) is a device set up on two posts,
with the back resting on the marking
rail. It holds the lamb during the opera-
tion, and is undoubtedly the greatest
labor-saving device introduced into sheep
work in recent years. It more than halves
the work of catching, eliminates the
chance of a kick in the face for the
marker, minimises the tendency of the
lambs to strain during marking, and
assures that they are dropped on their
feet when freed.
With two or more cradles (the more
the better) a man can successfully do his
own catching and marking for a small
mob. He first loads the cradles, then
marks and releases the lambs, they being
held secure until he is ready to let them
On most big properties stags are killed
at marking time, while the smaller man
usually kills them off young for mutton.
They can be made wethers, equal to any
in the flock, by a simple operation.
Lay the stag flat on the ground with
his hind legs drawn well back. Have
the side on which the stone is missing
uppermost. Make an incision high up
on the flank, just big enough to insert
a finger. The stone, generally situated
on the backbone just below the kidney,
can, after very little practice, be hooked
with the finger in a moment and drawn
out. A stitch is advisable to keep the
wound from opening when the lamb is
let go. As in all marking, cleanliness is
essential.
Treating a “Down” Cow.
“Silky Bag”: First get the cow away
from the “flat-out” position, or bloat
may develop rapidly, because the paunch
ceases to deliver cudding material, and
the stuff generates gas violently through
bacterial action. Sometimes a cow lying
flat on her side needs to be tapped every
two hours with the trochar, because of
this excessive blowing up.
Once the animal has been manoeuvred
into an all-fours position, a bag of chaff
may be laid along each side, and stakes
driven on the outside to hold them close
to the cow's body.
If the cow cannot be secured in this
way, one bag, staked to hold the spine
off the ground, is useful, but she will
usually tend to slip away from the bag
and so need constant attention.
The only curative treatment that can
be given is such as will enable the animal
to build up strength to regain her feet.
Food offered to her, and always placed
in front of her, must be both palatable
and rich. Bran mash, ground maize and
lucerne chaff are all ideal. Water is
usually most important.
Never force medicine or food on the
cast animal. Four cows out of five that
go down suffer from milk-fever, and
force-feeding is the surest way to kill
them. If the milk supply is nearly gone,
it is always wise to pump the udder up
with air, irrespective of what other
symptoms, such as poisoning, enteritis or
pneumonia, are shown.
Treat the milk-fever as the most im-
portant complication, because until it is
cured the cow has little chance of re-
covering from the other troubles.
A cow can often be raised to her feet
by giving strychnine injections—a £-grain
tablet dissolved in boiled water —once
every six hours.
Sometimes the injections will help a
very sick cow to retain her vitality,
although down for some days. They
are worth trying on valuable stock in
apparently hopeless cases.
Pork and Bacon Standards.
“Pappamosca”: Recent Maoriland in-
vestigations show how complete a
reorganisation of the pig industry is
needed if Australasia is to build up a
trade with Britain.
Bacon must be the staple ; British im-
port demand for it is over 380,000 tons
p.a., while pork, frozen and chilled,
stands at from 45,000 to 55,000 tons.
Australian bacon standards are low. So
they are in Maoriland, where one factory
in a run of 12,000-odd pigs had only 54
p.c. between 1201b. and 1601b. graded
first —which is only equal to Danish
second. Between 1401b. and 1601b.—the
weights most needed for the British
market —only 24 p.c. were marked first.
Yet in frozen and chilled pork, M.L.
leads the British overseas trade.
The British pork market is highly
organised. Prices are fixed in London by
a complicated series of weekly national
meetings at the Provision Exchange, in
which the Danes lead off. Values are
decided on the basis of arriving sup-
plies, selling during the previous week,
demand, stocks on hand, etc. Provincial
exchanges operate in the same way. Pigs
are paid for not on the price at the time
of delivery, but at that for the previous
week.
Tastes vary according to area. Scot-
land likes a lean, long carcass, from
1201b. to 1401b., will have nothing under
1121b., and cuts prices heavily for fat
and heavy bacon.
In the Midlands it is almost impossible
to sell fat bacon, except in a few indus-
trial districts where the trade is now
catered for mainly by the Danes. But
every year less fat is wanted. Man-
chester is the centre of the Midland
trade. London and (he South have a
60 p.c. demand for Wiltshire sides and
the balance for cuts.
Wiltshire side grading is rigid and
according to exact standards. In "No.
1 leanest” there are four descriptions, con-
ditioned by five-pound rises in maximum
weights—lightest 50-551b., heaviest 65-
701b. Measurements are: Neck 5cm.,
back 3icm. and ham 44cm. Buyers of
(“Land” continued on page 24.)


F
' ... ' f
v o v
I
SCH
; : ,'.;:-a
Hi ■
| •iic., '*nM
■
t
K
4
1 II
as
m
mm
~ j
H
n
“Well, now, that’s just what
I was thinking, myself.”
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
1
••••■ l -
6i
As Good for Women as for Men.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps
is obtainable
everywhere in
Quarter, Half
and Large size
bottles.


PLAY IN COMFORT,
AND
LOOK THE PART.
sure your Golf Shoes are com-
fortable, and then concentrate on
the game.
Abbey Golf Shoes are built to please.
No cramped toes or pinched heels, but
simply a shoe which fits perfectly and
in addition, gives plenty of hard wear
Abbey’s for you, and your game.
f o keep your Golf Shoes supple and
waterproof, use Dale’s English Dubbin.
Price 2/6 per tin.
hjuk
30/-
WRITE NOW FOR
LATEST CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
224 PITT STREET,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY. 1
W.A. 46
ywotmcina..
DROP IN BLADE
Wi.
!
i
A TWIST. ITS CLOS
m
THE GILLETTE
‘one jiUce'
ARISTOCRAT
•
No loose parts... all one-piect
.. . simplicity itself
Adding amazing convenience to shav-
ing comfort, the Aristocrat marks
still another achievement in the great
manufacturing record which began
with the invention of the Gillette
Safety Razor 40 years ago.
Ingenious—revolutionary in design—
The Aristocrat is all one-piece. Just
a twist of the handle opens the cap to
remove or replace the blade. Another
twist locks it securely into position
for perfect shaving. You can whisk
through a smooth, comfortable shave
in less time than ever.
Sturdy, simple in construction, The
Aristocrat is built to watchmakers’
standards of accuracy. What a per-
fect razor for the new Blue Gillette
electrically tempered blades!
Ask your dealer to demonstrate this
marvellous new razor.
•
Perfectly balanced, heavily silver-plated,
equipped with a man-sized handle and packed
in a handsome nickel-plated case together
with ten Blue Gillette Blades.
CM
CM
/J THE GILLETTE
jrriA to era t
hk
this grade expect not less than 60 p.c.
lean. “No. 2’s” should show not more
than 50 p.c. lean. Neck measurement
runs sicro., back 3cm. and ham 44cm.,
with weights again in four sections, maxi-
mum 701 b. “Prime three” grade must
be not less than 33 1-3 p.c. lean, neck
7cm., back scm. and ham 6cm. Again
there are four sections. “Sides” must
have 2cm. of fat to be considered first
grade.
The position should, therefore, be be-
yond theorising. The weights of car-
casses which will produce the grade-
weight sides are as follows:
• 50-551 b. side, 121-1301 b. carcass (dressed).
55-601 b. side, 131-1401 b. carcass „
60-651 b. side, 141-1601 b. carcass „
65-701 b. side, 161-1801 b. carcass „
The most suitable pig of all for the
market is the 150-pounder, which meets
the requirements for lean and fat
standards.
Spuds.
“Curlew”: “J. Want” (B. 26/8/’36)
need not hold up Australian spudgrowers
as shocking examples when compared
with those of Belgium, where growers
turn over a seven-ton average per acre.
The methods and conditions cannot be
compared.
My father learnt his farming in Corn-
wall 70 years ago. Here in Australia he
grew spuds well. There was no “super-
ammonia” in those days. He grew heavy
crops. It was mostly virgin land plen-
teously charged with humus.
We collected the farmyard manure
and applied it liberally. This added fer-
tility and helped wonderfully to hold
moisture. We don’t do that now —too
much work; and with spuds at perhaps
£3 a ton on the farm, and bags costing
quite Bs. a ton, there would be nothing
in it. I have dug spuds and fed them
to the cows rather than cart 15 or 20
miles to sell at a loss. When growers
can reckon on £5 a ton on the farm
there will be something doing.
Elbow grease and European technique
are not everything.
Last season I planted on fallow land,
used two bags of super, per acre, top-
dressed with lcwt. super., lcwt. am-
monia sulphate and religiously cultivated
every 10 or 14 days. But it was an ex-
ceedingly dry season, and 1 dug pig
potatoes and not too many of them. A
neighbor four miles away rough-ploughed
virgin land, rough-planted his spuds and
trusted to Providence. •
He was lucky enough to get one good
thunderstorm, and dug a very fair crop.
The only elbow grease he used was in
digging, and you couldn’t see his “tech-
nique” with a microscope. Humus, cul-
ture, fertiliser —and rain—are what count
under Australian conditions.
Skeleton-weed Time.
“Wundi”: This is the time to take
the mat with skeleton weed. Rosettes
have formed, and in western N.S.W. dis-
tricts the top is beginning to grow.
Salt is the best control on small infes-
tations ; sodium chlorate as a spray this
month and next on thicker ones. When
s.c. is the medicine, be careful not to
graze the land or cultivate it lor some
months after spraying.
Two sprayings should be given, and
the second, about six weeks after the
first, is the vital one. The spray consists
of 141 b. s.c. to a gallon of water, and is
misted straight on to the leafy part of
the plant.
Cost on thickly-covered land is fairly
heavy. It takes a couple of years to get
rid of the weed once it is well estab-
lished (so that two crops are missed),
and spray costs about £5 an acre of weed.
However, there are few acres that are
all weed, and lightly-infested land may
often be dealt with at a chemical and
labor cost of 14d. per farm acre over
large areas.
Hints for the Farm.
“Emma”: In small flocks on plain
country it is especially worth while to
give attention to a sheep’s feet. A lame
sheep is a lost sheep. After four years
old a sheep’s depreciation is liable to
begin at the feet.
“Lam”: Round strainer posts call for
i outside holes and rot faster than split
; ones.
“Zedo”: To keep flies away from horses’
eyes try smearing round the eyes a mix-
ture of five or six drops of eucalyptus
oil to a dessertspoonful of axle grease
or castor oil.
“Andy”: Now, while grass is almost
at its shortest, is the time to go over
the paddocks to be mown for grass
hay to remove any odd rocks and pieces
of wire, which can cause much damage
to the mower.
“R. 8.”: If a new ploughshare on a
single-furrow mouldboard plough re-
fuses to enter hard ground, try chipping
off about half an inch of the tip. This
leaves a wider and still fairly thin chisel-
like edge to bite. If the ground is too
hard for that, as headlands are liable to
be, only a very heavy disc plough and
big team will turn it up.
“Scotch” : Sweat boils on horses are
due to either too rich a ration or faulty
condition of the blood. If too rich a
ration is suspected, richness can be re-
duced, but quantity must be maintained.
For poor blood condition, an ounce of
Epsom salts in the feed night and morn-
ing will work wonders.
“S.T.”: A good use for sheep-dip
after the sheep have had their share is
as a wood preservative against ants,
borers, etc. As most timber floats, it
should be turned over daily in the dip.
Six weeks should give the poison time
to work in well. The dip should be
stirred at least once a day.
“Whalebone”: When boring battens
for a fence, space the holes from the
tops. Any timber a little too long or
short will not then spoil the look of the
fence, as the tops are level when erected.
“Crustacean”: If the job’s not worth
the expense of special equipment, wire-
strainers and two strong lengths of wire
make a handy tree-grubbing winch.
Fasten one wire high up on the tree to
be grubbed and the other to some firmly
fixed object. Flook the wire-strainers
to the ends of both wires and tighten
them to suit. This device is also good
for moving heavy logs when clearing a
fence line.
“McTweed”: If a cow gets a piece
of chaff in an eye, and repeated wipings
fail, cut the ends of a long, straight straw
off square, place one end as near the
piece of chaff as possible, then suck
through the straw. The chaff will often
come out painlessly. A little boracic
solution washed into the eye completes
the job.
“Andy”: The only way to get rid of
“wild radish” is to pull each plant out
by hand, seeing that all root comes away.
Ploughing and harrowing will rake out
a few, but plants shoot up thicker than
ever if left unattended; even when
turned up after being buried deeply for
years, the seeds will again shoot. Once
wild radish gets properly going there's
little chance of stopping it.
The Commonwealth Development De-
partment is engaging an overseas expert
with experience in Haiti and elsewhere
to try to find a parasite for the buffalo-
fly. This is the second attempt. After
the fly had had free rein for many years
and cattlemen had been assured that it
was not likely to give trouble, because
it did not in the East Indies, a Swiss vet.
Was appointed to handle the problem.
His recommendations were followed, and
a parasitic wasp was introduced at points
along the whole of the north where the
fly exists. But except that the fly seems
to have waxed fat and multiplied more
greatly than before, no results have as
yet been noticed. Possibly the northern
climate did not suit the wasp as well as
it does the fly and the buffalo.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is there a plant or shrub which attracts and
kills blowflies ? —2971.
A plant which has this reputation is the
oleander ( Nerium oleander), on the flowers oi
which blowflies are often found dead. It
has been suggested that the oleander would be
useful for combating the blowfly if planted
freely in the country. There is nothing in this.
The number of flies killed is very small, and
the plant is poisonous to stock. The sun-
dews or catchflies are not able to imprison
large flies, but can deal with very small insects.
The flowers of the native lomatia are said to
attract flies, but there is no positive informa-
tion.
* * * *
(1) Are swede turnip leaves suitable as green
feed for poultry? (2) Are leaves affected with
aphides harmful? (3) Is there any vitamin A
in the turnip ? (4) Are milk thistles suitabn
green feed for poultry ? (5) Quantity of eacn
required per 100 pullets ? 2846.
(1) Swede turnip leaves may be fed to
poultry as green food when more suitable
crops, such as lucerne and rape, are not avail-
able. (2) The aphis-infested leaves would not
be harmful, but if badly infested the green stut
would not be of satisfactory quality. (3.) As
far as is known, very little vitamin A exist>
in turnips. .(4) Yes. (5) About: 81bl green
food, in addition to the usual food, would *.
a fair daily allowance for 100 pullets. r °‘
vided the birds are given a full feed ol mash
and grain each day, there would be no objec-
tion to giving them more if they will eat it.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and! Young Streets, Sydney
Wk
m
mm
i ■ i
* U? - % i ?
iHI
9f
if i
*4|4:
Hi
:”tf
m
111
m*
•I
sp
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Gril!
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘Horticulturists often name new varieties
of flowers after friends and relations,’ says
a garden writer.”
Only one guess is allowed as to what
relation its discoverer named the snap-
dragon after.
4-
“I merely made a harmless remark to my
wife and she refused to speak to me for a
week.” —Court case.
Harmless remark! It was a miracle.
“One English settler has been in this Statesh
for 14 years, and is well satisfied.”
— W.A. paper.
Naturally!
The champion axeman has a little practice between
show times.
“ ‘What,’ asks the ‘Sun,’ ‘is the best way to
deal with sharks?’ ”
The best way is not to deal with them.
• l*
“ ‘Girls of to-day look with awe at the bath-
ing costumes of 20 years ago,’ says a fashion
writer.”
They wouldn’t be seen in them!
»£« *!« •£•
Identification.
The big chap with a familiar air about
him had been eyeing me off for some
time.
“You don’t remember me?” was his
opening remark.
“No-o,” said I dubiously, “though 1
know your face.”
“Arr,” he drawled, “I used to keep
the poison-water hole across the road.”
Whereupon I recognised the former
licensee of the Royal Arms.
C. T.
Siamese Discord.
“Rollup! Rollup! Ladies and gentle-
men, you will never again have the oppor-
tunity to witness such a wonderful, un-
paralleled and intriguing sight!”
People pressed for a glimpse of the
canvas sign behind the spruiker, read the
legend “Siamese Twins” and entered.
There was no deception. In identical
clothing, with the same bland features,
gesture and voice, the conjoined youths
recited, played a multitude of instru-
ments and, to the spruiker’s jest about
their being “as inseparable as ever,”
began a waltz.
Something went wrong. The cavalier
had trodden on his partner’s toes. In
a second the blandness had left their
faces, and the twain were swapping
blows.
“Come on.” yelled the spruiker fran-
tically. “separate ’em!”
Mac.
'■& 4*
“Lithgow Six Hours Committee has put a
ban upon ‘foreign’ beer —beer not brewed in
Lithgow.”
Beer has an amber glow to me,
And those who call it black but waste
Their breath. With bans I cant agree —
No beer is foreign to my taste.
Hamer.
* * * *
“Reading the stars, she prophesied murder,
killings, earthquakes'and fatal accidents.”
—Sun.
Ah, a horror-scope!
-I* 't* *!- •!*
“By his will, the testator left his wife to
his wife.” — Sun.
Ah, well, it’s just as well to leave wives
to themselves now and then.
No Escape.
The irritating reiteration of reproaches
for petty offences maddened the man.
Exasperated by this latest outbreak he
determined that it must stop.
“You know I lived in the Islands for
years, don’t you?” he said, turning to
the woman with a ferocity that for the
moment silenced her. “Do you ever
think about what I did there? I was
married to a half-
caste woman.
She died. I killed
her.”
He felt a
strange triumph
in the effect it
had upon her.
“Yes; she be-
gan to nag me —
not as badly as
you do so I
killed her. I killed
seven men alto-
gether in the
Islands. When 1
was in Alaska I
quarrelled with
my partner. I
shot him.”
She shuddered.
“Yes,” he went
on with increas-
ing ferocity ; “I
loved his wife.
But she turned
on me. She
started to nag, too. I pushed her over-
board from the steamer by which we
left Alaska. No one was the wiser.
“Well, now you know!” he thundered.
“What are you going to do about it?”
“What can I do about it?” she pleaded.
“But why did you come home late for
tea to-night?”
Perc. P.
-!- -I- -I*
“Conference speaker says ‘Every girl wants
a model husband.’ ”
A working model preferably.
-i- -i- *2*
The Money I Save.
My wife says I never save money.
That is pretty hot, seeing that she never
leaves me any to do it with ; but' she is
wrong, anyway.
I saved at least a tenner this morning
by not being seen by policemen when I
jay-walked across the streets. 1 have
saved quite a hundred pounds this year
by not being fined for various motoring
offences.
While I was thinking this out I looked
up, and noticed that there was a £2 fine
for smoking on the premises. That’s
another £2 I have saved.
As a result of escaping after throwing
tram-tickets in the street, spitting, indulg-
ing in illicit gambling, being on hotel
premises after hours, dodging the wire-
less licensing fee, getting off the tram
on the wrong side —and a thousand other
finable offences —I have saved not less
than £5OO this year.
This, invested on mortgage at 5£ per
cent., will Haroldstien.
l>J«*
“On one occasion he threw a dictionary at
her.” — “Sun.”
Words passed between them, in fact.
-I* 4* *l* 'l*
“When a car driven by Mrs. skidded
and turned over, the only damage was a little
paint scraped off.” —News item.
The nearest chemist would soon repair
that damage.
Another Shark Plan.
I want to beat the guff dailies to the
usual shark publicity by outlining an-
other scheme to rid the beaches of this
menace.
My idea is the formation of a special
force, mounted on sea-horses and accom-
panied by a trained pack of dogfish to
patrol the breakers.
1 don’t know what a sea-horse is, but
jl have no doubt of my ability to train
these marine creatures to the work ex-
pected of them.
When the dog-
fish also have been
trained, under-
water kennels can
be built for them,
and they can be
chained to con-
venient spots off
the shoreline. Their
barking will give
warning of the
approach of
sharks; and then
the patrol will ride
into action on its
sea-horses.
1 want absolutely
nothing for this
scheme, which will
make our beaches
free for demo-
cracy, except
£lO,OOO p.a. as
Commissioner of
Sea Cavalry.
It might be possible even to develop
a Sea Hunt Club as a subsidiary ; and
in time of war the Sea Cavalry might be
given valuable support by the Navy.
Ham fat.
Some Little-known Facts About
Russia.
II.—Its Early History.
King Rurik was the first known Rus-
sian. He was known by his matted
beard and Cossack boots, which he de-
clared to be the national dress.
His younger son Igor quarrelled with
his father and settled in the Dnieper
region, living on its banks. When his
rapidly mounting overdraft was called
in, however, he ordered the impertinent
manager’s beard to be hacked off, caus-
ing him to die of pneumonia. Thus he
set the fashion of bankruptcy which has
been followed zealously by all Russian
rulers.
Oleg, Rurik’s eldest son, wrote the
first Russian poem in # A.D. 860. Rurik
established the Siberian saltmines as a
penal settlement in a.d. 861.
Kwytoff, son of Knotkwytoff the
Awful, is regarded by historians as the
most eccentric ruler the country ever
had. The fact that he didn’t poison his
father, butcher his mother, burn alive his
brothers and sisters or make a drinking
cup out of his murdered wife’s skull, led
to the belief among the peasants that
there was something wrong with him.
Suspicion passed to alarm when it was
found that there were no inherited serfs
imprisoned in his dungeons, and his
people revolted and drove him out of
the kingdom.
One of Russia’s greatest monsters was
Dmitri the Egghead. Enraged because
the subjects of his principality unpatri-
otically refused to accept suicide as a
“Better come down, lady , or that buzzard'll get y ' !”
new national pastime, he ordered that
they should have every alternate front
tooth pulled out. He then -changed the
principality’s name from Sk to Pereia-
slvlzaliesska. The new pastime was im-
mediately adopted.
Autocracy began in earnest with
Vasilii (pronounced “Ya’silly,” the V
being not recognised, as in Spooner’s
bathing regulations). Vasilii’s great-
grandson was Ivan the Terrible, whose
sinister cognomenal suffix was bestowed
upon him owing to his treatment of his
household staff. One day when his wife
Anastasia was away representing him at
a massacre, Ivan kissed a pretty house-
maid, who said, when she could get her
breath: “Oh, Ivan, ain’t you terrible!"
It was Ivan who introduced the
knout; but later the knout fell into dis-
favor in Russia when it was officially in-
corporated into the Yorkshire dialect.
Ivan had seven wives, and this has
been advanced as a reason for the un-
bridled fury which characterised the
man. On its being suggested that he
might outdo Solomon’s formidable
record, he expired.
Ivan’s son Dmitri was murdered by
his brother-in-law Boris Godunov so as
to create a plot for Borodin’s opera.
Alexis’s great contribution to his coun-
try’s welfare was his codification of the
laws; their consequent abstruseness
gained for him the undying gratitude of
the legal profession.
Peter the Great' derived his grandiose
title by a misapprehension. He went to
England to learn shipbuilding, and one
day had just nailed a board wrong side
up when a “choom” workman sang out
to his mate: “Bah goom, laad, didst see
Peter, the great big blob?” The knock-
off whistle drowned the last two words.
S. W. K.
The Oath of Convenience.
She promised to obey me when
We knelt before the altar rail;
I felt that 1 could trust her then,
She looked so meek beneath her veil.
But now she doesn’t care two straws
For my decrees — she’ll contravene
At will that sacramental clause —
And says she kissed the rod because
She didn’t want to make a scene!
P. O. M. C.
Encore!
It thrilled me once to see her home,
Love in my youthful heart abeat;
In paradise we seemed to roam,
The happiness of life complete.
But now the fire of love is spent
And wedded life our bliss has slain,
1, if her parents would consent,
Would like to see her home again.
H. M.
According to Custom.
“A cocktail counter and a tobacco kiosk
have been installed in a South American gaol.”
—News item.
Our lags aren’t served with fancy drinks
Or soothed with fat cigars.
Still, to console them, all our “clinks”
At least are fixed with bars!
P. M.


The Novel Which Won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1936:-
'ALL THAT SWAGGER'
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
DRAWINGS BY
DOUGLAS PRATT.
Chapter I.
jrosffigEaijij] EMORY recaptures a song or two echo-
| j ng w i s tf u iiy through the generations of
H IK » Delacy in the voice of old, fearless
||» a Danny. He was wont to rune to
3 H J himself as he sat alone, thrust aside
by his sons as childish, his eyes glazed
with absence —that retreat of the aged
when time has wrung the colors from the present and
left the rose and green only on the distant fields, of
youth.
“Oh, moi! Oh, moi!” he would ejaculate,
conversing to himself. Rarely was there an under-
standing listener. When there was he would use
her to make his talk becoming as he gazed backward
into what long ago had been the future and belatedly
indulged in nostalgia. He would linger on the picture
of his mother taking her farewell of him, and his
father lacking the courage to see young Danny being
picked up by the coach that was to bear him away
for ever.
The wild Murrumbidgee sinking into the Bunyip
Hole, and tumbling therefrom into Delacy’s Crossing,
would dissolve, the Shannon take its place, graciously
traversing its ancient plain by Limerick, the beauteous
city. The road ran by Sarsfield Bridge to old Ennis
in County Clare, to the ruined Abbey where the boys
played, and to Clare Castle. The day would be in
May, with the winchats merry in the furze, the larks
high in the air—such a day as the Isle of Destiny
knows, a cajoling day, a day to caress the heart of a
youth to be as water in the presence of a maid, and to
turn a maid’s heart to a man: and the era was a
hundred years from now, for young Daniel Brian
Robert M. Delacy, born in the year of Waterloo, was
stretching towards eighteen.
His home was on the rise by Ennis that looks
north-east to the Slieve Aughty Mountains and
north-west to the Aran Isles and the Atlantic, which
had expatriated or swallowed entirely so many Clare
and Galway lads. He stood in the road, not that he
was at that date given to meditation, but the ancient
legendry of the scene, the acknowledged presence
of the fairies in the glens and raths, was as saturating
to his inner consciousness as the sun to his outer.
He loved the open view of the thatched white cabins
on the treeless hillsides with the sociable roads across
them. Roads excited him, packed as they were with
history, glamorous with fable, with chivalry and
romance and liberation in the way they ran through
the winds and rains of all the seasons of all the
generations, a foe to stagnation, a hostage to
adventure.
He had a sense of deprivation that none of the
green land was his. The only soil he could dig his
spade into was the paltry acreage of his father’s
college, where there were prior rights of a playground
for the scholars and a plot for the goat.
Danny’s father was principal of a preparatory
college for boys. His curriculum was not extensive,
but he transmitted with his canings something
invaluable to his third son in his after life in the
antipodes character unflinching and resourceful.
In the dislocation following on Continental military
glory and the local agitation against oppression,
Schoolmaster Delacy, who ranked among the petty
gentry loyal to the Union, could not provide careers
for three sons. One in due time would step into his
father’s shoes, but it is debilitating to camp for an
old man’s shoes, and no one knows what became of
Robert Delacy. No doubt he and the school petered
out together. The second son, William, was engulfed
by India. It is known that he rose—or sank —to be
a major in the army there, but nothing more.
Danny’s hunger for land was a crying for the
moon in so far as his father could help him. There
was, however, an opening to appeal to the lad.
Poverty following the Napoleonic wars had driven
thousands across the Atlantic. Now the Colony of
New South Wales was greedy for settlers. Tales of
rosy prospects for free men penetrated to Ennis,
though Mrs. Delacy suppressed any talk of this.
DANNY went often to the Cooleys of Cooley
Hall, over the hill, a name pretentious for the
farm, but the Cooleys remembered that they were
of one of the ancient and powerful clans.
Danny enjoyed walking around with old Cooley,
looking at the turnips, discussing the bull in the
meadow or the pigs in the sty, and was always ready
to help for love of work on the land. Old Cooley
thought him an obliging gossoon and sometimes lent
him a nag to appear in the hunts. The acuter
Honoria had lately opened her husband’s eyes.
“Helping you, is it! Have ye seen his eyes light
on our Johanna?”
Pretty Johanna was mistress of the dairy, and
could turn the heel of a sock with the best.
“The Devil mend him! I’ll break the young
spalpeen’s back.”*
“Father O’Fogarty shall say a special word to her
on her duty.”
“A Prodestan’, and him with nothing to his back
—will have to go for a soldier belike.”
“He talks more of going to the antipodes.”
“The sooner the better! Kevin O’Gorman, with
a phroperty near as good as me own, waiting for her
to say the word.”
“An old widow-man with big childre, not to
touch the heart of a young girl.”
“I’ll touch her back with a stout -ashplant if she
shows anny nonsense.”
Thereafter Danny was frigidly met, and found it
difficult to see Johanna alone. She confessed to
undergoing penances.
“Sure, ’twas worth it,” she said, tossing her head.
This made Danny feel like a king. He, too, had
been taken to task. Yhe unpleasantness suffered by
love’s young dreamers on opposite sides of a sectarian
fence was theirs, though the elders had kindly
dispositions and were among the enlightened and less
bigoted.
There was, too, an endearing story about the
Delacys. In bad past days when the land had been
parcelled among the usurpers a Delacy had accepted
in name only and permitted the rightful inheritor to
occupy. In the recent agitation for Catholic
emancipation Schoolmaster Delacy had allowed the
use of his classroom.
These things were not forgotten. Also, Danny’s
emigration was becoming practical, and both sets
of parents looked upon this as a way out of the
danger. The Cooleys welcomed it with relief, the
Delacys with sorrow, but also as the lesser of two
evils.
DANNY was taking his head with a precocity and
enterprise natural to one who was as Danny
was, who did what Danny did when he became
known by half a dozen nicknames, all tributes to
character and courage. On the intoxicating day of
his recollection he was scanning the landscape for
a handkerchief on a gorse-bush at the back of
Cooley’s barn. On that day old Cooley went to
market, and Danny had something to read to his
Johanna.
Scarcely waiting to take precautions against
discovery, he pulled a paper from his shirt and
cried “Johanna, Mavourneen! Listen to this. I've
got it all laid out in me moind.”
Johanna had rather he noted her dainty shoes
and trim kirtle. What satisfaction was there in
virtue without opportunity to win its spurs? Kevin
O’Gorman —nasty widow-man of the advanced age
of thirty-five—was over-ready to test her, but she
resisted his attempts with loathing, while she doubted
that Danny could be provoked out of his respect for
women by any tactics possible to an inviolable
maiden.
Danny liked to read. He had more facility than
Johanna, the victim of an inferior governess.
“Out. there, sure there are new developments
at every turning of the moon. Listen, will you?
‘The short space of little more than four decades
has converted the horrid and trackless wilderness —
the transient hunting field of some migratory tribe of
naked and unidea’d savages—into the busy mart of
civilised and enlightened intercourse where there is yearly
exported to the mother-country produce of many kinds,
and where the tastes, the pursuits, the comforts and
even elegancies of English society are valued and
enjoyed to a far more substantial extent that in many
of the large towns of Great Britain itself.’ ”
“It reads like a grand story,” commented
Johanna.
“’Tis actual fact. There are towns like Limerick
and fine establishments like your aunt’s already
there.”
“Can that be true?” exclaimed Johanna, her
eyes dancing with excitement. “I’m wanting to hear
of the elegancies.”
“True? Why, this is the printed word I’m
reading. You can depend on it as if ’twas from the
book of Ballymote. Listen to their aims:
‘To induce respectable and virtuous families among
the industrious ranks of society at home to transfer
their capital and labor from an arena where the whirl
of competition stands formidably in the way of success-
ful exertion, to a field where not competency alone,
but certain fortune can hardly fail to reward the efforts
of careful, persevering and honorable toil.’
Certain fortune! Think of it! A man would be
driving his carriage, with high-steppers like the
Thomonds, before you could turn round.”
“Ah, ’twould take too long, I’m thinking,” said
Johanna dubiously. “Me aunt Delia, on me father's
side, had a letter that came from Shamus O’Tooley,
who wint out after the rebellion, and it was full of
terrible hardships, and convicts, and nothing to eat.
I saw it meself. ’Tis kept in the old book.”
“Qch, Johanna, I have trouble getting things into
your head, and then they come out again. The
rebellion was a generation ago, and, sure, they were
rebels and convicts.”
“They were noble heroes foighting for freedom.”
“Maybe they were, too, but they were treated as
felons and transported. 'Tis all dealt with here. Jt
says that Sydney Cove was a repository of national
crime, a vast territorial gaol inhabited only by felons
and their overseers. But since 1820 ‘a tide of
respectable immigration has been diluting that
deplorable state of affairs at the furthest extremity of
the globe.' ”
“It sounds desperate to be so far away.”
“Lo and behold ye! 'Twould be the centre of
the universe if you were there with me, Johanna,” said
Danny boldly.
“And what put such a notion in ye’r skull?”
demanded Johanna, but the meeting began to interest
her.
“’Tis natural, Johanna, and there is no escape
from Nature.”
“And what do ye mean by me being at the
centre of the universe out there? Me father and \
mother would never emigrate to the furthest ends of
the globe, and them with this fine place.”
“Then are you going to remain unmarried?
That would be difficult for the prettiest girl in
County Clare.”
“It would that same, with O’Gorman never giving
me a moment’s peace. Sure, his eye would be on me
now, but for his going to market a pig.”
“Arrah! O’Gorman, an old grandfather like a
gorilla, with grown-up children.”
“He could give his wife everything, Danny
Delacy.”
“He could never give her the advinture of
going over the seas to a splendid new country. I
could soon give you a carriage and pair like the
Marchioness of Sligo. They give a free man a
hundred and thirty or a hundred and fifty acres, and
a few acres to each child, and you can get Govern-
ment men assigned to labor for you.”
“And whoi, pray? It doesn’t sound rational.”
“At anny rate, I’m off the day I’m eighteen. Will
you wait for me?”'
“How long would I be waiting, Danny-boy?”
“Maybe two years. Time is consumed with the
voyage.”
“I could never hold out two years against
O’Gorman’s importunities, and me feyther all for
getting me set up with such a property. I’m a full
year and a trifle more than ye, Danny-boy. ’Tis
only a dream.”
“Everything is a dream till it is made come true.
Come make this true with me, Johanna.”
HE stood before her, not yet eighteen, and his
meagre stature of. five feet seven-and-a-half
inches wherewith to attack the wilds of the antipodes
in bravura days of convicts and aborigines, before
the explorers had finished their surveys. Neither had
he the features of the classic heroes: a small pointed
nose, a stubborn mouth, now full of ugly teeth and
later to be ambushed in an unmolested beard. But
Johanna doted on his eyes, as blue as the heavens
on the days when the salmon wait to go up, his hair
with the raven sheen and as soft as floss silk, his
forehead broad and full, his voice as deep and brave
as a staghound’s.
As the Isle of Destiny animated the early
Milesians with the expectation of refuge and plenty
so did the continent of Australia inspire young
Danny. His hunger for land and need for action
banished indecision. He dreamed of wide acres like
those of County. Clare, running away for square
miles, all his own.
* The aim is merely to indicate the rhythm and poetic and
philosophic idiom of the speech of the. Irish characters, not
to make a pedantic exhibition of Irish pronunciation word
by word.


“Moi! Oh, moi! What a prospect!” he would
exclaim.
The district was combed for families with
members in New South Wales, and, no matter what
the nature of the information, it fanned the
enthusiasm of Danny Delacy. The schoolmaster
aided the lad, as far as small means allowed, to
escape from restricting circumstances to spacious
opportunities baited with adventure. The eyes of
Mrs. Delacy reflected her bereavement. Industrious
and cheerful, with a ready wit with never a barb in
it, and cowardice and lies unknown to him, Danny
was her baby, her bright spot in life. Now he was
to go. She would be old and deserted ; life would
be finished.
Otherwise, the situation was eased for neighbors
who feared a mixed marriage. Danny confessed that
he had asked Johanna to come out to him. Danny
not quite eighteen! His parents hid their smiles.
The difficulties of communication guaranteed the
defeat of young love. The widow Cassidy once had
had a paper with a mark beside the title which meant
that her daughter was living, but not another line in
all the years. Johanna and Danny were not
illiterate, but it would take more than a year to
receive a reply to a letter. A little tact until Danny
departed was all that was necessary.
Mrs. Cooley was likewise sensible, and* also
sympathetic. Cooley had been foisted on her as a
safe match when her imagination hungered for
something more knightly. She was a steady woman
and true to her faith ; she was firmly for establishing
Johanna, but “Be aisy,” she would advise. “Danny
Delacy is a nice boy, for all he’s a heretic. He’s as
fearless as a gamecock.”
“It’s a bantam he is.”
“And with the lively word for young and old,
and all his foine book-learning and conversation from
his feyther, it is not to be wondered at that Johanna
is a bit touched ; but, sure, he’s but half-fledged—
not a pluck of beard on him yet. Whin he’s gone
a while, and no sign for a full year, then O’Gorman
can be tender, and it’s snugly settled she’ll be before
the second year. At anny rate, let her have a rich
good-bye to him. Sure, she was crying all night.”
“Women can turn the taps on for annything.”
“All the same, O’Gorman should not be too
pressing for a while. She has been teasing to go stay
by me sister Kate Thomond. She need not come
back till Danny has gone for good and all.”
Cooley left the matter to her. She was his
second wife. He had never been able finally to get
the better of either, and conceded that women were
unfathomable.
Johanna bargained that she should see Danny
to say farewell. New dresses were necessary for the
visit to Mrs. Thomond, whose husband throve in the
law in Limerick, but Honoria pointed out that they
would do for the wedding later. To her credit
Honoria was plotting for Johanna’s escape from the
widow-man. There would be promising sprigs of
the law about the Thomonds. Johanna could seize
her chance to mate in accordance with youthful
taste as well as in her own religion.
J OHANNA and Danny had their final meeting in
the coomb, reached by the stile out of the barley
paddock behind the Cooley Hall bam.
“I could never hold out for two years, Danny-
boy,” sobbed Johanna. “As soon as ye’r back is
turned they’ll put on the clampers, but if I’m driven
into a convent I’ll never marry him. Besides, it’s
out of sight, out of mind with min. The minute
ye don’t see me’ ye’ll forget me.”
“Be all the pipers in Paradise! ” shouted Danny
with determination, his eyes flashing blue flame.
We can put the come-hither on it in a twinkling.
Come with me, Johanna, and see to it that I do not
change me moind, nor yours, neither.”
Johanna baulked momentarily. She accused
Danny of his youth, which he said would quickly
improve. In this issue his lissom young form and
fair skin outweighed the swarthy, hairy O’Gorman,
with a breath which made kisses a persecution: and
not for nothing was Johanna given a nose like an
emperor’s, and black eyes to go with it, and a mouth
as beautiful as those that the Greeks sculptured in
marble, and as firmly set.
She lacked Danny’s love of the soil and open
spaces. Her cravings were for town graces as found
with her aunt, Kate Thomond ; and the O’Gorman
farm had fewer amenities and uglier furniture than
Cooley Hall. She could see what was ahead of her
in County Clare. She did not share Danny’s visions.
She was more prosaic, but was it not in print that
the people of Sydney Cove “enjoyed to a far more
substantial extent than in many of the large towns
of Great Britain itself the tastes, the pursuits, the
comforts and even the elegancies of English society”?
Johanna adored elegancies. Better the hope of
elegancies at the “furthest extremity of the globe”
than the certainty of inelegancies on O’G orman’s
farm.
That pretty day they sat side by side upon the
stile overlooking the ripening barley, their troth
plighted, and considering, with the high-heartedness
of youth and inexperience, the stratagems necessary.
“I’ll meet you a fortnight come Wednesday at
the Red Fox in Limerick, and we take the stage.
Me father is giving me enough capital, which will
pay for your passage. If you change your moind,
write me a letter.” ,
“’Tis not meself that will be changing.”
She packed her box that night and put in her
best bits, collected against marriage. Her mother
wondered at the weight of it at the time.
“Just supposing that ye’r Danny never comes
back?”
“Then I’ll be a nun, but I’ll never marry
O’Gorman. Don’t say I have not warned ye.”
It was certainly better that she should have her
chance at Kate Thomond’s fine parties and not be
plagued by the hairy O’Gorman for the present.
T - ' HE wrench of departure remained unrecorded by
* Danny until reflected in the final perspective of
memory. When years had taken the strength
though never the courage from Daniel’s spirit the
old eyes would rest upon that poignant drama.
He could be seen with all his worldly goods in
a box on his shoulder, walking away from his home
to take the coach where the lane met the highway
to Limerick. He had few goods and little pelf ; a
tool or two, a new suit, a second pair of boots, a few
pairs of socks, some shirts and a Bible and a book
of poems. All the currency that his parents could
collect was in his belt, but there was a fortune in his
sound stomach and high heart.
“Sure, me father kissed me the only time he
ever did, that I remember. He handed me his own
frieze overcoat and turned and went into his school-
room and shut the d00r... Me mother sat on
a milestone and flung her apron over her head and
buried her head in her arms. That’s how she
remained as I looked back—all the way to the turr
of the road. That’s how I remember her always ...
All those years, and I never saw her again . . . dead
a lifetime ago ... but in me moind I can see her
sitting there still .. . The moind! The moind ! ”
On that summer day, when the heavens matched
his eyes in sparkle and color, he glanced blithely
towards the coomb, with the stile at his feet, where
he and Johanna had sealed their plan of action with
sacred promises. He took the parting from his
family lightly—going to Johanna as he was, and full
of impatience to be accumulating that fortune which
would bring him back to them or them to him—but
it clung in his memory and deepened in poignancy
as the road lengthened. Later he found a song to
voice his emotions, and this he would rune over and
over, forgetting his listener—if any—his fading eyes
on the sweet distance of old County Clare:
“I’m sitting on the stile, Mary, where we sat side by
side
On a bright May morning long ago, when first you
were my bride.
The corn was springing fresh and green and the lark
sang loud and high,
And the red was on your lip, Mary, and the lovelight
in your eye.”
On that June day young Delacy was taking with
him the comprehended soul of Ireland, a tangible
entity wrought by countless generations to a
nourishing cloak for the ego. Stored for sustenance
later was the spiritual grace of concrete places, that
supra-mundane presence which gave reality to the
musical names, the long-trodden ways of Eire. His
heart and eyes were ahead on adventure.
T~ HERE was wild dismay at Cooley Hall when it
1 was discovered that Johanna would never more
return to superintend her dairy or help the younger
children with their lessons. One Cooley blamed the
other. O’Gorman
blamed them
both, as well he
in igh t, having
held his horses
for two solid
years for this
reluctant girl.
With the aid
of a cousin—her-
self bent on elop-
ing with an Eng-
1i s h office r
Johanna had
made her escape
forty-eight hours
or longer before
it was suspected.
A letter came
some days later
stating that she was off to Belfast to be married to
Danny Delacy and emigrate to the antipodes.
“Marry a Prodestan’ —to travel without marriage
and be rooned and in that scoundrelly northern
town!” Mrs. Cooley keened affrightingly, and set out
for the schoolhouse to attack Mrs. Delacy. Both
women said things that they could neither forgive
nor forget.
There came in time a letter from young Delacy
to old Cooley reporting that the absconders were
married and on board the good ship Jane, bound for
Sydney Cove. Honoria Cooley preserved the docu-
ment as the certificate of her daughter’s rectitude,
but old Cooley never felt that it was a real marriage.
His bitter denunciation followed his Johanna—once
his delight. He disowned her as part of his flesh and
prayed that she would rue the vile sorrow and shame
she had put on him and her mother.
Johanna accepted that cheerfully. Maledictions
could not travel so far as she and Danny were going,
and all would be repealed when Danny was brought
into the true fold. She was full of excitement in
sailing with the personal effects she had collected ;
and had she not her own rights of being? The
Cooleys claimed descent from the princes of Ith or
Heremon. Were there not legends of Queen Maeve
and the great cattle spoil of Cooley?
Moyna Thomond, Johanna’s accomplice, a
generous and romantic girl, was distressed by
Johanna’s going so far away, and insisted upon giving
as many of her own things as the two girls could
smuggle out of the house. Among these was a cedar
work-box with drawers, set on a tripod pedestal,
which had to be lashed on to the deck and tended
like a flower all the way to Sydney Cove. There
was also a little chair with carved back and curved
legs with claw-and-ball feet, a pair of china orna-
ments and a set of three Waterford lustres. The
cousins parted with promises of eternal fealty and
the hope of early reunion in Sydney. Every possi-
bility dangles before the nose of adventurous youth.
A later Mrs. Delacy wrote home to the parish
priest, who could find only an aunt on the Cooley
side, and her memory was gone. A hundred years
from the date of Danny’s embarkation a great-
grandson of his name alighted out of the sky near
Ennis. He was hospitably received by the Bishop of
Killaloe, and entertained at St. Flannahan’s College,
but not a trace of a Cooley or a Delacy could he
find. Nevertheless, in the indestructible archives of
imagination Mrs. Delacy still sits upon the milestone
with her head bowed upon her arms. By the further
aid of a simple song Danny and his Johanna remain
for ever in the sunlight on the stile, he young and
brave and listening to the words she now for ever
speaks, the lovelight in her eyes, the red upon her
cheeks.
Chapter 11,
HE Jane, 374 tons, entered Port
Jackson, “the beautiful landlocked
marine lake,” and anchored in
Sydney Cove, seven miles from the
Heads, just six months from the day she
had sailed from Southampton.
The arrival of the Delacys was chronicled in the
“Australian” of the date: “Mr. George Moore, of
Ballyshannon, Co. Donegal; Mr. and Mrs. Daniel
Delacy, of Ennis, Co. Clare, as well as 20 steerage
passengers, principally mechanics and their families.”
The Delacys went to a select boarding establish-
ment on Church Hill which the proprietor had “the
distinguished honor to announce is recommended by
ladies of the first respectability, that his dinners are
got up in the first style with change of soups daily
and mock-turtle three times a week.”
Those elegancies which Johanna had expected
were, as elsewhere, for the privileged. She saw little
of 'them at her boarding establishment, where the
cark of funds running low and the discomfort of
approaching motherhood depressed her.
Mr. Moore, who had a promising estate in the
Colony, had been out for some years, driven from
Ireland by the death of his wife, and had returned to
Dublin only to place his son at Trinity College. He
had a warm interest in the immigrant bride of
nineteen-and-a-bit with her ’groom of eighteen, and
offered Danny the position of overseer and invited
Johanna to take up her residence as lady-housekeeper
at his station.
It'was a blow to Danny to learn that land-grants
had ceased in ’3l. The information imparted to
Johanna in the coomb had been out-of-date. There
were no special prizes for a young man because he
was free and honest. To him that hath, more shall
be given was the rule. He that had not had to
acquire by toil. Without a trade or any special
influence there was a stiff prospect ahead of the little
pair in the Colony, thrusting beyond its garde-major
days but still hampered by bedraggled swaddling-
clothes of convictism.
Danny was out every hour of the day seeking
an opening. Johanna was left much to herself. A
lady did not walk abroad alone when the quarterly
muster of ticket-of-leavers was proceeding at the
post office, when prisoners were marched about in
gangs under guard, when misdemeanants were sent
aboard the hulk as a respite from severer punishment
or were sentenced to days on the treadmill.
Danny would burst in to declare that the cattle
market had excellent beasts but that he saw a
rubbishing lot of ewe-necked horses. “Och, the field
for breeding horses that’s here —the uses for them!”
Or he would tell of the cricket match for £5O a side.
Danny was determined to own land, but how
was he to clear and work it without capital, and in
competition with established and favored men who
could command all the Government labor they
needed? Delacy had not arrived early enough. The
big fellows, with parents to provide capital and
influence frequently dishonest —in official circles,
had already pegged their claims and were squatting
on them west, north and south, to the full extent of
the Nineteen Counties.
Johanna clung to Sydney. Danny said he would
be doomed if he had travelled thirteen thousand miles
for land, then to sit down like a hen in a town as a
servant to any man. At length, when funds ran out,
he consented to go up-country with Mr. Moore until
he could set-up on his own land.
Johanna grieved to leave the town, especially in
her condition. What elegancies or ease could there
be in the untamed bush from which there came such
blood-curdling tales of bushrangers and aborigines?
The size and height of the trees frightened her.
“Sure, they’d make gallows-posts big enough for
the Devil to collect his own,” she cried, and withdrew
her eyes from those standing stark and dead early
on the route ; and she never forgot the gibbeted form
she saw later along the way.


The trees inspired Danny. “They’re giants,
bedad! From the top of them you could slip into
heaven itself, me brave Johanna.”
“There’s nothing that would be called grass at
home —nothing that affords a full bite.”
“But if it provides a full belly it is the same
thing.”
“At anny rate the whole world is a forest. There
is ne’er a meadow at all,” said Johanna conclusively.
“They’re for me to make,” maintained the unde-
featable Daniel.
THEY travelled in two drays, one of which Mr.
Moore put at the disposal of the young couple.
They had only a few yoke of oxen in each vehicle,
and progress was retarded by the necessity of double-
banking at stiff pinches. They had assigned men to
attend them, men glad to be going to Mr. Moore,
who had a good name.
They snailed along by Berrima and Bowral and
traversed the Goulburn Plains, already held by
families which, in some instances, still hold them with
prestige and comfort. Lake George was gone, like-
wise Gounderu. Limestone Plains was in the hands
of first families, there to remain, in imitation of the
English Squirearchy, until dispossessed by an
imperative democracy in favor of an ideally modelled
city.
They reached Bandalong, one of the farthest-out
stations, not far from Mt. Bowning, which a year
later was declared the official limit for settlement.
The holding was large and watered by the Bandalong,
a short tributary of the Morumbidgee. Mt. Bown-
ing’s round blue head was a sentinel in every
direction.
For Johanna’s sake Danny was relieved to
anchor, but he was emphatic: “It’s only till I can
foind meself.”
Johanna’s child did not live long, but it was
only a girl, and Johanna had the reverence for
producing males descended from a racial era when
an adulteress with sons could wear a bolder face than
an honest wife with nothing but daughters.
“The poor little thing would have been a help
in manny ways,” observed Danny, having in mind
that family labor with which men of various designa-
tions made their way on the land.
Danny pegged away with Mr. Moore, with little
adventure but that of a strange environment.
Johanna was weak and fretful following the death of
her child. This fact and the unwelcome attentions
of Walter Moore prevented Danny from going with
Major Mitchell in 1835. Lack of capital kept him
from joining the overlanders who rushed along the
Major’s Line in the years following, years during
which the squatters extended their occupancy of the
land from the Morumbidgee to the Darling and
changed the social and economic composition of the
Colony.
But though thus hobbled, Danny never settled
as an underling at Bandalong. He disliked his
relation to the convicts as overseer, and abhorred
theirs to the lash.
EACH time he reached the plateau that lay between
Bandalong and another holding of Mr. Moore’s
on the Murrumbidgee—as it was later to be spelt—
he was bewitched by the vision of a universe prinked
with a necklace of ranges beautiful as opals and
sapphires.
There it lay, land in. plenty beyond County
Murray. No one had penetrated its gorges since
Hum,e and Hovell had skirted them in reaching the
Doomut ten years earlier. This domain was guarded
by natural ramparts and dismissed as inaccessible
while there was ample open country. The high blue
ranges were a wall of a mountain province beyond
which the Colony sloped down and away to droughty
plains of heat and mirage already held in lively
cattle-runs from the Lachlan to the Murray, and
from whence came news of desperate encounters with
inhabitants who resisted invasion or who executed
summary justice upon men who upheld white prestige
in desecrating black women.
The Outback had no allure for Danny. He
babbled of the cool endearing mountains in a way that
filled Johanna with apprehension. On the other hand,
Walter Moore, a waster and libertine, laid her under
continual siege, so that she longed for some way of
escape. Mr. Moore voiced the opinion, volubly
upheld by Walter, that native dogs would destroy ail
young or weak stock in winter in the gorges. In
summer the aborigines, who crowded there for their
initiation ceremonies and to feast on the boogongs,*
would spear or frighten away what animals escaped
the dogs.
“Maybe we had better stay where we are well-
off,” sighed Johanna in the privacy of their bedroom,
and debating whether to tell of Walter’s latest
attempt.
“Well-off, by damn!” was all that Danny said.
Finally Johanna had to complain of Walter, and
she begged his father to assist Danny to a, place of
his own. Mr. Moore had seen dubious incidents
and regretfully acceded to Johanna’s plea. He had
for the handsome young woman the affection of a
parent, and would miss her, as the society of any
women, and especially of ladies, was highly prized.
The Commissioner —the all-powerful of the period—
was Mr. Moore’s friend, and through him Moore
obtained a sliver of land on the Murrumbidgee,
adjoining the Moore property, Quebarra.
Some time earlier it had been a grant to a convict
who had saved an official’s life. The man, given his
freedom, had married and settled there. For the
birth of his child he took his wife to Mrs. Fullwood, of
Heulong, eight miles away across the river. He
brought wife and child home on Mrs. Fullwood’s
horse at dusk when the river was a little high, so that
he had to give all his energy to guiding the horse and
keeping on his feet. When the horse rushed up the
bank past him out of the water the saddle was empty.
The bodies were found days after and buried on the
bank. The man abandoned his land and disappeared.
It remained unoccupied because of a legend that the
ghost of the woman and child wailed in the crossing
when the water was shoulder-high at the dark of the
moon.
Danny “arrahed” at ghosts. They could not raise
fear in his valiant flesh, and the frontage secured the
gorges back from the river. Currency being scarce
in those days, Mr. Moore had paid Delacy in live-
stock which had been allowed to run on the skirts
of Bandalong. Now he advanced labor to fell timber
and put up a hut.
Johanna regretted her comfortable quarters and
lady’s life, with assigned labor for all purposes,
including a nurse for the baby, and prepared to
accompany Danny into the wilderness once more.
She moved* to Quebarra to be safe from young Moore
and nearer to Danny while he was erecting their
shelter.
"“THE new place was called Bewuck by the blacks
1 for the hauls of cod they caught in the fish-hole
almost in front of the homestead.
It was a reservoir from which the water issued
in a slight fall and ran wide on a stony bed that made
one of the few safe crossings in a day’s ride. While
at Quebarra Johanna was told of the ghosts by the
stockman’s wife, and that the bottomless waterhole
was the home of the bunyip, most mysterious of all
the fantastic Australian animals.
Johanna soon moved into her home, with her
everyday necessities on a slide. Her heart sank as she
struggled down the declivity to the rough spot without
a road and far from neighbors. Terror invaded her
when she saw the wild river rushing past so near her
door. She clasped her toddler to her to save the
child from the mesmeric danger. The river had a
long, harsh name and was lined with uncanny trees,
strangely called oaks and clothed in green hair that
was tormented by the breeze to the melancholy
cadence of the banshee.
The new home was a wooden shell. The cracks
let in the sun, Johanna found no bar on the door, and
when Danny went out of her sight in the gathering
dusk she wailed that the bunyip would devour her
and the child.
“You’ve been listening to some nullity with an
empty skull so that stories rattle in it,” said Danny
with scorn. “The bunyip will be all to the good to
scare the child from the river. No wan has ever
heard of the bunyip away from the water. Sure, I
wish I could capture the beast. I’d be clearing up a
mystery that disturbs the zoologists and gaining
renown for meself.”
Johanna found the place alive with snakes. The
brown and the black, and even the deadly tiger, were
thick about the river-banks —an added torture to an
exile from the Sacred Isle of Inisfail from which the
blessed St. Patrick himself had banished the reptiles.
Danny did not minimise the danger from snakes,
though he could seize them and break their backs
by cracking them like a whip, a performance which
made Johanna tremble for his safety. He was more
than occupied as the founder of one of the first
families on the Morumbidgee, and was as full of
satisfaction as though his frontage had put him among
the landed gentry of Ireland. His gunyah of shrinking
slabs, covered with bark, elated him ; but the drip
spoiled Johanna’s bed-curtains and made it necessary
to hide her few linen treasures and thus defeated the
elegancy dear to her heart.
Day or night there was no relief from the
Morumbidgee, so lone and dark and far, with the
voice of a ravening wind —thousands of miles of it
until it met an unknown sea. Johanna felt that here
was the furthest extremity of the globe from the
placid Shannon in its park-like plain. The contrast
between this stream and that golden mirror in the
westering sun, when the gentry’s salmon waited head-
to-tail to go up, was so gruelling that her father’s
curse seemed to have overtaken her. Here, at length,
she felt the punishment of her name being tabu in
her family, and that never again would she see Cooley
Hall in old County Clare.
Chapter HI.
GUARDING the illusive land were
throngs of giants the stateliest
trees on the globe. Delacy was
like an ant in the aisles of box-trees
and towering river-gums, but he attacked
them as an army, grunting with effort, sweat dripping
from him. His slight form grew as wiry as steel ; his
hands were corneous and scarred with the work of
felling and grubbing.
“Mother of God!” little Johanna cried as she
saw the columns toppling.
She was sick with terror lest her world of Danny
and the child and the animals should be crushed there
by the lorn river, with none to come to the rescue. A
world of unexcelled, unrealised wealth had to go up
in smoke that a small patch might be cleared to grow
bread and a hut have safety.
Felled, the timber encumbered more ground than
standing, until, with the help of men supplied through
Mr. Moore, Danny rolled the smaller logs into fences
and burned the remainder. He was out before
daylight. He could scarcely desist for meals;
Johanna brought him food and drink at intervals.
The burning-off kept him until midnight, his pillars
of fire licking the starry heavens low above his
gorges.
In the evening Johanna would put her child to
sleep and help by gathering up the sticks. This work
relieved her loneliness, intensified by the moaning of the
river-oaks and the noise of the queer grey birds that
threw laughter back and forth for miles until dark
and after. Their lusty guffawing, upon the smallest
provocation or upon none, had a brow-beating effect
upon her ; and she was mortally afraid that the bunyip
would rear his undescribed form from the fish-hole
or that the ghosts would cry in the crossing.
These fears festered ; she dared not confess them
to Danny. He had none of the cruelty of the
cowardly, but he had an inability to estimate the
torments of the timid, which is sometimes a part of
fearlessness. He had the heritage of his Irish
temperament, which had enabled his exiled com-
patriots to turn desperate plights to brilliant victories,
though Danny himself was free from swashbuckling
taint. He despised belligerence. He disregarded
firearms. His warrior prowess was thus freed to
assault the continent of Australia, and he did not
grizzle because he was unarmed and singlehanded.
Though not at Bewuck until November, he was
ready for the autumn ploughing. One of Moore’s
men, named Hannon, and trusted by both Delacys,
was left to guard the new home. Danny borrowed
the stockman’s daughter, aged eight, from Quebarra
to be company for Johanna. The arms were also, left
with her —a broken cutlass and a flintlock musket.
Should the fire die out a greasy rag could be ignited
by firing it from the muzzle, and this could be applied
to punk. Danny took his sledge and the second man
and set out to forage for seed and various provisions.
Drays were scarce in the district of some fifty square
miles, but two, luckily, belonged to Danny’s protector.
Bandalong was thirty miles distant and there
were dray-tracks for part of the way, but it would
take a week to go and return. Danny’s energy was as
inexhaustible as his courage was resistless. Johanna
therefore merits extra consideration as her fortitude
was cold and stricken.
Her unborn child depressed her and made her
a prisoner in the gorges with the river’s banshee trees
and bunyip-hole. The endurance born of necessity
kept her from breaking down during those breaking-in
days. Danny scarcely realised her heroism in remain-
ing there. She did not realise it herself. Danny did
not recognise himself as heroic and had nought to
spare from the combat to worship other heroes.
Martyrs he would have overlooked as hypochondriacs
or malingerers.
“Now you’re all set, Johanna mavourneen,” he
observed when ready to depart. “Hannon will look
after you like a father, and what could hurt you here
at all, annyway? The bushrangers have died out,
and would not come for so little. If they did, let
them have it. It’s the fighting and defence that
makes all the trouble.”
“But it’s a queer man who does not defind him-
self.”
“The trouble with defence is that the few it saves
are nothing to the danger it brings upon innocent
people by provocation. And now tell me, you’ll be
all right, me brave Johanna, who has come over
the seas with me.”
“What would be the good in telling ye annything
else? Get on with ye, and waste no time in return-
ing.”
“You may be a little lonesome now, but this is
to be a greater place than Cooley Hall, with a finer
town than old Ennis on top of us.”
“Ye’ll be too old to enjoy that whin it comes.”
“Och, you must look to the future. ’Tis only
the beasts and nullities have no foresight.”
DANNY did not know how keenly Johanna suffered
during his absence. When the jackasses ceased
the dark fitted over the treetops like a nightcap, and
the boobooks hooted or the native dogs howled or
the little booraby bears wailed like tortured children.
It was the dark of the moon, and the river more
than girth-deep, so Johanna was sure it was a ghost
that screamed there. Hannon slept at some distance
from the house. Johanna went to bed at dark,
gathering Florry —the visitor and her own child
with her like chicks, and shuddering at every sound.
Sometimes she wept, but empires are not wrought,
nor won, without the tears of the weak—ay, and of
the strong. In any case, what matter? “Tears wash
the eye,” as the young Delacys later wrote in their
copybooks; and Johanna had fine flashing eyes
independent of spectacles to the end.
When the sunlight left the gorge she would climb
with the children and an old dog up the track where
the sun still shone across the plateau, and there
watch for Danny’s return.
“He can’t be here yet, Misthress,” Hannon would
say.
“’Tis an excursion away from the dungeons of
me castle,” Johanna would reply.
At length they saw a party approaching through
the more open timber. Mr. Moore had lent Danny
a dray .and four bullocks. There was the horse slide
and a third horse farther away. Danny hurried
forward. The dray would be brought down the
declivity later.
“Sure, Mr. Moore is a white man if ever there
was wan. I’ve got a power of potatoes and pump-
kins and all manner of seed-wheat and barley and
suckers from fruit-trees and flowers for a garden, me
brave Johanna. It’s a flower-garden you’ll have as
soon as there is spare time.
“And, Johanna, will you believe me, they have
a township laid out by Moore’s. There’s to be a store
and a lockup ; and churches and schools and a post
office will come. Sure, the teamsters congregate
there from three directions, and there’s a power of
traffic already. People are buying blocks for farms."
The stir of Danny’s returns compensated for his
absences. His booty was sometimes inutile but
always entertaining. This time he had beads —as for
the Island trade —but there were also two Dutch toys
for the children, a roll of dowlas, twine and sail-
needles, raisins, writing-paper, powder for ink, and a
keg of tobacco. Sperm candles were a contribution
to Johanna’s elegancies.
“I’d rather a roll of flannel for your underclothes
than so much dowlas.”
Targe edible moths.


“Sure, I’ll be warm working in dowlas. I have
wan kag of chisel-pointed lath nails and another of
green paint. The paint is your own, me brave
Johanna. A place can be made a palace with a dab
of paint and a lick of plaster.”
The recital progressed before the homy log
fire while Johanna and Florry prepared the meal.
“But now, Johanna, can you guess what more
I’ve got?”
“A newspaper!”
“Och, I have dozens of them.”
“A letter from Ennis?”
“Not this time, but ’twill come.”
“Mr. Moore has lent ye some books?”
“I have wan, but there will be no time to read,
so I resisted more.”
“Did ye bring me anny burrds, Danny-boy?”
“Och!” It was a shout of triumph. “As fine a
pair of turkeys as ever you saw, and thim sixteen
shillings the pair in Sydney this mortal minute: and
a little cock and two hins.”
“I’ll go see they are not smothered,” exclaimed
Johanna.
“Leave them be. Wan of the min will bring
them. You haven’t guessed what more it is I’ve
brought.”
“I’d like it to be a cask for a tub.”
“I’ve wan big enough for a bath, and a little
wan to make pails beside it ; but what more have I?”
“Ye’r so full of wonders, Danny-boy, that ye
might have the brown bull of Cooley himself hid
along the track.”
Daniel Brian Robert M. Delacy laughed a shout
of triumph. “You’ve almost said it. I have the next
thing to the bull of Cooley or the Shan Van Voght
captured. I’ve got a fine lump of a colt—the brown
entire.”
“And how did that happen?” Johanna strove
to be impressed, though the poultry were more to
her understanding.
THE colt, sometimes known as the Singer, had
been the hope of Mr. Moore’s stud, and later
the grief.
Eyes of men dulled by the “System” had
brightened at sight of the strong, tall animal who
combined all the virtues and graces. Not only did
he promise speed, but his stock would possess all the
qualities demanded for the remount market.
Then, about a year since, the groom had been
galloping him in sight of the household when he put
his foot in a hole and —crack! —with a sound like a
pistol the off fore fetlock was clean snapped. The
jockey was killed, and put a gloomy seal on the fate
of the Singer, son of Skeleton.
“’Tis a pity not to give him a chance of his
life,” said Danny, who loved a good horse for his
beauty and usefulness, though he had as great a
contempt for horseracing and all that went with it
as he had for army swagger. “I’ll experiment with
him.”
He slung him in a special stall and nursed him
day and night for weeks. That was Danny’s way,
with no purpose other than absorption in the enter-
prise for its own sake. He had ideas for a stocking
for the fractured fetlock which a surgeon guest helped
him to make from stringybark and fitted splints.
When Danny returned Mr. Moore reported that
the horse was dangerous to handle, so that the
advisability of shooting him had recurred. He was,
however, so calm and friendly with Danny that
Moore said “You’ve earned that horse, Delacy. If
you can use him you can have him.”
Thus Johanna saw the animal in the twilight.
He was in poor condition and unkempt after his
journey on three legs, but his eyes were wide and
wise and he had the crest of an emperor.
“Is he really such a grand beast and all?”
Doubt in Johanna’s tone impelled speech from
Dunn, the dour man holding the halter.
“Sure, ye’r Honor, there’s not his aquil in the
Colony this day, beggin’ ye’r pardon for spakin’.
He’s own son of Skeleton himself and better than his
spit, and by a mare of the purest blood herself. .And
Skeleton himself was owned by the Marquis of Sligo
himself at first; and he sowld him to none but a
prince, him wid the name of Ester Hazy. It sounds
loike a faymale and all, but ’tis a man, as Oi’ve been
towld by thim that’s seen him at the great race
meetings.”
Johanna retired. Such patter was not for ladies.
Refinement decreed that they feign ignorance of the
presence and purpose of stud animals.
“By damn!” said Delacy. “We’re in the
presence of royalty. Me fortune’s made entirely.
What is more, Dunn, I go by the dam. This
fellow’s dam was a thoroughbred, and a perfect lady
to boot. The nullities think anny old dam will do.
Observation shows that the mother is equally
impoortant—more so to judge by human beings.”
THERE were now free immigrants arriving under
the new policy of assistance with funds derived
from the sale of Crown lands, but the towns and the
big men had the pick of these, and Delacy, short of
capital, was dependent upon ex-ticket-of-leavers, who
sometimes imposed upon him because of their grey
hairs. His personal industry continued unabated.
He robbed from the nights by working in the light
of log fires in the barn, called the kitchen and used
as the men’s hut.
Hannon and Danny ploughed with two steady
bullocks lent by Mr. Moore, and a pair of milkers’
calves. It was part of the day’s work to pursue the
bolting team around the paddock, Hannon trying to
“whoa” them while Danny clung to the precious
borrowed plough. Palings were split for Johanna’s
garden. Land was set aside for fruit-trees and
vegetables. The jackasses followed plough or spade
for the fat blue-and-ivory grannie-grubs that popped
from the gleaming furrows. Danny found them
entertaining companions and mingled his laughter
with theirs. The brown colt became a member of
the family and helped to shape its fortunes—all in
the trend of the times. Johanna had been startled
on the morning after his arrival when she saw her
husband sitting on the ground with the entire foot
in his arms as he refitted the splint.
“The Saints preserve us! He could batter ye
to pieces!”
“Arrah, he’s as gentle as a lamb. You’ve only to
treat him like a Christian.”
Dunn had the congenial task of groom, and
many a feed of sprouting barley was filched for the
horse.
Mrs. Wade left Florry at Bewuck to help
Johanna, and later came herself for the confinement.
Mrs. Fullwood was cut off by the river’s winter level.
The infant settler was one of few arrivals during the
winter months. The Delacys were jremote from
roads. A man or two came, having heard of the
colt, and there was a messenger from one of the big
stations towards the Plains to borrow salt and a bag
of flour.
There were floods of marsupial visitors, some
of whose species have since been extirpated. One
of the men had to be on duty all night to save the
crops. Gentle furry things fell to any simple traps
or to Rover and his colleagues. Their flesh fed the
poultry and pigs, and their skins were pegged out to
dry in scores. Those of kangaroos and wallaroos
were marketable. Kangaroos were also eaten. Cattle
were too precious to be made into beef at the begin-
ning.
SPRING came and ripened towards summer and
Christmas. The waters of the Murrumbidgee
subsided, and Delacy’s tenancy was contested by the
Fullwoods and Butlers. One morning Heulong cattle
supplanted the Bewuck herd right to the fence of
the cow-paddock, and not far away were also Butler
cattle from Glenties. The little man was to be
squeezed out by the bigger squatters on each side.
Danny summoned his dogs and rode to contest
this. In charge of the Heulong stock was a tall man
named O’Neill, on a good horse. He had his instruc-
tions, and rode belligerently at Danny, pulling a pistol
from his holster. Fullwood and Butler were cronies
of the Commissioner, Danny was a penniless immi-
grant wedging his way on to the river.
The pistol was so enraging to him that he rode
straight at it, ordering O’Neill to drop it, “before
I skelp the eyes out of your head, you scoundrel,
doing the dirty work of some cowardly crawler who’s
bought you for a plug of tobacco and a taggeen of
rum.”
O’Neill had been a bruiser, and shouted “Take
back ye’r durrty words, ye little shrivelled heretic!
Get off ye’r horse and meet me man to man.”
“Impty the charge from your pistol and I will,”
said Danny. “Though it’s thim that’s above you I
should be meeting.”
O’Neill, surprised, obediently discharged his
pistol and replaced it in the holster. He almost
smiled to think how easily he would dispose of Delacy
and get the reward from Butler and Fullwood. The
men dismounted, tied up their horses and took off
their coats.
Butler’s man, who had been in the offing to
report, now rode up. Butler himself halted at a
distance behind the trees, and there were Danny’s
two assigned men from Mr. Moore.
None of the Delacys had the physique of boxers.
They were as slight as reeds, with delicate hands.
Danny had no training: his only chance was to rush
his opponent. O’Neill waited for him, parried him
easily, and with one blow brought the blood from
Danny’s nose; a second closed one of his eyes, a
third on the point of the jaw laid him out. It was
over in a minute.
Butler came from ambush with contemptuous
mien. Danny’s men gloated to see one of their own
fraternity so capable as O’Neill. They despised
Danny, insignificant and unable to shake a fist in
self-defence.
“Pour a drop of water on him and take him
home to his wife,” ordered Butler, and rode away
with his man.
The victor mounted his horse and drove the
Heulong cattle towards Bewuck homestead.
Danny lay winded for some time, then he sat
up, then he went to the river and soused his head in
the clear, cold water. His men hung about currishly,
without contesting the encroachments of O’Neill.
Charles Fullwood, who had watched from across the
river, rode out of sight well satisfied.
H -1 HE scientific O'Neill had not punished Delacy too
1 heavily. But for the closed eye and slight
dizziness he was quickly himself. He made no remark
to his men but quietly mounted his horse: with his
long, heavy stockwhip in hand he rode towards
O’Neill.
“You’ve beaten me at that noble art,” he said
mildly. “I met you because otherwise 1 would have
been open to the insinuation of cowardice, but I fear
no man in heaven or hell, and I’m no man’s servant
but me own. Me brave gladiator with the pistol and
fists, acting for another who’s too craven to represent
himself, now it’s for the second round. The first
was to your pattern, the second is to me own. Your
horse is better than mine, and you have a whip the
same, and 1 hereby give notice that I’ll skelp you off
me premises. Arrah! Begin!”
O’Neill took up the duel. Delacy was on him
with a yell, getting the first stroke at the horse’s flank
and sending him rearing and plunging. O’Neill had
as little chance when agility was demanded as Delacy
when it was weight. The little man got m two cuts
for big man’s one. O’Neill soon had a wale
across his face, and his shoulders had not so stung
since he had been on the triangle. As Delacy gained
the ascendancy he ordered his men to round-up the
trespassing cattle, and with dogs barking and biting
they were driven into the river.
Danny had earned the men’s respect. A polish
was put on it when he made no reference to the
incident. He gave instructions as to where the cattle
were to be pastured, and rode home.
He explained his eye to Johanna as the result of
a fly-bite, then prevalent, took a meal and rode away
to Mr. Moore. The upshot was that Moore used
his influence with the Commissioner for Crown
Lands and Delacy was allowed to add to his holding
land to which those already settled wanted the right
without payment. Seeing that he had a protector,
Butler and Fullwood desisted from open hostilities,
They feared they had gone too far m setting a lag to
attack a freeman.
The tale spread from the Heulong and Glenties
men to the stockmen of Quebarra, and the facts soon
returned to Johanna from Florry’s mother. Mrs.
Fullwood was perhaps the only one who did not
know of the encounter and she did not withdraw her
neighborliness from Johanna. Gossip was that
Fullwood discarded O’Neill for exceeding his duty in
carrying the issue to a physical fight.
“Time will test the whole pack of them —which
are min and which are crawlers!” grunted Danny.
THE next stir was the approach of blacks. A man
from Glenties reported to the Wades at Quebarra
that Bewuck was their objective. The fish-hole was
their feasting and camping ground. Two tame
aborigines came to announce their tribe and to
inform Danny that he was on their ground.
“God help us! What’s to become of me and
the childre?” exclaimed Johanna terrified.
“Sure we have taken their ground,” said Danny,
“but these have never hurt a hair of the settlers from
here to the Plains. I’ll go meet them like a Christian
and see what can be done.”
One of the Moore working bullocks had
developed lumpy-jaw and had been left to Danny
for disposal, so he rode to meet the dispossessed with
the oppressed servitor as a peace offering. One of
the envoys was with him and introduced him and
explained the bullock.
The unarmed Danny was received as a brother,
and guffawed in concert with the men. When he got
on his horse one of the envoys brought a girl
piccaninny and signified that she was to be taken on
the pommel. Danny was elated, but Johanna
received the child with mingled feelings.
“They’ll be after ye with spears, taking ye for
an abductor.” Her elder child, now three, was
terrified of the girl’s dark skin, and asked would she
eat the baby. The Australian was not alarmed, but
full of curiosity about the white babies and their
clothes.
“Dayvil if ever I met pleasanter people, smiling
from ear to ear, they were so pleased with Bally.
It wrung me heart, the poor old fellow walking along
with me so friendly and intelligent, but he is only
a beast after all. The child reminds me of a wild
turkev. but as you see, not wan bit uneasy.”
“Murra me, that ever I was born and came
roaming to the wilds! They’ve given the child to
ye for fosterage, and that’s why she is so easy.”
“Be the powers! That would be an honor to
you, me brave Johanna.”
She saw the adventure. “If it wouldn’t bring
hordes of murdering savages upon us. In anny case,
1 must put a shimmy on her, her not to be a shame
before me and a bedivilmint to the min.”
Late that night dark shadows stole between
Johanna and the light of the moon on her tiny
window. Danny, awakened, sprang forth and called


on the prowlers to halt. They were petrified by his
booming tones. He lit a candle and invited the
visitors to investigate the fate of the piccaninny.
They were impressed to see her already in white man’s
garb in a bed beside the cot of the toddler, from
whom she refused to part.
“That one sit down longa white pfeller—all same
as white pfeller,” they said.
The child’s account must have been satisfactory,
for she was left where she was —adopted. Only
Danny tasted the roasted boogongs brought as a
present, which, he recorded, reminded him of dried
plums. The black child was overjoyed by such a
feast.
Her people camped at the bunyip-hole, on the
other side of the river, which gave some safety from
their mangy curs. Otherwise, as Danny pointed out,
they were far less destructive than a company of
whites would have been.
“And me having taken the heart of their ground!
Sure, they’re the most generous and forgiving
Christians,” he exclaimed. “They make a contrast
to old Butler and Fullwood, trying to batter me up.”
Danny strutted among the bucks with the
enjoyment of a boy. One of the men had been with
Major Mitchell, and came to the home and
fraternised. He was interested in the colt’s wooden
stocking and called him Nullah Mundoey—wooden
leg or boot. Johanna was amused by the half-tamed
gins and set them to wash for her in return for a
garment or two.
At the end of a fortnight they moved farther
south to the mountains that beckoned Danny as the
Lorelei and where there remained undisturbed by
whites a hundred or more square miles teeming
with fish, waterfowl, turkeys, marsupials, emus,
snakes, lizards, boogongs and other food, and
recesses by grim Numba Nanga where they could
hold their ceremonies safe from intrusion.
The little girl made no attempt to leave with
(hem. “’Tis romantic, Johanna. She is left with us
like an ancient chief’s daughter to rear up in civilisa-
tion.”
They were not clever enough to extract her
name. As a gesture to Johanna Danny christened
her Maeve, after the chieftainess who had had such
an inordinate desire to possess the Brown Bull of
Cooley. She was lovable and willing, and Johanna’s
first native-born servant, though in Danny's com-
monwealth she ranked as a daughter of the house.
Hr HE livestock with which Moore had paid Delacy
I increased to the limit, so that by the end of
another year they needed more territory.
Delacy, as the Colony at large, was completely
the grazier and little the farmer. He could never
ascend from his gorges to the higher land of Quebarra
or Glenties without exalted emotion. He would gaze
towards the fringe of the Australian Alps, forty or
fifty miles distant, ranging around the translucent
heavens like a necklace eighty or a hundred miles
in length, and feel as a poet drinking from the
fountain of inspiration.
There lay a land to be wrought to his heart’s
desire. With this attitude of the visionary was inter-
woven the need for energetic action. In the rare
moments when he sat with Johanna before retiring
he talked of going up the Murrumbidgee with his
surplus stock and settling in a valley that the blacks
called Burrabinga.
“Utterly inaccessible,” Johanna would sqy with
falling heart.
“Wasn't Australia inaccessible till Cook found
it, and America out-of-bounds till the Puritan Fathers
settled it? No place is inaccessible if you have the
moind to go there.”
What Johanna really felt was that the mountains
were all too accessible to Danny.
“Sure, we must look ahead. ’Tis only the beasts
and nullities have no foresight. I’ll need territory
for me sons.”
“And thim not born yet! Counting chickens
before they are hatched.”
“You’ll have more luck with time,” said Danny
cheerfully. ‘Til be too late again if I don’t look
out. There’s Urquhart at Keebah these five years,
and him building a fine house by Government min,
near as good as Moore’s. Sure, it has upstairs, I
hear.”
“Why must ye ever go beyond the roads?”
Johanna would pose. “It would be more sinse to
stay inside the fince till there is more population.”
She could not understand his urge to go first,
his exaltation when penetrating beyond the benefit
of roads and fences.
“Someone must first make the road, me brave
Johanna,” he would chant. “Have you ever con-
sidered that every road was no road wanst? ’Tis
amazing to consider the min away back in the
immensity of time who went first even in old
Ireland.”
“But there’s no call for ye—a man with childre
—to be that wan. There’s reason in all things, and
there’s little in rushing ahead to the backward places
to be lost and to starve and be looked upon as a
fool.”
She was a brake upon him for a time, but after
the second harvest there was no restraining him. He
had his holding ringbarked and fenced in paddocks
near to the house, and a relatively large portion under
cultivation. He had a house, and Heulong and
Glenties harried him whenever that was possible
without coming into the open.
Hannon, blacksmith by trade, carpenter by
natural gift, was a treasure in the environment. That
he should ever have been a lag was, Danny said, a
reflection on the “System.” Danny had no hesitation
in leaving the man in charge of the place and of
Johanna.
Johanna became resigned as the enterprise took
shape. Danny’s eyes had the light that had shone in
them seven years before, when he talked of
emigrating,
Chapter IV
**
T was a grand morning in the New
|| Year, with the summer braver than
JgL ever it is where the Shannon flows,
when Delacy started farther out with
fifty head of mixed horned cattle and a
dozen horses. With him was the dour Dunn, a
carpenter of sorts, who could build a hut. They had
four horses loaded with provisions and gear, and the
old musket and ammunition, with which to supple-
ment their larder.
“Come with me, Johanna, up to the top. You
can wish me luck.’*
Maeve stayed with the younger children. From
the day of her advent she could be trusted to keep
her foster-sisters from harm. Johanna walked beside
Danny, who led the mare with the elder child astride
her, to the crest of the ascent.
“Ah, me brave Johanna, look at that!” he
exclaimed, his eyes enlarging and darkening with
emotion. “How could a man be lonely in sight of
that? With that before me I could leap over the
moon.”
“It was the owld grey mare that was waiting till
me back was turned to lepp into me lettuce-plot,”
said Johanna, whose heart and body were heavy.
Dunn was keeping the cattle together. They
lowed questioningly at this disturbance of their habits.
The dogs brave heelers and intrepid kangaroo-
chasers — yelped and whined and rolled on their
backs in their impatience to be gone. Danny took
the pipe from his mouth to kiss his family good-bye.
This weapon did not look so big with a beard around
it. y .
His beard at twenty-five was sleek and fine, to
match his hair ; it did not ascend high on the face
but kept the goatee contour of the whiskers of the
Great Earl of Cork, as presented by Paul van Somers,
to which portrait Danny bore a resemblance.
“I’ll be riding back and forth between places.
If you get lonesome shut the house and away to
Mrs. Wade. You and the children are more
impoortant than all the country.”
He mounted and took off his hat and flapped
it as he looked back while the mare pranced and
spluttered to overtake her company.
“The woild blacks up there maybe will eat ye,”
called Johanna.
“Why put such a calumny on quiet people?” he
laughed, and rode into the boundless day with the
ancient enchantment upon it.
Johanna took her child’s hand and watched the
path against snakes. Their dispatch with a stringy-
bark sucker with a knob on the end remained an
ordeal to her. Maeve was her mainstay in this. The
flicker to be seen in the dark people’s eyes lit in
hers at the sport, and the trouble had been to train
her to forgo such rich food.
DANNY travelled with a paean in his heart, his
eyes towards the ramparts that swept southwards
to Brisbane Plains the Monaro of to-day. The
dazzling clarified atmosphere imposed no border on
distance but eternity, and had a liberating effect.
Nearer lay Limestone Plains, where to-day is the
planned Parliamentary city, conceived in a spate of
democratic idealism, and then....
The tourist, succeeding the traveller, who early
followed the explorer, may look across that view
to-day and see, still but slightly defaced by man,
the witching beauty of the ranges wearing the ages
down tenaciously. He can choose for himself where
across them was the way of Daniel Brian Robert
M. Delacy. Delacy’s Gap and Delacy’s Peaks
sentinel the distance, though the old name is wearing
faint with the passing of living memory and new
names are being substituted in compliment to petty
officials.
Where Danny raised his first hut may be known
by the abrupt gorge, like the cleft keep of an ancient
fortress, through which the river winds. The spot
was familiar to the blacks as Burrabinga, or The
Jump, where a giant once leaped across with thunder
and lightning in his spears. The homestead, an
agglomeration of the years and the generations of
Delacy, was for long one of the best-known in the
southern district.
As the day reached its zenith the unease of the
cattle indicated blacks. A stockman going towards
Ginninginninderra crossed Danny’s track with the
news that the tribes of Monaro and those from lower
down the Murrumbidgee had been mustering for a
week. They had arrived lean and mangy from
Riverina, but several weeks’ feasting, topped off with
boogongs, had put a gloss on their hides and filled
them with the virility which in all tongues is
synonymous with fight. A battle was expected.
“Be the poipers, ’twill be an exhilarating
spectacle!” exclaimed Delacy.
The cattle, which could sense the approach of
aborigines two or three days distant, had to be driven
in a southerly direction from the smoke-signals. Two
days’ pressed travelling brought them to Keebah,
where there was a good crossing. Delacy was
welcomed by Urquhart and his wife, two young
settlers with three infants. Urquhart was Danny’s
age and his wife five years younger. Danny
remained with them until his cattle had rested.
At the end of a pleasant visit Delacy pushed on
for another twenty miles, where the horses and cattle
drew together, baulking on the edge of the precipices
which guarded his valley.
“Sure, ye’r Honor, ’tis impassable,” said Dunn.
“Impassable, by damn!” shouted Danny. “A
man can ride over a house if he sets his moind to
it. I have the intintion of breeding horses that could
manipulate a steeple. This mare can be the pioneer.
I’ll go first. Rouse them up to follow.”
With an “arrah” or two the long-suffering brood
mare was urged forward and nervously but intelli-
gently sought the safest place to set her hooves.
Down she went, snorting, sliding, sitting, scraping
the hide off her hocks, and with Dunn compelling the
packed animals pinch by pinch in her wake. The
dogs heeled the cattle and horses between Dunn and
their leader and they came to the foot of the descent
without loss.
The cattle settled for the night. Snow was falling
in defiance of the calendar and had purged the air
of the disturbing aborigines. The men made fires
to warm themselves and to scare the dingoes. The
cattle-dogs drew attention to *an object at a distance
and Danny found a native boy of ten or twelve years
lying in the ashes of a dead fire. He was in a pitiable
condition, the front of his torso deeply burned, and
made no movement.
DELACY carried the suffering creature to his camp
and wrapped him in his own blanket and called
to Dunn for the “kag” in the saddle-bags. The charred
boy was softened with grease, protected from the
weather and had a few drops of rum forced down his
throat. Later Danny tried to feed his patient on a
morsel of bandicoot, taken from the dogs and roasted,
but he. could not swallow.
Next day Danny and Dunn had to carry the boy
in a blanket, and he lay motionless and on the brink
of death during the difficult transit. The dogs worked
among the stock, and at dusk the men rigged a canvas
shelter a mile from where the main homestead stood
in its prime.
“Sure, ’twould be aisier for ye’rself and him, ye'r
Honor, if you finished him now,” said Dunn. “I’ve
seen them shoot down manny a fine buck on the north
coast whin I was serving me turrn. They do be saying
that they’re not human, but only loike the animals.”
“What haythen promulgated that idea? Am I
a murderer to choose between the color of a skin?
I show aquil respect to humanity whether it is black,
white or yellow, bond or free.”
He plastered his invalid with grease, wrapping
him against frostbite, while Dunn rode around the
cattle and returned to report that a couple of blacks
were spearing them.
“And you to be letting them!” yelled Danny,
seizing Dunn's nag and galloping to the danger.
Later it was well-known from the Yackandandah to
Yass that Daniel Robert Brian M. Delacy had no
fear of anything and that he used more metaphysical
methods of exerting his immunity than the old
musket.
He galloped up to the aggressors —if that were
the right term dismounted and made signs of
friendliness in the manner of Governor Davy’s
proclamation, and he bellowed—simply bellowed. It
was said that in his middle life he could sit on his
verandahs and converse with stockmen miles out on
the run, so powerful his lungs, so resonant his voice,
produced in the deep-chested Irish way, which is
rarely muted by self-consciousness. He tried to
convey that he gave the speared beasts but that the
warriors were to touch no others.
The fervor of his utterance, his blue eyes glinting
conspicuously in the tan, impressed them. They
made signs of peace and Danny retrieved his cattle.
He rode around them all night, but there were no
further depredations.
On the day following other blacks appeared,
among them some who had feasted on the lumpy-
jawed beast at Bewuck. Danny gathered from the
pantomime that the story of the fosterage of Maeve
was being told. They traced the burned boy to
Danny’s camp—possibly coming to bury him—and
were impressed by seeing him alive and cherished.
Danny had established himself as a superman, a
big pfeller chief, a popular corroboree theme. He
had not embroiled himself by defence.
The boy’s name was Doogoolook. He was left
to Danny, and as soon as the beast was devoured
the tribe moved towards the black rock of prehistoric
ages which still guards their bora rings in a tiny
treeless flat.
Danny was-safe to “tail” his cattle so that they
would home in the valleys. He and Dunn made a
hut of logs with a lean-to called a skilling and a roof
of stringybark.
“A prodigious country, Dunn, to provide a roof
for the skinning of it from the trees. A fine thing,
too, to be killing a few trees in the process.”
For weeks the eyes alone showed that Danny’s
patient lived. Danny did not flag in greasing him,
and fed him on skilligalee procured from the blood
of wild animals. He talked to him in loud and
cheerful tones, but no response came from the
emaciated half-cooked frame. A bitch, brought to
supply successors to snakebite casualties or kangaroo
maulings, kept the sores as clean as anything science
could devise, and one day when Danny was eating
his own meal of duck he was rewarded by his charge
reaching for a discarded bone.
“Be the poipers! We shall have ye as strong as
the Brown Bull of Cooley or the cervus giganticus
before long, and lepping like a kangaroo-dog.”
The boy began to walk about. The chest and
abdomen were a sickening spectacle but the limbs
were sound. Dunn had been unable to endure the
stench of the fat on the creature in the blanket, but
Danny’s ardor for results rendered him superior to
bad smells. He contributed a shirt as bandages for
the remaining sores, and a pair of trousers cut off at
the knees. The remnants of moleskin made a com-
forting breastplate.


“Why does he never make a sound?” Danny
demanded.
“Maybe he’s dumb, ye’r Honor.”
Danny thereupon yelled behind the child but
he gave no sign of hearing.
There s deaf-and-dumb whites, and sure, this is
a black wan. Doesn’t that show that he is human and
aquil with us? How shall we teach him annything
at all? After pondering Danny decided. “I’ll
have to keep him as a pet. He’ll be an astonishment
to me wife.
T" HE weeks disappeared like quicksilver. Only two
1 callers penetrated into the fastnesses —a man who
helped to hump provisions from Keebah and an
adventurer from Limestone Plains. No word had
penetrated from Jdhanna. Danny had had but one
chance of sending a message to her. The heavy
frosts of May brought him to a sense of the calendar.
One day when riding around the cattle he brought
the mare back on her haunches with a yell.
“Be the poipers, the youngster must have arrived,
and me not to have remembered!”
He returned to the hut as if pursued.
‘ Give me a bit to eat. I’m off to Bewuck.
There s impoortant business I should have been there
a month past for. You give an eye to the stock,” he
ordered Dunn. “If you want rations you can make
out to Keebah. I’ll tell Mr. Urquhart as I pass.”
Doogoolook ran after his master like a dog, so
he had to stop and catch a second horse and furnish
it with an improvised bridle and a piece of bag for
a saddle, with greenhide loops for the rider’s feet.
“How long will ye be away, plazing ye’r Honor?”
inquired Dunn.
“Maybe I’ll be back within a week, and maybe
not till ye see me!” Delacy shouted, his horses on
the run.
They reached Bewuck three days later. The
dogs announced an arrival and Hannon and Maeve
shouted who it was. Johanna took her second child,
little Della, and sat on the verandah facing the river.
Danny went inside with fear in his heart because
Johanna had not come to meet him.
“Good-day. Is me wife well?” he asked of the
strange woman who met him at the threshold.
“Quite well, sir.”
Johanna, me brave Johanna, where are you?”
he called. He sought in every room for her.
“Johanna, I’ve come home.” She turned her head
away. “Johanna, I’ve come home, you see.” She
looked so thin and frail that he was startled. “The
child that was coming,” he murmured.
Her eyes flashed scornfully. “Ye might well ask!
Ye to stay away all that toime without wan flick of
proper affection as husband or father!”
Danny was smitten mute, ashamed that he had
forgotten his impending fatherhood.
“The foinest boy ye ever saw, and him to be
born dead by all I underwint. Lonesomeness and
fright! The trees everlastingly moaning like
banshees, and the bunyip screaming like wan
murdered, night after night. Sure, Maeve and
Hannon both tracked him as plain as bull beef on the
flat rocks around the hole.”
Danny did not scoff at the bunyip.
“I’m sorry, Johanna. Sure, there are things that
can’t be explained.”
“There are plinty of them with ye, Daniel
Delacy.”
"I’m glad you have a woman with you, Johanna.”
Was I to be alone here with Hannon, a scandal
lor all the world, and Walter Moore another? I
wrote to Mr. Moore and he took pity on me and sent
the "woman.”
“Sure, Hannon is a quiet, harmless man.”
'A e need to be more rational.”
So a boy, and it dead,” repeated Danny, sub-
dued. “I’ll need maybe to recast me operations.”
“Ye'll need to mind ye’r ways. I can stand no
more. It s nothing but a snake-killer in a territorial
prison ye’ve reduced me to.”
He dared not caress her. He retreated for the
present.
“I’ll go take a look around, and see you again,
Johanna.”
“Don’t moind me,” she said sarcastically. “It’s
little I’ll moind ye hereafter.”
He noted the rough chairs made elegant with
paint, and was touched by the efforts towards refine-
ment. Everything seemed prosperous and ship-shape,
so really and comfortably a home to be proud of
that he was convicted of dereliction as a husband.
He made friends with Maeve and Kathleen
Moyna.
“Sure, a brother for you, Maeve.”
Maeve smiled at Doogoolook and quickly
discovered his disability. He clung to Danny, who
returned to Johanna with him and the girls.
Johanna refused to look at him. “Ye can run
after every black and tom-cat, and let ye’r own die
forgotten,” she said.
He had to dismount from the charger of adven-
re and Propitiate Johanna, not without misgivings
that he might lose Burrabinga. Having retired from
the field ot gallantry at eighteen, he was rusty in its
graces, but he was urgent to revive his brave
Johanna s affection. He devoted himself to her with
aidor throughout the winter, the more so because
Waller Moore rode out and quartered himself at
Bewuck for weeks. Danny, who thought no evil,
was at length convinced of Walter’s wicked intentions.
Sure, ’tis a grief that he is the son of the best
' iend we ev I er 1 can have. Come with me away to
uirabinga Johanna, and you'll escape him and be
with me to build up our fortune.”
knew uw f a V he burden of his lay ’ until Johanna
knew that further resistance would be useless, though
her melancholy heart did not rise. In Danny’s eyes
was the light that had lit them in the far days of
Ennis, when, as a way to escape O’Gorman and have
her love, she had consented to flee to New South
Wales—a cataclysmic experience to one whose dream
was an orthodox home with good carpets, china and
napery. Hardship, suffering and loneliness had been
her portion.
Chapter V .
ON another grand long day Danny
set off once more for the hills.
Three children and Johanna had
to be transported this time. The
ravines between Keebah and Burrabinga
were impassable for vehicles.
Doogoolook, quick at understanding and making
signs, was useful, and free from the venial sins of
white boys. He and Maeve shared one nag. Johanna
had another and a side-saddle to herself. Kathleen
Moyna had a quiet old mare and Della clung on
behind her sister. Dunn had lately ridden down to
find out what had become of his master, and was
now in charge of a string of packhorses.
Hannon had married the woman sent by Mr.
Moore, and they were left to keep Bewuck in order.
Johanna stayed two days at Keebah with Janet
Urquhart, and from the amenities of this home drew
Iresh courage to advance beyond the surveyors,
beyond the security of roads and fences.
During the descent Danny had to go beside
Johanna while Dunn had the children. The other
man and Doogoolook guarded the packhorses
against the fate of the Biblical swine. Dusk fell
before the last lap, so Danny camped at his spring,
where the clearest, coldest water in Australia bubbled
straight from the earth amid tree-ferns, crowsfoot
and maidenhair. The children had their foster-
relations to introduce them to wonderland. Johanna
was weary and busy with the meal, while the men
took off the packs and prepared the bedding.
Danny had brought the colt named Nullah
Mundoey by the blacks and went back to fetch him
up to the company.
“Hell never go down the precipices, ye’r Honor,”
said Dunn.
“What is there to prevent him, if I make up me
moind?” *
The animal, through being left behind, was
heady. Danny admonished him.
“On with you! You’ll soon be in the valley,.and
then a gentleman s career among the ladies ever
after, strutting about with a mug of consequence on
you.”
The excitement of the horse made the descent
more perilous, but he was controlled by Danny, who
had the physical recklessness sober of a sailor drunk,
and was naturally and nationally en rapport with
horses. He swung at the end of the halter like a
sweated jockey in his over-large slops, but for the
resounding voice and the beard surrounding the
formidable pipe. He talked all the time.
Sure, you can affoord to lose another leg yet
and still have as manny as meself. It’s the moind
that takes you annywhere. Arrah, me brave warrior!”
The second day was a repetition of the first and
Johanna grew more depressed by the prison-like
features of her retreat. Nearing dusk the most
indomitable of men in his one-man show reached
his country seat and surveyed it with pride. Johanna
would have wept with weariness and despair but for
the demands upon her. Danny had the elation of a
conqueror. He could envision his domain denuded of
the native standing armies, a place worthy of manv
sons to be. ’
If ever a woman earned an inheritance for her
sons in Australia it was Johanna, but that night she
was conscious only of the bruising and fatigue of
those impossible descents, too rough to sit on a horse,
where a false step would have sent her crashing over
the precipice. Now the mountain was a mighty
bastion to imprison her among fearsome trees so
high that they shut out the heavens a frightening
land of endless- forests far from the gentle Shannon
“’Tis Bunratty Castle* itself,” she sighed, “and
ye not contint with seeing it. Surely, Danny Delacy
this is the furthest extremity of the globe, and there
is no further place to drag me but Purgatory itself ”
Nearly a century was to pass after Johanna
Cooley felt thus, because of their strangeness, towards
some of the most regal trees on the globe, and
Australians—artists, too, among them—would still be
fleeing to Europe to worship the oak and the olive
while remaining dull to the greater grandeur the
unique delight, of the bluegum, the myall or the
brigalow—so slowly is the unevolved soul tilled to the
apperception of unfamiliar beauty.
Come in, me brave Johanna. Here’s ye’r second
home, all ready waiting for you. In another twenty
years think what it will be, and us still in our prime.”
Johanna was repulsed by the grime and uncouth-
ness of her hut. It had been a dreadful drop from
Moore sto Bewuck ; now she was at the end of a
much longer fall from amenities, friends, music, books
and every elegancy, even those attainable by green
paint and mortar of chopped horsehair and cow-dung
1 cracks - The children could nearly run between
anff,i a - bS ° f B ? r, 'u bl ü ßa wa,ls - More birds riotously
1 h S ’ nd bl f her Precipices than at Bewuck
hastened the night. Doogoolook had already
exhibited a snake. The situation was too depolarising
for tears.
1—I OWEVER, when hunger was satisfied, retreat
* to bed by the light of the fire in the big hearth
was a relief from fatigue. All were soon asleep but
Johanna, who turned over the realisation that never
again would she see the soft green plains of County
Clare with its old homesteads nestling amid pet trees
and friendly shrubs.
Out on the flats, amid the tussocks and thickets
of tea-tree, the plovers were almost as plentiful as
the ducks. More curlews than elsewhere—for these
be solitaries — came as night deepened, and their
chorale arose above that of the dingoes. Curlews
were the banshee-birds of Johanna’s childhood, but
these wailed the same melody in the swamps of
Burrabinga as those in the sedges of Clare, and the
homesick immigrant fell asleep comforted by a
familiar voice in a strange lost land.
In the morning she found that the river had none
of the mourning trees of the Murrumbidgee but was
lined with ferns more beautiful than those in the
hothouses of the gentry in Limerick. The children
found the blossoming grevillea (rosamina folia ) and
adored it as ducks and drakes, and plucked the
chookies of the banksia — misnamed honeysuckle.
The valley was white as Ireland’s May with tea-tree,
and blue with mint-shrub, a paradise replete with
flowers for the children.
Doogoolook and Maeve were conjurors as well
as reliable guardians. They laughed with the jack-
asses and cawed with the crows and reproduced the
heavenly warbling of the magpies; they had wild
things’ eggs for toys, their young for pets.
All importation had to be on packhorses that
negotiated the worst pinches on their hocks. Every-
thing possible was manufactured on the spot. With
axe and adze Dunn quarried tables and stools from
green wood as heavy as lead. Mattresses of sacking
filled with grass were placed on stringybark on pegs
sunk in the floor. The shutters were of greenhide.
The peasants around Ennis would be surprised
to see our brothy in the glen,” observed Johanna.
“Moi, woman, the peasant’s crib is a crumb
begrudged from the overlord’s spoils in an effete
civilisation. Our shortcomings must be endured only
till the population advances.”
“'Twould be rational to wait till the population
advanced.”
Och, you have no reason at vou. We waited
till the population was out of bounds.”
Pelts of dingoes, wallaroos and the beautiful
possums were to be had for little effort. Fur rugs
did duty for blankets, skins cushioned the rough
chairs. Johanna, tenacious in gentility, never surren-
dered her napery, though a special packhorse had to
import Russian sheeting. The earthen floor was
carpeted by the hide of a packhorse who had lost
his life in pioneering at Delacy’s Cutting. For
ornaments there were emu-eggs and lyre-birds’ tails
bullock-horns and the skin of the speckled echidna ;
but Johanna craved china, pictures and cross-stitch
mats and vases with glass dangles like those which
decorated the withdrawing-room of her aunt in
Limerick. And oh for the sideboard at Cooley Hall
with its carved foxes’ heads, life size, and the stand
in the hall with its ashplants and blackthorn sticks!
In time she had a garden meagrely furnished with
immigrant plants. She struggled to extirpate any-
thing native as a weed. She lacked originality to
knead unfamiliar products into the dough of ancient
culture. vShe taught Maeve and Kathleen Movna
their letters. She instructed Maeve in her own cate-
chism as she remembered it without the text, left at
Cooley Hall. She was starved by the spiritual empti-
ness of her days, but she grew reconciled in home-
making. She never had Danny’s luminous satisfaction
in pioneering. He was a torch of purpose ; she had
to step as well as she could in the rugged pathway
lighted by that torch.
"TWO winters slipped around and Johanna had a
1 male infant in her arms. Jane Urquhart had
come up from Keebah to attend her. She was a stiff,
fattish woman and found the journey down the
pinches almost as arduous as parturition.
With this son Johanna recovered her pluck, and
Danny his desire for expansion. He had not dared
to go farther than Keebah all this time, and had
managed Bewuck by sending Dunn down at intervals.
This was a tribute to his consideration for Johanna
as he lacked power to delegate.
He was short of money to entice labor. In the
Colony farm laborers and grooms buried their
avocations in the general term of rouseabout, and
added the work of carpenter, builder, blacksmith,
butchei or other trades according to their capabilities.
1 hose were the years of the tussle between Went-
worth, patriotic native son, and Gipps, ablest of
Governors. The Governor had to support the Crown
against Wentworth’s claim for local control of immi-
gration, land sales, police, education, and so on, and
among the cross-currents speculation in land and
general mismanagement bore their usual fruits.
The nadir year of ’43 was reached. Banks failed
many people were bankrupted, and there were more
than a thousand unemployed in Sydney. No one
had money to employ labor or buy land Fine
bullocks brought only ten or fifteen shillings per head
Boiling-down establishments were rendering them for
5/- each. In the bad ’forties tallow was one of the
Colony’s chief exports.
Delacy mustered cattle in the hope of disposing
ot them at Goulburn, was a boiling-down
establishment. Johanna was willing to remain alone
with Maeve as helper while Doogoolook, as well as
Dunn, helped, to steady the cattle beyond the Murrum-
bidgee. v
“Good-bye, me brave Johanna,” said Danny on
the morning ol departure. He was now such a part
ot the pipe that he did not remove it. His family
used his brow for kissing. “You won’t be alone for
huk


more than four days, barring accident. Nothing
could harm you here. The bushrangers are a thing
of the past.”
“I might be glad of their company,” said
Johanna, brave indeed, tossing her head.
Danny was riding a “fcine lump of a colt” which
required a breaker, but Danny was undaunted. The
cattle were so tame after the first tiring day that he
sent Doogoolook back at once. Dunn went across the
Murrumbidgee and then Danny pushed on alone to
Bewuck. Hannon helped thence for a couple of days,
when Danny dispensed with him also, intending to
pick up the first assistance available.
He could not dispose of his cattle at Goulburn,
and was proceeding to Parramatta when he met a
dealer who offered a decent price if Delacy would
help him on the way to Bathurst. To this Danny
agreed, and threw in a few days for good measure.
He sold everything but the Nullah Mundoey colt and
his old pack-mare. With these he steered at right-
angles to Major Mitchell’s Murrumbidgee Line on his
way home after five weeks’ absence.
He rode through rolling or hilly country on his
strapping horse. The tall trees, the bright birds, the
quaint animals filled him with wonder and delight.
The spaciousness, the opportunity to pioneer, was
sufficient to his energy. “No man needs arms to
protect himself from annything but jungle beasts,”
he was thinking, “and they don’t exist in this
paradise: and dayvil if annyone could expect people
to be more civil than the natives.”
The quiet pace of the fat cattle and the luscious
kangaroo-grass were as energising to horseflesh as
boogongs to aborigines, and Lancelot Nullah
Mundoey was flash. When Danny stood in his
stirrups and shouted “Arrah!” Lancelot was pro-
voked into a tidy buck. A masterly prop landed his
rider on the hard ground, stunned. Lancelot made
off and devoted himself to getting rid of the slippery
new saddle which had assisted Delacy’s fall.
He might have lain until sunstroke finished him
on that blazing day but for the meat-eating ants.
Pain partially brought him to. Subconsciously he
crawled to the shade of a tree. There was no settler
within leagues, but a few miles eastward two bullock-
drays were snailing their way from the Port to one
of the stations farther out and were to cross Danny’s
track at sundown.
Mr. Alwyn Evans, from Kilpoonta, two hundred
miles farther along the overlandefs’ line, had gone
down six weeks earlier to meet the bride who had
come out from England. On the previous day he had
ridden forward because of rumors of hostile tribes
on the Lachlan, and he feared that the home which
he had worked four years to establish in Major
Mitchell’s wake might be in ashes to meet its mistress.
The Rufus affray and other disgraceful incidents
were only a year or two past. He had left his wife
with the drays and several assigned men who had
proved themselves trusty partners.
'"P HE dogs found Danny. The men unravelled the
' story from the horses’ tracks. Injuries such as
Delacy’s were common in bravura days.
With the help of her servants Mrs. Evans
examined the man for wounds. His body was snowy
where the sun had not touched it. The small, shapely
hands were work-roughened but the delicate feet had
always been booted. He was dressed in slops, the
rough shirt none too clean, but in an inner pocket
was a handkerchief of pure linen, unused. Danny
was never a sniffler.
The men were interested that; his back was
unscathed. It was evident he was a free man, and
probably a gentleman. His papers had gone in
Lancelot’s saddlebag.
Abrasions on the right leg had kept the ants
from his eyes and ears. The flesh was eaten in
spots half an inch deep and as large as a Spanish
dollar. The bone was broken. Mrs. Evans put her
patient in her own sleeping accommodation and had
a bunk prepared for herself in the second dray.
Danny remained unconscious. Mrs. Evans and
her men did their best, leaving cure to Nature. They
swung the man on sacking fastened above the bed of
the dray to minimise jarring and went forward
through a trying week. Then they were met by
Evans, who said that the threatened danger had been
averted. He brought a surgeon to look at Danny, a
shepherd from a lonely outpost, a clever man driven
to the Colony by drink, who in the lean ’forties could
find no professional opening.
There were dangerous symptoms. .The leg was
beyond setting. The surgeon hacked it off in the way
legs were amputated in such circumstances. There
were no women at this station, so Mrs. Evans would
not leave Danny, though she was travelling to her
unknown home. Evans upheld her action, though
he was rampant to be at Kilpoonta ere rain should
detain them. The swinging stretcher was improved.
They moved forward before a week had ended. The
patient’s state was beyond the surgeon, who attended
him on the journey. His escape from death through
mortification was a miracle attributed to healthy
blood. Following the amputation the stranger roused
into groans and from that wandered in delirium. He
sometimes called on his mother and sometimes on
Johanna. His accents were Irish. An advertisement
describing him was prepared to await a traveller as
far as the nearest post office and thence to Sydney
for insertion in the “Sydney Morning Herald.”
Weeks from the time that Danny had been
injured he reached Kilpoonta on the Lachlan. In
the joy of arrival the newly married pair did not
neglect their patient. Who was he? Whence had
he come? There was not much machinery for insti-
tuting inquiry. He was called Mr. Unknown, and
the mystery was of lively interest in the far solitudes.
Chapter VI,
EVANS’S advertisement appeared at
a time when Delacy’s family had
no idea that he was missing, and
dealt with a man in a district where
Danny had had no intention of going. A
lost man in days when convicts were for ever escaping
did not attract much attention.
Moore shared a subscription to the “Sydney
Morning Herald” with a friend in Sydney: when
opportunity permitted he sent Delacy copies, but
opportunity did not occur at the date. Mrs.
Urquhart did not read, and Urquhart was busy. For
one reason or another the news of Danny passed
unnoticed.
The Evanses became attached to their unknown.
The surgeon continued to marvel that life could be
retained during the typhoid state which accompanied
the gangrene lingering in the amputated leg. The
patient showed dangerous under light or noise, so
the windows were darkened and he was left in quiet
for hours—doubtless the best possible treatment. He
would take a sip of nourishment only from the hand
of Mrs. Evans. The probability that he was a person
of importance was discounted by his Irish accent and
the fact that he had not been sought. His hosts had
the idea that he was an escaping Irish rebel.
At that time they had bigger worries than a
helpless person to whom they had grown accustomed.
Hostile blacks kept them in suspense. In that region
there had been bitter encounters, with each side guilty
of gruesome atrocities. There were floods, and scab
in the flocks, and a struggle with an unscrupulous
overlander who tried to usurp Kilpoonta. Evans,
too, met with an accident —broken arm and collar-
bone —which gave his wife and the surgeon a second
patient.
As Mr. Evans convalesced Mrs. Evans had more
time for her first patient and insisted that his improve-
ment was so marked that he would recover. She
and the surgeon watched with renewed interest. The
poison slowly drained from the wound and at length
youth and strength returned Delacy from death. No
rontgen-rays ever revealed to what extent his brain-
box had been injured.
He regained his mind one morning following an
easy night to find himself in a neat bed. A lady
was sitting near fashioning tiny garments. That was
all for the time. He fell into a long restoring sleep.
A day later he awakened to refinement and easy
circumstances as compared with the primitive hut
and fur rugs where he had left Johanna and the
children. The gentlewoman—still sewing—reminded
him of his mother in Ennis, so far away. Was it a
dream? Had he died? If he spoke would this
angelic presence dissolve? He was too weak to take
such a risk. He slept again.
When dawn once more reddened the levels he
recognised the guffawing birds. The lady was
replaced by a rough, sunburned man. Neither heaven
nor Ireland.
Another twenty-four hours and he had strength
to demand “Where am I? What has come to me?”
“You had an accident a nasty crack on the
head.”
His hand went to his shaven poll.
“That dayvil of a Lancelot got rid of me: to
some extint that I should be in bed with me hair
off and not to know it. How manny days since I
was brought here?”
Danny’s excitement mounted as his questions
were cautiously answered.
“Is me leg broke?” he demanded, noting the
hump in the bedding.
“It certainly is. Don’t you move till I give
you leave.”
Danny was tractable. A broken leg was a mere
inconvenience. He was astonished to be so many
days out of his course. The surgeon insisted upon
sleep. Danny slept, too weak for anything else. At
each awakening he was increasingly alert. He gave
his name and history, but at intervals the surgeon
shut off talk in the interest of Danny’s head.
He was startled when he found that the season
vacated before Christmas was now into autumn. “Be
the powers, me poor Johanna will be thinking I’m
dead and eaten by the blacks all this time. How could
it happen that I have been in darkness so long . . . and
a centipede could have recovered all his legs since
then.”
“Fever reduced you to death’s door. Crutches
are ready when you get a little strength.”
“I must set off to Johanna at wanst.”
THE surgeon left the breaking of the news to Mrs.
Evans. Danny must up and away. By damn!
he’d try his leg that very minute. Mrs. Evans was
summoned by his loud tones. She explained gently
that the fracture had been compound, that to save
his life well, it had been necessary to remove a
portion of the bone.
Danny’s eyes blazed like blue flame with resist-
ance. He flung the bedclothes back and saw that
the mass of lint stopped short. He shouted. He
tore the linen away and found an unpleasing stump.
When he knew that he had but one leg he gave way,
heroically unashamed: such was his courage that
he could afford to be. Implicit in his spiritual and
mental fibre was a quality that excluded fear of
conviction of cowardice, by himself or others.
Mrs. Evans petted him like a child. When his
paroxysm subsided he fell asleep and did not wake
until the birds were laughing against the sinking sun.
Had some long-lost god endowed them with derision?
Danny sat up. Mrs. Evans protested that he
would bring on his death. “Not at all. ’Tis all Jii
the moind, and my -moind is set.”
Evans could not send a messenger to Johanna
because the blacks were again hostile. Not a man
could be spared. Danny was of opinion that the
blacks had not been properly treated. He suggested
that even now they should be conciliated with offers
of sheep.
“Why should ye not pay rint to the poor
dayvils?”
The tan had faded, leaving his cheeks white.
Always spare, his flesh had wasted to show bones as
slender as a girl’s. He could have passed for a boy
but for his beard. The pipe had been lost. He
declared that he was the father of three children
living and two dead. His friend’s hearts were moved
by the hampering loss of a leg to one with such heavy
domestic responsibilities plus the fate of wresting a
livelihood from impenetrable wilds.
He made light of the amputation. After the first
outburst no word of repining was heard.
“Sure, better min than meself have achieved
greatness with wan leg.”
At the end of a week he insisted upon mounting
a horse, and would have departed but for the impend-
ing siege.
When the blacks retreated towards the Murray
the elder Evans, a bachelor, returned from pursuit
and agreed to accompany Delacy. He refused the
escort of the younger brother because Mrs. Evans
was on the way to motherhood. She gave her patient
her own mare. David Evans limited each day to
Delacy’s endurance and to prevent the re-opening
of the wound. They cut distance by passing Keebah.
The last day was the hardest. The tortured
Danny grew dizzy on the face of mountains. He could
scarcely conquer the flesh during the last half-day,
but he was in a fever to see his family. The mare
trembled on the edge of the descents but followed
the more ruthlessly urged animals without falling, and
Danny clenched his teeth and hung on.
Evans suggested camping by the spring, now
called Breakfast Lookout, but Danny would not leave
his Johanna another night in solitude and doubt. He
thought to find her there. What had she to do but
superintend Dunn and Doogoolook? He accepted
heroic passivity as Nature’s design for women. When
he was down on the level he asked for a nip of rum
and his hand shook as he took the flask.
Onward, onward, the pain in his mutilated limb
overlooked in the excitement of return! None but
mild ridges .remained. The river crossed for the third
time, the horse-track led where a salt-shed was an
obelisk of settlement: then the homestead with a
timbered rise beyond. The sun had set behind a
wild peak, leaving the cultivation flat and house-plot
bathed in molten afterglow and peopled with birds
which had come down from the snow-lands for the
winter. Many scrub-wallabies and kangaroos scur-
ried into the shadows at the approach of the horse-
men.
NO baying of dogs. No whufflirig of Rover —part-
bloodhound—who guarded the children and their
mother. Not a yelp from a cattle-cur. Only the
click of the disturbed plovers and .the vesper guffaws
of the master-ironists tossed from point to point, taken
up and repeated softly from afar, as in an orchestra,
from bass to treble — crescendo-diminuendo-da-capo-
coda.
No smoke above the chimney. The nearing
homestead looked strange and small. Delacy’s senses
had to accept the impossible. The main portion of
his home had vanished as completely as the fences
and lakes that melt upon approach from the vast
levels of mirage land. No woman or children nor
black retainer nor cow ; only the voice of the. wild
river, which deepened a lornness, ghostly and
dismaying.
They reached the remains of a fire where a home
had been. Desolation. It looked like the work of
marauders. There was no message or sign of
Johanna. The blow was too heavy for Danny in his
fatigue and weakness, his physical agony. He wept
and called to high heaven for his wife and little ones,
whom he never more would see.
Evans sat him down gently. He insisted upon
camping. Night was falling and Delacy was unfit
to go on. Exhaustion and rum brought him to sleep
despite all.
Chapter VII,
WHEN Dunn, the ex-felon, had
turned back from his employer
he thought of a fellow-lag who
kept a sly-grog shop in the
ranges beyond Gounderu. He had stood to
his trust when left in solitude, but a terrible craving,
irresistible as sexual lust, now tortured him. For
years he had been content with the station ration ot
rum, but an internal fire now sent him on a jag of
weeks and dissolved his riding-horse, his packhorse
and gear. He returned to consciousness a pariah.
Weeks had passed and Delacy would be home. Dunn
felt himself a horse-thief and worse. He was com-
pelled to disappear.
Johanna with the mute Doogoolook waited
valiantly. Dunn was to have returned at the end of
four days. At the end of eight she concluded that
Danny had needed him for longer. She composed
herself for Danny’s return, at the end of a month
at latest.
She had neither messenger nor mail service, but
the aborigines had. The cattle sensed their approach
. *■ '-_ v •/'- \ v* • _ .. -.-zM


days in advance and moved restlessly from the gullies
of the wild runs. Doogoolook reported from the
smoke-signals that his people were moving towards
Burrabinga. The lad was intelligent and of noble
character. He could make himself understood by
signs to Maeve, and she interpreted to Johanna.
Johanna faced one of the pleasanter heroic
incidents of her life. She had given up hope of
Dunn’s return. Danny was not yet due. Alarmed,
she had an idea of making out to Keebah, but the
army was approaching that way, and how was she to
climb the mountain walls with two little girls and a
babe-in-arms?
“Mary, Mother of God, help me,” she prayed,
dormant phrases coming to her lips.
The first wave of fear past, her courage and
experience re-established her. These were Doogoo-
look and Maeve’s people, so she sent the lad to
inform them that she would give them plenty of
beasts.
The tribe was fat and hearty. Game was
plentiful. The boogongs at Keebah had been more
than they could consume. Even the gins were
gorged. The whole family, including gins and
piccaninnies, were making a detour to call on their
patrons, out of curiosity, friendliness, and as part of
the annual walkabout.
Some of the gins, who wore a rag of clothes,
were already known to Johanna since the Bewuck
encampment, and when they called on her her Irish
warmth delighted them and cemented sisterhood.
They talked to Maeve excitedly in their soft voices
and filled the place with their laughter, in distant
reons captured and
standardised by the big
grey kingfishers. They
were proud of Maeve’s
position among the
whites. A miracle
greater than reversal
of a “ boning ” had
established Danny as a
chief of good magic.
Here was Doogoolook,
strong and happy, a
member of a white
tribe.
In warm weather
he dressed in knee
pants, and Johanna
made him a shield,
gaily decorated to
protect his scarred
chest, and which his
people took to be the
regalia of royalty.
“Minetinkit that
pfeller budgeree!” they
guffawed.
In honor of the
bullock they staged a
feast and a play corro-
boree in which women
had the part of accom-
panists so that Johanna
could be present. She
was treated with honor
and, with her brood,
beheld a spectacle seen
by few white women.
The entertainment was
thrilling, the situation
unusual.
C NLIVENED by the feis, Johanna turned with
*—' fresh heart to her tasks while looking hourly for
Danny. He must have gone on to Parramatta, she
concluded as the weeks ran into the second month.
Day followed day but no horseman emerged from
the mighty aisles of eurabbi and peppermint at the
other side of the little flat where the curlews wailed
so friendly. There was only the ceaseless song of
the river like a wild wind, the chortling birds, the
warbling magpies and clouds of other songsters, or
the “pheasants” mimicking her cock, to embellish the
haunting stillness of the cathedral forests, and Doo-
goolook’s shadow-like presence to emphasise the
solitude. At night there were the unfailing boobooks
and dingoes to augment the curlews’ concert, and the
native cats to make raids upon her precious hens.
Still no hallo or whip-crack announced Danny’s
return.
Rations were'running low, and at the end of six
weeks Doogoolook took a letter to Keebah. Still a
child in years by white standards, and mute, the slim
shadow went faithfully on his errand. Johanna
watched him to the edge of the clearing, and, bereft
of her protector, turned about in her internment camp
and attacked a snake which had appeared as the
boy departed.
She retired early, drawing her chicks about her.
Bewuck, despite its bunyip and ghost, seemed by
comparison a centre of population. She barred the
door, but doors cannot be locked against loneliness
and fear. In those days she grew deeply attached to
Maeve, who was always cheerful and willing and
unafraid of the great bush.
They looked for Doogoolook in the afternoon of
the second day. At the end of the fourth the forest
was still without him, and Johanna grew uneasy lest
the mare had lost her footing on a bad pinch and,
with the boy, had hurtled into the gulf. However,
Maeve was a good fisher, and the hens laid.
That afternoon Johanna and Maeve went seeking
the cow that had escaped, Johanna carrying the baby.
Kathleen Moyna and Della were left at home, and
what happened who can say?
The children had heard their mother speak of
the need to keep the fire in because that morning
there had been trouble to relight it from the ashes.
From across the clearing Johanna saw smoke issuing
from the roof. She deposited the baby and sped to
the rescue. She reached the threshold in an agony
of fear and found the children in flames. She extin-
guished the smaller in a tub of water, but Kathleen
Moypa ran screeching into the breeze, with her mother
in pursuit. She caught the child at length and in
beating out the flames was herself scorched on wrists
and hands.
She screamed to Maeve to go after the baby
lest ants or snakes should be endangering him while
she attended to Kathleen Moyna. The house was
a bonfire.
As a fire precaution Danny had placed the kitchen
at a ludicrous distance from the house. In this were
the beef-cask and other stores, and the distracted
woman had this shelter when the fire in the main
house subsided. Maeve had retrieved the cow, so the
babies’ principal diet was assured.
Mrs. Delacy would never speak of that night of
physical torture and mental anguish. Kathleen
Moyna had collapsed. Her body was shockingly
burned. Johanna’s hands were so painful that only
the demands upon her and her despair kept her from
fainting time after time. Grease and flour had no
effect as a remedy. The sole alleviation was in keeping
her singed flesh in the cold running water of the river.
Maeve did the same for the little girl, who was but
slightly burned. Kathleen Moyna lay as if sleeping.
Morning came. Della was free from pain and
slept safely. The fire had died out of Johanna’s
hands but they were like bladders. Kathleen Moyna
still breathed, though Johanna saw that she could not
last long, that indeed it was better that she should not
recover, though the mother's heart cried out against
bereavement.
The day was loud with jackasses, morn, noon
and evening. The plovers clicked on the eerie flats
with their tea-tree groves, beautiful as Asiatic art and
as alien to the early settlers. Johanna would have
welcomed a bushranger in the belief that the sorriest
monster could have been enlisted to help her. There
was firewood to place against the loss of the fur
robes at night. Only Doogoolook’s remained. The
situation was insupportable with her child dying and
her own partial helplessness. She was doubtful of
finding the track to Keebah and transporting three
small children, one of them dying. Doogoolook had
taken the quiet mare.
K/j EANWHILE Doogoolook had reached Keebah.
Urquhart and most of his men, like Danny, were
away with sheep to a boiling-down plant. Mrs.
Urquhart, with an immigrant woman and a ticket-of-
leaver, was in charge of the station, but they were
all illiterate. They could not understand Doogoo-
look’s sign language, nor could he make sense of
theirs. He drew figures to indicate Mrs. Delacy and
the children. Those assembled understood that it was
something about Mr. Delacy. It seemed to be some
business between Danny and Sandy. Mrs. Urquhart
could only await a person who could read.
At the end of four days Doogoolook grew so
uneasy that he slipped away on foot in the dead of
night.
Maeve discerned him reappearing one morning
from the boles of the timber. He conveyed that Mr.
Urquhart was absent and that the others shook their
heads over the letter. Mrs. Delacy understood what
had happened. His return gave slight hope, but
Kathleen Moyna ceased to breathe an hour later.
Her mother determined to set out for Keebah with
the body.
Maeve and Doogoolook yarded the one quiet
horse and it was packed with provisions and the rug.
Johanna perched on top with the dead child in her
arms wrapped in a sack. The boy took his turn with
Maeve in carrying the baby. Della, clad in charred
rags, toddled bravely at the beginning. Up the steep
pinches Doogoolook held the horse’s tail and put
Della on his shoulder. In places he had to take his
charges singly. Now and again Johanna struggled
along on foot with her burden while Maeve, with the
baby in her arms, rode with Della behind her.
They were settled for a third night when
Urquhart found them. He was shocked by the
tragedy and their present plight and to learn that
Mrs. Delacy had been so long alone. He thought it
best to leave the exhausted party settled with Doogoo-
look while he rode hard back to Keebah for
assistance, though he persuaded Johanna to let him
take Kathleen Moyna.
He was back a little after daylight with helpers
and comforts and they all reched Keebah by ten
o’clock that night.
Janet was awaiting them with hot soup and a
capacious heart. Johanna was laid in a comfortable
bed. Della screamed with pain and weariness and
shyly clung to Maeve until bread-and-honey tempted
her. Doogoolook was commended as a budgeree
pfeller in ear-splitting shouts —all waste of breath, but
the gestures nourished his generous affections and the
toddy whirled him into sleep.
Kathleen Moyna was buried at the foot of the
flower-garden beside an Urquhart infant who had
succumbed to convulsions.
DELACY’S horses had not returned and there had
been no letter from him, though the mail had
been collected from the nearest township. Janet
kept Johanna in bed. To ease her mind Urquhart
rode to Bewuck and thence to Mr. Moore at Banda-
long. He returned without news of Delacy. Mr.
Moore was much concerned by his disappearance
and started inquiries.
Johanna felt in her lonely nostalgic mind that
Danny had deserted her for livelier adventure or the
seductions of a fresher woman. This was unjust to
her experience of Danny but characteristic of what
some ironist has called
the tender, passion.
Urquhart maintained
that it was too soon
to regard Delacy as a
deserter, that he was a
pure merino who would
not abscond from a
fine young wife and
children.
“Straight goers
among men,” said
Johanna, “nevertheless
don’t care how crooked
they are with a woman
whin another takes
their eye.”
Mrs. Urquhart
nodded her head,
remembering passages
between herself and
Sandy, and he steered
from the subject.
Urquhart and
Moore were of opinion
that violence had ended
Delacy. The disap-
pearance of Dun n,
transported for a vio-
lent act, lent color to
this. Urquhart tried to
rally Johanna, but she
was haunted by sick
fears and lacked inner
sanctuary.
Her future had to
be considered as the
weeks passed without
news of Danny. Mr.
Moore wanted her back
at Bandalong. Johanna desired to return to Bewuck.
Danny or no Danny she had renounced Burrabinga
for ever. Hitherto she had accepted the faithful
Doogoolook as complacently as a dog, but now,
despite his muteness, he had become something
between an elder son and a younger brother.
MEANWHILE day had broken at Burrabinga,
Rain had obliterated tracks long since but Evans
found utensils that had been used after having been
through the fire ; and potatoes remained as evidence
that there had been no robbery by blacks.
“Your family will be safe at the nearest
neighbor,” Evans remarked.
Danny’s soul was renewed by sudden hope. He
set out for Keebah immediately, but his mind could
not force his tortured flesh to the whole journey in
one day.
On the second evening the family was united.
It was a great moment when the travellers came
within range of Mrs. Urquhart’s candles. Here was
a Danny with one trouser-leg pinned up, a Danny
no longer as swift as a steel spring in recoil, an
emaciated, fragile Danny noisily clouting his way,
but with authentic flame-blue eyes and booming
voice ; an irrepressible Danny, dismissing his pain in
the excitement of finding wife and weans, and Doo-
goolook executing capers of welcome; a Danny
without self-consciousness as to how a wife might
regard a mutilated spouse, a crippled breadwinner ; a
Danny so overjoyed that speculations about his
Johanna’s attitude were crowded out.
Her resentment of imagined desertion was washed
away in the reunion, but she was conspicuously pallid
and unresponsive, the iron of tragedy fresh in her
soul. The full extent of the catastrophe could not
be withheld from Danny. He was already so near
to collapse from pain and exhaustion that the
sympathetic Evans enlisted Mrs. Urquhart to prepare
a bed, and in it, with the aid of rum, his charge took
this final blow lying down.
I"") ELACY survived that journey—taken too soon —
as well as the shock of the calamity that met
him, though he was compelled to lie up for several
weeks at the Urquharts’.
He spoke of erecting another hut at Burrabinga
but Johanna vetoed this.
“Me wits forsook me to go there in the first
place. They would be destroyed entirely to go again


to such a lost hole—collecting fresh asses’ loads of
sorrow and heart-scald —after the penance I’ve had.
Even ye should have more sinse than to think ye
can scale those walls with wan leg. ’Tis a goat with
four ye had better be, for ye’r ould Bunratty Castle.”
“Arrah! Haven’t I just been up and down with
me wan leg, and me not yet restored to full fighting
trim? Wan leg is as good as two if the moind is
set.”
“And what is more, Danny Delacy, while ye are
capering about from one place to the next, how am I
to know if the leaks in the room at Bewuck haven’t
dripped on me few best bits, and the weevils to have
eaten the rest, if the place is not burned down entirely
and somewan walked off with the unprotected
remains?”
Danny was subdued by his leg. It was still as
sensitive as a boil, and his head had an unprecedented
tendency to ache in the sun. He took to an out-size
in straw wideawakes that year and filled it with the
cool leaves of the peppermint, in which he felt there
was healing. When his head regained its normal
clarity the leaves had become a habit. They made his
head look enormous, but other people saw this, not
Danny. His actions, motivated by utility, were
unrestricted by what the timid might think. When
the wags made him their butt he was contemptuous.
“With the wits of jackasses, and destitute of conver-
sation, they should be thankful that I supply a
subject.”
The death of Kathleen Moyna, combined with
Johanna’s attitude and state, forced him to relinquish
Burrabinga temporarily. He attributed his retreat to
advancing winter and the need to procure an artificial
limb. He was so proficient with his crutch that he
sometimes resembled an escaping kangaroo. As soon
as his strength returned he departed with Doogoolook,
leaving Johanna at Keebah.
Chapter VIII .
JOHANNA revived upon return to her
prized household possessions. She
had renounced the mountains for
ever.
Not so Danny. Unconquerable long-
ing assailed him each time he came up from the chasm
through which the Murrumbidgee elbows its way to
the great plains. As he would rein-in to pick out the
notch in the ramparts that led to Burrabinga he would
fall into worshipful contemplation of the ranges,
thrown one upon another like storm-waves petrified
when the world had cooled. Their for-everness soothed
and inspired. The dignity of permanence lay on a view
superb as that from Edessa in old Greece down the
valley of the Vardar towards Olympus. There for
the dreamers, the pathfinders, the roadmakers with
force to project their personality upon their environ-
ment, lay an arena ripe for reconditioning with glamor
through deeds rooted deep in spiritual consciousness.
The beckoning, wistfully haunting ranges!
“Oh, moi! Oh, moi!” Delacy would ejaculate
out of that emotion which suffused the receptive soul
when refreshed at the well of beauty or nobility. He
would flap his horse with his big hat, scattering the
contents like moths about him, and go on his way
with a tag from the classics or a verse from the song-
books—those tattered and greasy treasures whose
contents were deciphered by the light of camp or
hut fire and put to a tune by the musical or bellowed
with tuneless satisfaction by the less gifted.
Bewitched anew by the ranges, Danny would be
restless. “A man is a fool to leave that territory, after
all the preliminaries, till it is jumped on him.”
“Better it be jumped by another fool next time.
You a cripple, Bunratty Castle a prison of stone,
crags fit only for the blacks to pick grubs and the
native dogs to howl in.”
“When me artificial limb is attached ’twill make
a power of difference.”
“Little difference! Ye’d better learn reason in
time.”
Danny was ambitious for an apparatus made by
a renowned artisan in Sydney who had learned his
craft after the Napoleonic campaigns, but the tragedy
of Kathleen Moyna was too fresh for him to disregard
Johanna’s views. He occupied himself by clearing
more cow-paddocks on the river-banks. In the mortal
combat against the trees —a combat waged by every
settler there was enough to engage his depleted
energy and impeded activity for a year or two. He
dreamed of having his holding as clear as the plains
of County Clare, with mayhap a ladylike imported
tree or two for ornament and an orchard about the
house.
Three generations later that indiscriminate war-
ring was to continue, so long it takes the poet and
artist to nurture a national place-soul. Not yet were
Australians projected beyond the Motherland ego
to garner an additional culture from the differing
beauty of a continent unique and illusive.
Where Danny extirpated so ardently the curious
can find to-day a well-grown forest. A gnarled stick
or two of quince-trees withstand the sheep amid
native shrubs just below the bunyip-hole. Where
Johanna set her garden still live the flag-lilies—royal
emblems of republican France. Those educated to
explore pioneer homestead sites may discern amid the
lusty yellow-box and wattle-trees the ridges of
Danny’s first cultivation. There are the “ lands ”
where earth, purified by a thousand years—nay, asons
of fallowhood —first gave up its grannie-grubs to the
magpies who warbled liquid notes of thanksgiving
and to the kookaburras who filled the valley with
grotesque mirth, so disturbing to Johanna. A century
has mellowed that laughter to enchantment for the
children of Australia, has rendered her exiles nostalgic
for the morning and evening fanfare of glee.
The indigenous standing army which made and
held the earth on the hillsides has vanquished a
thousand Dannies since then, and obliterated their
works. Not yet is understanding of a sensitive
continent, gently fierce. Neither conquered nor
despoiled and only in parts defaced, it challenges the
grandsons and great-grandsons and -daughters of all
the half-articulate Dannies to hold or to lose their
incalculable heritage.
HANNON’S wife took charge of the housework.
Johanna was freed to rear turkeys and set up a
dairy. Both cows and turkeys were fecund and satis-
factory. Johanna’s proficiency in butter-making gave
her pride ; she had so- much butter that she stored it
in “kags.”
Delacy hoped with butter, tallow and hides and
other skins to obtain cash to renew squatting licenses
for Burrabinga and to buy an artificial leg. He
groaned to think of his stock being lost in the
mountains.
“Ye’ll never be able to get round there again,”
said Johanna.
“With a new leg, I’d lepp over the moon.”
“More like lepp to a broken neck.”
Urquhart had not reported any new settler in
his direction, and Delacy was relying on the cattle
homing in the fertile valleys. He commissioned the
wheelwright at the growing township to build a dray
and he and Hannon trained a team.
When Danny announced that he was going to
Sydney Johanna said that she, too, would go. Her
nerve had not recovered sufficiently to let him stray
alone again. Danny welcomed her company.
Hannon and his wife had a hut beyond the cultivation
paddock, and, with Maeve and Doogoolook, could
take care of the children. There were now five:
Della and Robert, the twins born at Keebah and
named William and Honoria, the youngest Harry, a
few months of age. Three years had gone since
Delacy had lost his leg.
So the Delacys retraced their early journey along
the Great Southern-road, convict-built from Port
Jackson to Port Phillip, and which they met at the
township. Two drays of Mr. Moore’s travelled with
them for mutual protection.
Mrs. Delacy and the baby were perched among
the malodorous merchandise. Mounted on Mrs.
Evans’s mare, Danny drove or led his bullocks. In
stretches he walked with his crutch and urged the
beasts with a stockwhip, as he could not keep his
balance and wield the long-handled bullock-whip. The
teams doubled in steep or boggy places.
A journey of three weeks brought them to the old
turnpike at the end of George-street and they wound
downwards to the Quay, impressed by the progress
made in the thirteen years since they had arrived.
Many of the wooden “skillings” had been replaced by
brick houses overlaid with cement to look like free-
stone. Some of them were as good as the houses in
(he better parts of Limerick. Even the lower orders
had verandahed cottages and garden-plots in Pitt-
street that were more comfortable than Quebarra,
Glenties or Bewuck. Hyde Park was being reformed
from a racecourse.
They went again to the select boarding estab-
lishment on Church Hill with its patrons of the first
respectability. Johanna loved Sydney and would that
her lot had been there. She realised now that this
could never be with Danny. Neighbors within sight
had a stifling effect on him. He thrilled to wide
horizons. His spirit had been endowed by the seas
that belabored Erin’s shores with an impetus unim-
peded from the Pole, or rolled away to America
without obstruction. His descent upon Sydney was
a rare spree, an excrescence upon Life. Johanna
had rather that Sydney were Life and the bush a
removable excrescence. She was delighted by a play
called “Blackeyed Susan,” preceded by “God, Save
the Queen” and followed by “Monsieur Tonson,” a
farce.
Danny laughed and clapped with abandon, but
more nourishing to him were the conversations with
gentlemen at the boarding-house, and anywhere he
encountered them —in hotel-bars, in banks and
business houses and shops.
HE disposed of his “kags” and hides and horsehair
with fair profit, considering the financial strin-
gency. In their place he procured axes and toma-
hawks, a saw, a tarpaulin, two-and-a-half and three-
bushel bags, some suits of slops, a keg of hurdle and
horseshoe-nails, a saddle and bridle bits, percussion-
caps, striped shirts with linen collars for town wear,
a roll of China matting, and another “kag” of paint
as a concession to Johanna’s elegancies.
He also purchased American flour and lemon-
syrup as delicacies ; and seidlitz-powders and castor-
oil and bluestone and tobacco, and Day and Martin’s
blacking because He got a damaged case cheaply, and
an inspiring monster of a pipe to replace the treasure
lost these three years, as well as many another article
indispensable to him.
While he awaited the completion of his leg
Johanna found a companion at the select boarding
establishment and had an enlivening holiday. Amuse-
ments, paved walks under her feet, to have vegetables,
animal and other produce purchaseable in the shops—
this was life. It had been her ambition at Cooley
Hall, but Danny had carried her off to a state where
everything had to be grown or manufactured. She
revelled as far as the capacity of purse and dray
allowed.
Delacy informed himself of the growth of the
horse trade with India and plumed himself upon the
three mares that had travelled with their noses on
the tail of the dray. Cornet of Parramatta, a blood
horse of Arab strain, was to add his lineage to the
walers of Burrabinga.
THE return journey began as soon as the new leg
was ready. When approaching the Gib they
were stuck-up by one of the intermittent bands of
bushrangers that had arisen to attack the mail-
coacheS. All teams and other travellers were
mustered in the hollow awaiting the mail from Goul-
burn. The contents of the drays were ransacked.
Tea, currants and flour were emptied on the earth
and the teamsters left to salvage what they could
from flies, ants and grit.
Mrs. Delacy had a triumph remembered by her
descendants. She was still bright-eyed and handsome
and plied a fearless tongue against the robbers. She
was set to cook a meal while the men were bailed-up
until disarmed and relieved of valuables.
Danny was for chastising his gaoler with his
crutch, to which he still clung. Johanna reassured
him. “Sure, they’ll do no harm to an old woman
hurrying home to four children as well as the wan
that’s crying for her now.”
“The dam of five, and that for a sire! Were men
so scarce?” guffawed the leader of the gang. “Does
he put that forty-gallon hat on to make him
important?”
“No —to contain his brains,” said Johanna.
“And he, the preposterous vaygabond,” shouted
Danny, “by the same token would need nothing but
a paynut-shell! ”
The man let Johanna keep her trinkets. “Begob,
we can afford that to the only lady with us.” Another
had been ordered to halt but had whipped her horse
into a gallop. She was a bride, and her husband was
forced to gallop with her. “Let them burst,” the
man had decreed with a coarse imprecation concern-
ing newly-weds.
Johanna tried to silence Danny. The leader set
her at ease.
“We'll not hurt your tomtit, missus. He has a
voice and a beard, and a pipe in the middle of it like
a real man ; and, by cripes, what there is of him is
worth a dozen of the pot-bellies swelled with
importance and ordering the lash for their betters.
He has no weapon with him but his erutch.”
When the coach came and the mailbags were
rifled the travellers were released without further
molestation, but Johanna’s taste for journeys was
ruined. After that day she talked of trips to Sydney
but never took them. Henceforth the growing city,
as well as the mountains, dropped out of bounds for
her.
Chapter IX.
DELACY’S artificial limb, as it was
grandly termed, was a peg with a
socket, attached by straps to the
waist. He became nimble on it with
practice and threw away his wattle-plant, vice
the ash-plant of Ireland. Doogoolook’s wide guffaws,
full of teeth but empty of sound, conveyed that Danny
and the brown horse were now both nullah-mundoeys.
The iridescence of the skyline, the coolness of
valleys and streams draped in ferns and shrubs, their
fragrant aromatic purity, still enthralled him. The
encircling ramparts guarded his kingdom, for which
he would have forsaken the bread and butter of home
and wife as for an enchantress. He could no longer
be held from “lepping” into the beckoning fastnesses,
which should now contain twenty or thirty walers
sufficiently mature for the Indian market.
“And how will ye handle them with but wan
leg? Providing for ye’r sons, huh! More like making
orphans of them ye’ll be.”
“Have I no ingenuity?”
Refreshed by her excursion into the outer world,
Johanna now admitted that there was property in
the mountains but decreed that never again would
Danny traipse off by himself. Therefore, in company
with Hannon and Doogoolook, he set out once more
when summer was bold in the land. Johanna had
Maeve and Mrs. Hannon and an artisan who knew
something of farm work.
Delacy went by Keebah. It was easier than the
route to be had by crossing the river at Bewuck and
following the left bank. Urquhart went with him to
see him down the precipices.
A NEST of bulldog-ants occupied the floor of the
hut. Bats possessed the rafters. Wombats had
burrowed under the wall-plates. Kangaroo-rats had
snug homes in tussocks around the doorstep. From
one a black snake issued to his doom in the shape
of Doogoolook.
Urquhart tarried to lend a hand and cast an eye
on the country beyond Delacy’s. His sons were
growing up. “There’s little sense to risk bones raising
cattle in these wilds simply to make the land stink with
rendering them down.”
“But, faith, a man who cannot look at the future
is no man but only a come-day-go-day contraption.”
This faith Delacy constantly vociferated. When
those boys whom Johanna was rearing for him would
throw their weight into the scale they would be bound
to Burrabinga by firmer considerations than a paltry
wage and rations of beef and flour, sugar, tea, rum
and tobacco.
Nullah-Mundoey’s headquarters were in the
fields of kangaroo-grass, as high as his withers, on
the burned river-bank. The cripple had kept the
mob from dispersing and there was a fine display of
mares, fillies and colts.
With a couple of stockmen Delacy began the
trapping and branding of cleanskin cattle which had


RELIABLE REBUILT TYPEWRITERS
By Chartres Ltd.
uk
To Authors & Journalists-
and Business Men, too!
You can easily afford a typewriter.
These machines—necessary to every
business man and writer —are very
inexpensive if you know how to buy.
Wise people purchase Chartres’ recon-
ditioned typewriters. They bring all the
advantages of new machines and the
cost is remarkably low. Easy terms
make it even easier for you to possess
one.
Remington 0
- H s~< ,
; '
r : }
Only the best of the machines “traded-
in” on new Remingtons are sent to our
workshops. There, our mechanics, the
largest, most skilled, most exacting body
of typewriter experts in Australia,
examine and recondition all makes and
models. The “rebuilt typewriter” must
be in first-class order to pass their rigid
tests.
That's why you can be certain of good
value when you buy a rebuilt typewriter
from Chartres’. Post coupon to-day for
details —you’ll be surprised how little it
costs to own one, how easy are the easy
terms.
COUPON
Chartres Ltd.,
Box 5428, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me particulars of your rebuilt
machines. Also enclose details about the new
A ust ra lia n-bu ilt Remingtons,
NAME
Address
CHARTRES LTD.
Remington House,
Liverpool and Nithdale Streets, Sydney. ’Phone M 6481 (11 lines).
And at T. & G. Buildings, Bolton Street, Newcastle.
retreated beyond the domain of the hoises. His
brand and his earmarks were put on all cattle caught.
Colts and fillies had their baptism. Horses with other
brands were advertised.
Doogoolook was becoming a marvellous horse-
man and stockman, and yokels who came to Burra-
binga had to follow his lead. That of Danny was
hardly less daring. He rode the gorges at a
pace, halloing like a demon, depending on the “mare.”
Mind transformed horse and rider. Danny never fell
from the horse nor the horse under him. He raged
with industry from daybreak and until long after night
by the light of fires in the cavernous hearth. He
struggled for money for extra labor to put up adequate
yards and huts, and above all to make a cutting around
the worst pinches. It was almost more than could be
expected of horses to traverse the precipices when
laden.
“But with the pinches reduced, sure, an old
woman in a donkey-cart would have no distress in
flipping back and forth.”
Danny classified the livestock. Horses were
taken to Bewuck and Moore’s breakers engaged to
prepare them as cavalry chargers. Distraught heifers
and steers went down the river to be tamed.
“Och, dragging the life out of ye’rself, and no
peace to annyone else,” said Johanna.
“What else can a man do for an honest inde-
pindence in a raw country with no capital but his
hands?”
“There’s plenty that don’t drive themselves so
extremely.”
“Plenty of vaygabonds like the cattle-spoilers of
old, but I’ll never get rich if ’tis to be attained by
selling other people’s livestock, like some of me swell
neeburs.” Danny waved his pipe towards squatters,
men who had started with capital and whose fortunes
were enlarging like snowballs. “Some of those who
would have driven me off if they could.”
“Tis not in ye to be rich. The rich have more
hardfistedness. There’s too much going with the
wind in you. And ye bullock everything ye’rself, and
wan-man power can’t extind. The great succeeders
put other fellows to work for them while they reap
the spoils.”
Danny was a pioneer of Australian democracy
in its levelling-down aspects, which later socio-
economists were to discredit as an obstructing of
intellectual progress.
The marriage had shaken down. Johanna now
saw Danny and it for what they were. Danny, in
the way of many spouses, had to take adventures of
the spirit without his wife, but he valued her as a
nest with eggs in it at the base of his affairs, while
he experimented with the superstructure. The
mountains were his aisling, his Dark Rosaleen, not
that this was a conscious indulgence. The physical
campaign left no time for introspection, nor even for
sentiment, until he came to be accounted childish with
age, but he faced the ranges with unabating zest.
Arrived there, he had the satisfaction of a bandit in
retreat, only that Delacy had no strain of the outlaw
in him. He was civilised. He upheld his high
standards unflinchingly.
THE return of the blacks one summer after two
years’ absence was heralded by the unease of the
cattle, which were driven away to safety. The abo-
‘ rigines’ rights as ground landlords in the Burrabinga
kingdom were respected by the payment of two beasts.
No one connected with Delacy would have dared to
“disrespect” a gin.
Two chiefs came to the hut and demanded Doo-
goolook. “I’ve often wondered that the wild taste
has not come on him,” said Delacy to “Poor
afflicted mortal, he must be given his choice.”
Doogoolook went with his people. The alternative
was death. Danny conveyed that his ward was
entitled to a horse, blankets, etc., but this was disre-
garded. Danny could not be sure that Doogoolook
was happy in departure, and in the days that followed
sorely missed one whom he discovered to have been
as useful as two newly imported whites. “Sure, he’s
one of the whitest men I ever saw,” said Danny.
Two months later he saw a shadow emerge from
the tall trees across the river and welcomed the
returning Doogoolook, who had attained manhood.
But the gins apportioned to him were the worse for
wear, so he had been allowed to return, perhaps
because of his muteness and Delacy’s early rescue of
him. The facts are not recorded. No aurist ever
tried to decide whether Doogoolook’s muteness was
a result of destroyed vocal cords or merely of shock.
The second decade of Delacy’s colonising found
him strenuously engaged with his two homes. New
South Wales had settled down to a sedate tempo,
when suddenly the composition of life in the new
continent blew up overnight.
Ck&DTer X
P *
GOLD! Gold!
Delirium set in and prevailed.
From Van Diemen’s Land to More-
ton Bay the population skedaddled.
Free workers set off as one man. Others
aosconded. Sailors deserted. Ships lay empty in
port. Squatters, professional men, clerks, ploughmen,
shepherds, stockmen masters and men alike
forsook employment and family. The wise and the
silly, the strong and the weak, the old and the young,
the comfortably placed and the destitute, the good
and the bad, the rough
and the gentle scurried in
the direction of Bathurst,
where it was rumored that
gold, man’s most per-
manent god, his ablest and
least changeable friend,
was to be picked up from
the surface of the earth.
From Sydney to
Bathurst the campfires
blazed in a chain by night.
The road was often a river
of mud through which,
by day, struggled a non-
descript collection of
humanity, burdened with
nothing or anything from
a garden-fork to a com-
pass. It was then that the
Australian learned to roll
a swag and pad the track
hungry and cold, sweating
or fly - tormented in a
strange and lonely land.
Gold! Gold!
Richer discoveries in
the new colony of Victoria
resulted in wilder and
bigger rushes there.
Tales of gold went
across the seas. Ships
crowded south packed
with diggers. Among
them were heirs and
cadets of lordly houses,
desperadoes from many
nations, skilled diggers
from California, poets,
callow professors from
Germany, auctioneers,
cheap Johns, impostors in
rich release. People ran
with greater alacrity than
if St. Gabriel had pro-
claimed an authentic
heaven wide open.
Gold! Gold!
Gold trickled across
counters from leather
pouches and tinder-boxes.
It was carried in belts and
small bottles and rusty
tins.
On the sheep-stations
adjoining Bewuck the
merinos were abandoned
to scab and footrot and
dingoes. Delacy himself
could no more resist such
a call to adventure than
| the magpies the resur-
gence of spring. Johanna fought against the first
rushes in New South Wales with barbed shafts.
“An old married man! Ye with wan leg already
gone in ye’r brave adventuring! Ye that could have
nearly been a grandfather had ye been a proper
father and not distressed me by ye’r capers!”
It would have taken the Bull of Cooley to hold
him from Bendigo and Ballarat. “Sure, I may as
well go where there’s promise. I can’t be running
the whole country with meself and Hannon alone.
I might search the world with a small-tooth comb
for another chance of plucking up gold from the
roots of the grass.”
“Ah, scatteration! When ye’ve dragged ye’rself
to pieces to establish the horses and cattle at Burra-
binga, and a depot and a home here, why leave
everything to the native dogs? Ye’r stock unbranded
for those who like to stick a mark on them.”
“Och, everyone will be running with me. The
young stock will stay with their dams. ’Twill be the
equivalent of a brand. And to think, me brave
Johanna, if I brought ye a fortune!”
“Ye’ll more like be bringing me something worse
than the wooden leg. How could ye work a claim
on wan leg?”
“Couldn’t I lepp over manny of them that has
four when I set me moind? Sure, it’s all in the
moind.”
URQUHART, with ten children, and whom
Johanna thought a model of commonsense,
announced his intention of accompanying Delacy.
Johanna was defeated, but luckily Hannon and Doo-
goolook stood by her. There was also a mild old
poodle of an English gentleman as tutor. Johanna
had to resign herself to observing the neglect of the
substance for the chase of the shadow, but Danny,
was no longer a hero. She was seasoned to his
sorties. His absences were a relief.
The hour came for him to mount the mare, a
good animal in her prime. Attendant upon her were
two able colts packed with digging and other gear
and merchandise, including tobacco. Johanna
accompanied him as far as the sliprails beyond the
household premises. From there she turned back to
set her will on Bewuck.
She desired education for her children. Hitherto
they had had only scrappy lessons by those ill-designed
to impart their knowledge. Danny was accustomed
to suspend lessons if tutor and pupils could forward
the farm work.
Johanna prepared to send Della, now twelve,
to Sydney to a boarding-school nominated by Mr.
Moore. He was going down and took charge of the
girl and paid her fare. Johanna held her breath
about such a daring step, but if Danny was for ever
to be capering about the country, leaving her no
better situated than a widow, and in some ways worse,
she must do something for her daughters.
Her desire was to rescue them from some of her
own hardships and heartbreaks in “this blackfellow
pioneering, with me life in me hand and me heart
in me mouth from wan unholy terror after the
other.”
I T was a year of floods. Every stream Delacy and
Urquhart met was a banker. Several had to be
swum at the risk of life. How Delacy swam the
Yackandandah on the tail of the mare and smashed
his wooden leg in the passage was one of his staple
anecdotes when old —when he could induce anyone to
listen.
That was not often in a society full of ageing
men, all replete with similar experiences, but swim-
ming the Yackandandah was a byword with Delacy's
descendants.
Urquhart lost a horse swimming the Campaspe.
They had to camp in their wet clothes several times,
and without a fire because their tinder was wet. They
were also without food for 48 hours on two stretches
until they reached some lonely shepherd’s hut. At
one they were offered £3 per hundred to shear sheep,
as all the men had deserted for the goldfields. They
refused this to haste to fortune and the livelier adven-
tures which have but lately receded from Australia’s
pioneering scene.
On the goldfields Delacy and Urquhart, while
asleep, were robbed of their first £lOO by a third mate.
Years later they learned that he was blown to pieces
in a mine in Queensland. They were stuck-up by the
notorious Black Douglas and his gang, and were
triumphant that it was so soon following ( the first
robbery that they had not an ounce of gold between
them. Danny had one promising alluvial claim but
was too slapdash to win the good of it, and his leg
hampered him in shaft-sinking.
Homes and families became enticing to both men.
Johanna’s indifference concerning Danny’s absence
helped to draw his thoughts to the Murrumbidgee.
Urquhart postulated that with the rise in stock they
were risking the loss of certain prosperity in mere
gambling. Livestock would not include so many
“shicers” if one were wary of “shysters.” Neither
had any affinity with the lawless elements, and they
were lucky in withdrawing before opposition to
authority culminated in the Eureka Stockade.
One evening at afterglow the dogs heard the
jingle of hobble-chains and quart-pot and gave tongue.
The family ran out, saw the silhouette on the dazzling
skyline and answered Danny’s hail. He dismounted
on a mended peg and shouted for each member of
his family. “Wait till I show you what 1 have
brought.”
“I can see the owld pipe ye haven’t lost this time.
Has it taken root entirely? Maybe I should be thank-
ful that it’s wan leg ye still have intact.”
Danny went inside ; for the moment he did not
miss Della. He was told the exciting news that one
of the colts that he had sold on the diggings had
reached home ahead of him. He produced his
nuggets. Johanna accepted several as keepsakes but
maintained an aloof manner.
{To he continued next week.)


Last Chapters of a Brief Story of Horses:—
AMATHEA
BY Henry G. Lamond
CHAPTER XII. —( Continued ).
HARRY swung his mount slightly. His whip
struck the horse full across the outstretched face.
The stallion ignored it. He may not even have
felt it. He chopped with his gleaming fangs at the
man’s thigh, missed, and, as the whip smacked again,
reared and struck with his hooves.
One hoof took the man aboyt the shoulder, slid-
ing down his arm, tearing his shirt and leaving strips
of skin and flesh dangling. The other landed behind
the saddle, quivering the mare as the shock
took her. As the man swung his whip handle, taking
it as a light cudgel to fight for his life, the stallion
swung and lashed with hind hooves.
Cissie was cowed. She swung, in spite of the
man’s attempts to control her. In panic, she tried
to flee. She had not gone twenty yards when the
stallion flashed before her, wheeled her, reared, yelled
and shook her.
Harry balanced the steel-lined handle of his whip,
measured his distance, brought the knobby end of
the handle down with a crash between the stallion’s
eyes.
Tooley Street released the mare. He shook his
head to clear his dazed senses and turned to trot
back to his mares.
Harry meant to push the moral home. He swung
his whip again ; it bit the horse’s rump, left a red
weal on his loins.
As the whip bit him Tooley Street wheeled.
Harry fought for his life. In that desperate on-
slaught of flashing hooves and gleaming teeth he
sought to control his mount and combat the stallion.
He felt injuries which should have rocked him.
When his mare sank to the ground beneath him, wilt-
ing under the murderous attack, he only knew he
was close to a tree. Without even knowing what he
did, he sprang, grasped a low limb, hauled himself
to safety.
Tboley Street struck at the mare on the ground.
He raked the body with the teeth, spun and lashed it.
Then a movement from his brood attracted him. He
charged at them, swung round them and held them
in a bunched and trembling heap while he stood be-
tween them and the body on the ground.
It was well after dark before Harry, sore and
cramped and tortured by ants, dared to descend from
his perch. The mares had fed away, and Tooley Street
had gone with them. But, though it was not in the
direction of home, Harry followed a line of timber
for a mile or more which took him to the boundary
of Mingeri.
Thankfully he climbed through the fence. It was
twelve miles to the station. He was sore, wounded,
also he was unused to walking, and his light riding-
boots were not fitted for the job. There was nothing
else for it, however. He set his face for home and
commenced to walk.
A LITTLE before three o’clock next morning Kil-
gour, dozing in his bed on the verandah, dreamt
he heard dragging footsteps coming along the boards
towards him. He thought he heard Harry Peelben
calling him, and in his dream he wondered what Harry
might want. Then a hand touched him, and Harry’s
real voice sounded close.
“Mr. Kilgour!”
Kilgour sprang from his bed and struck a match.
“Great, suffering”——
He checked himself as Mrs. Kilgour, carrying
a lantern, appeared before them.
“Harry!” she gasped. “What happened?”
“I didn’t mean to wake you, missus,” Harry
mumbled his apology. “I just come to tell th’ boss
he killed me little mare Cissie.”
“Who, Harry?”
“Tooley Street”
Kilgour caught him as he reeled. With the book-
keeper Brinkworth helping, he carried Harry to a
bed, stripped him and assisted while Mrs. Kilgour
bathed and cleansed the wounds.
“There don’t seem to be anything serious,” he
muttered. “How’s it, Harry? Drink this sip of
brandy. Are you hurt inside, old man? How are
you—right?”
“I’m right,” Harry mumbled. “I’m a bit knocked
about, but I’m right.”
“If you’re crook, Harry, say so,” Kilgour urged.
“I’ll get a doctor somehow.”
“I’m right,” Harry repeated. “I’ll go to me bed
now.”
“You’ll stay right here,” Kilgour ordered
NEXT day Kilgour started for Mingeri, riding
Cherry.
After dealing with sundry station matters, he
wrote to the firm.
“I regret to report that the stallion Tooley
Street wav to-day found dead in Mingeri. He
had a bullet hole in his forehead. Possibly this
was done by some traveller or kangaroo-
shooter, as Tooley Street has lately developed
into a maneater and is liable to charge at sight
anyone entering his paddock.”
To Peter Outhwaite he wrote:
“In my letter to head office to-day 1 stated
that Tooley Street had been found dead in
Mingeri, and I hinted that a traveller or a
kangaroo-shooter had shot him. I shot him.
I shot him deliberately. He savaged Harry
Peelben, killed the mare Cissie, and nearly
killed Harry. He has been hovering on the
edge of developing into a maneater for some
time now. I think the flush of the season
brought it to a head. I told head office that
someone else had done it, as they might not
care to think their manager rides about the run
shooting valuable stock. lam telling you the
truth, so you can break it gently to them. Of
course, between you and me, if they want to
get rid of me, lam prepared to go. 1 would
do the same again, though. But if they do not
want to get rid of me, as I hope they will not,
then I have given them an excuse to cover me
over the loss of the stallion.”
Chapter XIII.
THE FINAL TEST.
HARRY’S wounds healed cleanly, leaving only
scars, memories and the sullen regret that, as
Tooley Street was dead, it left him no chance
for retribution.
The mail brought letters from Peter Outhwaite
and Head Office.
Outhwaite’s remarks, in reference to Tooley
Street read:
v “I’m sorry you had to shoot him, George.
Serve the cow right. I’d like to have seen the
fight Harry put up.
Congratulate hi m
for me, will you ? I
told the Firm the
truth about the
horse’s death, and
l explained your
attitude to them. I
think they are writ-
ing you this mail.”
J'he letter from Head
Office, after dealing with
sundry station matters and
acknowledging receipt of
various reports, added:
“We note with regret that the stallion
Tooley Street is dead. If, as you say, he was
developing into a maneater, perhaps it is the
best thing that could have happened before he
did serious harm. You will require a new stal-
lion on Meetucka, and in this connection we
would appreciate your advice.”
“I missed my vocation, Nell,” Kilgour remarked
to his wife. “I should have been in the diplomatic
service.”
THE time came round for the annual races. With
a good season assured, the price of stock reason-
ably right, and with their sporting instincts responding
to the period of fallow, in which they had been lying
dormant, managers and men gathered in great heart.
Alby Baldwin was there, grinning expansively,
and his glinting spectacles flashing welcome to all.
Colin Dale, neat and dapper, hard of face and soft
of voice, and with the instincts of a gentleman. Long
Bill Raven, happy and prepared at any time any-
where to argue on any subject, employing sonorous
words of many syllables. Angus Carran, with a smile
of welcome and a cheery invitation to old friends.
And others —many others. And, of course, the ladies.
From many miles —hundreds of miles—they had
gathered in strong force. The omens were good.
Lapthing won the Breeders’ Plate, the opening
race of the first day.
“That just goes to prove what I said,” Evans
contended: “The Lapidists are the best-bred horses
in the district.”
“Why didn’t you do it last year?” Kilgour
demanded.
“I was racing at an unfair advantage last year,”
Evans replied, apparently almost believing himself
by the sincerity of his voice. “Your mare, that just
beat him, was a four-year-old. Lapthing was only
three.”
“But you insisted previously that weight-for-age
equalled those matters.”
“Weight-for-age is not framed for western grass-
fed conditions,” Evans replied unctuously. “You had
an advantage last year.”
“And how about the three-year-olds your fellow
just beat?” Kilgour asked triumphantly. “How about
them! ”
“The conditions are different this year, Kilgour.
We’ve had a good season. It makes all the difference.”
"POM HOPKINS beckoned to Kilgour, and he joined
* him.
“Did you hear the whisper?” Tom asked.
“What?”
“They say that Peeramon’s a ringer. He’s
Blatique, a disqualified horse from inside. Ted Bolton,
head stockman from Merrima, got a loan of him from
Ginger Forbes. He worked Ginger in as Joe Forsyth
so’s to get him to ride the horse in The Bracelet.
Ginger’s a disqualified jockey, too. Blatique’s a horse
with big performances inside, and he’s nominated him
here as a maiden. What about it?”
“That’s the worst of a gentleman’s club,” Kil-
gour spat irritably. “A man expects ’em to act as
gentlemen. It’s beyond ’em. I wonder if Evans is
in this. He was terrible keen to make side bets with
me that Amathea wouldn’t win The Bracelet. I want
to win that race for the wife, too. My mare, on
account of her win last year, carries ten-ten. That
joker, who should be giving her weight, gets in as a
maiden. I’m not starting the mare to-day, as I
don’t want to get more weight put on her by winning
—I want to win that Bracelet particularly. They’re
not starting Peeramon to-day; saving him for the
betting in The Bracelet to-morrow, I suppose. This
is going to be interesting, Tom.”
“Let’s disqualify the cows.”
“We can’t, Tom. We accepted Peeramon’s nomi-
nation. We gave Joe Forsyth a permit to ride. Now
the onus of proof is on us. If we’d taken action
before accepting the nomination, then the onus of
proof would have been on them—that’s the way I
look at it. I don't know if it’s racing law. It seems
to me to be an equitable thing, though. If we can
prove anything, we can dump ’em. If we only go
on rumors, then they dump us.”
“Let’s go and have a drink,” Hopkins suggested.
“This puts a dirty taste in my mouth. Blast ’em! ”
“And now,” Kilgour added, as they turned from
the bar at the booth, ‘.‘let’s go and have a look at
Peeramon.”
“We can go and have a look at the Merrima
string—they’re down there in the trees,” said Hop-
kins. “But Peeramon ain’t with ’em! What do you
think of that?”
They walked down to the Merrima horses. Peera-
mon was not among the half-dozen or more tied to
trees. Bill Blackstone, Joe Forsyth’s mate, clean-
shaven, suave, neatly-dressed, with his tongue under
perfect control, met them.
“Where’s Peeramon?” Hopkins asked, in his bluff
way coming straight to the point.
“We didn’t bring him to the course to-day, Mr.
Hopkins,” Bill answered politely. “He’s a very ner-
vous horse, and we didn’t want to upset him.”
“How do you know he’s nervous?” Kilgour de-
manded. “How do you know he’d fret on the course?
“That’s Ted Bolton’s idea, Mr. Kilgour,” Bill said.
“Ted is an expert horseman. He understands them.”
“If he’s a maiden, as his nomination says, and
if Bolton only got him four months back, how does
he know what he’s like on a track?” Kilgour asked.
“Really, I haven’t any idea,” was Bill’s even
x’esponse. “I never saw either Bolton or Peeramon
before I came here. I was out of a job. Joe Forsyth
told me Ted would give me a job looking after the
horses. That’s how I came to be here. If there'
anything 1 can do for you I’d willingly help.”
“Euchred!” Hopkins blurted in disgust, turning
away and walking back to the course. “It’s no good
to us, George. We can’t twist and dodge the way those
fellows can. We’ve got to ruq, straight. But the
minute that bloke wins a race we get him examined
by the police ; we take his photo, and his full descrip-
tion. Do you think the little mare can wheel him?”
“I’ll be the proudest man in Australia to-morrow
if Blatique’s the horse I think he is, and if Amathea
does wheel him,” said Kilgour.
The first day’s races drew to a close. The night
was made hilarious by the loud laughter of glad men,
by the popping of many corks, by the jingle of silver
and rustle of paper money. Music and singing sounded
from various quarters. In the hall feet shuffled over
the floor, dancing in time to the groaning wail of
an accordeon.
NEXT day, after early lunch at the pub, cars,
horses, men on foot, sundry blacks and odd dogs
raised the dust as they trailed to the course.
The postmaster, who was closing his office for
the afternoon, hurried across and gave Kilgour a
telegram. He read it casually, read it again more
carefully, refolded it and put it in his pocket. Then,
as Mrs. Kilgour and her party got in the car, he
drove to the course.
Several horses were objects of interest. Amathea
held her own court, and obviously she appreciated it.
But as the rumor had spread, Peeramon was the
centre of attraction. All the members of the com-
mittee individually drifted by him, stopped and looked
at him. As Kilgour and Hopkins arrived Joe Forsyth
was in attendance.
“Amateur rider! Him!” Hopkins snorted. “A
man can tell he’s been reared in a stable by the way
he rubs the horse down, and I never seen a disquali-
fied jockey that didn’t slip a saddle off a horse like
that. Him! Amateur! P’ff!”
Three races were run. Then the secretary rang
his bell and announced “Weigh out for The Bracelet.”
“I’ll bet on th’ field,” the bookmakers took up
their battlecry. “Even money th’ field. Two to one
bar one. I’ll lay! I’ll lay! I’ll lay. Two to one bar
one. I’ll bet on th’ field.”
Gradually, as the money came in, the odds righted
themselves: “Even money Peeramon. Three to one
Amathea. Five to one Dotson an’ Cheerful Flat. I’ll
bet on th’ field. Even money Peeramon an’ eight to
one Lapthing. I’ll lay! I’ll lay!”
“There’s fourteen horses in the race, and Peera-
mon’s at even money!” Hopkins whispered to Kil-
gour. “That’s not a funny price for a maiden, is it?
He brought twenty quid in the Calcutta, too! We'll
watch this bloke, George.”


Simplicity
itself to fill!
Safe
/""\NE ! two ! full! ! ! Yes, it’s just as simple
'-'as that. And the mechanism of the Leverless
is so strong and sound that it cannot go wrong !
See it demonstrated at any good Stationers or
Jewellers —soon!
Prices. —The Leverless (‘ Quick-fill’) Swan from
21/-. The Visofil (‘ Big-fill’) Swan 32/6. Ladies'
Size, 27/6. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE LEVERLESS
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
f
k
ALWAYS USE SWAN’ INK
A. 4.36
i/rjSt
\
y
id
STATIC
Like a tree, Money will grow if given the
opportunity. On fixed deposit with the
National Bank, it grows steadily and sturdily,
giving greater financial independence as each
six or twelve months pass by. There is no
variation in value, as with many other
investments, and no brokerage, commissions
or other charges to pay. Amounts from £5
upwards will be accepted.
BANK
J&snlted-
Branches Throughout Australia
23/12/36
hjk
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. .Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper 'House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, L,td., Adelaide.
“If he’s what his people think he is, we won’t
need to watch him,” Kilgour replied. “He’ll force
himself on our attention. What chance has Chang-
wagee, Tom?”
“I wouldn’t like the missus to know, as she has
hopes of wearing that bracelet; but he hasn’t got a
dog's chance,” Hopkins replied calmly. “It’s between
your mare and this ringer, George.”
PEERAMON, an upstanding bay with a white face,
aged, showing plenty of breeding, swung his head
and looked about him as he entered the straight and
turned for his preliminary. He came stretching past
the men who were watching him intently, sweeping
along with the trained action of an educated horse.
“Amateur rider or disqualified jockey, which?”
Hopkins grunted, elbowing Kilgour and drawing his
attention to Joe Forsyth’s seat and hands on the horse.
“H’mmm!” Kilgour murmured. “That boy’s
been well schooled, to say the least of it.”
Amathea swung at the entrance of the straight.
She bowed her chin in on her chest, held hard on
the bit, and her tail streamed behind her as she
stretched to the gallop. She skimmed low, belly-to-
earth, perfect mistress of herself, and apparently in
command of both time and distance. Powerfully yet
daintily she revelled in the action and enjoyed the
pipe-opener.
As the field collected at the milepost, manoeuvring
for position, Evans joined Kilgour and Hopkins as
they watched the start.
“I’ll bet you an even tenner that Peeramon beats
Amathea, Kilgour,” Evans suggested tauntingly.
“Done!” Kilgour snapped, his pride in his mare
touched. “Amie’s at threes, Peeramon’s even money.
It’s not a fair bet, but I’ll take you. You mark that
bet, Tom ; one to get a place”
“They’re off!” Hopkins shouted, adding his voice
to the chorus which supplied that gratuitous infor-
mation.
THE field thundered past the stand, throwing up the
dust. In a packed bunch they charged the first
turn.
Going down the side they strung out consider-
ably, and a straggling tail had begun to form. Lap-
thing, whose mission it obviously was to set the pace,
scampered along in front, leading by lengths, with
Dotson in hot pursuit. Eelman, Dunstar and Ratskip
were prominent. Datron, out of the hunt and hope-
lessly beaten, labored behind.
In the pack, lying in behind the leaders, were
Amathea and Peeramon.
They raced along the back, individual horses
hard to pick at that distance and through the dust.
Lapthing fell back beaten, Dotson took his place
for less than a furlong, and he, having reached his
limit, was swallowed in the pack and hidden.
They turned and came up the side. In that
thinned field half a dozen horses could be picked who
had a possible chance. Changwagee was in the ruck
laboring to hold his place. He, with others, dropped
back as the real horses sorted themselves out to fight
the finish.
The crowd was getting restless, calling first one
name and then another, and bookmakers, ever eager
to help, offered odds to each name as it was called.
As they swung round the turn for home all the
colors flashed into clear view for a second. Then, as
the field settled in the run. for the post, and the spec-
tators could note without error what were the posi-
tions, one great shout went up:
“Peeramon! ”
Racing strongly in front, laid up on the rails in
a good position, and with his rider sitting firm and
motionless, Peeramon held a commanding lead as they
raced for home.
“The bet is as good as won,” Evans said quietly.
Even as Evans was congratulating himself, and
while the crowd was reconciling itself to a tame finish,
the chestnut flashed from the field. Head outstretched,
tail streaming, foot by foot and yard by yard she
crept on the leader. Half-way down the straight she
was at his girths, and behind them thundered a beaten
field.
“Amathea!” was the cry. “Come on, Amie!
Amathea! Peeramon! Amie! Come on, Peeramon! ”
The mare crept up, measuring her opponent stride
for stride and gaining an inch at a time. She drew
up to his shoulders, to his neck, and, as they came
towards the grandstand, she was on even terms with
him. They were locked together, splendid specimens
of a superb breed, with courage unsurpassed and deter-
mination of incredible quality. Neither flinched, and
the yells of the crowd in hysteria urged them to further
efforts.
Peeramon drew away slightly, gaining less than
a head and holding his position.
A sudden silence fell. They, who a moment
before had been shouting madly, held their breaths.
The thin voice of a child shrilled, sounding as sharp
as breaking glass after the volume which had pre-
ceded it.
Kilgour, all the love and pride of his mare well-
ing up in him, was standing beside the rails, gripping
one, his knuckle joints showing white under the inten-
sity of his hold.
“Stick to him, Amie!” he muttered. “Hang to
him, girl! Stick to him, mare! You can beat him!
Stick to him! ”
Amathea came at her opponent again. She drew
up with him, grim, determined, implacable, inflexible
in her will to win. Coming to the winning-post, the
lead alternated between them. Both horses were run-
ning true, straight, picking themselves up cleanly and
stretching to their work, giving all they had to offer.
Harry was riding desperately. The mare came
again as Peeramon’s front legs spread slightly, and
Forsyth felt for his whip.
“Now, Harry! Now!” Kilgour shouted in a
tumultuous explosion. “Now, Harry! She’s got him!
Great God, she’s got him! Got him!”
As they flashed past the post one full-throated
roar broke from the crowd as hats were tossed in
the air and men danced in their excitement.
“Amathea! ”
THE clerk of the course, drunk with the excitement
of the stirring finish, galloped wildly after the field
to return with the winner, while the spectators, finding
relaxation in ridicule, cheered him satirically.
The clerk returned leading Amathea. He made
his way through the lane of people who flowed to
the right and to the left to give him a passage.
The mare was palpably on edge, her eyes pro-
truding, her nostrils distended. She walked with a
springy action, which showed she was on her tiptoes
of excitement. But she held herself under control, and
the influence of the pale-faced, gasping rider on her
back restrained her.
As Kilgour went to meet his mare, his face grim,
his lips trembling and showing a dead-white line, he
dared not do more than flash a look of gratitude to
Harry. As he walked beside her a whisper or two
sounded on each side of him; a small splutter of
cheers broke out from behind him. Then, as Harry
slipped off at the scales, there came ringing cheers
from those bushmen —those horsemen and horse-
lovers —who had momentarily been stunned to silence
by the excellence of a performance rarely their luck
to witness.
WHEN the excitement had simmered down a little,
which was after several toasts had been drunk,
after Mrs. Kilgour had surreptitiously lifted her veil
to powder her nose, showing eyes red-rimmed, and
after Kilgour’s hand tingled from repeated hand-
shakes, he and Hopkins drew apart a little to talk
rationally.
“She’s a great mare, George!”
“She’s a great mare, Tom!”
“She’s a beauty, George!”
“She’s a gem, Tom!”
“Will you sell that mare, Mr. Kilgour?” Black-
stone asked, appearing suddenly. “I’ll give you fifty
quid for her.”
“Go to hell!” Hopkins snapped.
“Take him away, Tom,” Kilgour pleaded. “Take
him away where I can’t hear him. If he makes me
a good offer I can’t, in justice to my owners, refuse
it. Take him away.”
“I’ll give you sixty,” Blackstone continued, when
Hopkins’s leg-o’-mutton fist fell on his shoulder, twist-
ing him and turning him away.
“Will I kill him, George?” Hopkins asked cheer-
fully.
“Not to-day, thanks, Tom,” Kilgour replied.
“Take him away somewhere.”
“Come with me over behind the booth,” Hopkins
addressed his captive. “There’s a quiet place there
where I can cut your ears off.”
Kilgour drew the telegram from his pocket,
opened it and read again:
“Following your advice, have purchased
The Diver for Meetucka. — Outhwaite.”
Chapter XIV.
THE DIVER.
OF the various social events which stirred the dis-
trict during the year there was only one of real
importance. There might, and would, be several
dances, sundry Cinderellas and various other diver-
sions. But the Iladda Picnic Club’s Ball stood alone.
It was the only function of the year for which, and
at which, the ladies wore evening dress and the men
laced themselves in the regulation harness of dinner
suits and dress clothes. For an hour or more, per-
haps, the men looked unhappy and self-conscious in
that strange garb. The ladies, on the contrary, blos-
somed like night-blooming flowers. For that one
night of the year they enjoyed themselves to the full.
The ball was held at Mungalo station homestead.
That extensive lounge was mad-gay with streamers of
bunting and with ropes of flowers culled from several
station gardens. At one end of the lounge, on a
temporary dais, the many silver trophies, the prizes
of the meeting, made a brave display, throwing strange
lights as dancing shadows fell on them and passed.
Kilgour was preoccupied, inattentive and absent-
minded. He was obviously worried about something.
For an hour or more he twitched uneasily. Then he
drew off one white glove, and with a pencil devoted
himself to the back of his programme. He drew
parallel lines and crossed them at intervals with others
f Continued on next page.)


jSjSs
fS »^. 5 T»»»""'
%«e »»'°V= O'""
iM.UJ-rS
deCay to *• tooth «"*«"*
IS
linked with these conditions
9 9
Make sure you use the
special film-removing tooth
paste which removes film
effectively and safely.
The way to remove film safely
COMMON sense says that dangerous
film should be removed and kept
away regularly. But how ? Many
dentifrices may claim to remove film.
But are they safe ? To millions of
people, Pepsodent is known as the
special film-removing tooth paste.
The simple reason for Pepsodent’s
efficiency is the use of a revolutionary
new cleansing and polishing agent. This
material is unexcelled in film-removing
power. No other leading dentifrice
contains it and it is so safe that in im-
partial tests Pepsodent has been proved
the least abrasive . . • therefore softest
—of 15 leading tooth pastes and 6
tooth powders.
So, if you really want naturally white
teeth and greater freedom from common
mouth disorders, take the first step now.
Start removing ugly, dangerous film
daily with Pepsodent Tooth Paste.
Along with daily brushing, eat foods
your dentist would advise to promote
strong, healthy teeth. And be sure to
see your dentist regularly twice a year.
the sahv ’ h , c h may c * go rr«-
**fS»Uo» of ,he 8
SAVE MONEY!
Buy Pepsodent in the new 10%
larger tubes at the old prices.
You can’t afford to take chances
on cheap “bargain” brands now
that it costs no more to insist on
the special nim-removing Tooth
Paste.
PEPSODENT
the Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 27- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL n-mm
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739*012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
fd l l
Corona^
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
running at right angles. He divided those oblongs,
starting from the top and duplicating each as he went
a step further down, and then on that miniature
pedigree form he wrote names. He found satisfac-
tion in that occupation until only the top space of all
was left blank. He frowned at it, tapped his pencil
on the seat beside him, trying to recall a name.
Tom Hopkins, catching Kilgour’s eye, jerked his
thumb over his shoulder and grimaced a wink almost
loud enough to hear.
“What’s up, Tom?” Kilgour asked.
“Come away,” Hopkins suggested. “Us old fools
are out of our place here. Come with me, George.
I’ve found out where they keep the bar.”
“There ain’t any bar,” Kilgour corrected him.
“I got called to order over the same thing about half
an hour ago. There’s a bar at the pub and a refresh-
ment booth at the course. But here at the ball, Tom,
we don’t have common stuff like that: ours is a buffet.
We’ll go and have a look at it.”
“And behind it,” Hopkins continued eagerly,
“there’s a little room with three or four chairs in
it—a thing that’s just made for fellows like you and
me.”
“It sounds good,” Kilgour admitted. “Lead me
to it.”
Their drinks secured, Hopkins toasted:
“Here’s to the future!”
“Here’s to to-day!” Kilgour replied. “May I
never forget it!”
THEY had just settled themselves in their chairs
when Evans entered, standing in front of them.
“The Peeramon fellows wam to iace . ..,iee
months’ time under other and more equal conditions,”
he informed Kilgour. “They’re willing to put up a
side bet of a level hundred pounds.”
“Can’t be done,” Kilgour grunted. “A hundred's
too much for me.”
“You won more than that to-day, surely?” Evans
hinted.
“When I get your tenner I’ll have a bit more than
it,” Kilgour said. “Anyway, the mare ain’t going to
race again. She’s going to the stud.”
“What!” Evans gasped. “Going to the stud!
Why, she’s just in her prime.”
“Which is the reason she’s going,” said Kilgour.
“That gives her a chance to hand on her perfections
to her progeny. She ain’t any wasted frame, and
she’s not a half-formed, child. She goes at her top,
with the ability to hand on her virtues. Anyway, who
frames these equal conditions they want?”
“They are to be left to me,” Evans said. “What
about it?”
“You’ve got my reply,” said Kilgour, chuckling
at the absurdity of the suggestion.
Evans, in response to a call from outside, left
the den.
“That fellow,” Kilgour remarked, “wants to be
handicapper, starter, judge and steward of the match,
leaving me only to fill the part of the mug. You’d
hardly think a full-grown man could be so silly.”
“How about washing the flavor of it away?”
Hopkins suggested.
Settled again in their chairs, the two men re-
counted the events of the meeting, and to their hearts’
content they talked horse.
“You told Evans you were putting Amathea to
the stud,” Hopkins said. “What horse are you send-
ing her to?”
“Have a look at this, Tom.” Kilgour pulled
the telegram from his pocket. “What about that?”
“What’s this Diver?”
“He’s a horse I fancied. I wired Peter Ou.thwaite
to get him if possible. Wait a bit. Just hang on a
second till I get his pedigree from out of this inside
pocket. There you are! What about that!”
“H’mmm,” Hopkins agreed, wriggling in his chair.
“I say, George, I don’t think Providence gave a man
a neck just so’s he might have something to wrap a
stiff collar round. Do you?”
“Ease it, Tom. It ain’t glued on, is it? Now, we
must have a sire strong in Stockwell blood to return
to those Bluff Downs mares, particularly Amathea.
The Diver’s a tail male descendant of Stockwell
through the Melton line. Besides that, he’s got the
modern lines of Cyllene and Kenilworth —a horse
noticeably strong in Stockwell and tracing to Poca-
hontas herself.”
“I’d like a dash of Musket,” Hopkins argued.
“Think of old Caibine, George ; of Wallace, Trenton,
Martini-Henry, Pistol; a score of others.”
“It’s good blood, Tom. It’s real good stuff. But
I don’t fancy it too strong for station horses. The
Muskets are inclined to throw too high-behind and
pitch too low in front. We’ve got it here in this
pedigree, sufficiently diluted to make it attractive. We
get it through Kennaquhair’s dam Calluna, by Man-
ton, a good ’un, and a son of Musket himself. I
say, Tom, do you think Providence gave a man ieet
so’s he could put ’em in patent-leather shoes?
“Are they pinching, George?”
“Like hell, Tom.”
“So’re mine. We’ll take ’em off.”
“How about having a look at that boo-fay affair,
Tom? We don’t want it to escape while we ain t
looking.”
“To the future,” said Hopkins.
“To to-day,” Kilgour replied.
“Now, let’s have a look at that pedigree again,”
Hopkins asked, returning to his chair and lowering
himself carefully. “He’s by Rivoli. 1 seen that
fellow, George. We were in Melbourne and seen
him run in the Cup. You talk about a race! That
bay fellow was giving Bitalli, the winner, twenty-nine
pounds. And he made him run a record to beat him,
too! He’s a horse, George, very near perfect, and
with shoulders on him that a man wouldn’t think
were real if he didn’t see ’em in the flesh. If The
Diver’s like his sire he’ll do me!”
“Then we get shoulders through his dam,” Kil-
gour put in. “She’s by Kennaquhair, by Kenilworth.
That Kenilworth was perhaps the best-shouldered
horse we ever had in the country. Some of his stock
might have been a bit high for station horses. But
he’s right. Kennaquhair was a big fellow, on the
leg a bit; but he won the Sydney Cup, beating that
living marvel Poitrel. All that Kenilworth stuff stays,
and stays well, with whips of stamina and tons of
guts.”
“He ought to be a great horse,” Hopkins agreed.
‘Do you think Providence would let a man be born
naked if he was intended to wear a coat, George?
“Mine cramps my style, too,” Kilgour agreed.
“Let’s take ’em off, Tom, and hang ’em on nails.
Got a smoke on you?”


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
K. BAWNSLEY MOSS, Chairman. R. A. MAJ.ZIE, General Manager.
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for the period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course, The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
E
&
Wgmrr
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
t o
JAVA
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs colourful
bazaars —the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
At your request we shall he
pleased to forward folder
No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
fyttd Cat
WtlonthUf
Australia 9 s Leading Financial Journal.
September Issue Now on Sale.
THE WOOL QUESTION
WILL SHARE PRICES HOLD?
TRADING IN COMMODITY FUTURES
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PP/CE 2/- PET? COPF, OP £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The bulletin Ne\v=paner Co., Ltd. 2n2 Oeorg-e Street. Sydney, and all States.
“Divil a smoke,” Hopkins replied. “The missus
reckoned it was vulgar for a man to suck a pipe in
these clothes. We’ll have to chew cigarettes. Jack’s
not plenty in that boo-foo. I’ll call him to bring us
some.” .
“We’ll go and get ’em,” said Kilgour. ‘ Jack
might be lonely, looking after that boo-fay by him-
self. Anyway, it’s up to us to hold the thing in its
place in case the others want it.”
“Well, here’s to the future,” Hopkins proposed
a minute later.
“To the memory of to-day,” Kilgour pledged.
“Let’s have a look at that pedigree again,” said
Hopkins.
Chapter XV.
LIFE'S CYCLE.
THE year drew to a close, another season came
and went.
Late in June, riding the bay mare Destiny,
Kilgour left the head station for a day’s inspection,
going through Mingeri.
The day was cool, with a touch of ice in the
mid-winter air. For a brief spell the eternal south-
easterly held its breath while the giant behind it
gathered himself together for a longer and more sus-
tained blow. The sun, shining with the white inten-
sity peculiar to that clear atmosphere, struck glinting
rays from dancing leaves of trees, and from every
swaying blade of grass twinkling lights shot and
winked. The air was clean, dry, brittle, snapping with
sparkling life, vital.
Kilgour rose in the stirrups, drew deep down in
his lungs a plenitude of the life-giving air, and settled
in contentment in the saddle while the mare swung
along, pricking her ears, tossing her head and playing
with the bit.
Ahead of him a cheeky willie-wagtail chirruped
as it flew in its jerky flight, snapping minute insects
and coming back to the horse to get anything which
its moving legs might brush from the grass. Over on
the left, on a bare claypan flat, a flock of corellas
many thousands strong covered the earth as with a
blanket of snow. As the man rode closer the corellas
nearer him rose in the air, hovered above the flock
feeding on the ground, and settled on the far flank.
Immediately they touched the ground they ploughed
with their beaks, raking seeds from the earth.
Almost from beneath the mare’s hooves a little
ground-lark rose on palpitating wings. It fluttered for
a second in the air, hesitating whether to rise higher
or to return to the sanctuary in the grass. With
a hissing swoop and a clear “Tap!” of talons striking,
a black falcon took its breakfast on the wing.
KILGOUR dismounted and opened the gate into
Mingeri. He rode across the paddock, alert for
signs of horses or for recent tracks of them, and, when
crossing Turkey Plain, over on the edge of timber
on the other side of it he saw the stallion and his
mares. They were grouped together, standing in little
bunches, swishing tails to hunt flies which were non-
existent at that time of the year. Odd pairs stood
a hundred yards distant from the main mob.
Coleen saw the man first. She never lifted her
head, moved or made a sound. She merely pricked
her ears and concentrated her attention. Immediately
every member of the group swung to attention and
faced the ridden horse coming to them.
The Diver swung out of the mob, his chestnut
coat ablaze with flashing fire as the sun shone on it.
He stood out clear to defend his brood. He raked
the ground, lowered his head and snorted, and, after
calling his clarion challenge, trotted out to meet the
horse from which the man had just dismounted.
He was a magnificent specimen of a thorough-
bred, and Kilgour admired him as he came. He stood
fifteen-two or a shade under it, low-set and with
great depth of girth. His barrel was sprung like a
cask, with square back ribs, great strength of loins
and with depth of quarter. He reared and played as
he came nearer, showing to advantage his superb
length of rein and shoulder. He advanced his nostrils
to those of the mare the man was riding. Then he
turned and went back to his mares. His curiosity
was satisfied, his fears of a rival were groundless,
and his advances had been repulsed. But he stood
watchful and alert, between his brood and the man
who rode about them.
Cherry, with her chestnut colt hugging her close
and rubbing against her chest, pricked her ears and
lifted her head as Kilgour called her a greeting.
The first drop of The Diver’s foals were interest-
ing, as the first drop of a new horse’s foals always
are. Though Kilgour admired them as they deserved
to be admired, and though he commented on them
and drew on his imagination for the enthusiastic praise
with which he lauded their mothers, he was not satis-
fied. He rode about the mob a second time, rising
in his stirrups to see that no unit escaped his attention.
Amathea was not there!
Then he saw her. In his eagerness he had over-
looked a patch of mimosa growing near the bank of
a gully. Partly hidden behind that he saw a tail
swinging, and dimly he caught the outlines of a horse.
Blurred though those outlines were, made indistinct
by shadows and by intervening foliage, he knew his
mare when he saw her.
Amathea was standing, her head hanging low,
immediately over a dark outline stretched on the
ground. As the man approached her she swung to
face him, her head up, her ears pricked, her eyes
shining. She turned and dipped her head quickly,
merely brushing the smudge on the ground with her
lips. As though touched by a switch, it jerked to its
feet and stood beside her.
It was a chestnut, with the same markings as
its mother. Its stubby little mane was twisted in tight
crinkles, and its wisp of a tail was water-waved in
crisp curves. It stood at its mother’s chest, looking
out from under her neck ; and, though poised for flight,
every aspect of that little thing’s bearing bespoke
defiance. Its head was held high, its eyes bright and
glowing, and it shuffled its pinhead hooves in its
anxiety for action. Then, borrowing assurance from
its mother, it turned casually and went to her flank
to drink.
“You gem!” Kilgour exploded. “You priceless
little gem! Take care of it, Amie!” He was think-
ing : I don’t suppose I’ll ever ride and work that thing
as I did you. But I’m going to have a heap of fun
watching it grow. I suppose, if you were a story-
book mare you’d come to me when I called you, and
you’d bow your neck and rub against me in your
pleasure while I handled your foal. But you ain’t
a story-book thing, Amie —you’re real. If I dis-
mounted you’d fly on the wings of the wind, with
that long-legged little brat speeding beside you like
a dancing shadow. If I did catch the foal, and if I
tried to handle it, you’d come at me like an Amazon
bereft, and you’d tear me to pieces if you could.
You’re natural, Amie. I think I prefer you that way, too.
<<WOU’RE home sooner than I expected, George,”
I his wife greeted him. “You’re just in time for
afternoon-tea. Come and have some.”
“In a minute, Nell,” he replied. “I’ve got some
work to do in the office that can’t be delayed.”
“Can’t you have your tea first?” Mrs. Kilgour
protested.
“Very well,” he agreed. “But there’s one, Nell
—a very short ’un—-that won't take long.”
In his office Kilgour pulled out a drawer, and
from the back of it, from under some papers, he took
a rolled sheet. He had hidden it there months previ-
ously, pretending to himself, as it was out of sight,
that he had not done it.
He unrolled it, showing a fully tabulated pedigree
of the united breedings of Amathea and The Diver.
He drew the sheet to him and smoothed it. He
dipped his pen in the ink, and in the blank space left
at the top, which was to show the result of the union
of Amathea and The Diver, he wrote in capital letters:
“EVARNE.”
[The End.]


I
UffJJ tfasMuir
ff^nra^fAUei
THE NEW-DESIGN BEDFORD
THE LOWEST-PRICED
TRUCK IN AUSTRALIA
uk
A few weeks ago truck men had
to pay more for a new-design
Bedford than for either of the
two other leading trucks. And,
they paid the difference —cheer-
fully—for this quicker working,
shorter wheelbase truck. In
territory after territory, Bedford
outstripped its competitors.
Now, with the tariff changed
all in its favour, Bedford is set
for new sales records. Now you
actually save money as well as
get the most modern truck on
the market when you buy a
Bedford.,
Bedford is built for to-day’s
congested traffic conditions.
Payload area remains the same,
yet from 11" to 30" is saved in
wheelbase. You get easier
turning and parking with Bed-
ford’s smaller turning circle,
quicker manoeuvring in narrow
roads or pits, high average
speeds with perfect safety, less
overhang at rear with conse-
quent elimination of tail wag
and body sway, improved steer-
ing, even tyre wear and a
reduction of rear axle strain
due to more scientific weight
distribution. There are a score
of reasons why you should see
a new-design Bedford first.
There is its low frame height—
lowest of any truck of the same
capacity—which eliminates that
back-breaking strain when
loading. There are Bedford’s
bigger vacuum servo brakes,
which save the driver 90% of
the effort of braking the heavier
models. There’s Bedford’s big
comfort cab, smart outside,
snug inside, with a rigidity of
construction that will stand up
against the hardest usage.
You save money and you get
lower operating costs when you
buy a new-design Bedford. Ask
your dealer to turn the model
in which you are interested over
to you for any test you like.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
CHASSIS
PRICES
FROM
£272
(Plus Sales Tax.)
W 19128
NEW-DESIGN
BRITISH BEDFORD
CONSULT YOUfi LOCAL AUTHOBISED BEDFORD DEALER
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . • • Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FRO,VI "THE BULLETIN,” O/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, * FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A [o notice (except of a hostile char octet) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M.D.: We don't see many sailormen of that
sort.... Pat: Ring off!... .J. 8.: Bother Solo-
mon ; as a theme for verse Haile Silassie would
be preferable... .Nemo: The value of your
effusion is nil E.R.M.: Procedure quite in
order, but it doesn’t click... .E.A.S.: Armis-
tice Day can do without that... .M.L.: Con-
tributions needn't be typed; it would have
been a waste with those.... A.J.L.: Triteness
seems to be your long suit... .D.H.L.: But
have you ever heard a thrush hiccup?
E.J.8.: Too much of it for the little it con-
tains... .L.J.H.: Lacks ginger... .A.S.A.: Not
far off... .M.L.L.: Right off our beat....
L. : Well, for one thing, you rhyme vilely,
and for another your metre is all to p0t....
M. Unimpressive conventionalities
J.8.M.: Vapid, in none too legible pencil on
very thin paper.... R.L.W.: There was
material for a rollicking ditty, but yours is
tame... .C.C.E.: You can’t get the Omar
Khayyam touch by repeating the first line
M.H.M.: Not a very notable exercise in
rhyme C.S.: Haven’t the faintest desire to
publish either of them H. 5.8.: Too much
glitter; too little melody J.G.R.:
Have you ever looked on a wind-swept sea,
X host of Neptune’s cavilary?
Often, but cavilary (however you spell it) must
have riders, and the wild, white horses haven’t.
. ...0.C.D.: Old Joe’s plight left us unsym-
pathetic... .G.L.L.: A lot of stuffing to very
little meat A.D.M.: Less readable parodies
of “Tit-Willow” may have been perpetrated,
but we never saw one M.W.:
They cleared the timber, our forefathers true,
They killed, they burned and they cleared.
And over their course to the present day
lias the pastoral ship been steered.
You’re a whale at mixed metaphors... .R.M.
(U.S.A.): Of no more interest to our readers
than an article on the sex-life of a Guatamalan
wasp... .J.K.L.: Bit of humor in it, but end-
ing weak as non-alcoholic beer... .R.C.-G.:
Pet death-adder put an otherwise fair yarn on
the outer D.E.: Subject matter not up to
your usual... .W.W.R.: Nothing wrong with
its telling, but plot is thin. A “snap” ending
might have saved it P.D.S.: That type of
sketch has been done so often... .R.R.:
Neither hits the mark; humor far too slight.
....“Nil Desperandum”: Glimpses of good
family study, but prospecting part of it doesn’t
impress... .E.R.1.: Nicely done, but more suit-
able for a daily.. . .W.J.McC.: Too long; try
Angus and Robertson for book publication
C.D.: Plot cloudy and theatrical... .S.R.:
Didn’t miss by very much T.L.C.: We’ve
heard of such iron-mouthed racehorses before,
but only in extra-wild fiction D. 8.: Not
suitable for us G.M.8.: Couldn’t raise
much enthusiasm over Cosmo’s clowning....
M.D.: Dialogue good, but not enough meat
in the yarn Obiter: Well off our beat;
try it on a daily D.G.: “The Moth,” too
fragile, beat its wings vainly against the cash-
box Sti: The gobbler got the axe
M.S.: We get the meek husband who turns
at last on his termagant wife several times a
week, with exactly the same results....
Tuttie: Willie’s schemes lack interest
M.McC.: Only a callow half-wit would act
as Dick did... .D.N.L.: Sentiments well
expressed, but not for us A.S.: Like most
relief-work yarns, your two are below par
M.C.: After reading the opening sentence we
blew like a publican after an old-buffers’ race.
L.T.S.: Now write about something cheerful
like death and disease 8.P.W.: Reversed!
M.A.: Totters over 4000 words like a
rheumatic sloth A. 8.: Not bad for a first
effort; you’ve got atmosphere and dialogue off
all right, but plot not strong enough
C.W.J.: Bagmen yarns are becoming a drug
on the -market... .J.T.8.: Coincidence too
melodramatic D.W.: Not for us, but you
should unload it elsewhere W.C.: Chinese
guardians of the golden idol —solid gold and
six feet high—can’t commit their crimes here.
. ...F.M.T.: His troubles failed to amuse us.
... .K.L.-S.: Story-booky... .S.M.: Joe will
have to go back to the Home R. de C. and
H.A.L.: Nearly... .C.H.S.: Can’t find a pad-
dock for your “200 Border Leicesters”
T.W.N.: Speakeasies in Darlinghurst.! No.
. ...W.G.R.: It says nothing.... R.D.8.: Mr.
Bayne is going back.... A.C.H.: Took one:
other not up....A.W.: Your trimmers are still
looking for a berth... .J.G.: Atmosphere
good: but much too 10ng.... A.H.N.: Just
missed W.F.K.: Can't place it; try again.
. ...H.H.G.: Doesn't appeal... .G.Y.:
“Coming to the Memorial Drive, he began to
follow its mysteriously curving bitumen through
a picturesque forest.” Not here he doesn’t.
. ...N.T.N.: Terrible.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.M.: Sketches add nothing to the gaiety
of the nation.—P.S.L.: Will do our best to
struggle along without your cartoon on the
Yellow Peril H.R.D.: Doubt whether little
Tommy’s humor would be recognised outside
his family circle G.A.: This season's first
shark picture is being packed in ice and re-
turned W.N.M.: The trouble with “Our
Wandering Boys” is that none of the subjects
is recognisable J. 8.: Wait five years before
bombarding us again D.D.: Cannot detect
a spark of genius amidst that flurry of harsh
lines... .R.C.F.: Why are half the figures in
the room floating? S.M.: You have much
to learn about anatomy P.8.W.: Surely
horses are nbt so rare that you believe them
to look like that... .M.H.: You almost scored ;
poor gag upset your chance W.V.: They
took their place in the office catacombs
C.H.: That class of grained board is unsuit-
able for fine penwork.... R.H.: Oswald Pryor
has a lien over Cousin Jack.. .. A.N.: Not
wanting the hot-dog vendor and the stern
policeman... .H.C.T.: Your notion of the in-
terior of a pub is evidence that you prefer
milk-bars... .J.C.: Signs of slow progress; pay
more attention to anatomy... .A.L.A.: Send
sketches of Hollywood film stars to a movie
magazine... .F.P.: Why is the swagman
making a peace offering to a cross between
a crocodile and a dingo? ... .H.G.: It cost us
4d. for deficient postage to gaze on your
crumpled efforts... .S.T.M.: Gag was worn
threadbare in the days when motor-cars were
a novelty... .W.C.: Caricatures need to be
endorsed as to likeness by someone known
to u5....P.J.: Cut out the trimmings and pro-
duce drawings that tell a story... .L.D.: Ladies
are too angular for our liking. .. .K. 8.: Still
hopeless, though better than the last batch.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Ma Conscience”: How the world has
turned upside down since the war may
be seen from the decision of the Glas-
gow Municipal Council to permit Sunday
golf on the half-dozen municipal courses
it maintains. Thirty years ago action
of the kind would have seen the burgesses
rise and throw the godless councillors
into the Clyde. The change was accom-
panied by what the Southron loons would
call a typically Scottish incident. Some-
body offered a new driver to the first
man to drive off on Sunday morning. A
youth camped on the course at 10 a.m. on
the Saturday under the window where
the tickets were to be issued. He got
the No. 1 brief. A thousand tickets were
issued before noon on the Sabbath.
* $ * *
“Maski”; Conditions in the Solomons
shell industry make me yearn for a new
League of Nations that would protect
the innocent white against exploitation.
The local trochus hunter needs a plant
costing up to £9OO. He employs en-
gaging savages who work with a plant
consisting of one pair of diving goggles
which cost Is. A good diver brings up
three tins of shell a day ; those who
like fishing and are prepared to work
only half a day bring up a tin and a
half. They are paid 18s. a tin—that
is, until they get tired and are seized
with a desire to see their native villages,
which usually happens when they have
£l2 to £l5 in the kitty. The plant-
owner gets 245. a tin at port, out of
which he pays for living, depreciation,
insurance, crew's wages and other small
items, which take another 4s. a tin. That
leaves him with 2s. for himself. Trochus
collectors go grey early.
* * * *
“Korero": Colonel J. E. Duigan has
been appointed an aide-de-camp to King
Edward. Dr. A. E. Porritt becomes
surgeon-in-ordinary to the Duke and
Duchess of York. They are Maori-
landers both. Colonel Duigan served in
South Africa and in the Great War, gain-
ing the D.S.O. Later he was with the
northern command of the M.L. perma-
nent forces, and he is known on parade-
grounds from Auckland to Wellington.
Dr. Porritt, son of a Wanganui doctor
and one of Wanganui Collegiate School’s
most distinguished old boys, went to
Oxford in 1923 as a Rhodes scholar from
Otago University. He sprinted for M.L.
at the Paris Olympic Games in 1924,
and afterwards established an Oxford-
Cambridge 100 yards record of 9 9-10 sec.
At Amsterdam in 1928 he captained the
M.L. team. He practises in Harley-
street, and still watches M.L. Athletic
Association interests in London.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: A Commerce Department
bulletin has a cover decorated with an
entrancing picture showing eight small
bullocks (some calves), apparently tied
together with a piece of string, hauling
60 bales of wool on a small four-wheeled
wagon. Each bale must weigh at least
half a ton. And there is an informative
article on the Japanese milk trade:
The Government subsidises ihe purchase
of foreign-bred cattle to the extent oi 25
p.c. of the purchase price, and by making
available to breeders free of charge the
animals kept at the Government livestock
experimental stations. With this stimulus
the number of dairy-farmers in Japan in-
creased from 18,000 in 1927 to 28,000 in
1934, the number of dairy cows from
71,000 to 94,000 and the total production
of milk products from 14,510 tons to
25,230 tons.... The international signifi-
cance of this development has been that
Japan has ceased to become an important
market for dairy produce.
“Production, 25,230 tons,” and 28,000
tons would represent a consumption of
three-fifths of a pound of dairy produce
per annum per head of population in
Japan and its colonies. Actually, there
are more than 1,500,000 cattle in Japan.


3SV3 Hi^ siaow3W
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write:
Rev. WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
QN
BANK
IHE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIGHTED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
with offices at London. Canberra (federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydnev, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank otters the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Half fheTrip is Dining
Enjoy Every Meal”*
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To'Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, typist, own machine, city
address, specialises in authors’ MSS., wants
typing work. —2888.
Woolclasser, N.S.W., qualified and experi-
enced, wants October-November sheds. —2871.
Clerk, Sydney, Customs exp., some know-
ledge publicity work, wants employment, full
or part time. —2880.
Young man (21), S.A., with knowledge of
secretarial, shop and pastrycook work, seeks
position anywhere. —2913.
Young man, single, 2\ years’ exp. in New
Guinea as clerk and storeman, desires similar
position anywhere. —2919.
To buy Vols. I, II and V of Official History
of Australia in the War, Phil May in Australia,
and copies of The Bulletin prior to 1918. —
2865. .
To buy, second-hand, The Spirit of
Chemistry, by A. Findlay.—2B77.
To buy second-hand portable typewriter,
good condition. —2955.
Instruction-book for Stanley steam car
wanted. —2921.
English words of the song “Funiculi
Funicula,” by Denza. —2905.
Words of poem “The Monk and the Org’.”
—2908.
Ten shillings, offered for May, 1935, issue
of the “Geographical ' Magazine” (English).—
2903.
Does Anybody Know?
What item on the menu of old-time bushmen
was called “Jack the Painter” ?—2824.
How to put down a cinder running-track ?
—2893.
Information Supplied.
2711. —A billycan is so called because in
the “roaring ’forties” on the Victorian gold-
fields there was a brand of French tinned
meat imported called “Bouilli,” pronounced
“billy” by the miners. The empty tins were
used as cooking utensils, with a handle of
wir fitted on.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the record crossing of the
Tasman Sea by aeroplane? (2) When was this
record established? (3) What are considered
the nearest points for taking off from M.L.
and landing in Australia ? (4) What time of
the year is most favorable for such a crossing ?
—2727.
(1) 11 hours 58 minutes. (2) April, 1934,
by C. T. P. Ulm (pilot), G. U. Allen (relief
pilot and w.t. operator) and R. M. Bolton
(relief pilot and engineer), in Avro X ’plane.
(3) Ninety Miles Beach, on North Island, M.L.,
and Mascot, N.S.W., are the nearest-together
suitable landing-places for such a flight. (4)
Past flights over the Tasman have been
governed by weather reports received by wire-
less from M.L.
What yacht holds the fastest transatlantic
yacht voyage record ? —2937.
The Atlantic, which in the race for the
German Emperor’s Cup in 1905 sailed from
Sandy Hook to the Lizard, England, in 12
days 4 hours 1 minute and 19 seconds. The
yacht covered 3013 nautical miles at an average
speed of 10.31 knots. The best day’s run was
341 nautical miles.
* * * *
(1) Why is the standing martingale used in-
stead of rings on polo ponies ? (2) Would
rings have a bad effect if used continually on
a hack which has a tendency to head-tossing
and fo aging ? —2813.
(1) The standing martingale is used to allow
the pony’s head freedom of upward movement.
His head is his balance, and must be allowed
10 go up to let him puli up on his hind
legs instead of his front legs. (2) No bad
effect need be feared if rings are correctly
adjusted, but a standing martingale should give
better results.
Before the present trouble what battleships
and cruisers had Spain ? Date of launching,
displacement and main armament -2832.
Battleships: Jaime I. (1914) and Espana
(1913), both 15,452 tons displacement, carrying
eight 12in. and 20 4in. guns. Cruisers: Repub-
lica (1920), 5502 tons, nine 6in. guns; Mendez
Nunez (1923), 4650 tons, six 6in. guns; Liber-
tad (1925), Almirante Cervera (1925) and Miguel
de Cervantes (1928), each 7850 tons with eight
6in. guns and four 4in. anti-aircraft guns;
Canarias (1931) and Baleares (1932), both
10,000 tons with eight Bin. guns and eight 4.7 in.
anti-aircraft guns.
* * * *
frequent newspaper references are being
made to the Pass of Somo-Sierra. One of
Napoleon’s officers distinguished himself there.
Would you give particulars ? —2707.
On November 30, 1808, Napoleon, invading
Spain, and anxious to seize, the narrow, well-
guarded pass in the Somo-Sierra range, refused
to the infantry’s fire to take effect, and
impatiently ordered the escort squadron to
charge. These troops, members of a totally
inexperienced regiment of Polish lancers, gal-
loped up the roadway in close formation and
were mown down; the following squadrons
crashed into the survivors, and became a surg-
ing mass incapable of moving forward. Napo-
leon then noticed Count Montbrun, a brigadier
who was in disgrace and under threat of
court-martial for a trivial incident, and placed
him in charge. Montbrun, despite heavy
losses, seized the batteries. The position had
previously been considered impregnable. Napo-
leon, lining up the survivors, addressed them
as “the bravest of the brave, worthy to take
a place in the Old Guard/’
H* sj® *l*
When and how was Senator Huey Long
shot ?— 2835.
He was shot on September 8, 1935, at Baton
Rouge, Louisiana, by Dr. Carl A. Weiss, 29,
who was slain by the State police. The
assassin was son-in-law of Judge B. H. Pavy,
of Opelousas, leader of an anti-Long faction.
The Senator was shot as he walked from the
chamber of the Louisiana House of Repre-
sentatives. He died on September 10.
* * * *
(1) Particulars concerning the dispute be-
tween Germany and Spain over ownership of
the Carolines and Marshalls ? (2) When was
Guam ceded to the United States ?— 2930.
(1) In August, 1885, Germans hoisted their
flag at Yap, Western Carolines, and claimed
much of the adjacent territory. Spain pro-
tested, and the dispute was referred to the
Pope. His decision favored Spain, but Ger-
many was given certain trade rights. German
influence in the groups grew rapidly. Negoti-
ations for transfer to Germany commenced
in the ’nineties; finally, by treaty of February
12, 1899, the three groups (Carolines, Mar-
shalls and Mariannes) were ceded by Spain to
Germany for £840,000. Germany, on October
1, 1899, formally took possession. (2) In
1898.
**( * *
(1) What is the story of Fisher’s ghost ?
(2) Is there any truth in it ? —2815.
(1) In 1826 two ticket-of-leavc men,
Frederick Fisher and George Worrall, were
living together on Fisher’s farm near Camp-
belltown, N.S.W., and on the evening of June
17 Fisher, after leaving a hotel at Campbell-
town, disappeared. A few days later Worrall
stated that his friend had left the colony hur-
riedly in order to avoid prosecution for for-
gery, leaving him authority to deal with the
property, and it was not until four months later
that the authorities investigated. About the
same time, the story goes, a man named Farley
reported that he had seen Fisher’s ghost sitting
on the sliprails of the farm and pointing to
the paddock. Bloodstains were found on the
fence, and a constable, assisted by black-
trackers, later discovered Fisher’s body buried
in a marshy paddock. Worrall was convicted
of the crime and executed. (2) There is no
contemporary evidence to support the super-
natural element in the story. Farley was not
called to give evidence, nor was there any men-
tion of the ghost at the trial.
* * * #
A few details about White Russia ? —2891.
The White Russian Socialist Republic was
formed on January 1, 1919. Its territory covers
48,940 sq. miles and includes the former pro-
vinces of Minsk, Vitepsk, Mogilov and a section
of the Grodno provinces, as well as the Gomel
province. The most important towns are
Minsk, Vitepsk and Gomel. On January 1,
1933, the population numbered 890,100. It is
one of the constituent republics of the U.S.S.R.,
and is mostly agricultural.
* * * ij:
How many women constables are there in
N. S. Wales, and can you indicate their duties ?
—2960.
N.S.W. Police Department at December 31,
1935, employed eight women special constables,
one designated special sergeant. Their duties
have mainly to do with members of their own
sex frequenting city streets, railway stations,
places of amusement, etc. At the Royal
Agricultural Show and large carnivals they
protect lost children until the strays are claimed.
They also assist the regular police in many
ways. In 1935 they were responsible for bring-
ing before the Court 200 juvenile offenders,
many other youngsters being placed in
suitable homes and prosecution thus obviated.
Women specials also assisted in bringing 80
women and 40 men before the Courts, and in
300 cases obtained statements from females in
connection with sex crimes. They also gave
attention to “fortune-tellers.” In the metro-
politan district 200 girls were reported missing
from home in 1935, and a large number of
them were located by the women constables.
* * $ iS
A few particulars concerning Dr. Axel
Munthe, the author ? —2759.
Born in Sweden in 1857 and a naturalised
British subject. He studied medicine in Paris,
and practised there and in Rome r fought
cholera epidemic at Naples in 1892, and gave
his services at Messina in 1908. He served
during the war, and retired to San Michele,
Capri, where he established a bird sanctuary.
The Story of San Michele was published in
1929; he has also published Memories and
Vagaries and Red Cross and Iron Cross.
* * * *
(1) For what period are airmen enlisted in
the R.A.A.F. ? (2) How long are they on pro-
bation ? (3) What does it cost to obtain a dis-
charge ?—-2778.
(1) Six years, with an opportunity of re-
engagement if their services are required. (2)
Three months, during which period the pro-
bationer may be discharged or may resign
without penally. (3) Cost ranges from £3O in
the first year to £4 in the sixth year. An
airman re-engaged after serving the normal
term can at any time obtain a free discharge
on giving one month’s notice.
* * * *
(I) Who were the greatest writers of waltzes,
and what are their most famous compositions
in this form? (2) Which waltzes are of most
interest to the pianist ? (3) Arnold Bennett in
“The Pretty Lady” mentions the waltzes of
Durand. What are they like, and where obtain-
able 7—2910.
(1) Compositions in waltz form fall into two
classes —ballroom dances and what Percy
Grainger would call art-forms. Of the
former class the greatest masters were the
younger Johann Strauss, best known by “The
Blue Danube,” Emil Waldteufel (“Estudian-
tina” and “Les Sirenes”) and Josef Gung'l
(“Amorettentanz”). Many of the great classi-
cal composers produced waltzes—Beethoven,
Mozart, Schubert and Chopin among them.
Of these survive only the valses of Chopin and
Liszt’s arrangement of some of Schubert’s
valses, “Soirees de Vienne.” (2) Those of
Chopin, the Schubert-Liszt arrangements
already referred to, a few by Tschaikowsky,
Moszkowski’s “Valse Brillante” and the “Three-
fours” of Coleridge-Taylor are best known.
Godard, Chaminade and many minor French
composers have also excelled in this form.
(3) Several Durands wrote waltzes, the best-
known being Victor, Emil and August.
Bennett’s reference was probably to the works
of August Durand. These have no titles, being
merely numbered, and were published in Paris
by the firm of Durand. They are very pretty,
and sound twice as difficult as they really are.
Understand they have long been out of print.
Copies can be picked up second-hand some-
times in Sydney or Melbourne.
* * * *
Particulars of the life and works of Palm-
gren, the composer ? —2864.
Selim Palmgren, Finnish pianist, conductor
and composer, was born at Bjorneborg in ,1878,
and was trained at Helsingfors Conservatory
and by Ansorge, W. Berger and Busoni.
From about 1900 be toured as pianist in Fin-
land and Scandinavia, besides in 1902-04 lead-
ing a choral society in Helsingfors and in
1909-12 conducting orchestral concerts at Abo.
He married in 1909 the soprano Mikki Pakari-
nen. His works include the operas “Daniel
Hjort” and “Peter Schlehmihl,” the music for
the fairy play “Takkino,” a symphonic poem
“Floden,” two concertos, a sonata, a Finnish
suite, and other compositions for the piano,
as well as men’s choruses and songs. He re-
sides in Finland.
•fi
Information regarding the number of
bridges across the Thames in London, in-
cluding the nature of the bridges (whether
vehicular or foot) ? Similar information re-
garding the bridges of Paris ? —2842.
Twenty-five bridges span the Thames in its
course through London. They are, in order
from east to west: The Tower Bridge, London
Bridge, Southwark, St. Paul’s, Blackfriars,
Waterloo, Hungerford (for pedestrians only),
Westminster, Lambeth, Vauxhall, Victoria,
Chelsea, Albert, Battersea, Wandsworth,
Putney, Hammersmith, Barnes (for pedestrians
only), Chiswick, King Edward VII. (Kew),
Twickenham Lock, Twickenham, Richmond,
Kingston and Hampton Court. The Seine in
passing through Paris is spanned by 32 bridges.
The most modern is the one-arched Pont Alex-
andre 11., built 1900; the most ancient the
Pont Neuf, built 1578-1603. In the central
part of the city are the Pont Neuf, Pont au
Change, Pont Notre Dame, Pont d’Arcole, Pont
Louis-Philippe, Pont Marie, Pont St. Louis,
Pont l’Archeveche, Pont au Double, Petit-Pont
and Pont S.-Michel.
* * * *
(1) When did King George V. commence
stamp-collecting ? (2) Did he form a collec-
tion of Australian Commonwealth stamps ?
(3) What is to become of his collection ? (4)
Is King Edward a collector ? —2923.
(1) During his midshipman days, when he
made a world cruise on H.M.S. Bacchante.
Many of his finest Australian stamps were
obtained in Sydney during this period (1879-
82). (2) Yes; in 1930 he bought a collection
of Commonwealth stamps from J. R. W. Purves,
the Australian philatelist. (3) Edward VIII.
intends keeping it intact, and is retaining Sir
E. D. Bacon, curator of the collection. Addi-
tions Will be made. (4) He used to be;
lately other interests have claimed his time.
JjS %
(1) Who issues the special badge to be seen
on doctors’ motor-cars in N.S.W., and why is
it issued ? (2) Significance of the design of the
badge? —2Bs3.
(1) The special badge on a doctor’s car is
issued by the B.M.A. to its members by
arrangement with the traffic authorities. The
badge gives medical men priority over other
traffic at bridges, punts, etc., if the user is
proceeding to an accident or a case. (Traffic
Regulation 79, Clause 2, Sec. A.) (2) It rep-
resents the rod of /Esculapius (the Greek god
of medicine), which rod, legend has it, had a
serpent entwined around it.
* * * $
Details concerning the torpedo badge
awarded to British merchant seamen during the
war ? —2933.
Torpedo badges were awarded to masters
and seamen who served on the articles of any
British merchant or fishing vessel considered
by the Board of Trade to have been sunk or
damaged by torpedo or mine at any time
during the war, and who afterwards com-
pleted a further voyage on the articles of a
British vessel. A bar was awarded to masters
and seamen each time they were again tor-
pedoed or mined; when five bars were won
they could be exchanged for a five-pointed star.
The badge is in the form of. a torpedo, and
is worn on the cuff of the left sleeve of either
sea or shore rig.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning Erromanga
Island in the New Hebrides ? —2836.
Erromanga Island, 35 miles long by 25
broad, is well watered and fertile. Interior
ranges rise to Traitor’s Head (2600 ft.). There
are no good harbors, but bays provide anchor-
ages. There are large, permanent streams on
the east coast. Sheep have been successfully
raised, and good prices obtained for their wool.
Brief Answers.
M.W.: Headquarters of the International
Postal Union is at Berne, Switzerland. The
Union issues a journal monthly in four lan-
guages. A copy can be inspected at the P.M.G.’s
Dept., Treasury Gardens, Melbourne....
A.M.N.: Information not available in Sydney.
. ...N.C.F.: See Wilks’s Solo Whist and
Auction Solo (3s. 9d.) E.G.S.: The area of
Victoria River Downs was last given as
11,836 sq. miles, and of Alexandria as 10,793
sq. miles. There may have been alterations
in the areas of both properties T.E.H.: The
1916 Conscription Referendum included 133,813
votes by members of the A.1.F., of which
72,399 were for, 58,894 against, and 2520
informal; the 1917 Conscription Referendum
included 199,677 votes by members of the
A.1.F., of which 103,789 were for, 93,910
against, and 1978 informal R.S.E.:
Symptoms suggest tinea, or fungal infection
similar to tropical ringworm. Seabathing aggra-
vates the trouble. Keep the part dry, cleanse
as required with olive oil, and apply the
following ointment at night: Prepared cala-
mine 10 grains, bismuth subgallate 15 grains,
powdered chloretone 10 grains, zinc cream to
1 ounce. Smear on sparingly, and do not bind.
Dust freely with zinc and starch powder
(equal parts) during the day J.D.E.: Write
Dept, of Labor and Industry, Brisbane....
P.J.: See Mine Drainage, Pumps, Etc., by
H. C. Behr, and The Mechanics of Pumping.
by Karl Dahlstrom G.M.D.: (1) Success of
claim unlikely. In such cases negligence must
be proved. (2) Both complicated and costly.
(3) Consult a solicitor W. 8.: (1) It is pos-
sible. (2) No records available. (3) Yes. An
asphyxia develops with oxygen deficiency;
shock causes death in many cases... .H.P.:
(1) Not possible as suggested; merely a ques-
tion of health and physical resistance. Modera-
tion essential in your case. If debilitated, take
one teaspoon of “three syrups” tonic with
water, after meals. Seabathing benefits in
many ways. (2) Quite in order P.M.:
Burrumbeet is a Vic. abo. place-name meaning
“muddy water” J.R.W.: Write Dept, of
Agriculture, Perth EJ.: (1) He is eligible to
apply, but in the absence of full details it
cannot be stated whether claimant is entitled.
(2) The maximum rate of pension is 365. per
fortnight. (3) Application should be made on
the prescribed forms (obtainable at any post
office) to the Deputy Commissioner, Invalid
and Old-age Pensions, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney J.R.C.: The law has regard to the
civil marriage only, and, that having been in-
corporated in the original church ceremony,
you are already married and may not, during
the continuance of the present union, marry
again. If you desire to go through the church
ceremony again you should inform the clergy-
man that you are already married. If he
consents to go through the religious ceremony
only, with the civil marriage omitted, he may
do so, but lie cannot marry you again....
W.A.G.: Where the estate of a deceased person
(Vic.) is under £5OO in value, the executor may
obtain the assistance of the County Court
Registrar nearest to the residence of the testator
without the intervention of a solicitor. The
Registrar will carry out the necessary require-
ments of the law and forward the papers to
the office of the Master in Equity. When
probate is granted the executor can obtain the
official document on payment of the fees and
the duty, if any... .J.A.H.: The society appears
to have gone out of existence... .R.M.C.: Too
long to reprint. See Bean’s The Story of
Anzac, Vol. I of Official History of Australia
in the War.... J.D.: (1) and (2) It might be
registered when applied to some particular
article manufactured by a specified person or
firm. (3) A “mark” which includes a name
cannot be recognised as a “trade-mark” until
registered by the person claiming it. Any
person subsequently using the trade-marie
“falsely or wrongfully or without lawful autho-
rity or excuse” may be prosecuted D.8.R.:
Write Registrar-General’s Dept., Queen’s-
squarc, Sydney W.R.M.: London “Punch”
was established by Henry Mayhew, Mark
Lemon, Douglas Jerrold, Gilbert a’ Beckett and
others, and was first published on July 17,
1841.... W.W.F.: John Foster Fraser died
last June, a few days before his 68th birthday.
For biographical notes and list of his books —
too long to print here —see Who’s Who, 1936.
M.E.B.: There is nothing to prevent you
sending the MSS. to an English publishing
firm, your offer to the Australian firm not
having been accepted, and you having asked
for return of the MSS., thus withdrawing thr
offer... .L.M.W.: The Administration of
Estates, by L. A. Brook and L. A. Whitfeld
(12s. 10d., post free) A.L.D.: The Emperor
of Japan bears the title of Tenno, but in
relation to external affairs he is called “Kotei,”
a word of Chinese origin. Only foreigners use
the poetical title “Mikado” L.W.H.: It was
Goldsmith who said in The Vicar of Wake-
field, “one virtue he had in perfection, which
was prudence—often the only one that is left
us at seventy-two”... .H.H.: Correct wording
is Nullum magnum ingenium sine mixture
dementia; fuit, meaning in English “No
government is safe unless buttressed by good-
will”. .. .F.R.: (1) With an impressed stamp
at Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney.
(2) Duty of 2s. 6d. for every £5O or part thereof
of the annual rental. (3) If not, stamped
duty, plus fine, would have to be paid before
production in court P. 8.: Carnegie Endow-
ment for International Peace, 700 Jackson-place.
N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.; secretary.
Dr. James Brown Scott T.8.L.: Guinea
Airways, Ltd., Brookman Building, Grenfell-
street, Adelaide; Holden’s Air Transport Ser-
vice, Ltd., 7 Wynyard-street, Sydney H.W.:
There is no licensed hotel on Norfolk Island.
Spirituous liquors may be imported only by
the Administration, but can be obtained by
residents and visitors from the liquor stoic
on permit C.K.A.: Dowell O’Reilly’s pub-
lished works include Australian Poems (1884),
A Pedlar’s Pack (1888), Tears and Triumphs
(1913) and The Prose and Verse of Dowell
O’Reilly (1924)... .F.T.L.: At December 31,
1935, the population of Perth was estimated at
210,365; 99,769 males and 110,596 females.. .
(Many others mailed.)


<_cf
&
i
/
V4r
At
sT**i
X
/
GAT
Put up the strongest gates you can get. You 11 notice the
difference very much indeed as the years go by. An old
gate that keeps a good shape, with a good easy swing
and true to its catches, becomes like a good old friend.
We build character and quality into “Cyclone” Gates.
They are so strong that the years leave them practically
unaffected. Many “Cyclone” Gates put up more than 30
years ago are still in excellent condition. Today’s
“Cyclone” Gates are structurally much stronger than the
old-timers. The frame and cross members are electrically
welded into one almost undamageable unit —all the more
permanent by virtue of the fact that there are no bolt
holes—water cannot enter and set up rust.
“Cyclone” is not a type of gate but is our registered trademark and can
only be legally applied to gates manufactured by us.
Cuclone
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
THE GRACE BUILDING, 77 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne. Adelaide & Perth.
Queensland Agents: New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
hk
Chain-and-Knob
Fastener always
holds gate secure-
ly closed and can-
not be knocked
off, or lifted oft
by cattle.
hk
Both hinges are bolt-
ed right through the
post —cannot loosen
or pull out.
“ Cyclone” pro-
ducts are obtain-
able from your
local distributor.
For fully illus-
trated catalogue
of all types of
“ Cyclone” gates
and other pro-
ducts write to the
“ Cyclone” Com-
pany. The cata-
logue will be sent
free and post-free.
hk
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of "Cyclone" Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address
B. 16/9/’36.
A MIXED GRILL.
“W.J.E.”: The appearance of a new
edition of Kingsley Fairbridge’s auto-
biography has prompted a Sydney re-
viewer to declare that Fairbridge
“knocked out Julian Grenfell and there-
by won a boxing blue.” Fairbridge cer-
tainly beat his man (one of Lord Des-
borough’s two splendid sons who fell
in France), but there was no knockout,
He had the highest admiration for Julian
Grenfell, like himself a poet, and writer
of one of the few war poems ( Into
), l!ved. In Westraha
Fairbridge did a bit of exhibition boxing
tor war tunds »s opponent on one
occasion was Frank Giaham, a pupil or
Bill Doherty, and head of the State's
professional middleweight!!. The founder
of the Farm Schools wanted to go to
the war himself, and even advertised in
the London “Times” for a reject willing
to take his place for “the duration.” He
could not get his reject, and in all prob-
ability the English doctors would have
disqualified him as did the Australian
doctors. He had had malaria almost
since boyhood, and it got him in the end. N
* * * *
“X.T.”: The Goose Club, a thorn in
the side of Darwin Administrations, used
to meet on a seat not far from the en-
trance to the Residency and within full
view of the Government offices. Its cow-
dung fire on mosquito nights set civil
service teeth gnashing, and its mocking
laughter supplied the best commentary
on Darwin affairs during the Red Flag
and hospital wars of a dozen years ago.
jhe old d u b j s dispersed, but it is to
have its memorial. The brothers of the
Qiestertonian Fred Thompson have sent
£ rom Newcastle-on-Tyne (Eng.) a tablet
w hj c h will be placed on the well-worn
sea( i ts inscription reads: “The Goose
In memor of Fred Thon , pson ,
, , _ V,- j
* ts oldest member. _ Died
5/10/ 35. It any late-homing civil ser-
vant hears a high-pitched, satirical
chuckle as he passes by some night, he
will know jolly old Fred is enjoying the
J°k e °t being the only individual citizen
who has an open-air memorial in Darwin
outside the local graveyaid.
* * *
“Runa”: A case of fortune-telling
under a new system cropped up in a
M.L. court the other day when one de-
scribing himself as a “numerologist”
explained to a sceptical magistrate how
he earned his living. Everybody, asserted
the seer, was born with certain numbers
associated with name and date of birth,
and when these were collected, classified
and tagged they cast a revealing light
over the possessor’s past, present and
future. After considering the defence
the s.m. remarked that he would put
numerology in the same category as
teacup-reading, and imposed a fine of £3.
sjc :[i
“Pone Me”: About the most frequently
misspelled and mispronounced word on
the Australian map is Nullarbor. Even
the “S. M. Herald,” in an article from
its special correspondent accompanying
a round-Australia motoring expedition,
renders it three times as “Nullabor” —
ignoring the obvious derivation from
nulla arbor (“never a tree”), aptly be-
stowed on the great plain by some ex-
plorer who hadn’t forgotten his Horace.
With the first r dropped, naturally the
pronunciation tends to go awry, too, and
1 remember hearing a bygone Prime
Minister (Andy Fisher) putting the pedal
down hard on the last syllable.
* * * *
W. R. Carpenter, of the Islands con-
cern, says “the present prosperity is
based on the rush of nations to con-
struct armaments.” High prices for some
products, such as Lead, tin, copper, wool,
copra and oils —essential war materials
—are no doubt partly due to such a
rush, and portion of the great revival in
world steel industries may be traced to
it. But there has been some genuine re-
covery. Countries like Australia and
S’Africa, even when external influences
(such as world prices) are eliminated,
have demonstrafed that much. There
has been no rush to construct armaments
in these parts.
* # * *
“Trim”: That he agrees with Bernard
Shaw and would bring about equal pay
for everyone if he had his way—such was
the first statement since his display of
diplomacy in Samoa to get Mr. Lang-
stone, the M.L. Minister of Lands, into
the cables. “A man doing menial work
creates just as much wealth as anyone
else,” he added. Perhaps Mr. Lang-
stone will end by believing that “ menial
labor is the source of all wealth.”
* ■. * *
In the Melbourne “Age” of August
19 Lyons was praised for having ex-
hibited “strength and restraint,” and made
“a usefully retrospective survey” of the
trouble with Japan, and “wisely re-
iterated” a warning, and come out with
“a virile declaration of policy.” In the
August 31 issue he was informed that he
wasn’t a leader’s bootlace, and that his
Government was “a touchy and know-all
group,” “a monument of perverseness and
petulancy,” that “stated its terms in
peremptory and even offensive tones” and
yet “had not the grit to put up the slight-
est fight for a referendum.” But Joe is a
philosopher in these matters; besides,
he’s been a bit changeable himself.
* . * * ■ *
- The stage is now set for Perth's first
mining exhibition. Committees of Gov-
ernment officials are co-operating with
the Mining Association to make the dis-
play comprehensive and attractive. Ex-
hibits will include specimen collections,
models of treatment plants, dry blowers
at work, and special films of the industry.
* * * *
“Colonel Smooth-Bore”: One evening
during my last big-game shoot in India
I was making my way back to my camp
alone when I was charged by a wild
elephant, at which I fired my last bullet.
His tough hide deflected the bullet into
the air, but 1 rushed forward and caught
it in my topee as it fell. The animal was
so astonished at this feat that it stopped
in its stride, open-mouthed. Seizing the
opportunity, I threw the red-hot bullet
down its throat. It gasped and choked,
and as it shut its eyes in frantic
efforts to eject the bullet I tapped it
smartly behind the left ear with my rifle-
butt. The huge brute dropped like a log,
and I dragged it to my camp before it
came to. After a few weeks’ training ff
became a most docile pet, but if it evei
showed signs of temper I had only to
pick up a bullet and throw it and it
would immediately fall over and play
dead, for, as everybody knows, an
elephant never forgets.
H-. * * *
“Saddle-flap”: The old pensioner was
emphatic about working in his garden
alone. “Don’t come near me when I’m
busy,” he told me. “If anything dis-
appears I’ll think you’ve pinched it or
I’ve lost it. If I’m on me own I knows
I’ve lost it and who to call a blasted
so-an’-so.”
* . * * *
“W.J.E.”: In Brisbane recently a
Labor Assemblyman, Collins, from Cook,
quoted the “A.B.C. of Queensland Statis-
tics” to demonstrate that “Queensland is
the lowest-taxed State.” Then he gave tax-
revenue figures per head of population
—Queensland, £3 12s. 5d.; Westralia, £4
ss. lOd.; Victoria, £4 17s. lid.; N.S.W.,
£5 65.; Tas., £5 7s. id.; S. A., £5 10s. sd.
Such comparisons are often made, but
they are misleading. Queensland and Vic-
toria both impose land taxes, income
and relief taxes, and the Queensland rates
are higher in all three cases. The fact
that they yield so much less per head
shows really that the long-continued
severity of Queensland taxation has left
less to tax.
:p * * *
“Oakleigh”: There has been difference
of opinion among Australian golfers as
to four-ball scores, some of the States
accepting them for handicapping pur-
poses, and others being doubtful. The
women settled the matter by appealing
to St. Andrews, which replied that the
person who accepted such handicaps
would not shrink from putting water in
his or her whisky, or words to that effect.
As a result there will be no more of it
in women’s play.


RANDWICK RACES
SPRING MEETING, 1936
3rd, sth, 7th and 10th OCTOBER.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With Talking scratched, the Chelms-
ford Stakes at Randwick developed into
a real Maoriland affair. Gold Rod, the
winner (at 11 to 8 on), Mala (second),
and Custos (third) were all bred in the
Dominion beyond the Tasman.
Gold Rod proved himself a brilliant
miler, but can he go much farther?
Astute judges were asking that question
after the race. McCarten took him to
the front seven furlongs from home, and
he got a break of three lengths on Custos
at the top of the straight. With a furlong
to go he was travelling so well that
nothing seemed likely to get within
lengths of him. But Mala emerged from
the ruck, and gained so much ground
that Gold Rod was only half a length
ahead at the finish. Certainly Cook was
riding for all he was worth, while Mc-
Carten did not apply the whip to the
favorite, but the outsider was certainly
going the faster of the pair when Gold
Rod’s head was on a line with the
judge’s box.
Custos did not finish well, but lasted
long enough to get third, four lengths
behind Mala. Silver Ring was fourth,
and Rob Roy, a Melbourne Cup candi-
date, trained by Ike Foulsham, was fifth.
Sylvandale did not show up, nor did
Lough Neagh. Gold Rod made good
time for the nine furlongs on Saturday
—lmin. 51-f-sec. Actually it was the best
since 1928, when Limerick recorded
similar figures ; Phar Lap’s effort in 1930
was quarter of a second slower. The
race record still stands in the name of
Heroic—lmin. 50£sec. in 1924.
Carrying 81b. more than his Epsom
weight, Bst. 21b., The Marne (10 to 1)
recorded a sterling performance in the
Tramway Handicap. Drawing No. 16 at
the barrier, Darby Munro had to drive his
mount along to get a position, but running
to the home turn The Marne was outside
of Disalto and Heritor. Cuddle had
the “box-seat,” being on the rails.
Straightened up in the home stretch, The
Marne was still fairly wide, but he soon
settled the leaders. He then dived over
to the rails, squeezing Gay Blonde, who
in turn dropped back.on Cuddle, though
the topweight was beaten at the time.
The Marne saw the seven furlongs right
out, defeating Panax and Sarcherie by
half a neck and three-quarters of a
length respectively in the style of a really
good horse now at the top of his form.
Dermid, doing good work at the
finish, ran fourth. The next pair were
Gay Blonde and Silver Standard, and
Sporting Blood’s seventh was a good
Metrop. trial.
Munro was suspended for a month on
account of the interference mentioned.
He is appealing.
Satmoth has been a money-spinner for
veteran sportsman Jim Barnes and Dr.
Le Fevre. The Satelles— Mother’s Day
gelding, now in his ninth year, worried
the favorite, Wykeham, out of victory in
the Spring Handicap, for which the old-
stager was at eights. Wykeham had the
run of the race on the rails, and went
to the front at the Leger, but showed
little determination when Satmoth chal-
lenged. The verdict was half a head ;
it looked a bit more. Golden Treasure
was third and Fair Diana fourth. Spear
Prince races better when looking light,
and his sixth can be overlooked. Sat-
moth is in the Metrop. with Bst. 31b.
Backers were well on the mark in both
divisions of the Novice. Peter Pan’s
half-brother Brazilian, a dark-bay son of
Brazen, showed a fine turn of speed in
the first division. H. R. Munro’s Scarlet
Chip made a game effort to overhaul the
favorite (backed from 7 to 2 to twos);
Sir Caledon was third. Irak, a plain-
looking son of Legionnaire (7 to 2),
led throughout in the second division,
giving Andy Knox his first winning ride
since his accident at Canterbury several
months ago. Not So Bad and Menu
filled the places, but. the well-backed
Quizzical —a sister to Jacko —dis-
appointed..
Twenty-three faced the barrier in the
Welter. The race was a scramble.
Golden Chance, owned by Queensland
pastoralist N. G. Elliott (12 to 1), in an
exciting finish beat Bobby by a neck, with
On Parade a similar distance away ; The
Freak was fourth, and would have been
first with a clear passage. Loud Applause,
boxed up early, could not get out until
the race was over. He still has good
prospects in the Metrop.
**V * *
Thirteen Melbourne three-year-olds
were tested over 7| furlongs in the
Moonee Valley Stakes, worth £1025
£7OO-and a £25 trophy to the owner of
the winner. Though it was an ordinary
week-end fixture, no race on the Valley
programme was worth less than £3OO, and
the total distribution came to £2825. Is
it any wonder that Sydney owners and
trainers are envious?
The Valley Stakes was run at special
weights, with penalties and allowances.
No candidate carried a penalty, and the
only ones to claim an allowance were
Boongarry and Budapest (71b. each).
Punters made Beechwood (Backwood —
Clear) a 7-to-2 favorite, with Boongarry,
the massive Windbag colt from Fred
Foulsham’s stable, at 5 to 1. Dame
Chatter, a Windbag filly of A. G.
Hunter, had strong support at sevens,
and Riddle figured at 8 to 1.
Both Merson Cooper and his trainer,
Ferguson, were sanguine of Silver Reign’s
prospects; but this fellow, after being
quoted at 6 to 1, receded to twice those
odds, eventually firming to tens.
Described as being by either High Art
or Silvius, he unquestionably is by the
same sire as Sylvandale, and promises to
do considerable credit to the stallion that
the late Kidman imported from Ireland.
Beechwood belongs to E. L. Baillieu
and P. H. Osborne. He had set a crack-
ing pace for seven furlongs in the Under-
wood Stakes at Williamstown and done a
watch-breaking gallop during the week.
Drawn on the rails, Silver Reign had an
advantage over Beechwood, who was m
No. 13 berth. Elliot took a lot out of
Beechwood in hitting the front at the
half-mile. When challenged by Silver
Reign at the straight entrance Beech-
wood weakened. Ashley Reed rode
Silver Reign right out to score by half
a neck from the fast-finishing Boongarry.
Half a head farther off, Riddle narrowly
defeated Beechwood for third.
This was only the third year of the
Moonee Valley Stakes. Titanium van-
quished Arachne (penalised 91b.) in 1934.
A season later Valiant Chief Aon from
Garrio and Carnarvon, who dead-heated
for second. Titanium set lmin. 34ysec.
for the furlongs, while Valiant Chief
took lmin. 35|sec. Silver Reign covered
the distance in lmin. 32|sec., but that
does not make him a better horse than
either of the previous winners was at
corresponding age. Perhaps the result
on Saturday said most for Boongarry,
who came home very impressively.
Twelve months ago Art (High Art—
Broken Melody) landed the Werribee
Cup, Moonee Valley Cup and Fund
Handicap (at the Valley) in quick succes-
sion. This stallion has not been seen
in winning brackets since. He raced in
N. S. Wales, Westralia and S.A. before
the owner-trainer V. H. Braham settled
down in Melbourne. Made favorite for
the Budgeree Handicap, he would have
been nearer than fourth but for inter-
ference by the winner, Strymon, after
turning for home. Preston, rider of
Strymon, has been suspended for a
month.
Chilperic was a certainty beaten in the
Budgeree Handicap. He started in
nearly as good demand as Art. Though
only six horses went to the post it was
a rough race. Strymon crowded Art on
to the rails at a critical juncture, and inci-
dentally ruined the plans of Ashley Reed,
who had been striving to get Chilperic
through on the inside. Reed lost many
lengths in checking his mount; when
clear at* last, Chilperic put in a whirl-
wind rush to beat Gay Circle by half a
head for second. Though nine years old,
Chilperic probably is sounder and better
than at any previous stage. He won the
Toorak Handicap in 1933 with Bst. 131 b.
Press Gang, another old-stager, earned
high credit by carrying lOst. 71b. to
victory in the Nulla Nulla Welter, for
which he was a 5-to-2 favorite. Out of
the race to all appearances three furlongs
from home, he smothered the leadeis
after entering the straight, and scored by
nearly a length Bill Tindall s
sprinter, Sculpin, with L Elite (a coming
winner) only a head farther offi Holt
trains Press Gang (The Night Patrol—
Quilhon) for A. T. Craig, who scooped
a fortune in stakes and bets over Bitalh
in the Melbourne Cup ot 19_3.
.**■ * ’ -
Backers got £24 ss. for ss. when
Nimbello won the Trial Hurdle at
Ascot on wSeptember 9. At the Valley
Justica, bred by R. J. Lithgow, of
Yarra Glen, gave the generality of
punters a further pain in the neck
by registering a half-head victory
m the Corroboree Maiden Handicap.
The Curtails gelding was quoted at 50
to 1; dividend m the s.-o. pool, £ll 18s.
6d. for ss. Plectrum (7 to 4) finished an
unlucky third. Imported from Ireland
by T. Hogan as an unbroken thorough-
bred, this stallion—a four-year-old by
Australian time has been mentioned
for the Caulfield Cup, but he is under-
sized and may need maturing. Hogan
was part-owner of Marabou.
’- _ * ‘ ■ * ’ ,’, ■
owned by a son of W. ;*>.
Hickenbotham, who trained Carbine,
jusnfied his favoritism for the Boomerang
Hur.dle, dl ?t Santa Casa, the Grand
National winner, finished a poor third in
the Mount Cotterell Steeple at the
cramped odds of 9 to 4. The cross-
country event went to Etymology (6 to 1),
who put up a race record in defeating
Philax, a dashing fencer Entymology
belongs to H. E. Connolly, brother of
t,ric ’
It is 600 mites from Toowoomba
(Q.) to Sydney, but Pamelas was brought
all the way by motor float. Doesn’t say
transport; but Pamelas,
H ? ,1
“f k ". 8 r . a,her » Platn-lookins
customer but handsome is as handsome
does. He must be a good one or he
would not have beaten Regular Bachelor
by lengths in the Doomben Newmarket,
giving, that proved good horse 131 b. and
putting up very fast time (“six” in lmin.
llfsec.), nor would he have been dis-
qualified for not beating Lough Neagh
in the Doomben Stakes, 10 furlongs, at
a difference of 41b.
But Dukes announced on Monday that
Pamelus was an unlikely starter in the
Epsom. Very bad news for those
Queensland bookmakers who backed him
weeks ago for all the money in the
market at the fairly good price then
offered. Pamelus was thrice sprayed in
accordance with the anti-tick regulations,
and the experience set him back. He
went off his feed. He was nominated for
the Craven Plate on the third day of the
A.J.C. meeting,, and rpay possibly take
his place in that' field. s Queenslanders
hold that the" soh of Bullhead —Tango
Lass is the best horse in Australia up to
a mile and a quarter. The opinion is
pretty general in Queensland, and Lough
Neagh, Regular Bachelor, Spear Prince,
Brown Force and Thalwyn are capital
horses to judge by ; so also was Rivalli,
who has done very well in India.
# * * *
Egmont, one of the early favorites for
the Metropolitan, is now labelled an un-
likely starter. He ricked a muscle and
has done no fast work for a week. And
Allunga was so lame on Tuesday of last
week that he could not be galloped.
It seems that there is nothing organically
wrong in either case, so there is time for
both colts to strip fit for the Melbourne
Cup.
Contact struck himself a few weeks
ago and has been scratched for all en-
gagements. Other good horses that have
gone wrong this year, in addition to those
mentioned as being under a cloud, are
Hadrian, Garrio, Feldspar, Buzzard
King and The Trump. And they are all
in the w.f.a. class or pretty near it.
* * * *
Veilmond’s brother Limond Lad has
been doing great track work. At Mor-
phettville recently he got over a mile
in lmin. 44ysec., which, according to an
“Advertiser” man, was the best mile
gallop clocked at Morphettville for 20
years—the best was Cyklon’s mile in
lmin. 44sec. before that very fine Eng-
lish horse won the A.R.C. Birthday Cup
in 1916. E. E. Jolly’s colt won the Port
Adelaide Guineas on Saturday, being
favorite at 6 to 4. Limond Lad is a
big fellow, as was Veilmond, and —like
his elder brother also—rather awkward
in a field. He is in the Melbourne Cup
with 7st. 21b.
* * * *
Racing on the Westralian goldfields
has pretty well regained the prosperity
that attended it in the good old days
before the war. Stake-money has been
increased, and the class of cattle engaged
has improved. In other days it' took a
pretty good horse to win the Hannans
Handicap double. That feat has been
performed by Vital (Vitality—Larlee), 5
to 1 for the mile race and 2 to 1 for the
Cup, and, though Vital’s form in Vic-
toria was nothing out of the way, the
change of climate may have made a
distinct difference. With Bst. 131 b. up
he ran his mile in lmin. 40sec. ; with lib.
more he left the Cup distance, 10 fur-
longs, behind in 2min. 6sec.
* * *
Gold Rod has been left in the Caul-
field Guineas and is likely to go to Mel-
bourne for that race after the A.J.C.
Derby. The V.A.T.C. has put up 2600
guineas, of which the owner of the
winner will get 1900 guineas-—more than
twice as much as success in the Chelms-
ford Stakes and the Rosehill Guineas
would have been worth to the A.J.C.
committeeman.
Very few Melbourne horses will be
seen at Randwick this spring, whereas
almost every Sydney horse with preten-
sions to class will be racing for the
splendid prizes to be won at Fleming-
ton, Caulfield, Williamstown and
Moonee Valley. In this field Melbourne
has outdistanced Sydney. Sydney will
never catch up till it gets rid of pro-
prietary racing.
Footbrawl
Melbourne always had the edge on
Carlton in the first of the V.F.L. semi-
finals. It was superior in the rucks and,
towards the finish, in the air, ending
with 14-13 to 11-22. The attendance
was 50,000. Another 15,000 saw North-
cote beat Prahran in the Association
“grand” final, 19-6 to 15-15.
Next Saturday “Sowth” meets Col-
lingwood. The winner goes straight into
the “grand” final, and the loser will
play Melbourne.
* * * *
The Maorilanders won the second
Rugby Union international against the
Australians at Dunedin, 38-13, and with
it, the Bledisl.oe Cup. In the first half
the .tourists had a 13-11 lead; but after-
wards they went to pieces, rarely getting
beyond the half-way line.
•l’
University beat Randwick 24-9 for
the right to meet Drummoyne in Sydney's
Union “grand” final. The Greens
had two tries on the board before
’Va'rsity settled down, but once the Uni.
forwards got moving it was all over.
* * * *
N.S.W: Leaguers, worried over some
of the worst'gates in their history, had
another miserable attendance for the pre-
miership final at the Cricket Ground.
Eastern;. Suburbs had no trouble winning
from Balmain, 32-12. It was an average,
uninspired game ; fair in spots, but never
within coo-ee of being exciting.
{Continued on next page.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Camellia Stakes: King Gee;
next, Gay Blonde or Capris.
Guineas: Talking or Shakespeare ;
next, Billy Boy.
Hill Stakes: Talking or Mala;
next, Brazilian.
Spring Handicap: Young Cru-
sader ; next, Loud Applause.
Highweight Handicap: Capris or
The Freak ; next, The Blizzard.
FOR MENTONE.
Dandenong Welter: Sithon;
next, Palatinate or Radiant Star.
Cup: Valiant Chief or Desert
Chief ; next, Golden Promise.
Newry Plate: L’Elite; next,
Radiant Star or Gay Pop.


Wmm WwE.
auvnD mm wnid
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle ...... 21/-; with guard, 24 '6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each iazor.
THE PIiCM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., Sin. and |in.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 651 George Street, Sydney.
I 7-day seta (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, Jin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kect in order for two
Tears free cf ehargi.
COVERS A RICH FIELD
AND GETS RESULTS
“The Examiner,” established 1842, is the oldest
daily newspaper in Tasmania, and yet is still the
most modern paper in the State. It circulates
everywhere in the North—-the home of two-thirds
of the population of Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising
rates d£ “The Examiner” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtain-
able from:
CJiember*
■AUDIT
•BUREAU OF
.CIRCULATIONS
©he
(fexatnmer
LAUNCESTON
EST. 1842
ylAjaijxuuf
'jbalJjy
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Mark Hough, one of the “National”
Boxing “Club’s” colored imports, has
been stopped in five rounds by Johnnie
Wilson, the best Victorian middleweight.
Needless to say, Wilson has never been
seen at the N.B.C.’s headquarters.
* * .1:
Lucas seems to have started a fashion
when he matched Ross and Carroll for
a world championship bout at Sydney —
incidentally he has deposited $50,000 in
a bank, which, allowing for the difference
in currency values, makes his outlay—
or that of his backers —far greater than
Mclntosh had to risk when he brought
Johnson and Burns together. Now the
“National” Boxing “Club” talks of bring-
ing John Henry Lewis to Sydney to
fight Kelly. Both are coons, and it is
engagingly announced that, having re-
sided for upwards of 12 months in Aus-
tralia, Kelly is qualified to box the other
negro as an “Australian.” A world-title
mill is also mooted for Snowy Clarke,
the Westralian featherweight, who has
won all the eight fights he has had in
Melbourne. His latest victim was Miller,
who has since got a decision over Roach
at Brisbane, though many thought the
verdict incorrect. Sarron is now called
worid champion. Australians know his
form, and, as he is pretty old as feather-
weights go, Clarke’s chance of whipping
him is probably better than Carroll’s of
dethroning the younger Ross. Apart
from Carroll, the Australian welter-
weights are not up to much, and the
champion is rarely seen in action. On
the other hand, Clarke is rarely idle,
and is constantly improving, for feather-
weight class is good.
* * * * .
“Cestus”: Sorry to torpedo an in-
genious argument, but those statues of
boxers in Sydney
Botanic Gardens (B.
2/9/’36) are not
Greek, but very late-
Roman, being copies
of the originals
by Canova, who
flourished in the
Italy of the nine-
teenth century. They
are just as likely to
be Roman boxers as
Greek, and the fact that they are holding
stones in their thong-wrapped hands
bears out my contention that the
Romans brutalised the sports they bor-
rowed and converted them from con-
tests of skill to all-in scraps with death
waiting for one or the other of the
contestants. The best argument for my
contention that Greek boxing was
humane is the fact that the contestants
survived and received prizes—and that
in none of the Greek games were the
contestants’ lives endangered. In the
Roman games of the Empire only the in-
dulgence of the audience could save a
defeated man’s life.
Ins and Outs
“Aigburth”: The close of the English
cricket season saw the team for Aus-
tralia pitted against an elfeven selected
by Leveson-Gower. Allen’s side closed
with 9 down for 397 ; Holmes (not com-
ing to Australia, but taking the place of
Hammond), top-scored with 146. The
opposition could manage only 206 in
their first try, Allen taking 3 for 25 and
Verity 3 for 51. England closed its
second knock at 7 for 174 ; the L.-Gs.
responded with 8 for 244, of which Sut-
cliffe made 102. Verity’s 6 for 69
brought his total of wickets for the
season to 216 —his best to date.
The second Gentlemen-Players match
at the Oval was also drawn. Kimpton,
the Victorian batsman now at Oxford,
made 115 for the Gentlemen.
* * :? *
The English cricketers left Southamp-
ton on September 12, and hit Fremantle
on October 13. Matches against West-
ralia and an Australian team follow, and
the side then works its way east. The
first Test is at Brisbane, beginning De-
cember 3, and by that time the tourists
should be in the best of cricketing nick.
In the meantime Australia would do
well to hunt up another real bowler, for
the English batting, led by Hammond,
who promises to be in his nastiest mood,
looks full of runs.
“Aunt Sally”: Warner has revealed that
Wellard, the dashing Somerset batsman,
was only just kept out of the team by
Worthington, of Derbyshire. Worthington
is a stodgy player who did not at all
impress when here with a Marylebone
team for M.L. a few years ago. Wellard
is described as. another Jessop,' a tre-
mendous hitter who is yet a fine batsman,
and he is one of the best of county fast
bowlers. For some seasons past he has
been making 1000 runs and taking 100
wickets. In the farewell match against
Allen’s Australian XI he made 86, in
which were seven sixers and eight fours.
Perhaps it is just as well for us that he
stayed behind. •
* * * *
“Aigburth”: With 217 against India
and 317 against Notts Hammond has
now made more double centuries than
any other batsman. Last year he and
Bradman were level with 24 each, and
there should be a battle royal between
the pair in Australia this season. The
Gloucester man has played a lot more
big cricket than the South Australian,
and his aggregate and list of three-figure
scores are as yet far ahead of Don’s.
* * * *
The Board of Control, meeting in
Adelaide, elected Dr. Robertson, of Vic-
toria, chairman, and many other de-
cisions were made. Players going to
Perth to help the combined team against
“Bet you a dollar I beat y over the last two jumps!”
the Englishmen in October will get £25
each, and those taking part in a similar
game in Tassie in January £2O. The sug-
gestion that a match Australia v. The
World be staged in Sydney for the 150th
anniversary spree was thrown out with
great enthusiasm. The board also
adopted the Marylebone-amended law
fixing the penalty if a fieldsman stops a
ball with any part of his clothing, such
as a hat or cap. This will now cost five
runs, and if runs have been scored be-
fore the stoppage they are to be added.
Bradman becomes a Test-match selector,
and the aid of the police is to be requisi-
tioned to stop offensive barracking.
Poor old -peelers!
* * * *
“Ibn el Jssar”: They must take cricket
very seriously in India. Their Cricket
Board has appointed a commission con-
sisting of the Chief Justice of Bombay,
an ex-Governor of the Punjab and the
president of the Indian Cricket Associa-
tion to inquire into the sending back to
the Coral Strand of Amaranth, accused
of unseemly conduct while with the
Indian XI in England. It is as if Aus-
tralia had appointed the Governor-
General, the secretary of the Board of
Control and Archdale Parkhill to inquire
why Bradman wrote that book.
“Susie Swattit”: Members of the
girls’ cricket team for England are to
sign a document beside which the Board
of Control’s mortgage on the men is a
trifle. Not only are they debarred from
smoking, drinking and gambling, but
they must leave behind all husbands, best
boys, friends and relatives and refrain
from writing for the press. The last
clause is the toughest. No member may
visit the boat deck after dinner. I am
credibly informed that the boat deck is
the accepted field for moonlight flirta-
tions. Even members of the male Aus-
tralian Eleven have never been forbidden
its shadowy recesses.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Gordon Coventry, of Col-
lingwood, disqualified after 17 years in
first-grade footbrawl, has definitely re-
tired. Collingwood Council immedi-
ately opened a testimonial fund, and the
money is rolling in. Promoters of the
fund hope to collect a pound for every
goal Coventry has kicked in his first-
class career. That will mean £1236, and
the total should be reached easily.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby team beat North
Otago by 16 (4 tries, 2 converted) to 13
(3 tries, 2 converted). McLean scored
two fine tries, and the Victorian five-
eighth, Hammon, again justified his
selection.
sic s*c * • *
“Tenakoe”: Spectators at the first All-
Black-Australia Rugby Test at Welling-
ton saw what must have been a unique
happening for the game when three
separate players tried their feet as full-
backs for Australia during the match.
In the circumstances they did well to
hold the home side to a three-tries-to-
one win, especially as two star key men
in full-back Storey and centre Hayes
could not play. All the same, the fact
that M.L. camped in Australian territory
all the second half is eloquent of our
weakness in the vanguard.
# ijc SJ: %
“L.M.”: Cerutti, Hodgson and Bridle,
three of the Wallaby forwards now in
Maoriland, brought some Afrikaans
songs back from South Africa after the
Australian tour of 1933 ; the man
chiefly responsible for teaching them
was H. du P. Steytler, sports editor of
the Cape Town “Die Burgher,” who
was with the Australians from the time
they landed. A Rugby Union writer with
international experience, he expects to
visit Australia and Maoriland with the
Springboks next year. Perhaps Cerutti
and his mates will teach him the corro-
boree.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: A frank confession
of the way the Rugby League game is
slipping in N.S.W. is seen in a lugu-
brious report issued by the N.S.W. sec-
retary. He blames the growth of the
amateur Union game and Soccer among
other things, and advocates a long list
of remedies: more “international” visits,
equal payment of first-grade players, re-
duction of admission fees and —a sur-
prise this —a change to the Australian
Rules method of dealing with foul and
dirty play whereby the offender is not
sent off. There are other suggestions,
and an Eastern Suburbs delegate has
another which savors of rank ingratitude
—the elimination of University.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Harry Williams’s win
in the Victorian amateur championship
is his fourth. Williams has never had a
good press even in his own State, which
is inclined to take this great player very
much for granted. He is rarely seen in
Sydney, though he won the Australian
title at Kensington in 1931. With a bit
more luck we might have seen the record
spectacle of two mollyhanders contest-
ing the Victorian final. Len Nettlefold,
the Tassie star, was playing great golf
when he was outed in one of the semi-
finals.
, * - * * *
“Marino”: The South Australian cen-
tenary golf tourney kicked off with the
foursomes for men and women. Winners
of the first were Legh Winser (S.A.) and
Hattersley (N.S.W.) with a card of 154.
Two local champions in Miss Rymill and
Mrs. Britten Jones won the women’s
event.
“Susie Swattit”: S. Aus. contributed a
large red splash to the history of golf
when it admitted Helen Hicks to its
centenary open championship at Seaton
in competition with the hitherto mono-
polising male —the first time that any
woman player in the world has been
accepted as an entrant for such a
tion. And the amiable American girl, who
has been a tremendous success in Aus-
tralia, proved worthy of the distinction ;
at the end of the first round she was
eighth with 78, equalling Nettlefold,
Naismith and Winser. McMahon then
led with 70 ; Sarazen was fourth with 74.
A splendid 70 put the American ahead
at the end of the second round, Rymill,
with rounds of 72 and 73, being a stroke
behind, and McMahon (146) third. Then
Sarazen broke the course record with a
68, and it was all over. He finished with
283 ; Von Nida and McMahon were
second with 293.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: English amateur golfers
took the usual horrible hiding in the
Walker Cup tourney on the Pine Valley
course in New Jersey. Last time the
Britons won one match. This time they
didn’t score once, though they halved
two of the foursomes. It was the big-
gest win the Americans have recorded
in this tourney, in which the Briton has
yet to score a victory, although he has
been trying since 1922.
$ $ $ *
“Divot Digger”: The Australian golf
championships starting in Melbourne on
Monday promise to be a record for high-
class golf. Sarazen, Williams and Fer-
rier are a trio calculated to draw record
galleries on their own, while the best of
the talent from the other States will be
playing, both amateur and professional.
For the first time Bananaland will have
a representative amateur team competing.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Tilden-
Vines visit has been hung up for the
moment, Vines having cabled that “new
professional developments” have made
matters uncertain. Wiseacres at this end


Banish BACKACHE & BLADDER
WEAKNESS this quick new way
**Tlie intestinal tract is the most prolific source of disease ’
states Prof. K. Sehmeidler, the famous German Doctor.
“A cruel annoyance” is prob-
ably the best way to describe
either backache or bladder
weakness. Movement is pain-
ful and sleep at night is dis-
turbed by constantly having
to get up. You feel depressed,
you have no vitality, your
back, legs and feet ache, you
Clogged Colon
have frequent
headaches. Urina-
tion is often smart
and painful. But
these troubles are
now rapidly ban-
ished because
science has discovered that
the basic cause of backache,
kidney and bladder weakness
can be traced to the physical
reason for self-poisoning, i.e.,
a clogged colon.
The Cause of Autoxima
The colon, the most important part
of the intestinal tract, has two
functions. It must remove essen-
tial minerals from passing food,
and it must see that all waste mat-
ter is promptly ejected from the
body. Modern foods and feeding
give insufficient exercise to the
colon walls, and they lose their
power of normal movement. Soon
the walls fail to extract the essential
minerals and fail to eject the de-
caying waste. The folds become
clogged with putrefying matter.
Virulent poisons and bacteria form
and seep into the bloodstream.
The entire system is attacked —
every important organ in your
body is undermined by autoxima,
i.e., self-poisoning.
CLIP OUT
J 3.
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book on
Autoxima. Also send me my demon-
stration jar of COLOSEPTIC, for
■A-hich I enclose 1/- in penny stamps.
NAME -—I
ADDRESS - -
’smt
Long Standing Case Relieved
“/ have much pleasure in telling
you what COLOSEPTIC has
done for me. It has cured me
of long standing weakness in
kidney and bladder. / could not
walk any distance tvith pleasure
and my rest was disturbed at
night. l\ow I can say in truth
that COLOSEPTIC has done its
work—l am cured. What joy to
go out and walk without trouble
now.” — Mr. E.A.S., Feilding.
FREE
This Absorbing
Book
Mail coupon to-day for a demon-
stration jar of COLOSEPTIC,
and you will receive, under
plain cover, by return maik a
book telling you all about Au-
toxima, an intimate and highly
important subject. The book is
absolutely FREE—
so fill in and mail
the coupon now.
A clogged colon is one of the
prices we pay for civilization.
The modern foods we eat
make it more and more diffi-
cult to maintain the active
functioning of the colon.
Until your clogged colon is
cleansed and revitalised and
the cause of autoxima thus
removed, you can-
not hope for per-
manent relief from
many ills. Science
has discovered a
new and effective
remedy. It’s name
Vnclotjged Colon
is COLOSEPTIC (Wayne’s
Improved Formula).
Coloseptic’s Vitalizing Action
To regain perfect health you must
remove the encrustations which
line your colon. Normal bowel
movements cannot do this, the
walls have become too sluggish,
and opening medicines only purge
the lower end of the colon. Look
at the two illustrations and see
how COLOSEPTIC clears your
colon. It tones up the w T alls, giv-
ing back their power of normal
movement, it corrects acid condi-
tions, and stimulates the action of
the pores of the skin, the respira-
tory system, and the kidneys—the
three other important organs which
eliminate poisons from your sys-
tem. Remove the main cause of
disease by drinking COLOSEPTIC
and enjoy perfect health ALWAYS.
Cont«Bi, not l<tt •!*** ®° '
COLOSE:
(AUSTHAUA:
S.
r 'DRINK
Coloseptic
(WAYNE'S IMPROVED <■ FORMUIA)
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., 26 O'Connell St., Sydney.
ity
CouUitt
ENDURA
Srn*a tS fVrprtually CuwuaUrd
Pens—Pencils Sets
Guaranteed for
All Time .
Unending constant satis-
faction in ownership is
assured all who buy a
CONKLIN ENDURA
PEN or PENCIL by a
guarantee of free repair
service whenever repairs
are required.
CONKLIN ENDURAS
are made of unbreak-
able materials, and in
strikingly beautiful
modern color combina-
tions.
See them. Try them.
Gents/ Pens,
30/- and 407-
Ladies’ Size, 307-
Pencils to match,
25/-
Complete Sets in
Presentation Case,
55/- and 65/-
From all Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores.
§
::
•f. :
mm
/ I F IS/ f * have made the
J . g ieatesl and most
amazing discoveries about MUSCJLE-
building and SUPER-STRENGTH
that you ever heard of! I have
learnt that STRENGTH and SEX
are connected! I have put the whole
story into a brand new booh
crammed full of marvellous pictures
—and for a little while you can
have that book FREE.
“Book is for MEN ONLY
TIJHETHKR yon are weak or strong?—
»* siekty or healthy—young or old—
overweight or underweight—regardless
of WHAT your condition may be. send
for it NOW. It will show you how MEN
JEST I.IKK VOFRSEI.F have grown
STRONG. It will show you the way to
a super hi v-laiilt bodv—to broad shoulders,
powerful innseles. a deep ehest. a slim
waistline, svmmetrieal legs—to splendid
health, and vitality in every organ of
your body. ESJCB
Put your name and
address on cou-
pon and get
Your FREE
Copy NOW
from—
DON
ATHALDO
305
PITT ST.,
SYDNEY
ST
rNS'
see in this evidence that Perry is going
to turn professional after the American
championships and throw in his lot with
the O’Brien-Tilden tennis circus. If that
happens, of course, there will be so much
money for the trio in the U.S.A. that no
one will bother about Australian chicken-
feed.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: A minor revolution
u u i . • TTC „^ o ee;«nui
has .broken out ,n U.S. professional
tennis, the body professing to govern
that game having banned Tilden and his
circus from playing further matches
without permission. Tilden has replied
that the Professional L.T.A. can go to
Chicago’s branch office and that he will
run his show on his own. As he has the
cream of U.S.A. tennis players signed
up, including Vines, Stoeffen, Lott and
Vincent Richards, Bill will probably come
out on top.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Clemenger is
advocating an intensive search through-
out Australia for the most promising
young tennis-players. These would be
assembled in their various States and
receive six weeks of intensive training,
followed by another six weeks of tennis
coaching. If something like the same
plan was followed in the case of Aus-
trahan youths eligible to take their place
in the defence forces, even Parkhill s
phantom army might achieve some
measure of reality.
* * * *
“North Quay”: The clubhouse and
dressing-sheds at the Milton H.Q. of the
Queensland L.T.A. are of such a descrip-
& A g °u tS SC T n ? ™° St / n th , em '
The Q.T.A. has at last decided to replace
S 4 decent buildings A drive
for -.00,000 pennies is one method sug-
gested for raising lunds. ,
* * *
“Top Spin”: The U.S.A. seems to
have no trouble in digging up new can-
didates for Davis Cup honors. Already
they have the nucleus of a fine side in
Budge and Mako, and they now are con-
sidering the 20-year-old junior cham-
pion, R. L. Riggs, This year he has
won the national hardcourts singles and
doubles championships, in which he met
several of the ranked players, and several
important tourneys on grass, on which
“ "L uch at home as „ on thd
the hard courts. He is an all-round
, effective a , the ne , or the back
court _ with a ho , service and almosl a „
the strokes at command.
(
Miscellaneous
“Third Base”: Baseball is making
good headway in England, especially in
and about London. There must be
mo ney in it, for Hendren, far from a
back number yet as a cricketer, has
signed up to play baseball next summer
with White City and has been followed
by Tate. Hitherto the baseball clubs
have been playing on Sundays so that
their cricketer members might be free
for that game during the week. Next
season the game, which is attracting big
crowds, will be staged during the week
in opposition to cricket,
* * * *
“ Sp ike”: Lovelock is to run his last
race at p r i nC eton (U.S.A.) on October 3.
Last year he hoisted a world’s record for
the mile there, and will try to better that
before retiring. His chief opponent will
be Glen Cunningham, who was second
to him in the Princeton event and in the
1500 metres at the Olympiad.
* * * *
“Splash”: The N.S.W. swimming
heads have swallowed their pride and
resolved t 0 send to the U.S.A. for a
coac h. if one can b e got on satisfac-
tory i erms he will be asked to select
and specially train a band of young
swimmers. It is not so many years
ago since Australia, through the Cavill
family, taught the Americans the art
and mystery of scientific swimming. The
pupils of those days have improved out
of all recognition and can now claim to
lead the world in the matter of natation,
as they prefer to call it.
“Jachris”: A. G. Bull won the
N.S.W. amateur billiards championship
and with it the right to start in the Adel-
aide Australian-title matches; the chief
prize hanging to that affair is the chance
of representing Australia in the South
African Empire tourney. Hans Robert-
son, runner-up to Hayes last year, met
Bull in the final. Both played in-and-out
billiards ; Robertson, over 200 behind at
the end of the first 600 session, got to
within 56 of 8u11—1744 to 1800 —at the
finish. Bull has interests other than bil-
liards: he was the Ma .State sculling
champion in 1922-23-24, and in the two
latter years he was the Australian title-
holder. In 1924 he finished fourth at
the Olympic Games.
* * * *
“Blade”: For some mysterious reason
or other getting money out of rowing
men is a full-time job. Every year State
organisations lift their voices in bitter
complaints of clubs defaulting on sub-
scriptions. The N.S.W. body has now
stamped its hoof and announced that
unless nine of the eleven clubs forming
the N.S.W.R.A. pay their dues before
entries for the early regattas close next
week they will go on the ice until further
notice.
* * * *
“Poppet”: The N.S.W. Police eight,
which disappointed its backers at Berlin,
is due back in Australia on November 26,
and should have plenty of time to get lit
for the rowing events in the latter half
of the N.S.W. season, including the
eights championship on the Nepean early
in February. Naturally, the clubs that
didn’t go to Berlin are spoiling to show
that they are a better lot than the Police.
For Sale.
A BLOCK of 5 freehold, absolutely self-con-
tained Flats, situated in the best part of Glebe
Point, Sydney, and very handy to the City. A
splendid investment —incomings £339 per
annum, outgoings £29. An opportunity for a
rent-free home and a steady, sure income.
Price, £2150. Owner, Box 3127 P, G.P.0.,
Sydney.


Lj'ZJ.
>i7V2_
m
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-
HOTEL
ISYLNEII
Q
The
“Bonser”
Stockwhip
Made of hand plaited Kangaroo Hide, 8-
htrand, -Bft. long. The handle is S-plait
and steel-lined to give strength. A fine
stockwhip for hard work.
Price 21/-
Boy’s Size, 6ft. . . 18/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Anglo-Eastern Oil, Ltd.
This co. has issued a prospectus, dated
July 6, 1936, stated to be for “private
information only.” However, 1000
shares of £2O each (payable in a lump)
are offered to the public, and an applica-
tion form accompanies the document.
Nominal capital is £lOO,OOO in 5000 £2O
shares.
The co. is to be incorporated in N. S.
Wales, with its office in Sydney. Prin-
cipal object is to secure an option over
a concession known as Mete-Hou No. I
(and five other concessions near by) in
Portuguese Timor, where “prospecting
bores and several test wells have defi-
nitely proved the existence of a commer-
cial oil field.”
Thousands of gallons of high-grade oil
have been bailed out of some of these trial
bores and shafts.
It is reported that 2680 gallons of oil
were bailed out in two days at a depth of
210 ft. Drilling continued for a further
85ft., and 2500 gallons of oil had to be
bailed out before work could continue....
It will be specially noted that the sub-
scribers to the co. are not asked to pros-
pect an area which may contain oil, but
they are invited to assist in and partake
in the profitable arrangements for the
production of oil from an area on which
the early pioneering work has been com-
pleted, and which has been proved to be
an oil field.
For these rights of “assisting in and
partaking in profitable arrangements,” the
co. pays £2OOO cash and 1000 fully-paids
(£20,000) for the option (including some
plant) over Mete-Hou No. 1 ; “the pur-
chase price payable on exercising the
option is £lO,OOO cash and 1000 f.-p.
shares.” The other five concessions the
co. can buy for £lO,OOO cash. The first
option must be exercised within six
months of registration ; the second within
12, but may be extended for a similar
further period “on the payment of £2OOO
in cash.”
The areas are held under a deed of
trust in favor of Timor Oil, Ltd., from
which C. T. Manning, a director ot’
Anglo-Eastern, holds the options. He,
so far as this co. is concerned, is appa-
rently the vendor. “The areas are all
held in the name of Arthur John Staugh-
ton” —another director.
What is Timor Oil, Ltd.? The name
seemed familiar, and a search through
The Bulletin’s files produced some in-
formation, condensed as follows:
Timor Petroleum Co., Ltd., came on the
market in 1925 for £lOO,OOO in £1 shares, of
which 56,540 were taken. In part-payment for
a concession called Mete-Hou and six other
concessions, 60,000 £1 shares were issued.
Timor Oil, Ltd., was also given an option over
unissued scrip up to 20 p.c. of the subscribed
capital. The late George Meudell, in seeking
subscriptions (as a sharebroker) for the co.,
said: “This is not a gamble, ft is a certain
industrial proposition.” On the co.’s board
were A. J. Staughton, Harold C. Macfie and
four others. A bit got lost down a borehole,
and for months reports to shareholders touched
on little other than the difficulty of passing this
obstruction, though there had previously been
mention of a quantity of oil having been
obtained by bailing. Towards the end of 1928
11,644 new shares were offered; only 2207
were taken. In January, 1929, A. E. Callow
was appointed manager (his services are to be
retained by Anglo-Eastern). In August, 1929,
an amalgamation with Kangaroo Oil Wells
(No. 1), Ltd., was agreed to by shareholders,
but fell through because of lack of capital,
in August, 1930, it was announced : “The co.’s
funds are exhausted. Timor leases are held in
trust by the chairman, A. J. Staughton.” Then,
in August, 1931, what looked like the curtain :
“An order has been granted to Timor Oil,
Ltd., for the winding-up of Timor Petroleum
Co., Ltd.”
The references in A.-E.’s prospectus to
“a commercial oil field” sound impres-
sive ; but Portuguese Timor does not
appear in the Oil and Petroleum Year
Book, 1936, as one of the world’s first 22
oil-producing countries, even when
France and Italy are included. There
are two abbreviated geological reports
published in the prospectus which re-
commend testing, but there is no actual
evidence in the same document on which
probable commercial results can be
anticipated.
As soon as the co. has collected and
tabulated the evidences of quantity and
quality of oil available in any one area,
it is proposed to register a subsidiary co.
to acquire that area and to provide the
capital necessary for complete commercial
exploitation.
Most of the oil so far obtained has
been got by bailing—and oil can be got
at Lakes Entrance (Vic.) by bailing.
. The cash consideration payable to the
vendor is heavy, and the question might
be asked why he is not offering to take
a greater proportion in shares. Perhaps
the terms of purchase from Timor Oil,
Ltd., call for substantial cash considera-
tion. In that case, no harm would be
“I INSIST on having the window shut!"
“'Ave it yer own Way; hut youll feel it more goin through it!"
done if full details of previous dealings
in the concessions were included in the
prospectus. In present form it is an
unsatisfactory invitation to subscribe for
shares.
Mandated Alluvials, N.L.
In June, 1935, Pioneer Expedition,
Ltd., and Dominion Gold, Ltd., formed
Mandated Alluvials to take up options
over a 1500-acre claim on the Lower
Watut and another alluvial show on the
Upper Bulolo. Options were also ac-
quired over the Moresby King mine (164
miles from Port Moresby, Papua), the
Laloki (a copper show in the same area),
and the Kela, six miles from Salamaua.
It is the Moresby King that is respon-
sible for recent remarkable activity in
the scrip.
Pioneer and Dominion were to take
20,000 ss. shares and £3500 cash as con-
sideration. The public took 46,300
shares. The vendors’ scrip was not
allotted until last Friday; it was then
registered in order to enable participation
in the new issue of 28,000 shares at a
100 p.c. premium.
In March, 1936, Les J. Davis prepared
a report on the Moresby King from
data supplied by J. M. Spence, A.
Travers Black and D. R. Smith, all min-
ing engineers. The ore-body was de-
scribed as a “copper- and iron-stained
formation,” exposed prominently in
creeks and on the crown of the hill.
Five adits and some shallow surface
shafts had been put into the hill prior to
the advent of the present co. As recom-
mended in March, most work has since
been done on No. 3 adit, which is
about 250 ft. below the crown of the hill.
A 60ft. lens with a “long axis of 100 ft.”
was mentioned ; and following exercise
of the option an attempt to measure
definitely the length, width and thick-
ness of the lens has been made.
The country rock is slate, much con-
torted and faulted. The lode in No. 3
adit is of friable gossan. Here am «re-
body has been opened up to over 120 ft.,
width about 45ft. Average values (pre-
liminary) have been around 16dwt. gold ;
there is also copper, assays not given.
A winze sunk 58ft. on an underlie
showed 20(dwt. to 35ft.; sulphides were
met with at 43ft.
The ore-body has been tapped from
several directions, though prospecting is
made difficult by the rough, jungle-
covered surface. A large metalliferous
body appears to exist, which seems
very promising from reports, but so
far it has not been proved on an exten-
sive scale. The metallurgical side has
not been touched on by the general
manager, and the presence of copper
may make extraction a problem. Three
classes of ore—oxides, friable gossans
and sulphides —have been mentioned. It
will be interesting to have further infor-
mation on the sulphides, as ores subject
to weathering (such as oxides) are often
enriched by concentration, and not
representative of the mass.
Five days’ official dealings in Man-
dated Alluvials shares last week:
Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri.
High .. 445. Od. 425. 38s. 6d. 355. Od. 40s. Od.
Low .. 395. 9d. 365. 345. 3d. 31s. 3d. 38s. Od.
Sales .. 5050 3900 1800 2600 3100
They are Sydney quotes. There is also
activity in Melbourne and Adelaide. At
present, including 20,000 vendors’ shares,
the issue is 66,300, of ss. each. The
new subscription will raise the total to
94,300. At 305., ex rights, the market’s
valuation of the show would be over
£140,000.
ijj $ % :[i
The Commonwealth Statistician shows
that between December and March,
though rents exhibited an upward ten-
dency, cost of food and groceries de-
clined, and that all household expenses
(as computed at Canberra from infor-
mation drawn from the six capitals)
made no further advance. From the
end of 1933 to the end of 1935 there had
been a steadily upward movement,
though not great in the aggregate. The
purchasing power of wages was a trifle
higher, if anything, at the end of the
March quarter. There was then 13.4
p.c. of registered trade unionists out
of employment throughout the Com-
monwealth. The figure has since dropped
to 12.7 p.c.
* * * *
Share prices generally rose above the
peak of April, 1929, in June of this year,
and went higher still in July and August.
Two sections —banks and pastoral stocks
—are still well below 1929 levels. Public
utilities and insurance cos. show the
highest premium.
'I" J i ! $
Hoyts Theatres, Ltd., has announced
a profit of £61,088 for the year to June
30, as against £50,825 for 1934-35.
Hoyts, through the General Film Co.,
is now tied up with the Greater Union
group. Response to improved trading
conditions has been slow to show in pic-
ture co. earnings.
* * * *
Castlemaine Perkins, the Brisbane
brewery, earned 10.7 p.c. on average
capital last term, as against 10.9 p.c. in
1934-35. Capital has been enlarged, and
£50,000 (£30,000 in the previous year)
was set aside for taxation. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c. During the year £365,125
went into hotels (now £1,131,924); -mak-
ing a total net expenditure of £687,656
under this head in three years. At
235. 6d. yield on the 12s. 6d. shares is
still over 4 p.c., and it is a good stock.
* * :'c *
Wheat, back to nearly ss. at ports
last week, is putting cash into
farmers’ pockets again, and if the price
is fairly steady, as it should be for
some months at least, several millions
will be added to our external income.
The higher internal price will also relieve
the Commonwealth Government of sub-
sidy obligations.
For four years to the end of 1935 ord.
shareholders in British Tobacco received
quarterly divs. of H p.c., making 6 p.c.
per year. The first distribution in 1936
went up to H p.c., and now a final of
2 p.c. has been declared, making 7 p.c.
for the year to October. If the latest
rate is maintained, shareholders will get
8 p.c. in 1936-37. The market remains
around 425. 6d.
* =i= * *
Sunshine Gold Development, which
held several properties in New Guinea
and Papua, and is now working one of
them, withstood a heavy bear attack
about 18 months ago, only to weaken in
the general trend of the market subse-
quently. The shares, over 40s. at one
stage, are now around 12s. Bears got
frightened out between 30s. and 20s. after
taking a battering. The sluicing plant is
now reported to be working efficiently,
having operated since July 31, and a
clean-up is expected at the end of this
month. Results have been a long time
coming.
* * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson’s ord. div.
lift came in the shape of a 5 p.c. bonus,
making 15 p.c. for the year. Allowing
for pref. requirements the year's net
earnings were 26 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 21 p.c. in 1934-35. It is
a prosperous business dealing in
brewers’, butchers’ and bakers’ supplies,
and there is inner strength in asset
values, including subsidiary cos. After
sales at 655., buyers offer 635. on ’Change.
$ * * *
With a final of 3 p.c., plus a sixpenny
bonus, Myer’s (Melb.) ord. div. has lifted
to 84 p.c., which compares with 74 p.c. in
1934-35. Hence the recent improvement
in share prices to over 365.
* * ![: *
Still lower-grade ore was milled by
Mt. Morgan (Q.) in August —3.7dwt., as
against 3.9dwt. By reason of a bigger
throughput 29970 z. was recovered, com-
pared with 27560 z. The market for the
scrip was slightly stronger last week.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
A. W. Allen, Ltd., makers of “Steam
Rollers” and other sweets, disclosed a record
profit of £24,800 after paying income tax. A
few years back, when 19s. 6d. per ord. share
was written off, it was a sick business. There
is £BO,OOO of A pref. capital and £50,000 of
B pref., all carrying 9 p.c. Arrears on the
As are down to 32J p.c. (174 p.c. was paid
last term), but back-pay due to the Bs now
exceeds their capital. Their prospects of par-
ticipation, however, are growing brighter. Last
year’s earnings were enough to pay one year's
div. on both classes of prefs. and hand the
ords. £13,100 —equal to 363 p.c. on the £3600
of this capital now remaining.
Wattle Gully shards touched a new record
level of 355.
Following reports of “great resources of the
formation becoming apparent” by development,
Central Nell Gwynne shares sprang to
41s. 6d., the highest to date.
Opposition to the proposed 6d. per £lO
share-transfer tax was expressed by the Stock
Exchange. Such a tax is already in operation
in N. S. Wales.
Yarra Falls shares quickly recovered to
over 405., following an announced profit of
£107,120, up £4940. Gordon and Gotch ords.
were sought at 50s.
Official quotation was granted to 180,000
vendor shares in Loloma.
Australian Knitting showed little variation
following an increased dividend rate.


* j
m
m
:
as*
VAI
Spirit of a
Cocktail . . .
Jewel-clear, ice-cold, a
drink to be sampled
with swift enjoyment as
a prelude to wit. The
rite of late afternoon or
early evening, ringing down the
curtain on colourless day and set-
ting the stage for happy evening.
The most vivacious of all drinks...
which needs, as a starting point
for perfection, the fine freshness of
famous VICKERS.
WICKERS
V GIN
FAMOUS SINCE ! 750
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
BALANCE SHEET
;F the
Commonwealtb Bank of Hustralfa
AT 30th JUNE, 1936.
LIABILITIES.
Capital Account 4,000,000 0
Reserve Fund 2,240,570 8
Rural Credits Department—
Capital Account 2,000,000 0
Reserve Fund 202 372 18
Development Fund .. .. 36,447 14
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
, Rebate .. 74,870,879 9
Buis Payable and other Lia-
bilities . .. 5,919,359 15
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits per
Contra
89,329.630 6 1
545,857 14 2
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. 89,875,488 0
Note Issue Department .. .. 55,403,653 17
£145,279,141 17 10
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances
Australian Notes
Money at Short Cal! in London
Funds held temporarily in
London on account of Con-
version Loan
Short Term Loans in Australia
Investments—
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities
Commonwealth Government
Securities
£ s d
1,099,231 17 3
5,490,277 10 0
22,938,386 5 5
2,998,750 0 0
7,497,191 12 1
9,524,915 2 5
Remittances in Transit
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers and
other Assets .. ..
Bank Premises
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments
Note Issue Department .. ..
£145,279,141 17 10
I)r.
PROFIT AND LOSS
Cr.
£ s d
General Banking Department-
To Reserve Fund 102,748 13 2
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 102,748 13 2
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 11,711 6 3
„ Development Fund .. .. IL7II 6 3
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury . . 452 563 5 10
£081,483 4 8
£ s d
By Profits for Half-year ended
30th June, 1936:
~ Banking Business .. .. ... 205 497 6 4
~ Rural Credits Department .. 23.422 12 6
~ Note Issue Department.. .. 452,563 5 10
£651,483 4 8
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Ur.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 30th JUNE, 1936.
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Reserve Fund 2,256,669 2 11
Depositors’ Balances 133,831,853 16 3
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities .. 5,506.350 8 6
£141,594.873 7 8
ASSETS.
£ 9 d
Coin, Cash Balances gnd Money
at Short Call 14,660,180 9 9
Australian Notes .. .. .. .. 168,372 10 0
Government Securities . . .. 89,785,653 14 10
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities.. 32,695,779 3 5
Other Assets 3,277,215 14 9
Bank, Premises .. 1,007,671 14 11
£141,594.873 7 8
Dr.
RESERVE FUND
(V.
To Balance .. .. 2,256,669
s d
2 11
£2 256 669 2 11
£ s d
By Balance - .. 2,170,552 * 6
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits 86,116 17 .i
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
£2,256,669 2 n
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. T. ARMTTAGE,
Deputy Governor.
Sydney, 21st August, 1936.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-Generai 0 f the
the above accounts have been given.
mimonwealth as to the correctness »
The Fixed-trust Investigation
The fixed-trust movement (B.
10/6/’36), five years old in England, has
reached Australia. Five years ago in
this country Broken Hill Prop, shares
could be picked up for 125., Australian
Glass ords. for 265., G. J. Coles ords.
for 265., and Queensland Insurance scrip
for 345. To-day the prices —ex bonus
and par issues in some cases —are 785.,
935., 80s. 6d. and 61s. respectively. The
general level of share prices in Australia
has never been higher. The fixed-trust
development has arrived here approxi-
mately five years late.
It was the recovery from slump levels
of Stock Exchange investments in Britain
that gave fixed trusts such a fillip there.
Over £50,000,000 sterling has gone into
these trusts —mostly small investors’
money.
The managing cos. controlling such
“pools” engage themselves to invest
money subscribed in a limited and speci-
fied list of securities. “Units” and “sub-
units” are issued, not shares. A new and
practically uncontrolled form of financ-
ing investment, these trusts were soon
agitated against by some sections ; a com-
mittee subsequently appointed under the
chairmanship of Sir Alan Anderson
delivered its report in London last month.
Main conclusions are that the move-
ment should be controlled, but not pro-
hibited, and that dangers inherent in the
system cannot be eliminated by legisla-
tion, though it is suggested that there
should be controlling statutes, as with
companies.
Registration of the trusts themselves
and their constitutional documents is
"advised, as well as publication of
accounts. Another suggestion is that
units and sub-units should be made trans-
ferable, and listed on ’Change.
A recommendation that unit-holders
should be given voting rights may meet
with the same difficulty as similar sug-
gestions in regard to forestry bonds met
with in Australia —large partnerships are
prohibited under the British Companies
Act as well as under Australian Acts.
The person with small capital often
can’t buy 100 shares (the usual “parcel”)
in a sound Stock Exchange investment.
With £2O, £5O or £lOO, however, he may
be able to subscribe for a unit or units in
a fixed trust, and if these units are
represented by an interest in good stocks
he may do well for himself, as well as
acquiring a broader interest in the results
of industry and finance.
There are thus definite attractions in
these trusts where properly handled.
The present, however, isn’t the best time
to start them. There may be reactions
in security prices, and, though many
stocks will be worth more than existing
quotations some day, disappointments in
the meantime might make it difficult to
bring in the type of investor that is
sought.
Around 2300 applications for relief
have been made to the Vic. Farmers’
Debts Adjustment Board. Creditors
number 30,000, and the relevant debts
amount to over £10,000,000. The farmers
estimate their assets at £8,400,000.
* * * :|s
The jump in the price of lead (to £lB
sterling in London) was followed by
record prices for Barrier stocks last week.
Norths went to £lO, and Souths to over
£6. South gives a gross yield of 9 p.c.
on last year’s div. basis ; North 7.7 p.c.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The White Angel”
An American poet coined for Florence
Nightingale the title “The Lady with the
Lamp” and paid the best-remembered
tribute to her heroism. His countrymen
have paid further and worthy homage
to a great personality and a great ideal
in this film. There is hardly any “love
interest.” Donald Woods plays an un-
successful suitor; lan Hunter is Fuller,
correspondent for the “Times” in the
Crimea. He also is smitten, but realises
that Florence is not for him or any man.
Kay Francis as Miss Nightingale admir-
ably portrays burning zeal combined with
practical commonsense. Doctors, nurses
and scores of other characters are well
in the picture.
The story is almost fully biographical,
commencing with the hospital reform
efforts of the paternal Nightingale,
opposed superciliously by the medical
superintendent of a great London hos-
pital (Nigel Bruce). Florence is followed
through her training at Kaiserwerth. She
arrives at Inkermann to find herself ham-
pered by the active ill will of the mili-
tary medical service head and the Perma-
nent Under-Secretary for War in the task
of cleaning up filthy hospitals and re-
forming slovenly and callous administra-
tion. Extending her activities to Scutari
she is refused admission to the hospital
by a sentry, under official orders, and sits
outside in the snow for hours till Lord
Raglan, apprised by Fuller, Conducts her
through the portals himself. Stricken
with cholera, she finds herself supplanted
and her work undone by the appointment
as superintendent of nurses of a society
butterfly with no qualifications. But the
setback is shortlived. Florence Nightin-
gale’s friends, who include the Queen,
the “Times,” the Minister of War and
Lord Raglan, are far more powerful than
her enemies. The graphic narrative ends
with Florence receiving at the hands of
Queen Victoria a jewelled brooch in-
scribed “Blessed Are the Merciful.” At
Sydney State.
“Hot Money”
A paraphrase of the stage play “Get-
Rich-Quick Wallingford.” The go-
getter is Ross Alexander, whose youth,
good looks, assurance and phenomenal
talking powers well fit him for the part.
He, with Joseph Cawthorn, who emits
his usual flood of Spoonerisms, under-
Edward C. Robinson in “Bullets or
Ballots,” at Sydney Capitol.
takes the promotion of Gasoline Sub-
stitute, Ltd. They have an option to
purchase the formula (Cawthorn calls i!
familiar) of a concentrate one ounce ot
which added to a gallon of water makes
first-class petrol. Armed with five gal-
lons of concentrate they give demonstra-
tions and sell shares like hot cakes.
Then evidence comes to hand that the
inventor has committed suicide.. His
formula is lost, and the go-getters are
faced with ruin. In the nick of time
inventor reappears, and Mr. Alexander
and his secretary (Beverley Roberts) are
Kay Francis as Florence Nightingale in
“The White Angel,” at Sydney State.
able to wind up their little romance
with matrimony. Brightly acted, with a
fair flavoring of humor. At Sydney
State. k
“Bullets or Ballots”
A triumph for the casting director. No
more formidable triumvirate of gangsters
could easily be got together than Edward
G. Robinson, Barton Mac Lane and
Humphrey Bogart. For sheer toughness
Robinson makes a crocodile’s hide look
like angel-skin in comparison. His
favorite sport is to give an opponent a
terrific kick in the shins and, on his in-
voluntarily doubling up, to crash over a
jaw-shatterer.
Ed started out as a detective in a
strong-arm squad, was fired in a clean-
up of the force, and joined a racketeer,
A 1 Kruger (Barton Mac Lane). He is
hated by Al’s No. 1 man, “Bugs” Fenner
(Humphrey Bogart), who fears a rival.
But Ed’s activities in the gang are only
a blind ; he is working hand-in-glove with
the police chief. Comes discovery, and
in the final shooting “Bugs” is slain. Ed,
wounded unto death, staggers to the h.q.
of the higher-ups, leads the cops to the
kill and expires with a “kiss-me-Hardy"
expression.
The story, well presented, is packed
tight with action. Robinson’s quietly
menacing figure dominates the film, but
Mac Lane and Bogart give excellent sup-
port, and Joan Blondell is there to add
a little heart interest, though it’s almost
lost in the maze of crime. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Roaming Lady”
The spoilt daughter of a millionaire
is in love with a daredevil airman em-
ployed by her father. Airman’s chief
assets are a hirsute chest, a fiery eye and
an aggressive chin. Poor but proud, he
spurns the rich goil’s wealth. But she
still pursues him, so he roars her up,
resigns his job and goes (o China, where
in a revolution engineered by General
Wun Bung Lung or some such name he
can get the peace he craves. But —you’ve
guessed it —the goil turns up as a stow-
away. The pursued calls up his reserve
vocabulary of profanity ; but—ah! how
beautiful! —in moonlit China seas lurv,
true lurv, dawns and her filthy dahlars
are forgotten.
But what have we here? A dastardly
plot to hand the ’planes our hero is in
charge of to some rebel Chows. They—
’planes, hero, goil and all —are captured.
Enter Chink general, complete with pig-
tail, 6in. fingernails and gorgeous
manners. But, of course, he’s no match
for a hero with a hairy chest and aggres-
sive chin, and all ends happily.
Dialogue is breezy, there is no drag in
the action and the climax goes off with
a bang.
Ralph Bellamy is convincingly pugna-
cious, Fay Wray is charming as the for-
ward millionairess, Thurston Hall plays
a heavy business father well, and Edward,
Gargan contributes some fun in a bosom-
pal role. At Sydney Capitol.
“Trapped by Television”
Struggles of a young inventor (Lyle
Talbot) who has devised a perfect tele-
vision transmitter and receiver. Through
the agency of a woman go-getter (Mary
Astor) he has a chance to sell his in-
vention to a broadcasting corporation,
but wicked men tamper with the
machine. Aided by the lady (who has
a heart of gold) and by a brawny debt-
collector (Nat Pendleton) whose hobby
is science, the inventor scrapes up the
money to repair the machine, and gives
another and successful demonstration
to the directors of the broadcasting co.,
who have been assembled by bogus
notices. In the middle of this the bad
men, two of whom are trusted bigwigs
of the broadcasting co., break into in-
ventor’s apartment to wreck machine. A
willing scrap ensues, and for five or six
minutes the directors get an eyeful of
the activities of their technical and busi-
ness advisers. Pendleton rushes to the
rescue, and wrecks the bad men’s car
as they bolt. The rest is osculation.
Coming to Sydney Plaza.
“One Rainy Afternoon”
One of those frothy Frenchy comedies
that sit well around Chevalier, who can
dance and sing. Unfortunately in this
instance the part of the gay dog is taken
by the mildly melancholy Francis
Lederer, who can’t even skate, though
Dr. Malcolm Sargent, “The Lightning Conductor."
a great deal of the action takes place
at a glaciarium. He’s an actor who kisses
a girl by mistake in a darkened cinema
theatre. For this he is arrested and sub-
jected to a long trial, and Parisian news-
papers devote their front pages to his
misdeed, referring to him as “The Mon-
ster.” Reporters and photographers dog
his footsteps. So he becomes famous.
After about an hour of fooling by Hugh
Herbert and other members of a bored
Basil Rathbone in “Private Number,” at
Sydney Regent.
cast the actor’s courtship of the girl
he kissed by mistake (Ida LUpino) leads
to matrimony. Coming to Sydney Plaza.
“The Case Against Mrs. Ames”
The accusation against this beautiful
and accomplished lady (Madeline
Carroll) was that she murdered her hus-
band. A brutal but clever prosecuting
attorney proved to the jury conclusively
that she must have done the deed ; no-
body else could have done it, but the
jury said “Not Guilty.” Whereupon
prosecuting attorney launched tirade
against jury and was slung into clink
for contempt of Court. Beautiful lady,
being innocent, considers brutal attorney
best person to solve mystery, so bails
him out of gaol and hires him. Eventu-
ally, of course, he tracks down real
murderer and wins love of beautiful lady.
A suit for custody of lady’s child is a
side-issue. There is little logic or like-
lihood in the yarn,
but the vigorous act-
ing of the principals
and of Alan Mow-
bray and Arthur
T readier —T readier,
of course, buttles —
keeps interest in the
fairy tale alive. A
couple of news-
paper photo-
graphers season the
affair with dry
humor. At Sydney
Prince Edward.
‘‘Three Cheers for
Love”
A croon-and-hoof
symposium starring
a pair of dancers
this critic never
heard of before and
never wishes to see
again. William
Fra wley, Roscoe
Kearns and John
Halliday get a fair
amount of humor
out of congenial
roles, but then-
efforts are overlaid
by thousands of feet
of vapid ballet
scenes accompanied
by some of Tin-
pan Alley’s most
fearful musical
creations. There’s
one laugh in it. Halliday is head of the
Miracle Picture Corporation. The cor-
poration’s slogan is: “If It’s a Good Pic-
ture It’s a Miracle.” No miracle happened
to the producers of “Three Cheers for
Love.” At Sydney Prince Edward.


Patents.
METHOD OF FORMING AND
MOULDING CONCRETE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No
29523/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting,
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
*
- 771
(Mm
(BSSh aij^
ujk
Mb JAPM
Japan—attractive at all times—is delightful in the Autumn. The weather is
ideal, crisp and clear, and the countryside is a mass of variegated colour and
entrancing beauty.
The E & A Line Route, which includes calls at Rabaul, Manila, Hongkong,
Shanghai and five ports in Japan, abounds in variety and interest.
Cbud/ww/VL
The comfortable SECOND SALOON accommoda-
tion is in 2, 3 and 4 berth Cabins, the Menus
are excellent, and Second Saloon passengers have
many privileges similar to First Saloon.
Passengers may live on board at all ports,
the Australian £ is worth 25/- in Japan and
fares are free of exchange.
Round Trip Steamer Fares
SyDNEY TO yOKOHAMA AND BACK
First £9O Second £56.15
Joint Passenger Agents:
GIBBS. BRIGHT & CO. - MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide
jkh
“Home”
Encouraged by its successful experi-
ment in documentary film-making, “Con-
quest,” which told the story of land
settlement in the senior State, the Rural
Bank of N.S.W. has sponsored another,
“Home,” which deals with house-build-
ing, in which the bank is interested be-
cause it has lent over £20,000,000 for the
purpose. The labor and skill of a great
many industries go into the fashioning
of a home. Trees must be felled, timber
milled, clay dug and turned into bricks
and tiles, the materials of concrete pro-
vided, and, after this, a wide range of
factories manufacturing paint and var-
nish, piping, electrical appliances and
all sorts of ironwork must be drawn
upon. Then come the crafts of the
bricklayer, carpenter, tiler and plasterer.
“Home,” now part of Sydney Liberty’s
programme, effectively epitomises all
these activities, the pleasant voice of
Harold Meade providing a running com-
mentary.
“Suzy”
The producer has been unkind to Jean
Harlow in this film. She is expected to
maintain cloying sweetness, though to
do so is outrageously inconsistent. Still,
despite weak romanticism, the film has
appeal. Action is brisk, and an out-
standing performance is given by
Franchot Tone as an inventor who be-
comes an army test pilot. There is a
smattering of espionage, both in pre-
war London and on the French front,
with some realistic aerial scrapping. The
plot is complicated and has only a few
lucid moments. The climax, in which a
substitute pilot takes a ’plane aloft to
save the name of a hero, crashes and
then smuggles the dead friend into it to
be discovered, is forced and stagey and
has the further disadvantage of being
paralleled in a contemporary film.
Cary Grant is a dashing French
“ace” and faithless husband, and Benita
Hume has the requisite beauty and in-
telligence to carry her through a spy
role. Lewis Stone gives a classic por-
trayal of a proud, aristocratic father.
Previewed at M.-G.-M. theatrette.
“White Fang”
It’s a great many years since Jack
London’s essay in dog idolatry was last
seen on the screen —in the days of the
silents, in fact —and an old-fashioned
flavor clings to it, perhaps because it is
so frankly melodrama. The casting of
John Carradene as the scoundrelly but
nicely-spoken “Beauty” Smith brings
back to the screen the traditional villain
—thin black moustache, cadaverous jaw,
sneering laugh and all the rest' of it.
Character depiction is good. Michael
.Whaler is the hero, Scott; Jean Muir,
his sweetheart; Charles Winninger, the
drunken, absent-minded old doctor;
Slim Summerville, “Slab,” a breezy old
prospector ; Jane Darwell, Mrs. O'Shane.
The heroic wolf-dog is played by Light-
ning, whose cleverness is amazing. Snow
and blizzard scenes are well done, and
the well-constructed yarn holds interest.
Previewed at Fox theatrette, Sydney.
Some First Nights
Sydney’s orchestral players, or at least
those of them who comprise the chame-
leonlike organisation which is some-
times labelled State, sometimes Sym-
phony and sometimes A.8.C., are fit sub-
jects for sympathy. Every now and then
a new conductor is imported, with not
much time to spare. He buffets the
orchestra into something like his style
and moves on, to be followed by another
maestro-in-a-hurry, who eliminates the
influence of the previous baton-waver.
Latest in the line is Dr. Malcolm Sar-
gent, one of the fixed stars of the Eng-
lish musical firmament.
With the orchestra under his guidance
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night re-
verberated to the austere merriment of
Beethoven’s Eighth, the enormous Teu-
tonic gusto of the “Meistersinger” over-
ture, Delius’s rhapsodic cuckoo, Richard
Strauss’s notion of the pranks of a pol-
tergeist, and Elgar’s tantalisingly-titled
“Enigma” variations. The audience
roared applause in about equal volume
after each number, and indeed they
were an even lot, considered from the
standpoint of execution—several inches
short of perfection, but giving glimpses
of the ideal here and there.
Sargent’s merit as a conductor is that
his imagination is remarkably definite.
He is able to decide exactly what effect
the composer intended and able to teach
any competent band how to get very
close to that effect. He has found a
numerical value of x in Elgar’s “Enigma”
equation; his assessment of Wagner
takes megalomania into account; he
has calculated to a chuckle the fun-con-
tent of Till Eulenspiegel, knows precisely
the sort of trees that filled the landscape
where Delius waited for the cuckoo, and
has formed a callipered estimate of the
extent to which Beethoven intends to
rollick when he runs into triplets.
All this is conveyed more by the ex-
pression of the conductor’s face than
by frenzied gesture. The radio lis-
teners, on whose behalf Dr. Sargent was
imported, get only half the show.
4* 4* 4* 4"
The soliloquy, outmoded for the last
40 years, has come back with a bang in
Bridie’s “Black Eye,” Adelaide Reper-
tory’s latest venture. The hero (the most
useless one the stage has seen since the
first act of “The Silver King”) prattles
to the audience frequently, even coming
before the curtain to do so, and the
heroine’s confidence is unique: “I’ve
only seen him three times, and two of
those he was utterly sozzled. And yet
I can’t keep off the telephone. Damn
it! What’s the matter with me?” This
story of Glasgow is quite unmoral. The
youth deserts the family business at a
crisis, wanders out and wins £250 at
roulette, puts the lot on an outsider at
100 to 3, and returns home to save the
family—and incidentally to get a black
eye from his more manly brother. Pro-
duction by Alex. Foster, assisted by
Cyril Riley, both formerly of Perth. Ken-
neth Fraser ambled delightfully through
the lead, with Iris Hart as the stalwart
heroine. Neat work was put in by
Ronald Simpson as picker of winners
and conductor of revels, and by Lloyd
Taylor, Edna Heysen and young Mar-
garet Fay as members of the curiously
un-Scotch family.
•J*
Programme for the song recital by
Heather Kinnaird and Raymond Beatty
at Sydney Con. Hall was well-chosen and
both singers were in good voice. Duets
were a feature, Schumann’s “Constancy”
in particular being done in a very pleas-
ing manner. Marjorie Hesse replaced
Vern Barnett at the piano to play
accompaniments of her songs “In Early
Green Summer” and “O Singer in
Brown” for Miss Kinnaird, who gave a
graceful reading of these charming lyrics.
Current Artbursts
Some fine work over John Longstaff’s
signature appears at the Fine Arts Gal-
lery, Melbourne. The pictures range over
a long period of the artist’s career. “The
Lady in Black,” lent by Sydney Gallery,
is a lovely piece of work, and “The
Artist’s Wife,” from Adelaide Gallery, is
another charming portrait. A great
achievement of brushwork is the sheen
on the stiff black silk dress in “The
Artist’s Mother, 1899.” A small sketch
portrait of Theodore Fink is a summary
by a master .hand. The W. H. Holman
portrait is another clever character study.
Others are the Archibald Prize picture
of “Banjo” Paterson, a colorful painting
of Edna Thomas, lent by the Castlemaine
Gallery, and a 1912 record of Arthur
Streeton. “Sleeping Infant,” dated 1890,
is a small gem tucked away in a corner,
Although it is as a portrait-painter that
Longstaff has climbed to fame, he has
painted many worthy landscapes. Notable
in the show are “In Our Garden, After-
noon,” and “The Deserted Garden.”
, T * * * *
Vida Lahey, a Queenslander who
studied at Melbourne National Gallery,
j s displaying her gifts as a water-colorist
at t h e Mac Lean Gallery, Melbpurne.
]y[j ss L a l, e y has performed the unusual
f eat 0 £ achieving without monotony a
show composed entirely of flower studies,
xhere are only three oils, of which
“Summer Flowers” is the most satisfy-
j n g of the 20 other pictures two par-
ticularly make instant appeal for their
suggestion of coolness in the painting of
w hite against white—a moderately large
canvas, “White Flowers,” and “Roses.”
“Study in Red” is a joyful medley, sharp,
clear and dry - For its individualit V
“Little Bunch » is a captivating trifle.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Adelaide has two really good picture
exhibitions. George Whinnen (at the
Society of Arts Gallery) is already estab-
fished as a local leader. His versatility
is remarkable. Landscapes, especi-
ally blue river-lakes, flower and fruit
pieces are of high class; portraits good,
but not outstanding. Travis Webber, at
the C.M.L. Building, shows a group of
pictures, small but good, brought back
from a Centralian visit. They boldly
challenge Heysen on the same ground,
and bring Webber right to the front. In
pleasant contrast to the harsh outlines
of the inland ranges are two green
studies of the Grampians.


The liielmrdson Chain Hotel
II
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.).
Melbourne
Hot an d Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
Stay at Petty’s In Sydney—the hotel of 102 years' service. Enjoy the
excellent service; the air of comfort; and the convenience of its position.
The best of everything at sensible prices.
New private dining room and lounge room at your service.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(2) E. YOUNGS, Manager-
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
“Promenade” would be a good title
for the A.B.C. orchestral concerts.
Everybody walks about. The minute the
interval occurs, up jump the humans.
They hurry from place to place to
greet friends. They stand in groups
about the aisles. They mooch about the
outer corridors, smoking a quick one.
Among the richly-cloaked lobbyists on
Saturday were Mrs. C. L. Jones (her
ermine cape was heel-length) and Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, cloaked in black and gold.
Mrs. Crawford Robertson didn’t stir.
Her ensemble of silver-grey was an
artistic spot in the second row. Mrs.
Rupert Scammell, cloaked in heavy
white moire, passed the interlude under
the entrance chandelier.
A.B.C. chairman Cleary sat with his
four daughters. Amethyst chiffons and
black velvet were worn by Mrs. Walter
Swinson, who, with husband and son
Ryder, applauded the delicate, ballerina-
like movements of conductor Malcolm
Sargent’s hands and fingers, the Indian-
clublike swing of his arms and shoulders.
Marjorie Hambridge swung a trouba-
dour-like cape of white velvet. Mrs. Sep
Levy mixed mink and black satin. Flora
Danciger and Clara Butter were among
the glimpsed. Clara’s short coat was of
kingfisher-blue velvet. The Kelso King
lady was there with Olive Kelso King.
Alexander Gordon’s lady, Mrs. Ernest
Lashmar, Sadie and Elise Budge, Mrs.
C. Baillieu and Mrs. E. Wunderlich were
others in a house seething with musical
minds.
Sun-warmed and breeze-cooled, Rand-
wick on Saturday presented the usual
between-seasons dress problem. Adven-
turous spirits had leaped for the silk
frock, the wide-brimmed hat; but many
women still refused to fling their winter
garment in the fire of spring, consider-
ing it not sufficiently kindled. John
McKelvey’s lady’s small black hat
sprouted pink wings; so did Mrs. Mal-
colm Mackellar’s brown hat. Frances
Angus was smart. Her yellow frock was
patterned in black, her furs were silver
fox. Mrs. James Ashton, junior, and
Bea Meeks introduced skyey blues into
afternoon frocking over-patterned in
black and white. Mrs. Lennox Bode’s
henna suit was another bit of color. Enid
Hull’s hat was of black satin in the new
bonnet shape. Mrs. Ernest Watt was
green from head to toe. Mrs. Walter
Burfitt', the Sam Horderns, Mrs. R. A.
Eakin, Joyce Carpenter were others.
All the Navy tradition was. observed
when Kathleen Kenna married her
Lieut.-Commander Tyrwhitt, of H.M.A.S.
Sydney. With the blessing of St. Mary’s
on their vows they passed from the
cathedral doors, under an arch of
swords formed by the burnished blades
of fellow-officers of the bridegroom, to
the waiting car manned by naval ratings
from the Sydney. Captain J. U. P. Fitz-
gerald, of the Sydney, gave Kathleen
away, and his two small daughters Jill
and Virginia ’maided in frilly frocks of
forget-me-not tulle. The reception was
at Doone, the Darling Point home of the
Fitzgeralds. Here the bride, with her
husband’s sword, cut the three-tiered
wedding cake given by Lady Gowrie.
The ’groom is the only son of Major the
Hon. Rupert Tyrwhitt. Bride’s father
was the late Brigadier-General Paul
Kenna, V.C., D.S.O.
The ladies have been bustling! The
Musical Association’s reception to Dr.
Malcolm Sargent positively buzzed with
life and at least three generations of
musicians. Urbane was secretary Gordon
Lavers; very smiling Mrs. Hope-Gibson,
in black velvet. Mrs. Harold Bott’s
frocking discreetly mixed black and pink.
Her short black silk coat and handbag
were thickly embroidered in pink in a
Moorish design. These both came from
Gibraltar. Mrs. de Cairos Rego’s lace
tunic was dusty-pink. Her black velvet
skirt was long and trailing, and her
girdle was in two tones of green. A
scarf of hibiscus-red accompanied Mrs.
Edgar Bainton's ice-blue chiffons. Helen
Bainton was pictorial in black taffeta,
th© skirt very full, the waist-length coat
very puffed as to sleeve.
The party hovered between two floors
of Farmer’s. You listened to the music
on the sixth flodr (the Sydney String
Quartet and Leonore Gotsch were the
ear-charmers) and then popped down to
the fifth for savories, coffee and speeches.
President Faunce Allman, Dr. Bainton
and Cyril Monk made the speeches that
loosed the visitor down the tracks of
orchestral and choral work in England.
From Queen’s Hall to Albert Hall, from
Albert Hall to London Museum, listeners
followed breathless.
At the Albert, hearing a thousand
voices pick up and sing, with the same
nuances as a vocal quartet, old English
songs. At the Museum, with its limited
seating on the floor of the hall, crouch-
ing with the unseeing and unseen
listeners in the galleries above. One
thing the Doctor stressed about the
London Symphony Orchestra. No player
is engaged for more than a year.
If a member remains longer it is only
because no one better has been found
to replace him. One listener idly won-
dered if the law would seem so good if
it applied to conductors as well as to
players. A.B.C.’s chairman Cleary
brought daughter Ruth to the party.
Marjorie Hesse departed early for the
Con., where Heather Kinnaird was sing-
ing two of her works.
The Rotarians, however furrowed their
brows have been during conference
hours, have worn their carnival caps at
a jaunty angle every evening. Mrs. E.
Stewart Maclean, whose husband was
chairman of the entertainments commit-
tee, played her part in the week’s
gaieties. Photo, from Lupton.
When Dr. Raphael Cilento suggested to
masses of Rotarians joined together in
conference that contemporary civilisation
was passing, did the brotherhood get a
cold smack in the solar plexus? Not at
all. To a man they went off and had a
saveloy with Henry Braddon. The
saveloys were served by the knight from
behind a first cousin of the coffee-stall
outside the “Herald” office. This was
one of the big moments of the night of
Fun, Frolic and Good Fellowship. Quoits,
ping-pong, a putting competition and
community singing were other convivi-
alities that made the echoes ring in Nock
and Kirby’s Pompadour ballroom.
From Melbourne and Canberra came
masses of peach- and plum-blossom and
daffodils for the dance with which Rotary
ended its conference. Among the daffo-
dils and poppies of the official table
arose a blue-and-gold wheel, Rotary’s
emblem. At this board sat the new dis-
trict governor, Dr. liiglis Robertson; with
Mrs. Robertson, retiring governor J. S.
Duncan, Mrs. Duncan, Joan Duncan,
knight Henry Braddon, the Charles
Lloyd Jones couple and other Rotarians
of high degree. Black lace caped in
ermine was Mrs. Robertson’s effective
wear. Mrs. Duncan wore magnolia
satin, little Mrs. Garnet Halloran ivory
crepe. Petunia velvet swathed Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax. Mrs. H. D. Hill, of
Newcastle, served primroses with her'
black satin frock. The, .Stanley... Will-..
motts, from Brisbane, were there. So
was Sheila Macdougall, a study in black-
and-white. Mrs. S. Maclean’s velvets
were midnight-blue.
Nance Burniston will play the name
part in the Marrickville Musical Society’s
production of “Wildflower.” This will
fill the Marrickville Town Hall with
romance to-night (Wednesday) and to-
morrow night. The ballets which are a
feature of this musical comedy will be
directed by Merle Isherwood. Next to
singing, Nance's favorite recreations are
surfing and riding. Hollywood photo-
graph.
Sixty hockey girls bursting with talk,
advice on keeping salt water out of the
hair and remedies for seasickness
gathered in the clubroom above Vere
Matthews’s cafe.at noon before the team
sailed for America. Besides the 14 team
members were manager Mrs. F. J. Davy
and the delegates to the international
hockey conference. Mrs. Davy looked
very smart in her suit of natural linen,
royal-blue blouse, gloves and Breton
sailor. Standing very erect she took
possession of the 10ft. pennant presented
by the men’s hockey association —so big
that there is talk of wrapping the whole
team up in it on the night before each
match. In addition the girls have a
flag of Australia, presented by the
Walder lady, who was one of the week’s
hostesses. It was the gift of the Ama-
teur Sports Council.
As each traveller arrived she was
seized by the secretary of the entertain-
ments committee and decorated with a
posy finished with a long green-and-gold
streamer. Kate Ogilvie arrived breathless,
and had just time to snatch a cup of
coffee before the party broke into “She’s
a Jolly Good Fellow!” Koala bears
were in every girl’s arms. Mrs. Davy
nursed a koala on one arm and a kan-
garoo on the other. Clarice Caldwell,
as a goodwill message, sent Australia’s
coat of arms, done in green and gold
and mounted on a green shield. This is
to be presented to the U.S.A. hockey
girls’ association. Finally the Niagara
sailed with the 10ft. pennant tied to its
rails.
Only a very reckless man would take
suddenly ill on the night of St. Aloysius s
old boys’ dance. There were about 800
dancers at .this year’s flutter, and every
second man was a doctor (or so it
seemed). Presidency. J. Flynn was host
at a table whose centrepiece was a golden
crown woven of daffodils, marigolds and
nasturtiums. Its base was worked in
silver fleur-de-lis, and it was topped by
a silver cross. Mrs. Greg. McGirr and
Mrs. Hoard Speight helped in entertain-
ing the officials. Mrs. McGirr’s black
frock scintillated with Viennese em-
broideries. On its little cape were sun-
rays of the delicate beading. With this
were worn Nile-green kid gloves.
Daughter Beatrice’s gloves, too, struck
an unusual note. Thsy were of petal-
pink kid, and wore ruffles of organdie.
Beatrice’s frock, made in redingote style,
was of rose-and-gold brocade, spattered
with silver daisies.
Lucille Dupain’s black-taffeta wore a
pleated emerald-green frill below its
hem; Sally Speight’s taffeta was gay
with flowers. Mollie Grieve, down from
Hughenden (Q.), was squired by her Win
brother Neil. She covered her white
brocade frock with a ground-length coat
of white taffeta. Mrs. F. L. Breslin came
with her doctor. Her crepe frock was
afternoon sky-blue, the roses in her hair
were silver. Dark-haired Mary O Neill
was vivid in ice-blue and silver cloque.
Norma Biden, secretary of the junioi
committee, pinned a posy of daffodils
at her throat, and her frock of cyclamen
georgette swung a pleated cape. Ena
Ford got a dryadlike effect from brown
georgettes and a knot of daffodils at her
throat.
Audrey Nicolson’s profile emerged
clear-cut from her wedding veil of
snowy tulle, which was snooded to her
head with orange-blossom. It then bil-
lowed out below the knees, but did not
hide the square-cut train of her white
satin frock. This had a high, soft neck-
line and long fitting sleeves on which
tiny satin buttons twinkled. Four
’maids in flouncy white georgettes fol-
lowed her up the aisle of St. Mark’s ;
and bridegroom John Bruxner (he’s the
elder son of Acting-Premier Bruxner)
had four stalwarts to support him. Jack
Nicolson was best man.
The reception was at Buckingham, the
Point Piper home of the bride’s parents.
Here, as at St. Mark’s, the loveliness
of white cherry-blossom dominated all
the other flower effects. Mrs. Nicolson’s
frock was of black tulip velvet. It was
graceful with train and cape. Her
flowers were pink gerberas. Lagoon
blues and greens flashed in Mrs. Brux-
ner’s dress which was of deep-blue mar-
quisette over green satin. The guest
list was long and fashionable. Chief
bridesmaid, Mary Hine, is engaged to
Jack Nicolson, the bride’s brother.
Mary comes from New Plymouth in
Maoriland.
Mrs. Arthur James, metropolitan
president, and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax were
guests of honor at a dance arranged by
the Eastern Suburbs group of the C.W.A.
This filled the attractive rooms of the
Forum Club with dancers and bridge
players, and there will be a neat cheque
for country hospitals. Committee
members were distinguished by flower
armlets in blue and gold. Arum-lilies
and tall spears of pink gladioli flourished
in great bowlfuls. President Mrs. Percy
Crossing’s frock of black lace wore two
large red satin poppies.. Mrs. Arthur
James’s frock was of black satin, her
tunic of gold lame. Her posy of daffo-
dils was another touch of gold. Allen
Taylor was there with his lady, who wore
black lace. Mrs. J. L. Ruthven trailed
sapphire-blue lace. Royal-blue was Mrs.
J. Thorne’s flocking; black brightened
by hibiscus-red flowers that of Mrs. W.
J. White.
Jessie the Zoo elephant, 64 and still
going strong, was joined in her birthday
celebrations last week by crowds of
youngsters and grown-ups. Jessie, in gay
trappings that might have suited some
rajah’s cavalcade, showed no resent-
ment at the public giving-away of her
age. This was blazoned forth by the 64
candles around the large iced cake of
which she had the first cut and her admir-
ing public the rest. After she had drunk
her own health in lemonade, Jessie got
on with the job of transport. Next morn-
ing, like any other belle who had been
hitting the high spots, Jessie needed her
massage. Her special preparation is
coconut oil and eau-de-cologne.
Oswald Cheeke, climbing slowly back
to health after his eight months’ illness,
is now at the Pacific in Manly. In his
English mail the other day came two
crystal busts, one of Queen Victoria, the
other of Albert the Good. Inside the
pedestal of each is the inscription:
“Sydney International Exhibition."' An
English friend picked the couple up in a
saleroom at Dover, so now, after half a
century of travelling, they are in Manly,
which, in the exhibition days, must have
been a very small village indeed. Held
up to the light, the glass of which they
are modelled resembles 4alique.


hk
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling list Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Meet
Uhe
Phantom
A U * T R AS.! AW
WOMANS MIRROR
Now on Sale
ùkj
CALM STOMACH
So, Gain Strength by Day and
Peace by Night.
Stop twitching abdominal nerves and* muscles
END Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Acid-Sourness, etc., by taking HARRISON-
Maclean Stomach Powder. INSTANT relief,
Peaceful sleep. Stomach and intestines are
soothed, healed and protected—completely.
Inflamed ulcerated tissues heal. Bowels, too,
(where 75 per cent of digestion occurs), are
made healthy by Harrison-Maclean Powder.
If REAL restoration is what you seek, as
well as quick relief, take Harrison-Maclean
Stomach Powder and RECOVER, as millions
have. 2/6 of good chemists. Beware of
“Maclean” substitutes— be sure to see the
r»,me HARRISON —That’s very important.
HARRISON-Maclean Powder
Melbourne
chatter
The hundred-odd Scottish-reelers had
the best time at the Highland Ball, for
these energetic dances, though lots of
fun for those taking part in them, can be
monotonous to spectators. Danced to
bagpipes they filled nearly half the pro-
gramme, and some eightsomes lasted for
20 minutes on end. Nobody showed
signs of shortage of good Scottish lung
power. “Strip the Willow” produced a
cyclonic burst of energy in old and
young. Next morning many tired feet
limped about at home and abroad.
Vice-regal armchairs were arranged
down one side of the room, flanked by
the v.-r. supper table. Supper com-
menced with oysters, proceeded to squab
and finished with ice-cream. Haggis for
those tough souls who like it had been
piped into Scott’s Hotel for a dinner
earlier in the evening. Among hostesses
. who celebrated the night with pre-dance
private parties were Mrs. Lachlan Mac-
kinnon, who gave a dinner for friends of
Alistair and Colin, and Erica Burston,
who arranged a “fork buffet” for two
sets of strathspeyers who had met at
several rehearsals. Many of Miss Bur-
ston’s original guests found themselves
together again about 4 a.m. eating bacon
and eggs at the invitation of Nancy
Crowe.
Set out with cabaret tables under the
gallery the Town Hall had a homy feel-
ing. President C. N. MacKenzie was
accompanied by his wife, whose Glouces-
ter-green gown and silver cape looked
well with her fair hair. Taking part in
the country dances (men in kilts and
womenfolk in. pastel frocks and ta,rtan
sashes) was youthful Jenny Walker,
second daughter of Major and Mrs.
Geoffrey Walker. Winsome Thackeray,
who was one of the ticket secretaries,
had an extra busy night, for the dance
double-banked with the ice-skating revue
at the Glaciarium. Miss Thackeray, who
has won so many skating championships,
couldn’t let her dancing shoes oust her
skates even if it meant missing taking
part in the Scottish reels ; she did not
arrive until after the grand finale on the
ice.
One hundred and forty pairs of skates
twirled, whirled and flew over the smooth
white surface of the Glaciarium for the
first annual ice-skating revue. Gallery
and loges, with their prickles of heat from
radiators, were densely populated with
onlookers of all ages. The youngest
skater on the rink was a small girl of
three, and the most expert was Canadian
Nate Walley, for two years professional
champion of the world. Nate produced
the revue, a delight to the eye and a
superb achievement of management and
rehearsing. It culminated in his own
whirlwind solo.
A Dutch mill and a giant Dutch sabot
were among the props for the “Old-
Woman-'Who-Lives-in-a-Shoe” ballet. In
a Dutch ballet, boys and girls in quaint
costumes formed the land of tulips, and
a dance was performed by an octet of
girls who looked like scudding snowflakes
in their short white frocks and long-eared
caps. A star soloist was Joyce Macbeth,
in a short frock of gold sequins lined
with the same pale-blue as her gloves,
and fawn boots on her muscular sun-
tanned legs. This graceful and accom-
plished skater, who has been three times
professional woman champion of the
world, says her official farewell on
October 17 ; on 19th she marries another
champion, F. J. Merkovitch, and thence-
forward will devote herself to domes-
ticity.
Youthful Betty Cbrnwell, who added
to her junior laurels the Australian
women’s figure-skating championship the
previous week, performed a delightful
solo ; a very young and graceful pair
were Alison Lyons and Ron Chambers.
Touches of comedy were provided by the
Wyrzykowsky’s Russian Ballerinas (mas-
culine), the Dying Swan (complete with
a real and rather puzzled duck) and a
dame and her cow (two men skating
blind as the hind and the front legs
respectively). Frank Bladen, Who led the
orchestra, was Pavlova’s solo pianist on
her tour of Australia.
At the Masonic Cabaret Ball the men-
folk, no longer homely wage-earners,
were exalted to Most Worshipful and
Very Worshipful Brothers. The Gover-
nor, who is the Grand Master, was
present with Lady Huntingfield, who
wore black cellophane satin threaded
with gold. Also in the official party were
the Pro-Grand Master and Mrs. Warren
Kerr, Club President W. P. Tresize and
his sister, Deputy-Grand Master William
Brunton and his lady, V.W. Bro. R.
Chenoweth and his wife and the Grand
Secretary, R.W. Bro. William Stewart.
Lord and Lady Huntingfield acknow-
ledged curtsies from 32 debs., and were
ushered into the ballroom by the Grand
Herald, Bro. Scattergood. The ball, held
in the Palais, drew 1200 people.
Among the most comfortable people
at the Oaklands point-to-point were the
Alt' Watkins couple and their guests,
who assuaged their midday hunger with
cold turkey and salads, while heavy rain
poured down on the bright green canvas
of their protective bell tent. The bookies
also kept themselves fairly.dry under
beach umbrellas. The other spectators,
rigged up in raincoats, scurried in and
out of their cars (there were more cars
than usual present at the meeting), and
the hot-dog stall did a lively trade.
Mrs. Ken Moore proved her good
horsemanship by winning her third
point-to-point this season. Places in the
Oaklands Ladies’ Cup went to Kitty
Sutherland on Buckler and Hylda Mc-
Cardel on Blood Royal, owned and
trained by Enid Thompson, who looked
a very smart young sportswoman in her
bird’s-eye tweeds and gay check scarf.
Miss McCardel had a further success oil
15-year-old Brooklyn Boy, pony and
rider being for the fourth year in succes-
sion first past the post in the Victorian
Hunt Challenge Cup, won by the Findon
Harriers team.
Noticed around and about were the
Bill Seymours, Molly McAuley busy
making bets, sister Anne very smart in
her riding kit, the Ross Grey-Smith
couple both in white raincoats, General
Blarney, Mrs. Currie Johnston, the
George Howat family complete with
hamper, and v.-r. aide Captain Wil-
braham in his county togs, green square
hat, gaiters, tweed breeks and a shoot-
ing stick.
Mary, only daughter of Senator and
Mrs. J. F. Guthrie, of Coolangatta,
Moorabool, became Mrs. “Ozzie” Gough
one evening last week. The wedding at
St. Patrick’s Cathedral was followed by
a small dinner-party at Menzies. The
bride’s satin gown was cut to a con-
ventional design of long sleeves and high
neckline, with a suggestion of shirring
down the front of the skirt. With sprays
of lavender romantic dreams had dwelt
in the long train of Brussels lace; it
was made from the veil worn by the
bride’s great-great-grandmother at her
wedding. The only attendant was Rhoda
Macleod, whose pastel-blue chiffon gown
went over silver lame and whose waist-
length tulle veil fell from a coronet of
lily-of-the-valley. Dr. Gough, who is the
only son of the Arthur Gough couple, of
Malvern, was squired by Leo Fulton, of
Geelong. The newly-wedded couple,
who when they return will live in Gee-
long, set sail in the Monterey, which
for this trip carries more than an average
quota of honeymoon couples.
Pale blue, even to the polish on their
fingernails, was the inspiration of bride
and ’maids on the evening that Betty
Stewart became Mrs. N. Chaldjian. The
bride had no train-bearers, though her
draperies covered five yards of aisle
space, with cloud-blue tulle over creamy
lace. Glass flowers held the tulle veil
in position, and instead of flower
wreaths attendants Doreen Buchan and
Betty Morrison wore glass combs deco-
rated with crystal flowers and leaves
which were inserted into the curls along
the backs of their heads. Masses of
flowers decorated St. John’s, Toorak, and
bunches of violets were tied with ribbons
to each pew. Afterwards the C. J.
Stewarts entertained at Menzies, where,
in a further profusion of flowers, 23
instrumentalists from the German Club
provided a wide variety of music, from
the rollicking “Colonel Bogey” through
grand opera to Maori songs.
The usual packed house at the King’s
gree ted Gregan McMahon’s first night
“The Crime at Blossoms ” In the
audience were the Aubrey Gibsons and
Judy Price (Mrs. Gibson and Miss Price
had received their share of honor and
glory last week in “Lover’s Leap”). Mrs.
Austin Enabling was present with daugh-
ter Mollyj whose blue chiffon gown was
dr aped round the throat with scarlet
t the circle were Mr and Mrs.
tvfortill she with an orchid in her
, w : wiurlill, she witn an orema in ncr
hair. Kitty Sleight wore black, and Mar-
S are t Shann, who was accompanied by
her fiance Flvino-Officer Charlton chose
n , er T,an cc, rtying umcei r_namon, cnosc
the rose-pink glmt of a lame tunic. Cyril
Power enjoyed the down-on-the-earth
relaxation of the piay after a day’s
windy-weather flying over the course of
lhe aerial Derby, for which he hopes to
qualify next week.
Pictured here by Broothorn is Mrs.
Harold Clapp, producer and joint com-
poscr w . i,h . Alaric Howitt of “Joanna,”
the musical play which fakes the stage of
‘he King s for a tour nights season com-
!?, enc,ng .. 01 .’ September 30 The stor y. ot
&d£
wil , pp p|ay (| * name part> and y , he two ’
soprano solos of flower-girl Liese have
been entrusted to a young Con. student,
Magda Baucia. The standard set by
Mrs. Clapp's “Love Step,” produced a
few years ago, promises well for
“Joanna.” Profits will be divided be-
tween the Women’s Hospital, St.
Martin’s Boys’ Home, the Mission to
Seamen and the Distressed Actors’
Fund.
Murders and mysteries are all to the
tastes of the dramatically-minded young
members of the Power House —give them
a thriller and they are hot on the tracks
of Terence Crisp to produce it for the
Somers Camp. For the Garrick season
of “A Murder Has Been Arranged,”
there was no lack of willing helpers to
sell tickets, programmes and flowers. On
the opening nights Gonza Macgregor and
Mrs. Howard Skitt had much to do in
the foyer. One of the programme-sellers
was Margaret Joseph, who responded to
the season’s tunic whim with a floral
patterning over a black satin skirt. The
same inclination had another follower
in Meryl Shrimpton, whose tunic was
cuffed and collared with silver lame,
worn with a black velvet skirt. To give
her confidence for selling posies Fay
Schilling placed two poppies in her hair.
Noticed in the first-night audience
were Edward Cunningham, who brought
his nephew Edward, Edward’s fiancee,
Miss Harper, and a group of friends in-
cluding Mr. and Mrs. Dalziell Kelly, she
in sky-blue Grecian draperies. Not far
away were Mrs. Montie Cohen, the Bill
Kent Hughes couple and Dr. Gordon
McAdam, who escorted his mother, Mrs.
R. L. McAdam.
Of particular interest to the student of
nature is Neville Cayley’s first exhibition
in Melbourne of water-color studies of
birds and flowers. The artist is an
office-bearer of several ornithological,
zoological and wild-life preservation
societies, and is the author of three bird
books. He says it is quite possible that
there are parrots talking every language
in the world, and mentions that 80
species of budgerigars have now been
evolved by bird fanciers overseas. King
George, who was very proud of his fine
aviary, owned some of these little chaps
that were sent to him by Governor
Phillip Game. King George also
accepted through the Royal Zoological
Society in London a Cayley painting of
a rare scarlet-breasted parrot.
Cayley’s father was a naval officer
who, when he retired, gave up all his
time to studying birds and drawing
feathered things in their natural haunts.
The third generation is following in the
family footsteps. Neville, Jnr., aged 15,
already has a fine collection of insects,
and the younger Glenn is a bright lad
who is a whale on nature study.
Among the 44 names called at the
September conferring of degrees, only
one belonged to a woman, Dorothy
Noonan, of Ballarat, who is now a
Bachelor of Dental Science.
Senator and Mrs. Jack Leckie have
moved to an address high above the city,
a flat with a lovely view, open to the
four winds but not to the 40 thieves.
After dark a code of bell rings unlocks
bolts and padlocks; in the daytime
visitors, after leaving the lift, proceed
up some stairs to a door leading to a
roof garden and a villa up in the sky.
Though the wind whirls outside, it is a
snug little eyrie within. Here Mrs.
Leckie is busy collaborating with her
pen, her typewriter and her fertile brain.
Latest news from Lorna Dawson in
London is that a part has been given to
this clever young Australian in “The
Anteroom.” Starring in the play is
Diana Wynyard, whom Miss Dawson
finds as charming to know as she is to
look at. Lorna’s part of a maid is small,
but she has a German song to sing, and
is an understudy. Miss Dawson returns
to Adelaide at the end of the year for
her marriage with Lieut.-Commander
John A. Walsh, back from the Mediter-
ranean on the Sydney.
“W.P.T.”: “So you really like to hear
me sing at times,” Sarah remarked to Dad
one evening. “I certainly do,” Dad re-
plied. “It makes a man’s troubles seem
so small.” “And just what do you mean
by that?” Sarah demanded. “Well,” said
Dad, “I was thinkin’ what a blessing you
will be to the man who marries yer.
Mortgages, bushfires and droughts will
seem trifles to him.”
What two artistic women can do when
they collaborate is shown in the cloaks
to be worn by the princes in “The Spirit
Host,” the Celtic play written by Mrs.
Sterling Levis, whose verse has often
appeared in the “Mirror.” With her
friend Mrs. Phipps, Mrs. Levis has
designed, dyed, painted and orna-
mented these three-yard-wide cloaks.
To begin with they had to be saffron, for
that was the color worn by royalty. Mrs.
Levis worked with dye pots and bolts of
unbleached calico till the correct shade
was obtained. On each cloak she painted
a flame border about two feet deep. The
centre back is ornamented with a great
Celtic cross (Mrs. Phipps’s work) in
luminous peacock greens, bordered in
gold. The flame-colored tunics worn be-
neath have a border of gold birds on a
deep-blue ground. With the Celt as with
the Inca the bird was the symbol of
regal authority. Mrs. Levis, who is also
a clever craftswoman, has worked suit-
able brooches and clasps. The Players
are producing “The Spirit Host.”


&he
Phantom
in
<?A.e
austr a L I
WOMANS MIRROR
Now on Sale
hjk
THE POWER
TO DO THE J 08...
The position that enables us to
reach every corner of the West.
We have them both!
Broadcasting from the top of
the ranges on our new power of
1000 watts, 6AM is a sure money-
getter for the nan who has any-
thing to sell to country folk.
6AM
Prince’s
William
Perth,
Western
Chambers,
Street,
Australia.
QUALITY books at
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ihe National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Pnone: BVVI2IB
EUROPE
via
n
CANADA’S
ROCKIES
At Banff and Lake Louise in
the heart of Canada’s majestic
Rockies you may hike ... ride
the Circle Trails . . . golf . . .
swim in warm sheltered
pools . . . and enjoy the many
social attractions at their
palatial hotels. Get literature
and details from
any Tourist Booking Agency
or
World’s Greatest Travel System 10.6.7
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
X
IretL&i
thanaiyWi
PRESS THE FLASK
AND THE POWDER'S
ON THE BRUSH
Here’s a tooth powder which
really cleans your teeth, in a new
packing which is ever so much
easier to use than old-fashioned
tins and tubes. Just press the flask
and the powder is on your brush.
~ F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England. -
CALVERTS
If any illustration in The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Members of the metropolitan golf
clubs shed their heavy shoes and donned
pumps for the combined clubs’ dance at
the Embassy. Thousands of twinkling
lights scintillated overhead, changing
from sunny glow to dark sky, then burst-
ing into rainbow effects. Mrs. C. H.
Biles, in gold and moire taffeta, cairied
the presidential flag, with Mrs. E. Cook
secretarially swinging white and silver
French cloque. Mrs. C. H. Turner
trekked the fairway with lame shining on
her misty-blue satin, Gwen Brazier
hooked violet drapings on her parchment
crepes and Mrs. D. S. McKenzie had
eagle wings on her green changeant taf-
fetas. Mrs. Cullity’s velvet greens were
bunkered with lame, coin spots lay
dormie on Mrs. David Miller’s black
nets and Mrs. P. Tansing sliced black
taffetas with a flared basque.
Flight-Lieut. Alan Saw, son of the W.
Saws, of West Perth, and Joan Therese
Doherty were made one in an old monas-
tery near Birmingham, England. An
account of the ceremony tells of the
bride’s traditional white satin, with an
entourage all clad in air-force blue. The
matron of honor, the three bridesmaids
and the flower girl, in lace and tulle, the
page in satin, the bride’s mother with a
deeper tone of charmeuse, and the
’groom’s sister, Mrs. Harold Casson, all
harmonised with the full-dress uniforms
of the officers who formed an arch of
crossed swords as the bridal party left the
chapel.
Even the arum-lilies were painted to
match the decorations in the blue and
white of the battalion colors when the
officers of the 13 th Mixed Brigade
Supply and Transport Company served
up a dance at the Savoy. Mural covering
on one sid£ of the ballroom was a chart
showing the devious routes of supplies
from harbor-mouth to front-line delivery
points. There were a couple of cere-
monies, one unveiling a service board
with names of volunteers of six years
standing, and the other a presentation
of the championship boxing cup. C.O.
Major Fergusson-Stewart escorted his
lady’s caped ivory lace, Mrs. A. C.
Olden’s metal-threaded scarlet chenille
was in keeping with her Colonel’s uni-
form, Mrs. A. J. Stone’s taffetas changed
from earth-brown to puttee, Mrs. G.
Nunn scattered field flowers on her filmy
ninons, and Mrs. T. Anketell was in gold-
and-white trappings.
Merle Mcßae and Mervyn Branden-
berg came from Geraldton to tie their
matrimonial knot at the Ross Memorial
kirk. Merle’s delustred angel-skin, all
wrought with silver, wound its milky way
from a high-cowled neck to the tip of
her long train; her silk net veil, moored
to a circlet of twined silver leaves,
swirled overhead, with an eddy brushing
the petals of her white roses and hya-
cinths. Her sister, Mrs. Leighton
Moustaka, paired Connie Forrest in
bringing up the rear, with pink to red
roses held before blush-pink sunray-
pleated georgettes which were topped
with silver-leafed picture-hats.
The newly-fledged Society of Play-
wrights hatched its first eggs in four
separate nests at the Repertory Theatre.
Nancy Rogers’s “The Bolster” emerged
from its shell nicely feathered with
humor and naturalness and comfortably
speckled with pathos. “Leaden Logic,”
by A. W. Darbyshire, was a solid bird,
crowing dramatically with a force of
action which almost concealed the fact
that his logic had swamped his natural
emotions. H. E. Marchant-Flynn’s “The
Challenge” flew to Cornwall for its set-
ting. battering its wings bravely against
a tempest with the handicap of a black-
out to denote the flight of time. The
gayest little chick was Margaret Giles’s
“A Week’s Notice,” which fluttered
through a Perth office, finishing up with
a cute swish of its perky tail.
Freda Weir and Dr. Bertram Nairn
ferried over the matrimonial river at St.
Andrew’s, with the Rev. Gilbert Cameron
as steersman. A beige fox fur was slung
over one shoulder of Freda’s Russian-
basqued honey velvets, and brown-and-
beige wings sprouted on one side of her
brown mandarin-straw hat. Gwenyth
Ambrose attended in fine eau-de-nil wool
de Chine, with matching hat and sheaf of
daffodils and pansies. Toasts were
honored aboard the Westralia, which
carried the couple off for their honey-
moon.
The 200 Club wound up its winter
fixtures with a dance at the Masonic
Hall, Subiaco. . Green, gold and black
streamers canopied the danceroom and
fringed the walls to within a few feet
of the floor. Trixie Fienberg planted
waterwave tangerine taffetas in the secre-
tarial chair, Joy Dickens girdled a gold
tunic over her gold-spotted brown taffeta,
spring flowers bloomed on vice-president
Jean Fothergill’s black chiffons and
Muriel Allen’s blue georgettes were
covered with hail-spot net.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
A wealth of flowers —wonderful stocks
and sweet-peas —decorated the reception-
rooms at Government House when the
Governor and Lady Dugan gave Adelaide
an opportunity to meet the Governor-
General and Lady Gowrie. It was a
brilliant gathering, now that colored
frocks are to the fore again. But at
supper, unfortunately, guests crowded in
all at once, and it was impossible for
many to manipulate plates, spoons and
forks. Lady Gowrie was in white ring
velvet faintly patterned in graduated
black pin spots, cut on long lines slightly
trained, the corsage outlined with black
velvet. Lady Dugan wore orchid mauve
chiffon gracefully draped, and carried a
large ostrich-feather fan. Mrs. Hasel-
den chose black taffeta diagonally-striped
with ring velvet; her short cape effect
had a Medici collar. The guests included
nine wives of knights.
Scots Church, North-terrace, saw the
quiet wedding of Septimus Power, the
artist, to Margery Desmazures. The
bride—given away by her brother Pitre
—wore mist-blue crepe, the neckline
edged with velvet flowers in a deeper
tone. Her white hat was turned up at
one side with a posy of velvet violets.
Her sister Jean was in navy taffeta
relieved with a pink corsage posy ; her
wide-brimmed hat was a navy straw. Mr.
and Mrs. Septimus Power, after a brief
honeymoon in Melbourne, are to reside
at Kensington Gardens.
Over 700 attended the civic welcome
extended to the G.-G. and Lady Gowrie.
Lady Gowrie wore a dove-grey tunic
frock with a jabot of white lace caught
with a diamond brooch at the V-neck.
Mrs. H. Dunstan was in a black tailored
suit, a white satin blouse, a small black
hat trimmed with lacquered ribbon and
a silver fox fur.
Mrs. Alan Colvin has arrived from
Queensland to take part in our centenary
activities, and has brought with her a
clever Queensland woman’s work —
sprays, haloes and posies made but of
pumpkin seeds strung on fine wire. The
fine-petalled flower shapes are delicately
tinted in pastel tones by means of pen-
painting, each flower having a glistening
centre ; they look like French flowers.
Lady Dugan —interested in tapestry —
is to open the. Country Women’s Associa-
tion handicraft show in the Exhibition
Building on September 16. There will be
three pieces of her work, one un-
mounted and two mounted. '
Our Royal Show eclipsed those of
previous years. The opening was
attended by Governor-General, Gov-
ernor, Premier and Chief Justice. Lady
Gowrie spent most of her time in the
flower pavilions ; she was accompanied
on her tour of the grounds by the presi-
dential Walter Duncans, their daughters
Jean and Margaret and Mrs. Legh
Winser.
On Ladies’ Day a reception was held
in the president’s room under the
members’ stand. Guests numbered 400
and were received by Margaret and
Jean Duncan on behalf of their mother,
who was unable to be present. Attend-
ances on the seven days numbered
318,300 ; takings were £10,366. Our
centenary is certainly a success.
Surgeon-Commander H. E. Y. White
has been named honorary surgeon to the
King. Mrs. White was Adelaide Napier,
granddaughter of George Riddoch, of
Koorine, and cousin of Mrs. Robert
Rymill, of Penola.
TASMANIA.
Pat Butler and Bill Hood were linked
at the cathedral. The bride’s heavy
magnolia satin was made severely plain,
the lovely century-old Limerick lace
court train offset by the straight lines
of the satin. The bride’s twin sisters
Dorothy and Joan, with Margaret Hood,
had been selected as ’maids, but one
twin was scratched on account of illness,
so Edith Bisciee stepped into her frock.
They looked like daffodils in their yellow
georgette. Afterwards Mrs. G. H. Butler
welcomed at her house, Leyton.
The J. E. Thorps are back after their
trip to the Dutch East Indies. They
spent a little time at beautiful Bali, also
at Macassar, and in Java visited the
wonderful tombs of Borobodser.
The A. G. Webster’s staff at-home
was a big affair at the Continental.
Engineered by a committee of 24, with
Phyllis Pott as hon. sec., it had about
200 guests. The E. H. Websters and
the Guy Websters represented the firm.
His Ex. and Lady Clark turned out
to the Roman Catholic Ball at Bellerive.
Lady Clark’s black georgette had black
and purple velvet flowers in the front of
it. Mrs. Ogilvie was in pinky lace, with
a cape effect. Mrs. D’Alton looked
smart in one of the new transparent
black coat affairs over a vividly-colored
frock.
The Symphony Orchestra concert
under Dr. Arundel Orchard’s baton had
a full house at the Town Hall. Music
is certainly getting a boost in Hobart
these days; not before its turn. The
Lord Mayor, Lady Mayoress, Chief
Justice and Lady Nicholls were in the
seats of the mighty.
The Alex. Boyeses are home again
after their trip to China and Japan.
Mrs. Roy O’Connor threw a big bridge
party at Connorville to welcome Mrs.
Boyes, who turned out in a smart dark-
blue wool rig, with coolie coat and
small hat in blue.
Cohorts of Friends of the Museum,
each bringing a guest, thronged the
Museum for the conversazione run by
director and committee. His Ex. and
Lady Clark honored the shivoo.
The wedding of the Speck’s Attorney-
General, E. J. Ogilvie, with Lucy Coghlan
was over at St. Patrick’s, Melbourne.
Premier A. G. Ogilvie and his wife
were there; also Rev. Father Cullen
(Hobart), who officiated with Rev.
O’Shea, parish priest, Coburg. The
bride wore pink romaine, with brown
hat and cocoa-brown furs. Her sister
Evelyn ’maided her in soft yellowish-
and-brown checked romaine and big
brown velvet hat.
, We the Waitomo
Caves (MX.), and before we embarked
on the underground river to view the
famous Glowworm Grotto the guide
j ssued jfl e usual warning against talking
Jn the presence G f the. temperamental
specks o£ ligh( We therefore glided on
the black stream in complete silence, with
everyone gazing in speechless wonder at
the shining vault above. The-experience
Z soon became too much for .he Amen-
can lady beside me. Gosh! she ejacu
lated I just fhmk those httle bugs
cute for words! Then she wilted under
the enormous blackout caused by hei
vibrant tones, and the withering grunts
°f the rest of the party.


THE
lIMITCn INSURANCE
U 11 1 I ft. U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The "United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
THxs
MLS3
IN >4l
FIT ►
ipHERE should be a Mazda lamp in
your cupboards and wardrobe. All
that business of groping in semi-
darkness is fooling and unnecessary.
Tke. 9jeA^eet
*Coi£^C3bfTU>
MAD 6 IN AUSTRALIA
hk
I . •
\/s \
rji°i~i ij /
PS^^i
Tuesday, 22nd September
(Melbourne Show Week)
GREAT DAIRY STUD FARM
For Auction at Scott’s Hotel, Collins
Street, 11 a.m.
“VIEWBANK”
In the City of Heidelberg
270 ACRES ON THE YARRA
The property of H. Bartram, Esq.,
“Viewbank” is the pick of Victoria’s
countryside and right in Melbourne.
With extensive farmstead improve-
ments, rich flats on the Plenty and
Yarra Rivers, within 9 miles radius
of the G.P.0., adjoining “Banyule,"
and in a centre of fine new homes,
“Viewbank” cannot be bettered for a
fine Farm Homestead or a Sub-
divisional investment.
TITLE CERTIFICATES.
TERMS: £5OOO deposit, £5OO per
annum, Balance at six years. Interest,
per cent.
Do not miss seeing this magnificent
property. An illustrated folder will
be posted on request to the
Auctioneers, with whom arrange-
ments for inspection are made.
THE AUCTIONEERS.
EDWARD HAUGHTON & Co.
379 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
age, blowing spume, slinging things about
and welcoming on those hordes which
were following after it. 1 would earnestly
refer Z.G. to scsme of our Australian
authors, particularly Banjo Paterson and
the cove who “should have been there
last week.”
❖ sj: *
“Zedo”: One thing we Queenslanders
evidently are not, and that is swift. The
average driver going from Sydney to Can-
berra does not think he is moving unless
he covers the 190-odd miles in 44 hours ;
Ministerial cars in a hurry do the job
under four hours. I know men who go
regularly from Sydney to Melbourne at
an average of over 40 m.p.h., which
means that they must hit 60 and 70
pretty frequently. And the average 1936
car is at its best over 40. But for doing
40 and a mile or two more, motorists are
fined by Brisbane traffic courts. In Syd-
ney, you are liable to be in trouble some-
times if you do not cross control points
at about that speed to clear the traffic.
i * *
“X.T.”: The jury system seems to fall
down North of Twenty-eight. In Darwin
“D.H.9”: There is plenty of move-
ment in aerial development in Queens-
land. Having pushed its fast airlines
to Cairns, the enterprising Airlines of
Australia is taking over the service to
Mt. Coolon. The Rockhampton-Bris-
bane service becomes daily, and a fourth
Stinson to cope with if has been ordered
from U.S.A. On Sundays, no fewer than
three ’planes will leave Brisbane for the
North, two carrying passengers and one
with mail. The next step is a survey of
Cape York Peninsula with a view to con-
necting up Thursday Island. Airlines
of Australia under its new schedule
will fly 24,500 miles a week. This will
make it the front-rank Australian
company in point of daily distance
covered.
* * * *
“Aileron”: How fast North and South
are being welded together! A pilot’s wife
and their dog are on holiday at Port
Macquarie (N.S.W.). One day last week
the pilot decided to give his canine friend
a birthday present. So when the morning
mail flashed over Port Macquarie, a para-
chute hurtled down bearing a couple of
pounds of steak. When the pilot arrived
presently at Archerfield, Brisbane, there
was a wire waiting: “Famine now raised.
Your attention much appreciated in
kennel.” The pilot again mounted his
Stinson. At 4.45 p.m. the same day, still
fresh after a thousand miles of ’plane-
driving since morning, he was displaying
to a gathering of friends in Sydney the
telegram he had received 500 miles away
at lunch-time.
* * *■ x
“Fernberg”: In the days when Queens-
land bishops wore gaiters, we Padditig-
tonites used to look down from the “top
of our Amana” on Bishopsbourne, the
Anglican “palace,” much as Solomon’s
temple used to be looked on in Jerusa-
lem. I made one or two strange contacts
with history there. It was there I first
met A. C. Gregory, the explorer, and,
along with three other small boys, heard
his own account of his journey in search
of Leichhardt. Another recollection is
of sitting in the shade there with Donald-
son, afterwards Bishop of Salisbury, and
hearing him discuss the character and am-
bitions of his father, first Premier of
N. S. Wales. Old Bishopsbourne must
have, had a lot of memories of contacts
with early 'Australia; but the nearer
suburbs have gradually crowded round
its spacious 94 acres of grounds and
churches need money these days, so it is
proposed to sell seven acres and the build-
ing, and put up a new bungalow for the
Bishop at Nundah, well out in the
Northern Suburbs.
H* H*
“Passage Pilot”: Zane Grey did have
a rough spin on Hayman Island, poor
chap! While he was there for three
months or more, the oldest inhabitant
had never known previously such vile
weather, such boisterous seas, such over-
clouded skies. The same old identity had
never before known such poor fishing and
general lack of entertainment. And, s’elp
me goodness, Zane had no sooner packed
up and cleared out than the skies cleared,
the sun came out in all his glory, the seas
calmed, and, the day after his boat Ava-
lon was shipped on the Ormiston, the first
of the whales came sporting up the Pass-
“Wool brung a fair price last week, ma, so l think I'll shear Elsie after all!”
the problem of getting convictions was
eternal until the twelve good men and
true ceased to be part of cases. It was
the same at Cloncurry. Now the Police
Union is asking the Queensland Justice
Department to move the Circuit Court
from Charieville in view of the town’s
record —not a single conviction of any
Charlevillian in eight years.
x*x ■ *
“Vante”: We breed them tough. A
nine-year-old Gympie(Q.)girl, on the day
of a music test for which she had worked
hard for two years, fell and broke her
arm. In spite of this she underwent the
fifth-grade violin test. Asked if she felt
any pain while playing, she replied that
“it hurt a little when I was drawing a
long bow.”
X X X *
“F.V.”: Brisbane at last may have a
decent dry dock. The one which now
serves it, though 20,000-ton Orient liners
come up the river, was in use when the
Orsovas and Oramas were in the 5000-
ton class, and when no prudent ship ven-
lured further up-river than Pinkenba, 14
miles from the city. In its off moments,
the old dock used to be a great deal in
demand as a swimming bath. The Gov-
ernment may spend £500,000 on the new
dock if the shipping cos. will promise to
use it. The shipping cos. have not asked
for it: the demand came from the
Trades Hall, which has been busy think-
ing up new ways of making Government
jobs.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Mrs. J. M. Bell, of Coochin Coochin,
gives an annual garden party for the
Church of England, and this year the
Governor and Lady Wilson, Marjorie
and A.D.C. Reggie Leathes all went
along. His Ex. opened the show and
judged the ankle competition, in which
everyone, irrespective of age, competed.
Marjorie wrestled with the management
of the Jumble Stall, and Reggie ran a
shooting gallery.
Lady bowlers from Newcastle and the
Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) were welcomed
at a card and musical afternoon among
the tall palms at the Canberra Roof
Garden. Mrs. H. E. Twamley was
hostess.
A horseshoe of spring flowers was pre-
sented to Edna Hiron, who marries
Aubrey Taylor on October 16, at the tea
in her honor given by Phyllis Cottell at
Nyalita, Toowong. The hostess was in
ice-blue, and the guest in navy blue and
white spotted ensemble.
Dr. and Mrs. T. P. Fry took Tristan
and Mrs. Buesst, en route for Day
Dream Island, to a Repertory show,
“Roundabout,” and afterwards to supper
at the Belle Vue. The Alf Huybers en-
tertained them aboard the Blue Bird and
showed them Moreton Bay. When they
come back they will be guests of Mrs.
J. M. Bell at Coochin.
A little band of women, headed by
Mrs. J. Mcßobert, called the Weekly
Helpers of the Hospital for Sick Chil-
dren, accomplish a terrific amount of
work. Their output last year was over
6600 articles —garments, towels, dressings
and bandages. Mrs. R. A. Bruce, presid-
ing at the annual meeting, congratulated
them on having a credit balance after
doing the job.
When the Harry Clarks invited a bevy
of young things to a supper-dance at the
Belle Vue, none of the guests knew that
it was daughter Gwen’s twenty-first birth-
day. Gwen is president of the Univer-
sity Women’s Club, and allies brains with
a flair for costume. Her black net frock,
with a white coin spot, was finished with
a cluster of clove carnations on each
shoulder. Mrs. Clark wore a tailored
black velvet cocktail jacket with her
autumn-toned floral georgette.
The W.E.A. Dramatic Club made a
good showing with “Martine,” but for a
play described as a simple rustic idyll
some of the speeches were rather stag-
gering. George Eaton produced and
Ruby Chick Tong and Gwen Harrison
divided the stage honors.
Repertory gave the final performance
of “Roundabout” to a packed house.
Rhoda Felgate, producing, did fine work,
and the cast supported her manfully.
Ralph Taylor as Comrade Staggles gave
a polished performance, and Edith
Rowatt scored as Lady Kingbridge. Pat-
ricia Steedman acted much better skirted
than prancing about the stage in shorts,
and Juni Pendleton was excellent.
Red roses and white lilies decorated
St. Andrew’s, S. Brisbane, for the wed-
ding of Archibald Fife Nixon Smith, son
of the late J. Nixon Smith and Mrs.
Nixon Smith, Hampstead-road, to
Yvonne Jeanette Lochner, youngest
daughter of the E. C. Lochners, of E.
Brisbane. The bride’s gown was pale beige
thumbprint crepe, with a
Grecian neckline and
long sleeves. Mrs. H. L.
Hansen, sister of the
bride, and Mrs. Venn
Cox, sister of the
groom, both in brown
georgette patterned with
nasturtiums and picture
hats of wheat straw,
acted as matrons of
honor. The wedding re-
ception was held at the
Canberra, and the ’moon
is shining on the North-
ern Rivers.
The City Hall has been
housing a floral carnival
in aid of the Creche and
Kindergarten Associa-
tion. Proceedings were
opened with a floral pro-
cession, and first prize for
decorated cars went to
Mrs. Forgan Smith’s pri-
vate secretary, Marjorie
Norval, who had the
Dionne quints in a floral
bas s i nette. Mrs. H.
Bruce and Mrs. J. Dash
organised the procession.
Alderman A. H. Tail
went to Samoa to meet
his wife and daughter
Esther, homing from
England and America.
Esther was a deb. at the
first royal garden party,
and got her curtsy in before the rain. She
and her mother motored through Scot-
land and a good dbal of England before
going to N. York on the Queen Mary.
Such a roaring trade in ribbons can't
have been done for years as on the morn-
ing before the annual inter-school girls’
athletic sports. Ribbons fluttered from
shoulders, from wrists, from cars, from
walking-sticks—everywhere they could be
tied or pinned. Mothers became as
vociferous as their offspring during the
big events, and it was a weary but pleased
band of principals and sports mistresses
who gathered in the Baynes grandstand
to drink tea half-way through the pro-
gramme.


■
wm
m
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “ BABY GRAND ” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
26.7 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mullard Radio Valves.
■ZZSf!
1986 Dual-wave
PENT AG RID POUR,
£B/5/-.
m
RADIO ACCUMULATORS
2 i YEARS’ GUARANTEE
New cases and fittings,
heavy duty plates. Fully
charged.
2-volt 100 amp.
4-volt SO amp.
0-volt SO amp.
Packing 1/6 extra.
Send vour inquiries for
all types of CAR and
Home Lighting Batteries.
17/-
23/-
32/-
“B” BATTERIES.
45-volt “-CLIMAX,” full voltage. lon,
life. Made by one of the largest manu
facturers in Australia. Guaranteed for
o months against faults.
Triple Duty, 15/-. Light Duty, 7/6.
Heavy Duty, 12/-. “C” Batteries, 2/-.
HEADPHONES. jnnA .
Continental, lightweight, 4000 ohms.
verv sensitive, pair •• • 7/6
Please add freight to all orders.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
’Phone: FX5494.
RADIO NEWS
RESORTING TO “JUNK.”
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
He would be an optimistic radio jour
nalist who put new constructional ideas
into print expecting readers to carry out
his instructions to the letter. They won’t,
and they wouldn’t be quite human if they
did, for the natural inclination is to try
something else. It is the way of the
handicrafter, and all to the good if ii
leads to improvement on the original.
b .
There is a big difference, however, m
trying an alternative to some item of a
well-considered specification and just sub-
stituting “junk” for important and neces-
sarily high-class components. Unfortu-
nately, the alternative taken nearly
always is merely a resort to “junk.”
A case in point: The Ideal Amateur
Superhet (described B. 15/4/’36) is a
particularly straightforward and easy
modern-communications superhet for
amateur use. II the original were fol-
lowed faithfully there should be excellent
results. For its high efficiency this re-
ceiver depends on a regenerative first de-
lector with separate oscillator and single
I.F. amplifier with iron-cored intermedi-
ate transformers. Iron-cored I.F.Ts. have
been proved both here and overseas, and
their value and importance were well
stressed. Yet a week or two of corre-
spondence, has revealed that one builder
had dug around the retail sale-counters
and bought two alleged I.F.Ts. at Is.
each, and was using a different form of
mixer, minus regeneration. It should go
without saying that such articles at one
shilling are probably priced at all they
are worth. <
Again, when certain valves are speci-
fied, odd valves at a shilling or so are no
reasonable substitute. Very rarely does
one find in a box of such clearance valves
any made by a leading manufacturer, and
if one does they are in that box for a
reason. Leaky cathodes or poor emission
are the ailments usually concealed under
a shiny glass envelope. There are uses
for old and second-hand valves, but quite
definitely they should not be used in a
modern short-wave superhet or anything
equally exacting.
D. B. K.
Aerial Mast Design.
Even in these days when dual-wave
receivers are so sensitive that a short
length of wire around a picture rail will
serve to bring in overseas stations there
are people who have good use for effi-
Showing constructional details of the
mast and how it can be placed close to
fence or wall in short garden.
cient external aerial systems. Chief
among these are country listeners and
amateur transmitters. The problem of
the latter is to erect a sturdy mast
without a maze of steel guy wires,
for such guys, even when broken at in-
tervals by insulators, play havoc with the
radiation pattern of transmitting aerials.
The illustration shows a very effective
method of construction for a mast which
is almost self-supporting. According tp
dimehsions of timber, plus height, this
design can be made to hold up in all
weather conditions the heaviest of aerials.
It will be seen that the main idea is in
the spreading of two bolted lengths of
3in. x lin. timber and the use of a sturdy
prop.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Several new stations have appeared on
the dial. One of the most interesting is
the Swedish station SMSSX on 25.63 m.
I followed it one morning from 4.30 on-
wards. The quality deteriorated after 5
a.m, but improved again towards 6 a.m.
Reports from the West say that it is con-
nected with the Royal Technical Univer-
sity, Stockholm. On the morning men-
tioned it gave what was apparently a long
lecture on music. Sometimes a man
would be speaking, sometimes a woman.
Every two or three minutes the talk
would be illustrated by the playing or
singing of a few bars. Occasionally one
or other of the speakers would utter a
declamatory passage. Towards the end
several folk-songs were sung, all in a
minor key.
Heard testing at night in a dial posi-
tion a shade above SMSSX is an uniden-
tified Russian station. Behind the rather
»coarse voice of its announcer one can
often hear the faint sound of music pro-
ceeding either from a subdued record or
from another station. It is much troubled
by Morse interference.
Another new station is EH9AA Ceuta,
Spanish Morocco. It operates on 42.6 m.
and broadcasts rebel propaganda. It may
be heard at about 7 a.m., but in the
writer’s location it does not come out
distinctly against the high noise level,
and is frequently heterodyned by amateur
stations.
Most puzzling of all the new stations
is one heard in the early mornings on
28.9 m. When it first appeared a keen
Westralian listener, Mr. Bull, of Beria,
wrote it down as LSX Buenos Ayres, but
this seems highly improbable. Mr. Bull
said that he heard the studio clock strike
II when the time at Perth was 8 a.m.
If that was so, the station could not have
been anywhere near the Argentine. I
myself heard the studio clock strike eight
when the time at Sydney was 7.30 a.m.,
but I would not be sure that it had not
struck once before I commenced to
count. These timings would suggest
some place in the longitude of either
Iceland or the west of Spain. The-first
time I heard the station it was calling
“Hullo Nederland,” and the language was
apparently .Dutch. Afterwards news
items were given in which Madrid, Bar-
celona and Valencia could frequently be
distinguished. On September 1 an-
nouncements were given in several lan-
guages, in the course of which I caught
the phrases “radio ’phone station” and
“yesterday’s telegram” in very broken
English. Words were spelt out by refer-
ence to well-known place-names, pre-
dominantly Spanish and Dutch. One
such word was A-l-c-a-l-a. The latest
report from Westralia is that the news
from the 28.9 m. station “consists entirely
of Spanish revolution topics, number of
captured, dead and wounded, etc./’ and
Mr. Bull himself is now certain that it
is a Spanish station —which is the con-
elusion the writer had independently
formed on the evidence available here.
Still another newcomer is the D.E.I.
station YDA on 19.7 m. It has been
heard now for several weeks. It opens
at 8.30 p.m., gives the same programme
as PLP, and until the evening is well
advanced is usually the best station on
its band. Mention may also be made of
another DsE.I. station (name unknown)
which appeared for the first time about
three months ago, when it was heard for
several nights in succession, then dis-
appeared for a couple of months and
has now reappeared. It' operates on
about 43.9 m. and is very prominent in
the late evenings.
Listeners who tune in on the 31m. band
will not fail to log the new Suva station
VPD2, now operating on 9540 kc. This
station is owned and controlled by
A.W.A., and has much the same quality
as VK2ME. Its items are on the aesthetic
level of “A Little Bit Independent” and
“The Music Goes Round and Round.”
It puts across commercial advertising
matter, and if short-wave enthusiasts dis-
like this sort of thing they have the con-
solation of knowing that there are plenty
of other stations in the world to listen to.
Novelty is a transitory charm, but the
new Czechoslovakian station at Praha
(Prague) wins out on its merits. No-
thing could be more delightful than its
rendering of the symphonic music of
Smetana. It operates on 19.698 m. and
25.51 m. in alternate weeks, and its pro-
grammes commence at 5 p.m., 7 p.m.,
2 a.m. and 5 a.m. (Sydney time). It an-
nounces in German, English and French.
The English announcements are given by
a woman who speaks very clearly and
deliberately. On September 3 she mads
the encouraging statement, “We hope to
improve our station soon so that you
may have better reception.”
Rack and panel transmitter of W4ALG,
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, U.S.A.
Students of German in its elementary
stages are advised to listen in to the
brightly-rendered lessons given under the
title of the “Little German Broadcasting
ABC” from DJB, DJA and DJE every
Tuesday and Friday at 10.20 p.m. It is
rather late, perhaps, for the youngsters,
but who could resist letting them hear
such gems as “How many windows has
the Post Office? Eight hundred and
sixty. The American notes it in his
book.” By way of relaxation, the lesson
is followed by “a musical variety of
mixed pickles (shall we say?) from
gramophone records: we Wish you a top-
top reception.”
P. R. W.
Amateur Chatter.
The extraordinary conditions prevail-
ing on 14mc. for the the last year have
been responsible for many new stations
starting on the DX ’phone business. Un-
fortunately, many of these people appear
to have acquired a license for no other
object than to say ‘“Hello” to fellows in
Poclunk or Chattanooga. AIT such
stations do is to add to the QRM tem-
porarily. On the other hand, there ere
new licensees of the genuine “ham” type
who start hr at once on 20-metre ’phone,
but alternate with C.W. Long-distance
’phone work in certain circumstances
is valuable, but it is highly desirable
when signal level drops to be able to
continue communication on the key, par-
ticularly where aerial systems are under
test.
Writer had an interesting contact with
the yacht Latitude in Manila Harbor,
T. Court, of Southall, Middlesex, Eng-
land, with the simple two-valve short-
wave receiver with which he hears Aus-
tralian amateurs on the 20-metre band on
telephony. Mr. Court is a British Empire
Radio Union listener, and holds the iden-
tification number BR51449.
P.I. Callsign is KZYL, using a 40-watt
’phone, and the station reached Australia
well during peak conditions.
Word came from VK3MR via WISZ
that 3MR piled up 300,000 points in the
recent German contest. He had 346 con-
tacts and worked 15 districts.
On the afternoon of 6/9/’36 a terrific
signal on C.W. was heard from CNBMI
in Morocco, but either his receiver is
dud or he missed all the Australian calls
in favor of Americans. CE3DG in San-
tiago, Chile, was heard strongly on
’phone calling DX and subsequently
working VK2TI.
Australian experimenters should note
that in the amended regulations effective
1/9/’36 stress is laid on the nature of
C.W. signals. In other words, a well-
designed C.O.P.A. or M.O.P.A. is essen-
tial. Despite this, many signals have
been logged recently with self-excited
T 1 signals. Stations using “resonant
filters” are also taking up a lot of room,
and are likely to be unpopular.
VK2JU heard a South African on
’phone around 10.30 p.m. Sydney time,
but was unable to raise him.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
A gem of a request from a U.S.A.
listener who had heard the writer’s short-
wave ’phone on 20 metres: “Would like
to know what has become of an old friend,
Bill Jones, who left to join the Gla-
morgan Constabulary in 1911. Do you


RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6-
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
\>
1
Increase your Valve Sales with a "Palec" Emporium
Valve Tester
; .
ft
INN
' -' » v.
' *1
I#
N V-W’^v'^
m
* '/'
V< > *>'
H
US®
• v:-.,
ik
pskpp?
3R
B&sSS
mm
<& \ •>■• .
Price,
£l3/107-
plus tax.
Portable model
valve tester, in
standard case
7{-in. x Bfin. x
6in„ £ll/10/-,
plus tax.
•
D.C. Model re-
quiring only a
6-volt accumu-
lator for opera-
tion. Complete
with 3 ranges of
volts for battery
checking and ex-
ternal ohmmeter.
Price,
£l2/10/-
plus tax.
TESTS ALL VALVES
Will test all standard American
(including metal series), English
and Oct'ode types without adaptor.
NOISY VALVE DETECTION
Subjects each element of a HOT
valve to a micro leak test. Com-
plete with easy to read valve chart.
Price £13/10/- plus tax.
HANDSOME APPEARANCE
Will attract attention and inspire the confidence of clients.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue of Palec Range of Test Equipment.
PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO.
90 VICTORIA STREET, ASHFIELD. UA1960.
Distributors: Sydney—Lawrence and Hanson, Bloch and Gerber, Fox and MacGillicuddy.
Melbourne—Lawrence and Hanson, Ltd., A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd.
Brisbane—Lawrence and Hanson, Ltd. N.Z.—’The Electric Lamp House, Ltd.,
Wellington.
know of him?” Apparently U.S.A.
listeners make no distinction between
Wales and New South Wales.
$ $ # *
Television demonstrations in London
are reported highly satisfactory. The
flicker said to be present in the Con-
tinental systems is missing, and the
British system is considered to be far
ahead in technique. The 8.8. C. is not
likely to sponsor anything not up to a
very high standard, and from the time
it was decided to establish the Alexandra
Palace station at a cost of £175,000 it
was a foregone conclusion that the final
product would be good. The service
proper commences in November.
:!: * * *
U.S.A. traffic authorities have hit on
a i£gthod of reducing the number, of
road accidents due to “hogging.” In
one town the experiment was tried of
taking a microphone into the police
court for half an hour each morning
during the trial of traffic-regulation
offenders. Culprits’ names and scathing
remarks from the Bench were broadcast.
Results obtained have been so salutary
that the method has been adopted by
other cities.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
(Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
Beale Vibrator-powered Battery
Dual-wave Superhet.
There are in Australia many receivers
operated within a short distance of a
charging station to which power direct
from A.C. mains is not available. For
these radio engineers have developed a
means of deriving all the receiver power
from the accumulator to the exclusion of
primary batteries.
The 1936 vibrator set is not to be con-
fused with experimental sets of three
years ago. It is trouble-free and most
economical; so much so that a five-valve
superhet shows a total drain from the
six-volt accumulator of only 0.9 ampere!
Beale “B batteryless” five-valve dual-
wave superhet.
Of this type is the new Beale model
V 57 D.W. Beale pianos and pianolas
have been famous for many years. Into
the radio industry Beales carried the
same high standard of production.
The finish on Beale cabinets has been
outstanding in successive radio trade ex-
hibitions. It goes with this new coun-
tryman’s dual-waver, the performance of
which chief-engineer Johansson pro-
nounces exceptional. This claim the
writer endorses.
As this receiver is a dual-waver, the first
point to be tested was naturally the short-
wave behavior. With six-volt battery con-
nected and 20 feet of picture-rail aerial
the 19-metre band was explored. The
Berlin station came in at once like a
local. So much volume was in reserve
that the aerial was removed, and a finger
placed on the terminal. Still Berlin, clear
cut, and no inherent circuit noise from
the vibrator with no aerial other than this.
This receiver is a complete and con-
vincing demonstration of what can be
done with the vibrator. Flat out on a
powerful local broadcaster, the tested
drain was, as claimed, just 0.9 ampere.
Analysis of the circuit shows five
valves of two-volt directly-heated types- —
IC6, IC4, IC4, 185 and ID4. The tuning
dial reflects battery economy further, for
illumination is obtained only when
tuning, by slight inward pressure on the
knob.
The set is ideal for people who can con-
veniently get a six-volt accumulator
charged every three weeks or so. Most
striking is the tonal quality; for a modest
battery pentode output valve it is re-
markable. As for stations —there could
not be found one that could be got by a
particularly sensitive A.C. dual-waver
that this receiver could not get, and get
well.
Such is this new Beale model: in finish
and performance a vibrator-powered re-
ceiver of the highest grade.
This old-established Australian com-
pany, whose founder, Octavius Beale, did
so much for the Australian manufac-
turing industry—he saw it grow from
small beginnings and helped it to achieve
greatness —is at 177 Pitt-streel, Sydney,
and the factory at Trafalgar-streel,
Annandale, N.S.W.
Casual Comment.
“Amrad”: From the U.S.A. comes a
description of something out of the ordi-
nary in frequency-control apparatus for
transmitters —the “rubber crystal unit,
designed to remotely control the fre-
quency of a transmitter from the operat-
ing position.” It is placed on the operat-
ing-table near the receiver, and link-
coupled to the stage which was formerly
the crystal oscillator or doubler. Tank
circuit of either of these stages is used
as a tuned link to absorb R.F. from the
new unit to excite a low-power stage,
such as RK2O, 802 or 210, directly. By
a bandspread arrangement on the main
dial, frequency variation from lkc. to
50kc. can be obtained either side of the
chosen spot. The arrangement makes it
possible to shift frequency whilst trans-
mitting, so that a listening station can
follow the signal tq a QRM-less spot.
* * * *
“Sach”: The photograph of Sergeants
Caletti and Jessup (B. 2/9/’36) reminds
me that Caletti, now in 2nd Divisional
Signals, enlisted in the U.S.A. Army at
the age of 15 years and 10 months. He
was in the Philippines 1916-17 and in
France 1917-18, attached to Troop L,
15th U.S. Cavalry. He was president of
the Croydon Radio Club, 1925 and
1928 ; president of the Amateur Radio
Transmitters’ League, 1928; vice-presi-
dent W.1.A., 1929. His present rank in
2nd Divisional Signals is company
quartermaster-sergeant.
B.B. C. Empire Broadcasting Service.
Wave-lengths of the Empire Transmitters.
Fre- Wave- ' Ere- Wave-
quency, length, quency, length,
Mcs. Metres. Mcs. Metres.
GSA .. 6.05 49.59 I GSH .. 21.47 13.97
GSB .. 9.51 31.55 ] GSI .. 15.26 19.66
GSC .. 9.58 31.32 | GSJ .. 21.53 13.93
GSD .. 11.75 25.53 | GSL .. 6.11 49.10
GSE .. 11.86 25.29 | GSN .. 11.82 25.38
GSF .. 15.14 19.82 | GSO .. 15.18 19.76
GSG .. 17.79 16.86 1 GSP .. 15.31 19.60
Latest in the Trade.
“Radio” Antenna Handbook.
Everything the experimenter—and, in-
deed, the professional radio engineer—
needs to know about aerial systems is
in this new volume by the publishers of
“Radio” (U.S.A.). Its 80 pages give
comprehensive details of latest develop-
ments in transmitter and receiver appli-
cations. The publication is directed by
“Jayenay” Hawkins and edited by Frank
C. Jones and W. W. Smith, three names
outstanding in modern radio develop-
ment. Chapters cover antenna choice,
methods of feeding, coupling to trans-
mitters, harmonic operation, directive
systems, receiving systems, special
antenna and supports. The matter is
more on the practical than the theoreti-
cal side, and several charts and tables
show the reader at a glance just what he
wants in the way of lengths, untuned or
tuned lines, and radiation patterns. There
are considerable data on directional sys-
tems and harmonic lengths which, to
present writer’s knowledge, are available
nowhere else. By the time this reaches
print the volume should be available on
most Australasian bookstalls. Price 3s.
Latest Palec Equipment.
The Paton Electrical Instrument Co.,
of Ashfield (N.S.W.), manufactures the
service oscillator illustrated on this page.
The frequency range is very wide, cover-
ing from 15 metres (20 megacycles) to
1900 metres (155 kc.). The dial is one of
the new Palec cast-aluminium laboratory
type, with vernier indicator reading to
one-tenth of a degree. Instead of direct
calibration being made on the dial, a
reference chart is provided on top of
the instrument. A Philips type KK2
valve is employed
in a dual role:
as oscillator and
modulator, with
mo d ulation at
400 cycles. A
special switch
provides for un-
modulated R.F.
output, or the
alternatives o f
modulated R.F
and pure audio
output. A five-
point switch takes care of ranges. The
attenuator is of the piston type, provid-
ing capacity variation, and is continu-
ously smooth in action, permitting sensi-
tivity comparisons to be made on any
receiver under test. The battery supply
is modest: KK2 filament heated from a
single 1.5 volt cell and plate voltage
derived from a small 45-volt block. Bat-
teries are contained in the strong case,
with the output leads well shielded.
Nothing flimsy in the construction, and
the price is moderate.
The Q. and A. Column.
(J) Does the “double doublet” aerial give
better overall response than the ordinary
doublet ? (2) Is a transformer necessary at
point A in the enclosed sketch ? (3) Are dimen-
sions shown in sketch suitable ? —469.
(1) Yes. (2) No. (3) Yes.
(1) My car radio set just falls short of the
desired selectivity and sensitivity. Would the
fitting of iron-core intermediates be worth
while ? (2) Output voltage of power unit often
drops to about 100 volts when set is used with-
out engine running. Switching on and off
lights of set usually brings in full voltage again.
Have tried different vibrators and batteries
without result. Probable cause ? (3) Are oscil-
lator and first intermediate coils wound together
in this set ? —467.
(1) Yes, but care should be taken in de-
coupling primaries. See Ideal Amateur Super-
het (B. 15/4/’36) for method. (2) Probably a
high resistance contact in the input circuit to
the power unit. Set and unit should be care-
fully checked for dry joints. (3) As make of
set is not stated, cannot say. It is most un-
likely.
* * * *
(1) Can you give any particulars concerning
a transmitting and receiving set (named) which
it is proposed to hire for use in Papua ? (2)
Would the rotary beam aerial described by
you B. 11/3/ ’36 give better results than the
aerial supplied by the makers ? (3) Dimensions
of the beam necessary for instrument ? —468.
(I) Equipment has not been tested by this
Page, and no particulars of performance are
available. (2) No. This rotary beam was
merely in the nature of an experiment. It was
found to give direction, but little or no gain.
(3) No dimensions can be given without details
of the frequency to be used. What wave-
length is contemplated? If transmission is to
be between two fixed points, a correctly de-
signed beam is -of the utmost value. This
should preferably be of the rhombic type.
* # * *
I have an old four-valve Airzone portable,
and wish to use the parts to make a more
modern set. How could this be done ? —470.
The remodelling of such a receiver was de-
scribed B. 31/7/’35 as the High-gain Port-
able. This receiver was very sensitive, but not
over-economical. Consequently it is in the
process of redesign as a four-valve model,
which will be described in the near future.
* * * *
Upkeep of six valves is excessive in my old
King neutrodyne, and l wish to break it down
to a three-valve receiver. Can you supply a
circuit ? —465.
The circuit is illustrated. It is simple, con-
sisting of tuned R.F. stage, regenerative
detector and one audio stage. Four-volt valves
are indicated, but these could be types IC4,
30, and ID4 respectively in the two-volt range,
for extreme economy.
(1) Are the coils in the Companion Port-
able (B. 5/8/’36) close-wound? (2) Should
condensers and coil be placed close together
without screening? (3) Distance between LI
and L 2 ? (4) Any advantage with grid con-
denser and leak in the 30 detector ? —466.
(I) Yes. (2) The tuning condenser, 30 valve,
and coil should be as close as possible with
short wiring. (4) One-sixteenth of an inch
approx. (4) Not using the 30 triode. This
receiver will be redescribed in the near future,
using a tetrode detector for greater sensitivity,
but still with a low plate voltage.


U S!LVER
EDGE n
TRADE f/ MARK REG 1 STEREO
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
\
►*?
VJ
i
m
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED All Skies
VEEDOi
MOTOR OIL
coa£ pint
it atotUcL itilL be cheap
Yet —It costs no more than
other oils.
Veedol, the world’s best
Motor Oil. 100 per cent.
Pure Pemjsylvania.
Obtainable everywhere.
The Steering Column.
PRESIDENT STUDEBAKER PUT
THROUGH ITS PACES.
EXCELLENT ROADHOLDING, SILENT MOTOR AND
HIGH-GRADE APPOINTMENTS.
BY FRED BERRY.
INCORPORATING almost every proven mechanical device
designed to enhance comfort, safety, economy and reliability,
the ’36 series President Studebaker provides Australian
motorists with a car which, while moderately priced, cannot
be faulted even by the ultra-critical.
Experience gained over many years of stock-car record-
breaking is reflected in the nice balance of mechanical design.
Although each unit is of robust dimensions, the car is'lively to
drive, silent and’ practically free from vibration, and gives a
brilliant road performance.
The long wheelbase and equal divi-
sion of weight over front and rear axles,
coupled with planar-type front-end sus-
pension, ensure maximum passenger
comfort and excellent roadholding quali-
ties.
Particular attention has been given to
safety of driver and passengers by equip-
ping the chassis with a steel body in
which all windows are fitted with non-
shatterable glass. The automatic “hill-
holder” prevents the car running back-
wards when stopped on hills, and so by
simplifying the process of starting
in such circumstances in con-
gested traffic removes a diffi-
culty in operating modern cars.
The straight-eight L-head
engine of 30-h.p. R.A.C.
rating is mounted in the
chassis at three points on
live rubber supports, and
is quiet and smooth |
throughout its speed
range. Bore 3 l-16in. and
stroke 4|in. give a swept %
volume of 250 cubic inches,
and, using a 6.5 to 1 alumi-
nium high compression head, the motor
develops 115 b.h.p. at 3800 r.p.m.
The crankshaft, balanced statically
and dynamically, is a steel forging fitted
with integral counterweights and runs on
nine steel-backed bearings; the upper
half of the crankcase is heavily ribbed
to support these bearings and so pro-
vide a rigid support and prevent distor-
tion under load. A friction-type vibra-
tion damper is attached to the forward
end.
The cylinder block, of chrome iron
alloy, is designed so that cylinders are
Planar independent front-wheel suspension, as fitted to the
President Studebaker.
completely surrounded by water jackets
which extend below the piston head at
the bottom of the stroke. Valve seats
are positively cooled by complete water
jacketing coupled with pressure jets from
a distributing tube within the cylinder
casting, through which all water de-
livered from the impeller is first passed,
Pistons are of aluminium alloy, T slot.
with floating gudgeon pins. Piston-ring
disposition is unconventional, three rings
only being used—two compression rings
and one oil-retaining ring above the gud-
geon pin. There is no top “fourth” ring
immediately below the piston crown, as
is common practice, a shallow slot being
substituted (see illustration). With rings
positioned in this manner, it is claimed
that oil consumption is reduced without
impairing the efficiency of the motor,
while at the same time cylinder wear is
reduced to a minimum.
Efficient streamlining and graceful body profile of the straight-eight
President Studebaker.
Connecting rods are of alloy steel, I
section, drop-forged, with steel-backed
replaceable bearings lined with lead-
bronze instead of babbitt metal. The
camshaft is driven by helical gears from
the crankshaft, and runs in steel-backed
babbitt-lined bearings pressed into the
cylinder block.
Side-by-side valves are used ; inlets of
chrome-nickel steel and exhausts of sili-
chrome steel. Tappets are of the barrel
type, with pro-
vision for clear-
ance adjustment,
and are pressure
lubricated. Valve
springs are encased
in a metal vibra-
tion damper, re-
ducing risk of frac-
ture and prevent-
ing “floating” at
high revs. Valves
are offset from the
cylinder bore.
Fuel is held in a 16-gallon pressed-
steel tank at the rear, and drawn through
an external pipeline outside the chassis
by a diaphragm-type mechanically-
operated pump. The pump is shielded
against engine heat to avoid vapor lock,
and flexible fuel connections are of high
quality braided piping.
The carburettor is of the duplex down-
draught type, fitted with a large air-
cleaner and silencer, and is bolted to a
specially-designed anti-flood inlet mani-
fold, with “hot spot” and automatic
heat control. Exhaust manifold is cast
separately. A thermostat-controlled auto-
matic choke is attached to the intake
end of the carburettor.
Oil is force-fed at 651 b. pressure to
all crankshaft big-end and camshaft
bearings and timing gear. Cylinders and
pistons are lubricated by splash. In a
“Floto” oil intake a metal screen floats
on a swivel joint below the surface of
sump oil, so avoiding scum from the
top or sludge from the bottom. A
cartridge-type oil purifier in the pipe
line removes all foreign matter before
the lubricant reaches the bearings. The
crankcase is ventilated, the intake at
the top of the filler pipe being fitted
with a gauze air-cleaner. A breather
pipe at the rear of the engine, project-
ing below the tray, serves as outlet.
Electrical equipment is of six-volt
separate-unit type. Generator is heavy
duty, air-cooled, driven by a flexible
rubber belt from the crankshaft pulley.
A voltage regulator is fitted, and the
unit is capable of handling radio, cigar-
lighter, electrical windshield-wiper and
other electrical accessories without ex-
cessive drain on the battery. Charging
rate is 15 to 20 amperes.
The starter motor is solenoid operated
interconnected with accelerator pedal.
Consequently if the car stalls in traffic
or other inconvenient place, pressure on
the accelerator pedal will keep the car
moving even though fuel is exhausted.
This arrangement, moreover, eliminates
danger of leaving the ignition switch on
when the car is parked or garaged for
the night. An anti-backfire device
New design T-slot aluminium alloy
piston. Note unorthodox piston-ring
disposition.
mounted on the intake manifold auto-
matically cuts out the ignition system
and protects starter, motor and gears.
Ignition is by coil and battery, the
distributor fitted with vacuum-operated
advance and retard of spark. The coil,
located under the dash, is connected to
the distributor by armored theft-proof
cable. Distributor head, plugs and cables
are waterproofed.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry disc clutch, fitted with damper
springs to eliminate vibration and noise,
and housed in a ventilated casing, to a
three-speed-and-reverse gearbox with
freewheeling and overdrive attachment
incorporated in the rear end of the box.
Pinions are of silent helical type, the
top and second ratios fitted with syn-
chronising cones to ensure quiet and easy
gear engagement at all speeds. Top or
second gear can be engaged from neutral
position after the engine has stalled,
irrespective of road speed of the vehicle.
The overdrive unit allows the full ad-
vantages of freewheeling up to road
speeds of 40-45 m.p.h. Above these
speeds a momentary release of the ac-
celerator permits the overdrive to en-
gage, slowing down the engine speed
by one-third for any given road speed,
while reducing vibration from the engine.
On long tours over good roads it is
possible to cruise at 55 m.p.h. with the
same engine revs., quietness and fuel
economy as when in conventional gear
at 40 m.p.h.
Final drive is of Hotchkiss type,
through an open propeller shaft fitted


USEFUL DATA ON PRESIDENT
STUDEBAKER.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 11 3-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 6 3-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 2-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 21ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 82.56 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 18.7 m.p.g.
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. MeCalluiu, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Gpuiburn Street, SYDNEY.
® lphtostoneB Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
UKISBANE. Also at .Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W\ T, Burns, 16 Brisbane Street, HOBART
______jfi_pA_yt>oinpson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
It’s Not what you PAY
it’s what you RECEIVE . .
m*
0r «*«
VaiupnE
hk
SAFER
BUYING
XTALVOLINE is the finest Oil your money can
" buy. It is sold in "tamper-proof" tins, being
sealed against substitution, adulteration, dirt
and short measure.
Valvoline Oil costs a little more but goes much
further and makes every engine part last longer.
Ask your garageman!
Advt. of J. CARRIGAN. Sydney, Melbourne, and throughout the Commonwealth
H 2-36
with metal-enclosed needle roller uni-
versal joints at front and rear,- to a semi-
floating rear axle with chrome-molyb-
denum steel shafts in a pressed-steel
banjo housing. Spiral bevel gears arc
used in crown wheel and pinion, with
Timken tapered roller bearings at wheel
hubs, differential and pinion shaft.
Service brakes are
of seif-equalis in g
hydraulic type on all
four wheels, with
compound cylinders
designed to provide
uniform pressures on
front and rear shoes.
The mech ani c a 1
emergency hand
brake is actuated by
cables through inde-
pendent linkage and
operates on the rear
wheels.
Attached to the
master brake cylin-
der is an automatic “hi 11-holder,” a fool-
proof device which prevents the car from
running back when stopped on a steep
grade. Through an automatic check in
the oil line located at the front of the
brake cylinder the hydraulic pressure is
held as long as the clutch is thrown out.
The driver can take his foot off the
brake, and use it on the accelerator as
he lets in the -clutch, making it unneces-
sary to keep his foot on the service-
brake pedal when the car is stopped.
This device comes into operation only
when the car is going up hill, not when
on a down grade.
Brake drums are of ribbed cast-iron,
keyed to a pressed-steel backing plate.
Steering gear is of cam-and-lever type,
direct action eliminating many greasing
points and minimising road shock trans-
mitted through the steering wheel. Turn-
ing circle is 41ft., left and right lock.
Drag link is of spring-loaded shockless
type. Steering wheel is 20in. diameter;
of three-spoke racing type, with thin sec-
tion spring-steel flexible spokes.
Chassis is of rigid X-girder truss con-
struction, with box section side members.
Wheelbase, 125 in.; minimum ground
clearance, 7 13-16 in.; track at front
60 l-16in., at rear 61 5-16 in.
Suspension at rear is by semi-elliptic
springs, with fully-adjustable hydraulic
shock-absorbers, mounted on outrigger
brackets. Spring shackles are rubber
cored to eliminate vibration ; Studebaker
independent planar wheel suspension is
used on the front end. The transverse
spring coupling both sides is built up
from a number of thin, soft leaves giv-
ing a very low periodic vibration, and
is completely encased in a metal, grease-
proof housing. Upper guide links from
heavy gauge seamless tubing are welded
to a T-shaped forging at the inner ends
and attached to the frame through live
rubber bushings. Scuffing of tyres and
rolling on corners are claimed to be
eliminated in this type of suspension.
Bodywork, by Richards, is of Safety
Steel design, body panels and chassis
being of unit construction. All windows
are of non-shatterable glass; provision
for ventilation is made in front and rear
quarter windows. With the hand-brake
lever moved to the driver’s right side,
seating accommodation is provided in
closed models for six adults, three in
front and three rear. All panels in
closed models are rust-proofed before
spraying with lacquer, and mudguards
and fenders are Bonderised before as-
sembly. Front seats are adjustable for
length.
Internal fittings and hardware are
neatly designed and of excellent quality.
Dashboard is indirectly lighted, the
usual instruments neatly grouped in
front of the steering wheel.
The car tested was a four-door Presi-
dent sedan equipped with overdrive and
driven by T. H. Cottle, of Autocars,
Ltd., N.S.W. distributors. Speedometer
reading was 1648 miles, and gross weight,
including driver, observer and full fuel
tank, was 39cwt. (Registered weight
35-fcwt.)
First impressions when driving through
congested traffic were that the motor
was quiet, acceleration snappy for a car
of such weight and brakes excellent.
On the open road, cruising at 50
m.p.h. with overdrive engaged, the
motor was still quiet and free from
vibration. In a test of coasting from 15
m.p.h. in neutral the car rolled 752 yards
before coming to rest, a record in this
series, conclusively proving correct
alignment and freedom from friction in
all transmission details.
Section of cam and valve gear, showing
provision for full-pressure lubrication
of tappets.
Timed over the measured mile with
“flying” start, the maximum speed was
82.56 m.p.h., the distance being covered
in 43 3-ssec.
Over the rough country section through
Grose Vale, the car gave an excellent
performance, owing, no doubt, to the
planar front-end suspension and long
wheelbase. On the 2 1-5-mile speed
climb of Kurrajong Mountain, clocked
in 3min. llsec., the car steered around
the several difficult bends without roll-
ing or skidding, and held the road at
speed on the several rough sections with-
out effort on the part of the driver.
Returning down the mountain the emer-
gency brakes were tested with satisfac-
tory results, and on the cross-country
route via Castlereagh to Penrith, per-
formance tests were conducted.
Slow-running in top gear for 350 yards
occupied 2min. 36sec., averaging 4.6
m.p.h. This was followed immediately
by 350 yards accelerated in 15 l-ssec.,
averaging 47.3 m.p.h., crossing the finish-
ing line at 65 m.p.h., a performance that
revealed the great flexibility of the
motor.
Accelerating from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
top gear in 6 3-ssec. from 10 to 30 in
Cutaway section of cylinder block,
showing full-length water jackets and
distributing tube.
second in 4 2-ssec. and from a stand-
still to 50 m.p.h. in 11 3-ssec. indicated
the good traffic qualities of the Presi-
dent Studebaker. From a speed of 25
m.p.h., the service brakes pulled the car
up without swerving in 21ft. 6in.
At the conclusion of the test of 117
miles, 6gal. Jqt. of petrol was required
to fill the tank, giving an average of
18.7 m.p.g. (36.4 ton miles), which, at
an average speed, inclusive of all tests,
of 38.1 m.p.h., may be considered
satisfactory.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
D.N. (Canowindra, N.S.W.). —My ’36 model
six-cylinder sedan has now done 8500 miles.
It was supposed to do 20 m.p.g., but on each
Of my last trips of 230 miles the average has
been only a little over 15 m.p.g. Cause and
cure ?
Speed influences fuel consumption. A high
average speed on your recent long trips could
account for the consumption. Your car driven
rationally at a 30 m.p.h. average should show
from 20 to 22 m.p.g. Averaging 40 consump-
tion may go to 18 m.p.g., at 50 to 16 m.p.g.
and driven on full throttle over long periods
the consumption value may fall as low as 12
m.p.g.
* * .i< *
P.E.W. (Kyneton, Vic.).—My ’2B model car
has for some time been steadily losing power.
At 37,000 miles the motor was rebored and
overhauled, everything worn being replaced,
and I was informed that the engine was then in
new condition. The car has done 1400 miles
since the overhaul, but still power appears
below normal, and on long journeys the engine
gets very hot, and if driven hard pops back
in the carburettor. Any suggestions ?
If valve, ignition timing and tappet clearance
have been carefully checked after reboring, and
power is still below normal, it would be advis-
able to Hush out radiator and cooling system
and make certain no obstructions restrict the
free flow of water. Also, dismantle exhaust
pipe and muffler and thoroughly free the line
from carbon, which, if blocking baffles in the
silencer, may cause back pressure, with conse-
quent loss of power and overheating.
* * * *
O.G. (Smithfield, S.A.). — 1 have a 9-h.p. four-
cylinder O.H.V. car which has given trouble
with oil pressure, resulting in a total seizure.
New big ends, pistons and rings have been
fitted, but still oil pressure drops back to from
5/ b. to 10 lb. when hot instead of 40. What
should be done ?
Symptoms indicate excessive wear in oil
pump. This should be removed, new gear
wheels fitted, and, if necessary, pump casing
relined. As the pump is above oil level, as a
further precaution the pipe line on the suction
side should be examined for air leaks.
* * * :'fi v
Jumbuck (Richmond, N.Q.). — How can 1
check the float level of the carburettor on a
70/4 Willys, and, if not correct, how can
l rectify it ? Carburettor and fuel lines are
clean, but I cannot adjust idling.
Remove float chamber cover and set level
of fuel to top of float pivot pin. First tem-
porarily disconnect pipe leading from inlet
manifold to oil rectifier and plug orifices. An
air leak here would cause erratic idling.
H= * *
B.E. (Lakes Entrance, Vic.). — My four-
cylinder 10 -h.p. car has run 20,000 miles.
Brakes are now inefficient. 1 have made several
attempts to remove rear wheels without success.
How can this be done, and what is the method
of relining brakes ?
A special hub puller will have to be obtained
to get at the brake shoes. When relining you
can either purchase moulded linings which are
the exact size and simply need to be riveted
to the shoes, or, if you intend to use woven
lining, make certain it is the correct thickness,
and when fixing begin by riveting at centre and
work towards the ends of the shoes. Chamfer
off the ends, and see there are no ragged edges.
* * *
A.S.T. (Mackay, Q.). — My ’2B model six-
cylinder car has recently been rebored, and
although oil consumption has been improved
the plugs tend to oil up if the motor is idled
for any time. Will this continue, or is there
a remedy ?
The trouble should disappear as soon as the
new rings have bedded in. Meanwhile, change
the type of plug to one which will more readily
burn oil off points.
’W.O'S. (Casino, N.S.W.). — The fabric cover-
ing the roof of my ’26 sedan is breaking away
in a number of places just above the metal
guttering, and the wood underneath is quite
soft. Cause and cure ?
Symptoms point to dry rot in the wooden
frame, and in a body of such age the damage
is probably extensive and would be costly to
repair. You can temporarily improve appear-
ances by scraping away the soft wood for an
inch above the metal guttering, filling the cavity
with plastic wood, trimming off and painting
to match the color of the top.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Cite mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F-. L. WILSON & CD-, Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
THE MAIL
(South Australia’s largest Weeh-enct
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY—P.. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Hamilton Street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
The Long White Cloud
Trade on the Tight Rope
Higher wages and shorter working
hours increase production costs, and new
price lists issued by M.L. woollen mills
show advances of 10 to 12i p.c. The
retailer, too, has additional costs to meet;
and it is estimated that suits of clothes
will be 17 p.c. dearer.
Prime Minister Savage has said that
Labor will not permit prices to rise
above a “fair and reasonable” level.
How is he going to do it? By invoking
the aid of co-operative wholesale socie-
ties,: his party says.
Maoriland has a Co-operative Alli-
ance, representing the 1933 merger of
six individual trading societies. It
boasts more than 20,000 members. The
society at Runanga in Westland states
that it has returned £75,000 in surpluses
to its members, and the large proportion
of vacuum-cleaners and radio sets in
the homes of its store customers is
quoted.
Still, there are unpleasant possibili-
ties of unemployment for other people
in the backing of- co-operative opposi-
tion to show that prices can be kept
down, as well as possibilities of failure
to hit the object aimed at. Trade is now
a tight-rope business beyond the Tasman.
“Avion”: Maoriland Labor has cocked
an eye skywards, and, if hints by Defence
Minister Jones can be regarded as seri-
ously as the feelers that precede some
Hitler move in Germany, State Socialism
will soon be taking to the air. Jones
does not believe M.L. should establish
any more privately-owned air services.
“It would be better for the Government
to take over services on proposed routes
—in fact, to take over all services—than
have to buy them out at some future
date,” he has said. In the event of war,
he explained, all ’planes would be needed
by the Government.
* * * *
“Motu”: Maoriland historians (B.
9/9/’36) still have some facts to chase.
T. Lindsay Buick’s book on the Treafy
of Waitangi, the signing of which
in February, 1840, secured to the Maoris
their property, rights and privileges,
has just appeared in its third edition—
a good indication of general interest in
the centenary celebrations. ’The author re-
calls that the special commissioner who
took possession of Stewart Island while
sailing round the M.L. coast for more
tribal treaty signatures buried the pro-
clamation in a bottle on a tidal penin-
sula in what is now Port Pegasus. Twice
he has gone to Stewart Island to search
for the bottled proclamation, but tides
and weather have beaten him. This 96-
year-old parchment is one of the many
missing historical links that quickening
centenary interest may bring to light.
* # * *
“D.N.”: The Maori juror (B. 9/9/’36)
has a parallel in the police force. At
least one full-blooded native Las a beat;
other policemen are part native. The
authorities are seriously considering the
appointment of Maori detectives for
handling cases where knowledge of
native psychology and custom would be
valuable. White officers frequently meet
barriers of silence when seeking infor-
mation in remote Maori communities;
intelligent Maoris prepared to qualify for
detective work could help their own
people as well as further the ends of
justice. The mysterious murder of a
wealthy native farmer in North Auck-
land in June is a case in point; a reward
of £2so' remains unclaimed.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Subject of recent investiga-
tion by a M.L. Parliamentary delegation,
Cook Islands fruit may be the next pro-
duce to earn a guaranteed minimum
price. Some Raratongan growers asked
Labor-member Robertson, who led the
delegation (he comes from Masterton),
to have such a price fixed ; the growers
were told they would have to improve
the quality of their fruit. The delegation
had time to look into other aspects of
island life, and Masterton’s pride, in an
interview with the Labor “Standard,”
enlarges on the “sex life of the islanders.”
He found them a “smiling, laughing,
singing, dancing people,” who could
nevertheless do with a few Labor re-
forms. But will the Raratongans still
have cause to laugh when they get them?
* * - * *
“Karitane”: To further the M.L. De-
partment of Healths determination to
reduce the maternal-mortality rate, Min-
ister Fraser has appointed a committee
to report on the incidence of septicaemia,
to compare the Dominion’s figures with
PETER FRASER, Maoriland Minister
of Health.
those of other countries, and to inquire
into medical, social and economic factors.
The committee consists of three male
doctors, a woman doctor and a women’s
welfare advocate; its findings will be
closely watched by Australians interested
in the same object.
* * *
“Makitanara”: The Zulu and the
Basuto may be estimable gentlemen, but
“Der Jong” (B. 2/ 9/ ’36) knows neither
the Maoris he slates so freely nor the
history of their disinclination to meet
South Africa’s Rugby Union footballers.
How the Springboks treat natives „in
their own country is, as “Der Jong”
says, their own business; when they
carry the color line overseas• and abuse,
hospitality tendered them by a race
whom white Maorilanders are proud to
call friends, surely the Maoris, most of
whom have been educated in the same
schoolrooms as the whites, have every
right to guard against possibilities of
further indignities. The Maori race has
produced a bishop, several Cabinet Min-
isters, who administered for the benefit
of whites as well, and a world-famous
ethnologist, now head of .an American
university ; and the military tactics of the
old Maoris routed more than one British
general. The Maori has' accepted the
white man’s civilisation without discard-
ing his racial pride, and he has made
good in walks of life far beyond the
attainment of any Zulu or Basuto. The
grace and charm and morals of his
women have pleased tourists from other
countries; rather than expose them to
such insults as they received in 1921, the
Maori elders are politely asking that no
Maori team be matched against the
Springboks.
* * * *
“Fantham”: Maoriland’s oldest man
is George Anderson, of Hokitika, who
cheerfully entered his 107th year in
August. From Ireland’s County Armagh,
he has outlived five monarchs and, ac-
cording to the Westland Hospital’s medi-
cal superintendent,' he’ll still see quite a
bit of his sixth king’s reign. ',., ;
* * * *
“F.”: In So They Began, John
Guthrie’s second Maoriland novel, which
is appearing serially in an Auckland pub-
lication, the child Richard Essenden gets
his pants dusted by trader Amory for
telling a tall story about killing a moa,
the giant bird which was extinct before
the days of the pakeha. To avoid the
hiding, Richard leads Amory to his
“kill” ; drifting sand has uncovered the
yellow bones. “I see the ants have
stripped him already,” Richard says
nonchalantly, but that does not prevent
Amory from using his belt. Are there
any flesh-eating ants in M.L., or is this
just a good novelist’s further evidence of
the child’s imagination?
*** ■ *
“Tok. Bay”: Roberts Firth, Maori-
land’s Tourist and Trade representative
in U.S.A.’s western States, should ad-
vise Hollywood tourists headed for M.L.
to see Ruatoria on the Gisborne-Cape
Runaway main highway. They would
enjoy it nearly as much as Rotorua, and
should certainly feel hiore at home.
Ruatoria is Maoriland’s unique cowboy
town where every horse—and there are
hundreds—is a Starlight, a Lightning or
an Old Faithful, and where every second
Maori answers to such Texan nick-
names as Scarface and Buffalo Bill. Som-
breros are to be seen on stations for
miles round, Maori stockmen gallop into
town in “chaps” and gay shirts, and the
local saddler carries a variety of fancy
Mexican trimmings for adorning riders’
equipment after the Hopalong Cassidy
style. And, if the Hollywood tourist
needs further entertainment, he can go
to one or other, of the local picture-shows
and see where the Maoris, get their
fashion tips. Gangsters; are; scorned
when hard-riding; cowboys make their
celluloid appearance. ,
.*. * * ) *
“M.P:”: At first sight, the 1 national
superannuation scheme which Works
Minister Semple says the M.L. Govern-
ment will introduce next yearbooks like
a cross between the old-age bounty
dreams of Dr. Townsend and Mr. Have-
a-heart’s Alberta bonuses. Really M.L.
Labor plans, to demand contributions
ROBERT SEMPLE, M.L. Minister of
Public Works.
based proportionately on income, as in
the case of unemployed-relief tax. If
M.L. does decide on national super-
annuation as a means of reducing social-
service costs, the' people ; will at least
know where the money, is coming from.
**. * *
“J.M.”: Dairy-company overlapping
is concerning central coast (N.S.W.) fac-
tories as well as Maoriland’s west coast.
CofFs Harbor (N.S.W.) believes that amal-
gamation would do away with unneces-
sary. competition and overlapping of
cream runs. In M.L. an Executive Com-
mission of Agriculture is. investigating
similar problems at the request of the
Manawatu and West Coast Dairy Com-
panies’ Association. It has already re-
commended closing of some uneco-
nomic units, general adoption of dairy-
corhpany shareholding on a co-operative
basis, use of a standardised balance sheet,
and either amalgamation or a system of
boundary agreements.
* * * *
“Pip”: Australians crossing the Tas-
man with tales of snakes are sure to
hear of Maoriland’s fearsome katipo,
which children in sea-beach country treat
with the disrespect the bush-born Aus-
tralian shows the wrigglers. The katipo
is actually an old Australian acquaint-
ance—the redback or jockey spider.
According to Keith McKeown, of the
Australian Museum, the redback has a
considerable Sydney colony ; Maoriland’s
katipo is not yet as civilised and still
prefers wastes of sand-grass and drift-
wood to areas thickly populated with
humans. Bites are reported from time
to time, and, although deaths occur,
results vary in severity. But that doesn’t
stop the kids ;On Cdok Strait beaches
chasing katipos through sand-grass with
a handy bottle.


A Course of
Pelmanism will
1. train you to remember names, faces, appointments, figures and
useful data of any kind, and to call to mind promptly the apt
word or argument;
2. strengthen your power of Concentration;
3. give you a Strong Will;
4. give you a definite Aim in life and the ability to achieve that
Aim;
5. enable you to develop Initiative and the power of accepting
Responsibility;
6. strengthen your Self-Confidence;
7. remove all trace of Inferiority Consciousness;
8. make all your contacts with other people—social, business, and
casual —easy and comfortable;
9. enable you to express yourself better either in Writing or in
, Speech;
10. increase your energy, direct it into the most profitable channels,
and so enlarge your earning capacity;
11. broaden your mind and improve your judgment;
12. give you a stronger and more effective Personality.
DELMANISM is the most comprehensive system of scientific Mind-Training and
Personal Development in existence. It has won the unqualified endorsement of many
of the most brilliant men and women of the day, and has been successfully adopted by over
half a million men and women of every type, occupation and station in life. 35,000 of
these are in Australia and New Zealand.
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post free. You
can write us fully, or you can make just a bare application by using or copying the form
alongside. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication. We have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent. 11255.
Headquarters: London. Branches throughout the World.
The Pehnan Institute is a world-wide organisation.
Its headquarters are in London. The Institute in
Melbourne has been established for 28 years.
More than half a million men and women have
enrolled for the Pelman Course of Mind, Memory
and Personality Training. Of these 35,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Write fully or use
the form printed
alongside.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.”
Name >
Address
441
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
> ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New'
Zealand should send 301
X
b
\v c
Jr
V A
&
\> e
.eN 1
G°
4^
cA
e
< /V
y 0&
' * r «'€#c&~&?’ -■••' .•••- ..
9 V- '* .-•
s e
\><
(S e
o,<ti
a
\0
s * ■*' ;•••'■* >• 'y%*s>
ft*
>sV VC^s
# s '


a,
>#///,
\vs*
, *0«
0 0 3
Si
A >\» i *4wV>
* % ,;V, „> ,*V >^4
iU|i __— '^Zesk
l ‘\ jit
.«‘Wi,7’
s
SI
'gw Mt„
■
V\\ W»A
"■mfor
m k
... w >-
•; I
£'x " r ;,' \V t
faty/'y-
r .• .V /
\
*•*;.
iil
> /\ ,^S
\\
i ■»«.
'♦r'* »*•,
*<<
ft
l SS#SSSSS*S?K
'.'*■■ ■
‘ll •• •’
mm.
m
‘m ;
a ■•;
e
STROMBERG -CARLSON!
HEN the gold-mining exiles at Tennant
Creek gathered together at their historic party
" * in Central Australia, they chose a Stromberg-
Carlson receiver to bring to them from Brisbane the
Prime Minister’s inspiring message.
They chose it for its reliability its amazing distance-
covering power its great volume, and its thrilling
tone, so that the living personality of Australia’s
leader could be present at their lonely far-away
party.
Who could fail to be impressed by this simple, but
significant, tribute. In the history of Stromberg-
Carlson no better proof has ever been given of the real
quality and value of these famous receivers.
Whether you live on the fringe of civilisation or
in the heart of a great city—be guided by the choice
of the people whose contact with the world depends
almost entirely on Radio.
Choose a Stromberg-Carlson!
There is nothing finer, no matter what model you like
best, and remember prices are as low as 14
guineas!
The complete Stromberg-Carlson range com-
prises 9 models for All-electric operation (3
of these will operate on D.C. as well as A.C.)
at prices ranging from 14 guineas , and 5 Bat-
tery-operated mode r s from 19 guineas.
vl-CS
fcss«
r rv
y *>:
yX;X
M
$$ :- - > \- : :v: : js|
• ' 1 <•> ss
lillils
iSWJ&LSSi
.
iill
* '
:> V;:j:j:j>gjs-^%yx|^
mm
• -r
1
Model 888 an 8-valve Dual-wave Battery-operated Super-
heterodyne. This receiver represents the greatest
advance to date in the design of Battery Receivers.
Overseas stations can he received equally as well as Australian
stations, and the ease with which all stations can be tuned in ist
really astonishing.
Reproduction is particularly fine, and the volume ample both day
and night in any locality. Low battery consumption, and a special
battery switch enabling dial lights to be turned off after tuning,
make running costs very low. jj.
Complete with batteries *l3 CJIIS#
★
AUTHORISED DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
