

m
■SZ^±
ssf
3S
SAFETY
Strong, silent, swiftly menacing, the rushing tides
sweep around the buoy—constant danger of the endless
stream of shipping
Yet its beacon, with never-failing flashes, gives warn-
ing to the keen eyes of anxious mariners; its friendly
beam the message which spells safety.
In the maelstrom of modern business the house of
Hamiltons, too, stands forth as a reliable never-failing
beacon, guiding investors through the shoals and lighting
their way along the course of secure investment.
Hamiltons offer free of any cost or obligation a
service backed by experts which will ensure, that your
investments may be placed with confidence.
The Hamilton principle of offering shareholdings in
ESTABLISHED companies only of proved dividend-
earning capacity, together with a rigid system of critical
examination and financial analysis, ensures results with
security.
Free advice on all investments may be had on
application to-—•
HAMILTONS (AUSTRALASIA), LIMITED.
Send for your copy of “PROFITS”-—Posted Free.
Hamiltom (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, S£DNEY
’Phones; 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 J.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
f
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 57, —No. 2932.
The Miracle of Anzac
Wednesday, April 22, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.\y. s Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
4)
Ua
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
yowt Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney
My Name •
My Address ,
S'.B. 436
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K, Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising oat of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A POET
RESIGNS
In the “New
Poetry” series of
verse books, pub-
lisher Dent per-
sists in giving a
hearing to verse-
writers who not only rhyme, evoke
melody with words and move in the
stream-current of traditional English
prosody, but muse on apples and other
suspect fruits, contemplate life neither as
chemists nor economists, but as articulate
mites of its own spawn, project images,
even tell little stories. With all this they
have the unforgivable bad manners to
dissemble whatever encyclopaedic erudi-
tion reading other people’s words and
dictionaries may have given them, and
the flinted hearts to deny the reader that
exquisite pleasure which comes from
perusing the truly mighty and lighting
upon meaning, or possible meaning, with
an elaborate guess. These people are a
menace to all that is rightly glorified in
the true poetry, and it is a treat to be in
at the death of one of them, to watch
him sky the towel and slink miserably
off the landscape.
Richard Church has been one of these
offenders for 20 years or more. He has
been writing about all sorts of earthy
things, the pitiful parade of mortality, the
vast heaven itself—in fact, most that we
inherit. And now he has tossed it in.
He has folded his wings tight as the
scarab, and henceforth he will sit mum
—if poets’ words are worth tuppence.
The following few lines from his Twelve
Noon —latest addition to the “New
Poetry” series, and as good a time to
die as any—may indicate how unneces-
sarily the obsequies have been delayed
(as it happens, it is about a funeral):- —
What a fine funeral!
All six-cylinder cars
Smooth as black velvet,
Fit for a millionaire,
Yet it’s only a clerk,
A semi-detached
Who has closed his account,
Paid his last premium,
Safe as a house.
This is his first
Wanton extravagance,
Subtle anti rich ;
His only adventure.
“The Song of a Shirt” has nothing on
that for the debased practice of saying
exactly what it means to say. That is pre-
cisely what is wrong with it, in addition
to the heinous offence that it does owe
something to Hood, and to that extent is
traditional. Out with it! Anathema!
Who is this person Church?
O to be a fool treading the field.
Staring half-witted to the numbered sky!
That’s the sort of person he is. When
he could be measuring out algebraic
exactitudes of Words Melody Mean-
ing + Clang- Cause = Precision = Poetry,
there he is, instead, mooning about
fields: transported by his half-witted
stargazing, most likely, to be
Around the pools, the marshes and the ruins
Where this great Christian city once looked up
And through the eyes of one, at least, beheld
Old Earth resume her dreadful solitude.
And the base thoughts he has there,
loosing them to go slipping
Like mice in the silent tower
That should be throbbing with power
Of deep-tongued music hurled
Out and fulfilling the world
Which has waited overlong
For the challenge and leadership of song.
Is that a nice thought? Is it a nice thing
to wander about at night thought-
troubling the wraiths of the despicable
dead, clairvoyantly tickling their conceit
and sending them dementedly whooping
through eternity with demands for urgent
reincarnation? This w0r1d.... waited
overlong.... for song. What a prepos-
terous proposal.
Mute the strings ahd mutter over it
and all such frivolity: —
This shall be for a hymn
When the house is asleep.
Silence shall hear it; the dim
Lamp, the dull fire, the deep
Owl-sentried darkness beyond
The panes, the orchard, the pond;
These shall hear it, further it
With hissing of wick,
Falling of charcoal stick,
With mousing beak;
And then, since it is human and weak,
Benight it, smother it!
Aye, and since they suffer the same
supreme disqualification, that they, too,
are human and weak, smother the
singers with it, murmuring as they go
down: —
We are dumb creatures who deserve veneration.
But the younger men coming, with proud, hard
voices,
Untainted by war, we cannot expect them
To pity the broken music within our breasts.
Why should we hinder the newcomer who
rejoices
Over his new world, which he and his friends
are raising
On the ruins we made?
It is wise for us to pause,
To listen, to marvel at this young man’s
amazing
Effrontery, faith, in daring once more to build
A strange, hard music, compounded on dif-1
ferent laws,
A symphony heedless to us, the broken and
spilled,
The scrannel-piped scare-boys on the old battle-
field.
Let it pass for an epitaph ; which word
“epitaph” has in appearance, and some-
times in fact, a careless resemblance to
“epithet.”
C. M.
The Literary
Masterpiece
To the writer
who complained
that literary
masterpieces were
not, and could
not be, produced
to-day (R.P. 4/3/’36), might I put just
one or two questions?
Is he abreast, half-abreast or even one-
quarter abreast of contemporary literary
production? If not, does he know any-
one who is? Is he aware that the total
number of books published in Great
Britain during 1935 was 16,678 —a total
never before touched in the whole his-
tory of publishing?
These figures mean that, in Great
Britain alone, something like 45 new
books were produced every day in 1935.
I don’t know what the American figures
are or the Continental figures. But if we
included these the total number of new
books produced every day in 1935 would
run into hundreds —so how could anyone
possibly judge whether literary master-
pieces were being produced or not? In
such a literary deluge, surely some liter-
ary masterpieces are likely to be pro-
duced, even if only to be drowned. I
do not see how anyone could possibly
venture an original opinion about this
matter.
I am aware, of course, that Sir Wil-
liam Robertson Nicoll, as a reader, used
to average about two books a day, in
addition to writing upwards of 35,000
words a week. I have heard of a pro-
fessor in Ireland whose reading speed
was 4200 words a minute. He could
read a 100,000-word novel in half an
hour. On holidays six novels a day was
his usual consumption. I believe that
Lawrence (“of Arabia”) read every book
in the library of the Oxford Union in six
years, so that he averaged about 20 a
day ; but then Lawrence often spent 18
hours a day reading, and could tear the
heart out of a book in half an hour. But
these people, as readers, were quite ex-
ceptional. And we should have to mul-
tiply their reading capacity by a consider-
able figure before we could be prepared
to accept even their original opinions
about the production of contemporary
literature in their own time.
So how on earth can that writer say
whether literary masterpieces are being
produced or not?
GERALD DILLON.
Several Novels
by Women
In plan Wini-
fred Holtby’s
South Riding
(Collins; from
Angus and Rob-
ertson ; Bs.), de-
scribed by the publishers as “unques-
tionably the greatest novel we have been
privileged to publish,” has much in
common with Tiburon. Each is, as
Winifred Holtby called hers, a landscape.
There are more people in the Holtby
landscape than in Kylie Tennant’s, and,
man for man and woman for woman,
they are better and more completely
realised. Comparison with the school-
teaching Sarah of Winifred Holtby’s
novel will up the weak points of
construction in Kylie Tennant’s pallid
Jessica. Probably Jessica turned out un-
satisfactory even to her creator, but it is
not only in being a stronger character
that Sarah is the better; she is the better
piece of work; more thoroughly con-
structed, more real and alive. Mrs.
Beddows, too, is incomparably more
thoroughly constructed as a woman than
any of the matrons in Tiburon.
But these, with other adverse points of
comparison that could be raised, make
no serious disparagement of Kylie Ten-
nant. Apart from South Riding, com-
pleted just before she died, Winifred
Holtby had written six novels and as
many other books before coming to her
masterpiece. To be in the comparison
is complimentary to a first-novelist ; and
if Kylie Tennant’s landscape is not so en-
gaging nor so populous and complex as
the Holtby portion of Yorkshire, neither
is the actuality that is represented by
Tiburon.
One thing Kylie Tennant has that is
not apparent in the other—in fact, very
few women novelists seem to have it—a
quite extraordinary understanding of
masculine humor. It is an understand-
ing of what is almost wholly man’s
humor that makes the boxing-tent epi-
sode one of the finest pieces of humor
in Australian writing to date, and which
contributes to make Tiburon’s men char-
acters among the most authentic that
our writers have yet given us. The
Holtby men, though they represent many
different types, and of their types are
good, have no real man’s humor among
them. Nevertheless, there is no lack of
humor in the novel, which is a spread-
ing, good-humored depiction of a wide
range of life—much wider than Tiburon ’>
—with three dominant characters, but so
many subsidiary ones that the bare list-
ing of them occupies nearly five pages
before the novel’s 589 pages begin.
Tolerance, compassion, a warm feeling
for humanity form the dominant quality
over all those pages. It might be called
a rich novel; it is warm, alive, sen-
suous ; a presentation of life that makes
a strong impact upon a reader.
If it is hard to place recent novels
such as those two, it is hardly possible
to pass judgment at all on Norah Hoult’s
Holy Ireland (Heinemann; 7s. 6dj,
since the author, in a dedication, men-
tions that it is to have a sequel. Were
it not for that promise—some might call
it a threat—the novel could be easily
dismissed as inconclusive. It depicts
chiefly a religion-obsessed and tyrant-
dominated household of Ireland in the
late ’nineties, with a mixed-religions
motif, some clandestine wooing on that
account, ending in the girl eventually
bolting from home to marry her English
Theosophist. It is at its best as a de-
piction of a tyrant-ruled household. The
head of the O’Neills is not far removed
from Melodrama’s heaviest product m
the father line, but those who suffer
under him—the principal girl-victim es-
pecially—are original enough, and attrac-
tive, too. All the men are notably with-
out humor. It is not a good-humored
book; rather it is ill-humored and
sharply malicious; such conclusiveness
as there is in it resolves into disparage-
ment of the churches, and especially of
religion interfering with the natural
choice of man and woman. On that
account some are almost certain to find
it anathema, but those who can read it
without a personal application are cer-
tain to be struck by the sincerity and
literary integrity of the work.
The main man character in Australian
Mary Mitchell’s latest novel, Maidens
Beware (Heinemann 7s. 6d.), is some-
thing less than humorless: he is highly
incredible. And the women are not much
better. In her first book Miss Mitchell
gave great promise of one day writing
a romantic novel on a truly heroic scale.
This is not it; and Warning to Wantons
remains easily the best and most heroi-
cally-proportioned of her three novels to
date. In that first effort she revealed an
exquisite, feminine and diverting touch
of humor. This is present in plenty in
Maidens Beware: it makes the novel fair
entertainment. In that earlier novel, also,
Miss Mitchell displayed an attraction for
the far and fabled lands of Ruritania, and
declined so firmly to be. fobbed off with
the customary artificial outlines of those
romantic parts that she inherited a place
bearing close resemblances to reality. A
trouble with Ruritania seems to be that
it is a very heady place ; it entrances the
traveller with dreams that wave before
the half-shut eye, and with these and
suchlike delusive phenomena overcomes
in time even the most resolute and forces
upon them the local custom of wearing
rose-tinted glasses and writing with the
tongue in the cheek. Something like this
seems to have happened to Miss Mitchell,
Her delicious mock-malicious manner
alone saves Maidens Beware from being
the very froth that floats o’er Ruritania:
even the title is transparently artificial,
completely unrelated to the contents of
the novel, in which, on a Ruritanian
estate “about six hours’ journey from
Vienna,” a Ruritanian Adonis is
emotional focus to the thoughts of two
women and of his sister’s solicitude, with
bathing in a lovely stream and a wild
onslaught by a fantastic bunch of masked
proletariat providing excitements.
It is a pity to see so talented a writer
expending her talent on such slight
material: for there is no question that
Miss Mitchell is a talented writer. The
charge of rawness and uncouthness
brought against Australian writing can
certainly not be brought against hers.
Judged in its proper class—that of Ruri-
tanian fiction —her work is with the top
ones, and hence it is diverting enough.
What seems a pity is that one with her
very considerable gifts should have to
be considered in that class. Even so, she
is not to be as lightly dismissed as she
might be in the older literary countries.
Hers is a needed influence in broadening
out the Australian writer’s active field.
Where literary achievement is so much
no more than good, honest reporting, no
adventure in pure imagination can be
lightly passed over.
Another Australian woman writer,
Eleanor Dark, the author of Prelude to
Christopher, offers a much more hearten-
ing record of literary development with
her Return to Coolami (Collins ; 7s. 6d.).
It is not only individual development
either ; it represents development in our
writing.
Though the actual time passed in the
novel is barely two days, the pattern of
{Continued on page 4 .1


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways.
/ // : ' \
/ ■//,:¥ // \\ N
/1 WL
t J
m
m
mm
r
....
m
N
s , :
M
£26/10/- HERBERT BEDROOM SUITE
The “Herbert” Bedroom Suite is handsomely & jffc I<m /
designed. Four pieces in polished Walnut, including jL I y ■
4ft. 6in. Wardrobe, 3ft. 9in. Dressing Table,
capacious Lowboy, 4ft. Sin. high and 3ft. wide, and a 4ft. 6in. Bedstead
to match. A bargain price! Price £26/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £23/10/-
The Senior Store"
“While / Live I'll Grow'
20 DAYS AUTUMN SALE
* 1/
m ms
X
Z
•// / ; ||
d
W)
I
te-y.-.-
iv
£22101- 8-PIECE WALNUT DINING ROOM SUITE
Handsome 8-piece Dining Room Suite in polished 4Q"f C /
Walnut colour. sft. Sideboard has two cupboards, JT I 10 "
two centre drawers, top one being divided and
lined for Cutlery. Refectory Table sft. x 3ft. Six Dining Chairs sprung
and covered with good-quality fabrikoid. Price ........ £22/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . . £l9/15/-
5
&
'’V mv
rl
I
■
?”y
i,?«W
*3
£_2
£l4lO-MODERN 3-PIECE LOUNGE SUITE
Attractive Three-piece Suite in very modern
design. Comprising Settee, 3ft. overall, and
two easy chairs of ample proportions. Broad
bent arms are of polished Oak. Backs and seats are excellently
sprung. In Velvet or Durable Tapestry.
Price, suite £l4/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £lO/17/6
£lO/17/6
B
ml
Hii
i ?.C \
'i/A*
i
i
««
mm
■umm
& : W$
m
m
£6/5/- “Commander” LOWBOY
90'-
The Commander” .. . capacious
and conveniently fitted Lowboy
at a genuine saving. In medium
Brown-finished Oak. Note the
exceptionally large size! Height sft., width 4ft.
Bin.., depth 19in. Fitted w i*h trays and exten-
sive hanging space.
Price £6/5/-
Sale Price £4/10/-
12|9 CANVAS STRETCHER
Take one of these Canvas
Stretchers on your next camping
expedition and you can sleep
comfortably. Made from strong
canvas, they fold up and are easy to carry.
Size, 6ft. long, 2ft. 35n. wade. Price .. 12/9
Sale Price, each . 8/11
811
17/9 SERVICE WAGGON
Pacific Maple M i
Waggon, strongly made, T#j/ ft
finished Walnut shade. |*l W
Size 29 x 16 inches.
Price 17/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . .14/9
£6/19/6 COMBINATION
WARDROBE
Oak Combination Ward- ▼ Wml Ml ft
robe, finished a rich Brown J# A W
colour. sft. Sin. high and
4ft. wide. Fitted with three drawers. Cupboard
space,. 58 x 21 ,x 16 inches deep. Inside hat
shelf and, nickel clothes slide.. The rimless
mirror is 30 x 14 inches.
'
• Furniture—Third Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
m
i
l"J»!j
l¥l3
KU'X
(Ai
If
&w
7
M
k*
3¥i
sm
taW
• s
a i
s?t
r&*


$ ■■ m
1 1:
*tV
i\C^
THE HAPPIEST BOOK OF THE YEAR
“ALL-ABOUT”
Written by two clever Westralian Women, Mary and Elizabeth Durack.
In a review the “Sydney Morning Herald” says:—
“From Western Australia comes a story of aboriginal life which should certainly become an Australian classic
to be put on everyone’s shelves alongside ‘We of the Never Never.’ In ‘All-Aboul’ the young authors, Mary
and Elizabeth Durack, paint a picture of the blacks on Argyle Station, Kimberley, i% the far North-West, which
is full of life and color, written in a style of flowing simplicity, yet as rich with bright detail as a mediaeval
tapestry. The authors know their subject intimately, yet do not pretend to any esoteric knowledge ot the
biackfellow mind..'..We are taken right into the daily life of the station, with the gins working, quarrelling and
laughing around the homestead, the stockboys mustering the cattle, and the whole camp joining in the corrqboree
at night... .There is more than humor and character in ‘Ail-About’ —there is a sense of poetry, and the description
of the drought, the rain-chant, and the storm in the chapter called ‘Rain-Time’ provides some of the finest
descriptive prose in Australian literature. And, in the end, when the blacks start on their walk-about to enter
into their own realm of forgetfulness, we feel we have been given the open sesame to a new world and a
new-old people.”
A WONDERFULLY POPULAR BOOK FOR YOUNG AND OLD.
Price 3/6 (postage 4d. extra). All Booksellers or from the Publishers,
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LIMITED,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; AND ALL STATES.
the novel embraces many years, which
are conjured up in the retrospective
thoughts of several persons making a
two days’ car rfln from Sydney to
Coolami station, beyond Mudgee. The
author is expert at that sort of con-
juring, and in her clever handling it has
tremendous advantages over the ordinary
chronological unrolling of narrative. It
permits naturalness while excluding ab-
solutely all non-essentials. Nothing that
is not essential to the drama obsessing
their minds is recalled by the actors: and
this stripping away of all non-essentials
not only results in an extremely close
tightening of the narrative, but enables
the author to so sharpen the tenseness
that the dramatic effect is quickened,
keyed up all the time to the highest pos-
sible pitch: also, the dramatic element
is continuous, and generally heightening
as it goes on.
When the car sets out from Sydney
the emotional state of two of its four
occupants is so tense that those who are
used to the brave beginnings and break-
downs of authors will sense catastrophe
for this one. She never gets near catas-
trophe. When the emotional tenseness
become unbearable she eases it, increas-
ing it, lessening it at will. It is a splen-
,did piece of writing in that fine manage-
ment alone. The people in the car are
a young woman, her parents (father driv-
ing) and the brother of her lover who
was killed, the brother now in the car
having married her on the strength of a
promise to the dead lover to look after
the coming child. But the child has
died ; its mother has been staying with
her parents, and now, while the parents
are taking her and her stopgap husband
back to the husband’s station, the
thoughts of the younger pair grapple to
find a solution to the problem of a mar-
riage that neither wants to continue and
neither wants to break. Before the two
days’ car ride is over the problem has
resolved itself, in a neat and conclusive
psychological working out.
Anyone who reads at all widely in
current work must often be unfavorably
struck by the apparent inability of our
writing to come really abreast, not so
much with the quality as with the kind
of writing that is being done at the same
time elsewhere in the world. We overtake
the kind a considerable number of years
in arrears. Perhaps the thing of greatest
literary importance about Mrs. Dark’s
altogether fine novel is that this author,
at least, steps completely over that time
lag. Her novel is perfectly modern—in
its diction, in its form, in its psycholo-
gical concept of character. It is a ster-
ling piece of work in any case, but its
modernness—by which is meant its
being directly in tune, in the beat of the
life-rhythm of this present time—gives it
an importance in Australian literary effort
which seems very great to-day, though
this will depend entirely upon the extent
to which its influence has effect.
R.P.
An Old
King
“A corpse is a
pleasant thought
for a worm and a
worm is a dread-
ful thought for
any living
creature,” said Nietzsche. G. B. Shaw’s
latest play, “The Millionairess,” may be
a pleasant thought for some people, as
it appears to fall short of the drama-
tist’s previous standards. But as Shaw is
approaching an age when little but a
serene and benign contemplation of the
world he is leaving is all that can be ex-
pected of any creative artist, except such
extraordinary phenomena as Titian, who
at 92 painted his greatest picture, it will
not be an unpleasant thought for his
admirers. And that Shaw’s soul is serene
after a lifetime of effort is patent from
even his most recent public utterance.
The detractors of Shaw can be placed
in only two categories. Either they know
more than Shaw about the things he
dealt with, in which case there should
be evidence of the fact in their own
artistic progeny ; or they know less than
he does. If they know less than he
does they must be judging him by some
other criterion than knowledge. And of
such criteria there are an almost infinite
multitude. There is the criterion of the
man in the street who has his deepest
beliefs challenged by Shaw’s analysis.
Believing implicitly in his prejudices he
naturally struggles with might and main
to cling to them. If the old order which
he knows is endangered by the new
order represented by Shaw’s ideas,
he will resist, and quite properly,
because otherwise he would be deficient
in the instinct of self-preservation. Every-
body hesitates to step from what he
regards as solid ground on to something
which to him looks like a quagmire,
even though the fact may be that the
supposed solid ground is really the quag-
mire and vice versa.
Then there is the criterion of the in-
tellectual who has some ready-made cri-
terion without any knowledge. He has
usually taken an arts course at a uni-
versity. He has accepted uncritically
some new literary fashion, and looking at
Shaw he finds Shaw does not fulfil the
requirements of this fashion. Shaw is
wearing a bowler, so to speak, when it
is requisite that he should wear a top-
hat. Imagining he has emancipated
himself from the prejudices of the man
in the street, the holder of such a cri-
terion will take a lofty view of the
matter; but deep down it will be found
that he is conditioned by precisely the
same prejudices.
Life is a struggle for power, and there
is no mistaking the really powerful man.
The powerful man preserves himself
even in the most inimical company.
Shaw, an Irishman among Englishmen,
could have got himself hanged, put in
prison or driven into exile by the in-
tensely revolutionary character of his
opinions. But he has done what most
men would regard as a dishonorable
thing—he has used tactics. Beginning
without any education, at 20 an adult
unemployable, avoiding either to earn 1
living or to submit to the ordinary pro-
cesses of education, he has made himself
so strong that now nobody dare touch
him ; and it is probable he could be as
immune in Soviet Russia, Germany or
Italy as in England. Setting himself the
task of finding out what he was like
himself, and hence what others would be
like, he attained to a degree of wisdom
that enabled him to do what others
could not do and to avoid doing things
that others had to. Shaw believes in
authority, for he himself is an authority ;
but he does not believe in the authorities.
It is this which has enabled Shaw to
steer a course that is more beneficial to
the society he attacks than that society
knows. Living in an age of extreme capi-
talism, he expresses a contempt for
money-making while accumulating a
great deal of it. He is said to be meti-
culous even about collecting royalties
from the smallest amateur dramatic club
in the remotest Australian township. This
is debited to him for avarice ; but he is
under no illusions as to what would
happen if he lacked the money power in
a world where that power has the highest
validity. But it is a very different thing
to spend a lifetime making money in the
way Shaw has made it and to spend it
making money after the fashion of a
Woolworth. The Woolworths only de-
teriorate themselves and other human
beings. The Shaws do the opposite.
To be a king in the realm of thought
is much more difficult than to be a king
by inheritance ; yet each is a symbol
for the great abstractions authority,
majesty, dignity and responsibility. It
would be easy to find fault with Shaw
the king, in his old age, though few even
now would dare to do so in his presence,
It is also easy to talk of producing a
work of art—a novel, a play or a pic-
ture. The difficult thing is to do it.
F.S.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
South Riding Winifred Holt by
Return to Coolami Eleanor Dark
Murder at Elstree ..... Thomas Burke
BOTH South Riding and Return to
Coolami are reviewed under the head-
ing “Several Novels by Women.” South
Riding, centred upon local government
in the farming and small-coastal-town
portion of Yorkshire, is a large, expan-
sive novel, with literally scores of people
in it, though three dominate, among them
Mrs. Beddows, one of the best-realised
women characters encountered for years.
Mrs. Beddows is based partly upon Wini-
fred Holtby’s mother, who, like Mrs.
Beddows, is an alderman. Return to
Coolami is a brilliant Australian novel:
a sharp, tense, dramatic piece of fiction,
warranted to grip interest with its first
page and hold it to the end. The brief
drama is acted out almost wholly in a
car, which, speeding its freight of four
problem-puzzled characters over the few
hundred miles’ run from Sydney to be-
yond Mudgee, itself takes on the nature
of a leading character and seems at
times to play a personal part in the
triumphant solution to all their prob-
lems towards which its gleaming pro-
gress leads. The novel is a splendid,
piece of writing ; an authentic depiction
of Australian character and the Austra-
lian scene; a literary experiment as
wholly successful as it is original in con-
ception and in handling as well.
Thomas Burke’s Murder at Elstree
(Longmans; from Angus and Robert-
son ; 7s. 6d.) is a semi-fictional brevity,
recapturing from the early nineteenth
century the flash atmosphere of the
Fancy, of open-air boxing matches (with
swindles) that Borrow watched, of the
haunts of professional gamblers in
London and of the murder of one of
them by his dupe, with trial and execu-
tion following. To mention these details
is not to give away the author’s secrets.
He has none. His plan in retelling this
story of actual happening is to give away
every move in the violent drama in ad-
vance, and the sheer inevitableness of the
fate hanging over the principal characters
provides as potent a form of suspense as
the most secretively ingenious murder
mystery writer ever invented. Extra-fine
writing helps to make it more impressive,
effective, than many a novel of 30 times
its bulk.
Other Men’s Arms: Ann Barclay
(Collins ; 7s. 6d.). This “romantic love
story” is to be forgiven as a first novel,
. r , .
The Australian Victories in France w
In enera r Monash (Angus
and Robertson , 65.). For some time un-
obtainable in original issues and now
reprinted. If Australia is m need at any
time of something to recall confidence m
antl \ l nd [ lbie , e u raCe i,’
could do no better than turn to Monash s
account of the A.1.F., a stirring story of
gallantry if ever one was told. Diggers
who have hitherto missed it will find,
from their point of view, easily the finest
war book that has been written. A
human personal account, very finely told,
Anarchy or World Order (Allen and
Unwin; 11s. 3d.). Papers delivered by
12 authorities and investigators at the
tenth annual session of the Geneva Insti-
tute of International Relations. The
items include “International Anarchy,”
“International Law,” “Is American Neu-
trality Possible?” “The Future of the
Collective System,” with, for Austra-
lians and Maorilanders, an exceptionally
interesting contribution by Dr. Guy H.
Scholefield (M.L. Assembly librarian),
“Peace in the Far East and the Collec-
tive System.” A tremendous amount of
expert study of the more pressing prob-
lems in foreign affairs is represented in
, ii
tne collection.
Skin and Bones: Thorne Smith
(Barker ; 7s. 6d.). Fare over which
Thorne Smith addicts will roar them-
selves purple and censors’ maiden aunts
will droop and die rather than miss any
of it. The typical Smithian metamor-
phosis here is into a living, animated, but
actually fleshless skeleton, with sudden
embarrassing changes back into the flesh
at the most inopportune moments. Many
have stomachs far too delicate for these
Smithian dishes, but all with a capacity
for good broad low-comedy will relish
it hugely. In that strain of humor, and
very often in humor of a finer quality,
this American at his best is one of the
funniest of all. This latest of his pretty
numerous books to be given a London
publishing is not of his best —that is to
be found in The Stray Lamb and Turn-
about —but it has plenty of laughs in it
nevertheless.
Siamese White: Maurice Collis (Faber
and Faber; Angus and Robertson;
225. 6d.). The author himself expresses
the not unwarranted fear that he might
spoil his tale in the telling. It is a good
story, too —that of a Samuel White who
in the seventeenth century defrauded on
a princely scale the realm of Siam and
filibustered about the Sea of Bengal,
escaping to England after holding rubies
and other things worth a great fortune.
A picturesque episode of violent history
which cries aloud for a historical novel-
ist to breathe real life into. A Helen
Simpson would revel in it. Mr. Collis,
trying hard, does succeed in relating the
astonishing story, but only with much
fumbling and falling over himself. Odd,
too, since he really can write. He suffers
under the handicap of believing he can’t.


’FLU and COLDS go m
a Hurry
■
,
"' . ■: • ' v-'K •: x • •.’;■ •■• •• • '>'
mm
&
m
when
you hit them 3 WAYS
with
DovbieD
£umlu/ttnJ Szt/tuet
\ \
No matter how stubborn your Cold —how severe
your attack of ’FIu —it can definitely be smashed in
record time if you attack it in three ways with
Double “D” the strong Eucalyptus which is
double distilled.
df
TAKE -
RUB
INHALE -
3 drops of Double “D” on a lump of
sugar.
Double “D” thoroughly into chest and
back.
15 drops of Double “D” in hot water
before retiring.
In this treatment the powerful germicidal vapors of Double “D'*
Eucalyptus are brought right in contact with the ’Flu Cold germs
in your nose, mouth, throat, and bronchial tubes.
You will find Double “ D ” to be the purest and strongest
Eucalyptus that you have ever used —you will find it particularly
high in medicinal values.
For your own safety demand Double "D and take no other.
9d. Enormous Sales I^3
DoubleD
tsucalufttuA SxPmtt
THE PURE STRONG EUCALYPTUS
WITH THE SWEET FRESH SMELL
dKB
Guaranteed ro Contain a •
minimum of 70% Eucalypto'i
B<free from Pheiiandren#
“Double D. Eucalyptus
Extract" is stronger and
superior to most Brands
of Eucalyptus. Many
vendors of Eucalyptus
do not make a statement
as to the percentage of
Eucalyptol contained in
their Product, but we
make a point of doing
so. for “ Double D, Euca-
lyptus Extract ” is full
strength, and is distilled
in the most scientific
manner, and is guaran-
teed to contain a mini-
mum of 70% Eucalyptol
and often contains more.
It is also guaranteed free
from Phellandrene. This
Extract is standardised
and uniform at all times,
so that every bottle is
the same
iTHESHELDONDfiUGGI
Svdnev M.SW


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
m ■
■n' g
: .:
b ,wm mm-mm ,<om^.^
■mmh' 'VK.:: aw mgm fmjr&mtm wnMWfißprr^
S v -' • - •;•• : : •;: •' : ‘^#W;f:' : ; •: •• ? :.' <t f; £i-. ■; ', ; V-C '-y V W£&. : ... #• SS? : S v%i.< •■ =••"'■ £B"■ - £SS® •;' '.'; ; r-lt •' ' : E. ... |' ‘^f
,
■:.' i
■
■
m
$
‘
mm
m «
i|ii
111
u
mm
H
■
H|H
,i
w
■
■
■
>? --.
, . M
■
I
&'sl
MW \
' - *
1
w.
V. i-’Vv
a H 11
■
wmfa
mm mm®
: ,: ;
n
jH
I iK
M
i. ■
■ ;
' ■■■'-
H
——
lißiaiii 11111
- I
ti ; - 00m$ Mm-0~»i • m jo»tfsimmsi
| '■:■:■■■
■
■
®|M| .';■■■ ■ .■ .
> V ' :■"■.:■■ . , ' .■■ Wi ': | . ■■'
■■■. \ ■' . '■'■ 4 : ■ >.' >1
mBM:
i
:si>
H
Interior View of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars.
.// tfhtt mellmme^midJmwfuei^


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2932.
April 22, 1936.
THE BETTER POSSIE.
"Britain is pledged to uphold with armed force (1) League; (2) the Treaty of Locarno; (3) the Dardanelles Demilitarisation Agreement;
(4) Treaties of Alliance with Portugal; (5) Baltic Aland Islands Non-fortification; and (6) the Anglo-Iraq Treaty of Alliance.”
Don tbe a mug, John. Get behind this or they’ll blow you to blazes.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
south Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
• Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Statc cheques.)
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. 3s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route.” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
TWENTY-FIRST ANZAC.
If Australia and Maoriland as nations had their birth
at Gallipoli—it is a strong part of the Anzac legend
that they did—then this week they celebrate a twenty-
first birthday. In the course of this celebration some
fantastic utterances will smite the ear, but it might
be doubted whether all the most fantastic of them
together will do the justice of full imitation to the
really fantastic elements of that which is celebrated.
Getting right back to the basic fact; considering
Anzac as a military enterprise—which, for all poesy,
is what it was, and a grim and terrible and desperate
one at (hat—it was not a glorious success. Shorn of
all sentiment, myth, legend and tradition—the heroic
deeds, the sum of bravery, the glamorous romance
of fighting youth ; all the glory, the magic, the splen-
dor that now invest the name —Anzac was one of the
most complete military failures in the history of British
warfare. If it were as a military effort that it was
celebrated, that would certainly be a fantastic thing.
It isn’t, of course. What is really celebrated is clearly
all that which now has to be shorn away before the
basic military fact appears at all. And that is not
shorn away. Borne up by the imagination, it
strengthens and enlarges, while the dim military fact
diminishes, dissolves and disappears.
Still, it is a fantastic ground for even Legend
to have so greatly built on. And that is not the only
fantastic aspect of Anzac. The whole affair was mar-
vellously fantastic. It has been called epic: epic it
was—epic in glorious deeds, superhuman courage,
sacrifice, the fierce elan of a new race of men. Epic,
also, in holding within the stout framework of its
splendid narrative such an amount of comedy—using
that word in the classic sense —and such an amount
of tragedy that it needs no writing; it is there ; it
has been lived ; one of the greatest and. one of the
strangest stories ever known to this world.
And at every turn of it the fantastic appears. It was
enacted in a fantastic place, for a fantastic reason,
against a distant fantastic backcloth of petty-squabbling
commanders and politicians, fantastic counterparts of
the squabbling Homeric gods. The men who enacted
it were real enough, and realists ; but even they did
not escape the fantastic touch. They were—as any
Digger who was there will readily agree—the most
fantastically attired, or unattired, warriors that ever
graced a battlefield. They did fantastic things. To
give one example characteristic of thousands, they
established their “bomb factory” “inside the triangle
formed by the headquarters of the corps and the two
divisions” ; and “pathetic it was to see these hard-
swearing Australian and New Zealand Sappers nodding
their heads and dropping off to sleep with a detonator
in one hand and a piece of fuse in the other.” Clearly
not only pathetic! Also they clung to the most
fantastic places; such as Quinn’s Post, living there
and elsewhere in the most fantastic fashion, “like
martins, in ledges and holes.” And the whole host
of them fantastically isolated, seemingly from the
earth itself; more completely cut off on their fantasti-
cally-hemmed 400 acres than any people that Gulliver
ever met or Munchausen dreamt of.
Tragedy and comedy fantastically blended there.
So many dead were left to whiten one hillside with
their bones that a later observer thought it was snow.
Nullahs, where the fighting had been fierce, were
thigh-deep in bones. Underground, the fantastic world
that the Tunnellers and Sappers made, complete with
barbed-wire entanglements. Above, trenches ten yards
apart. Field-guns actually in these front-line trenches ;
one of their black snouts, at least, poked even out
over the trench The teeming beach, where a man
loading himself down with 18-pounder shells, like
the pack-mule he was, might look up at a puff of smoke
and take a pellet of shrapnel through his eye, and spit
it out and collapse. Clothing that arrived unstitched.
Johnno the Turk—as he was dubbed in a fantastic
exchange of chivalry—making his one great open
onslaught on May 19, to lose 10,000 in a day, with a
macabre armistice needed for burying the dead. Nine
different battalions having to be drawn on to pro-
duce 1000 fighting men for the last of our attacks
350 Australians, 400 Maorilanders and 250 Irishmen.
At last, the Anzacs, evacuation enforced on them by
Authority, placarding their dugouts with the parting
words: “Good-bye, Johnnie. Remember, you didn’t
push us off —we simply went.”
And the fantastic reason for all this? The real,
root cause of it all, the genesis of the story?
Why did Anzac happen, giving us a grandeur
to uphold and a day to celebrate? Strangely, for all
this lore and worship of Anzac, few know the answer,
or bother about it. In the sum of things it may not be
worth bothering about. For such extraneous interest
as it may have, it is simply that Gallipoli happened
because the Grand Duke Nicholas of Russia, feeling
already, in January, 1915, the certainty of yet another
defeat in Russia’s incomparable history of defeats
(every nation, except, perhaps, Peru, has at some time
walloped Russia) —the Grand Duke Nicholas urged
the British Government to arrange a “demonstration”
against Turkey. That is all.
Thus the great story was launched. In the basic
fact of it—as a military enterprise—it was a failure.
Nothing could be less like the truth than to say that
in reality it was altogether, or even at all, a failure
in any real sense. In any case, in the Australian and
Maoriland national consciousness, it is not held to be
either failure or triumph. That which is celebrated
is nothing so sharply concrete. There are many ver-
sions of it. A fair conclusion to the substance of
them all may be that it is a vindication of faith in
the fibre of the race that is really celebrated. Which
vindication Anzac gloriously was.
PROLONGING CHAOS.
For five years the N.S.W. Government levied unem-
ployed-relief tax (Is. in the £ most of the time)
on income drawn by N.S.W. residents from other
States, chiefly Victoria. The tax was assessed not
on what remained in their hands after the Victorian
Government, say, had collected its (1) ordinary income
tax and (2) relief tax, and the Federal Government (3)
its property-income tax (still 7s. 6d. in the £ on “the
excess over £3700”) and (4) “special” property-income
tax (tO p.c. for years, and still 5 p.c.); no, it was
assessed on income as declared to those Governments.
In effect, 5 p.c. was charged, with no service ren-
dered, on money actually paid in taxes to authorities
legitimately imposing them, and the illegitimate
impost was, in many cases, stiffen than the two
in force in the State where the property or business
was situated. Victoria gave these taxpayers the
benefit of substantial exemptions. N. S. Wales
allowed them none.
Before the 1934-35 fiscal year, the N. S. Wales
and Victorian Governments agreed that, for unem-
ployed-relief purposes, each should in future tax the
income of residents from all sources, regardless of
State boundaries. The arrangement is of doubtful
validity, since it is difficult to believe that the Com-
monwealth Constitution, imperfect as it is, permits one
State to tax income from property in another when
it cannot tax the property; and, perhaps for this
reason, other State Governments have refused to
become parties to it. And, because the obligation to
pay ordinary State income tax remains, there has to
be an annoying and often expensive duplication of
forms. But if the thing were challenged on constitu-
tional or other grounds the challenger might be
ruined, for the taxgatherers, with the public purse
available to them, would certainly take him to the
Privy Council; so it has been suffered, though not in
silence.
It was described as “a reform” by the Stevens
Government, which never wearies of awarding itself
credit where none is due ; and no doubt there are
Victorians with N.S.W. interests who are glad to have
escaped from that Government’s clutches. But, so
far from finding the agreement a boon and a blessing,
N.S.W. taxpayers with Victorian interests are worse
off than if each State had confined itself to its proper
function of taxing only income derived within its
boundaries.
The Bulletin has before it the taxation papers of
a Sydney man who drew £7 10s. a week from a Vic-
torian property last year. His Victorian tax on the
£7 10s. a week was a trifle over £lO, and for this
Victoria protected his investment in divers ways.
His N.S.W. tax on the same income was just on £lB.
For this much greater amount no service was or could
be rendered. Such services as the man received
from the N.S.W. Government were paid for in taxes
(two) on income earned in N. S. Wales (incidentally,
on earnings deducted at the source to meet one of
these taxes, the other is coolly imposed). Victoria
charged him over 2s. in the £ on taxable income, but
from earnings up to £5OO there is in Victoria a £2OO
deduction. N. S. Wales not only refused him any
deduction but added a bit of N. S. Wales income
to his receipts from Victoria to make him pay a
higher rate.
The Bavin Government introduced the relief tax,
called “special income and wages tax” now. It did
the job in the slipshod fashion characteristic of the
N.S.W. Parliament, which spends heaps of its time
“amending” its own legislation and “validating”
measures and regulations which have been enforced
illegally— The Bulletin was assured by one of the
Ministers that it was never really intended to tax
income from other States—but the proceeds were
strictly applied to unemployed-relief. This is not
true of the “special income and wages tax,” which was
expected to yield £6,000,000 this year. A large part
of the £6,000,000 is being used to pay for “social
services” such as motherhood endowment and widows’
pensions, and a lot of it is being dragged from States
which have no such “social services” and from people
whose earnings are so small that the ordinary income
tax cannot touch them. But “the Stevens Govern-
ment relieved industry of the family endowment tax”!
With seven authorities levying income taxes —
four States two and one State three—many Australians
are paying more than a fair share ; others, downy
birds and itinerants, less than a fair share. Naturally
cost of administration is outrageous, and to thousands
of taxpayers the enforced duplication of forms, calcu-
lations and correspondence is equivalent to another
tax; the chairman of Wunderlichs states that his
company’s outlay on the preparation of returns is
£l5OO a year. Simple justice will never be done until
taxation of incomes is transferred to the Common-
wealth, the States at the same time being relieved of all
their education expenditure. This, taking the six
together, annually exceeds their ordinary income-tax
receipts, and the Commonwealth could make up any
local difference proved to exist.
THE TAMED STORK.
[The medical writer of “Contraceptive Politics” (B.
18/3/’36) replies to the editor of the “Woman’s Mirror”
(B. 8/4/’36).]
Running a woman’s paper is liable to develop a false
sense of values. Suppose, for example, a hundred
poignant letters reach the editor every month, each
appealing for advice which will give a barren woman
just one dear little baby of her very own. Such mas-
sive and regular dosage of tragedy looks like the appeal
of a whole suffering sex. In reality, it would represent
in a year less than one in every thousand Australian
women between 20 and 45 —roughly, one in 700 wives
at fertile ages. The particular instances of the
“ ‘Woman’s Mirror’ mothercraft files” are thus liable
to obscure editorial judgment on the general issue.
Indeed, with a mothercraft section to advise the
editor the outlook becomes even more one-sided. A
distinguished lady doctor who has performed the fine
national service of presenting Australia with a large
contribution of fine little Australians is about the last
person in the world to whom any sensible young wife
would apply for advice on birth-control. She would
suspect both knowledge and outlook on the subject.
The worried editor again loses the general in the par-
ticular and underestimates the contraceptive aspect.
It is true that lowered birth-rates attend the decline
of a civilisation, especially in city populations. It
is not true that Australian city populations are “kept
up and increased only by the people who come in from
the country.” It is not true that “our cages are city
streets.” Surfing beaches, sports grounds, hiking
parties, a dozen other outlets provide immediate dis-
proof. Urban-born Australian children are in no
way inferior to country-born.
It is not true that city-bought foods are neces-
sarily “oversophisticated,” or that their “fertility vita-
mins have been destroyed.” Not in Australia. Aver-
age city-dwellers get a better and more varied diet
than do average country-dwellers. The “mental
worker” does not drain the body “to strengthen mind.”
Regard “Mother, M.D.’s” own fine family, produced
by two city-dwelling mental workers of tremendous
mental energy and ability.
Breeding is the woman’s business ; naturally
sterile unions arise almost wholly from failure on
the female side. The last census figures, taken three
years ago, tell us that 77 p.c. of all nuptial first births
occurred within two years from marriage, 94 p.c.
within five years, 99 p.c. within nine years. Also
that, of all first babies born, 45 p.c., nearly half, had
been begotten outside marriage. Among mothers
under 20, 82 p.c. were so begotten. There seems to
be nothing wrong with fertility in this. But a 30-year-
old woman, married at 20 and still childless, seems
to have little chance of starling a family.
If wheat-germ oil does the job, and if potential
mothers want the job done, the Commonwealth
Laboratories and the Darling Downs should, between
them, obtain within a year all the outward and visible
signs of at least a doubling of Australia’s best immi-
grants.
For over 30 years this question of the idle stork
has interested the writer. He has sought the truth alike
from professional colleagues and from an Australasian-
wide lay acquaintance. His main conclusions are that,
just as always, a certain proportion of women cannot
bear children. That the “urge to parenthood” is greatly
overrated. That the young woman of to-day is a
better breeding machine than her grandmother ever
was. That the main sex-idea of most young married
Australian women is not that of wanting children,
but of preventing or limiting them. That of Aus-
tralia’s million and a quarter women of childbearing
ages at least half are actively interested in contracep-
tion. That fully 20 per cent, of Australian children
now born are the result of careless or ineffective con-
traceptive efforts. That scarcity and cost of domestic
help and high taxation are important factors in encour-
aging contraception.
A large proportion of the most nationally desir-
able type of young Australian marrieds consider that
the matter of whether, when or how often they shall
produce children is entirely their own personal and
private business. When the old stork was allowed to
fly about as he liked, he often made a holy mess of
people’s lives and comfort. So they have tamed him.
And the Government, the churches, vitamins, Mr.
Hughes and the “Woman’s Mirror” cannot do a single
thing about it.
UNELE, M.D.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
In Europe Now.
The Treaty of Lausanne, signed in 1923, binds the
Turks to demilitarise zones on either side of the Bos-
phorus and the Sea of Marmora, to preserve the
freedom of the Dardanelles in peace and war, and
to cede the sacred ground at Anzac and Helles for
military cemeteries. Reports from Europe suggest
that Abdul may celebrate April 25 by occupying the
demilitarised zones and beginning the refortification
of the Straits. Moscow is willing, and, though it was
no party to the treaty, over great parts of Europe
(Germany and Italy excepted) and Asia what Moscow
says these days goes.
Mr. Anthony Eden, the British Foreign Minister,
has been accused in Conservative newspapers of being
under the thumb of “Wallach, alias Finkelstein, alias
Buchmann, alias Maximovitch, alias Litvinoff.” This
may be going too far, but it is certain that the slippery
person with the aliases is the only potentate at Geneva
who is thoroughly satisfied with the course which
British foreign policy has taken under Mr. Anthony
Eden’s direction. It is equally certain that this move
of the Turks is a result of their being asked —the
Turks and the Greeks and the southern Slavs —to help
the British to fight the Italians if it came to fighting
(the request must have made Palmerston and Canning
roll over in their graves), as well as being another
nail in the coffin of “collective security.”
“Sanctions” have failed, and the Abyssinian resist-
ance is collapsing. Nevertheless it is still feared in
Britain that Mr. Anthony Eden will propose a useless
and dangerous extension of the boycott, which only
Britain and the Dominions have observed, to their
cost. If it comes to this it will be the duty of the
Lyons and Savage Governments to tell Mr. Anthony
Eden that their peoples have been grossly deceived
about the whole Abyssinian business, and that in no
circumstances, save in the way of defence against
unprovoked attack, will they go any farther than they
have gone. And millions of Britons will applaud them,
for they will be protecting British interests —threatened
and sacrificed by a Government which meddles in
everything and blunders everywhere —as well as guard-
ing those of Australia and Maoriland.
♦
“Balancing the Budgets.”
Some time next month the Loan Council will meet to
consider another approach to the market for funds to
finance “works” and deficits.
Deficits are now being met out of loans, the
Commonwealth Bank Board having refused to back
any more Treasury bills for this purpose. The States
are in the position of a man who is spending more
than he earns and is borrowing to pay current debts,
and the Bank Board rightly wishes to throw the full
responsibility for this policy on the shoulders of the
Loan Council. Assuming that the deficits have been
faithfully stated, this is the record for four years:
Loan Council
'Limits for
1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-35. 1935-36.
N.S.W. .. £3,910,000 £3,300,000 £2,846,000 £2,050,000
Vic. .. 840,000 760,000 150,000 450,000
Q’land .. 1,550,000 1,310,000 564,000 1,300,000
S.A. .. 1,010,000 840,000 36,000* 390,000
W.A. .. 860,000 790,000 167,000 260,000
Tas. .. 50,000 50,000 119,000
Totals .. £8,220,000 £7,050,000 £3,810,000 £4,450,000
* Surplus.
The Tasmanian Government declined to give the
Loan Council an estimate of its budgetary position
for 1935-36. South Australia showed a surplus, the
first State to do so since the depression fell on the
country ; but this was wholly attributable to a prodi-
gious Commonwealth grant —£1,750,000.
Commonwealth surpluses for the same financial
years have been: —
Probable Surplus
1932-33. 1933-34. 1934-35. for 1935-36.
£3,547,000 £1,302,000 £710,000 £4,500,000
Figures to be submitted to the Loan Council
are expected to show that most of the States’ deficits
will be below the limits mentioned. The Common-
wealth surplus is likely to be greater than all State
deficits combined. In addition, more than £9,000,000
will be paid into the national sinking fund. Thus the
seven Australian Governments will be sure to claim
that, in the aggregate, not only have Budgets been
balanced, but a surplus of about £9,000,000 will be
shown, seeing that sinking-fund payments come from
current revenue.
Against this contention must be placed the fact
that the Loan Council has borrowed £7,500,000 this
financial year and floated £12,500,000 just before it
opened. And it is about to ask the market for another
£7,500,000—0r more. So, actually, the. national debt
will be increased by at least £6,000,000. And not
even the most brazen pawnshop politician would dare
to assert that the £6,000,000 is being put into ‘ works
that will return interest and sinking fund.
♦
“Impartial and Equitable.”
A statutory requirement of the Queensland Trans-
port Act is “the impartial and equitable treatment of
all conflicting interests.” That it is not administered
in that spirit was affirmed at a public meeting m
Brisbane, attended by 2000 people, who protested
against the ruthless suppression of road transport m
favor of Government railways. A few days later
a carrier operating on the North Coast highway was
charged with 15 breaches of the Act. He was fined
£306 on 15 charges; in default, two and a half years
in gaol.
In the sequel the man’s two trucks were stopped
on the public highway by officers of the Transport
Board. Their loadings were dumped by the road-
side and the vehicles were taken away. The carrier
was’given to understand that they would be sold, but
that the proceeds would not be applied towards pay-
ment of the fantastic fines inflicted. The trucks were
operated by him under hire-purchase, and a consider-
able balance is owing. Forcible seizure of property
in such circumstances renders the incident one of
serious import in commercial law.
The legal representative of the carrier and of
the firm owning the trucks under the hire-purchase
agreement asked the chairman of the Transport Boarc
—that is, the Commissioner of Railways—for infor-
mation as to what the board intended to do with the
trucks and whether he would call a meeting of the
board to decide the matter. All information was
refused. His colleagues on the board, the Commis-
sioner of Police, the Main Roads Commissioner and
the Main Roads Commission secretary, were
approached, with the same result.
The “example” asserts that competitors have
been allowed to operate over the same route. Also
that he has £2OOO invested in his business, it was
his only means of livelihood, he employed six men,
and he could get no other employment. He has a
wife and seven children ; four of his men are married,
with nine children. He adds that he was willing
all along to pay even the board’s fantastic “fees” if
it would give him permission to operate. The board
was not interested.
Mr. Dash, Minister “for” Transport, controls the
board. The Queensland railwaymen’s unions, through
Caucus, control Mr. Dash. As an example of “fair
and equitable treatment of all conflicting interests”
the happening forms an instance worthy of attention
by every elector in Australia.
: —
A New Industry for Australia.
On page 18 of this issue a projected Tasmanian indus-
try of the first importance is discussed —the establish-
ment, after some years of patient investigation, of a
15,000-ton paper mill at South Burnie. Broken Hill
enterprise (which includes Amalgamated Zinc) and
the preliminary work of Gerald Mussen are largely
responsible for the kick-off. Broken Hill money will
play a big part on the financial side.
The project has been born in encouraging cir-
cumstances. The huge Newcastle (N.S.W.) steelworks,
the Port Pirie smelters and the highly-efficient Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co. were all cradled in Broken Hill silver-
lead. The toast now will be that the present industry
should grow equally successful and efficient.
The new company, which is to have a paid capital
of £1,200,000, will not —to begin with, at any rate —
make newsprint. But it promises to give a good
deal of direct employment in manufacturing fine
printing and writing papers, and to open up a new
industrial centre in a place where it can be accom-
modated without causing overcrowding.
—♦ — :
An Unnecessary Epidemic.
Diphtheria in epidemic form is spreading in parts
of Australia and causing totally unnecessary suffering
and death.
Diphtheria is spread by germs conveyed from
another person, either a sufferer or a “carrier.” Drains
or smells have nothing to do with it. Unless the
tissues of the infected person are poisonous to them
the diphtheria germs multiply rapidly, and give off a
poison to the blood. Their growth in the upper air-
passages may suffocate the victim; the poison which
they give off may paralyse the heart of muscles. The
body cells defend themselves by manufacturing a
poison for the bacilli. Unless death intervenes, this
eventually kills them out, and the active stage of
the disease ends.
These protective anti-poisons have no effect on
the poison given off by the bacilli, so that the sufferer
may still die of heart failure or be crippled by
paralysis.
Forty-five years ago it occurred to a German
scientist that if the poison could be given at once
to the bacilli instead of waiting for the body cells to
make it slowly, the active stage would be cut short.
He injected diphtheria germs into horses until their
blood developed the anti-poison, then injected the
sterile serum of that blood into diphtheria sufferers.
It abolished the suffocation-horror and halved the
mortality, although paralysis and heart failure still
occurred.
The next step was to find a way of persuading
the human body into manufacturing its own poison
for diphtheria germs before they entered it. Could
this be done? They either would not multiply or, at
worst, would produce only mild effects. Eventually
it was done. Minute doses of the germ poison, mixed
with anti-germ poison, set the body tissues at work
protecting themselves against any more of the poison.
They made themselves entirely inhospitable to diph-
theria germs for long after. Millions of children
have dodged diphtheria thus; hundreds of thousands
are living who would have died but for protective
inoculation. As usual, it was—still is—denounced by
calamity-howlers. A Brisbane alderman recently
alluded to it as a doctor’s fad for fouling children’s
bodies with raw horse-blood.
Science kept on working, and now the poison no
longer exists in the inoculation material. Anatoxin
is accident-proof, painless, certain, cheap. Any Aus-
tralian child who develops diphtheria nowadays can
justly blame its parents. Only an inert public stands
in the way of making diphtheria a forgotten disease,
and nobody really tries to wake it up. Cannot some
Bright Young Politician see chances in it? It needs
no toilsome thinking, it could be made into good,
popular, humanitarian talking material with a special
appeal to the' woman elector, and some of the results
might vote for him when they grow up.
♦
Rural Schools in the Speck.
During a tour abroad Tas. Education Director Brooks
was impressed with phases of rural education that
came under fiis notice, and on returning he lost no
time in grafting the new ideas on the local scheme.
An interesting result is the Area School at Shef-
field, one of the north-west potato-growing centres. At
Sheffield pupils follow the ordinary school course of
mornings. In the afternoon the girls are taught needle-
work, laundering, cookery and hygiene; boys are
busy with tinsmithing, carpentry, blacksmithing,
saddlery and agriculture. And there are pasture
experiments in miniature paddocks where the school’s
own sheep are capable demonstrators.
Senior boys and girls from the smaller schools
within a radius of five miles go to Sheffield. The
department provides each with bicycle, raincoat and
gaiters, and the cookery class serves a hot dinner for
threepence. A winter has yet to be encountered, but
present indications suggest that it will take a high
storm to damp the travellers’ enthusiasm.
This rural-school scheme is operating on a smaller
scale at Hagley, in the north, and the authorities are
considering State-wide application. Though pupils
may still pass on to the State High School, it is hoped
that these area schools will prevent many born artisans
and agriculturists from drifting to city desks and
disillusionment.
♦—
A Douglas for Bass Strait.
Now being assembled at Holyman’s hangar at Essen-
don (Vic.) is perhaps the most powerful, and certainly
the most luxurious, passenger ’plane ever bought for
an Australian service. Accommodating 14 passengers
and a “hostess,” besides pilots and a wireless man,
it has two 850-h.p. Wright-Gyclone engines, which give
a cruising speed of about 190 miles an hour and a
top speed of over 220 m.p.h.
The machine is a Douglas, a type well and favor-
ably known to the U.S.A. flying public—one company
alone uses over 30 Douglases in its transcontinental
service. The cost was around £30,000. Two mechanics
were brought from America to assemble and service
it, and a trained pilot arrives from the U.S.A. this
week. Special blind-flying equipment is a feature
one which Holyman’s insist upon.
The Douglas will be used principally in the Bass
Strait service. It could not have been imported if the
Lyons Government had not raised its embargo on
American aircraft, and that was done only a few
weeks before the Government decided that general
restriction of American imports had become urgently
necessary. But Canberra has playful ways.
By a Digger's Grave.
“Man that is born of woman . . . days are few
And full of miseries,” intones the voice
Of Misery itself, made audible.
The autumn wind blows bleakly through the trees;
Before its breath the fallen leaves are spun.
No life it brings, but only seems to take
From lingering life the flickering flame it had —
A dead wind stirring things already dead.
A curious crowd of men, all middle-aged.
Some bent, some grizzled with maturer years,
With here and there a makeshift leg or arm,
Stand mutely patient with uncovered heads.
Nigh one and twenty years have sped their way
Since many of this little company
Marched forth to braver music, high emprise.
Shoulder to shoulder with the one whom now
They carry on their shoulders to his rest.
The words of pious confidence and hope,
Of consolation and reward — elsewhere—
Once more are chanted with their ‘‘dust to dust.”
The priest, his office done, has closed his book
And in the lengthened pause that follows him
A small, pathetic figure steps in front—
The dead man’s little son —to look his last
On what he held heroic and most dear.
Wide-eyed and somewhat scared, but resolute,
He knows what is expected of him now,
Stiffens his back and swiftly marches off
To hide his tears somewhere we may not see.
The crowd disperses with the murmurous voice,
The chatter Chopin’s genius clothed with tune.
Somewhere a distant factory whistle blows
Insistently in piercing minor key
What might have been the ‘‘Last Post’s” solemn wail,
Half-sorrow and half -triumph in its tone.
“Must there no more be said ? ” It is enough !
Vale! Valete! Warrior gone from hence,
And ye who still remain depart in peace.
Eros, unarm ! The long day’s task is done
And we must sleep.
. . . Two memories remain :
That dwindling band of sobered Digger
Counting with silent tongues, “Another gone!”
Assigning place in that extending row
Of neat white stones that name their comrades dead:
“One more of them to-day, one less of us.”
And that small figure, resolutely strong
To play his part before this shining band,
And carry on, as fits a soldier’s son.
S.A.
ALEX. M.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bisi”; There is (or was a few days
ago) a vacancy for a night porter at a
Sydney hotel. An American lady arrived
with a selection of multicolored shoes
for current festivities, and before she re-
tired to rest the first night she placed
half-a-dozen pairs outside her door, with
the same number of tins of colored shoe
polish to fit the shades of leather and
canvas. Boots, in his nocturnal search
for footwear to clean in the dog watch,
before it was time to go round with the
morning papers, saw the collection and
scornfully left it uncleaned. Hauled
before the manager in the morning, on
the complaint of the visitor, he retorted ;
“What does she think I am —a rainbow-
painter?” Then he went to draw his last
pay-
“U.T.”: Traffic controllers desirous of
a danger-sign that motorists will be
unlikely to disregard might borrow
one which" used to be on Dead Man’s
Gully, between Stonehenge and Jundah
(W.Q.). Several men had been drowned
there, and the Barcoo Shire Council
reckoned it was time to erect something
striking. It took the following form in
large print: “Notice. In Flood Time
This Crossing Is Dangerous. By Order,
C. Wray, Shire Clerk.” A person didn’t
need to go far for confirmation of the
warning. At the foot of the post which
supported it were three graves.
* * * *
“Gombeen Man”: “H.A.L.” misses
the point when he wonders (B. 15/4/’36)
why civil-service borrowers don’t go to
trading banks instead of usurers. In
the first place a bank won’t lend with-
out special security, and this does not
include furniture and the like. Also it
jibs at small advances of £5 and £lO, and
these are usually the amounts needed by
the impecunious c.s. to tide him over
to next payday. The usurer will advance
money to a Government employee of any
standing on his own note of hand and
collect in easy instalments.
“Kwakprak”: An English biochemist
and three student assistants have made
themselves seriously ill by a period of
salt-free diet. Cramp, palpitation and
mental and physical languor were their
main symptoms. Similar though less
marked symptoms ensue when tne salt
of the body tissues is removed by exces-
sive sweating—fireman’s cramp, for
example, curable with seawater contain-
ing an extra teaspoon or so of salt per
pint. Deprivation of salt from the diet
has been used in medicine to dry up
cases of certain kinds of dropsy. Sudden
excess of salt —say, an ounce taken as one
dose —will do some curious things to
most people if they keep it down. The
liquid taken to quench the resultant thirst
will ooze into the tissues and cause puffi-
ness under the eyes and about the ankles
and feet. Although salt undergoes
scarcely any change in the body, altera-
tion of its normal proportions has marked
effects on health and comfort.
* * *
“Erua”: Mention of the resolution
passed in Virginia “under the English
flag” (B. 15/4/’36) recalls the strategy
of a Maorilander in U.S.A. who decided
his child must be born under the Union
Jack. He scoured San Francisco to find
one of suitable size and hired workmen
to nail it on the roof directly above his
wife’s bed. His super-loyalty had one
grievous consequence: his American
chief heard the tale and fired him.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”; Another few feet
to the crest of that wave that struck the
Nairana in Victoria’s Rip and the waters
would have closed over 179 souls instead
of four. There would have been no
shadow of hope for the ship. The most
probable explanation is an Antarctic
storm of unusual intensity. Very heavy
s. and s.s.w. swells were experienced
shortly before between Melbourne and
Adelaide. Any subsidence of the sea
floor is ruled out by the absence of earth-
tremor records on the Melbourne and
Sydney seismographs. The double-funnel-
shaped Bass Strait is just the sort of
place where a convergence effect would
develop from heavy swells running up
both sides of Tasmania from far south.
Isolated huge waves have been reported
on several occasions on the coast near
Port Phillip entrance, probably from the
same cause,
“Mr. Ketch”: Canada’s leading execu-
I'oner—a genuine expert who has
officiated at over 500 hangings—appar-
ently desires some variety in his job.
“Miss Jepson, rush across to the lib'ary and find out what sorla bikes they rode in Julius Casar's time."
He has expressed the opinion that the
electric chair or lethal chamber is more
humane than the rope. Some unpleasant
accidents certainly .have occurred with
the rope—they have, too, with the chair—
but in skilled hands it is regarded by
leading British medico-legal authorities
as the more efficient and humane of all
methods of judicial execution. Termina-
tion of consciousness is instantaneous,
which is by no means certain with elec-
tricity, lethal gases or decapitation. The
Spanish garrotting-chair was probably
quite as humane as the rope, when prop-
erly used, but the unfortunate venality
of its operators often led to distressing
experiences for the patient if relatives
and friends failed to “come across” be-
forehand.
“Carrick, A. 8.”: When naval ratings
apply for permission to grow beards,
some weird and wonderful face-growths
result. The chap who has used a safety-
razor is all right, but most of those who
have used a blade-razor have shaved
down on the right side and up on the
left; as a result, the beard grows lop-
sided, the hair lying down on the right
side and sticking straight out on the left.
In any case, a really imposing beard can
be grown only by those who have never
shaved. Has anyone ever seen one such on
a North Asiatic? I can recall only one,
the owner of which was a seaman on
the Portland Maru, a cargo-walloper
which struck a submerged object soon
after sailing from Port Lincoln (S.A.)
last summer, and had to be run ashore
on Kangaroo Island. This Japanese had
a magnificent beard, thick, black and
silky, of which he was very proud.
Wharfies had christened him “Whiskers
Blake” before the ship had been tied up
for five minutes.
sfe :> ❖ %
“Reuben Paine”: Touching Daisy
Bates’s abos. with Dutch features (B.
15/4/’36), sealers and whalers must have
left far more half-castes behind them than
the occasional Hollanders wrecked on
our western shores in the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries. They were in
regular business for one thing, and they
had liberal views about miscegenation for
another. Their nationality is generally
given as either French or American, but
no doubt there would be Dutchmen
among them —the New England sailors
of the early days had a big infusion from
that race. And their range was any-
where between Rottnest and Kangaroo
Island.
“Horsetailer”: Australia has no
quainter township than Denham,
which clings to a sandhill over-
looking Shark Bay (W.A.). Fremantle-
Singapore boats, anchoring three miles
off, and a telegraph line leading
out across 40 miles of drift sand arc
its only connections with the outside
world. It has shell-paved streets, and
the homestead of Perrin sheep station is
in its midst, with shearing-shed and
quarters next door to the one pub. The
gathering of pearlshell by a few abos.,
Malays and whites on the huge shallows
of the bay is the town’s main industry,
though snapper are caught by the ton
and sold to a freezer at twopence a
pound. The first thing that strikes a
visitor is the potent smell of the “pogey-
pots”—barrels in which the pearl oysters
are decomposing to permit the straining
of the resultant liquid for seed pearls.
I never felt safe striking matches within
range of it, though the locals are immune
to the “hum.”
* * * *
“General Prac.”: “Findy” is all out
(B. 15/4/’36) when he suggests that a
bogus doctor is soon unmasked if silly
enough to flourish a stethoscope, long
used for listening to heart- and breath-
sounds, instead of the modern sphygmo-
graph, a gauge for measuring blood-
pressure. It’s not the age of any instru-
ment which betrays its owner as an im-
postor, but his method of handling it.
Further, the sphygmograph, if it's results
are to be worth much, must be used in
conjunction with a stethoscope. By the
way, why does no Bulletin artist draw a
stethoscope correctly? The things are on
view in instrument-sellers’ windows. My
prize possession is a joke-block with a
medical flavor —jest excellent and draw-
ing superb, as you’d realise if I spilt the
artist’s name. But the depicted stetho-
scopes resemble nothing but a few feet
of garden hose.
“6th Brigade”: Every war seems to
bring with it the old charge, levelled by
one side against the other, or by both,
that explosive bullets, dum-dum bullets
and other abominations barred by inter-
national law are being resorted to.
I don’t know what is happening
in Abyssinia, but I do know that ex-
plosive bullets were used by Germans —
in the last few engagements at all events
—and ghastly were the wounds they
sometimes inflicted. For proof I for-
ward a couple, some of a number
taken by me from the pouch of a Ger-
man prisoner at Monbrahain on October
6, 1918. I was a bit of a souvenir manu-
facturer in my spare time and used to
make penholders out of cartridges ; on
cutting the bullets of these I found the
explosive. These cartridges have no par-
ticular distinguishing mark beyond a
red ring round the cap and a black point
on the bullet, but anyone will have no
difficulty in satisfying himself about their
contents. [Samples received.]
* * * *
“sth That yarn about the
Boer shell filled with “steaming hot plum
duff” (B. 15/4/’36) leaves me cold. The
date given is Christmas Eve, 1901, when
the real war was over and the Boers,
chivvied from pillar to post, were half-
starved and wretchedly clothed. It was
a cold, wet December, and there was
very little of the Christmas spirit about
the dozens of poor devils Plumer’s
column gathered in almost daily. It
seems unlikely that hot plum duff was
plentiful in the hunted commandoes or
that it arrived in an 181 b. shell, that
calibre being unknown to Boer or
Briton in those days. Still, I recall that
Brother Joe scuppered a Yeomanry
column full of Yuletide gifts that same
Christmas, and it is possible that the
duff came from this source, the shell
containing it being a British 15-pounder.
* * # *
“Brass Rail”: Some months ago the
Victorian licensing heads had a look
over the register of licensed barmaids
compiled in 1920 when the profession
was closed for good to Fairy and her
friends. They were amazed to find that
3300 were apparently still practising
after all those years. There was nothing
for it but a pub-to-pub investigation;
this has disclosed that 3000 of the Hebes
who received permits to carry on in 1920
had vanished from official ken and that
only 300 are still holding office. Before
the register is closed for good the authori-
ties will let it remain open for a month
so that any of the old originals who de-
sire to re-register may do so. No grand-
daughters need apply.
* * * *
“Ex-Piriean” goes picnicking:
I notice there is an agitation in Pt. Pirie
(S.A.) for the establishment of abattoirs in
place of the present system of private slaughter-
houses. Which reminds me that some years
ago I set out late one afternoon in a ram-
shackle car for a moonlight picnic at Telowic
Beach, around in Germein Bay. Passing
through Solomontown our near-side front
blew out. Halt to put on a “spare” (a pre-
viously discarded tyre). A hundred yards
further on that went. Another halt to patch
it up —rubber mat, the only new thing in the
car, being requisitioned for the purpose. We
were hardly off again in the gathering dusk
when the two back tyres went, and as we
pulled up the mat-repaired substitute spare went
again. We gave up. No beach that night!
But the picnic-tea couldn’t be wasted, so we
set it out by the wayside. Just as we com-
menced our repast a subtle aroma was wafted
to us on the rising breeze. At least it was
subtle to start with, but soon the stench was
appalling. Lizzie had chosen a spot right
in the lee of the slaughter-houses for her final
breakdown. Yes, I’m all in favor of the
abattoirs plan.
THEIR BEST ASSET.
“At the country convention of the U.A.P., it
\v;ib proposed that, in view of the findings of the
h'oval Commissioner on the Loughlin-Doyle land
transaction, the Government should immediately
expel Messrs.' Lang and Tully from Parliament,
the reply was that it would be a grave mistake to
remove Mr. Lang, as he was the U.A.P.’s biggest
asset.”
I here’s no lack of vim and vigor ’mong the
various birds who figure
In the Stevens-Bruxner Parliamentary bunch;
Possibly they haven’t many orators or wits
(if any).
Still there’s three or four who pack a decent
punch.
But there seems agreement tacit that their
best and biggest asset
In the clamor and the clatter and the clang
For administrative powers—that, whoever holds
the bowers,
The joker (for the U.A.P.) is Lang.
What if he and Comrade Tully, taking cover,
tried to sully
Reputations—an offence described as rank;
What if he our progress halted when his Gov-
ernment defaulted
And the door was banged and bolted at a
bank.
Though you multiply abuses, an opponent has
his uses
When you know he’ll always lag behind the
bus.
And you want us to expel him. Why there’s
no one could excel him
In the art of keeping office safe for us.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Colonel Bungstarter”: A Hungarian
lady of 25 surely holds the world’s record
for feminine incapacity and resource-
lessness in dealing with a plain domestic
problem. From evidence at her recent
trial in Budapest it appears that she made
40 attempts in 10 years to poison her
elderly husband, and failed every time.
She used belladonna on each occasion,
and apparently didn’t even have the ordi-
nary commonsense to change her chemist
when buying a fresh supply in order to
get a better brand. Her reason for adopt-
ing this hobby was perfectly sound from
the feminine point of view—she just
didn’t care for him. The only redeeming
feature of the whole affair is the patient
and forgiving nature of her husband.
Few men would have stood more than,
say, 20 attempts, no matter how much
they liked the lady. In fact, most hus-
bands get quite nasty over such an inno-
cent accident as ptomaines in the tinned
dinner.
* >K * *
“S.G.”; In one respect the. modern
youth eminent in field sports is certainly
inferior to the old-timers—he can’t grow
hair as profusely. My recollections of
famous cricketers go back to the early
’nineties—l saw “W.G.” bowled at Mel-
bourne by Bob McLeod with a ball that
seemed to drop through his beard —and
I can’t recall a hairless wight among
them. But of the present Australian XI,
McCabe and O’Reilly are approaching
the stage where combs cease to interest
(I omit Oldfield and Grimmett because
of their years), and Bradman looks as
if he will be as bald as a badger before
he is 35. Brown, the Bradman of the
Rugby League, and Norman, another
Eastern Suburbs star, are bald already.
Excessive surfing, no-hat craze, or what?
“Cover-point”: In a review of a recent
cricket book (R.P. 15/4/’36), I find it
noted as a curious fact that “pretty
nearly everybody who writes about
cricket writes well.” But do they? Some
of the stodgiest and least attractive books
on the subject I have read have been
written by famous cricketers, Australians
among them. And when it comes to
professional authors, did Dickens ever
write anything less true to life, how-
ever amusing, than the account of a
cricket match in Pickwick Papers ?
Doubtless excuse may be found for him
in his admitted ignorance of almost all
forms of sport, but the cricket literature
of a century, considering its volume, is
anything but imposing. Even the poets,
with very few exceptions, haven’t made
much of it. The only piece of really
haunting verse to which top marks might
be awarded is one by Francis Thompson.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Queer accidents? Two
men, cycle and motor-bike, both skidded
on the wet bitumen in Rundle-street,
and took a fall—harmless enough, except
that a careless messenger boy happened
to have smashed a bottle of sulphuric
acid in the same place. Both were
burned badly enough to go to hospital.
* $ * H=
“Lobscouse”; I can support “Sailor
Once” in his contention (B. 15/4/’36)
that the “bread” used by Bligh on his
boat voyage was hard ship’s biscuit.
The headquarters of the sea biscuit
manufacture was Liverpool, and the slabs
were known throughout the seven seas
as “Liverpool pantiles.” It used to be
said that the biscuits were given their
adamantine consistency in an effort to
prevent their penetration by weevils. It
was a case of the gun-armorplate duel
over again, for as soon as a case-hardened
type of biscuit was produced a variety of
weevil able to overcome its resistance
made its appearance. I never tackled a
pantile, but old sailormen who served
with me in the Boer War have assured
me that the army biscuit of those days
was sponge-cake dipped in sherry by
comparison.
$ * * *
“Huitre”: The Australian oyster,
according to T. C. Roughley, zoolo-
"Er—what address did you say?"
gist at the Australian Museum, is “not
only the best in the world, but it is sold
at Is. a dozen, whereas the English oyster
is sold at 7s. 6d. a dozen.” The first
assertion may be unassailable, but if the
second means that oysters are normally
sold at that figure in the U.K. it is absurd.
There is, of course, a close lime for
oysters in England, during which fancy
prices may very well be paid for the im-
ported article. Roughly speaking, this
extends over May, June and July ; in
August the local bivalves may be ob-
tained but are reckoned below the mark.
Foreign oysters, however, are on sale all
through the close season. The last esti-
mate I can find of the annual value of
the oysters obtained from British seas
puts it at two millions, on the basis of
their being worth twopence apiece.
$ * $ «
“Talahua”: King George 11. of Tonga
had some excuse for clouting the royal
helmet against H.M.S. Mildura’s boat
(B. 18/3/’36). He stood about 6ft. Sin.
in his socks —or would have if he’d
“You don't seem to have much on to-day .”
“Keep your mind on the menu , please."
worn any—and, anyway, it’s rather un-
fair to expect a Pacific islander, monarch
or no monarch, to have a working
knowledge of a man-o’-war’s quarter-deck
and its environs.
* * * *
“Dinmont”: A few years ago, when
the Alsatian wolf-hound (or sheep-dog)
was beginning to get himself disliked in
this country, some ardent champion of
the breed asserted in The Bulletin that
it was still the most popular and widely-
exhibited of all the canine race at
British shows. If this was-true then —
which I very much doubt—it is far from
true now. The relative strengths of the
10 most fancied breeds of dogs, as
gathered from the leading shows in 1935,
are given in the following order, the
tykes being graded like tennis-play ex's or
chess-pundits: Cocker spaniels, Labrador
retrievers, Pekingese, dachshunds, Cairn
terriers, wire-haired terriers, Alsatians,
Chows, Scotch terriers, Sealyhams. The
dog which has returned most rapidly and
markedly to favor is the dachshund. Like
the Alsatian, it suffered materially from
its German origin. But the long-backed
animal, although listed by some authori-
ties as quarrelsome and obstinate, is
obviously incapable of savaging its
owner—or any other human being.
* « * *
“Billy See”: The emotional murderer
who acts on the impulse of the moment
may be as dark as
the traditional stage
villain, but the
gentleman who
pushes his victim off
with nonchalance
and then takes elab-
orate precautions in
disposing of the
body will almost
certainly have eyes
of blue, with an
occasional deviation
to bluish-grey. A
notable instance was
Smart, the Perth
murderer of 1910,
who killed his para-
mour of six years’
standing one night
and committed a
bigamous marriage
next morning. Then
for a period of nine
months he ate his
daily lunch just out-
side the shed under-
neath which he had
buried his victim.
At the trial the
china-blue eyes of
the man in the dock
arrested a lot of
attention. Marcus
Clarke was true to
life when he made
Cheshire, a cold-
blooded killer in
His Natural Life,
blue-eyed.
“Ned Kelly”; He was handing the girl
friend on to the smooth finish of his
new yacht’s deck. “I’ll get you a pair of
tennis shoes,” he offered. The G.F. re-
garded her hobnailed hiking footwear
serenely. “Don’t bother,” she said. “The
salt water won’t hurt these! ”
* * *
“Mudurup”: For 40 years and more
the question of a new Town Hall has
been exercising Perth citizens, the present
edifice being a dingy structure dating
from convict days. The trouble is
that no unanimity about the site
can ever be arrived at. Quite a score
of eligible situations have been sug-
gested, warmly advocated, bitterly
opposed and finally discarded. Recently,
however, the City Council did manage
to arrive at a decision —though only by
the casting vote of the Mayor, the 22
councillors being equally divided on the
knotty question—in favor of a site at
the corner of St. George’s-terrace and
Barrack-street. But it is Government land,
and the Government refuses to hand it
over for the purpose. The objections
are that it is “hallowed by historical
associations,” “linked with the early
history of the State,” and that the erec-
tion of a Town Hall there would detract
from the dignity of Government House,
the Supreme Court, the Anglican
Cathedral and other structures in the
vicinity and “throw the whole lay-out
out of balance.” So it looks as if it
might take another 40 years before a
site is found reasonably satisfying to the
majority.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: An inspection of the
latest “strongroom alarm” apparatus —
it does nearly everything but catch
the criminal —made me think of the first
efforts to protect valuable property.
Before the opening of the Bank of
N.S.W. in Sydney its founders secured
“a strong square chest for the disposal
of it's valuables and cash,” and sent an
order to England for “One brass-bar-
relled blunderbuss with spring bayonet
and a case of horse pistols.” When it
opened in 1834 the Commercial Bank
of Sydney did not regard armaments
as necessary. It merely invited tenders
locally for “One wrought-iron strong-
room of boiler plate, not less than fin.
thick, to be six feet square,” etc. Inci-
dentally, the bank’s original require-
ments for office fittings were merely
“1 cedar counter, 1 double desk, 2 haif
desks, 1 large table.” Apparently if cus-
tomers wanted to sit down they had to
bring their own stools; and the staff
was expected to be too busy for any
such relaxation.
sjs ❖ sfc
“1001”: “2nd Batt.” (B. 8/4/’36) is
all astray in his attempt to correct
“Nkata” (B. 18/3/’36). The first Aus-
tralian division to enter the trenches in
France was the Second. The battalions
were the 27th and 28th (7th Brigade) and
the 21st (6th Brigade); these took over
the line near Armentieres on April 7,
1916. The 27th sector was in front of
Rue Marie, and we used to claim that
we were in position a few minutes
before the others. It was hard, however,
to convince the 21st and 28th that we
beat them to it. The Fifth Brigade occu-
pied the line near Bois Grenier on April
10, 1916. The First Division did not
take over its sector in front of Sailly
until ten days later. Bean’s History will
confirm all this.
BETWEEN GREAT SILENCES.
“Between the silences of Birth and Death
Trembles a song”....
Some lives seem little tinkling melodies
Played on the spinet, in a dim room, by
A lady in a white, high-waisted dress;
And some are cold and classic symphonies
In the grand manner; some, in minor mood,
Seem dirges to a grief long since gone by.
Mine’s an unfinished theme in varying keys,
A fool’s fantasia, an interlude
Between great silences.
Some lives run to a bawdy ballad tune;
The raucous pride of tipsy minstrelsy.
Some seem the silver lips of Happiness
Singing along Jove’s sea-white, star-white dune.
And some, like winter in the elms of Death,
Go whispering through the withered used-
to-be.
But mine’s a tarantelle for goblin shoon —
Oberon’s overture, blown like a breath
Between great silences.
Some lives are love-songs that no minstrel
sings;
Some, blustrous marches, out of Brobdingnag;
Some, fugues in crabbed notation, hard to
guess.
And some, but few, soar like an eagle’s wings
Up, till who knows at last if it be bird
Or beacon on the thunder-smoking crag?
Mine’s a gay lilt of cabbages and kings,
A chuckle of Pan’s lost laughter, faintly heard
Between great silences.
Queensland.
J. HOLLOWAY.


TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENERAT
3*
v
20/v!(*
10 /<
9
or
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
- s
V
<;»■:■>■%■?
m
r
m
||||
iff
y fln
POLITICAL POINTS
According to Curtin, “the Movement
must declare against war.” Why not
advise it also to declare against diph-
theria? Without defensive measures the
declarations would be equally effective.
Transfer to Canberra of the head office
of the Commerce Department, now in
progress, will leave only two important
Federal activities centred in Melbourne
—Defence and P.O. These will not be
transferred until after the £500,000 Ad-
ministration block is erected three years
hence ; then 2000 will be added to the
population of Canberra, dependants in-
cluded. According to present indica-
tions Canberra will have 15,000 residents
before 1940.
The U.A.P. had a Country convention
in Sydney last week, and Playfair,
M.L.C., of Fresh Food and Ice, was chair-
man. “We have set our backs against
representing any particular sectional in-
terest,” said Mr. Fresh Food and Ice.
Then a motion insisting that “no altera-
tion be made to the Milk Act,” under
which Fresh Food and Ice has done
rather well, or to “the personnel of the
present board,” was “carried unani-
mously.”
“Believing that industry should be en-
couraged, we are prepared to take the
State out of the field of unnecessary com-
petition with industry.” Spooner, Premier
Stevens’s substitute, said that at the
U.A.P. conference. And his Government
has just moved further into “the field of
unnecessary competition with industry”
by opening a restaurant, with a staff of
about 100, at Wynyard station, which
serves suburban traffic only!
The Lyons Government is weakening
on its announced decision to restrict
U.S.A. imports. It now hints that Wash-
ington is willing to negotiate for a trade
treaty, though not before the Presidential
election, and that the proposed restric-
tions will be postponed until the position
has been “further explored.” Fears of
creating unemployment in industries
dependent on American goods and of
being politely asked by Japan for a
similar formula if “unilateral action” is
taken against America are the niggers in
the woodpile.
Declaring at the Vic. Labor confer-
ence that his group was ready to with-
draw support from the minority in office
whenever it received the word, deputy-
leader Cain applied a disparaging adjec-
tive to the Government—“conservative”
in the “Age” report, “capitalistic” ac-
cording to the “Argus.” Whichever it
was, Dunstan has swallowed the insult.
By ostracising the self-styled Council
against War, the Vic. Labor conference
virtually confirmed the expulsion of
Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R. The mem-
ber for Bourke says he will “continue on
the lines” he has “been following” and
“sit in the same seat”; but unless he can
get the Commonwealth A.L.P. executive
to pardon him his days as Labor poli-
tician are numbered. He ought to know
from experiences as Assemblyman that he
can’t beat the machine.
Palmerston’s “tit-for-tat with John
Russell” has been imitated, after a
fashion, by ex-Minister Weaver, who,
saying “Premiers expect their colleagues
to be an Amen brigade,” got a Yap-
conference majority for Caucus election
of Ministers. The news was broken to
Premier Stevens when he was at Geneva.
Perhaps he will refer the matter to the
League, so as to string it on for ever.
In Alberta the “Social Credit” Gov-
ernment has added interest-default to its
indefinite postponement of “national-
dividend” payments. But the lesson has
been lost on the brotherhood in Aus-
tralia, and that very cocksure fraternity
even seems to be gathering recruits. At all
events, a Douglasite who had stood for
Keppel (Q.) last year got hundreds more
votes at the recent by-election, while the
Labor and direct-Opposition totals
slumped; and in South Australia a
country Labor conference, held at
Gawler, has demanded an “agreement
with the Social Credit movement” such
as exists in Tasmania. Of course, one
is born every minute. ■
Tas. Labor shied at the national-divi-
dend proposal, but, at Premier Ogilvie’s
instance, it issued these “instructions to
its representatives in both State and
Federal Parliaments”:
Leave no stone unturned until the com-
munity’s credit is controlled by the com-
munity... .and issued in the form of con-
sumer-credit to abolish poverty.
What a glad day it will be for the
Ogilvie brothers and their clients (being
lawyers, they naturally represented the
“The ghost of Langism still walks.”
Minister Eric Spooner to the U.A.P. delegates in Sydney.
“Wouldn’t it be terrible for us, Archdale, if anything happened to him?"
Coal and Shale Employees) when they are
paid in “consumer-credit” notes!
Assembled American aircraft are coming
in ; a Douglas valued at £30,000 arrived
the other day. This is a new line of im-
port, previously interdicted ; the ban was
removed just a month or two before the
Government decided on restriction of
American imports in general. To the
devil with consistency!
Latham, the Westralian C.P. leader,
visited the effete Eastern States last
month, and, returning to Perth when the
Vic. Cocky conference was about to
begin, said in a speech at a place called
Totadjin that there was “a move” among
the Cabbage Garden Cockles “to unite
with Labor.”
This, if carried into effect, would be
very serious both for Federal and State
interests.
Nothing has since been heard of the
move or crawl. If it comes to anything
it will be the outcome of principle—quite
2 p.c. principle and 98 p.c. pique.
A loaded resolution passed by the
Lang Labor conference specifies that
Langsters who want to be Ms.L.C. must
be nominated by Lang’s Inner Group,
and that Labor members who do not
vote for them at the joint sitting which
decides these matters “shall be expelled
from ‘the movement’ for not less than
seven years.” The gun is pointed at Fed.
Lab. Ms.L.C., now supposed to be en-
joying the blessings of “unity,” but at
least one —Higgins—says he isn’t going
to put up his hands.
Union Steam* announces that the
Maunganui and the Makura will have
been withdrawn from the San Francisco-
Sydney service by December. That will
give the Americans a transport monopoly.
Nevertheless our land transport stranglers
will doubtless approve, being such
sticklers for principle.
On March 30, Treasurer Casey sup-
plied the Great Dailies with an article
in which he pronounced early reduction
of Commonwealth taxes impossible.
Published accounts for nine months,
which closed on the following day. show
a surplus of £2,738,000. No, it wasn’t
impudence on Mr. Casey’s part —merely
ignorance.
When “Produce! Produce!” was the
slogan of politicians, there were years in
which a thousand closer-settlement farms
were thrown open by the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment. For the twelvemonth to June
30, 1935, not one closer-settlement farm
was advertised. Mr. Buttonhole, the
Minister of Lands, made this admis-
sion the other day. He didn’t seem to
think it was any reflection on his policy
or that of his Government, which is
spending £9,500,000 of loan money this
year on things like sand-shifting and the
“reconditioning” of insolvent railways.
Indeed, Mr. Buttonhole was quite com-
placent about it.
Parkhill is finding his Labor opponents
very useful. When the “S. M. Herald
tackles him on the score of the rejected
air-mail contract, he opens his heart to
the “Labor Daily,” and that paper springs
to the defence. He has even been praised
by Lang. Now one of his “reasons” for
opposing national training for the army,
navy and gir force is that a Labor Gov-
ernment would stop it. Another “reason
is that the present system has “not had
a fair trial.” The reply is that it is six
years old, and that over a great part of
Australia the C.M.F. has been reduced
to such a remnant that it couldn’t beat
the Salvation Army.
Stewart, M.H.R., was the most in-
fluential figure at the U.A.P. powwows
in Sydney. Now fanatically devoted to
national insurance and a 40-hour week,
he secured substantial majorities for both.
In his enthusiasm he said he was “con-
vinced that some revolution in the social
order should be brought about,” and for
this he was sharply rebuked by Spooner,
but it made no difference. Following the
40-hour vote delegates ordered the Gov-
ernment “to modify the tariff so as to
encourage greater international trade.”
A consequent resolution in favor of the
enlargement of the Bankruptcy Court
was unaccountably omitted.
“Mossy” Hynes, Queensland’s Minister
for Labor, has voiced the glad news that
£40,000 will be distributed for winter
relief among the unemployed. A while
ago “Mossy” was saying proudly that
Queensland’s unemployed rate was about
half the Australian average. Employed,
however, still pay in unemployment taxa-
tion about twice as much as they did
in 1931, when there was more than twice
as much unemployment.
A member of a deputation of motor
people who asked Casey in Sydney for
some relief from the terrific taxation
imposed on motorists told the Treasurer
that a man buying an average car in
N.S.W., at a price inflated by revenue
duties, would pay £42 12s. in taxes the
first year.
Sales tax on purchase of car, £l6 10s.;
registration and license, £9 10s.; petrol
tax (basis, 10,000 miles at 20 m.p.g.),
£l5 125.; sales tax on fire replacements, £l.
Monstrous, of course. Still, it is only
part and parcel of a general policy de-
signed to make our little world safe tor
a minority engaged in obsolescent forms
of transport, alleged to be Government-
owned.
The “new” Sydney “D.T.” is getting
‘independent” cables. Thus far their
independence has been nothing out of
the way, but a gleam of unconscious
humor brightened an Italo-Abyssinian
budget. It was asserted that Mussolini
planned to set up a puppet State with a
12-year-old son of Haile Silassie on the
throne ; and that Japan would “strongly
object.” Nations would momentarily
regain their gaiety at the spectacle of
Japanese rushing from the Court of “Mr.
Henry Pu,” Emperor of Manchuria, to
lodge an impassioned protest against the
elevation of an Ethiopian Pu.
From Molongloside;
Senators will be back this week to grapple
with the tariff. The nights are becoming colder,
and morning frosts will be frequent, so they
are unlikely to take much time. Even allowing
for a dogfight over the cement duties, it is
expected that both Houses will finish by the
end of the first week in May. It’s all right
to have a’ long-dra\yn-out wrangle in spring,
but it is reckoned foolish to be spending money
at Canberra in the winter when there is no real
need. The less time Parliamentarians put in
at Canberra the better they are pleased.


THE PASSING OF A CHAMPION.
Peter Pao has run his last race and has been retired to the stud,”


d
is
Elf
Lf? j
111 lil!
fiL'U
Ml
Ml
m
FIRST THREE FLOORS OF THE NEW
MARTIN PLACE EXTENSION
ARE NOW OPEN.
Features include:
THE NEW WINTER GARDEN.—Smartest
rendezvous in Sydney.
THE BEVERY.—Sydney’s newest and finest
restaurant. Minimum tariff, 1/6, Afternoon
Tea from 1/-.
THE MARTIN PEACE BAR.—Only bar in the
area.
THE NEW BALLROOM—Beautiful in design
—stately in proportions. Dance floor above
criticism.
THE NEW BUIEDING IS Alll-CONDITIONED THROUGHOUT.
Sifdmy
m
tm
m
(hisWcdwi
Single Room (Room Only) from 10/6.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
PERSONAL ITEMS
Edmund Jowett, dead in Queensland,
was a Yorkshireman who came to Aus-
tralia at 18 with a sound basic training in
the wool trade. He did a great deal to
improve Queensland merino wool, and
led the way in western station improve-
ment. Kynuna and Belgate, which he
bought near Winton, carrying 12,0()J
EDMUND JOWETT in his prime.
sheep, he eventually made to carry
200,000 after the area had been reduced
by one-third. He gradually acquired 24
northern properties, and in the end owned
more sheep than any other individual In
the world. Jowett held the Grampians
(Vic.) seat in the Reps, for five years after
the war; then the electorate disappeared
through a redistribution. But he did not
like politics. His hobby in later years
was advocacy of the Australian woollen
manufacturing industry, and, one of the
best-dressed and most dapper of men, he
invariably wore locally-woven materials.
He leaves one son —a younger one was
killed in action —and three daughters.
George Judah Cohen is 94 on April
27. It is only within the last couple of
years that he gave up his big company
chairmanships ; he had been a director of
United Insurance for 50 years. He is a
very sick man these days. The A.J.C.’s
oldest member, he kept on his racegoing
until he was in the nineties, although ten-
shilling tote tickets gave him all the bet-
ting excitement he wanted.
“Novgorod”: Believe it or not, John
Fisher, of the Moscow “Daily News”
(the publicity sheet in English which
has a wide circulation), is a son
of our late friend Andy Fisher, P.M.
John started his journalistic career in
Melbourne ; then he joined Kisch when
that defiant gentleman toured Australia,
accompanying him abroad when he took
his leave.
J. Carrington Smith, winner of the
N. S. Wales Travelling Art Scholarship,
is a young Tasmanian—he was born at
Launceston in 1908 —whose parents de-
sired that he should be a businessman.
Accordingly he spent three years of his
youth with an oil company before he
followed his own bent. Becoming a
commercial artist, he got a job with a
firm of Sydney printers, and added to
his art knowledge by attending night
classes at East Sydney Tech. Douglas
Dundas, who won the same scholarship
some years ago, proved an inspiring
teacher of J.C.S. He won the scnolar-
ship in competition with 19 others, and
earned high praise from Hans Heysen,
the judge.
“R”; The other day I saw “Jolly”
Johnston, well known to most Diggers,
and could not help admiring his
springy tread. A Fitzroy furniture
king (Major-General G. J. Johnston,
to be respectful), he was a boss-
cocky artilleryman at Gallipoli, where
Johnston’s Jolly was named after him.
G.J.J. received his first commission
in the Melbourne Citizen Forces in
1889 ; he commanded a L.H. regiment in
the S’African War before making history
at the bloodstained Plateau 400 at Gal-
lipoli. He still hunts, driving his mount
over a fence with the reckless abandon
of a steeplechase jockey. He is to lead
the 13th Division on Anzac Day in Mel-
bourne.
The sudden death of W. M. Loder, of
Abbey Green, Singleton (N.S.W.), dur-
ing the Sydney Show robbed Australia
of a leading cattlebreeder. He was a de-
scendant of a First Fleeter and of Admiral
Howe, of Ushant, and of the Arndells of
the Hawkesbury, and his family were
stud-stock raisers from the earliest
pastoral days. They imported some of the
pioneer Shorthorn bulls, but later turned
to Polled Angus and Herefords. W.M.’s
father was for many years vice-president
of the Sydney R.A.S.
Here is Frith’s impression of Captain
Ivan N. Holyman, g.m. of Holyman’s
Airways and one of the heads of
William Holyman
and Sons, ship-
owners and for-
warding agents,
with branches all
over the Speck.
Ivan is the grand-
son of Captain W.
Holyman, who
sailed out of Hull
in the barque Eliza-
beth Ratcliffe as an
apprentice. Leav-
ing the ship, the
grandfather settled
in Devonport
(Tas.), where he
married. He bought
a small ketch, the
Cousens; from
such small begin-
nings the shipping
and aerial busi-
nesses of the Holy-
man family grew to
the present propor-
tions. The Holy-
mans own about a
dozen steamers,
while their aero-
planes run from
Hobart to Mel-
bourne via King Island, Launceston
to Melbourne via Flinders Island, and
Melbourne to Sydney. It is possible by
travelling on a Holyman ’plane to have
breakfast in Sydney and afternoon-tea on
the same day in Hobart. Ivan Holyman
is particularly bucked at the moment at
the acquisition of a Douglas D.C.2.
Mercury —Bass Strait version
Back in his native Victoria, after going
the round of every State (and the N.T.)
in postal work, is F. G. Simmons, now
Superintendent of Telegraphs in Mel-
bourne. He was born at Colac and edu-
cated at Geelong, and his main jobs have
been: Perth at 16, Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.) in 1897, telegraphist in Sydney,
Chief Engineer’s Branch in Melbourne,
S.A. since 1917, and Superintendent of
Telegraphs in Adelaide for the past eight
years.
S.A. has taken the first step towards
establishing an Institute of Medical
Science, a link between Government
hospitals and the University, by engaging
a director, at £l5OO a year—Dr. Weston
Hurst. He is a Birmingham man
with long experience at the Lister Insti-
tute, and in the U.S.A. at the Rockefeller
Institute, diseases of the nervous system
being his specialty. He was chosen
largely on the recommendation of the
veteran Charles Martin, who for some
years after Brailsford Robertson’s death
was in Adelaide in charge of the Animal
Nutrition department. The plans of the
new building, which will be behind the
Adelaide Hospital, are to be kept for
Dr. Weston Hurst’s final advice on
arrival.
The family of Lord Reay, just mar-
ried in Edinburgh, is one of the most
historically curious in the Scottish peer-
age. The title came to the chiefs of
Clan Mackay for their adherence to
Charles 1., and descended to the offspring
of a second son of the original peer who
fled the country and settled in Holland.
Later, the family acquired a Dutch title
and a Dutch accent and nationality, but
kept up its connections with the U.K.
Every now and then a Baron became a
British subject and took part in British
public affairs ; the 11th peer, for instance,
was a P.C. and Governor of Bombay.
And with the determination of the
present lord to become naturalised and
live in Britain it looks as if the Mackays
will have a chief who is Scottish-born
in the next generation.
H. P. Somerset, dead at 84, might have
gone a lot farther in politics if he had not
been inoculated at birth with the virus
of principle. A
near relative of the
Dukes of Beaufort
and son of a Gov-
ernor of the Cape,
he was born in
Africa and came to
Queens land 65
years ago. He
founded Mt. Mar-
low station on the
Barcoo four years
later, but after-
wards went to
N.S.W. to manage
Ramornie and Gor-
don Brook. From
1888, however, his
address was
Caboonbah on the
Stanley. He turned
it into a fine prop-
erty, and his name
will be perpetuated
in the district by
the Somerset Dam,
so christened by a
Labor Government
which he alway-
bitterly opposed.
The Assembly for
19 years knew him
as a bowed and bearded figure with the air
of having stepped out of a mediaeval oil
portrait. He was a fierce antagonist of
land taxation, and refused a seat in the
Kidston Ministry because of his opposi-
tion to it.
F. E. Lloyd, visiting Australia, is a
canny Lancashire man —born in Man-
Chester, educated in Liverpool and
polished in the scientific departments of
various U.S.A. and German universities.
He is one of the world’s leading authori-
ties on plant biology and physiology,
with a special knowledge of rubber and
tropical industrial plant conditions, but
his home is among the snows of Mont-
real (Canada) —he is Emeritus Professor
of Botany at McGill University.
J. A. Beattie’s is one of the best-known
figures in Australian showrings. Next
to the elder Reynolds he is about the
doyen of Hereford breeders. But while
“BEATTIE of the Hereford s.”
the blood which he bred at Gisborne
(Vic.) and later at Narrandera (N.S.W.),
where he settled a few years ago, has per-
meated through main herds in every
Hereford State, he is best known as a
judge. Most Royal Show rings have
held his placid figure on at least a few
judging days.
The triumph of the Fairbairn style in
the Cambridge-Oxford boatrace is a re-
minder that knight George Fairbairn
is just 81. (He was a Cambridge
man —Jesus College.) Doyen of Vic-
torian rowing, George Fairbairn stroked
the Victorian crew in the first inter-
state —“inter-colonial” then —race over
a four-mile course on the Yarra,
Victoria winning by two lengths. He
was one of the founders of Henley-on-
Yarra. He has found time since to be
pastoralist, clubman, golfer, company
director (Dalgety’s, A.M.P., Union
Trustee), M.L.A., M.H.R., Senator and
Agent-General.
“C.B.’s” farewell:
The world’s champion hoaxer, W. H.
Cole, has died in France. He was the bright
lad who in pre-war days as a Cambridge
undergrad, paid an “official” call on that his-
toric university town disguised as the Sultan
of Zanzibar, then on a visit to London. Three
other undergrads, acted as aides-de-camp and
equerries. They were received in royal style
by the Mayor, and, as the country reporter
puts it, a good time was had by all. Later,
Cole sprang an' Abyssinian “royal” visit on
H.M.S. Dreadnought, which also came off,
although two of the disguised party were
cousins of the officer of the day who showed
them round the ship. Cole came to grief by
shouting “Stop thief!” down Whitehall after
the irascible Locker Lampson, M.P., and was
fined £5 for the joke. What finally made
London too hot for him was roping off and
digging up a considerable section of Piccadilly
with the aid of sundry bright lads, under
the disguise of road-repairers, in order to in-
convenience a party at the Ritz to which he
had not been invited.


THE BEAUTY OF GLASS
IN ITS MOST WONDERFUL MODERN CREATIONS PRESENTED AN AMAZING SPECTACLE OF LIGHT
AND DAZZLING BEAUTY IN THE CROWN CRYSTAL EXHIBIT IN THE HALL OF INDUSTRIES.
Good Crystal is surely a divine creation when presented as
in the 1936 Grimwade range, part of which Crown Crystal
displayed in their exhibit. Exquisite pieces, perfect in form
and cut so deep and beautiful, there is genuine pleasure in
handling these delightful pieces of Grimwade, The real thrill
of possession is yours when Grimwade takes its place among
your most treasured possessions.
SPECIAL DISPLAY of this very Genuine Crystal now being
presented by both Messrs. David Jones and Anthony
Hordern and Sons.
GLASS BRICKS!
GLASS TILES!
GLASS MASONRY!
The Australian Glass Manufacturers presents the greatest
advent of modern architecture. The Glass-brick Wall featured
v' .. B Bj ‘ Bfijl
tmsmm
1
1
i
V
■*
m
*
■lll
■
l|
I
%
\
■
u
m
m
H
:--;3
Sgfesf
if
I
m
■
B
Mi
i
iMM
k
,
above will bring some realisation of the new school of
architectural treatment that opens up for homes, offices,
factories, exteriors and interiors. Tests revealed that Glass
Bricks withstand pressure of 72,5001 b. in compression tests.
Glass Masonry is not a luxury; it is a well-founded and
practical advancement in modern architecture. Agee Glass
Bricks and Agee Glass Tiles are not an experiment, as
similar Bricks and Tiles are being used in the more modern
homes and factories abroad to-day.
CROWN LIGHTINGWARE.
The combination of various metals and glass is shown to its
fullest advantage in Crown lightingwafe. The most modern
units produced in a variety of art glass (some with beautiful
crystal bases), five-light and cylinder fittings, decorated bowls
of all types, glass traymobiles and dinner waggons, give the
very latest note of modern achievement in glass in the range
of the Crown Crystal Glass Co., Ltd.
iiii
mm
m%wm
* * ’■ '* 4
I
w§.
m i
t
The wall of glass tiles taken from
the interior of stand, showing
translucent but not transparent
tile.
GRIMWADE
CRYSTAL
AUSTRALIA’S
PROUD
ACHIEVEMENT
100 PER CENT.
AUSTRALIAN
MADE
: .'v T
n i
*
f?m'C m': , illi **
' yw.- */ s ' s '
%' * sA v m
IDEAL FLOWER BOWLS.
The very latest trend in coloured Flower
Bowls is depicted in the display of Ideal
Flower Bowls on the very beautiful
modern glass tables shown above. End-
less designs can be made with these
ideal Bowls and the most amazing floral
decoration results obtained with them.
CROWN CRYSTAL GLASS CO. LTD.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled''trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, 0:1 request
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL 11. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors'.
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.f
£ £ £ £ a;
1925.. 69.425 12,350 15,018 42,057 296,393
1926.. 78,071 14,524 21,365 42,182 338,575
Staff Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 337,575
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 53,307 544,460
1931.. 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
1933.. 105,990 44,022 27,060 34,908 667,511
1934.. 121,747 48,269 26,071 47,407 714,918
1935.. 124,100 49,359 25,162 49,579 764,497
•Includes divs. to shareholders: 1918, £458;
1923, £3708 ; 1926, £5208 ; 1929, £8333 ; 1930,
£3958; 1981, £4167; 1932, £4375 ; 1933, £4375;
1934-35, £5OOO,
t Includes sundry reserves.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.!
£ £ C £ £
1925.. 125,012 27,136 59,411 38,465 267,149
1926.. 136,445 31,240 68,811 36,394 303,543
Profit from sale of assets, £2023.. 305,566
Stall Provident Fund, £4ooo' .. 301,566
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,633 40,980 342,566
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
19.30.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Stall Provident Fund, £2OOO .. 487,221
1931.. 160,648 49,612 72,488 38,548 525,769
1932.. 156,665 48.268 75,400 32,997 558,766
1933.. 162,491 52,203 77,083 33,205 591,971
1934.. 176,016 48,451 77,353 50,212 642,183
1935.. 185,054 55,484 80,974 48,596 690,779
•Includes divs. to shareholders; 1922, £888;
1923, £l4BO ; 1924, £1966 ; 1925, £3473;
1926-35, £7500.
■(•lncludes sundry reserves.
Regular bonuses are attracting additional
support to this organisation, which is
spread over the three eastern States and
South Aus., and income in both sections
of the office was a record last year.
Shareholders also are being well looked
after now.
Total new business last year was 10 p.c.
greater than that written in 1934, though
in the Ordinary branch it was slightly
lower owing to a shutting-down on new
group schemes. An extra £91,865 was put
on the books —£948,533 altogether for the
year in both departments. The improve-
ment in total income (£309,154) was
£11,391 —net premiums, etc. (£247,401),
rose £13,118, while interest, rents, etc.
(£61,752), dropped £1727 (there was some
non-recurring income in the preceding
year). With all legitimate claims and
exes, paid, £12,500 set aside on share-
holders’ account, and £2271 transferred
to bonus reserve, there remained £96,839
(up £1466), which was added to the
Assurance funds, raising them to
£1,366,713. In addition, policy-holders
had a further backing of £87,562 of sun-
dry reserves and £50,000 of share capital.
Results of actuarial investigations are
published triennially. The surpluses
available for distribution as per the last
two valuations have been as follows:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931 . . £25,779 £19,700 £45,479
1934 . . 28,543 19,747 48,290
Good work has been put in of recent
years. During and immediately after the
triennium ended 1934 the basis of valua-
tion was strengthened at a cost of £18,741.
The result has been a more assured
outlook for the future. The co. assumes
that its Assurance funds in the Ordi-
nary section will net 3 p.c., and in the
Industrial p.c. Actually, last year’s
net return on average funds was 4.2 p.c.
in the Ordinary and 4.6 p.c. in the
Industrial, as against 4.8 p.c. and a shade
over 5 p.c. respectively in 1934. The
drop is principally due to the non-recur-
ring income in 1934 previously men-
tioned. Also, taxes (£3601) were £521
higher.
The return from funds over and above
actuarial estimates is more than 1 p.c. on
the book value of policy-holders’ assets —
a wide margin that promises well for
future bonuses. In the O.D. recently the
rates on whole-life and endowment
assurances ranged from 30s. to 40s. p.c.
Last year, of the net premiums, exes,
(excluding taxes) took 20 p.c. of the
Ordinary and 46.3 p.c. of the Industrial,
compared with, 23,1 p.c. and 46.4 p.c.
respectively in 1934.
The office continues to favor public
securities as an investment. Most of
last year’s addition to funds was invested
this way:
1934. p.c. 1935. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. ..£259,259 18.3 £259,745 17.1
Govt, securities . . 688,150 48.5 770,571 50.8
Shares other cos. 21,302 1.5 22,047 1.4
Mortgages.. .. 283,476 19.9 281,649 18.6
Loans on policies. . 99,199 7.0 101,384 6.7
Hook debts . . 42,863 3.0 45,247 3.0
Cash . . . . 25,685 1.8 37,632 2.4
Consols, etc., moved up £82,421. In
1929 Government securities amounted to
36.4 p.c. and mortgages to 30.9 p.c. of
the total assets.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 54,747 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4747 7.566
1927.. 57,553 10 „ „ 40,000 10,000 7553 15,119
Freehold depreciation and insur-
ance reserves taken in, £60,065 .. 75,184
1928.. 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
Reserves brought to light, £44,756 .. 124,059
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 24,059
1929.. 64,045 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 4045 28,104
1930.. 62,242 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 2242 30,346
1931 .. 61,784 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 1784 32,130
1932.. 46,736 6 „ ~30,000 7,500 * o, ari .
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 ) 1/00
1933.. '48,660 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,500 ) „„ Rn ...
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 ) 0
1934.. 49,915 01 p.c. =32,500 7,500 ). olr
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO J 491 d 4 ~’ 44J
Inner reserves disclosed, £120,000 ..162,441
1935.-52,155 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,500 J no .
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO ) 4Gdd 167,090
1936.. 56,645 71 p.c.= 37,500 7,500
Reserved for bad debts, £5000) G64d 173,741
The accounts show more truly the posi-
tion since 1935, when, owing to pro-
visions in the new S.A. Companies Act,
“it was thought desirable to exhibit
more definitely reserve accounts in the
balance sheet.” Apparently hidden away
under “sundry creditors and provision
for taxation, etc.,” previously, £120,000
was yanked out and shown as general
reserve.
In other days the cupboard had an
appearance of bareness ; visible reserves
of above £50,000 were rarely on show.
Bonus issues in 1924 and 1928 make divs.
for the last eight years worth double the
declared rate to old holders. In 11 years
£254,133 was brought to light. The fact
that divs. never got below 6 p.c. during
the slump suggests that the co.’s financial
strength is still not fully exposed.
Last term beer-drinking in S.A. in-
creased slightly, and the co. supplied a
bigger share of that consumption. Gross
trading earnings (£62,133) stepped up
£1904, while rents and interest (£43,984)
brought in £2238 more. Exes. (£50,959)
ran off with £453 less ; thus the net result
claimed was £4596 higher at £55,158. In-
cluding an unexplained addition to re-
serves of £1487, earnings were equal to
11.3 p.c. on capital, as against 10.4, 9.9,
9.7, 9.3 and 12.3 p.c. back to 1931. The
div. was lifted half a point, and, after
£12,500 had been whisked away to depre-
ciation and bad debts reserves, £6645 re-
mained for the general lay-by (£173,741).
The co.’s increasing hold on the trade
is apparent from movements in this
table:
1928. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors 212,081 154,763 82,637 72,213
Preeh o 1 d s,
m a o hinery
and plant.. 444,791 390,589 451,798 535,223
Stocks.. .. 24,173 17,683 18,167 20,572
Book debts .. 47,369 38,597 36,051 29,765
Advances .. 195,035 259,528 200,056 157,871
Cash .. .. 10,017 15,892 73,315 35,022
Last term the book value (£45,712) of
plant dropped £8174. Herein lies some
of the co.’s financial strength. Properties,
which include hotels, moved up £91,599
(to £489,511). The money was raised by
realising some Consols previously held
and calling in £42,785 of advances. The
more or less liquid surplus (£171,017,
including stock) was £74,535 lighter.
At 475. the market obtains an imme-
diate return of 3.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis (which seems the minimum likely
to be paid this year). Visible net tan-
gible backing amounts to 275. per £1
share.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re— Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926 .. 19,031 12* p.c. = 12,500 6531 77,212
1927 .. 22,165 12* „ ~ 13,802 8363 85,575
Premiums on shares, £6250.. .. 91,825
1928 .. 24,693 124 p.c. =17,578 7115 98,940
1929 .. 19,732 12* „ „ 19,531 201 99,141
1930 .. 17,949 10 „ „ 15,625 2324 101,465
Loss.
1931 . . 2,735 4 „ „ 6,250 92,480
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO .. 87,480
To staff fund, £9lB .. .. 86,562
1932 .. 1,870 Nil 84,692
Written off, £3285 .. .. .. 81,407
Inner reserves disclosed, £306 .. 81,773
1933 .. , 306 Nil 81,407
To staff fund, £B3l .. .. .. 80,576
Written off, £9OOO 71,576
Profit.
1934 . . 6,097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund, £843 . . .. 71,830
1935 . . 9,053 5 p.e. = 6,250 2803 74,633
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
1936 .. 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. . . 78,761
The business is well spread throughout
back-country of Victoria and N. S.
Wales, with offices in both capitals.
There are 32 country branches, dealing
in station supplies and offering carriage
and agency services. Earnings have been
the more susceptible to seasons and
prices because the co. has no nest-eggs
in the form of investments outside its
own particular sphere. Murray Ship-
ping has been an unreliable contributor
to the pool for many years ; at present
its pref. divs. are in arrears.
In 1933 the co. returned ss. per share
( = £31,250), owing to the contraction in
avenues for profitable employment of
funds. The recovery in the business
since suggests that it could make
use of the money again, though there is
actually no strain on finances yet. Last
term gross earnings (£89,689) jumped
£16,235 ; including £4936 visibly set aside
for depreciation, “substantial” allowance
for bad debts, and £4OOO provided for
taxation, exes, ran off with £76,147, up
£11,746. The net result (£13,542) was
thus £4489 higher, equal to 10.8 p.c. on
capital, as against 7.2 p.c. and 4.3
p.c. in the two preceding terms. The
div. was lifted to 6 p.c., and, after allow-
ing for £9Bl transferred to the staff fund,
reserves (£78,761) benefited by £5061. In
the last two or three years the co. has
absorbed several other small businesses
and enlarged its existing branches:
1920. 1925. 1934. 1935. 1936.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 50,000 75,000 125,000 125,000 125,000
Liabilities., 79,212 63,415 38,025 63,515 80,267
Plant and
property. . 47,193 38,571 66,093 75,953 79,714
Book debts 90,583 119,109 103,640 114,279 119,886
Merchandise 32,883 44,244 58,490 64,832 71.499
Investments 18,000 6,900 6,900 11,899
Cash, etc... 5,834 22,797 6,528 7.547 9,840
The effect shows up in an expansion of
£13,621 in property and plant since 1934.
Book debts and stocks have stepped up
£16,240 and £13,009 respectively in the
same period. These movements have
been accompanied by a growth of
£42,242 in outside liabilities.
Last term £3761 more was spent on
than was written off fixed assets, a busi-
ness being bought at Warragul (Vic.). To
investments (hitherto a holding in
Murray Shipping, valued at £6900) £4999
was added. Mainly as a result of these
transactions the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£120,958) was £2185 lighter.
The market prices the fully-paid £1
shares at 265. The yield is 4.6 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis; backing is 325. 7d.
in net tangibles (book value).
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
r- —Dividends— To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit.* Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1925.. 20,789 8 p.c. 10 p.e. 9,616 1 009099709
Staff bonus .. ..£1250 1 33,(9-
1926.. 18,935 8 p.c. 10 p.e. 11,563 1 on nij
Staff bonus .. ..£1250 )
1927.. 12,247 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 13,459 38,702
1928.. 10,262 8 ~ 8 „ 11,472 37,492
Trade-marks, etc., £55 .. .. 37,437
1929.. 8,436 8 p.c. Nil 3,200 5236 42,673
Trade-marks, etc., £lO .. .. 42,663
1930. . 4,524 Nil Nil 4524 47,187
Written off investments, etc., £10,262.. 36,925
Loss.
1931.. 2,091 Nil Nil 34,834
Transferred to assets revaluation Deficit.
reserve, £56,486 .. .. .. 21,652
Profit.
1932.. 4,002 Nil Nil 4002 17,650
1933.. 3,748 Nil Nil 3748 13,902
Transferred to specific reserves, £5000.. 18,902
1934.. 5,194 10 p.c. Nil 4,000 1194 17,708
1935.. ,7,386 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 5,153 2233 15,475
*After charging previous year’s taxation.
tGoodwill ( £25,000) not treated as an asset.
The recovery here is very pleasing,
considering the scant encouragement re-
ceived from U.S.A. to help right the
trade balance with wines and the fact
that Australian annual consumption is
less than a gallon a head. Britain has
been a more eager customer lately ; and
Australians are gradually growing more
wine-minded, too. Under legislation
passed in 1929 wine may be exported only
under license, conditions to which are
prices fixed by a board and the with-
holding of shipments where necessary —
altogether resulting in a more stable
market in London.
In the Commonwealth the retail side
of the industry has been put on a less
disastrously competitive basis. Prices
are better, and the industry is able to
plan ahead with greater confidence.
Caldwell’s earnings have been picking
up since 1932. The industry was one of
the first to reflect the financial stringency
and growth in unemployment that pre-
ceded the slump ; this co.’s ord. div. was
cut out in 1929, and the prefs. went
hungry from 1930 to 1933 inclusive. For
the 1934 term the latter class of share-
holders accepted 10 p.c. in commutation
and discharge of all arrears.
Last term gross profit (£38,069) was
£1905 better. After charging all ex-
penses (£30,683, including depreciation,
bad debts and the previous year’s taxes,
down £287 altogether) net profit was
£2192 higher at £7386. After handing
the prefs. 6.2 p.c., enough remained (sub-
ject to unpaid taxes) to declare 4.6 p.c.
on the ords. Instead, 2\ p.c. was paid,
and £2233 was carried towards reserves.
They were £15,475 short of the goodwill
item (£25,000, not treated as an asset
herein) at balance day.
Here is a view of the finances:
1922. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £80,500 £143,398 £143,398 £144,823
Deposits .. 12,820 18,270 23,267 22,738
Mortgages, etc. 18,880 18,530 18,530
Overdraft . . 24,855 27,013 27,436 24,644
Other liabilities 15.631 15,942 19,039 16,607
Properties, plant,
etc 45,773 132,109 134,398 139,549
Book debts . . 28,449 27,579 30,284 27,379
Stocks . . 65,469 29,899 41,883 38,805
Cash, etc. . . 551 2,365 2,497 2,387
Shares in other
cos 13,900 8,900 8,900
Liabilities total £82,519, a reduction of
£5753 compared with the previous year,
notwithstanding an addition of £5151 to
fixed assets, mainly in respect of licensed
premises. The cash necessary came
partly from improved trading and partly
from reductions of £3078 and £2905 in
the book values of stocks and debtors
respectively. When conditions become
more settled the directors may offer up
to 25,000 new prefs. to shareholders.
In recent years £lO,OOO has been re-
served against shares in Buchanan and
Co., the Brisbane subsidiary. In 1932
all available reserves were used to bring
other assets more into line with what
their actual worth to the co. was con-
sidered to be.
The prefs. are tightly held. At 12s.
the ords. yield 4.1 p.c. on a 2 i p.c. div.
basis, and they may do better this year.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
Nominal
Net r~ Dividends To Re-- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 89,242 6 p.c. 6 p.c. - 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 „ 4„ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3 „ „ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 5 „ „ 79,038 67 109,737
Loss.
1929.. 54,193 Nil Nil 55.544
Profit.
1930.. 675 Nil Nil 675 56,219
1931.. 15,975 Nil Nil 15,975 72,194
1932.. 12,585 Nil Nil 12,585 84,779
1933.. 13.279 Nil Nil 13,279 98,058
1934.. 12,322 Nil Nil 12,322 110,380
1935.. 10,415 Nil Nil 10,415 120,795
There was little increase in the quantity
of coal raised in N. S. Wales last .term,
and prices continued to be cut, especially
for railway and shipping contracts. Ten-
ders were below 10s. a ton for railway
coal in some instances. So there was
little or nothing in it even for Caledonian
Collieries, with its Howard Smith con-
nections ; profits, which turned into a
loss during the 1929 strike, have been
nominal for the past five years, and have
shown a decline over the past two.
The co. owns the four Aberdares and
three other pits on the Maitland coal-
field. The Aberdares are on the Greta
seam, which is the least expensive to
work and produces some of the best gas
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


THE CONQUEST OF MISS NICOTINE


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores
Silver Concentrates Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precinitates
PRODU P CERS Pe oF Cyanide SlagS ’ and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper. ’
G° ld ’ Sllver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone)
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.-Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers* own specifications
PRINTERS' METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to- Standard Pormulse or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Companv’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.B.W.
Sydney Office: 35 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office; 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Keinbla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. Tiie Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Said a batsman called Oliver Lees,
“This bowler aims straight at my knees.”
But Schweppes Tonic so lashed
Him to zeal that he smashed
All the scorer’s front teeth out with ease.
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
- cio-eA tjvu -tfwtJl
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations 6 y Appointment.
72 PltT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone; 84356.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting:
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* V ¥ ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydnev.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.—Advt.
coal in the State. But with too many
m the industry for the shrunken busi-
ness available the colliery assets, how-
ever potentially good, haven’t been
given a chance in recent years. The last
oid. div. was paid in 1928; neither
prets. nor ords. have been in the picture
smce. Over the past seven years the
profits claimed have been only £11,058
,n r s* cess °f losses.
the use of crude oil as a shipping
tuel has sadly affected King Coal. Elec-
tricity is growing in popularity, too, be-
cause by this means of obtaining power
less coal fuel is used. Even inter-State
snipping cos., which have invested
neavily m the coal industry, are adding
motor vessels to their fleet. Most of the
CX f haS A? 0 lOSt *
down f ion? S Pr ?oa/i Wa r> PUt at £ 10 ’ 4
f no ?qs 9o7 i 193 ? e , ser J e n , figl i r ® at
A r A oqV nst a ca P ltal °1 £1 >487,894
1023 500 ord« P n t v/ m ’r
f17 2 7 3 n?7 9 d «,? UtSlde labilities total
Phtf ’ * ,
a in a ' sets la u st y ear was
a rise of £23,656 in sundry debtors:-
Pref. capital.. £464,295 £464,295£4«4,2 4 95
Ord. capital.. 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599 i 1,023,599
Creditors .. 188,930 219,972 121,781 i22,ioc
Overdraft .. 16,671 98,365 49,737 54,961
Collieries, etc. 1,645,298 1,738,708 1,610,048 1,609,125
stores .. 103,724 61,555 51,119 49,907
Coal stocks.. 6,306 758 16,672 11,061
shaL debts :: ftSS ASH SjSi Sr’S”
Clash, etc. .. 809 378 252 *246
It suggests increased trade, but appa-
rently at non-profit prices. The colliery
assets appear at a figure almost exactly
equal to the total of capital and reserves
combined.
The ords. are around 3s. 9d. and the
prefs. 9s. 9d.
The New Paper Co.
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd.,
the company formed to manufacture
fine printing, writing and type-
writing papers on the Emu River at
South Burnie (Tas.), was registered in
Melbourne on Saturday. Nominal capi-
tal is £3,000,000 in £1 shares. Of
the lot 250,000 will be deferreds, to be
handed to the two pioneering enterprises
in the future industry—lso,ooo to
Gerald Mussen and his confreres for
rights, etc., and 100,000 to Tasmanian
Paper Pty. for its assets, concessions, etc.,
in the Huon Valley, in the south of the
Speck. Approximately half the shares
in Tas. Paper are owned by Amalga-
mated Zinc (De Bavay’s).
. As stated last week, Broken Hill capital
is to figure largely in the picture. Among
them, North 8.H., B.H. South, Zinc
Corp. and Electrolytic Zinc, together with
tbe Aust ralian Glass Co., are to take
?00 ,000 ords. firm ; and, subject to the
approval of shareholders in Amalga-
mated Zinc (De Bavay’s) on April 30,
this co. is to take 150,000 ords. “Other
interests, possibly English or connected
with Australian Paper Manufacturers
Pty., are to take another 175,000 ords..
makinff a tntal nf A'ISOAO toton
,- g . 2l u 10 nnn
tirm tor cash. That will leave 325,000
ords. for public subscription—the total
cash issue will be 950,000 shares. The
public issue, subject to “limited priority
rights of vendors and Tasmanian resi-
dents,” will in the first instance be offered
to shareholders in the founder corn-
panics. The deferreds will bring the
share-register total to £1,200,000.
Deferred shares will not participate in
profits until the ords. have received a
total of 6 p.c. on their capital; once the
ords. have had Is. 2.4 d, a share in divi-
dends the deferreds will rank as ords.
The interests of Gerald Mussen, who
formed Paper Makers, Ltd., are in the
nor’-west of the Speck, handy to the mill
site at Burnie. Forest areas aggregating
62.000 acres are being bought from the
Van Diemen’s Land Co. The Emu Bay
railway looks like benefiting. Initial
plant capacity is to be 15,000 tons p.a.
According to present plans. Amalga-
mated Zinc will be the largest initial share-
holder in the new co. This concern was
formed near the beginning of the century
to exploit De Bavay’s process for the
preliminary separation of the lead and
zinc in Broken Hill ores. In 1916,
assisted by Broken Hill cos., it formed
Electrolytic Zinc, the works of which are
at Risdon, near Hobart.
To handle its share of the new flota-
tion, the De Bavay co, is to form a sub-
sidiary, Zinc Investments Pty., to which,
apparently, the 100,000 deferreds will be
transferred, and which will take up the
150.000 ords. in the cash issue. Amal-
gamated Zinc will supply the necessary
money —it had £208,555 of surplus
liquids at Dec. 31 last.
The directors of Amalgamated Zinc,
as members of the board of one
vendor co. (Tas. Paper), believe that con-
ditions are favorable to the successful
establishment of the industry. The new
co. will have the support of some of the
strongest and most enterprising interests
in the Commonwealth.
Triton (Cue, W.A.)
Triton Gold Mines, N.L., in the period
September 4, 1935, to March 2, 1936,
treated 33,508 long tons for 11,4780 z.
gold—an average recovery of 6.Bdwt. for
a total value of £99,500 (Aust.). Costs
—mining 18s. 7d., provision for develop-
ment 55., and treatment 9s. 4d.—recently
averaged 325. lid. a ton. On recoveries
of 565. a ton a working profit of about
235. seems indicated, or about £85,000
(Aust.) a year on the treatment of 6200
tons a month. Both costs and recoveries,
however, should improve.
During four months to the end of
February, head value of ore treated was
B.4dwt. and residues o.7dwt. In Janu-
ary the gold which escaped from the
plant increased owing to difficult ore
from No. 4 level; the trouble has since
been overcome, and residues now average
about half a pennyweight. Gold absorp-
tion by the plant has gone on up to the
present, but is decreasing; here is an-
other point from which extra profits
should accrue later.
At February 29 ore reserves developed
above 425 ft. were estimated at 157,000
tons, averaging B.3dwt. The volume is
being augmented by development at
depth. Drilling showed the ore-body to
be still going down at 680 ft.
The method of including a fixed
amount (55.) to cover development in
mining and treatment costs is similar to
that adopted by Wiluna, which allows
3s. 3d, a ton. Indications are that the
management has studied Wiluna methods
(which have been highly successful) in
other directions.
Dr. Loftus Hills says that £5,000,000
worth of gold should exist in the
areas held by Emperor, Loloma, Koroere,
Aloha Central and Tavua Gold Develop-
ment. Five millions! —and gross at
that, apparently. The sharemarket
valuation (less than a year ago) of
Emperor and Loloma alone was around
£4,000,000, and to justify that figure ex-
traction costs and the time factor in
winning the metal would have to be
taken into account. ’ Dr. Hills bases his
estimates on development to a depth of
“less than 200 ft.,” and has referred to “a
period last year when there was undue
and to a certain extent undesirable ex-
citement.” If people should be led by
favorable reports from the field to feel
again excited about Fiji scrip, they
should hesitate long enough to remember
that Emperor and Loloma shares, at 12s.
and 19s, 9d. respectively, are still at a pre-
mium. Nevertheless, the paper is con-
sidered by some to be very “depressed.”
* * * *
Moroka Gold Dredging and Develop-
ment, formed in Sydney in September,
has acquired from Moroka Alluvial
rights over 3,200,000 acres in Papua.
Consideration is £2OOO cash, plus 5000 £5
shares. Capital of the Dredging co. is
£lOO,OOO in £5 shares, of which 5000
were originally offered for general sub-
scription ; now the public is invited to
take another 6000. Directors estimate
that £40,000, including £30,000 to be
lodged with the Papuan Government,
will be sufficient working capital.
* * * *
Central Nell Gwynne, Bendigo, was
the big attraction on Melbourne ’Change
last week. The 9s. 9d. shares, down to
3s. in February, sold to 225. on Friday.
Two strong lines of faulting have been
discovered, associated with which large
bodies of gold-carrying ore have been
reported. A recent development was the
breaking of high-grade ore on the 820 ft.
south level —gold was reported to be dis-
tributed “throughout the large ore-
body.” Last crushing was 100 tons for
90oz. 14dwt. gold. There has been talk
of a dividend, but on the present financial
position it seems a little premature.
* * * *
Mount Morgan (Q.) got back to
normal production during the four weeks
to April 15, heavy rains having un-
settled things in the previous month.
Tonnage put through was 21,110, for a
recovery of 31050 z. gold and 1250 z.
copper. The market was comparatively
firm during last week’s sluggishness,
quotes sticking around 16s. 3d.
* * * *
Owing to the costs of plant-erection on
its Hawkins Hill (Q.) property, George-
town Gold Mines, having reached pro-
duction, is considering bumping up capi-
tal from £75,000 to £112,500 by increas-
ing the 10s. shares (150,000) to 15s.
Though first clean-up of surface dump
yielded only 290 z. fine gold, there was
J3ooz. (estimated) locked up in plant cir-
cuit. Future crushings are expected to
show increased recoveries, obviating
necessity for a call.
=i= * * *
A. E. Paton, of the South Kalgurli,
owing “to pressure of business,” isn’t
going to report on the Lady Shenton
(Menzies, W.A.). Directors state that
complete check-sampling of all sections
of the mine is in progress. A. Brown,
manager of Spargo’s, is to be acting-
manager of the Shenton during the
absence of T. McDonald, on the sick
list. The costly plant is taking a long
while to run in, and has yet to prove
its extraction capabilities. In March
it ran for only 15 days—crushing 326
tons for 170 oz. The rest of the month
and part of April were occupied
principally in installing two Bft. pans for
fine grinding. The market, up to 17s.
6d. in January, was around 6s. 2d. last
Friday.
* * * *
B. Mines, Ltd., instrumental in
floating a £400,000 London co. to work
the Mopoke and Gimlet at Ora Banda
(W.A.), has got six months’ exemption
on its Nevoria leases, Yilgarn (W.A.).
Gerald Lovell, the co.’s consulting
engineer, states that £20,000 has already
been spent on the leases ; three shafts
are being sunk to 300 ft. A subsidiary
is to be formed in London to develop
800.000 tons of ore already blocked out.
• * * *
Paringa (W.A.), in the six months to
February 29, developed an additional
38,500 tons of ore, averaging 7dwt.,
making total ore reserves 78,300 tons of
5.75dwt. value. There were, in addition,
55.000 tons partly developed and 7800
tons at grass. Plans and specifications
for a treatment plant are being obtained.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s treatment and
profit both moved up in March. The
co. put through 49,288 tons of ore and
60,096 tons of tailings for a profit of
£50,233 (Aust.). Capital expenditure
was £5621.
* * * *
Gambier Lass (W.A.) has been closed
down following an examination and an
adverse report by an independent expert.
Co., a local one, got £30,000 from the
public early in 1925. Vendors received
£7500, preliminary expenses absorbed
about £4OOO, between £6OOO and £7OOO
has been spent on the mine and £12,000
or thereabouts is said to be in hand.
Shareholders are meeting shortly.


x *>y;
w
;#!*!
& j:Jg
nusißHLinn
4/i Australian Factory
in an Australian
Garden
WIRELESS MflllllFflGTDßE
The manufacture of wireless equipment in Australia has attained
a very high degree of efficiency. Every type of apparatus for use
at sea, on land and in the air is now produced at the A.W.A.
Radio-Electric Works.
Over 40 Broadcasting Stations have been made by A.W.A. for all
parts of Australia, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji. The largest of
all, a 60 k.w, station, is now being manufactured for the N.Z.
Broadcasting Board, and when finished it will be the most power-
ful broadcasting station in the Southern Hemisphere.
Australian manufactured wireless equipment has been installed
in over 300 ships, and A.W.A. regularly exports to Great Britain
wireless equipment for vessels building there for Australian and
New Zealand shipping companies.
The A.W.A. works are also the largest for the manufacture of
broadcasting receivers, as well as for equipment used in the Police
Department, Hydro-electric networks, and many others.
The design and manufacture of radio-telephone transmitting and
receiving equipment for use in aeroplanes, and wireless equip-
ment for ground communication with aircraft, constitutes still
another phase of A.W.A. manufacture.
This great national work provides employment for 1,000
Australians.
Wl^l.li\Vl \Ti:il WIRELESS (A/ASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ABORIGINALITIES
“Agrarian”: S.A. is
celebrating its centenary
by discovering a mar-
supial hitherto unknown
to scientists and. bush-
men. It resembles a
kangaroo, but differs in
several details, and is
not an improvement on
the older and better-
known model. F’rin-
stance, the base of her
carry-all is squarish, and
Nature prefers curves.
She is also carrying twin
babies (very unusual are
twins) in her pouch,
which is so placed that
they are obliged to peer
beneath her offside leg.
This limits their view
and makes it darned
awkward for ma to bound at the 50
m.p.h. which she is apparently doing in
the posters. I prefer the old model.
* * * *
“Swingle-bar”: Has any Aboliar ever
tried tracking the dingo down on foot?
In the sandy mallee country between the
Lower Darling and Murray rivers
(N.S.W.), G. Heritage, a boundary rider,
has often done it. He once tracked a
bitch to a lair, where he got the mother
and four pups. A well-known Darling
abo. and dogger, Coupaloupe, supports a
family of piccaninnies by tracking, often
following a dog for days till he gets him
within shotgun range.
£
“Poss”; Bluey, our cattle-dog, gets a
great kick out of riding in the spring-
cart or on the slide. Every morning
before we leave the stable he takes up a
position on whatever vehicle we intend
taking out, and never yet has picked the
wrong one. The cunning old fellow
waits until he sees what harness we put
on old Nugget, then makes a dive for
the cart or slide, as the case may be.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: “Bill R.” (B. 1/4/’36)
should have done a little scientific read-
ing before ascribing the diminution of
water-rats solely to 52 years of “the fur-
hunter’s gun.” Firearms are of little use
in taking such wily animals. Prior to
about 1917 they, or their traces, were to
be seen in every East Australian estuary
or stream which carried fish. A disease
broke out among fish, killing them in
thousands, especially mullet. It was fatal
also to water-rats, and apparently per-
sisted among them, for they became rare
animals up to the last few years, at any
rate in. S.Q. Nor is the “fur-hunter’s
gun” responsible for the shortage of
bears and possums, although cyanide,
snares and traps play an all-too-large
part in it. The real cause is a tape-
worm ; its effects are probably magni-
fied by decrease of the few species of
eucalypts whose leaves are essential to
their health and welfare. These are not
matters of opinion, but recorded facts.
* * * *
“E.L.1.”: Firmly embedded in an
apple grown on a Huon (Tas.) orchard
are three sheep’s teeth, intact. The apple
had evidently grown round them, as the
skin was unbroken. It is presumed that
a bird carrying the teeth dropped them
into the tree while it was in flower.
* * ■ * *
“Tauwarra”: “Squalus’s” encounter
with a shark off the Gira, Papua (B.
l/4/’36), reminds me of a hair-raising
experience that befel me near Fisherman
Island (Port Moresby). A native canoe,
mast and sail stowed, makes an excel-
lent craft for game-fishing. I was fast
to a 2001 b. udukibi (tiger-shark). The
fight was out of him, and, in rapidly
diminishing circles, I was reeling him in.
My boss-boy, armed with a heavy steel
spear, was standing in the bows ready to
administer the coup de grace. Down
came the spear. There was a swirl of
water, a howl from the crew, and —I
can’t conceive of a predicament more un-
“Hey, Wot's the ideer? I said Jean, not Jane."
pleasant than being strapped to a rod, fast
to a very angry tiger-shark that, pricked
through the dorsal by an overanxious
spearman, has smashed the canoe’s out-
rigger. Thereafter I carried a .44.
* * * *
“Kali”: The mistaken idea that the
ostrich can safely digest anything from
a needle to an anchor is responsible for
Sydney Zoo’s unceasing vigilance to pre-
vent thoughtless visitors feeding the
big birds on hard tack. Up to date
Taronga has been luckier than Regent’s
Park, London, which recently registered
the fifteenth death among the ostrich
colony. The post-mortem disclosed these
undigested contents: two handkerchiefs,
three gloves, one Kodak spool, five yards
of string, four pencils, a few dozen rouge
sticks, one tyre valve, 15 nails of assorted
lengths, a clock key, two gold brooches,
one bangle, four pennies and a Straits
silver dollar. They were mounted and
placed in a position near the enclosure
with a printed request to the public to
desist from the stupid practice. It costs
about £lOO to land an ostrich in England.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: I’d hate to see “Country
Sawbones’s” suggestions (B. 1/4/’36) car-
ried out. Bush legends have rendered
many a stout service. We had run short
of meat on a prospecting trip, when we
came across an old bushwhacker with a
big catch of blackfish, quite unprotected
from the bright moonlight. We showed
him his oversight, thus saving him from
a horrible fate. We took the fish our-
selves to poison tiger-cats.
“Beesknees”: Still a few more legends
waiting for the axe: That snakes, how-
ever bashed, don’t die till sundown. That
a death-adder inflicts a sting with its
tail that is just as venomous as its bite.
That a strange black cat coming to your
hduse is a sign of good luck. That a
rooster crowing after dark and before
nine o’clock at night portends the death
of some member or relative of the
family. That birds nest only in the
springtime. That if a turtle’s head is cut
off and its head and body are flung back
into the same stream, the two pieces will
eventually become one.
* * * *
“First Blue”: It is to be hoped that
the Bush Balladry competition draws
forth a few odes about that rapidly dis-
appearing identity of the bush the post-
and-rail artist. Before radio and poster
advertising became so popular, one could
hardly leave a country town without
passing one of these weird brethren of
the brush busily emblazoning the fences
along the main roads with the merits of
Blank’s Incubators and Dongo, the Super
Rat Poison. To-day they are practically
extinct. I recall one fat, bulging, little
old man with a grey beard on which the
suds of his last pot still lingered ; he took
his job as seriously as a Norman Lind-
say or a Max Meldrum. I have even
known him to plane the surface of the
fence rail before entrusting his lettering
thereon. His main run was the Princes
Highway in Gippsland (Vic.), and one
of his fads was to write what he con-
sidered anpropriate advertisements on
farmers’ fences. For instance, if the
. . , ~ .
owner was a bit mean he d write Start
a Swings Bank Account ; on the fence
of a fat cocky he would scrawl Try
Reduce and bring your weight to nor-
mal. One evening he went on a bender,
l n a ft*- exuberance painted
Drink Frotho, the Super Beer—l always
do on the fence of the local wowser.
Durmg the seven-day spell in the cooler
he kept in training by scratching on the
cell wall.
‘■Consul”: In the Westralian wheat-
belt there is a fire-beetle which, at
burning-off time, appears to squat
on red-hot coals, usually at the end
of burning logs. Scores of clearers
will swear that they have been burnt
on the face by disturbed beetles
flying at them. This salamandrous insect
probably feeds on the sap boiled out of
burning logs and stumps, as they are
plentiful in semi-green clearing, but rarely
in dead wood.
* * * *
“Ron J.”; Evidence of flimsy ceilings
in Newcastle collieries (B. 25/3/’36) was
not always leg-pull. In the old Sea pit
(Cook’s Hill) steam trams were often
heard rumbling overhead, and under
favorable conditions a conductor could
be heard blowing his whistle. Nor was it
unusual to stand right under the pound-
ing surf ; in fact, the density of the roar
was an indication to experienced miners
as to the direction and velocity of the
wind on top. If fish and prawns didn t
ripple the slush in some of the mines,
particularly the long-defunct Stockton pit,
it was perhaps because they didn’t care to
explore the crevices that ran from the
floor of the harbor to the workings of the
mine. The damage caused by the creep
at Merewether, Newcastle’s seaside
suburb, is convincing proof that fre-
quently only an eggshell stratum lay
between miners and sunshine.
J|C Jk Sfc *
“Rex A.”: An American friend was
staying with us. One Sunday morning
he sat up in bed reading some old Bul-
letins. “Do you like ’em?” I asked.
“Well,” he said, “the editorial and Plain
English stuff is real good, but, say, it
must be just wonderful to know every-
thing, like these guys that contradict one
another in ‘Aboriginalities.’ ”
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: The Afghans mentioned
by “J.M.C.” (B. 1 / 4/’36) who used
special knives for killing were an unusual
breed. The Moslem does not “bless” his
meat, but cuts its throat before death to
ensure its being properly bled, as the
Koran enjoins, uttering the invocation
“In the name of Allah,” which he em-
ploys on every occasion. In my experi-
ence he does the cutting with any
knife he has to his hand. Also
no Moslem will object to a Kaffir
using his cooking utensils as long
as he doesn’t cook the accursed swine-
flesh in them. Generally speaking, the
Moslem will eat with a Christian, smoke
his tobacco and, if no one that matters is
looking, share a spot with him. The
people described by “J.M.C.” sound like
Hindus or possibly Sikhs. To these the
very shadow of an unbeliever on food or
utensil renders it unfit for use by the
faithful.
* * * ♦
“Quareef”: I rode one day to give an
eye to an automatically-controlled wind-
mill. A float-valve
closed when the re-
ceiving tank became
full, simultaneously
directing water into
a bucket whose
weight pulled a lever
down and shut the
mill off. For some
days there had been
little wind, and I
expected the tank
to be low. But I was
astonished to find
it empty, and more
puzzled when I
noticed the mill had not released
itself for duty. The float-valve
pulleys controlling the self-action
were in order, so I climbed the
ladder to investigate. With hand
on the bottom of the bucket I
pushed it vigorously upward.
A wild scuffling ensued within :
there was an angry squawk,
then something whirred out un-
comfortably near my face, and
I almost fell backwards with the
shock. The bucket contained a
bulky nest and six crow’s eggs.
The combined weight of nest,
crow and eggs had proved an
automatic success.
“Warrigal”: That piece of steer-roping
from the footboard of a taxi in Sydney
recently was a fair effort, as well as a
good advertisement for the performers,
who were seen at the Show, but I’ve
seen better. Mother Murphy was leav-
ing town in her Lizzie one afternoon
when a station heifer broke out of the
yards and careered up the town, with
the inevitable smash at the Greek’s win-
dow. The dazed beast had the wind up
the population at this stage, but Mother
Murphy rose to the occasion. She shep-
herded the beast into a brick wall with
a converging course, bumped it on to
the bricks and got out as it fell. “Has
anyone got a billy?” she demanded. “I
may as well have a drop o’ milk while
the gas is out of her.”
* * * *
“Notaden”: Treatment for scorpion
stings (B. 11/3/’36)? Cut into the sting
mark if in a suitable place, suck it weil
and rub in potassium permanganate
crystals, as for snakebite. After a few
minutes to allow the crystals to act on
the remaining poison, put the bitten hand
or foot into water as hot as can be
borne, and keep on adding hot water
as required to ease the pain. For bites
on body or head, use hot foments. One
good nip of spirits will help the suf-
ferer to express his feelings about scor-
pions—maybe also about the cruei
blankard who is treating him—and will
assist a possible weak heart. Scorpion
stings can be fatal —an R.A.F. airman
died from one in Khartoum not long
ago. If the victim is a child or weakly
person, take him to the doctor.
“A SPRAT A POUND.”
When wool was worth about a sprat a pound
And rabbit scalps from twopence to a bob,
The man who wanted work and wandered
round
Was never long without a decent job.
The station “day” was long, the living rough.
The rate of pay “a pound a week and
found”;
Yet cash was mostly plentiful enough
When wool was worth about a sprat a
pound.
The paddocks, as a rule, were ten by ten;
The sheep were wild and mustering was
hard;
They saw a horseman every now and then,
And once or twice a year they saw a yard.
Big, leggy, light-wooilcd wethers —how they’d
race
When startled by some unaccustomed sound!
Where scrub grew thick they’d test a rider’s
pace,
When wool was worth about a sprat a
pound.
Employers mostly knew your Christian name
And called you by it in a friendly way;
A surname sounded very much the same
As does the Oxford accent of to-day.
Yet, if the boss commenced to pick and peck
At work you’d done, or faulted it and
frowned,
That night would find you asking for your
cheque,
When wool was worth about a sprat a
pound.
With changing times much of the glamor’s
sped
That once surrounded owner, run and flock;
For sheep have shrunk by many a thousand
head
And runs have lost their country, block by
block.
No more in bush pubs, huts and river bends
Are heard the cheery yarns
once spun around
Stations and owners, bush-
men’s homes and
friends,
When wool was worth
about a sprat a
pound.
Qld.
N.K. BENNETT.


“The O’D.”: Show-time always ex-
poses city papers’ ignorance of the coun-
try. A Sydney daily had a rather good
descriptive story of preparations for the
arrival of a prize bull—and called it a
“bullock.” A weekly published a picture of
a Hereford bull being hosed down, and
commented on the “Shorthorn’s” feelings.
This same weekly earlier had illustrated
an attack on the Milk Board with a pic-
ture of a herd of cattle, described as
“innocent participants in the dispute.”
Herefords, they were much more inno-
cent than the caption-writer suspected.
One of these days a Clydesdale will win
a high jump at the Show, and then some-
body will wake up.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: In the first chapter of “The
Bridle Track,” J. J. Hardie makes
Dinny’s horse “go down on its knees. ’
If a prad did that, he would be “gone
in the knees” and hardly safe to ride ;
and the first thing a bushman does after
a fall is to examine those joints to
assess the damage. Before rolling, a
horse just bends his legs and goes down
and over sideways. On rising, he props
himself stiffly on his forelegs, sits
on his rump for a few seconds, then
literally scrambles up. The whole per-
formance is very clumsy, and quite out
of keeping with a good horse’s move-
ments when on four legs. “The ox and
the ass go down on their knees.” An
Eastern legend says this is because they
were in the stable at Bethlehem when the
Babe was born, and performed that act
of homage, and have been able to do so
ever since. But the horse, no.
* * * *
“Duggai”: Bunya trees (B. 1/4/’36)
were the only hereditary property
Binghi was known to possess. Each
tribe had its own particular set
of trees, of which a certain num-
ber were allotted to each family and
handed down from generation to genera-
“Can I 'elp there bein' eyes in the spuds? I'm a scull'ryman, not a
hoptician."
tion. When Tom Petrie discovered them
in the Maroochy (Q.) district he had
great difficulty in getting specimens, as
the abos., although very friendly other-
wise, resented removal of the trees.
“Dick the Fossicker”: In my mining
days there was always far more fracteur
used in the mines in winter than in
summer. During wet weather your mar-
ried man, as he came off shift, had two
or three sticks of the
stuff in his pocket.
The missus knew
what to do with it;
she’d load up the
stove with wood,
place a few dry bits
near the front, put a
match to a stick of
“jelly” and pop it in.
The fracteur would
burn with a grand
fizz, throwing off
heat like that of a
welding torch, and
by the time the stick
had burned down
the fire would be
roaring. Contrary
to the accepted idea,
high explosives or
bursting steam
boilers are not the
most destructive.
That dubious honor
belongs to a bursting
compressed-air tank.
When that gets loose
suddenly it rips and
tears everything in
its path until its
force is spent;
steam and explo-
sives simply knock a
hole in the air.
“Hamboner”: The Bayview (Sydney)
blacksmith who took to art weaving is
not the only expert fancy-worker to
hold down a rugged job. There is a
shearer on a Boorowa (N.S.W.) station
who can more than hold his own with
women when it comes to making silk
table centres and doing fine needlework.
After each day’s toil he intrigues his
mates by skilfully working silk on a
wooden frame. Recently he made two
cushion-covers, on which he had worked
two rosellas in their natural colors.
Everyone from the station manager to
the rouseabouts wanted to buy them, and
to settle the argument they were raffled,
the proceeds totalling £9. That shearer
is also an expert plaiter, whips, belts,
wrist-watch straps and even a tobacco-
pouch lined with rubber being other
products of his skill.
* * * *
“Pick”: Bush history must have been
made when, at a sawmill at Captain’s
Flat (N.S.W.), a stodgy team of old
working bullocks took fright and bolted.
Though wearied after a long day log
hauling, the sober string became restive
when a dogfight started on the sawdust.
Bellowing frantically, they tore off,
knocking down saplings, reefing the bark
from trees and scattering ferns like hay
in the track of a hurricane. Some fell,
but were dragged over the logs and on
their ribs across the stones; shells off
horns strewed their path. Then their
conductor put down his pannikin of tea
and took up the persuader. Getting be-
side the stampeding herd, he advised them
not to think they were crimson colts, and
come-ee-wayed them to the unyoking
yard.
“Where uns marked ‘con fuoco,' lads, tha's Latin for give un guts ."
far side. I released a head of water,
and then went back to see how the
crawlers were faring. The rats that
followed the Pied Piper had nothing
on those grubs. Those in the channel
bed had been swept away with the first
flow of water. Those following persisted
in their advance. I watched for a few
minutes, and the suicidal progress showed
no sign of abating. Judging from the
corpses that drifted into my wheel the
whole army must have walked to its
death.
* * * *
“Zed”; Can anyone tell me what the
ant-lion looks like? I have never seen
an illustration of this odd creature, and
a questioning of acquaintances reveals,
variously, that it is an outlaw ant, a
spider, an embryo cicada and even a
land-crab. Which of these, if any, is
right?
* * * *
“Splasher”: We were tin-sluicing with
a giant nozzle on the Annan River, out-
side Cooktown (Q.). Our Sin. jet of water
suddenly stopped, causing the main pipe-
line to burst. On investigation we dis-
covered a half-grown wallaby and a 9ft.
carpet-snake inside the nozzle —evidently
a battle royal had taken place at the head
of the line and both were sucked in.
* * * *
“Kali”: I should like to hook tunny
which travel so fast that a wetting device
is necessary to prevent the line burning
on the rod rings (B. 25/3/’36). In the
Indian Ocean tunny abound for six
months in the year, and although I had
no expensive gear I found them no harder
to play and kill than other pelagic fish
of the same size and speed. They went
up to 3001 b.
* * * *
“Joe Blake”: Methods of treating
snakebite that will appear weird to Aus-
sies are expounded by W. S. Berridge,
F.Z.S., in his Marvels of Reptile Life.
He suggests that, after applying the liga-
ture, “in the case of a toe or finger in-
stant amputation is the best method,
while if the wound is in a fleshy part a
red-hot iron, a piece of glowing coal or
burning acids should be forced into the
affected parts. After that some gun-
powder can be placed in the cavity and
exploded.” That drastic method may
be all right for England, whose leafy
lanes are overrun with millions of
venomous reptiles, but in comparatively
snake-free Australia we can take it' more
'casually.
* * * *
“Capricornus”; Has any serious
attempt been made to acclimatise the
alpaca in these parts? England has had
several goes at it and failed. In the
1850’s the W.A. Government offered
a reward of £6O to any person
who, within a period of 12 months, in-
troduced into the colony two male and
eight female alpacas. The undertaking
was too great, seemingly, and the reward
too small, to tempt the few well-to-do
men then resident there. The West has
a varied range of climate to offer the
alpaca, and if he couldn’t’ find one to suit
him he must be a goaf. Tasmania’s
mountainous country also offers favor-
able spots for an experiment.
“Jindivick”: Cycling along an irriga- “Dingo”: “Nightcall’s” cats (B.
tion-channel bank I came upon a party 1/ 4/’36) must have been newchums at
of “army grubs” marching head to tai. dog-baiting. We have two old blue cats
in single file across a track into the at home that terrorise a shedful of steer-
channel, over its dry bed and up the bullying cattle-dogs. The defensive
strategy is simple but effective. The
felines take up a position on top of a
chair, wait for a dog to pass under or
near, and let him have it on the ears.
Any attempt at retaliation means a climb
on to the back legs, thus exposing the
tender nose to another doing. The dogs
after a few setbacks all take their medi-
cine without a grizzle. Offensive tactics
are more in the nature of an ambush ;
one cat suns himself on the grass, rolling
on his back and chasing his tail, while
an expectant ring of dogs look on, in-
spired by super-canine optimism. As
soon as the trap is set, the playing cat
affects sudden fear and bolts. There is
usually a simple pup to take the bait and
give chase, whereupon the other cat
springs on to its back from a suitable
hiding place, and the first turns round
and joins in. A dog’s arithmetic judg-
ment is usually poor, and the spare cat
from nowhere always does the trick.
* * * *
“Spud”: A Westralian naturalist avers
that a species of honeysucker found in
the south-west is dying out through in-
toxication. The birds feed on the red
bottle-brush plant, the juice from which
makes them blind drunk.
* * * *
“Deadhouse Dick”: In Samarai years
ago a queer old beche-de-mer trader
called in occasionally for stores. He
always anchored his lugger out in the
stream and his native crew never came
ashore. Where he got them no one
knew, for they were not signed on at
Samarai, then the H.Q. for indented
labor in B.N.G. One dark, rainy night
he failed to turn up at Mother Platt’s
for his usual solitary booze in a dark
corner of the big bar-room. The room
was pretty full of Gira and Yodda miners,
and all were in the same case as the bar-
room. Presently 'three queer-looking
chaps in dripping oilskins and hats pulled
down over their eyes came in and sat
down at the old trader’s table in the
dark corner. One of the girls went
over to serve them, and getting a nod
from one in reply to “What’ll y’ have,
there’s on’y rum?” served them. She
came back looking a bit white, and said
there was something dashed funny about
those blokes —also they smelt horribly.
However, she served them several rounds,
each time becoming more jumpy. The
last time she said someone else could take
on the job. This drew attention to the
strangers, and seeing this they rose and
cleared out. Next morning the old trader
was found strangled and robbed on the
wharf. There was no crew on the lugger
or accommodation of any kind such as a
native crew would have needed. It was
Les Loveaduck who advanced what
looked like a plausible theory. Every old
New Guinea hand knows the huge size to
which cockroaches grow on a beche-de-
mer craft. His idea was that the old
trader had gradually got together half a
dozen of the outsize ones and trained
them to work the lugger. In the end, the
cockroach crew had mutinied, robbed
and killed the old man and, donning the
oilskins, had gone down to the Cosmo-
politan for a spree. That done, they
vanished into the night and were never
seen or heard of again in B.N.G.
THE OLD STORY.
“You’ll mostly find,” said Post-hole Pete, and
signalled Bung to bring some more,
“The usually-silent bloke, when he gets shot,
’s the first to roar,
An’ you can gamble that the cove ’oo, when
‘e’s oiled, looks round fer fight
Will, if ’e’s challenged when ’e’s on the
wagon, damn near die of fright.
“There’s others, too,” said Post-hole Pete,
“ ’oo when they get a trifle drunk
Always insist on drivellin’ a-lot o’ sentimental
bunk;
An’ some ’oo’ve plainly ’ad enough are bound
to tell you with a curse
That they could drink a brewery and never
feel a scrap the worse.”
Pete gazed at me with an affectionate but
somewhat bleary eye.
“Time for another round,” he said. “I’m
feelin’ desperately dry!
There’sh not a cow in thish ’ere town can ever
say ’e’s ’ad me beat
At carryin’ my whack o’ grog. Joe, fill ’em
up!” said Post-hole Pete.
His head drooped slowly to the bar, he gently
slid down to the floor.
Then sympathetic hands upraised his frame
and yanked it through the door.
Bung laughed. “Old Post-hole has been boastin’
solid now for forty years
About his prowess with the pots—but he just
can’t get past four beers!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


LYS
JS
PROOF
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
vvr
r
H
%
i
m
3£
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINEED MEAL.
Stud-cattle Sales.
“J.R.D.”: Prices of stud beef cattle
auctioned at Sydney Showground showed
little all-round variation with last year’s
values. There was a good demand for
choice-quality animals from the best-
known studs, but otherwise bidding was
sluggish and restricted, and there were
many withdrawals owing to bids failing
to reach owners’ reserves.
Top price at auction for Shorthorns
was 240 guineas for a white bull from
Milton Park, which won the 18-24
months’ class at the R.A.S. A large
number of heifers was passed in, the top
price being 125 guineas for a red roan
from Clifton Stud (Vic.).
There was a better demand for Here-
fords, but here again there was a large
margin between the prices paid for the
progeny of a few leading studs and the
others. The well-known Golf Hill Here-
fords met with a brisk demand, the
R.A.S. champion bull changing hands at
760 guineas, which is not an exorbitant
figure if the bull turns out to be as good
as he looks.
There was a good clearance of Devons,
and prices were on the whole very satis-
factory. While there was fair competi-
tion for the Poll Herefords, buyers were
not inclined to meet owners’ reserves,
and there were few outstanding sales.
In view of the increasing interest in
Aberdeen-Angus sales were somewhat
disappointing. Abington topped the sale
with 150 guineas for a yearling bull, a
blue-ribbon winner at the Show. Red
Polls, on the other hand, sold consistently
well, although there were no fancy prices.
Pig Classes at Sydney Royal.
“Silky-bag”: Fat laid on all over,
rounded shoulders and bodies, jowly,
short heads and bulky hind-hams were
once points considered as virtues in the
show ring. Nowadays, as Sydney Royal
demonstrated, prize-winners are animals
of very plain appearance. Long, straight
noses and necks, leading to fine
shoulders, flat-topped but narrow bodies
of exceptional depth and length, and
deep, straight hind-hams are the requisite
points.
Pig-raisers must learn that ability to
pile on fat is not wanted by the buyer
to-day.
The only two valuable portions of the
modern pig are the sides and rear hams.
Everything else in development must be
sacrificed to getting size and quality into
these parts, hence the fine fores and
heads. At the same time no purchaser
wants fatty ham or bacon, and so sides,
etc., must be meaty.
The lesson of Sydney Royal is that
the old fat pig is doomed. A leaner,
somewhat leggy sort, with a long, flat,
deep middle piece—that is what the
market demands.
We can no longer afford to lean over
the sty fence and admire the weight-in-
creasing powers of the tubby pig. We’ve
got to see that weight put on without a
layer of fat. This means developing a
new method of appraising his condi-
tion on the farm.
Blind Quarter Without Mastitis.
“A.G.R.”: Sometimes one quarter of
a cow’s udder goes dry, without the in-
flammation which is a sign of mastitis.
When she comes in, this quarter may
give a small amount of milk for a few
days. Then it dries off completely, and
the quarter may go permanently dry.
In this type of udder trouble there is
no inflammation, and the milk is quite
normal while it lasts. This distinguishes
the disease from other forms of mas-
titis.
The cause of the trouble is a film of
tissue over the sphincter muscle
between the milk cistern in the udder
and the top of the teat, very much as
cataract grows over the pupil of the eye.
This prevents the flow of milk through
the teat.
Some dairymen insert a probe into
the teat to break the film. This is useless,
as the hole closes up again. It is also
likely to cause inflammation.
The Dairy Inspector at Warwick (Q.)
formulated a cure while treating a cow
for milk fever. After the udder of the
affected cow had been pumped up and
milked out several times, it was found
that a quarter which had been dry for
several years was as good as ever. From
this result, it appears that a blind quar-
ter (not due to injury or any form of
mastitis) should be inflated witjh the
milk-fever outfit, and then completely
milked out (as if the cow had milk fever)
as soon as the cow has calved. Clean
apparatus and sterilised cotton wool are
as important as in a milk-fever case.
Wool Draft.
“Murrawong”: In reply to “8.0’C.”
(B. 8/4/’36), I acknbwledge the difficulty
of estimating the yield of a lot of wool
from an odd sample, but, since the buyer
considers himself able to guarantee his
estimated yield to within a 2 p.c. margin,
it is apparent that “B.O’C.’s” contention
does not worry him unduly.
It would be a much more satisfactory
and businesslike arrangement if the draft
allowance were cut out and buyers paid
on wool weighed out of store instead of
the present system. But “8.0’C.” is out
of his depth in stating that if draft were
abolished no one can say that the buyer
would take it out in reduced bidding.
Just ask any buyer or broker his opinion
on the matter.
Wool is marketed to-day on the basis
that the buyer gets roughly 31b. per bale
as a sort of bonus. In superfine types
the value of that allowance may be 6s.
per bale. Manufacturers’ costs are
worked out to the barest fraction, and if
they find they have to pay 6s. per bale
more than at present there is nothing
surer than that their limits will be re-
duced to meet the extra cost. The lowest
admissible bid is £d. per pound. On a
2881 b. bale, a reduction of per pound
is equivalent to 65., and philanthropy in
Bradford (if any) is strictly eliminated
from business transactions.
In cases like the foregoing it would be a
simple matter to alter buyers’ limits with-
out seriously disturbing the process of
calculating values. But it would be a
totally different matter concerning the
bulk of Australia’s wool, which sells at
less than 24d. per pound.
Take a bale of pieces weighing 4041 b.
sold at auction for Bd. per pound. De-
ducting 41b. (draft allowance), 4001 b. at
Bd. is worth £l3 6s. Bd. It having been
proved that, if draft were abolished,
buyers’ limits would necessarily be ad-
versely affected, let us consider the trans-
action under the new system. The mini-
mum bid being |d., 4041 b. at 7|d. comes
to £l2 18s. 7d. Therefore, although the
grower at present loses wool valued at
2s. Bd., under the revised system he would
lose 7s. Id. on the bale.
Let us abolish the draft allowance by
all means. But graziers must remember
that they are dealing with an industry
where ordinary cheeseparing methods
were discarded years ago as over-gener-
ous. Higher mathematics may reduce or
compensate the margins to some extent,
and the new scale may harass buyers for
a season or two, but woolgrowers seeking
the abolition of the draft allowance
should not delude themselves that they
are going to be paid existing rates addi-
tional on that debated pound per cwt.
Reflex Action in Drenching.
“Corriedale”; A disadvantage of using
the ordinary 2 p.c. copper sulphate sheep
drench is the large volume (30 c.c.) that
has to be used compared with the 5 c.c.
of the carb. tet.
The bulkier drench, however, ensures
that enough copper sulph. will pass into
(he third and fourth stomachs.
If a large proportion of any drench
simply falls into the first and second it
has no useful effect.
With the weak 30 c.c. drench the first
few c.cs. administered affect the taste
nerves, and a reflex action occurs which
closes the oesophageal groove. This
groove, when open, allows food passage
direct to the rumen, but, closed, diverts
all liquids to the fourth stomach.
The usual problem with copper sul-
phate drench is that, if concentrated into
10 c.c. of 6 p.c. strength, most of it falls
into the rumen and is wasted. The
groove is not stimulated to close early
enough. However, the C.S.I.R. h%s
just completed trials which indicate that,
by reducing the 30 c.c. drench to 20 c.c.
of 3 p.c. strength, the same efficiency can
be secured.
Another discovery is that if the sheep
are placed in a race, and their mouths
swabbed with a mop dipped in copper
sulph. solution and wrung out, the
groove is closed by the normal reflex
action in between 5 and 10 seconds’ time
after swabbing. A 10 c.c. drench of 6 p.c.
strength can then be given immediately
with excellent results. Even a 5 c.c. dose
of 12 p.c. may be used with this prior
swabbing, so lightening the task of the
drencher and avoiding the mixing of
large volumes.
Foot-rot Control.
“Corriedale”: The claim of W. I. B.
Beveridge (B. 11/3/’36) that foot-rot can
be controlled by summer feet treatment
is borne out by at least three non-
scientific men I know.
Their treatment is this: As soon as the
spring grass dries off, the sheep are run
through bluestone foot-baths, and affected
feet are pared right back and dressed.
Any overgrowth noted throughout the
summer is also removed. These men
now get about one-tenth the incidence
they formerly did.
One of them has a foot-bath devised
to surround a lick trough, placed in a
shady corner, and has trained the sheep
to enter it naturally. This bath is kept
full over the hot months, with good
results.
It is as well to note that “organism X”
is not the end-all of the matter. It cer-
tainly dies out if not carried by infected
sheep over the summer, but it may still
come in from outside through passing
mobs, dust, etc. Also it cannot pene-
trate the feet skin unless this is abraded.
The newly-hatched larvae of Strongy-
loides papillosus are known to cause such
an irritation, as do thistle spines and mud-
pack sweating in the clefts. Strongyloides
is a common sheep parasite, widely
spread over pastures. The larvae, how-
ever, live only on half-wet, undrained
soils, and the remedy is simply to dram
these areas well and adopt fortnightly
rotations of the stock from paddock to
paddock, which robs the larvae of a
chance to penetrate.
Worms and Common Terms.
“Liss”: Tell “Albarmount” (B. 1/5/’36)
that any man who cares two hoots for
the health of his sheep will familiarise
himself with the correct names, life-his-
tory and treatment for worms that in-
fest sheep. Had “Albarmount” taken a
little more trouble with his own educa-
tion in these matters he would have
known that carbon tet. is of very little
use against tapeworms and that tricho-
strongylosis refers, not to the hairworms
themselves, but to the condition of in-
festation by them.
“Flick” (B. 1/5/’36) is apparently
another who does not follow progress in
these matters closely. Mustard has long
been discarded as being of no value as
an anthelmintic whatever; and, as I
pointed out previously, neither arsenic
nor tobacco (i.e., nicotine sulphate) is of
much use unless bluestone is used as a
vehicle to convey them direct to the
fourth stomach.
I would recommend all graziers to sub-
scribe to the “Australian Veterinary
Journal,” and so keep abreast of the
times in the matter of animal health.
Grasses and Legumes.
“K.Mc.”: H. White, of Bald Blair,
New England (N.S.W.), a strong advo-
cate for pasture improvement, has a
great opinion of Phalaris tuberosa, the
Burbanks variety preferably ; with ryes,
festuca and cocksfoot to balance the
ration.
He finds that Phalaris, which has an
abundance of highly-nutritious leaves,
gives a steady, continuous growth
throughout the year, and, when favored
with moisture, stands up to very heavy
grazing. As it dies off the mineral con-
tent becomes stored in the root system,
which again shoots vigorously immedi-
ately the old growth is brushed away.
This makes Phalaris eminently suitable
where cold, hard winters are experienced.
Ryes, Mr. White finds, make too rapid
growth after rain and become rank and
unpalatable. But Wimmera rye is the
best annual and does well in some of
the drier areas combined with lucerne
and sub. clover. Cocksfoot is more
adapted to tableland country, but neither
in nutriment nor bulk does it come up
to Phalaris or ryes. While festuca also
has a lower feed value, it is a good
drought-resister and a suitable grass for
poorer soils.
The perennial red, Mr. White con-
siders, is the best clover and also the
best soil renovator. It likes plenty of
moisture. Sub. clover is most valuable
on poorer types of soil, where it builds
up fertility. When its vigorous habit
chokes out all other grasses strong peren-
nials, such as Phalaris tuberosa, should
be sown.
To keep up the supply of plant feed
for succulent pastures, Mr. White main-
tains that manuring is essential. He
strongly advises working the surface, for
which purpose he uses weighted stump-
jump harrows, with square-linked harrows
dragging behind. A dressing of super,
should follow.
“Bay-of-Biscay” Country.
“H.A.L.”: A great deal of the heavier
country in S.A. and western Vic. is of
the “Bay-of-Biscay” type, consisting of
small hummocks and hollows. In winter
these hollows become filled with water
and grow nothing save rushes; in
summer both they and the hillocks dry
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


Positive Accurate Uniform Sowing
Assured with
THE
SUNTYNE
A Combination
of the Tyne Cultivator
and Grain and
Fertilizer Drill
SPRING TYNES —for stony, stumpy, or malice country.
RIGID TYNES —for country free from obstacles.
H Correct sowing of the seed is of vital importance in ceieal
cultivation —a factor that cannot be neglected in Australia,
where rainfall is intermittent and uncertain. Incorrect sowing
may result in disaster to a crop just as surely as correct sowing
may lead to a successful harvest, even though rains are below
the average, and fall at inopportune periods.
Agricultural experts maintain that, to get the best results,
grain must be sown together with fertilizer on a level compacted
sub-surface, and covered by a mulch of finely-pulverised soil.
A close scrutiny of results secured over a number of years has
clearly proved the correctness of this practice, and thousands of
successful farmers show their appreciation of the fact by culti-
vating and sowing with the Suntyne —a machine that operates
on this principle.
Known as the Combine, it sows with the least time,
expense and labour —the greater part of Australia s annual grain
crop, requires less outlay than is necessary for two separate
related machines, and enables the user to make the most of a
timely rainfall.
Pre-eminent in its single and double operations, it cultivates
all the surface —no weeds missed —pulverises the soil and makes
an ideal seed-bed —level, compact, with finer soil below and the
right soil-mulch on top. As a drill it sows seed and fertilizer
at a uniform depth —deep or shallow —covers perfectly, puts
the seed in the right place for quick germination and a good
start, with space for development of strong, healthy plants.
Sows wheat, oats, barley, maize, peas, etc., and with lucerne
seeder will sow lucerne and other small globular seeds. Many
users sow pasture seeds simultaneously with wheat, oats, etc.
Capacity to sow —grain, from 1 81 b. to 2701 b.; fertilizer, from
261 b. to 2polb. per acre. Sizes: —
8 row, 17 tynes, cultivates sft.
12 row, 25 tynes, cultivates yjft.
14 row, 29 tynes, cultivates 8-^ft.
16 row, 33 tynes, cultivates p^ft.
20 row, 41 tynes, cultivates 12ft.
24 row, 49 tynes, cultivates 14ft.
HI Descriptive catalogue contains useful information,
numerous illustrations and full details of construction and
equipment. Investigate —and use a Suntyne for bigger yields
and longer wear.
Ask the local agent or write to the nearest branch for the
SUNTYNE CATALOGUE —free on request—with prices
and liberal terms.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, SUNSHINE
Branches: 654-664 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 27-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King
Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (QTand) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Use a SUNTYNE
for Bigger Yields and Longer Wear


25/
There s value in this Shoe
For everyday wear there is no
better value than this shoe. Men
always demand hard wear of their
shoes, and especially so in the
country, and this strong medium-
weight shoe will give any amount
of service. Made of strong Calf,
in either Black or Brown, it has
a splendid appearance.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
Black Calf, 25/-; Brown Calf, 25/-
Do you use Abbey special Shoe
polish? If not, try a tin at once for
better results. Only 6d. per tin.
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE,
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY. W.A. 26.
SAVE TIME and MONEY IN
PLOUGHING . . .
with a FORDSON
n.
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR - 26 H.P. ON BELT
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON IS POUNDS UNDER THE PRICE OF
ANY OTHER TRACT OR OF EQUIVALENT POWER
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT .... HEAVY-DUTY
TRANSMISSION . . . GOVERNOR CONTROL . . . SPECIAL
AIR CLEANING SYSTEM . . . CRANKCASE VENTILATION . . .
“HOT-SPOT" VAPORISER . . . CLUTCH PULLEY . . . POWER
TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
The English Fordson is the lowest-priced tractor per horse-power
on the market. It saves time and money on every job—ploughing,
harvesting, haulage or stationary work. Fordson is available
with pneumatic tyres or approved wheel grips. Your local Ford
dealer will explain the easy purchase
terms provided by the special Fordson
finance plan.
m
;a ini ti
Fordson
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &.
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street. Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd.- City Shrms.: 601-3
Lit. Collins Street. Melb.
South Aust.: POWER PLANT LTD.,
98-100 Currie Street. Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated m Vic.) F62.16.T
DESIGNED AND BUILT AT DAGENHAM, ENGLAND
Write for free copy “FRUIT CULTURE
AND SMALL FARMING,” official organ
Fruitgrowers’ Federation. Box 143 CC,
G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
BRANDAUER’A
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUER * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
pb/> LICK
Sv lS THE BEST
for ALL STOCK. It is manu-
factured on the formula of the
New South Wales Stock Depart-
ment, contains 50 p.c. Sterilized
Bonemeal, and is recommended
by all Veterinary Officers.
fd
STERILIZED
BONEMEAL
100% Pure.
Write for Free Pamphlets to
FATON, BURNS & CO.,
52 King Street, Sydney.
, ,
In theff
StSrur^s
out of all y The <=nfi S£Tun
well when hone drv hrenkinl „n into
small and pravellv Hod* g P
g . .
the first step in reclamation of such
country is to plough deeply late in
summer. The phmgh only touches the
hillocks after this first cultivation the
land is smoodged level by means of
a heavy triangle of timber or railway
iron, bolted together and dragged point
first. This rakes the soil from the
ploughed-up hillocks into the hollows,
levelling the ground in a surprising way.
A second cultivation completes the work.
Clover doesn’t do well in some cases
on this newly-reclaimed land, but rye
grass, sown before the first rains, makes
surprising growth. I have just inspected
a paddock which was treated in this way
last season ; the recent rain has started
the rye grass for the second time, and
the change wrought in little more than
a year is astounding.
In some cases it has been found that
the water still lodges on the ground,
though in broad, shallow sheets instead
of the former numerous small, deep
pools. In the paddock which I inspected
stakes were placed across the deepest
parts of the pools when the maximum
amount of land was flooded; after the
paddock had dried out later in the season
channels were cut along the lines staked
out, leading into a near-by box-tree
swamp.
The owner of the property states that
neighbors have given a lead on this point,
and that their drains put an end to all
trouble from surface water on the re-
claimed land. He is confident that the
same good result will take place on his
land.
No type of soil I know makes such a
response to super, as this Bay-of-
Biscay country. Thousands of acres of
it remain undeveloped in Southern Aus-
tralia.
Onions.
“Hortus”: Now’s the time for thinking
of this crop. Recent N. S. Wales fer-
tiliser trials show that super, alone
brought about better results than
any of the other treatments. Equal parts
of super, and bonedust were a close
second. The fertilisers were broadcast
and lightly worked into the soil a month
prior to transplanting. Hunter River
brown was sown at end of April. Plants
were set out six inches apart on July 7
and 8. The season was dry, and two
flood irrigations were given. Crops we r e
harvested in December.
Super, alone (4481b. per acre) yielded
10 tons lcwt. lqr. to the acre, with an
estimated return to the grower of £59
10s. 6d. ; equal parts of super. (4481b.
to the acre) and bonedust, 9 tons 5cwt.
to acre and a return of £54 7s. lOd.
Get rid of all weed growth before
planting onions. The onions that keep
best are those grown on soils not too
light. Plough deeply—onions are deep-
rooters. Don’t interfere with subsoil,
especially if at all heavy. Onions need
about four inches of fine soil that slips
easily through the fingers, on top of a
good, well-worked foundation. Watch
drainage. If soil is badly drained, no
good results will come from it. The time
to sow is sometimes a problem. It all
depends on district and climate. Fix on
the hottest part of the year (normal
season) and work back seven months.
Of all the methods of sowing, the seed-
bed idea for transplating later is the only
one worth considering. Work up a good
seed-bed with a fair sprinkling of sand
and roll firmly. Sow the seed shallow.
When seedlings are up about the thick-
ness of a slate pencil, take out carefully
and cut off top-growth and root to about
2in. to 3in. from the bulb.
This pruning is the secret of success.
The bulb gets more nourishment this
way—hence better, larger and more solid
onions. Transplant at intervals of 6in.
Keep soil moved between rows as often
as possible. The young plants want all
the ground moisture they can get, and
the light mulch prevents them from being
robbed of it.
Some people prefer white to brown.
The point to remember is that whites
don’t keep too well, but are good for
quick use. Browns usually are the best
storage onions.
Hints for the Farm.
“Stump Jump”: Old dray or cart
spring-leaves can be belted up into
knives, chisels, brackets, spikes and
hinges in the forge. The trick is in the
tempering. Throw the finished article on
some dry sand when hot, and let it cool
there out of the road of draughts.
“Saddle-flap”: To stop that young colt
jumping away when you go to put the
halter on, take a rope with a clip on the
end, and, on getting your hand on him,
reach down and snip a turn round either
foreleg. When he’s in the air, heave,
and you’ll bring him down easily. After
a time he’ll stand like a statue.
“O’Campbell”: A spray made of a
kerosene-tin of water with a couple of
handfuls of sulphur roughly mixed
therein will keep rats off stacked bags
of feed. A garden pump and spray or
watercan is an easy way of distribut-
ing it.
“Horsetailer”: Don’t leave salting that
hide till next morning. Wash blood and
dirt well off with cold water, and salt
within in hour of skinning. Then when
the hide is bibled the hot skin will dis-
solve the chemical and curing will start
immediately. An arsenic of soda wash
may be applied to prevent destruction
from weevils. Remember a plucked hide
—one that you can pull the hair out of —
is decomposed and fit only for glue-
pieces. A well-cured hide should smell
only of ammonia and salt. And don’t
store it away for months either.
“W.D.McC.”: “Flick” (B. l/4/’36>
cannot be a regular reader or he would
have seen the “arsenic tobacco drench”
formula which I have supplied and you
have published. If “Flick” will get the
issue dated Jan. 4, 1933, he will find full
particulars in my par. of that date, or
If he writes to me I shall be only too
pleased to tell him all about it gratis. It
is the best drench extant, and has stood
the test of half a century.
“Acton”: “The O.D.’s” reference to
grasshoppers (B. 1 /1 / ’36) recalls an ex-
pedient found useful in the grasshopper
plague around Kimba (S.A.) of ’34. Over
the roots of vines grease was thickly
spread. The ’hoppers, whilst still in the
hopping stage (when they do most dam-
age), simply wouldn’t traverse it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department)
Effective means for preventing and eradicat-
ing the mushroom fly ? —545.
The mushroom fly is very difficult to con-
trol when once the flies have become numerous
in the beds, and it is therefore advisable to
take certain precautionary measures from the
time the beds are laid down. Proper prepara-
tion of the compost should be the first step.
After the beds are laid down they should be
fumigated with burning sulphur at the rate of
21b. to 1000 cubic feet. The fumigation must
be carried out before the spawn is sown.
Fumigation can be carried out, however,
only if the beds are laid down in a room
or building that can be made gastight. After
the beds have been spawned, they should be
regularly sprayed with Black Leaf 40, one fluid
ounce to four gallons of water, or with a kero-
sene-pyrethrum fly spray. These sprays should
be applied only as a fine mist, and excessive
quantities must not be used, especially after
the mushrooms have commenced to show.
Dusting the beds lightly with a mixture of three
parts of pyrethrum powder to two parts of
kaolin is also of value in keeping the pests
in check—it is not to be dusted on the mush-
rooms when wet.
* * * *
Are there correspondence courses in N.S.W.
in farm engineering? —1181.
Write to the Officer-in-Charge, Correspon-
dence Courses, Sydney Technical College, for
information concerning the Farm Mechanics’
Correspondence Course, which deals with all
classes of farm machinery.
* 4= * *
I have a leaking galvanised-iron tank. How
must 1 set about repairing it with a concrete
lining ? —1194.
Thoroughly clean all mud and foreign
matter from the inside and outside of the
tank. Punch holes about half an inch diameter
at about Din. intervals in the tank walls.
Lap fine mesh wire-netting around the inside
and outside of the tank, and tie to the
walls through the holes already punched. Treat
the whole of the tank with a neat cement wash
thrown ori by means of a brush. Using a mix-
ture of 1 part cement to 2 parts fine, clean sand
and only enough water to make it workable,
apply in coats about half an inch thick, be-
ginning at the bottom of the tank. Thoroughly
moisten each coat before applying fresh cement,
and cure finished tank for about a week before
using it.
* * * *
/ wish to instal a circular-saw bench to cut
firewood. What type of bench, size of saw,
speed, etc., would you recommend ? I have
a 4-h.p. petrol engine. Would this be suit-
able for driving the saw ? —1200.
Your needs should be met by installing a
good make of saw bench haying a well-seasoned
hardwood frame. Your engine, if in good order,
should drive a 30in. saw, which is suitable
for logs up to 8in. or 9in. diameter. For
cutting firewood the rim speed should be about
7000ft. per minute; or, in other words, the saw
must rotate at 910 r.p.m. As you do not give
any speed for your engine, it is assumed to
run at 550 r.p.m., and that the saw bench
will have a 6in. diameter pulley, The pulley
required on the saw spindle will be lOin.
diameter.


SMOKE-OH!
How to Eradicate a Mosquito.
Benevolent Method. —(1) Tell mos-
quito that it makes a noise like a Doug-
las airliner. Mosquito will throw out
chest, apply for certificate of airworthi-
ness, fly to Mascot and live in hangar.
(2) Inform mosquito that it is a danger-
ous carrier of malaria. Mosquito will
turn pale, consult encyclopaedia, check
your statement, hasten to Papua, sting
aged native chief and die of yellowjack.
Malevolent Method.— lntroduce mos-
quito to fly-swatter salesman. Mosquito
will agree that flies are a frightful pest,
will purchase swatter, make wild swipe
at first fly it meets, slip and swat itself.
Scrape mosquito off wall with table-
knife.
P. C.
“Cuddle’s work this week is certainly more
suggestive than evei ”
No, you’ve got the wrong idea alto-
gether. Read on —
“of the Doncaster Handicap than the Sydney
Cup.”
fcj*, • - ■ ; A >. t|n
“As a virtuoso he was only moderate.”
—Sydney paper.
Only virtuo-so-so.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A former noted Russian chess-player has
lived as a hermit, and has spoken to nobody
for four years.”— News item.
Stop Press: At 4.35 yesterday after-
noon he broke his long silence and said
“Check.”
In King’s Cross, Sydney, it is bad
taste to complain about a neighbor’s
radio if its volume is insufficient to shake
the empties in the next flat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Dinkum Oil.
“An ‘oil’ process has been developed to
remove ‘squeaks’ from the voices of film
stars.” —“Argus.”
The “Argus” might mention whether
the star or the completed film is the sub-
ject of the process. It would meet with
the unanimous approval of picture-goers
if the former were the case ; and, indeed,
it is more likely that the “oiling” pro-
cess would take place before going “on
set,” judging by the popularity of road-
houses and country clubs among players.
Several stars whom we have heard try-
ing to enunciate such noble phrases as
“C’mahn —lessget goin’! ” and “Naow,
hahney, y’know I think yuhr the greates’
li’l goil in the woild” would be far more
vocally attractive if they were to get so
“oiled” as to be speechless during pro-
duction.
Experiments are still proceeding in
Hollywood to evolve a perfect oil for
crooners, though it is difficult to see why
they should look beyond nitro-glycerine.
Quayeau.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Adelaide girls are undeniably handsome
and charming,’ says visitor.”
S.A.?
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XL — Adelaide’s Strange Sports.
In addition to those that haunt the
Imperial corner, there are many other
strange sports to be encountered in Adel-
aide.
A very rare pastime is watching the
Changing of the Guard. This ceremony
easily outdoes its Buckingham Palace
counterpart in rarity, if not in glamor,
as it only happens twice a year—once
when the guard (of the Melbourne
express) begins his holidays, and once
when he returns. Platform tickets, 2d,
Another sport, indulged in by few but
applauded by many, is the preparing of
Disabilities Reports.
But by far the strangest sport is that
of catching bungum worms.
The bungums are long creatures,
shaped like seaweed, but not so good-
looking. They dwell in the firm, wet sand
at the beaches, and appear to live on bad
meat —at least, they like it very much,
and it is this predilection that leads to
their undoing.
The would-be bungum-catcher strolls
along the beach with a peg on his nose
and a piece of very old meat dangling
from a string like a yo-yo.
Presently his keen ear catches the not
unmusical note by which the worm regis-
ters its joyful recognition of the prox-
imity of its favorite dish. He pauses and
stoops down, trailing the meat carelessly
across the sand.
The beginner often fails through over-
zealousness —he trails his bait too pur-
posefully, and the worm, in its subter-
ranean fastness, reads him like a book.
No, it’s the carelessness, the negligence,
the air of don’t-give-a-damn-if-the-worm-
never-comes-up that marks the expert
bungum-catcher—the man who can lure
up his three furlongs a day without tak-
ing the peg off his nose.
Well, the trap set, he has not long to
wait, for soon the worm pokes its head
up through the sand and looks around
for the sweet-smelling morsel. The air
of negligence disappears
—the hunter is on his
prey like a tiger, and
his deadly thumb and
forefinger seize the un-
fortunate creature just
behind the ears.
And does it look
surprised? There is no
more startled - looking
thing in Nature than a
just - seized bungum
worm.
Pulling a cotton-reel from his pocket,
the hunter proceeds to wind in his catch
—fathom by fathom. It is impossible to
say definitely the length of a bungum
worm. No one has ever succeeded in
capturing one in its entirety, and, more-
over, so unsporting are the creatures that
even the portion that is caught deliber-
ately commences to shrink as soon as it
gets over the first surprise.
It is on record, however, that in the
’O3 season a worm was “reeled” to the
extent of 17 large cotton-reels, six No.
2a Kodak spools and the neck of a
whisky-bottle before it snapped.
This is probably the record bungum
catch, but the figures weren’t officially
recognised as the catcher was using bait
left over from the previous season, and
as the toughest of the onlookers went out
to it just as he was handing the champion
the fifteenth reel there were no witnesses.
Jasby.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When ray wife travelled to Sydney with
another man, I decided that it was time to
apply for a divorce.”
—Petitioner in Brisbane divorce case.
She went too far,
4* 4* 4* 4*
Two of a Kind.
Whenever I watch the white sails of a
week-end I experience an intense yearn-
ing to go yachting. So, when that long-
shot double I’ve been taking bi-weekly
for 17 years comes home, I’ll buy a 21-
footer. I don’t know the first thing about
such craft —can’t even guess how they’re
controlled —but I’ll take unto myself a
yacht just the same. I’ll name her Stella,
after my wife.
Yes, that’s right—l don’t know how to
handle her either!
P.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Most boys and girls can tell you all about
Mae West, but few of them have any notion
of any Shakspearean heroine.” — “Herald.”
That’s Flat.
While silver trinkets prompt your scorn,
To gauds of gold your fancy veers.
Though crystal drops most girls adorn.
You fasten sapphires to your ears.
Though stall and circle seats aren’t cheap,
You much prefer the mezzanine;
And you’ve a craze or passion deep
For rich and highly-priced cuisine.
A rose to you ne’er smells as sweet
As orchid costing half a crown.
Though simple frocks are smart and neat,
You can’t resist a Paris gown.
You never purchase “tawdry trash” ;
For things refined you’ve taste and wit.
And when the Mint makes better cash
You’ll soon dissever me from it.
P. O. M. C.
Complaint
Here I am in the park, and there they
are on that seat by the hedge again, that
reckless young nursemaid and her boy
friend.
Look at them carrying on in broad
daylight! It’s most objectionable! I
came down here to study, but how can
I with that sort of thing going on?
Now he’s got his arms right around
her, and —yes —they’re kissing! And with
everyone looking on! Someone ought to
tell her employer; she deserves to get
the sack; she’s not looking after that
infant at all.
It really shouldn’t be allowed. The
police should put an end to it if no one
else will.
Damitall! What’s she want to fool
around with a young ass like that for
instead of giving a chap like me a chance?
T. W. N.
Kelly Gang Back Again (Page 7)
THE NEW ZEALAND
Bulletin
You’re telling us!
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Long and Short of It.
“During the day the weight of the body
pressing upon spine and arches shortens the
human frame; but during the night’s rest the
bones stretch to normal size again.”
— “Telegraph.”
Why, I found that out years ago. In
my case, though, it was aggravated by
the development of caoutchouc qualities
caused through my infantile habit of
chewing my dummies, so that by the
time I’d reached man’s estate I had an
abnormal stretch.
When I left for work in the morn-
ing my wife used to stand on a chair
to kiss me good-bye, but when I got
home after a hard day on my feet she
had to lift me up to plant her labial
peck. My spine got so loose that it
would have caught in things if I hadn’t
put a couple of reef knots in it, while
my foot arches became concave instead
of convex (or vice versa —l can never
remember which is which), so that I
walked op them, while the heel and ball
of my foot loafed up around the calves
of my legs.
I had a devil of a time at night. When
we had an ordinary bed my feet, on re-
tiring, reached about half-way down.
By morning when I’<d stretched to normal
-—or abnormal —again they would be
jambed against the end of the bed.
After I’d knocked myself out a few times
by the reflex action of my knee belting
my chin, and when I started to develop
curvature of the shins, I got a telescopic
bed.
It was satisfactory in the summer, but
in midwinter I’d wake up with uncov-
ered legs blue to the knees, my pyjama
pants having developed into shorts. My
nocturnal life was a misery. I did try
wearing pyjamas at night suitable for
my early-morning length, but had to give
them up after I’d nearly strangled myself
with the loose, dangling ends.
I put up with these inconveniences
because the firm I was working for was
paying me twice under the impression
that 1 was two different men. When the
firm woke up to it and aimed me out I
got a job cleaning windows in the morn-
ings and boot-blacking in the afternoons
—both of which I could perform with-
out bending. I gave them up owing to
confusion in mixing th® soap with the
blacking.
But at last I have found congenial
work that is admirably suited to my
peculiar physical condition. I am now a
“No, this is NOT Flanagan's sly-grog joint. Er — by the Way, what is
Flanagan 's number?"
caretaker, and can therefore sleep both
day and night, thus keeping my frame at
a regular length.
S. W. K.
Potted Drama.
A terrible grief had descended upon
the ancient house of Bludanbone.
In the servants’ quarters they spoke in
subdued, ominous tones.
With ashen face and on tiptoes, Jorkins
drew the blinds of the great house, and
even forgot to pinch a snifter from the
decanter.
In the library Lord Bludanbone towered
in terrible fury above the shrinking form
of his guilty son.
“It was all a ghastly mistake,’’pleaded
the poor wretch in a voice choking with
sobs.
“Silence!” thundered Lord Bludan-
bone. “As a Bludanbone you cease to
exist. You have brought my last remain-
ing grey hair in sorrow to the grave;
you have insulted the glorious name
handed to you by men who have been
the confidants of kings. Wherever Eng-
lishmen gather, you, a Bludanbone, will
be a pariah, an outcast”
“But listen, sir.”
“Enough!” hissed Lord Bludanbone.
“Leave England as quietly as you can.
Go and live out your miserable life
scourged by the awful thought that you
dragged our honored name in the mire
by this heinous crime.”
“But”
“Go! There is no place in England
for the man gross enough to wear a black
tie with tails!”
D. McM.
Wee Sma’ Hours.
Jones shook his wife by the shoulder.
“Can’t you hear the baby crying?” he
asked. “Poor little devil’s probably
hungry.”
“Let him be!” she retorted indig-
nantly, still half-asleep.
“He’ll have to be walked to put him
off,” said Jones wearily. “Whose turn
is it, father’s or mother’s?”
“Father’s, I think.”
“That’ll mean an hour’s solid tramp-
ing.”
“’Fraid so!”
“Oh, well, I’ll get up. Where are my
slippers?”
“Wardrobe.”
Jones caught them up, ran nimbly up
the stairs and knocked at the door of
the flat above. A man with a baby in
his arms answered the knock.
“Try my slippers, old man,” offered
Jones. “You must find it awfully trying
on your feet to have to wear those heavy
bluchers around with the kid.”
CLOON.
Our kiddies have given Bill Shakspeare
the air;
His tabbies lack “it” and are flops, they
declare.
Mae West of the curves they applaud
with elan —
Her lines, as they have it, are easy to
scan.
Mc.


Fine Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”:—
THE BRIDLE TRACK
By J.J. HARDIE
Chapter XVI. — {Continued.)
HE could sense her smile in the darkness. “What’s
wrong with Elaine? Don’t you like it?”
“I do,” he replied, “For several reasons.”
“Now don’t tell me your name isn’t really Lance-
lot!”
“I won’t, because I have as much right to Lance-
lot as you have to Elaine, But, look here, this mask’s
the hottest thing I know. Let’s take ’em off.”
She laughed tantalisingly. “Awfully curious,
aren’t you? It isn’t midnight yet,”
“I mean it.”
“Well, on one condition, that we remain Lance-
lot and Elaine to one another—-now and always. It
will be ever so much more interesting to be just our-
selves without labels to identify us with the rest of
the world. We will exist solely on our merits, or lack
of them. We will not be judged by the friends we
keep; no one will know whether our parents are rich
or poor, or who they are, or whether we have any.
Lancelot and Elaine. Is it a bargain?”
Bill’s hand stretched eagerly toward her.
“It is!”
He gripped the soft, warm hand and held it
firmly, his blood tingling, then leaned toward her
fumbling at his mask. “Ready?”
“Let’s be dramatic about it. One, two, three.
Off!”
He peered eagerly into the dim corner where
she leaned. Her domino was off —it lay like a black
stain against her white frock, but her face remained
hidden in the shadows.
“Elaine!”
His hands reached out, drew her gently toward
him. She came, scarcely resisting, her head tilted
away slightly. One hand slipped round a white-clad
shoulder, his fingers touched the soft velvet of her
chin, turned the face toward him with the faint
smile curving the lips. Then his head lowered,
his arms tightened and his lips met the soft allure of
hers, pressed them hungrily and held them.
The girl struggled free, and her resolute hands
pushed him firmly away. Bill stared restlessly at her,
calmly patting her disordered hair.
“Lancelot, I would like a drink. Can I trust you
to get me one?”
He broke the ensuing silence with a short laugh.
“I wanted one badly myself a while ago. Now
I’d rather bust my reputation and turn it down. How-
ever, what will you have? Whisky or ginger ale?”
“Both, please,” she announced with cool prompti-
tude. “And remember, I’m trusting you.”
He returned in a few minutes with two amber-
filled glasses and a bottle tucked under one arm.
“Take your pick,” he invited, “and if you don’t trust
me I’ll drink both.”
“No, you won’t!” She took a glass and held it
toward him with a gay smile. “Here’s to us! ”
He clinked his glass against hers. “Lancelot and
Elaine!’.’ and searched her elusive eyes over the top
of it, but the dim shadows were on her side and
baffled him completely.
“What are you going to do with the bottle?”
“Well, to tell the truth, I promised to take it to
my cook this afternoon to keep him from coming
to town and getting drunk. He is camped down the
river with the plant, and when I forgot to take it
this afternoon I told him I would be back with it
later. So he’ll get it after the ball is over—if he’s
lucky.”
“The poor chap! It would serve you right if
he came to town and got drunk.”
“I hope he doesn’t —not till after the races, any-
how.” He glanced at the girl. “Will you be at the
meeting to-morrow?”
“That’s chiefly why we are in Longreach.”
“Like to make some money?”
She leaned eagerly forward.
“Lancelot, if you can put me on to a sure thing
I’m your friend for life! Is the delivery of this bottle
of whisky connected with it?”
“Quite a lot.”
“Then off you go!”
She pushed the door open, but Bill’s hand
stretched out and closed it again.
“I wouldn’t miss to-night for all the cooks and
race meetings in the world!”
“Will it take long to get to your camp and back
again?”
“No. Lizzie will get there and back in no time.”
She eyed him steadily.
“Lancelot, you know I object to going for lonely
car rides with strange men” /
“Do you mean you’ll come?”
“If you’ll promise to bring me safely back as
soon as possible.” \
“It’s a bargain! Come on, Lizzie! ”
He swung the starting-handle violently and Lizzie
responded with a roar that shattered the romantic
effect of moonlight and soft music for every couple
in the neighborhood. Bill scrambled in behind the
wheel and fumbled with the controls till he discovered
the throttle, then he revved up the engine, let in the
clutch and Lizzie shot forward with a spasmodic
bound.
Elaine gasped, clutched at the side for support
as they progressed in a series of leaps and bounds,
swung sharply round a corner, then gathered speed
down the empty main street.
They were passing the last scattered houses
of the town. The squalid row of Jap town
showed a furtive light and disappeared ; then the Ford
bounced high in the air. The girl braced her feet
on the floor and took a firm grip with both hands.
“Was that a culvert we went over?”
“We didn’t go over. Only one wheel missed it!”
Bill replied airily. “We’ll soon be out of these ruts.”
As they bowled along a smoother track Elaine
ventured a question, “What sort of a camp is it we
are going to?”
“Droving camp.”
. “Oh, are you a drover?”
A gate loomed up and the car pulled up with a
jerk. “You don’t belong to Queensland?”
“How do you know?” she parried.
“You have the down-south attitude to drovers.
I’ve seen your New South drovers. Met an old
chap plugging along a road in a sulky behind a couple
of hundred sheep. He had half a dozen dogs, and he
was his own cook, horsetailer, boss and men com-
bined—didn’t even have a spare horse, and the one in
the sulky looked ready to lie down and die.
He darted a quick, appraising glance at her. “Do
you like horses?”
Her reply came quick and sincere. “I love them.”
“I’m sorry it isn’t daylight or I’d show you
some of mine. How about coming down to-morrow?”
“I’ll see. I’d like to, but we are only passing
through and may go on at any moment.”
At the third gate the girl asked:
“How much farther on is the camp? The ball
must be nearly over.”
“Not on your life! It goes on till daylight; but
we’re nearly there.” They continued along the rutted
track for half a mile, then Lizzie’s nose swung off
through the long grass at undiminished speed. “Better
hang on ; it’s a little bit bumpy here.”
“Bumpy is right!” Elaine was hanging desperately
on through a series of jolts and lurches and jars.
“Hadn’t you better slow down?”
“No, we’ll be right. Camp’s just ah” Crash!
Bill felt himself jerked hard over the steering-
wheel as the Ford jarred to an abrupt stop. He
gasped to regain the wind that had been knocked
out of him, then looked quickly round.
The girl lay quite still. Bill jumped out, lifted
the limp figure out of the cramped space and
looked quickly, anxiously around. They were in a
patch of stiff, rank grass, but the camp could not
be far away. He took a bearing and started off
through the scattered timber with the unconscious
girl in his arms.
Just as a glimpse of the white tent-fly through
the trees came to hearten him she stirred slightly
with a low moan. He strode on, calling breathlessly
“Tim! Percy! ”
There was no reply. He staggered to the tent.
The waggonette and harness were gone ; so were Tim
and Percy. The camp was deserted. He lowered the
recovering girl gently. Her cheeks were pallid and
her breath came in short, jerky gasps. Bill dragged
his swag out and laid her on the blankets, making
a pillow for her head, then hurried to find a water-
bag.
When he returned Elaine’s eyes were open. He
dropped on his knees beside her and held a pannikin
of water to her lips. She sipped it slowly, then lay back
on the pillow and signed to him to leave her. Bill
withdrew reluctantly. He heaped wood on the fire
and had a good look round. There were the tracks
where the waggonette had been pulled out and the
horses harnessed. The stores and swags were all
stacked under the tent-fly.
Bill bethought himself of the whisky and hurried
back to the Ford. First he kicked the tall grass away
and examined the obstacle they had hit. It was a
solid little gidya stump concealed in the grass, and
the force of the impact had bent the axle till the front
tyres almost touched. The smell of whisky pervaded
the atmosphere. The bottle was in fragments, but a
little remained in the broken bottom part, and he
carried it carefully back to camp.
Elaine was sitting dazedly on the blankets. She
regarded him with a vacant, puzzled expression.
“What happened?”
“I’m sorry,” he answered contritely. “Lizzie’s
sitting back there with her arms wrapped round a
gidya stump.”
Her eyes were troubled. “Does that mean”
“It means that. I’ll have to find the horses and
ride back to town for a car to take you in. The cook
and horsetailer have cleared out with the waggonette,
so that’s the only way.”
She sat still, staring ahead with the leaping flames
of the fire lighting the troubled features. “Don’t go,
Lancelot? Don’t leave me alone.”
He knelt beside her with worried eyes. “Are
you hurt?”
She shook her head slowly.
“Just a bump on the head and all the wind
knocked out of me. I’ll be all right . . . just feel
weak and sick now ... let me rest awhile, but don’t
leave me.”
“But your people —they’ll be worrying ”
“I don’t think so. I’m travelling with friends. All
the hotels were full, so we had to split up. I have
a room at the Imperial, but some other people offered
to put me up, so each will think I’m with the other."
He studied her with a serious, worried expression,
then he rose and rummaged about till he found some
aspirin and spilled some white tablets into her palm.
Her expressionless eyes watched him as he gently
removed her shoes and spread a blanket over her
knees. She lowered herself slowly back to the pillow
and he drew the blanket up to her shoulders, then,
with a husky “Good night, kid!” he rose to his feet
and turned away.
The last thing in Elaine’s consciousness before
sleep claimed her was a picture of the man sitting
motionless in front of the fire gazing into its depths
with the red glow on his twisted features. They were
quite alone, yet somehow no thought of fear occurred
to her.
Chapter XVII.
ELAINE woke to a musical jangling of bells,
mellowed by distance, and lay still and wide-eyed
with apprehension at the strangeness of her sur-
roundings. It was quite dark. Beyond the wide
inverted V of the tent-opening the stars twinkled with
a clear, hard brilliance above the flicker of the fire.
Then remembrance came to her —the smash, then an
indelible picture of a man sitting, staring motionless
into the fire whose fitful flames lit a shadowy back-
ground of traceried branches.
How long had she slept? She stared into the
dim vault of the tent above her in a sudden access
of panic, then stilled it as the horses closed on the
camp in a trampling, jangling mob of huge, shadowy
forms circling the outer radius of the firelight with
suspicious snorts before trooping on. And close behind
them a shadowy horseman cautiously urging a spirited
horse between the fire and the tent to peer at her as
she lay feigning sleep before he moved the horse on
—almost on tiptoe, it seemed —in the wake of the
others.
THE STORY SO FAR—
Bill Muir came to Queensland as a
newchum, and spent twelve years sheep-
and cattle-droving. Later he formed a
partnership with Bob Mac Andrew, and
the pair, after several trips to and from
the Northern Territory—their team in-
cluded Dick West, Percy the horse-
tailer (a half-caste) and “The Desolated
Cokernut” {cook) —took up 16,000 acres
of sheep country near Longreach.
»
At a dance in Longreach during Race
Week, Bill met Elaine, an auburn-
haired girl who moved him strangely.
Last week’s instalment ended thus :
He turned and studied her, leaning
back in the shadows. “Elaine, who are
you ? What is your real name ?”


She sat up, stiff and aching in even' bone, and,
throwing back the blanket, frowned down at her
creased and crumpled frock. The effect was even
worse when she got to her feet. She found her shoes
set on top of a neat pile of clothing in front of a
hurricane-lamp, its low-turned flame shielded by a
box. She examined them with hesitant curiosity—a
new white silk shirt and a pair of white moleskin
trousers with a soft, satiny surface and the shop ticket
still attached. Were they intended for her? She
measured the trousers against her—a shade long in
the leg, perhaps—then listened intently. A single
horse-bell tinkled, and with it a sound of splashing
. water from the distant waterhole. Without further-
hesitation she slipped out of the white frock and let
it flutter to the ground. . . •' -
When the horses were rounded up again beyond the
fire she was sitting quietly and unobtrusively on the
blankets, brushing her hair as best as she could with
the short-bristled, military hairbrush and reflecting
appreciatively on the thoughtfulness of,her host.
The horse and rider appeared so quietly , from
the shadows that her quick start almost betrayed her
presence, but the man never even glanced her way.
He slipped noiselessly to the ground, the horse stand-
ing where he dropped the reins, then he reappeared
beyond the fire, holding up another bridle. At his low
whistle a horse detached itself from the others, came
to him with long, raking strides and allowed the bridle
to slip over its shapely ears. He looped the reins of
the two bridled horses to a bough and walked towards
her.
She greeted him with a friendly smile.
“Hello, Lancelot! Any idea of the time?”
“It’ll be daylight in half an hour or so, but
how do you feel?”
His tone was anxious, and he scrutinised her
with keen, serious eyes.
“Quite all right, thanks. But do you mean that
I’ve slept practically all night?”
“Most of it, anyhow. Do the clothes fit?”
“Fairly well, but a belt would be useful. Are
they yours?”
He shook his head.
“They belong to young Percy the horsefailer.
Good job he didn’t take the parcel with him. I’ll
boil the billy, then if you feel up to fit we’ll make
for town. Have you done much riding?”
She smiled demurely
at his worried tone.
“Just a bit. I’ll try not
to fall off,”
He shifted uneasily
on his feet. “Eve given
you the quietest horse
I’ve got, but he’s fairly
lively. No vice about
him, but he’s a stock
horse and not exactly
a lady’s hack.”
“It’s all right,
Lancelot. I’ve lived
most of my life in the
country —believe it or
not —and 1 won’t dis-
grace you.”
They emerged from
the scattered timber
and hit the rutted
track to town, riding
side by side in the
cool, crisp air.
It was the last
hour of night, when all
the faint, elusive bush
perfumes steal out to
haunt the air with their
lin g e ring fragrance.
The world was a dim,
mysterious place of flitting shadows and things that
materialised threateningly out of the darkness and
passed harmlessly by. Vision was limited even after
the effects of the firelight had worn off ; things were
sensed rather than seen, and the only thing to do
was to surrender all trust to the more acute senses
of the horses.
The man leaned from the saddle to open a gate,
“This is another thing you can’t do from a car.”
“True! And horses are not so likely to run into
stumps.”
“Depends on the driver,” • he flashed back with
a grin. Their spirits were rising again, and, although
Elaine shivered occasionally as the chill struck through
the thin silk shirt, her blood pulsed strongly with the
elation of the moment. She longed for daylight to verify
her impressions of the horse she rode. There was
no need to urge it along; it strode forward with a
long, raking stride, and when they broke into a canter
as the false dawn paled the eastern stars the easy,
effortless swing with its hint of unlimited power and
flexibility, responding to the merest touch of the reins
or sway of the body, roused a glad, happy feeling
within her. It gave her a flattering sense of superiority
—of being monarch of all she surveyed—which at the
moment was limited to a faint glimpse of the track
beyond the horse’s ears.
The light spread higher in the east, putting the
stars out one by one. In the grey light objects took
shape and form —trees and low, scraggy bushes border-
ing the track, a little mob of sheep huddled together
at their approach like pale woolly ghosts and then
pouring away toward the dim smudge of the creek
timber. Then the hidden sun launched a bright javelin
across the heavens and followed it with a radiating
shower of golden arrows. Cautiously his yellow rim
lipped the horizon where it seemed to linger a moment
to contemplate the territory abandoned by the fleeing
rearguard of night—and suddenly it was day.
“Have we far to go, Lancelot?”
“Not so far, but we’ll hit the pace up a bit.”
The track straggled ahead like a white haphazard
ribbon, and they cantered along at a faster pace.
“I like your horses, Lancelot.”
He smiled his thanks at the greatest compliment
she could have paid him, and took advantage of the
first daylight view of her to steal a glance at her eyes.
Were they brown or grey? More like grey, but the
dark, curling lashes shielded them too well for cer-
tainty.
“Lancelot, is this horse faster than yours?
“Do you want to fall off and break your neck?”
She swung indignantly on him. “Do you think I
can’t ride?”
“I know you can, but you don’t know that horse.
You’d only have to move a fraction in the saddle
at a gallop and he’d duck from under you and leave
you sitting on the track.”
“Re-ally; how interesting!” In the heat of the
argument the pace had unconsciously increased to a
fast canter. The faintly-smiling, sardonic features
roused the girl to sudden rebellion. She pulled a lace
at him, an imp of perversity lurking- in her defiant
eyes.
“Well, try and catch me!”
She leaned forward and the horse shot ahead
like a suddenly released spring. The girl gasped and
clung tightly with her knees. She shortened the reins
and leaned out on the horse s neck with strands of
the mane whipping her face. She was ablaze with
exultation at the glorious sensation of pace, the
smooth, effortless running of the horse beneath her
and the white track slipping under the drumming
hooves like a rapidly-drawn carpet.
Suddenly she became aware of an outstretched
head and a shiny ring bit creeping up level with her
saddle. She threw a defiant side glance at the man
sitting slightly forward on the bay horse, his hands
low on its neck and a grim smile on the tight line of
his lips. The girl crouched down, urging the horse
on with her hands, her knees ; her whole spirit called
for more speed. The wind whipped the tears fiom
She sat still, staring ahead, with the leaping flames lighting her troubled features.
the corners of her eyes ; she felt as though a con-
tinuous line of teardrops was streaming back in hei
wake.
Bill’s glance was tinged with admiration. She was
riding the big horse all out, leaning forward on him
like the graceful figurehead of a ship, with her short
auburn hair whipping out behind her head. He looked
ahead, then, sitting down on the horse, tightened his
knees, and in a single bound the horses were racing
neck and neck. Elaine’s features were set with grim
determination ; her teeth gleamed between the tight-
drawn lips. From the corner of an eye she glimpsed
the man’s mocking smile, then the bay horse drew
steadily away from her in spite of her efforts. A
length ahead —two lengths—and she had to lower her
head under the biting rain of grit and pebbles from
its heels. A shout from the man in front, and he
reined back with one hand upraised.
“Gully ahead!”
She saw the thin straggle of trees rushing toward
her and sat up straight in the saddle, easing the excited,
reefing mare, but looked straight ahead till they crossed
the dry creekbed and the untidy hovels of Jap town
threw long shadows across the road. Then she turned
with a pose of meekness that contrasted strangely
with her dancing eyes and held a hand toward the
man.
“I’m sorry, Lancelot. But, oh, it was gorgeous!”
He ranged alongside and gripped her hand tightly,
masking his feelings behind a twisted smile but fail-
ing to quench the gleam in his eyes. Then, reluctantly,
he released her hand and they rode on without a word.
The wide streets were empty; a few early risers
were stirring on verandahs or sweeping out doorways.
They drew rein in front of the hotel and Elaine slipped
to the ground. .
“Cheerio, Lancelot —and thanks! ”
He looked down with a quiet, anxious expression.
“You’ll be at the races this afternoon?”
“Yes. Oh, what about that certainty?”
“I can’t tell you till just bpfore the race. I’ll look
out for you in front of the tote at the end of every
race. Right?”
She nodded brightly, then with a final wave of
her hand disappeared through the doorway.
Mac rubbed his eyes sleepily and took stock
of Bill disrobing against a background of long sun-
rays slanting across the verandah. “What was the
dance like?” he inquired lazily.
“Not bad.”
“Have a good night?”
“Oh, fair.”
Mac stared at his partner. This preoccupied air
was totally new within Mac’s experience of him.
“What was the girl like?”
Bill dropped on the edge of his bed and fixed
gleaming, almost fanatical eyes on the man in
pyjamas. ,
“Mac, she’s the finest thing I ever struck. She s
great! A thoroughbred! She makes the rest of them
look like boundary-riders’ hacks. And she can ride!
Man, you should have seen her sitting down on Comet
—going like the hammers of hell!”
Mac dug his elbow into the pillow and stared in
amazement.
“I say, where did you spend the night?”
Bill halted his enthusiastic paean.
“Oh, down at the camp! We took the Coker-
nut’s whisky down, and just as we got there Lizzie
hung her front axle round a stump. Tim and Percy
had cleared out —not a soul in camp—-so we rode
back this morning.”
Mac’s face was devoid of expression, but his tone
was deliberate.
“Then, I suppose, she accepted your oiler?
“What offer?” Bill stared nonplussed.
“You left here last night threatening to ask the
first girl you met to marry yoir —and to tell her all
your sticky past.”
Bill looked bland.
“Hell! 1 forgot! But I’ll ask her next time I
see her.”
“And tell her all about yourself?” Mac’s voice
had a sarcastic edge.
Bill hesitated and his eyes were troubled. “1
suppose so,” he replied slowly. Then he picked up
a towel and made for the shower.
Chapter XVIII.
THE sun beat brazenly down on the crowd besieging
the tote and the bookmakers or swarming like
ants round the stand. The continuous hum of a
thousand voices rose and fell but was never silent,
and through it obtruded the hoarse barking of the
layers of odds.
The horses had gone to the post for the second
race, caps and colors mingling gaily down the course,
when Elaine arrived. She was with a party: a fashion-
ably-dressed woman with a decided, purposeful
manner, a thin brunette with a roving, sophisticated
eye, and two men —both young. One was clearly a
city youth, slim and elegant, with an incipient mous-
tache spaced between a long nose and a receding chin ;
the other was heavily-built and sun-tanned, with the
forceful characteristics of the elder woman that sug-
gested blood relationship.
(Continued on page 50.)


LONG HOURS ARE EASY
HOURS IN THIS SADDLE
fd
f THE
No. 125
GOONDI”
STOCK
SADDLE
£8 7-
(MOUNTED)
Has hogskin
seat, capped
kneepads and
kip flaps with
extended panel
points. Fawn
serge lined.
N.S.W. freight
paid for cash
with order.
Write for Saddlery Catalog and 1936
List of Cow and Horse Rugs.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Teaching a Highly-moral Lesson:—
MY GRIMINAL
CAREER
BY HAROLD MERCER
IT is all very well for people to tell
you how easy it is for young men to
drift into criminal ways. In spite of
years of endeavors to drift I found myself
merely an insignificant clerk with Duguid
and Cheesitt, with all my youthful
dreams fading. Until the affair of the
Presentation Theft at the Hotel Splen-
diferous.
In my youthful dreams was a vision of
newspaper headlines dealing with the
bold deeds of “The Mystic Shadow” ; of
well-known detectives nodding respect-
' fully as they passed me in the street, and
one of them saying: “He’s the brains of
the gang; but we can’t get him. He’s
far too clever.” That sort of thing.
I received no encouragement from
my people. Instead of being apprenticed
to a burglar with whom 1 could have
gained some experience in the work for
which 1 craved, Mr. Eyewash—Ephraim
Eyewash, the superintendent of the Sun-
day school I had attended in my boy-
hood-secured me a job with the firm in
which he was accountant. And under
the wowser eye of Eyewash I was robbed
of all opportunity ; for what was the pil-
fering of a few stamps to one of my
soaring ambitions?
I realised that a man needed training
to become a leader of gangsters; but
the books I had sedulously studied could
not be regarded as technical guides. They
mentioned clever and daring crimes, but
gave no real information about how an
ambitious young
fellow could be put
in the way of doing
them.
I did my best. I
mixed with all the
fellows my parents
advised me to
avoid and learnt
with disgust that
“Crime ain’t no
good.”
their wickedness went no further than
stealing apples, surreptitious cigarette
smoking and backing racehorses.
Without exception, they lacked real
ambition. Directly I could get away
from home I went to live at Darling-
hurst, and got to know men who, it was
whispered, were “heads.” They showed
no inclination to invite me to join their
activities.
There was Dan Drewin, whose face
looked like seven years’ hard labor. I
cultivated Dan, at some cost in beer, as
a man likely to put my feet on the
path I wished to tread ; and at last I
got an opportunity to mention my heart’s
desire.
“If anyone showed me a way I could
make a good haul and get away with it,
Underworld by Scorfield.
I’d get into it like a shot,” I told him.
Before 1 knew what was happening
he had me jambed in the corner while
he talked honesty to me. “Crime ain’t
no good, son ; it only lands you in gaol
and breaks the ’earts of them that love
yer. There ain’t nothing in it. I know.
1 was a hold-up man once. But I learned
the ways of honesty and truth! ”
The next thing he was shoving
tracts in my hand headed “The Burglar’s
Heartbreak.” A man who looked like
Dan! The feeling that held me when
I got away from him at last was of
positive discouragement.
THE next day Eyewash sent for me
* and told me that, if 1 kept on work-
ing hard, I might—in another few
months or so —get an increase of half
a crown a week. Me! Living in a
world full of things that might be stolen,
and wasting my life!
I did a bit of sly-grog running for
Baldy Davis. At first I didn’t know it
was sly-grog running ; Baldy reckoned,
I expect, that I knew his game. When I
got my hand on the first suitcase he
handed to me, telling me where to take
it, I felt a thrill. I was making a start.
But when I found it was only sly grog
I felt very disappointed. It was humiliat-
ing for a man with my ambition. I told
Baldy one night that I was after better
things.
“Don’t think of it, son,” said Baldy.
“You gotter be honest. It was because
I thought you was honest that I got you
with me.”
They made me sick; he and Dan were
as bad as Ephraim Eyewash himself.
“There’s a thing I wanted to speak to
you about, son,” Baldy went on. “I
seen you talking to Ned Hardcard. That
ain’t going to do you no good. He’s Slip-
pery Ned, and he’s just out after doing
a stretch. If the Johns see you talking
to ’im, it’s going to spoil you for the
sly-grog. ’Ave a bit of sense, son ; you
don’t wanter go mixing with dishonest
company.”
So, after all, he gave me a hint. Next
day I had a heart-to-heart talk with
Ned. He looked at me queerly.
“I might work you in with me,
Pimple,” he said ; Pimple was a name
some of them had given me. “By cripes,
yes! I think you’re just the bloke! ”
“You’ve got something in view?” I
asked eagerly.
He dug out a newspaper cutting. “ ’Ave
a look at that.”
I tried to look wise, but all it appeared
to me was a notice about the coming
entertainment of a man whose name was
often in the paper, F. Bangwell Boggs,
by his friends and admirers at a dinner
at the Splendiferous.
“See the bit at the end, ‘Contribu-
tions to the presentation which is to be
made to Mr. Boggs may still be for-
warded to the hon. sec.’ That’s where
we come in: the presentation. This ’ere
Boggs, as it says, is an organiser ; and
you can bet ’e’ll do some good organisin’
for himself. A wallet of notes ; ’undreds
and ’undreds of pounds it oughter be.
Well, it’s ours.”
“Oh, ye-es,” I said. My breath was
taken away a little.
“All you got to do,” said Ned re-
assuringly, “is to be waiting on the side
steps of the Splendiferous to
take the loot when I rush
out. I’ll do the rest.”
Ned seemed to have his
plans all ready, and I assured
him that I was with him.
“That’s where you fit in.
The police may yard me;
but they won’t find any-
thing, ’cause you’ll ’ave the
swag. They’ll never think of
you, if we’re not seen to-
gether ; so we’ll meet secret
in future. All you got to do
afterwards is to go fer your
life when I ’and the stuff to
you, and ’ang on to it until
you ’ear from me. That’s
where you re useful —you’re honest.”
Ned bringing that up, too, was like a
blow ; but 1 overlooked it. At last, I
felt, 1 had my foot on the first rung of
the ladder.
Bright hopes of the future were danc-
ing before my eyes when Ephraim Eye-
wash sent for me to say that, it being a
slack time, I was to take my holidays.
“I am going away myself—for a
month,” he said. “You have been a
protege of mine; I hope you—ah—
always follow the principles of —ah—
truth and integrity which I have helped
to instil in you, God bless you, my boy,”
he said.
WITH joy I began my holidays, glad
in the thought of worth-while work
ahead of me. It was not until the night
of that affair at the Splendiferous that I
had any misgivings.
It seemed easy enough, just waiting
about while Ned did the real work in
the hotel.
But it wasn’t so simple. There was
the anxiety about how matters were
going inside. Ned had not been confi-
dential about his methods, except for
casual remarks to the effect that if Boggs
made any trouble he supposed that he’d
have to dong him one.
I hadn’t been on watch long when a
man moved from the other side of the
lane, and approached me.
“She’s not come out yet,” he said.
There was something sinister in the
way he spoke, with his chin thrust out
truculently,
“I’m not waiting for any girl,” I said.
“Oh, ain’t you?” he sneered. “You
ain’t waiting for Gladys, hey? Think
I haven’t heard about you? A man
oughter stoush you.”
“I don’t know any girl called Gladys,”
I said.
“Oh,„y’ don’t!”
This was an uncomfortable situation ;
and I was relieved when Lighthand
appeared.
“ ’Ullo, Pimple! ” he said. “ ’Aving
an argument?”
“This chap thinks I’m waiting for
some girl,” 1 said. “I’m not.”
He looked at me queerly.
The bellicose man moved back, mut-
tering, to the other side of the lane ; he
was outnumbered.
“Who are you waiting for, anyway?
asked Lighthand curiously.
And then I didn’t feel so relieved.
Lighthand was one of the Darlinghurst
mob ; but he wasn’t in this business ; and
I didn’t want him to be in it.
Ordinarily that lane was one of the
quietest spots in town; now there
appeared to be far too many people using
it as a thoroughfare.
“It’s someone I want to meet pri-
vately,” I said.
“Oh, all right!” he grinned.
He had just turned
away when Ned came
out with a rush. He
thrust a parcel into roy
hand which I thrust
into my pocket.
“Go for your life,”
he said.
He disa p p e ared,
going down the lane ; I
went up the other
way ; but soon I found
the belligerent man
beside me.
“Oh, you ain’t meet-
ing Gladys?” he
sneered. “That bloke
didn’t bring out a mes-
sage to you to meet ’er somewhere else?
Fm goin’ with you. When you meet ’er,
you see what happens to you!”
A brawl with him in the street would
bring the police ; and with that loot in
my pocket my desire was not to meet
policemen. I pushed him into a shop
window and made a dash for a passing
tram.
DERHAPS it was that these inci-
* dents upset me, I should have gone to
bed full of joy at the achievement of my
aspirations; but the endeavor to con-
centrate on my future greatness as a
king of the underworld who reminded
Ned, when he protested about his small
profits in the jobs he was ordered to do,
that he had once involved me in a rob-
bery on a mere third of the returns was
a complete failure.
I was even a little scared of the loot,
a bulging wallet. Directly I reached my
lodgings I thrust it into what I thought
was a secure hiding-place ; but all night
long I kept getting up to change the
hiding. A half-formed intention to count
“A man oughter stoush you.”
the spoil Ned and I would have to
divide was frustrated by my anxiety to
hide the wallet quickly. My effort, as
I lay half-dozing, to revel in advance in
the spending of the money was a failure,
too.


THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
SEVENTIETH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 30th March, 1936, and
Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 30th March,
1936 (including the balance brought forward from the
previous year, £28,997), amounts to . . . . . . £86,970 8 6
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 4 per cent, per
annum was paid in October last . . . . . . . . 25,000 0 0
Leaving available. . . . . . . • • • • • .. £61,970 8 6
Out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the
half-year ended 30th March, 1936, at the rate of 4 per cent,
per annum, payable after the General Meeting on 6th May,
1936 .. .. . . .. •• •• •• £25,000 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of . . . . . . . . £36,9 70 8 6
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the
Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 6th May, 1936, at
1 2 o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director
in place of Mr. Charles Richmond John Glover, who retires in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
At the conclusion of the Ordinary General Meeting an Extraordinary General
Meeting will be held, at which the Shareholders will be asked to approve of the
alteration of certain Articles of Association, particulars of which will be sent to
each Shareholder.
The Shareholders will be asked to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing year,
and to fix their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th MARCH, 1936.
LIABILITIES.
£9.188,598 14 9
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of
Credit, etc.. £261,675^16/4.
Liabilities of Customers on Letters of Credit, etc.,
as per contra, £261,075/16/4.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
From 25th March, 1935, to 30th March, 1936.
To Dividend in May,
1935 .. ..£25,000 0
„ Dividend i n
October, 1935.. 25,000 0
~ Halanee 80th March, 1936 .
0
0
- £50,000 0 0
61,970 8 6
RESERVE FUND.
By Balance 25th March, 1935
~ Net Profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, Interest
accrued on Fixed Deposits and
Rebate on Bills Discounted and
deducting Expenses at Head Office
and 58 Branches, including
Salaries, Rents, etc.
£53,997 0 0
57,973 8 6
£111.970 8 6
To Balance at this date . . . . £1,000,000 0 0
(Used partly in business and
partly in Government and
Approved Securities.)
£1,000.000 0 0
By Balance, 25th March, 1935 ..£1,000,000
£1,000.000 0
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
HOWARD W. LLOYD 1
A. ALLEN SIMPSON J
Directors.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE.
We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up and
exhibits a true and correct view of the state of The Bank of Adelaide’s affairs on 30th
March, 1936, according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and
as shown by the Books of the Bank submitted.
We have obtained all information and explanations required by us.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Government and other Securities
of the Bank on hand at the Head Office. The Assets and Liabilities at the Branches, other
than London, have been taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the
respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 7th April, 1936.
G. R. ANNELLS \ Auditors
KENNETH W. NEILL J Auoltors -
(Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
I, WILLIAM JOHN MASSON, General Manager of The Bank of Adelaide, do solemnly
and sincerely declare:
That the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used partly in the business and
partly in Government and approved Securities.
That the accompanying statement and balance sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
That the names, addresses and occupations of persons who are the Directors of the Bank
at the date of this statement are:
HOWARD WATSON LLOYD (Chairman), College Town, Accountant.
EDWARD WHEEWALL HOLDEN, 8.5 c.,” M.I.E. (Aust.), M.L.C., Kent Town,
Manufacturer.
CHARLES RICHMOND JOHN GLOVER, F.R.G.S., North Adelaide, Secretary.
ALFRED ALLEN SIMPSON, C.M.G., C.8.E., Burnside, Manufacturer.
ALBERT EDWIN HAMILTON, M.8.E., Adelaide, Accountant.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1915.
DECLARED at Adelaide in the State of South Australia this seventh day of April, 1936.
W. J. MASSON.
Before me—
C. W. NIMMO,
A Justice of the Peace in and for the State of South Australia.
WE, HOWARD WATSON LLOYD and ALFRED ALLEN SIMPSON, of College Town
and Burnside respectively, being Directors of The Bank of Adelaide, do hereby certify that in
our opinion the above Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at ‘Adelaide this seventh day of April, 1936.
HOWARD W. LLOYD \ Directors
A. ALLEN SIMPSON J U]reaors *
Policemen chased me through my
dreams, and, when I was escaping from
one of them, met me in a bunch around
the corner of the street. When I woke
from that nightmare I worried about the
people who had seen me near the
Splendiferous.
Suddenly a whole posse of police bat-
tered at my door. I leaped out of bed
in a cold sweat. It was broad daylight,
but the battering was made only by
Lighthand.
It was a relief at first to see him, and
then again immediately it was not.
“So that was the game! ” .he said, toss-
ing a crumpled paper over, to me. He
grinned whilst I read the report the paper
was folded down to display. It was
headed “Daring Hotel Hold-up,” and
detailed how the well-known public man
F. Bangwell Boggs, having for a moment
left the dinner given in his honor at the
Splendiferous, was held up in a corridor
by a man he could not identify, knocked
out and robbed of a wallet of notes that
had been presented to him as a mark
of esteem by citizens concerned in
various activities that
had benefited by his or-
ganising ability. The
wallet, the report stated,
contained “a very consid-
erable sum of money in
big notes, the numbers
of which are known,”
That last comment was
a passing worry to me.
“So it was Ned you
had to meet last night?”
grinned Lighthand. “I
looked round after I left
you and saw him come
out to you. It wasn’t a
bad job, that robbery!
Good idea of Ned’s to
get a cleanskin with him
to hold the stuff.”
“The gang’ll want a bit.”
It was useless trying to bluff Light-
hand.
“Oh, turn it up! ” he remarked.
“You’ve got nothing to fear from me.
Only you can tell Ned when you see him
that I expect a cut. The gang’ll want a
bit, too. We’ll wait till Ned’s out, of
course; but there’ll be trouble if yous
blokes don’t play square,”
“Out?” I exclaimed.
He laughed at my expression.
“Yes, he’s been arrested. Oh, they
can’t hold him —when they find nothing
on him. Got the stuff here?”
“No,” I lied. He laughed as he went
out with an ominous “I’ll be seeing you
some more.”
He had hardly gone before my land-
lady was knocking at my door. She
wanted to get in to do my room. She
was half-way in before I had dressed,
and I had to grab the wallet, without any
chance of inspecting it, and get out.
It had never struck me before that
Sydney was so full of policemen. I
dodged down a side street or into a shop
or hotel whenever I saw a policeman’s
cap in the distance. One of these dodg-
mgs took me into a bar where
I ran right into Dan Drewin.
“I ’ope you took ’eed of
what I told you about
honesty, son,” he said.
He got me jambed in a
corner again, talking about
it; but what I objected to
most was the way he pawed
me about. It had always
been a habit of his; now,
With trembling
fingers.
when his hand ran down where that
wallet made a bulge in my coat, it gave
me the creeps.
IT wasn’t until night that I had a chance
* to have a real look at the spoils.
But at last, with my door locked, I
was able to open the wallet. I did it
with trembling fingers.
I was stunned. The contents were a
pound-note wrapped round a wad of
brown paper.
A cold sweat broke upon me. I did
not know what to think. My suspicions
passed from the thought that Ned had
been duped or had played a trick upon
me to remembrances of how Dan
Drewin, with his talk of honesty, had
pawed me, Lighthand’s visit to my room
and my landlady’s activities. Even if
Ned had been duped he was likely to be
furious and accuse me of double-crossing
when I showed him what the wallet held.
There was going to be trouble anyway.
I dreaded Ned’s reappearance, and yet I
wanted to get the matter squared. Per-
haps he had some explanation. But he
did not reappear, although Lighthand
told me he had been discharged.
Lighthand’s anxiety might have re-
lieved him of suspicion but for the doubt
that he was playing a part.
“Look ’ere, Pimple,” he said, “what
about my cut of that wallet? You’ll
have the gang on you, too, if you don’t
ante up. Ned must’ve seen you by now.”
“He hasn’t, Jim,” I said. “On my
word, he hasn’t. It’s worrying me. Be-
sides, there’s nothing in the wallet. I
suspected that you knew about it. 1
hadn’t a chance of getting a glimpse of
the contents for a day. There was only
a quid wrapped round that paper.”
“Cut that out!” he snarled sharply.
“It’s a fact,” I began.
It was as far as I got. The blow Light-
hand gave me got me fairly in the eye
and seemed to twist my nose aside.
“You double-crosser! ” he cried as he
stood over me. “That’s nothing to what’s
coming to you if you don’t ante up ; and
the gang’ll cut yer liver out. There’s a
whisper goin’ around that Ned’s going off
to Brisbane. That means you’ve met
and had your cut-up. Well, you’re still
here, and we’ll hold you
up for our share —me
and the gang. You’ve
got until to-morrow to
act honest; after that
you look out.”
It hurt me, the insis-
tence of all these people
on honesty; they were
worse than Ephraim Eye-
wash.
There was only one
thing for me to do. I
stole quietly away from
Darlinghurst; that would
avoid trouble with Ned,
too, if he looked for
me before going to
Brisbane.
When next I saw Lighthand—it was
in a Sydney street —I dodged quickly into
a hotel and walked through to the saloon
bar. There were two men there, very
drunk. Their conversation came to me
as I sipped a tankard, my heart still pal-
pitating, giving plenty of chance to Light-
hand to get out of the neighborhood.
Something one of the men said
attracted my attention.
“Bangwell Boggs didn’t lose that
blooming money,” said one of the men,
who had inkstains on his fingers, sug-
gesting a bad fountain-pen. “It was a
neat trick that! I know all about it.”
“But it was in the papers that”
“Look here! Boggs is bankrupt—
owing money right and left. Do you
think he worked that testimonial money
for his creditors to grab? Not Boggs!
The bloke he got to work as secretary
was in it with him. They had the money
well socked away, and it was a dummy
wallet that went. The robbery was made
real enough to go ; he got a real bona-
fide crook to do the hold-up business to
give it a genuine touch ; he got twenty
notes for his trouble. I helped to fix
it myself, A light-fingered chap named
Ned Hardcard I got to know
when I was doing police
court rounds”
I RETURNED to Duguid
* and Cheesitt with a sense
of acute discouragement and
a black eye the staff regarded
as evidence that I had had
a good holiday. All 1 had got
out of my adventure was the
pound that had helped to make the
dummy roll and a fear that still causes
me to dodge out of the back door of
the office and dive for cover whenever I
see one of those Darlinghurst “heads'’
approaching.
And to think that poets, philosophers
and the fellows that make up the copy-
book maxims get quite worked up about
what they call “the cameraderie of the
underworld.”
Honor among thieves! It was enough
to make a bloke turn honest.
In the office I found a state of excite-
ment. An angry man had called with
the astonishing assertion that his wife
had departed with Ephraim Eyewash
when he left on his holidays. The boss
treated it as a joke until the bloke
brought a policeman, but when he found
that a Mr. and Mrs. E. Eyewash had
sailed for South Africa the day Ephraim
left the office he couldn’t get the auditors
in quickly enough. Something like £4OOO
was missing with Ephraim Eyewash.
Ephraim Eyewash! And in my search
for bad companions I had never given
him a thought;


5T7
OBTAIN MONEY
'144. 6/ueSlt^CyL
A SIMPLE and safe way to finance a trip,
■*- whether within Australia or abroad, is to
carry a Bank of New South Wales Letter of Credit.
When travelling, it is not necessary to run the
risk of carrying on the person large sums in cash.
The Bank has over 750 branches in Australia, New
Zealand, the Pacific Islands and London and there
is an agent of the Bank wherever, throughout the
world, banking facilities are available.
The Bank also issues Travellers’ Cheques in
amounts of £2, £5 and £lO. These can be cashed
throughout the world.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
LETTERS OF CREDIT
Batik at New South Wales Letters of Credit can be obtained
through any branch of the Bank.
206A.1936
(5=
eg l ,
: I
■w*~
857 -UaxuSorn
956-jeej it demanded
•am
SSSXj,
F
Mato*
0 L
O o( VURf
Out of the Past:—
THE MAD CROPPY
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
MR. JOSEPH HOLT the famous
and picturesque General Holt ot
the 1798 rebellion in Ireland—an
exile in New South Wales on account of
his efforts against British arms and
authority, mopped his brow and com-
plained of the heat of the evening. He
took his ease in the best parlor of James
Larra’s excellent inn at Parramatta, on
the Christmas Eve of 1803, drinking
wine with his very good friend the Com-
mandant. Captain
Edward Abbott,
of the New South
Wales Corps, that
unique battalion
which lives in
Australian history
as the Rum
Corps.
“My dear Mr.
Abbott,” he said,
“’tis the very
devil of a night,
so it is!”
"A little more wine, mon general ?”
suggested Captain Abbott, pushing the
bottle across the polished surface of the
round, red-cedar table that separated
them. “Yes, ’tis most enervating and dis-
agreeable. Very unpleasant, indeed. A
storm brewing, I should say,”
“A storm making up, ye think, Mr.
Abbott?” he said with portentous
solemnity, nodding his head. “Faith,
then, I think there is, too—an’ not only
by reason of the heat of the Weather.
Tis men’s passions that raise the fiercest
of storms,”
“How mean you, Mr. Holt?”
“ Tis of my unfortunate country-
men, out yonder in the stockades at
Toongabbie and Castle Hill, that I’m
thinking. They’re restless, so they are
—and that’s the plain truth.”
“Well, well —they must abide their
lot, poor creatures,” said the Comman-
dant with a sigh. “But I’m sorry for the
poor devils. Have you anything specific
in mind, general?”
Mr, Holt drew himself up, laying his
churchwarden pipe on the table, and
folding his arms across a chest visibly
swelling with indignation. He glared
angrily at Captain Abbott.
‘Sir,” he said with great dignity, “if I
had, d’ye think I’d be after saying it?
I’d have ye know, sir, that Joseph Holt’s
no informer. You ought to be aware of
as much as that, sir!”
Captain Abbott hastened to apologise.
Oh yes, yes—of course, I know it,
my good friend! Of course, I’m well
aware that you’d be above any such
contemptible conduct. ’Twas merely that
1 had some notion myself of the state of
affairs in the stockades. I beg you not
to misunderstand me.”
He broke off his explanation suddenly,
and stared out into the dusk through the
open doorway. “Hullo, there— hullo!”
he called. “What’s all this, Larra—
what’s the matter?”
Outside in the garden the voice of the
landlord had been raised in tones of
indignant expostulation. In a moment
or two Mr. Larra, whose origin was
French and Hebraic, came sideways into
the doorway, as he divided his attention
between the Commandant and somebody
outside, whom he seemed to be endeavor-
ing to keep there.
“M’sieu' le Commandant the land-
lord responded—“ ’tis an ill-behaved
fellow who says he must see your honors.
No, no —go away, my man—the gentle-
men are still at table, and must not be
disturbed. Sortez —allez vous en ! Re-
viendrez. Come later.”
“Oh, to hell wid ye, ye damned Jewboy
frog,” roared another voice angrily. “I
tell ye I musht see Misther Hoult—-an’
if Cap’n Abbott’s wid him, ’tis so much
th’ betther. Out o’ th’ way, me bhoy,
an’ don’t be sakin’ for to hinder y’r
betthers.”
“Why, ’tis Dan Delaney!” exclaimed
Mr. Holt wonderingly.
“A decent man, Mr. Commandant. I
think ye might have him inside. He’s
worked for me at the farm this long
time since. I’ll go bail he’s got some-
thing to say might be worth listening to.”
“Let him in, Larra,” nodded Captain
Abbott. “I know the man, too.”
With a shrug and a bow the landlord
stood aside, and a great red man, roughly
clad and perspiring freely, entered the
room. He was barelegged and bare-
footed. Shoes were a luxury in New
South Wales in 1803.
“Well, my man, and what can we do
for you?” asked the Commandant
kindly.
“What’s troubling ye, Dan?” said Mr.
Holt. “Ye may speak freely—ye’re
among friends.”
“Gin’ral, y’r honor— th’ dun cow’s
calved !”
CAPTAIN ABBOTT stared at the an-
nouncer of this thrilling news in blank
astonishment for a moment or two. Then
he leaned back in his chair and roared
with laughter,
“Oh, my dear general,” he chuckled—
“this is truly momentous! Let us drink
to the very good health of this addition
to the dun cow’s family.”
But Mr. Holt rose to his feet in a
solemn manner and picked up his hat
and stick from a chair near by.
“I must bid ye good night, Captain
Abbott—and beg ye to excuse me. Tis
more important now than ye’ll be think-
ing. Come, Dan, we must lose no time.”
Bowing to the Commandant, he left
the room —the big man making a clumsy
exit behind him—leaving the mystified
officer seated at the table.
When they walked away into the hot
darkness, which had become extraordi-
narily dense and heavy, there came a
sudden roll of thunder and a dazzling
flash of lightning as the first slow and
heavy drops of the impending downpour
began to fall.
“Gad!” muttered Captain Abbott as
he rose to shut the door. “I’d not wonder
if that were symbolic! Symbolic of
another kind of storm that’s been
brewing for some time. Ah, well —we
can only watch and wait.”
He poured himself out some more
wine, and refilled his churchwarden.
Christmas passed by, the New Year
came, and two months of it slipped away
in the hot days and nights of late
summer, and all through those long
weeks Joseph Holt was an unhappy and
troubled man. He was as one who dwelt
upon the flank of a volcano, of whose
every tremor and rumble he realised the
full significance—the fierce and destruc-
tive activity, the sudden bursting out of
which such signs portended.
Premature, indeed, had been Dan
Delaney’s announcement that “the dun
cow had calved.” The curious statement
he had made to Mr. Holt in the presence
of Captain Abbott was, of course, an
announcement in a primitive code, and
it meant that the long, secretly discussed
outbreak among the Irish political pris-
oners stationed at Castle Hill, and in
other localities in the neighborhood of
Parramatta, had come to a head. But
at last the volcano blew up, and “the
dun cow’s calf” was a miserable abor-
tion.
It was a wretched business, out of
which the only credit gained fell to the
rank and file of the New South Wales
Corps, who certainly showed that, what-
ever the collective shortcomings of the
regiment might be, it could prove itself
surprisingly efficient on such an occa-
sion as this. The mutiny broke out on
the evening of March 4, 1804, at Castle
Hill, and word was received of it by
Captain Abbott in Parramatta about
nine o’clock, who immediately dispatched
a messenger to the Governor in Sydney.
The man arrived at headquarters about
midnight, and the companies of the bat-
talion stationed in Sydney left their bar-
racks at one o’clock on the morning of the
fifth, reached Parramatta —fifteen miles
—at 4 a.m., and spent the rest of the day
chasing rebels, covering in distance
marched within eighteen hours probably
forty-five miles. Such a performance in
hot weather is one that any regiment
might well be proud of.
THERE is not space here to go into
detail concerning the events of the ill-
omened night and the days that followed
it. That they were made memorable by
the liberal use of bullet, lash and rope
goes without saying. Most that you may
read of them on the printed page to-day
is contained in The Historical Records of
New South Wales and The Memoirs of
Joseph Holt. None of such unfortunates
as Dan Delaney’s class have left any
personal account. Their point of view
has been lost. There are seldom any
histories by peasants of peasants’ revolts
—which the affair really was. The only
notable achievement of the rebels was
that they caught the flagellator and gave
him four dozen of the very best.
Two days after that bloody and
strenuous fifth of March Mr. Holt rode
into Parramatta to see what was doing.
He was not a little apprehensive that
the authorities would assume —as they
very unjustly did—that he had had some
part in the rebellion. Ultimately, he suf-
fered a year and a half of exile on Nor-
folk Island because of the unfounded
suspicions Governor King entertained
concerning him. He went to seek his
friend the Commandant, and turned his
horse’s head towards the military bar-
racks in George-street.
Outside on the parade-ground was a
group of incredibly dirty and ragged
prisoners—some half-dozen of them—
guarded by soldiers with fixed bayonets
whose uniforms and equipment gave
ample evidence of the fact that they had
recently been afforded small opportunity
for the performance of those rites of “spit
and polish” so important to the British
army of the period. The prisoners were
men who had been hunted out of gullies,
hollow logs, caves and the branches of
trees in the final clearing away of the
aftermath of rebellion. Martial law had
been in operation since the beginning of
the outbreak, and these unfortunates were
awaiting their individual summonses be-
fore the military tribunal that was sitting
in the officers’ mess.
Among them towered the huge, un-
kempt figure of Daniel Delaney. He
grinned at Mr. Holt when he saw him.
and waved a great paw. There was a
bloodstained bandage about his red
head, but he carried himself scornfully
and defiantly, and was obviously care-
less as to whatever the Fates within
might have in store for him.
Mr. Holt dismounted in the gateway
and handed his reins to a bystander of his
acquaintance. He was greeted by the
sergeant in charge of the prisoners
guard, whom, by a lucky chance, he hap-
pened to know.
“Good day to ye, Mr. Holt,” said Ser-
geant Trivet. He leaned his halberd


HUMOR COMPETITION.
The results of “The Bulletin’s” £25
Good Humor Competition” will
be announced next week, when the
last of the accepted entries, “Not
According to Plan,” by Euralia,
will be published.
All Unaccepted Manuscripts which
were accompanied by stamps to
cover postage have been returned.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly, Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
•Phone: BWI2IB
LVSAGHT’S
Steel from Newcastle-Zinc from Tas-
mania-Australian acid-the circulation
of £410,000 in wages to 1,400 Australian
workers directly employed and £650,000
in wages resulting from the manufacture
of raw materials—that is the contribution
of John Lysaght (Australia) Limited to
the progress and expansion of Australian
industry.
★
This firm, the oldest and largest manu-
facturers of galvanized iron in the world,
opened the Newcastle factory 15 years
ago. From this date the output increased
annually until, at the present time, 100,000
tons are produced from this source every
year.
★
Further plant comprising the latest
three-high mechanised mill is being
installed which will increase the output
of galvanized sheets by a further 15,000
to 20,000 tons per annum.
★
It is creditable to John Lysaght (Aust.)
Ltd. that, in those 15 years, the quality of
the Australian product has reached a
point equal to anything from overseas.'
100,000 TONS OF
AUSTRALIAN STEEL
2 5 0,0 0 0 TONS or
AUSTRALIAN COAL
rfi*»!
20, 000 TONS OF
AUSTRALIAN ZINC
S. 6 0 0 TONS OF
AUSTRALIAN ACID
1100 DIRECTLY EM PlO YEO
AUSTRALIAN WORKMEN
(NEARLY 5 0 0 0 INDIRECTLY)
£410,0 0 0 DIRECTLY*? A ID
AUSTRAL Can wages
(£65 0,000 INDIRECTLY )
JOHN LVSAGHT CAust: LTD
Makers of Lysaght galvanized iron.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide. Pert ha
A Silent Servant
fd
fd
4
nvti ?M?f of
YOUR cheque book is a silent servant,
always ready to serve you in your
financial affairs. It enables you, with the
necessary credit
—to write a cheque anywhere —at home, shop
or office.
— to write a cheque any time —during or out-
side business hours.
—to send money anywhere—safely and
conveniently.
—to have a receipt at your bank in the form
of a cancelled cheque, endorsed by the
payee if drawn "to order."
—to obtain an accurate statement of your
account at regular intervals.
—to obtain cash when you want it.
—to keep your balance safely deposited until
you need it.
Cheque accounts are opened at all branches
of this Bank.
Rural Bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
sat
EAD OFFICE: 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Sydney Branch; 350 GEORGE ST. (opp. Wynyard St.),
Commissioners;
R. McKERIHAN (President) H. ROGERS P. KEARNS
The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will he considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
towards his charges. “ Tis a gang of
scarecrows, ain’t it?”
“Good day to you, sergeant. I say,”
he went on in a lowered tone —“ye’ve
my man Delaney here! ”
“Aye, Mr. Holt —and hard it was to
lay hands on him. I’m thinkin’ he’ll be
cold meat before th’ day’s done. A
desprit fellie!”
“A good fellow, Peter Trivet—one of
the best. I’ll go bail he’d no part in the
trouble. May I speak with him?”
The sergeant shook his head doubt-
fully at first, but finally consented.
“Oh, well —you may, Mr. Holt. You’re
a friend of Captain Abbott’s —and you
an’ me’s good friends, too. Don’t be
long. The magistrates an’ officers be
hexamining of ’em now, an’ his turn’s
next. Be as quick as you’re able to.
Tis like enough for to be your last
chance o’ speakin’ to him in this world.”
MR. HOLT approached the big Irish-
man, who did not seem to be much
concerned about his perilous situation.
“Dan,” he said, “ye born fool! Why
could ye not keep out of it? Ye gave
me y’r word ye would. Damme, man —
ye’ve put y’r head in the noose! ”
“Sorr,” answered Delaney, “so I mint
for to kape out of it —but ’twas too much
for a mahn to be afther bein’ asked for
to do. I niver was able for to kape out
of a fight—iver since I was a shmall
gossoon, so high.”
For a few moments Mr. Holt con-
sidered contemptuously the childishness
of Dan Delaney’s excuse, reflecting bit-
terly that, though it might hold water as
far as he himself was concerned, to the
mixed tribunal sitting within doors it
would only be provocative of all the
severity that lay in their power to use
towards the demented person who put it
forward. And then a bright idea came
to him, at the moment when he heard the
Court’s demand for the presence of the
red giant.
“Daniel Delaney!” yelled a voice at
the door of the messroom.
“Remember, Dan,” hurriedly whis-
pered Mr. Holt —“remember y’r mad—
mad as a banshee—play the part of a
mad croppy, and I’ll get ye off. D’ye
understand?”
The big man nodded, a light of com-
prehension in his blue eyes as he was led
away. Mr. Holt followed him to the
door, where he was blocked by the sentry.
“Ye’re not to come in,” said the sol-
dier, “unless so be ye’re a witness for
Gov’ment.”
With difficulty Mr. Holt restrained his
indignation. It was the same old story
of one-sidedness here in New South
Wales as it had been in Ireland. But he
had another inspiration, and nodded his
head.
“Yes, I’m a witness,” he said.
In the dining-room of the mess sat the
Court, which, although it was being held
under that vague anomaly known as
“martial law,” yet included the Rev.
Samuel Marsden, chaplain at Parramatta,
who was also a magistrate of the terri-
tory, and a very active one. There were,
besides, Major Johnston, who presided,
Captain Abbott and two other military
officers with whom Mr. Holt had no
acquaintance.
Sergeant Trivet detailed the prisoner’s
capture after a severe struggle, in which
a man’s jaw had been broken, and the
trial was virtually over. Mr. Holt
thought that he could see the rope tight-
ening about poor Dan’s neck as Major
Johnson picked up his pen. The admin-
istration of what passed for justice was
swift and deadly in the New South Wales
of those days.
“A moment, gentlemen!”
THE Court looked up in surprise. This
was a strange interruption of its
routine. Mr. Holt stood bowing repeat-
edly and with much dignity near the
door.
“Oh, ’tisi Mr. Holt,” said Captain
Abbott, smiling at his friend. He whis-
pered a few words to Major Johnston,
who presently nodded.
“Well, sir?” the major addressed
Holt. “Pray, what do you wish to in-
form the Court as to the prisoner?”
Clearly the major thought it could only
be something to the prisoner’s dis-
advantage.
“Gentlemen,” said Mr. Holt, glancing
at Delaney, who certainly did look a little
idiotic and was slavering into his red and
dusty beard, “gentlemen, only this in a
few words. This poor fellow’s in my
employ at Mr. Cox’s farm. He was
there on the night of the fourth. I’m
sure he took no part in the affair. Sorry
I am for it, sirs, but the poor fellow’s
mad. Nothing but a mad croppy, so
he is! The sight of a soldier sends him
completely crazy. If ’twas not that they
tried to arrest him he’d have been in
no trouble. I beg of you, gentlemen,
to take this into consideration. I’ll go
bail for it, he’s a loyal man. That is
all, gentlemen; but I beg your mercy
for him on account of his madness.”
One of the officers unknown to Mr.
Holt protested.
“Sir,” he said to the major, “this is no
defence. If we spare one croppy for
being mad we must spare them all. They
are all mad.”
Major Johnston shook his head at Mr.
Holt, smiling a little.
“Ah, yes; I fear ’tis so, Mr. Holt.
Prisoner, have you anything to say?”
Mr. Holt looked in despair at his big
henchman. The giant shuffled up to the
table, as though he wished to speak, and
stood directly in front of burly Mr. Mars-
den. Suddenly he leaned across the table
with an idiotic grin on his face, and
snapped his fingers below the chaplain’s
nose.
“Ye blashted heretic! ” he bellowed,
and then fell to laughing in an unmis-
takably insane fashion as the soldiers
dragged him back.
There is some evidence extant that
about this time Major Johnston and Mr.
Marsden were not upon the most cordial
terms personally, but however that may
be Mr. Holt was astonished to hear the
major remark after a deadly and awful
moment or two of silence:
“Well, I think, after all, that it must
be as you say, Mr. Holt. The fellow
would certainly not so insult one of his
Judges in so gross a fashion were he
really sane and in his right mind and
able to realise possible consequences!
’Twould not be right to hang a madman.
But he must have one hundred lashes —
for the insolent contempt he has dis-
played towards the Court. What do you
say, Captain Abbott?”
“I agree with you, sir,” said the Com-
mandant, smiling behind his hand. “And
you, gentlemen?”
The two officers very naturally agreed
with their superiors. Mr. Marsden was
the sole dissentient. A very human being
was Samuel Marsden. “The fellow de-
serves hanging,” he growled, scowling at
the grinning prisoner.
“Well, then,” said the major, writing,
“one hundred lashes. Good morning,
Mr. Holt. Your testimony has saved the
prisoner’s life. Call the next case.”
As he passed Mr. Holt in the barrack
yard on his way to his flogging, Daniel
Delaney whispered to that gentleman:
“Sure, gin’ral, ’tis a wise man knows
whin to be mad—an’ ’tis betther to be
a little mad than complately dead!”
A WEEK or so later Captain Abbott
rode out to Brush Farm to convey to
his friend the bad news that he was to
appear before the Judge-Advocate in
Sydney for an examination as to what
he might know concerning the late rebel-
lion.
“Faith, then, I know, Mr. Abbott, this
is none of your doing. I’ll go down and
submit to this contemptible blackguard
Atkins. I’m innocent, and have no fear.
To the devil with their suspicions!”
“Will you dine with me this evening,
Mr. Holt—at Larra’s place? I’d like to
spend another evening in your company
—before we lose you.”
“Lose me, sir? And for why should
ye lose me? I’ll be back here in a day
or two. But I’ll be delighted to join you
this evening. Lose me, indeed! Ye’ll
have no such luck, me friend.”
But the Commandant knew better. It
was Norfolk Island for Mr. Holt,
“ Twas an inspiration on your part,
general,” said Captain Abbott as they sat
over their wine that evening—“that plea
of insanity. Naught else could have saved
him. That and the major’s delight at his
impudence to Mr. Marsden. How has
your mad croppy been getting on?”
“ Twas but yesterday, Mr. Abbott, that
I was compelled to give Dan Delaney
the father of a bating. He was too mad
to work. But he’s sane now. There’s too
much of the damned Irishman about that
fellow!”


y
\POWER
-VHJEF I
This ENGLISH
DE LUXE FORD
did 50.20 miles
per gallon.
mm®.
iiiiii
j &'*y
ra
ft o
0 t %%
according to the R.A.C.A. Conditions and supe?
the Club* at an average Road Speed of SO .61 Miles Per Eo
1 twnur.T! FEEL CONSUMPTION BEDiG 50.20 MILES PER GALLO.
+■ PROVED BY CERTIFIED
PERFORMANCE
ECONOMY
and
EFFICIENCY
in smart
Utility
Service
,:: W
rr/ /
srirn
. .
Fi m i
Ford V-8 Utilities are out-
standing for smart style and
efficient; economical service.
They have many features and
special equipment (usually
available only at additional
cost) which add many pounds
to their value. Your local
Ford dealer will gladly demon-
strate. Special Finance Plan
provides easy purchase terms.
THE 1936 F73.sc
FORD V-8
UTILITIES
See Your Nearest Ford Dealer^
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
P.T.F. (and others): There is no limit to the
number of entries that may be submitted by any
person in the Bush Balladry Competition. But
every piece must be clearly headed to that effect.
.... F.P.: With the best will in the world we
couldn’t “touch them up” to the utilisable
mark E. 8.: Vain hope! Your verse is the
last word in prosiness Veritas: A hotch-
potch of worn images and tame reflections....
A.V.N.: Snap ending (in italics) obvious long
before it came R.C.P.H.: Don’t think it
would get past a jury of 12 divers
E.D.C.: Some doggerel is amusing, but yours
merely saddens... .A.V.N.; As dull and grey
as the April skies you write of A.R.C.:
You rhyme too raggedly N.G.8.: The
letters need transposing W.L.H.: Not suit-
able. .. .E.R.W.E.; Theme trite and sentiments
treacly M.D.: We never trust those sailors
who are “the pride of their captain”
Ah Gee: Two worth-while lines, at all events:
The Premiers sail to England to be patted on their
heads;
The members at Canberra squabble for cheaper
breakfasts and beds.
. ...W.8.F.: Try it on a daily.. ..C.C.M.N.:
Well supplied; you misht unload it elsewhere.
W.T.J.: It’s an appealing theme, but one
that needs more skilful handling A.McD.;
Traditional English Christmas and New Year
stuff. No good here L.G.; Doesn’t hold
the interest P.W.: Overwritten —and there’s
very little in the idea... .E.A.H.: Conversa-
tion stilted and unreal D. Ficiency: Last
resort fails... .D.M.; Has its bright moments.
E.T.C.S.; Too arithmetical N.D.W.:
“The Lady Is Willing”—but the yarn is weak.
F.D.: No more burlesques on Sherlock
Holmes, please... .M.S.L.: Too slight....
K. : Had to apply the K.O E.R.R.:
No; it isn’t strong enough to support the snap
ending... .Novo; Sanctions imposed....
L. :
I envy then the sailor free •
Whose life is spent upon the deep;
He hears these sounds would pleasure me,
And still must hear in death asleep.
We showed it to an old shellback; his comment
was unprintable... .E.F.W.; You call upon the
river to hearken. At least that is a change
from the fatalistic attitude most songsters adopt
towards rivers... .S.W.: Come back to earth;
this rhyming about elves and spectres will get
you nowhere.... G. 8.; Been said before....
D.W.C.: “Which do you prefer?” Neither
F.H.: Incomprehensible... .T.T.; It might
make a song, but wouldn’t achieve publication
on poetic content alone... .E.J.: No, thank
you E.W.: Family-circle verse of little
general appeal... .W.R.; “Gibbous moon,
“lanky grass,” “ferny deeps”—away with them!
J.McQ.: A long way off... .J.A.R.; Not
in our line... .E.M.E.: Kipling said (and
proved) much the same thing... .W.S.H.: The
last window-smashing socialist strangled him-
self during a Fabian Society meeting; yours
doesn’t ring true F. 8.: Neatly done, but
plot isn’t strong enough... .W.W.; Much the
same as when submitted before; it’s well written,
but the ending reads as if it had been pitch-
forked in anyhow 8.T.; Duke of Welling-
ton skit not up....N.C. (Fiji); The trouble
is that it is just an incident A.H.; Our
religious editor once wrote a gangster story
like that after he’d taken too much rum for
his c01d... .H.S.W.: “A Sucking Pig” failed
to bring home the bacon... .K.T.; “Music
Hath Charms,” but it failed to soothe our
savage breast... .Sacker: “Hot” left us cold.
E.H.: Refuse to believe that an alleged
man still exists who could raise a blush over
a pair of silk stockings... .C.M.M.: Psycho-
logical tripe R.8.F.: Straight narrative—
it needs a little more to make a story....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.: Obsolete gag and badly-thrown-
together drawing... .C.F.: It has the usual
faults of the first attempt K. 8.: You might
do better with a pen instead of a brush....
L.P.: The pair of fashion-plates are hoofing
it back to Melbourne C.S.: No chance of
scoring with colored head studies.. . .W.J.T.:
A political cartoon should be built prefer-
ably on a single idea; yours is confusing....
A. : Cannot share your friend’s opinion that
they arc “good enough for The Bulletin.’
E.H.N.: You’re a poor exponent of the
“Comic Cuts” school D.R.: Always pre-
pared to consider jokes part from drawings.
N.J.: Spend a few years attending a life
class G.M.R.: Three corpses, a dog made
out of stone and a pointless jest... .R.A.:
B. E. Minns illustrated that gag for us about
40 years ago F.S.: The one-armed matron
is now resting on the top of the reject heap.
J.V.W.; Drawing is a little too stilted, but
keep on submitting... .R.M.J.: Neat sketch
but tame jest.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Cuchulain”: Touching handwriting
(B. 25/3/’36), the neatest I’ve ever seen
was the work of a Chinese —Georgie
Gee, who operated a gang of pear-cutters
in the Goondiwindi district (s.-w. Q.) for
years. His ration lists, contracts and sig-
nature were in pure “copperplate.”
* * * *
“J.R.D.”: That instance of a Victorian
living for 60 years on the same farm (B.
8/4/’36) is a long way short of being a
record. In 1836 a Scotsman named
Baird pushed out to where Dubbo now
stands and built a bark humpy near some
springs. The Bairds have lived at The
Springs ever since, and are to celebrate
their centenary this year. The home-
stead which succeeded the bark humpy
and some of the iron pots that came up
with the pioneer Baird in his bullock
dray are still doing service.
* * * *
“Nawanagar”: The report that Du-
leepsinhji would be playing with the
Indian team visiting Maoriland at the
end of the year has been contradicted.
“Tulip” is out of serious cricket for good
and all, but he will accompany his
brother, Ranji’s successor, on the M.L.
tour as a barracker.
* * * *
“Renner’s Rock”: During my time I’ve
overseered parties of Indians, Malays,
Nepalis, Fijians, Chinese, Solomon
Islanders, Tongans and Samoans. At
present I have Binghis on the payroll.
The best labor of the lot is the Malabar
boys, if you have a flair for working
them. Next Chinese, slow but going
from dawn till dark. The rest, one ex-
cepted, go past the post in a bunch, with
probably the Solomon boys a nose in
front. A long way in the rear is my
fellow-Australian the abo. He is sly,
lazy, cunning.
“Mint Julep”: They’ll try anything in
America. At the moment a Kentucky
golf pro. is giving a selected team ot
hopeless duds six months’ intensive
coaching to prove his theory that in that
time he can convert them into scratc.*
players. The class sits or walks six days
a week for two hours, which are devoted
mostly to practice, with little actual play.
On wet days they practise in the duo-
house. The course began in January,
and so far, while some of the pupils are
eight strokes better than before, others
are as hopeless as ever. At the end o!
June they are to play in the State cham-
pionships, and there will be a lot of in-
terest taken by the noble army of mugs
in the outcome of the experiment.
* * * *
Sir Dinshaw Wacha, dead in India at
91, partnered that disgruntled genius
Alan Hume in founding the Indian
Congress 50 years ago. Hume, a retired
civil servant of high rank, raised the cry
of “India for the Indians.” He did not
live to see the cockatrice egg hatch into
a vast organisation having for its aim the
overthrow of British rule in India. His
colleague did, and for over a generation
had been one of the real powers behind
the Congress.
He r- * *
There is still a great deal of dissatis-
faction with the New Deal, and it is by
no means confined to Republicans. But
the Americans are evidently prepared
to fall in behind a President who
is not afraid to experiment or to
denounce outworn features of a Consti-
tution which admit of Courts making
hash of his proposals for saving the
country. The significance of the rally
to Roosevelt should not be lost on
Lyons. Our Constitution likewise has
outworn features which proved dan-
gerous in a national emergency.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m, (Sunday, 5,45 p.m.
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
, P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking' business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover or last
Bulletin to hand. . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reservea.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Cultured woman, S.A., 20 years’ exp. on
cattle station, can drive car, manage home
and store, etc., desires employment outback.
-1130.
Young man, N.S.W., exp. with marine and
auto, engines, all station work, wants job
anywhere.—ll2l.
To buy No. 1 of “Aussie,” issued by the
A.I.F. in France; will pay well. —1158.
Words of “The Racing Reporter’s Descrip-
tion of a Wedding.”—ll73.
Information Sought.
(I) What does a motorist have to do regard-
ing car registration when crossing the N. S.
Wales-Q’land border ? (2) Is it necessary to
pay additional registration fees, and, if so,
what charges are made ? (3) What is the dis-
tance from Melbourne to Cairns via Albury,
Sydney, Newcastle, Tamworth, Tenterfield,
Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville if main
highways are followed? —1126.
(1) If a motorist from N. S. Wales is not
proceeding to a point more than 100 miles
from the border or stopping in Q’land more
than 14 days continuously he is not required
to rep9rt. If, however, he exceeds either of
these limits, he must report to the police and
obtain a visiting motorist’s permit, which is
issued free for two months. An extension of
one month is usually granted in the case of
bona fide tourists. This permit is also issued
by the Department of Road Transport, 109
Phillip-street, Sydney, but the car must be
taken to the department for inspection. (2)
Provided the visiting permit period of three
months is not exceeded there are no charges.
If the motorist stays more* than three months
in Q’land he will have to register the car and
take out a license to drive in that State. (3)
2477 miles.
* * . * *
(1) In auction bridge my partner ( dealer )
bids one club; next player one spade; by
error I bid one heart. Our opponents main-
tain we have lost right to further bidding,
and say they can let me go one heart or they
can go one spade. What is the rule ? (2)
A player calls one no trump, and says to his
partner “informal call,” as an indication that
he is to take him out into any suit in which
he has five cards. Is there any such conven-
tion ? —lOB4.
(1) Your opponents were not quite right.
Rule 79 is: Should any player call attention
to an insufficient bid before it is corrected it
must be made numerically sufficient in any
suit (or in no trumps) the insufficient bidder
may choose. The partner of the player in
error shall be debarred from any further par-
ticipation in bidding for that deal. (2) No
player has a right to qualify or interpret a
bid in any manner. The matter is not covered
by rule, being elementary. The usual conven-
tion when one’s partner has declared one no
trump is to declare two of any major suit in
which five cards or more are held, unless there
is good all-round support for the no trump
call. If one holds strength and length only
in a minor suit, that suit should be called.
See Hoyle Up to Date, published by the
American Playing Card Co.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
What was Queen Victoria’s maiden name ?
What was her name when she married, and
what name was changed to Windsor ? Also,
when was the change made ? —lO6B.
Queen Victoria was a member of the House
of Hanover, whose family name was Guelph;
on her marriage to Prince Albert she did not
relinquish her family name in favor of her
husband’s, for as sovereign she retained her
name by right. But the name of a sovereign
or succession of sovereigns is derived from
and through the male line, changing in the
case of a monarch who succeeds his mother;
accordingly King Edward VII. bore the name
of his father, who was a Prince of Saxony and
of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, a house whose family
name was Wettin. King George, therefore,
was a member of the same house when, on
July 17, 1917, he issued his declaration that
henceforth he and the members of the royal
house of Great Britain should bear the name
of Windsor.
* * * *
How should an English setter dog be
trained ? —976.
Not sufficient space to outline method here.
Consult Breaking and Training a Gun Dog, by
Pathfinder and Hugh Dalziel (165.), The Whole
Art of Setter Training, by R. S. Russell
(7s. 6d.), or The Early Life and Training of
a Gun Dog, by Lieut.-Col. G. K. Badcock
(ss. 3d.). The books can be procured through
the “Dog World of Australasia,” 6 Dalley-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) If a man marries a widow who has chil-
dren is he compelled to support the children ?
(2) If so, up to what age ? (3) What legal
control has he over them ? —1057.
(1) Apparently so. In 1836 an English statute
laid down the principle that “if a man marries
a woman having a child or children at the
time of such marriage he is liable to maintain
them.” As this was a special and not a gen-
eral enactment the question may still be open
to argument. (2) In N. S. Wales, boys to 14
and girls to 16. (3) The usual parental
control.
Origin and meaning of the term “Phila-
delphia lawyer”? —96l.
Owing to the extreme complexity ot tne
laws of Pennsylvania, of which Philadelphia
is the capital, it became the fashion to assume
that the legal fraternity of that city were par-
ticularly adept at disentangling difficult points
of law and puzzling terminology.
5jC * * *
Can you give me particulars of a novel by
an Australian woman writer dealing satirically
with boarding-school life ? What was the name
of the book, and where can I get a copy ?
967.
You probably refer to Henry Handel Rich-
ardson’s The Getting of Wisdom; Dymock s,
Sydney, 4s.
* * * *
To what clan do the McLachlans belong ?
Are they Highlanders? What is their history
and motto? —1127.
The MacLachlans (variously McLachlan,
Lauchlan and MacLauchlan) form a clan of
their own, of which the Ewings, MacEwens and
Gilchrists are septs. They are Highlanders, and,
according to an ancient Gaelic MS., dated 1450
a.d., are descended, together with the Mac-
Neills and MacEwens, from one common an-
cestor, who was kin to the MacDonalds, Lords
of the Isles. The original seat of the Mac-
Lachlans appears to have been in Lochaber,
but the present seat is Castle Lachlan, Strath-
lachlan, near Loch Fyne. In 1292 Gileskil
MacLachlan received a charter of his lands
from King John, and later one was received
from King Robert the Bruce. The MacLach-
lans of Coire-uanan (residing in Morven
and Lochaber) held the position of hereditary
standard-bearers to the Camerons of Lochiel.
The clan territory, which formerly embraced
broad lands lying between Loch Long and
Loch Fyne, is now reduced to a small strip
bordering the eastern side of Loch Fyne. The
MacLachlans of Cowal generally followed the
Campbells. The motto of the clan is Fortis et
Fidus —“Brave and Faithful.”
* * * *
(1) Is it an offence to open a Savings Bank
account under an assumed name ? (2) In the
event of a person who holds such an account
dying and leaving no will, what would be the
position of the next-of-kin with regard to
claiming the amount at credit ? —lOB9.
(1) No, but the bank would not permit the
opening of the account if aware of depositor’s
correct name. (2) The bank would require
to be completely satisfied that the deceased
and the depositor named in the account were
identical. Until this could be proved beyond
question the bank would not pay the money.
* * *
Names and addresses of Sydney firms deal-
ing in second-hand sheet music ? —9849.
Everyman’s Bookshop and Greenwood’s
Bookshop, Castlereagh-street; Tyrell, near
Wynyard station, George-street; Lusebrink,
Campbell-street, opposite Capitol Theatre.
* * * *
Particulars of the electoral system at present
in vogue in England? —ll7B.
The voting age both for men and women
is now 21. Every person registered as a Par-
liamentary elector is entitled to vote, and no
person may vote for more than one constitu-
ency on one qualification. A person may, if
qualified, lawfully vote twice at a general elec-
tion, but one vote must be in respect of a
residence qualification, the other in respect
of some other qualification, and each vote
must be recorded in a different constituency.
•I* . ■ ' •!*
(1) In what year was the Julian calendar
introduced, and by whom ? (2) Mean length
of the year according to this calendar ? (3)
What was its defect? —1189.
(1) In 46 b.c. by Julius Caesar. (2) 365.25
days. (3) It was due to the Julian mean year
of 365.25 days being longer than the mean
solar year by 11 minutes 14 seconds. This
meant that the date of the vernal equinox,
March 25 in Caesar’s time, had, by 1582,
moved back to March 11. In this year Pope
Gregory XIII. issued a bull to restore the
correct date of the equinox by reckoning
Oct. 5 in that year as the 15th, and to main-
tain this correction by not reckoning the cen-
tury years as leap years unless they were
exactly divisible by 400. Thus, 1600 was a
leap year; 1700, 1800, 1900 were not; and
2000 will be.
* * * *
Which Sydney hospitals pay their trainees,
and how does one get in touch with them ?
1001.
Royal Alexandra Children’s, Royal Prince
Alfred, Sydney, N.S.W. Community, Rachel
Forster, Royal North Shore, Royal South
Sydney, and Balmain, Canterbury, Manly, St.
George and Marrickville District hospitals. Get
in touch with a matron either by correspon-
dence or personal interview.
* * * *
(1) What chance is there for recruits in the
permanent military forces such as the Garrison
Artillery or other unit ? (2) To whom should
I apply for further information ? (3) What is
the usual term of enlistment and rate of pay ?
—965.
(1) and (2) Full details will be supplied if
application is made to the District Base Com-
mandant, Victoria Barracks, Brisbane. (3) The
period of enlistment is for five years, and the
rate of pay of a gunner £3 6s. 9d. per week.
* * * *
(1) Is the cathode-ray oscillograph used in
Australia for the following purposes: Measur-
ing peak voltages and currents in A.C. circuits;
investigating wave-form distortion, as frequency
meters, and as phase angle indicators ? (2)
Standard treatise on the cathode-ray oscillo-
graph and its applications? —1125.
(1) Yes, both at the universities and by the
larger radio and electrical firms. It is also
employed overseas in television receivers. (2)
Cathode Ray Oscillograph in Radio Research,
by Watt, Head and Bell, obtainable through
the leading booksellers, 16s.
* * * *
History and. activities of the Big Brother
Movement ? —974.
The Big Brother Movement was founded in
Melbourne by Richard Linton, the retiring Vic.
Agent-General, in 1924. Whilst on a visit to
England he conceived the idea that young Eng-
lish lads who had no prospects in their native
land might welcome a chance to come to Aus-
tralia to take up a career on the land. A
committee was formed in London, and, in con-
junction with the migration authorities in the
Commonwealth and England, boys were
selected from between the ages of 15 to 18
years and received assisted passages to Vic-
toria. An organisation of citizens was formed
in Victoria, each member agreeing to take a
boy under his charge and act in the place of
Big Brother. Between December, 1925, and
June, 1930, 1069 Little Brothers were brought
to Melbourne alone, and in the majority of
cases are now doing well, some owning their
own farms. About the same time as the Vic-
torian branch was formed, a similar branch was
opened in Sydney, where it is still functioning.
* * * *
What are the different types of astronomi-
cal telescopes ? —1155.
In the refracting type the light falls upon
a lens which converges the rays to a focus,
where the image may be magnified by a
second lens, called the eyepiece, or may be
directly photographed. The reflector consists
of a concave mirror, generally of glass coated
with silver, which throws the rays back
toward the upper end of the telescope, where
they fall on the eyepiece or on the photo-
graphic plate, as in the case of the refractor.
Since the rays of light do not pass through
the mirror, far less perfect glass is required
and reflectors can be made much larger than
refractors. For many kinds of celestial photo-
graphy reflectors are better than refractors.
* * jf *
Where and when was the Cutty Sark built,
and what is the meaning of the name ?
1150.
She was built by Scott and Linton, of
Dumbarton, to the design of Hercules
Linton, a member of the firm, for Captain
John Willis, and was launched November 23,
1869, by Mrs. Moodie, the wife of her first
captain. The name literally means “short
shirt,” from the abbreviated garment worn
by the figurehead, a representation of the
beautiful witch Nannie, spied by Tam o’
Shanter on the witches’ Hallowe’en revels.
* * * *
How far is Bedford, South Africa, from
Cape Town, and what means are there of
journeying thither from the Cape ? —993.
Bedford is distant 739 miles by train from
Cape Town, on the main line, and 149 miles
from the port of East London. Trains leave
Cape Town at 6.45 p.m-. Mondays and Wednes-
days, arriving at Bedford 5.1 a.m. Wednes-
days and Fridays; the first-class fare is
£6 11s. 6d., and the second-class £4 7s. 9d.
* * * *
How is copperas used for ridding a house of
fleas ? —1054.
As a contact poison copperas is of little or
no use for the elimination of fleas and house
vermin. Best have a thorough spring-cleaning,
using carbolic or phenol in water for washing
floors, etc. Then spray kerosene or turpentine
into all floor crevices, behind skirtings and the
like. Sprinkle Epsom salts under carpets, or
use powdered naphthalene freely about the
house. It is necessary to keep up the treat-
ment for a week or more until newly-hatched
insects are destroyed. Their breeding-grounds
are dusty floor-cracks and crevices. Petrol
can be used for cleaning mats and rugs.
* * * *
(1) Why is James Joyce’s novel “ Ulysses”
considered a great work, and what is it about ?
I’ve read it, but cannot understand it. —1070.
The work is regarded by its admirers as
a unique revelation of the workings of the
human mind. Critics, however, are not unani-
mous regarding its value, and its influence on
younger and less-gifted writers is regarded, in
many quarters, as pernicious. Joyce has
achieved some unusual effects by the uncon-
ventional arrangement and use of words, his
invention and distortion of which are actuated
by his belief that the contents of the ordinary
dictionary are insufficient for his purpose.
Ulysses, which represents life with photo-
graphic accuracy, is cast in the form of a
modern Odyssey, every episode in it corre-
sponding to an adventure of the Homeric
hero; Leopold Bloom, whose reactions and
thought-processes are described in such detail,
is intended as a portrait of the complete man
—as son, father, husband, friend and citizen.
Y ** * *
Who were the Huguenots, what was their
history and why were they expelled from
France ? —628.
Huguenots was the name given to those who
in France embraced the Protestant religion, one
of the earliest supporters of which was Mar-
garet of Valois, Queen of Navarre. Under
Francis I. many thousands were burnt at the
stake and otherwise slaughtered. Catharine
de Medici, after granting certain concessions
for political reasons, later reverted to the use
of fire and sword; she entered into a second
treaty, only to break it with the Massacre of
St. Bartholomew, when 30,000 Huguenots were
slain. On the accession in 1598 of Henry of
Navarre, the Huguenot leader, the Edict of
Nantes was signed, granting immunity to the
Huguenots; it was revoked in 1685. Thus
France lost in 20 years half a million of its
most enterprising and industrious citizens, who
enriched adjacent countries, notably Holland
and England; many noble Huguenot families
subsequently became eminent in the service of
Britain. The members of the faith remaining
in France did not attain complete freedom of
worship until 1872.
Brief Answers.
J.S.T.: Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-street,
Covent Garden, London... .K.D.P.: Write
hon. sec., Royal Australian Historical Society,
Education Building, Bridge-street, Sydney....
P.D.D.: (1) As B deposited the soil he is
responsible and should be called upon to remove
it. (2) A is not required to remove the en-
croaching soil; that is B’s duty. (3) Any soil
coming through will be a trespass on A’s
property. (4) As the fence is apparently a
dividing one, the cost of its erection and main-
tenance is shared equally between A and 8....
M.M.E.: A married woman applying to the
Court for the adoption of a child is required
to have the written consent of her husband to
the adoption... .C.C.; In N.S.W. where a wife
dies intestate leaving a widower and brothers,
the widower is entitled to £5OO as a first charge
on the estate. Half the remainder then goes
to him and the balance to the brothers, share
and share alike. (2) He should write to the
Registrar of Births in the State where he was
born... .J.S.: The council may define any
portion of an area within the shire to be “a
residential district,” but this “shall not preclude
the continuance of the use of any building for
any purposes for which such building was used
at the date of the proclamation” of such area.
The council is not required to subdivide an
area not included in the “residential district”
into shopping blocks K.C.K.: Course is
reputable and will teach you at least the rudi-
ments W.A.G.: The beneficiary under the
will to whom the testator’s rights in the estate
passed would be in the same position as the
testator. Cannot forecast legal costs; only a
solicitor dealing with the matter and fully
acquainted with the facts could give a reliable
estimate... .A.G.: No, the practice you refer
to was in force at one time but has since been
abolished by amending legislation K.C.K.;
Having paid the rent in advance, you are secure
for the period covered by it unless you commit
a breach of any agreement made or implied
between you. As to sub-letting, you should
obtain his consent S.K.: Henry Jones, Dar-
lington; Rosella Preserving Co., Morley-street,
Rosebery; Oakleaf Preserving Co., Bridge-road,
Stanmore; Peacock Jam Co., Alice-street, New-
town —all Sydney E. 8.: Black is given vari-
ously as “buddong,” “boodthong,” “chara-
barah,” “coorroo” and “nurroo”; spring as
“nearrie,” “neowan,” “mylong,” “gimbir,”
“iraga,” “yarraga,” “currakurraja” and the ter-
minal “-ong” K.J.: No payments have been
made to the British Government since 1930-31
in respect of Australia’s war indebtedness. In
1931-32 the payment in reduction of indebted-
ness was suspended under the Hoover Mora-
torium, while the interest payment in that year
was suspended by arrangement with the British
Government, as was the case for subsequent
years both in respect of interest and repay-
ment of principal... .M.P.; Write N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet on
“Mushroom Culture”... .G. 8.; To overcome
and destroy sand-crickets attacking lawns, dust
arsenate of lead over the grass in powder form
at the rate of about loz. per sq. yd. and then
thoroughly water this in. The arsenate gradu-
ally works through the soil and forms a kind
of layer just below the roots of the grass,
and sand-crickets penetrating this soil are de-
stroyed W.A.P.: To preserve, by drying, the
large opal beach or sea worms, soak in strong
brine and dry in the 5un....F.W.: The collec-
tor value, if coin is in mint condition, is about
12s. 6d K.M.L.: £7 10s. is a fair value
for an average copy A.H.P.: No better or
cheaper method of ascertaining the atmospheric
humidity is known than by the use of dry- and
wet-bulb thermometers. Many retail stores
now stock very cheap thermometers which are
suitable for the purpose. Tables for deter-
mining relative humidity readings from dry- and
wet-bulb readings may be obtained from the
Sydney Meteorological Bureau, 6d H.R.M.:
Cophetua was a legendary king of Africa, of
great wealth, who disdained all womankind.
One day from his palace window he saw a
beggar maid named Penelophon, fell deeply
in love and wedded her offhand. The pair
lived happily for many years, beloved of the
populace. The story is told in Percy’s Reliques.
. ...M.E.A.: (1) Persons desirous of qualify-
ing as veterinary surgeons in N.S.W. must
obtain the degree of Bachelor of Veterinary
Science of Sydney Uni. (2) There are no age
limits, but candidates for the degree must pass
the matriculation exam, of Sydney Uni. before
commencing attendance. (3) Your daughter is
advised to study for the matriculation exam.
(4) The courses for the degree extend over a
period of five years; fees amount to approxi-
mately £5O p.a. (5) There are good openings
for women veterinary surgeons F.E.L.:
Write M. J. Blakeney and Sons, 6 Barton-street,
Hurlstone Park; Milroy and Simmons, 18 Parra-
matta-road, Petersham; John Russell and Son,
195 Glebe-road, Glebe —all Sydney J.C.: A.
Nimenski, 15 McDonald-street, Paddington
H. 8.: (1), (2) and (3) In N.S.W. where the net
value of the property of the deceased does not
exceed £5OO the husband is entitled to the
whole. If it exceeds that amount he is entitled
to £5OO and in addition half of the residue,
the balance going to the next of kin in equal
shares. As to administration, not necessarily
by the Public Trustee; the Court may grant
administration to the husband or any person
whom it thinks fit 1.X.L.: With actual proof
in but few cases the growth of hair after death
must be accepted as a medical anomaly.
Although true that the hair lengthens to some
extent, this development results from contraction
of the skin towards the hair-root; there is no
continuance of vital processes that would be
involved J.C.S.: (1) Relief is always pos-
sible. Digestive faults and constipation must
be treated; toxins from latter affect both kid-
neys and ductless glands. (2) Under medical
supervision the gland substance may be taken
internally. (3) Results depend entirely on case.
Treatment could be arranged in a public hos-
pital. The charge is nominal... .D.L.: Have
made some inquiries, but cannot trace anyone
who does this work. A platypus skin gives a
hard, firm leather not suitable for glove-making.
... .(Many others mailed.)


ALFRED J. BRITON,
Australasia’s Leading Physical Director.
Founder of “Health and Physical Culture
Magazine,” circulating throughout the
Southern Hemisphere.
AT LAST... THIS
AMAZING BOOK
FREE!
Now you can read the most sensational
book on strength EVER published.
This book will amaze you with its facts
—startle you with its possibilities! You
don’t know you’re alive until you get
this book in your own hands. Do you
know what gives a gorilla the strength
of 1 0 men? Do you know why strength
and sex are connected? It will answer
questions you have hardly dared ask
yourself, and you can get a copy FREE
—if you hurry. Fill in the coupon
NOW, this minute, and post it
TO-DAY !
■
<m.
■
/
Splendid examples of muscular
manhood —the result of ttie
Briton system. You, too, can
develop a beautiful physique—if
you get the coupon in the post
NOW !
Now Watch YOUR Muscles
GROW!
ALMOST OVERNIGHT these men changed from puny weaklings into physical giants.
It sounds like magic, doesn’t it? But it’s just an example of what BRITON training does
for thousands of men WHAT IT CAN DO FOR YOU. I’ve taken men of every size and
condition and transformed them into perfect physical specimens! Ive been doing it for
years. “Magic worked on muscles,” people called if. But it is SClENllrlC magic,
fv, made . fci.nce of building men. 1 CAN CHANGE YOU—IN 30 DAYS I Give me
just 30 days to PROVE to you what I shall do for you. In just that short time 1 shaU
cover your body with layers of solid muscle, and they’ll be panther muscles—as live as
spring steel, with the speed of lightning and the power of a battering ram. You 11 laugh
at men twice your size.
This Is What I’ll Do For YOU
I’ll take that body of yours and build it into something so wonderful, so impressive, so
altogether beyond your fondest hopes that you 11 gasp with amazement when you look
into the mirror at the end of the first 30 days. I’ll take those skinny, soft arms of yours
and transform them, almost overnight, into lithe, steel-like battering rams of marvellous
speed and power. I’ll take the kinks out of that weak back straighten
it out —tighten it up around the waist go over the lungs, the heart, the
kidneys, the liver —strengthening, always strengthening. 111 take that
weak, flabby stomach and make the muscles around it look and feel like
a cast-iron washboard. I’ll straighten out those thin, stooped shoulders
square them up broaden them literally pack muscle on them until they
look like a piano-mover’s. Large lumps of red-blooded muscle will magically
appear here, there, everywhere and you’ll feel so full of pep and vitality you ll
want to conquer the world.
Watch Them Turn Around!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow who carries himself with head up.
Notice how the broad-shouldered man, always gets their eye. They want a
dependable he-man when they make their choice one who can protect them.
AND YOU CAN BE THAT MAN. Remember, I do not only promise it. I
GUARANTEE IT. Now, don’t put it off a minute. Get going to new happiness
and real manhood—to-day 1
YOURS if you
send now
a I
mn
m
m
'-t :
:
-
•ig
11l
v
:
Just take a peek at these wonderful
specimens of muscular manhood. You,
too, can acquire lasting health and
muscular strength if you send for this
FREE BOOK NOW!
READ THIS STARTLING PROOF!
£lOOO Guarantee.
I guarantee that all testi-
monials published in this
announcement are genuine
extracts from reports
received.
WOULD NEVER WORK AGAIN.
“I am going to tell you some-
thing I have not told you before.
For two yeti’s I was in and out of
bed, and the doctor hinted that 1
might never work again, but after I
started your instructions 1 got work
as a hod carrier, going up the
ladder all day long with six stone
of bricks on my shoulder at a
time. I think I am as strong a.s
any man living in my district, and
a lot better in health, so I will
close with these words. Mr. Briton,
I am more than grateful for what
vou have done for me.”
—A. CALDER. D.
“I am delighted with the course
and the results I have already
gained from it.” —E. C. NEM'EY.
GAINS 6 INCHES AROUND CHEST.
“I have gained 6 inches around
the chest, 1 inch biceps, 1 inch
forearms. 2 inches thigh, li inches
calves and many more splendid
improvements. I am delighted with
my muscular neck, now 15i inches
—a gain of 2A inches.”
—W. D. WHITFIELD. B.
Alfred J. Briton, Dept. L,
107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
GAINED 5 INCHES AROUND THE
■ CHEST.
“I have put on 5 inches around
the chest and 1 inch on the upper
arms. I am very fit and well also,
and thank you for the interest
taken in me.”—F. WOOD. W.
“I have gained 11 lb. in weight
since 1 started.”—W. BRYAN. B.
“The course is
really wonderful.”
—W. SCOTT. G.
“I would not
hesitate to recom-
mend you to any-
one, as I know
tliat , what you are
doing for me you
can do for any-
one else.”
—R. LUSTER. L.
INCREASED
WEIGHT 11LB. !
“Y our course
certainly is the
‘goods,’ and my
progress is won-
derfully satisfac-
tory. I have in-
creased my weight
by 111 b.”
—A. V. DOORS. R.
“I feel a differ-
ent man.”
—L. HOWELLS. C.
“I have grown
another 11 inches.”
A. TUN.ST ALL. O.
ASTOUNDED!
“I am astounded at how my arms
and legs and chest have developed.
Muscles have developed all over my
bo dv.”—W. HALLFORD. N.
“My chest is now 41 inches, and
biceps 14-i inches, neck 16A inches,
waist 32 inches, and the rest of my
bodv is coming on fine.”
—T. H. REID. D.
MORE THAN SATISFIED.
“I am mare than satisfied with
your course. I have now completed
two months and I think it wonder-
ful. I only wish I had heard of
your course before. I now have to
have a size larger in shirts and
collars, and I feel sure that it is
the best thing I ever did.”
—E. WELLARD. C.
Heres mu personal offer
toYOU... POST NOW!
“I am not now
troubled with con-
stipation.”
—A. WATERS. N.
“I have gained
lAin. in height.”
—J. FRANCE. T.
Tear Coupon—Post NOW!
Alfred J. Briton,
nFPT I
107 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, Please send me, absolutely FREE, a copy
of your latest book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength
And How to Acquire It.” Don’t send one penny.
It’s FREE.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
B. 22/4/’3€


FOR WARWICK FARM.
Denham Court Handicap:
Thebez ; next, Heroic Faith.
Farm Novice: Fair Diana;
next, Imagine.
April Handicap: Tapestry;
next, Fireman.
Edensor Park Handicap: Poi
Bounce ; next, Rubens.
FOR EPSOM.
Inglehurst Handicap: Bite Again ;
next, Kitty O’Shea.
Epsom Plate: Croden Lad ; next,
Eskis.
Epsom Purse: Shere Khan ; next,
Adulis.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Attendances at Randwick fell away
after the first day of the A.J.C. round,
and tote receipts with them. The drift in
these was from £180,804 for the four
corresponding meetings of 1935 to
£167,941. The weather on the second
and third days was not all that could
be desired, but other factors contributed
to the slump.
After a day or two at Randwick, people
who are not “regulars” or interested
chiefly in the dress parade become con-
scious of matters in which Sydney lags
behind Melbourne —especially, of course,
if they are losing money. They resent
the taxes extracted from them by a
greedy Government —2d. at the outer
gate, lOd. to enter the Leger, 3s. 2d. to
go into the saddling paddock and 9 p.c.
from totalisator pools. They are all
State imposts now, and they are exorbi-
tant.
People also grow keenly alive to
the fact that altogether 12} p.c. and
fractions of sixpences are deducted
before tote dividends are declared ; that
tickets on the new machine are printed
on flimsy paper in the faintest of ink (in-
volving unpleasant possibilities of being
abused at a tote window if a successful
backer presents the wrong ticket), and
that on occasions like Doncaster day
they have to queue up for long periods
because too few clerks are employed and
because payment of dividends is exasper-
atingly slow. And those who have seen
the doubles tote in operation in other
States marvel at the A.J.C.’s disinclina-
tion to introduce it at Randwick,
where, together with straightout and
place machines, reasonably taxed, it
would do away with “silver” bookmakers
whose odds are laughable to lookers-on.
Another thing resented is the price
charged for light lunch and afternoon-tea
—eighteenpence for a sandwich or a
couple of scones and tea poured out from
the pot and brought to the table in thick
cups. A “return” of this fare may be had
without addition to the eighteenpence,
but this is kept a secret from strangers.
In Melbourne racing is cheaper for
the public, more profitable to owners,
trainers and jockeys (stake-money being
far superior) and generally more enjoy-
able than it is in Sydney. In the southern
capital ..the “battler” is comparatively
rare, and Governments and transport de-
partments do not combine to skin the
public. Leasing of horses is not encour-
aged ; A.J.C. committeemen are among
those who practise it. Another thing:
the V.R.C. stipendiary stewards are much
stricter than their A.J.C. brethren. So,
while racing has completely emerged
from the long depression in Mel-
bourne, it is still trying to grope its way
out in Sydney. It will never succeed
until the A.J.C. changes its conservative
and complacent methods.
For many months trainers have been
growling horribly about the condition of
the Randwick track. On Wednesday
Nature made it a bit slippery, which
suited horses from Maoriland —they ran
first and second in the All-Aged and
Cumberland Plates. By their perform-
ances they have regained for Maoriland
form the respect which Australians had
held for it since the days of Maniapoto
and Maximize, Noctuiform and Sun
God, but which had weakened of late
years.
Cuddle must be an extraordinary mare.
First in the Doncaster but last in the
Sydney Cup, and seemingly deadbeat, she
came out two days later for the All-
Aged Plate looking quite as fresh as any
of her five opponents, none of whom had
been strenuously raced ; and she had the
race won when she dashed past Hadrian,
half a mile from home. At the finish she
was two lengths clear of Regular
Bachelor and going easily, while the
Queensland horse had obviously had
enough. He had been ridden very wide
out, and Tanwan had to explain to the
stewards that it was to get firmer going.
Gay Blonde was a close third, then Hall
Mark, Garrio and Hadrian.
Hall Mark was favorite at 7 to 4,
Cuddle and Regular Bachelor being at
4 to 1. Another multitude of trusting
people backed Garrio to fives. In an
unhappy moment a sporting writer,
speaking over the air before the meet-
ing, had pronounced Garrio “the best
horse in Australia,” and perhaps this
was the result.
McCarten steered Cuddle with his cus-
tomary skill, and A. E. Ellis also rode a
nice race on Silver Ring (4 to 1) in the
Cumberland Plate, taking him to the
front early and never allowing him to
knock himself out or let the others get
too close. Lough Neagh (7 to 2) would
have been second but for catching a
strand of the barrier in his mouth ; as it
was, he was cut out of second place by
Master Briefly. A worse mishap at the
barrier —he slipped and then got a clod
of earth fair in an eye—perhaps cost
Gold Rod the Champagne Stakes, but
this is by no means certain. He never
seemed to be able to manage the going.
One of the hottest favorites on record,
7 to 1 on, he was beaten out of a place
by Tonga (10 to 1), Siren (33 to 1) and
Bonnie Legion (33 to 1).
Spear Prince (2 to 1) made an exhibi-
tion of four opponents in the City Han-
dicap, and ran the 13 furlongs in 2min.
49isec., which was comparatively faster
than Silver Ring's time for 14 furlongs,
3min. 44sec. If Spearfelt’s son had had a
bit more racing or galloping before the
Sydney Cup he might have been first in
that race instead of third.
Improving greatly on his showing in
the All-aged Plate, in which he was a bad
last, Hadrian (4 to 1) donkeylicked Dark
Sky and Heroic Faith in the Cropper
Plate on Saturday. On a slow track
which was shifty at the turns, Hadrian
carved out “six” in Imin. 12sec. Great
Legend, who started favorite, was a dis-
appointment, and so was Cereza. Regular
Bachelor again stood at the barrier, and
afterwards ran like a tired horse. He
has earned a spell.
Hadrian is owned by an A.J.C. com-
mitteeman, Hunter White. Another
Hunter White horse, Oro, who was lent
to Jack King, improved from last in the
Cumberland Plate to first in the Dangar
Handicap, but was placed second after
a protest. Spear Prince was favorite.
Dwelling at the barrier, he was rushed
round his field going out of the straight,
losing lengths in a misguided effort to
get to the front. Naturally he was beaten
three furlongs from home. Oro looked a
winner at the Leger, but when Sala-
mander (11 to 2) put in a claim on the
outside he tried to shove her off the
course and almost twisted her round.
Straightened up, he won, but the result of
the protest was generally anticipated.
Jovial Son was a good third and Dulcedo
fourth.
In spite of his last in the Cumberland
Plate, Oro was heavily backed. His
tremendous improvement was not ques-
tioned, but his erratic running in the
straight prompted “S. M. Herald,” of all
papers, to suggest that he may not have
been really blameless in the Metrop., in
which the decision of the judge for High
Cross was reversed. Pratt, the jockey on
both occasions, has been suspended for a
month for “careless riding.”
Silver Ring (7 to 4), a mere miler on
his last visit, ran out the 2\ miles in the
Cumberland Plate nobly. M.L. jockey
Ellis took his mount to the front, slowed
down the field at different stages, as he
had done in the Cumberland Plate, and
had enough in reserve to hold off Lough
Neagh and Contact in the run home.
Master Brierly was favorite for a time,
Voitre riding him. There was no excuse
for his failure. He got a solid pace, was
last away and stayed there.
Musk Deer had given the books a
“skinner” on the Wednesday in the
Coogee Handicap, for which his 10s. tote
divs, were £59 12s. and £lO 19s. Plutus
(20 to 1) delighted them almost as
much in the Fernhill Handicap, a mile
race for two-year-olds. A big son of
Caledon out of Gaiment, an imported
mare who never raced, he worried the
favorite, Jubilee Son, out of the prize.
Friar’s Switch was third. He made the
running, and it was a really good effort
considering his weight, Bst. 121 b. Sylvan-
dale’s stable-mate, Billy Boy, could not
see it out, but Hayacu, a plain-looking
Treclare gelding, ran a creditable fourth.
Panax (10 to 1), well ridden by Bris-
bane jockey Tanwan, had a good win—
his second at Randwick—in the Rous
Handicap. Cabalist should, perhaps, have
scored ; he was boxed up in the field and
could not get a run until the race was
practically over ; but Panax made up a
lot of ground. Borabus, Prowler and
Babili were just behind the placed horses.
The favorite, Black Laughter, was cut
out at the start and was never in it.
On the whole the Victorians had a
bad meeting. Sol Green’s Nalda was a
supposed rod in pickle for the Final Han-
dicap ; but she missed a place. Brittle
Prattle seemed to have the race won
when he flashed through on the rails, but
Silver Standard (7 to 1), well ridden by
Edgar Britt, who recently returned from
India, came fast and scored from Brittle
Prattle and Osculum. Like his brother
Dromos, Osculum is not a handy fellow
in a field.
* * * *
In B. 8/4/’36 people who go in for
ante-post betting were advised not to
take the Doncaster and Sydney Cup
prices on offer at that stage, and the
prediction was ventured that in 90 p.c.
of cases better odds could be got on the
course, “particularly on the straightout
tote.” It was amply fulfilled.
On that publication day ruling Sydney
prices on the Doncaster were 3 to 1
Regular Bachelor, 6 to 1 Garrio, 8 to 1
Gay Blonde and Valiant Chief, 10 to 1
Barak and Lough Neagh, 12 to 1 High
and 14 to 1 Cabalist, Cuddle, Golden
Chance and Hall Mark. On the course
Garrio finished up at 4 to 1, but sevens
could be got before barrier positions
were posted. Cuddle, according to the
“S. M. Herald,” went out at 12 to 1, but
14 to 1 could be had without difficulty,
and wagers at 20 to 1 were laid. The
s.o. tote price was 13j to 1. For the
rest, Regular Bachelor was 7 to 1, Barak
8 to 1 (12 to 1 at first), Gay Blonde and
Valiant Chief 10 to 1, Lough Neagh 12
to 1, High 14 to 1, Golden Chance 16
to 1 and Cabalist 25 to 1.
Sydney Cup prices on the Wednesday
were 6 to 1 Salamander and Sarcherie,
7 to 1 Contact and Egmont, 10 to 1
Amalia, 14 to 1 Garrio, Hall Mark,
Nalda, Journal, Soft Step, Spear Prince
and Wykeham. Garrio, Hall Mark and
Nalda, of course, did not start. In every
case except Sarcherie’s, better odds than
any of those quoted were available at
Randwick.
* * He *
After experiencing almost ideal Easter
weather, Melbourne had to face wintry
conditions last Saturday. Blinding
showers caused Caulfield patrons to rush
for shelter at frequent intervals. How-
ever, the sandy track absorbs moisture
rapidly ; even if double the quantity of
rain had fallen it would have been safe
for galloping.
Though £5OO stake-money was pro-
vided for the Brighton Handicap, only
four horses went to the post. High-class
sprinters are not numerous in Melbourne
just now. Several did not stand the strain
of autumn racing, and those that went
to Sydney at Easter will need a rest. The
Gay Lothario colt Gay Pop was made
a 7-to-4 favorite for the Brighton Handi-
cap, and romped home in advance of his
stable-companion, L’Elite, with Quasi-
modo a close third and Phenomenon last.
Phenomenon knocked up in trying to
outpace L’Elite.
Harry Freedman, who trains Gay Pop,
gained his knowledge of the game when
associated with the Redleap stable of the
Millers in days gone by. He rode over
fences, and is doing really well as a
trainer. He landed a double on Saturday,
Bite Again (10 to 1), a grey gelding by
Moabite, taking the concluding event, the
Glenferrie Handicap, of one mile. R. M.
Cuthbertson, part-owner of Bite Again,
managed the financial affairs of the Miller
brothers, and is a trustee of the estate
of Septimus Miller, who left an immense
fortune.
Bite Again overthrew a hot favorite in
Hostile, winner of the last Cantala Stakes.
Except for an outing at Williamstpwn on
Easter Monday, Hostile had not raced
since the spring. The little fellow comes
to hand quickly. He appeared to have
the Glenferrie Handicap well won at
the straight entrance, but had been taken
to the front too soon. Bite Again smoth-
ered him in the last 50 yards. The race
was confined to apprentice riders.
Third place in the Glenferrie Handi-
cap went to Carnarvon, a colt who was
expected to develop into a classic hero.
J. P. Arthur disposed of the son of
Eastern Monarch —Starry Night, who
now is trained by W. P. Brittain. He
figured at 25 to 1 on Saturday, and may
be striking best form or something
near it.
Almost simultaneously with the uphold-
ing of the protest against Oro at Rand-
wick, the Khartoum Hurdle at Caulfield
was taken away from King’s Warden,
who vanquished Heroic Prince by three-
quarters of a length. In each case the
decision of the stewards was endorsed by
public opinion. Under punishment King’s
Warden swerved in after crossing the
final obstacle and pinned Heroic Prince
on the rails. Sullivan was clearly to
blame for not striving to straighten his
mount, and the “stipes” suspended him
for a month. Heroic Prince captured the
Australian Cup of 1934, but did nothing
more as a galloper until he annexed the
Jumpers’ Flat at Mentone at the begin-
ning of last week. In the winter of 1935
he came into prominence as a hurdler,
and it is almost certain that he will be
in the limelight when (he Grand
Nationals come round.
Percy Foster, the Caulfield trainer, had
mixed luck. He saddled up Ras Kassa
for the Khartoum Hurdle, and saw that
heavily-backed son of Eastern Monarch
refuse to leave the post. Foster won
the succeeding event with Windmar, a
20-to-J chance. .The Windbag mare, who
lacks consistency, was in a galloping
humor on this occasion. She finished
with a whirlwind rush to beat Nellie’s
Tip, who is once more in Tindall’s hands.
Tindall was recently relicensed as a
trainer, and his success would have been
popular. Though unplaced, Aitchengee
shaped like a coming winner. He had
not raced since he led into the straight in
the Australian Cup.
The Nerrim Steeplechase went to
Wakerife, who must be one of the last
of the Sea Prince progeny now in com-
mission. Wakerife narrowly beat Rich-
mond Tiger, who had won at Williams-
town on Easter Monday.
Silver Edge followed up his Williams-
town victory by taking the Katandra
Two-year-old. He again scored in run-
away, fashion. Ichnology, a Beau Fils
filly, carried the colors of Harry Telford
into second place, revealing unsuspected
speed. Silver Edge is a son of Gilt Edge.
More will be heard of this colt.
Footbrawl
In the first Sydney Rugby Union
premiership matches North, though it has
lost some of its best men to the new-formed
Gordon club, accounted for Parramatta,
15-11 ; and University was too good for
Gordon, 32-18. But Parramatta was
doing the better towards the finish, and
Gordon held the strong Uni. side in the
first half. Randwick, now without
Towers, downed West, 23-12; Manly,
with Aub Hodgson scoring three tries,
overcame St. George, 19-7 ; and Drum-
moyne conquered East, 18-11. A notice-
able fault almost everywhere was lack
of understanding between halves and
centres.
Sydney G.P.S. head-of-the-river race
was rowed on the Nepean for the first
time, and 40,000 people saw a magnifi-
cent race. The change from the Parra-
matta permitted the eight crews to
dispense with heats, and gave none an
advantage. At the finish there were not
three lengths between the first crew and
the seventh. First was St. Joseph’s,
quarter of a length in front of
Grammar; “Shore” (ahead 50 yards.
from the line) was third, half a length
away further. Time for the mile and a half
was 7min. a minute faster than
last year’s race, and only 18 seconds out-
side Grammar’s 1934 record, put up with
a. tail wind and a running tide. St.
Joseph’s took the first fours also;
“Shore” won the second fours.
(Continued on next page.)


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN," Q/O POST
252 George St, Sydney, «/ U FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Under the Whip
It is estimated that 60,000 people were
at Oakbank (S.A.) on Easter Monday—
-10,000 more than the Sydney Cup
crowd. They saw Celotex (5 to 1) win
his second Onkaparinga Cup and Gnair,
ridden by H. Smith, give so magnificent
an exhibition of fencing, pace and reso-
lution in the Great Eastern Steeplechase
that W. P. A. Lapthorne, his owner, col-
lected the £2300 and the £250 silver
trophy offered for first prize. Gnair is
locally-bred (St. Spasa—Alyerra), and has
won five steeplechases in six attempts. He
is still only four years, and another four-
year-old, Land’s End, was second. By
recording 6min. 124 sec. Gnair cut 7-jr
seconds off the previous record for the
race —3J miles, and 21 fences to be
cleared.
sj: # $ 5?
N.S.W. studmasters were staggered at
the prices bid for yearlings at the first
day of the Sydney sales. Percy Miller
breeds on a large scale at Kia-Ora,
Scone, and has had a wonderfully good
“press” for years ; nevertheless, he had
to be content with 2655 guineas for 31
yearlings, averaging 86 guineas. Some of
them were Marconigrams ; and Marconi-
grams have this year won the Melbourne
Cup and the Sydney Cup. Rampions,
Veilmonds and Koomeelas (Koomeela is
a brother to Amounis) also went cheap,
but offspring of Sion did a bit better ;
for a chestnut son of Sion —Sly Fox
W. A. Dunn, a Sydney doctor who has
had considerable success as an amateur
trainer, went to 375 guineas. Progeny
of Windbag and Heroic also realised
pretty good prices; but the handsomest
were reserved for yearlings
from the Lyndhurst stud,
Queensland, where The Buz-
zard is standing. Three sons
of The Buzzard averaged
550 guineas.
A decided change came
over the scene on the second
day of the sales, when some
beautiful Heroics were ex-
hibited. First, a son of Des-
demona was sold to C.. T.
Godby, acting for an Adel-
aide man, for 1700 guineas,
and of another colt, whose
dam is Rhea, A. B. Nagel, a
Queenslander, became the
buyer for 1600 guineas.
Both are chestnuts, and the
Rhea colt is a brother to
Cereza. A third chestnut by
Marconigram—Barbette brought 1100
guineas—the bidder was W. Hogan, of
Melbourne —and another lot of Koo-
meelas fetched considerably enhanced
prices. One, a son of Jean Roxburgh,
dam of several good winners, realised 650
guineas. Perhaps because The Athenian
(Pantheon —Athenais), who brought top
price at last year’s sales (1750 guineas),
has hitherto been a disappointment, the
bidding for Pantheons was not so keen ;
but Frank McGrath, Peter Pan’s trainer,
gave 750 guineas for a colt by Pantheon
—Girton Girl, and Mackinnon and Cox
(Melbourne) went to 850 guineas for a
Pantheon—Chatterbox colt.
* * * *
“0.H.”: Gold Rod may, as some say,
be the fastest two-year-old since Manfred
(Phar Lap and Peter Pan did not distin-
guish themselves in their first season),
but it is far too early to pronounce him
“the colt of the century.” It is quite on
the cards that he will not stay. Chief
Ruler, his sire, was by The Tetrarch, the
unbeaten son of Roi Herode. None of
the three was a sire of stayers. There
is more hope for Gold Rod on the
maternal side. Oreum, his dam, was by
King John —no great success at the
stud—out of Desert Gold. Desert Gold,
besides being a first-class racehorse, was
by All Black—Aurarius. Aurarius was
by Maltster —Aurous, Aurous by Wal-
lace —Aura, by Richmond —Instep. Aus-
tralia has had no greater brood mare than
Instep.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Sydney Stadium suffered a cruel blow
last week when Ambrose Palmer an-
nounced his retirement. The Footscray
heavyweight explained that the eyebrow
wound which has troubled him for years,
and which was reopened by Leo Kelly,
has become so bad that a specialist has
warned him against fighting again. There
is no need for the young man to risk
blindness. He has earned good money,
saved a lot of it, and has a steady job
to go to. Efforts are being made to break
down his determination, but it is to be
hoped that he will stand firm.
When the staggering news arrived, the
Stadium had Rosenblum on the water
under a £3OOO contract to meet Palmer
and Kelly. Now there is only Kelly for
him to box, and the - public rarely takes
to matches between Americans. The
Rushcutter Bay concern has certainly
made a mess of things. Heedless of
warnings, it pitted Henneberry, a middle-
weight, against Palmer, with the result
that the Henneberry boom was punc-
tured, and Henneberry was so damaged
that another bout arranged for him
has had to be postponed. Now the con-
cern has lost Palmer, as a result of send-
ing him against one of its favorite coons.
And because of its misguided—er—zeal in
raising the prices it got little or nothing
out of Palmer’s last fight.
“Oo, you all look LOVELY. I'll
have to Wear shorts, too."
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Some of these Melbourne
football clubs are inclined to stand on
their dignity. A Richmond player,
Zscech, was transferred by the Federal
Government to Tasmania. Arriving
there, he was hired to coach a local club
and applied to Richmond for a clearance.
He was staggered when it was refused on
the ground that he should have con-
sulted Richmond first. As matters stand
the gentleman with the unspellable name
can play football neither in Tassie, where
he isn’t allowed to, nor in Victoria, where
he doesn’t live.
“Stand Off”: A Rugby team from
Californian universities is eager to
come to Australia, and if is stated that
it may be reinforced by players from
Harvard, Yale, Princeton and other
Eastern foundations, enrolled under the
newly-formed American Rugby Union.
One hurdle to be crossed by the pros-
pective visitors is the International
Rugby Board. This now arranges all
international tours, and its permission
will have to be given before the Ameri-
cans can come here.
“Line Out”: If the new-born American
R.U. clicks it will give Yankee athletes
another opportunity to assert them-
selves. Worth recalling that America has
twice won the Olympic R.U; champion-
ship. Only three Olympiads have had
Rugby events. Australia won the first
in 1908, and America proved too good
for France in 1920 and 1924. The
American teams were trained and
coached in England, one of their mentors
being Australian Tom Lawton, then at
Oxford.
.** * *
“Hotham”: The Vic. Rugby Union
starts its season on May 2 with 10 teams
in the three grades and numerous others
in the various subsidiary competitions.
Victoria should have strong representa-
tion in the Australian team for Maori-
land, for the State side is now little in-
ferior to Queensland and N.S.W.
“Hotham”: Tim Turner, who came to
Australia as stroke of the London R.C.
crew and took up permanent quarters in
Melbourne, is to play Rugby with
Harlequins. As he was suckled in the
game in London, he should prove a
useful recruit.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Shrewsbury”: Having failed to get an
invitation to tour England with an Aus-
tralian team, our Soccer heads are trying
to persuade an English side to come to
Australia. Professional clubs are not
likely to release any of their extensive
stables, so a team of amateurs is sug-
gested. English amateur Soccer has fallen
off, though teams like the Corinthians
still enter for the Cup ; but if the ques-
tion of leave for the long journey could
be fixed a fine side could be brought out,
especially if Oxford and Cambridge could
be drawn on.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Mari-ja”: In the Scottish northern
open, Ferrier, after a bad start, finished
fourth with 301, 11 strokes from the
winner, R. S. Walker. The youngster’s
final round, 71, was the best of the day.
Encouraging, especially as he played part
of the time in snow and sleet.
“The McHaggis”; Bonnie Doon
(N.S.W.) has hit upon a splendid idea
for its annual mixed foursomes competi-
tion. This being leap year, the men will
be the blushing guests and the girls will
do all the paying. It is a gr-r-rand idea,
and 1 am taking advantage of the cheap
week-end cable rates to give St. Andra’s
and other clubs composed mostly of my
fellow-countrymen the tip. The canny
lads can be trusted to make the most of
the time remaining.
*, - * * *
“Hamilton”; Brisbane is leaving no
stone unturned to get that Australian
championship meeting one of these days.
For years some of the metropolitan
courses have been of the catch-as-catch-
can variety, but times have changed. All
the city courses save one now boast 18
holes, only one “niner” remaining.
Other clubs are lengthening and stiffen-
ing their courses and bringing them up
to the most exacting championship re-
quirements.
* * * *
“Cotter”: The F.C.T. golf champion-
ships drew a big entry to Canberra. V.
Richardson, showing a style evidently
influenced by his American experiences,
took the open championship over 36
holes with a score of 141, amateur A.
Waterson coming second with 144. Water-
son got his turn in the battle for the
amateur title, his card reading 144, seven
strokes better than Hattersley. Waterson’s
first round of 68 is a record for the Can-
berra course. Richardson also picked up
the professionals’ purse, while I. Kelly,
of Bonnie Doon, got away with the Can-
berra Cup.
* * =? t-
“Brassey”: When is the public going
to get the strength of that golf trip to
the U.S.A.? A definite statement is due
to the people who subscribed to the funds
and are unable to decide between the
adverse managerial report and the rosy
picture painted by players. The
manager’s story is confirmed in part by
a letter from Sarazen, who regrets that
Florida engagements prevented him from
crossing the continent to see his old
friends in California. Gene adds; “From
what I gather their reception was not
typically American,” which speaks for
itself. : )
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The U.S.A. beat Mexico
in their Davis Cup tie, winning the first
three singles and doubles. Budge
allowed the Mexican champion, Reyes,
only five games in three sets. Grant
had a harder job with Hernandez, who
ran him to five sets and took 14 games
to 21 ; Hernandez is only 19. Allison
and Van Ryn gave the Mexican doubles
pair no chance. The Yanks play the
same team against our men at Germans-
town.
* * *
“Centre Court”: Perry is in the news
again. His employers, Slazengers, say
he will be in Australia in November
after a tour of India, having got rid cf
the back injury which has given him so
much trouble. Perry took part in his
first tournament of the season in Hol-
land, and was beaten 6-4, 6-2 by Timmer.
But he and Hughes downed Swol and
Hughan in the doubles.
* * *
“Top Spin”: Menzel has announced
his permanent retirement from big
tennis. Rod says amateur tennis is
to-day a whole-time job, and that he has
made up his mind to earn a living some
other way. He mentions writing, so, if
we cannot get him out here again as a
player, we may have him as a war corre-
spondent. Rod’s temperament, as we saw
it here, suggests that he could write some
slashing stuff on the colonial cannibals
if occasion offered. He put in some
fine work verbally when he was here,
but lack of fluency in the Australian lan-
guage cramped his style.
ijC jJj sjc
“Centre Court”: Australians who have
appeared at Wimbledon will recall the
president of the All-England L.T.C., Sir
Herbert Wilberforce. After many years
in his pontifical job, he is retiring at the
end of the financial year. He was himself
a player, having won his tennis blue
at Cambridge, but he never
rose to Olympian heights.
* * *
“Drayton”: Veteran and
all, Moon remains the best
of Queensland’s racquet-
swingers. In the Darling
Downs champion ships,
practically an All-Queens-
land affair, he took the singles
title and, with Thelma
Coyne, of Sydney, the mixed
doubles. The Sydney girl
added a good scalp to her collection
when she beat Mrs. Molesworth in the
singles.
*J*
“Rev. Knucklebone”: By all accounts
the Americans are already making pre-
parations to receive the Davis Cup from
England, Much depended on finding an-
other topnotch singles player to back up
Allison, and Donald Budge was selected
as the likely pea. He has been placed
under one “Professor” Stow, of San
Francisco. Stow is rated in Yankeeland
as the last word in tennis trainers and
coaches, and Budge has done so well that
it is confidently expected he will do the
job he is being specially prepared for —
the defeat of Perry.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The Stawell Gift was
won by McCann, of Castlemaine, off 64
yards in 12 4-16 sec. McCann started at
6 to 4 on; McCarthy, of S.A., and
Spargo, of Essendon, were quoted at 5
to 2 against, so Ike Mcßagg must have
had a bad day. Austin Robertson ran
a great race to get second in his heat off
three yards, but, as he would have had
to do eight yards inside evens to win the
final, was handicapped right out of it.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Newcastle is chewing
over a cricket problem. In a two-day


AIRZONE—PubIic Entertainer No.
VA i
mu
m
// ijjkMk ß
Vv'-
. S
I
: s
!■' v ■'
m .
m
Mr 1
ftmm
■
Public
Entertainer
m
POPULAR? Why of course I'm popular. Just
look at me ... all dressed up in my smartest
of cabinets with every modern fitting- and acces-
sory that makes my entertaining the finest
obtainable anywhere.
II you have not seen me, nor yet heard me, and the
entertainment I provide . . . come up and see me
—anytime.
Model 060
6 - Valve
DUAL WAVE
A.C. Radio
Without any doubt, here is the
most outstanding Dual Wave
Receiver yet offered Australian
Listeners. Into its design and
manufacture have been embodied
the very latest developments in
cabinet work, chassis and mech-
anical detail, giving it a brand of
performance and beauty of ap-
pearance which is unexcelled.
Outstanding among the newest
features of this splendid Airzone
1936 dual wave Radio are:—
Beautiful Cabinet Work; Two Speed
Tuning; Tone Control and Noise Sup-
pressor; All Metal Valves; Electric Eye;
New Type Speaker; Large Aero Dial;
Automatix Volume Control; Extra Sen-
sitivity and Selectivity; Metal Tone
Coils, Band Spreader.
Here, indeed, you have the set of
the year.
CASH 38 Gns. PRICE
EASY TERMS OFFERED
OBTAINABLE ALL RADIO
STORES AND MUSIC HOUSES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
S-3c-
■K*vni
J 'TO-iNtZ^
Manufactured by
AIRZONE (1931) LTD.
16 Australia St., Camperdown, Sydney.
■ST.A*
m
wm
m
v . i
■
*. 5 JZ 4 ?
f
I ■■l
n
l*.‘ *
-
- it
' I H
S' tf zd
I r^F
-■
%
• ; ; SwisSsT*
it ®
-. 111
■
PP ; , I
mm ■,- -
HHHHHi !
I ii
■
u
'ete i
eet^i
/
=1
■Ck eers for tke perfect party,
wkere tke people are perfect,
your partner is perfect, and
to find it out tkan now.
&
VICKERS
r I kl FAMOUS since
V I N 1750
match Belmont made 236 the first day.
On the second Cardiff declared with 9
down for 76, and invited Belmont to
bat again. Belmont declined, and, with
the umpires, ordered Cardiff to follow
on. This it would not do, and the
umpires gave Belmont the match. Car-
diff threatens to appeal, but Law 53 states
that in a two-day match the side batting
first and leading by 100 runs has the
option of requiring the other side to
follow on. That should be clear enough,
“John’s Wood”: The Marylebone club
has at last lit on a secretary, after an
interval which showed that there are
still many folk in England who can turn
up their noses at £750 a year and a house
free of rates and taxes. The new official
is Colonel Rait-Kerr, regarded as a class
player when at Rugby, but later swal-
lowed up by the Army. Nevertheless, he
played much cricket in India, represent-
ing the Europeans in the annual quad-
rangular tournament at Bombay, while
he has figured in many M.C.C. teams.
His Indian experience should stand him
in good stead for the visit of the Indian
team this season. By all accounts they
are not a happy family, and on the
M.C.C. secretary, as virtual manager ot
the trip, a good deal of responsibility
for holding the balance between Moslem
and Hindu is likely to fall,
* , •
Melbourne kept its cricket pren _ t,
won last year, by downing Fitzroy in .he
final; Melbourne 113 and five for
Fitzroy 185 and 89. Ponsford was the
best bat> aver aging 75.3 for a total of
329. Nagel took 41 wickets at 19.3, but
Ebeling, the captain, had the average, 19
at 12.7/
• ■ • ■ '
“Sturt”: The most notable thing about
the club cricket finals in Adelaide was
the absence of nearly all the players who
won the Shield for, S.A. West Torrens
(with Waite—but Sincock did most ot the
bowling) won easily from Sturt (Ryan
and Parker).
“Cottesloe”: As I write, Perth is
in the grip of a horde of bowlers
from all over Australia, assembled to
“ . , , . , .
contest the national championships.
Hitherto it has been the custom for
bowlers to pay their own expenses on
these trips, suggestions that the game
should fall into line with such bona fide
amateur sports as Rugby TJmon football
and allow travelling and housing ex-
penses being scouted as protessionalism
By a°ll ae g countTQue"nsland has departed
from moth-eaten tradition, and is paying
travelling expenses and entrance fees,
Playe s must find their own housing and
meals in Perth, but the parks and coun-
ter lunches should fill all wants in that
direction.
“Mat”: Now that bowls has been
added to the 1938 Games to be held in
Sydney a great influx of Maorilanders is
forecast. But if we are to have bowls,
why not croquet? Its exponents swear
that it is a much more scientific game
than bowls, and one, moreover, in wh.ch
Australia competes on equal terms with
Brjtain in international matches.
, k :1: *
“ Blade ». Crews for the inter-State
e jgh^ s q o rowed on the Swan on May
g are now on their way to Perth, the
ns.W. lot having departed last week
w j tb scu p er Cec p p earces w h o w iu catch
|h .. boa , for the olympiad at Fremantle.
Queensland, exempt under the rules, will
* represented ; Tass.e has been un-
able to muster funds, and will also stay
at home. This means that the Apple
Islanders will forfeit their right to have
the race in Tasmania when their turn next
comes round. It is likely, however, that
a dispensation may be granted later. On
their own river, a tricky one, the West-
ralians look good for another win. On
the Nepean last year there was very little
in it between them and N.S.W.


POMONA PUMPS
f
HEAVY DUTY MINE
DEWATERING PUMPS
FOR VERTICAL SHAFTS
Pomona Pumps
are used largely
for Water Supply
Pumping and all
industrial require-
ments.
Pomona Pumps
are installed in
many mines in
all States of
Australia. One
at Talbot, Vic-
toria, has been
running non-stop
since early in
1933.
Pull parti culms from the Sole Distributor:
F. N. BETHUNE,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.I.
Telephone: C 9935.
PACIFIC FORESTS LTD.
’Phone, Write or Call for Any Information re Shares in
the Above Company;
HODSONS INVESTMENTS Limited
INVESTMENT BANKERS,
PACIFIC HOUSE
249 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
’Phone: 82892.
(All Departments.')
INQUIRIES INVITED ABOUT STOCKS AND SHARES
BOTH QUOTED AND UNQUOTED.
■r-C
w
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Results of Expediency
Australians weren’t exactly lulled into
a pipe-dream by politicians shouting
about prosperity. Governments aren’t
very lulling as a rule, especially when
taxation is around £l4 a head. And m
any case it isn’t politicians who are the
best judges of whether things are pros-
perous or not. It is the fellow in the
street; the businessman, large or small,
the land man, the salary- or wage-earner.
One and all, however, have had cause
to sit up and take notice of recent de-
velopments. The Premiers’ Plan worked
so long as it was permitted to work.
Interest rates were kept down so long as
it was easy to keep them down. Rates
on old loans were cut by legislation in
the first instance, at a lime when low
returns from other investments made it
easy for solvent borrowers to raise
money at correspondingly low cost.
The pendulum is now swinging the
other way. While money was cheap,
Governments, through the Loan Council,
hopped in and borrowed to the limit of
the investment market. Where it was
expedient to increase indebtedness rather
than retrench, the easy course was taken.
Borrowed money has been used for
relief-work in some States to such effect
that the special unemployment taxation
has been largely diverted to general
revenue. Basic-wage-earners receive
about 18 p.c. less money wages than in
1928, and the cost of living is correspond-
ingly less ; but in many cases civil ser-
vants have had their salary-cuts fully or
partly restored —an election-time expedi-
ent. The State budgetary position
throughout the Commonwealth *is still
far from satisfactory.
Expediency has played too large a part
in national affairs. The juicy tariff
revenue raked in by the Commonwealth
has helped to bias the Canberra Govern-
ment in its tariff policy. Only the Gov-
ernment appears to know to what extent
Australia is committed under the Ottawa
contract. According to Article II of
that agreement, the Tariff Board “shall
invite” Parliament, “whenever necessary,
to vary the tariff on goods of U.K.
origin.” The Lyons Government seems
to prefer to be bound by the recom-
mendations of the board. Apparently
another matter of expediency. An ex-
pedient is defined by the Oxford Dic-
tionary as something “useful, politic, as
opposed to just or right.”
Deferring consequences may have kept
Governments popular with some sec-
tions ; but if a policy isn’t sound it
leads to trouble in the long run. The
Canberra tariff attitude has already
dragged us into embarrassment over our
London funds, just as Government bor-
rowing was a prime factor in precipitat-
ing the recent rise in the cost of money.
London “Economist” has lately echoed
what has often been said here:
It would be unwise to consider as sound
finance continuous borrowing for public
works and rural rehabilitation unless
security of markets can be achieved for
the Commonwealth.
“Works” were a joke until strangulation
of competing private enterprise made
them a matter of desperate concern to
motor-carriers and others. Government
meddling with rural industries has
always been disastrous. If we have re-
gained prosperity to the extent Mr.
Lyons and others would have us believe,
it is time we abandoned expedients and
planned for a sane and sound economy.
The U.S.A. has good reason to keep
“in” with the British Empire. For the
first nine months of 1935, the land of
the New Deal sent 42.4 p.c. of its total
exports to Empire countries, compared
with 39.1 p.c. in the same part of the
previous year. Great Britain took 17.2
p.c. of the 1935 exports, and Canada
15.5 p.c., leaving 9.7 p.c. for Australia
and the rest of the Empire. The Empire
supplied the U.S.A. with 34.5 p.c. of its
total imports, which are generally smaller
than its exports.
*i* *>• *•*
Since 1932 American exports to Japan
have been considerably in excess of im-
ports from that country. Australia’s
favorable trade balance with Japan and
its unfavorable one with the U.S.A.
therefore aren’t evened up within the
shores of the Pacific, even though we do
buy a good deal from the Dutch East
Indies.
* •!• *
Ballarat banks are already noticing
a substantial increase in new fixed
deposits, following the lifting of rates
“Have you change of a shilling ?”
“No, mum, but you can cut it out with a coupla chunes if y' like."
by 10s. p.c. In an important centre like
this, such a trend may be taken as fairly
representative of other districts. If the
movement continues, it may result in that
“broader basis for lending” (B. 1/4/’36)
which would help to reduce the necessity
for the credit-curtailment programme
now threatening.
* * * *
As time goes on, public loans come to
be more and more regarded as intermin-
able annuities, the holder being likely to
get his money back on the due date only
if the Government’s credit is sufficiently
good to convert or to borrow enough for
repayment. That lays a big responsibility
on Governments now as to the reproduc-
tive capacity of the loan money they are
spending. If it doesn’t earn its keep
now and in the future, additional taxa-
tion is inevitable. And it’s added taxa-
tion just the same whether it be in the
form of transport strangulation or sub-
sidised competition from Government
railway tearooms and cafeterias.
Hoadley’s Chocolates, Ltd. (Vic.), has
returned to the div. list, after 81 years,
with a 6 p.c. distribution to the prefs.
This will call for £4500 ; profit for the
12 months to Dec. 31 last was £5167, an
improvement of £4127, and trading for
the current term has opened satisfac-
torily. In the reconstruction of 1935 the
ords. lost 13s. 4d. a share, while the
prefs. relinquished their div. arrears and
agreed to a slight modification of future
div. rights. Paid capital is now £lOO,OOO
in £75,000 of 6-7 p.c. pref. and £25,000
ord. money. The 6s. Bd. ords. are around
4s. 6d.
**. * *
Shareholders as at April 21 in Elec-
trolytic Zinc, Amalgamated Zinc (De
Bavay’s), North Broken Hill, Broken Hill
South and Zinc Corp. will be asked to
participate in a share issue to be made
by the co. (B. 15/4/’36) being formed to
manufacture woodpulp and fine printing
papers in the nor’-west of Tasmania.
* * * *
During the quarter ended March 31
Mt. Lyell (Tas.) produced 3179 tons of
electrolytic copper, as against 3330 tons
in the preceding three months. Lower-
grade ore is being treated, but mining
costs should be cheaper, and metal prices
are substantially higher.
The General Insurance Corp., the pros-
pectus of which, together with that of
Finance and Insurance Corp., was re-
viewed in B. 11/3/’36, has notified ord.
shareholders that they “will be pleased”
to learn that the G.I.C. has bought all
the issued shares, except five, in the Com-
monwealth and Commercial Insurance
Co., Ltd.:
Our co. is in control, and for all prac-
tical purposes owns the same.
The C. and CL Co. was registered in
1930, and has carried on business con-
tinuously since that date, according to
the circular.
Your directors are confident that an
era of profit-producing has arrived such
as will enable the G.I.C. to become an
early dividend-payer.
The circular doesn’t mention what profits
(if any) the acquisition has earned to date,
what its net tangible assets are, or what
the price was. Articles of associa-
tion which allow shareholders to “learn”
of the purchase of another concern only
after the contract has been completed
(whether shareholders are “pleased’ to
learn of it or otherwise doesn’t matter)
should be remedied at once. But when
the articles of the G.I.C. are examined
they reveal some odd provisions as re-
gards the rights of B shares and ordinary
shares—only the latter were offered to
the public. The G.I.C. was registered m
Canberra on Sept. 5, 1935, has its head
office in Sydney, and has sold shares m
Victoria.
% % * *
Australian Glass hit 82s. in the recent
market bump. This is the lowest quote
since the first Abyssinian war scare.
Present yield is a shade under 3.2 p.c.
on a 13 p.c. div. basis. There is great
inner strength in book values. Plant
appears at 63.5 p.c. of 1924 book values,
despite expansion since; and the co.
appears to have more ready cash than
it knows what to do with. Still, at
83s. 6d. the market values the 930,4/8
ord. shares at £3,885,000. The 175,000
9 p.c. prefs. fetch 40s. each.
j!< # ❖ *
“Bray Rock”: A new pattern of trawl
net, invented by a Hull engineer, is
creating unprecedented development in
this method of fish capture around Eng-
lish coasts, where about three-fourths of
the total market catch is made by trawl.
The large, heavy “doors” of the old type
required big power for towing, were
liable to damage the vessel in a
seaway when hauled up, and necessitated
stopping the ship when hauling or
shooting, with consequent risk
of heavy seas coming aboard
if she came broadside on.
With the new pattern, a 58ft.
craft, powered by a 60-h.p.
Diesel, can handle a full-sized
net and tow it at 3 m.p.h. She
can also keep under way during
hauling or shooting, head to
wind. The net is supported by
a centre rope and wooden
“bogie,” and the very small
doors are fitted with heavy
ballast wheels. Seventy-five per
cent, of the towing power for-
merly required for a standard
size net is saved, and fouls are
impossible. And Australia has
over 10,000 square miles of
proved trawling bottom within
commercial reach of its big
cities.
In Melbourne last week;
The Stock Exchange opened after the Easter
vacation with sharp rises in some Bendigo
and Ballarat district stocks, and a general
weakness in Fijis. Loloma had fallen 4s. (to
18s. 9d.) by Friday, and Emperor Is. (to 11s.
10d.). Central Nell Gwynne (Bendigo)
jumped Bs. 6d. (to 225.), and Nell Gwynne
(the Bendigo Mines show) rose 2s. Bd. (to
4s. 9d.) in sympathy. Buninyong Rand was
Is. higher at 6s. 6d.
Among investment stocks, National and
other banks, Adelaide Steam, Gordon and
Gotch, Herald (following the passing of the
“Star,” 3s. higher) and Yarra Falls led the way
in rises.
The National Bank of Australasia lifted
its final div. to 5£ p.c. p.a., as against 5 p.c.
paid from November, 1933, to November,
1935. On a somewhat smaller advances busi-
ness this institution has declared higher profits
than the Commercial of Sydney (which recently
paid 6 p.c.) for some years. The National's
capital account is a little bigger than that of
the C.B.S. The shares, strong on Thursday,
rose a further 2s. 6d. on Friday, following
the announcement.
Waldas Shoes, Ltd., many shares in which
were placed by Cranwells (Australasia),
Ltd., before it concentrated its attention on
the P. P. Bank deal, were listed on ’Change
on Friday. Opening quotes were 40s. buyer
for the ords., and 225. 6d. buyer for the prefs.
Amalgamated Zinc (10s. 5d.) and Electro-
lytic Zinc ords. (385.) showed little move-
ment on Friday following publication of
details of their interest in the new Tasmanian
paper enterprise.
Mining shares were generally much weaker,
the exceptions principally being Bendigo shows
and Irowat and Placer.
(Continued on next page.)


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SCOURING
DEVICE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
18590/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassell and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 94 of 1936.
BETWEEN CYRIL STOTT Petitioner
And EUNICE REID STOTT Respondent
And BERT WARE Co-respondent.
TO BERT WARE late of Nicholson Street
Sydney and of Forster in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
CYRIL STOTT has commenced a suit in the
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction of this Honor-
able Court claiming that his marriage with the
abovenamed EUNICE REID STOTT may be
dissolved on the grounds of her adultery with
you AND TAKE NOTICE that you arc
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Second day of July
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further lime the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Second day of April One thou-
sand nine hundred and Thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SHERIDAN & SHERIDAN, Solicitors,
Kempsey ; by their Agents, BARRY NORRIS
& WILDES, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 530 of 1936.
BETWEEN JAMES SIDNEY HUCKEL
(known as Sidney James Huckel) Peti-
tioner
And BERTHA MILDRED HUCKEL
(formerly Olsen) Respondent
And WILLIAM SAMWAY Co-respondent.
TO BERTHA MILDRED HUCKEL late of
Forbes and WILLIAM SAMWAY also
late of Forbes.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES
SIDNEY HUCKEL has commenced a suit
against you the abovenamed Respondent in
this Honorable Court and is applying for dis-
solution of marriage on the ground of adultery
with you the abovenamed Co-respondent
AND TAKE NOTICE that you the above-
named Respondent and you the abovenamed
Co-respondent are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Eighth day of July
1936 and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of April, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
McCAW, MORAY & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 330 of 1936.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH JANE NORTH-
COTE Petitioner
And ARTHUR FRANCIS NORTHCOTE
Respondent.
TO ARTHUR FRANCIS NORTHCOTE For-
merly of Goulburn in the State of New
South Wales but now of parts, unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
JANE NORTHCOTE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
praying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your desertion of her for three
years and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said
<>uit at the proper office of this Honorable
Lourt on or before the Sixth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
nad on application to the undersigned Solici-
tors free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of April. One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S G, SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors
for Petitioner, 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 253 of 1936.
BETWEEN EDWARD JAMES THOMAS
Petitioner
And DORA THOMAS Respondent.
TO DORA THOMAS late of Brisbane.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDWARD
JAMES THOMAS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance' to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixth day of July One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-six and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of April, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney; Agent for ERNEST ROY
HUDSON, Solicitor, Broken Hill.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 390 of 1936.
BETWEEN DULCIE BARBARA TODD Peti-
tioner
And JOSEPH TODD Respondent.
TO JOSEPH TODD formerly of Penrith in
the State of New South Wales but now
of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DULCIE
BARBARA TODD has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
praying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your desertion of her for three
years and upwards without just cause of ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solici-
tors free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of April, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors
for Petitioner, 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 292 of 1936.
BETWEEN GLADYS COTTRELL Petitioner
And JOHN CHARLES HENRY COTT-
RELL Respondent.
TO JOHN CHARLES HENRY COTTRELL
late of Parramatta.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
COTTRELL has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the sixth day of July next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herin may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
Dated this seventh day of April, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON.
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. H, GARRATT & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 452 of 1936.
BETWEEN CORDELIA MAY SMITH Peti-
tioner
And JAMES EDWARD SMITH Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES EDWARD SMITH.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CORDELIA
MAY SMITH has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Ninth day of July
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge
DATED this Sixteenth day of April, a.d.
1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. E. McINTOSH & ADRIAN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Largest Circulations
In Queensland.
THE
COURIER-MAIL
The net average cir-
culation for October,
1935, was 69,061 copies
daily. Here is by far
the largest circulation in the Queensland daily field and
the essential basis of any Queensland campaign.
THE
SUNDAY MAIL
Second only to “The
Courier-Mail” in cir-
culation, “The Sunday
Mail” enjoyed a net
circulation of 64,686 copies per issue for October, 1935.
Obviously it must be the second medium selected for any
Queensland campaign.
Enquire about the Combined Advertising Rates.
Queensland
Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building. Hamilton
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER. Newspaper House, Collins
London Representative: A. J. CHARD. 92 Fleet Street.
Street.
Street.
Be well advised by an
acknowledged Expert!
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining \
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range !
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
No. K—HOLMS’ D.8.8.E. SPECIAL DUCK
GUN, Iy-Iln, steel barrels, both choke,
(treener cross bolt, especially built for heart
charges and long clistance shooting-: similar
in appearance to the No. ;!; . .
weight, about B*lb £l6/5/-
Carriage Paid.
No. !)—CASH MORE D.B.H.L. G UN, 12G.,
I solid bar action. 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and 10.
I fore-end pistol grip, walnut .
stock; weight, about. 71b £l4/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 10—CASHMOKE D.8.1i.L.
as No. i), superior quality and
finish; side clips
Carriage Paid.
No. 22—MIDLAND D.8.8X.
HA.MMEREESS GUN, I3G-,
left choke, walnut stock, .
pistol grip £l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. I—HA RRINGTON & RICHARDSON’S,
STEVEN’S, or IVOR JOHNSON’S 5.8.8. E.
GUN, 12G., top action, automatic self-
ejecting 32in. steel barrel, solid, case-
hardened, pistol grip, walnut stock; ~
weight of glm, about Glib 55/*
Carriage Paid.
GIN, 12G.,
£l3/5/-
S PECIAE
32in. barrels,
SPORTING RIFLES
An outstanding Rifle, fitted
with Telescopic Sight, now
retailing at the low price of
£7W-
MOSSBERG -22
CALIBRE BOLT
ACTION REPEAT-
ING RIFLE IM-
PROVED MODEL 41
This is a remarkable
comb in at io n of a
superbly accurate Rifle,
equipped with a Micro-
meter Adjustable Rear-
sight and four-power
Telescope Sight, also
Micrometer Adjustable
Sight. The sales for
this Rifle have been un-
precedented, and in re-
sponse to demand we
have just landed an-
other large shipment
from A merica.
d
Xo. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, MODEL 07, for 22 short, long or
long-rifle rimflre cartridges; 27in. round
steel barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder rear and
metal bead front sight; weight,
Postage, 3/-; Other States, 3/ti.
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE SHOT RIFLE.
MODEL 3, 22-cal.. 26in. round steel barrel,
bolt action; handles short, long or long-
rilie cartridges; gold bead‘front and adjust-
able rear sight, pistol grip stock:
MICK SIMMONS
about 4Mb.
weight, about 4}lb.
Postage,
Other States, 3/(1.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
LIMITED,
ITAYMAKKIT, SYDNEY, & All Branches.
Buninyong Rand Mines, N.L., near
Ballarat (Vic.), earned £5461 during the
six months to Dec. 31. Gold production
was valued at £14,172. Against accu-
mulated earnings £3262 of development
exes, was charged, and £4472 went for-
ward. There has been a good deal of
developmental outlay to date, and as
paid capital is only £22,500 (in 10s. shares
paid to 65.) cash resources don’t warrant
dividends at present. Parallel auriferous
lines, overlooked by the cos. of 50 years
ago, are believed to exist in the co.’s
property. Extraction to date has
averaged about sdwt. from some thou-
sands of tons.
For 1935 (calendar year) the following
tonnages and extractions were achieved
by the five principal gold-producers in
Westralia:
Tons. Fine Oz.
Lake View and Star .. 493,265 138,911
Wiluna 470,205 108,405
Great Boulder 127,498 55,053
Sons of Gwalia 94,513 35,769
North Kalgurli 104,944 32,662
Wiluna is the greatest profit-earner, with
working costs of about 20s. (Aust.) a
ton, giving it an advantage over Lake
View and Star which the latter is unable
to make up by its higher recoveries per
ton. Practically all the cos. mentioned
were affected early in 1935 by the miners’
strike. In February this year 55,5020 z.
of gold was received by the Perth mint,
as against 21,2770 z. in February, 1935.
* * * *
The latest Fiji co. in which E. G. Theo-
dore is interested is a proprietary—
Tavua Power Pty., Ltd., registered in
Melbourne within the last fortnight.
Nominal capital is £lOO,OOO, and directors
are W. H. Smith, E. G. Banks, A. G.
Campbell, T. R. Victor, P. F. Cody and
E. G. Theodore. A Diesel plant is on
order in England, and operations are ex-
pected to commence towards the end of
this year. Power, in the first instance,
will be supplied to the Emperor and
Loloma mines.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Anything Goes”
This screen version follows the musi-
comedy’s advent on the Australian stage
at a shorter interval than is usual in such
cases, and it makes clearer the deep gulf
that is fixed between fleshanblood and
shadow representations of this type of
play. In the cinema production Bing
Crosby is the sportive, oft-disguised Mr.
Hill, Charles Ruggles is the Rev. Moon,
Ethel Merman is Reno, Ida Lupino is
the English girl and Arthur Treacher is
the baronet. Quite an impressive cast,
reckoned by Hollywood standards. But
in the stage show seen in Australia all
five parts were better filled, and even on
the opening night in Sydney with its
obvious ragged edges the piece was put
over more effectively.
Crosby’s crooning occupies a dispro-
portionately large amount of time in the
screen show, and slows down the action,
Miss Merman’s strident voice rasps dis-
agreeably, Ruggles is a rather colorless
crook-in-disguise, and Treacher’s baronet
is a crude caricature compared with the
clever portrayal of type presented on the
stage by Robert Coote. The burlesque
revival meeting and some of the coarser
jests that figured in the stage production
are missing from the screen version, and
Errol Flynn, chief pirate, in “Captain
Blood,” at Sydney State.
their absence is no loss* but otherwise the
alterations in the book are for the worse.
At the Prince Edward, Sydney.
“Woman Trap”
Two features lift this thriller, which
deals with the kidnapping for ransom of
a millionaire’s daughter, out of the ruck
—the Mexican desert setting and the
acting of Akim Tamiroff, whose part fits
him like a glove. Ostensibly he runs a
tomato garden ; underneath that he’s a
gunman and a crook, offering the shelter
of his ranch to the kidnappers, and
finding them more secure hide-outs
among the rocks of the desert. Always
smiling, never moving at more than a
gentle saunter, always polite, always
masking a world of shrewdness under a
cloak of sleepy amiability, he decoys the
bad men into the desert with their cap-
tive, and lets thirst sow dissension in
their ranks. The denouement, though
not quite unexpected, rounds off the
story neatly. Love interest is supplied by
George Murphy as a reporter and Ger-
trude Michael as the kidnapped lady.
Also at the Prince Edward.
“The Walking Dead”
This “horror” film proves to be not
so horrific, after all. Certainly the final
sequences take place in a cemetery at
midnight during a storm, and the central
figure gets bumped off for the second
time, but mostly what little horror there
is is limited to Boris Karloff’s gaunt face,
staring eye and hunched figure. John
George Hassell as Governor Steed in
“Captain Blood.”
Ellman (Boris Karloff), just out of prison,
is framed for a murder committed by
political gangsters, headed by Nolan
(Ricardo Cortez). Jimmy (Warren Hull)
and Nancy (Marguerite Churchill), assis-
tants to Dr. Beaumont (Edmund Gwenn),
a physician specialising in life-reviving
experiments, have evidence to save Ell-
man from the chair, but before the Gov-
ernor can act Ellman is electrocuted (the
death scene is not shown). Dr. Beau-
mont, with the D.A.’s permission, ex-
periments on him, and he is brought back
from the dead. Silent abouf the secrets of
the hereafter, despite the doctor’s pleas
for enlightenment, the revived man gets
about in a trancelike state, and three of
the gang die in mysterious circumstances.
Nolan and his chief sidekicker, thinking
they’ll be next, kill Ellman in a ceme-
tery which he morbidly insists on visit-
ing. Dashing off in their car, they are
smashed up, thus completing the victim’s
revenge. Karloff is impressive, as he
always is in pictures of this type where
the supernatural creeps in. Cortez does
the arch-villain in his smooth, efficient
manner, and Edmund Gwenn is excel-
lent as the doctor. Marguerite Churchill
and Warren Hull sustain the slight love
interest. At Sydney Capitol.
“Bar 20 Rides Again”
Readers of the works of Clarence E.
Mulford will be rejoiced to notice from
Henry Stephenson as Lord de Willoughby
in “Captain Blood.”
evidence offered at Sydney Civic that
Hopalong Cassidy has been cured of his
limp and has added some part of a cubit
to his stature ; they may be less happy
to hear that Johnny Nelson has taken
to crooning. Mr. Cassidy, however, rides
as dashingly as ever, and is as quick on
the draw. Furthermore, he is as fertile
of plots and stratagems as of yore, and
the dance he leads the dude easterner
bandit Nevada and his bad hombres is
beautiful to see. Nevada bases his
methods on chess, which he believes to
have been Napoleon’s procedure, but
Waterloo is not long in arriving. At
least 20 villains (including Nevada) bite
the dust ere the fadeout. William Boyd
is the rejuvenated and enlarged Cassidy,
and his support, human and equine, is
adequate.
“A Tale of Two Cities”
The latest film version towers above
predecessors. Here is sheer drama, pre-
sented by as good a cast as could have
been selected. Ronald Colman makes
Sydney Carton live ; not by a hairbreadth
does he deviate from the spirit of
Dickens’s creation. His performance
haunts the memory.
The English scenes in the earlier
sequence are inclined to staginess, but,
crossing to Paris, they become starkly
realistic. Glimpses of the aristocrats
mincing through a minuet or feeding
their pet monkeys with the choicest
grapes and their dogs with the best of
meat alternate with vignettes of the
slums, where poor wretches cry piteously
for bread and grovel in filth. The big
crowd scenes at the Bastille storming, the
revolutionary tribunal and the guillotine
orgies are brilliantly handled. There is
the relieving touch of comedy in the
English trial scene.
Elizabeth Allen as Lucy and Basil
Rathbone as Charles Darnay cannot be
faulted, and there is some excellent
character acting by Edna May Oliver as
Miss Pross, Blanche Yurka as a revolu-
Basil Rathbone as pirate Lavaseur in
“Captain Blood.”
tionary harridan, Reginald Owen as the
pompous Stryver and H. B. Walthall as
the banker of the house of Tellson. Even
insignificant roles are smoothly filled. A
picture well worth seeing. Previewed at
M.-G.-M. Theatrette.
Some First Nights
Eileen Joyce, who returns to Australia
under engagement to the A.B.C. with an
established reputation as a pianist, gave
her first Sydney recital at the Con. Hall
on Saturday night, opening with Liszt’s
transcription of a Bach prelude and
fugue, followed by Myra Hess’s arrange-
ment of a Bach chorale. The two num-
bers gave the rather fragile-looking
pianist complete credentials. She has
fingers of spring steel, feels every note of
her music and moulds her phrases
eloquently. She plays Bach with as much
spirit as Grainger does, but her readings
are easier to follow.
The Con. audience liked even better
Miss Joyce’s playing of one of Haydn’s
multifarious E Flat Sonatas. It had
always seemed to this critic that this
particular work contained a great deal
of cry—it is as prolifically ornamented
as a Hindu temple—for very little wool,
but under Miss Joyce’s clever fingers the
unpromising sheep yielded three bags full.
Haydn himself might have been sur-
prised to find he had been so full of wit
and brilliance 150 years ago.
Next came the romantics —Chopin,
represented by the First Ballade, a noc-
turne and the barcarolle ; Schumann;
Liszt’s gnome dance and woodland
voices Cyril Scott’s “Lotus Land.
Admiration for Miss Joyce’s fingers was
Guy Kibbee as Ogle the gunner in
“Captain Blood.”
extended here to her toes, her pedal
effects, especially in the well-known Scott
number, being beautiful. For sweets
there were Friedman’s “Viennese
Dances,” a gavotte by Boyce, Scott’s
“Nigger Dance” and other trifles. The
verdict must be that Miss Joyce has lived
up to the expectations raised by the ad-
vance puffs. She is the finest pianist of
her sex this critic has heard since
Carreno.
-I* *l* *1- "J*
“Squaring the Circle,” written by
Valentin Katayev and put on by the
Little Theatre players at the Garrick,
Melbourne, on Saturday night, is im-
mensely popular in Russia, where the
Moscow Art Theatre has played it more
than 700 times. Two young workers
occupying the same room get registered
as married men, unknown to one another,
on the same day. When they bring their
spouses home there is the devil and all
to pay.
There is not enough floor space
to go round. Moreover, each finds he
has made a mistake. Vasya has married
a young woman of the emotional, feeling,
affectionate and cajoling type ; Abram, a
stern, austere, intellectual young woman
with her head stuffed with the dialectics
of materialism. Vasya would like to live
with something more stimulating than his
pretty automaton, and Abram would like
to be perpetually flattered, wooed and
cajoled, whereas his choice is a daily
bath of ice-cold intellect. Each decides
he is in love with the other’s bride, but
they have both had their minds so com-
pletely addled by the rules and regula-
tions of their Communist faith that they
haven’t the faintest notion how to get out
of life what they desire. Abram would like
Forrester Harvey as Useless in
“Captain Blood.”
to go off with the pretty doll, but feels it
would be “unethical.” Vasya would like
to go off with Abram’s dose of pure in-
tellect, but thinks that he' will be doing
so only at the expense of his pretty doll.
Enter Flavius, a party organiser.
“This won’t hurt the Revolution,” he


BALI AND SINGAPORE—
A Winter Trip at Rates
SO INEXPENSIVE
Exchange the bleak depress-
ing days of mist or pelting
rain for lazy, lounging days
on tropic seas.
Be accompanied by Western
comforts —outside cabins . . .
Eido pool . . . Verandah cafe
. . . Tennis —on your trip.
Call at Macassar, visit Bali
(in a side-trip at no extra
fare), wander through the
streets of Sourab'aya, Sema-
rang, Batavia and Singapore.
Special first-class return fares
for Winter from Sydney and
Brisbane,, £67/10/- to Java
and £75 to Singapore—no
Exchange—including side-trip
to Bali by local K.P.M.
steamer at no extra fare.
Slightly higher from Adelaide
and Melbourne.
K.P.M.
GREAT
WHITE
YACHTS
NIEUW HOLLAND
NIEUW ZEELAND
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Royal Packet Navigation Co.
Paketvaart House, 355 George St., Sydney
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
u
i
k \\ &
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F- E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Bracidon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice'Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant, Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A
X
A
TO ENGLAND T,
the Scenic Route
F ; ortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
>*
■
says, holding up a bottle of beer. Nor
will it harm the Revolution if the
marriages are annulled, the parties re-
, shuffled and a fresh start made. That is
one mistake repaired. And under Soviet
rules and regulations this can be done
all in the one day. Thus the play ends,
ostensibly happily. The evening proved
convincingly that a popular Soviet play-
wright can write as boring a play as any
popular British one. It would have le-
quired very little alteration to turn the
play into atypical bourgeois comedy, and
a very bad one at that.
That promising young actor Ken
Tuckfield damaged his reputation against
the character of Vasya, and Wilbur
Reed did not make one for himself as
(he other Communist youth. Judy
Thomas and Irene Mitchell were as good
as might be as their wives, but none of
them really lived. The only thoroughly
amusing character was the enormous
Alec Pratt as a drunken poet of the
~ e ho ?r pori r j
SnVwaJ moT atic W af and* worn
~. , n j
acted when it attempted to be profound.
*l' ‘F
A dropped gauntlet, a semi-demented
servitor, an aristocracy faced with dis-
aster—such is the skeleton of “The
Colleen Bawn,” Boucicault’s romantic
discourse on the manners and beliefs
of eighteenth-century Erin. A spine-
The Tandem Act,” by Will Mahony, etching in the Mac-
lead Gallery, Sydney.
less son’s indiscretionate marriage and
his mother’s attempt to save her face
are skilfully interwoven with the threads
of thwarted loves. A gentle humor
ripples the surface, and though the
denouement is melodramatic it’s fine
melodrama.
Technical production difficulties
(several outdoor vistas are required) were
skilfully overcome by Scott Alexander—
the cave scene, with its drownings, was
particularly well handled —and Sydney
Kursaal players found the brogue only a
small handicap. Among the players, Ron
Folkard’s deformed lackey was outstand-
ing, Arch Hull revelled in the impish
glee of Myles, and Raymond Irons
sauntered through imperturbably as the
impassive Kyrle. As Anne, Grace Arm-
strong ranted and pouted with feminine
efficiency, and Beverley Myles dimpled
becomingly as the Colleen. Ronald Nott,
Phyllis Busby and Wilson Irving were
also helpful.
-S* *l* -I- -I*
Thespian Dramatic Productions mar-
shalled a well-trained cast for its presen-
tation of Rodney Ackland’s “Birthday”
at St. James’s Hall, Sydney. The play,
which is modern in treatment, deals with
the revolt of a girl against her common-
place family. Clever and amusing writing
has gone into the making of the play,
but the effect lacks reality ; the charac-
terisation is overdone, and some of the
situations are hard to swallow. Success
was achieved by Frances Cottingham in
the role of Rosamund ; Earle Harrison
was the novelist with whom she fell in
love. Beatrice Wenban as the girl’s
mother, Nellie Lamport as her aunt, and
Osmund Wenban as her uncle gave a
good account of themselves. Alan Stone
was the producer.
Current Artbursts
The vivid reds and golds of the Aus-
tralian inland are prominent among Rex
Battarbee’s water-colors, now on exhibi-
tion at the Fine Arts Gallery, Melbourne.
There are certain shortcomings about his
draftsmanship, but the artist applies his
paints with a sincerity and a fearlessness
which make his labors worth while. A
narrow panel depicts the precipitous
gorge of Standley Chasm in the Mac Do-
nnell Ranges. Other impressions are of
barren and forbidding mountains, blis-
tered earth, purple heat hazes, occasion-
ally the cool, white bark of a gum-tree
and a forceful profile of Black Brother
as a lone sentinel. Amidst the vivid blues
and violets of the Tweed River group
are two small canvases, “Still Morning”
and “Fingal Headland,” several views
around and about Fingal and in the foot-
hills of Mount Warning, and a glimpse
of Murwillumbah.
4* 4" 4* 4*
Ten artists, several of whom display an
outlook of youthful freshness and vigor,
ar£ exhisiting an interesting assortment
at the Stair Galleries, Mel-
., ’ „
b ° ur " e - °' ls . water-colors, crayons; and
pond are the media of self-expression for
canvases pnced at remarkab y low flpu es
The vanety of styles and the dtsstmt ar
methods employed to tackle sundry sub-
™ke. the show worthy of a visit
S T bll f xhlbl,s K dlstm *™
™ on B < , he . av >' ™“es ed n
a ? d „ an °> d '““S' L “ gS a snlavs
ex h ord rf v“, s M
Litr.e Bay.” Geoffrey Anderson produces
flower studies and suburban looitops,
Lucy Newe|l . s wintry mists and bare
twigs are tenderly treated in “Calm
Waters.” Cliff Bayliss uses restraint in
his four pencil drawings, and Peggy
Crombie’s sketches are small but interest-
ing. Sheila McCubbin’s decorative talent
and vivid imagination are seen in her
impression of modern dancers, flowers
and fantastic fish.
Helen Ogilvie has
several cheery little
color prints. Anne
Montgomery di s-
plays a feeling of
sensitiveness in her
treatment of “Doc-
tor’s Rocks” and a
landscape of a
farm at Table
Cape. Tom Chal-
len sandwiches a
portrait ‘ between
two landscapes.
T E 'b
Adelaide Art
Gallery, having
only two Orpens of
its own —a family
group and a fine
Foch portrait (for
which it exchanged
“Sowing New
Seed,” which had
proved too rich for
Adelaide’s diges-
tion, some years
back) —has gladly accepted a collec-
tion of 15 lent by ex-Senator Elliott.
The painter’s development appears
clearly, these being mostly pre-war, before
he sought eccentricity ; though one por-
trait of 1905 does show the pinched, un-
earthly face that was to become more
common later. The gem is a picture of
a girl, half-length. Mainly the collection
includes fine solid portraits, though
“Mrs. Everett on. the Island of Patmos,”
complete with dove and rainbow, recalls
the “New Seed” mystery (explained
tardily by its painter as a local Irish
political skit). A seascape and a circus
tent add variety to the show.
*b *b *b *b
The plane to which the photographer’s
skill, technique and sense of artistry have
risen is displayed at the exhibition of
international camera pictures at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum. The pedants deny
photography status as an art, but the
majority of people after viewing the show
will disagree with them. The best photo-
graphic work of to-day is poles apart
from the standard of two generations ago,
when the victims, stiff as pokers, glared
at the camera, when the study of design
was unknown and chemical processes
were limited to pyro and hypo. Improve-
ment could not have been made if photo-
graphers had not been artists at heart as
well as master craftsmen. The photo-
graphs on show range over a vast variety
of subjects. In almost every case the
design is simple. without being
monotonous, as if the camera had been
used with subtlety but without recourse
to eccentricity. One does not have to
shut one’s eyes to hear the lap-lap of
water in “Reflection” from the U.S.A., or
the brittle crunching of “Snow Crystals”
in the same section. Several countries
have contributed delightful child studies,
among which “The Twig” (from England)
is a gem of artistic conception. An
example of a process which might be
taken for a chalk drawing is “Nevando,”
a snow picture from Spain. Studying
Liu Shu-Chong’s queer dragons one gets
the impression of modern composition
applied .to ancient symbolism. The Aus-
tralian entries, most of which arc for
sale, are on as high a plane as the over-
seas exhibits—on loan only, owing to
customs regulations.


6;
x
>\M sS® T> v
(pU 1 ®
fe>
in
niP"^
m
in
<S
1111
ss
*s
&
ss
o
«
ft
VA
*%%
. , , then the only
hotel that can offer
you this is
"THE WENTWORTH"
GROUND SHARP TO
STAY SHARP
~jli/ papula* ~ScuvutaA (node
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Like a glittering mirage experienced by
some polar explorer, a three-foot berg
of ice, crystal clear and illuminated from
beneath with electrics, was the vision that
met the gaze in the smoke-room of the
Comorin between five and eight. Caught
within the structure’s three tiers, prawns,
lobsters and crabs, frosty-eyed but crim-
son with indignation, stared coldly at the
savories in half-lobster and half-crab
shells perched on the rim of each tier.
In the lounge another glacier was crowned
with ice-cream flowers. This seemed to
interpret polar bears’ harvest home.
Fruits and flowers made of ice-cream
were garlanded about its base, and here
too were little oxen and carts. On the
top of this crystal fastness, the P. and O.
had run a flag of ice-cream. On tables
in the music-room were pillars of ice
with dahlias, chrysanthemums and roses
frozen in them. These were flooded with
light from underneath.
You could hardly move without stum-
bling over drink bars. They were on
deck and below deck. There was every
kind of drink, from cocktails down, and
you could have gin plain if you wanted
it. Hundreds came on from the races
and the regatta for a quick one, and the
party was still going at seven-thirty.
Red-and-yellow pumpkins, scooped out
and lined with lettuce leaves, were color-
ful containers for sandwiches, and lovely
green cabbages, their outer leaves permed
and scalloped, were also hollowed to hold
food tempting to the well-fed.
Pat de Pledge, in a navy suit and black
velvet hat and a profile that lends itself
to a monocle, and Helen Hughes, also
velvet-hatted above her mist-blue angora
suit, were attractive young things. The
Ernest Riddles came with daughter Enid ;
Alexander Gordon’s lady wore silver fox
with her jaunty cape suit, and Mrs. W.
A. Mackay’s burgundy crepes had a hat
to match. Lady Poynter was one of the
velvet-hatted ; so was Mrs. Jim Dickson,
who wore a rose-red feather in the front
of hers ; mother, Mrs. Bourchier, wore a
black astrakhan toque with her black
suit.
The G.P.S. regatta is no longer an
urban affair. Saturday’s change-over to
the Nepean could not have been made in
better conditions. The day was bright
with an autumn sparkle ; the river flowed
wide and placid ; the Log Cabin on its
banks made a good official head-
quarters, and forty thousand voices along
the banks shouted encouragement to
“Joey’s,” to Shore, to Scots. “Joey’s”
carried their cerise to the Head of the
River, and then there was another forage
on the tea basket before the homeward
trek. In the Log Cabin all was animation,
for the Hyam Marks couple (he is chair-
man of the A.A.G.P.S.) entertained hun-
dreds of officials and guests to tea.
Pianist Eileen Joyce, in flowing white
organdie that had goffered shoulder frills
and slightly narrower frills forming a
basque to its tight little bodice, made a
decorative entrance against the green
background of the Con. stage on Satur-
day night. Deep red flowers provided
one glowing spot of color in the fore-
ground. The Governor-General’s lady
came wrapped in unofficialdom and black
velvet; the tall and fair Mrs. Rupert
Scammell received her, and her black
velvet cloak, worn over soft black satin,
was lined with white. All the A.B.C.
heads were there. Mrs. Horner’s lobelia-
blue moires were very attractive, and Mrs.
Cleary’s black threaded with gold coat
very rich. The pianist had been ill all
day, and, after receiving A.B.C. Com-
missioners in the artist’s room after the
concert, hei; strength quite failed her. She
could receive no more.
If women who like the scent of
musk had backed Musk Deer on
Ladies’ Day they would have left
with a bagful of sterling. Still,
the dears who stuck to Cuddle had
nothing to complain of. Dressing was
much the same as on the opening Satur-
day, though, the air being soft and warm,
topcoats, except in the case of the really
new fur one, were discarded. Philippa
Stephen, who went off last Saturday by
the Strathaird with father, was an early
arrival. Her frock of buff Angora was
belted in chocolate-brown suede, and her
small upturned hat was also brown. The
crossed quills on the high brimless toque
worn by Mrs. Graham Body might have
been envied by an Aztec Indian. The
quills were red ; so were the buttons on
her green suit. Thelma McMaster’s
small fitting hat was of beige-pink
Angora to match her dress. She wore a
clump of lily-of-the-valley ; so did the
Fred McMaster lady.
Neat ankles and a mink cape distin-
guished Mrs. Leigh Falkiner. Mrs.
Louis Nelken was another punter from
Melbourne. Six or maybe eight silver
fox were in Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s
cape. Her frock was deep burgundy, her
small black hat was feather trimmed.
Frances Angus was one of the few tri-
umphant wearers of the pill-box hat.
Peggy Burleigh’s frock wore its front
emerald green, its back black. Jocelyn
Poynter’s black Astrakhan coat was
short, and enriched with bands of ermine
at collar and cuff. Mary Baillieu came
with Mary Hordern. Mrs. Milner
Stephen had coque feathers blowing on
her cornelian velvet hat. Joan Waddell,
her skull-cap topped with a pompom, a
velvet scarf knotted at the neck of her
dark-red dress, was with the Earl of
Ranfurly and Captain G. R. Barbour.
Well-dressed and graceful Joan Fal-
kiner, of Melbourne, has been one of
the constantly-met at races and parties
during the Easter festivities. Dorothy
Welding picture.
Many a woman who set out on Satur-
day for the races and subsequent cock-
tails looking like an admiral with her
coque feathers and white gloves came
home round about seven looking more
like an A.B. A cold, sleety rain smudged
the early evening, ruined feathers and
turned impeccable gloves into a gritty
mess. Still, the last day of the races was
pleasant if bracing in its beginning. The
feature of the day was the E. J. Watt
luncheon at Randwick. The diamond
brooch at the neck of Mrs. Watt’s black
satin frock was worthy the wife of the
owner of Gold Rod. So was her cape of
silver fox. Chief decoration, suitably
enough, was goldenrod, but streamers of
blue and white (Mr. Watt’s colors) were
not forgotten.
Only the name was suggestive of Mr.
Pickwick at the Race Week Ball in aid of
the Bush Book Club and Prince Alfred’s.
Denzil Batchelor, dressed as Pickwick,
stood inside the doorway of the Tro-
cadero, and collected birthday offerings,
his alms dish a big brown jug. Total
contents, eight pounds. The only change
the Troc. had made in her appearance
to greet the 1300 was to tuck a fresh
rose or two in her hair.
About 10, Anne Gordon arrived, youth
at her train, which was, like the rest of
her frock, of bottle-green satin. Anne
and her mother had given a large-size
dinner, and everybody at the first was at
the second. Barbara Knox, who helped
set the ball rolling, wore a really lovely
frock —stiffened black lace over taffeta ;
Philippa Stephen’s taffetas had red and
gold flowers sprinkled on them ; Noreen
Dangar girdled her sapphire laces with
bright red; cousin Harry brought his
Leeuwin Hickson, whose gold laces
trailed a long addendum of amethystine
sash. Joan Waddell danced with the
Earl of Ranfurly, her frock of two shades
of lilac, the two shades forming a great
butterfly bow across the back.
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones shimmered
in gold-and-silver brocade ; a little match-
ing coat and white fox furs emphasised
her entry. Maybelle Markell’s brown
tulle had netted all the stars in the
heavens. The Gordon lady, all diagonal
silver stripes and lily-of-the-valley, kept
a presidential eye on things till one
o’clock. Lilac chiffons and a lilac
flower in her hair threw secretary Dorise
Hill’s fairness into relief. Jeanie Ranken,
in black laces, helped Barbara Knox with
the treasury. Very decorative were the
Mue flowers at the neck of Mrs. H. C.
Mclntyre’s black chiffons. Mary Hor-
dern was in lobelia-blue lace. The skirt
of handsome Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s
ice-blue satin frock had started out to
be an ostrich, judging by the graceful
feathery fronds it sprouted. Blue and
green crepes and tawny orchids were
wed in Mrs. W. J. White’s attire.
Singleton is animated to-day with the
clashing of wedding bells from the stone
church built by former Dangars. The
Bishop has come from Newcastle, and
with padre H. Gordon and the local
clergy is benignly blessing the marriage
of Leeuwin Hickson and Harry Dangar.
After the ceremony there will be a wed-
ding lunch, also in Singleton, as the
bride’s station home is too far out. Yes-
terday there was a gay lunch in New-
castle, when some of the guests (best-
man Phil Remington, chief brides-
maid Joan McDonald and Harry’s old
studio friend Wal Taylor among them)
met Harry and “Lum” after they had
been sWorn-in by the Bishop. After
eating the men went on to the Dangar
home at Turee ; the girls left for Jerry’s
Plains. Falk made the photograph.
France’s Vice-Consul Meyer talked on
Guy Chantepleure’s works to the Modern
Languages Association the other night.
Guy Chantepleure is the wife of former
Consul-General Dussap. Mrs. Dussap is
a very popular novelist in her own coun-
try, her books running into an amazing
number of editions. Through her hus-
band’s Consular appointments the lady
has many backgrounds for her romances
and travel books. Her Pacific Cruises
deals with Noumea, New Caledonia and
the New Hebrides. The Unknown
Beloved (which means France) was
written in the Balkans during the war.
Eileen Joyce, the featherweight
champion pianist with a wrist muscle in
her thin hands from which the hard
poking finger of rude health simply
bounces off, arrived at the A.B.C. recep-
tion looking as fragile as a candy floss
figurine. Her frock was magnolia in
tone, made with a peplum coat effect.
The puffed sleeves were of chiffon, the
shade pink and white dahlias. The
party was in Usher’s, and the blue-room
was filled with music in the flesh. Only
the vox humana was allowed to escape.
Chairman of the A.B.C. Cleary was in
great form and made a happy speech, and
the young pianist sparkled as blithely as
a little brook.
Mrs. Cleary’s black and gold brocades,
Mrs. Edgar Bainton’s parchment laces,
and Mrs. Horner’s black moire were
attractive dresses about a supper table
loaded with good things it was too early
to eat, for Eileen departed about nine
o’clock for bed. Dress fancies remem-
bered were the black chiffon ringed in
gold worn by Alexander Gordon’s lady
and the afternoon-sky-blue moires of
Mrs. Ewart Chappie. She was Marie
Bremner. Greuze would have insisted on
painting her. The Charles Moses couple
were there ; so were Lute Drummond, in
green and gold tissue, and Dr. Keith
Barry.
Macquarie Clubites threaten to rival
the Union and the Australian clubs with
their after-the-races cocktail shakings.
President Mrs. Penfold Hyland and
members of the committee welcomed
hundreds of guests, most of whom came
straight from Randwick. Dahlias, in low
bowl and from high standard, smiled on
the crowds in reception-room and lounge,
but the lobsters rampant above the
savories won the warmest glances. Mr.
Noah had not arranged the guest list, for
the ladies were more in evidence than
the males ; but Frederick McMaster came
with his lady, and Mrs. Merivale, trig in
black and fur-caped, also sported a hus-
band. Dr. Constance D’Arcy, in her
favorite mulberry tonings, was there.
Mrs. Norman Lowe and the Le Soeufs
brought a breath of the jungle, as it were.
They are all members of the Zoological
Society. Miss Kate Egan, Mrs. Clive
Teece and Una Clift were active com-
mittee members.
The Race Week party given by the
Hubert Fairfaxes was by way of a pre-
wedding jubilation for Harry Dangar,
who is Mrs. Hubert’s nephew, and his
bride-to-be, Leeuwin (“Lum”) Hickson.
There had been thoughts of making it an
open-air affair, but the doubtful weather
decided everyone that the three large
reception-rooms were more comfortable,
though not, as befits a cocktail party, at
all dry. This was a grand party, with
not only a golden flower horseshoe for
the bride (that was for luck, and because
she’s a splendid horsewoman), but cham-
pagne cocktails.
The savories were a far way from the
unsavories that blaze the way of the
usual five-to-seven. A special was a small
hot pastry with a tender little oyster
for a heart. Elaine was crowded with
guests and banked with flowers. There
were lots of Dangars, tree and branch, in
the overflow. Harry’s cousin Noreen,
who is to be a bridesmaid, was there,
and relations from Queensland’s farthest
north. There were old Cassillis friends,
the Fred McMasters, Mrs. Reg Stafford
and the Busbys. Best-man-to-be Phil
Remington, Leeuwin’s parents, the W. L.
Hicksons, from Singleton, the Laidley
Dowlings and the Leigh Falkiners, from
Melbourne, were others.
The report of the Bush Nursing Asso-
ciation is three cheers in itself to the
Bush Nurses. There are 61 of them, and
among them they have covered 70,218
miles, totalled over 3000 continuous days’
nursing, attended 16,297 patients, visited
92 schools. They have brought young
Australians into the world in bark and
sapling shanties ; they often have to ride
over rough country to their cases.
The French colony is still missing the
De Chanterac couple, not to mention
their three children, who went off in the
Laperouse. Last glimpses of the family
group saw them surrounded with flowers,
parcels and Easter eggs for the little ones.
The young Suzors and Limages were at
the other end of the farewell streamers
to which the small De Chanteracs hung
fervently till the last.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence,
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD, A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
Melbourne
Chatter
For the last couple of weeks Mel-
bourne has been buried to its chimney-
pots in confetti. The stuff has got into
our noses and throats and down our
necks ; it has even found its way into our
soup. As for tulle, the quantities of
that diaphanous product that have been
wafted down aisles could drape the city
in an imitation early morning fog. Hun-
dreds of brides and ’grooms are still
gazing at everyday affairs through rose-
tinted spectacles; mothers have dried
their eyes and are turning a brave smile
on the world ; fathers are relieved that
they can at last move about in their own
homes, for so long cluttered up with
wedding-present and trousseau displays.
Florists and caterers are taking rest cures,
and speculators in flats are wondering
whether they’ll go abroad for the corona-
tion or invest in another building for
next Easter’s marriage output.
Edna Carr thought out something
different for her wedding with lan Mac-
farlan. Her gown was of ice-blue ring
velvet, her tulle veil of the palest shade
of blue, and she carried neither flowers
nor prayer-book. Three small girls, June
Ferreira and Jennifer and Rosemary
Carr, looked like petals blown from a
blue hydrangea bush. Their frocks to
their ankles were frills and puffs of sky-
blue tulle, and they carried baskets filled
with delphiniums.
A few hours later than the Macfarlan-
Carr wedding, and at the same meeting
places, Melbourne Grammar School
chapel and Grosvenor, Sheila Dawborn
and Geoff Pitman received a blessing
and afterwards congratulations. This
bride and her ’maids, Jean Williams and
Gwen Burnett, adhered to a white and
deep-cream color scheme.
Because so few people were present in
the vast St. Paul’s Cathedral during the
marriage of the Hon. Sara Vanneck and
David Peel, there were a dignity and
solemnity about the ceremony which
would have been lacking in a packed
church with noisy crowds jostling in the
rear and standing on the seats, which
happens at some fashionable weddings.
The time was not made public, but a
crowd gathered round St. Paul’s at the
sound of wedding chimes. Miss Vanneck
looked charming in her severely-cut gown
of oyster satin, offset by a simple posy
of lily-of-the-valley and a veil of Brussels
lace worn by mother and grandmother at
their weddings, but she had no attend-
ants. The womenfolk among the guests
were all clad in sombre black, and the
only suggestion of brass braid and
buttons of uniforms was provided by girl
guides in the guard of honor.
Afterwards . Lord and Lady Hunting-
field gave a small luncheon party in the
private dining-room of Government
House, and the guides were entertained
at morning tea in the large drawing-room.
The weather was perfect, and everybody
strolled out on to the lawn to watch the
bride and ’groom being photographed
and make the acquaintance of Mrs. Pott’s
Sealyham. The animal wiped muddy
paws and his damp nose on the bride’s
satin gown, chewed the bridegroom’s
trousers and took flying leaps at anyone
who spoke to him. The presents were
displayed in the small drawing-room.
Jewellery, a silver tea service, a fur coat
and a cheque were some of Lord and
Lady Huntingfield’s presents to their
daughter; to their son-in-law they gave
antique furniture and a gold watch chain
to accompany his bride’s gift of a gold
watch. There were no gifts of crystal,
but several friends chose old silver or
articles made of Australian woods; a
nest of tables in Queensland blackwood
came from the English public-school boys.
There were several handsome cigarette-
boxes and both a large and a small
vanity-case. Some cards bore Christian
names and informal messages ; one such
accompanied a gift of blankets, the pro-
duct of Australian fleeces, which should
be a most welcome addition to a Cold
Country linen chest.
Among other Easter marriages were
those of Jane Wilding Harper and Guy
Beauchamp Sewell, who chose Trinity
College chapel; Lesley Vine, a silver
bride, and Herbert Locke ; Alison Cook
and Roy Johnston. Alison wore navy-
blue and a little Florentine cap, and the
ceremony was performed at St. James’s
old Cathedral, West Melbourne, followed
by cocktails at Menzies. For her mar-
riage with Stephen Leverton, Mary
Angwin wore Marina-blue crepe vanessa
and was given away by her mother, Mrs.
S. L. Angwin. The honeymoon will shine
for several weeks over Gippsland.
Noreen Massey fitted into a pale
primrose picture for her marriage with
Ross McDonald in the Toorak kirk.
Gold chiffon over gold satin, a
train of Honiton lace and a gold fillet
binding a tulle veil were her choice of
attire. Short trains and narrow pleated
draperies on skirts and shoulders added
to the rustle in the wake of ’maids Meg
Massey and Editha Wettenhall. Their
escorts down the aisle were Colin Meares
and A. Glenn.
There is no more generous applause of
any entertainment than that given by
theatrical folk. Principals and chorus
from the “Anything Goes” co. had a
morning off at fire brigade headquarters,
when their clapping of the firemen’s
stunts must have given an extra kick to
the hearts of those sturdy athletes. A
gym. display was treated with demon-
strative appreciation; Buddy Roberts’s
movie camera and Bob Coote’s gaze
wrenching themselves away from Lillian
Pertka, very neat in her plain sailor hat
and tailored suit of dark grey tweed coat
and hair-striped black-and-grey skirt.
Rita Pauncefort also was trimly tailored
in mole-grey. Watching races up ladders
sent a thrill down the spine of little Sis
Roberts, but she was first to hide herself
in a brass helmet and mount the longest
ladder. A new rescue stunt was that of
a “lady” in a calico nightie and hair
made of straw who shrieked and yelled
all the way down from the “burning
building,” showing the professionals that
a fireman, too, can have a bit of actor in
his make-up.
Chief-officer Wilkins was host, and
quickly became John (but not “Old
John” —he bucks at that) to lots of the
lads and lasses. The band’s star turn
was “The Star-spangled Banner,”
specially rehearsed in honor of the
American guests, though Harry Langdon
kept well in the background—he works
hard on the stage and likes to rest off.
After the display of stunts the traffic
round Eastern Hill paused in its stride
to watch fire engines loaded with girls
hanging on to their hats dashing round
the island gardens. Charles Norman
thanked the Fire Chief and his men on
behalf of the co., and promised to en-
gage them for the next theatre fire. The
Chief replied by inviting everybody to
“have one for the road.”
This is a Francie Young portrait of
Jean Polglaze, who at the end of the
year leaves on an overseas fellowship
to continue her studies of economics at
Cambridge. Since her graduation two
years ago, Miss Polglaze has lectured in
economics and statistical methods. She
knows all about getting up on cold,
dark mornings, as several of her lectures
are timed for 8 a.m. so that students who
work in city offices can be at their jobs
by 9.30 a.m. Miss Polglaze received a
Master of Commerce degree at the last
commencement. A degree in Commerce
is no trifling achievement (a Bachelor’s
degree is 14 subjects in three years), but
intelligent young women who embark
upon it are practically certain of getting
jobs when they are through, which un-
fortunately is not the case with arts
students.
A balalaika orchestra and a stage party
afterwards marked with red letters the
Little Theatre’s advent into the big world,
otherwise the Garrick, for “Squaring the
Circle.” The party was a mixture of
“comrades,” several of them still in their
warpaint, the Little Theatre’s bourgeoisie,
sandwiches, hotdogs and drinks from
kegs or coffee-pots. The “comrades” had
their fingers bruised with congratulatory
shakes ; they had put over a difficult play,
in which learning the lines alone was a*
very creditable feat. Alec Pratt, who did
so well as the Russian poet, confessed to a
devastating nervousness. He had clutched
his script and his glasses right up to the
moment of his first entrance, and all he
remembered about the first act was a
dim nightmare and a tingling about the
ears,
Sonia Revid emphasised the Russian
atmosphere by sitting all night in a
diaphanous white chiffon gown; any-
one but a Russian would have frozen
into an icicle long before the satiri-
cal comedy reached its third act.
Mr. and Mrs. Hilton Daniel were
among those who stayed on for the
party. Leila Pirani rushed about with
a hatbox of potato chips, and sundry
young men, each carrying a glass
of beer, discovered that saying “peep-
peep-peep” in the tone of a motor-horn
was an effective way of clearing the
traffic. Nancy Glass and Helene Jacoby
both wore black and swigs of red carna-
tions. Kathleen Martin, Betty Adams,
Brenda Newbold and Mrs. Bruce Foster
bobbed up now and then in the solid
mass of dancers on the stage.
A Broothorn camera caught this
glimpse of Mrs. Elsie Spiers Jackson,
who has recently become engaged to
artist Louis McCubbin. “Some time be-
fore May the first” is all the couple will
divulge of their marriage date, but their
friends are very suspicious about to-
morrow, when there’s to be a celebration
cocktail party at the Sedon Galleries.
Mrs. Jackson, who is the mother of a
16-year-old daughter, Patricia, is not an
artist, nor does she profess to be a judge
of pictures. She’s interested in life
generally, and is a bright, vivacious per-
sonality with beautiful pale gold hair.
The unanimous verdict is that Lou’s a
good picker.
Several things should have made Sybil
Hull conscious of the British Music
Club’s surprise party in her honor. She
had a “good luck” telegram from a
country friend, and a casual acquaintance
in the street facetiously wanted to know
how it felt to be a guest of honor. But
she didn’t guess the secret, and in all
innocence walked in to see a gym. dis-
play by Thelma George’s pupils which
wasn’t gym. but 150 people waiting to
offer congratulations and glasses of
sherry. Miss Hull, who has done
honorary work for the club for many
years, has just been appointed secretary,
a position made possible through the
Jimmy Dyers’ generous donation to the
B.M.C.
Opening the exhibition of international
camera pictures, Prof. Osborne pleaded
his cause in that he had done something
for photography; he had gathered up
ancient photographs of professors,
whiskers and all, collected by the pro-
fessorial board, and at the dead of night
had hidden them away in the cellar. The
appendix to his speech was an explana-
tion justifying the fact that a professor
of physiology should be invited to open
a photographic exhibition. Long ago,
when cameras were crude instruments, no
one ever thought of photographing the
human face until a physiologist in pur-
suit of scientific knowledge tried the ex-
periment'. His method was to cover his
victim’s face with white powder and
make him sit still for seven minutes. It
is not recorded whether the patient kept
his eyes shut or was allowed to wink.
The Cecil le Plastriers are receiving
a welcome home plus wedding congratu-
lations. The couple were married during
lie middle of last year, but very few people
knew that Mrs. le Plastrier, when she
sailed off on the trip she had planned
overseas, was not still Miss Betty Wilks.
Last August Mr. le Plastrier decided that
it wasn’t any fun being a deserted bride-
groom, so he packed his grips, collected
his passport, disclosed the fact that he’d
married his Betty, and went off to join
her on her way home.
Although she has friends and relatives
in Victoria, things went wrong with Mrs.
E. S. Traill’s welcome to Melbourne. The
trouble arose over her pet terrier, which
she brought out with her on the under-
standing that a vet.’s vise would obviate
a sojourn in quarantine. It didn’t. Before
her marriage Mrs. Traill was a Miss
Sumner—a relative of Melbourne’s well-
known Sumner family. Her home is at
Rattar, Caithness, Scotland. During her
previous visit to Australia her son, Cap-
tain Traill, was aide to Lord Forster. He
will be out here again as a member of the
staff of the next Governor of N.S.W.,
Sir David Anderson.
The A.I.F. has issued orders for its
second annual tennis tournament to be
held on the L.T.A.V. courts at Kooyong
on April 27 and 28. Shorts may be
worn, but they must be at least Sin. in
length, and worn on both legs from the
waist down. Mounted units must leave
their spurs at home ; the fighting ranks
need no spurs other than their racquets.
The canteen will be under guard, and
players must not leave the court between
the commencement of their service and
the conclusion of the game. The 0.C.1.
community singers are entitled to an
additional canteen issue which must not
exceed one quart of beer. Prizes, cups
on loan and trophies for keeps will be
distributed at the dinner on Tuesday
night. Other orders and regulations can
be ascertained from C. W. Joyce and
C. Collicoat at the R.S.L. rooms in Anzac
House.
Accompanied by Major Norman
Brearley and piloting his latest purchase,
a Hercules, Eric Stephens is safe in New
Guinea again. Mrs. Stephens and her three
small boys are remaining in Melbourne
for a short holiday; Barbara, aged 13,
is leaving St. Michael’s for a year
to accompany her mother back to Wau.
There is one school in the mountain
settlement, with one teacher, who
dominies 30 children and 16 correspon-
dence pupils. The girls and boys may
sit for scholarships at the standard set by
the Queensland Government. Mrs.
Stephens says that the population of Wau
is growing So rapidly that she no longer
recognises all the faces in the main street.
Roughly, there are about 100 women
residents, many of whom are availing
themselves of the services of two enter-
prising girls who have brought perms,
and settings to the township with their
recently opened hairdressing saloon.
There are picture shows in Wau for
Europeans only. The proprietor tried
showing several carefully censored and
safe films to the Kanakas—“Mother Mc-
Cree,” for instance, he felt quite happy
about —but the dusky folk got it all
wrong ; they believed the weeping mother
was a white Mary trying to weave a
spell upon the heart of her youthful
swain.
Instead of St. Kilda’s usual religious
service on Anzac Day there will be a civic
commemoration service on Sunday. The
decision is the result of a meeting called
to discuss the Mayor of St. Kilda’s
demand for a Christian service. Through-
out the puff of sectarian smoke Rabbi
Danglow’s attitude of restraint and
dignity was an example to many
Christians who lose their temper and rush
into print at far less provocation. One
of the most impressive Anzac Day ser-
vices is held in Perth. It takes place
every year at dawn around the war
memorial in King’s Park. Hundreds
come in cars and hundreds more walk
several miles through the darkness to
take part in this commemoration. No
word is spoken at the service. If prayers
are said they are hidden in the hearts of
the people present. As the first pale
finger of dawn shoots across the autumn
sky a bugler blows a reveille and the Last
Post and, still in silence, wreaths and
flowers are placed on the cenotaph. No-
body, Christian, Jew, pagan or atheist,
can fail to be moved by such a ceremony.
When General Pau visited Australia
after the war he left £lOOO for a scholar-
ship to be awarded annually, each State
taking its turn, to the most meritorious
candidate, who must be the son or daugh-
ter of a soldier killed on active service.
This year’s winner was Helen Margaret
McCulloch, of Geelong, a student who
has made splendid progress so far
towards a commerce degree. In addition
to her pass subjects. Miss McCulloch in
her first year gained third-class honors
in economics and second-class honors
in economic history. Last year she
got second-class honors in commercial
law and third-class honors in commercial
and industrial organisation, in addition
to sharing an exhibition for psychology,
logic and ethics. The Pau scholarship
is not large, but £5O is a very useful
sum for an ambitious student.


NEW NATURAL WAY TO STRENGTHEN
YOUR NERVES —NO DRUGS OR PALLIATIVES
lilii
m
Wr-wr/mmm.
Save Yourself with COLOSEPTIC
COLOSEPTIC cleanses the colon of all ferment-
ing food-refuse and passes it out of the system,
in a smooth, natural manner. It enables the
body to obtain full nourishment from the food
you eat and arrests the cause of weakened and
irritated nerves. COLOSEPTIC checks acidity
of the nerve fluids and the blood stream by
stimulating the action of the other eliminative
organs—the kidneys, skin pores and respiratory
organs. This simple drug-free remedy has
helped thousands of men and women to regain
lost nervous energy. Commence taking COLO-
SEPTIC to-day. With its aid you will build up
strong, vigorous nerves and thus master the
trouble that is ruining your health, happiness
and prosperity.
FREE . . . This Absorbing Book!
Send the coupon to-day for a demonstration jar
of COLOSEPTIC. and you will receive, under
plain cover and by return mail, a book telling
you all about "Autoxima," an intimate and
highly important subject. Prove, at our expense,
how much better COLOSEPTIC is than pallia-
tives and "nerve foods." In a few days your
head will feel clearer, your nerves steadier—
you'll not feel so "peevish" you'll
sleep better. Then realise what a full
treatment will do for you. The book is
absolutely free —so fill in and mail the
coupon now.
Medical Science Discovers Real Cause of
NERVOUS CONDITIONS . . .
NEURITIS . . . WEAKNESS . . .
SLEEPLESSNESS . . .
NERVOUSNESS
NEURALGIA. . . F E A R S . . .
NEURASTHENIA
0 R E A K D 0 W N . . . and other
complaints due to Exhausted Nerves.
"NERVES" kill. You may be the next victim. Many
a promising career and many a happy home has
been ruined by "nerves." Many a social success has
been lost by some trilling indiscretion or error of
judgment—due entirely to unstable nerves. When a
man loses his temper or flares up in excitement; when
a woman begins to nag, fret, worry and have weeping
fits; when a child becomes cross, unruly, shy—it's
definitely a case of unbalanced nerves.
WHY RUIN YOUR LIFE?
fd
Science has discovered that it is as easy to
have sound, healthy nerves as it is to have
vigorous muscles —without drugs, pallia-
tives, or "nerve" foods. Due to modern
cooking methods and the lack of vital food
. , .1 i. , ii 1
Clawed Colon essentials in present-day diets, the muscles
of the large intestine (colon) become flaccid
and fail to expel from the body all the waste matter
left over from digestion.
This food-refuse accumulates and clings to the walls
of the colon and toxins are eventually absorbed into
the blood stream, giving rise to acidosis. Acid condi-
tions or acidosis of the system quickly develop and
when the nerves are irritated, nervousness, neuritis,
fretfulness, irritability, hysteria, neuralgia, neuras-
thenia, fears, worry, sleeplessness and hosts of other
nerve complaints result. Drugs, palliatives and nerve
VncloggedColon
foods merely "whip up" the already irritated nerves and
thus actually hasten nerve exhaustion.
A 3
CLIP OUT
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book on Autoxima.
Also send me my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC, for which I enclose 1/- in
penny stamps.
NAME
ADDRESS
(OlOSj
drink: >
1C
(WAYNE'S IMPROVED ft f 0 fi M VUj
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
LOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., 26 O'Connell St., Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Horses and horsemen had the pick
of the scenery at the races, for the
saddling paddock was a picture with its
walls covered in burnished autumn
foliage. By way of contrast frocks were
almost uniformly black, the summer
hangovers giving the few touches of
color. Hats were definitely perky. Mary
Padbury’s stood straight up in front and
tailed off at the back like the White
Queen’s crown ; Mary Forrest’s was a
forage cap carried out in black ; from
Queensland came Doreen Hooper’s coni-
cal affair, with its front lacings and
tassel; and a coalscuttle, with handle of
clipped white feathers, was Mrs. G.
Mclntyre’s choice.
A Viennese doll inspired the design
of the frock worn by Eileen Joyce at
her final recital in Perth. Made in Perth
and given to her by an intimate friend,
it was perhaps the most admired of all
the dainty gowns seen by her large audi-
ences. Baby-blue organza was the
material, Victorian the period and ruch-
ings the keynote, with posies of roses at
intervals on the skirts.
Bert Kelly and Olive Morris were
made one at St. Mary’s, West Perth.
The bride’s traditional white satin, which
shimmered under the all-enveloping tulle
of the veil, was panelled fore and aft,
the front rising to a high neck and the
back trailing off into a train. Olive’s
two sisters, Clorice and Hazel, were
attendants in old-world frocks of laven-
der organdie, complete with becoming
fichus and picture-hats of deep violet.
Three hundred women, on a 50-50
basis of local residents and eastern
States visitors, attended the Bowling
Association’s welcome at the Perth
Green. Chairman W. Christie and Dr.
F. W. Carter gave greetings from the
sterner sex, and Mrs. G. Mengler spoke
on behalf of the Croquet Association.
Mrs. P. Yeates, whose black-braided
maroon marocains were in the presiden-
tial chair of the lady bowlers, preluded
her speech with the presentation of a
cheque on behalf of the members to
assist in placing in the rooms a bust ot
the late J. Hammill.
Connie Glasson and Zillah McCaskill
arranged a surprise-party at the Adelphi
in honor of Marie Richardson s birth-
day, with dancing in the ballroom and
bridge in the green lounge. At supper
Ross Rutherford announced the guest
of honor’s engagement to John le May.
Assistant-secretary Phyllis Tweedie
arranged the Royal Schools’ Music Club
programme for its entertainment at the
Karrakatta Club. President Mrs. C. L.
Mason, girt with red-and-white floral
crepe, stood at the portals with secretary
Marjorie Huddleston’s figured green
georgettes alongside. There were several
musical numbers, and a paper by Muriel
Bird on “Poems of Childhood,” which
was illustrated by seven of her pupils.
Another bride-to-be is Betty Watkins,
of Jarrahdale, whose marriage to Leslie
McCormack has an early booking. Mrs.
J. Gollan gave a party in her honor at
the Green Gate, where guests took along
a miscellaneous collection of gifts.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Oakbank races, the annual picnic
meeting which brings hundreds of visi-
tors from other States, attracted the
largest crowd on record. The hotels were
all crowded, the reduced centenary fares
helping to make a Mecca of Adelaide.
The weather was a revival of summer,
and women in tailored suits were com-
pelled to carry the coat on their arm.
Dust was copious and beer flowed like
the Onkaparinga River.
All enjoyed themselves, especially
Mr. and Mrs. W. P. A. Lapthorne,
who not only won the Great
Eastern Steeplechase with Gnair,
but also carried off the Von Doussa
Steeple with Toujours. Mrs. Lap-
thorne’s delphinium-blue matelasse had
a felt hat to match. Daughter Nora did
the honors for Harry D. Young (the
chairman); Lord Mayor Cain and the
Lady Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan) were
present. Mrs. Allan McFarlane and her
husband were happy over their horse
Celotex winning the Onkaparinga Cup.
Mrs. Dunstan chose a black ensemble
and a black felt hat with a silver fox fur.
Mrs. F. A. Tennant was in a smart dusky-
pink suit with a felt hat to match, banded
with black ribbon. Mrs. J. H. Morish
wore a black coat and skirt and a black
tarn beret. Mrs. H. Allan Morris’s navy
georgette went with a wide-brimmed navy
straw hat and amber ornaments. The
Sowden lady, in black, and her mother,
Mrs. Suttie, of Sydney, in navy-blue mate-
lasse, were there. The Premier and his
wife were present, Mrs. Butler in black
with silver fox furs.
The arrival of Colonel Sleeman, Chief
Commissioner of the St. John Ambulance
Brigade, has given occasion for quite a
whirl of entertainment. Mayor Cain
gave a late-afternoon party in the
colonel’s honor in the reception room of
the Lady Mayoress,
The following night a large dinner
dance was given by the Hospitallers’ Club
at Birk’s Piccadilly, About 200 guests
were present. Knight Angas Parsons
presided at the official table, which was
beautifully decorated in scarlet tones,
Jersey lilies and sweet peas. The Parsons
lady’s black ninon was flowered in black
velvet roses. The Newland lady chose
Florentine blue lace, fitting to the figure.
Mrs. S. L. Dawkins sported an Oriental-
toned flowered silk, and Mrs. C. E. C.
Wilson was in white figured chiffon, veil-
ing pale pink. , Yvonne Richardson’s
white georgette frock had the cowl
studded in silver.
Bishop Baddeley, of Melanesia, and his
wife (Katherine Nutter Thomas that was),
who left for England last November on
a honeymoon trip, will leave England on
the return journey on May 1 for Maori-
land. In June they expect to be in Syd-
ney en route for their headquarters at
Siota, in the British Solomon Islands.
At St. Peter’s College chapel Allan W.
R. Campbell, of Murray Bridge, ex-
changed vows with Louise, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Goddard, of Royston
Park. The bride’s white satin was cut on
princesse lines, and her tulle bridal veil
was held in place by a Juliet cap. The
bridesmaids, Estelle and Betty Goddard
and Pamela Williams, were frocked alike
in mauve georgette, the cape sleeves
shirred at the shoulder. They also wore
tulle veils and Juliet caps to match their
frocks. A buffet supper at the Oriental
Hotel followed the ceremony.
Barbara, only daughter of N. M. G.
Gratfon, headmaster of Scotch College,
Torrens Park, was married at Scots
Church to Clarence, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. D. James, of Elwood, Victoria.
The bride wore rich magnolia satin, the
bridal veil held in place by the wreath of
orange blossom that had been worn by
her mother at her wedding. Connie Scott
and Pat Stoddart were bridesmaids in
cream chiffon with long draped sleeves
and sashes that touched the ground.
Their hats of cream chiffon had square
brims.
Ruth Darbyshire, formerly of Adelaide,
now vice-chairman of the General Nurs-
ing Council for England and Wales, has
been spending a few days in Adelaide.
She was accorded a civic welcome which
was largely attended by nurses. Later
an informal evening party was given by
the P.H.W.S.N.A. at the Lyceum Club
to entertain Miss Darbyshire. A musical
programme and competitions provided
the amusement.
TASMANIA.
Mrs. J. M. Clarke greeted many old
friends at the Easter race meeting. She
has come from Rangoon to stay with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Lyons, at
Lindfield, for some months, and has
brought her two youngsters to cool off
in Tasmania.
Most of the schools and a big crowd
of the public gathered outside the Town
Hall to watch the unveiling of the bronze
tablets commemorating historic land-
marks in our rough island story. The
Mayor made a speech, and the Governor
unveiled the tablet commemorating the
firs* church service held in Hobart. Other
tablets referred to the first Government
House, the first Hutchins School and the
first Town Hall.
To raise funds for the Free Kinder-
garten a committee ran a dance on All
Fools’ Night at the Continental. The
official party included the Lord Mayor
and his lady, president Aella Giblin,
Mrs. R. B. Montgomery, Mrs. Colin
Perkins, Mrs. Max Butcher and Miss E.
M. Rowlands. Supper was served in the
cafe, and various little sidelines made
profits.
Douglas Caddy’s revue, “Youth and
Laughter of 1936,” was got up in aid
of the M.C.L. Home at St. Leonard's
among other charities. Mrs. Robert
Wall and her following of clever young-
sters gave chief interest to the show—
they and the gorgeous frocks worn by
the girls as mannequins.
Mrs. W. J. Campbell and Mrs. Flex-
more left for their Asian cruise in the
Tanda, after having been farewelled
within an inch of their lives. Mrs. P. S.
Shadforth, Mrs. C. E. Webster and Mrs.
W. B. Propsting with Mrs. W. Wolfhagen
were among the last day’s hostesses.
Mrs. John Gale (Laura Clark, of Laun-
ceston, that was) has returned to the
northern capital from her home in Singa-
pore on a visit with her husband and
baby.
Carmen Winter (Melb.), who has been
staying with the F. X. de Bavays,
gone home. She said her good-byes with
cocktails at Hadley’s, where she sported
a navy-blue suit with lace blouse, smart
hat and eyeveil.
Kath Major and Capt. Henry Arm-
strong had a fussless wedding at St.
Mark’s, Bellerive, only relations and a
few intimates being bidden. The bride s
frock of heavy blue crepe had a cowl
neckline, and her hat was beige ana
blue. The ’groom commands a ship ot
the Blue Funnel line, and hails from Sun-
derland. < t
Karla Major, following her sisters
lead, is entering the ranks of matrimon}
shortly with E. F. Heritage, New Town-


CN
A
c
H
am
N
E
MADE IN (3
AUSTRALIA W
DV
ns
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
□-T-ZOUlf*
“hSui Or
fftonthiy
Australia!s Leading Financial Journal,
April Issue Now on Sale.
TREASURY BILLS AND THE MARKET
HAS THERE BEEN INFLATION?
THE GOLDMINING INDUSTRY
PRICE 27- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £lj2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,.. 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House.
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of’ Idle Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENT-EIGHT
Exit Alexander Kennedy
“El V.”: Alexander Kennedy’s death
in a quiet Brisbane suburb thwarts a
pioneer’s final ambition and leaves a big
gap in the ranks of the older guard. He
was 98 and had an eager desire to last
out to the century. He had been 76 years
in Queensland, to which he came from
Dunkeld.
Kennedy was penniless when he landed
at Gladstone. He used to say that his Scot-
tish accent was his only capital because
employers knew what lay behind it. In
the mid ’seventies, after having married
and saved a little money, he struck out
for the Barcoo and bought Emmett
Downs, now joined to Isis Downs. But
this country, wild as it then was, was
not remote enough for him, and soon
he was sucked up in the great cattle
rushes which followed in the wake of
the Buchanans and led to the stocking of
the NT. border country. He founded
Buckingham Downs and Noranside,
beyond Boulia, and held to his country
at the risk of the lives of himself and
his family, for the Kalkadoons were a
fierce race and not tolerant of intruders.
Gradually he became a comparatively
rich man, but only after years of day
and night work which built up an iron
constitution and made him one of the
finest horsemen in Australia.
With the advent of Qantas he became
an enthusiastic air traveller. He was an
original director and the firm’s first pas-
senger on a regular air route in 1920,
when he was 82 years old. Since the
year after the war, he had left most of
his affairs in the hands of his three sons
and had lived in Brisbane.
“0. de V.”: After several weeks’ fishing
off the N.S.W. South Coast and a short
sojourn at Watson’s Bay, Sydney, Zane
Grey has completed the synopsis of a
Queensland novel, to be called Wrangle
River. The heroine is an English girl
who has inherited a big cattle station in
the west and the hero “a reckless Aus-
tralian cowboy.” The cowboy’s duties
on an Australian station consist chiefly
of chopping wood for the cook and doing
the milking and odd jobs ; but that is
neither here nor there. Let’s hope the
author pushes out beyond the wide open
spaces of Coorparoo and the canyons of
Fortitude Valley before he writes the last
chapter.
H*
“Nagheer”: Mr. Bulcock, Queens-
land’s Minister for Agriculture, who had
the lowest score for travelling expenses
last year, has evolved the startling idea
of introducing all the fruits of the other
tropical countries of the world. It is
an excellent idea, but for more than 60
years people in N.Q. have already been
doing it, with more or less success. Of
20 kinds included in his preliminary an-
nouncement 15 used to grow in the
famous garden of the Olive family at
Cooktown. Avocado pears have for
years past been grown commercially on
a fairly large scale in parts of S.Q. At
one time or another, every fruit on the
Bulcock list has been tried out in the
North. Except where some special insect
is needed for fertilisation, they have done
well, so that Mr. Bulcock’s new idea will
probably prove successful.
“M. Turlutu”; Brisbane’s City Fathers
are decidedly unlucky in their war
against rats and mosquitoes. Last year,
just as they were announcing victory over
rats, one of the malign animals ran up
the trouser-leg of a citizen standing in
the very shade of the million-pound City
Hall, and bit him severely. Now, in the
midst of proud claims that the city was
becoming relatively free of mosquitoes,
the City Hall, even the Lud Mayor’s
own office, has been invaded by thou-
sands of the hungriest kind of mosquito,
and not a typist but is grieving over ex-
pensive stockings ruined by squashing
the blood-gorged enemy. It appears that
a scientifically-minded inspector had been
breeding out larvae in order to develop
a new line of attack, and an office
cleaner had inadvertently let loose an
army of 2000 able-bodied bloodsuckers.
• $ <1 *!*
“Woli”: The New Guinea Melanesian
may be low mentally, but here are two
instances which show me there are excep-
tion. (1) A discarded alarm clock was
converted into a tattooing machine simply
by removing the bell and lashing a needle
”Y' can unhitch 'em now. We'll call it a day.”
on the hammer with cotton. I was
assured that when the alarm was set off
it worked quite successfully. (2) To
avoid the tiresome job of walking back-
wards and forwards through a cornfield,
at the same time beating a kundu or a
kerosene-tin to keep the parrots away,
my “monkey” planted 6ft. stakes at
intervals throughout the corn, and tied
a bunch of empty tins on each stake.
The stakes were then connected up with
bush rope, by simply jerking his end of
which a clatter was set up that kept
every parrot outside the mile radius.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Some really big timber is
still left in the dense scrubs of Queens-
land’s far north. A walnut-tree, cut in
the Middlebrook area and brought to
Millaa Millaa, on the Atherton Plateau,
yielded four logs, of which the butt log
measured 22 feet in circumference. The
mill yield of the tree was calculated at
approximately 15,000 super, feet. Even
larger trees are known to exist in the
same locality.
* * *
“X.T.”: Those who say there is no
hope for expansion of the sugar industry
without a vast increase of population
should look at the growth of sugar-
consumption figures. In 90 years the
average consumption per head in Eng-
land has grown from 171 b. to 1001 b. In
U.S.A., the advance has been from 211 b.
to 1041 b. in just over 80 years. And
world production has increased from 1-4-
million tons in 1860 to 27,000,000 tons
to-day.
“Zero”; In Queensland there are a
thousand more men on relief work than
at the end of last year. The true un-
employment percentage is 14.2, or about
4 p.c. worse than in 1929. Still, even that
is remarkable in a country which has
been weighed down with taxes and bled
white with dry weather. For it means
that there are actually 17,000 more in
work in the State than there were when
the depression began.
“Australia Jane's” Budget
A few energetic souls arranged an un-
usual party at the Belle Vue Hotel in
aid of the funds of the Playgrounds’
Association. Bridge was played until
4 o’clock, after which Ruth Portrate sang
a group of modern songs, a couple of
lads from the Regent orchestra made
melody, Dorothy Dash brought along a
clever child dancer, and Les Benjamin
played the violin. Mrs. Neil Macrossan,
wife of the president, presented the
prizes. A raftload of the members of
the “Night Must Fall” company came
along direct from rehearsal. Mrs. Harry
Bruce and Mrs. Leonard Power looked
after the bridge-ites, and Mrs. Ruby Eve
arranged the programme. The green
lounge, bright with yellow flowers,
looked quite “spring-is-hereish.”
Sister Riley, the little fair-haired lady
who was for years with an Abyssinian
mission, and who for some time has
been in Brisbane, devoting her week-ends
to the inmates of the leper station on
Peel Island, has been the guest of honor
at a number of farewell teas. She in-
tends going to a fresh field shortly.
Lady Wilson, just back from a tour
with the Governor, spoke in warm
appreciation of “the women of the west.”
She has added a few dozen more snap-
shots to her pictorial diary, which should
be an interesting record of the Wilson
term in Queensland.
“Night Must Fall” drew packed
houses. It led to at least one false
night alarm, as an impressionable miss
who had seen it roused the inmates of
a large block of flats with her blood-
curdling yells somewhere round 2 a.m.
Her faltering explanation that “she
thought someone was smothering her”
was coldly received.
The news that Gladys Powell, secre-
tary of the Royal Queensland Art Society,
who has been in the Mater Hospital
for some weeks, was improving in health
was received with cheers by her numer-
ous friends. Ir the meantime, sister
Augusta Hobday is carrying on both
her own and Gladys’s art classes, with
the help of brother Stanhope Hobday,
Mrs. A. R. Preston entertained the Vic-
torian women’s baseball team at morn-
ing tea at Rowe’s, wearing a jacket suit
of navy dull crepe and a matching hat
of stitched taffeta. Red Radiance roses
glowed a welcome from the silver vases.
Mrs. Harry Cameron, president of the
Town and Country Women’s Club, has
been appointed State organiser for the
W.C.T.U., and has de-
parted on an extended
tour. of the North.
While she is away
Merna Gillies will take
over the president’s job.
Barbara Beven, who
spent part of her child-
hood in Brisbane, where
she has several cousins,
recently was married in
Kandy to t. W. Strin-
ger. They arrived by
the Orford, and are to
live at Stanthorpe.
Mrs. Phil Allom got
in first with her pre-
wedding party for Audrey Anderson,
who marries Dr. K. Stanton Crouch on
May 6. There are dozens of other
parties to follow.
When Betty Nelson married Robert
Douglas at St. John’s Cathedral three
bridesmaids attended her —sister Alison,
Gwenneth Henchman and Mary Smith,
a Sydney girl and the bride’s cousin.
Mrs. R. F. Douglas, Dulcie, Jack and
Howard Douglas all came down from
Mitchell for the wedding. Reg Frith, of
Morven, who was the best man, had a
few days in town before the ceremony.
The reception was at Mallow, Toowong,
May Philp’s home.
Doris Booth, authoress of Mountains,
Gold and Cannibals, is back from a
long tour in Asia, and is staying with her
sister, Mrs. H. W. Dore. Doris has
enough material on hand for another
book.
Geddes Kay (“Tim”) Cox, daughter
of Mrs. H. H. Cox, Carrington, Too-
woomba, and Alister Lorraine Arm-
strong, eldest son of T. L. Armstrong,
Corona, Longreach, were married at St.
James’s Church, Toowoomba, by Rev.
J. T. Perry. The bride wore magnolia
satin and a magnificent old Honiton-
lace veil, which had belonged to the late
Mrs. A. C. Hogarth. Veronica Cox and
Joan Armstrong were bridesmaids, and
Barbara Cay flower-girl.
Another interesting Downs wedding
was that of Margaret Rankin, only
daughter of Captain and Mrs. R. S.
Rankin, of Glen Rock station, Gatton,
to Max Cooke, who swings a wicked
stick with the Pilton polo team. Max
lives at Riversleigh, Pilton. The bride
wore a high-necked frock of delphinium
blue. The knot was tied in All Saints’,
Brisbane.


'
jmmk
JiilJlllßill
i
y
f'
m
m
“You’re a wizard, Tom —■
you always seem to strike the
market at the right time.
I don’t know how you do it!”
“I’m no wizard. Bob —it’s
our Aristocrat that does the
job.
“You know, we argued for
months over buying a radio
—thought we could put the
money to better use, and.
anyhow, we were afraid of
the service cost —but _ the
Aristocrat has paid for itself
a hundred times over.
“There isn’t an important
happening that our Aristocrat
doesn't bring us. I reckon our Aristocrat is the most
profitable employee on the place.”
Aristocrat Radio is the ideal receiver for the country
user —in fact, for any user where reliability is of
primary importance.
This handsome set is engineer-designed —built by
craftsmen and marketed in a range of prices to meet
every purse.
OCKAT
AKiS
d^adi
LO
Advertisement of Electrical Specialty Manufacturing Co., l7 Glebe Street, Glebe J SIUALi. 1
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
.
The Imported
ULTIMATE
iO-valve all-wave
de luxe chassis
and speaker
(the most outstanding all-wave
receiver yet introduced on the
Australian market) is now avail-
able to the public as a unit for
incorporation in existing consoles.
Write us for full particulars.
GEORGE BROWN & CO., LTD
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also N.S. It’. Distributors for —
Kola Loud speakers.
Milliard Radio Valves.
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Kadio.
RADIO NEWS
THE IDEAL AMATEUR SUPERHET.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
THIS receiver, introduced in the previous issue, B. 15/4/’36,
has attracted considerable attention and interest from
amateurs and short-wave listeners. Many important points are
dealt with in this concluding article.
Power Supply.
With batteries or an A.C. unit no
difference in operation can be noted, but
if A.C. use is intended the heater leads
should be well screened in copper braid.
The writer enclosed these in fin. copper
tubing as an extra precaution, and the
result is a receiver without any hum,
even below 10 metres. A Philips type
3003 B eliminator and a six-volt trans-
former comprise an excellent power unit,
and it is impossible to tell the difference
in action from A and B batteries.
Fig. 6. —Showing simple method of connecting the aerial by
twisting a few turns of the lead-in around the detector grid
lead. In this circuit the 6C6 suppressor is connected to the
plate of the oscillator.
Aerial Coupling Unit.
This is a refinement well worth v/hile,
but normally the aerial can be connected
as in Fig. 6. The unit permits the full
benefit of a twisted pair doublet aerial.
Coil L (Fig. 1) is a two-turn coil around
the bottom end of each detector grid coil
(the reason for a five-pin base) linked ex-
ternally to a coil LX. of about five turns.
Coil LA must either be changed for each
band or a tapped coil, and is fitted for
variable coupling to LX. The Faraday
screen shown between LA and LX is also
a refinement, and only necessary where
severe local interference is present. The
two .OOOlmfd. condensers in the aerial
feeders can be ganged, and with the
.OOOlmfd. condenser tuning LA aerial
resonance can be obtained at any
frequency. The variable coupling is use-
ful where strong interference is present
from a local station. It is quite pos-
sible with this receiver so fitted to work
with a telephony station overseas with a
strong local ’phone only a few kcs. off,
but to get the proper benefit of a Fara-
day screen the entire receiver must be
completely screened.
Extra Screening Precautions.
There is a difference between the over-
seas iron-core
I.F.Ts. used with
the original and the
locally - designed
type, which calls
for a little con-
sideration. The
American manufac-
turer reduces coup-
ling between pri-
mary and second-
ary to a minimum
by placing the coils
at right angles and
providing a lateral
movement for the
lower coil, which
is mounted verti-
cally. The higher
Q. with iron cores
permits such coup-
ling, and such
transformers may be used in place
of air cores. Note that the circuit diagram
of Fig. 1 shows the primaries decoupled.
This is desirable in any case, but more
so with the Radiokes transformers, these
being made for high gain and with
normal coupling. In addition, it may be
found necessary to screen the grid leads
to the 6D6 and 79 from the transformers
with copper braid, and as a precaution
against instability this should be done in
any case. The braid is “earthed” to the
chassis. For the information of those
who will no doubt consider the possi-
bility it may be stated that air-core
I.F.Ts. can be used quite successfully in
this receiver, although the signal gain
will not be equal to the receiver with
iron cores. A receiver has been made
up with air cores and gives good results.
Alternative Valves.
The possibility of metal valves has not
been overlooked, and the outstanding in-
stance of definite advantage is the use of
a 6L7 as first detector. This valve is par-
ticularly efficient at high frequencies, and
could easily be substituted (with the
octal socket) for the 6C6. The heater
voltage and current are the same. The
77 can be used instead of the 6C6, but
the 6C6 has a more suitable impedance
for coupling to the iron-core I.F.T. As
the receiver is designed to get the best
from a minimum number of valves, the
Philips four-volt A.C. high-gain valves
are worth consideration. In this case
the receiver would necessarily be for
A.C. use only, and there is no four-volt
equivalent to the 79. The 79 could still
be used with a special heater transformer,
preferably with separate six- and four-
volt windings. Valves of 2.5 voltage can.
of course, be utilised, and in this
case the 57, 56, 58 and 53. will be applic-
able. The 53 has both triode grids at
the valve socket, whereas the grid of the
first triode of the
79, being on the
cap, permits a
short lead from the
I.F.T. The shorter
the grid leads with
iron-core I.F.Ts
the be tier.
Additional Audio.
As the receiver
stands it is de-
signed for head-
phone output, and,
although it will
work a magnetic
sneaker on R6/7
signals, extra audio
gain is needed for
the usual speaker
volume. A resis-
tance - coupled
audio stage can
easily be fitted, and
it would be advis-
able to fit a DPDT
switch or double
circuit jack for
headphone use. Or
the speaker could
be on a plug and jack and a volume
control fitted for headphones at this
outlet. A permag. speaker is suggested,
the Amplion 01 series being ideal.
Coil Formers.
The new Standardised Products coil
formers are recommended for the ama-
teur who is keen about preservation of
calibration. These formers are not
ribbed, and can be supplied with grooves
turned in the body to suit spaced wind-
ings. Heavy-gauge wire can thus be
used with little fear of turns slipping
when coils are completed ; also # accu-
rate spacing of turns contributes ma-
terially to tracking of the detector and
oscillator circuits. One and a half inch
formers are an advantage, as the Ameri-
can coil tables published in “Radio”
handbook can be followed systematically.
Experimental Possibilities.
It will be at once apparent that,
although the receiver is designed and
described here for amateur-band work
mainly, it is easily adaptable to overlap
short-wave coverage on all the useful
bands. In such case the band-setter con-
densers would not be included, and the
ganged condensers would be around
.00014mfd. each section. Coil data would
need some revision, and the usual close-
wound coil specifications would apply.
For the broadcast-band experimenter,
especially where DX is the primary con-
sideration, a receiver designed for the
broadcast range on these lines would be
well worth while. The regenerative first
detector must be used to be realised, and
the increase in signal input by the intelli-
gent use of regeneration here is remark-
able. Similar results could be expected
between 200 and 600 metres. The beat
oscillator control could be retained as a
useful means of searching out distant
carriers when on a DX hunt.
Extra Selectivity for Amateurs.
The experienced amateur will realise
that there is no reason why a quartz
crystal filter at the intermediate fre-
quency should not be added. This can
be done, but a special centre-tapped I.F.
transformer will be needed. Such trans-
formers are not available in this country
normally, and it is a case of “rolling one s
own” or ordering specially from a manu-
facturer. The aerial coupling device is
invaluable for best results, and the inclu-
sion of a Faraday screen will help greatly
in reducing local electrical noises. A
good method of making up the aerial
coupling arrangement is to mount small
“spider-web” coils on old honeycomb
coil plugs, and use one of the old swing-
ing coil-holders. If “spider-webs” are
used, make sure that the inductive rela-
tion between coils is correct.
Current Drain.
The total plate-current load for this
receiver, using Radiotrons, is 11 milli-
fi g 7—Underneath the chassis. Note the copper tube
carrying the heater leads from the power inlet socket across
the receiver to the detector and oscillator valve sockets. In
addition the heater leads are braided. The broadcast coil Jot
second-detector regeneration can be seen at the upper right.
amperes, so that the battery user may-
have no fears. A six-volt accumulator
and 135 volts of B battery will give
exactly the same results as an A.C. power
unit. For headphone use no more than
135 volts is necessary, and most signals
need quite a big reduction in I.F. gain
control to be comfortable to the ears. If
extra audio is fitted, as suggested, from
180 to 200 volts will* be needed to do full
justice to (he pentode output valve.
Operation.
Lining up this receiver is like lining
up any other superhet. Choose a strong
steady signal, preferably a commercial
I.C.W. station (or use a modulated oscil-
lator) and carefully adjust the I.F.T
trimmers for best signal strength.
Although the I.F.Ts. are lined by the
manufacturer, wiring inequalities in the
receiver are bound to offset them a little.
The regeneration feature of the first de-
tector is invaluable. With the receiver
working smoothly this control can be


NEW BATTERY
Radioirons
f
They eliminate those ringing sounds which previously
spoilt your radio enjoyment. When selecting a battery
ARE NON-MICROPHONIC
operated receiver or replacing worn valves insist on the new non-microphonic noise reducing
Radiotrons.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’sia) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney 167-9 Queen Street, Melbourne
(ADVERTISEMENT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE COMPANY LIMITED)
used to advantage. If there is too raiich
aerial coupling, regeneration will be
weak, and the aerial load must be re-
duced. If the detector is allowed to
oscillate, unwanted signals will appear
on the dial. A position can be found in
balance with the regeneration and de-
tector band-setter where a weak signal
can be brought up tremendously, yet, be-
cause of a minimum number of valves
and the excellent features of the iron-
core I.F.Ts., noise level is strikingly low.
The weakest of long-distance amateur
phone stations can be heard and under-
stood with this receiver, and normally
strong stations are remarkable for clarity
and volume. The same applies to c.w.
operation. At this time of the year 20-
metre American amateur ’phones sound
like locals, and many 10-metre ’phone
stations in the U.S.A. ninth district have
A “Little Twin” variation, showing an
alternative for the plug-in coil mounting.
If the top portion of the
chassis is made wide
enough, coil and valve
can both be mounted
on top, thus leaving
ample space behind
for the addition of
an untuned R.F.
stage or extra
audio amplifica-
tion.
been heard strongly. With the diagrams
and details the reader has enough infor-
mation to construct this receiver and
duplicate the results obtained by the
writer. The Ideal Amateur Superhet
quite definitely surpasses many multi-
valve overseas creations in performance,
and, to cap it all, it is not over-expensive
to build.
D.B. KNOCK, VK2NO.
Amateur Chatter.
Conditions under which two individuals
conduct two-way radio communication
may be entirely different. Amateur radio
often brings this out, and lately the trans-
pacific 20-metre ’phone conversations
between Australians and Americans have
been a good illustration. With hot
weather at the Australian end, the weather
gods have been unkind to U.S.A. this
“fall,” and most eastern districts have
been enduring sub-zero temperatures.
The writer could almost feel the opera-
tors at one American station shivering
as they described a long night’s session
chasing VKs, with wind seeping
through window cracks, the while they
huddled in blankets with a stove along-
side the operating table! This trans-
pacific 20-metre ’phone business has
been, and still is, phenomenal, and many
VKs have totalled up lengthy QSO lists
on ’phone. The writer finds on reference to
the log that 106 United States amateurs
and several Canadians have been worked
on ’phone in three weeks’ casual operat-
ing. Short-wave listener reports are pour-
ing into amateur stations by the bagful,
and one is hard put to it to answer all. At
times the American 20-metre ’phone
channel is a screech of heterodynes from
one end to the other, and uninterrupted
conversations are rare. It is interesting
to note that most VKs have the good
sense to keep out of the U.S.A. ’phone
channel, which helps considerably.
Plans for the Amateur Exhibition are
in hand, and N.S.W.W.I.A. Division
Council is choosing the site. The exhibi-
tion will be held in Sydney in June, and
will be open to the public during week
days from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. and on the
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. It is
hoped to stage an exhibit also of military
radio equipment, subject to permission
from the authorities. If the site decided
upon is favorable at least one amateur
station in actual operation will be ar-
ranged, and demonstrations of ultra-
short-wave working will be given.
A few Sydney stations are back on
five metres again, and it is anticipated
that there will be a boom in this work
during the winter months. It is to be
hoped that transceivers and badly radiat-
ing super-regenerators will be consigned
to the scrap-heap, as it is certain that
serious attempts at DX working are to
be made. Participants are urged to pay
attention to C.W. communication for DX
as being a more likely means of achiev-
ing the apparently impossible.
The exceptional 20-metre DX ’phone
conditions also apply to Europe. During
Easter the writer sacrificed much sleep
in order to check up on DX ’phone pos-
sibilities. Europeans start to reach audi-
bility around 4 a.m. Sydney time, and
from England G6XQ, GSML and G2NH
have been heard strongly. At 5.30 a.m.
it is possible to work two-way ’phone
with Dutch amateurs also. A feature of
20 metres at present is that the Ameri-
cans are audible in varying degrees prac-
tically right round the clock. As Ameri-
cans must be reaching Europe with con-
siderable strength just now, it is difficult
to attract the attention of Englishmen at
times, and the interference problem must
be acute. The writer has erected a sepa-
rate aerial, with two half-waves in phase,
but unfortunately it is directional east
and west and only useful, for Cape Horn
or Cape Town.
VK2NO.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Very good reception is now to be ob-
tained from a number of stations at an
hour conveniently close to breakfast-time.
The improvement is most marked in the
case of the 25m. and 27m. stations—
RNE, Radio Coloniale, DID, GSD and
ORK. London has been using GSI in
the early mornings, and the 19m. station
has been coming through surprisingly
well until about 7.45 a.m., when it de-
teriorates. The Lisbon station CTIAA
has been heard several times and identi-
fied by its cuckoo call and its announce-
ments in English (among other lan-
guages). A peculiar thing about it is that
it now appears a little below 2RO on the
dial.
There have been two newcomers to
the 31m. band —a German, DZA, on
almost exactly 31m. (9675 kc.) and a
Japanese (name unknown) on about
30.8 m. DZA transmits between 4 a.m.
and 6 a.m. (Sydney time), announces in
every important European language, and
is satisfactory without being outstanding.
The Japanese, which is heard irregularly
during the evenings, is comparable in
strength with JVN, but is still in the test-
ing stage, and the effect is as yet some-
what rough and discordant. Announce-
ments by a girl with a harsh, shrill, pene-
trating voice are varied by music of a
strident, noisy kind that always seems to
be “on edge.”
Another new station that the writer
has logged recently is the Mexican
XBJQ, on 27.26 m. (the same w.-l. as
PLP). It is heard at fair strength about
lunchtime.
A peculiarity of reception this month
has been that often a “double-spot” of a
station will come through much more
powerfully than the station itself. In
fact, there have been times when the
“double-spot” has been quite strong and
clear, while the station has been inaud-
ible. This is a veritable trap for the un-
wary, and the writer confesses that he
fell into it twice —once when he thought
he had found Radio Coloniale operating
on 26.15 m. (it was really a 24.5 m. trans-
mission), and once when he was delighted
to log a beautiful new French-speaking
station above GSB (it was really ORK).
Every s.-w. listener
has remarked upon
the great number of
American amateurs
that have been heard
nightly on the 20m.
band, many of them
at good loudspeaker
strength. The writer
paid particular atten-
tion to this band
on three consecu-
tive evenings.
W6ITH was reported
QSAS R 9, but there
was little to choose
between it and sev-
eral others, notably
W9DUM, WBHAF,
W9ARA, W4AH
and W9RUK. If the
listener is eager to
obtain the clearest reception of such
stations, it would be worth his while to
do as the writer did —utilise an aerial
specially cut for the purpose. The
length of the aerial may be determined
either experimentally or by mathematics
(but in the latter case allowance may
have to be made for particular condi-
tions). Taking the limit of the Ameri-
can amateur band (14,150 kc.) as a guide,
one could make the quarter-wave sides
of the aerial (assuming it to be a hori-
zontal doublet) approximately 16ft. 6in.
each. If the listener also has an aerial
tuning attachment, he should be able to
obtain the ideal result of maximum
signal-strength and selectivity with a rela-
tively low noise-level. In deciding on
the best hour at which to listen, two
factors must be considered —reception
conditions at this end and reception
conditions in the U.S.A. As to the
latter, it must be remembered that re-
ception deteriorates rapidly over there
as soon as the sun rises, so that from
9.30 p.m. (Sydney time) onwards there is
likely to be a thinning-out of the W
stations that take the business seriously—
a number of their amateurs stay up all
night—and a lack of continuity in the
’phone talks. It may be interesting to
note that the two VK stations that the
Americans reported having heard best
were VK2NO and VK2UC.
There is something to be said against
allowing the precocious youngsters of
to-day the free use of a s.-w. receiver.
Recently, the daughter, aged 9, of a lis-
tener, having become intrigued with the
possibilities of the 40m. amateur band,
rang up VK2AE (whose name and
address she had found in a “Guide”)
and asked “David” to put over a broad-
cast for her special benefit. When that
astonished young gentleman asked her
name, she replied “One young woman” ;
and when he pressed for further infor-
mation, the Young Woman retorted:
“What is your frequency?”
P.R.W.
Casual Comment.
“R.H.A.”: A peculiar case of “boil-
ing” in an electrolytic condenser was re-
cently encountered in a newly-built 2-3
valve A.C. set. The chassis was 6iin. by
and there was just enough room
for everything and “no extras.” The
two electrolytics were near the power
transformer, one being about an inch
nearer the core than the other. After
the set had been in operation for about
1,5 minutes, the electrolytic nearest to
the transformer began to bubble and
“boil” away in great style. Feeling around
the chassis at that point revealed that the
transformer was rather warm and had
radiated its heat along the chassis and
thoroughly warmed up the -condenser,
whose sides were quite warm to the
touch. The condenser was all right, and
W6KSO, one of the most consistent American amateurs
heard on 20-metre telephony in Australia. This station is
in Nogales, Arizona.
the voltage to which it was subjected
quite reasonable. The bubbling and over-
heating were cured by taking out the
50ma. “tranny” and replacing with a
65ma. job, which ran cool and gave no
trouble.
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Name of a good hook on radio ? —4Ol.
There are several; choice depends upon
reader's needs. For the beginner, The Book
of Practical Radio, by John Scott Taggart,
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, is an excellent
introduction.


"3003
U 3 Alls,,
USEFUL DATA ON PONTIAC EIGHT.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 15 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 4-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 23ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 79.29 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 20.9 m.p.g.
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LININQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure 7
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
o
KUeheS whth& ■ • •
ACCURACY tyVIMI
Accuracy in tyre pressures is vital. It is a safe-
guard against excessive and uneven tyre wear,
and provides comfort and protection for you on the road. But only
an ACCURATE tyre gauge can assure you accurate pressures. Cheap
gauges save you' a shilling or two, but may lose you pounds in
tyre wear alone.
Put your trust in a KISMET for unvarying truth at every reading—
A Qauqe is useless unless accurate-worse , it is misleading
KISMET cXSjge
In 11b. units on wide, flat surfaces. Handsomely
finished in plated metals and complete in a
leather wallet
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
f;{ Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.T.
m
'ah
m
' k< H
The Steering Column.
FAST, COMFORTABLE AND
ROADWORTHY.
CONVINCING TEST OF PONTIAC EIGHT.
BY FRED BERRY.
closely in detail the successful six-cylinder
* model, the new Pontiac Eight is designed to fulfil the
requirements of motorists who appreciate the luxury of a longer
wheelbase, with its attendant comfortable riding qualities and
greater legroom, and a motor of sufficient power to transport a
full load without fuss or worry at high average speeds.
As the unladen weight of the sedan would
indicate, metal is not skimped in the construction of any part
of the assembly, and consequently possessors of these cars find
riding qualities excellent and may confidently expect reliability
with a minimum of service worries.
Tested over the Bulletin course, the
four-door Pontiac Eight sedan, driven by
Darcy Jones, of W. J. Stack and Co.,
N.S.W. distributors, carried a full com-
plement of passengers, the gross weight,
including fuel, being 37|cwt. The
motor, whilst smooth and free
from vibration, was still somewhat
stiff, as speedometer reading was
but 616 miles. Driven through the
city and suburbs during peak traffic
the car steered easily without sus-
picion of drag, while top-gear
acceleration and braking were
extremely good. Passing through
Parramatta and on the open
country road, a cruising speed of
between 45 and 50 m.p.h. was com-
fortably maintained, and all main-
road hills were taken in top on less
than half,throttle with a noticeable
absence of engine vibration.
On the coasting test, starting
in neutral from a speed of 15
m.p.h., the car ran 734 yards
before coming to rest—one of
the highest results in this I
series and proof of correct
alignment of all transmission
mechanism and running gear.
Maximum speed, clocked over
a measured mile, with flying start,
was 79.29 m.p.h., the distance taking
45 2-ssec. Slightly better results
would have been obtained with a
longer run-in, as the heavily-laden
car had not reached its maximum on
entering the timed section.
Turning into the by-pass road through
Grose Vale, suspension was observed
Water-distributing tube, with jets for
cooling exhaust-valve seatings.
over this rough unmade section. Despite
the heavy weight carried, there was not
at any time any indication of “bottom-
ing,” while steering and roadholding
were quite satisfactory.
Approaching Kurrajong the final steep
section, 2 .1-5 miles, was selected for
the speed hill-climb, the time taken,
3min. 42sec., being particularly good
Roomy, powerful and splendidly appointed, the four-door straight-eight Pontiac
sedan.
under the conditions of loading. During
the whole climb, in second and top gear,
roadholding and cornering qualities could
not be faulted.
Returning down the mountain a test
of emergency braking equipment gave a
satisfactory result.
Proceeding via Richmond to Castle-
reagh, further tests were made. To deter-
mine the inherent flexibility of the engine,
a distance of one-fifth mile was covered as
slowly as possible in top, without slipping
clutch, and, still in top, another one-
fifth mile clocked “accelerated” on full
throttle. On both tests the straight-eight
motor showed to advantage, as the slow-
running section, clocked in 3min. 18sec.,
averaged 3.6 m.p.h., while from this low
speed the car reached almost 60 m.p.h.
on the accelerated section, taking 16
4-ssec. and averaging 42.8 m.p.h.
From a standing start to 50 m.p.h.
(speedometer corrected), through gears,
occupied 15 2-ssec., while 10 to 30 in
top in 7 4-ssec. and 10 to 30 in second
in 4 4-ssec. indicated the handiness of
the Pontiac Eight in traffic.
Brakes stopped the car from 25 m.p.h.
in 23ft. 6in.
The time taken for the 118-mile
journey gave an average road speed of
35.5 m.p.h., while the
petrol consumed, 5
gal. 5 pints, showed
an average consump-
tion of 20.9 m.p.g.
(38.9 ton miles).
The results of the
test indicate a high
performance type of
motor, and inspec-
tion of mechanical
details shows a desire
on the part of the
designer to free
owners from service
worries.
The motor is L-
head type, eight cyl. in line, with 3|in.
bore and 3+in. stroke, swept volume
aggregating 232 cub. in. R.A.C. rating
is 33.8, but at 3800 r.p.m. 88 b.h.p. is
delivered. The compression ratio is 6.2
to I.
The motor is mounted on the frame
on five live-rubber supports, one on each
side at front, one on each side at rear
and one centrally located at the rear
of the transmission housing, the object
being to provide maximum stability while
absorbing power shock and preventing
anhoying vibration.
Cylinder block and crankcase are of
chrome nickel alloy iron, cast integral,
the crankcase ex-
tending 3in. below
the centre line of
the crankshaft to
increase vertical
rigidity and pro-
vide a solid foun-
dation for the
main bearings.
Cross webs support
the bearing hous-
ings and two
heavy ribs run
horizontally outside the crankcase to
prevent distortion.
Coring of the cylinder block casting
provides for water jackets along the
whole 'length of piston travel, thereby
assuring even cooling and a reduction o!
lubricating oil temperature.
The robust crankshaft is drop-forgec
with integral counterweights and balance*.
statically and dynamically, while to
further neutralise torsional vibration a
harmonic balancer is built into the fan-
drive pulley. The five main bearings
are steel-backed, babbitt-lined and inter-
changeable, assembled without shims.
Main and crankpin bearings overlap,
giving added rigidity to the assembly.
Connecting rods are I-beam section,
drilled to supply oil at pressure to the
gudgeon pins. Big-end bearings are steel-
backed, lined with silver alloy. All rods
, are carefully matched and balanced both
for total weight and centre of gravity.
Rod bolts are larger than in earlier
models and ground to much closei
tolerances. Pistons are of similar
material to cylinder block —chrome
nickel iron—and are electroplated
with a ductile, low-friction bear-
ing material. Two compression
rings above the gudgeon pin and
one oil-scraper ring below are
used, each compression ring having
a groove cut in the lower edge to
act as an oil-scraper. Gudgeon
pins are case-hardened, ground to
close limits, one end of each pin
being locked in position by a
screw, the other end being slotted
to allow for expansion and con-
traction with varying engine
temperatures. Two hard-rolled
bronze bushings are used as
gudgeon-pin bearings, pressed into
the piston-boss. Camshaft is forged
steel, cams and bearing journals
being hardened and ground. Bear-
ings are removable, steel-backed, babbitt-
lined, line-reamed in place. Drive is
by short, silent chain, lubricated by
pressure.
Valves are of heat-resisting alloy steel,
intakes having a seat angle of 30 deg.;
exhaust valves, 45 deg. Valve springs
are fitted with “dampeners” to prevent
Rigid construction of KY-type chassis used on Pontiac Eight.
bounce and noise. Valve guides are re-
movable.
Lubrication is on the full-pressure,
metered-flow system, oil being forced to
all moving parts of the engine and


d
Champions in the Automotive Field —-
Olympic Tyres
IN EVERY TEST—AUSTRALIA’S BEST
for Endurance . . . Dependability ... Safety
MADE BY
mm
i
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
and OMAtfalia^
Obtainable leading Garages, Tyre Dealers and Service Stations throughout Australia
SIMONIZ
YOUR
CAR
it Will Sparkle Like New Again!
*
4 H AFTER
SOLD BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 3/6; LARGE, 5/-.
metered as it reaches the connecting-rod
bearings so that, regardless of wear, all
bearings will receive the correct amount
of oil.
Pump is positive geared, driven from
camshaft, and, with the exception of one
short section on the suction side, all oil
passages are drilled in the webs and
walls of the crankcase, so eliminating
possibility of leakage or fracture. A
newly - designed
and efficient crank-
ca s e ventilation
system is incorpor-
ated, with a large
oil trap in rear of
the valve cover.
Special attention
has been given to
the even and
regular cooling of
the straight-eight
motor. The radi-
ator is of cross-
flow design with a
core area of 384
sq. in., water enter-
ing half-way up on
one side and flow-
ing across the core
on reaching the
top. A clever device in place of
the conventional radiator cap incor-
porates a spring-loaded valve which closes
the vent tube until 41b. or 51b. of steam
pressure has been built up. This causes
water to be recirculated, and allows a
higher and more efficient working tem-
perature during a greater portion of
operating time. In addition, a thermostat
with a range of from 140 to 170 degrees
is located in the cylinder block outlet.
Particular attention is given to the
cooling of exhaust-valve seatings, cool
Section through portion of cylinder
block, showing full-length water jackets.
water being passed along a tube within
the block and delivered through a series
of jets to water passages surrounding the
valves.
Fuel is held in a 15-gal. welded,
pressed-steel tank at rear, and drawn
through a pipe line running outside the
chassis members by a mechanical pump
to a Carter triple-venturi down-draught
carburettor. Air-cleaner and intake-
silencer are fitted, and built into the
carburettor are an economiser, metering-
rod and a low-pressure accelerating pump
with automatically adjustable stroke. In-
take manifold is equipped with a fuel
pre-heater controlled by thermostat to
regulate the temperature of fuel entering
the cylinders. Choke control is auto-
matic, returning to “full open” position
after the initial warming-up.
Electrical equipment is six-volt single-
unit type, with coil and battery ignition.
Generator is of heavy-duty type, with
voltage control mounted on dash with
relay. The starter motor is of the con-
stant-mesh, type, the pinion gear remain-
ing in mesh with the flywheel until the
engine is running under power. The
starting switch is connected to the accele-
rator pedal.
Firing order is 1,6, 2,5, 8,3, 7, 4 ;
breaker-point gap, 18 thou. ; spark gap,
20-22 thou.
Plugs are 14mm. type. The ignition
point is controlled automatically by
Diagram of full-pressure, metered-flow lubricating system
used in Pontiac Eight motor.
vacuum from the intake manifold, and
provision is made for manual alteration
of advance and retard by vernier control
connected with the distributor spindle.
Transmission is through a single-plate,
dry-disc clutch, lOin. diameter, with
release bearings of graphite-bronze com-
position to three-speed-four-reverse gear-
box, with central change-speed lever.
Gears are helical cut, silent synchromesh
throughout. Final drive is through a
tubular shaft enclosed in the torque tube
and fitted with a metal universal joint at
the front end which is auomatically
lubricated from the transmission-box.
Rear axle is semi-floating, in a pressed-
steel banjo type housing. Spiral bevel
gearing js used in the differential, the
reduction ratio being 4.55 to 1.
The chassis is of heavy KY construc-
tion, the arms of the K rhember being
continued along the side members to
provide additional strength at the rear.
Suspension is conventional underslung—
semi-elliptic springs at the rear, with
rubber bushes in front-spring eyes and
self-adjustable threaded metal shackles
at rear. Front-wheel suspension is inde-
pendent Dubonnet type, unit mounted on
a tubular cross frame.
Single-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers
are fitted at the rear, double-acting at
front, as auxiliaries to suspension.
A ride stabiliser is fitted above the
rear axle and is connected to shock-
absorber arms.
Wheelbase is 117 inches; road clear-
ance, 8 1-8 inches under rear axle.
Bendix duo-servo internal expanding
four-wheel hydraulic brakes are fitted as
service equipment, the hand-lever actu-
ating an independent emergency system
through rod and cables on rear wheels.
Brake drums are cast iron. Steering gear
of worm-and-roller design is fully adjust-
able for wear ; ratio is 17.5 to 1 : turn-
ing circle, right lock, 40ft.; left, 39ft. 6in.
Wheels are pressed-steel, fitted with
16 x 6.50 tyres.
Bodywork is by Holden’s, neatly finished
and well equipped. Windscreen is of
non-shatterable glass fitted with dual
electric wipers. Front seats are adjust-
able. Luggage trunk is built in at rear,
housing also the spare wheel. Two
adjustable sun visors are fitted to all
closed models, and the usual instruments,
indirectly lighted, are neatly arranged on
the dashboard.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
M.B.H. (Cairns, Q.).—(l) A rattle developed
in the flywheel of my car (3800 miles) and
stopped when starter motor was adjusted.
Why ? (2) The gear lever occasionally de-
velops a rattle which stops if hand is
rested on knob of lever. Why ? (3) Top of
bonnet is becoming dull and does not take
same shine as remainder of bodywork. What
can be done ? (4) Have been using colloidal
graphite in sump and upper-cylinder lubricant
in petrol. How long should this continue ?
(1) Apparently in assembly the Bendix drive
on the starter motor was set too close to the
ring gear on the flywheel. Provided teeth have
not been damaged no further trouble need be
feared from this source. (2) At low engine
speeds the rubber mounting permits the gear-
box to oscillate. See the assembly has suffi-
cient clearance from floorboards. (3) Possibly
owing to effects of strong sunlight, top of
bonnet invariably being the first place to
suffer. The original lustre can be restored by
first washing down the dull section with ben-
zine and then Using a fine cutting compound,
obtainable from large accessory houses. (4)
Discontinue colloidal graphite in sump. It is
not recommended by the makers on account
of the ball races on the shaft. Continue using
upper-cylinder lubricant.
jjC * ❖
E.J.C. (Boonah, Q.). — Have the ’36 Hudson
Eight and ’36 Ford V 8 been tested over the
Bulletin course; if so, when were reports pub-
lished ?
Hudson has not yet been tested. Report on
Ford V 8 appeared in issue of April 15.
%
J.S. (Hurstville, N.S.W.).—Mr ’35 model car
at 4600 miles is doing only 600 m.p.g. on oil.
Is consumption top great ? If so, what’s
wrong ?
Careless handling during running-m period
might be responsible for excessive oil consump-
tion. Consult the N.S.W. distributors, who
will rectify the trouble if examination shows
any defect
A.McB. (Whithead’s Creek, Vic.).— Would
a B.T.H. magneto, type GAAICi, be likely to
give satisfaction if fitted to a 22-h.p. Republic,
1924 model ?
Yes. Both are R.H. drive, and little altera-
tion would be necessary in fitting.
* * * *
S.L. (Auckland, M.L.). — Am thinking of
buying a roomy used car, and have been
offered a 1931 model (named). Any disad-
vantages about this make of car ?
An excellent type, singularly free from
faults in design.
* * *
A.L. (Corowa, N.S.W.).—(I) My ’3O model
Austin Seven battery ignition is used much
of the time for stopping and starting, and the
battery will not quite cope with the work,
necessitating frequent recharging. Would it
he wise to increase charging rate (generator has
been hot sometimes) ? (2) Can I make
generator cut in earlier, and how ? (3) When
battery is fully charged headlights become dim as
soon as ammeter shows zero. What’s wrong ?
(1) Charging rate should not exceed 10
amps., as shown on meter. (2) Generator
should cut in between 12 and 15 m.p.h. Relay
could be examined and air gap checked. (3)
Indications are that when the generator was
overheated either solder was thrown or a
wire was broken in the commutator. This
would account for low charge and cutting in
only at high revs. If the battery had
a defective cell it would also account for
some of the troubles, particularly low voltage
to lamps. Get equipment overhauled by a
competent electrician.
J.C. (Leichhardt, N.S.W.). — Regular pressure
of oil in my ’27 car has been 25 1 b., but now’
it drops to 10/6. as soon as motor gets hot.
Alteration of relief valve has no effect. Cause
and cure ?
Excessive wear of crankshaft bearings will
account for the drop in pressure. An over-
haul would rectify the trouble, but the engine
is not likely to seize up through lack of oil.
J.H. (Noondoo station, Q.). — Where can I
get particulars of Hupmobile and Humber
cars ?
From John McGrath, Ltd., N.S.W. distribu-
tors.
L.E.J. (Ipswich, Q.).—(l) Is there anything
in the idea that the same brand of petrol
should be used during the life of a car ? (2)
What’s the advantage in using super grades ?
(3) What should I expect from my new car
(named) in m.p.g. after running in ? (4) When
will the Ford V 8 be reviewed in The Bulle-
tin ?
(1) No particular advantage, save that if a
carburettor has been specially tuned for one
brand you always know what to expect. (2)
Better results in modern high-compression
engines. (3) 20-30 m.p.g., depending on
average speed and methods used in drivmg.
(4) Reviewed in issue of April 15.
Motor Oddities.
“Nashford”: Was travelling from
Bunbury to Perth (W.A.) in an old Gray
car when suddenly there was a lurch,
and next thing I saw was the rear near
wheel bowling ahead of the car. At the
nearest farmhouse 1 borrowed an axle
and iron wheels off an old seeding
machine. Tied this to back axle and
travelled slowly to the nearest garage,
15 miles distant. The din was terrific
and could be heard miles away.
“Eureka”: Caught miles from a
garage outback in N.S.W. with a punc-
ture and no spare,, and with only an old
inner-tube for patching but no solution
of any kind, I started to gather grass and
weeds to pack into the tyre in order to
get to a garage. In breaking some weeds
I noticed a sticky milk-like substance
oozing out where 1 had broken them off.
Decided to try this as a substitute for
solution. It served admirably and en-
abled me to drive 50 miles. Later dis-
covered that the weed which got me out
of a fix was the curse of the country —
skeleton weed.
“Pick”: Cleaning an engine with
kerosene and an old brush, a garageman
set the car on fire. No, he was not work-
ing so vigorously that he engendered
sufficient heat by friction. The metal-
bound paintbrush handle made contact
between a cut-out terminal and the
dynamo cover, and the spark did the
rest.


THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has. exerted an influence in
the- affairs, and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary' worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Cbe mercury
This National Daily . reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
"The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Gable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F.' L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office; Newspaper House. Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
“The News”
It won t tell the
whole world . . No!
BUT .......
If you’ve a sales story
you want to get about
It will
certainly tell
South Australia
Representation:
ADELAIDE —News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G Pike. First Floor
NewsDaoer House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P A. Messeneer. Warwick
Buildins. Hamilton street,
LONDON —F A Smyth. 34-40 Ludeate
Hill. E.C.4
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post brings
immediate response.
“ The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates appl>
any accredited advertising a gen^»•
National
Advertisers:
LKT
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from I’. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G.
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Adit.
Department, News,, Ltd., Adelaide.
MORNING
DAILY
numr
Women’s
Supplement
•The Examiner” publisher every Wednesday a Sup-
plement for Women containing all the social news
and specialised features concerning the woman and
the home. It is the woman’s own newspaper and
_ rivals Australia’s best. It not only reaches the jiomo but
stays there. You can reach the women of
mania only by advertising in “The Examiner
Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from .
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st. Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collms-st., Melbourne
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Serving ALL of
WESTRALfA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
Prince’s Chambers.
William Street.
Perth.
Western Australia.
6AM
Elaine, looking fresh and cool in white silk, with
a touch of jade at the waist and neck and a shady
green hat, chatted with them for what to the im-
patient Bill appeared an interminable time. As they
moved into the stand the starting bell rang, and in
the confusion and rush for vantage points the party
separated. The tote was deserted except for one lone
figure with a keen, appreciative smile for the girl in
white moving in his direction.
“Hello, Lancelot! How many races have I
missed?”
“This is only the second. I lost on the first, and
this looks like” He broke off to peer at the horses
battling out the finish to a roar of mingled encourage-
ment and despair. “Fourth, again! I hope our luck
changes from now on.”
“So do I. I’m relying on you to restore the family
fortunes. Which race do we concentrate on?”
“The fourth, but you can have a mild bet on
the next if you like.” . He pencilled a mark in her
racebook.
“Mr. R. West’s Georgina B. What do you know
about Georgina? Is.she to be trusted?”
“No more than any other female, but her owner
is fairly reliable. We’ll go down to the rails and see
what he thinks of her chances.”
They found a place near the saddling-paddock
gate, and Elaine’s attention oscillated from her race-
book to the parading horses and their numbered
saddle-cloths till she identified Georgina B. She
glanced critically over the brown mare, fidgeting and
champing at the bit, then moved close to the man
.leaning his elbows on the fence.
“Honestly, Lancelot, I’m not impressed with your
choice. In fact, I would like to bet she couldn’t have
caught me this morning.” , •
Her companion’s droqping eyelid quivered.
“You would lose that bet.”
“How do you know?”
“Well, she’s been tried out against both of them.”
“Oh!” Elaine subsided into silence. The horses
started to file on to the course. She watched the
brown mare sidling toward the gate with the sun
glinting on her arched neck, then her eyes focqsed
on the rider. He sat easily on the reefing, anxious
mare, his sharp eyes idly scanning the crowd along
the rails. As he came close to them his roving glance
rested a moment on the man at her side and she
would have sworn to a flicker in the dark eyes —
nothing more. Then he looked at Elaine and sat up
quickly in the saddle ; he seemed to battle for a second
with a desire to exchange a further glance with her
escort, but discretion carried him on to the course,
apparently inspecting the tips of the brown mare’s
ears.
They moved back to the betting ring, and she
waited amusedly while Lancelot selected a stout, red-
faced bookmaker with a raucous voice.
“What price Georgina B?”
“Evens to you! ”
He looked his disgust at the man on the box.
“If 1 ever hear you offering decent odds on any
race I’ll have a decent bet.” ■ ' :
The red-face‘d one laughed hoarsely. “How much
d’youiwant?”
“Fiver this time —Georgina B.”
The bookmaker scribbled something unintelligible
on a ticket, and as he thrust it at Bill his other hand
went up to the side of his mouth, megaphone fashion,
and the odds blared out over their heads. Elaine
bought a tote ticket on Number 5, then they moved
10 a spot where they could see the finish. Tacitly
they avoided the stand.
Elaine peered forward as the field got off to a
good start. It was impossible to distinguish any
particular horse as they raced with what seemed to
her maddening slowness round the back of the track.
They were coming round toward the turn, a chestnut
in front, the rest of the field bunched behind. At
the turn the chestnut swung out from the rails and
a dark head showed behind him, creeping steadily up
till they were abreast. A bay raced up on the outside
challenging the pair of them, then, almost on the
post, it seemed to the excited girl, the brown nose just
poked out in front iand she clutched joyfully at the
arm of the man nearest her, who fortunately hap-
pened to be Bill.
“We’ve won! We’ve won!”
He grinned happily. “Dick nearly left it too
late. Are you going- to collect now?”
“I really ought to join my party.”
“Wait till after the next race.”
“Is that our race?”
He nodded with a hint of mystery under the
drooping eyelid.
“Are you going to put on a lot?”
“All I can beg, borrow or get credit for.”
Her eyes opened wide.
“Do you think I might risk five pounds?”
“Wait till you’ve seen the horse! You’ll prob-
ably refuse to back it at all, but I think your fiver
will be safe. At the worst it will only go with mine
to buy diamond rings for the poor, starving book-
makers’ wives.”
As the minutes passed in inaction, Elaine worked
herself into a fever of impatience, and she fretted
visibly at her companion’s apparent lethargy. Not
even when the horses had left the saddling-paddock
and were filing past the stand for the preliminary
canter did he indicate the horse he intended to back.
Instead, he invited her to pick any three she fancied.
Elaine watched them carefully and nominated a big
chestnut, a bay horse and a brown mare—a slim,
satin-skinned animal.
“Which one is ours?” she demanded.
He grinned tantalisingly.
“Neither! Which horse do you think will run
last?”
Elaine bit her lip with annoyance. Time was
flying ; the horses were on their way to the post and
they still had to get their bets on. She pointed to
the last rider moving sedately in the wake of the field.
“That one —the little black horse with the hairy
legs.” She glanced quickly at her book. “Here it is
—Number 3, Mr. T. Brannigan’s black filly, Deso-
lated Cokernut. What an awful name!”
■ “Come on and we’ll see what odds they re offei-
mg’ He led the way to the ring, grinning cheerfully,
while Elaine stared at him in perplexity. She cer-
tainly did not feel inclined to risk five perfectly good
notes on that rough-looking thing.
The bookmaker broke off his hoarse chant as
they halted before him and Bill queried calmly:
“Any decent odds on this race? I’ll give you a
chance to get this fiver back.”
“Take y’r pick! ■ Two to one bar one —evens
Tripedes. ’Ere y’ are, Desperated Cokernut five to
“Is that the best you can do? Thirty pounds
to five?”
Elaine was almost frantic. Her ears strainer
for the sound of the starting bell; all around her the
inferno of shouted odds rose to a crescendo, and here
was Lancelot calmly arguing!
The bookmaker shook his head. “Twenty-five
to five the Cokernut.”
“You’ve got a tenner of mine. Can you take
that?”
“Double it if you like!”
“Right! A hundred to twenty, and a fiver for
the lady! Cash! ”
He handed over the notes and received the tickets.
A momentary lull had fallen on the ring till a voice
took up the chant on a new theme. “Two to one
bar one. Dissipated Cokernut two to one.”
In the silence that followed the announcement
came the sharp dong of the starting bell and a chorus
of anguished howls went up; above the turmoi
sounded one hoarse, desperate voice. “Even money
Methylated Cokernut!”
Elaine dragged impatiently at her partner's arm.
“Quick! They’re off!” The field was bunched to-
gether on the far side of the course and they strained
their eyes to pick the black filly and her pink-sleeved
rider.
“Why on earth were you so long in betting?
Elaine demanded indignantly, her. eyes on the field.
The man at her side chuckled hugely. "Even
if we don’t win the race we’ve tricked the books."
“What do you mean? Oh, look at that chestnu
coming up! Oh, go back! Where’s our horse?"
“1 had to place the money with all the books
at the same time to get the odds.”
“What do you mean? Did you bet more than
twenty pounds?”
“I had people backing the filly with every book-
maker who would take it. Didn’t you hear the odd'-
jump from five to one to evens?”
Elaine gasped. The fate of her five pounds faded
to insignificance. “O-oh, look at that chestnut! Hes
getting much too far in front!” Although she was
shivering with excitement another question clamorec
for an answer. “But why couldn’t you all have done
your, betting earlier?”
The man was leaning forward, an eager glint in
his eyes, his lips drawn tight across the set teeth, and
he answered her almost unconsciously without remov-
ing his eyes from the field. “We had to get the jockeys
qut of the way first in case of dirty work. They don t
know yet that the filly is equal Look at her
coming up! Go on, you little beauty!”
The ‘ black filly was out in front, coming up the
straight with a length to spare, and the crowd grew
strangely silent. The chestnut made another run, crepi
up on the quarter of the filly, and the crowd shrieked
again. The whips were out, falling in desperate
staccato strokes, but the filly maintained her lead,
drew gradually away and flashed past the post a
length ahead of the field.
For the last few yards Elaine felt that her heart
had left her. ; It was out there with the black filly,
urging it, goading it on. She was quite unconscious
of the man at her side twisting a perfectly new hat
between his hands into a shapeless thing till the race
was won, then they turned, laughing hysterically, and
hugged one another till, suddenly conscious of the
stares of the people around, they dived hurried!}
through the crowd, still hand in hand and laughing
joyously.
(To be continued next week.)


~yiiis masterpiece is Perfection
J me spirit he always serves.
! * t
tr&
4: v\h
m
isS3:
ITgXgr
PT
K
m
m
tm
r
;•••?.
(DGollum's
yAo a/AjsAyjs-
/"JJJ'lii Jl
AifW
if •
f
Wm
4tf‘
(DTdilums
Scots (Uhisky
( ruv«*«# <•«■»;
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ll
K
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”.
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
.ei’
-Oki xv° ve .
\&\ ..•' .*** .•** .rftf
S*
*#
»v
o'
\S S
\p*
••■ c „l


• ' ■ > - ■
irvys, ,•. •
*s
»r»*
;’■ '
>r.\V. v . v •• • '
fSfrW-Wi-
&&&:
* ■ •
-■ ■
‘V’U'-'.'m ■■ .. •
iS&rV •'
if»'* *• • * •
-* * *
Uwv-V*’. ' # -
ter:/:
ftlm
• <9y-v<y>i»>■
! !«»»•( 7 th» r IH*«c
"i« terj f;
■ : ■•' ~?A: ?. ' ■>’■ * i£r£i>l
. C*d‘S:h/'-e' -:*4 : : r- .«£a :
»3i
s.,;j
I ; .^U£
io-v, un/r^Hnr *ywW-< reoMi»t.
e* vv if A Ch U»tyV. s
dehctf** fH*6r_,'af- 'b\f. (Jotr^.v
- 6 h*M(r* ofyjftfSv^jat#^’ou\r *.*'_
C*.ffrv/».- NET . (’PINT; -ei OZS*.l’_'.;.- T ••;;• •' ;
PROOi/cf?‘ ioi* : fl ijfc r«tAV'crv'. ~• •. • ■•
! • - : V-v^
■•.;'SF
;.’ ; ;', : .Vs'?,-V
V;s . -rn
■••» IHUltfl
v 'Vi^
• -
xise
v i
3EI
jPrS-V •
t-i*
f-W
6t»
ir Jbtij
Cin
n
. • ;•
• . '-v-.urb
v;*&
•■• - v vifCT
’ ■■■‘♦vfeSi
\- ‘. ’'' ->A
. . *• * .
'•V. v - 4 ii , .<w'
i
% .v> >c3.
v
■:M
“If Winter Comes”
Gilbey’s is not far
behind . . . Taken
hot with lemon it
is the standard
protection against
Winter chills and
colds in most Aus-
tralian homes.
DRY GIN
