

VB
a
A
mmh
am
• /
★
The First Glass .
You detect a decided aromatic
flavour , entirely different from that
of any other gin spirit .
ar
I
M
m
ass
m
m
liili
A few days later . « .
A glass each day and soon Wolfe’s
Schnapps is your drink for life »
You can TASTE its purity and
wholesomeness *
1%
CJ
or
£s,
ZlmZk i
€
& Xsir\
m
>■: / vsm
Mi
t M
f.
V
PV
,
« /
lift
ft \
m
mm
m
IS
ft
>mm- "
W 6
u£ j oj poo.S s. 1 1; lpn.
At on m ijisaop aimed .mo
DID you really appreciate the first oyster,
the first olive, the first serve of caviare,
you ever tasted? No, and the reason is that
your palate is instinctively cautious of any=
thing that is unusual.
It’s the same way with Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Instead of essences, Wolfe’s Schnapps is dis=
tilled with actual Italian Juniper Berries,
which impart to it a flavour distinct from any
other gin spirit. After one small bottle
(Wolfe’s Schnapps is available in three sizes)
your palate will completely surrender to its
pure and wholesome taste.
And the Juniper Berry imparts something else
to Wolfe’s Schnapps which no other spirits
possess—its remarkable medicinal properties.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a valuable
protection against the attacks
of winter’s ills and chills and
it keeps the system function-
ing perfectly through the try-
ing heat of summer days.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps regu-
larly “for your health’s sake”.
★ Most of the things which
we like best to eat and drink
are those which our palates
have grown to appreciate.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Always keep a bottle in tbe home
W. 5.88.48
The Bulletin
Cabinet Minister and Company Director
Vol. 57.—N0. 2956.
Wednesday, October 7, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LIBRARIANS, BOOKSELLERS
Write for our 40-page catalogue of Book
Bargains, wonderful value in every depart-
ment of literature. Post free anywhere.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LIMITED,
Booksellers, Stationers, Librarians,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Vic.
DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
JLearn
m
ot HOME ' 1
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 liusse.lt Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND Maul
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address .
S.B. 136
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, Will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize w'ill be added ter the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
OUR
CROWDED
CANVASES
“One hears
much about the
loneliness of Aus-
tralian bush life,
yet Australian
novels are so
crowded with
characters that it would be difficult to
remember them except that each charac-
ter is alive and separate.” This was the
remark of an English reader of discern-
ment after being introduced to some of
the stories which, in my judgment, are
genuinely Australian. Why this seeming
paradox?
No law can be laid down for a writer
of the requisite endowment as to how in
creative fiction he shall treat his parti-
cular human and geographical scene,
but in our uncharted new fields some
attempts have proved more successful
than others. The writers who have iso-
lated a < minimum of characters in the
wide open spaces have not so far been
as true to the Australian scene as those
with a full canvas. In reading two such
stories recently I suddenly knew why
they fail, though they have been praised
for their literary qualities by outsiders.
One is by a new writer, the other by
one of our most painstaking veterans.
Each deals with an illicit sexual affair in
the bush, and confines the action almost
to the leading characters.
Such behavior in our sparsely-popu-
lated communities would cause a buzz
from one Government dam to the other.
Even the crows would discuss it. To
present such “goings-on” without sug-
gesting the comprehensive drama of
scandal that woul.d accrue is to ignore
or misunderstand human society, where
no member of it is too insignificant' or
can be sufficiently aloof from his fellows
for them to be unaware of his comings
and goings and doings.
A sufficient number of Australian
writers to be termed a school —some of
them more indigenous than others—have
therefore chosen to include the whole
community, or, in actual fact, enough
of it to suggest everyone. The spear-
head of this tribe was Tom Collins with
his solitary and unsurpassed Such Is Life,
now supported by other novels which
will continue to deserve their reclame
until superseded by more adequate
achievements. These include A House Is
Built, Pageant, The Passage and the un-
finished Brent tetralogy. (Why does it
remain unfinished?) There is Tiburon
by a rising writer, clearly, if perhaps
unconsciously, influenced by Brent.
Burnt Sugar gives not one but' two
separated communities each full of char-
acters vividly alive. Coonardoo must
be put on this list, because, though it is
not so crowded, the writer conveys that
this is due to the population actually
being scanty and not merely forgotten or
ignored. And there is a Queensland
novel still in manuscript which may be
the daddy of the collection, and of whiqh
an overseas manuscript reader has com-
plained, in a superior manner and bor-
rowed phrase, that everything has been
included but the kitchen stove. It is
longer than anything here named, but
to my lively entertainment and enlight-
enment has not one character or prop-
erty too many.
There will presently be writers succeed-
ing gloriously in portraying the Aus-
tralian scene by means of a few char-
acters, as well as by many ; I am simply
trying to point out that at present those
of the full canvas are the more success-
ful, and to advance a possible reason for
this.
The other arm of the observation, that
the characters in Australian novels are
usually all alive, could likewise be the
result of conditions here indicated. In
localities where people are important be-
cause of their scarcity, and are depen-
dent upon and thrown upon each other
iff the full meaning of the term of neigh-
borliness, they are conscious not only of
evei T olher family, but of every casual
worker or transient that enters the circle,
® ach Person's drama is interwoven with
tha J ° f *5 others, and becomes of vital
smallest possessions are an open inven-
tory. The motor-car and aeroplane are
modifying, but have not yet transformed,
conditions which result from people
knowing each other not merely on one
facet of their personalities but in a variety
of circumstances, in adversity or pros-
perity, all the year through, and during
their lives or for a considerable section of
them. The sparsely populated scene thus
preserves and furthers the deeper culture
of intimacy in the round with a number
of people of both sexes, of all ages and
pursuits, and of diverse creeds. The
person thus educated knows that
humanity is not a mere mass or “the
masses.” To him it is a community of
differentiated beings each with a speak-
ing part in an inclusive comedy,
MILES FRANKLIN.
Romance-
Reality?
On September
21 at' its general
monthly meeting
the Fellowship
of Aus t r alian
Writers affirmed that “Literature should
be romantic rather than realistic,” and
invited Sydney University to come on
and prove that it shouldn’t. The Uni.
did so, at least to the satisfaction of the
adjudicator, who “decided in favor of
the University team.”
It is a colorful subject for debate,
popular and attractive ; but, all said and
argued, is there anything in the affirma-
tion to debate? Fiction being the only
branch of literature in question, isn’t'
what is known as “realism” contained
in the comprehensive “romance”? In a
40 years’ devotion to these and kindred
matters I have not yet achieved even the
discovery of which is which.
Pilate has his weary “What is truth?”
and Shakspeare his golden faith: “No-
thing is, but thinking makes it so,” and
between the two we seem to be
struggling, debating which god to serve.
I submit that in serving either the literary
creator serves both, under the compre-
hensive heading of his profession of
romance.
Ajax and Zeus and the lightning are
the realism, the facts of their scene;
what gives them potency, lifts them into
life, is the romance of Ajax’s defiance
of the lightning. Which couldn’t work
without the realism.
Don Quixote is a romantic fool, tilting
at windmills and dreams (nothing is, but
thinking makes it so), whose name has
become the epithet for selfless folly. He
is a denial of reality, a figure of fun
because he is a pure romantic. If there
were no such thing as the realism he
denies, no bitter background of fact
mocking behind his dreams, how could
he come into beingf? It is the acknow-
ledged unpresented realism that makes
the figure work.
Micawber is traditionally too ridiculous
from the realistic angle. But we see him
in the realistic squalor of hunger and
lies and pawntickets as well as in the
romantic glow of telling Heep where
he gets off or making a succulent meal
out of a half-cooked joint. We see him
on alcoholiday, and gesticulating on the
dry rocks of despair. He is a brave,
optimistic fool wherever we see him, but
what, realistically, is wrong with that?
Are courage and inviolate faith in
destiny unreal, with all the Micawbers
that we know and meet day by day?
In my nonage I was warned against a
dreadful realist named Zola •; he struck at
the very roots of the family and re-
ligion and morality, it was whispered,
and I must never pollute my mind with
any of his works. So 1 got all his books
that I could, and found that he was a
fairly solid storyteller, apt to find his
mouthful a bit unwieldy, but with an
attractive trick of writing of men and
women as they are and of calling a spade
a spade. But he was pure romance, so
far as I could see, with this fascinating
added dodge of an oblique realistic pre-
sentation of the romantic idea that the
wages of sin is death. He was, just as
good romantic food for the mind as
Dumas, who had the same plot.
AU Quiet on the Western Front is not
realism; it is only one side of the pic-
ture of a megalomaniacal nation in de-
feat. It is a negation, a grey, squalid
cruelty interpreting nothing because
romance, the other side of the picture,
has been withdrawn from it. A day, a
year, four hopeless years being no more
than a speck of dust in the rushing wind
of Time, you can’t pin the speck down
in a book and say “This is ultimate, and
therefore there is no God.” That is
animal, material; it needs the mind of
romance to direct it into the future of
Time’s wind.
Bad Girl, a good book, has a terribly
realistic slant on the senses. It is even
hard-boiled: “On a Sunday excursion
one slim, round-breasted girl is as desir-
able as another slim, round-breasted girl,
for they are all misers.” Love, spiritual
—even • emotional—attraction is ignored
as a fairy tale; only the senses and the
moment’s physical attraction are allowed
in the pattern. But the climax: —
Dot bore down upon the pains. With
tears and perspiration running down her
cheeks, she pressed against the enemy.
Knives which she must again and again hurl
herself upon. The nurses were not with
her any more. They had -scattered to other
parts of the room. They seemed now to
be devils heightening her torture. They
ran about fussing over instruments, nickel
cauldrons, basins and lights. Boiling,
scraping, sharpening, burning, whispering
between themselves.
Only Dr. Stewart was near, bending over
her. Strong, silent and patient. Once he
smiled at her. A pain had closed in blackly
upon her. She had to smile back at him.
It would be failing him if she did not
smile
The pains increased. Dot closed her
eyes and prayed for ether or for a merci-
ful, obliterating fainting spell.
Dr. Stewart’s eyes returned to Dot, and a
loud cry escaped her lips. At the same
moment Dr, Stewart said, “Here’s your
baby!”
At eight o’clock Dot was awake. She
reached over to the table where her pocket-
book lay. Powder, rouge and lipstick in
quick succession. You couldn’t tell, she
might get a visitor even at this hour. She
ran the comb through her hair swiftly.
Pretty good now. Let the world come!
The woman on the next bed stared at
her. “Have a bad time?” she asked.
Dot’s brows wrinkled thoughtfully,
“Not bad,” she said. “Of course it hurts,
but it isn’t what it’s supposed to be. Gee,
I thought it’d be hell. No, it isn’t bad.
It’s kind of —kind of like a cramp.”
If, that isn’t romance of the spirit I’ve
wasted 40 years.
And, for our purpose, “what is truth”
in this finite world if “Nothing is, but
thinking makes it so”? Isn’t it a com-
pound of fact and dream that the
romance thus made shall interpret our
realities?
HILARY LOFTING.
Mitchel' s
“Jail
Journal”
A book that
should be of in-
terest to Austra-
lians is John
Mitchel’s Jail
Journal. Yet
when recently 1
wanted to buy a copy one was seem-
ingly not procurable in Melbourne.
Mitchel, born in County Derry in
1815, became a solicitor, and for a while
practised in his native town. In 1845
he removed to Dublin and became a con-
tributor to the “Nation,” which had been
started a couple of years earlier by a
few enthusiasts, including Charles Gavan
Duffy. Before long Mitchel and Duffy
and some of the more radical broke
away from the followers of O’Connell
and published the “United Irishman.”
Very soon they were in trouble, and in
May, 1848, Mitchel was charged with
treason and sentenced to 14 years’ trans-
portation. A fortnight later he was on
his way to Bermuda, where at that time
a number of convicts were kept in hulks
and taken ashore to work during the
day.
Mitchel, however, was not called on
to do any manual labor, and he had a
little cabin to himself and enjoyed the
companionship of a couple of shelves
of books. Within a few months the cli-
mate affected, his health, and it was
arranged that, as a number of convicts
whose sentences had almost expired were
to be transferred to South Africa,
Mitchel should be sent there on the
same ship.
The intention was that these convicts,
on arrival at Cape Town, were to be
given conditional liberty. Mitchel notes
in his Journal that it was thought there
would be opposition to the men being
landed. There was staunch opposition ;
from Sept., 1849, to Feb., 1850, the ship
remained at anchor while communica-
tions passed between the local authori-
ties and the British Government. There
was difficulty in even getting food for
the convicts, as a boycott was threatened
against anyone who sold or conveyed
supplies to the ship. It was about the
same time that in Melbourne protests
were made against the formation of a
penal settlement in Victoria. When in
August, 1849, a convict ship arrived in
Hob son’s Bay the “Argus” said: “The
convicts are in the bay and it behoves
us that they find no footing here.”
Ultimately the British Government
directed that the boat was to proceed
to Tasmania. Hobart was sighted in
April, 1850, and Mitchel wrote in his
Journal ; — ■
The mountainous southern coast of Van
Diemen’s Land! It is a soft, blue day;
soft airs, laden with all the fragrance of
those Antarctic woods, weave an atmo-
sphere of ambrosia around me....01d
Ocean smiles—that multitudinous rippling
laugh seen in vision by the chained Pro-
metheus. Even my own sick and weary
soul (so kind and bounteous is our mother
earth) feels lightened, refreshed, uplifted.
Yet there, to port, loom the mountains,
whereunto I am to be chained for years,
with a vulture gnawing my heart.
But as we lie here becalmed between
lonely wooded hills, the land seems virgin
yet, as when La Perouse sailed up the same
channel of old, startling the natives from
their kangaroo fleshpots on the shore.
These woods are all of evergreen trees;
and even from the deck I can see the long
streamers of bark peeling off their trunks
and, festooned from branch to branch; for
all this tribe, the eucalypti, shed not their
leaves but their bark. The trees seem
almost all of great height; but on the
whole the forest looks poor and ragged,
because the boughs and branches are so
{Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”--Always.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
“The Senior Store ”
“While I Live I’ll Grow’
FOR WEEK-END JAUNT
OR EXTE N DE D VACATION
A
wm
I % '.'l i*
* # *•
> “/%*■/»% I * »~V V v' V*
# «*■■•■£*&** f * ***\ *
mI*»: *!«phhbii\, *
?I , s *?*■: *>
» •*.. % * *•
? *
-? * * < f \ > - « ‘ ''\ i
", t 4 i> <~ v c * ‘' *** *> * * (i'
'« ; f,
■ x.' i a. 8 , ~ i ■+ - * 4 « ■*• - .
*
/
f - I■■ v
#. V *?
if -<?
If.
i. -
mm
• • " ’: V ' •
:., , - - ; i
. :
:? f.
i ■■* f ;
i. «
s> ' *
' itilfef
iWWI«»»lwli ! -W»«»-» -■ «.
VSA.
T ...
tmmtxzm
'
2 ,:
-%
>1
if
e
#*%
o.
ffi
i • 1
x *s&*
v»»
V
fw
n
i)
*W
1
H
p
m
tm
m
■
m
'■ M
m
M
■
f mmm
1
P
y
■
ff "iS
/
■
mm
I
ns
Ull
A
% smmm
, *
aL’>,
\*:|
■
i
B
■
1
HH
■
mm
■vdi- A*'a
c
■
■
WHS
Jj
3J52
!
MSPBR
w
1
m
n
VI
I
H
A.—WARDROBE TRUNKS, £7/15/-
Wardrobe Trunks, sturdily constructed of special vulcanised fibre
on wooden foundation. Best quality locks and fittings finished in
Black. . Also Black with Green bindings and Blue with Grey
bindings. Drawer space on one side, the other side fitted with
hangers for hanging your garments.
Junior Size. Cabin Size. Three-quarter size.
Sizes, ins 36 x 21x13 40 x 22 xl5 40 x22x 19
Prices, each '.. £7/15/- £B/17/6 £l2/12/-
B.—CABIN TRUNKS, 63/- to £6/15/-
Canvas, Vulcanised Fibre or Compressed Cane Cabin Trunks.
Strongly made, two good locks, eight leather corners, fitted inside
tray; 30in. and 33in. trunks feature three wooden battens; 36in.
feature four battens round trunks. These sizes comply with ship-
ping regulations.
Sizes, ins 30 x 21x 14 33 x2l x 14. 36 x2l xl4
Fibre. Prices, each 63/- 67/6 75/-
Canvas. Prices, each 67/6 75/- 82/-
Vulcanised Fibre, ca. 85/- 95/- 102/6
Compressed Cane, ea. .. .. .. .. .. £6/15/-
C.—COWHIDE SUITCASES, 36/- to 50/-
Leather Suitcases, strongly constructed from genuine Cowhide.
Two good locks, eight capped corners. Leather turned over strong
iron frame.
Sizes, ins 20 22 24 26 28
Prices, each 36/- 39/6 43/- .46/6 50/-
D.—LADIES’ HAT BOXES, 9/6 to 55/-
Stoutly-fashioned Ladies’ Flat Boxes, in the fashionable horseshoe
shape, made from strong fibre. Lined throughout.
Sizes, ins 16 )§
Prices ‘. 9/6 11/-
Finished with inside pocket 13/6 14/6
Finished with bound edges 21/- 25/-
Globite Vulcanised Fibre 25/- 27/6
Genuine Cov/hide • 50/- 55/-
L. Ladies Diessing Cases Fitted with all toilet requisites neatly
arranged so as to leave the case free for the packing of wearing
apparel. Prices range from £5/5/- to £l5/15/-
F.—LADIES’ BLOUSE CASES, 35/6 to 47/6
A most useful addition to the constant traveller's luggage Ladies’
Blouse Cases, made from selected Cowhide arid finished
inside pockets.
Sizes, ins. 18 ->0
Prices, each 35/6 39/6 43/6
with
24
47/6
G—Pure Wool Travelling Rugs, with fringed ends,
designs. Size 80in. x 60in. Price
Smart check-
2l-
/ Similar Rug, with plain back. Size 80in. x 60in. Price .. 27/6
© Travel Goods—Ground Floor, Pitt Street, or First Floor, George Street,
ugs On y to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
Freight paid on


conspicuous in their nakedness; and the
foliage is thin compared with the bulk of
the trunks. This is certainly the first im-
pression made on an eye accustomed to the
umbrageous masses of beech and sycamore
that build up the cathedral arches and
aisles of our European woodlands.
Mitchel was permitted to take up
residence at Both well, 46 miles from
Hobart, where he had a farm. Explain-
ing a long period he had allowed to go
by without making any entry in his
Journal he says:
Of literature I am almost sick and prefer
farming and making market of my wool.
There is something stupefying to the brain
as well as invigorating to the frame in this
genial clime and aromatic air.
His wife and five children came from
Ireland to the farm at Bothwell, but
Mitchel longed to get to some country
where the children could be given some
chance in life. He gives most interest-
ing accounts of the plans made for his
escape. At last one day he dashed into
the magistrate’s office, threw down a
letter in which he stated that he no
longer held himself bound by his promise
not' to escape, and immediately jumped
on his horse and galloped into the bush.
After many adventures he managed to
board a boat bound for Sydney, whence
he escaped to the United States.
There for some years he was a jour-
nalist, but in 1854 settled on a farm.
Twenty years later he visited Ireland and
was not interfered with by the authori-
ties. During a second visit the follow-
ing year he was elected to represent an
Irish constituency in the House of
Commons, but within a few weeks he
was dead.
Though Mitchel called his book the
Jail Journal, he spent very few days in
a gaol, none at all in Tasmania. In his
three years there he wandered over a
great part' of the island and wrote many
fine descriptions of the country, in this
vein:
Gardens, indeed, are a luxury in which
the soil and climate afford all facilities
and temptations. All the flowers that
grow in English gardens, and many of
those which must in England be protected
by greenhouses, thrive and flourish here
with little care; and some of the orna-
mental flowering shrubs, for instance, the
common hawthorn and sweet briar which
have been brought from Europe by the
colonists, blossom in Tasmania more
richly than at home. There is now hardly
a settler’s home without hedges of sweet
briar; and they are more uniformly and
all over radiant, both summer and winter —
in summer with roses, in winter with scarlet
berries —than I ever saw hedges before.
Besides the imported European flowers and
shrubs, there are some very beautiful native
trees, generally found in deep mountain
valleys, which add much to the glory of the
gardens; but the colonists usually prefer
surrounding their new houses with some-
thing that will remind them of the old;
so that all over the country, round the cot-
tages, instead of the gorgeous gojden-
flowered mimosa, you may see the more
lowly but not less golden gorse, called
in the north of Ireland whin.
It is a pity that a book by one capable
of such pleasant writing and of interest
to the student of history should be per-
mitted to fall into the limbo of for-
gotten things.
GERALD BYRNE.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS .
CHRISTINA STEAD
THE element of fantasy, so in
The Salzburg Tales, has a much
smaller part in Christina Stead’s latest
novel, The Beauties ami Furies
Davies; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.).
Where it is attempted it is packing in the
accustomed richness. On the other hand
ihe book is more free from the obscuran-
tism of Seven Poor Men of Sydney. It
appears to owe something to Aldous
Huxley, for, while it does not carry his
philosophic and sociological overburden,
some of the characters and scenes have
a strong resemblance to those with which
that astute pamphleteer seasons his
chapters.
The story is simple enough. Elvira
Western leaves an ordinarily satisfactory
husband in England to join Oliver, her
lover, in Paris, and after a brief experi-
ence of him returns to the arms of her
strangely accommodating spouse.
It is questionable whether it is cor-
rect to speak of the persons in the story
as characters. They seem rather to be the
personification of certain human qualities,
chiefly forms of decadence. They are
mostly lechers, and some of them —
Blanche, for instance —of a most spec-
tacular kind. Elvira is a squaw whose
true home is somewhere in Suburbia,
but who has been temporarily led astray.
Oliver —an utter bounder —is an arm-
chair Red who’ll do anything for the
workers except get off their backs. Mar-
purgo, an epicure, half-mad, tortured by
disease and sexual impotence, has his
moments of kindness, though a malevo-
lent motive is usually to be seen behind
them. Georges and his partner dabble
in various schemes for duping the
public ; they are businessmen whose one
question is: “Can you put it across?”
These, with an assortment of cafe loungers
and drunkards, comprise the company.
Humor—of a satanic kind—forms a
fairly large part of the book’s contents.
It is rather funny, for instance, when
Elvira, on the first night she and Oliver
are together, says: “Kiss me, Paul—l
mean, Oliver.” Later, when she is leav-
ing him after learning that he has been
guilty of unfaithfulness with Blanche,
Coromandel and several others un-
known: “You told me in England that
a person who remained faithful too long
became a turnip. Well, you’re a Brussels
sprout of infidelity.”
The strange and sometimes even start-
ling similes that are part of Christina
Stead’s style occur here as in her pre-
vious work. On the lovers’ first night
in Paris they are with Marpurgo, who
has just returned to the city after long
absence. “The advertisements in red,
blue and green neon tubes bloomed
softly in and out. The broad, blue-
crayoned streets were full of hoots, horns
and wind instruments of motor-cars, hur-
ried animals hailing as they passed. The
cafes were full, their terraces planted
with clients, like conservatories with pot-
plants. Marpurgo expanded, sniffing up
a thousand details with the animal de-
light' of a dog reconnoitring fence posts.”
The Beauties and Furies, though quite
amusing in its own way, will be dis-
appointing to many who, on the strength
particularly of The Salzburg Tales > rated
the author very high. Just how seriously
she herself takes the present volume it
is impossible to say.
$ * *
NO SURRENDER
Romantic is the label of so much
commercial shoddy that in applying it to
The White Hare, by Francis Stuart
(Collins ; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.),
there is danger of raising prejudice
against a good novel. The difficulty can
best be got around by saying at the out-
set that it is a rare and beautiful piece
of work, tender, mirthful and coura-
geous ; a book essentially for those who
have found life a hard bargainer, but not
necessarily for those so immature of
mind as to expect good things for the
mere grabbing. It is the story of a happy
even though ultimately forlorn love be-
tween a girl of 20 and a boy of 11,
the latter a quaint and amusing little
figure, his head full of lofty concepts, a
small ghost, as it were, of chivalric
legend.
Dominic and his brother Patrick, aged
22, live among the collapsed glories of
their family heritage in County Galway,
receiving irregular support from their
father, Mike, who earns a precarious liv-
ing as a journalist in Paris. Into the
boys’ lives come Hylla. It soon becomes
apparent that she is, in Dominic’s phrase,
“on their side”; i.e., a romantic who
yields nothing to drab expediency. There
is a strong spiritual affinity between
Dominic and Hylla. She marries Pat-
rick, as she subsequently realises, so that
she can have Dominic with her. Patrick,
it seems reasonable to believe, is willing
to share her with his child brother.
Dominic meet's disillusionment early,
and survives it. Mike, a Dominic who
many years ago took a wrong turning,
comes back to Rosaril, ostensibly to write
a book, actually to drink himself to death.
He pretends, for material reasons, to
lend ear to certain scandal concerning
Hylla, and Dominic experiences the ache
of blasted faith. Mike is “on the other
side.” Not that the child loves him the
less; it is just that one of the battalions
of his small army has fallen away. The
story of the relationship between Hylla
and Dominic is told exquisitely and with
touches of humor that prevent any feel-
ing of mawkishness, but it inevitably
reaches a point where, with the boy’s in-
creasing years, it takes on a different
quality. It is a cruel experience for
Dominic. Honor and brotherly love have
a place in his creed, so, expecting to be
understood, he leaves Hylla and Patrick,
with whom he has been living in Dublin,
and returns to Rosaril. He is 15 now.
Hylla, who had not foreseen the develop-
ments that time would effect, is hurt,
too. She goes once to the vicinity of
Rosaril to see Dominic, but is careful
to keep out of his sight, for she is with
child to Patrick. Dominic cannot make
terms with life. He is committed to his
love for Hylla, and, being what he is, is
unable to accept some lesser substitute.
Without going near her to say “good-
bye” he ships out of Dublin —unfortu-
nately on a leaky freighter.
In the days that follow his trouble is
that he cannot call her image clearly to
mind. That power comes to him when
the foundering ship is awash. “He had
made his little bow to an earth on which
it seemed he had appeared 10 years too
late. All the same he had gathered his
treasure. As he whispered her name
over and over it was not with anguish
or despair, but with an inflection of sur-
prise at the miracle that had made her
his bride.” The point there seems to
be that even imminent death could not
rob him of himself.
Though many fine romances have
been written it is difficult to recall one
that has romance as its theme, or any
that both in narrative and treatment so
successfully capture the right feeling. Of
course there will be many who will
regard the story of an enduring love be-
tween a woman and a child as prepos-
terous, or, failing that', will detect in it
some unrevealed sordidness. They will
be the realists, styled incurable.
* « * *
WHERE IS THE GLORY?
Leave Us the Glory, by Frederick
Howard (Michael Joseph ; Dymock’s;
7s. 6d.), whose first novel, The Immi-
grant, though not very widely read in
Australia, went into four editions in
Britain, is one of those books that give
critics furiously to think about the
canons of their art, for, upon the face
of it, it ranges itself in a major category.
It has both the subject matter and the
literary competence to make it a fine
book ; but with all the ingredients as-
sembled it lacks something to make it
vital. It' is the story of Charlotte Steyne,
her son Christopher and their conquest
of the modern world. The Steynes are
descendants of Napoleon through a
liaison in his last days on St. Helena with
the Flemish wife of an English subaltern.
Christopher, the great-grandson and final
heir of the great adventurer, is the poor
little rich boy to whom everything comes.
He is born on his father’s station in the
Riverina, deserts it for journalism in
Sydney, pioneers advertising on a large
scale, later goes to England, where he
reaches the giddy heights of his profes-
sion as editor of one of the great Fleet-
street dailies, fights through the war as
a propagandist and finally returns to
Australia and ever bigger business.
Always his mother stands behind him,
the motive power of his life.
The book’s title is curiously at vari-
ance with its theme unless Howard has
perpetrated a cynical parallel between
Napoleon’s victories and Christopher’s
journalistic successes. (The pen is
mightier than the sword.) But, if so, it is
a point that does not emerge at all
clearly; the St. Helena incident remains
unconvincing, and is without much sig-
nificance in the working out of the nar-
rative. The first part of the story is
written in outline, slightly reminiscent of
Martin Mills’s style in The Mont forts,
and suggests that Napoleon will over-
shadow the book just as the shadow of
Madeline du Remy des Beaux haunted
Mills’s book ; but, no, the author, per-
haps fearing that it would be rather
banal to do what is expected, abandons
the Napoleon motif altogether.
The trouble with Leave Us the Glory
is that it attempts too much and is too
uncritical in its means. It moves in
several directions at once, and does not
reach any of its goals. It would be a
dynastic novel on the grand scale, but the
author seems half afraid such things are
unmodern and draws back at the last
moment. It would take the growth of a
nation and the rise of a city for its back-
ground, but it skimps the picture and
lets it degenerate into a conventional
satire of manners. There are flashes of
fine description, but the rural motif is
broken off short when Christopher
leaves the Riverjna, and, later, a half-
hearted attempt to throw a glamor
around Sydney is abandoned. It would
be a social satire, but its satire is stereo-
typed and has only flippancy in place of
bite and conviction. It would people its
world with characters, eccentric but liv-
ing ; but the Wattapeughs, the Planks,
the Suliemans are only exhibits. It
dabbles in purple patches and achieves
only the meaningless. For comedy it
has farce, as in the story of the fire
which is Christopher’s introduction to
journalism. It is a vista, not of life,
but of events, the story of people flood-
lit from without but not illumined from
within.
Leave Us the Glory is like a picture
painted on glass; it is as cold, as thin,
as rootless.
* * *
A FLEMISH PEASANT
Old Jan, by Stijn Streuvels (George
Allen and Unwin; Angus and Robert-
son ; 7s. 6d.), a study of a clod, has two
ends and a middle in a very special
sense, for Jan in old age finds his way
back to scenes among which he would
have happily remained all his days had
not an unkind fate made him the legatee
of a very small estate. He was stable
boss and ploughman on a manorial
farm, one of a large number of male
and female hands. He had the care of
the grey draught horses which he loved
and of which he was proud, and to which
he was superior at any rate by virtue ot
the power of speech—a faculty he
used but sparingly. The death of his
father places him in possession of a few
acres and a cottage in the flat country—
landscape after Corot —and, abandoning
his horses, thitherward he goes, afoot,
with his bundle on his back. He goes
unwillingly, almost weepingly, but his
legacy has been made a matter of such
importance by his workmates on the
farm that he feels it is the thing to do.
He is a driven ox, lowing his discon-
tent, but answering the goad; and is
that all his life.
He settles down to cultivating the
ancestral patch; livestock, one goat;
implements of cultivation, a spade and
a hoe, and every evening the tools have
to be wiped shiny lest rust shorten their
period of service. He marries the woman
on the adjoining patch because the
people in the village nod and wink when
their names are mentioned. By now it has
become clear that Jan, who in the early
chapters of the book had an individual
value, is intended to typify the scatter-
ing of human figures, near and distant,
that can be seen hunched over hoes on
the flat landscape that stretches every
way from the door of his cottage. He
and Vina have more children than they
can properly care for, because not hav-
ing so many would mean taking thought.
They work from the crack of day until
after dark for enough crude provender
to give them strength to repeat the pro-
cess to-morrow. (The family goat has
much the best time of it.)
Jan loses his patch through a debt for
tucker, and goes to work for someone
else. Vina, in the meantime, has died,
worn out with hoeing and child-bear-
ing. The boys, to get enough to eat, go
to work in a distant brickyard. Jan
loses his job, and in his old age becomes
a carrier, leading a decrepit donkey,
hitched to a little cart, from farm and
mill to village. His hopes are on the
boys coming home; but when they do
come it is only to mock him, to knock
him about and to drown his donkey in
a creek. Blind now and almost' witless,
old Jan gropes along the roads asking
to be directed to the farm where he was
once a happy ploughman. By a miracle
he finds it.
The people he knew there are dead or
gone, but there are kind hands who bed
him down on the straw in the stable,
and there, panting, dying, but at last
tremulously happy, he listens to the
stamping of hooves, the smell of horses
and the munching of their jaws. It is
not a particularly enlivening tale, but it
grips, for Streuvels knows his subject and
can write. Furthermore, Jan is by no
means lacking in human worth, and the
reader —to quote what someone else has
said —is led to follow his story by the
reflection: “There, but for the grace
of God, go I.”
F. D. D.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION ...
Choose a Bright Morning : Hillel Bern-
stein (Gollancz ; 65.). An American dil-
ettante millionaire who has donated a
statue of its hero to an imaginary Euro-
pean country pays a visit to Europe. The
excursion provides the author with
opportunities for satiric tilting at insti-
tutions ranging from ancient myths to
modern dictators. Throughout he ex-
hibits a preference for the obvious, but
handles it with commendable freshness.
An example, at his best:
Many a man has been goaded into great
deeds simply through the necessity of get-
ting away from an unpleasant wife. Sheer
desperation makes him find a cause and a
mission. I had often wondered about the
Crusaders; had even gone so far as to
subsidise a young man to write a true his-
tory revealing why they were so eager to
leave their homes and fight in foreign parts.
The subsidy proved premature; the young
man was not ready for his task. With the
advance money I gave him he got married,
and forgot the Crusades. A couple of years
later, however, he came back. He said he
was now prepared psychologically to write
the history. Would I subsidise him again?
Sara Alelia: Hildur Dixelius (Philip
Allan ; Bs. 6d.). One of these grim, re-
lentless, gloomy Nordic sagas. Opens
with adultery, and the rest is penance.
Sara is a living figure, but the idiom is
foreign and many of the characters are
ununderstandable.
Happy Return: L. W. Vedrenne
(Methuen; 7s. 6d.). Two sisters loved
the same man. One married him; the
other seduced him later. The women
characters are masculinely frank and out-
spoken, and some of the men exhibit an
essentially feminine instinct in sex
matters. These post-war symptoms have
seldom been so clearly defined in fic-
tion. Literary style is attractive.


Nozac
df
Conklin
brings you everything
that*s new in pens.
Every important new detail of
design, construction and per-
formance developed by the
fountain pen industry is
embodied in the CONKLIN
NOZAC in tested forms that
provide the maximum of
writing performance and
dependability.
Priced at 30/- and 40/-.
Pencils to Match, 25/-.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Sackless,
Visible Ink Supply.
The Word Gauge (exclusively
Conklin).
Speedy., Unfailing Mechanical
Filler.
Modish Colours of New
Design.
Improved Nib with Friction-
less Foint.
Advanced Styling.
Sensible Prices.
From all Stationers, Jewellers
and Departmental Stores.
Foremost in the
Metropolis
THE
TELEGRAPH
Queensland's Premier Newspaper
/
A nnounces
A Unique
Achievement
Latest circulation figures
show beyond all doubt that
“The Telegraph” predomi-
nates in the whole of the
Greater Brisbane Area.
No wonder that
Local Advertisers prefer
(< The Telegraph”
Queensland Owned and Controlled.
Greatest in Greater Brisbane.
FORWARD EXCHANGE 1 CONTRACTS
w
tC
.. a protection to TRADERS
Importers and Exporters can arrange a defi-
nite exchange rate for future transactions by
making a forward exchange contract with the Bank
of New South Wales.
Contracts can be made for money transfers, at
specified future dates, to and from Great Britain,
America, Europe, and elsewhere, at lowest rates.
This special exchange service is designed to protect
traders against fluctuations in foreign currency
values.
Experienced officers of the Bank are available to
advise all traders on any exchange problems.
'v- c/autn frt/aZeJ
ESTABLISHED 1817
233 A. 1936
sdf
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
tludit
■BUREAU OF
.CIRCULATIONS
PpS3
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering- Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North.
Pull information, eoniea and advertising rates obtainable from
S R AT*Pan H ISM! wPn 5 L J D '* 71 " 75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
to
T i i' U f K r , a f l ° , i' n " THE BULLETIN" take, your fancy, write
the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
fl ITleasure of
Prosperity
.SR.
PI
m
■ ■
9-
W
//
&K
23,000 mimeil..
There are 23,000 dairy
farmers in New South
Wales, to whom “ cream
cheques ” mean a lot. In
fact, since dairying rep-
resents over £2,000,000 a
year in exports, cream
cheques mean much to
everyone in the State. It is
not generally realised that
exports of butter have
jumped from 19,000,000 lbs.
(value £1,405,000) in 1929
to 46,000,000 lbs. (value
£2,000,000) last year — a
notable contribution to the
rehabilitation of the State’s
position, directly resulting
in increased wealth for the
community.
The Rural Bank is taking
a prominent part in de-
veloping the dairying in-
dustry, rendering financial
assistance through all
stages of production and
distribution.
The Bank depends on
its own resources—includ-
ing the transaction of
general banking business
—for the money it lends,
and appreciates the sup-
port of the general public
in the useful work it is
doing. It welcomes
further business.
All Branches, situated in
representative centres
throughout the State,
accept interest-bearing
fixed deposits and cheque
accounts from all sections
of the community.
Jhe jfif ’
RURAL
BANK'nsw
SERVING THE STATEi
Commissioners ; C. R. McKERIHAN, President. H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS.
mid Cat
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
October Issue Now on Sale.
CHAIN STORES
PAYMENTS TO EXECUTIVES
FEDERAL BUDGET
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
„„. , PRICE 2 l' PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
uMished by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE,
PARA
■ wmm
m
■
■
IIIIIIM
m
1 i
V
■
■
■
1
Mm
m ■
m
M
Another Interior View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars.
um


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2956.
October 7, 1936.
THE BANTAMWEIGHT “AGGRESSOR.”
The Lyons Government, asked for its views on the reform of the Leagur Covenant, Proposes 'the automatic operation of sanctions against an aggressor.' But it is
pointed out that aggression might be a smal State's one means of frustrating an attach by a larger State
"Yes, Mr. Eden, It's a very bad case of aggression. And, of course, Mr. Eden, you will decide everything for us, as always.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252 IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
POLITICS AS A CALLING.
In Queensland, Government clerks have to belong to
a Labor-union, and the Labor-union sends delegates to
Labor conferences, and the delegates sometimes be-
come members of Parliament, who, of course, are paid.
In 1931 the president of the union was a Mr. W.
J. Copley and the vice-president a Mr. F. M. J.
Baker. Both indulged in criticism of the “Tory”
Government then in office at Brisbane, and the
“Tory” Government hit back by issuing orders that
they were to be transferred from the city to the
country. Both elected to resign, and, being billed as
interesting martyrs, were compensated with seats in
Parliament. Mr. Baker became M.H.R. for Griffith
(called Oxley then), and Mr. Copley M.L.A. for
Bulimba, which is part of the Griffith electorate;
incidentally, at the same State election Mr. P. K.
Copley, a brother, was returned for Kurilpa, another
subdivision of Griffith. He does not come into the
picture.
United in adversity and good fortune, and with
two hearts that beat as one for the Cause, Mr. Baker
and Mr. W. J. Copley nevertheless fell out. According
to that great poet Anon., “the falling out of faithful
friends renewing is of love” ; but it was not so in this
case. Mr. Baker’s version is that Mr. W. J. Copley
became fired with the ambition of grabbing the Griffith
seat for himself, “and friction developed into open
feud.”
The whole ol my Federal division has been split
into two camps—followers of Mr. W. J. Copley and
followers of myself. I lost control of my executive;
we dissolved the old executive and a new one was
appointed, which again put me in control.
And, like General Trochu, Mr. J. T. Lang, Major
Douglas and other great men, Mr. W. J. Copley (again
in Mr. Baker’s version) had a Plan:
He was to step into my place as Federal member,
and the alderman for Bulimba, Mr. McAuliffe, was
to become State member, and Mr. Tyrrell, Alderman
McAulilfe’s right-hand man, was to succeed Alderman
McAuliffe. Alderman McAuliffe is secretary of the
Cannon Hill branch of the A.L.P., and the Copley-
McAuliffe faction controls it.
The climax arrived when the “Courier-Mail” came
out with a report of a speech alleged to have been
made by Mr. Baker at “a social gathering of the
Cannon Hill branch” at which all the “comrades” were
present. In this report —it was headed “Labor
Member’s Indictment” —he was represented as having
“charged the State [Labor] Government with failure
to adequately handle the unemployment prob-
lem” (“he instanced how lamentably the Government
had failed, though elected for six years”), declared
that Federal Labor would “vest control of the mone-
tary policy of Australia in the hands of the elected
representatives in order to provide money for the
unemployed,” and promised that Federal Labor would
also strive for “the abolition of State Parliaments,
which were a source of expense to the taxpayer.”
According to Mr. Baker, the report was false.
He spoke at the social gathering, but in his speech
there was no reference to unemployment, and the
State Government was mentioned only in glowing
terms.
He read the false report about half-past seven in
the morning and, “greatly perturbed and upset,”
hurried to the “Courier-Mail” office. There. he was
told he would have to come back, as the editor had
not arrived, and this was repeated when he returned
at quarter to eleven. At eleven o’clock he had to
face three members of the Q.C.E. (“Queensland
Central Executive” of the Labor organisation), having
been summoned to the Q.C.E. office by the then
secretary—the Q.C.E. telephone, it seems, had started
buzzing at nine o’clock. At this meeting
Mr. Baker was brought sharply to book. It was
inquired of hint whether he had written the document
lie the report! or expressed the sentiments expressed
in the paper. He was told there was no room for him
in the party if he had.
He replied that the report was bogus, and repeated this
to the “Courier-Mail” editor. The editor produced
the manuscript to Mr. Baker and to the Q.C.E. vice-
president and secretary. It was typed on notepaper
issued to members of the Federal Parliament and
there was a covering letter signed "F. M. J. Baker.
The signature was a forgery.
All this and more came out during the hearing
of an action in which Mr. Baker claimed £2OOO from
the “Courier-Mail” for defamation (he got £1000).
Plaintiff asserted that the forged signature was in the
handwriting of Mr. W. J. Copley. As a State member,
Mr. W. J. Copley would have no difficulty in getting
access to the Federal members’ room at the G.P.0.,
but the typing had not been done on either of the
machines provided for the use of members there.
A C. 1.8. “handwriting expert” in a written state-
ment gave it as his opinion that the signature was
not Baker’s and that the person who wrote it had
also written “W. J. Copley, Kurilpa A.L.P., Bth March,
1935,” and other words on “a printed form headed
‘Australian Labor Party, Queensland Central Execu-
tive.’ ”
Mr. W. J. Copley, through a barrister, asked for
leave to go into the box. Counsel for both parties
to the action informed Macrossan, J., that they did not
intend to call him. His Honor said it was a difficult
and delicate position, but the evidence proposed to be
given would have no bearing on the actual issues, and
he was precluded by law from acceding to the request.
“You are not trying Mr. Copley,” said the Judge
to the jury; nor will his electors try him until he has
been heard. But the public has a right to arrive at
conclusions on undisputed features of the case.
Mr. Baker was described in the statement of
claim as a member who had “no other occupation
or means of livelihood.” He admitted not only that
he had been “brought sharply to book” by the
gentlemen of the Q.C.E., but that his means of
livelihood was in their hands.
The Federal-election nominations close on November
14, and l will be either endorsed or not by the Q.C.E.
There is no appeal.
Lord Mayor Jones, called as a witness for the plaintiff,
said: “I do not think anyone can claim that the
unemployment problem has been solved, and while
there are unemployed I would not claim that the State
Government has adequately handled, it.” Refreshingly
frank; but let us return to Mr. Baker:
If you honestly held the view that the Queensland
Government had failed on the unemployment problem
would it have been a breach of discipline to tell the
meeting?—To tell a public meeting.
If another member of the A.L.P. held the view is he
free to express it at a gathering of the A.L.P.? —No.
This is not what the people bargained for when they
sanctioned payment of members. Still, this ignoble
development of machine politics is by no means
peculiar to Queensland or to its A.L.P.; other States
and parties can show examples of “inner-group”
despotism and cringing servility and shabby intrigue
and sickening humbug. It all suggests that Australia
is paying too many members, and that Australia would
get better service and less domination by irrespon-
sibles and less wirepulling and less crawling if it
reserved full-time jobs for Commonwealth legislators
only—attendance fees would be enough for the others.
Cabinet Minister and Company
Director.
In N. S. Wales of recent months, councillor after
councillor has been prosecuted for having violated the
Local Government Act by receiving “profitable
advantages” barred by that measure, which is about
the strictest of its kind in the world.
In one case a member of the Sutherland Council was
fined £5O because a firm of motor suppliers of which
he is a director had got a Sutherland Council tender
for four trucks and a car. He appealed to Quarter
Sessions, and on its being proved that he had absented
himself from the meeting at which tenders were con-
sidered and had taken no part in the discussions the
fine was waived. But, sitting again as alderman, he
received another summons, for the Act says that any
offence, technical or otherwise, disqualifies an aider-
man from sitting: penalty, £5O for every meeting.
He resigned, and at the general election was returned
at the head of the poll. His legal expenses amounted
to over £lOO.
In another case a solicitor at Port Macquarie was
fined £5O for having, as member of the local council
and of the golf club, been a party to an agreement
whereby the club agreed to pay rent if the links on
a public reserve were improved. He was adjudged
to have become interested in an agreement with the
council, though his only material interest was an
annual subscription of a guinea. A Supreme Court
appeal was unsuccessful.
A third case was harsher still, the victim being a
cripple from youth. Seven times Mayor of Glen Innes
and councillor of Severn shire (president for 3| years),
he was voted 10s. per meeting to cover the cost of a
conveyance. He could not show that he spent the
whole 10s., so he was fined £5O and disqualified from
holding office for a year.
It must have astonished these gentlemen to read
in the daily newspapers last week that the Senator
McLachlan who is Postmaster-General had taken
time off from his Ministerial duties to attend the
annual meeting of shareholders in the Hume Pipe
(Australia) company and address them as chairman.
As a matter of fact, he has been chairman for some
years.
And the chairman-Minister’s address suggested the
possibility of a conflict of interests—or, at least, ot
convictions —between his company and his Govern-
ment. He said: —■
Twenty-five per cent, of the company’s net profits
were absorbed by the Governments of Australia and
New Zealand.
Apparently the company considers these exactions
excessive (and no doubt they are). Suppose it decided
on a protest to the Government of which Mr.
McLachlan is a member: who would make it, and
to whom?
A considerable programme of new works has already
been announced by Governments and municipal bodies,
and there are indications that a further increase in busi-
ness may be anticipated.
There certainly are! And Mr. McLachlan s
Government is broadening the “indications by pro-
viding £lOO,OOO a year for ten years to subsidise
interest and sinking funds on loans raised for public
works by local governing authorities” (colleague
Casey's words) and becoming a party to letting Sydney
Water Board go on the market for the first of a series
of million-pound loans. Each is a questionable
departure from Commonwealth financial precedent.
The salaries of the executive staff have been restored
by the amounts by which they were cut during the
depression, and the directors will restore their own fees.
By a coincidence which the beneficiaries might esteem
happy, the Ministry to which the chairman belongs
has done the very same thing.
The new Humeogeneous pipe continues to attract
attention Hume Steel, in which this company holds
a large parcel of ordinary shares, continues to make
progress to such an extent that it has to rely on this
company for considerable finance.
Hume Steel (the Postmaster-General is on the board)
makes concrete-lined steel pipes for water-supply
schemes, such as the Sydney Water Board is launching
in profusion. Its products, as well as those of Hume
Pipe (Australia), sell best when Governments and
Water Boards are spending briskly, and Hume
factories are, of course, protected. No harm
in that, and The Bulletin hopes to see both com-
panies grow and prosper ; but it does not think that
they are entitled to have a Commonwealth Minister
on their boards. If they are, other companies equally
worthy may fairly claim the same right; and there
are not enough Commonwealth Ministers to go round.
Possibly because of Senator McLachlan’s example,
it is no longer rare to see names of responsible
public men on company literature. Mr. Willcock, now
Premier of Westralia, allowed his name to go on the
prospectus of a prospecting syndicate when he was
Minister of Justice. And, as stated elsewhere, a very
disingenuous printed document inviting the public to
subscribe for £5 shares in the Mammoth East Gold
Mining Syndicate, Tennant Creek, mentions “Maurice
Boyce Duffy, Director of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia,” as being on “the management committee.”
Mr. Bruce had different ideas. When he became
Prime Minister he abandoned all share in the direction
of the softgoods business he had inherited from his
father. His example is commended to public men
with other views, and in cases where it is not followed
it should be enforced.
Non-competitive Air Services.
Having accumulated losses amounting to £28,178,000
in 10 years, the N.S.W. Government Railway Depart-
ment is pining for other worlds to conquer.
(The £28,178,000 is the Auditor-General’s estimate,
but he points out that it needs to be amplified, since
“insufficient provision is made for depreciation and
renewals, no provision is made for bad debts or for
contingent liabilities,” and expenditure on recondi-
tioning of tracks is being charged up to interest-free
loans on which the Government pays just on 4 p.c.).
The department has discovered that “air services are
highly competitive with State-owned railways and
should be linked up with rail services.”
Socialistic air services would have to stop at
State borders, for the department’s legal rights end
there ; and it can't see beyond State borders, anyhow.
So the departmental ’planes would most probably be
of limited range and useless for national defence,
though national defence is a thing State transport
departments never bother; about. And since the
socialistic air services would inevitably go the way
of the socialistic railways and tramways, all enterprise
would be stifled in a field wherein enterprise is the
be-all and end-all of things, and other Kingsford
Smiths and Percivals would be driven abroad.
Nevertheless, the practice of the U.A.P. Govern-
ment that saved Australia (or was it the Southern
Hemisphere?) is to let Government departments (a)
do what they like and (b) spend as much as they like,
so N. S. Wales is likely to have socialistic air services
“linked up with State railways” unless the loan money
gives out. But to give them a proper start other
things will, of course, be necessary. For example:
1. A Government airport within comfortable motor-
ing distance of Sydney. (Politicians and heads of depart-
ments prefer motoring to all other forms of land
travel, though they do what they can to bar it to other
people, especially poor people.)
2. A Government railway to the Government airport;
say, another and grander Tempe-East Hills line. Forty
miles at £60,000 a mile (rolling stock included),
£2,400,000. Estimated annual loss at £5OOO a mile,
£200,000.
3. A £500,000 building to house operating, mechani-
cal, advertising, co-ordination, passenger-traffic, goods-
traffic, book-keeping, banking, lost-property, ticket-office,
superannuation, medical and cleaning staffs. Rooms to
be air-conditioned and exterior painted green.
4. A Government restaurant, grillroom, tearoom and
pie-and-roll joint at airport, exempt from rates and
taxes. Estimated cost, £75,000. To be built alongside
or in the midst of privately-owned restaurants, grill-
rooms, tearooms and pie-and-roll joints not exempt from
rates and taxes.
5. Entrance to Government railway station at airport
to be adorned with hotel bars separated by shop windows
displaying every known variety of bottled booze. Four-
teen bars may be sufficient for a start.
6. Thumping salary-increases for tall Railway Depart-
ment poppies having any connection whatever with
air-services branch.
7. File of typed and duplicated copies of speeches
and press interviews congratulating public on first year s
financial results of new venture and dwelling on tact
that “the deficit” on the Railway and Air Services
Department “has been reduced” from £1,250,000 to
£1,700,000. , , . .
8. First-class passages and letters of credit to enable
tall poppies to study air-services development in England,
preferably about Wimbledon time. Return journey to be
made via U.S.A. and American luxury liner leaving
Pacific Slope at the same time as half-empty British
passenger steamer. , ~ ..
9. And (of course!) an Air transport Co-ordination
Act to “co-ordinate” competitive services out of exist-
ence.
Any additional suggestions that may be minted in
the brains of admirers of State enterprise should be
forwarded direct to Mr. Stevens, now back from the
trip that cost £3545 to the end of June, and bursting
with energy—fighting-fit, as it were, and ready to
save the Northern Hemisphere if necessary.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Signs of a Settlement.
In his latest statement on the trade war with Japan
Mr. Gullett has shown himself consistent —consistent
in turning and twisting on his previous “facts” like
a breathless rabbit only half a length in front of
the dogs.
He and his leader repeatedly declared that action
was taken on the Government’s sole initiative, and no
contradiction came from the British Government. On
the contrary, a London message, published in U.A.P.
newspapers on May 24, said:
Political quarters are favorably impressed with the
Australian tariff changes, especially as they were made
unconditionally. Lest foreign countries should associate
the revision with joint Anglo-Australian action, it is
emphasised at Whitehall that no -preliminary soundings
had been taken here.
Now Mr. Gullett says that “Japan’s rapid absorp-
tion of the textile market has been the subject of
constant representations to the Australian Government
lor a considerable time.” Certainly the chairman of
lhe Manchester Chamber of Commerce congratulated
his. members and the Gulletts on the “promptness with
which the Commonwealth Government acted on our
representations.” In other words, the Minister for One
Trade Treaty (an arrangement involving “substantial
sacrifices” has, it seems, been made with Belgium)
took Manchester’s hook in his gullet.
The Minister for One Trade Treaty is delighted
that “the market for new season’s Australian wool
opened strong.” No woolgrower shares this delight
when he reads that, with the statistical position never
better, greasy wool sold in Sydney from July 1 to
September 30 averaged 12.6 d. Australian per pound,
whereas the average for 1935-36 was 14.01 d. —in
1927-28 it was 19.5 d. gold.
Last week there was brisker buying, and the Sydney
turnover averaged 12.9d f Australian. It was an effect
partly of the devaluation of the franc, but more of
the feeling in the trade that the growing dissatisfac-
tion with the trade-war and hush-hush policies will
force an early settlement. Evidence of this dissatis-
faction has been concealed from readers of U.A.P.
newspapers in N. S. Wales ; Queenslanders have, how-
ever, been permitted to learn that “Government sup-
porters are becoming restive,” that “criticism is increas-
ing in and out of Parliament,” and that “even some
conservative Government supporters have been
affected.”
On Thursday, after a Country-party meeting and
a conference with woolmen, the Government came
down from its perch and “appointed an advisory
committee, composed of four Ministers and four
representatives of the industry.” The advisory com-
mittee is “to establish a link” —and presumably
prepare a soft place for Mr. Gullett to fall on. Of
equal significance is the news that two of the nine
Japanese freighters withdrawn after the .wrangle began
are to be put back into the Australian trade.
Australian Petrol.
•The other day the Prime Minister announced that he
expected the immediate development of the Newnes-
Capertee (N.S.W.) shale deposits by “a great indus-
trial concern.” Lithgow people tipped that Broken
Hill Prop, was the co. Shortly afterwards the Premier
of N. S. Wales, then at Suva, said “hydrogenation of
oil from coal is a certainty; there are no technical
difficulties.” He didn’t speak on the financial side ;
but some time back a Federal Minister mentioned
£8,000,000 as the probable cost of a hydrogenation
plant.
Broken Hill Prop, has a lot of irons in the fire—
its recent development has been amazing—but it is
to be hoped that this efficient undertaking will become
interested in the Australian production of petrol. The
co. has been considering the processing of tinplate
for three years or more, and capital was recently got
in to erect a suitable plant; but, with experts at home
and abroad studying scientific and manufacturing
developments, plant purchase has been deferred pend-
ing a survey of commercial results from new methods
in Britain and the U.S.A. When B.H.P. goes into
production of tinplate, its equipment will be more
modern than that of most overseas factories.
There is a grave danger that if either Mr. Lyons
or Mr. Stevens makes a Government undertaking of
oil extraction, whether from coal or shale, it will
go the way of other overcapitalised and obsolete
public enterprises. News of new methods in low-
temperature carbonisation, still in the experimental
stage, have filtered through from England lately, and
if the efforts of Morgan and others are successful
much less expensive plant units may result. A
concern like Broken Hill Prop.—and its affiliates, which
established Electrolytic Zinc and “have now gone into
the paper-making business” —would stand a fifty-times
better chance of producing petrol at an economic
price than any Government.
Scotch, but Scarcely Canny.
Mr. Forgan Smith’s Budget speech in the Queens-
land Parliament conveyed less information than did
the* tables attached.
For instance: —•
T . 1934-35. 1935-36. Movement.
Loan service charges (in-
terest, sinking fund and
exchange) .. .. £6,208,341 £6,268,085 Inc. £59,744
Receipts from loan works
and services .. ~ 3,038,859 2,610,368 Dec. 428,491
Deficiency charged to tax-
payers £3,038,859 £3,657,717 Inc. £488,235
In a broadcast on “The Budget and Taxation,”
the Premier referred to the interest bill as “interest
on investments ” Well, “investments” went up on the
year by nearly £4,000,000. For every £1 of decrease
in receipts from the - public-debt “investments” the
cost went up £7. Mr. Forgan Smith seems to regard
this with what he called “equanimity.” People whose
private business affairs slithered likewise would be-
come alarmed. But, then, they would be dealing with
their own money.
In the official “Classification of Loan Assets” are
the items: State enterprises, £3,895,188 ; deficits
“funded,” £7,582,263 ; to say nothing of railways
accounting for more than £66,000,000. Even the cash
balance in the Loan Fund last year earned only about
one-third of its interest cost.
The main line of defence offered by the Premier-
Treasurer for the heaviest State taxation in Australia
is that his Government finds no difficulty in spending
the proceeds. Also, he appears to have the quaint
idea that the Government can use money better than
ordinary people can use it —or could use it if they
had the opportunity.
Was It Worth While?
Death stalked the competitors in the London-
Johannesburg air race. Nine machines were engaged ;
four were designed by the Australian Edgar Percival.
One, a Percival Mew Gull, flown by Captain Halse,
was leading by hours when the pilot had to make a
forced landing near Salisbury, 685 miles from the
finish. His was the only one-man machine which
passed Lake Tanganyika, and he failed because the
strain was too great.
Victory went to C. W. A. Scott, who had Giles
Guthrie for companion, in a Percival Vega Gull. His
time was 52 hours 56 minutes 48 seconds, averaging
123.48 m.p.h. He won the London-Melbourne
race, virtually double the distance, in 72 hours; aver-
age, 185 m.p.h.
No other party finished. Three crashed ; in one
case (the machine was an Airspeed Envoy) the
co-pilot, Max Findlay, one of the finest instructors
in Britain, and the wireless operator, Morgan, were
killed. ;/
As Scott would be the first to recognise, Captain
Halse, though he came down, achieved one of the
most remarkable small-machine flights in history.
And “small” is the right word for the Percival Mew
Gull: Height, 6ft. lOin.; wing span, 24ft.; length,
20ft. 3in. It weighs, loaded, 18001 b., has a maximum
speed of 225 m.p.h. and a cruising speed of about
190 m.p.h.
As in the London-Melbourne affair, a millionaire
furnished the prize-money. It was a thrilling show;
a splendid exhibition of human skill and nerve and
mechanical genius ; but was it worth while?
A Budget Bluff.
H. C. Barnard, the member for Bass (Tas.), asked in
the House a question based on three questions put
to the Treasurer in Plain English (B. 23/9/’36). One
and the reply given to it are of importance in view of
the fact that the accuracy of a statement in the Budget
speech is involved:
What was the amount of capital which went abroad
last year, including payment of dividends to overseas
shareholders in Australian companies?—This informa-
tion is not available.
Alongside the “reply” should be placed an extract
from the official report of the Budget speech:
The slight extent t<? which the trade balance failed
to provide the £23 million sterling necessary to meet our
overseas interest bill was made good by the migration
of capital from overseas to Australia.
I The answer to Mr. Barnard shows clearly that
the statement quoted from the Budget was a mere
wild and woolly generality, designed to reassure those
nervous about the continued failure to provide an
export surplus large enough to enable Australia to
meet its overseas commitments.
If Mr. Casey does not know what amount of
’capital went abroad in this last fiscal year he obvi-
ously does not know the net migration of capital from
overseas to Australia. Consequently he wasn’t in a
position to make the claim recorded in the Budget
that the deficiency in the trade balance was made
good by an influx of capital.
The Lottery Racket.
Two Australian States have Government lotteries and
two others have lotteries which are Government-
controlled. Premier Butler, of S.A., the legislative
pioneer of legalised betting-shops, sent a royal com-
mission round the lottery-ridden provinces to collect
evidence regarding their noble developments of State
enterprise and report whether it would be advisable
for S.A. to go into the lottery business itself “for the
benefit of the hospitals and charities.” The commis-
sion is very decidedly of the opinion that it wouldn’t
be worth S.A.’s while.
It found that S.A. people contribute approxi-
mately £132,000 p.a. 4s. 6d. a head—to lotteries in
other States and draw about £79,000 in prizes. It
admits that this is a dead loss, but if lotteries were
introduced there would be a dead loss all the same.
Perhaps S.A. lotteries would bring in something like
£127,000 per annum “for hospitals and charities.” But
the £127,000 would not be net gain, for voluntary
donations and bequests would decrease; and in States
with lotteries there is a pronounced tendency to spend
the easy money on building, with the result that
maintenance costs are greatly increased.
In Queensland the existence of the lottery has not
lu* Government or the local governing authori-
ties of the burden of maintaining hospitals. In the
increased ° Ca B ° Vermng bodies the burden has greatly
In Queensland “district authorities have to find 40 per
cent, of the money required for maintenance of hos-
pitals in their own area, after deducting patients’ fees.
The position of the ratepayer in S.A. compares more
than favorably with that of the ratepayer in Queens-
land.”
And the competition for lottery money has very
sordid aspects.
Among the slogans exhibited by agents are “We turn
Jonahs into owners” and “Invest a bob and chuck
your job.”
Black cats and other alleged omens of good luck
abound at agents’ shops. Large lotteries lead to an
unhealthy growth of superstition and credulity.
The appeal is mostly to those in poor circumstances.
Witnesses agreed that subscribers were often not able
to afford the money and deprived themselves or their
children of food and clothing in order to buy lottery
tickets.
In none of the States that have lotteries is there any
prohibition against the sale of tickets on account of
age. It would not be an offence to sell a ticket to a
child of five or even younger.
It seems essential for the preservation of law and
order and of respect for the law that the States should
assist one another in the apprehension of lawbreakers
from other States. This principle appears to have been
departed from with respect to lotteries.
We have noted the failure of some of the States
having lotteries to observe the laws of sister States
which prohibit subscriptions to lotteries, and also the
active steps taken by certain States to encourage citizens
of the prohibiting States to disregard the old law.
This encouragement of lawbreaking and the baits
held out to children and to poor people to rush into
a gamble in which the chances of winning first prize
are sometimes 200,000 to 1, and the chances of winning
any prize range from 79 to 1 to 106 to 1, are perhaps
the worst features of the lottery business. But the
whole racket is discreditable, and if the Federal Gov-
ernment were half a Government it would wipe it
out and offer premium bonds instead. With premium
bonds you can have a mild flutter without losing your
money.
Melbourne Anachronisms.
The cable trams which lured people from Colling-
vvood’s Smith-street into Melbourne and helped to
make Bourke-street have been outgrown by the
concerns they nourished. Bourke-street traders want
better transport facilities.
Representatives of businesses worth millions of
pounds “view with concern the Tramways Board’s
delays and lack of provision for better transport,”
and remind the board of “the urgent necessity for
the withdrawal of the antiquated cable trams and the
immediate installation of a service in keeping with
the needs of the most highly rateable street in the
State.”
Bourke-street business is annoyed because, though
more _ than 80 routes have been “modernised” since
electric trams were introduced, its street has not
been included in the board’s recent £130,000 proposals
for further extensions and conversions.
Dr. Thomas Wood, who wrote Cobbers, found
Melbourne a city that has grown rapidly and will
keep on growing. But he set down a plea for one of
the ladders which helped it to climb—the cable
tram:
Before it is too late, and the blow falls, may I plead
for the life of this last, last ladder? If the cable
tram were done away with, people in Melbourne would
be robbed of the hope for relief from the humdrum,
for some trick of sportive Chance to brighten the
day, which every true traveller sets out with. And to
destroy this relic would snap the last link with the
Australian Middle Ages.
E. B. Myer, chairman of the concern that bears
the family name, says he doesn’t want any relic of
the Middle Ages bounding past his doors. He would
like to see cable trams banished and the Town
Hall moved up Bourke-street to the Eastern Market
site.
Mr. Myer will at least get his cable-tram wish,
and Bourke-street will probably get Dr. Wood’s “noisy,
imperious, hidebound despots” the electric trams.
Norway's Good Example.
The shipping concern of Wilh. Wilhelmsen, of
Norway, has had an Australian celebration of its
seventy-fifth anniversary. Its home is Oslo, and it has
had regular Australian sailings since 1911.
Wilhelmsens own 44 motor-ships and 12 steamers.
Fheir ships take a large proportion of our wool over-
seas, and bring back a great deal of glass, timber and
other Continental produce.
During the war, many ships of the line carried
Australian produce on a four months’ zigzag course
to Falmouth. Their captains and crews went through
many heroic adventures. One vessel, four months out
from Australia, was torpedoed off Christiansund on
Christmas Eve. Her captain spent nine days in a
German submarine and a good many months in a
German prison. He and his father before him had
been in the Australian trade all their lives ; his brother
was killed on a voyage to Australia; his only son has
settled permanently in Australia. These relationships
are typical of those of many families which have been
brought into contact with us through the peculiar
adaptability of the Norwegian for the sea.
Norway is a poor, mountainous country, and has
an area half as large again as Victoria. Its popula-
tion is about 100,000 more than that of N. S. Wales.
It gets along with a capital in which there are not
300,000 people, and it manages to govern itself on a
revenue of £23,000,000 a year—including balances
from State enterprises. And if it borrows a couple of
millions for ordinary purposes papers suggest that the
kingdom is going bankrupt.
In 1925 the Norwegian debt was £91,000,000 ; in
1935, £81,000,000. Norway has compulsory military
service and training.
Norwegian shipping companies own 3,978,000
tons, and their income gross in foreign trade is over
£20,000,000 a year. Australia with its huge coastline
and its vast isolation could do with considerably more
than Norway’s tonnage. Actually, Australia’s deep-
sea tonnage is one-twelfth of Norwegian tonnage.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mak”: While Johannesburg air-race
competitors were eating up the 6000
miles to that city, I chuckled over
a casual letter from Lae (New Guinea),
where whites and natives are more
familiar with ’planes than cars. M.
Leahy, up-country in Wau, wanted a
herd of cows, so he asked Guinea Air-
ways to bring him 15 heifers and a bull.
Air-transport experts at Lae tackled the
job without a murmur. They built a
special pen in their G3l Junkers, cajoled
the beasts up a ramp, and flew them up
to Leahy in three trips. Then, on the
Territory’s Foundation Day (September
12), 175 people from Lae, Wau and
Bulolo flew down to Salamaua for the
sports and ball. This is how New
Guinea quietly smashes more air-trans-
port records than any other country in
the world.
* * * *
“Wandana”: Why do we cling to ob-
solete titles for reading-rooms, etc.?
Motoring through some small country
towns recently, my eye caught the names
“School of Arts” and “Mechanics’ Insti-
tute” on public buildings. In one town-
ship the only mechanics '- visible were
the hands at the motor-garage, and I
doubted whether their requirements jus-
tified the big weatherboard building
further along the street. In the next
settlement the forlorn-looking hall of
corrugated iron, with a bush-timber
lean-to, belied its name “ School of
Arts” even more. There wasn’t a book
or a picture in the place, and the only
thing that might have given it a claim
to the artistic was the dance which I
attended that night. Why perpetuate
these unsuitable and inappropriate
names?
i" : i ! $
“Cowcowing”: The aerodrome at
Bullsbrook, near Perth, has been re-
named in honor of Federal Minister
Pearce. Credit for the alteration is
claimed by Archdale Parkhill, who, it
seems, was not only anxious to stick a
feather in a colleague’s cap, but regarded
the old name as “not only unsuitable but
uneuphonious.” Personally, I should have
thought it eminently suitable, if only
because of its distinctiveness; there is
a Pearcedale in Victoria and a Point
Pearce, I believe, somewhere else, but
there is (or was) only one Bullsbrook.
And why un-euphonious? It is good,
honest, mouth-filling Saxon, and (though
I am unaware of its etymology or origin)
there are doubtless local traditions
attached to it. Certainly it would be
hard to fit into lyric verse, but there
aren’t many rhymes to Pearce, if it
comes to that. And anyhow Parkhill’s
colleague’s name is already perpetuated
in a tablet on the wall of the Subiaco
(Perth) municipal chambers, where he
began his public career as a town coun-
cillor.
* * * *
“El V.”: The present youthful genera-
tion lives in a charmingly tolerant and
interested age, as witness the fate of
three youngsters —eight, six and four—
who stayed out all one recent night
watching the trains go by, while the en-
tire suburb searched for them. All that
seems to have happened to them when
discovered was that their hair was care-
fully brushed and they were handed
over, smiling sweetly, to a reporter and
photographer of the “Evening Dope,”
which treated their adventure as only
less important in the day’s affairs than
the accident to a miner who fell down
a shaft while a charge was exploding.
Now, when I was young I stayed out
all night on a much more sensible
errand than watching trains go by. I
had a 12-bore muzzle-loader, a flask of
black powder, a copy of the Rockhamp-
ton “Bulletin” for wads, seven leaden
nail heads, three lemonade bottle-
stoppers, five eager friends, a box of
caps and a firm conviction that I was
going to shoot possums. Such of the
neighborhood as was sober on pay night
searched for us even more frantically
than the Sydney kids were searched for,
since there was unanimous distrust both
“The winner gets a kiss with the chocolates ."
“ Wot’s the catch? Ain't the chocs . any good ?”
of our weapon and of us. But there was
no “Evening Dope” to immortalise us.
And, if there had been, there was no
inducement. The only part of me that
was photographically attractive after I
had been interviewed next day by my
male parent is pictorially taboo in news-
papers, even when it looks (as mine did)
like the butt end of a zebra’s pyjamas.
* * * «
“Chok Fena”: The news that Turkey’s
flagship, the Yawaz, once the German
Goeben, had got as far as Malta on a
voyage both touched and surprised me.
The last time I saw the old tub—built
1911; 22,500 tons; ran for her life,
August, 1914- —she was tied up at Ismid ;
and I was tied up there, too, for having
come into the naval zone with which
she was surrounded for about 15 miles.
Except for a mysterious munition works
which seemed to turn out one torpedo
every three-days, and cart it through the
town to the great confusion of the
traffic, the Goeben was apparently the
only reason around Ismid not only for
a closely-guarded naval zone, but for
the 17 admirals, 28 flag captains, 2228
boatswains and one midshipman who
were abroad in the environs of the base.
I was solemnly assured by one admiral
that if I ventured near the monster I
would run the risk of being shot. But
the very next admiral I met hospitably
took me on board. I carried away no
observations of use or interest to the
British Admiralty—except perhaps that
the Yawaz suffered somewhat from 8.0.
and needed a scrub down with carbolic.
* * * *
■‘Binduli”: Phil Collier (B. 30/9/’36)
is the first Labor Premier of Westralia
who has retired voluntarily, finding the
cares of office too heavy for him. His
two predecessors Daglish (1904-05)
and Scaddan (1911-16) —were forced to
resign their jobs through direct votes of
censure carried against them in the
Assembly. After that, both of them
drifted out of the party into the opposing
ranks, and were presently found holding
portfolios in anti-Labor Ministries a
common enough happening in Australian
politics.
* * * *
“Manana”: A cable in the dailies men-
tions that “(he pretender to the Spanish
throne, Prince Carlos of Bourbon,” was
knocked down and killed by a motor-car
in Vienna, at the age of 87. The deceased
seems to have been the third Carlist
pretender whose adherents gave Spain
so much trouble up to the seventies of
last century. Carlos V. (for the outlawed
line insisted on keeping its numerical
ratings) was the brother of that Ferdinand
VII. whom Napoleon dispossessed in
favor of his brother, Joseph Bonaparte,
but who was later restored to his king-
ship. Ferdinand was the great-grand-
father of Spain’s last king, Alfonso. But
the Carlist claims were never abandoned.
Carlos V. was succeeded by his son,
Carlos VI.; and he, in turn, by his
nephew, Carlos VII., the venerable Bour-
bon who was recently run over by a
car. Presumably this will end the list of
what some of the reference books style
“Carlist Legitimate Pretenders.” When
a throne no longer exists, there can
hardly be pretenders to it, and if dis-
tracted Spain wants a king again the dis-
carded Alfonso XIII. will doubtless get
the first call.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: No sooner is the £40,000
Bonython Hall opened by Adelaide Uni-
versity than it receives £lO,OOO from its
Chancellor, Chief Justice Murray, to
complete the students’*Union Club build-
ing. The women’s part of this was given
years ago by the Symon family, but the
men have so far had to put up with a
bit of the refectory, which in the plans
links it to their wing. Also, earlier this
year, the Mortlock family gave £25,000
to endow a special inquiry into the vital
Australian question of soil erosion. Since
the jubilee of the university, only 10
years ago, private gifts have totalled
over £200,000.
* * * *
“Commonsensicus”: “H i s t o r icus”
scouts the tradition that the “Stone of
Scone,” carried off by Edward I. from
Scotland and now under the Coronation
Chair in Westminster Abbey, was origi-
nally an importation from Palestine,
and suggests that it is made of Aigylc
sandstone (B. 16/9/’36). 1 wonder n
he ever had a close view of it and note
the slightly-tarnished and a PP a,e /| y
rustless rings worn almost to thread! bate
thinness. This has been attributed by
some, rightly or wrongly, to 40 years
grinding on poles across men’s shoulders
through Sinaitic deserts. In any case
the quality of the metal is more hke a
product of the high Chaldean civilisa-
tion of Jacob’s days than the crude out-
put of Argyle workmen of the sixth cen-
tury a.d. among their lonely sandstone
ridges.
* * , * . J\ Ui ....
"D-A. ; The Zulus were hardly
skilful military tacticians Der Jo g
credits them with being (B. 25/y I •
Cetewayo’s army had but one system ot
attack, a crescent formation, the horns
endeavoring to work round the enemy s
flanks and so surround him ; a manoeuvre
primarily dependent tor success on the
pronounced numerical inferiority of the
opposing side. Although the Zulus
color and agility would have made them
ideal night fighters, they invariably
attacked in broad daylight, advancing
en masse, the worst possible formation
to adopt against civilised opponents. It
is only fair to add, however, that they
showed better headwork in the short-
lived rebellion of 1906.
* * * *
“Runa”: An acquaintance of mine who
had greatness thrust upon her was a M.L
girl who, visiting in the house of a friend,
obligingly signed a petition concerning
Single Tax which the daughter of the local
M.P, was hawking round in father s
interests. The sheets of the large petition
for presentation to Parliament were put
together in a haphazard way, the page
on which the girl had signed being placed
first, with her name leading the signa-
tures. All the Dominion papers duly
reported that she was petitioning the
House to introduce Single Tax, and she
was deluged with letters from interested
readers. When the papers went overseas
dozens of foreign letters arrived to swell
her mail, and she was invited to write,
speak and lecture on what was apparently
her special subject. Having a very cloudy
idea of what Single Tax meant, she could
not accept any of the invitations, but
several enthusiastic bodies wrote to say
they had elected her an honorary mem-
ber, and offers of letters after her name
poured in. She still displays a tendency
to hysteria whenever Single Tax is men-
tioned.
* * *
“Shine-oh”: “Jigger” (B. 23/9/’36)
has counted four bootblacks in half a
mile of George-street, Sydney, and chal-
lenges others to go in search of more. It
would be a waste of time. There is one
outside the Peonle's Palace in Pitt-street
and one at the Quay, and that is all. The
main bootblacking business is done with
travel-stained folk who come off trains.
There are, however, numerous “inside”
bootblacks in hotels, shops, etc.
THE DINKUM OIL.
The foundation stone of the new buildings at the
R.M.C., Duntroon, prepared before the Minister of
Defence was knighted, was removed, at a cost of £B,
-o that “Sir” Archdale Parkhill should have his
propert title on the inscription.
No woman is expected to surrender
Tamely the lover whom she holds so dear.
Who ever knew a fellow on a bender
Submit to lose his bought-and-paid-for beer?
And, by my halidom, ’twere shame and scandal
To have a name of leading and of light
Inscribed upon a stone without the handle
That marks a belted knight!
What! Should a name enshrined in “Han-
sard’s” pages,
A household word in this our Austral clime,
Go echoing (as it must) adown the ages
And ringing through the corridors of Time,
Denied the light that beats and glows and
glisters
On patriots who’ve achieved their hearts’
desires,
And ceased to be mere unimpressive Misters
Or three-a-penny Esquires?
Perish the thought! Though narks may grouse
and grizzle,
Theirs are the vaporings of envious fools.
Ho! mason, get an edge upon your chisel!
Ho! graver, sharpen up your keenest tools!
With issues so unquestionably weighty,
To give posterity the dinkum stuff
Eight pounds are neither here nor there. Why,
eighty
Were surely little enough.
Now generations yet unborn shall gaze on,
With rapt enthusiasm, morn and noon,
l hc crisp memorials that bray and blazon
A statesman’s eminence to far Duntroon.
Some commoner, it might have been suspected,
Had laid the stone —now there’s no chance to
err:
By one three-lettered word erstwhile neglected
The world is now reminded and directed
Our Archie is—a Sir.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


.“Tristram R.”: Almost all the books
recently referred to as having been
banned in this country may be procured
without difficulty in England. An enter-
prising bookseller at Southampton hangs
out the sign: “Unobtainable in Aus-
tralia" over a section of his wares when
an Australian ship comes in. Several
shops near Australia House adopt the
same idea. When lately in England 1
noticed that every library I patronised
had Lindsay’s Redheap and The
Cautious Amorist—l borrowed both at
twopence a time! Still, there are appa-
rently some books that even the most
tolerant countries jib at. In Alexandria
1 saw a volume which sells at about 15s.
French translations of it have been
banned in Paris! The original is
Japanese.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A bootmaker in S.A. has
gone out, after a long struggle, to the
effects of a strange wound. He had
merely sat down and crossed his legs ;
but the pointed knife of the trade was
in his apron pocket, and it pierced his
thigh. For nearly three months the
wound seemed to be mending, but then
blood-poisoning set in.
* * * *
“Martini-Henry”: Those Martin-place
spectators were very wise to duck when
the military humorist dropped the muzzle
of the machine-gun and ran off a few
blank cartridges (B. 16/9/’36). Back a
few years ago two lines of Perth trainees,
exchanging blank-cartridge fire, suddenly
found a dead man in their midst, nor
was it ever satisfactorily explained how
that bullet came to be issued among the
blanks. And bullets are not the only
risks. In my militia days the punish-
ment from hard-waxed wads was not to
be lightly courted. And I once saw a
fellow-ranker with a badly lacerated
face, caused by a scrap of brass torn
from a blank cartridge.
* * * *
“Hoot Awa”: The formation in Syd-
ney of a “Highland” regiment of militia
reminds me that in the mid-’eighties
Brisbane started one. I have an old
newspaper cutting announcing that the
complete uniforms were expected from
London in the Jumna and that in con-
sequence a splendid parade through the
city by the regiment in the picturesque
garb had been arranged, while the ladies
of Brisbane were to provide the usual
“sumptuous banquet” for the warriors
in the Domain. The sequel did not
appear in print, but a rumor ran about
the city that when the uniforms were
unpacked it was found that they were
complete save for the kilts. Everything
else was there, scarlet doublets, sporrans,
hose, brogues and gaiters. Even in the
easygoing Queensland of those days it
was felt that to march the regiment
through Brisbane in sporrans and the
lest of it but without kilts might arouse
criticism, and the parade was abandoned.
* * * *
Bert the Carpenter”: Bar-room
notices? In a pub 1 saw a large frame
filled with dud cheques—each with a
strip oi stamp paper over the signature
to avoid any risk of libel action —and
below the frame was a large card which
reads:—
As man to man is so unjust,
How can 1 tell whom I can trust?
I ve trusted many—to my sorrow;
You pay to-day; Til trust to-morrow.
A storekeeper in the same town, less
cautious, wafered some cheques to the
glass of his shop window, for all passers-
by to see. Result, an action in the local
court and the awarding of damages to
one of the citizens thus pilloried.
“Gambler”; State lotteries were begun
in England in the spacious days of
Queen Elizabeth, and for 257 years they
flourished, providing the Government
with regular revenue. They were finally
banned by an Act of George IV. in 1826,
because they “corrupted the morals and
encouraged a spirit of speculation and
gambling among the lower classes, thou-
sands of whom fell victims to their in-
sinuating and tempting allurements.” It
“Have you seen that packet of blood-and-bone I bought ?”
"Yes, Henry, I threw it out. It smelt as if it were going bad.”
looks as if, in some respects, our great-
grandfathers were a lot more enlightened
than we are.
* * * *
“Fly-by-Night”: A feature of mid-
night England which has developed with
motor transport is the springing up of
countless stalls and huts which supply
refreshments to the vast army of lorry-
drivers who criss-cross the arterial roads
with their loaded vehicles in the noc-
turnal hours. These places furnish hot
drinks and food, including the saus-
ages-and-mashed which is among the
palladia of British liberties, and are
busy from midnight to dawn. Most
of them close up with the daylight, like
the night-blooming cereus, and leave the
day traffic to the inns and cottage
caterers.
* * iS *
“Sach”: The fire on the Orient liner
Ormonde sent my memory back to Fre-
mantle in 1923 when the P. and O.
liner Moldavia, a few hours before sail-
ing time, was noticed to have smoke
coming from her hatch. Some fibrous
“ What's wrong? Have I left the price-ticket on my hat ?”
cargo was obviously shouldering and
s ; lp , s h ? s ? s - , lhe * a « r
tl hrfShJ J ? nd *L e Per ' h
bIL fhf hatch wfs e stloH fo et n
hours Next mornim? f 12
proved ineteNe th/ . 8
submereed hv th? f Moldavia was
submerged by the head for two hours,
That settled the fire, but the ship lost
five days in the run. It is probable that,
had the Moldavia been out past Rott-
nest, even only an hour, nothing could
have saved her, as the breeze would have
fanned the blaze.
* * * $
“Nor’-west”: The Southern Cross
pearl has probably stirred more con-
troversy than any other sea gem ever
lifted. Saw a letter the other day written
by “Shiner” Kelly (James William Sher-
brook), the first possessor of it. On
March 25, 1883, Kelly, with a couple
of abos., was beachcombing or dry-
shelling in the shallows out from Cos-
sack (W.A.). Two hundred pairs of
shells were lifted, and a youth named
Clarke was given the job of opening.
Clarke found the pearl cross, but by the
time he handed it to Kelly it was in
three pieces, though Clarke declared it
had been perfect when he first extracted
it. Considering it of little value as a
pearl Kelly sold it to Frank Roy, a
fellow-pearler, for £lO. Roy passed it
to Frank Craig for £4O. After that,
the cross started on a spectacular finan-
cial flight which ultimately landed it in
the Vatican with a value of £5OOO.
sjc * *
“/Eolian”: After all, this modern
censoring of books is a mild enough
thing compared with the measures once
employed. Sappho's fame in antiquity
rivalled .hat of Homer. Her poems are
known to have been arranged in nine
b ? oks > ! el ? th ° usand lines a * least of
Wha Li; iBh, K haVe a bee i:i and
lld have been, deathless poetry if it
been p^rmi ted t0 L survive - But
man y centuries later the Church fell
upon Sappho, regarding her writings as
immoral, which they probably were. It
caused to be burned or otherwise
destroyed every scrap of Sappho it could
lay hands on, with the result that only
a few hundred lines are left of the out-
put of the lady who was spoken of in
her lifetime as “the tenth Muse.” That
was something like censorship.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: Mention of the wreck
of the Sydney Cove at Preservation
Island, Bass Strait, in 1797 (B. 9/9/’36)
recalls that the first settlement south of
Sydney was formed eight miles away at
Kent Bay, Cape Barren Island, a year
later. Here the crew of the brig Nautilus
from Port Jackson erected huts and
established a sealing depot. In 1802
the population reached nearly 200,
but later it dwindled to a ruffianly
gang of escaped convicts and de-
serters from American whaleships,
with Tasmanian gins for consorts,
who combined seal-
ing with piracy and
other forms of
crime. To-day a
farmhouse, close to
the sandy, barren
shores of the bay, is
the only sign of such
civilisation as ever
existed; but six
bottles of brandy,
with their corks
nearly rotted away,
were found hidden
in the sand at Pre-
servation Island, 12
years ago, by the
skipper of a ship
that looked in there.
The plant was un-
doubtedly a relic of
the ancient days,
but the finder was
too much of an old
sea-dog to keep it for a connoisseur to
determine its age.
* * * *
“First Blue”: Passing a Communist
bookshop in Melbourne lately, I was
struck by the title of a book displayed
therein. It was printed by the Co-
operative Publishing Society of Moscow
and had a foreword by one of the Marx-
ist bigwigs. No, it was not another Life
of Lenin or a treatise on the Bolshevisa-
tion of Tadjikistan. The Adventures of
Tom Sawyer was the title.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: One C. J. Macintosh,
claiming to be a qualified doctor from a
Queensland family, but “not allowed to
practise, and hounded down by the
8.M.A.,” has been given 20 weeks in
Adelaide on a batch of charges. The
police alleged 13 aliases, and 48 convic-
tions in at least four States. His latest
record was: Friday, released from gaol;
Saturday, presented as Dr. Some-
body from Sydney “to be here perma-
nently, a true Salvationist and a good
Christian” ; Sunday morning, preached ;
Sunday afternoon, arrested.
® if * sis
“East Riding”: Reference to pakeha
marriages with wealthy Maori girls in
the past (B. 30/9/’36) reminds me that
a distant cousin of mine hitched up with
a Maori “princess” after the first Maori
war. He was an officer in one of the
Imperial regiments and bore a name
commemorated in a Sydney square. His
wife brought him great possessions, and
a family of stout sons grew up to become
famous Rugby Union footballers. One
at least rose to eminence in the M.L.
civil service.
v :Jt
“X —his Mark”: A citizen who could
neither read nor write but nevertheless
had been a licensed
hotelkeeper has ap-
peared in Sydney
Bankruptcy Court and
been sentenced to a
light term of imprison-
ment for not keeping
books or causing them
to be kept. The Judge
expressed amazement
that a man so illiterate
should have been
granted a license; it
was given in evidence
that his deficiencies
were not due to his
never having been to
school, but to the fact
that sch o o lmasters
found it impossible to
teach him either read-
for a’pub'ucrasThad
fame and reputation," and the document
attesting his fitness was posted up for
a ™"' h outside a Police station" like
marriage banns on a church door. Still
1 don’t think that mere illiteracy would
then have been regarded as a fatal dis-
qualification. It is different nowadays
PROFESSOR.
I am the maid; I do the rooms;
1 make the bed and sweep the floor;
1 sort and fold the ironed clothes
And lay them in the lowboy drawer.
1 dust the pictures and the chairs,
And take the faded rose away
And put a fresh one in the vase,
And wind the desk-clock every day.
Professor’s more than middle-aged,
And somewhat bald and somewhat lean,
With hawk-sharp eyes and nervous hands,
And, oh, his brain is diamond-keen!
He stammers slightly, scowls a lot,
And sometimes wears a reading-glass;
And teaches Euclid day by day
To students of the Upper Class.
He doesn’t drink, he doesn’t smoke,
He doesn’t go abroad at night.
I’ve heard them talk behind his back;
I've heard them call him anchorite.
Because he lives a quiet life
They say he’s old and cold and slow.
He’s dubbed The Human Decimal;
Perhaps they’re right—but ... I don’t
know.
lam the maid; Ido the rooms;
I make the bed and sweep the floor;
And when the laundry comes 1 fold
The clothes away in the lowboy drawer.
And, tucked away in that same drawer,
This 1 have seen, a time or two:
A garter made of silver and silk,
A ballet-dancer’s spangled shoe !
QUEENSLAND.
L. O'NEIL.


•-V.
t*Av
m
m
20/„rlf6
10/„r9 d
CM!
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
■y^ {
•eh
Ol&niettt&eJL
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
THE CORK T TP PCD CIGARETTE C
m
mm?
v ->
i
111
tai
POLITICAL POINTS
M. P. Dunlop, M.L.C., who is presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Primary Producers,
admitted the other day that the Privy
Council decision in the James case had
“resulted in no chaos in the industry,
despite fears to the contrary.” Chaos —
in the political form anyway—will come
with the referendum, which Dunlop says
he is going to support.
There is no doubt how Premier Butler
will vote on the “orderly-marketing”
referendum:
The Federal Government is going to
waste £lOO,OOO asking the people whether
they are prepared to pay more for dried
fruits, butter and bread.
Yes, it will look like that to the con-
sumer.
Curtin was objecting to Australia’s
being kept in ignorance of the Japanese
proposals, and to the Government’s de-
manding perfect stillness on the subject
from everyone but itself. “Which side
are you on?” interposed Gullett, with
a sneer. “I’m on the side of Australia,”
was the smart reply. “I refuse to look
at this question solely from the stand-
point of Manchester.” That’s what a
clumsy politician gets when he goes
“looking for it.”
“In three months the offer of 200
local calls free for a year has swelled
the number of telephone subscribers by
tens of thousands.” In Australia? Don’t
be absurd—in England.
Former Canadian Prime Minister
Bennett, now in Australia, spotted our
weakness and expressed it in six words:
“Too many people in your cities.” He
ought to be told that the State with the
smallest proportion of city population
had the largest proportion of employed
persons throughout the depression.
In February, the “Economist” declared
that Lancashire was largely to blame fo>
its own troubles:
Reliance in too many cases on obsolete
machinery and methods is a decisive handi-
cap to an industry whose prosperity depends
on its ability to meet efficient competiton
in the export markets.
Sir William Preston, formerly chief
manager of the Chartered Bank of India
and chairman of the P. and O. Banking
Corporation, has placed it on record that
modernised Lancashire mills could sell
in India at Japan’s price and make a
10 p.c. profit.
Curtin enters upon his second year as
Labor leader with an enhanced reputa-
tion. The well-informed Perth “Mirror”
laughs at the yarn, circulated more than
once in Melbourne and Sydney papers,
that he will have to weaken on Pro-
tection if he is to hold Fremantle. It
points out that since 1903 Fremantle
has had an unbroken succession of Pro-
tectionist members, and possesses boot
and shoe, biscuit and fertiliser factories,
soap, sugar-refining, petrol-packing, Ford
and General Motor works. “In the pres-
ence of constantly growing industries
under the sheltering policy of high tariff-
ism, Curtin can go the limit without los-
ing a vote.”
In presenting his Budget Deputy-Pre-
mier Troy “assumed” that the Westra-
lian Government would get the same
special grant as in 1935-36, £BOO,OOO. The
assumption was £300,000 wrong.
Troy has had to admit that taxation
in his State is much below the Australian
average—he quoted Grants Commission
figures without disputing them. “The
high price of gold” to which he referred,
and which is now higher still, gives him
an obvious opportunity of getting more
tax-revenue without harming any indus-
try or anyone, and of producing another
surplus without calling on Canberra to
do it for him.
Frankenstein Spooner, the Minister of
Local Government, created the Sydney
County Council, which took over the
electricity business from a very unwill-
ing City Council. Now the monster is
turning on Spooner’s Government. S. A.
Lloyd, M.L.A., the two-job chairman,
says he is going to give 72 p.c. of the
employees the 40-hour week (the rest
work hours), and bump up the
annual wages bill £44,000 by way of
making another 170 jobs. One result may
be that the 2700 County Council em-
ployees will demand the right to have
two jobs like the chairman.
There’s a catch in this 40-hour-week
racket. Already in M.L. 40-hour-week
zealots have struck trouble with the kind
of toiler who will take Saturday work,
though all the hosts of Labor-in-politics
shout that he is a “scab” and a law-
breaker.
Adelaide Labor politicians write to the
papers to an extent unknown in other
States. The practice often furnishes their
opponents with ammunition, and Ward,
“James is going to sue us for twenty-five thousand.
“Another twenty-five thousand! That’s very nice of you, Joe!”
the secretary of the A.L.P. organisation,
has provided them with a whole powder
magazine by informing S.A. through the
“Advertiser” that “Communism is exactly
the same as Christianity.” This when
Australian archbishops are denouncing
Spanish Communists as murderers and
the editor of “Soviets To-day” (A.B.C.’s
reporter on Russia) is calling upon Lyons,
with typical Red impudence, to have the
archbishops arrested!
One arresting fact that has leaped to
light is that there is a shortage of skilled
workers in many trades, along with a
suddening surplus of unskilled laborers.
It demonstrates that none of the States
has paid enough attention to technical
education, and expenditure on technical
education will have to be increased. But
only the Commonwealth is in a position
to do it, and if the Commonwealth takes
over education it will have to, take over
income taxation, too. State Governments
will surrender neither unless they are
pushed.
Forgan Smith, promising before the
election that he would reduce taxes, and
“explaining” after the election why he
hasn’t done it:
April, 1935.
ft shall be the
policy of the Gov-
ernment to progres-
sively reduce taxa-
tion as employ-
ment increases.
September, 1936.
It is folly to
imagine that be-
cause there has been
considerable de-
crease in the unem-
ployment percentage
the problems are
disappearing. They
are as real as ever.
Unemployed-relief tax revenue per man
unemployed: 1932, £2B Bs. Bd.; 1933,
£5l 2s. 4d. ; 1934, £72 18s. Id. ; 1935,
£l2l 165.; 1936, £155 2s. 3d. The figures
are from the “Economic News,” pub-
lished by the Government Bureau of
Industry.
“Proposals for the reform of the
League Covenant were explained in the
House by the Attorney-General.” Thus
“S. M. Herald.” “The policy is substan-
tially the same as that outlined at Geneva
by Mr. Eden.” Thus the “D.T.” The
explanation was totally unnecessary.
“Yes, Mr. Eden” ; “Yes, Mr. Baldwin” ;
“Yes, Mr. Neville Chamberlain” ; “Yes,
Sir Geoffrey Whiskard”—the Lyons Gov-
ernment has no other policy.
There must be stuff in Hitler, but
when he gets on the subject of Jews he
talks utter rubbish. He said at' Nurem-
berg that 98 p.c. of the Soviet leaders
were Jews. “Only two out of nineteen
are,” said Dr. Herz, the Chief Rabbi,
in a crushing reply; and even the two
have “cut themselves off from the Jewish
people and their ancestral faith.” In
other words, the Bolshevik who was
born a Jew is a man without a religion
as well as a man without a country.
Part of an Associated Press cable:
The British market has virtually reached
saturation point, and the Commonwealth
must look to the Continent to expand its
markets.
So we have cut off trade with Japan in
order to pick up stray additional orders
in a saturated market!
The Vic. Agrarians’ G.H.Q. coquetted
with pre-selection, but the rank and file
wouldn’t stand it. So every Assembly
vacancy brings a rush of candidates, and
an interesting election results, instead of
a walkover for some pet. Four men con-
tested Goulburn Valley and five came
out for Benalla. It is nothing against
the “open go” that it is the means of
circulating a bit of money among
people who can do with it.
In B. 8/4/’36 it' was suggested that
Australian appeal Courts in delivering
judgments “should adopt the simple and
effective procedure of the Privy Coun-
cil”: —
The multiplicity of majority and minority
judgments leads to confusion in the lay
mind and breeds appeals.
Attorney-General Menzies said this at
the Adelaide legal convention:
Some of the unendurable confusion of
to-day would be cleared away if Judges,
especially those of the High Court, could
see their way clear to deliver one general
judgment.
It should dispel the impression that Men-
zies wants a referendum because “one
general judgment” delivered by the Privy
Council demolished a case he had care-
fully prepared. He is not that sort of
lawyer-politician.
All in one day (Wednesday) the Lyons
Government put through measures pro-
viding for (1) a wool tax, (2) an ex-
port bounty on oranges (2s. a case), (3)
another on apples and pears (4Jd. a case)
and (4) another on prunes Gd. a pound),
and Gullett delivered another cartload of
tripe “explaining” why his Government
had driven the Japanese out of the wool
market. Page rounded off these pro-
ceedings by asserting that “the interests
of the graziers of Australia have always
been in the foreground of Government
policy.”
Lyons and his Ministers thought no
end of Prof. Giblin Jill he suggested in
polite words that “the trade-diversion
policy” was. barmy. When their statisti-
cian fell ill they implored him to act as
locum; then they put him on the Grants
Commission, and then on the Common-
wealth Bank Board. Now the Minister
of Customs barks that Giblin has “fallen
into the error of endeavoring to be an
authority on too many things.” This
outbreak was excited by a literary blast
from the Giblin trumpet against the ban-
ning of the 17 books, among them
Eyeless in Gaza. “Eyeless in Canberra'’
was the title of the Giblin philippic.
Questions have been asked in the
House about a book written by Thomas
Walter White, Guests of the Unspeak-
able. The last word is at least question-
able, considering that it refers to a coun-
try with which Britain entered into a pact
when the “sanctions” business looked
serious, and whose ruler has hospitably
entertained King Edward. Surely the
volume with the invidious title should be
referred to the “voluntary board of three
eminent and cultured citizens” who,
according to Thomas Walter White, “read
and recommend what books fall within
the definition of the Act.”
Three questions asked in a “Plain
English” article, “Is Our Position Sound?”
(B. 23/9/’36), were put on the notice
paper by H. C. Barnard, M.H.R. for
Bass (Tas.). Replies to two were: “Infor-
mation unavailable.” The third was to
the effect that Mr. Casey is “in general
agreement” with the views of the Com-
monwealth Bank Board:
London funds at present are sufficient
for normal requirements but are not suffi-
ciently high to provide an adequate reserve
against adverse circumstances. We should
aim at a favorable balance of oversea pay-
ments for a number of years.
Evidence of Mr. Casey’s “general agree-
ment” is undiscoverable in his Budget.
It has been made so plain to Queens-
land Labor that people are dissatisfied
with its failure to reduce taxes that the
Premier has found it necessary to defend
non-reduction with tongue and pen. One
of his pleas is that “education is on a
more generous scale than in any other
State ; last year it cost us £1,500,000.”
Only a trifle over 30s. a head. N. S.
Wales (population, 2,650,000) spent
£4,200,000.


Chop a bit o' wood * What d'you tav<,g me for.
w'ie you've been idun at'ovie ava- oay a mams
DOVJE 'SES Sis HOURS "
A SIX-HOUR DAY IDYLL.


«***>
ISA
Qtel
f€
£
SYDNEY
-the finest Hotel
South of the Line.
Every desirable feature of modern Hotel life is repre-
sented—the whole maintained at standards that com-
pare more than favorably with those of the Northern
Hemisphere. Nearly 500 rooms and suites. Air
conditioning. Broadcasting wired to rooms.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
pip
I'll!
[fiWffil
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieut.-Col. Ernest Webb, of the Salva-
tion Army, who has looked after the
“War Cry” in Sydney and Melbourne for
nearly 12 years, is now off to take charge
of Salvarmy publications in Canada. He
has made a record, for he was formerly
editor of the “War Cry” in London.
Australia’s oldest-born baronet, John
Barnewell, eleventh in his line, died in
Victoria at 86 the other day. The family
is old Norman stock which settled in
County Meath, Ireland, and was re-
warded for its services with a title in
1622. S’John’s successor, Reginald, is,
like his father, Victorian-born and a
grazier.
H. P. Owen, dead in Tamworth at 76,
after a motor accident, was the son of
old-time District Court Judge Robert
Owen. Called to the Bar in 1885, H.P.
was for a time N.S.W. Master in Equity
and Master in Lunacy, but in 1918 gave
up the job to become legal supervisor of
the Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Co. He was a member of the A.J.C. and
among the oldest members of Sydney's
Australian Club.
The retirement of George Lewis Aitken
from the management of the Victorian
branch of Dalgetys, will leave a big gap
in the personnel of the firm and in the
wool trade generally. G.L., an old Scotch
College boy, became first president
of the National Council of Wool-
selling Brokers, and has since held the
job in every year except two. Also, he
fathered the Australian Pastoral Re-
search Trust.
Hudson Fysh is the first of his ilk to
fly—overland, at any rate. He is a Tas-
manian, now 41. Geelong Grammar
gave him his > secondary-school educa-
tion, and his university was the 3rd Light
Horse and the Ist Machine Gunners,
A.I.F. For post-graduate training he
Our First Flying FYSH.
went to the A.F.C., came home with a
D.F.C., and in 1920 founded Qantas, the
first commercial passenger service in the
British Empire. He, is now managing
director both of that firm and of Q.E.A.,
which carries the London mail. He has
written a book or two —one the life of
the lately dead northern pioneer, Alex-
ander Kennedy.
Jimmy MacDonald, new director of
Melbourne Art Gallery, has a lovable,
kindly, Rembrandtesque countenance so
favorable to caricaturists that it is a pity
such a face should belong to him instead
of to Archdale Parkhill or some other
oft-drawn politician. Jimmy has been
FRITH v-. MACDONALD.
a splendid friend to Australian artists.
Frith’s depiction is a good and revealing
likeness with only the merest touch of
satire in it.
London’s Lord Mayor, Percy Vin-
cent, who retires in November, gave his
Worship of Vancouver (Canada) a shock
during the year. Vancouver, celebrating
a jubilee, broadcast invitations to the
town councils of the world to come to
the celebrations. London’s L.M. sur-
prised the natives by accepting and
turning up with a full entourage fairly
dripping fur and glittering with baubles.
And Vancouver’s dignitary hadn’t even
a city remembrancer or a jewelled sword
about him. George Broadbridge, a
Brighton man who made most of his
money out of Nigerian tin, will be the
next L.M.
John Grahame Drew, who becomes
Sydney’s Health Officer, must have almost
more letters after his name than any-
body else in the Commonwealth. They
begin with an M.A., follow on with Cam-
bridge medical and surgical degrees,
drop in on the Royal College of Sur-
geons and wander to the Royal College
of Physicians. After this in the list
come lesser distinctions beginning with
“D.,” and the directory winds up with
a fellowship of the Royal Sanitary In-
stitute. Drew is Scottish —son of a
Stirling M.D. He served with the Argyll
and Sutherland Highlanders during the
war, and then began to practise on the
South Coast of England. In 1926 he
married a daughter of Jimmy McWhir-
ter, the big Brisbane draper, and, mov-
ing to Queensland, went to Palm Island
to look after the health of the large
native population. Later he took on
the job of Brisbane Health Officer.
Dead in Melbourne, A. S. Rodgers,
Federal member for Wannon during the
war, acting Minister for Repatriation in
1920 and Customs Minister for the last
two years of W. M. Hughes’s reign.
Rodgers entered the House as a Liberal
in 1913, having previously formed a
“People’s party.” He made his way
quickly, and was a favorite with his
leader, who liked his independence and
outspokenness. He was defeated in 1923,
and, though he won his seat again in
1925, his health had then begun to give
way, and when he went out of Parlia-
ment in 1929 he decided that he had had
enough.
Rare to see two brothers who are
“Sirs”: the Vicarses were Australia's only
resident examples. This week there will be
two in Sydney in the Harveys, sons of an
English vicarage. One came to N. S.
Wales, and in 1933 became Sir John and
acting Chief justice. The other—Sir
Ernest since 1920 —was promoted in the
same honors list to be a baronet, after
having been comptroller of the Bank of
England and Montagu Norman’s deputy.
Recently he has retired, and has come
quietly to see Australia. A third brother
was Archdeacon of Halifax (Eng.) till
last year, and for six years was vice-
chairman of the English House of
Clergy.
Tom Glassey, dead at 92 in Brisbane,
began life in Ireland as a factory boy,
and came to Australia at 40 full of the
fire of the new idea of a Labor world.
He immediately helped to found the old
Ipswich Miners’ Union, and within four
years was member for Bundamba. The
’93 election saw him out, and he went
to U.S.A. for a time, returning the next
year. Hoolan, the pioneer Labor mem-
ber for Burke, had just discovered that
the “beers were too long and the seats
too soft for an honest man,” and re-
signed in his favor. Glassey afterwards
sat for Bundaberg, resigned his seat when
the Trades Hall faction tried to domi-
nate his proceedings in the House, was
returned by an overwhelming majority,
sat on the Federal Council of Austra-
lasia, became an original Senator, but
went out in 1903. His deer-stalker, his
double-breasted coat, buttoned round a
stocky, determined figure, his aggressive
blackthorn and his short, tough-looking
square beard all proved the blunt de-
termination behind his merry eye. He
was a man who might easily have been
a Prime Minister but for his blunt in-
dividualism and his continual refusal to
allow party machines to interfere with
what he believed to be the right course.
Many a lame Digger was quietly helped
from his all-too-slender purse both dur-
ing and after the war.
Henry Tassie is one of the favorite
sons of the Central No. 2 Electorate
(S.A.), for which he has sat since 1918
in the S. Australian Legislative Coun-
S’Australia’s TASSIE
cil. By profession he is an accountant,
by inclination a politician. He was
Chief Secretary and Mines Minister for
three years ending in 1930.
If Providence in its wisdom one day
decides to turn R. W. Alison into a tree,
he will undoubtedly find himself, judg-
ing by his contours, a large stringybark,
with all the millers round Dungog
(N.S.W.) for a hundred miles rushing for
All Sound Timber.
him. Up that way, they have no doubt
about his being all sound timber. He
has been a!> well known in the cattle
business as the word “Jersey” ; the co-
operative movement owes him a good
deal for a generation of unselfish and
unremitting service.
Old John Ellerman, Bart., head of the
Ellerman line of steamships, who died
in 1933, left £36,684,994, out of which
£18,000,000-odd will go in death duties.
It is reckoned that the old man was
worth anything up to £20,000,000 in
taxation to Britain during his lifetime.
A record fortune for England, most of
ii went to a son who is only 27.
Gilbert Dyett, who was knighted in
1934, has been elected Federal president
of the R.S.S.I.L.A. for the 18th time.
He was severely wounded at Lone Pine,
and spent the rest of his war years as
organising secretary of the Victorian
Recruiting Committee. He is a bachelor,
and at Melbourne’s Ascot racecourse
they call him boss.
“T.P.”: On November 19, his sixty-
fifth birthday, James Mcßae, Vic.’s Edu-
cation Director, will retire. Forty years
ago, young Frank Tate, out to revolu-
tionise the educational status of his
teaching staff, brought in his first
specially-selected 20 candidates for uni-
versity diplomas, and Mcßae was one
of the score. Leaving his tiny bush-
school, he never looked back. He ran
a practising and demonstration school
at Kew East, then went from lecturing
at the Training College to an inspec-
torship, came back as principal of the
Teachers’ College, became assistant
chief inspector and finally got his present
job.


X||
r~
mim
m
Mi
:
m
X
IS
ssfes
M
3
\ N_W
iifffii
f-
\ mi
***
-/■
S 4
m
■js.
m.
fNJ^TI
fiifgf§
i', * 4 ' i
itliiii
X'
0
. v A
Ffi
0
' >
Vs
sirs*
AH
W. >
*Wv<
■Qi4
>S : > S
■-C
ASi
fLJS^
PH Axi
l»W§
ih\
31
/ v
mm
/
' j \
m
fe\ ; i
V \
mMm
fj)\
H
m
y
m
m
Y>
«
y
k
A'
r<"}v • x
X X XA ox
W^a-
-5&
pip
rTk
?w.*«
W'G&i
Ml
* :A^; .'-4 1
A J.yyy
KHa OAA KXRIS
aX
J~ '-- As. Mv f-w- w'V V
XX
< X
/X
V!®
h
> n
i
so. -ty y.vC'---'Y Gilt?
A 3 A •
XX
V wvv ,
ifi
•'•T:‘ A’ /S \ •: < \-\
/ \\ V y <~'7 '<'
'Sjx£-A $ rfo&y
mktfMzyy
wcyyy^yy
ix
yy
A’fA
{ ' vi
4
44
"A
m
</
tfs
S 3
I
vv
<0
Kk
$
*~.
Vi;
aX
XXX/'X V- . _
yy spr v ,-X
k’ Y/'i-' '\ < : > j.'VAvv' \
Af-orV ; Vi\ :
Okvo>
/#SIU
Vvs-»‘
iSmx
'-., > ,<
;K 7K
/<•
f t
v -/?4 »A
°,A<3
{
Mi
OXi4
w§
A>
X
„ ime to buy one oi the latest Hudson
or Terraplane Cars absolutely the best
Models ever produced by this famou
manufacturer.
Their superior and ultra-modem qualities
,„h to vou in a beautitully
will be conveyed to you m a
coloured Catalogue - posted on request.
Old Cam traded in. Easy terms arranged.
See them at
dalgetys showrooms
136 Phillip street. Sydney


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Booms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dirf.ctors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.-;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experienee which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experienee
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL 11. DOYLE
SIR THOMAS AUCKLAND
.1. H. S. ANGUS
Directors'.
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
Dividends—^
Pref. Ord.f To Re-
July, Profit. 9 p.c. 174 p.c. Reserves, serves.
1927 .. 328,480 300,916 27,564 9,198
9 p.c. 14 p.c.
1928 .. 275,263 254,877 20,386 29,584
9 p.c. 124 p.c.
1929 .. 265,535 236,159 29,376 58,960
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 153,960
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1930 .. 244,505 192,382 52,123 206,083
9 p.c. 5 p.c.
1931 .. 154,296 152,550 1,746 207.829
9 p.c. 6 p.c.
1932 .. 206,275 167,069 39,206 247,035
1933 .. 217,724 167,705 50,019 297,054
1934 ..226,460 168,083 ) „ nQ ,o n
Tax reserve. £46,000 S 12)377 » 09 - 431
Unexplained addition, £16,251 .. 325,682
9 p.c. 74 p.c.
1935 . . 261,402 194,237 67,165 392,847
9 p.c. 84 p.c.
1936 .. 289,664 211,582 ) „
Staff fund, £3OOO ) 70,082 467,9-9
flncluding' employees’ shares.
Over £4,600,000 is invested in the busi-
ness. Measured on this basis, the co.
is the largest department store in the
Commonwealth. The foundations were
laid by Sydney Myer when he took over
Wright and Neil’s business in Bourke-
street a little over quarter of a century
ago. The organisation is planned on a
system of decentralised co-operative re-
sponsibility, with trained understudies
for every important executive, the idea
being to ensure continued smooth work-
ing of the undertaking whenever those in
various positions of control should drop
out. Shrewd, large-scale buying, manu-
facture of much of its own requirements,
the position of the store (it is in the
centre of Melbourne’s shopping area), a
tight hold upon exes, and forceful sell-
ing methods, which mean extensive ad-
vertising, are some of the other factors
which have contributed to the co.’s suc-
cess.
During the four years to the close of
accounts in 1930, £777,360 of fresh capi-
tal, which brought with it £181,250 of
share premiums, was gathered. Over the
same period £469,530 net was added to
the book value of freeholds, £300,000 was
paid for 200,000 ord. shares in Marshall
and Co., Adelaide —now Myer Em-
porium (S.A.), Ltd. —£117,400 was added"
to stocks, £47,901 to debtors’ balances,
and the amount coming to outsiders was
reduced by £83,974.
Although slump slowed down the rate
of earnings, divs. continued to flow (the
rate dropped to 5 p.c., its lowest point,
in 1931), there was no interruption to
the building programme (£310,032 net
has been added to the book value of
freeholds since 1930), and the business
was quickly readjusted to altered trading
conditions. For the last term turnover
reached a record figure, and, for the third
year in succession, the percentage of
operating exes, was reduced. The co.’s
woollen mills at Ballarat, which have
not failed to earn a profit since they
were bought in 1918, contributed to the
pool, and so did the S. Aus. business,
which “again made a good showing”—
it paid 6 p.c. in 1935. After striking off
£84,000 for depreciation of premises and
plant, and setting aside £60,000 for the
taxgatherer, the net result (up £28,262)
was enough to pay the pref. and staff
partnership divs. and show 13 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 11.3, 9.3, 8.9, 8.2, 5.1,
10.9 and 14.6 p.c. back to 1929. A 2\
p.c. bonus (H P-c. in the previous year)
was sent out with the 6 p.c. div., making
p.c. for the year.
At 365. (295. a year ago) the ords.
return 4.7 p.c. on an 81 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. The prefs. at 355. 6d.
yield 5 p.c. The net tangible backing is
£4 10s. prefs. and 255. sd. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1926. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. £1,676,978 £2,479,573 £2,479,950
Mortgages.. .. 531,014 470,650 662,150
Sundry creditors. . 588,451 675,788 578,230
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 1,266,536 2,048,164 2,046,098
Plant, vehicles, etc. 171,925 243,182 256,666
S’hares in other cos. 180,997 449,120 447,247
Stocks .. .. 962,486 942,507 1,045,363
Debtors .. .. 233,105 453,864 543,414
Cash, etc 8,094 34,480 30,504
A growth of £191,500 in the mortgage
debt was accompanied by an expansion
of £102,856 in stocks and a contraction
of £97,558 in the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors. The year’s spring in the
more or less liquid surplus (£378,901,
including stocks but not shareholdings)
was £94,488.
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. and Ord. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 64,981 10 p.c. = 50,000 14,981 52,668
1927.. 79,813 11 „ 56,000 24,813 107,481
1928.. 71,600 10 „ ~ 50,000 21,600 129,081
1929.. 67,806 10 „ „ 50,000 17,806 146,887
1930.. 51,980 8 „ „ 40,000 11,980 158,867
1931.. 31,003 5* „ „ 27,221 3,782 162,649
1932.. 27,138 6* ~ „ 27,750 162,037
July,
1933 f. 24,538 5* „ „ 27,750 158,825
Profit on sale of shares, £BBO3 .. 167,628
1934.. 59,445 74 p.c. = 41,312 18,133 185,761
1935.. 39,894 7* „ ~ 38,550 1,344 187,105
1936.. 28,054 7* „ „ 32,583 182,576
•Prefs. 74 p.c. tThirteen months.
For a policy of entangling alliances, the
board has now substituted one of isola-
tion. In the middle of 1933 the agree-
ment with Marks and Saulwick ran out
and was not renewed —they used to dis-
tribute A.K.M., Kayser and other pro-
ducts of the A.K.M.-Yarra Falls group.
Meanwhile, changes in the management
were followed, during the last term, by
sale of the co.’s holding in Julius Kayser
(Aust.) Pty. to Julius Kayser Inc., New
York, for £58,938 (par). This termi-
nated an agreement which enabled
A.K.M., half-way through the term, to
begin manufacture of a wide range of
rayon underwear under the trade-mark
‘‘Golden Ray,” and plant has since had
to be increased to cope with the busi-
ness offering. Also, 308,000 f.-p. £1 ords.
in Yarra Falls and 25,000 f.-p. £1 ords.
in Austral Silk and Cotton, together
with £10,750 in cash (total £343,750,
equal to a book value of 12s. 6d. per
share), were distributed among those on
the register, reducing paid capital to
£206,250 in 10,000 1\ p.c. cum. prefs.
and 540,000 ords., all paid to 7s. 6d. each.
Although Austral Silk and Cotton scrip
is now at a discount of about 35 p.c. in
the market, Yarra Falls’ shares com-
mand a premium of 100 p.c. or there-
abouts, so the distribution was in the
nature of a handsome bonus to share-
holders.
Now consider these figures:
1917. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £60,000 £550,000 £550,000 £206,250
Liabilities . . 3,845 47,580 22,525 29,672
Property, plant 28,893 196,476 181,517 180,254
Stocks.. .. 23,170 125,862 143,635 158,993
Book debts . . 12,347 58,346 45,520 39,427
Cash, etc. . . 24.8iS 9,245 15,998 52,833
Shares in assoc.
cos. . . Nil 384,176 394,936 2,999
The reduction of £391,937 in sharehold-
ings enabled paid capital to be reduced
by £343,750, stocks to be increased by
£15,358 net (the growth reflects manu-
facture of rayon underwear) and cash to
be strengthened by £36,835. Debtors’
balances were down £6093, and on prop-
erty and plant £1263 more was written
off than was spent. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£221,581, including stocks but not
shareholdings) was £38,953.
The year’s gross earnings (£52,437)
slipped £3736, owing to loss of turnover
in the rayon section during the first half.
The holding in Yarra Falls returned 9
p.c., the same as for the previous term,
and 24 p.c., as against 3| p.c., was re-
ceived on shares held in Austral Silk and
Cotton. Exes. (£24,384, up £8105) in-
cluded two special payments, one of
£12,023 in connection with litigation
now ended, and another of £1154 on ac-
count of reduction of capital. The net
result (down £11,840) was £4529 short
of the amount that the pref. div. and 7
p.c. to the ords. called for.
Allowing for loss of income on dis-
tribution of scrip, and for the two special
payments already referred to, enough
was netted last year to pay the pref.
div. and show 6.2 p.c. on ord. capital
as it now stands.
At 9s. 6d. the ords. would return 4.7
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or 5.6 p.c. on a
7 p.c. distribution, which may prove to
be within reach. Much depends upon
results from the rayon section of the
business. The prefs. seldom come on
to the market. The net tangible cover
is £3B 17s. prefs. and 14s. ords.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
t Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Oid. serves, serves.
£, £. £ £ £
1926.. 23,202 3100 8 p.c. = 18,557 1545 23,094
1927.. 24,510 3496 8 „ ~ 20,684 329 24,024
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 „ „ 18,929 —20.58 S
1929.. 25,931 3499 7 „ .. 19.010 3422 24,010
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 „ „ 13,580 20,985
Loss.
1931.. 4,531 3500 Nil 12,954
Profit.
1932.. 3,432 3500 Nil 12,886
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 12,397 1750 Nil 1,261
1934.. 21,113 Nil Nil 22,374
Reserves.
Capital written off, £27,161 .. .. 4,787
Assets written down, £4787 .. . .
Profit. 12.5 p.c.
1935.. 8,057 6250 f Nil 1807 1,807
5 p.c.
1936.. 8,295 2500 2 p.c. = 5,432 363 2,170
■(•lncludes arrears.
The result' disappointed the market.
For the fully-paid pound ords., priced
at 13s. a year ago, 10s. 6d. is
now offered. At the lower figure the
return is 3.8 p.c. on a 2 p.c. div. basis,
or 5.7 p.c. on a 3 p.c. distribution. The
7 p.c. cum. prefs. (there are 50,000 of
them in a paid capital of £294,453) are
priced at par or thereabouts. The book
value of the net tangible cover is £5 18s.
Bd. prefs. and 18s. Id. ords. To pay the
pref. div. and 3 p.c. to the ords. would
call for £1538 more profit than was
claimed last year.
The chairman says prices were at a
keen level throughout the term, and that
expenditure on repairs and improve-
ments was heavier than usual. Gross
earnings (£134,815) were £1663 lighter,
but exes. (£126,520, including an unspeci-
fied allowance for depreciation and tax-
ation) were pulled back £l9Ol, leaving
enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 2.3 p.c. on ord. capital as against
2.2 p.c. in the previous term. A 2 p.c.
div., the first thing of its kind since 1930,
was paid.
During the half-dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1930, the business
expanded by absorptions and otherwise,
and shareholders averaged a shade over
7 p.c., with little to spare. Then slump
intervened, and the net trading result for
the next four years was a loss of £34,609.
That left £22,374 of the ord. capital un-
represented by tangibles in the books.
The corner was turned in 1935, and, to
clear the way for the resumption of divs.,
2s. per share (£27,161) was struck off the
ords. Also, the pref. div. was lowered
from 7 p.c. to 5 p.c., representing a
saving to the co. of £lOOO a year. Still,
competition from chains and others has
made it difficult to squeeze much profit
out of the business.
The financial position improved:
1930. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £321,615 £321,615 £294,454 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 82,925 81,925 86,993 87,739
Sundry creditors 52,467 41,837 37,851 34,726
Premises & plant 231,972 242,715 220,886 218,586
Stock.. .. 162,977 121,664 131,342 135,554
Shares other cos. 21,296 21,546 21,546 21,546
Investments .. 550 550 550 550
Book debts .. 62,063 46,065 41,727 41,978
Cash, etc. .. 4,042 12,042 6,803 7,556
Stocks, the most vulnerable point in the
co.’s armor, were up £4212. The amount
coming to trade creditors was reduced
by £3125, and £2300 more was written
off than was spent on fixed assets. In-
cluding stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus (£63,173) was £7595 stronger than
at the previous balance.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ \ £ £ £
1926.. 18,213 10 p.e. = 15,000 3,213 19,5.>0
1927.. 18,551 10 „ „ 15,000 3,651 23,101
Premiums on shares, £15,573 .. •• 38,674
Old plant revalued and specific reserves
(£11,299) taken in .. .. • • 4 „’?12
1928.. IB,lyo 10 p.c. = 16,054 2,136 52,109
1929.. 24,002 10 „ „ 21,000 3,002 55,111
1930.. 23,944 9 „ „ 18,900 5,044 60,15.)
1931.. 7,771 21 „ „ 5,250 2,521 62,676
1932.. 8,805 3 „ „ 6,300 2,505 65,181
1933.. 13,522 5 „ ~10,500 3,022 68,203
1934.. 18,757 71 „ ~15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £750 • • 29,969
1935.. 22,152 71 p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 ~ ~20,161 4,982 38,192
The co. has a pleasing record as a
profit-earner and an extensive goodwill
—the hotel has always been very popular
among country visitors —of which no
account is taken in the books. For 20
years to the close of accounts in 1929
shareholders got a steady 10 p.c. div.,
sweetened with £75,000 of bonus scrip
and special cash distributions totalling
£67,500. About eight years ago those on
the register put up an extra £60,000 of
capital, which brought with it £15,573 ol
share premiums. The money was used to
modernise the old building and erect a
new wing, raising total accommodation
to 500 guests. Then slump dried up the
stream of country visitors, etc., and the
bar trade was further affected by the
opening of the Harbor Bridge. Still, the
co. came through without showing an
empty basket, though the div. dropped to
2\ p.c. in ’3l. There has since been a
remarkable recovery in earnings, thanks
mainly to the improvement in the wool,
wheat and dairying industries and to
lengthening city payrolls.
After maintaining premises and plant
in good order, providing for contin-
gencies, and handing the taxgatherer
£6133 (up £2791), the board figured net
earnings for the last term £2991 better
at £25,143, or 9.9 p.c. on capital as
against 8.7 p.c. for the preceding 12
months. The div. was lifted half a point,
making it 8 p.c., or 9.6 p.c. on capital as
it stood before the one-for-five gift of
20 months ago.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1927. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £210,007 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities . . 8,880 30,331. 12,692 13,545
Fixed assets.. 164,636 311,317 299,317 ' 296,317
Stock. . . . 2,247 3,770 3,206 2,465
Book debts, cash,
etc 35,663 1,927 17,989 29,320
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£18,246, including stocks)
was £8503, making the improvement
since 1931 £42,880. Reduction in the
book value of fixed assets over the last
five years was £15,000.
Following the tax cuts announced in
the Federal Budget, the co.’s fully-paid
pound shares hardened around 335. in
the market. The return at 335. is 4.8 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis.' The cover is
235. in net tangibles.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends
Pref. Writ- Re-
July, Profit. 8 p.e. Ordinary. ten Off. serves.
£/ £> £ £
1926.. 26.337.4000 8 p.c. = 16,000 44,848
1927. .24,765 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 SQOO 44,613
1928. .20,554 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 5000 40,167
1929. .20,435 4000 8 ~ „ 16,000 40,602
1930.. 16.260.4000 6 „ „ 12,000 40,862
Loss.
1931.. 6,027 2000* Nil 32,835
1932.. 9,040 Nil Nil 23,795
1933.. 3,316 Nil Nil 20,479
1934.. 2,395 Nil Nil 18,084
1935.. 3,161 Nil Nil 14,923
Profit.
1936.. 3,527 Nil Nil ) „ .-.
Written off stock, £12,299 .. \
*llalf-year.
A new g.m. (A. C. Pratt) took up the
reins in November last. At the end of
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


BARGAIN BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS
PRICES TO SUIT ALL PURSES—BOOKS TO SUIT ALL READERS
All Prices Post Free between Now and Christmas—a Further Saving .
p£Amt*r
4,
4 for 5/-
or
1/6 each
SATURDEE, by Norman Lindsay.
BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin.
Author of ALL THAT SWAGGER.
STORIES BY KODAK.
All Old “Bulletin" readers remember "Kodak.*
IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer.
THE SOW'S EAR, by Bernard Cronin.
NIGHTS ASHORE, by Capt. J. Hamilton.
flwifrfi
- r- : "
■Hi
KNIGHTS
i 9GOMERANG
3 for 10/-
'
3/6 each
THE DOUGHMAN, by Robert Desmond Tote.
GIVING AMBER A CHANCE, by Jessie Urquhort.
FORTY-SIX, by Stewart Howard.
PEARLS OF PAPUA, by Comdr. Brewster (Retd.).
One of the finest boys’ books of adventure written in Australia.
KARANGI. by F. S Hibble.
Joint winner Vic. Centenary Competition.
BLUE NORTH, by H. Droke-Brockmcm.
A tale of pearlers on the north-west coast.
1/* each
BUSH BABS, verse by D. H. Souter.
WARDENS OF THE SEAS, by E. J. Brady.
Both Soilter and Brady are already well known to
readers.
“Bulletin"
fs
PRACTICAL EMBROIDERY, by Rosalie Wilson.
A textbook on needlework with over 1 00 illustrations.
2/-
SKIPPETY SONGS, by Carna Birmingham.
For the kiddies. Illustrated by the author.
AUSTRALIAN BARKERS AND BITERS, by Robt. Kaleski.
An expert talks on the domestic and working dogs of Australia.
2/6
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT, by A. B. ("Banjo") Paterson.
3/6
ALL-ABOUT, by Mary and Elizabeth Durack.
A delightfully happy study of the abos. in the Kimberleys (W.A.)
—a suggestion for an overseas present.
4/6
PSALMIST OF THE DAWN, by Mary Marlowe.
Romantic Lord Howe Island story.
‘ AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
“ BITERS
:
Robert /utiisski ■
fsd
m
■v
ALL ABOUT
t
rw>
TIBURON
5/- each
KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG, by Dr. H. Basedow.
No one knew the Australian abo. better than the author.
THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD, by Ambrose Pratt.
Beautifully produced—an ideal present for overseas friends.
THE WORLD IS YOURS, by G. B. Lancaster.
By the author of PAGEANT.
TIBURON, by Kylie Tennant.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner for 1935.
6/6
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster.
Now in its Fifth Australian Edition.
7/6
LANDTAKERS. by Brian Renton.
S. M. Herald said: Those who want to keep in touch with the
best in current Australian literature should read LAND-
TAKERS.”
21/-
A CLUSTER OF BEES, by Tarlton Rayment.
Reviewers in every country in the world welcome this
written and -produced book on the many species of Australian
Bee—a classic.
Send Postal Note to The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street,
Sydney, or Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
m
£3,564 if he died
TO-MORROW
WHEN William Pitt Wenderson became a member
of the A.M.P. in 1908, and paid down £36/6/8
as the first year’s premium on an A.M.P. policy
for £2,000, he established an estate that, if he had died
the next day, would have yielded £2,000 cash.
He did not die. He is still living, and that A.M.P. policy
has grown as only A.M.P. policies do. If he were to
die to-morrow his widow would receive £3,564, yet, to
date, he has paid only £1,017 in premiums. In this way
do A.M.P. policies grow with bonuses and give protec-
tion at the same time.
Members of the A.M.P. Society secure Life Assurance
at a lower net cost than they can get it elsewhere, that
is why it is that an average of one family in two in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand is now protected by A.M.P.
assurance.
You who read this may not be able to invest what Mr.
Wenderson invested to win peace of mind, but you can
invest according to your income, and keep on investing
as your income grows.
Get in touch with the nearest A.M.P. office before the
day is out.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
c. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A,,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager*
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Tenders.
Department of Mines, New South Wales.
Mining Plant, Etc.
TENDERS will be received at the Office of the
Under-Secretary, Department of Mines, Sydney,
up to noon on Friday, 30th October, 1936, for
the purchase in one lot of the leasehold lands
embracing the Mount Charlested Wolfram
Mine, near Frogmore, New South Wales, and
the mining, treatment and power plant, machin-
ery, chattels and other property situated
thereon.
Full particulars of the conditions and terms
of sale, and also an inventory of the plant and
particulars- of the leases, together with the
form of tender, may be obtained upon applica-
tion to the undersigned, or to the Department
of Mines at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
Tender to be' accompanied by deposit of
5 p.c. of purchase price and to be suitably
endorsed. No tender necessarily accepted.
A. N. GRAHAM.
Under-Secretary for Mines.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
''* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L.. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
” * 4= * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our 1935 General
Catalogue. — Advt,
January stocks were overhauled, and re-
serves were tapped for £12,299 to adjust
book values, thus placing the co. in “a
position to sell at current rates.” Leaving
this readjustment of stock values out of
the reckoning, and assuming that the
lines concerned were written down to not
less than replacement cost, then the
year’s trading resulted in a profit of
£3527—£473 less than a full year’s pref.
div. calls for, and the first thing of its
kind since 1930. Turnover improved;
the spring in gross earnings (£80,045) was
£14,010, of which exes. (£76,518, includ-
ing provision for depreciation, etc.) took
£7322. No divs. were paid.
Prospects of the prefs. (there are
50,000 shares, 8 p.c. cumulative) coming
into the picture again have certainly
brightened. But it is difficult to say
when their slate will be cleaned (div. pay-
ments were £22,000 behind when the
books closed) and the ords. get a look in.
Much depends upon the management’s
success in weeding out dead lines and
livening the turnover of others, which
means, among other things, shrewd
buying. Perhaps the greatest obstacle in
the co.’s path is the swing of the shop-
ping centre to Bourke-street. Too much
notice, therefore, should not be taken
of the co.’s performances during the war
and post-war periods. For 13 years to
the close of accounts in 1925 it paid a
steady 10 p.c., with a bit extra in the
fattest years, and £40,000 of bonus scrip
was scattered. Then alterations were
made to the premises, the co. went a bit
into 'debt for the purpose, and the div.
dropped to 8 p.c.
During the eight years to the close of
accounts in 1931 £129,812 more was
spent on premises and plant than was
written off, and £128,940 was added to
the debt:
1923. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 86,327 228,282 180,029 183,352
Property . . 106,000 244,000 244,000 250,075
Plant, etc. .. 46,188 39,000 40,734 45,350
Stock.. .. 153,776 185,051 116,550 100,303
Book debts . . 69,833 08,794 43,468 42,975
Cash . . . . 8,202 300 200 200
Allowing for the £12,299 adjustment al-
ready referred to, stocks decreased £3948
last year, and debtors’ balances were
reduced by £493. When the books
closed, liabilities (they include a mortgage
of £115,000) exceeded more or less liquids
by £39,874, or £20,063 more than at the
previous balance.
At 21s. 9d. the prefs. would return
7.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, plus
arrears when paid. The ords. are priced
at 6s. 9d. The net tangible cover is
£5 2s. sd. prefs. and 20s. 7d. ords.
Mt. Ore Development Syndicate, Mel-
bourne, failed to exercise its option over
Iron Island, about 40 miles nor’-east of
Rockhampton (Q.). The property is held
under mining lease for 21 years from
1933 by S. A. Lovell, of Sydney. Early
in this century the Queensland Govern-
ment thought of setting up iron and steel
works there.
* * * *
Crocodile Creek Gold Dredging, Rock-
hampton (Q.), proposes to increase capi-
tal from £25,000 to £50,000 by raising
the face value of its shares from ss. to
10s. each. Money is wanted to build
a new dredge capable of treating 15,000
c.y. weekly ; estimated cost, about £20,000.
Since operations began, the present
machine has averaged about 1500 c.y.
weekly for an average return of 6.3 gr.
per .yard, which was barely enough to
cover running exes.
* * * *
At Hunter’s Gully, Rockhampton (Q.),
Newman and party are installing a 120-
h.p. Diesel-driven plant to treat 100 tons
of wash daily. An underlie shaft is being
driven 500 ft. to the bottom of the old
workings. Near by, on Thompson’s lease,
the last 60 tons of wash treated returned
83oz. of gold. Another syndicate is also
developing a promising-looking lease.
* * * *
May Downs, 50 miles from Mount Isa
(N.Q.), where gold was first discovered
30-odd years ago, is still regarded by old
hands as the most promising locality in
that region. Reefs and lodes have been
proved for miles, but capital is needed
by the few hardy miners still toiling
there. Among them are veteran Bass,
a pioneer of the old Wiluna field (W.A.),
and 70-year-old Winters, one of the best-
known prospectors in N.Q. Over the
last few years crushings have averaged
about 14dwt. Chief claim is the Crescent,
which is on a lode of fair stone up to
12ft. wide. Water remains a problem.
* * * *
There is talk of a new co. being formed
to develop the old manganese mines at
Amamoor and Mount Walli (Q.).
Sample ore treated at Newcastle (N.S.W.)
assayed 52 p.c. and another parcel sent
to the Ruhr works (Germany) assayed
54 p.c. manganese. An Australian co.
has offered to take at least 1000 tons of
the ore monthly. From 1894 to 1927
20,482 tons of manganese, valued at
£78,727, was raised in Queensland. Since
1927 production has been practically at
a, standstill.
* * * *
Mainly owing to the low price of tin,
a loss of £834 was shown by Carpathia
Tin, operating at Ardlethan (N.S.W.),
for the six months to July 31. During
the period 1629 tons was treated for 53
tons 15cwt. tin, worth £5496. Most of
the ore came from the 202 winze. In the
upper portion the ore is high-grade, but
the lode in the lower level is composed
almost entirely of sulphide of iron, of
low tin content; the presence of wolf-
ram here is also affecting the grade of
the concentrates. In No. 44 winze the
ore-body is 14ft. by 14ft., assaying about
4 p.c. tin. Co. also has some 25,000
tons tailings, estimated to contain £6OOO
worth of recoverable t. 0.; retreatment has
been suspended. Mine property, etc.,
figures at £46,490; stocks, £2066 ; cash,
etc., £3333. Including tax provision,
there is £2418 coming to outsiders ; re-
serves total £4046. Capital is £45,424
in 60,000 10s. f.-ps. and 44,070 7s. con-
tribs.
* * * *
Cullengoral Alluvial is mechanising its
horse-drawn puddles in order to speed
up production on its leases at Gundagai
(N.S.W.). The bucket dredge, capacity
80,000 c.y. monthly, to treat the 8,400,000
c.y. of lOd. dirt (gold at £8 an ounce
Aust.) in the middle area, will be ready
in October, and construction of a 'second
machine to handle the 5,400,000 of 11.7 d.
wash in the upper area is under con-
sideration. An adjoining 100 acres has
yet to be tested.
* * * ■ *
Formed in June, 1934, with a nominal
capital of £40,000 in £lO shares —public
put up £4BOO, and 600 f.-ps. went to the
vendor —Ballarat East Development has
interested London in its Ballarat East
areas (Vic.). Following a favorable
report by E. Edwards, an option was
taken and an operating co. is to
be formed. Terms of purchase have not
yet been announced. The leases (400
acres) are a large-scale proposition ; some
rich returns were won in the past, chiefly
from large, flat makes.
* * * *
After providing £3274 for taxation
and £2OOO for depreciation, Aberfoyle
Tin, Ben Lomond (Tas.), showed a
profit of £18,293 (down £6646) for the
year to June 30. A 20 p.c. div., the
same as for the previous year, took
£11,500, and a further £3412 was set
aside for depreciation and £2OOO for de-
velopment and amortisation. During the
year 14,791 tons ore was milled for 295 i
tons first and 344 tons second concen-
trates. Average values were £3 12s. 9d.
and costs £2 Bs., leaving a mining profit
of £1 4s. 9d. For 1935 the corresponding
figures were £4 4s. 5d., £2 6s. Bd. and
£1 17s. 9d. respectively. Proved ore re-
serves amount to 66,618 tons, averaging
about 1.56 p.c. tin. A crosscut west at
360 ft. has disclosed what looks like a
new series of lenses. No. 2 adit, ex-
pected to disclose 420 ft. of backs, was
commenced in Oct. last at a point
1000 ft. from the main shaft. When com-
plete, the job is expected to run away
with £20,000 or thereabouts. At balance
date, current assets aggregated £31,978 ;
outside liabilities totalled £3467. There
are 62,500 10 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and
200,000 ords. to feed, all £1 each.
* * * *
Yankee-owned and -controlled Big Bell
(W.A.) is being scientifically rushed to
the production stage. Treatment at the
rate of 30,000 tons a month will com-
mence in April next. Provision is to be
made for an increase to 60,000 tons a
month at a later date. At present
1,250,000 tons of ore is blocked, and
there are indicated reserves of 3,500,000
tons. Main haulage way is capable of
lifting 150 tons an hour. There are 250
men now on the payroll, but this number
will probably be doubled when all plant
has been installed. In a growing township
near by the license for a £25,000 hotel,
with hot and cold water in every room,
has just been granted.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development
has taken a 12 months’option over Spargo’s
Reward, covering 144 acres at Spargo-
ville (W.A.), with right of extension for
a further six months on payment of
£5OOO. Purchase price is £70,000 cash,
plus a 10 p.c. share interest in any co.
formed to work the property. Mining
engineers C. M. Harris and G. S.
Skuthorpe figure positive ore reserves
between the 70ft. and 300 ft. levels at
32,840 tons, averaging 6.sdwt. Probable
ore is put at 14,000 tons, going 7dwt.,
and possible ore at 30,000 tons. A
further 100,000 . tons of easily-developed
positive stuff, including oxidised ore, is
thought to lie above the 70ft. level.
* * * *
At King Solomon’s mine, Gullewa
(W.A.), a five-head battery has arrived
and is being erected. A Crossley engine
has been bought, and the market
anxiously awaits battery results.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Pal: Paids for preference Albus: (1)
Board says it will “refrain from giving con-
sideration to declaration of usual div. until
new plant is successfully operating at capa-
city.” (2) Hold. (3) Yes. (4) Hold. (5)
Morgan, Wiluna, Lake View... .F.G.: How to
Read and Understand a Balance Sheet, by
W. S. Synnott E.M.C.: H01d... .A.D.8.:
(1) A gamble at long odds. (2) Not members
of Sydney Stock Exchange... .1.L.L.: Both
doubtful specs W.R.L.: See B. 3.1/9/ ’36.
. ...H.M.: Regular bonuses not yet in sight.
Anxious: (1) If co.’s articles provide for
interest on overdue calls, charge is legal. (2)
Better to forfeit before interest becomes pay-
able E.C»C.: (1) Melbourne Buildings, Can-
berra, F.C.T. (2) No record.


The world’s sharpest
contrasts are drawn in
OLD and hallowed, Trinity Church looks with Gothic
dignity up the sheer canyon of Wall Street and listens
to the modern heart-throb of New York. Almost beneath
Los Angeles’ massive City Hall, Mexican peons strum guitars
along Olvera Street, as Latin as a calle in Old Spain. The
gabled pagodas of San Francisco’s Chinatown cast Oriental
shadows against the towering sides of new office buildings.
Speeding over Southwestern deserts, travelers pass near by
the cliff-dwellings of an ancient race. In America, from
Coast to Coast, Yesterday truly meets Tomorrow! * * *
America’s railroads exemplify this spirit. Luxury and com-
fort are the keynote. In Pullman cars for restful sleep; club
cars for diversions; diners for superlative refreshment, air-
conditioning controls the temperature, a trained staff in-
cluding valet and ladies’ maid assures immediate satisfac-
tion of every whim and need. Economy of fares and stop-
over privileges en route add to this fascinating travel way!
* + * Every mile of this short, swift trans-America route
to England is featured by amazing contrasts. Starting on a
Matson-Oceanic liner, the “Mariposa” or “Monterey,” there
is an 18-day wonder-cruise to California, pausing to acquire
indelibled South Sea memories at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii. Then from Los Angeles or San Francisco, a
choice of numerous rail-routes to the Atlantic Coast, where
another choice awaits of many liners bound for England!
The contrasts of this distinctive journey
are described in our free illustrated
booklet .. .‘‘England Across .America.”
American Railways Travel
and Information Bureau
(Incorporated in U.S.A.)
12 Bridge St., Sydney, Phone B-7981-3
Jis
A)
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Governors and Immigration
Victoria has had the almost unique
experience of hearing the State Governor
(Lord Huntingfield) and the Governor-
General (Lord Gowrie) depart from es-
tablished practice and, on successive
days, venture what amounted to defi-
nite policy opinions.
The subject was immigration. “Jealous
eyes of more crowded countries will be-
come fixed on Australia, and it is up to
us to show we have the power to fill our
country,” said Lord Huntingfield. “The
Commonwealth needs a greater popula-
tion, not only for the progress of the
country, but for the safety of our
shores,” Lord Gowrie said next day. On
other occasions Lord Gowrie has de-
clared that Australia is a marvellously
rich country. This is questionable.
Immigration is a political matter. It
is doubtful whether Governors, who are
supposed to be non-political, really help
the cause by discussing it and adding
recommendations.—L. W. C. (Vic.).
Major Douglas
A “Social Credit” speaker recently
stated that Major Douglas held four of
the highest degrees in engineering and
was recognised as the leading costing
accountant in the British Empire. Are
these statements facts? What degrees,
if any, does Douglas hold?—D. F. Y.
(N.S.W.).
[Extract from Who’s Who, which makes a
practice of going to the fountain-head for its
information:
Douglas, Clifford Hugh, M.l.Mech.E.,
consulting engineer and economist; chief
reconstruction adviser, Government of
Alberta; b. Jan. 20, 1879. Educ.: Pem-
broke College, Cambridge. Chief engi-
neer and manager in India, British West-
inghouse Co., Ltd.; assistant chief el.
engineer, B.A, and Pacific Rly.; assistant
superintendent Royal Aircraft Factory;
witness, Canadian Banking Inquiry, 1923;
MacMillan Committee, 1930, etc.; late
major R.F.C. and R.A.F. Publications:
Economic Democracy, Credit Power and,
Democracy, Social Credit, The Monopoly
of Credit. Recreations: Yachting, fishing.
Let it go at that.]
“Child Psychology”
Abolition of the death penalty for
murder is one of the planks of the
Maoriland Labor party. Now birch-
ing of young offenders is to go.
Five boys were convicted on 24
charges of breaking and entering, and
were sentenced to six strokes of the
birch each. Questions were asked in the
House of Representatives, and the Minis-
ter of Justice said that “the circum-
stances were very exceptional.”
The boys, armed with revolvers, were en-
gaged in systematic robbery, breaking and
entering premises. The magistrate, who
is usually averse to corporal punishment,
judged it an urgent necessity immediately
to break up a gang membership of which
constituted such an evil influence, present
and future.
But the Minister of Education, who is
also the Minister in Charge of the Police,
said that the Government intended to
abolish birching. “Such a development
is obsolete. Anyone who understands
child psychology realises that.” Who
does understand child psychology, any-
how? —Kaitahu (M.L.).
A Constitution for Russia
The new Russian Constitution, as
drafted, is interesting to read about.
There are to be 12 Parliaments —one
Federal and 11 State. The Federal Par-
liament is to follow antiquated bour-
geois lines and consist of twp Houses.
One House is to be elected by the “pro-
letariat” on the basis of one vote for
300,000 electors, giving 500 members for
162,000,000 people. The “Upper”
House is to be elected by the State Par-
liaments.
Both Houses are to have equal rights
t —finance is not to be democratically re-
served to people’s Houses as it is within
the British Commonwealth. Members
will sit for four years. There will be
two sessions every year, and a “Presi-
dium” (Cabinet) elected by the Houses
jointly will exercise the powers of Par-
liament out of session. And there will be
an Executive Council —Council of the
People’s Cojnmissars.
Voters are to be given religious free-
dom, plus freedom of conscience, of
assembly, speech, press and street
demonstrations. Work is to be guaran-
teed for all—with payment in accordance
with quality and quantity. Property
(subject to the right, in certain cases,
to own private wealth) is to be made
co-operative, and there will be almost
as much “Crown land” in Russia as there
is in Queensland. But anybody who
attempts to violate State property will
be declared an enemy of the people.
Voting at elections is to be universal
and secret —by persons over 18.
Catches are that a two-thirds majority
of Parliament will be able to alter the
Constitution, and that the Communist
party, a small section, appears to be the
only one olFicially recognised.—E. H. M.
(N.S.W.).
Renmark’s Community-owned Hotel
This, the first trust public house in
the Empire, was opened in 1897. For
many years all surplus profit had to be
devoted to paying off mortgages and en-
larging the premises, but of late years
£70,000 has been distributed to local
public bodies—district hospital, sports
clubs, unemployed relief, baby-welfare
centre —and large sums have been ex-
pended in tree-planting and establish-
ment and maintenance of parks. The
hotel has been progressively enlarged
and modernised ; to-day it is one of the
finest country hotels in the Southern
Hemisphere, with accommodation for
100 people.
Here was an object-lesson for poli-
ticians, yet only once has the idea been
copied, and that was at the near-by irri-
gation settlement of Barmera. Had Can-
berra chosen to copy this splendid
example, the huge losses sustained by
the Government-owned hotels there
might never have occurred. H. A. L.
(S.A.).
All Non-Coms.
The Australian’s quick response to
training depends mostly on a trained
skeleton staff of officers and n.c.os. being
available. The safest way to ensure this
is to train by degrees the whole of the
militia rank and file as n.c.os. They
could practise on each other, so to speak ;
as one group qualified for three bars, if
their hearts were in it, they could re-
vert to the pathetically thin ranks to let
a new group go through their, training:
crowds of Diggers dropped their
“acting stripes” without grumbling when
they reached their battalions overseas.
Volunteering would then hold more in-
ducements, and precious weeks might be
saved in the training of a new A.I.F.
I don’t know how officers would fancy
similarly switching around, but it would
be vastly more valuable jn their case. -
Shep (N.S.W.).
Price-control and Prices
xhe Queensland Minister of Agricul-
ture an( i stock has heatedly denied an
assertion that dead meat retailed in
Brisbane is not much good. He wasted
his breath. In the spacious days of Ryan
strict control over prices was insti-
tuted “for the protection of the public.”
If the Price Commissioner decrees that
fourpence a pound and not more may
be charged for corned beef, the grower is
going to supply fourpenny stuff and no
other. The killing of competition has
meant the killing of scrubby cattle.—
O. H. (Q.).


ABORIGINALITIES
“First Blue”: The bush is the home of
makeshifts. I have seen church bells
used as alarms on night lines and grid-
irons and motor gears made from fenc-
ing wire, but a new one was sprung on
me at Wangaratta (Vic.) post office the
other day. An old cocky, after scribbling
a note, looked around for blotting-
paper and, finding none, drew a ten-
pound note from his pocket and blotted
his screed with it. Judging by the be-
draggled look of the tenner, he’d been
out of blotting paper for years.
* * * *
“Horus”: These ’ere blokes ’oo pull
teeth with their fingers ’as nothin’ on
Charlie, an abo. I knew in th’ Territory.
Me flamin’ ’ead was nearly liftin’ orf,
an’ I'm out o’ painkiller. So in desp’ra-
tion I gits Charlie to ’ave a go at the
blasted molar. First ’e tries one ’and,
an’ then the other, an’ then both, but
it still ’ung on. “I get that pfeller in
two shakes, boss,” ’e said, an’ lays me
flat on th’ ground. Then ’e grabs me
chin with one ’and, presses ’ard on me
forehead with the other’ an’, raisin’ ’is
right leg, whips that tombstone out in
’arf a jiff with ’is big toe an’ th’ one
next it!
* * * V-
“Gravelsnatcher”: Wanted: pelicans.
Must be healthy. Price: £1 per adult
bird; 10s. per baby. Sounds easy
money. But is it? The authorities at
the South Perth Zoo think it can’t be,
and they should know. First they applied
to the Boy Scouts. Then the fishing fleet.
The pelicans were shy. The Chief In-
spector of Fisheries had some eggs sent
down from Pelican Island, Shark Bay,
to be hatched. Those that weren’t
addled were infertile. There the matter
rests. Anyhow, how do you catch
pelicans?
“Isdell”: One of the stock ideas of
the stay-at-home fiction writer, English
variety especially, is that a bullet will
bounce off the hide of a crocodile, the
only spots open for the placing of a kill-
ing shot being the eyes and behind the
forelegs. Actually, a croc.’s hide is no
tougher than an ordinary bullock’s, and
certainly not as tough as a N.T. buf-
falo’s. Given short enough range it is
possible to put quietus on the saurian
with a charge of heavy shot. Of course,
if the bullet strikes on the serrated back
ridges it will ricochet, just as from the
horns of a buffalo or even an ordinary
bullock —and for the same reason.
* * * *
“Flame”: Bushfires can be caused in
queer ways. When mysterious fires
broke out among the canefields in the
Childers (Q.) district, incendiarism was
suspected, but though a careful watch
was kept they continued. The conflagra-
tions invariably started during a strong
wind. Perched in the branches of a scrub-
apple to detect any “firebug,” a cane-
hand was pop-eyed to see a small piece
of lighted bark fall from the trunk of
the tree. Watching closely, he saw a
near-by gum sapling sway against it
when a strong wind blew. The friction
set fire to the soft bark of the apple-tree.
* * * *
“Bimbo”: Anyone beat this for a bag
of eagles? In the last four months A.
Rose has caught 206 eagles on the prop-
erty of R. Todd at Boggabri (N.S.W.).
The method used was to set rabbit-traps
around a wire-netting cage containing
two white hens. Most of the birds were
over Bft. across the wings.
* # * *
“Poley”: When “Burradoo” lauded
the side-saddle as being “the next-best
thing to sitting in an armchair” (B.
19/8/’36), he was, of course, giving the
rider’s point of view. The cruelty of
the side-saddle isn’t properly impressed,
as it is, and was, used but sparingly. A
Sunday ride isn’t real work, and the
rare woman who rode regularly, even in
the old days, adopted the man’s saddle.
No man, and darned few women, could
save a horse’s back by using a side-
saddle when work in the real sense had
to be done. That lopsided seat pre-
cluded all possibility of a horse preserv-
ing a‘sound back, apart from the super-
“Pretty smart bloke, that choom . It's the second swarm he's found this week."
tight lacing, which produced girth-galls.
I’d consign the monstrosity to the blaze,
and I’m coming to the age when a man
begins to deplore the “good things we
had when I was a boy.”
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Kelly sometimes gets
hoist with his own petard. I saw one
of the black devils on the back of a
sheep which was doing about 30 m.p.h.
through the dense scrub. Next day we
came on the final scene of the tragedy
and found that Ned had encompassed
his own death as well as that of the
sheep. His claws had become hope-
lessly entangled in the wool, and half a
dozen of his evil fraternity were feast-
ing impartially on sheep and bird.
* * * *
“Tripod”: Horses certainly get into
some queer positions. Hearing a com-
motion near my prad’s stable one morn-
ing I found him hooked up by the teeth
on the roof guttering of his stable. He
had reached up at full stretch for some
green shoots sprouting from corn
dropped by birds in the guttering, and
the edge of it had lodged behind his
bridle teeth.
* * * *
“CD1”: Shearing at Llanrheidol
(W.Q.) was attended by an unusual visi-
tor. Though nobody has seen one about
waving arm, dirt-track complex and all
the place for years, a paddymelon—
—arrived from somewhere, and took up
residence beneath the board, quite un-
concerned by the 11 stands of machinery
thundering overhead. He was keen on
exercise, and used to get it in concen-
trated form about sundown. He would
pop out into the open, tear round the
shed in about five seconds, and flash
back under the board with the celerity
of lubricated electricity, while half a
dozen disappointed mongs would tear
up the dirt at the entrance and tell each
other what they’d do to him to-morrow.
He had some narrow squeaks, but saw
the shearing out.
* . * * =i=
“Eureka”: “Why did you leave old
Woodup’s place?” I asked the new hand.
“They made things too hot,” he told me.
“I didn’t mind the old man putting my
overcoat and hat on one of the scare-
crows to keep the cockatoos off the corn,
and even when young Joe broke two of
my golf clubs killing snakes I didn’t say
much, because l suppose snakes have to
be killed ; but when the old girl took
my only decent white shirt for a pud-
ding cloth I reckoned it was time to
leave.” “Did you chat the old man
about it?” I asked him. “He reckoned
I was lucky, because only that day he’d
stopped her from using my tennis
racquet for straining the cabbage; said
he didn’t want it spoiled for sifting the
ashes for the cementing he wanted to
do next day.”
* ❖ * He
“C.C.C.”: Here’s a problem for Abo.-
naturalists. A cave at Archervale
(Boulia-road, W.Q.) with six dingo pups
in it had scattered about the entrance
the hides of at least nine porcupines
(echidnas) flattened out like plates and
licked clean. Apart from the odd taste
in tucker displayed by that family—in
his 16 years’ experience the dogger
reckons it’s unique—how did the dogs
manage to open up those balls of spikes?
Of course, they would have no difficulty
in eating in from underneath —once the
prickly marsupials were straightened out
in death ; before that the strongly-rolled
mass of quills would defy Jimmy Valen-
tine. And how the dogs could kill ’em
without an axe or a gun has this Abo.-
scribbler puzzled.
* * * *
“Porosus”: Crocodiles are reported to
be i ncreas j ng j n North Queensland, and
those who know what a nu j sanC e the
brutes are t 0 catt i emen w jU sympathise
w - th gro wer of beef al-
. dnntprpH hv loss of markets and
devoured by taxation sharks The
tbeory is that the disappearance of the
bus j l abo bas some thing to do with the
increase ‘ ln the past Binghi was a whole-
§ale devourer of croC odile eggs, thus
keeping the birth-rate down Tfie brutes
see £ t * be spreading sou th also. Raglan
Creek, well south of Rocky, where a few
5 crocodiles were unknown, is
7 f egular haunt
now naun . #
“n.8.W.” : Licenses and permits, like
bbd d ot b e r pests, crop up every-
outback. One northern N.S.W.
C.P.S. is kept rather busy, and enjoys his
Saturday afternoon’s sport. A very
wanted to.be married. _ “Can’t tedone
now s . th £ for a
You 11 have to ivait tut iU i,
license.” This was a terrible blow. The
dismayed pair conferred anxiously mow
tones. Then the swam spoke up: ow
about g.vrn’ us a permit tor the we=K-
end, then/
* Q there
Jmdivick . Un a iuesaay inei
arrived in our town a survival of a by-
gone day-a hard-bitten fearer with a
big cheque to bust and a will to be _ n
with the job. What a P nze ,
boys! Hed been round the s e ,
now sought to have a B™* 1 • -
was hail-fellow-well-met withthelocal
sports, who soon introduced him to the
poker parlors and the “swi-up”
schools, and let him in on their “after
hours” booze racket. His money flowed
freely—even oiled the way into our
specially select club. By Friday he
knew everyone worth knowing and every
place worth going. On Saturday disaster
overtook our little world. The cops
raided the town and carted 30-odd of the
lads to the peter. The shearer was with
them, and what he knew was just too
bad for the boys. One, leaving the sta-
tion on bail, mumbled : “A man should’ve
known it. Shearers with cheques to
bust don’t exist these days. They’ve
been dead in these parts for 10 years.”
* * * *
“Awani”: So plentiful are foxes in
the Warialda (N.S.W.) district that the
local P.P.B. is giving a bonus of four
shillings per scalp for them. That must
be about a record price.
* * *
“Rudy Ammer”: Emu steak, eh!
Bushed for a few days near Moonic
River (Q.) and six meals in arrear, the
unexpected appearance of a pair of
meandering, lackadaisical emus galvan-
ised into action my all-but-atrophied ali-
mentary system and qualified me to speak
authoritatively on the epicurean aspect of
these birds. Emu flesh —from beak to
ecclesiastical promontory —whether fried,
boiled, grilled, basted, roasted, stewed
or just burned, is a feed for the gods
when one is really hungry. It needn t
even be filleted, for the sound of bones
crunching adds to the ecstatic enjoyment
of the feast. Where a fire is unavailable
the flesh is quite satisfying eaten raw,
and the first bite may be taken before
rig. mort. suoervenes on the final kicks.
Much water has flowed down the Moonie
since then, but the fleeting allusion of
some Abojiar still has the effect of re-
calling vividly every sensation 1 experi-
enced. Often I wonder what would
have happened had not the Taraian
cocky and his flivver picked me up and
taken me the 90 miles to Dalby. What
of the emus? They’re still meandering
for all I know, for I hadn’t a gun with
me. The subsequent gorge at Dalby
deservedly ranks with the many memor-
able feeds I’ve had, but, even so, it fell
far short of that anticipatory emu ban-
quet I had among the squat black trunks
of the Moonie River brigalows.
* * * ,* .. .
“Kyabra”: “Meekas camel which
pulled the four-ton-odd of firewood (B.
5/8/’36) would be classed as a goat out
on the Cooper track. Joe Cump pulled
into the Quilpie railway yards one even-
■ in m 2 with \ bales of wool. Next
morning he pulled the wagon alongside
the trucks with his two shatters. Snaps
of the job being done form the illusto-
tion for Quilpie s best-known tourist
postcard.
“Go-Anna”: * Old H.'ijW. dwell-
and the windows a spiders' home from
T lh „ nndne ss of his heart he
• . ig. vear . o i d orphaned niece,
week the place was spot-
Noticing clouds mounting one day
>“ s nr -There" a storm
coming up in the west.” Uncle, whose
selection had had no rain for six months,
. excdtement made for the
I P d used to dirt-encrusted
Sought it was open,
P nd ’ his head through the glass. He
extricated his bleeding crown from the
| agged hole, turned testily to his over-
j c ’ e and sa id bitterly: “There’s
zealous m
wimm y
STAMPEDE.
We were moving to grass with a "scrubber
bunch at the end of a hard, dry spell
By the routes that circle the Burloo Downs,
on the brink of the inland hell,
When out of the north, through a molten haze,
the red dust rode the skies,
And blotted the sun as we wheeled the mob
in the lee of an ironstone rise.
Close by the wild-eyed steers we pressed as the
first low gusts came by;
\Vfth a volley of whips to steady them down
and a curse to the winds on high.
But never was stockman born to the plains
who could bully a border brand
When their blood was hot and the air was dark
with the driving desert sand.
Like a surging flood the cattle turned and
broke at my horse's side,
And 1 rode for my life as I tossed at the crest
of That brown, engulfing tide.
Not a chance was ours to stem the rush or to
swing the leaders back;
With the odds all wrong it was ride or die
in that fear-crazed, racing pack.
And ride we did, with the herd behind drum-
ming a mad refrain;
Down from the rolling hills we sped, out on
the saltbush plain,
Hurtling on by the gaunt, grey scrub, half-blind
in the searing blast;
Then out with a spurt through the thundering
wing, and the shadow of death was past.
And later we watched them into the west, till
their dust was a cloud in the sun;
And we rung them at dawn by the foot of a
range when their weary race was run.
Through a breathless day we pushed them back
to the camp where their flight. began;
But thirst is real on the plains out there, and
a drover is only a man . . .
And often to-day when I ride the tracks with
a mob knee-high in the grass,
When the water’s deep in the green lagoons and
the crested pigeons pass,
1 grieve for the herd that we left behind at
the end of a hard, dry spell
Out in the scrub of the Burloo Downs, on the
brink of the inland hell.
N.S.W.
A. S. ALLISON.


“Laetitia”: Nightly, two geckos, obvi-
ously a lover and his lass, used to listen
to the syncopations on my gramophone.
Each night they encroached closer to
the whirling disc, until one evening
the reptilian sheik, apparently seeking to
impress the girl friend, stepped on to
the ebony circle. He stuck like a Sku-
thorpe during the gyrations, furthering
his scientific education by contact with
the principle of “torque,” which, how-
ever, failed to dislodge him. When I
stopped the gadget he disembarked, stag-
gering drunkenly, from which state his
flapper friend recoiled in horror. Next
night he came again for the music, but
never again did he attempt the merry-
go-round.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Having noted the
beauties of the cane-knife as an outback
implement (B. 9/9/’36), I should like to
ask “L.W.” one question. Is it any
good for taking the caps off beer-
bottles? There is nothing more likely
to cause barked fingers, frayed tempers
and bad language than bottled beer in
a camp without a regulation bottle
opener.
* * * *
“Ophir”: Why does “Errol’s” British
R.O. (B. 5/8/’36) want to play the fool
with a cobra when he can get a tiger-
snake to do the same? If the cobra is
any quicker off the mark than the tiger,
hits as surely, has the same dirty temper
and can kill in quicker time, then he’s
pretty hot stuff. Never mind about any
supposed mating period. Get a tiger
when he’s on the job, and that’s likely
at any time of the year, and he’ll have
a shot at anything that moves. He’ll
attack without provocation ; he’ll keep
coming ; and after he’s finished his job
what’s left isn’t worth picking up.
'!*
“Trochus”: “Shamuseen” in his haste
to correct “L.W.” (B. 26/8/’36) errs
slightly himself. Diving glasses are com-
mon. In fact, it would be rare to find a
skin diver without them. There is no
particular knack about the position in
which they are held under water. They
are invariably dipped under the sur-
face before being donned. Glasses do
more than increase the visibility—they
release the weight of water from the eye-
lids. When a boy is working down to
about 10 fathoms it is practically impos-
sible to open the eyes if shut, or to close
them if open. With glasses this can be
done as easily as in the air. Incidentally
an aggregate of “12 hours daily in the
water” overstates Binghi’s capacity. The
general rule is: 39 dives a day in reason-
able water as a maximum. As few boys
could exceed four minutes, and the aver-
age dive would not be more than 2min.,
the difference is obvious.
* * * *
“H.S.G.”: On the score of under-
standable ignorance British artists may
be excused for picturing outback
Australians dressed in big hats and knee
boots. But Australian black-and-white
illustrators need to be put on the right
track also. Bushmen don’t wear waist-
coats ! Countless otherwise faithful
sketches are spoiled by this glaringly in-
accurate detail. You are just as likely to
see a cocky in spats.
* * * %
“Saddle-flap”: Bluegum isn’t in it
with Tasmanian Huon pine for. immu-
nity from marine borers. Many of
Hobart’s famous ketches built of this
wood have been used in borer-infested
tropical waters without copper sheathing.
Some years ago at Macquarie Harbor,
on the Speck’s rugged west coast, I saw
some Huon from a wreck that had been
submerged there for over 80 years.
There wasn't a sign of a worm in it.
“The 0.D.”: They must be highly-
intelligent rabbits in “W.P.T.’s” part of
the country (B. 9/9/’36). The stupid
cottontails that I moved among not
only died in thousands in and around
their warrens when drought came, but
also failed to realise what a flood was,
even when the water started pouring
into their burrows. Most of them stayed
inside, no doubt deducing that if it was
wet in it must be a darned sight wetter
out. Rabbits leaving the country as a
sign of drought is on a par with dogs
howling as an omen of death.
* * * *
“Groper”: The Norwegian whaling
fleet now operating off our W.A. coast
recalls how last century Yankee whalers,
with home ports at New Bedford and
Martha’s Vineyard, exploited the same
waters,, sailing off annually with thou-
sands of barrels of oil. Some went
further: contemplating an extended
cruise many skippers selected a fertile
spot on some river estuary, landed a crew
of gardeners, cleared, fenced and culti-
vated an acre or so, sowing vegetables
which, gathered periodically, provided
the best possible antidote to the then
dreaded scurvy. So extensive did this
practice become that an international
situation was almost evolved—the market
gardeners of the Swan River, who relied
on visiting ships for the disposal of their
surplus crop, petitioning the Colonial
Office to take action against the Ameri-
cans for unconstitutional trespass. Diplo-
matic notes were exchanged, with the
result that the Yanks were warned that
unauthorised horticulture on H.M.’s-
colonial domains was illegal.
jfc
“F.Y.7”: As the owner at one. time
of several prime ’roo- and emu-killers (B.
16 /9 / ’36) let me record that the grips
mentioned by “Alsatian” are all wrong.
A well-trained kangaroo dog invariably
grabs his prey by the back of one thigh
as he comes up to him. This is an un-
breakable hold which invariably brings
’roo or emu crashing. A young dog will
jump at the throat on occasion. The
flying spill he gets soon persuades him
to drop that foolishness and follow the
example of his elders.
* * * *
“Macropus”: The dissertation by
“Darwinius” (B. 16/9/’36) on the de-
velopment of “tremendous speed” in the
kangaroo leaves me cold. Given an open
go a good horse or dog can catch any
hopper. The fastest of the tribe writer
has encountered is the lady of the red
kangaroo. It takes a first-class dog to
catch her, and if the going is stony, as
stone ridges, he can kiss her
good-bye.
"IV hat's the matter, Mary?"
“Coverum one eye, missus, makum floor look smaller."
“Pack-bag”: Goats are not always
sure-footed. On Cape Wollamai (Vic.),
where many Angoras live on a network
of pads winding around the precipitous
cliffs, I have often seen dead kids washed
ashore after having fallen several hun-
dred feet to the ocean-swept rocks below.
“Nordbo”; The first warning we had
of anything untoward was from old, fat
Mick de Mullet, who has lived along
Alligator Creek (Cairns, N.Q.) for genera-
tions. He came swimming down one
morning smiling foolishly, his eyes nearly
popping from their sockets, and pro-
ceeded on a course which suggested an
obscure triangulation system varied by
the tracing of a series of imperfect con-
“All the young men are wearing that model, sir. It’s called the
Anthony Eden.”
centric circles. At the same time he was
reeling like a flat-bottomed cargo-boat in
a cross sea. Suddenly he ran full tilt on a
mudbank, where he lay flapping until
you could scarcely see him for mud.
Fortunately the tide was making, and
our breakdown gang soon had him off.
Immediately he let out a gurgling whoop
and charged madly into mid-channel,
wheeling, prancing and splashing about
like a courting crocodile. Finally he
turned and barged flop into the next
mudbank. While we were still attending
to Mick, speculating on the cause of his
aberration, a whole army of lunatics
came down on us. Young and
old, they came —trevalli, mullet,
flathead and bony bream, all
playing-up on the lines taken by
old Mick, the greybeards with
an absurd stately sprightliness, the
infants with the added dash and
verve of youth. I saw a small
bony bream with snapping baby-
teeth jump high in the air
in a mad attempt to pull down a huge
fish-hawk almost paralysed with aston-
ishment. Two fishermen in a dinghy
came round the bend, passing me.
“Hello!” said one. “Brewery dumped
another lot of hops, hey?” They began
to take up the collection.
“O.B.”: In the ’nineties, a nig. on
loot did the Eucla-Fowler’s Bay mail,
240 miles, in seven days. He lugged
mail, wardrobe and what not across a
white man’s deathtrap with just a “me
no frightem” air. He bee-lined from
rockhole to rockhole, firestick and
woomera equipped ; cooked, toileted
and bottlewashed between hikes, and
dined on grilled lizard, pouched ants
and toasted widjidee. His reward, and
his seventh heaven of delight, was a
monster blowout on sheep’s pluck at
the end of his week’s walkabout.
* * * *
“F.R.C.”: In a recent Bully an Abo-
liar stated he had seen seagulls 700 miles
from the nearest seaboard. But is there
any place in Australia 700 miles from
the sea? A pair of dividers and a map
will show that 600 miles is about the
limit.
* * *
“Kriz”: Ten years in the Kimberleys
(W.A.) has convinced me that Nature
lavishes gifts over country which the
nomadic abos. inhabit. Native flora
provides unstinted food and medicine.
The quinine-tree supplies fever remedy ;
the kernel is extracted, ground into
powder between two stones, and covered
with wild honey. Rhizomes of water-
lilies, besides being a food much sought
after, are taken as a cure for stomach
troubles. Leaves of the eucalypts give
relief to sufferers from chest troubles.
Most of the creeks and rivers are well-
stocked with fish, which are sometimes
caught by being stupefied with a con-
coction made from the bark of the
cadjeput-tree and ground leaves from
eucalypts ; billabongs and creeks are alive
with ducks, geese, ibises, cranes and
brolgas, all of which contribute to make
Kimberley abos. the sturdy men and
women they are. It is uncommon to see
a man less than six feet in height, and
the women, who carry themselves with
dignified ease, are well built, sans the
skinny legs of the gins further south.
:«c * Jjc
“Eureka”: Domestic animals occa-
sionally develop queer tastes. A Jersey
cow on a South Coast (N.S.W.) farm
eats all the hen eggs she can get hold of
and spends all her time looking among
ferns and tussocks for nests. On the
same farm the old horse will tackle
meat, either raw or cooked, and also
helps himself to the separated milk if he
gets a chance.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Repeated raids on fowl
roosts led me to stalk a goanna as he was
demolishing a nest of eggs in a petrol-
case. A sitting shot with a shotgun suc-
ceeded in shattering the eggs, box and
apparently the go., for various entrails of
variegated hues studded the next box,
which had also been shattered by the
pellets. But there was no sign of the
goanna, nor was he ever located. Appar-
ently removal of his interior mechanism
did not affect his ability to get away, and
he did not die anywhere in the vicinity,
as evidenced by the subsequent absence
of odor, for of all bush creatures the
goanna, defunct, ranks the strongest.
THE DEBUNKER.
“Y’ know,” said old Alf, and his eye lit up as
1 ordered two more beers,
"I've kicked around a lot in me time, an’ I’m
close on eighty years;
And in every outback joint where I’ve been —it
almost seems a craze—
-I‘vc noticed someone’ll pitch you a yarn of the
old bushrangin’ days.
"It's a funny thing, too, but you’ll never hear
’em maggin’ of Gilbert’s gang,
How they met Befi Hall, or was there to see
some other outlaw hang.
No! You bet your life it’s alwiz the same old
hackneyed yarn they’ll croak:
Of how Ned Kelly once held ’em up—and he
seemed quite a decent bloke!
"The fact o' the matter is this (well, yes, now
I don’t mind if I do),
They’ve pitched the tale so often now that
they’re quite convinced it’s true.
But they can’t kid me—do they think that I
was born a week ago?
They make me sick with their old-time tales . . .
Well, thank y’, here’s a go!
“As 1 was sayin’, they don’t go down with a
cove that akcherly knew;
Why, / saw Ned Kelly a dozen times, as close
as I am to you.
An’ you can take my word for it, son (thanks,
I could do with a smoke),
That them tales they spin about him are lies
—for he wasn’t a decent bloke !”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


LYSAGHiTS
ate
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
a§ of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
VST
■st;
Tamili
iLI
■
stssMitis*
& * J -
:, ;v ; |
• "V
*, - '. •
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable jrom all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Ht£i O.tice: 17-19 Bridge Street, SyLiey
SPEC
FY " LYSAGH T 1 S” WIRE, WIRE N ETH N
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Merino Lambs’ Wool.
“Murrawong”: To get best results with
lambs’ wool, it should be picked as soon
as shorn. Even if there are not enough
lambs to Cut a bale of wool, and whether
it is intended to market through a pool-
ing system or direct, it is better to pick it
straightway and forward it as a mixed
bale. After lambs’ fleeces have been put
together and pressed, sorting will take
twice as long and yield only a fraction
of the best wool.
The number of lines to be made is
governed mainly by the size of the lambs
and the amount of burr they carry. If
they are so small that shearing only re-
sults in whitewashing them,' the only
handling the wool needs is to remove
stains. When the lambs are well enough
grown to show a defined crimp in the
staple, all the best of such wool should
be picked out to form a top line (AA
Lambs). The shorter wool from trim-
mings, bellies, etc., makes the low line
(A Lambs).
Big, well-grown lambs or lambs of
mixed ages will require three or more
lines. Make a top line of the longest,
brightest wool (AAA Lambs). If the
lambs carry burr low on skirts and bel-
lies, every effort should be made to keep
this top line free.
The second line (AA Lambs) will take
the shorter wool, bellies, etc., carrying
some burr but still fairly bright. Into the
third line (A Lambs) put the trimmings,
very short “mousey” wool and stains.
Keep all straight, hairy-tipped wool
out of the top line, no matter how long
and bright it may be. If there is not
much of it, put it in the AA Lambs ; but
if a fair proportion of it keeps coming
through, make a separate line of it and
brand “Lambs.”
The entire handling of lambs’ wool
will be facilitated if the fleeces are prop-
erly picked up from the board. Except
in cases of emergency, as when several
shearers let go together, the broom
should always follow ,the picker-up—
never precede him.
When the fleece is swept roughly away,
turned over several times and thoroughly
mixed, it takes twice as long to pick. And
if the pickers are needlessly overloaded
and in danger of getting “bogged,” the
job will be slummed. Insist on careful
handling from the start.
The picker-up should not be allowed
to take more than one fleece at a time,
and each fleece should be placed on a
clear part of the table —not on top of a
half-picked heap.
Any wool left on the board by the
picker-up—which should be kept at a
minimum—should be swept into the
wool of the lamb being shorn on the
adjoining stand. This does not apply to
dags, which are best swept down the
chute.
Summer lambs’ or weaners’ wool or
any fleeces which can be picked up with-
out the use of lamb boards should be
handled similarly to the wool of grown
sheep. Spread out on the table and skirt
off burr and stains. Then roll the fleece
for classing. If skirtings are small, one
line branded WEANERS/FCS will take
them. It may be necessary to make two
lines of fleece, according to the greatest
variation —in length or quality. Either
the longest (AA WNRS) and a short line
(A WNRS) or else a strong and a fine
line, unless they are so mixed in size that
all three lines are necessary.
Wool Critics Needed.
“K. Me.”: I don’t often meet the
grazier who knows if he is getting-up his
clips in a way to ensure the utmost com-
petition, or, for that matter, for what
mills the wool is most suited.
Bradford competes strongly for shafty
70’s, Germany for burry lines and France
for short, fine wools. U.S.A. buyers pre-
fer high-yielding fines, and Japanese,
when they operated, fitted immense quan-
tities of 64’s. Mill requirements con-
stantly change with fasfiions, and it is
difficult for a classer to keep up to date.
“A man Wouldn't MIND catchin' a cold orf o' you."
Buyers often see a line 70 p.c. of which
would suit their requirements, but the
balance is either passed over or valued
low in order to recover repacking costs.
At present there is no co-ordination of
the producing and purchasing ends of
the trade.
Woolbrokers are doing well enough to
pay handsome divs., build up large re-
serves and return part of their commis-
sion to growers.
It would serve a useful purpose if
some of this surplus was pooled and used
to employ experts thoroughly conversant
with both growing conditions and buying
requirements to examine the wool in
store and supply graziers with construc-
tive criticism on the preparation of their
clips. The experts would, of course,
have to be independent.
Kurrajongs and Lambs.
“Rom Ney”: First-cross Romney
Marsh-merino ewes that produced win-
ning lamb carcasses at last Sydney Royal
Show were fed exclusively on lopped
kurrajongs for about a month in the
recent May-June dry spell. They
mothered a winning pen of lambs at
Sydney sheep show, the lambs having
been fed kurrajong. There are 3000
ewes, not all the same cross, and a 90
p.c. mark was recorded.
The property of 5000 acres turned otf
6000 fat lambs and c.f.a. ewes last year.
There are 1400 acres of grazing lucerne
and 500 acres of sub. clover and Wim-
mera rye.
F. and S.A. president, H. S. Henley,
runs the place, near Cowra (N.S.W.), ad-
mittedly a safe district, but he has a
kurrajong nursery, plants them out on
the run and has more than a tree to two
acres.
He likes the cross mentioned, also the
Dorset-Romney-merino, with Dorset and
Southdown rams ; the Dorset for quick
maturity to beat the grass seeds, and the
Southdown for good carcasses in seed-
free country, i.e., early drop lambs.
Henley is satisfied that Dorset-sired
lambs will catch up to others, though
dropped later. “It’s what you make
per month per acre that counts,” he
says, “not what you make per sheep.’'
Contagious Abortion.
“Mookau”: Two European investi-
gators, Zeller and Stockmayer, have
made exhaustive tests with heifers carry-
ing two- to four-month calves, using
four different types of killed vaccine.
The results are not on the side of the
vaccinationists. Almost as many heifers
aborted after vaccine doses as without,
and many treated youngsters suffered
from afterbirth retention and barrenness.
According to the N. S. Wales Chief
Veterinary Surgeon, Switzerland, where
c.a. is a serious problem, prohibits the
use of either killed or live vaccines, and
the Germans prohibit living vaccines.
In Holland, both drug and serum treat-
ments have failed, but the Dutch have a
leaning towards vaccination.
Most observers have come to the con-
clusion that we are still a long way from
having any even nearly effective treat-
ment. Where improvement is shown,
it is due usually to hospital care of the
animal in feeding and the establishment
of cleanliness.
Diagnosing Tetanus.
“Stump Jump”: Probably tetanus
occurs more often in horses because the
manure of stables and yards, in which
they spend a good deal of time, is an
ideal preservative of the spores. It is
just as lethal for other stock, especially
sheep, which are liable to be infected in
large bunches at shearing time. This is
due to cuts from the combs opening the
gate to spores.
In horses, tetanus can be discovered
long before the shivering-muscle stage
by noting the reflex action of the third
eyelid.
If the horse shows a slight stiffness
of gait, try either flinging the head up
sharply from the muzzle or else hitting
the mandibles lightly with a stick. If
the third eyelid, which must be watched
closely throughout, flies out from the
corner of the eye, but returns slowly,
the animal almost certainly has tetanus.
This eyelid is a purely protective mech-
anism, and returns to its corner position
as quickly as it covers the eyeball in de-
fence.
Infection is not a normal wound in-
vasion. It is hard to recover the an-
aerobe from infected tissue. The germ
travels in the bloodstream, and finds a
site for proliferation eventually in the
spinal column, where it liberates the
toxins that cause the subsequent violent
muscle twitches. The action is purely on
the motor nerve cells of the muscles.
Cure is possible if attempted when the
eyelid reflex first shows, though it depends
on whether the anti-serum, which must
be injected immediately, is readily avail-
able. It pays to keep some of this stuff
on hand always, especially with valuable
animals on the place. Protective anti-
toxin is available, but costly for proper-
ties where losses are heavy. It provides
immunity for a considerable period—
over a year often.
Farmers working in yards, even
grooming the horses, need to be careful
of cuts. Here again protective vaccine is
available which will provide a semi-per-
manent immunity. The slightest sus-
picion of infection should send the victim
to the nearest doctor or hospital without
delay.
Picking a Tank Site.
“Scoop”: Though a tank can be placed
so as to water two paddocks, it is best
in the middle of a big paddock, where it
saves the stock having to travel far to
water. Catchment area should be kept
clean, and trees above the tank removed
to stop stock camping there.
Stock come in the morning, hang
round, taking frequent drinks, till after-
noon, then move off to feed. Provide
shade trees below the tank, otherwise
the stock will only take one long drink
and move off, which is not good for
them.
Be careful when picking a tank site.
On flat country, roads and hard bare
patches make good catchments. Try for
(Continued on page 24.)


GREATEST TRACTION FOB
ANY wort .
ANY weather A
ANY conditions J§t('
m
Fitted with Goodyear Farm
Implement Tyres, your tractor
knows no seasons! All the
year round, wet or dry, your
tractor has better grip in any
kind of soil, and so can cover
more acres, do more work
faster, better resulting in
substantial savings in fuel, oil,
labor and time.
And more kinds of work are
possible such as ROAD-
WAY HAULING WITH-
OUT WHEEL CHANGES.
EASY /
TERMS*
Goodyear Farm Implement
Tyres and Wheels are now
available on Hire Purchase Terms. For full
particulars, write to the Goodyear Branch (in
all capital cities).
mm i
n
FARM IMPLEMENT TYRES
10-C22-’36.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


ARE YOUR SHOES COMFORTABLE
... ALWAYS?
SUMMER is here again, bringing with it the hot, tiring days
which bring out the discomforts of most shoes, and also
the feet.
Abbey Orthopedic Shoes-, made, as they are, to the form of the
human foot, allow the feet to spread in their natural shape.
These shoes bring comfort to all.
BLACK - - - - 37/6. BROWN 39/6
Have you tried Abbey Polish yet? Price Od. per tin.
ASK FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS , SYDNEY .” W.A. 48.
LICK
VI
WANT
Orrr*
*
IT
2
"DANDY'
%
MEAT
M EAL
The Meal That Mean? MORE Weight
Conclusive tests, as per Official
Experiments shown alongside and
remarkable results consistently
being secured both with baconers
and sows with litters, have
resulted in a decision to market
“ Dandy ” Pig Meat Meal
throughout Australia.
Applications Are Invited in
Reference to Distributing
Agencies in Ail States
For Fattening, Use £lb. Daily.
For Breeding Sows, ilb. Daily.
Supplied in 25,50 and 1001 b. Bags
In view of the reference
to “ Meatmeal for
Pigs” in the issue of
Sept. 23 of this paper,
‘‘The Man on the
Land” will surely be
interested to learn of
“Dandy” Pig Meat
Meal.
OFFICIAL
Pig Feeding
Experiments
in NEW ZEALAND
FEED REQUIRED
TO PUT ON 100 LB,
LIVE WEIGHT:
385 LBS. BARLEY
AT 0.7 D. PER LB.
325 LBS. BARLEY
AT 0.7 D. PER LB.
30 LBS. MEAT MEAL
AT 0.69 D. PER LB.
Total 355 lbs.
FEED.
30 LBS. FEED SAVJED EVERY
100 LBS. live weight gain. \
RATION
(A) Barley
alone.
(B ) Barley plus
Pig Meat
Meal.
f
Prepared by
Gippsland Co-operative Bacon Curing Co., Ltd.,
“Dandy Park” —— Dandenong, Vic.
Packers of the Famous “Dandy” Hams and Bacon.
dsf
A Sterilized, Balanced and Mineralised Heat Product
A FAVOURITE
£
THE
No. 150
DEEP-
SEATED
KEMP-
STYEE
SADDLE,
M/7/-
(MOUNTED)
Note the oom-
bined flap and
skirt sewn
direct to the
seat, thus giving the
narrowest possible grip.
It has Kemp pads.
A’. S'. W. Freight Paid lor
Cash with Order.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER t STEVENSON ltd.
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
"lets get out of HERE *
SAYS
MRS RABBIT
TOO LATE
Bunni-Di ems there
EASY TO USE
HANDY TO CARRY
NO MACHINE to OPERATE
NO POISON
and above all EFFECTIVE
Hi/
D.©. Officer Pfcy. Ltd. 5E=iK
INTERSTATE.
N.S.W.: CHARLES CLARKE & SON,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
W.A.: LEWIS BATEMAN, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
S. AUST.: HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD.,
Adelaide.
TAS.: ALLAN STEWART PTY., LTD..
Launceston.
Q’LAND: STANLEY CHAPMAN, Brisbane.
a large area with a gentle lf
too steep, there may be erosion and the
filling of the tank with silt and rubbish
during heavy rain. Test the soil for
holding capacity by putting down a trial
shaft and partly filling with water.
N.S.W. Maize Types.
“Hortus”: On the Northern Table-
lands (N.S.W.) Wellingrove seems most
popular. It is an early maturer, and
competitions credit it with 80 or 90
bushels to the acre. Originally it came
from Victoria as a very mixed variety
under the name Early Yellow Dent —a
cross between a flint maize and one of
the Dents. It is not suitable for the
coast. Some do not care for its compara-
tively short, hard grain. Its color —•
pale amber —does not show it off to ad-
vantage. When improved under the
Macaulay system of close-breeding, Wel-
lingrove will stand on its own feet any-
where.
Funk’s Yellow Dent is the leading
variety on the Western Slopes and Cen-
tral Tablelands (N.S.W.). It is one of
the best varieties for the N.S.W. South
Coast also. Its popularity rests on its
ability to beat other maizes under dry
conditions. It is a smooth-grained selec-
tion of the old Reid’s Yellow Dent, and
shows practically no departure from the
U.S.A. type.
It is an excellent yielder, but its husk
covering is poor. Experiments under
the Macaulay system are in progress to
eliminate disease-liable lines. If suc-
cessful, F.Y.D. will be hard to beat. It
is specially noted for its hardness.
On the North Coast (for early sow-
ing), and on Central and South Coasts
(for main crop), a favorite is Learning—
a five months’ maturer. It has a fine
stalk —Bft. to 10ft. on the North Coast.
The grain is rather thick, narrow and
deep, of dark amber color and with a
small, bright yellow cap. Its moder-
ately long shanks cause ears to droop at
maturity. It is one of the oldest varie-
ties known in U.S.A., but is not exten-
sively grown there now, however. Learn-
ing is also under experiments.
Fitzroy, formerly known as Improved
Yellow Dent, is grown extensively on the
North and Central N.S.W. Coasts. It is
by far most popular in the main maize
belt in N.S.W. It is a good grain-
yielder, has succulent stalks and it stands
out as the best variety for green fodder
and sifage. Stalks reach 15 feet on
North Coast. The ears mostly remain
erect at maturity. Some dislike it for
this. However, the husk covering is
good. This makes cobs resistant to
weather and to weevil attack. What
renders Fitzroy such a good market
proposition is its bright amber color.
Fitzroy originated at Grafton, chiefly
by crossing the soft, deep-grained Yellow
Horsetooth and the harder, bright-
grained Yellow Hogan.
Useful Farm Chemicals.
“J. Want”: It is surprising how many
pin their faith on chemicals without
knowing exactly what the chemical
action is.
Arsenic is antiseptic but too danger-
ous to use on sores. It is an irritant,
causes raw surfaces and may be absorbed
and poison an animal through the blood.
Therefore, do not use it for hand-dress-
ing fly-struck sheep. And take care
when giving arsenical drenches that
weights are exact in the prescriptions.
Copper sulphate—bluestone —should
be given in only very weak solutions.
Too strong, it will make animals vomit
and stop natural internal digestive fer-
mentations. Don’t put it in a lick under
the impression that it will kill internal
parasites. For that purpose, it is no use
whatever.
Turpentine is antiseptic, too, and some
animals like it, apparently regarding it
as a sort of Auntie’s Ruin. It is a good
gastro-intestinal tonic and a handy bloat
medicine when mixed with linseed oil.
Don’t use as a lick. It sets up kidney
irritation when thus used regularly. And
it is no good as a destroyer of internal
parasites.
Stockholm tar does not live up to the
tradition that, as a dose, it will warn off
the nasal bot, blowfly and stomach
worms. It isn’t a thing to be given to
any cow for breakfast. Try a mixture
of creosote, phenols, acetic acid, acetone,
resins and a few other enticing comes-
tibles of the sort, and see if you agree
with the coves who are for ever recom-
mending S.t. for lick use. It is about as
suitable for that purpose as nicotine sul-
phate—though the latter is infinitely
more dangerous. Napthaline is a handy
antiseptic to dust over ulcers and
wounds, but boracic is better. Saltpetre
ration should be fairly limited —in too
large a dose it is a stomach irritant.
Lastly, there is that old favorite kero-
sene, which, with painkiller, used to be
about the sole standby with some bush
people in the days when whiskers were
whiskers. You might just as well give a
sick animal the cover of The Bulletin
to eat as a dose of kero. It has no cura-
tive value. Sheep that are given it for
the stomach’s sake come home looking
like Sydney nietho. addicts on Sunday
evening. It may even affect the lungs
and send its victims down with pleurisy
or pneumonia.
Hints for the Farm.
“Zamia”: A bit needn’t run hot be-
cause the dripping tin isn’t handy. Ever
tried water at a pinch?
“X.T.”: Sandy patches are worth an
improvement trial. Begin by ploughing
in shrubs and weeds. Then drop in
paddy’s lucerne, cowpeas or melilotus
“clover.” A few seasons’ patient work
usually pays for itself.
“Andy”: Don’t throw away old scythe
blades. A piece 18in. long, with 6in.
of the edge cut from the wider end,
makes a good maize cutter. Bend the
bladeless part and wrap a piece of bag
round it. It is light, and yet has great
strength.
“A.Y.”: Dry sows should be
allowed free grazing on grass, lucerne
or artichokes, with a little diluted separ-
ated milk to drink. They must be kept
fairly lean. About three weeks before
farrowing, the pregnant sow should be
alone in a sty. The pen should be raised
with a farrowing rail around it. The
sow requires a drink of water only on
the litter’s birthday. When the sow has
farrowed properly and is making milk
she should have plenty of food.
“N.”: Black oats are pretty thick this
year in N. S. Wales. Now is the
time to use the cultivator if clean
fallows are to be had next year at
sowing time. Class of implement
depends on type of soil. Rigid tynes
with broad points are generally satisfac-
tory. The disc may cause compaction if
used on clayey land in the spring. A
skim-plough is useful where growth is
abnormal. Dirty paddocks mean reduced
wheat yields and grain quality seriously
reduced.
“Andy”: A handy, simple luxury that
all pig-yards should possess is a self-
oiling scratching post. Sink a sft. post,
6in. to Bin. thick, about 3ft. in the
ground, and bore a lin. hole from the
centre of the top down about 6in. Then
bore in from the sides, 6in. from the top,
three holes to meet the vertical one.
Wrap four to six layers of strong bagging
round the post, letting the top come
about 2in. over the Jop of the side holes.
Tack firmly to the post at top and
bottom, with a piece of binder twine
wound round it from top to bottom.
Turns, about 2in. apart, make small
ridges, and improve the rubbing surface.
Fill the hole with old tractor or motor-
car oil.
“Saddle-flap”: A good ointment for
healing scalded or sore shoulders on
horses, which I have proved on waggon-
ette horses west of the Darling, is made
by working equal parts of castor oil and
whitelead into a paste. A thick coating
placed over the sore forms a soothing
and protective skin.
“A.Y.”: From now till mid-October
is the time to plant cow cane in warm
coastal districts. Plants should be cut
from last season’s stalks, having two
eyes, and should be set 3ft. apart, with
3ft. 6in. between rows. Cow cane re-
sponds well to cow manure. The crop
is ready to cut in June. Amblings Chance
and Improved Chinese are two excellent
varieties of which chaffing is unnecessary.
Yields are up to 20 tons per acre.
“Lam”: The orphan foal needs a
feeding bottle with a long nipple. The
ration for the first few days should be
one pint warm milk, not too rich, one
tablespoonful of sugar and four table-
spoonfuls of limewater. Gradually in-
crease the milk and widen the intervals
between feeds. Cut out the sugar when
the youngster is four weeks old. At six
weeks begin to give separated milk in-
stead of whole milk. Start early wean-
ing to crushed oats, oil cake, chaff and
bran with some green cropping.


SMOKE-OH!
“Now and again there rises a man with
the power to execute the beauty he has in his
mind.” — “S.M.H.”
Henry VIII., for instance!
*l* 4* *l* 4*
“Lost, evening frock and undergarments with
Gladys H inside. Finder rewarded.”
— Advt.
Will the reward hold good if Gladys
H is returned without the evening
frock, etc.?
4* -I* *1- 4*
How to Get Better.
If suffering from nervous dyspepsia,
punter's blindness, hay fever, water on
the knee and/or brain, drinker’s elbow,
appendicitis, corns, inferiority complex,
or anything, inflate your chest, stroll
through Collingwood, snarl like Alsatian
dog with mumps, kick largest navvy you
meet on the shins and throw cocktail
party on night of your discharge from
hospital.
Now consult Collins-street special-
ist, pay him two guineas, admire his
nerve, say 99, give him a “sitter” for
Saturday, close the door and mind the
step.
Then visit Caulfield, try to get 20 to 1
Golden Promise, and bookmaker will
tell you to “get better.”
P. O. M. C.
*'i!‘ 4* 4*
“A Sydney clergyman says that throughout
English-speaking countries the gambling fever
has seized young men whose fathers never
had a bet.”
So it can’t be described as an Empire
on which the son never bets.
VOICE FROM AUDIENCE: “Garn, any goat can do that. See if he can
shove 'is 'ead in YOUR mouth!”
“Electric eels can generate enough current to
ring a doorbell.” —Nature note.
But who’d want to supply a doorbell
to an eel?
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Thrusting his easel aside, he buried his face
wearily in his hands. No; he could not paint
to-day.” —Short story.
Apparently he was off color.
They say that a woman can never take
a joke, but have you ever noticed some
women's husbands?
Speed.
“Hubert Opperman broke the Dubbo-to-
Wellington record of 32 miles in 15 minutes
a full southerly blew exasperatingly m his
face.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
So milch for those Wet blankets who
are always howling about the decline of
Australian sport.
Averaging 128 m.p.h., it is obvious that,
taking punctures, bent spokes, headwind
and all into consideration, Oppy must
have hit 150 m.p.h. on occasion to main-
tain that average. And on an ordinary
stock racing model, too. No doubt when
he really tries on a super-airstreamed
model he’ll easily reach 200 m.p.h. Paced
by Malcolm Campbell, there seems no
reason why he shouldn’t hit 250 m.p.h.
The evolution of a handleless machine
to eliminate wind-resistance and the fit-
ting of featherweight tyres should then
shoot him up to the 300 m.p.h. mark.
And then if he gets a southerly behind
him he’ll probably do 400 m.p.h. Of
course, at that speed he’d need a stream-
lined, oxygen-breathing outfit which
would pull a few m.p.h. off that figure.
Properly flat out, and paced by a
Schneider Cup machine, he might even
reach the speed attained by the Dubbo
crows, which, as is well known, streak
backwards to eliminate the dust nuisance.
It only needs then to convert his machine
to an amphibian and put a trailer on the
back and Parkhill’s air-mail worries will
have vanished into thin air.
It has been asked, of course, what was
Hubert’s idea, anyway, in doing even
128 m.p.h. The answer is simple, and
reflects the great cyclist’s consideration
for others. He didn’t want to make it
look as if the “Telegraph’s” compositor
had made a mistake!
80.
4* 4* *b
“There are probably some married people
who can say they never made a mistake.”
— Woman’s paper.
Married people?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some people are eager to pay their dues.
Sometimes the rent-collector finds the tenant
waiting on the doorstep.”— “D.T.”
More often on the sidestep.
“Melbourne racehorses now on diet.”
—Sporting note.
Making them fast.
4* 4*
Did you ever hear of the beekeeper
who had a swell time?
Livening Up the P.B.C.
“We’ll have to jazz things up a bit,”
remarked the Prime Minister to the Min-
ister for Political Broadcasting ; “that last
programme on the lower basic wage find-
ing didn’t go over too well, judging from
the fan mail from constituencies.”
“What about something on the Millen-
nium this session?” suggested the
harassed Minister. Idea approved.
Private members had a royal day, leav-
ing every family, irrespective of party,
on a State income of £2O a week, in their
own State-provided homes, with a State
car apiece and a guaranteed weekly win
in all State lotteries (subsidised by the
Commonwealth). The Government indi-
cated that Cabinet would bring these
regulations into force as soon as the
necessary legislation could be imple-
mented.
A week later the Prime Minister and
Minister for Political Broadcasting
“Can't y hear me? I said pass me the other brandin'-iron!"
checked in their portfolios at the cloak-
room, and witnessed a screening of
“Modern Times.”
“What’s that,” suddenly demanded the
Prime Minister, “that the orchestra is
playing instead of ‘God Save’?”
“A recording of the Millennium de-
bate,” replied his satellite. “The P.M.G.
had it run off, and we’ve sold a million
discs! ”
“Good heavens,” roared the leader of
the Government, “this isn’t newspaper
stuff, you goat! How do you expect
them to wear all those out in time to
forget all about the business before the
elections?”
Cloon.
“After all, only a fraction of the crowds
attending these cricket matches misbehave them-
selves.” — “S. M. Herald.”
A vulgar fraction, at that.
»•«
Retort Discourteous.
The office boy was asked to ring up a
number, and got the wrong one.
“Mr. Woolf here,” came the reply.
“Who?” asked the boy.
“Woolf! Woolf!” came the testy reply.
“Well,” drawled the boy, “who’s afraid
of you?”
M. R.
* *i- *l*
Justice for Punters.
All my troubles as a punter are over,
and I expect to be able now to get back
all the money I’ve lost.
What put me wise was reading that a
chap in Newcastle had been fined £3 for
theft when he failed to put £3 on a horse
for a friend. The point that interested
me was that the horse didn’t win, be-
cause that’s the sort of horse I always
back.
On that I reckon I’ve got a clear case
against every bookmaker who has ever
taken money from me. Obviously I’ve
always intended that the horse I backed
should win, and I contend that the onus
is on the bookmaker to see that that
happens.
If he accepts my money knowing that
my fancy can’t win, then he is guilty
of obtaining money under false pre-
tences.
I’ve already taken a long-shot double
on the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
to finance the legal costs.
Angus O'Cohen.
“Government Control Over Bores.”
—Brisbane ‘‘Telegraph.’’
So much for the vaunted freedom of
speech!
•4* *!♦ -I-
-“ ‘The less a woman wears the younger she
looks,’ says a fashion writer.”
in that case some will be qualifying for
the feeding-bottle again.
.T. A »t.
Different Case.
“A wealthy shoplifter at Marylebonc Police
Court paid a fine of £2O and £5 ss. costs, then
chartered a ’plane from Croydon to fly to Cher-
bourg, Where she joined the Queen Mary for
the U.S.A. She complained that the time the
prosecution had taken prevented her from join-
ing the liner at Southampton.”— Cable.
With the stately deportment that de-
noted the ne plus ultra of breeding which
was the priceless heritage from her
hyphenated forebears, Mrs. Fitzboobe-
Ginkwhistle approached the glittering,
magnificently appointed limousine. In an
instant the immaculately uniformed
chauffeur had the door open and had
taken her various parcels before she
stepped in and languidly reclined among
the sumptuous cushions. Then, in cultured
accents, tinged with that faint degree
of boredom which is the hall-mark of a
true Fitzboobe-Ginkwhistle, she mur-
mured :
“Home, Henri!”
She had had a wearying day. At
Bullworth’s she had been compelled to
stand near the Is. sjd. scantee counter
for 20 minutes before a minor rush had
given her the opportunity to snavel two
pairs which she had hung on the hooks
concealed under her Russian sables. The
contamination of the canaille at these
stores revolted her, and only that their
presence made her “lifting” the easier she
would not have tolerated so dishonoring
an association.
She recalled with a shade of annoy-
ance an incident at Coleridge’s. She had
just succeeded in “hoisting” a spray of
artificial flowers at the sixpenny counter
and had moved on to a table displaying
some gaily-colored flapjacks priced at
Is. lid. After manoeuvring about for
just on half an hour she had succeeded
in “palming” one, and was just moving
off when a common shopgirl walked
across and, with a suspicious look, said:
“I suppose you want a docket for that,
madam!” Only the restrictions that dig-
nity imposed upon a Fitzboobe-Gink-
whistle restrained her from reporting the
menial for her insufferable insolence.
Instead, drawing herself up to her full
height, she gazed through her lorgnette
with a withering hauteur, and said in icy
tones to the wretch: “Ai shall not take it
at all now, thank you.”
Woolfridge’s proved disappointing.
The girls there were lynx-eyed, and it
was over two hours before she landed a
cake of soap and a toothbrush.
As the limousine drew up at the Pott’s
Bay mansion the liveried butler opened
the door. Sweeping through the recep-
tion-hall, she caught a glimpse of Job-
kins, the third under-footman, in the act
of draining a glass of sherry.
Immediately she rang for the butler.
“Meadows,” she said, “have Jobkins
dismissed instantly. I just caught him
helping himself to some wine. This pil-
fering must cease.”
The butler nodded respectfully.
“Yes, madam,” he said. “Although 1
beg to say that I have always found him
honest and competent. Perhaps he may
have yielded to some form of klepto-
mania, and”-
Mrs. Fitzboobe-Ginkwhistle trained
her lorgnette on the butler and gave
him a freezing stare.
“You forget yourself, Meadows,” she
said haughtily. “Only persons of breed-
ing can suffer from that disease. Jobkins
is a common thief. Have him dis-
missed.”
S. W. K.
Influence.
The moon is known to sway the tide
On our romantic coast;
But this can hardly be denied:
It sways the untied most.
HAMER.
Penalty.
One cannot give and have, I think.
Forgetful of my wife’s keen sight
1 gave a pretty girl a wink —
And didn’t have a wink last night!
H. M.
Touching Similitude.
“ ‘ln many respects a dog is similar to a
horse,’ says a zoologist.”
Though doggies bark and horses neigh,
And horses kick while doggies bite,
When their respective traits l weigh
It strikes me that this statement might
Be true. At any rate I've found
(Though in zoology unversed)
That when I bet on horse or hound
It’s always nearer last than first. 1
P. C.
To Pirates.
When I’m on ferry, tram or train,
Or take the air upon the street,
I wish you wouldn’t, in your vain
And confidential manner, greet
Me with a smirk and then pursue
Your purpose sans my warranty.
For, though I may look fast to you,
You look a lot too slow to me !
MISS SMITH.


The Novel Which Won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1936:-
ALL THAT
SWAGGER
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
drawings by
DOUGLAS PRATT.
Chapter XXIV.
(Continued .)
miNE Saturday night the schoolhouse was
used by Robert and Janet when reaping
prizes, and they were unaware of the old
tutor in the corner away from the firelight.
He .reported what he saw. Mrs. Urquhart
was always for peace and did not suspect
evil until its fruits were ripe, but she could
not calm Sandy even by laxity in grog rationing.
On the following Saturday the gathering was at
Birrabee, where the Urquharts did not appear. Their
absence was attributed to a thunderstorm.
During the week Harry went to Keebah with an
important letter for the post. For once Robert had
left this pleasant task to his brother v/hile he packed
salt out towards Bullock Gap and had a feast with
Wong Foo. Harry returned at midnight on the same
day, having pushed his brave brumby there and
back without calling at Birrabee. The letter was still
in his pocket.
No sooner had the dogs announced him at the
stable gates, a quarter of a mile from the house, than
Urquhart had put out to meet him. “He must have
been looking out for me with his old spyglasses.
Holy Ghost! He had a gun, and I thought he was
going to fire it off. Acted as if I was a bushranger!”
“Was'he drunk?” inquired William.
“Hanged if I know. He didn’t let me get near
enough to smell him. He sat straight enough on the
old moke. He roared at me like a bull.”
“Didn’t he make any explanation?”
“He said so flaming much, I can’t remember, and
I was so taken back I didn’t know which way to look
for Sunday.”
“But he must have said something.”
“He said a whole thunderstorm. If
one of us comes inside his boundaries
again he is going to put a bullet in us.
He said he treated us like his own family,
and this is the low-down way we’ve
treated him in
return. I said
I never did
anything. He
said if I didn’t
it was only
because I
was not old
enough. He said William was all right.”
“Robert up to his tricks again.”
“He said Robert and George, but I bet it’s that
Chow of a George, and he’s putting it on Robert.”
“You have the faith of a mother in Robert, but
the Yackandandah can’t always be swum dry.” '
“You mean that old Urquhart is trying to trap
him now for his females like Fullwood and old
Hennessy did? Golly, it must be exciting to be
Robert! ”
“It will be so exciting some day that he’ll be
facing a jury, and they won’t be so damn’ partial as
you and ma.”
“How can Robert help it when the women are
just mad after him? Gosh, old Sandy was crying like
an old woman!”
“Aw, the D.T.’s often takes them crying. Did
you see the old woman or any of the boys?”
“Not a sign of anyone else. He was sitting in
wait.”
“How could he be sitting in wait in the middle
of the week?”
“Find out for yourself. I’m not going to have
a gun at me again, and b& called names that would
blister an anvil.”
Now justified in his policy of total abstinence
from any association with the girls, William could
afford to laugh. “I reckon the old man caught you
slobbering over Jeanie.”
He suggested that they should say nothing and
await developments. Harry accepted this with regard
to the Anguses, but warned Robert, who swaggered,
though he was startled, and went in fear of old
Urquhart appearing to haul him away to marry Janet.
A week’s uneasiness brought him to say that he had
heard of some blood horses up by Wild Horse Plain
and would join O’Neill and try to trap them. In view
of the fondness and softness of Janet it would be
safer to be out of the way for a while.
He departed two mornings later on a prime
Nullah Mundoey, with the two best pack-horses and
a contentious retinue of dogs. William and Harry
were left to the boundary fence they were erecting
between Birrabee and Burrabinga—hard, heavy work,
felling trees and rolling them in line in rough country.
They toiled all day long in the vast solitude where
never a man appeared, and in the evening they had
salt beef and damper, washed down by tea, and then
rolled in a rug before a fire and slept to the lullaby
of dingoes, curlews and other night creatures, and the
bullocks’ bells against the delicate song of some
rivulet. They had put up fifteen miles single-handed
and the Anguses were working their way towards
them.
Chapter XXV.
OLD Sandy did not come to Birrabee
or Burrabinga nor go to Bewuck.
The young men kept to their own
lairs and the Delacys and Anguses
ceased to visit. To William, Robert’s
disappearance was evidence of guilt. When O Neill
came for rations he reported that Robert had stayed
only two days with him. Harry contemplated run-
ning away to find Robert and William set out to
ascertain if there had been more than alcoholic dis-
temper in what Harry reported of Urquhart.
If the Anguses had also been chased by Sandy
they were keeping it to themselves. “We’ve been
imprisoned for ages,”, said Susan with her usual
manner when William called. “Every Saturday we
waited for you till it was too late to set out by our-
selves. I’ve had a scalded hand, too.” She still had
a rag on it.
William rode to Keebah. When the dogs barked
Donald hastened to meet him, red with embarrass-
ment. “I’m awfully sorry, Bill, but it would be better
not to go to the house till things blow over.”
“I’ve come to ask the reason for this. I’m not
a horse or cattle thief. I’ll certainly keep away, but
I must know the reason of the insult to my character.
“There’s nothing against you, Bill —only —well,
you see, Robert is too much of a ladies’ man for the
dad’s taste. The tutor has reported more than hap-
pened between Robert and Janet in the schoolhouse,
I reckon.”
. “I don’t like this.”
“No more do I, but what can I do? The dad has
forbidden any communication. I thought we could
meet at Birrabee, but that has gone smash too.”
“And how are you going to see Susan?”
“This can’t last.” Donald reddened and turned
to other topics. “Ma has been in bed with an acci-
dent. It keeps Elspeth busy, with Janet away.”
“Where is Janet?”
“Gone to Agnes for a spell... There has been
the devil to pay, I can tell you... If you’re hungry
I’ll sneak you some grub.”
William disclaimed hunger. He lacked the
address to go past Donald to ventilate the matter with
Sandy. It was a blow to an inexperienced young
man of his probity in every relation, including women
—especially including women. The unfairness of
being declassed because of the behavior of Robert
or George rankled in his breast. It was imperative
that his father should be informed of the affair.
Harry’s concern was to find Robert and reinstate him,
but William insisted that he should stick to Burra-
binga. William rode down by way of Learmont’s,
passing Keebah.
“Be the poipers!” exclaimed Danny. “Robert
is a light scoundrel with women, and I shan’t have him
ruining the daughters of me best friend. Who took
me family in when I was lost? This viper in the grass
to be me own son! Janet, the foinest girl in the
Colony!”
“Och! Janet!” snapped Johanna. “A great, soft
bag of flour that could no more take care of herself
than a pumpkin.”
“The more disgrace, then, to Robert that she
should not be safe. Get in the brown mare for the
morning. I’ll follow Robert to —to Sure, I’ll
follow till I catch him, if ’tis off the ind of the con-
tinent. This time he’ll fulfil his duty. He’s escaped
too lightly hitherto.”
“Ye’ll find another bull's nest,” said Johanna.
“Robert cannot be responsible for the sinful capers
of drabs that should be shut up and whipped and be
made to leave him alone.”
“Och, woman, there is no consistency at you at
all. Was it you or me that was trying to rise among
the gentry by collaring Grace? Answer me, yes or
no.”
IT was liberation to ascend to the plateau and turn
‘ again towards the beckoning hills, blue and still,
wreathing on and on to Victoria. Bewuck irked him
but he would not relinquish it to Robert again because
he was weary of hearing of his son’s perfection in
management. He would have been back in his fast-
nesses long since only that Robert reigned there. Now
this!
To be in the saddle all day again, with a Nullah
Mundoey under, and the dogs and Doogoolook caper-
ing fore and aft, with the eternal splendor spread
before him as a banquet on the table of the universe,
generated a spiritual exaltation beyond the miniature
condenser of human articulation.
They rested at noon to boil the quart-pot in
surroundings aromatic and primeval: they crossed
the Murrumbidgee by Keebah punt at sundown and
reached the homestead at dusk. They were met by
Donald at the stables. There was no ready turning-
out of horses for the night. Donald compromised by
putting them in the stables, and was nervous as he
went to the house. Danny was unhappy to be
approaching the hospitable door with the possibility
of enmity meeting him. He halted at the garden
gate.
“Go tell your father I’m here and wish to see
him.”
Urquhart was some time appearing. As Danny
waited his ire rose against Robert for his capacity to
make trouble.
Synopsis.
Allured by reports of prospects for
settlers in Australia, Daniel Delacy at 18
ventures forth from County Clare, in-
ducing Johanna Cooley to elope with him.
They take up Bewuck, on the Murrum-
bidgee, and, later, Burrabinga, out in
mountain fastnesses. The blacks give
them a little girl, Maeve, and young
Doogoolook becomes attached to them.
Of the children born to Danny and
Johanna in the early settling years five sur-
vive ; Della, Robert, William and Honoria
(twins), and Harry. Through a fall from a
horse Danny loses his right leg; also, he
suffers a head injury which leads him to
wear thereafter an enormous hat filled with
leaves, making, with his beard and pipe,
an odd figure of his s ft. l\in. stature. A
fearful experience when the house there
is burnt down causes Johanna to renounce
Burrabinga and settle at Bewuck. Robert,
“a flash young pup,” gets into temporary
trouble with Hennessy’s niece, Molly
McCathie. Later Danny extricates him
from a marriage with Grace Fullwood,
and sends him to Burrabinga with
William and Harry, Danny remaining to
look after Bewuck. Honoria (Norali)
marries Stewart Butler. Other charac-
ters include the elder Butler, the Full-
woods, the Urquharts, the Evanses, the
Moores, Hannon, Hennessy and Mrs.
Fitzhugh. The young people of the main
families have a little social life at each
other’s homes.


“Good evening, Mr. Delacy,” said Urquhart, and
did not extend his hand.
“Good evening, Sandy Urquhart. I never thought
to see the day you would not shake hands.
Sure, if wan of mine has done you wrong I’m here
to face the facts and prove or disprove them, and do
all in me power to make amends.”
Urquhart led the way to the office
where he kept his accounts. “Sit down,”
he said, as if to a stranger, and left i
Delacy to open.
“What is this I hear, Sandy?”
“What have you heard?”
“That you have ordered me sons
away with a gun. There must be some-
thing serious behind such an action.”
“Your bairns were as welcome as
my ain, till I foond disgraceful proceed-
ings in my ain hoose. I had to take
steps to pluck my daughter from ruin.”
“Which of me sons was it, Sandy?”
“William I believe to be a decent
mon, but that other one must never
come near this hoose again.”
“This is a dreadful business.”
“An infernal blackguard as ever
walked. How he came to be son of
yours and your guid wife I dinna ken.”
“I’ll be honest with you, Sandy, as
I would with black, whoite or green. If
Robert has left annything behind, he
shall marry her or I’ll take the gun to
him meself. But I must be fair to him,
too, though he is my own son. You
may have heard of me foorcing him to
marry on the niece of Hennessy, the
publican. You never saw anything so
plausible ; and sure, while I had the boy
bailed up, by damn, if the girl did not
exonerate him by running off with the
son of old Bandy Macaliister, the millionaire. It
made me pause, Sandy, when the next wan accused
Robert; and that was Fullwood with his daughter.”
“That cattle-duffer!”
“Have you his quality too? Sure, I squashed
that, and now the Fullwood piece is trying to marry
young Butler, and me not wanting the connection.
Moind, I don’t say that Robert is guiltless, but the
girls do throw themselves before him. It’s this dash
with his spurs and all that swagger that does it.”
“It appears that Robert is beyond you. Some
of the ugly tattle may have been leasing, but Robert
has a way of escaping. Could you lay your hand on
him now? Most likely he has another lassie all ready
to marry in case I should bring him to book. It
is my will that he shall come here no more till he
has a wife to keep him frae being a menace to other
women.”
Urquhart' had never seen his old mate look so
dashed, and it went hard with him, but Robert’s
offence had been deep. However, his cellarer partly
retrieved the occasion by extra rations. After a
nobbier or two Urquhart softened to call his visitor
Danny, and to tell him precisely what damage Robert
had wreaked. The old mates wept together as they
grew maudlin, and repledged the fealty of the
Yackandandah, but UrqPhart did not relax towards
Robert. He was too proud to expose his trouble to
the community, and preferred his own way of settling
it. He said that his friendship with Johanna and Danny
stood, but when Danny sobered there was a constraint
upon the old open-heartedness. They agreed to say
nothing.
DANNY rode on to Burrabinga, where he helped
William and Harry to chase wild bullocks from
Bullock Gap. He thundered through the scrub down
impossible declivities, holding his wooden leg in his
hand, as he had done in his youth, and his mare
never so much as stumbled under him. The mind still
held dominion over the flesh. He held his own against
his sons, but Robert had jarred his dream of opening
up territory for posterity. He had spoiled the human
association so precious and so sparsely rationed in
the lonely pioneering days. Danny hardly knew what
to do. Robert was mature and had long since been
promised partnership.
He returned home to make his difficult report
to Johanna, who was waiting in a fury of nerves to
hear it.
“And you, Daniel Delacy, not to see it’s those
Anguses making mischief and putting the blame on
me beautiful boy. That sour old fox-colored Presby-
terian to talk of taking a gun ; and that ignorant
trollop of a Janet, the shape of two flourbags set wan
upon the other —she’d do anything out of hell or in it,
too, and that’s where she should be for such wicked-
ness ; annything to trap me beautiful boy. And ye
with no more circumspection than a lizard in contro-
versy with them. If ye had a proper proide, Robert
could have been married with wan of the Camerons
of the Plains by now.”
“Nonsense, woman —there’s no eligible Cameron
above ten years old.”
“And what did ye say whin he ordered Robert
to keep his distance? If ye had anny backbone
But ye wouldn’t have ; ye’d be crying round a kag of
rum, and taking ivery side but ye’r own, and blather-
ing like the feis of Tara, and nothing in it but wind.”
“There’s this, Johanna, you’re over-excited now.
That is all that can excuse you for talking of Janet
Urquhart, who took you in whin I lay with me limb
gone and me moind astray.”
“I’m thinking it’s still astray. And whoi were
ye capering around an impty continent, and laying
on an antbed till ye’r limb was ate off?”
“Och, woman, there’s no sense at you at all.”
There was no appeal but justice to Danny’s imper-
sonality and large magnanimity; and justice was
coldly repellent to the overwrought mother. She
wailed.
“What has come to Robert, wandering the wilds
alone? He might fall in with the bushrangers and
lose his life.”
“A man well on for thirty, clearing out before
the first hint of trouble is known to others!”
“He knew ye’d bail him up again like ye did
with the Hennessy streel.”
“You’re wrong in the evidence, me brave
Johanna. We’ve weathered manny a storm and we’ll
weather this wan, but Robert cleared out when there
was no breath of scandal, so he must have had raysons
known to himself.”
Della had a trying time. She refused to be
goaded into an opinion for or against Janet or
Robert. She had settled down to all the odd tasks
as well as the major management of Bewuck home-
stead. Her mother was satisfied with this as progress
towards religious retreat. Della had put aside a
number of things as ungodly, among them the bustles,
panniers and flounces of the ’seventies, and looked
so skinny and unnatural that her brothers found it a
trial to take her to town.
NO sooner had Danny and Doogoolook dropped out
of sight on their way home than Harry prepared
to seek Robert. He took a pack-horse with provisions
and camp gear and set off to O’Neill for
the first stage. When O’Neill saw Harry’s
earnest spirit he said he was sure that
Robert was on the next occupied squat-
tage, no more than forty miles beyond
Wild Horse Plain.
Here were the Lillingstons, in that
generation somewhat taboo socially.
Their hunting-ground in Daniel Delacy’s
day lay in the Crown lands between
Burrabinga and their own holding, Bun-
billiko. Tales were that they trapped
every hoof within reach, regardless of
brand, and drove it by way of Jacob’s
Ladder to Melbourne. They rose to be rich in two
generations.
Robert was heartily welcomed to Bunbilliko.
Boots and breeches, spurs, whips, plated gear, blood
horses, roughriding and all that swagger had notorious
exponents in the Lillingstons. Delacy Senr. had kept
away from them, disapproving of their lack of probity,
but as he never slandered anyone he had not impressed
this upon his sons.
There was a family of four sons and three
daughters. The men were dashing fellows, and Robert
was known to them for his ability with harness horses.
When he stated the reason of his visit they were ready
to assist him. They were unfailingly plausible and
said that their own cleanskins were running where
Robert proposed to muster, so they would make
it a partnership. Robert was supplied with stock
horses.
The open downs of Bunbilliko were suited to the
training of harness horses, so Robert put his business
head to work and escaped the bone-racking operations
of sliding down precipices or buckjumping. He began
by yoking horses to a log, and soon had them
fit for the spring-cart which was the family carriage.
The Lillingstons ordered a dogcart, but Robert
remained excessively businesslike. He was uneasy
concerning his absence and determined to reinstate
himself by a fine catch of horned cleanskins as well
as horses.
Mr. and Mrs. Lillingston were delighted with
young Delacy’s advent. Connection with a family so
renowned for respectability would lay the foundation-
stone of their social ascent. They did everything to
woo Robert for one of the girls, but he was careful to
show no more favor to one than the other and to be
as circumspect as if he were married elsewhere and
strictly monogamous. They were of the type of Susan
Angus—lively and able to take care of themselves and
to put forward any side that suited. Robert was
beginning to consider himself a sultan to choose as
he willed, and his maturing ambition was for a maiden
conventionally unspotted, clean as crystal, staunch as
hemp.
Chapter XXVI .
ROBERT wrote to his father a glowing
account of the numbers of cattle and
horses he had reclaimed in partner-
ship with the Lillingstons, and threw
in otiose observations on the need to take
advantage of a rising market.
Johanna was jubilant.
“Me beautiful boy—what a head on him! And
there were those to disbelieve him and throw scandal
on him!”
“It would be like him to take up with the fastest
lot in creation,” Danny commented. “People of
questionable antecedents, and flasher even than
Robert. Sure, I’ve seen the Lillingstons in Quean-
beyan, swaggering like dukes. Fellows with small
heads and long legs and smooth tongues. He won’t
escape from the girls this time.”
While Robert’s letter had been travelling to
Bewuck Harry had reached Bunbilliko and was
effusively welcomed. He was like Robert in tall,
willowy physique, soft black hair and chiselled
features, but his eyes were blue. He had no fine
gear, and his small, delicate hands were scarred and •
calloused, with nails broken to the quick from the
incredible miles of fencing he had put up with them
naked to sun, rain and frost. His horses, too, were
suitable for wild riding in impossible country, as
Robert’s for showy appearance. Robert’s were almost
clean bred ; Harry’s were brumbies, but tireless and
surefooted as goats.
Harry reported the Keebah commotion as he
knew it.
“Blinded old jackass!” said Robert. “It’s a
wonder they can’t pick on the right one for a
change.”
With a showy collection of oaths he placed the
blame on other shoulders, mainly George’s. Harry
was stirred to ride away to settle scores anew with
George, but Robert persuaded him to be quiet.”
“A decent man always holds his tongue and
stands the gaff if a woman is concerned,” said Robert
nobly, lighting a pipe as large as his father’s, and more
striking.
To save a woman at his own expense was the
swagger for gentlemen in the printed romances that
came Harry’s way, and there was zest for the spiritually
hungry young man in living up to even a spurious
ideal.
Harry’s eager, selfless disposition made him a
favorite with the Lillingstons. The girls adopted him.
He remembered them as sweet women for ever, nor
ever suffered any deterioration by the association,
because of Danny in him as well as freshly com-
pounded depths of his own. Mike Lillingston and
he became bosom friends. It was Harry’s first taste


of the delight of a mate who could
match him in bushcraft and poetic
imagination.
Harry was enthralled by this
country of tussocks and daisies,
bluebells and snow-gums and little
plains, where the Murrumbidgee
begins as a crystal and vocal sylph
and roams about the forehead of
Monaro gathering volume and
experience. In the numerous lime-
stone caves within ride the young
men found a world which they
furnished with imaginary peoples
and cities. Fantastic metropolises
buried beyond archaeological recall
arose at their bidding. Even the
scrimshawing of the insects on the
trunks of the eucalypts was weft
into fiction which held a younger
generation spellbound when Mike’s
beard was grey. A few of their
tales linger half-remembered ; more
have escaped to the faery of some
outer circle of time from people
too engrossed in the arduous
mechanics of pioneering to keep a
log of imaginings.
Horse-buyers were due from
Melbourne, so Robert decided to
extend his absence. With Harry,
unexcelled buckjump-rider, to rack
his frame, Robert would prepare a
draft of trained saddle as well as
harness horses. Harry was child-
ishly proud of what Robert had
accomplished, and he and Mike
were engaged day in, day out.
Their rewards were a girl’s smile
or a of commendation from
a colleague. The companionship
of girls whose kindness could
relieve him of the painful shyness
grown in solitude was a heaven of
reward to Harry.
Also employed was old Peg-leg
from the Gulph, a free selector, a
hang-over from Kiandra diggings,
a lag who had lost his limb in try-
ing to escape from the chain-gang,
and never denying it, nor excusing
his misdeeds. He had been a stableboy in England and,
though old and crippled, was a mountain of help in
training horses.
Robert’s leadership was accepted by the Lillings-
tons, who never slackened their flattery of him. He
paced a filly for each of the girls and for the old man,
and for this they gave him the best colt of the muster.
Harry got nothing but the chance to wreck his
bones, but he had an imagination to illuminate a
province ere it was raped by the axe or knew the
desecration of sheep, the intrusion of roads the con-
finement of fences. Wide days of dazzling light, and
nights massed with stars or white with inebriating
moonlight, brewed the spirit of romance.
Two dealers came. Long Tom Bradford was
known for his projecting teeth and a glass eye which
was the wonder of his decade. It was not polite to
mention it, especially before the ladies, but Tom some-
times took it out as a private treat for men and boys.
His crony was Yorke Driffield, a short, broad man
with an out-sized laugh, and they were as powerful
a pair of horse-copers as could be matched in South-
west Ireland.
A big week ensued. Long Tom and Yorkie
perceived a bonanza. Trained horses “free from
vice” were in demand. They paid a wad of some
hundreds and undertook to bring the balance six
months hence, when the high country would be open
again and they should have realised on the present
stock. They always paid in cash; their word was
their bond ; they had been trading throughout Monaro
for years, and never a penny had they diddled any
man.
AS a finale to the summer’s business Robert and
Harry appeared at a ball in Cooma with the
Lillingstons. All Cooma and neighborhood were in
all e ndance,
some of the
men in evening
dress. Robert
could not
achieve that at
short notice.
Harry looked
on in a second-
best suit of
one of the
Lillingstons
because his
own clothes
were worn out,
but he laughed
until he was
exhausted, and
behind the
scenes made
friends with
Meg Syme, a
tall young
woman of
serious mood who generously lent a hand where there
were gaps in the service. Her younger sisters and a
brother disported themselves in the dance, which was
by public subscription.
Robert and Rodney early came to the conclusion
that the ball was dull, but did not want to leave
without supper, so Robert went to the table in the
tent in the back yard and began to help himself and
companion. This brought remonstrance from one of
the junior stewards, who happened to be Douglas
Syme, brother of Meg. “Go away, you lout, and
carry guts to a bear,” said Rodney.
“He’s not fit to carry guts to
a bear,” added Robert.
The chief panjandrum was
fetched, old Major Rawson, whose
station adjoined the Lillingstons’. He
was panoplied in full evening uniform
and his status as top sawyer of the
district’s swells. When the Lillingstons
had business near his homestead and
appeared at mealtimes Rawson offered
them a feed in the kitchen. This mistake
had been repeated recently during a call
by Rodney and Robert to see about some
colts. Rodney had hoped that the
presence of Delacy would make a
difference, but Rawson discerned and
resisted these tactics of a social climber.
“I’m sorry we’ve finished dinner, but
the cook may be able to find something
for you,” he had said.
Robert refused haughtily before the
sentence was finished.
When Rawson was called in by
young Syme he was flustered to find
Robert and Rodney. He suspected the
Lillingstons in the matter of his clean-
skins. The Lillingstons sneered that
Rawson was an adept at popping a brand
on a Bunbilliko steer or colt himself, and
was, through his influence with the Com-
missioner, trying to squeeze them out.
“This won’t do,” he said to Rodney,
who was slicing the breast of a turkey-
cock, reared by Meg Syme, as it lay on a
platter in its own juices.
Rodney ignored this. Rawson said
he would throw him out, and put his
hand on Rodney’s collar. Robert there-
upon seized the bird and wiped gravy
and grease down Major Rawson’s
expanse of white shirt-front, thus reliev-
ing his envy of the Major’s' sartorial
superiority as well as having revenge for
the intended social insult at their former
meeting. “Sorry my hand slipped,” said
Robert with assumed regret. “The cook
very likely can find a tea-towel or
something in the kitchen.”
All ears were strained, many
with delight in the incident. Raw-
son had an overbearing manner, and all but his
intimates had suffered from it. He felt he was
defeated for the moment. Meg Syme came to the
rescue by pinning a handkerchief across the irate
bosom.
TO raise a froth on their swagger the two worthies
returned to the ballroom for one more dance before
departure. Rodney danced with a girl he knew, who
was not of the Rawson elect. Robert’s fancy was
also taken by a pretty little outsider, who refused him
because of the Rawson incident. “Go to hell,” whis-
pered Robert, swaggering off to another girl, who, to
his consternation, also turned from him.
“You insulted my brother!”
“Never intentionally would I insult the brother
of such a pretty girl,” said Robert grandly, “and if
I insulted him accidentally I’d apologise.”
“You ought to, if you are a gentleman.”
Harry came to explain that the young man who
had first tried to turn Rodney from the supper-table
was Douglas Syme, brother of his new friend Meg,
who had cooked the turkey, and that the girl Robert
had asked to dance was Nessie Syme. Robert was
not abashed. “If I apologise, will you dance with
me?”
The girl agreed, confused and afraid of a com-
motion. “Bring your brother,” said Robert.
“Douglas wouldn’t come,” said Nessie.
“Then I must go to him. I was in the wrong,”
said Robert.
He strutted down the room. “You come with
me,” he said, tucking the girl’s arm under his nolens
volens.
“I’ve come to apologise,” he said loudly. “I was
wrong, Mr. Syme. I said you weren’t fit to carry
offal to a bear, but you are, you are! ... And now for
our dance.”
The dance past, Robert was confronted by young
Syme with his hackle now raised on two counts.
“You told my sister to go to hell,” he said angrily,
“and you can just come outside until I take it out
of your hide.”
“Your sister?” said Robert, a little taken back.
“My other sister.”
Robert caught sight of the third Syme girl at
the far side of the room.
“I don’t want to hit you, my lad, for my fault,”
he said to the youth. “I’ll apologise publicly and
abjectly.”
His mordant wit was stimulated by champagne,
and he went across the room to Jeanie Syme with
mock humility.
“Say, Miss Syme, I advised you to go to a warmer
place than this freezing hole, but your brother has
seen me about it, and now you needn’t go ; you are to
dance with me instead.”
Before the shy girl could parry this she, too, was
being whirled around the dancing-floor. All eyes
were upon her partner in the hope that he might
further enliven the meeting, but he prepared to leave
at the end of the polka.
Harry reported from behind the scenes. “Ghost!
Everyone is pleased you did that to old Rawson.
He’s always trying to show his authority. I’ll intro-
duce you to the eldest Miss Syme. You’ll have to
be civil to her if you want to do a line with Jeanie
and Nessie.”
Meg was distant and dignified and nearly as tall
as Robert, but there was a twinkle of amusement in
her eyes. She had observed this celebrated bachelor
several times previously displaying his horses_around
Cooma. She inspired him to genuine apology. “You
see, old Rawson tries to come the nabob. Everyone
was so paralysed before him that perhaps I went a
little too far.”
“Quite a long way too far,” said Meg, but her
eyes smiled.
T"HE home-going was full of pleasure to Harry
1 with the vindication of Robert in view. A crisp
April sunset reddened the valley, the garnered hay-
paddocks and naked orchard were grey under the
nightly frost which already tingled in the air, and the
voice of the Murrumbidgee came loudly from the
crossing as they descended the cutting and were
announced by the dogs.
Robert’s contingent rushed forward, some to
engage in plunder while others disputed with the
home pack. The hens were safely on their roost and
Johanna free to run across the cultivation paddock to
meet the travellers. Danny followed as far as the
wood-heap, shouting orders about the dogs, and Della
and Maeve came out to the stables.
In the evening when Della settled to the mending
and Maeve went to bed Robert brought out his gains
and told of the partnership with the Lillingstons. It
was hard to tell who was the more moved during the
recital, Johanna or Harry.
“Can ye trust the dealers, me boy?” asked
Johanna.
“They have a good name,” interposed Danny.
“You mean the long man with the glass eye and the
broad man with the guffaw. Sure, the short fellow’s
guffaw is heard all over Monaro.”
But it was never heard there again. Never.
“In any case, see what we have, and all because
of Robert,” eagerly interposed Harry.
“A few clothes would improve you,” said
Johanna.
“He must have a new suit,” said Robert. He did
not press his own rights, waiting for what Danny had
up his sleeve about Janet Urquhart.
That came up next morning when they were
inspecting the colts which Robert had selected as
saddle horses.
“I never thought Urquhart would warn wan of
mine off with a gun. Forty years in the colony and such
a thing has never happened to me, yet wherever you
go there is trouble. What is your side of it?”
“What did old Sandy say?”
“Why should you be ordered off Keebah with
a gun?”
“Looks like the same old play to get a husband
for his trollop of a girl.”
“The mention of you as a husband made him
talk of a gun.”
“Long Tom could see through that with his glass
eye. Two guns wouldn’t run me into being a husband
for any of them.”
Danny was gagged by his oath of secrecy. “At
anny rate you’ve ruined me best friendship. If you
don’t want Grace, and Molly ran off from you, and
you speak like a low down scut of Janet —wan of the
finest young women to be seen, who is fit to make a
home and rear a family—in the name of reason, what
do you want? Have ye taken up with a Lillingston?”
“I have no more thought of them than of Molly
or Grace.”
“I hope they have none of you. The safest thing
would be to marry a steady woman and cease to be
a candidate for mischief with all the faymales from
Goulburn to Cooma —rags or silk.”
“I’m in a fine position to marry, with never a
penny of my own.”
“I’ll set you up if you choose the right woman.”
Robert asked for a share in the cattle and horses
reclaimed from Bunbilliko, and Danny agreed to
consider the question of partnership with his sons,
so often deferred. • For the present Robert was
allowed to set off for the cattle and to take Harry.
Doogoolook was also contributed to the expedition.
William was left to slog at Burrabinga with two
stockmen through a long, snowy winter. Cut off
from Keebah, his one social outlet, he grew more shy
and awkward. He would not go to Birrabee. He
feared Susan as dangerously attractive, and also he
was too proud to go where he would have to refer
to his proscription by old Urquhart. Bella and Wong
Foo were his only relief in isolation.
People twitted Mrs. Delacy upon her family’s
celibacy. All but Mrs. Stewart Butler were unwed.
Johanna met such sallies with equanimity. She was
satisfied with Della’s spinsterhood, and proud to say
of Robert “ ’Tis to be seen that he is a bachelor to
please himself. There have been too manny others
try to please themselves by marrying him. William
was always an old sobersides. Hatting up there at
Bunratty Castle is like to make a bachelor of him
entirely. A good thing, too. Anny man who dies a
bachelor has saved some woman a lot of thankless
trouble.”
Chapter XXVII.
EOBERT and Harry came out of the
cattle enterprise with profit sufficient
to advance Robert’s prestige. Harry
had none to bother anyone. The
months ran away after that without any
word from the two horse-buyers. Winter lingered
with snow and sleet throughout September and
October. Robert went through to Bunbilliko and
took Harry with him. By the end of November the


new tussocks were strong and green, the plains aglow
with bluebells and daisies ; other horses were finishing
their education, but Long Tom and Yorkie did not
appear.
Rodney and Robert continued their career in
' Cooma. Robert had his eyes open for Meg Syme,
whose dignity had impressed him at the time of the
ball. He saw her one day in the leading store and
asked her would she give him a shakedown for the
night, as his horse was suffering a stone bruise. He
winked warningly at Rodney as Meg naturally con-
sented, hospitality being obligatory. Rodney was glad
to flirt with Nessie and Jeanie. Old Syme had a
small place not far out of town, and since the death
of his wife Meg had kept house for him and the
younger children.
HARRY and Mike roamed the far recesses of their
region, where only a shadow people, who had
neither despoiled nor left any monuments, intervened
between creation and the young men’s reign in an
emptiness awe-inspiring and splendid. Thousands of
magpies showered mellow notes like jewels into the
aromatic silence, butcher-birds practised their rich
phrases, the crashing mockery of jackasses echoed far
and near, a feathered host threw their smaller
harmonies into the interstices of a spring orchestra,
with the alien rhythm of hoof-beats as its drums.
Crystal water rilled hill and plain ; flowers were every-
where a carpet of blue and gold underfoot, an arras
on the lower scrub, a canopy overhead exuding
honeyed incense which the tempered winds swept pure
and free from eternity to eternity
A human intrusion was the death in the ranges
f 1 p ■ i t n ■f ,
of a lone fossicker kn°™ as Taffy Rumor was that
, he i ef , ?i hl . dden Ca V £ nuggets k 01 , d , Pe g- le 8. ™ ad
0 nd the treasure, dug everywhere like a wombat.
Mike and Harry s intention of teasing Peg-leg by
reporting the finding of the nuggets was forestalled
one day by the ferocity of the old man. His wife,
Brandy Mary, tottered to meet them, clothes awry,
waving her arms and weeping and shrieking that she
must tell them something but was afraid that the old
man would murder her. Peg-leg rushed from the hut
and dragged her inside by her matted locks. The
boys, horrified, rode away, leaving Peg-leg to exercise
his marital authority. The vast solitudes were often
a gaol where a conjugal prisoner had no redress from
a warder brutal as any that operated in officialdom.
The elders attributed the distasteful incident to
delirium tremens. “Old Peg-leg was so savage he
might have knocked Taffy on the head for his gold,”
remarked Harry.
THE year drew to a close without news of the
1 horse-dealers. The three Delacy men, with Doo-
goolook and Wong, homed to Bewuck for Christmas
while O’Neill took charge of Burrabinga.
January passed. The Delacy brothers were back
at Burrabinga. Still no tidings of the horse-dealers.
“They’ve come and gone and the Lillingstons
collared the swag, most likely,” said William.
Harry repudiated this on behalf of his friend
Mike.
There was other news to flutter the Delacys.
George Angus had married Janet Urquhart. William
had the news when he went to Birrabee for the post.
“George makes no secret of it. He grins from ear to
ear like a dingo scenting a calf.”
Harry rushed in: “That proves that Robert never
even looked at fat old Janet.”
Robert left Harry to do the talking for him while
he threw his legs about in transcendent swagger as he
went to yard his colt, presented by the ingratiating
Lillingstons. Smiles played across his features during
the afternoon. In the evening he announced that he
was off to Bewuck in the morning on business with
the old man.
Attended by his canine court, he called at Birra-
bee, and George accepted congratulations. Robert
generously offered Harry to cut shingles and adze posts
for additions to the house. He reached Keebah a
few hours later. He had never been ordered away,
and was bold in the knowledge of Urquhart’s absence
and Janet’s marriage. He entered and asked Mrs.
Urquhart if he could do anything for her in the
township and was affable while his champions dis-
abled a milder animal Or two and killed a few hens,
Mrs. Urquhart had no skill in enmity and reflected
that as Janet was now married no end would be
served by drawing attention to Robert's misbehavior.
Robert refused her invitation to spend the night in
favor o£ riding on to Learmonfs. He would discipline
Keebah by a little hauteur.
George Angus was wholeheartedly in love with
Janet, and in the determination to improve his social
position by marriage into the Urquhart family he had
used the rumpus with Robert to further his suit. Old
Urquhart would be glad to dispose of Janet—blown
upon by scandal—so George had said that he had had
Janet nearly won when Robert cut-in, and believed
ke Co V^ d make her care again. He had been permitted
to wrde to er -
Jane ] was overwhelmed by his ardor and the
c ornmand of her father to marry him. She was ill
of homesickness in banishment as a blight upon the
° f h ® r v y sisters. Robert was out of
j / rrying George she could make
t nav wZI, circle ; se t emed ,
? L b T hether her rei *f tat , e ™ ent made her as
jubilant as his exoneration rendered Robert Janet was
too lymphatic and unawakened to know or show.
AN arrival m , , u . ,
Oi n the ? atlo t n
make When annetff? a far
hebLs Dannv SlaCkened tOWards SeCOnd
neipmgs Danny inquired.
“Have you anny news?”
“Only Janet Urquhart’s wedding, but that is stale,
I suppose.”
“Janet! Ye don’t mean it! And who did she
marry?” demanded Johanna.
“George, of course! Who else do you think
would have her after their carryings-on?” Robert was
elaborately casual.
It took the wind out of Danny’s sails, sure
enough, and filled Johanna’s.
“Just what I knew. There goes another scan-
dalous plot of some designing slut to capture me son.”
“Is this wedding fact or rumor?” was Danny’s
question.
“Had it from George himself. They confirmed it
at Keebah. Janet is coming to Birrabee as soon as
George has the house ready.”
“Ye were at Keebah! And did they receive ye?”
Johanna fluttered with excitement.
“Fell all over me, but I came on to Learmont’s.
They deserve a little of the cold shoulder for what
the old dingo tried to pull off with his talk of guns.
A man has no chance against a woman’s lies, but if
you let ’em alone they bowl themselves out. The old
man had D.T.’s and saw snakes.”
DANNY felt that Sandy had somehow let him down,
but Sandy’s secret remained and Danny kept
it courageously against all provocation. George had
cleared up the field for Robert, whose triumph Danny
had to suffer, a common ordeal to persons of spiritual
integrity when in conflict with those of less or none.
Again Robert by a fluke had emerged as a hero. Luck
was his, evidently, and a fine business head, but he
had not his father's respect. Neither had Danny
Robert’s. He was inclined to dismiss his father as
a silly old man. The most trying result, to Danny,
was Johanna’s harping upon Urquhart’s iniquity
regarding her splendid son.
“Surely ye could see Urquhart was at his drink-
ing! It shows how drink takes the brain from a man
entirely and leaves him like an impty kag with an
offensive smell.”
Danny would have welcomed the peace of the
“ind room” but for the marital demotion involved,
The horse-dealers never reappeared. Other men
took their place. Horses were saleable property
Robert and Harry went regularly to Bunbilliko The
Burrabinga stock followed the river to its source on
the austere plains that exalt Monaro, a province with
Kosciusko as its king, a king iot permanently
crowned with snow but garlanded each year with
daisies y
The Lillingston girls abandoned hopes of Robert.
Their brothers found that Robert took them to Burra-
but never to Bewuck - The connection simmered
down t 0 the fnendsh ip between Harry and Mike. The
timing of stock from that area was finally dele-
gated t 0 Harry. It was he who brought the ne^s that


Brandy Mary had died drunk and that Peg-leg lived
on alone. He had given up work: a son who lived
fifty miles away brought him provisions. Gossip was
that the son extracted heavy payment for this, which
Peg-leg produced from a hoard about the place. He
threatened to shoot intruders at sight, and his temper
was so evil that even the clergyman gave him a wide
berth.
Chapter XXVIII .
T|l jr EG SYME tutored her younger
sisters and brothers and thus
.Lv|, increased her own learning. She
made all the clothing for the
family, masculine and feminine, and was
a splendid figure on a horse. People said she had
lost her chances through caring for the others. Some
said he would be a lucky man who won her ; but men
made little progress with her. She was too sedate, and
only six years younger than Robert, who was now
thirty-seven. She had no glances or blushes for
Robert, who found her an enigma. At first he was
regarded as Nessie’s conquest, but Nessie discovered
that Meg was the attraction. This created a sensation.
Meg began to blossom.
The neighbors said it was a shame that Robert
Delacy should make a fool of her, and tried to warn
her with gossip, but, like Johanna, Meg was Robert’s
partisan for ever.
He measured Meg by his own instabilities and
forays, and felt that he had what he desired, and
that to her nothing but full dignities could be sug-
gested. He confided to his father that he wanted to
marry.
“Have you chosen the girl or is it wan of them
chasing you again?”
Robert said that he had chosen. He hoped to
succeed, and left his father to break the news, as in
this case he knew Danny would be more of an ally
than Johanna.
“Mother of God! Some streel has got hold of
him again!”
Danny knew nothing of the Symes and bade her
hold her whist until he made inquiries. Della was
overlooked. Norah was consulted, being married and
of the pure merino squattocracy. Her mother-in-law
wrote to a friend near Cooma, old Mrs. Rawson.
The reply came from Major Rawson of shirt-bosom
fame:
The Symes, as far as I know, are respectable
people who derive from the farirter class in the North
of Ireland. I do not, however, know them personally,
and would not think of inviting them into my house
on an equality with my family.
“I knew!” wailed Johanna. “Some slut has laid
a trap for me boy.”
“I don’t want to be dragged down to people of
that class,” said Norah.
Della was silent.
“If she is an upstanding faymale and her people
have good principles I’d as soon have her as the
Queen’s daughter. Robert is lucky to get such after
his miscarriages, which he escaped more by good luck
than deserving.”
“It’s a wife for me son I’m considering, not a
horse.”
“There would be more sinse in considering a
wife on the principles of a noble horse, seeing what
she is put to, r’aring children and dragging about
amid arduous conditions. Sure, ’tis not a canary-
bird to put in a cage that Robert’s needing. If you
were choosing a horse, would you pick the weakest
of the mob because it was a pretty little thing that
would fall down at all critical moments because of
its refinement?”
“Ye have no more sinse at ye than the snipe in
•the bog at home in Ireland.”
“ ’Tis yourself that lacks the rayson. Sure, when
we consider a horse ’tis breed that gives him stamina
and makes him able to do more and do it with a
spring, while the common slug would rack your bones
and wind himself and not accomplish half the
distance ; and whoi should it be breed in a woman,
or a^man, to be weak and helpless? There is food
for thought there. ’Tis the useless doll that should
be called a streel.”
“ ’Tis a wonder in picking ye’r own wife ye did
not choose wan of those big bony fishwives
from ”
“Arrah, me brave Johanna, ’tis the example of
the polo pony we have: and ’tis the most striking
in the whole boiling. ’Tis a polo pony you were, me
brave Johanna!” He shouted this after her as she
ran away to hide the smile that she could not control.
There were moments when her choice of Danny was
justified.
“I’m Denny Blake from County Clare,
And ready at command
To sing a song in praises
Of my own dear native land,”
he sang in the resonant voice that was sometimes
husky, perhaps through constant smoking of stale
twist.
HE took a Nullah Mundoey mare and packed his
valise preparatory to inspecting the Syme family.
“And him with no more sense than an eft to get at
the core of things,” remarked Johanna.
Della suggested that Danny should go by gig
and let her mother accompany him.
“Me,” snorted Johanna, “to be running about
after her! She should bring herself here for me to
see ; but if she did I’d slap the door in her face.”
“What sense could there be in that? In moi
moind there’s a good chance of her being too good
for Robert.”
He stayed one night at the Plains with Cameron.
The next he quartered himself at a shepherd’s hut
without interest in social gradations and equally care-
less of the difference in quality of bed and food. The
sublime panorama spread before him as he journeyed
by tracks all dight with flowers ; and birds and quaint
shy marsupials assured him of an unending force,
harmonious and indestructible, of which he was a
part, and he approached the Symes in a mind to
estimate the proposed marriage on its sheer merits
without snobbery.
The Symes knew many anec-
dotes of old Nullah Mundoey,
whose heroic performances were
already a legend and had earned
him more titles than an earl in
days when earl meant strong man.
He had started as Danny Delacy
of the Murrumbidgee and now
was Nullah Mundoey, Fearless
Danny and Honest Delacy. His
arrival was an event.
It was a shock to Meg Syme
when a strange little man with a
long, straight beard, wearing
sloppy clothes and a copatain hat
—kept from sliding over his eyes
by a stuffing of gum-leaves
boomed a flowery greeting at her
and then broke into a guffaw.
“Sure, you’re as tall as Robert
himself a pair of bean-poles.
You’d be good for spreading a
hop-vine.”
When Meg accepted his
queerness she liked him ; he was
so homely, so good and wise, so
free from acidity and malice. She
read everything procurable and
was educated to enjoy the philo-
sophic epigrams that poured from
Mr. Delacy. He and Syme had
fundamental congeniality in prin-
ciple, but Syme was the more
thrifty and likely to die the richer,
as Delacy recognised.
DANNY’S report was that
Robert had done well for
himself. Here was a fine, power-
ful woman, old enough to have
shown her quality.
“She looks sound and sen-
sible. I never expected anything
so promising of commonsense
from Robert. Now if it had
been William ”
“But has she anny beauty?” Johanna demanded
beauty in her daughter-in-law as an elegancy due to
her own refinement.
“I thought Robert had enough beauty for the
family. Enough is better than a feast —even of baits
for the dingoes.”
“I judge that she is as plain as old Bally, but
ye’re a nullity when it comes to judging all such
things.”
“Sure, wasn’t I a judge of beauty, or how could
I have chosen the prettiest girl in County Clare and
got her to run over the seas with me? ‘And the red
was on your lip, Mary, and the love-light in your
eye!’ Moi! Oh, moi! me brave Johanna!”
With this Johanna subsided. Danny
smoked with loud smacks and pensive
emissions of “The moind! The moind!”
Della questioned her father quietly.
“Is she dark or fair? Has she curly hair
or a long nose? And is she good-
tempered?”
“Would she let me know her bad
timper at this stage of the game? That has
to be risked. Wives can’t be had on trial.”
“But surely, father, you can describe
her features. Who is she like?”
“She’s like herself. She has a nose in
the middle of her face, and a mouth below
that, and an eye on either side of it farther
up. Her face must have been all right
or I’d have noticed it.”
“Sure, it was only by good luck I wasn’t a two-
headed monster,” observed Johanna.
THE coming wedding called for a family conclave.
The partnership of the men Delacys, so long
delayed, was at last to be put on a business footing.
Danny had Bewuck. Burrabinga homestead was to
be improved for Robert. William and Harry were
to live there with Robert or with Danny at Bewuck,
as the work demanded, until they should marry, when
a home each was to be erected for them out of the
general budget. It was the loose and generous
arrangement of Danny, of whom Johanna said “He
has too much scatteration on him and not enough
grasping ever to make a fortune, no matter how great
the opportunity.”
Neither Johanna nor Della was mentioned in the
new understanding. The work they had put into
making both homes was not officially acknowledged
by so much as a new bonnet. Johanna was in a better
position than Della. She had many perquisites estab-
lished by custom. The butter-money was hers, except
when Danny happened to be pushed for cash, and
remembered it; even then, if Johanna said she needed
it Danny would not question her statement. There
were *also the turkeys. The rearing of these fell to
Della now, also the dairy and the care of Maeve,
who was frail.
Della had slipped into drudgery without anyone
being aware of it. She was growing scraggy, and her
thin little hands were as rough as Harry’s. She dressed
in drab and winseys or something equally cheap and
depressing, was firmly embedded in spinsterhood,
seldom mentioned, never discussed, unnoticed by any-
one but her mother, who had designs upon her.
Johanna was hoarding every penny now towards
Della’s dot as a religieuse. But this Della did not
know.
When she was left out of the new partnership she
retired and sobbed herself sick., Very little recognition
would have saved her this hurt —
a small sum yearly to hoard
against old age. She envisaged
her end, and did not like it. Even
the gawky Grace Fullwood had
married Della’s old flame Gerald
Butler and was settled with home
and children and good social
position.
ANEW home of slabs and
shingles was pushed forward.
All strove in the cause of Robert.
Danny came up to lay-out gar-
dens, and his friend Wong Foo
came in to help. These two, with
a stray rouseabout and the bul-
locks, went across the river and
enclosed five acres of rich loam
where it would be safe from the
poultry.
The plants lingering in
Della’s garden were rescued from
the scrub. Wong brought vege-
table seeds. Danny took his
mares and packed flower-plants
and shrubs from Birrabee. The
gentle Janet met him with her
usual friendliness, unaware that
her father had confided in his old
mate.
Robert was glowing, those
days, his spanking swagger
moderated by a goc& woman and
approaching responsibility. Harry
was indefatigable and ecstatic.
William kept judicial watch.
Danny was released in enterprise
as he had not been of late.
Bewuck had not scope enough for
him: he often looked wistfully
towards the mountains which he
had opened up but which Robert
was taking from him.
Danny was becoming a
worn-out pioneer. Empires rise
on the unrewarded efforts of such indomitable indi-
vidualists. Only a few of the many emerge to the
ken of recorders to give new lease to tales of daring
and fortitude. They pour out their strength and
courage in taming new territory. They are givers.
They provide lashings and leavings of raw material,
or father the exploitable rank and file for the shrewder
investors —the takers.
JOHANNA refused to go to the wedding, and
Danny would not go without her. No one thought
to invite Della —another unintentional slight, which
showed her her position. Norah Butler declined
because she was not proud of the match and an
addition to her family was approaching. Meg, there-
fore, tactfully decided that she would have only her
own family, and William and Harry to support
Robert.
“Shall I bring Meg here to see you?” inquired
Robert.
“Time enough when a child is coming. Ye can’t
leave her up among the dingoes for that event. Della
will then wait on her.”
Della stiffened her back. “Indeed, that is keeping
my new sister too long waiting for a welcome from
the women of the family. I’m becoming a nullity in
prison by the river year after year, with no companion
but the bunyip, and the oaks for ever mourning. 111
go up and prepare the house for Margaret.”
Robert was delighted and clinched this support
before his mother could demur.
“And what am I to do alone, with Maeve not fit
to do a slap of work?”
“Jane Hannon can sleep in the house. Delta
needs a change.”


‘■j need some new clothes. It would be small
recommendation for me to appear before my new
sister looking like a workhouse inmate.” .
Robert agreed grandly as a partner in the firm,
“Get what you want and have it put on the general
account. Have a proper dressmaker to make you up
something stylish.”
Chapter XXIX,
DELLA sang around the new house as
she papered its walls, made curtains
for its little windows or stuffed
mattresses with straw or painted the
shelves that Harry put up. She was rein-
vigorated by the release from a mother’s exactions
every hour of the day and looked ten years younger
in the fussy new dresses which Robert had sanctioned.
A houre! A house! A home of one’s own.
She saw now, when nearing forty, and all chances
gone, that she had been foolish to demand a dream-
man. The home and the business standing afforded
by marriage were the more important. Any not too
impossible man would have served.
Harry had helped with the Angus nuptial build-
ing. Ned was returning the obligation at Burrabinga.
“Ned used to be your puppy lover,” remarked Harry,
tactlessly facetious.
Ned braved the accusation. “Not so much of a
puppy!”
Della enjoyed his kindness, his gaiety, also his
carpentering ability, in which the Delapys were con-
spicuously deficient. They had a happy time in making
the house comfortable for Meg, or Margaret, as her
new family called her, following Della’s lead.
As they progressed Ned remarked: “I wish I
was getting a house of my own ready. Now that
Janet is not well I’m afraid to tread inside.”
“I was wishing I had a house myself,” confessed
Della.
“Holy sailors! You’re a wonderful housekeeper.
Why didn’t you marry Gerry Butler?”
“I did not like him enough, and he was fast.”
Ned smiled in his brown beard of possum con-
formation which had never known the razor.
Manhood leant heavily on beards in those days.
All the bushmen had beards. Some of the older
imported men had theirs trimmed in hedges around the
chin or lawns under the ears. Others cleared a
putting space around one or both lips, or the chin
appeared as a bold hill in a jungle—diverting patterns
to modify the affliction of a frowsy mane on the face.
Ned’s beard gave him several years among men
who did not know his youth. He had grown it much
earlier than any of the Delacys, who were a smooth-
skinned race. He laughed a deep bass laugh into
his hairy maturity because he was not “fast.” The
urge was on him for a wife, and he wanted Della.
On the strength of his beard he quickly essayed a
loverlike statement.
Della was resistant, but she remembered Ned’s
early partiality, and as his advances gained firmness
she hardened in the determination necessary to marry
a man so many years her junior. Ned would give
her a home of her own. No matter how humble or
remote, it would provide escape from the constant
unease of a mother’s dictation, sapping of harmony
and hope, than which there can be no more enervating
incarceration to a woman past girlhood. Anything
to escape from her mother, though she could scarcely
admit this, even to herself, without a sense of blas-
phemy, so sentimentalised were mothers.
She, too, had satisfaction in the volume of Ned’s
beard.
It must be confessed that the splendiferous
Robert had a similarly biblical beard, long enough to
blow about in the wind. Incredible that he could have
appealed as a lover! But the girls of his day did not
expect the impossible in husbands: they had it. They
did not quail before the impossible in life: they
unconsciously achieved it.
Ned continued to smile in his beard, Della to
regard it contemplatively, while the family failed to
note anything significant in their association because
attention was focussed on preparations for Robert’s
bride.
Robert’s policy towards Keebah had had the
desired effect. Now that Janet’s slip was safely sub-
merged in marriage Mr. and Mrs. Urquhart wished
to avoid any action that would inform the curious, and
formally invited Robert to bring his bride to Keebah
for a visit on the way from Cooma. Robert graciously
accepted.
AFTER enclosing the garden Danny went home and
reappeared with one pack-horse laden with fancy
fowls and another with turkeys and geese. The -
gobbler and the geese raised a clamor that brought
out the dogs in full cry from all the settlers en route.
The turkey-hen bore the passage with her meek whine ;
the gander said “Shush! Shush! ” all the way ; a
bantam crowed perkily; the pack-mares endured
heroically. The pride of Danny’s argosy was another
pack animal with a nanny and two kids, one of them
unrelated, from which to begin a Burrabinga dynasty.
Mrs. Rafferty had been loath to part with her old
Nanny, but Mr. Delacy was the patron of the socially-
ascended Bella.
Danny roped the recalcitrant matron’s horns and
a Nullah Mundoey had to tow her. When the she-
kid wailed in front Nanny rushed forward and butted
the pack-horse. “The dayvil such a botheration was
never encountered,” Danny remarked to his dumb
beasts, including Doogoolook.
“Golly, the old cove is a hard case —gets rummier
every day!” remarked George Angus, but the kindly
Janet tended the fowls and Ned helped with the goats
because of Della.
Transit down the precipices bred legend. Doo-
goolook took the horses singly while Danny held the
others, and while they were both occupied with the
goat horse the others broke away and bolted for the
homestead. The wags used to say that fowls had
been strewn from Keebah to Wild Horse Plain, but
the cages had not been completely smashed; the
mares had travelled that track so often that they
knew where to step lest a bump against a tree hurt
them more than their load. The geese and turkeys
kept their heads in and so were not brained.
At the homestead the tortured beasts would not
let Della approach them, so to keep them from rolling
she heeled them with the dogs until Doogoolook
arrived to yard them. The bantam cock had his leg
crushed but crew so gamely that Della’s heart was
touched and she kept him in a box to mend. The
turkey-hen was dead. One of the mares was injured
by a shaft of the pack-saddle penetrating her withers
and she lay down for days, but Della would not give
her up to a bullet.
Wong Foo appeared with pack
loads for the great Robert’s wife.
O’Neill came down in mid-week
bringing the hide of a piebald brumby,
tail and all, tanned as a carpet. He,
too, was invited to remain until Mrs.
Robert’s arrival.
She and her suite came home in
detachments. She left her father’s
home on a beautiful saddle on a
Nullah Mundoey—the gifts of Robert.
He rode the Lillingston gelding.
William drove Mrs. Robert’s
horses and heifers, with satisfaction
in this accretion to the Burrabinga
property. Robert had the* best spending sense,
William the squarest idea of the power of property,
but Harry finally, when the dross of the flesh was
purged with years, though a beggar financially, had
a spiritual kingdom that none could take away.
HARRY left for home with the bride’s handmaiden
on a safe brumby of such rough paces that the
child was like to be jellied. Old Syme’s self-respect
insisted upon providing his daughter with a serving-
maid, no matter how incipient. Meg must be supported
in her squatter status. There was such a demand for
women that they were prematurely plucked from child-
hood, and to have Fannie Monson, aged eight, fed and
trained was a relief to the packed shepherd’s hut
that was her home. She was so shy that she hid
under the bed in sick terror on hearing the proposal,
but she was hauled to light and a rig-out—it could
not be called a wardrobe—gathered for her. One of
her brothers for some reason had once had a pair
of boots, and because of that ineradicable self-respect
which clings with honesty these were produced and
put on the little creature.
Convention was so rigid that Fannie must not
straddle a horse. Harry improvised a horn on a
man’s saddle and the rider clung on as best she could,
the gullet of the saddle bruising her thigh. She was
inarticulate, and all her sobs were worn away. She
looked back with dry gasps, her eyes like those of the
lost, while the hut was visible, and when it sank from
view she tried to get off the horse and run back. She
was lucky in her escort. Her attitude was touching to
Harry. He put her astride for her safety and started
the brumby to his bone-racking jog.
A mile or two on the way Harry had to retrace
for the boots, which he then tied on with horsehair.
The child grew so weary and sore that she had to
stay in bed for a day where they first halted. The
kind settler’s wife gave Harry a pillow for his pommel
and he let the child sit there when they set out again.
Fannie had given Harry her trust. He was so absent
while he dreamed his own dreams that she came out
of her shell. Then he sang her a song which brought
a smile:
“Sally had a magpie that was very fond of talking;
She plucked a feather from his tail
Every time she went out walking.
Soon poor Mag’s tail hadn’t a feather upon it,
But you had the pleasure of seeing them stuck
All round Sally’s bonnet.”
He was ashamed of the naked pipe-stems, with
the livid ring around the ankles chafed by the rough
boots, so he enlisted a Queanbeyan barmaid to buy
small boots and stockings. He also bought the child
some “lollies” and a mouth-organ and a hat to replace
the tattered rag that blinkered her. He hurried to
be home to welcome the bride, who was paying visits
as she came, and it devolved upon Della to clean
and clothe Fannie.
MRS. ROBERT’S livestock were depastured in the
home paddocks, and her poultry made the place
homely as she rode across the flats, having clambered
down the pinches as best she could in her stylish
habit. She was a fine, sensible woman
in her prime, heartily in love with
Robert, and of a mind and experience to
accept whatever the bargain brought. Her
little serving-maid was in the reception
party, but so overawed that she peeped at
the newcomers from Harry’s coat-tail.
Wong Foo and Doogoolook added
to the originality of the Delacy
collection.
Danny had to return to
Johanna at the end of a week,
but Della extended her visit
indefinitely. Margaret was pleased
to have her. They made dresses
for themselves and rearranged their
tresses in the prevailing mode. Fannie’s curls came off
in the interests of hygiene. The women then not only
reared and trained maids but made their clothes until
they could do this for themselves. The best mistresses
also taught them to read and write. Fannie thus
recovered from loneliness, for when she was not
learning housewifery she had books to con.
HARRY went through to Bunbilliko for a visit
and came back with a rousing tale.
Peg-leg had died, so Mike and Harry re-explored
the caves near the abandoned selection and in an
inner chamber found two skeletons. The police were
notified. The clothing indicated that the skeletons
were not very old, though ants had cleaned the bones.
The remains were those of Long Tom Bradford and
Yorkie Driffield. All the Lillingstons recognised the
projecting teeth of the taller man, and a glass eye
rolled out of the empty skull. The second skeleton
was shorter. The men had been murdered by a heavy
weapon —probably axed while sleeping. They must
have been killed elsewhere, as one of the skeletons
lay on a rough hand-barrow. Two people had been
necessary to carry them there.
Peg-leg’s hut was two miles distant. No evidence
was forthcoming from the son so long after the date.
Mike and Harry’s reconstruction of the case was that
Long Tom and Yorkie had been overtaken by night
on their journey from Cooma to Bunbilliko, had been
refused a shakedown by Peg-leg, and had gone on to


camp at the creek near the cave.
Peg-leg had killed them in the
night and compelled the old
woman to help him secrete the
bodies. That may have been
what Brandy Mary had tried to
confess on the day that the old
man had dragged her into the
hut. That was why he fiercely
forbade people to visit his hut
or to seek for stock on his
holding. Also, he had lived on
the money that the dealers had
been carrying. Nothing could
be proved. Suspicions grew
into history. The spot became
known as Murderers’ Cave.
“By damn, I’m glad that
Long Tom’s and Yorkie’s names
are cleared,” exclaimed Danny
when the story reached Bewuck.
“I wish the money had nqt
been lost,” said Johanna.
“So do I, but what is there
in a few hundred pounds com-
pared with the knowledge of
honesty in men? Poor fellows!
Came back true to their word.”
Harry had a pleasanter story. He and Mike had
accompanied the Sergeant from Cooma to Gool Gool,
as certain formalities had to be discharged in that
township. One night they- had put up at a station
renowned for its hospitality and the beauty of its
daughters, and here Harry had met his princess,
Josephine Battle.
“Ghost! She is the most beautiful woman I ever
saw! A complexion like pink wax, and hair the color
of gold.”
Everyone had to listen to the glowing accounts.
The young lady was referred to as the Princess, a
member of the Royal Family. Harry was so romantic
about her that Della found him good material to
further her own plans.
nr OWNSHIP and district were entertained by Hen-
* nessy’s marriage to Euphemia Fitzhugh.
“Sure, I knew she’d come to it when her plumage
began to moult,” said Johanna.
“A fool not to have taken him long ago. He
could have had children.”
“Hasn’t he always had Molly Macallister?”
The township was long since a municipality, and
Hennessy the mayor. He had a bigger hotel than
formerly, the blacksmithing business, the leading
general store and a flour-mill. He was prospering far
beyond his needs and had much to lend him import-
ance. Even Johanna admitted that it was surprising
that he should still want “that ould hairo well over
fifty.”
“Sure the attempt to win her was. a habit with
him, and at last she caved-in. ’Twill be entertaining
to observe which will overcome the other. They are
both too long in the horn for the frictions of double
harness.”
Euphemia had
capitulated in a fit of
despair. Hennessy
was her last resource
from the footless
drifting around that
confronted a
woman whose
man died,
whom the law
did not bury
with him nor
provide with a
pension, and who refused to be a drudge in the
background.
With mingled feelings Hennessy installed her in
a stone house near the township. She was provided
with a vehicle and a groom ; she
had soft carpets and a rosewood
piano, expensive china, jewellery
and silks, and servants to wait
upon her; but attached to them
was Hennessy corpulent and
sweaty. He was also vulgar.
Euphemia had been well-seasoned
to vulgarity in army days, but in
nothing is there more caste snob-
bery than in the quality of
vulgarity, and Hennessy’s was not
the swagger kind.
The way on earth of Euphemia Hennessy was not
harmonious. Molly Macallister mortally hated her.
She had long been cultivating her “uncle.” Molly
and her youngsters were his best root in life,
Euphemia had nothing but fear of poverty, fear of
the approaching abyss of mystery, which kept her
clinging to the daylight called life, even as Mrs.
He nnessy.
Chapter XXX.
A YEAR passed without issue for
Margaret and Robert. Della and
Ned had decided to marry, and
Della was nerving herself to confess,
first to Robert, and, worse, to her mother.
Robert, established, was as proud as his mother,
but Della had stood by him and Margaret; and
Margaret, who had been in Della’s confidence early,
was now standing by her. William was disappointed
that Della should be a failure, his clever, good-looking
sister, so well educated! Her marriage, even to Ned,
would relieve him of the humiliation of having the
only old maid he knew in his family. Harry was
warmly for his old mate, and everybody liked Ned
personally, when the shock of the disparity in years
wore away.
Della sent for her father, who was delighted by
any call to the mountains.
“All that time away, she wants ye as the go-
between to bring her home,” said Johanna.
Della made her confession in the vegetable-garden
over the river, whither they had ridden for privacy.
“In the name of God, woman!” Danny burst
out. “He’s scarce done teething compared with you.
You let Butler go to that squeaking bean-pole of a
Fullwood, and then to make a fool of yourself with
a boy who has nothing. God knows what his family
may be.”
“His family is good enough for the Urquharts.
You were eager for us to marry there. This is next
door, with both Janet and Donald married to
Anguses.”
Danny would not divulge that Janet, as salvaged
material, had been compelled to lower her standard.
“That’s the Urquharts. Once there’s a breach in
the fence the dingoes run in, but you have no call
to get into the yard where they are coming. And
what will you live on?”
“You might well ask, when I’m treated as if 1
were the black gin who was picked out of the bush.
There was a fuss about Margaret Syme being only
a free selector’s daughter, but she came with cattle
and horses and furniture and good clothes, and a
shelf of books and some jewellery and a maid. And
didn’t you rush and make her a vegetable-garden,
another of flowers, and an orchard —mostly from the
remains of my hard work in the valley when I was a
girl? And didn’t you career the country, like a
Chinaman trading to the diggings, with crates of
fowls and animals for another man’s daughter? You
can surely do the same for your own. And didn’t
you nearly kill a good pack-mare, and I attend her
for weeks with Venice turps, and you were going to
shoot her, the smell was so bad. Surely I’m entitled
to her for a start. Perhaps Margaret will spare me
a clutch of eggs from the poultry you brought her.
Wong Foo might give me a jar of ginger, seeing 1
spent years making a home for him to come to.”
“Sure, if anny man ever paid his way by giving
more than he took, it was Wong,” interposed Danny.
“In that case perhaps he’ll give me a bag of seed
potatoes to boot, when he was so generous to a
strange woman he never saw.”
“Arrah! Robert was the head of the family.”
“And I have been the sides of the family for
longer than Robert. You can’t have the roof without
walls, and I’ve worked myself old only to be over-
looked.”
“Why, Della, what’s got at you? There’s no call
to ballyrag me to such an extent. You are entitled
to the same as I did for Margaret, and a few head
of stock are neither here nor there, but you can’t
disguise the fact that you’re an old, worn-out woman
of forty wanting to marry a man so young that you’ll
look foolish.”
“And how did I become worn-out but by slaving
to make homes for others, and now have none of my
own?”
“What home will Ned provide?”
“Ned built a house for Janet Urquhart: Harry
helped him. Now he can help Ned to build one for
me. I had no share in the property, but the law
provides for me, thank God. I have as much right
to select on Burrabinga as a perfect stranger.”
“Sure, there’s no need to act like an inimy. I’m
open to the argument that it’s not meself but you
who is to marry Angus. What do your brothers think
about this?”
“When Robert was about to marry Miss Syme
Norah was consulted, but no one asked my opinion.
No one took any notice of me then ; I’ll be obliged
if they pursue the same course now.”
“Och, you’re soured by letting your chances go
by, and having to take the unsuitable stick in the end.
And what will your mother say, who had you all
salted by for a nun?”
“Me, for a nun!”
Danny had a twinkle in his eye in
contemplating the old maid designed
for the cloister
thus saving her-
self at the last
moment by mar-
riage with a man
so much younger
and not her social
equal.
HE needed more than humor, however, to face
Johanna with the news. Della’s outburst had been
based on just grievance. Johanna was unreasonable.
She accused Danny of being an eft, and his children
of taking after him.
“It only remains for William to run away with
old mother Euphemia Hennessy, and Harry to take
wan of Bella Rafferty’s sisters, to complete me joy
and proide in me family, all established among the
quality. Sorrow the day, and God’s blame on me,
that I ever left me beautiful home of Cooley Hall
to go to the furthest inds of the globe, with blacks
adopted as part of me family, and a haythen China-
man for a brother, to become a haythen and savage
meself, with a bunyip and ghost as me main com-
panions.”
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


“ ’Tis sad indeed, me brave Johanna, that you
left the attractive Kevin O’Gorman, with the hair
sprouting on him like kangaroo-grass on the ring-
barked flats, and all his well-grown children, and his
few cows and potatoes running on a furze patch, to
die in the famine beside a snipe in a bog, for such a
pitiful picture as you depict.”
“And it’s ye that would reproach me, and attimpt
to marry me best son on every streel ”
j— [ ER last hope of religious atonement was being
1 * smashed. She was humiliated. How could she tell
Father Shannon that her daughter was about to marry
an inferior ten or twelve years her junior? Her
natural supports were collapsing. Maeve was failing,
and she was weary of contending with impudent
colonial lasses. A wave of depression engulfed her,
as it has many another at her age. There was no
future. She lay upon her bed and, like Hezekiah,
turned her face to the wall. It seemed as if her early
hardships and griefs had damaged her resilience.
Night fitted hard on her like a cap as the curlews’
wail came from the flats and the wind moaned in
the casuarinas and grumbled in the chimneys.
The faithful Maeve crept in next day and
watched her dumbly. Jane Hannon came, but Johanna
refused to be tended or comforted. She lay listening
to the rushing Murrumbidgee and its soughing oaks.
The peewits scolded the cats who intruded upon their
work in the garden, and a dozen other species joined
in protest. Butcher-birds practised assiduously, scores
of magpies filled the gleaming day with musical
enchantment, the kookaburras raised their wild,
mocking laughter in the homestead precincts. Danny
offered to bring Norah Butler, and was rebuked for
thoughtlessness, for the Butlers were recovering from
measles. So Doogoolook was dispatched with a note
to Della.
A pet wallaroo that Robert had brought in his
pocket some months since hopped in and sat beside
the bed, his little fore-paws placed on the coverlet of
his dead clansmen. Johanna caressed the soft head.
“Another of me outlandish adoptions.” Her thoughts
reverted to Maeve. “Poor lost thing, what has she
to look to but meself?”
I OHANNA arose next day and went about her
duties, but consolation was absent from the daily
brew. She was never now, it seemed, to make any
restitution to her church. God’s blame was on her.
Della came home, her jaw set for stirring en-
counters, but Johanna was already defeated. Della
waited on the rack with nervousness for her mother
to open, and was met with depressed silence. Della
was forced to speak first.
“Mother, aren’t you well?”
“Well as ever an old woman can be who has
nothing further to live for.”
“I hope you are not upset because I’m going to
marry Mr. Edward Angus. He’s some years younger
than I am, but mother ”
“ ’Tis no concern of mine what age Mr. Edward
Angus is.”
“But, mother, please try to under-
stand.”
“What is there to understand? Ye
have the right to do as ye like at ye’r
time of life. It is not as if ye were
young and likely to improve in sinse.”
Della tried conciliation, but her
mother baulked her by calling to
Maeve about the turkeys, and in the
weeks that followed remained imper-
vious to persuasion or attack. “ ’Tis of
no interest to me to discuss ye’r affairs.
I have plinty to consider in me own,”
she would say icily, neither impolite nor
sulky, but impenetrable.
Della would lie awake furiously resenting her
mother’s attitude, which she felt was deliberately
cruel. Johanna, too, lay awake, in a life empty of
purpose or nourishing emotions, and could not attain
peace.
WILLIAM, who was at Bewuck, paid a Sunday visit
to Norah to report. “There’s no sense in calling
attention to the bad match by this dust-up. Ned is
a steady chap ; doesn’t even get drunk. He may be
well-off in the end. He cannot be any worse off than
old Jimmy Fullwood, and his family stick to him in
spite of Bella Rafferty and a big tribe of Raffertys
in the district.”
Stewart Butler liked Ned, and commented: “With
George and Susan married to Urquharts, the family is
going up, and that is what counts. You can’t blame
Della for thinking anything better than being an old
maid.”
“It’s terrible at home,” William told Norah.
“Like a death that doesn’t get buried. Why don’t you
invite Della here?”
Norah sent a note by him.
A day later Della said: “I am going to Norah.
I’ll stay there till I am married.”
“Please ye’rself,” said Johanna.
Della said to William: “Mother is so strange, 1
don’t know how to act, but I’m entitled to some
things.”
“Yes, of course. Ma will come round. Don’t
make matters worse by saying anything to regret.
She’s getting old, and had such ambitions.”
Johanna ignored Della’s preparations, and when
she came to say good-bye merely murmured “Good
afternoon!” and walked into her room. She could
not give way graciously, and her intransigence was
making her ill.
Danny’s attitude served him better.
“Sure, Della, I wish you well. I’ll be up to
make your garden ; and I’ll go gather fowls, too. Do
your best if your mother holds out the olive-branch.
She’s feeling wojse than you are over this. She
started on too high a rung, and now, God help her,
she can’t climb down. Sure, I’ve always found it
easier to cut the tail off pride than to go to bed with
it and be strangled.”
Margaret supported Della, even to her property
rights. Margaret was so happy in finding romance,
when she had put the possibility away from her, that
she blossomed generously that year, with little thought
of self.
“None of us has pleased poor old ma in our
marriages,” remarked Robert. “Norah did the best.
Harry must make an alliance with this Princess of
the Blood to pull things up.”
pYELLA was married from Norah’s and rode to
Burrabinga on a new side-saddle on her own
Nullah Mundoey, known as Fairy, whose proud foal
followed her all the way, companioned by a colt of
the pack-mare. That was four horses Della had for
a beginning.
Ned’s home, to be known as Homehurst, was
going up on a selection farther down the river. Della
was to stay with Margaret until it was ready. Danny,
with a hen on his pommel, his pockets full of chicks,
and a renewed zest in pioneering, arrived to “tig-
rinise” in the gardens. He prepared the deep, clean
earth for potatoes —those efficient pioneers who tamed
to friability the most resistant clay.
He was invigorated in mind and body by the
solitude amid the stately boles of the gums, resemb-
ling marble pillars. Sunbeams fell like searchlights
through the roofs of sickle leaves on to the bracken
and aromatic shrubs below. Magpies, black-and-
white cockatoos, yang-yangs, tits, kookaburras, honey-
eaters, woodpeckers, thrushes and countless other
friends were with him all the day, as they had been
over forty years earlier when Bewuck had been equally
virgin. Across the river the lyre-tails flashed in the
openings as they played hide-and-seek with their
families or paused to reproduce the sound
of his axe. When first at Burrabinga he
had been sure that some man had been
near at hand, but one man, creeping quietly
while the other worked, had traced the
sounds to the mimicry of Menura. Mimicry
by pet magpies and other birds was an
amusing parody, that of the lyre-birds a
spellbinding recital. On
misty winter mornings when
all was damp and dripping,
and fragrant as imagination,
with the sharp sweet tang of
the dead leaves, when other
creatures were still, then the
lyre-bird’s notes rang full and
clear through the eucalypt
aisles.
The swift water was to Delacy a companionable
voice from unpeopled eternities. As he visualised
the thronging generations to be, he pondered on the
productivity of seed —animal and vegetable. Posterity
of his own was a bulwark to set against the epheme-
rality of the separate life-span. Satisfaction that
Della still had time to perpetuate him outweighed the
lack of property in the match: and he had never
detected anything amiss with Ned’s principles.
Chapter XXXI.
AT the time of his marriage to Susan
Angus Donald Urquhart removed
to the Riverina. His brother Tom
was tea-planting in India. George
and Janet held Birrabee. Ned and Della
were at Homehurst, where Danny’s garden flourished
free from weeds and pests. All were behaving in a
way becoming to an empty continent when man-
power was in demand.
Johanna was impatient for Robert’s son, and to
ensure his safe passage all the voluntary man-power
available, in addition to what the Delacys could afford,
worked in a bee cutting a gradient around the most
dizzying pinch so that Margaret could come out by
vehicle.
The first night Margaret rested at Birrabee, the
second and third at Keebah, the fourth at the home
of a settler, and thence to Bewuck, a good three
months ahead of her schedule. She was made to sit
down more than she enjoyed, with her feet on a
hassock, and the men modulated their voices senti-
mentally when they addressed her.
When the child came—two and a half years after
her marriage—it was nothing but a girl, a small object
with black fuzz on her top.
“All that time waiting and ye could have put it
in a milk-jug,” complained Johanna, disappointed.
Boys were the fashion. Margaret had missed her
chance of doing a spectacular thing for the family.
And there was that streel of a Bella Rafferty with four
strapping boys. They must have been showing the
breed of Bella’s unknown father, the men ribaldly
declared. This was discouraging to the strait-laced
women, as it seemed that virtue had little to do with
virtuosity in motherhood.
Bella offered to come to Homehurst to
officiate, and Margaret invited Della to Burra-
binga, but, in view of the fuss made of Mrs.
Robert, Mrs. Edward would not hide her epic
in her own backyard. She invited herself to
Norah’s, as a demonstration to her mother —
taking a woman not her own flesh and blood
to Bewuck and ignoring her own! And all
their grinning and criticism of an old maid
married to a boy! Della’s fighting spirit was
up to show what a plucky pioneer could do,
and all that swagger.
She took care of her home and husband
until within six weeks of her time. Then she
set out on a side-saddle, and her horse heaved
and struggled under her all day like a canoe in
rapids through snow which lay as deep as the
girths as far as Birrabee. She was bruised and
fatigued, but cheerful, as people are when making a
grand gesture. Her next stage was Keebah, where
her appearance in a habit so shocked gallant old
Urquhart that he drove her in his dogcart to meet
Stewart, who took her to New Glenties, where she
arrived in high spirits.
Eleven months from her marriage-day she was
delivered of a BOY!
SHE wrote to her mother—it was a command—to
come and see her grandson !
Danny insisted upon taking Johanna immedi-
ately. The carriage was beyond repair, the dogcart
was away at the blacksmith’s, so William went a
mucker and bought a double-seated buggy to take his
parents to see his nephew !
They brought him and his mother back to Bewuck
with them. No reference was made to the past, but
Johanna heaped gifts and indulgence upon Della and
her grandson—all that she would have liked to give
at the time of the wedding. She put a new sovereign
in each of the child’s fat paws, whereas Margaret’s
girl had received but one. Della knew that it was
a complete reconciliation and was happy.
In the confidence of her newly established state
she sent to Robert 'to bring his waggonette; and
Robert, without demur, came as far as the Plains.
This far Della was driven at her order by William,
with her father to hold the horses while William
opened slip rails or gates. Nothing could have been
too high for Della in her victory.
She called the son Daniel Cooley, which
delighted the grandparents. Ned simply laughed his
deep bass laugh in his deep brown beard without
advancing his own parents’ rights in the case. He was
the most agreeable man in the world.
There was rivalry for the next goal, and Margaret
again produced a daughter. This time she dispensed
with flourish and went to one of her sisters. Della
came only to Birrabee and, with Janet for nurse,
produced twins —a boy and a girl, each as big as
Margaret’s one.
“What about an old maid now?” she demanded,
a little delirious with success at the age of forty-two.


“Making the most of her chances before closing-
time,” chuckled Danny.
“The saints preserve us!” cried Johanna.
William laughed until the tears had to be wiped
from his eyes. The whole connection laughed, none
more generously than Margaret, whose sense of humor
carried her unrancorously through the comedy.
Danny and William rode up to see the children.
“What can you do about this eclipse?” Danny
asked Margaret, but with a twinkle.
Wong Foo’s celebration with crackers bemused
the kookaburras, and he and Danny waxed merry on
the christening grog. Robert drank with swagger, but
no one ever saw him the worse for liquor.
“He has such a head on him,” Danny would say,
“that he can carry enough to stiffen an Inniskilling
Dragoon; and enough head on him, by the pipers,
to put it down to father on the (nils, though if I
drank the half of it I’d be material for the grave-
digger.”
ALL Harry’s flames had been divinities to him, but
Josephine Battle, whom he had courted for years,
was a top-notcher in the goddess class, and the whole
connection was delighted when Harry went across the
watershed to bring his princess home. They were
surprised that the least of the Delacys had done so
well for himself, but princesses need courtiers, and
a disposition deficient in spiritual emotion found
stimulation in Harry’s poetic adoration.
A carpenter was engaged
upon a house across the river
from Robert. Danny was as
busy as a wombat, and as
much in the earth, making a
garden for Margaret on her
own side of the Burrabinga.
The other
had some-
times been
inaccessible.
A footbridge
attached to
the eurabbi-trees was to prevent loss of communica-
tion during floods. Wong paid rich tribute and grew
mellow and noisy. He saw that it was customary for
Europeans to imbibe much alcoliol at weddings,
births, funerals and miscellaneous celebrations, and
also without festival, obviously for practice. To
become drunk was productive of amusement and
admiration among men, though the women picked at
them like gnats and tried to spoil sport, even as the
women in his own country.
The Delacy bullocks had two trips on the bride’s
behalf, the second to her maiden home, and it had
involved the traversing of country where no vehicle
had previously gone. Every man was proud of the
chief article imported, Josephine Delacy’s piano,
because it established Burrabinga’s social standing.
Pianos were still rare. Norah Butler not long had one.
Even the bullocks had gained prestige through
hauling the piano. Station bullocks in any case were
the aristocrats of the trade and often reached great
size and an honored old age in flowery ways of peace
unacquainted with the hardships of the carriers, who
lived in perpetual hell: and on the day that Danny
arrived to pay his respects to his new daughter-in-
law the unsmashable dray was gathering rust under
the fairy shawl of a wattle while the bullocks luxuri-
ated in the cow-paddock, their intermittent trials
forgotten.
Margaret warned Josephine. “You’ll need to get
used to old Mr. Delacy. His wooden leg makes him
odd.”
The Burrabinga dogs hullaballooed the Bewuck
dogs all across the flats, and father was announced
at the stables. Josephine, Della and Ned, as
well as several remittance men as guests, were
seated at dinner when Danny could be heard
admonishing the dogs, and something else, as he
stumped along the verandah with Harry in attendance.
Josephine rose to meet a small figure in a soiled linen
duster. His weather-beaten cabbage-tree was buckled
about his formidable pipe. Under one arm he had a
peacock and under the other that gentleman’s wife.
“Take the faymale, I’ll be obleeged,” he said to
Margaret. He was then free to display the tail of the
cock to Josephine. “Sure, me dear,
I’m proud to welcome you as a
mimber of me family. Ive
brought this beast as a fitting
creature to celebrate such an evint.
Sure, I could lepp over your head
this moment with pride.”
“If you are not careful the
bird will fly over your own head,”
said Robert.
CONSTERNATION was on the
' features of his sister-in-law.
She was conventional, a twin soul
of Johanna’s in her desire for the
elegancies of life, and her starched
standards were more constricting
than standards can be in the
liberating Celtic temperament.
This the great man! That
horrible Irish brogue!
Josephine had taken from
the air the English notion that
the Irish accent was socially
beyond the pale, and came
from a home where the dis-
cipline of gentility and probity
were equal. She concluded
that Danny was intoxicated,
and awaited the righting of
what was to her a vulgar situation, but Harry’s face
was beaming. He had pictured peafowls as connected
with palaces and princesses, and here was father with
one under each arm for the bride!
While Harry hung on further pronouncements
Margaret retrieved an awkward moment:
“Josephine is so overcome that she does not know
what to say. The peacock makes me feel like a fairy-
tale.”
“He is magnificent, father. How did you carry
him over the mountain without a feather spoiled?”
Robert sent Fannie, now quite sizeable, to bring the
rouseabout.
Josephine was terrified that the old man would
kiss her, but he kissed no one but Johanna, and her
only when he was departing on a journey. The
Delacys were not a kissing family.
The rouseabout seized the cock and Harry went
with him to place the birds in safety in the salt-room.
Danny was free to make his speech. He removed his
hat and the leaves fluttered about his shoulders like
good wishes.
“The paycock, to my moind, is the most
imperial of birds. ’Tis not only his tail that
he spreads around him as the rainbow, but ’tis
the carriage of his head with the mantle and
crown upon it. And by that I consider him a
proper gift of welcome to make to wan whom
me and me family regards as a princess. Sure,
I’ve brought a few other things as well, but this
is the most advinturous. Me woife has sint
you some token of her welcome, and she hopes
ere another week has gone you will grace
Bewuck by your presence.”
Margaret had not been invited to Bewuck until
she was to have a child. Josephine’s evident distaste
and embarrassment registered against her with Robert.
There was resentment as well as jealousy and satire in
his aside to her:
“It must be an ordeal to have a morganatic bride-
groom.” (This had been Margaret’s private comment
earlier.) “Come, father, you need a wash,” he said
aloud. “Fannie, bring Mr. Delacy my coat.”
“Be the poipers, the birds has christened me!
I’ll disappear,” said Danny, ignominiously stopped in
mid-flight.
He reappeared with his mop of black silk —still
without silver threads —combed from his noble fore-
head in a pudding-basin crop. Robert’s coat made
his father a comical figure, but the torrent of welcome
continued until it tailed-off into political disquisition.
Later the whole family went to the new house.
Danny asked the owner of the piano if she could
sing “Those Evening Bells” and “I’m Sitting On the
Stile.” During the exhibition of her repertory he
said “Oh, moi! Be all the poipers, Johanna will be
pleased! ”
It was glorious to report to her “You never saw
a finer prospect than Margaret and Robert and Harry
and Josephine ; two men with two women as fine
as themselves.”
Chapter XXXII .
JOSEPHINE distinguished herself by
producing a son at the end of her first
year.
“A pity it’s only a morganatic
union,” Robert sarcastically observed, but
he had too much style to omit due respect to his
sister-in-law and journeyed with Danny and William
to the Battles’ station to see his nephew. Though
jealous of Josephine as likely to eclipse Margaret,
Robert prized any connection worthy of his family,
and such a judge of women made no mistake about
Harry’s wife.
William brought back glowing accounts of the
skill of the housekeeping, the refinement, the gentility
and probity he had found at what Robert derided as
“Battle Abbey.” Danny was eager that William, too,
should marry a daughter of this house. The same
idea invaded William. Here at last was perfection in
a nest of daughters who would never be guilty of
Janet Urquhart’s “looseness,” which made William
suspicious of her sisters as perhaps similarly vulner-
able.
Danny reported “The dayvil a finer child I never
did see —as good as wan of those first wans of yours,
Johanna ; and the white skin of him and big eyes.
A robe on him to the floor. He’s that extraordinarily
refined he ought to have been a female.”
“He ought not to be anny such thing! William
shall take the buggy and bring Josephine down to
show the district as soon as possible.”
“Sure, Mrs. Harry’s brother is carrying him home
on the pommel, and Elizabeth Battle” —Danny winked
behind William’s back —“is coming to aid Mrs. Harry
till she gets strong ... Moi! Oh, moi! Before long
the boy will be astride wan of the finest Nullah Mun-
doeys in the world. I must go pick a promising
foal.”
Johanna produced the rum-jar. She even took
a sip herself, and summoned Hannon.
Harry wished to name the child Daniel, but
Danny said that would result in Old Danny and
Young Danny. He suggested Brian, but a name so
vulgarly Irish was abhorrent to the Battle connection.
Harry then constructed Johan from Johanna.
“Sure, me brave Johanna, it is a fine romantic
thought, and you deserve it,” said Danny.
The boy’s second name was Darcy, which slept
until the old Delacys should have passed.
“I’ll call him Baby as long as I can,” thought
Josephine.
WHEN Josephine came to Bewuck it was Robert
who drove her.
“I cannot risk the heir-apparent’s neck,” he said.
His brothers
always deferred to
Robert in this, as in
business. Josephine
felt safe only when he
handled the reins. She
'admired his efficiency
and authority, though
she could never be sure whether he was humorous or
sarcastic about the “heir-apparent.” Elizabeth accom-
panied her.
Robert brought Margaret out also, and her maid.
He had an instinct for advertisement and would not
hide his wife in the valley while Josephine in her
glory, with her son and her sister, was being peddled
around Johanna’s radius.
Johanna had her arms open for both Margaret
and Josephine, but Robert said he had business in the
township and put up at Hennessy’s with enough dash
to fill the stable-yard, and Euphemia’s former suite,
and overflowed to enliven the main street. William’s
pair were outclassed by Robert’s four big greys and
the three unrivalled kangaroo-dogs privileged to
decorate his progress.
Johanna was shocked that Josephine had no maid
to wait upon her and set about training an unbroken
gurrl into a surrvant and nursemaid. One maid, aged
five, had been discarded by Josephine, as such an
infant only added to her duties.
Never had the little lady at Bewuck been so
proud, so near to happiness, as in the acquisition of
Josephine. She revelled in the young woman’s
beauty, her accomplishments, her family, her com-
petence. Many women were as resourceful as
Josephine, but the style of all her work set her apart
and earned her the resentment of those who had to
compete with her. It is difficult for superiority to
be forgiven by those cribbed with it in a small com-
munity. Josephine was never rough-and-ready. She
was always ladylike in deportment, even when build-
ing the hen-house, or making her own furniture,
which she could do with the skill of a carpenter, and
in a high collar and steel-slatted corsets, without dis-
arranging her long skirts. Her dresses inside and out
had the finish of a fashion-plate, which she could
reproduce without the aid of a model, no matter how
intricate and elaborate the design.
TOHANNA commanded a rally at New Glenties
kJ because of Norah’s piano. Neither Josephine nor
Elizabeth had any more music than a budgerigar, but
Johanna was not educated to discover this. They had
been stiffly governessed and executed their repertory
with precision, not a note missing in the “pieces,” not
more than two semi-tones flat in the ditties.
Johanna’s pride and joy were touching. Her eyes
sparkled as she dandled Johan Darcy while the young
ladies rendered “Fly Away, Pretty Moth,’ Jeanette
and Jeanot“What Are the Wild Waves Saying?”


In the Spring a young
man’s fancy lightly turns
to thoughts of love . . .
3°
A.LIAN
m I
m
m
■
' x
... And for brides-to-be the coming issue of
AU«I7RAL!A.IM
WOMANS MIRROR
is especially interesting. There are bridal fashions that will
compel admiration and prompt your friends to exclaim “Isn’t
she lovely! What a beautiful bride!”
Your Wedding Day should be the greatest day of your life,
and you will indeed be a charming bride if you choose your
trousseau from the “Woman’s Mirror” exclusive designs.
All the Usual Bright Features in the “best of all” Woman’s
Magazine.
68 Pages for 3d.—On Sale Friday.
(duet), “By the Sad Sea Waves” and “Annie
Laurie.”
Stewart shut his eyes and yammered “Her Bright
Smile Haunts Me Still” and “Juanita,” two songs with
which he had courted Norah, as well as "Silver
Threads Among the Gold,” with
which he still flattered her. Old
Butler with his lovely tenor sang
“The Harp That Once,” “Believe
Me If All,” “Oft in the Stilly
Night,” “The Minstrel Boy,”
“The Dear Little Shamrock” and,
in response to Danny's impor-
tunities, repeated “Those Even-
ing Bells” and “The Irish Immi-
grant” until he was hoarse.
Stewart was tactless in his
admiration of Josephine. “Harry
has found a real lady. It’s a
mystery to me how he collared
her.”
“Huh!” said Norah indig-
nantly. “She was never away to
be educated in Sydney like Della
and I.”
“Lot of good Della’s educa-
tion is, buried at Burrabinga.”
“Isn’t Josephine buried there
too, and glad to be married to
my brother! And didn’t Della
refuse yours?”
Stewart stupidly reiterated his admiration to
Robert, who was cynical. “You must remember to
walk backwards from her or the marriage may be
annulled.”
Stewart and Johanna were able to revel together
about the family connection.
“Sure, Stewart, do all ye can to push on a match
between William and the sister. Look at them now ;
does she look interested, do ye think?”
Elizabeth, a fragrant, flower-like presence, sat
on a couch with William, who was as stiff as a
sergeant in mufti at a court-martial.
Danny adjured Josephine. “Sure, where would
you find a finer man than me son for your sister?”
“I’m not a matchmaker.”
“But you can urge it on. Wan is often turned
by what the other says.”
|— J ARRY and his mother had the idea that both
*■ * families should go to Sydney on a sightseeing trip
to provide general entertainment and foster romance.
The discomforts of the expedition remained in
the memories of Mrs. Robert and Mrs. Harry for
over half a century, the one through the nausea she
suffered, the other because her infant would not stay
with a nurse and waked up and shrieked at every
entertainment into which she smuggled him.
Mrs. Robert envied Della, who had remained at
Burrabinga in charge of Margaret’s children as well
as her own. Della had retired on her laurels of two
sons and a daughter and would not risk their health
“to flash about the country in, fine clothes.” “It’s
a mere act of God to give birth to twins,” she pro-
claimed, “but it takes a good mother to rear them
both.” She was reacting noisily against earlier slights,
and levied upon her circle for admiration of her
capability and devotion.
What William and Elizabeth got out of the holi-
day has been forgotten. The supposition was that
William proposed and Elizabeth declined. Johanna
• and Danny were painfully disappointed that no
engagement resulted from the grand visit to Sydney.
They discussed it with Robert.
“William says it’s because he is not educated, but
surely, Robert, you are well educated.”
“Ah! But Elizabeth hasn’t the opportunity to
marry me or she would probably rush it.”
“Josephine married Harry, and he had no more
education than William,” persisted Danny.
“But Harry most likely deafened her by spout-
ing enough poetry and history for a professor.” Wil-
liam had always pooh-poohed that stuff.
“When it comes to family,” said Johanna
haughtily, “who anywhere can compete with me own?
The Cooleys came from kings and were beacons of
culture when the English were paddling about in the
woods, living on acorns with the wild boars. With
us, princesses and scholars were plentiful and equally
honored.”
“’Tis so, me brave
Johanna; and out here whin
we had a princess from a people
as old as the Irish —if we only
knew a black princess given
to us. What honor could have
been higher?
And didn’t we
follow the swell
proclivities of
all those in the
saddle by mak-
ing a servant of
her and letting her milk the cows and ”
William was in no humor for his father’s two-
edged philosophy. “Oh, that old talk!” he grumbled.
“It’s a drawback to be Irish.”
This was hard on Johanna’s pride, but she did
not give in. “Elizabeth will come round by and bye,”
she said.
William did not feel that way. The rebuff he
had received, though gentle, hurt him deeply and
hardened his bachelor shell.
'‘The day will come when she’ll regret she did not
marry William,” Johanna would repeat.
Maybe it did. Elizabeth shortly afterwards mar-
ried a man with slightly more syntax, but none of
William’s kindness, who neglected her. She died four
years later and her husband married
within the year.
TTHE Delacy pride had another jolt
1 at that time. Donald Urquhart,
who had married Susan Angus and had
gone to the Riverina, was drowned.
Sandy set out to aid Susan, but when
he arrived at the home, near Wagga
Wagga, found that she had gone to
the town in Gippsland whence the
Anguses had derived. Sandy followed
and called at the police station for
directions. The sergeant
knew of no one of the name
of Angus, but the recently arrived widow was with her
mother, a Mrs. Farmer. Sandy concluded that Mrs.
Farmer had remarried.
“Not that I know of,” said the sergeant. Asked
why her family should go by the name of Angus,
the police officer supposed that they had dropped
their own when they went across the border while
the old man was doing his term for robbery under
arms.
Investigation proved the truth of this. His eldest
son! His first grandson of the name! And Janet,
too, the wife of George Angus. He came near to
violence upon his wife when she said placidly “The
thing can’t be undone. The less noise about it the
better. They are better than those with model
Barents.”
“By God, woman, it’s the breed!"
“Good men have bad sons. This is the other
way about.”
Sandy was impelled to share the grief with his
old mate Delacy, and set out with Janet, also Jean,
still unwed. Bounding across the plains in a light
buggy in which the passengers sat back-to-back, Jean
was thrown out, had her arm broken, and arrived at
Bewuck in pain.
At daylight next day Johanna and Janet took
her to the doctor in the township. William drove
them in his own vehicle. Janet and Johanna had an
enjoyable reunion and Maeve and Mrs. Hannon were
left in charge of Danny and Sandy. The women
remained overnight in the township, and during the
evening of their absence Sandy divulged the scandal.
“By damn! Be the poipers!” The loosing of
these oaths at intervals indicated Danny’s emotion.
“We, who set such store on principle, to be married
in with a robber who was doing time! Isn’t that
life all over for, you!”
“I don’t know what steps to take,” said Sandy.
“You can’t take anny steps but to keep it from
the women —your Janet and my Della, and above
all Johanna, me wife. I’m disturbed to think how she
would take it. I kept the secret tight about Janet,
and it was blown out when she married. If you hold
your whist this may never get to Della.”
AS the two old mates gathered comfort and whisky
Danny was ready to consider a son-in-law whose
father was in gaol an acquisition.
“Why,” demanded he, “should I expect the son
of a bad man to stay clear of marrying into my family
more than another? Put it to logic, Sandy. And,
sure, too often I’ve been made -into a fool by me
bull’s nest exploding on me with Robert, to worry
about this wan.”
Sandy craved to kill somebody—anybody would
do —to relieve his angry humiliation. Janet foolishly
had left her holiday ration of good Scotch, and Jane
Hannon and Maeve had no control over the old
gentlemen. Danny feloniously ordered Doogoolook
to track Johanna’s cache, and with wide voiceless
grins he soon produced the demijohn.
(To be continued next week.)


FOR SHORT STORIES
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - * SECOND PRIZE
£5 - * - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition:
January 31, 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
EASE....HAPPINESS.
thrift rewarded.
Vt
Insurance
makes many
things pos-
sible—things which count in life
. . . education for your children
. . . protection of their future . . .
your wife’s financial security . . .
contentment , for the family.
This Company issues all forms of
Assurance Policies : Life, Endow-
ment, Children’s, Family Monthly
Income, Personal Accident, Fire
and Motor Car.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? LT D
Head Office —371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
E. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post"
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
A Delightful Absurdity:-
BY
LES ROBINSON
NEVER live in a house built as an
experiment by a pig-headed amateur
who, probably because he was a
“know-all,” scorned professional advice.
If you do you are almost sure to find that
everything all the time is wrong with it,
and not just some things sometimes.
It is my incurable belief that the hap-
hazardist and sufferer from bent eye’sight,
warped insight and chronic inexactitude
who erected the weatherboard, weather-
worn, -riven and -stained, wretched and
deplorable-looking shanty occupied by
me had somewhere else to live if the
experiment proved a failure. His un-
justifiable experiment is fast disintegrat-
ing before its unfortunate present occu-
pant’s eyes, and beneath that scared in-
dividual’s feet too, “unfortunate present
occupant” and “scared individual” being
appropriate synonyms for myself.
The windows fall out of their frames
when artillery practice is being carried
out among the surrounding hills ; door-
handles come off when you are turning
them ; locks jamb, leaving you to spend
the night cursing in the rain (it is invari-
ably raining, bitterly cold and too late
when they have this little joke at your
expense for you to borrow hammers and
chisels, crowbars, gelignite or anything
else likely to assist you to reach your
nice warm bed). Or, just for variation, the
locks jamb while you are inside, and you
are then faced with the task of breaking
out. The floor, walls, rafters and roof
creak, crack, squack and utter other
ominous and staccato sounds. The whole
place trembles as though in an earth-
quake, terror-stricken or afflicted with
ague when lorries or steam-rollers rumble
past and when high winds or cloudbursts
assail it.
THE other night, too, at the instant
when I stepped out the front door,
the whole flight of stone steps leading to
it, without the slightest warning, col-
lapsed. Not, by good fortune, instan-
taneously, or bones would indubitably
have been broken, but in a slow and
ponderous manner, almost indeed with
an appearance of reluctance as though
desirous of tumbling to rack and ruin
without, if possible, injuring me more
than could be helped.
There was, indeed, an absence of
collapsual co-ordination among them that
undoubtedly to some, though not very
noticeable, extent was my salvation. I
came a nasty and abrasive cropper. My
watch and fountain-pen were smashed,
my throat partially cut by the celluloid
collar I was wearing, and the chair-filling
end of me was stabbed so deeply by a
six-inch nail in the hip-pocket of my
trousers that, no matter how tired I be-
com e, I am
doomed, until the
wound heals, to
d o everything
standing.
This has proved
an inconvenience
in unexpected as
well as predict-
able ways. If I
desire to go to a
concert or
theatre, for in-
stance, I have to
wait until the
“House Full” notice makes its appear-
ance in the foyer and “Standing Room
Only” is announced. In trams I am sus-
pected of lunacy for strap-hanging when
plenty of seating accommodation is
available. At football matches I am
obliged to put up with countless objec-
tionable remarks, am pelted continuously
with orange-peel and banana-skins, apple-
cores, the fag-ends of sandwiches and
pies, and I am belabored with walking-
sticks and umbrellas from time to time
as well.
Out of my head, when it bounced off
the falling masonry and struck the
rugged, boulder-strewn path, went some-
thing very important for me to remember
that I have been unable to ever since.
Out of my top waistcoat pocket flew the
key of the front door straight to where
it knew it was unlikely to be found again
—by me, at all events. The fall dis-
lodged as well, I might add, my firm,
though not very much so, for, truth to
tell, it was becoming a bit wobbly, belief
that everything occurs for the best in this
best of all possible worlds.
NOW there is no
mention in my
book on household
management of what
to do when the front
steps give way. They
are not, 1 must
hasten to mention,
the ordinary steps of
a convenient size,
shape and weight.
If they were they
wouldn’t match any-
thing else belonging
or attached to the
singular residence in
which (being Hob-
son’s choice at
present and perhaps
indefinitely) it is my
misfortune to reside.
The theorist respon-
sible for the building
not only differed
from everybody else
in the home-con-
struction line, appa-
rently, but had, I
have very good
reason for assuming,
gigantic ideas as
well. Those steps, in
consequence, more
resemble the blocks
of stone used by the
ancient Egyptians for
building pyramids than the usual subur-
ban kind.
I am not an ancient Egyptian, nor am
I a Samson or a Hercules. I have never
worked in a quarry. 1 am not a monu-
mental mason. There is indeed nothing
even remotely monumental about me. I
exist, in fact, as far as I, and perhaps
more competent observers, can make out,
to an infinitesimal extent only. Though
feats of strength, weight-lifting in par-
ticular, have always seemed to me worthy
of unstinted admiration in others, I was
never, even after taking tonics, over-
whelmed by the desire to emulate them,
though, according to the tinted adver-
tising matter in which the bottles were
Wrapped, such was by no means unlikely.
But perhaps you think I delude myself
that Such a confession is less indicative
of a sparrowish physique than syrnto-
matic of an inferiority complex.
In case you do I must here and now
inform you, whether it damages me irre-
trievably in your estimation or not, that
one of the first things I did when I recov-
ered sufficiently from the steptuai col-
lapse was to wonder what measures,
theoretic only for the sake of subsequent
argument though they might be, it was
possible for me to adopt in order to cope
with the disaster.
| HAD my bumps read and my hand-
* writing examined with a view to find-
ing out whether I had any latent talent
for manual labor, and my horoscope cast
as well for the purpose of ascertaining
whether stellar conjunctivity favored
herculean effort.
Members of the local black-magic
circle advised me to summon super-
natural forces to my aid, which, accord-
ing to them, was how the Pharaohs got
the pyramids built. As they declined to
guarantee that I would be able to get
rid of the invisible giants when the job
had been completed and I was by no
means certain that I would not be con-
travening some municipal regulation by
getting the work done in that way, I
decided, however, the bump of caution
almost resembling an alp in me, to
avoid irritating the Trades Hall and
being ostracised by resident excavators,
quarrymen and other professional weight-
lifters. To incur enmity is easy; to
allay it painlessly is often fraught with
difficulty.
1 also sought the advice of the neigh-
bors. More of it was pseudo-scientific,
incomprehensible, and, by means of ex-
planatory diagrams, exasperating than
adapted to the limitations of a project or
theorem depending for accomplishment
upon one-man-power. The rest was
equally confusing, conflicting and likely
to be a hindrance rather than helpful to
executants or artisans. A great deal of
it involved the use of bulky apparatus
and paraphernalia, bulky and skilled
assistance, too, likely in the aggregate
and long run to cost a small fortune.
It made me wonder whether attempts
to educate the masses aren’t a woeful
waste of time, and, furthermore, would
have meant for me, if I had taken much
of it, but not the donors, an immense,
incessant, entirely superfluous and totally
unrewarded, since likely to get me no-
where, amount of probably incurable
fatigue.
J F you look over my fence you will see
' the results of some of that advice —a
large crane, a huge crowbar, tombstone-
straighteners’ and basement-raisers’ imple-
ments. They are all very rusty, and
creepers are growing over them. They
have nothing whatever to do with steptuai
reconstruction; not as far as I’m con-
cerned they haven’t, at all events.
And you will see the steps as well.
Except that ferns and long grass are
growing up nicely among them their state
of collapsual chaos is unchanged.
Of course, if I’d known they were
collapsible I’d have insured them, and
myself at the same time ; then, I suppose,
they’d have remained, as hoped when
built, doubtless, one on top of another
for ever. As it is I am out of pocket so
far, without mitigation of inconvenience
or benefiting from the expenditure in the
least, by that jumble of jagged and mas-
sive boulders I have to climb over in
order to reach my front door, to the
following irreducible, irrecoverable and
forlorn extent:
s. d.
Horoscope cast 3 6
Handwriting examined 6
Bumps read by phrenologist .. .. 10 0
Bumps read medically (those caused
by crash) 10 0
Watch repaired 7 6
Afternoon vainly spent at quarry in
. hope of finding out how to
grapple with enormous stone
problem. Theoretic value .. 7 6
Afternoon spent leaning over Pyr-
mont Bridge watching steve-
dores at work. Theoretic
value 7 6
Cure of cold caught while doing so
(various medicaments) .. .. 4 9
Wasted visit to cinema to see picture
called the “Thirty-nine Steps” 1 6
Pocket picked during performance
(penknife, lighter, week’s supply
of tobacco and residue of
wages) 9 3
Purchase of small volume entitled
“Stepping Stones” at second-
hand bookshop. Turned out to
be self-improvement guide issued
by missionary society .... 3
Particulars from old sailor re rigging
of “breeches buoy” (one end of
tackle to be attached to near-by
tree) as a means of conveyance
(high above fallen masonry) to
and from front door—lour
shillings’ worth of rum .. .. 4 0
£3 6 3


Stuart drtjstal
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold.
Sole representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. WAHLERS & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street, Sydney.
igns Dy
HHhHH
■
M
Mi
■
mm ■
m
: a
M
MBwi
Mass
uqvl ca/n. VmsC
Specify Lysaght's Tank-
making sheets to secure
the benefits of the guaran-
tee and also obviate the
troubles occasioned by
the use of the wrong
grade of galvanized iron.
Write for a copy of "The
Construction of Galvan-
ized Iron Tanks."
A good reliable tank that won’t spring
sudden ieaks, corrode, or need fre-
quent attention is a most valuable
asset to any home dependent on
stored water.
Lysaght’s special tank-making sheets,
manufactured at their Newcastle
works, are of super coated galvanized
iron and fully guaranteed. This is the
brand you can trust.
LYSAGHT’S
SPECIAL TANK-MAKING SHEETS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LTD.
Sydney - Brisbane Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
UNION
LINE
1 -=
em
a) U*
n nit
OUILQ
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney _ 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas,
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
(Subject to sufficient inducement.)
R.M.S. “MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ...
Saturday, January 2nd, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from £5.
Full
particulars
from
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island of New Zealand
(Subject to sufficient inducement.)
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. 1.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney, Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
Early
bookings
recommended
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Agent
The Great Outback:-
WWERE MEN ARE MEN
BY LEON TRAVERS
4(T TERBERT!”
H “What?”
Mrs. Herbert Smith, five feet
eight, with plenty of shoulder, stamped
into the living-room.
“Just slip into the kitchen and wash
up the dinner dishes.”
Mr. Herbert Smith, five feet with
plenty of neck and a versatile Adam’s
apple, slowly filled his pipe, blinked his
watery eyes, turned over the page of
newspaper and began to read.
“Herbert! ”
“What?”
“Did you hear what I said?”
Herbert made no answer.
“1 said slip into the kitchen and wash
up the dinner dishes.”
Herbert stirred.
“Yes, 1 know. I heard you.”
“Well, go and do it.”
“I won’t!”
“You —won’t! ”
“No, I won’t.”
“What do you mean —you won’t?”
“Aw, I mean what I say. I won’t.”
“You won’t wash them dishes?”
“No! ”
Mr. Herbert Smith laid his pipe down
on the edge of the table.
“I’m going out,” he said.
“You’re what?” said Mrs. Smith.
“Going out.”
“Going out?”
“Yes, I am!”
“Where to?”
“Don’t know. Haven’t made up my
mind.”
“When’ll you get back?”
“Aw, I won’t get back at all.”
“What!”
M rs. Herbert Smith folded her arms
across her ample chest and strode for-
ward two paces. Suspiciously she began
to sniff.
“Herbert,” she snapped, “you’ve been
drinking.”
“Yes, I know I have,” said Herbert.
“I’m as blind soaked as I know how to
be. What you got to say about that?”
“Look here,” said Mrs. Herbert men-
acingly. “I’ll give you two minutes to
get into the kitchen and start to wash up
them dinner dishes. Two minutes. You
hear what I say?”
“To-day,” sneered Herbert behind a
hiccup, “I bought a revolver. I’m
washin’ no more dishes. I’m going out.
And I’m staying out. And to hell with
you. And to hell with your mother.
And to hell with rotten Wooloowin. You
hear what I say?”
“Herbert Smith!”
He kicked the door open.
“Finish!” he snarled. “See? Abso-
lute finish! I've stuck it for twenty-five
years, and I don’t stick it another minute.
I’m off —off to all them places I always
wanted to go to before you put an apron
round me and trapped me into this
measly rotten little hole of a Wooloo-
win. I had to get tight to-night in order
to tell you, but I have got tight, and I
am telling you.”
“Herbert Smith!” repeated Mrs. Her-
bert gloweringly.
“Made a perfect mess o’ me!” he
shouted, clinging to the waving door for
support. “Absolute mollycoddle mess!
I've run your rotten little errands, and
Cleaned up, after the rotten hens, and
caught the 8.15 every morning and held
down a rotten little job for twenty-five
years. I’ve stuck all your snarling little
insults, and all the things your mother
said about me, and I never kicked. But
I’m kicking now. Get a load of that!”
He waved his hand vaguely.
“I’m forty-eight. If 1 don’t go now,
I’ll never go. All my life I’ve wanted to
see all them places—Darwin and the
Territory and Coolgardie and West Aus-
tralia. All my life I've wanted to rough
it. 7 never wanted to catch the rotten
little 8.15. I never will catch it any
more. I’m off to places where men
don’t wear collars and clean up after
poultry and polish shoes! Places where
men swear and drink and drink and
drink! Do you hear? Off! JVIe!”
He lurched swaggeringly into the
diminutive hall.
“An’ you try stoppin’ me,” he shouted
back. “I bought a gun. And bullets.”
HEAD swimming, Herbert stamped to
his room, leaving Mrs. Herbert to
think it out. She was amazed. She was
at that moment the most bewildered
woman in Wooloowin. When her mother
came round they re-
tired into the living-
room and closed the
door to talk it over.
They could hear
Herbert st a m ping
about in his room.
Presently he stamped
out and downstairs
to the foolshed, and
when they peeped
through the door
they saw him stamping back again with
a chopper in his hand.
“God bless my soul!” said Mrs. Her-
bert's mother.
Sounds of terrible blows reached
them, to bewilder them more and more.
Mrs. Herbert’s mother turned pale.
“Chopping up the happy home,” she
said, “that you’ve had for twenty-five
years.”
“He wouldn’t dare do that! ” said Mrs.
Herbert.
“He’s doing it,” said her mother.
But he wasn’t. He was chopping up
a trouser-press that seemed suddenly to
symbolise those twenty-five wasted years.
When it was done he tossed the chopper
into the wardrobe, packed a little bag,
misjudged his distance and tripped over
the rug.
“I’ve left you all my money!” he
shouted through the living-room door.
“The house is paid for, and you can have
it. I never want to see it again. You
can have the fowls. You can clean after
’em yourself in future. If that’s your
mother in there with you, you can tell
her what I think of her!”
He went to the door and dragged it
open. The sight of the dull and re-
spectable street seemed to goad him.
“Cripes!” he cried. “Twenty-five
years of this! Twenty-five years of
rotten Wooloowin! Every day for
twenty-five years goin’ down this same
street with my shoes cleaned —and an
umbrella —catching the rotten little 8.15.
Never again! Finish! Absolute finish!”
He wiped his strawy moustache and
blinked.
“West Australia—Darwin —good ol’
Darwin!” he muttered thickly. “On the
road to Alice Springs” . . .
He set his hat and looked back over
his shoulder.
“Good-bye!” he called.
There was no answer. He staggered
back up the hall and kicked open the
living-room door.
“I said good-bye,” he shouted. “You
answer me when I speak to you or I’ll
be pumping lead into you! Good-bye! ”
“Good-bye!” said Mrs. Herbert.
“Good-bye!” said Mrs. Herbert’s
mother.
FIFTY miles from the hot little town
of Alice Springs was the station the
boys ran. No 8.15 ran from where the
boys were. No train at all. You went
out on horseback if you wanted to see
the boys.
Bluey Jones was one of the boys.
Bluey was going home. He’d had a bad
deal with the cards, and was absolutely
cleaned out. He was six feet two and
had shoulders like a bull.
Smithy was on the verandah. Bluey
Jones pulled up and stared at him.
“Smithy!” said Bluey.
“What?” said Herbert.
“Just you slip into the shed there and
wash up them breakfast dishes,” said
Bluey.
Mr. Herbert Smith laid down his pipe
and tossed his newspaper into a corner.
“Aw, righto,” he said.
Across the Years .
/ hear your laughter, elusive and elfin-
faint,
Your voice in the fairy-blue of the
distance calling,
Spanning the years,
Fragile as shaken blossoms windward
falling.
Rooms long empty of you still drive me
forth,
But down the vista of trees through
the wide-flung door
I know, by a fragrance sweeter than l
can bear,
Someone lias walked the garden just
before.
Yours is that Presence always just ahead,
The lost sweet steps 1 follow across
the grass,
The whispers slipping at all times down
the wind
And sighing to airy nothings as they
pass.
I hear your laughter, elusive and elfin-
faint
As the sound of shaken blossoms
windward falling,
Spanning the years . . .
But, ah! the aching sense of yo::
over the distance . . . calling.
Tasmania.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd-
-2 O’CONNELL STRILET - SYDAEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Adninistrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived; —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon Sir Henry Braddon, KBE., M.L.C (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G H Shipway
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANAIOR Y BOOKLET.)
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA« « hnd of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday iti South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
„ Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agent* any capital city.
Isil (Hill 11 "
»r e
i
w.
■ .
r/ f 111
r/ ( /r
in
ma
\
MivrTm itiit
True-to-life Sketch by the Author
of “Girl”:-
PARTY
BY
RENCE FEATHERSTONE
MRS. LARRABEE stood stiffly at
the door, and said wearily: “Will
ybu say a few words into the
microphone—just a few?”
The amplifier was in the larger of the
two rooms —rooms destitute of furniture
save for a few forms and chairs, the
boards coated with a mantle of finely-
scraped candle and boracic powder for
dancing.
The amplifier gurgled thickly:
“Cheerio, pals—the best of luck, Alec.”
There were two men in the larger
room. One laughed and nodded at the
amplifier, high up above the door.
“Your idea, Pop?”
The other nodded carefully. He
looked like an undertaker in his tall,
black party-hat.
“It was Alec’s idea,” he said. “He
said it was all the go at parties—but I
don’t know.” He waved his hand a
little helplessly. “He’s the last, you
know —Mum calls him the baby—and
we thought”
His wife at the door said wearily:
“Will you say a few words into the
microphone—just a few.” She was
thinking: “We didn’t have beer at Bert’s
twenty-first; but Alec wanted it.” . . .
AT the gate the pretty little blonde
said entreatingly: “Billie—-won’t you
come in ; come on.”
Billie yanked the peak of his cap
down savagely.
“Listen, Blondie, it’s time we had a
break. I’m goin’ to Ryan’s snooker
joint, see?” 1
“Don’t you love me any more, Billie?”
He said contemptuously: “Gam —
what’s wrong with you—think 1 want to
be tied down to any sheilah?”
“But you’ll come back and* take me
home, won’t you, Billie?”
“Aw —I might.” He said it without
conviction.
MRS. LARRABEE said
mechanically: “Will
you say a.few words into
the microphone just a
few?” She was thinking:
“She’s pretty, but her head’s
empty.”
The blonde girl knew all
about microphones, she’d
seen them in the movies.
“Hullo, folks,” she yelled
gaily. “Whoopee! ”
The amplifier screamed
“Whoopee-e-e” at Pop Lar-
rabee. He nodded his head
slowly and carefully,
mustn’t drop his party-hat. His friend
had left in search of a drink. Pop Larra-
bee felt as if he'd like a drink, too, but
Mum wouldn’t like it —him going for a
drink. He gazed a little vacantly round
the room, at the obese dangling bal-
loons ; the streamers criss-crossed. He
sat in the long room, the floor dimly
white with scraped candle and boracic
powder. “Like dirty snow,” he thought.
OUT on the back porch Alec presided
over the nine-gallon cask of beer.
The guests appreciated it; they thumped
him on the back and congratulated him,
and he grinned foolishly.
“Cheerio,” they said heartily, and Alec
said “Thanks, pals.”
Someone said: “Here comes Blondie,
boys; make way for Mae West.”
There was a lot of giggling and shov-
ing before the blonde girl made a mock
bow to Alec, and said “Hail, Silassie!”
Alec’s party-hat was a crown, painted
and slashed with gold stars.
“Blondie,” he said grandly. “Give us
a kiss!”
The girl giggled and clung to him,
wishing it was Billie.
Alec kissed the girl for all he was
worth while the crowd cheered. “Twenty-
seven seconds!” announced someone,
glancing at his watch. “Oh, boy!”
Alec was reluctant to abandon the
kiss, but the blonde girl pushed him
away. “Coo!” she said. “You’ve licked
off my lipstick!”
MRS. LARRABEE started to say:
“Will you say a few words”
and checked. “Oh, it’s you, Bert. How
are you?”
“Fine?” said Bert. He had to stoop
a long way to kiss his mother. “And
how’s the party going?”
“They’re mostly on the back porch,”
she said doubtfully. “I’ve been waiting
for you ; I want you to M.C. Is Kitty
there? Will you go on the piano,
Kitty?”
Kitty nodded without enthusiasm.
Bert’s people always took it for'granted
that his wife should play the piano. It
was so much better than the wireless,
they said.
Mrs. Larrabee was thinking: “Bert’s
my eldest. It’s nineteen years since he
turned twenty-one —and now, Alec."
ALEC drank his beer like a man. He
wasn’t a baby—he’d tell the world
he wasn’t. He placed his arm round
the blonde girl and held his glass to
her lips. She drank willingly: it was
better than thinking about Billie.
Bert poked his head out of the back
door and said: “We’re putting a dance
on, folks —step inside!” He shook Alec
by the hand and said: “All the best, old
man.”
“Thanks, pal,” said Alec. “Have a
drink?”
Bert didn’t drink as a rule. Still, on
his brother’s twenty-first birthday . . .
He finished the drink and began to
shepherd the crowd inside.
“Now, folks,” he announced, “we're
going to start with a Jolly Miller” . . .
He glanced at his wife seated at the
piano. “Right?”
“No,” she said.
Alf had his saxophone in his mouth
waiting for the word go. Little bald-
headed Peter was the hold up: the E
string on his fiddle was slipping.
Bert made a gesture towards his wife.
“Get a move on,” he said.
“It’s started,” she thought.
all be ordering me round soon."
They were a man short, so Bert joined
in the dance. There was a lot of noise
and shoving and changing of partners.
The blonde girl was popular. Bert
danced with her twice.
“You’re nice,” he said earnestly.
“Nicer than any girl here.”
“Coo!” she said. “And you a mar-
ried man!”
“That hat suits you fine,” he said.
“You look like a Dolly Varden” ... he
bent down and kissed her. The crowd
laughed: It was easy to kiss Blondie.
Blondie was thinking miserably that
it was a long time since Billie had kissed
her and told her she was nice.
POP LARRABEE snuffed in the dust
and gazed dimly at the whirling
dancers. He was thirsty. Three years
was a long time to go without a drink
even for mum’s sake . . .
The guests had little discs with their
names engraved upon them; they got a
lot of fun out of that, saying: “Howzit,
Bob!” and “What-oh, Gladys!” The
kalsomine from the walls got on their
clothes, and there was a lot of energetic
patting and smacking.
Bert said: “Ladies and gents.,” at the
top of his voice. He repeated it several
times and then said: “We’re going to
play musical arms —I want all the gents,
in a line.”
The men lined up with difficulty;
they all wanted to be the head man, be-
cause the tail-enders had to drop off as
the game proceeded. Alec should have
been head man, but Alec was missing.
Bert said to his wife at the piano.
“Ready?” and she said “Yes.” She
thought; “I’d like to play musical arms,
but I never get a chance” . . .
Bert said: “Let her go!”
It was great fun ; he pushed the blonde
playfully in the back, and when she
giggled up at him he laughed compla-
cently. Kitty played listlessly.
POP LARRABEE furtively knocked
the cap off a bottle of beer against
the cleat of a drain-pipe. And in the
supper-room Mrs. Larrabee counted the
candles on the birthday cake, making
sure there were twenty-one.
There were only two left in the musi-
cal arms game —the blonde girl and a
brunette. They placed a chair on either
side of the baldheaded violinist, and the
girls galloped until they reached his
crooked arm, then they lagged brazenly.
Bert winked suddenly at his wife and
she stopped playing. The blonde girl
clutched the violinist’s arm in triumph.
They raised her shoulder-high and
cried: “Good on you, Blondie! She
thought: “I can have my pick of any
man here, but Billie doesn’t want me.’
A tall, thin girl in a red dress sidled
up to Bert. “What about my solo? She
had her music in her arms.
Bert said: “All right,” and went to
the piano. He said to his wife: “ That
tart in the red dress wants to sing, here’s
her music.”
Kitty took the music reluctantly:
she’d brought a couple of songs herself,
but Bert must have forgotten.
Somebody laughed when Bert an-
nounced that Mrs. Taylor would favor
them with a song. She sang “Home.
Sweet Home” and Mrs; Larrabee, out in
the kitchen, sighed and thought:
“There’s only me and dad, now” . . .
Kitty took off her red party-hat and
placed it on the piano: she had a head-
ache. A bleary-eyed youth leaned over
her shoulder and replaced the hat on
her head.
He said thickly: “That hat suits you
fine, kid ; you look like one of them
beautiful Spanish tarts.” And she
thought miserably: “If only Bert would
say things like that, but he doesn’t."
POP LARRABEE sat in the long grass
with the bottle of beer clutched
tightly in his hand and thought: “It’s
three years since l signed the pledge,
but .rmim won’t mind —not on Alec’s
twenty-first” . . .
They were having the “sets” now and
Kitty was pounding the keys for all she
was worth. Sweat rolled down the face
of the violinist. Alf stared gloomily at
his saxophone—he couldn’t play “old-
time.”
The blonde girl was in the thick of it,
“Coo!” she said. “You are strong.”
And the youth who was her partner
whirled her round madly, until the
shoulder strap of her frock parted and
revealed her brassiere. The crowd roared
its approval.
“Waltz,” ordered Bert, but Kitty ham-
mered away in a frenzy. “Waltz!” he
shouted and walked to the piano. “Why
the blazes don’t you play a waltz?"
She said timidly: “I didn’t' hear" . . .
The bleary-eyed youth leaned over
her shoulder and said: “You don’t have
to play all the time, kid—let ’em switch
on the wireless.” She wasn’t interested
he breathed heavily and he was fat.
T lEY switched the wireless on for
the supper dance. Bert danced with
Kitty. He said peevishly: “Don’t shove
—you don’t have to shove.”
Pop Larrabee threw the empty beer-
bottle away and went inside. He
thought: “We must have more parties—
it keeps us young.”
Mrs. Larrabee said: “You and Kitty
sit at the top table, Bert —up near Alec’s
place.” She thought: “This is the last
party —now Alec’s twenty-one” . . .
Alf the saxophonist and Peter the
fiddler held Alec’s head under the tap
and said: “Snap out of it, Alec. They’re
waiting for you” . . . They combed his
hair for him and dusted his clothes.
He sagged a little helplessly when they
put him in his place at the head of the
table, but the blonde girl hung bunches
of cocktail sausages over his ears and
said: “Look! Look at Old King Cole."
Everybody laughed boisterously.
There was a lot of noise and blowing
of tin trumpets. Mrs. Larrabee should
have been seated at Alec’s table, but
there was no room, and besides there
was the coffee to be ladled out. She
stayed in the kitchen, while Pop Larra-
bee walked up and down the passage,
munching a sandwich, rehearsing his
speech.
Presently Bert got up and said:
“Ladies and gentlemen,” but no one took
any notice. He rattled a spoon in a
cup and shouted: “Ladies and gentle-
men” ... There were cries of “Silence! ”
and “S-s-s-sh!”
“Ladies and gentlemen,” said Bert,
“we are here to do honor to my brother
and your friend, Alec. I will call upon
Mr. Jenkins to say a few words”....
Mr. Jenkins got very red in the face
and then very pale. He said a few jerky
words and then settled down and said a
lot. He mentioned the restraint that
every young man should embody within
his life ; he spoke of the perils that beset
a young man. He gave his advjce
freely and without stint.
The wags in the crowd said: “Amen
and “Now we’ll sing hymn ninety-nine."
Then they sang “For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow,” and called out “Speech!
Speech!”
Alec said: “Pals—thanks!” And
dipped his cocktail sausages into his
coffee. The crowd laughed and said that
he was a trimmer.
Bert got up again and said: "And
now, ladies and gentlemen, I’ll call on
Mr. Kelly to propose Mr. and Mrs.
Larrabee.”
Mr. Kelly said that he didn’t know
Mr. and Mrs. Larrabee very well, but he
thought that*such a fine upstanding boy
as Alec reflected nothing but credit to
his parents. He mentioned that he
Kelly—was the father of ten children,


wmz :?
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run.
“.LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7 h hours.
London & North Eastern railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
The NEW
AIRFLOW flask
makes POWDER
so easy to use
BRANDAUERrS
m
nt
te
gu
ra
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRANDAUEK, * CO, Ltd- BIRMINGHAM. ENG
PENS
asn ox
(ALV RTS
All dentifrices contain some
powder, that’s what does the
cleaning. But Calvert’s is ALL
powder, that’s why it makes
teeth whiter. Now Calvert’s
Airflow Flask makes powder
even easier to use than paste
from an old-fashioned tube.
DOWN OY
cAh
C kO° l ' C
oto<
and that his eldest son had a good posi-
tion, and that certain of his other sons
had bright prospects. He reminded them
that the depression had hit his family
rather badly, but now things looked like
taking a turn for the better. He then
requested the guests to charge their
glasses and honor Mr. and Mrs. Larra-
bee in the good old fashioned way.
They sang “For They Are Jolly Good
Fellows” and thumped their glasses upon
the table.
Mrs. Larrabee was thinking: “I’m
getting old—Pop and I are getting old.”
Pop Larrabee pushed his tall, black
party-hat rakishly over one eye and
thought: “I bet I look a character” . . .
He said: “Friends—l thank you for
coming here to-night; I hope you’re
having a good time” ... He wanted to
tell them how well Bert had got on, and
that his daughters had married “well in,”
but he only said foolishly: “We —you
know Alec was our youngest, but you
never can tell; we might have another
twenty-first birthday, some day” . . .
They laughed uproariously and twitted
him, telling him he must be at least
seventy if he was a day. Then after
they had eaten some more and were
getting restless, Bert got up again and
said: “On with the dance, folks” . . .
THE blonde girl danced for all she
was worth, and thought: “Billie can
go to hell —I can get any man here I
like.” Kitty played mechanically. “That
fair girl is happy,” she thought. “Hear
her laughing.”
Mrs. Larrabee sat in the kitchen sipping
a cup of coffee and thinking of the
washing-up. There was always the
washing-up after a party.
Pop Larrabee surreptitiously knocked
the cap off a beer bottle against the cleat
of a drain-pipe.
It was one o’clock before Mrs. Larra-
bee stood at the door and said wearily:
“Will you say good-night into the micro-
phone—just a few words?”
The guests went home one by one till
only the blonde girl was left. The ampli-
fier screamed her words to the empty
room: “ ’Bye-e-e-e, ’bye-e-e-e-e. Thanks
for a lovely time” . . . But she was
thinking: “They all asked me could they
take me home —but I turned them down.
Oh, Billie! why didn’t you come?”
Mr. Larrabee patted his wife on the
shoulder when she said: “Oh, Pop! they
forgot to cut the cake!” and burst into
tears. “Never mind, mum,” he said,
“lotsh more parties—lotsh more.”
"Fine Feathers Make Fine Birds":-
CLOTHES
BY
HAROLD MERCER.
SCRUTHEM deserved to be taken
down. Still the law is inexorable ;
it alarmed me to hear that Joe
Cochran had done the “taking down.”
There seemed no possible escape for
him; he did not even seem to wish for it.
Cochran was one of Scruthem’s
clerks. In the long ago I, too, labored
with the firm, but when I discovered
that Cochran had been there for five
years and was drawing the princely
salary of £2 10s. per week I got out.
It was not for lack of trying that
Cochran did not get out also ; but the
idea that the rent in his tie or the hole
in his boot was going to lose him each
new job he applied for probably helped.
Cochran reckoned that if he could
only secure a complete rigout of clothes
he would soon make good; but his
prospects of doing it were absurdly
small. He made strenuous efforts to —
as he termed it —“catch up to himself.”
For weeks he would leave off smoking,
do without lunch, and try, by a score
of little savings, to accumulate some
money; then suddenly he would lose
heart and dissipate at least a new hat
and a tie in the beer of oblivion.
The existence of a really nice girl
who, for reasons known only to herself,
clung with a pathetic devotion, while her
charms faded and she drifted towards
the lot of the unmarriageable, to the
hope that Cochran would some day be
able to marry her, did not help the
saving.
('“"'OCHRAN was always threatening
to leave; but when I met him, ages
after I left the service of Scruthem and
Co., he was still at the old address.
“I asked ‘Scru’ again for a rise,” he
told me, “and the beggar took the usual
stand —if I could get more elsewhere I
was at liberty to go. The mean old
hunk knows that I’m a good clerk, but
he knows, too, that I can’t afford to
leave him until I get something else,
and that it’s no use going for a new
job and admitting that you’re only get-
ting a salary like mine. People think
that that’s all you’re worth. Still he has
given me a rise—half a dollar a week!”
“Better than nothing,” I commented.
“Just about nothing,” he said bitterly.
One had to feel sorry for a man like
that —and for the girl who was fading
as she waited.
YKJ HEN next we met, Cochran had
changed. He wore a suit that was
not only excellent in make, but gooa m
material. His boots shone in patent-
leather glory, and
he carried a stick.
As a finishing
touch, Cochran,
when, in answer to
his invitation, I
steered towards the
cheaper bar of the
adjacent hotel, led
me to the saloon,
with an imperious
manner indicative of
a lofty scorn for
cheap refreshments.
“W hat’s the
matter?” I inquired.
“I’ll tell you after-
wards,” he said.
“Meantime, we’ll
have another drink,
and then we’ll dine
and we’ll go along to the theatre after-
wards.”
I suppressed my curiosity, speculating,
however, that he was probably a lottery
prize-winner, and dined with him luxu-
riously. It amused me to notice that he
insisted on attacking costly details, not,
apparently, because he liked them, but
simply because they were costly.
.Several times during the dinner, and
afterwards during the intervals at the
theatre, he appeared to be about to tell
me the meaning of his affluence; but
it was not until we were engaged upon
supper that he let me have his con-
fidence.
“It’s a fine thing,” he said exultingly,
“to feel that you’re dressed properly
and can have what you want to eat
and drink and smoke, and needn’t worry
about counting the change. It makes
you feel a man —ready for anything.”
“How long have you been a million-
aire?” I asked.
He leaned over towards me. “I’ve
taken old Scruthem down.”
It was said triumphantly.
“How do you mean?” I asked, startled.
He did not directly answer.
“He’s systematically underpaid me,”
he said. “I’ve seen all the things he
and others could have, and I wanted
them, and felt myself less than half a
man because I didn’t have them. I
reckoned the old vulture owed me
money—and I took it.”
“But that means gaol for embezzle-
ment,” I whispered.
“I never even had a complete decent
rigout of clothes,” he said eagerly. “I
was a thing of starved and thwarted de-
sires, with nothing but starved and
thwarted desires ahead of me. I
couldn’t even treat Janey to a decent
outing. I decided that if I could only
live live, mind you—for a single week,
whatever happened, it would be better
to stand the racket rather than to go
on merely existing. So I saw my chance,
and got away with a hundred.”
“It means gaol,” I remarked lamely.
“Of course! ” he retorted with a laugh.
“But I’ll have had my satisfaction. I’ll
be through the lot in a week; and
directly it’s gone down I go to
Scruthem, tell him and let him know
what I think of him.”
Obviously he wanted no mercy. Only
an optimist would expect it from
Scruthem.
“I couldn’t do it without the clothes,”
he added, “but dressed up like this, and
fed well, I’ll stand up to him as man to
man and let him do his worst.”
[ GAVE him my address before we
1 parted, on the understanding that,
when ffie was arrested, he should send
for me and I would do what I could
for him. My conventional sense of
morality might be shocked, but I felt
that Cochran had more justice on his
side than Scruthem could ever claim.
Weeks went by and I heard nothing.
I searched the papers for news, but found
none. Then, when I had partly for-
gotten him, and partly formed the con-
viction that he must have changed his
plans and got away, I met him again.
He was prosperous-looking and fat. He
explained things.
“I went down to see old Scruthem
earlier than I intended,” he said. “He
wrote to me. I had been away for five
days, and things were getting into a mess
because neither he nor anyone else knew
the run of my work. When he saw how
I was dressed he merely thought I’d
grown sick of my job—he thought I had
come into some money. He offered me
half a dollar rise to get me back. Then
he offered a dollar.”
Cochran laughed mirthfully.
“I sailed into him for all I was worth.
You know what I told you about clothes.
It was right. They pulled me through.
I talked to him like a Dutch grand-
mother, and let him know the whole
business. The screw tried to use the
threat of punishment to get me back ;
but when I told him that I’d rather go
to gaol than go back on the old footing—
that, as a matter of fact, I’d fully made
up my mind to go to prison—it was up
against him. Being the sort of man he
is, he respected me for kicking, in place
of despising me for being a slave ; he
realised he owed me a great deal more
than the hundred I had taken ; and gaol
was the last place he wanted to send
me to, being almost in a panic at losing
me.
“I hadn’t known my own value
fore; but he couldn’t afford to lose me,
so I resumed on something like a salary.
Since then,” Cochran concluded, “I have
never looked back. I’ve had confidence,
and I could assert myself.”
A, YOUNG, seedy-looking man passed
as we emerged on to the pavement,
and Cochran nodded to him.
“That’s one of my clerks,” he said.
“A damn’ useful young fellow he is,
too.”
“Well, after your experience, you
ought to know how to treat your clerks,'’
I ventured.
A hard, commercial look swept the
geniality from his face. “A man’s only
worth what he appraises himself at,” he
said shortly. “I give that fellow fifty
bob.”
Again he became genial.
“Better look me up at the office,” he
said. “Or come out home and see
Janey. We’re married now. Here’s the
address.”
He had written it on the back of a
card. I looked at the face of it:
J. Raymond Cochran.
Scruthem, Cochran and Co.
Lament for Beauty.
So never again I’ll hear the river purring
In quiet green places,
While all the bank-held rushes shiver,
hearing
The coming wind; nor watch the
insect laces
Change pattern on its surface through
the hot blue noon.
And not for me the swallow’s dipping
wingtip
Sends small walls sliding,
Like melted silver, while his slipping
shadow
Moves in the depths where sun-
drenched fish lie hiding
Beneath the captive willow branch's
shuddering croon.
And, oh, no more I’ll see the riding
cloud-drifts,
Mirrored and - still,
Held by the water, till the hiding light-
woods
Lift my eyes upward to the standing
hill,
The blue abiding place of winds, where
shadows sleep.
And evening will not mean the golden
lighting
Of trees flung high,
And I’ll not hear, as was my olden
pleasure
Shining small birds come singing down
the sky . . .
I’ll know no more of loveliness, for that
I weep.
TASMANIA.
H. M. BETHUNE.


n //
\ iswf/" WE GIVE
SERVICE
f |
/ScS-
Jr V.
ON
Cruise to
NEW ZEALAND
in
NOVEMBER
R.M.S. Strathnaver
leaves Sydney, November 13th
Fayes:
FIRST SALOON FROM 20 GNS.
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 GNS.
. Free of Exchange
A
l COLOSEPTIC IS AN ,
1 INTERNAL cleanser
§«Si
j
i lAUSTRAMA) lim»« p |
:: LONDON • S YDNkI :
nnouncement
IN response to insistent public demand the
manufacturers of ... .
COLOSEPTIC
announce that as from October, 1936, a new "indi-
vidual” size will be available at all chemists and
stores at the popular price of . . .
2'9 per package
The economical "family" size of 5/6 is, of course, still
obtainable.
FOR 20 YEARS COLOSEPTIC HAS RETAINED ITS LEADERSHIP AS
THE FOREMOST NATURAL TREATMENT FOR THE MANY AIL-
MENTS CAUSED BY CONSTIPATION. DIETETIC ERRORS AND
LACK OF EXERCISE. FROM THESE CONDITIONS ARISE 97% OF
PRESENT DAY SICKNESS.
COLOSEPTIC . . . Sydney, London, Auckland, Johannesburg, New York
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Mewar”: 1 note someone is advocat-
ing the introduction of the partridge to
Australia (B. 23/9/’36). If that hap-
pens I vote for the Indian variety found
ill the desert areas of Rajputana and
Scinde. This should flourish exceedingly
in the dead heart of this country, and
would call public attention to an un-
known area by providing a new sport,
a matter much more important to Aus-
tralians than defence and similar non-
sense. In the days of which I write this
partridge used to be run down on horse-
back. Like all its kind it flies a com-
paratively short distante at a time.
Marking the bird down on the bare
desert the galloping horsemen flushed it
again, this being repeated until someone
jumped off his pony and fielded the now
exhausted fowl. The sport cultivates
keenness of eye and horsemanship, while
it would benefit the breed of horses quite
as much as trotting or proprietary racing.
* * * *
Forty years ago, after Bryan had been
nominated for the Presidency on the
“free-silver” ticket, a party leader hostile
to “free silver” was asked to define his
attitude. His reply was “I am a Demo-
crat still —very still.” William Randolph
Hearst is also a Democrat, but on the
subject of Franklin Roosevelt he is not a
bit still. He says the President is “the
real candidate of the Comintern.” The
retort from the White House is that a
“certain notorious newspaper owner’s
attack was conceived in malice and born
in political spite.”
The American people will not permit
their attention to be diverted from real
issues to fake issues which no patriotic,
honorable or decent citizen would pur-
posely inject into American affairs.
“Honorable or decent” is certainly
strong. It recalls a Republican news-
paperman’s comment when Hearst was
trying to get a Presidential nomination
himself—“a jaded voluptuary flicking his
feeble senses to find a new thrill —this is
too much.”
* * * *
“Kerriki”: A Port Macquarie (N.S.W.)
resident recently dug up on the beach
a Mexican dollar bearing the date 1808
and the head of Charles IV., King of
Spain and the Indies. Charles then
hadn’t much visible chance of occupy-
ing the Spanish throne, Napoleon being
in possession, but contemporary Mexico
might have made up for that, as its
silver mines were in the height of their
prosperity. So steady was the output
that the Mexican dollar was the near-
est approach to a universal coinage at
the beginning of last century. It was
the commonest coin in N.S.W. in Mac-
quarie’s time, and that frugal soul strove
to make it do double duty by punch-
ing a dump out of the centre, while still
leaving the original “holey dollar” legal
tender for its face value. Evidently the
Port Macquarie specimen escaped this
fate through being lost before Mac-
quarie’s time.
* * * *
Roosevelt looks a nice man and is
said to have a pleasing radio voice, but
some of his “projects” are almost in-
credibly fantastic. One of them was a
Federal Theatre, and a Mrs. Hallie
Flanagan was put at the head of it with
authority to spend $3,000,000. By way
of helping her along, another $27,000,000
was voted “to subsidise literature and
the arts and provide six months’ em-
ployment for 30,000 writers, painters,
musicians and actors.” It is now charged
that Mrs. Hallie Flanagan is a Bolshie,
and has surrounded herself with Bol-
shies, and with playwrights who can’t
write and actors who can’t act. Any-
way, the $30,000,000 is going west
fast.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: The British inter-
national bowls championship was won
for the second successive year by Scot-
land, giving Caledonia 16 victories in the
last 30 tourneys. There were some
revolutionary features. For the first
time a charge for admission was made,
and 1000 Glaswegians were found ready
to part with a shilling (English). Most
staggering of all, from an Australian
point of view, was that players were not
allowed to leave the green during a
match for a quick one. And this in
Glasgow!
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
;Vo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficten
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.W.C.: “Linked sweetness long-drawn-out”
—except for the sweetness E.W.8.: If that’s
a spring poem it’s missed the bus J.S.: “I
Wonder” left us almost equally dazed
L. “The House” proved an unimpressive
tenement R.L.: Sounds like a drawing-room
song of half-a-century ago E.G.: “MSS.
not required.” Same here E.M.: About as
musical as the kooka’s note M.F.N.: No
snap in it M.J.D.: There are no “usual
terms” for the unacceptable... .A.N.P.. Cheer
up, it’s something to have a steady j0b....
E.F.0.: Twelve prosy lines.. ..8.D.: The best-
phrased lines are no more than echoes
M. Overloaded with bathos W.P.N.:
Bushfire effusion consigned to blazes M. 8.:
Crude humor A.P.: Sentiment sound
enough, but the verse creaks painfully
E. : Stick to it if you must, but there’s
a long, long road ahead of you F.L.FL:
No market here for these ultra-conventional
poetic wares H.L.: You rhyme ingeniously,
but it’s a bit belated M.R.: A poor con-
ceit, with rhymes that set the teeth on edge
F. Washing-line poem up to mud
W A. 8.: Afraid you are wasting time, as well
as paper and ink... .E.R.1.: Neither scores
even an outer E.C.: Insipidity could hardly
go further T.E.McC.: “Music” has none in
it H.C.: You got to the climax and then
apparently didn’t know what to do with it
E.W.: Not badly done, but d6esn’t quite make
it "; try elsewhere S.W.: Good style but woe-
ful story J.R.: Not enough punch in the
humor Nora B.: We could almost hear the
villain hiss J.N.: Funny in patches, but some
of the slapstick is hoary L.K.: Try it on a
daily M.F.: Fairly done, but unsuitable for
us M.J.Y.: Says nothing new H.C.:
Mere incidents; cut down, might do for the
Abo. page Tynfield: On the melodramatic
side, but gives promise of something better.
R.A.McC.: Even a neurotic woman
wouldn’t commit suicide because her spouse
was late home for the first time in 20 years
N. MacL.: Nicely done, but the slenderness of
the plot killed it; try a more cheerful subject.
. ...S.P.: Sentiments echo The Bulletin’s
. . cT F • Yid-
convictioiis; regret cannot use. . • e-- 1 • •
dish and German characters well limne ,
yarn lacks strength A.T.H.: Long aI l f
like a poorhouse pudding... .S. T.M.: A _
inches from the heading the end stuck;
like a halpeg R.L.: “Fighting Cats u v
treated with turps, and were last seen score i-
ing towards the Domain... .B.R.R : “ she stirrea
his emotions ’ profoundly”; despite that, you
made the hero “burn with love”! • •• • '
Off our beat... .F.A.T. (Natal) : Story of black-
birder, beautiful island queen and “one ot nc
wickedest devils that ever walked the car n
in human guise” too rich for u5....1-M..
Not far enough.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.: Still in the kindergarten class....
G.L.: Drawings wooden; gags lack sparkle.
....W.T.: Look us up again after you have
had about three years’ tuition... .R.M.D..
Sketch of inebriated sexton laid to rest in the
office morgue... .H.P.: Both drawings and
gags tame... .G. 8.: No cheers greeted the big-
game hunter with a profile like the map ot
Australia....E.J.: Tidy draughtsman, but you
lack -humor....T.S.F.: W.p.b. claimed the
bushman with arms sprouting from the middle
of his back... .G.D.: Waste of good Bnstol-
board K.R.: Do you draw with a cold-
chisel dipped in tar? 8.W.: Like the car
in the sketch it hovered on the brink but ended
up on the wrong side... .F.J.C.: Two
plates engaged in humorless dialogue.. . .R.M.:
Cartoon has too many labels and signposts.
O.J.: We, too, laughed at that when it
appeared in an American magazine W.A.C.:
That style of drawing is better done with a
pen than a brush... .J. 8.: Work too slapdash.
.. ..C.E.: We grow weary of that drunk gag.
L.H.L.: All it will get is a return journey
over the Trans, 1ine....W.G.: Slick linework,
but no idea of composition....M.H.: Religious
Editor praying hard for the soul of the artist
who perpetrated that... .W.W.: Leave the
Cousin Jacks to Oswald Pryor and peg out a
claim for yourself.


Enjoy your trip
Mothersills
SEASICK REMEDY
leek Activities* Er
\ Tea a Welcome
Makes
Enjoy
ble
And
Event*
Short Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Tiro3 ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
now to w,ite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I*C.S» School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
ds
MEMORISE with Ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes, etc.
Booklet free.
Rev. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid contusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Typist, Sydney, with wide literary exp., office
in city, will type, and correct if necessary,
authors’ MSS. and submit to publishers if re-
quired.—32os.
Young lady, N.S.W., can drive car, seeks
position as companion anywhere. Refs. —
3183.
Widow, N.S.W., with 10-year-old daughter,
shorthand-writer, seeks position as housekeeper,
city or country.—3lBl.
Young man, well educated, wants employ-
ment. —3201.
Man, Sydney, requires accommodation few
weeks on farm not too far from city.—3l6o.
Clerk, Sydney, general exp., wants employ-
ment. —3159.
Mechanic, Sydney, married, steam and petrol
exp., wants country job, station preferred.
Refs.—3ls7.
Young man (26), N.S.W., seven years with
large retail store as salesman, two years manag-
ing own business, also farm and dairy exp.,
good refs., requires position.—3lBs..
To buy, second-hand, “Sun” nature books,
Guide to the Orchids of N.S.W., by H. M. R.
Rupp, and The Wild Animals of Australasia,
by Le Souef and Burrell. —3220.
Words of song containing the line “No
matter what (he age, the face is always
wrinkled.” —3207.
Information Sought.
List of Wimbledon’s men’s singles tennis
champions since 1918 ? —3167.
In 1918 there was no competition. The 1919
title was held by G. L. Patterson, 1920 W. T.
Tilden, 1921 W. T. Tilden, 1922 G. L. Patter-
son (holder did not defend his title), 1923
W. M. Johnston, 1924 J. Borotra, 1925 R.
Lacoste, 1926 J. Borotra, 1927 H. Cochet, 1928
R. Lacoste, 1929 H. Cochet, 1930 W. T. Tilden,
1931 S. B. Wood, 1932 H. E. Vines, 1933 J. H.
Crawford, 1934, 1935 and 1936 F. J. Perry.
H= * # *
(1) Addresses af leading boxing schools in
Sydney or elsewhere in Australia ? (2) Address
of Snowy Baker? —3145.
(1) Langridge School of Physical Culture, 278
George-street; Jack Dunleavy Gymnasium,
630 a George-street; Olympiad Exercise Rooms,
484 George-street; Y.M.C.A., 325 Pitt-street;
Withrow Physical Culture Institute, 171 Wil-
liam-street; Harry Roberts, The Block,
Dymock’s Building, 424 George-street; Grace
Bros. Physical Culture College, Broadway.
Sports Club, Ltd., 10 Hunter-street, exercises a
certain amount of supervision over the sport.
Judging from your address, it would perhaps
suit you better to get in touch with W. Mc-
Clusky, Queensland Amateur Wrestling and
Boxing Union, c/o Y.M.C.A., Brisbane. (2)
Reg L. (Snowy) Baker, Riviere Club, Los
Angeles, California, U.S.A.
* * * *
(1) Which Prime Minister promised the last
man and the last shilling ? (2) Is Manly classed
as a suburb of Sydney in the census ? —2782.
(1) Andrew Fisher, not at the time Prime
Minister of Australia, coined the phrase. (2)
Yes.
* * * #
(1) Are there schools in Sydney giving a
radio mechanic’s course by correspondence ?
(2) Approximate cost and duration of course ?
—3176.
Yes: Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia), Ltd.,
47 York-street; International Correspondence
Schools (Aust.), Ltd., 140 Elizabeth-street; Aus-
tralian Radio College, Ltd., Broadway. (2)
Cost and duration vary. One school provides
a radio mechanic’s course for £l5, the duration
being 12 months. This may be followed by
three months’ practical instruction, if required,
for a slight extra cost.
* * *
Public debt of Australia, Commonwealth and
States, and amount owing in Australia, London
and New York, in both cases at June 30, 1936 ?
—3171.
Commonwealth: £391,039,601 (owing in Aus-
tralia £218,403,097, in London £156,285,326, in
New York £16,351,176). States: £864,742,505
(owing in Australia £447,258,508, in London
£388,575,335, in New York £29,908,661). Total
public debt of Australia, £1,255,782,106.
* * * *
What have been the trading hours on week-
days of hotels in Victoria during the past 25
years ? —3177.
Prior to 1915 hours were 6 a.m. to 11.30
p.m. On July 6, 1915, hours were reduced to
be 9 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. From October 8, 1916,
dosing time was to be 6 p.m. for the period
of the war, and this was made permanent on
December 19, 1916.
* * # *
(1) When was provision first made in Vic-
toria for the legitimation of children born out
of wedlock ? (2) What is the position nowa-
days ? —3161.
(1) By the Registration of Births, Deaths and
Marriages Act, 1903. (2) The 1903 Act was
repealed in 1912, and an Act passed which pro-
vided for the legitimation of such children at
any time after the marriage of the parents, on
the application of the father, provided there
was no lawful impediment to the marriage of
the parents at the time of the birth. An amend-
ing Act passed in 1916 allowed legitimation
to be effected on the application of the mother
if the father was absent on war service or had
died not more than two years previously.
What are the death duties ( Qld. and Com.)
on an estate worth £lO,OOO (Commonwealth
bonds) ? The estate is to be a trust fund
(Public Curator) for daughter to inherit in
approximately 20 years. All interest is to be
drawn for maintenance of beneficiary. —3ls4.
Federal: Where the total value of the estate,
after deducting all debts, exceeds £2OOO, one
pound, together with an additional percentage
of one-fifth of a pound for every £lOOO or part
thereof in excess of the sum of £2OOO but so
that the percentage shall not exceed £l5. Where
the estate passes to a widow, children or grand-
children, these rates are subject to a rebate
of one-third. Queensland: From £3OO up-
wards, nil; then for every £lOOO or part thereof,
£l. Succession duty is also payable, ranging
at £lO,OOO up to 7 p.c. in the case of husband
or wife, 10£ p.c. other relatives and 14 p.c. in
the case of strangers in blood.
* * '* *
Is it a fact that the Chinese language has no
alphabet ? —3221.
Yes.
Strength of the Turkish navy? —3lo4.
Battle-cruiser Yavuz, formerly the German
Goeben, 22,500 tons, armed with ten llin.
guns; cruisers Hamidiye, 3830 tons, and Meci-
diye, 3300 tons; two gunboats, three mine-
sweepers, four destroyers, three torpedo boats,
five submarines and a surveying vessel.
* * * *
(1) What subjects must candidates for clerk-
ships in the Commonwealth Public Service sit
for at the entrance exam. ? (2) Remuneration ?
—3092.
(1) Not fewer than six and not more than
eight of the following subjects (first four com-
pulsory): Handwriting, spelling, English, arith-
metic, geography, history and civics, geometry,
algebra, trigonometry, Latin, French, German,
physics, chemistry, commercial work and eco-
nomics. (2) Under 17 years, £Bl p.a.; at 17
years, £93 p.a.; at 18 years, £lO5 p.a.; at
19 years, £127 p.a.; at £2O years, £147 p.a.;
adults, from £192 p.a. upwards.
* * # *
(1) What was the strength of Germany’s army
while that nation was a member of the League
of Nations ? (2) While a member of the
League, did Germany make application to in-
crease its army, and, if so, to what extent?
(3) Was the opposition of France the main
cause of the League’s refusal ? —-2559.
(1) 84,000 rifles, 18,000 carbines, 792 heavy
machine-guns, 1134 light machine-guns, 63
trench mortars, 189 light trench mortars, 204
7.7 cm. field guns, and 84 10.5 cm. howitzers.
(2) Asked Disarmament Conference for parity
in armaments, expressing willingness to go
without arms prohibited in other countries but
urging right to equality and to relief from
some provisions of the Treaty of Versailles.
(3) Had much to do with it.
* * * *
Where was Marie Lohr born, who were her
parents and when and in what years did she
make her first Sydney and London stage
appearances ? —3lOO.
She was bom at Sydney on July 28, 1890;
daughter of Kate Bishop, actress, and Lewis
J. Lohr, formerly treasurer of the Opera House,
Melbourne. Her first appearance on the stage
was made at Sydney in 1894 in “The World
Against Her.” She made her first appearance
on the London stage at the Garrick Thea;re
on December 14, 1901, in “Shock-headed
Peter.”
*,* * *
(1) What exam, must an applicant pass for
admission in the Aust. permanent military
forces ? (2) Minimum height, chest measure-
ment and weight ? —2987.
(1) No exam, is held, but recruits must have
attained a good educational standard, and, sub-
ject to other qualifications being equal, prefer-
ence is given to persons with the best educa-
tional attainments. (2) Height (minimum) sft.
7in., except in case of Field Artillery sft. Sin.
and A.S.C. (Tanks) sft. 4in.; chest measure-
ment (minimum) 34in., with minimum expan-
sion of 2in. (varying with age, height and
weight); weight (minimum) 1151 b. (varying
with height and age).
* * * *
(1) Whereabouts is. Willis Islet, and how
many islets are there in the group to which it
belongs? (2) When and by whom was the
meteorological wireless station established there?
(3) For what reason was Willis Islet chosen for
the station ? (4) Do any steamer routes pass
the islet . ? —3o6B.
(1) 267 miles north-east of Townsville, off.
the Queensland coast, and about the same dis-
tance from Cairns in lat. 16deg. south and
long. 149 deg. east. There are three islets in
the group. (2) In 1922 by the Australian
Director of Navigation, for storm-warning pur-
poses. (3) As the islet is near the centre of
the Coral Sea, and is half-way from the nearest
land from the east, on the usual hurricane
track, it can not only warn the important
Q’land coastal traffic of imminent danger, but
also save it from unnecessary anxiety, which a
more distant station could not do. (4) No.
* * * at
When wag" Dulwich College, London, founded,
and by whom ? What connection has it with
Alleyn’s School? Is there an Old Alleynians’
Association in Sydney? If so, name and
address of secretary? What is the motto of
Dulwich School ? —3194.
Dulwich College, London, was founded in
1619 by Edward Alleyn; since 1857 the foun-
dation has been divided into two schools—
Upper, known as Dulwich College, and Lower
known as Alleyn’s School. Old Alleynians’
Association in Sydney holds an annual dinner
and otherwise keeps in touch with members:
secretary, W. B. Love, 97 Bathurst-street, Syd-
ney. The motto, “Detur gloria soli Deo” is
translated “Let praise be given to the one and
only God.”
* * * *
I have a pair of young quarrians (parrot
birds) which are just fully feathered. What
should I feed the young birds on, how often,
and any other particulars necessary for their
well-being? —3ls2.
Feed on cooked maizemeal. Place a little
of the meal in cheesecloth, boil it for a few
moments, and serve when cool. Cook the food
daily, otherwise it becomes sour. A little fresh
milk is also relished by these birds. This food
is all they require until they attain adult age,
when they go on to a mixture of canary seed,
millet seed and a little wheat.
* * * *
Origin of the term “sub rosa” ? —3187.
There was a legend that Cupid bribed Har-
pocrates, god of silence, with a rose not to
divulge the amors of Venus. Hence the Roman
host hung a rose over his tables in order that
his guests might know that under it words
spoken were to remain secret.
* * * *
(1) Why are the jew-lizards and the leaf-
tailed gecko so called? (2) Is the marsupial
mouse classified as one of the kangaroo family
or mouse family? In a museum paper it is
mentioned among the Dasyuridce. What is the
meaning of the term ? (3) To what varieties
do the Leichhardt and blue eagle , belong ?
3030.
(1) There is no record as to how the jew-
Jizard got its name. The tail of the leaf-tailed
gecko resembles a shrivelled leaf. (2) Pouched
mice belong to a diderent family of the mar-
supial order from kangaroos. They are not re-
lated to the true rodent mice, and are merely
known as marsupial or pouched “mice” because
of the generally mouse-like shape. The family
name of Dasyuridce is based on the genus name
of the small native, or marsupial, cat, of which
the small marsupial mice are fairly close rela-
tives. (3) Not possible to identify the birds
from the names given, which seem to be local.
# %
Have• snake-lizards any legs, and how are
they distinguishable from snakes? —3123.
According to C. W. Brazenor, of the
National Museum of Victoria, snake-lizards
have rudimentary hind limbs like small flaps of
skin. Hundreds of them are killed every year
in mistake for snakes, but they are easily
distinguished by two characteristics —a small
oval opening on each side of the head behind
the eye and a tail longer than head and body.
Snakes have no ear openings and their tails
are seldom more than one-fifth of their body
length.
*_#_ 1 * *
Where is Flint Island, and how big is it ?
Who owns it, and what grows there? —3109.
Flint Island is British territory, one of several
small islands northwards of Tahiti; no in-
digenous inhabitants. A flat atoll, three miles
long by half a mile broad, it rises to a maxi-
mum height of 25ft., is well wooded and is
surrounded by a coral reef, through which a
boat passage has been blasted, leading to a
landing-place on the western side. The island
was originally leased by J. T. Arundel and Co.,
but is now held by S. R. Maxwell and Co., of
Tahiti, whose plantations there contain about
30,000 coconut palms. A white manager and
some 30 natives work the plantations.
* * * *
(1) List of books concerning the life of Jane
Austen. (2) Also a similar list regarding the
Bronte sisters ? — 2921.
(1) In addition to the authorised biography
of Jane Austen (1775-1817) by her nephew,
J. E. Austen Leigh (published 1820, reprinted
1926), there are S. F. Malden’s Jane Austen
(1889), Goldwin Smith’s Jane Austen (1890),
W. H. Pollock’s Jane Austen, Her Contempo-
raries and Herself (1899), C. Hill’s Jane Austen,
Her Times and Her Friends (1902), G. E.
Mitton’s Jane Austen and Her Times (1905),
J. H. and E. C. Hubback’s Jane Austen’s
Sailor Brothers (1906), F. W. Cornish’s Jane
Austen (in “Men of Letters” series, 1913),
W. A. and R. A. Austen Leigh’s Jane Austen,
Her Life and Letters (1913), and R. Villard’s
Jane Austen (1924). (2) The bibliography of
the Bronte sisters (Charlotte 1816-55, Emily
1818-58 and Anne 1820-49) includes, in addi-
tion to Mrs. Gaskell’s many-times-reprinted
work, T. Wemyss Reid’s Charlotte Bronte,
Swinburne’s A Note on Charlotte Bronte,
Clement Shorter’s Charlotte Bronte and Her
Circle (1896), Augustine Birrell’s Life of Char-
lotte Bronte (1887), William Wright’s The
Brontes in Ireland (1893), Clement Shorter’s
Charlotte Bronte and Her Sisters (1906), the
Bronte Society’s publications, edited by Butler
Wood, A. M. F. Robinson’s (Mme. Duclaux)
biography of Emily (1883), Clement Shorter’s
The Bronte Life and Letters (1907), containing
the whole of Charlotte’s letters in chronological
order, May Sinclair’s The Three Brontes, E.
Dimmet’s Les Sceurs Brontes, of which an Eng-
lish translation appeared in 1927, and Isabel
C. Clarke’s Haworth Parsonage (1927).
* * * *
What color is the golden bower-bird? How
does it build its bower, where does it build
its nest and what color are its eggs? —3o73.
Male, golden-yellow, with a broad crest on
the head; female, olive-green. It constructs
bowers in which one side is composed of
longer sticks than the other, so as to overlap it,
and decorates them with flowers. The females
build bowers for themselves, smaller than those
constructed by the males. The nest, built
principally of leaves, is placed in a hollow in
a stump on the buttress of a fig-tree. The two
eggs are shining-white.
* * * *
What can I do for pains in hands and arms ?
The trouble develops when I am tired, especi-
ally at the end of the day? —3los.
In the uric-acid subject, pain in hands and
arms is contributed to by faulty circulation.
To some extent this is an occupational neu-
ritis; work in any form (heavy or prolonged)
precipitates the pain when limb circulation is
sluggish at the joints. Upward massage bene-
fits; after a warm soda-bath at night rub
upwards from the fingertips with an oil embro-
cation and dust with a simple talc. Take a
mild saline in warm water each morning, avoid
condiments heating foods in the diet, and
take the following mixture in water twice or
thrice daily if pain persists: Acetyl salicylic acid
10 grains, citrate of potash 20 grains, aromatic
spirits of ammonia 15 minims, syrup of orange
20 minims, chloroform water to 4oz. Adult
dose, one tablespoon.
* # * *
What is Paget’s disease, how is it located, is
it curable and what is the treatment ?- —2615.
A variable affection of the bones, first de-
scribed by Sir James Paget in the latter part of
the nineteenth century. Although much in-
vestigation has been made into both symptoms
and cause of the disease since then, little has
been added to knowledge of its nature or exact
cause. Starting in the bones of limbs, skull,
etc., there is a remarkable thickening and re-
placement in these members, with deformity due
to bending of the long bones and spine. The
head increases in size owing to the deposit of
bony layers in the skull tissues. Apart from
the deformity, which is of very slow progress,
the only symptom of importance is pain of a
neuralgic or aching nature. There is no exact
cure; medicinal treatment gives relief with
salicylates, aspirin, etc., for pain. Operation
may be necessary for removal of morbid growth
conditions.
Brief Answers.
H.H.: From Arthur Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney C.S.H.: No pistol or
revolver matches or championship contests have
been held in Sydney for many years....
M.V.D.: Cannot compute area unless sketch
shows exact angles as well as measurements
J.R.: The feijoa is a small bushy tree 10ft. to
15ft. high, a native of sub-tropical S. America.
It is closely allied to the guava, which it re-
sembles in its fruit, pleasant in flavor, ovoid in
shape and about long. It can be used
raw, stewed or made into jam or jelly.
. ...W.F.M.: No system of transfer of
teachers exists between Vic. and N. S. Wales.
To be eligible, applicants must either have
been trained for at least one year in a recog-
nised Government training college or have
taught for a period of not less than six years
in a recognised Government 5ch001....
J.L.0.N.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, for
leaflet “Poisoning Green Timber with Sodium
Arsenite”... .A.C.: (1) It is customary and
legally allowable for the cost of transfer car-
ried out by a solicitor in connection with the
sale of property to be charged against the
purchaser and not against the vendor. The
charge is reasonable. (2) Probably correct, as
commission is calculated on a recognised fixed
scale D.G.: Probably earth tremors due to
movements of the earth's crust along frac-
tures... .W.J.8.: No, the guarantor is respon-
sible to the bank for the full amount guaran-
teed by him....R.L.: If you have solid
grounds for complaint you can place them
before the Incorporated Law Institute of
N. S. Wales. State your case clearly and con-
cisely, giving exactly the grounds of complaint.
Address your letter to the secretary at 3 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney E.R.M.: Cannot assess
without inspection. If it is a first edition it
should be worth about 10s T.A.P.: (1) Yes.
(2) No value... .P.L.: Raymond Unwin's
Town Planning in Practice, H. Inigo Trigg’s
Town Planning, Robinson’s Modern Civic Art,
Koester’s Modern City Planning and Mainten-
ance and Hegemann and Peets’s Civic Art
E.F.: A booklet containing particulars of the
method of entry to the Metropolitan Police
College, London, may be obtained on applica-
tion to the Secretary, Metropolitan Police
Office, New Scotland Yard, London, S.W.I
R.L.D.: Lauder is still alive N.T.: The
“Agricultural Gazette of N.5.W.,” on appli-
cation to the Under-Secretary, Agricultural De-
partment, Sydney, is supplied free to farmers,
orchardists, dairymen, pastoralists and others
solely engaged in some branch of agriculture
for a living in N.S.W., and who own a hold-
ing... .C.A.D.: (1) Bakerine, fermentine and
potassium bromate are not identical. (2) Baker-
ine appears to have a mellowing effect on the
gluten of bread; it gives an impetus to the bak-
ing process, and imparts a better bloom. (3)
Quantity used is to 101 b. flour C.L.:
(1) No recognised diploma course in Australia.
(2) Local class tuition (six weeks), with imple-
ments, etc., approximates 20 guineas. This in-
cludes practical work that is not possible by cor-
respondence. (3) Write Chiropodist, 15 Fo-
veaux-street, Sydney J. 8.: Scots College
490, Sydney. Grammar School 650, Sydney
Church of England Grammar School 690 and
St. Joseph's 370....A.G.: Heredity in Live-
stock, by Christian Wriedt, and Mendelism, by
R. C. Punnett... .G.J.: (1) No. (2) An inquiry
addressed to the Under-Secretary for Law, Perth
(W.A.), might elicit the information. (3) Strictly
speaking, her maiden name, but custom recog-
nises the use of the former husband’s name....
J.C.: Impossible for an amateur to dye furs
at home ; the work requires special dyes and
great skill. Professionals do the job very
cheaply H.H.0.: Write R. J. Boyd, Rail-
way House, Wynyard-square, Sydney G.C.:
It was not accepted for the purpose mentioned.
... .G.H.: Any husband who has left his wife
without means of support may be summoned
upon complaint on oath by his wife to show
cause why he should not support her. See
Clerk of Petty Sessions at nearest courthouse.
The presiding magistrate fixes amount of allow-
ance... .M. 8.: If the wife took out the policy
and is personally paying the premiums on it
the husband has no control over it. • He cannot
interfere with it by will or otherwise
E.A.E.: (1) and (2) That is a matter within the
discretion of the department. (3) The depart-
ment is not concerned with the private marital
relations of husband and wife. (4) If she de-
serted you without having legally recognised
grounds for doing so and continued the deser-
tion although you have provided a home for
her and have informed her that you desire her
company as a wife, you could take action with
a view to divorce. (5) The mother-in-law has
no right to intercept letters addressed by a
father to his children (Many others mailed)


Life’s so much easier
with a
VALET’
So much easier and so much simpler. A few seconds on
the strop and the blade is ready to give you a perfect
shave—a blade that will last for weeks.
Shaved, you stand for a second amazed at the smoothness
of your face. Then in less than a minute the razor is rinsed
and dried, and you are out of the bathroom in no time.
You see, with a "Valet" there is nothing to unscrew,
nothing to take to pieces—not even the blade to take
out. That's the secret of its success—and your quick
shaving. Life's so much easier with a "Valet"—the original
self-stropping razor still the simplest and the best.
Get one to-day.
o
o
. /alb
O'V'
rhe Set illustrated is the No. 50 Nickel Set. In highly polished
tickelled case lined with velvetl Comprises a heavily silvered self-
stropping "Valet" razor, twelve "Valet" blades and strop of
selected leather in hinged container
OTHER SETS FROM 4/6 TO 65/- • OF ALL DEALERS • BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
THE SARGE GETS HIS MAN
(Dedicated to the Australian National Travel Association.)
(By "M.H.E.")
I used to be against the Australian
National Travel Association, but that
shows how unfair it is to judge a body
on a slender acquaintance.
Last year the A.N.T.A. generated a
brilliant scheme for bringing American
writers to Australia so that they might
tell N’York and "Chi” about our beauties
and attractions.
It persuaded Mr. Albert Wetjen among
others to come here —a writer of he-
man stories who was born among us,
and who has been away from us for
a very long time. It brought others, but
Mr. Wetjen has pipped them all on the
post and got into the “Saturday Evening
Post” —circulation 3,000,000 odd —with
a yarn which should bring every double-
fisted lover of adventure from Terre
Haute to the Adirondacks flocking here
loaded down with dollars and ammuni-
tion.
Mr. Wetjen’s effort is called “The
Long Patrol,” and it is set in a “little
police post called Marree, some 400
miles inland from Adelaide in the heart
of the Never Never”:
Half-wild blacks in the police secret scr-
vice sidled in with news of tribal killings
and corroborees, or native dances which
might be harmless celebrations or work-
‘"B* ® f ° r • ™ ss “ re - ffTrf
tramped by with reports ol: stock thefts,
Dingo-hunters dropped in to ask for news
of friends who had come out of the Never
Never months before. And occasional
prospectors, like as not half-crazy with
;° nel ‘ ness , f nd t intermitten ; b ° uts ; with
thirst and starvation, came to ask of con-
ditions towards the ranges and to get the
latest maps of the waterholes.
M aDS t
P ’
In the middle of this busy scene we
meet Sergeant Rainse, of the S. Aus-
tralian Mounted. To the sergeant comes
Bannock, the mailman, who opens a
conversation in typically colloquial Aus-
tralian.
“Sarge,” says he, “there’s two things
1 gotta tell you.”
“There’s only one thing 1 want to
know,” responds the sarge. “Who’s going
to win the Melbourne Cup?”
Which shows the long-seeing nature
of the Australian police mind, since it
was “January, midsummer and beastly
hot.”
11.
At this point, perhaps, 1 had better in-
troduce the artist who illustrates Mr.
Wetjen's tale. His name is Rico Tomaso
and, by some oversight, neither Mr. Wet-
jen nor the Australian National Travel
Association has succeeded in impressing
on him that he is not on duty with
Mussolini’s victorious army. He gives
us two pictures of life in Marree, and
frankly they surprised me and showed
what a poor observer I am.
When I went first to Marree —on a
camel—the camel took one look at the
dreary scene and bit me on the leg,
causing me to look for the policeman
to borrow ointment.
I discovered the policeman in his bare
feet peeling potatoes. I then adjourned
to an Afghan camp and played euchre
by the light of a hurricane lamp.
Things have improved since then.
Mr. Rico Tomaso shows us Mr.
Wetjen’s sergeant in white, striped
trousers, long polished top boots which
repose elegantly on his desk, a khaki
shirt, a lovely cravat. He is sitting in a
beautiful cane chair looking fierce and
attended by a constable wearing a topi
such as was never seen south of Ban-
jiwanji.
And well he may look fierce, for above
him in another picture are the new race
of Marree inhabitants. They are all
large, negroid Africans.
In one corner is a hardy fellow sitting
naked against a prickly-pear bush. In
the background are persons carrying
large loads on their shoulders and their
heads, a thing no self-respecting aborigine
would ever do. The ladies have scads
of bracelets and neck rings. Some of
the gents., thgugh otherwise as naked as
a censor’s intellect, sport earrings.
They all bear spears, being expert in
war, which is clever of them seeing that
they are in nullah-nullah country where
the spear is despised ; and all their spears
have metal blades in the fashion of the
Upper Nile.
One terrible fellow is held in custody
by a blacktracker, seven feet high, in
jodhpurs and riding boots, attached to
him apparently by the Mariposa’s spare
anchor chain.
I understand now why 356 out of the
569 recorded full-bloods in S.A. gave no
reply to the census taker’s questions as
to their religion. They are a bad lot —
the census tells us that S.A. is the only
State where there is not even a single
abo. Baptist. The census says nothing of
the nomad S.A. blacks. The secret
native police could not find them to
enumerate them for the census man.
111.
But let us get back to the sarge and
the mailman. The former is fanning
himself with his “sombrero.” It tran-
spires that a prospector named Brown,
who has been prospecting in the Flinders
Ranges, has failed to collect the rations
which the mailman leaves for him in
the fork of an old gum-tree once a week.
It would be in order here to puzzle
about what a mailman was doing here
in Marree en route from the Flinders
Ranges since a railway runs along their
base and Marree is a good deal to the
north. (It is plain that the setting is late
post-war.) Also, what was Mr. Brown
prospecting for in the Flinders? It turns
out to be gold. In real life he would
probably have had a grant from the
Commonwealth oil-boring subsidy.
He disappeared after a black killer,
whom he had turned over to the police,
“busted outa Wyeroo gaol a month ago.”
In the excitement of the moment, how-
.ever, curiosity as to why Sergeant Rainse,
on the telephone and railway line, knows
nothing of this escape is forgotten.
Black Joe is a “quarter-caste black,
raised by a horsebreeder in Queensland,”
who had knocked his foster father on the
head, “taking his weapons and the best
stallion in the herd and setting out on a
career of, pure deviltry.”
No wonder Sarge Rainse “jammed on
his'-sombrero with the silver badge,”
called his faithful constable and bis even
more faithful tracker, Baldy Bill a
full-blooded native, mission-raised and
won over to the white man.” And no
wonder the telephone bells rang to Bel-
tana and Farina before the sarge went
forth with his gallant little force, his
rifle in the crook of his arm.
His face was sternly set —had not Black
Joe once shot to death a policeman o!
the Queensland Mounted and led the
“patrols” a fifteen-months dance? :
A three-foot goanna lizard scuttled across
the dirt road and out of sight. A flock ol
pied magpies squalled and worried- in the
upper tree branches [around Marree the
chief tree is old-man sallbushj —while in
a lightning-riven wattle some distance
away a black-and-white kookaburra bird
—the laughing jackass, as the bushmen call
it—set up its raucous mocking laughter.. ..
They could see a rabbit fence.
And they couldn’t even track old man
Brown at first because the rain the
week before had washed out his tracks.
(“A dry wind was blowing across a
thousand miles of desert and desolation,”
by the way.) But Baldy Bill, with the
well-known scent of the abo., picked up
the killer’s trail and followed him into
a tangle of half-burnt stunted tea-trees
and found a chewed wad of tobacco in
the spinifex, and led on at nightfall into
“a parched desolation where stunted
eucalypts grew.”
Two days later they found Mr.
Brown’s rich claim thoroughly looted and
Mr. Brown dead and huddled beside a
rocker with which he had been washing
his pay dirt—the rainfall in wet years
goes lOin. Whereat the sarge exclaimed:
Bannock was right. That quarter-caste
devil is loose in my district.
And two days’ journey north Black Joe
sat beside his fire eating goanna.
IV.
I should like to have the space to
follow Sarge Rainse after he had decided
that his victim’s “only chance’ll be the
Kimberleys or up around the Roper
River country,” though he conceded that
“if Oodnadatta sends out a patrol and
gets the bush telegraph working they
might cut him off.” (Fiction scorns the
O.T. Line.)
The gallant sarge sends back most
of his entourage and sets out into the vast
north where men are men and the hardy
wayfarer is for ever in danger of slipping
on a beer bottle and breaking his neck.
Save for the faithful Baldy Bill, he went
alone. s
Six days out they still had four days
to go to Coward Springs—which is
80 miles from Marree. They had one
canteen of water left. There is, of
course, a railway there, and the sarge
could have travelled in the ’Ghan. But
no trains for Mr. Wetjen. Perhaps* the
railway was buried in sand when he was
in that part of the country. Perhaps
Sarge Rainse did not like trains.
The sarge pushed on towards Coward,
shooting their last horse to save
them from a horrible death. They
staggered till they came on a tribe of
wild abos. armed with boomerangs and
spears, their “fierce sullen eyes question-
ing.” And finally, almost exhausted, they
found Black Joe. Presently he was wear-
ing the Mariposa’s anchor chain, which
the sarge had brought along wrapped
round his waist. Then suddenly:
Rainse knew he was not only fighting
for his life but for the prestige of the
South Australian Mounted.
The wild savages of the desert looked
on at the battle uttering shrill cries of
encouragement, while the doughty John
Hop battered his victim.
Two weeks later in his handsome
wicker chair at Marree, Sergeant Rainse
“gnawed the end of a pen and cursed”:
“Reports,” snapped Rainse. “What do
you think? I can cover all the stuff about
getting Black Joe in half a page. That’s
all headquarters will want to be bothered
with—whether 1 got him or not.”
But they weren’t. They deducted
16s, Bd. from his pay for losing a pair
of handcuffs.
“Headquarters,” writes the Australian
National Travel Association’s Hero-
dotus, “is always like that.”
V.
I wonder what the Native Protection
Association was doing that week? Like
Sarge Rainse it has a habit of catching
up with its man —especially if he is the
kind of copper who takes 10 days to
travel less than 80 miles, and has to
slaughter his horse and drink its blood
en route, besides losing two other horses,
two rifles and equipment on the journey.
When he is found “slamming his
revolver butt with full force” against
a quarter-caste’s skull, the N.P.A. reports
nastily about him to Adelaide.


FOR RANDWICK.
Craven Plate: Silver Ring; .next,
Shakespeare or Pamelus.
Suburban Handicap: Capris;
next, Verdun. If Capris scratched,
Verdun ; next, Prittle Prattle.
Members’ Handicap: Friar’s
Switch ; next, Korimako.
Sydney Handicap: Young Cru-
sader Or Fair Diana ; next, Verberry.
Waverley Handicap: Young
Crusader or Soft Step; next, Dark
Chief.
Chester Handicap: Palm ; next,
Thebez.
Randwick Plate: Silver Ring.
Final Handicap: Verdun or
Prittle Prattle ; next, The Freak.
“THE BULLETIN’S” EPSOM-METROPOLITAN TIPS.
EPSOM HANDICAP.
As Chosen: How They Ran:
Capris 1 — First
The Marne 2 Seventh
Prittle Prattle .... 3 Third
METROPOLITAN HANDICAP
Young Crusader ... 1 First
Loud Applause .... 2 Unplaced
Sporting Blood .... 3 Unplaced
Ring Prices and Tote Dividends (for 10s.): 33 to 1, £18 19s. and £6 9s.
Capris; 14 to 1, £8 3s. and £2 9s., Young Crusader.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Stakes: Cuddle; next, Charles
Fox.
Debutant Stakes: Lochlee.
Guineas: Prince Quex.
Toorak Handicap: Counter
Patrol; next, Capris or Bimilla.
Herbert Power Handicap: Jour-
nal or Bustard ; next, Donaster.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
At Randwick 12 months ago this Page
saw High Cross, its pick for the Metro-
politan, placed second instead of first
after he had had a clear lead over the
last furlong and a half. In the Epsom
on Saturday the experience was re-
versed ; Capris, The Bulletin’s outright
selection, was awarded the race on a
protest after she had been beaten a
“long” head by one of the Melbourne
candidates, Gay Lover.
In the Oro-High Cross affair there
was no actual interference: the stewards
upset the judge’s verdict because High
Cross, on hitting the front, had been
pulled to the rails before he was the
regulation distance in front. It has
always seemed to many that it was a
case for a substantial fine rather than
reversal of the placings ; certainly High
Cross would have been a warm favorite
had the race been run over again. But
over the last furlong the tiring Gay
Lover palpably interfered with Capris.
Cracknell, the mare’s rider—he got the
mount on Friday—is positive that had
there been no interference she would
have “won by two lengths.” And he is
a cool-headed veteran whose judgment is
greatly respected by trainers and brother-
jockeys. In any case, the honors were
with Capris. She started from No. 16
position, and for five or six furlongs was
well behind Gay Lover. He began from
No. 3 position, was never farther back
than fourth, and was second most of
the way.
It was an unfortunate start, five
horses—High, Dermid, Silver Standard,
Silver Jubilee and Loud Applause—far-
ing badly. Spearmeta, the rank outsider
of the field of 17, streaked away with a
good lead, but, turning for home, Gay
Lover and Capris were together, two
lengths clear of Irak and Black Laughter,
with The Marne next. While Gay Lover
and Capris were battling it out there
were cries of “Here comes The Marne,”
but he died away and Gay Lover, shift-
ing out and hampering Capris, scored by'
that “long” head. Prittle Prattle, who made
good time over the last furlong, but was
going no faster than the leaders at the
finish, was third, a neck away. Black
Laughter was an excellent fourth ; then
came Panax, On Parade and The Marne.
The time was lmin. 364 sec.
Capris was 40 to 1 on the morning
of the race, and that price could be got
on the course—this Page has heard that
50 to 1 was laid. H. V. Cooper, one of
the brothers who own the Maoriland-
bred mare (she is by Captain Bunsby —
Charis), had won the Hurdle with Alle-
viate (12 to 1), and put portion of his
profits on Capris, whose price firmed to
33 to 1, at which it stayed. The tote
(from which 124 p.c. and fractions are
deducted) paid £lB 19s. straightout and
£6 9s. for a place. The Marne was at
4 to 1 and Gay Lover at 5 to 1 ; it was
8 to 1 (Prittle Prattle) bar the two.
Betting on the protest was 4 to 1
Capris, but there was so much money
at that price that layers soon drew in
their horns.
The Epsom ■ was not the only race in
which there was trouble at the barrier. The
Derby start was delayed because Shake-
speare twice cast a shoe. Then Billy Boy
and others played up, and when Mr.
Gaxieu pressed the button Mala moved
to the left and Gold Rod —on the out-
side—to the right. Shakespeare was be-
tween ; he was squeezed down,, as it
were, and when Parsons got to his feet
after a harmless fall he saw Dr. Nigel
Smith’s colt careering after the field.
After going a few furlongs, Shakespeare
tried to jump a rail, and, though no
bones were broken, he was a considerably
shaken and distressed colt when cap-
tured.
After the Epsom and Derby experi-
ences, walk-up starts should now be in-
sisted on. Mr. Gaxieu is a capable offi-
cial—as he showed when he got 26 horses
away almost in line in the Kensington
Handicap; but there is far too much
tolerance on Sydney courses for refrac-
tory customers like High and Billy Boy.
Gold Rod was 7 to 4 on. A false
price, for he quite failed to stay. After
Knox had jumped Talking (10 to 1) away
first and then steadied him, Gold Rod
pulled his way to the front at the seven-
furlongs post. Knox wisely allowed Talk-
ing to drop in behind Gold Rod and
Mala (7 to 1), who went up fast, the
pair disputing the lead from the six fur-
longs to the top of the straight. Mc-
Carten made an effort to shoot Gold Rod
away, but Mala had him beaten at the
Leger. Then Talking put in his claim,
and, going on, he beat Mala by a length
and a half, with Gold Rod, dead-weary,
two lengths back, Custos a poor fourth,
and Rob Roy fifth. Time, 2min. 32^sec.
W. Cook, the rider of Gay Lover, was
on Mala. It was his unlucky day, and he
certainly made too much use of Mala.
Apparently he thought he had only Gold
Rod to beat.
Talking (Magpie—Society) is owned
by a Parramatta sportsman, Sam Cash,
and is trained at Rosehill. Papworth, who
selected Talking as a yearling and in-
duced Cash to buy him for 120 guineas.
Failure in the Rosehill Guineas and the
report of a bad gallop explained the long
price. At Rosehill, it transpires, the colt
wore hock boots for the first time. They
were discarded on Saturday.
Silver Ring was the solitary favorite
to gladden the followers of favorites
among the 63,000 people present. Eleven
to eight for the Spring Stakes, he was
ridden patiently until the last furlong ;
then he went on, to beat old Lough
Neagh and Sporting Blood comfortably.
High Cross ran an excellent fourth.
Sarcherie, after looking a winner at one
stage, fell back suddenly and finished
badly. She was galloped on, it seems.
Many winners of the Trial Stakes have
gone on to more important achieve-
ments. Rogerio (8 to 1) made light of
his Bst. 101 b. in Saturday’s Trial Stakes
and carved out 10 furlongs in 2rnin.
St. Globe and Grand Warbler
chased him home. Another 8-to-l shot
in Celebrate took the Kensington Handi-
cap, an excellent betting race. He got
up in the last stride to beat Autoland
(10 to 1) and Fireman (15 to 1), who
ran a dead heat. Heroic Faith, Disalto
and Speardale were well placed until
the last furlong. Goorka ran a sound
race, as did the Queenslander Verdun.
He finished fourth and may be worth
following.
Sydney had its first glimpse of Pamelus
in the Shorts on Monday. He is a plain-
looking customer, but he soon impressed
the crowd with his pace, being one of
the leaders over the first furlong, and
well up most of the way. However, he
had no chance at the weights and in his
then condition with Some Boy, who cut
down Cereza racing towards the home
turn and entered upon the final furlong
with the race won. Two three-year-olds,
Mark Antony and Korimako, followed
him, Pamelus being fourth. Cook rode
Some Boy—some recompense for Satur-
day’s disappointments.
A double of a sort very rare in Ihe
history of sporting journalism was com-
pleted when Young Crusader, coupled by
The Bulletin with Capris for the
Epsom, won the Metropolitan in hollow
fashion in time only quarter of a second
outside the record established by Crag-
ford (incidentally, also chosen by this
Page) in 1930.
Silver Ring was a late scratching, and
Sporting Blood and High Cross were the
favorites of the field of 19, both being
round sixes. Soft Step came strongly
into the market, firming to eights. Young
Crusader was backed spiritedly, and
towards the close of operations some
bookmakers had laid so much against
him that they would pot go on. How-
ever, 12 to 1 could be had in most places,
and ten minutes from the start a Bulle-
tin man got fourteens for his small stake
The tote (with 12| p.c. and fractions de-
ducted) returned better odds: £8 3s.
straightout for 10s. and £2 9s. for a
place. ,
In the run to the committee’s grand-
stand, Duncan, who is a very strong light-
weight, let his mount, briskly away, get
balanced. Then he took him to the front,
and after that “it wasn’t a race.” Spear
Prince did most of the chasing, but he
could make no impression on the chest-
nut in front. Young Crusader sailed into
the straight with a lead of seven or eight
lengths, and with Duncan keeping him
going he wound up the winner by five
lengths. Silver Standard passed a lot
of badly-beaten horses, and finished fairly
well. Old Lough Neagh was third; the
rest struggled in. Time, 2min. 43|sec.
Young Crusader is a big four-year-old
by imported Caledon—Bonnie Lady,
owned by W. “Biey” and trained for him
at Randwick by R. Brennan, who used to
be a jockey—he rode in Westralia, among
other places. Brennan is to be com-
plimented on the splendid condition in
which he turned out Young Crusader, and
Duncan is also entitled to a line for leav-
ing nothing to chance.
* # * *
Without any particle of doubt Lochlee
(Veilmond —Mooch Along) is the best
juvenile in sight so far as Victoria is
concerned. If there is anything faster at
Randwick he (or she) must be a wonder.
Backed down to 5 to 4 on for the second
division of the colts and geldings’ section
of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes at Flem-
ington, the colt fairly bolted away from
his rivals. Eased up, he scored by five
lengths from Sun Beau (Gay Lothario-
Lone Star), with The Card two lengths
farther off.
Lochlee, bred at the Widden stud, pos-
sesses many of the characteristics of his
sire, whom he favors in color, being a
dark brown. In three semi-official trials
on different courses Lochlee had cleaned
up all opponents. He has a bold,
machine-like action of galloping, and may
surpass Veilmond as a performer.
His colleagues on the Melbourne sport-
ing press envy W. G. (“Bill”) Hughes in
holding a half-interest in Lochlee, who
was bought by W. Balloch as a yearling
for 350 guineas. Hughes and his friend
Balloch raced In the Air with success last
season. Mooch Along, the dam of Loch-
lee, is by Linacre from Steelaway, by
Flavus from Destiny (imp.), whose dam
was own sister to the dam of an English
Oaks winner.
Andy Ferguson, who rode two succes-
sive winners of the Grand National
Hurdle in days of long ago, has done
well in Melbourne with horses belonging
to J. S. Brunton, of Sydney. He credited
J.S.B. with the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes
for fillies through the agency of Leader-
foot (Heroic —Spearette), a sister to Maid
of Orleans. Ena (Liberal —Kenna)
started favorite at 9 to 4 and finished
more than a length behind Leaderfoot,
about whom 10 to 1 was obtainable.
Kerrena, a daughter ‘of Marabou’s sire,
ran third at 100 to 1. She belongs to a
son of Leaderfoot’s trainer.
First division of the Maribyrnong
Trial Stakes for colts and geldings went
to W. R. Kemball’s Sunnymorn (Sieg-
fried —Enmity), who was bought in
M.L. for 110 guineas. Sunnymorn nar-
rowly defeated Barametric, a Baralong
colt on which Bob Lewis had the mount.
Lewis will be 58 years next month ; but
he is still vigorous and shows no disposi-
tion to hand in his jockey’s license.
Sunnymorn was a 9-to-4 favorite. He
has speed and grit, yet cannot be com-
pared with Lochlee.
Kemball has a huge string of horses in
Melbourne, divided between the stables
of W. Hawthorne and George Jones.
The former saddled up Barnum for the
October Hurdle, and saw his candidate
lose by half a head to Sarno (12 to 1).
Jones not only came to light with Sunny-
morn, but captured the Melbourne Stakes
with Prince Quex (3 to 1), a colt that will
take beating in the Derby. Revealing
splendid courage and stamina, Prince
Quex came from the middle of the field
to beat the Adelaide representative,
Counter Patrol, by half a neck, Petit
Fils, carrying the Phar Lap colors of
H. R. Telford, being l\ lengths farther
off. Kemball did not enter Prince Quex
for either of the Cups. Apparently his
intention is not to overrace the colt as
a three-year-old.
The Melbourne Stakes, hitherto run at
the V.R.C. spring meeting, had been sub-
stituted for the October Stakes, which
has passed out of existence. This change
was made in order to permit the L. K.
S. Mackinnon Stakes being installed at
the Cup fixture in memory of a man who
did much for the club as chairman.
Regular Bachelor and Bimilla carried 51b.
more than weight-for-age on Saturday.
Prince Quex claimed a 51b. allowance. He
shared favoritism with Regular Bachelor.
In charge just after entering the straight
Regular Bachelor faded into sixth place.
The form of Regular Bachelor was not
so disappointing as that of Conandale,
who commanded nearly as much support
as the equal favorites. Neville Percival
usually shines on a sluggish horse, but
this time he could not infuse the neces-
sary vigor into Conandale, who trailed
the field for half a mile and ended ut>
ninth —a miserable display for such a
prominent Cup candidate.
In a Cup connection the Stand Handi-
cap was the most illuminating event on
the programme. Bustard (a 3-to-l favor-
ite) swooped down on Chilperic after the
latter had taken control from Break Up
(5 to 1). Then Gay Circle, whose weight
had been reduced to 7st. 21b. by an
apprentice allowance, unwound a terrific
run. The judge declared for Gay Circle
by a head from Bustard, with old Chil-
peric only half a head farther off. Time
for the H miles (2min. 3sec.) verged
closely on Sylvandale’s course record.
Though unplaced, Donaster delighted
his Caulfield Cup admirers. The chest-
nut tried to force a passage on the rails,
but was frustrated. Yet he battled on
like a horse of high class, and evidently
is regaining the form that enabled him to
win the S.A.J.C. St. Leger and King’s
Cup so brilliantly in Adelaide last May.
Gay Circle, good on occasions only,
started at 15 to 1 and paid 22 to 1 in
the tote win pool.
Three years ago Bailey Payten won the
V.R.C. Cantala Stakes for P. H. Osborne
with Care Free, a mare by Magpie from
Valicare. It is on the cards that Payten
will land this year’s Cantala Stakes with
Siren, another of Valicare’s progeny.
Siren, who was sired by Salmagundi, led
from end to end of the Edward Manifold
Stakes, easily accounting for Yasmiri and
the 2-to-l favorite, Dame Chatter. At
9 to 2 Siren had strong support. The
filly has 7st. 51b. in the Cantala, and will
carve out a merry mile with that luxu-
rious impost. She set lmin. 38|sec. on
Saturday with Bst. 71b. up.
A crowd 74,091 strong saw Colling-
wood beat South Melbourne 11-23 to
10-18 in the V.F.L. final. It is ’Wood’s
eleventh premiership a magnificent
record.
(Continued on next page.)


m
mm
'~y^
~+S
CHAMPAGNE
S
REIMS
SEU'CTBO
S$TABtr$HBS t/Si
VINTA&ES
g
N.S.W. Agents:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
CRICKET
Sydney Cricket Ground
October 9,10,12,13,1936
BARDSLEY - GREGORY TESTIMONIAL MATCH
,f,*K
V. Y. RICHARDSON’S TEAM
D. G. BRADMAN’S TEAM
Y. Y. RICHARDSON’S TEAM.—V. Y. Richardson (Capt), S. J. McCabe, W. A. Brown,
A. G. Chipperfield, L. S. Darling, J. H. Fingleton, C. V. Grimmett, E. L. McCormick
W. A. Oldfield, W. J. O’Reilly, M. W. Sievers.
D. G. BRADMAN’S TEAM. —D. G. Bradman (Capt..), C. L. Badcock, H. I. Ebeling,
T. Leather, A. D. McGilvray, R. Morrisbv, L. P. O’Brien, R. H. Robinson, D Tallon’
F. Ward, E. S. White.
Substitute Fieldsman —K. Gulliver.
Play Commences at 11.30 a.m. each day.
ADMISSION
5 Outer Ground —Adults 1/6, Children 6d.
( Grandstand—Adults 2/4j| (plus tax lid.)* Children 1/..
H. HEYDON, Secretary N.S.W.C.A., 254 a George Street, 1 Sydney.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The Ross-Carroll match is off. From
the cloud of conflicting assertions the
fact has emerged that no money was put
up in America —though the public was
positively assured that it had been —and
the Ross party refused to come without
it- It is rather rough on Carroll, who
gave up portion of the little that remains
to him of his boxing career to resting
when he might have been earning good
money. But the Victorian has become
inured to disappointments, having suf-
fered many.
* * * *
At Leichhardt on Wednesday, Mickey
Miller tried to give too much weight
away—7|lb.— to a very promising young
local lad named George Elliott, and lost
the decision. He had Elliott down for
“seven” in the seventh round, but the
heavier though less experienced boy
came back pluckily and had decidedly
the better of the last five rounds. It was
a very interesting tussle, and it con-
firmed the impression that the feather-
weight class is very good.
* * * *
“T.”: Hugh D. Mclntosh has been
writing his reminiscences of boxers. They
are not nearly as interesting as Mc-
Intosh’s unpremeditated prattle about
pugs over the walnuts and the wine, and
they are padded out with stuff the
learned author must have read about
bruisers he never saw in action, among
them Kilrain and Slavin. He recalls that
John L. Sullivan came to Australia as an
actor with a company playing an atrocity
called “Honest Hearts and Willing
Hands,” and that the gallery used to jeer
at John because he refused to meet
Slavin. Actually Goddard was the man
it wanted John L. to fight, Slavin having
gone abroad years before. Sullivan pitted
FRANK McGRATH.
Sketched in a searching mood. Looking
for another Peter Pan, perhaps.
his sparring partner, Ashton, against God-
dard, who polished him off in a few
rounds. The Barrier champion would
probably have done the same to John L.
had he been given the chance, for he was
then a magnificent specimen of sto usher
who could give and take tremendous
punches, whereas Sullivan was bloated
and thick-winded after years of training
on beer.- Incidentally, Mclntosh when
a youth had ring ambitions himself, and
once signed up to box a certain Jack
Blackmore, who was knocking ’em out
in a round. Kind friends intervened.
ROBERT MILLER.
He owned Windbag, and would like a
horse half as good.
Ins and Outs
“Cassandra’s Husband”: At the risk
of being dubbed a nark, I am wonder-
ing whether our cricket fiends are justi-
fied in assuming that Bradman’s batting
will be as overwhelming this season as
it was before his illness in Britain. He
has played very little since then, and,
though he made one huge score of 357
in Melbourne against Victoria, that was
more than half his total for the season.
It is unusual for an athlete to make a
complete recovery after a bout of serious
sickness. No one would be more dis-
mayed than the writer to find that the
great batsman and good fellow had
dropped the form on which his fellow-
Australians so confidently rely in the
coming Tests, but bad luck is always
waiting round the corner.
* ❖ #
“Aigburth”: Though it will have only
one Test, Sydney C.G. will be the scene
of several big matches this season. In
addition to the Gregory-Bardsley benefit
beginning on Friday, N.S.W. will meet
England on November 13 and will
stage the match England v. an Australian
XI a week later. Then will come the
Test, starting on December 18, and a
second game between N.S.W. and Eng-
land. Squeezed in among that lot will
be three Sheffield matches.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The new stands at
Sydney C.G. promise to be ready for the
Bardsley-Gregory benefit, but there is
a long way to go and a long time to pass
before the long-overdue reconditioning
of the arena is completed. The inertia
of the trustees has been a heavy handi-
cap to the Cricket Association, and is in
striking contrast to the energy and
initiative shown by those of the Mel-
bourne C.G., which -is now, from the
point of view of the paying public, prob-
ably the largest and finest cricket ground
in the world.
jJj sk $ v
“Five Ways”: Queensland gets a flying
start in the opening Sheffield match
against N.S.W., which begins at Brisbane
on October 30. Fingleton and McCabe
will be playing against England in West-
ralia, while another Welsh star in Brown
will be playing for Bananaland. The
Northerners have perked up considerably
since their disastrous season last year,
and have high hopes of several new bats-
men and bowlers. One department they
bady need to improve is their slip field-
ing, which has lost them more than one
match in the recent past.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Satisfactory boarding ac-
commodation having been found, the
Queensland Abo. Protection Department
has permitted Eddie Gilbert to reside in
Brisbane long enough to take part in the
big games and, perhaps, the southern
Sheffield tour. The Q.C.A. finds him a
job as ground bowler at Brisbane C.G.,
but has defeated the main object of
Gilbert’s transfer by refusing to let him
take part in club cricket. The native’s
experience will be confined to bowling
at the nets, and the essential match prac-
tice which means so much will not be
permitted him —a characteristic bit of
Q.C.A. stupidity.
* * * *
The N.S.W. cricket year-book contains
all the features which made its prede-
cessor so indispensable as a work of
reference and many that are new, includ-
ing full details of the Australian XI in
South Africa. Test and Sheffield averages
have been brought up to date, and the
scores of the States in last season’s Shef-
field contests are given in detail. Harold
Heydon, secretary of the N.S.W.C.A., is
editor and compiler, and this book—
sixpence only—should be in the pocket
of everyone intending to follow the tour
of the English XL
Footbrawl
“Jolimont”: The Australian football
season has closed on a note of foul play.
Not only in the Australian and Rugby
League codes, but in Rugby Union.
In Melbourne tightening-up of control
is demanded. It is rightly urged that
umpires have more than enough to do
watching the actual play without being
expected to see dirty work, often done
when their backs are turned. In addition
to that, club delegates have their fate in
their hands. One practical suggestion
FRED WILLIAMS,
S ylvandale’s trainer —and Chatham’s in
other days.
deserves consideration —that stewards be
appointed to watch play from outside
the ground and report bad cases. But
such a rule would take a lot of getting
past club delegates.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Already, with the foot-
ball season unfinished, it is disclosed that
over 100 country players of promise have
been signed-up by Melbourne League
clubs for next season. Most of these
are on the books of the well-to-do clubs,
and though many of them will not get
a game they will not be available tor
hated rivals. Some way out is being
sought. One suggestion is that a l irmt
be put to the number of country playei s
signed-on by each club. Another is that
Victoria be divided into districts ar j~
one of these allotted to each League club,
which will not be allowed to poach out-
side its own boundaries. The catch in
this scheme is that districts like Bendigo
WILLIAM BOOTH,
The Rosehill Patriarch. He trains Fair
Diana.
and Ballarat are far more prolific of
budding champions than, say, some of
the outback mallee country, and the
scramble for first pick would be unedi-
fying, to put it mildly. Country clubs
and districts are, of course, up in arms
over the tactics of the Melbourne scouts,
but can do nothing.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: In spite of the big gates
some of them draw, even leading Mel-
bourne League football clubs have a job
in chasing the Alsatian from the front
steps. South Melbourne, one of the most
popular clubs, revealed the other day
that for the last six matches in the first
round it received only £2BO as its share.
As fielding the club side in these games
cost £796, there was a loss of £515. A
seeded draw is suggested as a remedy,
but some of the other clubs are bound to
kick at that idea.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Australian Rugby
team returned from M.L. with a dismal
record, having lost seven of its 10
matches. This is the worst ever, though
the 1931 side lost six and drew one out of
10. The disaster was not so evident in
the points scored, the side tallying 144
against 160. Most of the matches were
close, the only bad hiding being in the
second Test, when the All-Blacks bolted
to the tune of 38-13. Rankin top-scored
with 39 points, 12 goals from tries and
five penalties. Winger McLean notched
13 tries out of 23.
The Nineteenth Hole
Ferrier showed his best form since
his trip to England to hold his Austra-
lian amateur title in Melbourne. Favored
by the draw, which doesn’t allow for
seeding of the best players, he turned on
excellent golf to average 70L for the
eight rounds, sjfread over four days. Wil-
liams, drawn with Hattersley in the
first' round, was outed 4 and 2, and
Hattersley was beaten 1 up by Duffy
on the second day. M. J. Ryan went
((Continued on page 46.)


o
o
m
co
O
m
o
O
D
<
m
Z
co Z
to
> I
A Stirring Memory z
of the Battles of E
Peter and Rogilla E
At the Spring Meeting the Spring
Greeting was “Here’s To’ee” —and
the winner of the good health
stakes was out of Tooheys Bottle
by Grand Thirst . . .
llivij
CLUB LACER
TOOHEYS LTD. Standard Brewery, Sydney.
Agents:
VICTORIA— Goldsbrough. Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane. •
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—TJaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co, Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart—Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


HARVEST ECONOMICALLY
m
St'fe'vs-
"*• * '
mmr**. * :
Use the Efficient, Low-Cost, Powerful Fordson
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR - 26 H.P. ON BELT
(Testsby Mr.E. J.C.Rennie
Melbourne University)
The English Fordson, illustrated above, is
pulling a 10-foot Header in a 12-bag crop of
Free Gallipoli Wheat. With its ample reserve
power, the Fordson handled this heavy crop
with ease. Its economical fuel consumption
showed an exceptionally low cost per acre.
An ever-increasing number of farmers
throughout Australia are putting Fordson
Tractors to work they have proved that
Fordson increases profits by saving time and
money. The Fordson purchase plan provides
easy payments spread to suit your convenience.
FORPSON FEATURES:
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT . . .
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION . . . GOV-
ERNOR CONTROL. .. SPECIAL AIR CLEAN-
ING SYSTEM . . . CRANKCASE VENTILA-
TION . . . “HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER . . .
CLUTCH PULLEY . . . REAR END POWER
TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
The Lowest Priced Tractor per Horsepower
Fordsoiv Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &.
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williamstown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic.
POWER PLANT LTD., 93-100
Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
N VICTORIA)
FORD
MOTOR COMPA NY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD- (l C OJ3_P_Oj3_Ajr_£D_J.
F113.2T.T
Cruise to
NEW ZEALAND
in
NOVEMBER
R.M.S. Strathnaver
leaves Sydney, November 13th
Fares:
FIRST SALOON FROM 20 GNS.
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 GNS.
Free of Exchange
For Sale
For Sale, Cheap.
BARRIER REEF TOURIST
ISLAND.
LONG ISLAND, Whitsunday Passage, 2
houses, 5 double shacks, llOv. e.l. throughout.
Fully furnished and newly erected 1935. 35ft.
auxiliary launch, 4 boats, 3 acres orchard,
citrus and tropical fruits, 5 milking cows, riding
and harness horses, 400 acres richest soil,
wonderful safe anchorage and good beach,
spendid fishing, oyster beds and coral gardens.
Close to mainland, with good mail service. AH
steamers pass the door. Wonderful chance.
Particulars —
W. TRONSON,
Prosperpine, Queensland.
out then also, trounced by A. V. Rae,
8 and 7. Rae got through to the final,
but Ferrier didn’t give him a chance —
9 and 8. Ferrier is the fourth player to
win the title twice in succession:
Michael .Scott, Whitton and Sinclair
were the others.
Victorians fought out the final for the
Australian professional title, W. J. Clif-
ford winning 4 and 2 over Harris. Von
Nida, after showing splendid form early
—he had two 68’s against Mackenzie and
outed Sam Richardson—was beaten 1
up by Clifford in the semi.
* * *
“Hotham”: Queensland golfers, who
have been clamoring year in and out for
a championship meeting in Brisbane, col-
lected another black eye at the conference
in Melbourne of the Australian Golf
Union. That body considered this year’s
application, and told the fed-up Banana-
landers the same old tale —the applica-
tion was premature, but could be re-
newed next year. Sydney will have the
next meeting, and the Australian club
will stage it at Kensington.
“Sandy Gallop”: The fobbing-off of
a Queensland request for the next cham-
pionships to be played in Brisbane has
been traced to the adverse report of
the committee appointed by the A.G.U.
at the last Bananaland championships to
inquire into the suitability of Brisbane
courses. The greens up north were
specially objected to as being of blue
couch, whereas bent is all the rage on
southern courses. This does not
flourish in the Queensland climate, and,
anyway, the Bananalanders are ready to
swear on a stack of “Hansards” that
couch is better than all the bent in
creation.
“Hotham”: The annual meeting of the
A.G.U. in Melbourne decided to accept
St. Andra’s invitation to send a team of
Australian amateurs to Britain in 1938.
Australian amateur golf is of a high
standard to-day. In the Australian event,
for instance, Sarazen, playing super golf,
could only head Harry Williams by four
strokes, while Hattersley and Nettlefold
took third and fifth places.
Racquet and Bawl
Brookes, Clemenger and Robinson are
the new Davis Cup selectors for 1937.
The States are being consulted as to the
advisability of challenging, and if this
is done it is hoped the committee will
throw moth-eaten reputations to the
winds and go for young and new blood,
even if it does mean temporary failure.
“Nark”: N.S.W. tennis circles are in
a fine frenzy because the new Davis Cup
selectors are all Victorians. No one
questions the appointment of Brookes
and Clemenger, but the selection of
Robinson in place of Cliff Sproule, of
N.S.W., has enraged the Sydneysiders.
Robinson has an undistinguished record
in tennis ; Sproule has been a Davis Cup
performer, and his management of the
last Australia D.C. team was a pro-
nounced success. As a Sydney resident
he would have a better chance of esti-
mating N.S.W. form than the Mel-
bournites.
* * * »
The defeat of Perry by Donald Budge
in the final of the Pacific Coast cham-
pionships at Lost Angeles, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2,
6-3, was not unexpected by those who
realised how narrowly Perry had won the
American title from the Californian at
Forest Hills. The winner was on his
home courts, but these are said to have
suited Perry’s game. Budge looks like
blossoming into the next world’s cham-
pion, if he is not in that class already.
“Cut .Shot”: Perry is still maddening
the tennis prophets by refusing to come
to a decision as to professionalism. The
Tilden circus has raised its offer to
£25,000, but the Londoner is said to have
visions of becoming a movie star. He
would be wise to take that £25,000, which
is only for a term. Picture stars make
bigger money, but there is nothing to
suggest that Perry has the makings of
another Clark Gable.
* * * *
Henri Cochet’s tour of the world under
the tegis of the French Government has
brought the ex-champion a comfortable
job. He will supervise the tennis depart-
ment of the Ministry for Sport and
Leisure, which will pay special atten-
tion to shoving the game along and de-
veloping young players.
* * * *
The Australian tennis authorities have
at last got a reply from their Yankee
opposite numbers declining the invitation
to Mako and Budge to visit us this
season. It has always been difficult to
get American players to come this way.
The Tilden-Vines trip is still in the air,
and so is that of a Japanese team.
Miscellaneous
“Cash Amateur”: It has been sug-
gested in some quarters that Maoriland
may appoint J. E. Lovelock to a Gov-
ernment job in charge of sport, recrea-
tion and physical culture. Lovelock is
a medico, and thus has additional qualifi-
cations. The only catch is that the
acceptance of such a paid appointment
would make him a professional. As he
has announced that his match over a
mile at Princeton with America’s cham-
pion amateurs will be his. last appear-
ance on a running track that should not
greatly bother him.
* :j! * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The Australian ama-
teur athletic heads are inviting two
American track athletes to come over in
January, Jesse Owens being specially
asked for. It seems certain that Owens
will be over here, but as a professional,
Melbourne interests having offered
big sum to race in the so-called world s
championships.” Among his opponents
will be his Olympic cobber Metcalfe,
who lost no time taking to the paid game
when Berlin was done with, Eddie Tolan
and Austin Robertson. It is reported
that Owens signed a contract to appear
in an athletic turn on the vaudeville
stage on his return to the States, which
in itself would make him a professional.
* * * *
“Splash”: N.S.W. swimming control-
lers had a dream of hiring an American
swimming coach to revive the game in
the Ma State ; then a hint was dropped
that such an expert would want £2OOO
a year, and the scheme went up in smoke.
However, a comprehensive coaching
scheme may be started, with local experts
to push it along. A central depot will be
established in Sydney and the most pro-
mising swimmers mustered there lor
tuition. Something will have to be done,
anyway, if our waterfolk are to have a
chance against visiting swimmers in the
1938 Empire Games in Sydney.
* * * *
“Long Rest”: Marshall, of Westralia
(B. 30/9/’36), won the amateur billiards
championship at Adelaide, beating Bull
(N.S.W.) by 2502 to 1166. The N.S.W.
and Queensland billiard authorities
instructed their men to play under pro-
test, as they do not consider the question
of Marshall’s amateur status has been
satisfactorily settled. They argue that,
as Marshall is now eligible to appear for
Australia in the Empire tourney at
Johannesburg, there should be no pos-
sible doubt about his amateurism in case
that is called in question when he reaches
the Rand.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: Victorian rowing has
lost its president: Justice Starke is retiring
because he has not time to devote to the
association’s affairs. His successor will
be Stephen Morell. The new chairman
has been connected with rowing over 40
years, and has been president of Mer-
cantile club for nearly 30. A fine oar
in his time, he rowed for Victoria in both
fours and eights, and was also a sculler
of note.
,** * *
“Chukker”: As to polo champions
(B. 23/9/’36), Argentina has pretty well
established its right to the title. Its team
won the title at the Berlin Olympiad,
and has followed this up by beating the
U.S.A. on its own ground at Meadow-
bank 8-4 —first time the Yankees have
taken the knock in international polo for
22 years.


4. >
mm
C
H
I
N
E
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Represented
,es: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD.. Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
JOHN HEINE
; 5Y D N E Y
cHr-ZQLn-p*
ff-«
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Tennant Creek and Canberra
An undated prospectus (if “prospectus”
it can be called) carrying the name of
Mammoth East G.M. Syndicate has
come to hand. It bears no printer's im-
print. An address—“Tennant’s Creek,
Central Australia” —is given, but applica-
tion for shares must be made to A. A.
Mcßobie, secretary and trustee, 12
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
No directors are mentioned ; there is
a “management committee”:
Maurice Boyce Duffy, director of Com-
monwealth Bank of Australia.
Thomas Leahy, Hyde Park, Adelaide,
S.A.
James Patrick Dunn, ex-Senator, Broad-
way, Sydney.
Arthur Henry Waghorn, 6 Vivian-street,
Bellevue Hill, Sydney, engineer.
Information regarding the syndicate's
objects and the property is dealt with
in 20 lines in the prospectus. There is a
26-line reprint of a newspaper story
touching on other claims on the Tennant
Creek field, also 22 lines of “extract”
from a report attributed to W. J. Turner
on lease 509 A, and made to Eldorado
(C.A.) G.M., Ltd. It is not a report on
the syndicate’s lease.
Mammoth East is interested in lease
No. 738, of 40 acres “or thereabouts.”
The relevant part of the prospectus car
be quoted in full:
(1) The objects of the Mammoth East
Gold Mine Syndicate, which is formed for
the purpose of inter alia acquiring, de-
veloping, operating and disposing of a
gold-bearing lease No. 738, consisting of
40 acres or thereabouts in the Blacks’ Re-
serve, which has lately been resumed by
the Commonwealth Government for mining
purposes. It is situated at Tennant’s
Creek, Central Australia.
(2) To acquire other options or proper-
ties, either by taking them up or buying
the vendors out, with the object of dis-
posing of same or of forming subsidiary
cos.
Resume of Mining Operations at
Tennant’s Creek.
This syndicate has an option over 40
acres of an area at Tennant’s Creek with
great possibilities.
The information received by us is such
that it warranted the formation of a syndi-
cate.
It might be mentioned that this lease is
adjoining the Mammoth Gold Mine, which
is owned by a very solid group in Mel-
bourne whose shares, paid to Is., are now
quoted on Melbourne Stock Exchange at
buyer 3s. 6d., no sellers. This co. will be
crushing inside the next month, when it is
expected that these shares will go to a very
high figure.
Nominal capital of Mammoth East is
£3750 in 750 £5 shares. The public is
offered 340 shares, 160 shares go to the
vendor, and 250 are held in reserve.
Details of the vendors’ contract, or a
definite statement of the full considera-
tion, are not in the prospectus.
“Information” which “warranted the
formation of a syndicate” should find a
place in the offer to the public. Also,
“it might be mentioned” that as Mam-
moth G.M.’s crushing proceeded the
Is. 6d.-paid shares sold at 2s. 9d. last
week.
The syndicate is not a registered com-
pany. Applicants must apply for shares
“upon the terms and conditions endorsed
on the share certificates,” and must agree
to be bound thereby. The terms and
conditions do not appear in the pros-
pectus, so that rights and liabilities are
uncertain until a share certificate comes
to hand. Accompanying the prospectus
which reached The Bulletin office (it
was not obtained direct from the co.)
were two leaflets printed in similar body-
type, on similar paper (gold-tinted). No
printer’s or company’s name appears on
them, but they refer to Tennant Creek
goldfield. Each bears a heading in half-
inch type, “Australia’s Commonwealth
Parliament, Canberra,” followed by
what looks like a photo, of the Parlia-
mentary buildings; then, in one case,
some jumbled information about the
“Aerial, Geological and Geophysical of
Northern Australia,” and in the other:
Broadcast Address by the Prime
Minister for Tennant’s Creek £lOO,OOO
Celebration.
The Prime Minister and “Australia’s
Commonwealth Parliament” should look
into the matter of these leaflets and find
out who is responsible for them. They
might also take up the question of
whether the name of a director of the
Commonwealth Bank should be allowed
to appear on a goldmining prospectus
the information in which is inadequate
as regards the property and the constitu-
tion of the syndicate.
“Now, now, little Trevor must not get angry or Cholmondeley will have
to chastise him!"
Mandated' Alluvials’ Meeting
In Sydney on Friday shareholders
heard addresses by E. W. Bonwick and
R. Dermer Smith, both qualified min-
ing men. Mandated Alluvials shares
have been the most actively traded
in recent mining history. Bonwick’s
report earlier in the week and garbled
versions of it in Pitt-street were
chief factors in causing a fall in the
shares from 295. on Saturday, Sept. 26,
to 13s. on Thursday, Oct. 1. That is
discounting the effect of any over-optim-
ism which may have previously existed ;
fancy prices of themselves tend to bring
sharp falls, until a falsely low price is
occasionally placed on a stock.
Some shareholders at the meeting en-
deavored to ascertain the true worth of
their holdings by questions, and the
most useful of these were put by Ralph
King, a sharebroker. In part answer,
Bonwick said the outlook at the present
stage was promising.
This authority referred to a prob-
able synclinal ore-body (the inference is
that it is like a coal seam) possibly ex-
tending as a stratum through a hill. It
consisted of a bed of slates impregnated
with sulphides of copper and iron, and
perhaps other minerals with which gold
is associated. As a prospecting venture
the outlook was “extremely favorable” ;
but this opinion was qualified by the
fact that development to date, though
remarkable for the labor entailed, had
entered only a portion of the edge of the
body, the westward continuation of
which had still to be proved. Material
in a fault (there were a number of faults
in the area) had assayed 2|dwt., and if
the chemical deposition of gold had
occurred in the fault material at the
same time as in the lode, the chances of
picking up values again after passing
the fault were favorable.
It was announced by the chairman
that drilling across the assumed ore-
body (1000 ft. by 400 ft.) in accordance
with Bonwick’s advice would be carried
out. Some shareholders naively asked
what the total value of the ore in the
show was. H. J. Ault, a mining man,
sought the opinion of Bonwick or Smith
on the proposition as a whole. He was
not supported, nor was such opinion
offered.
The mine manager’s assays (which
average around 15dwt. on the Sapphire
section) were corroborated by Bonwick.
His assertion that the adits had fol-
lowed the lode rather than crosscut it
—an apparently false impression of width
had been previously gained by some
shareholders —has been the chief shock
to the market. Winzes have indicated a
vertical width of from 12ft. to 15ft. Bon-
wick suggests that it will take nine
months to prove the property in present
circumstances.
Trading result of Greater Union
Theatres, Ltd., and associates for the
year to June 30 last was a profit of
£15,895—a drop, due mainly to losses on
the film-distributing side, attributed to
establishment exes, in connection with
the marketing of new British films. The
market for the holding cos.’ scrip is the
sickest for some time.
X X X X
The general body of the new N. S.
Wales Companies Act will come into
force on January 1, 1937, and accounts
of public cos. presented thereafter must
be in accordance with statutory require-
ments. Reserves (such as contingency
accounts) will have to be separated from
other liabilities, and fixed assets distin-
guished from floating assets. Investors
will await with interest the splitting-up
of
Sundry creditors and provision for con-
tingencies
in Queensland Insurance Co.’s accounts,
and a similarly-worded item in Bankers
and Traders’ sheet. Bellambi Coal’s
Mine, jetty, railways... .freehold lands,
steamers... .investments, etc.,
may also dissect interestingly. A lot of
capital has been returned out of this
item. Hetton Bellbird, another coal co.,
has for years taken the bun with
Property, plant, stores, debtors, invest-
ments, stocks and cash,
and
Debentures, bank, creditors and taxation
and contingency reserves.
Steamship cos. domiciled in N. S. Wales
will have to rearrange their figures also.
* x x *
It was indicated here six months ago
that Carlton and United Breweries, the
operating co., would lift its div., and that
Carlton and other holding cos. would
pass on the increase to the public. A
12 p.c. distribution came along from the
chief holding co. in August, and the
market is growing more appreciative of
the position. Carlton scrip was up to
645. last week. It sold at 535. 6d. in
May.
* * * *
Wheat was somewhat quieter in all
markets last week. Bagged wheat receded
to ss. 2d. at Australian ports. It is still
a profitable figure to the grower, and is
making a great difference to trade in
wheatgrowing areas. Producers’ and
General Finance Co., which (as Cran-
wells) bought the residuary assets of the
Primary Producers’ Bank, is noticing the
beneficial effect in its collections.
* * # *
With electrolytic copper up to £44 10s.
last week—the record price of recent
years—Mt. Lyell shares were keenly
sought in Melbourne, and there was
more than usual activity in Sydney and
Adelaide. The financial year closed on
Sept. 30. It has been a vastly improved
twelvemonth for the co. on the mining
side, and returns from chemical invest-
ments should be up also. On an output
of 13,500 tons- a year, every lift of £1
sterling a ton in the metal means an
extra 1 p.c. in revenue on Lyell’s capital,
and as a profit on mining was shown in
1934-35 the rise of over £7 (stg.) a ton
in the metal during 1935-36 should mean
additional mine profit of nearly £120,000
(Aust.), subject to any additional exes,
incurred by the water-shortage or low-
grade ore policy.
& X if X
The widening between the prices of
pref. and ord. shares, anticipated here a
year ago, is becoming more s marked.
David Jones second prefs., 31s. 6d. 12
months ago, are now at 295.-305., while
(he same co.’s ords. have lifted from 41s.
to 495. 3d. in the period—they touched
51s. at one stage. Earnings for the term
just closed were 20 p.c. on ord. capital.
* * v =!=
Cash Orders (Amalgamated) scrip
weakened early last week following
stories of a proposed reduction in the
discount received from retailers. Then
there was a recovery. The co. should fare
no worse as regards discounts than other
concerns in the business, and earnings—
-22 p.c. on average ord. capital last term,
after paying the prefs.—though they may
be less spectacular in the immediate future
as a result of the proposed outlay on
freehold premises, should still warrant
good divs. provided business conditions
don’t slacken and competition doesn't
take the cream off profits. Bad debts, on
the board’s report, seem amply provided
for, and that is most important.
* * If. X
Cumberland Paper and Australasian
Paper shares yielded 5.2 and 4.5 p.c. re-
spectively at last week’s prices. Both
are largely interested in Australian
Paper Manufacturers, and both have
maintained their ord. div. at 8 p.c. The
Cumberland Co. has a smaller interest
per ord. share than A. P. and P., but
the difference scarcely justifies the width
between quotes.
* * -t *
In Melbourne last week:
Cocks Pioneer (Eldorado) disclosed a net
profit of £4494 for the year to June 30, as
against £13,031 in the previous 14 months.
Poorer ground was responsible. In the co.’s
first period 576,236 yards produced 38700 z.
gold and 51.8 tons tin concentrates (values
17.7 d., costs 9.4 d.). In the latest term 774,415
yards was put through for 35220 z. gold and 39
tons tin cons, (values 11.35 d., costs 8.22 d.). Pre-
viously-worked old ground brought values
down.
Cox Bros. ords. rose to 755. 6d. following
favorable announcements at the general meet-
ing.
Gordon and Gotch ords. sold higher at
51s. 9d.
Mammoth (Tennant Creek) contribs. sold
at 2S. 9d., after 2s. 6d., and the paids changed
hands at 2s. sd.
Central Nell Gwynne (Bendigo) scrip
rocketed to 58s. on the buying of several
thousand shares. Wattle Gully (Chewton)
shares were also keenly sought. Morning Star
(Wood’s Point) was steady at 3s. 9d.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Ex-Mrs. Bradford”
In the vein of “The Thin Man,” but
lacking some of the high finish of that
Powell-Loy achievement. The lady this
time is Jean Arthur, divorced wife of a
great surgeon (William Powell). She
writes crime mystery stories, and has done
her best to turn her ex-husband into a
detective—hence their estrangement. She
turns up again at the opening of the
story, with a process-server and a sum-
mons for arrears of alimony, but that’s
only an excuse to see her ex-husband and
Myrna Loy in “The Great Ziegfeld,”
at Sydney St. James.
interest him in the mysterious death of
a jockey who falls dead while riding a
heavily-backed favorite, thus allowing
rival horse to win at 4to 1. Ex-husband
is loath to go sleuthing, but is jambed into
it as the only means of escaping a murder
charge against himself. By having a
cinema record made of all that happens
to the jockeys in another race in which
vast sums are at stake, he arrives at the
identity of the murderer and the method
employed. That’s the framework of the
plot, but of more importance is the
comedy with which its ridiculous ribs
are covered. Jean Arthur finds a quasi-
Gracie-Allenish part congenial, Powell
wins many a chuckle with his wisecracks,
and a cast that includes Eric Blore, Ralph
Morgan, Lila Lee, Robert Armstrong
and James Gleason gives the solid back-
ing that makes the most fantastic hap-
penings seem feasible. At Sydney
Regent.
“The Bride Walks Out”
This is the one about the young wife
who wanted to go on with her job so
as to add to the income, but whose hus-
band put his foot down. Barbara Stan-
wyck is the bride, Gene Raymond the
bridegroom. She simply can’t live on
the 35 bucks a week he earns as a sur-
veyor, and neglects to pay the bills. When
the furniture is seized her wealthy
admirer (Robert Young) buys it back and
replaces it so quickly that hubby doesn’t
find out. But to pay back wealthy
admirer bride goes to work surrep-
titiously. Husband finds out, and makes
to walk out, but bride beats him to it.
Finally they are reconciled. Gene Ray-
mond puts up a good character study of
an impulsive, hot-tempered, sanguine
young man; low relief is provided by
Ned Sparks and Helen Broderick as a
married couple, and Robert Young gets
amusingly blotto. But the plot is trite,
the action drags and he Sparks-Broderick
combination is wasted on poor parts and
silly dialogue. At Sydney Regent.
“Two-fisted Gentlemen”
Provided the standard of entries was
low enough, the plot of this boxing film
might win a competition for scenario
writers aged ten. It is incredibly fatuous.
Further, the acting is mostly poor, and
the masterpiece labors under the added
burden of mediocre direction.
James Dunn gives up serving ham-
burgers in a Bowery hash foundry to be-
come a pug. June Clay worth, daughter
of a gym. owner, appoints herself his
trainer and manager, and while he is
tottering around in a mental fog after
his first fight she wallops him with a
marriage certificate. Matrimony inspires
James to a series of k.os., until a real live
1910 Theda Bara type “sassaity” vamp
fastens her pointed and painted talons in
him. Thereafter he frequents leather
lounges and ingurgitates cocktails with
the vamp, while his poor loyal wife sobs
broken-heartedly at home, surrounded by
butlers and footmen. Then, fed up, she
bolts, but unfortunately not out of the
film. Pug starts sliding down the pugil-
istic ladder until, as .soft as a tropical
jelly, he can’t fight his way out of a
paper bag. Vamp then cynically drops
him cold. He goes down and down,
but: scorns the riches of his now success-
ful fight-promoting wife. In a melo-
dramatic climax that isn’t meant to be
comic she inveigles him into her office
and goads him with having a saffron
streak. Roused, the noble fellow lashes
into a prospective opponent waiting to
sign up, upon which sign of his stout
spirit his spouse repents.
June Clay worth as a trainer-promoter
is about as convincing as Archdale Park-
hill would be as an Olympic hurdler.
James Dunn has one or two moments
when his likeable grin shines through
the murky mists of banality, but he
seems bowed down with the hopelessness
of the thing. The one bright spot is a
ding-dong all-in go at the last. At Sydney
Capitol.
The Case of the Velvet Claws
It is questionable which mystery in
this film is the greater —the one Perry
Mason, attorney-detective, solves, or the
reason for the title, which remains in-
soluble.
In a wildly melodramatic opening
Perry (Warren William), about to corn-
William Powell in “The Great Ziegfeld.”
mence his honeymoon with Della (Claire
Dodd), is thrown five G. as a retainer
and ordered away at revolver point by
a millionaire’s wife. The rest is a com-
plicated jumble of blackmail, murder,
clues, motives and deductions, with the
usual boneheaded police and the brilliant
amateur detection of the attorney, cul-
minating in the unmasking of several
villains and the departure of Mr. William
and Miss Dodd on the belated honey-
moon.
An attempt has been made to capture
the spirit which made “The Thin Man”
so successful, but the William-Dodd
combination flies on a lower level. At
Sydney Capitol.
Nat Pendleton as Sandow in “The
Great Ziegfeld.”
“Sutter’s Gold”
An American excursion into history on
the lines of “Rhodes of Africa,” the hero
being Captain Sutter, discoverer of gold
in California. How much of it is history
and how much romantic imagination can
only be guessed, as there are more
legends than facts in Sutter’s biographies.
Edward Arnold (who, by the way, looks
a lot more like Rhodes than Walter
Huston did) represents the gallant cap-
tain —at the outset as a simple-minded
Swiss soldier, tootling a flute in pubs to
cadge beer. In risk of an accusation
of murder, this penniless, characterless
vagrant (who has an extensive family)
takes ship to the United States, where,
speaking fluent and faultless English, he
soon establishes himself in partnership
with another drunken vagrant, Perkin
(Lee Tracy), as a prosperous store-
keeper in the Middle West. His imagi-
nation fired by stories of the wonderful
climate and crop-raising exploits of Cali-
fornia, he resolves to go there. The jour-
ney must be made by way of Hawaii,
where Sutter and Perkin are shanghaied
by a slave-ship captain bound for South
America. Sutter, with but slight aid from
Perkin, captures the ship, lands in Mexico
with 270 Sandwich Islanders and is im-
mediately granted as much land as he
can gallop round on a horse in seven
days. Thereby gains a vast territory
(most of southern California —this was in
1837), but, having no capital, can’t de-
velop it. Then discovers gold. Im-
mensely rich and powerful, he listens to
a siren (Binnie Barnes) and forgets the
little things he left behind him in Switzer-
land. His character changes; from a
noble-hearted idealist he becomes a mega-
lomaniac and later a silly old fool.
Nemesis robs him of his wealth.
It is in the latter part that Arnold’s
qualities as a portrayer of character
have some scope, but even his abili-
ties are unequal to the task of mak-
ing a living being out of a bundle of
fictional inconsistencies. Tracy does his
best with a mildly comic part, and the
rest of the cast put up a good struggle
against glaringly improbable situations.
Neither good history nor good romance.
At Sydney Plaza.
“Two in a Crowd”
A rather dull essay on the companions-
in-adversity theme, plus a reminiscence
of Mark Twain’s “Million Dollar Note.”
A down-on-his-luck racehorse owner
(Joel McCrea) and an equally hard-up
would-be actress (Joan Bennett) come
into possession each of one-half of a
thousand-dollar bill and agree to share
it. They, together with a jockey, com-
mandeer the house, stable and business
of a rheumatic fuel merchant (comic),
and after about an hour and a half the
favorite romps home, and Mr. McCrea
and Miss Bennett embrace each other
ffervently. Best feature of this effort at
Sydney Plaza is the arrival of those
blessed words “The End.”
“Small-town Girl”
Delightful romance in which plenty of
ebullient comedy and a little sound
drama have been skilfully mixed, with a
pinch of farce to make it effervesce.
Though of considerable length the film
completely dodges dulness. It opens with
Kay Brennan (Janet Gaynor), a country-
town girl, caught up in the excitement
of a Yale-Harvard football match when
a wealthy young doctor (Robert Young)
whisks her, a perfect stranger, off to the
celebrations in his car. Fuddled with
champagne, and having had a row with
his fiancee, Priscilla (Binnie Barnes), he
knocks up a J.P. in the early hours and
weds the country lass, she in love at
first sight and eager to escape from rus-
ticity. Then, still half shot, he drives
the car into a ditch, where they perfectly
respectably snooze till morning.
They go home to his parents and face
the music, the tune of which is that
they will stay married for six months
and then get a divorce so that the young
doctor may return to his broken
romance. The consequent comedy on
the “honeymoon” aboard his father’s
luxury yacht and when they’re setting up
house, Kay meanwhile endearing her-
self to her temporary husband’s family,
then Priscilla’s return from Europe and
a battle of wits between the two women,
and so. forth, makes, as done, excellent
light romance, with, of course, a very
happy ending.
Janet Gaynor is daintily appealing;
Robert Taylor splendid, particularly in
the early carnival bits; Binnie Barnes
and Lewis Stone also tip-top. At Sydney
Mayfair.
Some First Nights
Sydney’s “Music Week” of 1936 earned
itself at least one clear title to a niche
in Australia’s musical history by the
performance, under Dr. Malcolm Sar-
gent’s baton, of Verdi’s Requiem Mass.
This is a work over which storms of
Edward Arnold as Sutter in “Sutter’s
Gold,” at Sydney Plaza.
controversy have raged. Indignant' Ger-
man pedants have compiled lists, running
into the hundreds, of its offences against
harmony and counterpoint; ecclesiastic
critics have complained that it is as
secular in style as any opera. The
objections are of little weight. Verdi
wrote melodies for the people, not Gre-
gorian chants. He took his religion
simply and straightforwardly, and scored
his Mass in his own style because to do
anything else would have been insincere.
Delivered under the guidance of such a
conductor as Sargent, with an adequate
orchestra, a large choir (four organisa-
tions contributed their best singers), and
soloists of the calibre of Dorothy Helm-
rich, Thea Philips, Lionello Cecil and
Raymond Beatty, the work charmed a
large Town Hall audience as much by its


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1633 of 1936.
BETWEEN KENNETH THOMAS BURT
Petitioner
And LILA PEARL BURT Respondent.
TO LILA PEARL BURT (formerly Lila Pearl
Brown) formerly of Broken Hill in the
State of New South Wales Married
Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KENNETH
THOMAS BURT has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse wil-
fully deserted him and without any such cause
or excuse left him continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appeal ance to this suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twenty-second day of December One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six AND in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitors free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of Septem-
ber, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-sjx.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JOHN R. EDWARDS, SON & BROWN,
Solicitors for Petitioner, 281 Argent Street,
Broken Hill, N.S.W.; by their agents, CUR-
TISS, DEZARNAULDS & EDWARDS, Solici-
tors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 353 of 1936.
BETWEEN GRACE ADA DOAK Petitioner
And ANTHONY FRANK WISEMAN
DOAK Respondent.
TO DOROTHY THOMPSON.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
GRACE ADA DOAK has filed her petition in
the Supreme Court of New South Wales pray-
ing for a divorce from her husband ANTHONY
FRANK WISEMAN DOAK on the ground of
his adultery with you She alleges that he com-
mitted adultery with you between the Twenty-
seventh day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-five and the Tenth day of
January One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
six at Sydney in the State of New South Wales
This notice is given to you so that you may
have an opportunity to apply to the Court to
be let in to defend the charge if you so desire.
A copy of this petition may be obtained at the
office of MESSRS. A. C. BOYLE & CO.,
Solicitors, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney, free of
charge on application by you.
DATED this 22nd day of September, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. B. PHILLIPS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Kendal, Street, Cowra.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading . Enthusiasts.
For details see this weeks issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St
’Phone: BWI2IB
YOU DON’T
AN ENGLISH
UNTIL YOU DRIVE THE
KNOW WHAT
CAR OFFERS
1936 VAUXHALL BIG SIX
Hi:
Mi
m
&
m
4
a
'
Here is what the
Motoring Editor of an
important Australian
Newspaper records in
a timely article of
interest to thousands
of motorists whom the
Tariff Revision is caus-
ing to think of buying
an English Car.
“Steadiness on the road—absence of fatigue—fast speeds on steep climbs—
-75 m.p.h. held comfortably—brakes very good—2l m.p.g.—NOT THE LEAST
OF THE ATTRACTIONS THE PRICE.”
Here are just the barest extracts from
the motoring editor’s enthusiastic
report of a run in the Vauxhall Big Six.
“The first sensation when piloting
the car at speed is one of steadiness
. . . The general behaviour of the car
was* an assurance that even after a
dawn to dark trip there would he a
welcome absence of driving fatigue
. . . One appreciated the value of the
full safety transmission . . . The third
synchro-mesh gear can be engaged by
a mere flick of the lever, and enables
very fast speeds on steep climbs . . .
Without extending the engine fully.
75 m.p.h. can be held comfortably
. . . The semi-servo mechanical brakes
gave a very good account of them-
selves, equalisation being so good it
Was difficult to distinguish front frpm
rear tyre marks . . . Petrol consump-
tion 21 m.p.g. ... a gratifying demon-
stration ... In assessing the value it
must be recalled that the Big Six is
provided with a high quality Holden
body with Safety Windscreen, No-
draught Ventilation, and it has acces-
sible jack pads, pedomatic starting
and automatic lubrication from the
engine of all chassis points . . . Not
the least of the attractions is the price,
which is competitive.”.
27 H.P. BIG SIX
See and drive the Big Six and you’ll
do more than endorse this motoring
editor’s report; you’ll say he was
conservative.
[Note. —Vauxhall is the most favour-
ably priced English car in Australia.
The proportionate difference between
its English and Australian price is
less than half that of the average
English car.]
GENERAL MOTORS-HOI.DEN’S LIMITED
GM-H “Air Chief” Car Radio.
Ask about the new two-unit GM-H “Air Chief”
Car Radio! 9-valve performance with 6 valves
(including one double-purpose and one triple-
purpose valve). Price £27 (plus Sales Tax).
Any Vauxliall dealer can install.
U 18338
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
vigor and fire as by its tenderness and
sweetness. It was a great occasion, and
when the choir, astonished at its own
prowess, added to the plaudits of the
crowd a spirited rendering of “Freeza”
in honor of their conductor and some-
body bestowed a laurel wreath on Lionel
Lawson, first violin, the audience realised
that all present had been uplifted on
wings of song to exceptional heights.
•J* •5*
“Joanna,” a musical play of local
origin and interpretation, is enjoying a
successful season at Melbourne King’s.
Mrs. Harold Clapp wrote the piece, pro-
duced it and plays one of its most im-
portant character parts. Alaric Howitt
wrote the music, for which Harry
Jacobs’s orchestration is effective. Jennie
Brenan’s well-trained ballets and the
kaleidoscopic effect of the dresses (with
a large chorus leaping in and out of
several changes of costume) are strong
points.
The story commences in New Orleans,
where Joanna, of the Waterfront Inn, is
seen by an entrepreneur and given a
stage job in New York, later returning
to her home town in time for Mardi
Gras and cabaret festivities. Mrs. Geof-
frey Smith dances gracefully and wears
some elaborate costumes as Joanna.
Aviator hero, Paul Northey, has a
pleasant but untrained voice; Gordon
Peart uses his vocal cords with better
skill, and Magda Bauncia, still a student,
sings with a true ear and genuine feeling.
Rene Murphy Moyser provides a wel-
come spot of real technique with a
comedy sketch at the Melody Theatre.
Supporting her adequately in the same
wardrobe-room scene are Mrs. Louis
Nelken and Alice Jeppy, the latter the
possessor of a genuine American accent.
Athol Coleman makes up well and is
sound as the owner of the inn.
Mischa Kogan, who appeared at the
Kelvin Hall, Melbourne, last week,
played his viola in a room hardly more
satisfactory acoustically than it is
for human beings to spend an
evening in. Yet Kogan captured the
interest of a houseful of listeners. The
Delius sonata was lacking in distinction
but gave the instrument its full issue of
technical problems. Kogan was most
persuasive in a sombre little chanson by
Jean Hure, and most brilliant in a
fantasy by Paul Rougnon. The best
music of the evening was heard in the
lovely “Symphonie Concertante” of
Mozart, in which Kogan’s viola was sup-
plemented by a violin in the admirable
hands of Hyman Lenzer and by the
piano under Elsie Fraser’s supervision.
The trio were in admirable agreement
over a work which is packed with beauty
to overflowing. This is said to have
been the first viola recital ever held in
Melbourne, and it was eminently suc-
cessful.
•J* 4*
Samuel Shiffron, the young pianist who
made a good impression at a previous
recital, deepened it at his concert at the
Melbourne Assembly Hall last week. It
was a severe test he set himself in the
Beethoven Sonata, Op. 101, in A Major,
which the composer, since it was written
during his deafness, never heard. It was
played with a respect which suggested
that the pianist knew he was interpret-
ing one of the greatest works of the
musical imagination. He allowed his
technical facility full play amidst the
riches of the Opus 31 Sonata, No. 3,
there was nothing to complain of in his
Bach, and his Chopin was more than
usually pleasant to listen to. ■ Three
pieces by the local songwright Linda
Phillips, set to poems by the author of
Ulysses, found a medium in the
soprano of Irene Bennett, which was used
with considerable artistry, though too
high-pitched for present commentator’s
liking.
•b ■
Edna Ferber and George Kaufman’s
“The Royal Family of Broadway”—a
satire allegedly aimed at the Barry-
mores—is the current offering of the
Independent Theatre, It kept a first-
night Sydney Savoy audience chuckling,
The head of the family, Fanny Caven-
dish, good-tempered, infirm and old,
basks in the glory of her past triumphs;
her brother Bert has also passed his
prime, but doesn’t know if; daughter
Julie is a star at the zenith ; son Anthony
is also a star, with temperament
and a high-and-mighty manner; grand-
daughter Gwen is on her way to fame.
Their devotion to the stage is like a
religion. Fanny is disturbing all by
threatening to go on tour once again,
Bert is on the verge of a reappearance
and a flop in a play written by himself,
Anthony is fleeing from a vamp and a
director he assaulted. Gwen is contem-
plating matrimony Julie has everybody’s
worries and a stolid admirer on her
nands. ...... ,
. The representation of the nerve-rack-
mg activity, the conflicting opinions and
divided loyalties of this family is such
that by the end of the second act it
. ... • . . j
seems that nothing but a mass desertion
of the boards and a going of five
separate ways will save the lot from
strait-jackets. But the Cavendish clan is
, j J t .
hardy, and has weathered worse storms.
The third act finds them free of outside
entanglements, and more devoted than
ever to their profession. The excitement
, j Ju i a „
dies down, and the play ends with a
spot of pathos-—the death of Fanny.
The authors have made excellent use
of their material, and the actors did them
credit. Jean In,less, who is Mrs. Victor
Jory, wife of the visiting Hollywood actor
in the part of Julie displayed most poise.
William Gates was enjoyable as
. , f
Anthony, a role which called for dash
and grace. Mary Hosking faithfully in-
terpreted the character of Fanny. As
Gwen, Marguerite Cullen-Ward was
almost what she should have been, and
William Rees was sound as the futile
uncle. Alfred Race care and thought
into his playing (he always does)
and Clive Coppard, Althea Glasby,
Colin Peebles and William Leahy gave
good support. Doris Fitton was the
producer.
~~ ' , „
The art of writing easy but effective
music lor the pianoforte has not been
rn uc h cultivated in Australia, but a Mel-
bourne woman journalist, Dolly Stewart,
has bad a whang at it and has achieved
great success. Her work Teddy Koala s
Music Lesson, a senes of bright, attrac-
bv? little pieces of slightly progressive
difficulty, just issued by Allans, is real
children s stuff, though written clever y
an d with grace. Ida Rentoul Outhwaite
garnishes the pages with appropriate
sketches of koalas at play and m repose,
An excellent two-shillmgsworth.
p the Postmaster-General, “to cor-
rect false impression as to the con-
ditions associated with the delivery of
tel ms in Haberfleld on Saturday
afte f noons and Sundays - (“e.H.M.” B.
I J.. ' .
This office remains open until 6 p.m.
on Saturdays, and messages are dispatched
with the usual expedition from the chief
office in Sydney, by telegraph, no porter-
a S® fees being exacted. Alter that hour
and on Sundays the volume of business is
negligible, and there would, of course, be
n o justification whatever for the retention
of operating and delivery personnel. In
order to ensure continuity of communica-
tion service over this period, however,
an y telegrams for delivery are dispatched
from the chief office by the most econbmi-
cal means, and, as in all such cases
throughout the Commonwealth, a small por-
-sTa„tpo?e! “coK? S ‘ST&SS
made by your correspondent, there are no
official archives in which urgent telegrams
,or Haberfleld or elsewhere are stored up
over the week-end. Provided the required
transport fee is paid or guaranteed, he may
rest assured that delivery will be effected
with a minimum of delay.
The “most economical means” and the
“small porterage charge” are not speci-
fled. Neither, of course, is the size of
the Post Office surplus in 1935-36.


&
S 5
/1
$
<5
&
|<j, •; j : w ■!j|j
&
*
lin
as
<S
«
&
fig
*
$
&
«
o
V
mm
Si-
. . . then the only
hotel that can offer
you this is
”THE WENTWORTH"
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comlortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Cords are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
DRIVE OUT
RHEUMATISM
AND BACKACHE
London Doctor’s Prescription.
Don’t suffer crippling Rheumatic pains or backache
when you can get instant relief from Dr. Harrison's
Pills ! This remedy immediately gets to the root of
the trouble by ridding the system of the cause—uric
acid. This uric poison is slowly, day by day, break-
ing down your health, causing ageing back, limb,
joint and muscular pains, and probably weakening
the heart. Harrison’s Pills quickly and effectively
free you from the danger by dissolving and driving
from the system the uric acid crystals now making
comfortable’ life impossiDle for you. Why wait until
you become crippled, mentally and physically? Your
very brain refuses to do its best while you are
tortured by the uric acid fiend. Get genuine relief
once and for all *. . . take Harrison’s Pills to-day and
regain vour old sparkle, activity and youth. Harri-
son’s Pills end the pain and the cause! Any good
chemist or store can supply Harrison’s Pills in three
sizes: 18 Pills, 2/-; 32 Pills, 3/-'; 68 Pills, 5/-;
thus providing the least costly form of proven relief
from uric acid, rheumatic, kidney and bladder pans
and disorders to be had in this country.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Women with charm, women with style
and women as expensively dressed made
the official stand their starting point at
the spring meeting’s opening at Rand-
wick on Saturday. The back of this
stand might have served a modern /Esop
for a fable about the bees and the butter-
flies. In the ring the bookmaker bees
were filling their honeybags, buzzing and
bumbling, while the gay little butterflies,
spotted and striped, in pollen-dusted
pinks and blues and lilacs, fluttered and
clustered, enjoyed themselves, and unin-
tentionally worked for the hive.
Possibly October could produce a
better day, but probably it never has.
Blue sky, gold sun and a cool breeze
ruffling along the front of the stands
made the proper setting for the chiffons,
the sheers, the wide straw hats, the wis-
taria mauves, the misty pinks that are
half the charm of Sydney in the sun. it
was ideal, too, for the soldier lads from
Randwick. Down close to the rails on
the lawn before the members’ stand they
sat applauding while Talking snatched
the Derby and Capris and Gay Lover
fought out the Epsom, though, like half
the course, they probably had a bit on
Gold Rod and The Marne. “Well,
we got a run for our money”
is soldier philosophy. The Gover-
nor-General and Lady Gowrie didn’t
forget the men from Randwick. They
paid them a visit half-way through the
afternoon.
The tunic ran riot. It was worn in
white by the Governor-General’s lady.
Hers was of white crepe, glinting with
crystal buttons and finished with a black
scarf. Her skirt was black ; so was her
satin straw hat. In the Admiralty House
party were the Hon. Anne Vanneck.,
General and Mrs. Anderson, Pat and
Maud de Pledge and the Captain Brace-
girdles. Mrs. Anderson seemed to have
plucked a bit of the sky for the jabot of
her navy suit and the flyaway bow on
her wide hat. The Hon. Anne swung a
pleated skirt' to her navy-and-white
spotted crepe suit. The dark shades of
blue had quite a run with this group.
The State vice-regals brought a party.
It was Lady Anderson’s first afternoon
at Randwick. Her raiment was black
with touches of white. Rosemary de
Sausmarez wore a white silk dress with
a scarf neckline and shoulder sleeves.
As skirts grow shorter hats grow
wider. It’s the sex’s idea of the balance
of power. Large hats in natural straws,
an occasional and altogether lovely Leg-
horn, hats in thin exotic straws that
showed a Mexican influence and rolled
up from the temples ; black hats, demure
and drooping or slantingly provocative—
all were there. Once again the pic-
turesque quality of the white frock and
the black hat was proved. White shoes
are again worn ; so is the toeless sandal.
Black taffeta frocks with little puffed
sleeves are in ; so are fluffy necklines and
blouses. One girl wore collar and cuffs
of cobweb-fine Teneriffe wheels on her
black silk suit.
Helen Hughes brought her father, a
very large and drooping sapphire straw
hat and a white frock to add to the
gaiety. Mrs. John Bruxner was radiant
in green-and-white linen and a big let-
tuce-green hat. Navy and pale del-
phinium blues were wed in Mrs. M. F.
Bruxner’s bolero suit. Midge Nelson’s
fine Panama had an upward roll; her
tailored frock was of mesh linen in
natural tones. Mrs. Harry Meeks’s frock
was lilac and her small hat had a tulip
facade. Mrs. Lionel Dare’s chiffons
glowed like some tropic garden. Her
very large hat mingled summer sky blue
and lilac. Mrs. Hans Fay’s taffeta frock
had a short tunic, was amethyst in tone,
and was worn with a white felt hat with
an upcurled brim. The John McKelvey
lady wore the slimmest of ankles, a
demure black crepe frock and a large
natural Baku hat with a crown of black
velvet outlined in tiny field flowers. Mrs.
Anderson Stuart’s white sandals had
flowers painted on the toes. Mrs. Frank
Paul’s shoes were in fabric of spotted
beige.
Miss Agnes Williamson’s cornelian coal
was softly belted in green. Patsy and
Noreen Dangar were there; so was Joan
Marks. Philippa Stephen looked cool and
right in a crepe frock patterned in green
and beige. The Pat Osbornes, Rosalind
Macarthur Onslow, the McMasters, the
Charles Lloyd Jones couple (her frock
combined blue-grey and London tan),
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, Mrs. W. Par-
sons, Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre, Mrs. Toby
Brown, Mrs. Harry Dransfield (in black
and white), Mrs. Hal Capper, Mrs. Tom
Rolin (happily backing Capris because
she’s so fond of Capri) were others of the
smartly dressed.
“Shore” Grammar being now 50 years
of age, the Old Boys’ Union has decided
to create a jubilee fund which will mature
to the tune of £50,000 in May, 1939. The
jubilee Ball that threatens to overflow
the Paddington Town Hall on Friday
night will add a few gold ingots to the
coffers. Sue Westhorpe, of this Dayne
photograph, is one of the girls’ committee
giving a hand. Barrister Richard Keegan
is secretary.
Expensive on the doorstep and senti-
mental in the billiard-room were the
flower offerings of the Australian Club
on Saturday. Orchids were presented to
every woman on the threshold, and on
the billiard-tables, were scattered pansies
for thought. Of course there were a good
many other things on the tables. Every-
thing good in the way of savory and
sandwich met the eye hungry from Rand-
wick. From the red-and-white strioed
awning over the entrance, money had
been no object. Flowers were twined
even about the clock opposite the main
entrance. The soft green of the elm
flower garlanded the handrails of the
stairway. At its foot was a massed effect
of gladioli, stocks, roses and lupins. The
bonbons on the tables wore sprays of
flowers, and there was One enormous bon-
bon made of brown pansies. If you
looked down into the heart of great nose-
gays of pink and red roses and del-
phinium, you’d surprise a coy posy of
buttercups or primroses hiding there.
Both sets of vice-regals came to this
party, and on their table were posies of
buttercups and primroses. Queening it
over them was a doll with old-world
spreading skirts of red carnations, pink
stock, sweet-pea and blue delphinium.
Lady Gowrie took that home with
her in addition to a posy that held pink
hyacinths and blue tulips. Lady Ander-
son’s flowers were blue and gold iris.
The Kelso Kings were there : so was Mrs.
Victor White, the blue of her scarf nearly
matching the shade of Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s
striking outfit. Enid Riddle came with
her banker father. The Garnet Hallo-
rans, the Justice Maxwells and Philip
Street’s wife were glimpsed in the chang-
ing groups. Mrs. Halloran’s wide natural
Baku hat had a latticed crown. Roslyn
Bowman was smart and young in navy
and white.
Mrs. Dan Carroll was one of the sec-
retaries for St. Vincent’s Ball. This was
one of the dance successes of last week,
although Sydney gasped in the clutching
hand of the sudden heat-wave. Mrs.
Carroll, who is slim and fair, wore a
frock that suggested Iceland poppies. It
was of orange marquisette over mag-
nolia cream satin. This photograph is
from Raymond Sawyer.
Lord and Lady Gowrie were at this
ball for St. Vincent’s Hospital, also 900
others. Consuls came, and the orchid
which Sydney has adopted for its flower
these past weeks was there in regal
splendor. Lady Gowrie’s amethyst
crepes were sashed in silver. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, the ball’s president, was
handsome in rose satin, her frock having
a panel front of crystal embroideries.
With the vice-regals came three girl
guests at Admiralty House, the Hon.
Anne Vanneck and Patricia and Maud
de Pledge. Of the Consular ladies, Mrs.
Elink Schuurman wore the coolness of
green, and Mrs. Carlos Zalapa (her hus-
band is C.-G. for Mexico) a Mexican
scarf brilliant with horizontal stripes
against the blue of her chiffon frock.
Miss Kate Egan was dignified in black
velvet. Alicia Inglis achieved the seem-
ingly impossible, and looked cool in rose-
petal pink. Italy’s Consul-General Vita-
Finzi came with his attractive little wife,
who wore a fringed black shawl with her
black frock. Mayoress Parkes was there
with her alderman husband. The Earl
of Ranfurly and Flight-Lieutenant Moir
also attended.
If you expected masked Dulcineas to
greet you at the Music Week Ball you
would have been disappointed. The
girls had decided against the masks. The
affair was a great success, with Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, in coral-pink satin, and
Mrs. Ferrari Passmore, in gold lame, re-
ceiving the debs. Ethelwyn Kirk was in
sea-green velvet. Mrs. Fiaschi’s satins
were in tones of bronze and green and
she wore one armlet of pansies and one
of tulips. Josephine Marks presided
over the hamper which she had arranged.
Her frock was of delustred black satin
sprayed with silver. Nathalie Rosenwax,
whom musical Sydney is going to miss
when she settles in England, wore green
orchids on her Tudor-red taffetas, Flor-
ence Bennett, in the Ernest Lashmar
party, wore an unusual stiffened white
organza frock. This was shirred from
the waist to below the hips, spreading
thence to a corded hem. The waist was
finished with a wine-colored sash, its
ends cascading to the hem of the skirt.
Add Vern Barnetts, Charles Philips,
Arnold Motes, Bryan Maxwell (a stal-
wart of the Week), Baintons, Dr. and
Mrs. Smallpage, and color with a Bur-
lakov-Lightfoot ballet and a glitter of
dancers. The Blaxland galleries were
the setting.
Leaving the large and gaily-striped
tea marquee on the lawns below, this
Letter had a great time sleuthing around
Gloucester House and the nurses’ pre-
liminary training school with Dr. E. L.
Morgan and Mrs. Morgan. He’s the
man who tests bloodstains to see
whether they’re human or animal, the
Sydney equivalent of Bailey’s Mr. For-
tune. Gloucester House, rubberised from
the hall door, is a pleasant place wit
•windows that run from ground almost
to the ceiling. All the rooms open on
'.o balconies. All have wireless sets, ana
if a patient has hands bound up a wire-
less pillow is provided. Telephones, too,
are at the disposal of those who want
them.
Sydney has followed London and now
calls its surgeons “Mr.” Mr. Herbert
Schlink's operating theatre is carried out
in a scheme of rich blue. This shade is
not, as one tactless woman called it,
“butcher blue.” It is two tones lighter.
The covers are blue, the walls are black.
He likes blue because he says it is sooth-
ing. Forgot to ask whether the nurses
in attendance had to have blue eyes. In
the training school the pros, have at
least four life-size figures of babies and
women to play with. In the room where
the bandaging is demonstrated, two legs
and two arms were stuck out of a stand
in the most macabre ballet-like pose. At
the end of the room there was a head-
to-hip figure of a man. Perhaps because
it was visitors’ day he wore his singlet.
“Very chaste” was a doctor’s remark.
Color was splashed into Music Week
by Clement Hosking’s Folk-song Choir.
The choir’s costumes brought blues, reds,
greens and golds to a stage that got a
variety of effect from hangings of orange
and black, ft sang “Cherry Ripe” and
“The Lass with the Delicate Air” and
such old airs with the right feeling for
this eighteenth-century music. When the
English folk dancers were tripping it
merrily o'er the lea, the background was
mostly black, the yellow curtains being
drawn to each side. The vivid green of
the dancers’ frocks and the bright yellow
of their smocks stood out like the bril-
liant spring fields of England.
Gwen Selva, in shawls as bright as a
parrot’s flight and a variety of lace head-
dresses, sang songs of a Spain that
knew neither Fascism nor Communism.
There were sea songs and the sweet
and tenuous music of the dulcitone,
played by Mrs. Sterling Levis. Mrs.
Gilbert' Graham was there, and Mrs.
Ferrari Passmore, the Week’s organiser,
who hovered between the choir at the
Savoy and the Con., where the Cazabon-
Ellwood-Sverjensky trio made rich music.
Mrs. Fiaschi and Charles Philp were
others who gave a hand.
Just unpacked, Charlie Bryant’s paint-
ing of the funeral procession of King
George V. now hangs in his exhibition.
The artist, who is a member of the
Savage Club, had the privilege of sketch-
ing this from the cftib’s premises in Carl-
ton House Terrace. It is a view of the
procession coming through the Mall led
by the Gentlemen at Arms, followed by
the Yeomen of the Guard. The Lords
of the Admiralty and the princes are
among the figures, so desolate against
the green of St. James’s Park. Further
off can be seen Westminster Abbey, the
Houses of Parliament, Big Ben and the
Admiralty.
Scarcely had the moving notes of the
“Libera me” melted on the air when the
choir that had taken part in the Verdi
“Requiem” shattered the atmosphere by
heartily carolling “For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow.” As a testimony of goodwill it
probably pleased Dr. Sargent, but it
must have been a sort of thumbscrew
to his artistic sensibility. This was the
most stirring of all the Sargent musical
triumphs. Lady Gowrie, who must have
known every note (she had slipped in to
several rehearsals), was in the audience.
Her trained frock was of black and
silver. With her was the Hon. Anne
Vanneck in a fluffy black net frock
through which came the gleam of violet.
Black-and-white was added to the sub-
dued color scheme by Mrs. A: T. Ander-
son, and black by Mrs. Tyrwhitt. Thea
Philips and Dorothy Helmrich were the
soprano and mezzo-soprano soloists.
Dorothy’s frock was a deep tone of
lilac with long floating shoulder scarves
of palest lilac.


£ess Ocean (o
EUROPE
Two whole days’ smooth sailing
down the sheltered St. Lawrence ...
1,000 miles of fascinating shore line.
Then a speedy and comfortable
Atlantic crossing ... a revelation in
luxury . . . personal service ...
cuisine . . . novel shipboard amuse-
ments. Rates suroristns’lv low
Illustrated literature and all details
from any Tourist Booking Agency or
World’s Greatest Travel System
59 WILLIAM STREET - MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY 14.6.7
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
‘‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide,
Personal and Missing Friends.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE ALBERT EDWARD GEORGE TOOMBS,
late of 31 Berry Street, Wickham Terrace,
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland, de-
ceased, intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be the next-of-kin of the above-
named ALBERT EDWARD GEORGE
TOOMBS, deceased, who died at Brisbane on
the Twenty-second day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-four, and particularly the
widow of the said deceased, or any person or
persons claiming through her,are hereby required
to forward proof of their relationship to THE
PUBLIC CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND,
Brisbane, Queensland, on or before the Thirty-
first day of March One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven, and after the expiration of
the aforesaid date the said THE PUBLIC
CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND will proceed
to distribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, having
regard only to the claims of which he shall then
have had notice.
DATED this Thirtieth day of September,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
Youth Missing from Home Since May 22.
BERNARD RODE WATSON, 16 years, about
sft. Bin. in height, has a fair complexion, fair
hair, blue eyes and is of a quiet nature. When
last seen he was wearing a navy-blue suit, with
a pencil stripe, and a cardigan. Anyone know-
ing his present whereabouts kindly communi-
cate with MRS. WATSON, Pine Street,
Bulimba, Brisbane, Queensland, or nearest
Police Station.
PERCY CASHMAN, formerly of Wellington,
New Zealand, last heard of from Western Aus-
tralia, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Wellington, New Zea-
land.
Melbourne
Chatter
The A.B.C. held a reception at Menzies
for Dr. Malcolm Sargent soon after his
arrival from Sydney by ’plane. Dr. Sar-
gent showed no signs of travel wear ; his
eye was keen and his step light as
he mounted the platform for a brief
address. Herbert Brookes made the in-
troduction in a speech in which he de-
clared the A.B.C. to be as “pure as ice
and chaste as snow” (or is it vice versa ?).
The party did not take place in the usual
cocktail habitat, but in three-quarters of
the main lounge, curtained off for the
occasion, the extra amount of space very
welcome in our spurt of warmer weather.
Tallest among feminine guests was
Mrs. Staniforth Ricketson in a tailored
suit, its only frivolity a white gardenia.
Mrs. Raymond Lambert’s hat flew a
chin-length veil, and lilac flowers were
perched high above her brow. Laura
Brennan’s hat was small and black, its
origin somewhere away back among
Dutch bonnets. Prof, and Mrs. Wood,
she in navy blue and silver foxes,
Frederick Mann and his lady, the T.
Tunnecliffes, the Town Clerk and Mrs.
Wooton, and Prof, and Mrs. K. H. Bailey
also figured in the affair.
The big surprise about the opening of
the Vic. Artists’ spring show was Mrs.
Louis McCubbin, who walked in un-
heralded, looking beautiful as ever, with
two lovely orchids and impeccable white
kid gloves. She is in Melbourne for a
fortnight only, and came on to the show
after a visit to her future god-daughter
Janet, the then two hours’ possession of
the Malcolm Dickens pair. The Lord
Mayor opened the exhibition, and he and
Mrs. Wales were taken on a tour of in-
spection round the galleries by the John
Rowell couple. Among those present
was Mrs. Douglas Copland, receiving
congratulations as proxy for her hus-
band on his Harvard degree.
Some of the women wore hats and
others trains, and dressing for the men
varied from tails and white ties to tweeds,
Bob Hamilton being among those who
favored the latter. The Herbert Hookes
were there, and Mrs. Russell Martin, in
a fur coat and a little black hat, depu-
tised for her judiciary husband. Mar-
garet Reed, the English cookery expert,
was noticeable for her Eton crop and her
little white bunny cape ; she has a talent
which she keeps for her friends’ enter-
tainment, being an excellent mimic of
Gracie Fields and able to put over any
North Country dialect. Another equally
short coiffure belonged to Mrs. Pate
Edwards, of Launceston, who, with an-
other Tasmanian, Mrs. Guerney Wright,
was taken to coffee at 10 o’clock by
Betty Bryant and Aileen Dent. Gljmpses
were caught over sandwiches of Dr. and
Mrs. James Booth, the Stanley Smiths,
John Taylor’s iron-grey hair, a wine-
coJored frock under a fur coat worn by
Mrs. Alan Ross, and of Edna Thomas,
tall and slim in black.
On Saturday Melbourne newspapers
showed no obvious signs of hangover in
spite of the fact that lots of the people
who helped to produce them also man-
aged to attend the Journalists’ Ball. It
was a costume affair, and some disguises
survived the evening without being pene-
trated. Members of the debutantes’ set
(for debs, who came out any number
of years ago) had rehearsed their minuet
and gone through painful stiffness at the
knees through low curtsies and then
found their preparations all awry when
the band played the wrong music. The
masculine half of the set wore evening
shirts with tails outside little shorts; the
feminine portion wore white sateen
dresses with evil-looking purple sashes,
daisies in hair and smug arum-lilies in
each left hand. The “Mayor,” in scarlet
robes and clanking chains of office, and
the “Mayoress” (to whom the debs, had
curtsied), in much padding and a-jingle
with sequins, gave the set a grand finale
by riding round the room on a tandem
bicycle.
The Victoria League, at No. 9, gave
one of its rare receptions. It was in
honor of Miss Gertrude Drayton, who
for the last 20 years has been president
of the league in London. General
Bruche’s lady presented members to Miss
Drayton, who stood up to over 300
handshakes with wonderful stamina,
especially considering the sudden heat of
the warmest day we have had for six
months. Lady Huntingfield, Miss Dray-
ton and Professor Winifred Cullis met
once more around the table of special
guests: the two overseas visitors, both
of whom are able to attach C.B.E. to
their names, had visited G.H. on the
previous day for luncheon.
Pictured below by Broothorn is Mrs.
R. Teague, a member of the ticket com-
mittee of the Spring Ball to be held at
the Palais on the 14th in aid of Y.A.L.
funds. Before her marriage Mrs. Teague,
who was Nancy La Roche, had consider-
able experience in Y.A.L. work, travel-
ling with the girls on tour to Tasmania
and taking a hand in musical comedy
with the “Youth arid Laughter” produc-
tions.
A number of young women on the
Spring Ball committee have worked for
some years in the interests of the Y.A.L.
Ruth Browne, hon. sec. and organiser of
the ball, has more than once climbed
gangways and boarded trains in the dark-
green frock and long lemon-lined cape
which the chaperons, often as young as
the girls, are expected to wear on formal
occasions. Also on the ball committee is
Mrs. Ragnar Lundqvist, who before her
marriage was Mary Sharp, a competent
young lecturer and organiser for Y.A.L.
functions.
Melbourne society continues to pack
the King’s for an extended season of
“Joanna,” the event of the social season.
The show is beautifully dressed. In the
first act the feminine population of New
Orleans wear all manner of colors for
their short playsuits wrapped over with
button-up linen skirts. The revellers at
the Mardi Gras are in fancy dress, and
a prelude to a white-and-silver ballet is
given by eight in frocks of white chiffon
flying over white satin appliqued with
bunches of pink roses.
Mrs. Geoff Smith, who played the
lead, makes her entry to the Melody
Theatre dressing-room in a curvilinear
garment of black tulle over tights and
spangles ; another of her drapings is a
full-length gown of white satin carnival-
striped in royal blue, lined with tur-
quoise and worn with an enormous collar
of white oilcloth and a pompom hat of
scarlet tulle. Moira Madden, as a French
girl, sticks to the Frenchwoman’s liking
for black, and a trio of crooners, Gwen
Hutchings and Joan and Judith Allen,
put their heads together round the mike
first in scarlet and white beach suits and
later, for “Polar Nights,” in Eskimo all-
overs. Noticed in the chorus of 50-odd
were Mary Stephens, Joan Purnell,
Yvonne Atkinson, Fay Stoddart, Gwenda
and Moira Byrne and Joyce Hayden-
Smith.
The foyer on the first night was a
crush and din, with everybody Jalktng
at once and nobody making any move to
leave the outer region for the inner
theatre. A committee of sellers of
flowers, sweets and programmes disposed
of their wares in spite of the fact that
nearly every woman already had her
evening's flowers. The warmth of the
night was not an appetiser for choco-
lates. An amethyst cloud of chiffon was
worn by the president of the organising
committee, Mrs. Charles Cunningham.
The length of a spray of orchids away
was Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot, supervising
the sales of marshmallows. Among other
helpers who assisted in pushing the bank
account over the £4OO-mark of the first
night’s worth of seats were Mrs. Vivian
Wilshire, in a silver sheath with frangi-
panni in her hair; Joan Philp, with a
coralite-rust coat over her silver-threaded
blue gown ; Alicia Bernard Hall, in black
stiffened net and camellias in her hair;
Peggy Churton, in azure-blue ; and Pat
Wallis, with pink roses growing at the
neck of her flowered-chiffon frock. Janet
Moran slipped in and out of the crowd in
flounces of white ninon and a little white
fur cape.
Harold Clapp kept well in the back-
ground, but was buttonholed by con-
gratulatory friends in the upstairs foyer
during the interval. Among relatives of
the cast who applied early for front
stalls seats were Louis Nelken (whose
wife played a character part) and Mrs.
Fred Dennett (whose husband acccom-
panied Alaric Howitt in a two-piano
number). Black net draperies in the
front row belonged to Mrs. Val Mc-
Donald. Mrs. Munro Robinson looked
distinctive in black velvet and pearls, and
Mollie Hocking was lost to the ears in
the soft fronds of ink-blue ospreys.
Herewith a Broothorn portrait of Pat
Rees, who, with her parents, G. A. and
Mrs. Rees, and sister Nancy, is back
from a trip to Japan. Although
the girls eschewed hats and stockings
for four months it was not all a carefree
holiday, for father was a seriously-ill
man in Tokio. He has nothing but good
to say of the hospital, St. Luke’s, the
fine building and plant of which were
a Rockefeller gift. A small number of
American sisters work side by side with
the Florence Nightingales of Nippon.
Pat lived in Japanese fashion for a few
days at Chiba, where she was the guest
of some of the Japanese nurses. She
ate Japanese food, slept on the floor,
shared the mosquito-net of the little
nurses and swam night and morning in
the midsummer heat. She said that her
Japanese acquaintances (some of whom
spoke fluent English) lived in healthy
holiday spirit, laughed a lot, talked,
walked and swam and shoo’d away
swarms of local children who were
attracted by the advent of a foreigner.
Tourists are never seen at Chiba.
Cecil Kellaway was in his brightest
mood in the last act on the opening night
of “The Maid of the Mountains.” With
his heart “a raging fire of desire” he re-
fused to be General Malona any longer
and was all Cecil to Gladys Moncrieff’s
clarion call of “When You’re in Love.”
At the final curtain, with no apologies
and a brighter gleam than ever in his
eye, he said that this was the first time
in his long stage career he’d played
opposite Miss Moncrieff. At 7.55 the
few people who had arrived were look-
ing up their programfnes to see if by
any mischance the show was billed for
8.15; but first-night audiences are
notably tardy. The theatre was packed
to the last seat when the curtain rose
only a few minutes late.
In the audience little white fur capes
were tremendously popular. Mrs. W. M.
Robbins wore hers over a black net
gown and Mrs. Chas. Wenman hers with
black chiffon. Mrs. Hylton Dale (already
being farewelled for her trip abroad) was
in honey-colored satin with fur orna-
mentations. Mrs. R. R. Thomas wore
olive-green crepe with a scattering of
gold sequins. Mrs. Herbert Journeaux
was in flowered satin, and daughter
Betty had flowers piled high on the top
of her head. Strella Wilson’s gold cloak
went over a color chord of blue gown
and lilac sash. Mrs. Alan Mac Kay wore
blossom-pink, and Peggy Tait exhibited
a long flowing-from-the-shoulders wrap
of ethereal white tulle. Hec Green was
there, walking very tenderly as a result
of his two-inch heels on the previous
night at the Journalists’ Ball, for which
he had put silver leaves in his hair and
called himself a herald.
The Lower Town Hall is not the
easiest place in the world in which to
stage a dance recital, but Joan Henry’s
ingenuity smoothed away many of the
difficulties for her programme of the
Absolute Dance. Miss Henry has studied
several methods of dancing. In her
system she approves of grace without
violence, and of barefooted technique,
but she does not teach her pupils to
dance on the points of their toes.
Her only solo was “Argent,” an ex-
hilarating thing, performed in a silver
costume. Mary McKinnell, whose hands
and arms are fluently expressive, danced
two Eastern pieces in draperies of gor-
geous colors. Margaret Murray’s long
hair flew in a Chopin Scherzo. To
Arnold Bax’s music Mavis Walker told
the story of the hopes and disappoint-
ments of a ragged urchin. Bobbie
Burns’s mime was “Going to the Fair”
in a clopperty-clopperty cart. The only
groupings were “Plainsong,” an eccle-
siastical piece, and “The Persians,” done
in masks. Both were very colorful, the
former intense and ritualistic, the latter
charged with energy. Miss Henry has
acquired a clever technique of colors,
There were no props for the mimes, but
the lighting effects helped.
Professor Winifred Cullis, a highly-
educated, deep-thinking and broadminded
Englishwoman, has eaten only breakfast
by herself during her stay in Melbourne,
luncheons, dinners and teas being served
to her by a variety of organisations as an
invitation to speeches. Professor Cullis
has a grasp of the educative systems of
several countries, and is already on the
way towards knowing all about this
country’s. She is much in favor of ex-
change between countries not only of
teachers but of medical graduates,
librarians, curators of museums, etc. She
sticks to her guns in favor of examina-
tions, and considers that, although the
system has its flaws, it is suited to the
majority of candidates. Referring to the
increasing notice taken of vocational
guidance tests in England, Dr. Cullis
mentioned useful results obtained. A
large percentage of young people psycho-
tested and advised on the jobs best suited
to them have most successfully retained
those jobs.


&
H
i
o' 1
m
%
m
c
u
n the Season’s Smartest Colours . .
FORD V-8 is now on display - styled for
Spring. Your local dealer cordially
invites you to see these beautiful V-8
models in new colours - the fashion of the
moment in London, Paris and New York.
Interiors are finished in harmonising shades.
The Ford V-8 Spring styles bring even
greater beauty and refinement to a car
already famous for its many fine car
features: Safety Glass all round. All-Steel
closed bodies. Super-Safety mechanical
brakes. Easy steering and gear changing.
Centre-poise riding comfort. And the
exclusive Ford V-type 8-cylinder engine.
Ford-Philco Car Radio is also available.
Accept your dealer's invitation - see and
drive Ford V-8 . . . styled for Spring.
Easy purchase terms may be arranged.
BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F105.24V
f THERE'S PLENTY
V\ OF DECK-SPACE
\ \
\ \
f ’> V
'‘‘"Wvu,
%W* #*'& yy %
r
/■JjtlOll'*'
ON
RO
Cruise to
NEW ZEALAND
in
NOVEMBER
R.M.S. Strathnaver
leaves Sydney, November 1 3th
Fares :
FIRST SALOON FROM 20 GNS.
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 GNS.
Free of Exchange
HIGH SPEED
FILLING
Two half-turns only required l
THIS is quite the simplest and quickest way
in the world of filling a fountain pen. Sec
for yourself just how easy it is, try writing with
one, at any good Stationers or Jewellers.
Prices.— The Leverless (' Quick-fill ’) Swan from
21/-. The Visofil (‘Big-fill ’) Swan 32/6. Ladies’
Size, 27/6. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE LEVERLESS
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE SWAM’ INK
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Six white-clad debs., with naval and
military officers as partners, curtsied to
Talbot Hobbs and his lady at Anzac
House, where the press sub-branch of
the R.S.L. held a dance. The Hobbs
lady wore brocaded lame, Mrs. J. C.
McFarlane’s black silk nets were
wrought with gold thread, Mrs. C. P.
Smith swung a matching cape over black
georgettes and Mrs. V. L. Gilbert’s peau
d’ange satins glittered with gold sequins.
Two three-year-olds, Jacqueline Wade
and Barry Dry, set about with pink
organdie and satin, accompanied Flor-
ence Broadhurst on her trek down the
aisle of St. Mary’s, West Perth, to meet
Tom Male. Horizontal folds lapped the
bodice of the bride’s self-embossed ivory
satins, which rippled off into a gathered
skirt ending in a narrow wave of train,
over which fell the foam of her long
tulle veil. Mrs. Karl Knapp and Bar-
bara Miller attended in turquoise-blue
chiffon, trained and frilled and finished
with shirring down the back and front.
Their blue picture hats were wreathed
with pastel flowers which matched their
sheafs of fragrant stocks.
At Mt. Yokine Golf Club’s Ball nas-
turtiums and Iceland poppies featured
largely as table decorations. A sugges-
tion of stars twinkled in chairman Mrs.
G. H. Bacon’s midnight blue-metal
tissue, Dorothy Royce wrapped her sec-
retarial powers in white floral ninon,
Mrs. Oscar Negus combined navy and
red in her figured matt crepes, Mrs.
Keith Gray covered black taffeta with
a gay Chinese coat' and Mrs. Robert
Davidson wound a ruching of floral net
on her blue changeant taffetas.
Catherine Thomson carried a bouquet
of pure white peach-blossom when she
became Mrs. Keith Edwards at Christ
Church, Claremont. Her ankle-length
white lace was worn with a revered
redingote which swooped off at the back
into a long train. ’Maids Barbara Thom-
son and Kathleen Edwards held leschen-
aultia and cornflowers against their blue
cloques, which mounted from wide flares
on the ground to trim buttoned bodices
finished with Peter Pan collars.
The R. O. Laws and daughter Mar-
got were welcomed home after their trip
to Europe by their elder daughter, Mrs.
Malcolm Plaistowe. Some 150 guests
gathered at the parental home in West
Perth, where an orchestra accompanied
the clinking of cocktail glasses. Mrs.
Plaistowe was trim in slinky black
crepes, her mother combined beige and
brown lace and Margot caught the eye
with black-and-gold brocade.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Professor Winifred Cullis was princi-
pal guest at a garden party given by the
E.S.U. at the home of Judge and Mrs.
Mellis Napier, Mount Lofty. Many
delegates to the legal convention from
other States were also invited. The
house was decked with flowers —red
roses, daffodils, sweet-peas and flat bowls
of primroses and forget-me-nots —and
the guests were received by E. W. Ben-
ham, president of the E.S.U., and his
wife, she wearing black satin with a
close-fitting black hat and a deep cape
of sable fur. Alison Barrett, Anthea
Weaver, Betty Mayo, Betty Beach and
Phyllis Crompton served tea.
The Bookmakers’ Ball at the Palais
Royal drew a big crowd, and frocking
was smart. Mrs. F. H. Lewis (wife of
the chairman) sported pale-pink net with
panels of pink lace, veiling pink satin
and over all a white fur cape. Miss K.
McGuire was frocked in Gloucester-green
silk crepe, with shirred bodice. Mrs.
A. Gardner looked well in magnolia-
toned angel-skin lace, made with cape
effect, and Mrs. Langdon was in mauve
taffeta, the flounces trimmed with silver
ribbon. Daughter Hetty’s dainty white
chiffon was faintly spotted in pink.
Commissioner and Mrs. R. Henry, of
the Salvation Army, were given a civic
reception. Plum and prunus blossoms in
huge boughs and bowls of pink sweet-
peas and heuchera decked the Mayoress’s
room. Mrs. Dunstan’s black tailored suit
went with a white silk blouse and a
black cire straw hat. The guests, with
a few exceptions, were in Salvation Army
uniform.
Prior to the departure of the legal con-
vention after a week in Adelaide F.
Villeneuve Smith, K.C., gave a cocktail-
party at Lordello, North Adelaide, lent
by Mrs. Buller Murphy for the occasion.
Both the Buller Murphys were present.
Mrs. Villeneuve Smith received the guests
wearing silk crepe, skirt black, tunic
white and black belt studded with
jewels. The guests left the cocktails to
go home and change, returning in the
evening to a dance and supper as guests
of the Buller Murphys. The Federal
Attorney-General was among the guests.
Major and Mrs. N. P. Owen and the
commander of the Ceramic (Captain
H. C. Elford) sent out invitations to a
cocktail-party in the liner. Guests were
received in the smoking-room, which has
been attractively redecorated. Mrs.
Owen was smartly frocked in black
marocain, with a white chiffon collar and
two pink camellias at her neck. Her
little black hat was close-fitting.
The Holdfast Bay Yacht Club’s dance
at the Maison de Danse, Glenelg, drew
a crowd of over 300. Commodore Ten-
nant' and his wife received the guests,
among whom were Mayor and Mayoress
Fisk, of Glenelg, the C. J. Jewells, H. W.
Hodgetts and his wife, the C. Vincents
and Miss P. Horgan.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark were
at the opening of the Arts and Crafts
Exhibition in the Town Hall. It was a
much more imposing show than usual,
because of having more space in the
main hall, so that the exhibits were not
jostling each other as they used to do
in the smaller room. The needlework
and rug-making were special features,
and the modern patchwork bedspreads
flaunted a beauty undreamed of by our
grandmothers.
About 300 dancers rolled up for St.
Virgil’s Silver Jubilee Ball. Old Vir-
gilians engineered the affair, which was
in aid of college funds and the St. Vin-
cent de Paul Society. The Governor and
Lady Clark, the Premier and Mrs.
Ogilvie and other State brass-hats were
present.
The Charlie Wolfhagens filled their
house at Lower Sandy Bay with young
friends of Mrs. Wolfhagen’s sister, Nan
Hutchison, just returned from London,
at a cocktail party. Spring blossom ma le
the decoration. The hostess’s long , roc t
had bell sleeves and was in a delicate
pinky-beige shade. Nan’s dress of dar
blue had a matching coat, and she wore
a little jockey hat with stiffened veil.
Mrs. G. V. Brookes, wife of the
Director of Education, gave a party at
the Grotto in honor of the newly-wed
E. J. Ogilvies. Guests were recruited
chiefly from those prominent in the edu-
cational world. Mrs. Ogilvie brighteneo
a dark-blue tailored suit with a cream
satin blouse.
Betty, only girl chick of Captain and
Mrs. J. C. Ross, Bellerive, married
Ronald Parker, Sydney, at St. David s
Cathedral. The bride’s frock of mag-
nolia satin was worn with a veil of old
rose-point, fastened with orange-blos-
soms from under which flowed another
voluminous veil of tulle. Three ’maids,
Kathleen Chipman and Berenice and
Nance Morrisby, followed in pink taffeta
frocks.
The Launceston Players staged
Milne’s “Michael and Mary,” with
Beatrice Hall and Fred Fry in the name
parts. The dressing was true to period,
and provoked the reflection that a 1906
turnout looks much more out of date
than an 1880 one. The show was well
cast, staged and produced.


Send for our technical
bulletin 11 AW on
fds
f
TWIN CHASSIS
11 - VALVE
DE LUXE ALL-WAVE HIGH-FIDELITY RECEIVER
Here is at last a de luxe model at least two years ahead of mass produc-
tion receivers ... a set so sensitive that foreign stations come in like
locals . . . yet so engineered that interfering noises are kept in the
background ... a set that gives you twice the tonal range of the next
best, yet does not cost as much as other makes that give but half the
performance. Twenty watts undistorted output.
GEORGE BROWN & COMPANY, LTD.,
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
•y.S.W; Agents: Rola Reproducers, Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio, Midlard Radio Valves.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers* Compensation,
etc., etc.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: If Brisbane is putting up no
other records, it is certainly showing the
kind of rainfall graph which has not
been seen for a very long time. Only 84
points fell in September against the nor-
mal average of 204, and for the July-
September quarter downpours brought
only 225 points against an 85 years’ aver-
age of 626. This beats the great drought
record of 1902 by 128 points.
* * * *
“Tropic Eskimo”: The Common-
wealth’s latest dreadnought was to warn
alien shell poachers from the North.
When the poachers, perhaps a couple of
thousand miles away, open fire on the
natives of the Fead Islands, somebody
shouts for H.M.A.S. Larrakiyah. Then
the strangers appear in some Torres island
and the clarion call for her goes forth
once more. And where is the Larrakiyah?
The last time we heard of her she w T as
hanging up on her painter in Darwin
Harbor because somebody had forgotten
how far the tide was going to fall. And
the time before that she appeared in
my morning sheet because a kindly
matelot had left a seacock open so that
the family cat could get in at dawn with-
out a latchkey. The hardy and expen-
sive warship was saved, by a whisker
only, from turning herself into a croco-
diles’ home. When she does happen
to be within 500 miles of trouble, there
are still difficulties to be coped with. As,
for instance, when somebody applied to
the Minister of the Interior to know if
she was about and the Minister hastily
replied that she did not belong to him
but to Mr. Parkhill. My suggestion is
that she should be handed over to the
pearlshell pirates. They seem to be the
most capable blokes that the Larrakiyah
has anything to do with.
* * * *
“Ilfracombe”: Nobody has talked
more about the courage of the out-
backer and the vast potentialities of the
land and its future than Sir Geoff.
Whiskard. He even ventured the opinion
—just before the woolsales —that the
wool country was the “foundation of
Australia.” But his name will go down
among the Mitchell grass as the man
who uttered this classic:
Prior to coming to the Central West he
did not know that such an insect as the
blowfly existed. The tour had been worth
while to gain that information.
To Longreach, the blowfly is as much a
fact of nature as the high heavens.
.** * *
“Gain”: The reported attack on a
patrol on the Madang Coast of New
Guinea (B. 30/9/’36) was followed by
another in the same district and in
similar circumstances. The savages waited
until the assistant D. 0., Nurton, had only
four native constables with him, then
rushed the camp. Nurton himself has
got an axe wound which is to cost him
a leg. I know New Guinea is a land of
“no hurry,” and I am feeling, perhaps, a
little more tolerant than Nurton should
be of the fact that, when the natives
struck him on September 24, a force
was still on its way to help him restore
order after the previous dust-up in July.
Even safe and sound in my armchair,
I think that Authority has been rather
slow, but I do not necessarily blame local
Authority, which is always pinched for
men in emergency, despite the bursting
money bags of the Administration. Also,
I am afraid it is a bit timid. Canberra’s
policy is that, when a white man so much
as smacks a black man, he runs the risk
of a long term in gaol. But when a
nigger on the fringe of the controlled
area socks a policeman, he is as like as
not merely admonished and reported to
the League of Nations.
* * * *
“Silica”: Jupiter, an 80-years-old full-
blooded abo., who has been admitted to
the Eventide Home at Charters Towers
(N.Q.), discovered the first nugget on the
Towers goldfield in 1872. He was travel-
“I hope they come soon , Pa.”
“My oath! Strawberry cant hold out much longer !”
ling with Hugh Mosman at the time, and
the abo.’s find led to the opening up of
the field, which Mosman named after
Gold Commissioner Charters of N.Q. A
more appropriate name would have been
something like Jupiterville. Jupiter has
lived on the field ever since.
$ * * *
“Tallwood Tim”: The age of fairy
godfathers is not past. The other day
our Goondiwindi aldermen were sud-
denly astonished to receive a letter from
the Government, which mostly gives no
sign that it exists except on taxation-due
dates, offering them £ll,OOO to build a
town hall, shops and a picture show.
Some of the poor fellows were so
stunned that they were for refusing the
money, even though they learnt from
the Treasury that it was being made
available “as the result of personal
representations by the local member.”
Perhaps some of them knew of hard-
earned money invested in private prop-
erty in the town, and looked askance
on the impending competition. The
gift was finally accepted on the Mayor's
casting vote, but if it had not been
there would have been plenty of work
for it elsewhere. Because of the appli-
cation of the fairy-gift scheme mainly
around the metropolis and the coast,
there are places in Queensland which
have dwindled to a point at which they
could do with a present of far more than
a town hall and a picture palace. The
only thing which will prevent them from
remaining large delusive names on the
map is the arrival of a parcel containing
a complete village with population
attached.
* * * *
“Aluridja”: I am delighted to find
that action by a patriotic film producer
is likely to open up a decent trade in
that splendid Australian vegetable the
pituri. My film friend, I note, says it
is a love potion. I don’t quite agree with
him, but I believe that as an aid to
domestic happiness it should be invalu-
able in any well-regulated household.
Put a little in the missus’s face powder
and she will sneeze so much that she
will forget to ask for the pay envelope.
Teach her to smoke pituri—nothing like
it for causing the unwanted bridge
party to be called off. Give her a drop
in her tea and you will find that it in-
duces a state of great activity, during
which she will walk so far that she prob-
ably never will come back. Have a shot
yourself and forget your troubles—till
you wake up a day or two afterwards
feeling as if your head had been trodden
on by a bull mammoth. It’s great stuff,
pituri. Up on the Cooper we used to
make even the eels drunk with it when
we wanted to catch them.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
In January, 1937, Mackay will cele-
brate its 75th birthday in style. An
energetic committee is raking up the
pioneers of the district and their descen-
dants, and an ambitious programme is
being framed.
In Brisbane the Mackay Association —
Mrs. Forgan Smith is patroness—with
a roll-call of over 100 members, is getting
ready to celebrate its first birthday early
in October. A week later, at the annual
meeting, funds in hand will be distributed
among charities, mostly hospitals.
The St. Vincent de Paul fund got a
good boost through the Venetian Ball
held aboard the Italian liner Vimi-
nale, lying at the Nixon .Smith wharf.
The decorations were delightful, and a
stall festooned with balloons, in which
Venetian favors were sold, added a
carnival touch. Archbishop Duhig was
there, and La Meri and Signor Carreras
fher husband) with Maestro and Signora
Salerno. La Meri was frocked in white
organdie with large cherry- and navy-
colored spots, with shoulder-frills, and a
wreath of red berries in her hair. Mrs.
M. A. Maguire received the guests,
backed up by the vice-presidents, Mes-
dames W. H. Carter and K. Herbert.
Hon. sec. Ba Crowe put some fine
work into making the ball a success.
Hundreds of infants of various sizes
and ages clambered into the City Hall
for the annual fancy-dress ball held by
the Central Practising School. The
gallery was packed to suffocation point
by proud sisters and mothers and cousins
and aunts, and the overflow was pro-
vided with seats round the hall and on
the stage. The Dolls’ Parade was
delightful. Education Minister Cooper
was on the platform with the H.T., Mr,
F. Whittington.
On the same night, in the S. Brisbane
Tech. Hall, several hundred more chil-
dren from New Farm State School held
another fancy-dress ball. A sprinkling
of Ms.L.A. and aldermen were on the
platform with the head-master, R. C.
Lister. The trams carried fairies and
cowboys, pirates and pre-Regency ladies
and gentlemen with powdered heads.
Anyway, after seeing both collections of
young Queensland not even a confirmed
pessimist could believe that the race is
deteriorating physically.
Mrs. Hugo Brassey was in Brisbane
doing a spot of shopping before she and
Hugo set off for Java in the yacht
Troubadour, which has been rechristened
Sunbeam. Margaret Long, of Bendigo,
who spent a holiday at Dunk last year,
is going too. A crew of four and an
engineer are to look after the boat, and
Hugo will be his own skipper. Muldoon,
a dog, and Teeny, a cat, are being taken
as ballast; and after a look in at Bali
and Sourabaya Mrs. Brassey will take
ship for Europe
to spend a few
weeks with her
mother, Baroness
Boenhausen, in
Munich.
Noting femi-
nine crowds in
new spring frocks
about, the god
of the winds
maliciously un-
leashed a howling
westerly, and the
white sails that
were spread for
the opening of
the sailing season
were very wet be-
fore nigh tfall.
Every craft that
could float safely
—and a lot that
did so by a miracle
—was out with a
quota of guests.
Skip pers of
coastal boats leav-
ing for north or
south at 2 p.m.
that day were
almost apoplectic
before they
reached the
mouth of the
river, and the
journey downstream took almost double
the usual time, with small sailing-boats
bobbing about everywhere, secure in
the knowledge that they had “right of
way.”
The Blue Bird, the A. S. Huybers’
boat, was the official craft for the after-
noon, and the Premier and Mrs. Forgan
Smith were among the guests. Lots of
owners headed for the bay after the
races were over and made a week-end
party of it.
A cheery Bohemian evening in honor
of La Meri was given by the Queensland
Society of Dancing. Over 200 dancers
turned up to welcome the lady and pre-
sented her with a gold medal—one of
those given to children who have passed
the examinations of the Operatic Society
of Dancing, England—set as a brooch.
La Meri was delighted, and confided that
she had never won a medal for dancing
in her life.
The dancer wore an intriguing costume
—a huge Parisian opera-hat, tailleur skirt,
and a tunic with the Peter Pan collar
thickly encrusted with beads to match the
deeply-beaded hem.
St. John’s Cathedral held a bumper
congregation when Bishop de Witt Battye,
of Newcastle, who used to be a Brisbane
canon, and his wife —formerly matron
of St. Martin’s Hospital—came up for a
few days and the Bishop preached at the
morning service.


MURDOCH’S
present the “Traveller’s Companion”
2-valve pocket set
A complete Assembly Kit with all components and valves for the above
Midget Set, which measures sin. x 4in. x 2Jin., excluding tuning knobs. The
Kit includes special small space bakelite dielectric condensers, midget valves,
sockets, resistances, chassis, etc.
Price, post free § mm fC#
Accessories . . .
Smallest space A Battery, 3-volt 1/3
Smallest space B Battery, .. 6/9
Smallest space lightweight Headphones 11/6
The above small-spaced Batteries are advised for use when weight and space are
important. A saving in running cost can be effected by using larger capacity
batteries in the home and the smallest space batteries for holidays, etc.
Batteries freight free if ordered with complete Set. Half freight paid in N.S.W. if
ordered separately.
As the two-volt valves require only .00 amperes for the filament supply, a three-volt A battery
is supplied, and the circuit has the neaessary voltage dropping resistance in the circuit.
If this resistance is not wired in, a two-volt accumulator should be used for the A battery.
The B battery can be increased to 75 volts with a great gain in volume and distance.
MURDOCH’S LTD.
PARK
GEORGE
AND
STS.,
SYDNEY
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-•
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6; 224, 4/6 1
42, 6/-; OA7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
3 ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
Vi
.
Battery “International
7-valve Dual-wave,
£l3/17/6.
RADIO NEWS
THE BUSH COMPANION.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
HERE is a remarkable little portable receiver for broadcast-
band operation, so small that it will fit, minus batteries,
into an overcoat pocket. The circuit is simple, being the once-
popular Reinartz in a two-valve arrangement. The new British
Hivac midget valves and compact variable condensers have
made the design possible. An aerial is necessary, but even
a short indoor wire is sufficient to tune in many stations. Good
reception could be obtained in the country by using a wire
fence for an aerial.
There is something fascinating about a
portable receiver, particularly when it is
of very small dimensions and involves
no humping around of a heavy con-
tainer. If one is prepared to don a pair
of headphones and forego loudspeaker
reception, a receiver can be designed of
almost ridiculously small stature, pro-
vided suitable components are obtain-
able. The biggest demands on space
always have been made by valves and
condensers. Recently a fresh impetus
was given to design by the advent in
Fig. 1. —The circuit diagram. Only two diminutive battery valves in a simple regenerative arrangement, but they give
good broadcast entertainment.
Britain of special midget battery valves,
taking two volts at .06 ampere on the
filaments. These are productions of the
High Vacuum Valve Co., under the
trade name of Hivac. Such valves, men-
tioned on this page on previous occa-
sions, are at last available, in the triode
range, in Australia. The radio depart-
ment of Murdoch’s, Ltd., Park-street,
Sydney, has an ample stock, and with
these and a line of special variable con-
densers of British design the way has
been made clear to investigate the pos-
sibilities of extra-small portables.
Numerous Bulletin readers have written
for information on such receivers, and
the Bush Companion described here is
a very satisfying answer.
Dimensions.
The illustrations will give a clear idea
of the size, comparison being made with
a penny and a matchbox. The receiver
is made up on an aluminium founda-
tion, and the panel measures only 4|in.
by 4in. The sub-panel, holding the two
valves and coil, with resistors, coupling
and by-pass condensers underneath, is
4jin. long (to correspond with the panel)
and 2|in. wide, with right-angled bends
of lin. As it is possible to obtain quite
small B batteries from Ever-Ready, the
complete outfit, with a recess for a pair
of headphones, could be made to fit
snugly into a light case with handle,
This is a matter for individual require-
ments, the vitals of the receiver itself
being the important part. Overseas
speedily small B-battery blocks are
aval i a bje for portable receivers, paiticu-
sjncc "if adve "< pocket w ' r . e ’
less for police and other uses. The
writer has X discussed the matter of pro .
ducing such units with leading dry . sat .
ter y ma i cers j n Australia, and believes
jf th e portable receiver assumes the
popularity if deserves such small bat
ter y un jts will be made available.
Method of Operation.
The circuit principle employed is no
thing new, but it is undisputed that a
smoothly workable regenerative detec-
tor is capable of surprising sensitivity. To
get the most out
of this most
elementary o f
a r r a n gements
calls for a little
care in opera-
tion. It must be
stressed that a
receiver of this
kind does not
work like a
modern super-
het. It is not
just a case of
swinging a dial
and hearing sta-
tions roll in. The
regenerative
principle must
be applied intel-
ligently, and if
this is done the
number of sta-
tions that can
be tuned in with reasonable headphone
volume is quite surprising to those un-
aware of what a humble “detector and
one audio” can do. Selectivity, of
course, is wrapped up in the way the
Fig. 2. —A mere handful, but a very useful broadcast receiver.
The penny and the matchbox give an idea of the actual size.
Left-hand knob is for tuning, and right for reaction. Battery
switch at lower centre and ’phone tip jacks on right.
aerial is coupled, together with the use
of regeneration.
In a test in the radio department of
Murdoch’s, Ltd., 2BL, 2GB and 2KY
could be tuned in with comparative case,
despite the fact that 2UW’s aerial is
right over the building and that station
was in full swing. The aerial consisted
of a few feet of wire stretched along
the top of a sales counter. Under more
favorable conditions, of course, the
results are far superior, and out in the
open country this little receiver can pro-
vide hours of cheap entertainment.
Searching for stations at a distance is
normally done with the detector just in
an oscillating condition. A carrier wave
(whistle) is tuned in and the reaction
condenser backed off until the modula-
tion is heard clearly. Just before the
detector begins to oscillate (evident by
a rushing sound) is the most sensitive
point. A little practice will soon make
the user familiar with the method, and
listeners who gained their experience in
the earlier days of broadcasting will be
Fig. S.—A rear view of the chassis, showing the valves and
condensers. The condensers are special portable types of British
make, with plates interleaved by insulation material. The coil
is the largest item, and this could be made smaller by using
an iron-core foundation.
well acquainted with the behavior of a
regenerative detector.
The Circuit.
The two valves are Hivac type XP,
used as detector and audio amplifier re-
spectively. Resistance coupling is em-
ployed for the audio stage. These valves
are supplied with the sockets, the pin
arrangements for filaments, grid and
plate being indicated. The valves cannot
be inserted wrongly in the sockets, one
pin being thicker than the others. The
detection arrangement is the old, reli-
able Reinartz, calling for a coil with grid
and reaction windings. The coil is sup-
plied ready for mounting in the kit of
parts supplied by Murdoch’s, Ltd. In-
stead of a separate aerial coil the aerial
is taken to a tapping about half-way
down the grid coil, an old but useful
dodge to introduce some degree of selec-
tivity in the grid circuit. Grid leak de-
tection, with a .OOOlmfd. condenser and
.smeg. grid leak, is used, and the fila-
ment circuit arrangement provides for the
use of two 1 2-volt dry cells (three volts).
A centre-tapped 34-ohm resistor is fitted
in the negative filament supply as shown.
This provides the necessary voltage drop
for the two-volt .06-ampere valves, and
gives a 14-volt negative bias to the grid
of the audio valve. The plate circuit of
the detector is decoupled by the 10,000-
ohm resistor and .lmfd. condenser, the
50,000-ohm resistor being the plate load
resistor. Further
precaution i s
taken against
audio instability
by the inclu-
sion of an R.F.
choke and a
.OOOlmfd. filter
condenser. The
.02mfd. mica
condenser pro-
vides grid coup-
ling to the
audio stage, and
a .smeg. leak is
used.
General Points.
With the com-
plete kit of parts
for the receiver
as supplied by
Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
there is little that the constructor can
do wrong other than by careless con-
nection of plate supply to filament leads.


\(JC4
ADIOTRON
&
W
s
The Importance of Good Valves
The most vital part of a broadcast receiver is its valve equipment. No Radio
can give good performance without good valves. Radiotrons conform to
the world's highest standards in design, material, construction and perform-
ance. See that your set is equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
147-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
SNQlillflVl
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Vlfe.6
TAdvertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company LtdJ
With indirectly-heated valves of the 6.3-
volt class in battery sets little damage
can be done by accidental wrong con-
nection ; but one mistake of this kind
with two-volt .06 directly-heated valves
and they will be no more. The kit con-
tains all insulating bushings for con-
densers and ’phone tip jacks, and it is
particularly important to see that the
latter and the reaction condenser are
properly insulated from the aluminium
panel. For battery supply a single 45-
volt block is ample, with two ly-volt
torch cells in series for filaments. Ninety
volts of B battery gives an increase in
volume. It was found that the Hivac
XP is a particularly efficient grid
leak detector, and in a Sydney
suburb, with a very short indoor aerial,
it was not necessary to hold the re-
ceiver anywhere near the point of os-
cillation to hear all the .Sydney stations
comfortably. For its type this little re-
ceiver is one of the most satisfying the
writer has ever tried, and it can be
strongly recommended for many uses.
For inclusion in a car, with picnic par-
ties, on the beach, and in the country, it
is ideal. To cap it all, it is inexpensive,
costing less than £5 for the complete
list of parts with batteries and head-
phones. Above all, it is economical. The
batteries will last a long time, as both
P.lament and plate requirements are ex-
tremely modest.
List of Parts.
One variable tuning condenser, .0005 solid di-
electric.
One variable reaction condenser, .000-] solid di-
electric.
One fixed grid condenser, .0001.
One fixed anode by-pass condenser, .0001.
One fixed coupling condenser, .02.
One fixed decoupling condenser, .1.
One anode resistance condenser, 50,000 ohius.
One decoupling resistance condenser, 10,000
ohms.
Two grid resistance condensers, 500,000 ohms.
One twin filament voltage-dropping condenser,
17 ohms each side. (Should be omitted if
set is wired for 2v. accumulator.)
One battery switch.
One drilled aluminium chassis and panel.
Two valve sockets, special.
One special tuning coil.
Two Hivac valves —midget—2v. .06amps.
25ft. flexible aerial wire.
Hex, spaghetti, solder, sundries.
Accessories —smallest space —not in kit:
Smallest space headphones.
Smallest space A battery (standard cycle-lamp
battery).
Smallest space B battery.
D. B. K.
The Flat-dweller’s Aerial.
The experienced technical radio man
will advise the use of as good an aerial
as possible, no matter what the type of
receiver. But to the flat-dweller such
advice usually falls by the wayside, be-
cause of the necessity for keeping wiring
confined to the limits of available space.
There are instances, of course, where a
lead-in can be run down a courtyard
from an aerial arranged on a flat roof,
but such cases are the exception rather
than the rule. In these days, modern re-
ceivers are extremely sensitive, and even
on the short-wave ranges of a dual-wave
model surprising results can be obtained
with little or no aerial, even in a bad
location. The aerial usually takes the
form of a nondescript length of wire
laid, for a few feet, around the top of
a picture rail in a room.
With a good receiver, satisfactory re-
ception can be obtained under these con-
ditions, but a little attention to the plac-
ing of the wire can improve matters
materially. Instead of merely laying the
wire conveniently around the rail, the
scheme illustrated should be adopted.
With this arrangement, the aerial wire
is held neatly at a suitable distance from
the walls, and is by no means unsightly.
The object of doing this is to improve
the signal pickup propensities of the
aerial, for even a mass of plaster-
covered brick wall absorbs a consider-
able amount of energy when the wire is
in close proximity. Apart from this
there are other dodges to improve signal
strength, not the least useful being that
of connecting a wire from the receiver
to the wire mattress of a bed. Also, a
metal plate standing underneath a tele-
phone can prove useful as an indoor
aerial. Using the power mains as an
aerial, through a small condenser,
although workable, is not recommended.
It is likely to be dangerous, and also is
a prolific source of unwanted electrical
noise.
D. B. K.
Unusual Valve Application.
The British High Vacuum Valve Co.
is noted for its range of non-standard
valves, and one of the most interesting
One application of the DB240 combined driver and Class-B
audio valve. This is a reflex arrangement.
in the battery range is the type D 8240.
A circuit showing an application of this
valve is illustrated. The internal elec-
trode assembly consists of three separate
valve elements in the one glass envelope,
although a single filament serves all three
sections. The assembly consists of a
single triode and a double triode; in
other words, a Class B valve with its
own driver tucked under its wing. Thus
a complete Class B amplifier for battery
receivers may be built with a D 8240,
and its field of usefulness is increased
when the valve is employed as in the
illustrated circuit. A reflex principle is
adopted, and thus by using a single valve
a receiver can be made to give the per-
formance of a three-valve receiver. As
economy is the watchword in Australian
battery sets, valves of this type-would
be particularly useful.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Those of the N.S.W. gang able to
attend the popular Newcastle Club
“ Hamfest ” during the week-end of
26-27/9/ ’36 thoroughly enjoyed them-
selves, and the 20-metre ’phone ex-
ponents absent from their microphones
over this period were fortunate enough
not to miss anything startling in the way
of DX. Probably the Dellinger effect
had something to do with it, but that
week-end was noted for the very poor
long-distance conditions. On the Sunday
afternoon a few Europeans could be
heard at fair strength on C.W., but no
British "phones were logged. Contact
with Europeans by C.W. seemed very
difficult. In great contrast also was the
American 20-metre ’phone band. Usually
teeming with stations, this band was
practically dead. Only a few weak
’phones were heard, and contact was by
no means the easy business of recent
days and nights. The afternoon signals
from American ’phones held up for only
about 40 minutes and then disappeared
completely. The same conditions pre-
vailed around 9.30 p.m., when many of
the East Coast ’phones have been excep-
tionally strong. One or two appeared
for a few minutes and faded into
the fog. Against this, stations like
HI7G and HISX in the Dominican
Republic were heard very strongly at
intervals.
These observations indicate a definite
return to summer conditions. If the
behavior of the 20-metre band during
last year holds good American ’phones
will be in the minority for some months
to come, and South Americans should be
heard well during the late afternoon and
evening. All the directional antennas in
creation will not prevail against a com-
plete “black-out,” and many stations
accustomed in the last month or two to
easy DX ’phone contacts with indifferent
radiating systems, etc., may find a horse
of a very different color. When ’phone
DX fails there is a logical alternative:
seek it on the key,
not in duplexing
with one’s equally
DX di s g runtled
neighbor for hours
on end. Because
the ’phone DX fails
it does not indicate
that the C.W. men
cannot work DX.
Duplex ’phone
hogging of a popu-
lar DX band is the
worst kind of self-
ishness, apart from
a breach of the
regulations if over
30 minutes. On
the evening of
27/9/’36 two sta-
tions in Sydney
conducted an aimless duplex conversa-
tion on 20 for a period of an hour and a
half. Such transmission comes under
“unreasonable use of the band.” If
licensees do not feel competent to handle
a key, despite their having scrambled
somehow through the exam., they should
have the good sense to turn to five metres
for their “back-fence” yarns, or use, by
the expenditure of 2d., the nearest public
telephone.
The 10-metre band is reported to be
alive. G6LK informed the writer that
he worked VK4AP on this band at
11.30 p.m., Brisbane time, with R 8
signals both ways. This is most unusual,
and shows that continual watch on the
band is well worth while. WBANO also
reports VK3 ’phones at good strength
during the usual Australian morning
period.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
Demonstrations were recently given in
Geneva of transmitters using half a watt
input on a wave-length of 75 centimetres.
It is reported that signals were received
clearly at a distance of 10 miles. Power
was obtained from a car accumulator,
and a vibrator system was used for high
voltage.
* * * *
Commercial communication practice
for the elimination of fading is to use
a single receiver on two or more aerials
situated some distance apart. The idea
behind this is that fading is at different
strengths in different localities, and a
combination of the signals tends to give
a readable signal minus fading. In
U.S.A. a new application of this has
been developed. Two separate aerials are
used, and each is fed through its indi-
vidual channel in the receiver. The cir-
cuits are so arranged that, as the signal
on one aerial fades, the gain of the
associated channel drops, and vice-versa.
In this way a better signal-to-noise ratio
is obtained.
Casual Comment.
“V.E.”: An annoyed person dropped
anchor at my shack door recently, and
made a direct charge of amateur trans-
mitter interference. He was giving me
a final warning—he was not going to be
annoyed with any key clicks. I’ve grown
old in soothing the savage breast of bud-
ding radio Alexanders lately promoted
to the higher frequencies, so suggested
that I stroll down to his residence and
check up. Picked up the test kit as I
followed in his wake. Trouble? Plenty!
The injector grid pin of the 2A7 socket
(that Atlas of radio valves) was scratchy.
The grid clip on an I.F. stage was loose
and things weren’t A 1 at Lloyd’s with a
by-pass condenser. House switches
showed a tendency here and there to
assist the noise. To crown all, my dis-
ciplinarian generally overlooked the trim-
ming condenser. Still, I felt akin to a
cattle-duffer turned sky-pilot when I
bought the girl friend an electric read-
ing lamp and a toaster next day with the
fruits of my excursion.
The Q. and A. Column.
General. —To avoid delay, address radio ques-
tions to the “Radio Editor,” The Bulletin.
Is it possible to use a simple short-wave
adaptor (not superhet converter) in such a way
that it is not necessary to remove any valve or
valves from the set 3 —470.
Yes, as shown in the accompanying diagram,
which is that of the usual adaptor, with trans-
former coupling to the set. It is assumed that
the set has valves with control grids on top of
the glass envelope. The clip from the trans-
former secondary is merely connected to the
control grid cap of the detector valve in the set.
Such an adaptor is easily made for A.C. use,
and if six-volt valves are used in the set a type
76 would be particularly suitable. Coils have
the usual standard windings, on formers.
The tuning condenser should be of .00015mfd.
capacity, and the reaction condenser up to
.0003mfd. Grid leak and condenser are 2meg.
and .OOOlmfd. respectively.
(1) What is the best type of aerial for over-
seas short-wave reception with a Kreisler seven-
valve dual-wave battery receiver ? (2) Is it
necessary to change the small C battery when
renewing B batteries ? (3) Any agents for the
set in Victoria ? —4BO.
(1) Not having tested this make, cannot give
opinion, but the double-doublet aerial kit, of
which several are sold commercially, should be
an advantage. (2) Denends on the condition
of the C battery. (3) Not known.
* * * *
I am considering purchasing a new dual-
wave receiver, and would like further details
of the performance of the Beale V5l d.-w.
model on the broadcast band. How does it
compare with other receivers of latest types ?
-All.
Stress was laid on the short-wave perform-
ance, as this model is vibrator-powered. It is
quite an achievement to remove all noise en-
tirely on short waves with a vibratory-power
supply. The broadcast-band performance is
excellent, and this receiver was conspicuous for
its remarkable sensitivity and tonal quality
during prolonged tests. It is a very high-grade
production, with a first-class performance all
round.


Balanced litres. ..
SrSM! MOTORING
MS
m
m
TO
58f
&
KISMET
A (gauge is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleading.
lib. units individually numbered on wide, flat
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD., Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Only accurate pressures will give your tyres the perfect
balance which means so much to your comfort and safety
on the road. And only a gauge of proved efficiency and
precision is worthy of your confidence for the regular testing
of your tyres.
Cheap gauges offer you price advantage, but dannot
guarantee the KISMET feature of ACCURACY—which is
so essential in a tyre gauge.
W 6
"SILVER
EDGE 19
TRADE: (f MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes l
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-BFLACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.F.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
IMPRESSIVE PERFORMANCE OF
GRAHAM CRUSADER.
BY FRED BERRY.
LOW FUEL CONSUMPTION, GOOD ROAD QUALITIES
AND EXCELLENT RIDING COMFORT.
JUNIOR member of the Graham group, the Crusader Series
80 is designed this year to please a public which, recognising
the status and reputation of this marque, will welcome a vehicle
of the same high quality that is at once cheaper to purchase and
more economical to operate.
As proved in tests conducted recently over the “Bulletin”
course, the new car incorporates every characteristic feature of
this group, and, while its road performance is not as brilliant as
that of the higher-powered and supercharged models, petrol
consumption is better, passenger comfort, appointments and
roadholding qualities are equally good, and the shorter wheel-
base renders the car easier to manoeuvre in congested traffic or
when parking.
The power plant, with a piston dis-
placement of 169 cub. in., is possibly
the smallest in overall dimensions of any
full-track model of American origin, but,
owing to the use of a 6.8 to 1 high-com-
pression cylinder head, three-point rubber
engine mounting and a perfectly-balanced
crankshaft, 70 b.h.p. is developed at
3500 r.p.m. R.A.C. rating is 21.6 h.p.,
bore 3in., stroke 4in.
The six-cyl. block is of grey iron, cast
integral with the upper half of the crank-
case, and is fitted with detachable cylin-
der head. The block is cored to allow
cooling water to surround cylinders for
the full length of piston travel, and
Distinctive in design, comfortable, roomy and economical to operate—
the Graham Crusader, Model 80.
special attention is given to the cooling
of the exhaust-valve seats. Cylinder
bores are honed to mirror finish.
Pistons are of lightweight aluminium
alloy, Invar-strut type, cast under pres-
sure. Expansion at working tempera-
ture is so small that clearances when
cold are only two thou., so avoiding slap
when starting up. Each piston is fitted
with two compression and one oil-retain-
ing ring, located above the gudgeon pin.
Holes drilled through the piston wall
behind the oil ring allow excess oil to
drain into the crankcase. Gudgeon pins
are of floating type, lubricated by four
holes in the upper side of the piston boss.
The connecting rods, of high carbon
steel, are drop-forged and heat-treated.
Bearings are of interchangeable type,
lined with cadmium-silver alloy. Metered
holes in the top halves allow oil to im-
pinge on the cylinder walls once each
crankshaft revolution. The crankshaft,
of carbon steel, is fitted with five in-
tegral counterweights and is balanced
statically and dynamically. The four
main bearings are lined with
cadmium-silver alloy, and
may be changed without dis-
mantling the crankshaft. The
camshaft runs on four bronze
bearings, each pressure lubri-
cated. Drive is
by silent chain.
A spiral gear in-
tegral with the camshaft is provided for
driving the oil pump and distributor
assembly, whilst an eccentric on the for-
ward end operates the mechanical fuel
pump. Side-by-side valves are used in
the L-head block, with intakes of chrome-
nickel steel and exhausts of silchrome
steel. Valves are not interchangeable, as
the intake valve is cut at 30deg., and the
exhaust at 45deg. Valve timing is de-
signed to give performance of high effi-
ciency, intake opening at 44deg. before
D.C. and closing 47|deg. after D.C.;
exhaust opening 47£deg. before D.C. and
closing 44deg. after D.C.
Valve springs are of chrome mangan-
ese steel, and to secure maximum effi-
ciency from the power plant should show
a pressure of 341 b. when valve is closed
and 751 b. when open. Tappet gear is of
cylindrical type, the guides cast integral
with the crankcase and pressure lubri-
cated.
The fuel tank holds lOgal., and petrol
is drawn by a mechanical pump through
pipes located outside the frame mem-
bers to a down-
draught carbu-
rettor, mounted
above the engine
and equipped
with economiser,
air-cleaner and
silencer. A
choke control,
hand - operated
from a button
on the dash-
board, is also
provided. Fuel
filter is integral
with pump.
Lubrication is
by pressure to
all main, con.-
rod and cam-
shaft bearings,
timing chain
and tappet gear;
spray and jet to
cylinder walls,
pistons and gud-
geon pins. Oil pump is of gear type, sub-
merged in sump. All oil drawn to the
pump for delivery to bearing surfaces
is strained through a small-mesh screen in
the sump and a cartridge-type filter to
remove impurities. Oil pressure is 501 b.,
which may be adjusted to suit special
conditions by addition or removal of
shims in the pressure regulator.
Exhaust and intake manifolds are
mounted on the right side of the motor.
Intake is designed with flat floor pas-
sage to ensure maximum vaporisation
of fuel. Exhaust manifold has an out-
let at the front to provide more ready
access to tappet gear.
A “hot spot” below
the carburettor assists
in cold starting.
Ignition is of coil-
and-battery type, the
distributor being
mounted in an acces-
sible position above
the motor and pro-
vid e d with both
vacuum and gover-
nor-controlled auto-
matic spark advance
and retard. Plugs are
18mm., with gap 25
thou.; breaker points,
18 thou.
Generator is air-
cooled, belt-driven, of
third-brush type, with
a rated charge of 14 to 16 amps. The
starter motor has positive gear engage-
ment, in which the pinion s fully en-
gaged with the ring gear before current
is applied. Gear ratio is 14.4 to 1, and
starter is operated by depressing a toe-
board pedal. The electrical system is pro-
tected against damage due to short-
circuit by a fuse block mounted the
dash.
Transmission is through a single-plate
clutch fitted with a mechanical vibra-
tion damper to a synchro-silent selective
sliding gearbox with three forward speeds
and reverse. Gears for top and second
speed are helical type to ensure quiet
operation. Gear ratios, with 4.55 to 1
back-axle reduction, are: First', 12.87 to
1 ; second, 7.55 to 1 ; top, 4.55 to 1 ;
reverse, 12.12 to 1. Engine revs, in top
gear are 546 for each 10 m.p.h. road
speed. Propeller shaft is tubular,
diameter, with two metal needle roller
universal joints. The complete assembly
is balanced to prevent whip at high speeds.
The specially designed high-compression aluminium cylinder
ensures complete combustion of fuel.
Rear axle is semi-floating, with spiral
bevel gear and pinion in a pressed-steel
banjo housing. Reduction ratio is 4.55
to 1.
Chassis is of pressed steel, cradled low
between “outboard” springs. Side rails
are siin. deep. A heavy X-type centre
cross-member extends forward to form
a “K” with the front cross-member,
providing great resistance to twisting
stresses. Wheelbase is lllin. and mini-
mum ground clearance 84in. Turning
circle is 40ft.
Semi-elliptic springs are fitted front
and rear, the main leaves having large
diameter eyes to accommodate rubber
bushes, and all other leaves being tapered
Cutaway section of Graham cylinder
block (left), showing full-length water-
jackets, Invar-strut pistons, combustion
chamber and valve assembly.
to prevent squeaks. Front springs are
shackled at front ends. Front and rear
springs are mounted “outboard,” sup-
ported on sturdy pressed-steel brackets.
Jack pads are fitted on rear springs.
Tubular two-way direct-acting shock-
absorbers are used front and rear.
Foot-operated internal expanding hy-
draulic brakes, with manganese steel


USEFUL DATA ON
GRAHAM CRUSADER.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in
15 3-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h.
in top in 8 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in
second in 5 1-5 seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 20ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 66.17 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 29.6 m.p.g.
Out with EXCESS CARBON/
- it makes engines noisy
The best way to keep excess carbon
out oi your engine is to install new
Champion Sparking Plugs once every
year. They give full, powerful sparks.
They ignite and bum the full charge of
fuel every time. They reduce carbon
formation to its minimum.
m
Ms=?*
mi,
m
m
*A>l
0/Ts
m
<9
&s
m *
><u
Champ
Sparking
ion
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
. -AN EMPIRE BDOPUCT •
iri
mmwm
,-y z'
mi
' %
i *sss^
w
MOTOR
OL
OIL
fds
I T takes you hours —sometimes weeks, after
numerous visits by car salesmen, for you to
decide on your £250, £5OO, £lOOO or £2OOO car.
Yet you take any Oil offered for its lubrication.
Be logical. Think over the Oil question, and
when you do you will be another VEEDOL user.
There are millions of VEEDOL users throughout
the world today and remember VEEDOL, the
world’s finest Motor Oil, costs no more than
other Oils.
"NEPTUNE OIL CO. LIMITED.
ALL STAT E S
drums, are service equipment. Parking
and emergency brake is of mechanical
type, operated through separate linkage
to the rear wheel service brakeshoes.
Section of direct-
acting two - way
hydraulic shock-
absorbers fit te d
front and rear.
Steering gear is of
cam-and-lever type,
with ball - thrust
bearing on wheel
shaft, and is com-
pletely adjustable.
Reduction ratio is
13.3 to 1.
The closed body-
work is of neat de-
sign, chrome-plated
.grills continuing
along the bonnet in
front of radiator
creating a distinctive
appearance. Interior
appointments are
good. Front seat is
adjustable, and there
is a built-in luggage
compartment in the
streamlined rear
panel. Windscreen
is of non-glare type,
and in front side
windows, in addition
to provision for ven-
tilation, are a pair of
adjustable deflectors
for use when win-
dows are lowered.
Instrument panel is neat and service-
able, the usual instruments being
grouped directly in front of the steering
wheel.
A four-door Graham Crusader, Model
80, with speedometer reading 6061 miles,
Crusader springs are rubber-bushed to eliminate rattles, and
mounted “outboard” on brackets attached to side rails of the
chassis frame.
was taken over the test course, driven
by F. Board, of Garratt’s, Ltd., N.S.W.
distributors. Gross weight of car, driver
and observer was 30^cwt. (registered
weight 27cwt.).
Owing to short wheelbase and light
steering the car proved easy to manoeuvre
in city traffic, and on the open road a
cruising speed of about 40 m.p.h. proved
most comfortable and economical.
On the rolling test, starting in neutral
from 15 m.p.h., the car made a good
showing, coasting 745 yards before com-
ing to rest.
Taking 54 2-ssec. to cover the
measured mile, maximum speed average
was 66.17 m.p.h., the engine being
smooth at these high revs., while steering
was finger-light and positive. Over the
unmade “country” section through Grose
Vale, cornering was good, as were road-
holding and suspension.
A climb of the final 2 1-5 miles of
Kurrajong Mountain against the watch
in 3min. 57sec. revealed the value of
the Graham outboard-type springs, as
the several difficult bends were negotiated
at speed with the body on an almost
even keel throughout. Returning down
the mountain a test of emergency brakes
proved satisfactory.
To determine the flexibility of the
motor in top gear, 350 yards was cov-
ered as slowly as possible, followed
immediately by 350 yards on full
throttle, the times
recorded, 2min.
6sec. and 18 2-5
sec., giving respec-
tively averages of
5.7 m.p.h. and 39.1
m.p.h.
Acce 1 e r a t i o n
from a steady 10
to 30 m.p.h. ih top
was timed in 8 1-5
sec., and in second
5 l-ssec., while
from a standing
start to 50 m.p.h.
through gears
occupied 15 3-ssec.
From 25 m.p.h.
the service brakes
stopped the car in 20ft. 6in.
At conclusion of the journey of 104.4
miles, 3gal. 4j pints of fuel was re-
quired to refill the tank, showing an
average petrol consumption of 29.6
m.p.g. (45.5 ton miles). The average
speed, inclusive of all tests, was 32.8
m.p.h., coasting being permitted. This
result must be considered very satisfac-
tory, and is, in fact, one of the outstand-
ing “ton-mileage” performances in this
series of tests.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
B.W. (Mtidgee, N.S.W.).—(I) What is the
correct name of the car with S.S. on the radi-
ator? (2) Where is it made, by whom and
what is the price ?
(1) Standard Swallow. (2) England, by S.S.
Cars, Ltd., Coventry. Price in Australia, £725.
D.J.B. (Brunswick, Vic.). — The timing chains
on my ’27 model 9-h.p. car are always giving
trouble. Is it possible to use one chain to drive
camshaft generator and magneto ?
Not without completely redesigning timing
gear and case, which would involve considerable
expense.
N.E. (Port Augusta, S.A.). — My 9-h.p. four-
cylinder car was decarbonised about 3000 miles
ago, and recently I have been worried by
occasional misfiring. The ignition system has
been carefully checked, and plugs are only
6000 miles old. Any suggestions ?
Symptoms indicate either a loose connection
in ignition system or an intermittent obstruc-
tion in the fuel line. Make a careful check of
all contacts to plugs, distributor head and
swilchboard and see they are tight and clean.
Take drain plug from fuel tank, dismantle float
chamber from carburettor and examine filters
and fuel line. .Should the trouble persist, see
that petrol pipes are not too close to the ex-
haust system or other hot spot of the motor.
* * * *
D.S.T. (Sale, Vic have recently had my
’34 model six-cylinder sedan completely over-
hauled and new tyres fitted. On taking delivery
the car pulls belter than formerly, but on
smooth concrete roads there is now a distinct
whine in the back-axle assembly. Cause and
cure ?
Unless adjustment of crown wheel and pinion
has been made during overhaul there should be
no alteration in transmission noise. Suggest
next time whine is heard drive the car over
grass. If noise then disappears change tyres
over to old equipment and see what happens.
H.M.J. (Broadwater, Q.).—/ am using a
tractor with a rotary hoe, a dusty job, and after
running a short time air does not go through
oil in air-cleaner but across the top through
the horsehair, and the suction continually draws
oil up. Is this correct ?
No. The air should pass through the oil
bath. Suggest thoroughly washing horsehair
and teasing out at regular intervals. Use
lighter oil in bath, either fuel oil or half-and-half
engine oil and kerosene.
**■ * *
N.W.O. (Yalamurra, Q.). —(1) What is the
correct setting for spark-plug and distributor
points on a 70 Chrysler Six ’2B model sports
roadster ? (2) Settings for plugs and coil on
T model Ford utility ?
(1) Plugs 20 to 22 thou.; breaker gap 16
to 18 thou. (2) Plugs l-32nd inch gap; coil
points a shade less than l-32nd inch. Best
setting can be ascertained only by experiment.
»J* -'l' •fc
T.P. (Ballarat, Vic.). — During recent wet
weather I have been held up a number of times
by ignition failure, which has been traced to
water condensing in the distributor. Can this
be overcome ?
Remove distributor head and drill six 3-16 in.
holes spaced equally round side. This will in-
duce ventilation and prevent condensation in
humid weather. It is advisable to cover the
holes with copper gauze to prevent entry of
dust or road grit.
* * - * *
Chrysler CZ (Vic.). —(1) Can an overdrive be
fitted to my eight-cylinder ’35 model Chrysler I
(2) Does it save petrol or improve maximum
speed ? (3) Has this model beat tested over
the “Bulletin” course ?
(I) Fitting overdrive would involve removal
of existing gearbox and substituting a new trans-
mission unit in which overdrive gear is in-
tegral. (2) Yes, both maximum speed and petrol
consumption are improved. (3) No.
* * * *
G.S. (Parkes, N.S.W.). — I have been advised
that polishing up inside of inlet and exhaust
manifold will considerably improve perform-
ance of my car. Is this so, and how is the
job done ?
The object of polishing valve parts and in-
side of manifold is to promote a smoother
flow of gases. Castings in stock models arc
not perfectly smooth, inequalities in inlet mani-
fold causing condensation and eddy currents
and developing local heating in the exhaust
system. The usual method of polishing is to
use a small emery wheel driven by an electric
motor on a flexible shaft, but if this gear is
not available a reasonably smooth surface may
be secured by half-filling the manifold with
lead shot, plugging all openings, tying the mani-
fold to the rear-wheel spokes and, after jacking
up, spinning the wheel for about half an hour
with engine in top gear.
*** ■ *
W.E.S. (Blackall, Q.). — My ’2B model six-
cylinder car has recently been giving trouble
with the ignition and is steadily getting worse.
On long fast runs the motor fires evenly, but
if idled for a few minutes one or more of the
plugs fail to fire, and the only remedy is to
remove and clean. Should I get a different
type of plug ?
Plugs are not at fault, the trouble apparently
being due to either worn cylinders or pistons
or worn, stuck or broken piston rings, and the
only permanent remedy would be to dismantle
the engine and fit new rings or rebore, which-
ever is found to be necessary.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“P.0.M.C.”: There’s no occasion to
doubt “L.W.’s” statement (B. 9/9/’36)
that his battery-ignition car climbed an-
other steep hill after the battery had
fallen out on a rough grade. What hap-
pened was that, at the moment when car
and battery parted company, the charges
of gas induced into the cylinders were
being fired by the laboring and over-
heated engine itself. Later, when
throttled down following the completion
of the climbs, the engine cooled and the
abnormal condition ceased.
“R.A.W.”: Touching the question of
the cause of corrugations in roads, the
explanation of my 10-year-old daughter
to a small friend visiting us in the coun-
try may help. I heard her explaining that
they were caused by snakes constantly
slithering from one side of the road to
the other.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Headlights a quarter of a
century ago gave as much illumination
as most on modern cars, but when car
met car the lights would blind you, and
the only thing to do was to pull off the
road. My first car, aDe Dion of the
1910 vintage, had acetylene headlights,
each with a separate generator. The
lights made the road as bright as day for
half a mile ahead, and I used to skittle
rabbits by the score, the light being so
blinding that the rabbits would never try
to escape. In S.A. in those days it was
not compulsory to have lights on the four
nights when the moon was at its brightest.
I tried it again recently when I blew my
lorry lights; the moon was bright and
the road straight and white, but I found
it a nerve-racking business.
Good Tyre Treads Increase Safety.
Tests by the United States Tyre Co.
on a car fitted with tyres on which the
treads had been
worn to different
degrees of smooth-
ness show clearly
that a bold tread
pattern has much
to do with the
distance in which
a vehicle can be
stopped in an
emergency.
Equipped with
new tyres, the test
car from 45 m.p.h.
stopped in 83ft, Chang-
ing to half-worn tyres
under identical con-
ditions and driven at the same
speed the car travelled 97ft.
before stopping ; with smooth
tyres a distance of 156 ft. was
covered before the car came
to a standstill—almost double
that with new equipment. A
few feet may mean the difference be-
tween safety and disaster in an emer-
gency stop.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by'
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in, every corner of the
. State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals .of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow irt
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.8.C., certificates. issued show
that during the . 12months ended
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-s
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
i / v.', ' ; -t
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. .WILSdx & CO., Representatives.
'Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:— AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney —P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London —F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH'S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Long White Cloud
Maoriland Publicity
Too many unobservant Maorilanders
spend a few days in Australia and then
take back to the home-town newspaper
tales of sparse M.L. publicity overseas.
Actually, the Australian end of the job
is well and thoroughly done.
Sydney and Melbourne boast M.L.
Government Trade and Tourist offices,
with the Sydney manager (W. Taylor) in
supervisory control and J. Malcolm as
manager in Melbourne. There are
tourist booking agents in nearly every
Australian town. Scenic and industrial
films are carried through the States by
representatives who supplement them
with lectures. Posters and literature
radiate from the N.S.W. and Vic. offices,
and tourists from Australia who book
their trips are completely serviced on
both sides of the Tasman.
In addition to these duties, Messrs.
Taylor and Malcolm represent the M.L
Government at civic and social functions,
transact customs work, carry out trade
inquiries and investigate potential
markets for M.L. products. They have
business to do for nearly every Govern-
ment department, and they keep a
friendly eye on the requirerhents of their
touring countrymen.
Australia is nearly 30 times as large
in area as M.L.', and these two officers
supply, its M.L. publicity. One of their
most important functions is the promo-
tion of goodwill between Australians and
Maorilanders, and admirable work in this
field has won more friends and apprecia-
tion than the most blatant scenic poster
ever did. The casual tourist is blind to
these facts, and should look before he
blurts.
Manukau, High Commissioner Jordan's
old seat, has been held for M.L. Labor
by A. G. Osborne, who beat F. W.
Doidge by 8241 to 3830. Doidge had big
meetings and tried to freeze the blood of
his audiences by shouting that one of the
Trades Hall men had three jobs, and that
Minister Semple was “our Mussolini —he
has more power than the Czar of all the
Russias.” Robust Beaverbrook methods
perhaps. They couldn’t have caught on.
❖ * * *
“T.”: There died in Rarotonga recently
the brave lady whom Australians and
M.L. Diggers knew as Ettie Rout. That
was her maiden name, and it became
famous in France when, defying conven-
tion, she opened a sex-hygiene clinic for
Dominion soldiers visiting Paris. There
was an outcry among the unco’ guid, but
Miss Rout secured approval for her bold
experiment from officers in high com-
mand and defended it spiritedly in articles
contributed to The Bulletin. After the
war she married F. E. Hornibrook, a
Christchurch man who ran a physical
culture school. Together they worked
for the American Red Cross, and Mrs.
Hornibrook had several books published.
:!' % #
“D. Tees”: Members of the M.L.
farmers’ party that visited Adelaide for
the S.A. centenary shocked hotel waiters
in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
Blandly ignorant of city custom in Aus-
tralia, they rarely tipped. Across the
Tasman, tipping is practically unknown
outside the main cities; it decreases
southward from Auckland until it be-
comes almost a slight in Dunedin. No
doubt it will spread in Maoriland as it
has spread in Australia.
* * * *
“Mak”: The proportion of Maoriland-
born people living in Australia (B.
23/9/’36) is actually smaller than that
of Australians in M.L. At the outside,
there cannot be more than 50,000 Maori-
landers on this side of the Tasman, and
the M.L. Government estimates its total
of Australians at about 65,000. Aussies
seem to go to M.L. with one eye on
Parliament; Maorilanders make the
crossing for a break in journalism and
radio. At least, there is as large a pro-
portion of Australian-born politicians in
the M.L. House as there is of M.L. news-
paper men and radio artists over here.
Means tests imposed on steerage pas-
sengers might keep Australia out of
future M.L. political history and M.L.
writers out of Australian offices.
; H: * * * i
“L.M.”: Clyde Carr, one of Labor’s
Parliamentary parsons, has been holding
forth on the theme “Few People in the
“I don't like the idea of bathing with so many tourists around. They're
sure to see us."
“And what do you suppose they came to the Islands for?"
World Are Without Some Spark of
Genius.” That is precisely what L.
Taylor, a Hawera solicitor, was pre-
pared to concede Carr and Langstone
at a stormy South Taranaki political
meeting a few years , ago. Heartily
hooted by local , Labor stalwarts, Tailor
thoroughly enjoyed himself and em-
barrassed the speakers by carrying each
policy point a few steps further. That
electorate, Patea, was one of the few to
return its former Coalition membef.
H. G. Dickie, at the last elections. ■
* * * *
“Fergus”: With Australian and British
delegations in M.L. for aviation talk?,
Public Works Minister Semple aq-
nounced that £202,860 had .been spent on
40 - ’dromes - and emergency • landing
grounds along the chief air-routes.
Maoriland has a special departmental
branch working in conjunction with the
civil aviation and air-service branches of
the Defence Department, and another
60-odd fields are to receive attention.
Minister Semple attributed this speedy
development work to increased public in-
terest in-air transport and defence facili-
ties. “Sir” Parkhill might note that, this
work is providing useful employment
for nearly 2500 men.
.+■ * H=
“Moa”: Te Puea Herangi, Ngarau-
wahia’s elderly Maori princess, is already
helping EurQpean health authorities in
their efforts to better the health stan-
dards of the Maori people (B. 23/9/-36).
•The first Maori pre-natal and post-natal
clinic is-at her pah, and two Health De-
partment nurses make weekly visits. A
great-granddaughter of Potatau te
Wherowhero, the first Maori king, Te
Puea was one of the first to persuade
Maoris back to their land, and successful
Waikato settlements owe much to her
influence. Her , father was the son of a
Waikato magistrate; King Koriki, fifth
of the royal Maori house, is a near rela-
tive ; and Te Puea herself can recite her
genealogical descent from the sailor chief
who guided the Tainui canoe from
_Tahiti to.M.L. six centuries ago. She is
the .Maoris’ greatest living woman, and
her Ngaruawahia work is an inspiration
to 'her ' people.
“F.’VThe Melbourne company which
was to have smelted Para Para coal back
.in the.’seventies (B. 23/9/’36) is by no
mean? the only Victorian link with early
Maoriland history. The first steamer
built across the Tasman was the Gov-
ernor Wynyard, launched at Auckland
in 1851. A small tub, but the Maori-
land coastal trade at that time was in-
sufficient to pay her upkeep, so she was
sent across to Melbourne. After chug-
ging about on the Yarra, she finally went
into the Tasmanian coastal trade.
* * * *
“Xo”: Thirty cans of quinnat salmon
imported from Maoriland have been
liberated in a Camperdown (Vic.) lake,
and it is reported that F. Lewis, Vic.’s
chief inspector of fisheries and game, ex-
pects them to thrive as well as in the
“land-locked” lakes across the Tasman.
Early in February, Maoriland’s quinnat
salmon begin their runs up snow-fed
rivers in the South Island; Atlantic
salmon are caught in Southland’s Waiau
River and in Lake Te Anau, from which
the river flows. It' is difficult to see how
the sea-loving quinnat can be expected
to thrive in a warmer, land-locked Vic.
lake. Incidentally, Maoriland’s trout-
and salmon-fishing season opened on
October 1.
.* * *
“D.N.”: “The biggest thing of its
kind on earth” is Prime Minister
Savage’s description of Labor’s univer-
sal superannuation plan which he says
will be presented to Parliament early
next session. It is to be based on “the
rights, of ' citizenship
and Maoriland’s power
to produce.” So, after
38 years of free pen-
sions, M.L. again hears
of compulsory national
insurance. In 1882,
Atkinson, then Maori-
land’s Conserv ati v e
Treasurer, first asked
Parliament to approve
of a national insurance
scheme. Sixteen years
later, Seddon’s Liberal
Government introduced
free pensions. Now, 54
years after Atkinson’s
original suggestion,
Labor is to submit the
same principles as the
fulfilment of an ideal.
Surely the Savage Gov-
ernment owes some-
thing to the conserva-
tive Atkinson.
* ' *
“Kiwit”: The M.L.
native department is
now supervising 76 land
development schemes in
its endeavor to keep
Maoris on their own
sections. White settlers
in the vicinity of these
native blocks are deriv-
ing the benefits that
come with better neigh-
bors. In the past,
Maori land has too often
been an overgrown
home for rabbits and a breeding ground
for ragwort and other noxious weeds;
these soon cross boundary fences, and
Maori landowners have frequently found
themselves unpopular with their white
neighbors.
“Motu”: Maoriland is to have a
director of commercial broadcasting, and
the Rev. Scrimgeour is the favorite pick.
Protests against the appointment of
such a director unless the position were
advertised drew a blunt intimation from
Mr. Savage that the Government would
appoint the man it thought best fitted
for the job.


(Jltis masterpiece is Perfection
f the spirit he always serves.
i t
c
dl-Vl I
fT
*>3-’
■ t!! "
1
m
m
m
Vk
r
(IFGallurris
Scots Clihisky
A.9Mr«*~-
l(,««yAvM ( rovottl ||«TJ *•••»•<
*
Ksrt
aim
J
ll'
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
i k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30j-.)
X
o .s?
*
’ A <v
V\Vx •
Po 0 «*\
<* V v 1
00
.0 *o
A' 6
S e,r
o'
S 0^ 0
4$
#•
•• .• V^'
<>s?*£*
.-•• o'i


STILL NO ANSWER
To That Famous Question!
Sag
When
L
Man
u
v.
m
*r>
V.
K
m
n
'SJfcosm*
m
m
fi
$
M
turnii
M
ORGE
WHISKY
Unsurpassed for its delicate
bouquet and smoothness of flavour*
so characteristic of finest Scottish
distillers, KING GEORGE IV. OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY is a tribute to
Scotland’s unquestionable supremacy for
fine liquors.
■x
&ztrg, c ty/xial
/uwgf'sorgz IV
~ w
%23£sL
fttiry£/&ory€lV
tixtra, <SftM& gy
?Ua2<J@gc. ~gc IV
%fIW}CJ&
gorge
\ &x/ra> tf/isctetv
H a &mjt3*z&oo
9
NEW MEMBERS OF A FAMOUS OLD FAMjj. Y_J!
