

ASSURE WITH
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY Wm. BENNETT, Managing Director
CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
Country as well as City Interests.
I nvestments carry greatest possible security.
The Society that imposes no restrictions on aeroplane travel.
Yearly Bonus additions to all participating policies.
M utual —owned and controlled by the Policy-holders,
u ndoubtedly the most Liberal and Progressive Life Office.
The Office to assure with for Bigger Bonuses,
u nique advantages by assuring with the City Mutual Life.
Australia’s Security is the City Mutual Policy-holders’ Security.
Liberality to Members unexcelled.
Lowest Expense Rate, 10.7% —1934.
I nvestment yield — the greatest available.
Free Accident Conditions on all Policies with Death Risk.
Empire’s Soundest and Best Assurance Institution.
Strong and unsurpassed reserves.
Only one Board of Directors in the whole of Australia.
Careful selection of Risks, Low Mortality, High Interest Yield,
build Bonuses.
I nvestment in Life Assurance never depreciates.
Efficient and Economical Management
T he Millionaire Societv that operates only in the Commonwealth.
Young Australians will positively secure their future by
becoming Policy-holders of this Society.
f
I
wmam
ill
* ™
u
§009 14
...
1
i
H
Bill
S s- :
ihm
Sill
Si
*■ ' . I. . % . .. V-. HI
H
£1::
liiiil m u fci 'I
Il|
; ■:? :
( 1M
5 i, iff St ,IbI
f ife % $1
S ■•■•/ ; |t >1
1
/
HiU ytatniranee — the Balance Wheel o£ Life
The one Investment that did not depreciate during the World-wide Depression
Life Assurance is the only Business Certainty
In October, 1934, a Member, 23 next birth-
day, effected a Policy on his life for £3OOO,
and paid a quarter’s premium of £l5/15/-.
The Bonus allotted his Policy for 1934 was
£B6/5/-!
Full particulars will be forwarded on
application.
For the
PROTECTION OF ESTATE OR BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
SALARY CONTINUATION
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE MORTGAGE
The Bulletin
If Britain Fights (Page 8)
Vol. 57.—N0. 2928.
Wednesday, March 25, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S W... Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
Among Stotts 500 Courses
ARE THE FOLLOWING
All Australian Exams.
Accountancy Exams.
Ardhitectural Courses
Advertisement Writing
Agricultural Courses
Bookkeeping
Bankers’ Institute
Builders’ Courses
Commercial Art
Chemistry
Draughtsmanship
Engineering
General Education
Government Exams.
Handwriting
Literary Courses
Languages
Motor Engineering
Professional Exams.
Secretaries’ Exams.
Shorthand, Typing
Salesmanship
Showcard, Ticket Wtg.
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Stammerers
Surveying
Teachers’ Exams.
Touch Typewriting
University Exams.
Verse Writing
Window Dressing
Wireless Engineering
Encircle Course desiredand mail to
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLECT.
ICO Russell Street, MELBOURNE.
My Name
Address
S-B. 636
. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem ' worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision!
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
ARTHUR
ADAMS
Arthur Adams’s
position in Aus-
tralian literature
is anomalous, for
more reasons
than one. In the
first place, all his verse and most of his
novels are in Australian literature rather
than of it.
. Although, like so many of the writers
a*nd artists of this part of the world, he
heard Sydney calling and then London,
and although he returned to Australia
and lived there the rest of his life, he
never became thoroughly acclimatised.
But if he was a Maorilander in Aus-
tralia, he was Australasian in London
and British as regards the rest of the
world. At first he hated “this haggard
continent,” or at least he wrote that he
did, though here something may have
been due to desire to impress and in-
stinct for a striking phrase. Later, in
his novel The Australians, he drew a
friendly and bright-colored if rather
superficial picture of Sydney, but his
point of view upon things Australian re-
mained always a little detached. They
never wholly possessed him; he never
quite understood them. If Australia was
his wife, Maoriland was his first love,
far off and idealised. Yet he never went
back to her, which was quite characteris-
tic of Adams.
And considered as an Australian writer
his position remains anomalous still. In
the pre-war period to which he properly
belongs, though his last book appeared as
late as 1930, the foreground of the world
of verse was occupied on the left by the
bush balladists and on the right by
Daley and Quinn. The great figure of
Brennan and two or three other scholar-
poets were shadowy in the background,
but to the general public they were
scarcely more than shadows. Adams
was something of a literary outsider in
this world. He had far more art and
temperament than the writers of the left;
they were balladists, he was a poet,
though it does not follow that they mat-
tered less to Australian literature than
he. On the other hand, as compared
with that of Quinn and Daley, his verse
has something of a journalistic air, an
air of having been written to attract
attention, to make some point or other,
rather than as a spontaneous outflow
whose objects are aesthetic only. It is
far cleverer than theirs and at least as
skilful; its scope is far wider, including
a whole modern world of ideas and ex-
perience that they knew nothing of, and
that would not have interested them any-
how. It is true that he did not pierce
very far beneath the surface of that
world, but he was aware of it, and regis-
tered its vibrations. His verse contains
ideas which, if not profound, were new
and even daring in the Australia of those
days. If it lacks Daley’s flutelike music
and Quinn’s slow-moving charm, it is
attractive, and sometimes beautiful, in
a way that is quite its own. It is con-
scientiously, a little self-consciously,
Craftsmanlike. It is terse, bright, keenly
perceptive within certain definite limits,
and it is marked at times by striking
epigrammatic phrases and at times by a
delicacy that is almost feminine.
Among the novelists of the period
Adams’s position is anomalous again.
Their work corresponded more or less
with that of the balladists in the world
of verse, and against it Adams’s work
stood out in a most marked manner, as
representing modernity—not our mod-
ernity, but the modernity of those days
—and a more finished and sophisticated
art, particularly in the matter of con-
struction and psychology. He had a far
more delicate touch than any of the
others, though he had nothing like their
virility or understanding of human life.
Theirs were novels of incident, and of
character as reflected in incident and ob-
served from without; Adams introduced
plot, psychology and the attempt to see
through the eyes of a character. His
novels are not so realistic as theirs, but
then he often aimed at fantasy rather
than realism. This leads to another
curious fact about Adams: his first
novel, Tussock Land, was, like most first
novels, immature and amateurish, yet
there is in it a promise that none of his
later novels quite fulfilled. And yet
again his best novel is not Tussock Land:
it is Galahad Jones, the story of a simple,
kindly, fat, middle-aged bank clerk with
the soul of a knight errant. It contains
some excellent character-sketches, and
is so framed as to afford legitimate
opportunity for the fanciful humor and
equally fanciful pathos that came natural
to Adams. And The Australians and A
Man’s Life, which are quite different,
both from Galahad Jones and from each
other, are not far behind.
Adams was at one time or another
poet, critic, playwright, novelist and
journalist. His journalistic articles were
fresh, individual and entertaining. So
was his Red Page criticism, though he
was no A. G. Stephens. The poet in
him was somewhat marred by the clever
journalist, with his love of effect, of
seizing upon some current mood or idea
and expressing it as brightly and attrac-
tively as possible. Of his plays, even the
best, “Mrs. Pretty and the Premier,” are
of small literary importance. But his
novels are among the best of their day in
this country. London Streets is something
like a little masterpiece, and in both prose
and verse his conscientious craftsmanship
and interest in new methods and ideas
were of value in the vigorous and in-
dividual but rather crude and confined
atmosphere of Australian literature in the
period that came to an end with the
Great War.
H. M. GREEN.
The Australian
as Play
Character
The current
production at the
Embassy Theatre,
Hampstead, of
Henry C. James’s
comedy of the
central Austra-
lian desert, “Golden Gander,” reminds me
that in several years of constant London
playgoing 1 have not seen outside a
baker’s half-dozen pieces in which the
Australian was used as a character.
Shaw, in his early “Cashel Byron’s Pro-
fession,” set down Cashel as an Aus-
tralian pugilist, or, more accurately, as
an Australian-trained pugilist. (In the
novel from which this play Was adapted,
The Admirable Bashville, Cashel begins
as a rebellious English public-school
boy.) The verse-report of the fight
between “the Dutchman” and “the Aus-
tralian” allows G.B.S. to burlesque a
familiar cliche of Anglo-Saxon priggish-
ness when he complains of Cashel’s
pugilistic tactics:
We trust this sample of colonial smartness
Will not find imitators on this side.
Lonsdale’s Australian John Willocks,
in “Aren’t We All?” is described in the
stage directions as “a good-looking man
about 30 and smartly-dressed”; the
ensuing dialogue reveals in him no type-
characteristics, except a slight contempt
for the idle dilettantism of a manorial
home. Barrie, in “Mary Rose,” found
adequate, even exact and understanding,
words for his parenthetical description of
Harry, the Australian who inspects the
haunted house of his Sussex childhood:
....a young Australian soldier, a
private, such as in those days you met
by the dozen in any London street, slouch-
ing along it forlornly if alone, with sudden
stoppages to pass the time (in which you
ran against him), or in affable converse
with a young lady. In his voice is the
Australian tang that became such a
friendly sound to us. He is a rough
fellow, sinewy....
Harry is elsewhere stated to be “un-
sentimental and looks about him with a
tolerant grin,” notes which ring faith-
fully. But in the verbal expression of
the soldier himself there is little to dis-
tinguish him from any other sort of
English-speaking stranger in, Britain.
Harry Tighe, in “Bush Fires,” set down
an outback scene of elementaJ passions,
reminiscent of the mood of O’Neill’s
“Desire Under the Elms,” with nothing
particularly Australian about its state-
ment. At a later date, Ben Travers laid
his Test-match farce, “A Bit of a Test,”
in Sydney and farther inland, and actu-
ally introduced bushrangers as a
mechanism to sustain the tale. In
“Fresh Fields” Ivor Novello satirised
three vulgarians from Brisbane who
hoped to crash into Belgravian salons.
At the same time, and perhaps more
felicitously, Novello taunted a parallel
trio of derelict aristocratic scions. The
play, so far as it could be regarded as
anything but farce, declared its prefer-
ence for honest vulgarity. That Devon-
living Ulsterman St. John Ervine, in
his light comedy “Anthony and Anna”
(now installed at the Whitehall Theatre),
has a similar type of Australian million-
aire, whose fortune has resulted from
“selling sheep at top prices and buying
them back for practically nothing” (or
some such ramp). Finally, the late Dion
Titheradge’s comedy “Sally Who” intro-
duced as heroine a pert Australian of
doubtful parentage, spilling “Sentimental
Bloke” argot about a respectable English
home.
These are all I can remember at the
moment; they form a sufficient list from
which to judge whether the London-
writing dramatist has any clear concep-
tion of a distinct Australian type, with
indigenous, homogeneous characteristics.
The answer is that he certainly hasn’t!
More often than not, the characters
mentioned were Australian merely by
accident, anybody being suitable who
was sufficiently a stranger to the English
environment. At other times, the con-
struction of a play has dictated what
kind of person the Australian should
be; e.g., in Ervine’s “Anthony and
Anna” it can be anticipated that, the
original characters having talked them-
selves out, the newly-arriving millionaire
will be voluble, peppy and bright, in
order to sustain the playrflow and in
spite of the fact that Australian million-
aires are not voluble, peppy and bright.
If his Australian character is meant
to engage the total sympathies of the
audience, the London dramatist takes
no risk with the polite playgoing public,
and alchemises him or her into a public-
school product, pure and undefiled. Not
once, except for Barrie’s minor instance,
can it be said that an English dramatist
has attempted to study the emerging Aus-
tralian’s racial differences, even when
seen in European setting—his dourness,
independence, slightly naive and bump-
tious pride in his own country, his
touchiness, the discomfort of his reaction
to the English code, his initiative and
capacity for finding a grip among new
conditions, his twin contempt for and
admiration of tradition and its mum-
mery, his unending desire to make
himself and his unknown country under-
stood, his constant repressed conscious-
ness that at home he is rather far from
the centre of things. None of these
attributes, much less all, has been seen
in an English play.
But even if a dramatist did rise to the
task, it is doubtful if he could find the
actors to give reality to his treatment.
The English actor has no single idea of
specially Australian meanings ; while
exiled Australian actors and actresses
know that Rule Number One in the
restrictive London play-world is: Dont
risk an Australian accent. Thus, even
in Henry C. James’s Australian-written
comedy, with the Australian Coral Brown
in a major part, the atmospheric truth
and local flavor were nil. The play-
goers were given what they wanted;
not Australian desert, but Bayswater
with a blackcloth.
London.
LESLIE REES.
A Musical
Surgeon*s
Memories
Carl Ludwig
Schleich h a s
established him-
self as an emi-
nently likeable
person in his
autobiography
Those Were Good Days (George Allen
and Unwin ; Dymock’s ; 18s. 6d.). The
book, translated by Bernard Miall, was
written 15 years ago and had a circula-
tion in Europe of 365,000.
Schleich was a great surgeon (died
1922), claimed to be the pioneer of local
anaesthesia, was the author of a new
theory of the function of the neuroglia,
was assistant to Virchow and a friend of
Ehrlich, the inventor of . salvarsan. He
talks a vast deal of shop in his remi-
niscences, and gives himself plenty of
pats on the back, but it is done with the
eager naivete of a boy who takes it for
granted that his audience is interested
and credits it with not needing explana-
tions of the most abstruse secrets of
, surgery and pathology. His praise of
others is generous, his affections are
warm, and he is above mock-modesty.
A dramatic moment in his career was
in 1892 when he announced to the Sur-
gical Congress in Berlin his new prin-
ciple of anaesthesia. Eight hundred dele-
gates were present. When Schleich had
finished his speech the president indig-
nantly called for a vote to ascertain who
among those present believed what they
had just been told. Not a hand was held
up, and Schleich, refused the right to
further address the meeting, left the hall
in disgust. Ten years later the Congress
sat silent while an eminent surgeon told
it that by Schleich’s method thousands
of completely painless operations had
been performed and that it undoubtedly
was part, of the “permanent stock-in-
trade of surgical knowledge.”
But Schleich wasn’t only a surgeon.
He was an accomplished musician-
played the ’cello well, and had an oppor-
tunity of a career as an operatic tenor—
and a talented painter of landscape. In
connection with the latter hobby," he in-
vented colors with h wax basis which
he claimed would carry hues with much
less impairment of brilliance than oil.
He was well-read, too, and a vast admirer
of Goethe (like all Germans of his class
and generation). He evinces a poor
opinion of Heine, after which it is not
surprising to find him saying that many
people consider Carl Lowe was an im-
measurably better song-writer than Schu-
bert. Among Schleich’s literary friends
were the poet Keller (who loved him
because of his magnificent appetite for
beer) and Strindberg. He devotes a long
chapter to the Scandinavian, who appears
(Continued on page 4 .)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ” — Always.
The Senior Store"
While I Live I’
11 Grow n
Anthony Horderns’
■ fi
WELL-DRESSED MEN choose their Footwear at Anthony
Horderns’, where comfortable lasts and quality leathers
are traditional. Well-dressed men demand “Tree” Brand Foot-
wear because behind its inimitable style lies a world of foot
ease and comfort. “Tree” Brand Footwear also keeps its new
look longer—wears better—travels farther, and gives many extra
miles per pair. No matter what style you choose from our large
variety of “Tree” Brand Footwear you know that you will wear an authentic
style, fashioned of the finest materials.
SUPERCRAFT HAND -TAILORED SHOES
Made on popular extended last from selected high-polishing
Willow Galf, with stout single soles and genuine welts,
Smart and comfortable. Full and half-sizes.
At Anthony Horderns’, pair 28/6
This neat-looking shoe can
be supplied in stout Tan
Willow or Black Box
Calf. It is an extended
shape which gives ade-
quate support to the foot.
All sizes, full and half
fittings.
At Anthony
Horderns”, pair, 28/6
Designed for ease and comfort from high-grade
imported Brown Glace Kid, neatly punched and
silk-stitched. Full and half-sizes are available.
At Anthony Horderns’, pair 28/6
SMART “SUPER” SHOES
2/6
WM ■
SUPER BROGUES IN BROWN CALF
Well-dressed men always choose our famous
Tree” Brand Super Shoes. They are made
from high-grade Tan Willow, Brown Calf
and Black Box Calf in full and half-sizes.
With stout welted soles, they are an ideal
winter shoe. Price, pair 27/6
BESPOKE WHOLE GOLOSH SHOE
“Tree” Brand Super Shoes in the whole
golosh Oxford bespoke model. Made of
Tan Willow, Brown Calf and Black Box
Calf with extra wide welts and stitched
heels. Full and half-sizes.
Price, pair 27/6
TREE” BRAND BOOTS
HEAVY DUTY OFFICERS’ BOOTS
Boots, specially made from stout Tan Willow
and-Black Box Calf with genuine welted soles. These
oots are made for lasting comfort as well as service.
u half-size fittings. Price, pair 30/-
• Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
STURDY RIDING
BOOTS
17'6
19/6
Tree Brand Riding Cossacks made of selected
lightweight Wallaby with extra light standard
screwed soles. A serviceable and comfortable
boot for the horseman. Full and half-sizes.
Price, pair 17/6
Tree Brand Elastic Riding Boots with extra
light standard screwed soles. Full and half-
sizes. Price, pair 19/6
With Buckle and Strap. Price, pair .... 22/6
In Tan Willow and Black Box Calf. Genuine
welted soles. Price, pair 30/-
BACK AGAIN FOR SHOW WEEK!
GEORGE ROBOT
•4 \
' . v'l
George Robot, the
marvellous electro-
mechanical man who
amazed over 100,000
people at Anthony
Horderns’ last year,
will be back again to
add to the Easter
attractions. Country
visitors may see him in
our Country Club,
Second Floor, from
MARCH 30 to APRIL
16. You will marvel
as he stands resplen-
dent in his suit of
gleaming duralumin,
answers questions,
obeys commands,
gnashes his teeth and moves his limbs. He is an
accomplished linguist, speaking not only English,
but also French, German, Dutch, Flemish,
Spanish, Italian, Russian, Chinese and Hindustani.
Don’t fail to see him . . . there is no charge.
SHOW WEEK . ..
When at the Show, be sure to inspect Anthony
Horderns’ Pavilion. In it there will be many
interesting exhibits of goods made in our own
factories, besides a wonderful show of other
high-quality merchandise for which Anthony
Horderns’ name is famous. It is always a much
discussed attraction at the Show . . . you simply
must see it.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR
SHOW CATALOGUE
In our Show Catalogue is a comprehensive
collection of valuable information and advice to
the man on the land when choosing reliable
modern- equipment for the farm. Send for your
copy at oncel


THE BEST STEELWARE for Country use is at BAKER’S!
Send to us for Free Illustrated
Catalogue of
EARMARKERS,
FIRE & TAR BRANDS,
SHEEP SHEARS,
DEHORNERS,
Veterinary Instruments, etc.
Countryman’s Favourite
i five blades, 18/- each.
W.JNO. BARER l«
3 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY,
For the Best Cutlery since 1888.
ftHOBtKKE#
Copper Bull Rings for Stud
Cattle, 2%in. 3/3
Postage 3d. extra.
V 8 Baker’s Tattoo PHer with one
set of 10 moulded figures, 1 to 10,
and one stick Indian Ink.
With Plier to hold 3 figures . . 55/-
With Plier to hold 4 figures . . 59/6
from his account to have been far saner
in his everyday manner than in his
writings.
More interesting than his countless
anecdotes about the great and notorious,
however, is the unfolding of Schleich’s
own character. His oft-reiterated in-
sistence that the physician must sympa-
thise with the sufferer and hate the pain ;
that the more one knows the more one
can forgive ; his cheery philosophy and
his rich appreciation of the quaint streaks
that make piquant the finest characters
reveal him as a jolly soul with a heart
as big as his brain.
A.D.W.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Freedom G. Bernard Shaw and Others
Fortune and Men’s Eyes George Cronyn
A Speech on the Death of King George V. .. Stanley Baldwin
ON the cover the credit for Freedom
(Allen and Unwin ; Angus and Robert-
son ; 6s. 9d.) is given to “G. Bernard
Shaw and others.” The best of it is
among the others, though perhaps Shaw,
who is a captivating speaker, may pos-
sibly have made his little bit sound best
when this series of talks was broadcast
by the 8.8. C. In the series a baker’s
dozen—some, in the opinion of one
of them, hardly authorities on the sub-
ject—express their conception of free-
dom, together, in some instances, with
their scorn for Hitlerism, Fascism, Com-
munism and other fashionable assaults
upon the “liberty of the subject.” The
talkers include “capitalists” like Sir
Ernest Benn ; Labor M.P. Herbert Mor-
rison and trade-unionist John Moore;
the Lord Bishop of Durham, confining
his remarks to religious freedom, and G.
K. Chesterton, speaking, by request, as a
Catholic ; Sir Thomas Barlow, interesting
and solid on the menace of too much
Governmental interference with com-
mercial freedom, but explaining the fre-
quent necessity for some such interfer-
ence; J. L. Garvin, for the freedom of
the press ; J. A. Spender, representing the
young intelligentsia, not at all badly;
Lord Eustace Percy and Sir William
Jowitf, skimming lightly over surfaces ;
Professor E. Schrodinger, an Austrian,
using words and touching on matters
that would never, never be permitted by
the A.8.C., notwithstanding the Pro-
fessor’s fine thinking and excellent tact
and good taste ; Shaw, a little too charac-
teristically Shavian ; and in the midst of
them a brilliant gem of critical thinking
by Wyndham Lewis. The book helps
further to demonstrate what easy read-
ing good broadcast talking makes. Plat-
form oratory, even now when there’s a
strong tendency to laugh outright at
mock heroics, is generally poor reading,
padded out as it is with metaphor, simile
and repetition. The broadcaster, rigidly
limited in time, knows that if he is to
say anything he must strip away all such
superfluity and stick to the point. Also
he must do it simply, or, at any rate,
plainly; it is fatal to be woolly and in-
volved over the air.
Many may feel that the self-employed
pruning-knife which thus operates when
writers turn broadcast talkers might be
forced with advantage on the bulk of
contemporary novelists, who tend to be-
come more and more long-winded;
though it has to be admitted that the
best of them are most given to that ten-
dency. Certainly the knife might have
been used by George Cronyn on his
Fortune and Men’s Eyes (Cape ; Bs. 6d.).
It is not inordinately long when such
novels as Anthony Adverse, Of Time and
the River or even Hans Fallada’s latest
are considered, but it is still too long
for itself by a round 20,000 words.
Nevertheless, it is an original piece of
work, unusual in conception and execu-
tion. It purports to relate the experiences
of a consulting psychologist, who, pursu-
ing the study of curious departures from
normal behavior in apparently rational
human beings, has followed out 999 such
cases with complete personal detachment,
when the thousandth case breaks into his
personal immunity, so that he is drawn
into the affairs of a number of people as
an interested party. These people, whose
story is the novelist’s real business, are
chiefly the three sons of an American
provincial clergyman, one a financier,
one an architect and one who has fol-
lowed no particular occupation, but has
tried a great many things, most of them
adventurous. The psychologist’s study of
the financier as his thousandth case is
rudely interrupted by the financier’s
puzzling suicide from a New York hotel’s
fiftieth floor. Coming to see what light
the psychologist might be able to throw
on that occurrence, the architect ends by
replacing his brother as Patient 1000, and
from their consultations, brilliantly
handled by Mr. Cronyn, gradually
emerges a curious story of a number of
people being forced out of the normal
run of behavior by the very social beliefs
and observances that are held to be the
pattern of normality. It is not by any
means a dry, clinical analysis, as any
such summary of its main theme must
make it appear. The presentation is
extremely clever, but what is presented
is throughout unusually strong in human
feeling. The characters —there are many,
including a host of women —are strongly
projected, and their combined story is
as interesting for its broad, human quality
as for the more eccentric incidents. The
theme, in fact, amounts to a contention
that all attempts to rationalise upon
human behavior are worthless if they
leave out of account the unpredictable
element that is called human nature.
When the whole intricate pattern of
heredity—the clergyman’s father’s sex
susceptibility and the like—general cir-
cumstances of existence and the rest is
worked over, the actual cause of the
financier’s leap from the upper floor is
a simple matter of human nature shocked
by an ordinary, rather commonplace
adultery. But it is the weaving of the
pattern, the brilliant analysis of human
nature studied in its responses to the
requirements of “normal” ideas of be-
havior that makes the novel an uncom-
monly interesting piece of fiction.
Except to mention that if has been,
printed in brochure form by Hodder and
Stoughton at Is. 3d. (Australian price),
there is no need to say anything here of
Stanley Baldwin’s A Speech on the Death
of King George the Fifth. Anyone who
has read any of his speeches knows that,
as somebody has said, Mr. Baldwin’s
slightest utterance is likely to be a
glorious example of fine English prose ;
this speech is on the high prose level of
its phrase: “To famous men all the earth
is a sepulchre.”
4
Crime Counter Crime : E. C. R. Loring
(Crime Club ; 7s. 6d.). The crime is well
enough arranged, but he’d be a dull
reader who couldn’t pick the murderer
half-way through. The political atmo-
sphere of a North of England by-election
tends only to prove that politics is a poor
thriller ingredient. The last 50 pages are
good, but don’t compensate for the drag-
ging effect of the first 200.
A tmosphere for Gloria: Maribel Edwin
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymock’s;
7s, 6d.). Pretty, light romancing, evi-
dently meant for a feminine audience.
Eugenic considerations forming an
obstacle to normal relations between an
average young man and woman, the
man seeks consolation by marrying an-
other and the woman finds relief in a
transfer of affection to the man’s
mother. Throbs with emotion in places
and not badly done of its artificial kind.
They Died with Their Boots On:
Thomas Ripley (Angus and Robertson ;
65.). John Wesley Hardin had his first
taste of blood at 15, and from then till
a long-overdue bullet ended his brag-
ging his existence seems to have been
dedicated to decimating the population
of Texas. This biographical recital of
his senseless slaughterings, and those of
and by his friends and enemies, is
monotonously gory.
The Writing of English : S. P. B. Mais
(Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d. net). A
capital light introduction not only to the
writing but to .the reading and under-
standing of English. The author, himself
a teacher, uses a good teacher’s methods.
He talks familiarly with his student as a
teacher but otherwise an equal, and on
these terms discusses, using numerous
examples, all the branches of English
literary expression, with simple chapters
,on diaries, letters, autobiography, fiction,
poetry and so on, a word on common
errors and a too-brief appendix on “The
Wrecking of English.” Additionally, at
each chapter end he gives a list of great
works in each kind.
The Aldine Bible (Dent; ss. net per
vol.). When completed this year in its
four slender volumes this will compare in
beauty and handiness for reading with
any edition of the New Testament ever
issued. It might even be described as
the finest of all for reading purposes.
Each vol.—three have now been done —•
is printed in a large, clear and finely-
designed type, with somewhat fantastic
engravings by Eric Gill that become more
appealing with longer acquaintance. The
editorial notes by M. R. James, assisted
by Delia Lyttelton, are comprehensive
but concise, and are placed at the back
of the vols., leaving the reading pages
clear, with the prose set out in para-
graphs and the verse set as verse.
Wilson’s Sydney and Suburban Street
Directory, 1936 (Wilson’s, Sydney;
4s. 6d.). Exact location of every one of
the thousands of streets in the metropoli-
tan area, with a Blue Mountains section
as carefully compiled.
We of the Never Never: Notes, Ex-
planations and Comments on Text: H.
C. Shea (Moreton Printing Co., Bris-
bane ; Is. 6d.). Primarily intended to
assist students, this painstaking and
thorough commentary and glossary will
instruct most readers of Mrs. /Eneas
Gunn’s classic. There are also help-
ful maps and illustrations.
Albert of Belgium: Emile Cammaerts
(Ivor Nicholson and Watson; 21s. net).
After a good beginning—a dramatic de-
piction of the Belgian capital at the time
Germany’s ultimatum arrived—there is
a dull stretch in which the eminent
biographer does his best with Albert’s
singularly empty childhood ; but when
that’s passed a fine vista of sturdy history
opens out. Even after reading it few
might feel impelled to subscribe to the
view of Albert as “one of the wisest
and most energetic military leaders of
the Great War,” but the more important
achievement of the book —the record of
the part Belgium had to take in the war
and why—is a heroic story of the
“defence of right” that borders on the
epic.
The A r kins Time and Rhythm
Method: K. D. G. Arkins (Angus and
Robertson; 55.). A resolute attempt to
analyse and remove the many difficulties
encountered by the young student of
music in mastering the intricacies of
time. Everyone agrees that our system of
musical notation is cumbrous and con-
fusing, but it can no more be altered
than the Anglo-Saxons can be forced to
jettison their language in favor of
Esperanto. All that can be done is to
make the best of it, and here Mr. Arkins
scores over other innovators and theorists,
for he doesn’t alter the notation —just
makes it logical and intelligible, which
is no mean feat. The author has been
teaching music in Sydney for many years,
employing his own principles of tuition,
and the rapid progress of his pupils is
practical proof of the soundness of the
ideas this book expounds.
Patriotic Lady: Marjorie Bowen
(Bodley Head ; 55.). Biography of Emma,
Lady Hamilton, covering precisely the
same ground and written from the same
angle as E. B. D’Auvergne’s The Dear
Emma (reviewed R.P. 11/3 / ’36). Miss
Bowen lays even more emphasis than
D’Auvergne on Nelson’s toadying to the
King of Naples and on the British
admiral’s part in organising the mass-
acre of the Neapolitan! patriots. Paget,
who succeeded Hamilton as Ambassador
at Naples, is quoted as summing up the
fruits of that disgraceful episode—“all
the honest, trustworthy people either
have been murdered or are in exile or in
prisons.” Miss Bowen does her best to
make it clear that, while Nelson was the
idol of the mob, he was ostracised as a
self-advertising bounder by people of
intelligence.
T. E. Lawrence, by Charles Edmonds
(Peter Davies; 55.). About the best
independent thing done on Feisal’s
adviser. It compacts the work already
done on Lawrence’s adventures with
impartiality, and it adds a good many
new facts, particularly about T.E.’s
youth and training. Among the most
useful things is, perhaps, the most im-
partial summary of the events surround-
ing the capture of Damascus, about
which there has been so much rivalry in
misstatement: —■
It was neither Barrow [i.e., in com-
mand of the Indians] nor Lawrence who
captured Damascus. Allenby was throw-
ing out four clutching tentacles to close
round the city, the left-hand tentacle
flung widest On the night of Sept. 30
British cavalry camped on two sides of
Damascus, Nasir’s Arabs on the third....
On the morning of Oct. 1, Ah Riza
Pasha rode out to breakfast with General
Barrow. The Turks had never known he
was their enemy An Arab named
Shukri set up a provisional government,
and sent a horseman to greet the Arab
army. It was characteristic of Lawrence’s
way that the messenger came first to him,
but was sent on to Nasir, who should have
the honorable entry, a privilege of his 50
battles Damascus was not captured but
liberated. Without Chauvel’s cavalry
Feisal would not have got there; but with-
out Feisal’s Arab rising Damascus would
not have received the British as friends.
Early in the day some Australians galloped
in at the west gate, and a little later
Nasir rode in from the east.
This should settle a lot of campfire argu-
ments. It squares completely with offi-
cial records.
BUSH BALLADRY
COMPETITION.
Prizes totalling £2s—£ls, first;
£7, second; £3, third—are offered
for the best ringing bush ballads to
reach “The Bulletin” by April 30.
Entries should be marked “Bush
Balladry Competition.” The word
“ballad” is not used in any narrow
or technical sense'; the verse may
be in whatever form and metre the
competitor prefers. Each entry
should be of less than 80 lines,
though longer entries would not be
disqualified. In addition to the
prize-money, space rates will be
paid for every entry published.


J
DUNLOP
PRESTIGE
IS BUILT ON
PROGRESS
v
Obsolete .. so
DUNLOP HAS NO USE FOR IT
N
Co* 0
TV***
Jet*
'//////
V
>\X
rn°
tli c
no* 1
ym
iru (
co Tis
sing
nee
dv»
cn
a
is
A
esVS
Cot
niet
tt-BSS
COHS'i^
\)Ua
tu°V
|OH
U se
bec»
to
ttvet
■rfcUC
a
c \^ e
ra
doP ie
c\a c
oi
e>
Vvtu
ta e
atta
tec
Eac^ te
\ete
VttStt
o\>s°
v\st^
ipa
tap*
oto
ty* e
pa
sc
o tA^ aty
\oP
d
rive
Aeta
ta
Cot
AeP
\ac 6
it\o
tt& s 8
la
1
ttvod
ttvaa
o^t
Id 1
pa
t tia
tae
tu e
\d
\A
Vta e
at e
Vvea
%vot
live
cot
eat®
tta c
ittag
stag
v epa
Acs
tttag
et^a
ca
ttve
\>t°
A
\V e
\S
aa
atc s
to$ s
CT° S
des>
tea g®
tVoa^a
W
M
stag
A
pat
caa
u^ e
ag 6 :
ca
cotd
ca
vfta
to
tveat
ta
opae
ttoa
d
oatc
t \C
oa
Ceil
aa
Aia*
ttve
stag
sa
ate
atet
ca
ot
tae
U^ 6
g*s
ot
ttae
ttes
tat
\tt©
xa
ot
tae
ds
sal s
vxsaa
tao
ste®
ttte
tyte
WV|»
\\\\
I \\'
ww
V\\Vi
>j
a
DUNLOP
Weftless cord tyres
138 x
faetiek SeJioi
AS
BRITISH
AS THE FLAG


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
: : ■:
s m m
m
IIS
:
I'
■
i
■
I
B ■
H
m
1 :■
■
n
*
m
m
■ —• >:
' - < i&r
~ -
fe# *-* iW> *. '■
I
*
M
:
* ‘' • < > *
:: ■ ' ' •
•v»T.
V.
I H
M
yr
Grape Picking in Seppelt’s Royal Purple Para Vineyard .
c Hinecfm'i£ 7nellm.meMandlx>iiq/ue£


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No, 2928.
March 25, 1936.
THE SUMMING UP.
"World Wide Wave of Resentment. German Troops Move. France's Readiners for War. British and Italian Troops in Zone. Invasion Threatens Australia.
Holland Looks to Her Defence Needs. Switzerland to Erect Frontier Forts. Red Army Prpared to Fight. Belgium's Fears. Poland Protests. Trouble in Tyrol.
Orgy of Violence in Spain. Rumania Ready to Fight. Russo-Japanese War Threat. U.S.A. Will Not Be Coerced. Widespread Forebodings of War."
-Actual day-to-day headings from one newspaper alone since March 1.
"So big a thing to have had so little in it."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Slate cheques.)
To Any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘'All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
IF BRITAIN FIGHTS.
Arguing that Australia, Maoriland, all the Dominions,
are expressly exempted from the Locarno Treaty,
the British press last week “appealed to French
diplomacy” to “proceed with the utmost circumspec-
tion” in regard to the Rhineland disturbance. “If
the Dominions do not co-operate, the Empire may
be dangerously weakened” ; “France’s position should
be juridically unassailable.”
The suggestion is that Britain, fulfilling its fan-
tastic obligation to fight in any and every European
war that breaks out, might be left to fight alone.
Technically, the Dominions are not involved by the
ripping of the Treaty ; technically, they can congratu-
late themselyes on a happy isolation, look on as dis-
interested observers and leave Britain to its constabu-
lary affairs. The Dominions must still be poorly
known in Britain to be so poorly understood. Some
plain talking to France was clearly necessary, but not
on the ground of such a fiction.
For, of course, it is a fiction. The idea of our
not participating if Britain does get entangled in a
war is merely childish. But that it is suggested is not
extraordinary when such fictions have become an
obsession ; when a faith in artificially-constructed legal
machinery replaces policy based upon natural human
verities. The suggestion of our standing aside and
leaving Britain to it is completely in accord with that
state of mind.
The human element has passed out of the reckon-
ing. There are only Pacts and Treaties: every one
of them a fiction, and enough of them to paper the
walls of Valhalla —a use to which it is not unlikely
they will be put. International conferences are an-
other manifestation of this obsession in fictions.
Including the latest one, there have been upwards of
50 “international conferences” since the war, every
one of them bent upon either fastening an artificial
legal technicality on the conduct of some people or
other, or devising a fiction by which barbarity might
continue to masquerade as civilised behavior.
This latest talking-match is only characteristic of
its kind. It is serious, well-meaning, dignified and
without the faintest sign of any real spirit of goodwill
and conciliation. No attempt there—there has not
yet been one —to make a combined effort towards a
plain and simple human peace; towards obliterating
the mutual suspicions and vested hatreds, and turn-
ing to regard one another’s people as human beings.
No attempt to steady down the ferment into which
men and women of all nations are now agitated by
forces —including, above all, war psychosis, or war
on the brain —which it is the primary and the prime
mission of statesmanship to dissolve.
What is in the course of manufacture in the talk-
shop is plainly another formula ; a fiction to fit the
occasion. There is to be yet another “great world
conference” to devise still more artificial legal techni-
calities when the world cries out for simple human
understanding.
It is wholly in the nature of all this obsession
with fictions that there can be suggested such a hope-
less fiction as our neutral isolation with Britain at
war. It is another example of the human
element left out of the reckoning. To believe that
if Britain fights, either in the near future or in any
distant future that imagination can grasp, we can look
on is to harbor the delusion that there is a choice in
the matter. There is no choice.
Not because of pacts binding the British Com-
monwealth of Nations. There are none. Nor because
Australia thinks so highly of Britain’s present foreign
policy that it strains to fight in order to support that
card-house founded on fictions: Nor because of any
sudden rush to the head of the plain commonsenss
which must tell us that in the purely selfish interests of
our own safety we could have no choice in such a
matter. Admitting the human element for a change,
the truth is that there can be no choice because
Australia’s feelings towards Britain permit of none.
But some other things might be thought on, too.
There is a large body of sensible opinion here that
does not want war on any account short of an actual
direct attack upon Britain or the Empire. Also, even
if such a war came, Australia would go into it more
grimly, less jauntily, than it went into the last. Above
all, the repercussions here to war on any of the pif-
fling grounds so far advanced or in sight might
easily disturb the present terms of relationships within
the British Commonwealth. That Commonwealth
Would never be the same again after a war that should
have been avoided.
It is such considerations, not fictional matters of
France’s or any other country’s position being
“juridically unassailable,” that need urging into the
balance against all the light talk of war for Britain
that is going on. Under the intangible terms of the
British Commonwealth of Nations it is not merely
the privilege, it is the duty of Dominions’ statesman-
ship to protest against that constantly-propagated idea.
Embracing the dumb acquiescence in all things White-
hall, which is Mr. Lyons’s lazy masquerade for a
national policy, is simply matching a natural incom-
petence with an unnatural complacency. The Dominions
hold not less than one-third of the white population
of the Empire ; it is preposterous that they should
stare dumbly at the spectacle of Britain committed
—and automatically committing them —to fight in any
war that hates and suspicions of European politicians
may manage to stage.
The strongest of all reasons why Australia should
be heard in the protest against that monstrous com-
mittal is because it is so positive a fact that if Britain
fights Australia fights also.
THE WONDERFUL CENTURY.
It is often said in Europe and Australia that there
is always fighting going on in China.
“Of course there is really no such thing as a
Chinese nation,” self-styled authorities tell us. “What
we call China is really a conglomeration of peoples
inhabiting more or less autonomous provinces, speak-
ing dozens of different languages and always fighting.”
China, before Japan started snipping bits off, covered
an area of about 3,500,000 square miles, with a popu-
lation estimated at 475,000,000.
There is another portion of the earth’s surface,
not quite as big as China, but also rejoicing in a
population of approximately 475,000,000. It is called
Europe, and its people also speak a variety of
languages and inhabit a number of provinces more
or less autonomous (but they call them kingdoms,
republics, States, principalities and powers). And, of
course, they seldom fight, but live in perfect accord
one with the other.
In 1815 Waterloo ended a war in which these
peace-loving Europeans had been fighting since 1792
for this right to live together peacefully. It was 99
years before another “all-in” contest was forced upon
them, and the intervening period was such a, shining
record of sustained goodwill and friendship that senti-
mental historians have styled it “The Wonderful
Century.”
A brief catalogue of the minor troubles of that
period is interesting as showing the superiority of the
Western brand of civilisation over that known to
the poor, backward Chinese who are always fighting
among themselves. Here’s the catalogue in 10-year
periods:
1815-24, —Particularly quiet. With Old Boney
at St, Helena and the Bourbons back in Paris, every-
thing was in train for a reign of peace. True, there
were revolutions in Naples, Piedmont, the Danubian
Provinces, Portugal and Spain (necessitating a French
invasion); also Due de Berry was assassinated and
Greece revolted against Turkey ; but there was little
to disturb the calm of Europe.
1825-34.- —Relatively quiet. First of all, there
were “risings” in Russia. Then Russia had a small
war with Persia, and followed it up with another little
affair with Turkey. (This was perhaps excusable,
though, as Russia really needed the Caucasus, know-
ing that 70 years later motor-cars would be invented,
making the oil wells valuable.)
Then came another French Revolution. Exit
the elder Bourbons. Enter the Orleans branch. Quite
a peaceful affair, though. The same year Belgium
seceded from Holland and the Dutch invaded Belgium,
and the French sent some troops to assist one side
or the other, and everything was all right.
The Greek War of Independence ended, and
the Succession Wars in Spain and Portugal began.
There were a few riots in England and revolutions
in Poland, Spain, Germany, various Italian States
and Portugal —just minor affairs, of course. Nothing
like the troubles they have in China.
1835-44. —Very quiet indeed. A few more riots
in England and an attempt on the Queen’s life. Two
unsuccessful insurrections in France, and the wars
in Spain and Portugal proceeded according to plan.
The French did a spot of fighting in Algeria, but
that’s not Europe.
1845-54. —This period certainly was slightly dis-
turbed. Revolutions in France, Austria, Saxony,
Sicily, Prussia, Bavaria, Venice, Poland, Portugal,
Denmark, Spain and Bohemia, and riots in nearly
every capital city. ( The Emperor of Austria, the King
of France and the King of Bavaria abdicated, and
Pope Pius IX. fled from Rome. Most of these things,
however, were caused by sunspots or the Great Comet,
and were no fault of the European people. Austria
went to war in turn with several Italian States, Hun-
gary (after which 13 generals were executed) and
Croatia. Among other places, Vienna, Budapest,
Prague and Venice were bombarded, and the French
occupied Rome. Prussia fought Denmark, and Monte-
negro seceded from Turkey. Russia went to war with
Turkey, and England and France opposed it.
Russia’s minor complaints included 64 “risings of
serfs in one year alone.
1855-64. —Less disturbed. Britain, France and
Turkey (plus Piedmont) fought Russia for a while;
then France and Piedmont fought Austria. The Gari-
baldi wars began in Italy. The King of Greece
deposed; revolution in Poland, and the Austrians
and Prussians fought Denmark.
1865-74. —Almost dull. Italy and Prussia fought
Austria, then Prussia fought France. Revolutions in
France and Spain. Riots in England. Rome changed
hands a couple of times. King of Serbia assassinatea
and Queen of Spain deposed.
1875-84. —Restful —except for the Turks. Herze-
govina revolts against Turkey. Turks massacre Bul-
garians ; British Fleet in Turkish waters. Serbia and
Bulgaria fight Turkey. Russia fights Turkey.
Rumania declares its independence. Austria seizes
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Two Turkish sultans
deposed and one Russian czar assassinated.
1885-94. —Calm and peaceful. Rebellions in
Esthonia and Livonia. Kings of Bulgaria and Serbia
abdicate. Massacres in Armenia and anarchist out-
rages in France. French President assassinated.
1895-1904. —Light thunderstorms. Massacres in
Armenia and Crete. Wars between Russia and Japan
and Spain and U.S.A. —but these took place outside
Europe. Jewish pogrom in Russia. Riots in Milan.
King of Italy, King and Queen of Serbia and Empress
of Austria assassinated.
1905-14. —Calm before storm. Russian grand
duke assassinated. Risings in Russia. King of
Norway deposed. Norway and Sweden agreed
to differ. King and Crown Prince of Portugal
assassinated. Revolutions in Portugal and Turkey.
Sultan deposed. Turkey, Greece, Serbia, Bulgaria and
Montenegro at war. King of Greece assassinated.
The Wonderful Century came to an end with
the assassination of the Archduke of Austria in 1914.
In 1919, after most of the mess had been cleared up (the
Russians had a revolution, a civil war and a war
with Poland, and the South Irish a rising and a civil
war, which kept going till 1922 or thereabouts), the
European Powers got together and formed a League
of Nations which has put an end to all their troubles.
There can now be no more wars in Europe, and each
country lives in perfect amity with every other
country. Not like those Chinese, who are always
fighting.
LING-CHING.
MR. LYONS AND THE MOTHERS.
Professor Marshall Allen, an Australian who
occupies the Chair of Obstetrics in the University of
Melbourne, has publicly challenged, in the sacred
fastnesses of Canberra itself, the sincerity of the Lyons
Government in its alleged campaign for the reduction
of maternal mortality in Australia. Last August
a Jubilee Memorial Fund, inaugurated for this specific
purpose, closed with £174,431. Of this the Common-
wealth contributed £50,000, the States £34,000 and
the public £90,431.
The Federal Health Council drew up a plan pro-
viding for post-graduate maternity training for doctors
and nurses, special notification and investigation sys-
tems for all deaths after childbirth, the establishment
of special hospital accommodation and of model
maternity centres, extension of bush-nursing organ-
isations, and all other aspects of a comprehensive and
practical campaign, designed on an Australia-wide
basis. The council includes, in addition to repre-
sentatives of the Federal Health Department, the
principal medical officers of all the State Health
Departments and delegates from the British Medical
Association and the medical profession in general.
The council had been summoned mainly for this
purpose after full notice which had enabled every
aspect of the proposed scheme to be considered in its
local application. The council’s plan may fairly be
regarded as the consensus of considered opinion from
Australia’s leading authorities on the subject.
The usual State squabbles followed as to how
the money should be laid out and how much more
ought to be forthcoming. Some wanted one thing,
some another, but all wanted the unfettered spending
of it. As the largest single contributor, and through
Mr. W. M. Hughes, the sponsor of the fund, the
Lyons Government had every right to insist that the
plan of the Federal Health Council should be followed
in its entirety as a condition precedent to sharing in
the fund. There is a capable and well-organised
Federal Health Department which is eminently fitted
for implementing and co-ordinating the administration
of any such scheme. Without effective co-ordination
and the establishment of some central system for
maintaining it, the money can only be frittered away
in extensions of the present methods —or lack of
methods —which are responsible for Australia’s present
alarming maternal mortality figure, as well as for a
vast amount of preventable illness and disablement
among childbearing women.
And the Lyons Government has fallen down on
the job. It is easier to shirk providing for the health
of Australian mothers than to have rows with State
politicians. So the money has been handed over for
uncontrolled and unco-ordinated spending on any
catch-vote object that may appeal to State political
parties. The Health Council’s admirable scheme has
been ignored, and no slightest effort is to be made that
any Australia-wide result shall follow from the estab*
lishment of the fund. .
Abject as the story is, a story of cynical political
cowardice and evasion. Professor Marshall Allen
deserves well of his country for revealing at its tru-
value the attitude of our Federal politicians toward
the mothers of Australia.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Barbarism and the Black Cap.
At Parramatta (N.S.W.) six lads, the eldest 20, the
two youngest 16, were sentenced to death for rape.
Their crime was revolting, and they were lucky not
to have been born half a century earlier: four youths
were hanged, and lingeringly at that, in the late
’eighties for just such a crime as theirs.
Even in those days there was violent protest,
and no man is likely to be hanged for that crime
again in N. S. Wales. Yet the law retains its fictions.
Stephen, J., on the Parramatta Bench, explained that
“he was obliged to go through the ancient form, but
everybody would understand that there was no possi-
bility of the sentence being carried into execution.”
So there had to be the whole performance of the
black cap and the intoning of “you shall be taken back
to the prison in which you were last confined and
thence to the place of execution, etc., where you
shall be hanged by the neck until you are dead.” The
screams of the hearers were reported to have “har-
rowed people in the streets outside,” and ambulances
supplied evidence that there is mercy for the guiltless
in this civilised country by carting unconscious victims
away or restoring them to consciousness.
The legislative provisions regarding the death
sentence need drastic revision. It has become in N. S.
Wales and all other States except Queensland —
where the death penalty has been abolished —a matter
of politics and the individual conviction of Ministers.
It depends entirely on whether there is a Cabinet
which is unanimously in favor of execution. The
penalty for murder a week before an election may
be death ; a week afterwards, life imprisonment or
less.
The British outlook is far more logical. Whether
Labor or Conservative is in power, the convicted
murderer knows that his hanging is inevitable unless
there are strongly extenuating circumstances. J. H
Thomas, one of the most earnest opponents of capital
punishment and one of the kindest of men, told a
deputation during his rule as Home Secretary that
while the law prescribed death for certain offences he
must carry out the law, irrespective of his personal
convictions.
The same rule should apply in Australia, and be
uniform throughout the States. If there must be a
black cap, it should not be an empty symbol.
♦
Now Face the Cost.
Even conceding that Australia must be represented
abroad on great occasions, £45,168 for overseas “mis-
sions” is a staggering bill for one Commonwealth
Government to present to the taxpayer. This is the
cost since June, 1932 —an average of more than
£ll,OOO a year.
When the Pearce “mission” went through £9OOO-
- for the Washington Disarmament Conference
there was a mighty outcry ; but Mr. Lyons’s £17,768
on his trip to the jubilee creates what will —or ought
to —stand as an all-time record.
Mr. Lyons probably considers the cost not exces-
sive for a party of 15. Why take so many? Three
Ministers (Mr. Menzies went at his own expense to
appear in a Privy Council appeal) and a staff of 12
is a trifle grandiose for a country which already owes
£1,250,000,000. The staff included two girl typists
and a Ministerial messenger, though Australia House
is full of typists and messengers eating their heads off.
And it cost as much to send the messenger as
to send a senior expert official, such as the chairman
of the Tariff Board, who accompanied the delegation.
No one could honestly claim that the taxpayers
obtained value for money in franking a messenger
around the world. The fact that when the personnel
of the “mission” was announced the messenger’s name
was not included does not make the matter any more
pleasant to think about.
The Prime Minister’s “mission” was away for
about six months. The average cost, including typists
and messenger, worked out at well over £lOOO per
head. The taxpayer is, of course, only too happy to
fork out.
♦
Making Soldiers Pretty.
Australia’s Digger uniform has glorious traditions.
Thousands of Australians died in it, hundreds won
medals for gallantry in it, tens of thousands served
bravely in it. But it seems we want something
picturesque.
A bit of color, and men will flock to join up,
especially if they find themselves linked with grand
old regiments. Already many have been enrolled in
a battalion affiliated with the Black Watch, and may
be seen in Sydney and Melbourne streets decked out
in kilts, sporrans and other outlandish garments. It
does not matter that in tropical and sub-tropical
service the Forty-second does not wear these gar-
ments, but contents itself with about three shil-
lings’ worth of khaki shorts and shirts and a red
hackle in a cheap topi.
Singleton (N.S.W.) Returned Soldiers’ League
describes the movement for turning men into parrots
* as “absolutely ridiculous” ; “if men have to be induced
to join by the lure of pretty uniforms they are not
worth having.” The parrot clobber, of course, would
be scrapped in case of war, but soldiers are trained
to manoeuvre in it, and the wearing of it leads to
the jettisoning of a lot of field exercise in favor of
a good deal of ceremonial marching.
Logically, the Defence Department should go the
whole hog and extend the principles of dress to
weapons. A pike, halbert, mace and battle-axe all
look more fearsome than a service rifle, and the evolu-
tions which may be performed with them are most
striking. And a culverin makes a lot more noise and
sounds more romantic than a Lee-Enfield.
However, an assegai or a king spear is more
picturesque than any of them. And the uniform of
the Arunta army, consisting of a few streaks of blood,
kopi and emu feathers, set off with parrot-feather
anklets, is more startling than anything ever worn by
the “Tins” or the Gordons, and far more practical.
An audience could be guaranteed any time for an
army dressed according to the tradition of Central
Mount Stuart. Centralian uniform has the advantage
of being cool, showing off the biceps and lending itself
to ceremonial dancing. It is also highly suitable for
wear by politicians, since it mainly consists of natural
hide.
o
“Unwise to Comment”
The new hubbub within the hubbub that is Europe
has elicited from the Commonwealth Prime Minister
a shrewd remark; “The principle of the sanctity of
treaties is one which profoundly affects the inter-
national relations of every State.”
No one could put it more fairly. And Australia,
as one of the States profoundly affected, must take
its share of any consequences that the latest dis-
ruption may entail. But when asked what is the
attitude of his Government, Mr. Lyons answers: “It
would be unwise to offer any comment, as the issues
raised are primarily the concern of the Locarno
Powers.” This is carrying subservience to Edenish
diplomacy to the point of tragedy.
Although this Commonwealth is not separately
represented, as at Geneva, where Australia is a
member of the League of Nations and joins directly
in the mumblings, England is up to its neck in
Locarno. Consequently, whatever is done there will
have its inevitable reactions here.
Instead of that making it unwise to comment on
the Rhineland matter, it is a strong reason why Aus-
tralia should have its say. It is intolerable to be told
that, while a few diplomatic popinjays, in the intervals
between banquets and balls, juggle with the fate of
the world in the pact-mongering babel of Europe,
Australia must remain silent.
After reading Mr. Hughes’s book, it would be
interesting to hear what he has to say when the ques-
tion comes up in Cabinet, should it be deemed not
unwise to mention such a matter behind carefully-
barred doors.
♦-
Buying British.
Whatever may be its shortcomings, the Ottawa
Agreement has brought into operation the system of
reciprocal Empire trade which Alfred Deakin preached
towards the end of last century.
Deakin’s son-in-law, who is now Commonwealth
Minister for Customs, said in his speech on the tariff
schedule that our exports to Britain have risen from
£52,800,000 in 1931 to £63,500,000 in 1935. This
brings us from seventh to second place as an exporter
to the United Kingdom market. We are second only
to the United States, which has 20 times our popu-
lation.
The hitherto unpublished complete figures are;
Australian Exports (Including Bullion and Specie).
Percentage of
Exports to
To U.K. Total Exports. U.K. to Total.
1930- .... £52,878,771 £104,354,638 50.67
1931- .... 57,270,804 107,967,143 53.04
The post-Ottawa years—
-193- .... 67,543,514 121,267,974 55.70
1933- .... 63,955,032 123,441,299 51.81
1934- .... 63,569,634 112,986,037 56.26
The importance of our trade with Britain is demon-
strated by the fact that the United Kingdom buys
95 p.c. of our export wine, 83.5 p.c. of currants, 64
p.c. of sultanas, 93 p.c. of butter and cheese, 99 p.c.
of our eggs, 98.7 p.c. of lamb, 95.8 p.c. of mutton,
94.7 p.c. of pears, 83.5 p.c. of apples, 83.7 p.c. of
sugar, 96.5 p.c. of canned pears. John Bull buys 89
p.c. of our entire exports, except wool and wheat.
Britain’s sales to us have risen from £23,291,000
sterling in 1930-31 to £30,789,000 sterling in 1934-35.
In those years our purchases from Britain have
ranged between 39.37 p.c. and 42.61 p.c. of our total
overseas buying.
*
New Guinea’s Singular Disease.
Acting-Treasurer of the New Guinea Mandate
Simcocks has told the press that the “Territory was
facing the problem of having too much revenue.”
Although copra has been at bedrock prices
throughout the depression, the Mandate has had a
surplus every year since 1925-26. New sources for
extortion—gold in particular—have come along, but
no attempt has been made to use the balances to
reduce revenue collections, which have climbed from
£242,000 11 years ago to just on £400,000.
Import duties have steadily increased. Of every
£6 spent on imports by the isolated inhabitants, whose
cost of living is inflated by high freights, Mr. Sim-
cocks’s overloaded Treasury takes £l. Export duties
have been reduced in the past couple of years till
they amount to next to nothing—they have fallen
from £63,000 to £3OOO since 1927 ; but this was mainly
due to a fall in copra export value from £1,176,000
to £283,000. The leeway has been made up by a
soaring gold tax, which in the earlier year produced
£llB5 and last year turned in £BB,OOO. Mining ren-
tals, which brought in nothing in 1927, gave £21,000
last year.
On the expenditure side, less was spent on health
—an important item in the tropics—and on native
welfare than in 1929, despite the big revenue increase,
but there has been a plunge into new works, which
absorbed £61,000 last year, and the public debt to
the Commonwealth has been reduced.
The Administration is doing its best to use up
the surplus of ready money which embarrasses it. In
the last six months of last year there was an increase
of £50,000 in departmental expenditure over the same
period of the previous year. There were only two
decreases —in expenditure on native welfare and district
and native affairs, which are supposed to be the special
care of the Government as the League’s agent. The
Government secretary’s office alone cost £12,000 a
year, though it is only a co-ordinating body.
The non-indigenous population of the Territory,
which totals about 5400, including 1400 Chinese, pro-
vides nearly the whole of the revenue, equal to about
£66 10s. per inhabitant per year.
Planters —nearly all Diggers—recently told the
Commonwealth that unless there was a substantial
reduction in Valuations placed on their plantations
when copra prices were twice what they are now
they would have to go out of business. The Adminis-
tration has known this for some time. Yet with such
conditions existing in one of the two staple industries
a Treasurer can boast of not knowing what to do with
cash squeezed out of the population.
♦
The Ostrich and the Bank Board.
Complacently the Prime Minister has admitted that
his Government was not consulted by its representative
on the Commonwealth Bank Board before the changed
monetary policy, indicated by the issue of Treasury
bills to the public, was decided upon.
This raises wider issues than the actual change of
policy. The Commonwealth Government’s represen-
tative on the Bank Board is its own employee—the
Secretary to the Treasury. He works in a room at
Canberra, next door to Mr. Casey. To suggest that
he should have the right to decide national monetary
policy without consulting the Government which
employs him violates commonsense. Yet this is actu-
ally the practice.
The Lyons Government declares that it will not
interfere with the Bank Board at any cost. But the
fact that the statute places the Secretary to the Trea-
sury on the directorate of the central bank indicates
clearly that it was intended that the Government,
through this expert official, should to some extent influ-
ence the policy of the bank. This, too, is merely
commonsense ; the representatives of the people should
have some say in framing monetary policy, otherwise
Australia would be in the grip of a financial dictator-
ship.
U was thought that the voice and vote of the
Secretary to the Treasury were the voice and vote of
the Government; that the Government followed the
normal business and human procedure of instructing
its representative how to speak and vote when matters
of importance came before the board. The present
Government’s policy is the ostrich-like one of refrain-
ing from ascertaining what view its own officer holds.
Which makes the presence of the Secretary to the
Commonwealth Treasury on the Bank Board com-
pletely unnecessary.
♦
Shylock’s Happy Hunting-ground.
The Public Service Act provides that where judgment
has been given against an officer the department con-
cerned may be required to make deductions from
salary in order to satisfy it. This provision—subject
of severe comment in the annual report of the Com-
monwealth Public Service Board —transforms the
larger departments into debt-collecting agencies.
The report reveals that in 1927 there were 243
garnishee orders against postal officials. In 1933 there
were 1800, and 75 per cent, were in favor of money-
lenders.
Inserted with the best intentions in the first place,
the provision has made the public service the special
and easy prey of moneylenders. A man with a “per-
manent job” is regarded as the perfect mark. Repay-
ment by a Commonwealth servant cam be enforced
at practically no expense to the lender.
Therefore, recovery being easy, hundreds of P.S.
spendthrifts are induced to mortgage their salaries
for long periods ahead ; the Government bears the
considerable expense of collecting interest and prin-
cipal when the victims fall behind. It has been found
that these garnishee orders induce larceny, embezzle-
ment and defalcation.
It is not a pretty picture. The board urges amend-
ment of the Act to protect the officer against harpies.
When the security becomes less sure the inducement
to lend and the temptation to borrow will diminish.
The board has drawn aside a portion of the veil;
only departmental heads know the misery that exists
in the service as a result of a Commonwealth officer
being regarded as such a good mark.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Findy”: A few weeks ago the daily
papers indignantly refuted the sugges-
tion that they all drew their cable news
from the same well. The following ex-
tracts gleaned from Sydney papers last
week suggest that the same well is used,
but different buckets.
Sydney “Sun” (16/3/’36)-:
King Decides to Give Up Flying.
London, March 15.
The “Daily Telegraph” understands that
the King will dispose of his private aero-
drome built in Windsor Great Park. He
is giving up travel by aeroplane.
“S. M. Herald” (17/3/’36):
King Edward to Continue Air Travel.
London, March 15.
The “Daily Telegraph” understands that
King Edward is having a private aerodrome
built at Windsor Great Park, thus dis-
posing of the suggestion that his Majesty
is giving up travel by aeroplanes.
The London “Daily Telegraph” seems to
be a paper of infinite understanding.
Perhaps it can comprehend even the con-
flicting reports from Abyssinia which
other papers print without even attempt-
ing to understand.
“0.W.W.”; Maoriland’s “Railways
Magazine” is an excellent sixpenny
“national monthly,” which gives much
practical help' to local writers, but it
can’t be bought on the trains. Magazine
vendors come through the carriages, of
course, but the fare provided—on the
Napier-Wellington express, at any rate —
consists almost solely of Yankee motion-
picture and crime-story publications. It
seems strange that the department doesn’t
make an effort to have its own journal
included in the magazine man’s basket.
“Tid’apa”: All said and done, the
cable sub-editors have a lot to put up
with (B. 11/3/’36). Here is the actual
text of a short message from Tokio that
passed through my hands; “Japgolfass
suggests ausjapment 25/26 april prosix
auspros nowunietats.” Expanded, it
reads: “Japanese golf association sug-
gests Australian-Japanese tournament
on the 25/26th April against six Aus-
tralian professionals who are now in the
U.S.A.” Occasionally, of course, the
sub. slips—it would be strange if he
didn’t. The cable describing a mutiny
that occurred a couple of years ago on
a Dutch cruiser stationed at Java read:
“European swellas Javanese members of
the crew,” etc., i.e., European “as well
as” Javanese. Sydney “Sun” printed it
“Europeans, ‘Swellas’ and Javanese
members of the crew.” I don’t know
what readers thought the Swellas were,
but I don’t suppose it mattered.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Although Brisbane’s
selecting officials for relief work are well-
used to applications from members of
various learned professions they received
a shock when a recqnt applicant described
himself as a moneylender. It was a fact,
too. Former owner of a prosperous
financial agency, it and he had gone
under with the bad times. A money-
lender with no money to lend is just as
eligible for relief as a farmer with no
land to farm. The son of a Canadian mil-
lionaire was a recent member of Bris-
bane’s relief ranks, and they still in-
clude a doctor, a dentist, several
engineers and chemists, and quite a num-
ber of accountants.
“Oh, sergeant, my husband hasn't been home for the past five nights."
“Is there anything I can do for you, ma'am?"
“K. 8.”: Old Bill
knows little and
cares less about
cricket; he was in-
terested in the radio
description of the
Johannesburg Test
only because he had
spent years in South
Africa and had
helped to build the
stand at that parti-
cular ground. He
listened with us to
the broadcast 1 —
tolerantly up to a
certain point. “That
one was patted
gently back to the
bowler,” came the
voice over the ether; then excitedly:
“Oh, a beautiful shot—straight down the
gully to the fence.” “That’s a b lie,
anyhow,” put in Bill. “The ground’s as
flat as a billiard table.”
* * =:<
“Lexicographer”: I think two-up is
looked upon as being at least one of
our national sports (B. 18 /3 / ’36). For
instance, here is what the new Webster
says about it:
A gambling game somewhat like pitch
and toss. Two coins are tossed from a
small piece of wood called a kip, and bets
are laid on their both falling heads or tails,
no other fall counting.
And after all this it adds the one word
—A ustralia.
* ❖ * *
“Mark VII.”: “Rapid Fire” (B.
11/3/’36) in attempting to correct “Kali”
shows ignorance of the subject. Refer-
ence to the Text Book of Small Arms,
issued by the British War Office, will
show that Lee-Enfield rifles were first
adopted in 1895, superseding the Lee-
Metford. These two rifles were used
exclusively by the British troops in the
Boer War, but there were no Lee-Met-
fords manufactured after 1894. The
1895 Lee-Enfield is to-day known as the
L.M.L.E. rifle (Long-Magazine Lee-En-
field) ; the present Lee-Enfield is known
as S.M.L.E. (Short-Magazine Lee-
Enfield), and was adopted in 1902 ; there
do not appear to have been any of the
latter used in the Boer War. “Rapid
Fire” is also astray as to the Martini-
Enfield. This weapon had the same
barrel as the L.M.L.E., fitted to the Mar-
tini breech action, and was not out-
ranged by any Mauser in use by the
Boers. The muzzle velocity of the
Mauser (1898 pattern) was 2093 ft. per
second, while the Mark VI. cartridge in
the Martini-Enfield gave 2060. As
muzzle velocity mostly governs range,
the two rifles were practically identical
in that regard.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Even wills are typewritten
nowadays” (B. 26/2/’36). Apropos, a
former Supreme Court official told me
an old story, all of the parties to which
are dead now. In the early days of typ-
ing, a leading lawyer barred it for wills
(only) because of the danger of a fraudu-
lent alteration being, neatly made on the
machine after the testator has gone to
where he can’t give evidence about it.
In fulness of time he was elevated to the
Bench; and the very first will-case he
had to try dealt with a typed testament.
It had been drawn up in his old office, too.
;Jl !jt v *l*
“Tosspot”: In the old days when an
occasional barmaid was prosecuted for
dipping into the till —“tickling the Peter”
is, I think, the professional name for the
practice—teetotal advocates always
blamed the drink and the vicious sur-
roundings for the lady’s lapse. Giving
evidence against one of his assistants in
Sydney the proprietor of a milk bar said
that the damsel, on his reckoning, had
got away with £4O in seven weeks, though
she would own to only £lB. He added
that he had dismissed six other girls pre-
viously for stealing from the till, until
he had been forced to make an example.
The accused, who pleaded guilty and
was bound over and ordered to make
restitution, was getting award wages and
had a husband in regular employment.
The prosecutor reckoned that his firm
lost £5OO a year in this way from their
three bars. This should give another
shake-up to the advocates of that dan-
gerous beverage milk.
* * * *
“A.N.S.”: To avoid the delay en-
tailed by an interchange of cables, the
wife of a N.S.W. grazier rang up her
sister in Paris on the ’phone. The time
allotted by the Postal Department for a
conversation is five minutes, but so over-
come was the lady in France at the un-
expected sound of a voice she had not
heard for nearly 20 years that two
minutes elapsed before she could speak.
The department generously extended the
time.
± % * *
“Kerys”: I support “Daylight” in
this colored-glass argument. The first
time I walked out on a country
road near Goulburn (N.S.W.) where
the townsfolk had in times past been
in the habit of dumping their house-
hold debris, I decided that every-
one in the district must have been
addicted to purple glass. The road was
strewn with pieces of all shapes and
sizes, the prevailing color being some-
thing between pale mauve and deep
petunia, the effect of direct exposure to
the sun for a long time. And as for
“Warrigal’s” dust theory (B. 18/3/’36),
he had only to call at those flats round
Darling Point that have outside glass
doorknobs exposed to sunlight to be
convinced that their purple tinge is due
to the same cause, and not to any lack
of attention on the part of the daily
maid.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: A tough steak set me
thinking of the changes which the meat-
supply question will probably undergo
during the next few generations —if our
warmongers do not meanwhile send
mankind back into barbarism. Already
biochemists have kept individual cells of
a chicken’s body alive for 20 years and
more in suitable media. Others have
caused tissue cells to multiply. There is
every prospect that this work will de-
velop to a stage where pure muscle tissue
will be grown rapidly and cheaply in any
quantity and of any desired flavor and
consistency. Present-day meat industries
will disappear, the breeding of “killers
will become a lost art and the Slaugh-
termen’s Union a busted oligarchy. The
S.P.C.A. will gaol any desperado who is
caught battening upon non-synthetic
meat. Man may lose the last of his
teeth as a result of ever-tender meat:
but I broke one of mine on that infernal
steak, anyhow, and I don’t care if he does.
$ SR *
“Are”: It is questionable whether the
sanctions ban on the importation of
women’s hair from Italy will bother
fashionable circles
in London (B.
18/3/’36). The big-
gest source of
supply is French
convents. When
novices enter a
convent their hair
is shorn and sold
at good prices. The
finest dark hair in
the world comes
from Spain and
Southern France,
while fair hair is
obtained from Ger-
many, Austria,
Hungary and
A 1 sa c e-Lorraine.
The famous hair
fair at Limoges is
something not to
be forgotten.
Dealers of all
nationalities attend,
and they can tell at
a glance the tex-
ture, quality and
market value of a
woman’s hair.
* *
“Edenglassie”: A
recent auction at
the Brisbane Tram-
ways lost-property
office suggests that
women are 10 times
as absentminded as
men. Included in
the sale were 300
umbrellas and sun-
shades —and only
10 of the former
had a masculine
look. There were
200 pairs of
gloves and 150 odd gloves, over 100
handbags and 50 baskets, not to mention
women’s shoes and hats galore. Even a
pair of cricket pads may very well have
belonged to some women’s cricket club.
* * * *
“Dyoll”: Bernie is a harmless, quiet
kind of bloke—a bit simple, but none the
less well-liked. Not long ago dad died
and left him, among other property, a
couple of acres of raspberries. I was
having a Jimmy Woodser in the local
hostelry when he walked in, and I asked
him how the raspberries were coming on.
“Aw, not bad,” he said; “not bad.
Some of ’era’s as big as a fair-sized six-
pence.”
* * * *
“Adel”: Adelaide Museum and S.A.
Anthropological Society have a new idea
about Kangaroo Island. It was unin-
habited, Flinders reported, when he
visited it in 1803—though he cannot
possibly have visited all of it. Stone im-
plements have been found in about D
camping-places, and these are "prac-
tically indistinguishable” from those
made by the Tasmanian type of native.
It is suggested that this type may haw
lived (and possibly died) in K.I. before
the Australian type came down from—
wherever it did come from.
IF THE COUNCIL WERE A PUB.
“If the N.S.W. Legislative Council was an hotel
it would long since have lost its license because of
its dilapidated condition.” — Coates, M.L.C.
It’s a tumbledown old shack, there’s no deny-
ing,
Where our Elder Statesmen help to frame the
laws;
And when shafts of wit across the floor are
flying
There is peril in impetuous applause,
And there’s equal danger in dissentient yelling.
For a sudden burst of catcalls or of cheers
Might crumple up the antiquated dwelling
About its tenants’ venerable ears.
How can they do their duty by the nation,
Or peacefully enjoy their grog and grub
In surroundings that would vainly challenge
topers’ toleration
If the Legislative Council were a pub?
It’s been propped and patched and tinkered
with and mended
Till there’s little, precious little, left to show
Of the edifice our grand-dads found so splendid
Three-quarters of a century ago.
It’s a boot that’s been re-soled, and then re-
;
And it’s bound to go to pieces some fine day,
It would seem (unless it’s charitably scup-
pered),
All at once —like Wendell Holmes’s “one-
horse shay.”
It provides a very tricky, treacherous wicket
For the Parliamentary game of rub-a-dub;
And the most engaging Bung would summarily
lose his ticket
If the Legislative Council were a pub.
The rhetorician in his most appealing
Periods must pause, the patriot stay his roar,
To cast a cautious glance athwart the ceiling
And tentatively tap the polished floor.
For there’s rot as dry, it’s hinted, in the
rafters
As anything that “Hansard” pages show,
And in the House the
most persistent
grafters
Can give no points
to the white-ants
below.
Oh, the Boniface would
soon encounter
friction.
And his customers
condemn him
for a dub,
And his license prove
as worthless as
a tinker’s male-
diction
If the Legislative Council were a pub!
Poor old Lang, with his unfailing lack of
savvy,
Essayed to wreck it —and was badly beat.
Far better had he hired some sturdy navvy
To emulate historic Samson’s feat.
For it’s rickety, it’s tottering, it’s a drifter.
It’s a talk-house in the sere and on the
blink;
It’s the sort of place you’d shy at for a snifter,
A joint you’d hardly fancy for a drink.
And yet—and yet —dim memories rise to soften.
Macquarie-street is still old Sydney’s hub,
And there’s lots of us, I’ll venture, would
resort thereto more often
If the Legislative Council were a pub.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Notaden”: Dark-moustachioed vil-
lains and blond heroes (B. 11/3/’36)
probably have a far longer history than
any stage tradition. They may date back to
prehistoric times, when the flood of short,
ferocious invaders broke over the tall,
big-brained race who have left the cave
paintings all over Europe. In England,
the raids of the Welsh savages, small,
cunning and dark, revived the tradition
in historic days. So did the misdeeds of
Fierbolg Irish aborigines, dark, small,
treacherous and cruel, merciless to
victims, for centuries after the beginnings
of Norse settlement on the east and
south coasts. If any descendant of
Irish kings feels peeved about this state-
ment, he should read the report made by
Giraldus Cambrensis to Edward I. con-
cerning Irish customs and habits of the
day. And, just to be pleasant all round,
cannibalism flourished in parts of Scot-
land at the same period.
* * * *
“Falconer”; “Solway” is not quite cor-
rect in his paragraph (B. 11/3/’36) anent
the Stuarts. Walter Fitz Alan, the founder
of the line, was High Steward of Scot-
land, not Steward of Galloway. The
Steward of Galloway was a creation of
James 11. of Scotland. Before that the
head of the house of Douglas was Earl
of Galloway.
* * * *
“Brix”: It’s an ill wind, etc. Sam, who
with his missus was temporarily housed
in a shanty just outside the township,
had just received a letter from his brother
saying they would all be up in the lorry
on Saturday to spend the day. Mrs.
Sam studied the note and specu-
lated gloomily whether the butcher would
let them have a joint to feed the visitors,
their bill already being large and pos-
sibility of payment remote. However,
she decided to chance it, and Sam was
preparing to start for the butcher’s when
a cyclone broke and a furious wind swept
over the town, carrying everything mov-
able before it. There was a bump on
the roof, and Mrs. Sam looked out, to
see a large ham, complete with paper
frill, sliding to the ground. They heard
later, after the family had blown in and
enjoyed splendid meal, that the local
hotel had lost its Sunday ham in the gale.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: A flourishing wayside
drinkery generally thought to be aptly
named was the Bird in Hand that once
did wild and woolly business at
Tugiong, on the Murrumbidgee. The
bird, of course, was the frequent shearer,
rouseabout or drover who blew in with
a sizable cheque. Usually he winged it
away a very dejected-looking bird.
% % ❖
“Pank”; Over 60 women stood for
the House of Commons at last year’s
general elections in Britain—and nine of
them got there. Australia’s 13 Houses of
Parliament can show only two skirted
legislators both in the Westralian
Assembly. Yet women were given the
“I Won't be sharing this cabin with anyone, will I ?"
"Well, sir, that depends entirely on you."
vote and the right to be voted for in this
country many years before it was con-
ceded in the U.K. So far only half-a-
dozen of the sex have won to M.L.A.-
dom, and only one (Miss Ada Holman,
who sort of inherited the timber-mill
seat of her father, a noted union
organiser in his day) has shown any stay-
ing power. Mrs. Edith Cowan was Aus-
tralia’s first woman M.L.A., but West
Perth rejected her at the second time of
asking. Miss Preston-Stanley obtained
but one term in the Ma State. When
Alex. Peacock, a long-distance Vic, poli-
tician, died, his constituents were content
to entrust their interests to his widow,
but she soon tired of the job. Queens-
land has had one woman legislator ; she,
too, failed of re-election. And that, I
think, exhausts the list, except for one or
two Lang-nominated members of the
obsolete N.S.W. Leg. Council, whose very
names I have forgotten. The conclu-
“Your husband's met with an accident."
“And he KNOWS We're due at the Nitte-Witts' for cocktails at five
o'clock."
sion seems to be inescapable that women
have either less time for politics or less
hustings-appeal in Australia than in the
cradle of the race.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Mr. Zane Grey’s
swordfishing results in Australian waters
will do useful work in putting us on the
world’s big-game map. They may do
more. In Japan, swordfish are highly
regarded as food fish. Japanese fisher-
men are the most skilful in the world.
There is nothing in international or other
law to prevent any Japanese cargo
steamer, fitted with freezing space and
carrying a dozen sampans on deck, with
their crews on the ship’s articles, from
lying-to outside the three-mile limit from
Montagu Island, or elsewhere, and sys-
tematically cleaning up the swordfish
with harpoon guns, immense set-lines and
other methods which they use elsewhere.
With the fish in her freezers, for return
to Japan, she could call in at any Aus-
tralian port to load or discharge cargo,
without let or hindrance. Why not?
Outside the three-mile limit they aren’t
our fish, and if we are such fools as to
neglect them it is no reason why every-
one else should.
:{* * * %
“Esters”: Australians who have ex-
perienced difficulty in getting their own
wines served in British hotels and res-
taurants may learn the reason from the
revelations of one J. Saul, who runs a
unique business in London. All the
great Continental wine-producers subsi-
dise waiters for pushing their particular
product. The waiter keeps the corks,
and when he has accumulated sufficient
takes them to Saul in Soho, who pays
hard cash for 62 Continental brands.
Saul takes in as many as 5000 corks a
day, reimburses the waiters, ships his
purchases to the producers concerned
and draws his dividend. A few of his
prices per dozen corks run: Magnums
(champagne), 605.; old brandy, 20s. ;
champagne (quarts and pints), 125.; other
sparkling wines, 7s. ; still wines, 6s. No
wonder waiters leave fortunes.
* sjc *
“Bokio”: People who attend wrestling
matches (so-called) in this country can
generally rely on getting some excite-
ment, but they are mild affairs compared
with a contest I saw in Paris. With some
fellow-Diggers on leave, I witnessed the
final of the European cham-
pionship at the Folies Bergere
—an enormous bald-headed,
50-year-old Italian and a
squat young Belgian with a
gorilla-like chest were the
performers. It started after
the leg-show had ended,
about eleven o’clock on a
Saturday night, a big pro-
portion of the capacity house
being women. Those two
chunks of tough masculinity
kicked and bit and clawed
any portion of opposing
anatomy within reach, and
the rougher they got the
more hysterical became the
audience. When, in the final
session, the Italian curled his
less-experienced opponent up
and with calm deliberation
broke his toe, pandemonium
was set loose. Our party was
sandwiched between opposing
camps, who shrieked invec-
tive at each other over our
heads. Then words gave way
to direct action, and the first
wave of shrieking femininity,
hatpins in hand, came straight
over the top of us, their ob-
jective two tiers below. They
were repulsed and driven back. A counter-
attack followed, our seats again being
no-man’s-land. Casualties were heavy
among the gay ones —we escaped only
by diving ignominiously under the seats.
* * * *
“Ekib”: “Tripod” (B. 18/3 /’36) makes
an error himself when he labels as a
Handley-Page the aeroplane in which
Ross and Keith Smith landed at Bris-
bane in 1919. That ’plane, used for the
first England-Australia flight, was a
Vickers-Vimy, propelled by two 360-h.p,
Rolls-Royce engines.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: That good old joke the
N.S.W. Parliamentary Works Com-
mittee is likely to be re-established after
an interval of six years, during which the
State has managed very well without it.
Henry Parkes instituted it in 1888,
allegedly as a curb on Parliament com-
mitting itself to wasteful and unwar-
ranted undertakings. A position on the
committee, however, was always regarded
as a plum ; I recall one Upper House
politician resigning a union secretaryship
on the ground that he had been promised
a Works Committee appointment and
believed in the principle of one man one
job. The committee was never known to
report against a railway proposal. That
explains why the accumulated railway
deficit approaches thirty millions.
* * * -jf
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Curious, this
popular notion that a desperado is not the
genuine goods unless he’s dark and flash-
ing-eyed. Practically all the
famous Wild West bad men
and sheriffs (they were really
much the same kind of person,
and sometimes interchanged
roles) were fair-complexioned.
“Wild Bill” Hickok had long
golden hair and bright blue
eyes. Billy the Kid was fair
and blue-eyed. Bat Masterson,
another famous sheriff, was
brown-haired and blue-eyed;
so were Jesse James and his
brother, Doc Halliday, Bill
Mellon and Stringer, the Lin-
coln County sheriff, whom Bill
Mellon killed. So I have been
told by men who at one time
or another had known them
all. And the best quick
pistol shots I can recall, and
I’ve met a few, all had blue-grey eyes,
usually deep-set.
* * * *
“E.E.”: The youngster who belonged
to two brands of religion (B. 18/3/’36)
was not so unusual. The parents of a
young man I know separated when the
boy was very young. It was agreed that
he should spend six months of each year
with each parent in succession. The
parents resided in different States, and for
half the year the boy was C. of E. and
the other half R.C. This continued till
he was 16 ; after that he stuck to one
parent, but, strangely enough, it was the
other parent’s religious belief to which
he stuck. And I wouldn’t mind betting
that your guess is wrong.
THAT HAT.
“I hope you don’t wear a hat like that when you
are driving.”—' N.S.W. Judge Curlewis to a woman
motorist.
“Where did you get that hat?”
It’s a query whirls an oldster back, you
know,
To a vaudevillian ditty done-to-death m
London city
Something under half-a-century ago.
Let us frame a modern version from his
Honor’s mild aspersion
On the capers that the are at;
When you’re sitting at the wheel
of a Ford or Oldsmobile
You shouldn’t wear a uu ~~c
that!
It’s immaterial how quaint the
shape,
How super-charged with floppi-
ness the brim,
When vision unimpeded isn’t
absolutely needed,
When your eyes are solely
occupied with Him.
Though some inner sense is
humming that it’s mightily
becoming,
That it fits you like the
whiskers on a cat,
Or the chips that go with bloaters,
, when you’re navigating
motors
You’ve no business with a tile
like that.
Though it frames your face with
adventitious art,
And contributes real distinction
to your mien.
Though it makes you feel as
airily seductive as a fairy
Or as fetching as a first-class
talkie queen;
Though it draws enraptured
glances, opens vistas of
romances
And at gorgeous garden-parties “knocks ’em
flat,”
When through crowded streets you’re scooting
’mid the tumult and the tooting
There is danger in a lid like that.
“Where did you get that hat?”
Or acquire that extraordinary tile?
Such vulgarity taboo is in the court of Judge
Curlewis;
He’d shudder to adopt the Cockney style.
And his Honor’s far from caring what our
womenfolk are wearing
Other times, but here’s his dictum, fair and
flat:
When you’re dodging through the traffic,
though it makes you lobk seraphic.
You must never wear a hat —like —that!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . . .
and for your throat’s
sake smoke
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
IXIUM
GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
The Senate Lotus Eaters looked in at
Canberra for a fortnight after three
months’ absence, and departed jovially
on another holiday of at least a month.
The Senate passed four or five bills with
characteristic celerity, and found itself at
the end of the second week of the new
sitting with nothing to do. So it ad-
journed until the other House has fin-
ished the Tariff Bill. Federal members
are paid a flat rate whether they work or
not.
Two days before Earle Page arrived in
London, where one of his most impor-
tant missions was to get some of the
butter trade away from the Danes, the
trade came away of its own accord. The
Australian newspapers “understood” that
the British-Danish trade treaty, which
expires on June 30, has virtually
collapsed. Most inconsiderate of the
authorities to allow this to leak out
before the Australian delegation had a
chance to take credit for it.
Page is having a greasy trip. At
Bombay missionaries urged him to get
Australians to make ghi and retail
it in India in tins decorated with a large
and holy-looking cow. Ghi is a product
like rancid melted butter, and made under
Australian conditions would be a food
mainly for rajahs.
The trade treaties which Fed. Minister
Gullett has been “negotiating” so long
seem to be hanging fire. Before he left
for England last year, Gullett was nego-
tiating with Japan. He has been back
for months, and cabled news from Tokio
indicates that Japan apprehends a com-
plete breakdown. The proposed treaty
with Italy is off, of course. Negotiations
with Germany seem to have fallen
through. The proposed Belgian trade
treaty, which means much to S.A. barley-
growers, is in the doldrums, and nothing
is heard of the treaty with France.
When first count in the Allandale
(Vic.) by-election closed on Saturday
night, Labor had a chance of taking the
seat. Voting then was: Baird (U.A.P.),
3035; Denigan (Lab.), 3732; Glenn
(U.C.P.), 2678. When Parkin, whose
death caused the vacancy, was elected
last year, Labor received only 25 p.c. of
Country party preferences, but its can-
didate was expected to take a bigger
share with the present U.C.P.-Labor
alliance.
N.S.W. Graziers’ conference resolu-
tion in favor of Commonwealth control
of transport. and the amendment of the
State Act to allow private owners to
carry their own goods free of tax for
any distance is a step forward. Tout,
M.L.C., opposed it, but that was ex-
pected.
Prosecuted for running an unregis-
tered truck between Brisbane and Texas
(S.Q.), a man with a wife and two chil-
dren pleaded that he had to make a liv-
ing for them, that he was paying off
£7O monthly for two trucks and could
not pay the Transport Strangulation
Board’s “fees” of £ll4 per month in
addition. Fined £35 and costs, in default
three months, he said he’d give up carry-
ing, so for him it means gaol or the dole
—maybe both. Another desperado who
had been refused a license to run be-
tween Brisbane and Jandowae, although
willing to pay, put up some futile excuse
about families. Fined £69 or six months.
So much is being said by overseas pub-
licists who have never seen Australia of
the “vast population-carrying capacity”
of this country that the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research is to
report on what increase Australia really
can maintain. Recently Sir Philip
Gibbs said he knew of an area in Aus-
tralia twice the size of England with only
300 people; the inference is that this
area should be carrying twice Britain’s
population. Probably it was over-
populated at 300. Sir Philip should know
that size alone doesn’t determine what
number of human beings a territory can
maintain.
Reorganisation of Commonwealth civil
aviation is pending, with the present
director as chairman of a Civil Aviation
Board ranking equal in status*with the
Navy, Military and Air Boards, and, like
them, responsible to the Minister for
Defence. This is overdue. Civil avia-
tion has felt itself overshadowed by the
R.A.F., which has looked down on it as
a poor relation. It will be released from
this moral bondage, and be free to de-
velop on its own.
In Victoria there has been a Royal
Commission over royalties on textbooks
prepared by teachers for use in State
“On Mr. Bruce, as President of the League Council, more than on anyone else, has
fallen the task of endeavoring to reconcile the seemingly irreconcilable and uphold the
position of the League.”
“Now I know what that poor blighter Sisyphus has to put up with”
schools, and the N.S.W. Director of
Education says he will start an inquiry
into allegations that schoolmasters
accept “secret commissions” from sup-
pliers of uniforms and other goods. The
Victorian probe disclosed “nothing im-
proper” ; royalties were not excessive,
ranging from a guinea to £2lO, and
“unless royalties were paid to authors
few textbooks would be published.”
There seems as little foundation for the
N.S.W. rumors, but politicians find such
inquiries cheap ; the public pays.
Australian migration figures for 1935
are not pleasant reading. Permanent
arrivals numbered 12,608, departures
11,357, leaving a credit balance of 1251.
But among Britons 1000 more departed
than arrived. The net gain in southern
Europeans in the past two years was
3359 ; the net loss of Britons was 2817.
“There is a possibility” that Drum-
mond, N.S.W. Minister for Educa-
tion, will join Stevens and Manning,
Menzies and Page in London this year.
He has been invited to “the Seventh
World” Conference of something or
other. Sydney Snow, who bosses the
U.A.P. organisation, thinks it should be
“made compulsory for every Minister”
—there are 74—“ to study problems over-
seas.” If the Sydney Snows and Drum-
monds and Mannings and so on don’t
look out, all this deadheadism will be
made an election issue, and they will be
licked on it.
Borrowing for “works,” taxing and
bounty-feeding on the grand scale are
good for votes, but seemingly for nothing
much else: in the U.S.A. 24,000,000
persons are on relief, Federal and State,
compared with 21,000,000 in 1934. Evi-
dently the U.S.A., like Australia, will
have to try something else. Neither
country has tried conditional tax reduc-
tion, the condition being the giving of
work.
Looking back on his achievements and
marvelling at his own modesty, Dunstan
recalled lately that
82 bills were passed
last session, “a
legislative output
without parallel in
the history of Vic-
toria.” Arg y 1 e
started up with the
boast that his Gov-
ernment had
“placed 88 bills on
the statute-book in
1932, 102 in 1933
and 70 in the cur-
tailed session of 1934.” Three hundred
and forty-two enactments in four years,
and this in one Parliament out of seven!
And the victims are expected to' be
grateful!
Former Under-Secretary for Employ-
ment Stewart has been insisting on the
Federal Government taking up national
insurance. After a sharp debate at a joint
party meeting, during which a Queens-
land member accused the Treasurer
of trying to “torpedo” national insur-
ance, the reluctant and sceptical Minister
agreed to get an expert out from Eng-
land to look into the drafting of a
scheme for Australia. That’s the easiest
way of shelving a difficult question.
Though the population of tropical
Queensland increased by 313 p.c. between
1921 and 1933—11 p.c. more than the
mean increase for Australia —the Bureau
of Industry believes sugar does not pro-
vide a field for further substantial in-
crease, and suggests that large popula-
tion may depend on meat exports. Some
remarkable Tully Valley results in rear-
ing chiller-beef cattle on selected grasses
thus afford hope in the event of a world
collapse in sugar. The mining outlook
is also favorable. Census (1933) showed
that 80 p.c. of the total tropical popu-
lation was Australian-born, and 70 p.c.
of the adult population.
In 1930 £3,738,005 was collected in
taxation on petrol through customs and
excise. By 1935 this had almost doubled
—£7,024,471. The petrol tax was to pro-
vide a fund for building and improving
roads. In 1935 only £2,465,980 was paid
to the States ; the Commonwealth col-
lared the balance of more than £4,500,000
and used it on unrelated purposes. The
extra petrol taxation imposed by Scullin
was intended as a temporary impost to
tide Australia over the depression. It
has become as permanent as Federal
income tax and sales tax.
In the fatuous talk about reviving over-
seas borrowing, it has been suggested as
necessary to revival of immigration. If
immigrants can be supported in this
country only on overseas finance we
would be better off without them. Also
without politicians and Treasurers so
Micawberish that they are unable to
foresee the inevitable results of the
policy.
Overseas loans come to Australia in
the. form of imported goods. At present
such goods cost at least 25 p.c. more
than their London price when landed
here. Interest also costs 25 p.c. more
than the London figures. The only
excuse for overseas borrowings would
be national development, and there are
snags in that.
Railways (into which much previous
overseas borrowings went) don’t pay;
many lines, if free motor competition
were allowed, could be ticketed “Prac-
tically useless.” Railway development in
the Northern Territory can well be left
to private enterprise. So far as other
avenues of national expansion are con-
cerned, politicians have shown themselves
palpably barren of fruitful ideas when
splashing unemployment-relief funds
about. So overseas borrowing, whether
to increase our credits in London or
otherwise, would boil down to the old
condition of unnecessary imports, reduc-
tions in Australian factory employment
and further delay in Budget balancing.
“In order to protect the conquests of
the revolution,” the U.S.S.R. Constitu-
tion says, “universal military service is
incumbent on all citizens.” Yet Com-
munists in Australia, who worship the
U.S.S.R. Constitution and everything else
that is Russian, are going round trying
to beat up hostility to the reintroduction
in parts of Australia (it was never nation-
wide) of a mild form of compulsory mili-
tary training. Even Labor-controlled
councils are rebuffing them with remarks
such as “It’s like their blasted cheek.”
“0.P.H.”:
Sir Geoffrey Whiskard, first High Commis-
sioner from Britain, must have given the death-
blow to the “beastly-colonial” psychology in
his speech at the Canberra welcome luncheon
when he declared that Australia is “Home” to
him. Said with convincing sincerity it indi-
cates the change that has taken place in the
outlook of even cultured and enlightened Eng-
lishmen. For these a generation ago a position
in Australia, even of great responsibility and
importance, was a form of exile, and only the
more public-spirited would accept. To-day,
though drawn from comfortable posts at
Whitehall, they can think it an honor to be
chosen for service here. Australia will like Sir
Geoffrey, not only because he likes it, but be-
cause he considers that the opportunities of
his position should be used for serving the
interests of Australia as well as of England.


THE JUNGLE CHAMPION.


Ti
ie
Australia
I Hotel
SYDNEY
N.S.W. A
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel , Sydney *
m
II
matm
TO
icSnn
inn
mw nr fff
J :
min
*4
ira
Ml [[[
m
mi'm. k
m
m'M
EASTER IN SYDNEY
MAKE “THE AUSTRALIA” YOUR HEADQUARTERS.
First three floors of the new Martin Place Extension are now open. Features include:
THE NEW WINTER GARDEN.—Smartest
rendezvous in Sydney.
THE BEVERY. —Sydney's newest and smartest
restaurant. Minimum tariff, 1/6. Afternoon
Tea from !/•-.
THE MARTIN PLACE BAR—Only bar in the
ai’oa. i
THE NEW BALLROOM. —Beautiful in design
—stately in proportions. Dance floor above
criticism.
THE NEW BUILDING IS AIR-CONDITIONED THROUGHOUT.
m
its
Our regular patrons are requested to confirm their reservations.
PERSONAL ITEMS
With the appointment of W. F, L.
Owen, at 37, to the N.S.W. Supreme
Court Bench, his tribe joins the great
legal dynasties of the Stephen calibre.
The new Judge is the third successive
member of the family to wear scarlet and
ermine. His grandfather, William, a
Trinity College (Dublin) man, came out
in 1859 and became a Judge in 1887. He
it was who conducted the Crick land
scandal inquiries of the ’nineties and all
the subsequent proceedings. He died in
1912. W.F.L.’s father, Langer, an
equity leader, gave up his practice at
the beginning of the war to run the Syd-
ney Red Cross information bureau. He
went to the Bench in 1922, and retired
10 years later. Both the older members
of the family were knighted.
F. W. Doidge has had a colorful
career. Australian-born, he was in the
Maoriland Parliamentary press gallery
at 22, saw service in France, was then
F. W. DOIDGE, a prophet of Empire.
drafted into Britain’s war-time Ministry
of Information, and followed a career in
Fleet-street, in the course of which he
became a director of the powerful.
Beaverbrook press. Always desirous of
retiring at the age of 50, and one year
bejiind schedule, he returned to M.L.
His arrival coincided with the recent
elections. A complete stranger to the
constituency, Doidge stood as Indepen-
dent candidate for Rotorua, and scored
nearly a thousand votes more than the
sitting member, but failed to stem the
tide of Labor.
C. C. Kuchel, of Adelaide, win-
ner of the Commonwealth’s “Fish-pre-
servation and -transport scholarship,”
plans to make fish his life work, with
headquarters in Sydney. He goes to
Aberdeen to learn fish-curing, then to
Cambridge to study “low-temperature,”
and will put in his second year among
the cod of Nova Scotia and the salmon
of British Columbia.
“Diggaire”: Diggers trained on Salis-
bury Plain, near Wilton, will have their
memories stirred by the news that Eliza-
beth Lee Uphill has answe the last
roll-call. She conducted The Dug-
out, Wilton, mainly out of her own
resources. Many Australian .mothers
will recall the letters she wrote on behalf
of bovs from the bush. Hundreds of
A.I.F. men lived from time to time at
her rest home. Week-end after week-
end she took parties over the old Ames-
bury church, travelling 10 miles from
her home to do so.
G. W. Millington succeeds C. A.
Munro, who died in January, as head-
office manager of the Q.N. Bank, He is
well known throughout his native State,
where he was in charge of branches in
many towns. Eventually he became sub-
manager, and 5i years ago was sent to
Melbourne to control the bank’s affairs
there.
In Adelaide on a long scientific visit
are Profs. Becking and Dr. Reuter, from
Holland. Their unusual errand is to
examine the State’s many salt lakes
(mostly dry, and the seat of a flourish-
ing industry) and to test a theory that
the bacteria will be found similar to
those they have examined in such lakes
round the world.
“Cap’n Bells”: The oldest bowler in
Maoriland is said to be H. C. Choyce,
of the Remuera (Auckland) club, who
recently celebrated his ninety-sixth birth-
day. He gave up business 15 years ago,
but says that he intends to continue
playing Drake’s game even when he
reaches old age.
“Uramao”: A link with Samuel
Marsden and the early pioneers of
Maoriland was snapped by the death in
Dunedin the other day of Mrs. J.
Howard Jackson, at 84. Her father was
Gilbert Mair, who settled at the Bay of
Islands in 1824. Her mother was mar-
ried to Mair in Australia by Samuel
Marsden in 1827. Mrs. Jackson last
year wrote a readable volume, Annals
of a N.Z. Family, dealing with the
Mairs.
The death of Eleutherios Venizelos
will allow a lot of Mediterranean gentle-
men to sleep more calmly in their beds.
An alert, birdlike old man, he caused
more trouble among the Athenians than'
anybody since Darius. He was Cretan
by birth, a barrister by profession
and a confirmed revolutionary by choice.
He was in the
Cretan rising of
’96, and, after a
breather of eight
years, during which
he was President of
the Cretan
Assembly, he engi-
neered another
dust-up which
paved the way for
making him
Grecian Prime
Minister in 1910.
From then on-
wards, his life was
made up of be-
coming P.M. and
being kicked out
virtually just as he
began to enjoy
himself. He had
six terms of office,
the last in 1933.
He was strongly
pro-Ally during the
war, and after it
had to carry the
odium of failure in
the Turkish War
of 1921-22. After
he was finally de-
posed—each of his depositions amounted
to a revolution —he retired to Paris to
live, but was suddenly discovered last year
at the head of the Cretan rebels. He was
sentenced to death in absentia, but was
pardoned on giving his support to the
re-establishment of Greece as a kingdom.
ERNEST THOMPSON, of the
Lancashire Delegation.
During the absence abroad of Claude
Reading, the acting-chairman of the
Commonwealth Bank Board will be A.
F. Bell, one of the newer directors, who
is managing director of the milling firm
of Robert Harper and Co. He was an
Australian delegate to the International
Economic Conference at Geneva in 1927
and chairman of the Australian trade
publicity scheme in Britain. His work
in those two activities and on the Dried
Fruits Board earned him a C.M.G.
Tom Mann, who was for a time a
stormy petrel in Australian Labor, is
an advertisement for the virtues of toil.
He began work on a farm at nine years
old, and at 11 transferred to a coalmine.
Later he became an engineer, and 51
years ago joined the Socialist party.
Anybody who has seen Tom at full
throttle on a platform will realise that
politics was harder work than the pit
job, but he is still going strong at 80.
Mostly the honest old fellow devoted
himself to the kind of activity which
brought few pennies, but for three years
after the war he was secretary to the
powerful Amalgamated Society of
Engineers. In the early days of Lenin-
ism, he more than once represented Aus-
tralia along with Britain at Moscow
world congresses. And he has written
widely on industrial subjects.
Most of Maoriland’s older journalists
know Tom L. Mills, recently retired from
the editorship of the Feilding “Star” after
28 years there. Every phase of the liter-
ary and mechanical sides of newspaper
production was covered by his early ex-
perience on the now defunct “New Zea-
land Times” and on the Wellington
“Evening Post,” for on those two papers
he at different times was compositor,
proof-reader, reporter and sub-editor. He
became “special writer” on the “Times,”
and when Premier Seddon died his cor-
rect forecast of the Ward Cabinet for
the “Post” led him to a country-paper
editorship. His retirement is concurrent
with a change of ownership of the paper,
whose new literary chief is George
Stevens, formerly editor of the Pahiatua
“Herald.”
A compliment paid last week to E. H.
Farrar, M.L.C-, by Charles Tannock, a
Labor member and Lang nominee in
the N. S. Wales Legislative Council,
shows that democracy does sometimes
forgive. A Yorx-
shireman, Farrar
was the sternest of
Labor men till the
war; president of
the Labor Council
and of the Sydney
Political Labor
League in the days
of Big Jim Mc-
Gowen. In 1912
his party made him
an M.L.C., but he
transferred to the
Nationalists with
Holman, and was
vice - president of
his new party
(1917-22), Minister
for Labor and In-
dustry in the Fuller
and Bavin Minis-
tries and a com-
missioner to
Wembley Exhibi-
tion. He was one
of the 12-year
members elected to
the new-type L.C.,
in which he is
Chairman of Com-
mittees. And now
Mr. Tannock, as secretary of the
largest branch of the Ironworkers’
Federation, says that the men in the
Sydney Steel Works strike have such faith
in their cause and in Farrar as an arbi-
trator that they would abide by his deci-
sion.
When Archbishop Giovanni Panico
returns to the Vatican after his term as
fourth Apostolic Delegate to the Com-
monwealth, he should introduce an Aus-
tralian accent into the Holy City. He has
not had much need for English hitherto.
Most of his diplomatic service has been
done in the S. American republics, but
he was in the Saar Basin during the
ticklish two years before the plebiscite
and Papal Nuncio in Prague until
recently.
Howard Watson Lloyd is Adelaidian,
and has been a great success in his native
city. Born in 1868, an education at St.
Peter’s saw him into business, and ever
since his interests have been widening
until a big company is scarcely consid-
H. W. LLOYD, Bank of Adelaide
chairman .
ered respectable in S.A. if his name is
not in the directors’ list. Lloyd is chair-
man of the Bank of Adelaide, and the
boards of S.A. Gas, Adelaide Steam-
ships, Goldsbrough Mort, A.M.P., S.A.
Brewing Co. and several more know
him well. His own business is H. L. and
A. E. Ayers, whose name ranks with that
of the Baillieus among Croweaters.
One of the heroes of the 19th Battalion
at Pozieres was Major Horace Pern, just
dead at Leongatha (Vic.). At Pozieres,
with the aid station under continual
heavy fire, he kept going for 60 hours
attending to the wounded who passed
through; And there was a cheerful word
for every man.
Justin Huntly McCarthy, son of the
author of a History of Our Own Times
and a great figure in the Gladstonian era,
seems, according to the usually reliable
Who’s Who, to have died twice. Who
Was Who for 1897-1916 credits him with
having expired on April 24, 1912, but his
actual death at 75 has only now been
cabled. He was a prolific writer with
a volatile disposition —verse, translations,
plays and history flowed from his pen
in an easy stream. Most Australians
know his work only through the films —
“The Vagabond King” was an adaptation
of his “If I Were King.” He married
the inimitable Cissie Loftus, who gradu-
ated from the Royal Academy of Music
to play Marguerite in “Faust” with
Henry Irving, and Ophelia with E. H.
Sothern, but whose fame rests on her
capacity as stage mimic. She, too, wrote
a number of short stories and a lot of
verse, and was composer of several well-
known songs —R. L. Stevenson’s “Shadow
Song,” which was introduced into “Peter
Pan” and R.L.S.’s “My Bed Is but a
Little Boat.” The marriage was dis-
solved in 1899, and Cissie survives her
ex-husband.


The New 1936
AUSTIN T
Has Big Car Performance and Comfort
allied to Small Car Economy . . .
yHE Austin Ten is large enough and powerful enough to give "big car" performance and comfort with every-
thing necessary for really enjoyable motoring, yet it fulfils every requirement of light car economy and
convenience. The adoption of Luvax hydraulic shock absorbers has still further enhanced its riding comfort.
Passengers sit within the wheelbase, giving the car excellent cornering ability and eliminating
sway and all road shocks, whilst
an additional safety measure of
the new Ten Saloon is the fitting
of "Armour Plate" Safety Glass
Unsplinterable Windscreens,
which are raked to the correct
degree to avoid eyestrain and
rear window reflection. The Ten's
smooth flowing lines reflect the
quality of Austin manufacture.
Modern, yet not extreme, it is a
car you can feel proud of m any
company, and in common with all
Austin cars it has that world-
famed Dependability and high
resale value that make it a safe
and lasting investment.
VISITORS TO
ROYAL SHOW.
See the complete range of
1936 Austins from the very
useful Seven to the luxurious
imported Light Twenty, at
STAND 160, BENT STREET
(Behind the Member's Stand) t
r
S*
ss
i*s
H
S2i
1
,
P
M
S®
y
m
m
S&*
I
®S
111
111
The Austin Ten de Luxe Saloon
The Austin range comprises
the Seven, Ten, Sixteen and
Light Twenty. Prices range
from £199 (plus tax) and the
Seven may be obtained for as
little as £5O deposit and less
than £2 weekly.
NS.IV. Distributors
LARKE, HOSKINS & CO. LTD.
Showrooms: 207-213 William
St., Sydney. Tel. FL3OOI.
Service Station: Cnr. Australia St. &
Parramatta Rd., Camperdown.
Newcastle Showroom:
N SW. USED MOTORS
761 Hunter St. West, Newcastle.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does ho possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors-.
0. E. FRIEND P. N. YAEWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure witK the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The [?]
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
41,314
1929.. 22.817 1271 25 p.c. = 15,791 5,755 35,559
Premiums on new shares, £33,288.. 2,271
Reserves.
1930.. 38,693 3050 30 p.c. = 24,249 11,394 9,123
Share premiums, etc., £6598 . . 15,721
1931.. 41,736 4952 25 p.c. = 20,688 16,096 31,817
Unexplained reductions, £1460,. .. 30,357
Deficit.
Assets written up and £83,894 of
bonus scrip issued; added goodwill,
I £37,495 7,138
Reserves.
1932.. 62,407 7500 174 p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 224,, ~ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Trans, to Staff Provident, £2OOO .. 39,999
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c.
1934.. 85,552 7500 £4579 41,947 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £253,183
of bonus scrip distributed. Un- 9 g gl
explained addition reserves, £16,088; ’
added goodwill, £77,732.
124 p.c.
1935. .100,418 7500 7000 52,746 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO .. .. 42,053
Share premiums, £30,000 .. .. 72,053
174 p.c.
1936. .147,550 7500 11,862 73,844 54,344 120,397
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO .. 122,397
It is a most profitable business. Operat-
ing a chain of stores throughout Aus-
tralia and Maoriland (mainly in the capi-
tal cities), sometimes through subsidiaries,
this co. put net earnings of £147,550 on
view (up £47,132) last year—and that
was after setting aside £BO,OOO (£30,000
more) for taxation. The undrawn bal-
ance in taxation reserve at Jan. 31 was
£150,067.
The admitted profit, after paying two
lots of prefs., was equal to 30.4 p.c. on
ordinary capital; a bonus issue, three
ords. for two, was made in the previous
year, principally by writing up assets, in-
cluding goodwill. On the 1935 ord. capi-
tal (including the largesse) the showing
was 20.3 p.c. In the latest term p.c.
was paid to ords. in divs. (including a
shilling bonus), a lift of 5 p.c. on the
preceding year’s rate.
The co. and its offshoots have no price
limit in their shops, but with large-scale
buying and quick cash turnover, aided
by a minimum of handling and selling
charges, prices are cut to a point where
individual shops are scarcely competi-
tive in many lines. Stocks are compre-
hensive so far as haberdashery, toilet
requirements, stationery, confectionery
and many other of the smaller house-
hold necessities are concerned; Wool-
worths also appears to have a growing
turnover in women’s and children’s
clothing of cheaper varieties.
The chain-store system has many
critics among manufacturers, shop-
keepers and the general public ; but it
appears to be an evolution of the age
that is here to stay in the absence of
restrictive legislation, such as has been
introduced in some overseas countries.
Woolworths does not give details of the
ramifications of its chain in the pub-
lished accounts, but the business con-
tinues to expand, by the opening of new
stores and by more trade coming to the
old ones. The co. was formed in Sydney
at the end of 1924, and has since spread
as previously indicated. Most progress
has been made since slump drove people
to the cheapest shops; the habit then
acquired doesn’t appear to have been
abandoned now that economic conditions
are much improved.
Last balance day paid capital was
£696,969 —£100,000 of 7 p.c. pref. money
was raised at a premium of 6s. a share.
Altogether, the total is made of 75,000
10 p.c. first prefs., 200,000 7 p.c. second
prefs. and 421,969 ords., all £1 shares,
fully paid. Of the ords., 337,077 are of
the bonus variety, issued since the close
of accounts in 1931. The \l\ p.c. handed
out on this class of scrip last year was
therefore equal to nearly 87 p.c. on the
ord. register as it stood before the gift
issue of 1931. Few businesses of recent
establishment have such phenomenal
figures to show.
Finances are compact enough, despite
the pumping up of some book values in
1934:
1929. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. £93,764 £342,788 £596,969 £696,969
Liabilities . . 127,525 272,188 334,396 235,208
Freeholds . . 51,667 340,989 324,813 307,546
Leaseholds . . 6,095 80,421 95,790 80,346
Plant . . 37,196 130,903 197,315 206,681
Shares other
cos., etc... 9,450 116,651 304,687 304,684
Stocks . . 100,551 190,968 264,621 281,102
debtors .. 4,159 26,710 15,643 75,715*
Cash .. 929 1,186 3,669 131,882
- .includes advances ( £00,508) to associated cos.
Liabilities include £138,500 of mortgages
on freeholds. Trade creditors and
accrued charges amount to £96,708.
Fixed assets of the parent total £594,573.
Shares in other cos. figure at £304,684 —
they jumped £188,036 during the year
of the last bonus issue. The Maoriland
and Victorian offshoots are highly profit-
able, though on a smaller scale than the
parent.
Partly by reason of the additional pref.
capital introduced, there was a wide
margin of more or less liquid assets
(£488,699, including stocks and advances
to subsidiaries) over all liabilities.
The parent’s ords. are not listed,
though they have a fairly wide
distribution. The first prefs. are
backed by net tangibles of £lO 18s. sd.
(deducting goodwill, not treated as an
asset herein). The seconds are covered
to the extent of £3 14s. sd. The firsts
at 40s. yield 5 p.c. ; the seconds at 255.
6d. show a shade under 5.5 p.c. Re-
action to probable higher interest rates
has brought a small market loss to
holders of the latter scrip, who paid the
6s. premium last year.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 16,917 10 p.c. = 13,000 3917 6,365
1926.. 16,723 10 „ „ 13,000 3723 10,088
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 „ „ 13,000 1961 18,702
1929.. 14,026 10 „ „ 13,000 1026 14,728
1930.. 4,671 4 „ „ 5,200 14,199
Loss.
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
Written off, £3OOO 9,049
Profit.
1932.. 538 Nil 533 9,582
1933.. 187 Nil 187 9,769
Renovations charged to reserves, £2191.. 7,578
1934.. 940 Nil 940 8,518
1935.. -2,854 24 p.c. = 3,250 8,122
Too much importance need not be at-
tached to the run of 10 p.c. divs. with
which the table opens. After a nine
years’ struggle, including five without a
license, divs. commenced in 1921. High
prices for our primary products and the
scattering of public loan funds, mainly
from overseas, gave profits a lift, and
capital was doubled in 1923 by a gift
issue, raising it to its present figure,
assets being written up £65,000 for the
purpose. Then the premises were re-
modelled and extended, and the board
went to its bankers for the money,
lifting the overdraft to £50,954 at the
end of 1927. Results failed to come up
to expectations, though enough was
earned to pay a regular 10 p.c. till the
close of accounts in 1929.
Then the tide ran out, and shareholders
experienced a four years’ dry spell. Now
they are back in the picture again with
24 p.c. What the future holds for them
it is difficult to say. The management
has not failed to curb controllable exes.,
the hotel has been kept up to date, and
the building and plant are reported in
excellent condition. But the stoppage of
suburban buses (276 used to go from
Central station) and extension of the rail-
way into the city affected the bar trade,
which appears to be the most profitable
section of the business, while competition
forced further reduction of the residen-
tial tariff.
Last year gross earnings (£29,395)
sprang £5344. Exes. (£25,732) took £2621
of the increase, leaving the net result
£2723 better at £3663. But that was
after charging £BO9 of the amount spent
on renovations, repairs, etc., to reserves.
The co. is spending about £3250 on new
bars, and a steady improvement in tak-
ings is reported since the close of
accounts.
The market prices the pound shares at
14s. 6d. as against 12s. Bd. a year ago. The
return at 14s. 6d. is 3.4 p.c. on a 1\ p.c.
div. basis, or 5.5 p.c. on a 4 p.c. distri-
bution, which would call for £1537 more
profit than was claimed last year.
The lease runs out in 1960, and a sink-
ing fund has been created ; but the board
has not yet been able to invest the money
outside the business. Here is the posi-
tion as balance-sheet figures show it:
1925. 1930. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft . . 19,125 45,834 30,528 26,037
Creditors . . 6,474 4,858 4,859 4,054
Buildings . . 137,373 164,349 153,312 150,254
Furniture, etc. 25,276 26,288 16,209 17,048
Stocks ' . . 5,184 3,674 2,579 2,700
Book debts, etc. 3,559 3,329 2,104 2,096
The overdraft, which is secured by a
mortgage debenture over the whole
undertaking, was reduced by £4491.
Stocks, debtors’ balances, etc., exceeded
the floating debt by £748.
R. H, Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
r —-—Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 57,842 1200 14 p.c. = 35,728 20,914 81,047
£50,400 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42,480 20,451 102,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~46,080 17,080 110,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 „ ~46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 „ ~46.292 15,801 153,708
1930.. 39,410 1200 11J „ ~34,837 3,373 157,081
1931.. 20,251 1200 6 ~ ~18,580 471 157,552
1932.. 20,529 2312 6 „ ~15,793 2,424 159,976
1933.. 22,998 8 „ ~ 15,638 7,360 107,336
1934.. 23,880 124 „ ~19,354 4,532 171,868
1935.. 28,954 15 „ ~23,255 5,699 177,567
This well-managed concern, which deals
in house furnishings and makes a strong
feature of the t.-.p side of the trade,
has weathered the depression without
serious loss. The substantial profits put
back in the business in the days when
loan money was plentiful in N. S. Wales
enabled the directors to shorten sail
gracefully when it became evident that
business must be done on a smaller scale
than hitherto. Shareholders had put up
£107,267, and the capital had been
swollen to £329,667 by distributions of
bonus scrip. When the cold wind of
adversity blew £174,833 of capital was
returned—half the ord. and all the pref.
Dividends on ordinary shares, which up
to the end of 1930 had averaged 12.7
p.c., fell to 6 p.c. in 1931 and 1932, rose
to 8 p.c. in 1933, to 12y p.c. ip 1934,
and last year were back on the 15 p.c.
basis that shareholders had learned to
expect in the years just before the slump.
The recovery has been sound and
steady. The revival of building in
Sydney and the steady increase in em-
ployment are reflected in the figures pf
the last two years. In 1933 the return
on average capital was 11.7 p.c. This
jumped to 15.4 p.c. in 1934, and last
year was 18.6 p.c. On capital and re-
serves combined the return was 8.7 p.c.,
sufficient to pay a 15 p.c. dividend and
still leave room for a substantial addi-
tion to reserves. These now overlap
capital by £22,536.
The position of finances remains com-
fortable :
1924. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital, . £275,005 £154,884 £154,834 £155,031
Sundry creditors 40,815 72,782 57,491 68,538
Overdraft . . 19,182 8,163 95 1,645
Property and
plant . . 14,152 118,176 116,933 115,686
Stock and hire
agreements . 107,370 96,035 90,110 90,040
Book debts .. 84,867 35,148 40,894 43,245
Shares, deben-
tures and
short loans 123,046 1
Mortgages .. 85,525 I 184 171,401 189,870
Government |
securities .. 19,744 J
Cash, etc. .. 274 676 656 655
The amount due to outsiders shows an
increase, and the overdraft has gone up,
but that’s a reflection of the greatly-
improved trading conditions. Invest-
ments, drawn upon the preceding year
to reduce indebtedness, have now grown
again to beyond their 1933 stature.
There has been the usual writing-off on
property and plant.
Market offer for the pound shares,
which have a visible backing of 425, lOd.
in net tangibles, is 585., with sales at
61s. The return at the latter figure is
4.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribution.
The firm has suffered a loss by the
death of R. H. Gordon, chairman, who
had been its managing director since the
establishment of the co. His place as
managing director has been filled by H. J.
Gordon, the chairmanship going to
W. E. V. Robson.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Dividends — N W rit—
Pref Ol d. ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 7* p.c. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1926.. 28j04S 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78,306
1927.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 <4,800
10 p.c.
19 2 8.. 43,8 3 2 90 0 0 2 0,00 0 63 3 1 4,199 88,999
12 J p.c.
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
19 3 0.. 47,4 4 5 90 0 0 2 5,0 0 0 78 2 1 2,663 103,876
1931.. 3,406 9000 Nil 731 97,561
5 p.c.
1932.. 11,168 9000 10,000 683 89,036
1933.. 19,774 9000 10,000 710 64 89,100
3J p.c.
1934.. 17,311 9000 7,500 769 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935.. 20,807 9000 10,000 1015 792 89,934
74 p.c.
1936.. 29,912 9000 15,000 987 4,925 94,859
The shopping crowd flows round this
Melbourne retailer’s corner ; it is also in
a good position to catch the casual trade
of business people, especially men (for
whom it principally caters), as they cross
over to and from the Post Office. Both
types of custom were more in evidence
last term. Melbourne has taken longer to
recover from slump than Sydney, but
the last six months has shown a definite
return to better conditions.
London Stores made the best showing
in six years. Earnings, after deducting
£987 depreciation on fittings and plant
(shown as written off in the introductory
table), were £9133 above the previous
year’s, and were equal to a shade under
10 p.c. on ord. capital (allowing for re-
quirements of the 9 p.c. prefs.), as
against 5.4, 3.7 and 5 p.c. in the three
preceding terms. The ord. div. stepped
up to 1\ p.c., having doubled in the last
two years.
In 1931 there was no ord. distribution.
For the five years prior to that the aver-
age was 10 p.c. Going back another
quinquennium, it was 18i p.c. Ord.
capital was doubled by a bonus issue in
1923. Finances have altered somewhat
in 15 years, and there is now a lot more
capital, a good deal of it, together with a
moderate amount of borrowed money,
invested in bricks and mortar. This
altered policy, nevertheless, has guaran-
teed continuity of trading position and
the anchoring of goodwill (valued at
£16,659 in the accounts and not treated
as an asset herein).
The financial position should allow
quick advantage to be taken of trade
improvements;
192 0. 1931. 19 3 5. 1936.
Paid capital. . £70,000 £300,000 £300,000 £ 3 00,000
Liabilities . . 36,100 139,391 109,9 3 4 104,516
Property, etc. 40,199 385,086 412,253 412,253
Plant, etc. .. 4,714 5,306 7,868 7,478
Shares in other
cos. .. 5,767 5,804 5,804
Stocks 98,819 103,168 80,261 86,527
Book debts .. . 5,054 6,075 4,694 5,079
Cash, etc. . . 20,465 35,040 2,487 2,234
Stocks at £86,527 are only £6266 higher
than in the previous year, and seem a
moderate valuation. Improved trade
allowed the good work of debt-reduction
to be carried £5418 further. The excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids was
£11,816 lighter before allowing for final
divs. The floating debt (there is £99,000
on mortgage) was well covered.
Freeholds and buildings have remained
unchanged at £412,253 for three years.
Despite some internal alterations, plant
and fittings (£7478) show little upward
movement. More attention has lately
been given to sporting goods ; also, the
co.’s restaurant remains open until eight
o’clock on week nights.
The market showed its appreciation of
the increased div. last week by raising
its quote from 245. for the ords. on Wed-
nesday to 275. on Thursday. At the latter
figure the return is 5.5 p.c. on a 1\ pf
div. basis and the backing 295. 6d. in
net tangibles. The 9 p.c. prefs., with
cover of similar quality amounting to
£3 18s. lid., yield 5.6 p.c. at 325.
{“Wild Cat’’ continued on page 18.)


k,. , '
m
■ra
I. ‘ >;;•>*
•i .v&*4
IgHH
iiiiiii
P»l»«
HH
liiii
• • : V= S
I^
:,V:
H
H
SB
§ ■ :
1—
wmmm
* vw, - #<. ‘S* r.^i
■
H
asHOßim
nH
m
i
ii
i m
'. .......
Miii :
mmm -,*■s?!
*3U ■:
7*1.7 : . ■■•
•>-r >' v :' ~.; -
■ %\ - > <
!■
InP J
V ■■ ■.••;:■ :
H n
hShuwS
mm*
***%
1
r
r
p
f
HERE'S-TO EE •
TOOHEYS LTD.,
Standard Brewery, Sydney.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
* Northern Agencies Ply., Ltd., Launceston.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver Silver Ores
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates’
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Conner
PRODUCERS OF w
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestonei
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulaj or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office, The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
0
Said a bandmaster, “Wilson, you’re sacked ]
Since you took to Schweppes Tonic you’ve cracked
Twenty drumsticks, and split
Seven drums. I submit
That such force should be tempered with tact "
chweppes
TONIC WATER
- daed tjvu &vtrd!
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
R. B. YOUNG,
Business Consultant,
Commercial and Financial Adviser.
Marketing, Sales, Company Promotions, Advertising
and General Business Analysis.
Consultations by Appointment.
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 84356.
For Sale.
FOR SALE, Lode Tin Claim (“Ambrose
Lucky Last”), Kangaroo Hills. Shaft 70ft.,
drive 18ft. and drive 15ft. Produced 330 tons
ore, average per cent. tin. Estimates ore
valued £350 in sight. No walls located in
workings to date. Price £7OO.
A. AMBROSE,
C/o Byrne and Ahern,
Charters Towers, Queensland.
In the four weeks to March 18, Mt.
Morgan (Q.) quarried 16,708 tons, treated
17,700 tons, and produced 27140 z. gold
an’d 102 tons copper. The ore assayed
4.53dwt. gold and 0.66 p.c. copper. Gold
recovery was 3.o6dwt It is to recover
this loss in tailings that the new low-
grade treatment plant is being installed
(shareholders recently put up the first in-
stalment of the money for it). Oxidised
ores, usually very amenable to treatment
by suitable plant, are somewhat out of
place in the co. s present unit, designed
primarily to treat sulphides. Cheap min-
ing has made 3dwt. recoveries highly
payable when proceeds Irom copper are
included. In recent months the plant has
not worked to full capacity, partly owing
to holidays, and in the last period owing
to heavy rains, which caused a loss of
25 p.c. working time in the opencut.
Capacity of the present plant is about
24,000 tons a month. A quarterly div.
at rate of 60 p.c. p.a. has just been de-
dared. The buyer at 16s. for the 2s. 6d.
f.-ps. gets a gross yield of 9.4 p.c., and
pays on the basis of £1,782,800 for the
mine and other assets.
* * * *
Metal quotations at the week-end
showed copper and spelter firm, with
lead slightly weaker. Tin was around
£215 a ton. Present London prices for
lead (£l6 17s. 6d.) and spelter (£l6)
should be highly profitable to Barrier
mines, which are moving up again in
the sharemarket. Electrolytic copper is
around £4O 10s. (stg.), equal to over £5O
(Aust.) to Mt. Lyell, especially when the
more favorable local market is taken into
account. On Friday Lyell’s shares had
strengthened to 245. 6d., principally on
reports of rain at Lake Margaret, where
drought has been affecting the hydro-
electric supply.
* * * *
Morning Star (G.M.A.), N.L., at
Woods Point (Vic.), has had trouble with
labor and dry weather; but things
appear to be smoothing out a bit. De-
velopment has uncovered medium to
narrow seams of quartz carrying free
gold • was from such formations that
250,0000 z. was won in the past. In
about two months (to March 7) 1273
tons was treated for bullion estimated to
contain 2252 fine ounces, an average of
36dwt. In the old days the quartz reefs,
which occur in a diorite dyke formation,
were worked to 800 ft.; bores put down
about two years ago showed three
promising floors above 1200 ft. Latest
crushing was 207 tons for bullion esti-
mated to contain 1490 z. fine, a drop in
tonnage owing to lack of water. Values
are a i so lower
* 10Wen *
Aloha Central’s property on the
Tavua (Fiji) fidd has been given the
cold shoulder by a Canadian group after
inspection by its engineer. Native labor
has been paid off, and shareholders
are to be called together to decide the
co.’s future.
* * * *
In a circular to shareholders, directors
of Hill 50 (W.A.) resent the statements
(B. 26/2/’36) that the co. is “one of a
number of small Westralian goldmining
ventures which have given shareholders
financial aches and pains,” and that
although “the directors are confident that
the mine will become a permanent and
consistent producer, others are not so
confident.” The facts are, as the board
itself states, that the co. is still trying to do
a job with £50,000 that requires £75,000.
Further, the Westralian Department of
Mines has come to the co.’s assistance
with a guarantee of £5OOO. The “Wild
Cat” hopes that the co. will suc-
ceed without suffering more serious
financial aches or pains. The board
acted wisely in sending a parcel of sul-
phides to the Kalgoorlie School of
Mines for testing and advice as to type
of plant required. At Sept. 30 last posi-
tive ore reserves were figured at 30,000
tons, averaging 565., and probable ore
at 20,000 tons, averaging 295. As to the
future behavior of the lode at depth,
opinions of mining men differ widely,
and there the matter stands until settled
by developments.
Leonora Corp., the cables say, is doing
well, and has declared a div. of 2\ p.c.
The co., an offshoot of the Sons of
Gwalia, was registered in London in
1934 to acquire interests held by the
Gwalia outside Westralia. The considera-
tion was £87,500 cash, the vendor agree-
ing to take up 2,000,000 shares at par.
Capital is £200,000 in 4,000,000 ordi-
nary Is. shares, and 3,000,000 are issued
and fully paid. Leonora Corp.’s princi-
pal assets are 84,000 Tanami Syndicate
shares, £70,000 worth of debentures and
174,984 shares in Cornish Kaolin and
a 25 p.c. interest in Gabait Gold Mines
in the Sudan, out of which shareholders
have received nothing to date.
* * * #
Directors of Swan Bitter (W.A.) talk
of a profit of £4OOO by April next, and
of the possibilities of a div. Some-
thing is also said about 10,000 tons of
tailings yet to be treated being worth
15s. a ton net, about giving the manager
£lOOO worth of shares “for services ren-
dered” and about ore available. No-
thing is mentioned about values hav-
ing diminished at shallow depth or the
possibilities of the mine deeper down.
Many shareholders would welcome the
opinion of an independent engineer on
these matters.
* sf: * $
Linden (W.A.) Gold, N.L;, which was
formed last year to work property south
of Linden, but later abandoned it owing
to disappointing results, is having an-
other dip in the bag. This time it is a
month’s sampling option over three leases
at Kintore, where Gold Fields Australian
Development has an option. G. C. Hall
is to do the sampling.
* * * *
The first annual report of North
Boulder (Kalgoorlie) Gold Mines, N.L.,
makes poor reading. At November 30
there was £B3l in the till, with gold in
transit to the value of £713. The debit
balance was £10,921. Mine development
swallowed £5145. Several small crush-
ings have been taken out for high values.
Diamond-drilling and a vigorous de-
velopment policy (“with a hope of
better values”) are to be undertaken.
* * * *
Wiluna’s throughput for February was
38,777 tons (down 8124 tons owing to a
breakdown in the power plant). Gold
production was 20300 z, lower at 8713
fine ounces. Working costs were 19s. 7d.
a ton (down lid.). Normal operations
resumed on Feb. 28, after the breakdown
had been remedied. Gold values con-
tinue to be uncovered by development.
* * * *
The Yilgangie Queen, N.L., a small
rich show near Yarri (W.A.), has an-
other 200 tons ready for crushing. The
line of lode has now been proved for
900 ft. and values to water level at 2oz.
to the ton.
He * * *
An amalgamation of Lady Mary, Red,
White and Blue and Iron King blocks,
Norseman (W.A.), which have been de-
veloped by the General Mining Corp.,
with another group on the same field held
by Kalimna Oil Co. is talked of. The
Lady Mary, Red, White and Blue and
Iron King have been favorably reported
on for Eastern States interests, and the
Kalimna properties are also reckoned to
have a chance.
* * * *
The North Golden Mile mine, near
Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoorlie, now being
opened up by an Adelaide syndicate, is
developing satisfactorily. A payable
shoot has been tested over 145 ft., width
4ft.
* * * *
The Ida H. Sands Syndicate, which
has been successfully working the sands
on the old Ida H. mine at Laverton
(W.A.), has suspended operations. A co.
is negotiating to take over the balance
of the residues and plant.
* * * *
Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.), is to
ask A. E. Pafon, assistant manager of
South Kalgurli, to make an inspection of
the mine “on his return from the Eastern
States.” At 17s. 6d. per issued share,
market valuation of the show was
£515,851, although the volume of proved
ore reserves was always a matter for
concern. Values have been compara-
tively rich in spots. At the week-end
the market price was around Bs. 3d. A
long-delayed crushing was followed by a
report which left room for uncertainty
of the quality of ore fed to the mill.
Most of the gold was absorbed by the
plant. Losses in tailings have been light.
* * * ♦
A little while ago the directors of Wal-
decks, somewhere near Wiluna (W.A.),
talked about a treatment plant, and share-
holders expected early divs., which are
now doubtful. The vendors received
£lO,OOO cash, plus shares of a nominal
value of £2OOO.
* * * *
Producing over £1,000,000 worth of
gold (Australian currency) last year, or
one-fifth of Westralia’s total yield. Lake
View and Star established itself as the
largest gold-getter in the Commonwealth.
The co. now operates about one-half of
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile. Second
place on the list was filled by Wiluna.
The pair produced nearly 40 p.c. of
Westralia’s output of the yellow metal in
1935.
* * * *
After an extensive drilling campaign,
Gold Fields Australian Development has
abandoned its option over the Last
Chance, Kanowna (W.A.). The Kan-
garoo Co. previously had a shot at re-
opening this mine, but failed. Values ex-
pected on the lower levels didn’t
materialise.
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward, Coolgardie (W.A.),
reports that its gold-carriers are wide,
and that the wealth exposed is consider-
able. What the investor needs to satisfy
himself about is the chance of the shoots
being permanent.
* * * ?£
Westralia produced gold valued at
nearly £1,000,000 in Australian currency
during the first two months of this year,
and expects to dig out a further
£6,000,000 worth by the end of Decem-
ber. New contributors will include Sand
Queen and Yellowdine, of the De Ber-
nales group, Marvel Loch, Gold Fields
Australian Development and several
smaller ones. Increased returns from
North Kalgurli, Boulder Perseverance
and Golden Horseshoe are expected to
help.
* * * *
Tongkah Harbour’s balance sheet for
term ended September 30 last records an
uneventful year. Amount of material
dredged was about the same as previous
year ; average yield per cubic yard was
.4451 b. as against .4461 b. ; value of tin
and gold won, exclusive of royalties,
£93,558 (up £277). Average price of ore
per ton rose from £l4l 17s. sd. to £143
15s. 2d. Working costs are down a little,
and net profit for the year is £16,957.
Brought forward from last year was
£40,478, and after paying dividend of
8 p.c. and taxes £28,615 goes forward.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlanda and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments, L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydnev.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you —William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, - Sydney.— Advt.


All this
BLOW-OUT
PROTECTION
6 plies of
All this
SKID
PROTECTION
The
ALL-WEATHER
TREAD
(exclusive to Goodyear)
ALL THIS
MADE
AUSTRAL!a
means
maximum
prole clion
The All-Weather tread is the thickest,
heaviest, surest-gripping, quickest-
stopping tread.
The Supertwist Cord Carcass is the
most durable: because it is the most
ELASTIC. (Supertwist STRETCHES AND
RECOVERS, without breaking, up to
61% further than cords used m
ordinary tyres.)
All this protection against fabric
breaks, blowouts, fast tread wear and
premature failure totals up to the
43% (and more) non-skid mileage
you get from the “G-3.”
So-for the Easter touring-the tyre
to fit for maximum protection (and
therefore maximum mileage) is
the "G-3”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Colon” ; Several of the travellers in
the carriage admitted never having seen
a sheep-barber in action, and “Tension-
nut Tom,” who had been celebrating a
cut-out, seized the opportunity to demon-
strate the art. With his swag between
his legs and a clothes-brush as a machine,
he opened up the belly wool, ran up the
neck folds and the first leg, twisted his
swag around and accelerated on the
“long blow.” As he cleaned up the last
leg before his interested audience, he
was carried away by his own realism
and, pulling his clothes-brush out of
gear, he threw his swag out of the open
window and dashed into the lavatory
shouting “Sheep-oh!”
* * *
“Samarai”: Some youngsters attend-
ing school cover huge distances in coun-
try districts. One lad near Sea Lake
(Vic.), named lan McDonald, has covered
well over 20,000 miles in six years on
horseback in search of education.
* * * *
“Saddle-flap”: “Embryo’s” citrus-fruit
pest at Lake Boga (Vic.) (B. 5/2/’36)
reminds me of another Dad struck when
he took on growing prize lemons. One
day he noticed that many of the fruit
were pierced with a small round hole.
From day to day the infection spread
and never a cocoon or a grub was seen.
Neighbors were puzzled, experts baffled.
Then Dad found a .22 bullet inside a
large lemon and Dave’s new rifle went
into the river.
* * * *
“Creel”; “Foveaux’s” fishermen (B.
12/2/’36) were as unlucky as the angler
(whoever he was) who lost two bottles
of lager off the N.Q. coast. Near the
Barnard Islands I helped to land a 12ft.
tiger-shark which was carrying the
bottles intact in its stomach. The con-
tents tasted none the worse for their sub-
marine detention. The shark’s stomach
also contained half a brick. A recent
Bulletin par. mentioned that American
experiments proved that sharks hunt by
sense of smell. If that is so, that scav-
enger’s olfactory sense must have been
out of action.
* * * *
“Burrum”: “Thinanclear’s” old bush-
whacker who gave the blackboy the
“soup” and kept the eggs for himself
did not suggest such a gastronomical
horror as did one Tonal’ MacPhairson,
who worked for me as farmhand when
we were “batching.” It was with the
greatest difficulty that I dissuaded him
from a soup-making effort with the
water (?) in which our weekly ration of
cornbeef had been boiled for half a
day or so. But the waste shocked his
Caledonian soul.
* * # *
“Reed’s Mistake” : Habit dies hard. A
retired boatbuilder who settled in a
coastal town where tea-trees grew big and
crooked made an inspection of his pro-
perty. He found so many knees and
crooks among the timber that he hadn’t
the heart to put an axe into the trees,
and the land remained uncleared.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Beg leave to differ with
“Willum John” (B. 26/2/’36). The good
plains horse generally has a touch of
Arab in his ancestry, which leads to a
wide hoof suitable for work on sand or
flats. The device is too clumsy for use
on rocks; once in the hills the plains
horse is an unintentional man-killer. On
the other hand, small-hoofed ponies, irre-
spective of where they were bred, soon
acclimatise themselves to mountain work,
just as all horses know how to dodge a
rabbit-burrow after one or two experi-
ences. Take the mountain pony down
on to the flats, and he’s as good as ever,
but not so comfortable to ride, on three
counts: (1) Hasn’t the pace of a bigger
horse, (2) too barrel-shaped in the body,
(3) gets bloated on the unaccustomed
green feed. As for slipping on the level,
I’ve yet to hear of an Alpine mountaineer
who couldn’t make a stab at ice-skating
on a lake.
* * * *
“Lab.”: The campfire conversation had
drifted to the subject of sheep-dogs, and
.Dan had been holding forth for an hour.
“Yairs,” he finished up, “that there dog
of mine can read brands an’ run a
“Can you guarantee your eggs are fresh?”
“Feel those eggs, boy, and see if the shells are set yet.”
blarsted chicken into a jam-tin.” Harry
looked humble. “Well, my dog ain’t no
wonder,” he said, “but the other mornin’
I lorst the cork out of me yeast bottle,
Damn me if ol’ Banjo didn’t work the
yeast back in and then put the cork on
a g ain! ”
„* , *
Tally-Ho . Beehives In a pep-
perma-tree, recently cut down m front
of the sub-inspector s residence in
Charleville (W.Q.), there was one that
had been there for 27 years. It held
1361 b. of honey. The nest was the
Detmerina * "" See " b “ “
peppenna.
*** . * .
“Murray”: A lot of rot is written
about blacks as bushmen. Taken on
the whole, in their own country it is
almost impossible to bush them; but
in strange districts many of them are as
hopeless as any choom. An outstanding
case of a boy rising superior to his
strange surroundings was that of Phan-
tom, of Austral Downs, who was lent
to Snelling, of Lake Nash, at the time of
the Frew cattle raid in T 7. Snelling
wanted to get back quickly to get on the
wires. There was about 80 miles of
desert to traverse. Phantom was a Gulf
boy from the tidal waters who had spent
most of his life in C.Q. Snelling chanced
it —but he kept a compass on Phantom,
who rode ahead. The boy took him over
that trackless country, never deviating
from his line more than five degrees.
# * * *
“Warrigal”: Tell “Wagga” (B.
26/2/’36) that the man who charms
snakes on Bondi beach says there is no
more strength in the yarn about recur-
ring snakebite anniversaries than in the
one about snakes never dying before
sundown. My authority reckons that he
should be in a state of perpetual coma
if he had a relapse every anniversary,
considering that there are few days in
the year when he hasn’t had a bite of
some kind to stimulate his somatic sys-
tem. His conjecture is that “Wagga’s”
cobber must have had a touch of rheu-
matism at the time the snake bit him,
and he gets winter twinges about the
same time each year.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: That 50-guinea trophy
offered by the W.A. Anglers’ Association
for the first tunny (B. 19/2/’36) will
long await a claimant unless the local
rod-men introduce the gear used by the
American tunny fishers. They attach
to their reels a continuous spraying de-
vice that wets the line as it is spun out
by the hurricane finny speedster. With-
out that gadget any line hooked to a
fleeing tunny burns off by friction as
it is whizzed through the rod rings.
* * * *
“Manah Buleh”: I don’t think
“Laetitia’s” goanna (B. 5/2/’36) can
claim the strong-reptile title. That go.
obtained his purchase from the sides of
the narrow cleft, and by slightly erecting
the scales he would make the job of pull-
ing him out almost an impossibility. 1
once saw a fifteen-stone timber-cutter
grab a black snake by the tail as the
wriggler was disappearing down a small
hole. He obtained a good grip on Joe,
but after five minutes’ steady pulling had
to call on me to break the wriggler’s back
while holding him taut. The trick of the
go. discarding his tail is common to all
lizards, but, whereas in the larger reptiles
lt takes a good hefty pull or knock to
deta ch the appendage, the smaller ones,
suc h as the thorny devil and the gecko,
can discard theirs at will. This usually
happens when attacked by an enemy, the
tail being left wriggling to attract the
5f e , n,i ° n , o£ th = t enem J while <!f lizard
beats it for safety. A new tail, some-
times a double one, soon replaces the
discarded member.
* * * *
“K.H.8.”: Next time “M.L.C.” (B.
19/2/’36) interviews his garrulous little
f r j en d the blue wren, I would like him
ask why his wife (or wives) lay one
brown and six white eggs. Does the
colored egg contain the cock bird of the
f uture family?
* * * *
“Plankton”: The cunning of “Hemp’s”
white Queensland spider (B. 19/2/’36)
has nothing on the Javanese variety that
staggers under the name of Phrynarachne
descipiens. This insect spins a small
white hammock across a broad leaf, lies
down on its back in the comfortable con-
trivance and patiently waits for a meal
to arrive. His arrangement bears such
an artful resemblance to a bird-drop-
ping that unsuspecting insects settle
down on it, only to be seized by the
alert arachnid. The diabolical mantis, an
insect also found in the same region, is
one of Nature’s most remarkable examples
of perfect camouflage. It is so like a
lovely orchid blossom growing in the
same locality, even to the contrasting
spots which characterise the flower’s vivid
coloring, that butterflies and other in-
sects are allured within reach of the
predaceous creature’s sabre-toothed claws.
* * * *
“C.F.J.”: Doubtful if even white-ants
have the penetrative ability of the plant
known as “heavenwood.” Recently at
Parkes (N.S.W.) a shoot of this freak
emerged through the wallpaper in a
music store, about three feet from the
ground. For the plant to reach that posi-
tion it had to make its way through a
brick wall and six inches of concrete
floor. Perhaps it had heard some records
and was trying to get at the crooner.
* jjc * *
“Jimmac”: Am as bewildered as
“T.H.” (B. 29/1 /’36) at the strength
shown by a croc, in dragging a bullock
up a steep slope of drift sand. But for
a different reason. How did the croc,
prevent himself from sinking into the
sand, and is it the same faculty which
enables him to remain on the surface of
soft mud? Have seen an outsize in
crocs, which was shot and killed on a
bank of watery mud. The croc., a limp
mass, was lying on top of the mud,
whereas the men who waded out to in-
spect him sank to their hips.
* * * *
“Tidapa”: I’m a bit with “Laetitia”
(B. 4/3/’36) regarding the tenacity with
which the cockroach hangs on to life.
The reason, however, that his refloated
lugger was again in-
fested with the insects
was that immersion
doesn’t kill the eggs.
But the Toach I have
in mind owed his
longevity to cunning
and speed. He had
made his home inside
the recorder instrument
in the Darwin cable
office. While he re-
mained at home things
were normal, but he
had acquired a taste for
ink and would quench
his thirst every few
hours from the inkwell
that fed the siphon. He
would suddenly appear
over the magnets and
run across the hair-fine
suspension fibres that
held the vibrating
siphon over the tape:
while he was at work
the incoming signals
looked as if there was
a bad electrical storm
along the line, neces-
sitating “repeats” from
Singapore. We couldn’t
bash him without
smashing the delicate
instrument, and every
time the recorder was
dismantled his speed
and cunning always saved him. He gave
us a ton of trouble till a few grains of
strychnine in the inkwell settled his hash.
* * * *
“I.C. de M.”: Yes, shark tragedies are
practically unknown where fish abound
(B. 25/ 12 / ’35). When Sydney harbor had
not been fished to any extent, men used
to swim out to Garden Island from old
“Figtree”: then sharks were never even
seen or thought of. My great-grand-
father, William J. Wallis, heard that his
employees had been prohibited from
bathing at the “Figtree.” He jumped
into the harbor naked, so that he might
be arrested, thus drawing public atten-
tion to the need for baths. Public baths
were soon an accomplished fact.
♦ * * *
“Bimbo”: When the arrival of the
twenty-third offspring of Sam, my neigh-
bor, was announced, he hopped into his
Sunday best, complete with new bowler
hat, and headed for town to wet its head.
When he arrived home, well stonkered.
that evening, the milking was finished,
so Sam, morosely remorseful, reckoned
it was up to him to do the separating.
Apparently the cream-can had refused
to come within the focus of his filmy
eye, for when I called in a little later
Sam was swaying sadly on the handle of
the separator, while under the cream
spout was his brand-new bowler already
half-filled.
THAT THRIFTY MAN.
I met him in the lonely land of heat and
willy-willy;
An ancient whiskered man he was, with swag
and blackened billy.
About his hat, like puppet things, a ring of
corks was swinging,
And as he strode the dusty road that strange
old man was singing.
But, stranger still, as he drew near and greet-
ings passed between us
That aged traveller’s legs, I saw, were bare
as those of Venus.
Queer creatures roam the western wilds, around
the plains and beaches,
But who would ever think to meet a tourist
minus breeches?
“Old man,” I cried (behind him waved his
shirt-tail like a banner),
“I long to know just why you dress in such
a novel manner.
Oh, tell me what, in Gandhi’s name, your pant-
less legs betoken —
Some promise made in reckless mood, some
vow as yet unbroken?
Perchance by lure of gold impelled, a freakish
wager winning,
You wander through the world on bare and
wizened underpinning?
In me this fearful searing heat a sullen rage
arouses —
Yet you go singing through it all without your
‘round-the-houses’.”
“Me lad,” he said, “I sing because I’m full of
joy an’ vigor,
An’ I’ve a reason jist as good for showing off
me figger.
It’s this way, see, I’ve always been a thrifty
man an’ sparin’;
The strides I own, to my idea, are far too
good for wearin’.
They’re in me swag—you must admit this
notion’s rather clever;
I’ll keep ’em there, an’, spare me days! them
pants should last for ever.
When fossickers go mooching round for gold
to fill their ‘shammies,’
A cove can dress to suit himself an’ save his
precious ‘rammies.’ ”
And somewhere, miles and miles away from
interfering wowsers,
I think you’ll find that thrifty man still sing-
ing minus trousers.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


“Dungeness”: A lighthouse-inspector,
landing at Cape Hotham (N.T.) in a
dinghy pulled by a blackboy, was nearly
capsized by a shark which snapped at
one of the oar-blades. It is a common
enough occurrence in sharky waters, and
is due to the fact that the shark mis-
takes the fish-shaped oar-blade for a
slowly-moving fish on the surface. The
resemblance is striking when looked at
from below through a diving helmet. I
have seen oars tackled not only by
sharks but by big mackerel and barra-
couta; even, when after ducks in a
rickety punt on a brackish lagoon, by an
eel which looked to be 10ft. long and as
thick as one’s leg. That brute was the
nastiest-looking of the lot, and I’d simply
have hated to go in swimming with him.
* * * *
“Bullwa”: “Amity Point” mentions
(B. 29/l/’36) that stingaree flaps are
good eating. They helped to save my
life when I struck a cyclone off Malay
Bay, N.T., and was wrecked there in my
ten-ton lugger. All the ship’s food had
been swept over the side, and we had
to live on bush tucker and any fish we
caught. The weather was bad, and our
fishing suffered accordingly; but we
speared several stingarees, and the flap-
pers kept us alive for six weeks. Even
then I dropped from \\\ stone to eight
stone. Stingaree flaps are edible, though
not highly nutritious.
* * * *
“Dilly, Dilly”: Farmers on the tribu-
taries of the Upper Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
are complaining that eels have taken to
biting off the legs of ducks and geese. It
shows discrimination, since epicures place
the leg of the duck or goose as the
choicest part of the bird. Unlike the
barnyard chook, the duck does not C\
build up the thigh muscles by >
scratching for a living, and so toughen
them. The prospect seems black for the
farmers, though perhaps a home indus-
try of wooden legs for ducks and geese
might solve the problem.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: Despite “Ned Kelly”
(B. 29/1 / ’36) the porcupine fish is second
to none as a finely-flavored fish, but it
must be cleaned only by experienced
hands. At certain times of the year the
gall-bladder contains a substance that is
poisonous as the result of an excessive
diet of a certain algae. Our Binghi
bakes it in its spiky coat, and peels the
covering off after cooking.
* * * *
“Overplumb”: “O. W. Waireki’s” par.
(B. 26/2/’36) reminds me of an old
bushman who always slept with a cattle-
dog on his bed. He said that the fleas
kept him moving and his blood circulat-
ing, with a consequent prevention of
rheumatism.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: I came across him in
the bush, firing with a rifle at insects
that flew in and out of a hole high up
in a eucalyptus. “Whaffor?” I inquired.
“Well, you see, mate,” he explained,
“I’m after honey, and I’m that blasted
short-sighted I can’t tell whether they’re
bees or blowflies, so I’m going to shoot
one and see!” I left him to it.
* * * *
“Duggai”: Stockowners in the ranges
at the head of the Dalrymple and North
Branch creeks (Q.) are developing cor-
rugated brows because of the outsize in
dingoes prowling about that district.
Staghounds that went bush a few years
ago are responsible, the resultant breed
being particularly ferocious. These
dingoes are living chiefly on wallabies,
but any cattle in poor condition are easy
marks. Just now an Alsatian is roaming
the ranges, and settlers are wondering
what the next generation will produce.
* * * =H
“Hugo”: Tell “Hamer” (B. 19/2/’36)
that there are no fish in Lake Tyrell
(Vic.); the only piscine specimen® I
“Plainclothes policeman, an you can't keep two rissoles under observation
for five minutes!”
ever saw over a long period in the dis-
trict had to be got at with a tin-opener.
The depth of this peculiar lake varies
from inches to about three feet; a strong
wind will leave parts of it almost bare.
Its surface is dotted with saltbush
islands on which many emus make their
homes and clean up the crops of the
adjoining cockies when permitted. I
have dug up fossilised sticks covered
with strange salt crystals, ranging in
color from snow-white to the deepest
pink with a faint tracing of green. A
thick, black, slimy mud lies under the
thin crust of salt, making digging rather
unpleasant. Sea Lake’s two pubs do
not bother the saltworkers, as suggested.
The main company is composed of
Seventh Day Adventists, who are not
noted for bacchanalian revelry.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Torres Strait Binghis have
a simple method of dispatching croco-
"Y' mug , when I said ‘blast it,' I was only SWEARIN’!”
diles. At night-time in the nor’-west
season, when the saurian lazes on the
mudbanks, one boy faces it with a blaz-
ing torch of coconut leaves, which dazes
the big fellow, whilst another takes ad-
vantage of its momentary blindness to
pass a spear into what passes for the
croc.’s armpit.
“A.E.K.”: The workings of Wallarah
colliery (N.S.W.) extend in some places
beneath Lake Macquarie. A practical
joker recently placed a couple of king
prawns in some water near a working
place, and, flashing a light on them,
called a surprised deputy to witness that
the lake was beginning to invade the
mine. At one time Newcastle miners
used to test a newcomer’s credulity by in-
forming him that the breaking of the
waves on Newcastle bar could be heard
in the workings below the harbor.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: The small mongrel
dog had found his way through a hole in
the netting into the zoological enclosure
in the Brisbane Botanical Gardens. He
made whoopee for a few minutes, with
the fun all his way, wallabies and kan-
garoos going in all directions, but an old
cock emu started charging round the
large enclosure at express speed. Twice
he passed close to the dog and raced
on. The third time round he clapped
on extra pace as he neared the enemy ;
then, rearing his neck up as he came
alongside, hopped on one leg and with
unbelievable rapidity lifted the other
foot to somewhere near his chin and
lashed downwards and sideways with a
kind of cow-kick. Bradman never
connected with better timing. The
mong went for a “grass-burner” into a
duck-pond, where an old-man swan
belted hell out of him. Half-drowned,
he scrambled out and rushed towards the
gate in time to be met by the keeper.
The latter tried to kick him back into
the duckpond, but lacked the emu’s
accuracy. Towser dodged, and the
keeper collapsed heavily on to an old
and dreamy cassowary that spent most
of his life asleep near the gateway. It
was a happy few moments for the kids.
* * * *
“Shanghai”; “Ellenvale’s” somnolent
bushman (B, 29/1/’36) had nothing on
one chap in our camp. We pulled him
out of bed one night, walked him a
quarter of a mile and stood talking to
him for half an hour as we watched the
local store burn down ; thence home and
to bed again. In the morning he knew
nothing about it.
* * * Jjc
“Dungeness”: Shark attacks on whites
(B. 5/2/’36) are certainly not rare in
tropical Australian waters. At Kissing
Point, just north of Townsville, some
years ago three men were taken in as
many successive weeks, all white. An-
other white was killed at Magnetic
Island. Several deaths of white men and
boys from sharkbite have occurred in
Ross Creek. Some 15 years ago, a white
man, swimming from a capsized boat to
Black Rock, just north of Magnetic
Island, was charged by a big shark and
thrown into the air. Miraculously, he
escaped without worse injury than rows
of shallow, lacerated teeth-marks along
his stomach and back. Two men swim-
ming with him came up splashing, and
the shark departed. At Thursday Island,
a lighthouse-keeper from Booby Island
had his head bitten off by a shark while
wading from the reef-edge opposite the
hospital.
* * * *
“Twelve-bore”: The crow is certainly
a brainy bird. At lambing, the hordes
of crows know the exact range of my
Holloway and Naughton; the only
foolish one I bagged evidently came
back to see whether it had the genuine
crossbone trade-mark. Whereas it is
easy to get close enough to shoot swamp
hawks and the like, crows have to be
tricked. I succeeded in this for a while
by hiding inside a portable sheep-feeder,
but they soon woke up to it. They even
laugh at a poisoned carcass.
* * * *
“M.W.”: Tell “Whangamomona” (B.
19/2/’36) to visit the Queen Victoria
Museum in the Speck and see for him-
self two fresh-water eels. The larger
weighed 341 b., was sft. long and 21in.
in girth; the other 281 b., sft/ long, 14m.
in girth. Another —assumed to be the
father of all eels —was cut up and sold
by the pound about 1916 ; it was 431 b.
All came from the South Esk River.
“Duggai”: The soursop may be a
weed around Adelaide way (B. 29 /1 /’36),
but in the Cairns and Townsville dis-
tricts it is considered the finest fruit of
the tropics, and would be popular in
the South if it could be marketed there.
It is a delicious species of cus-
tard apple with a rare flavor. The
tree grows about 20ft. high, often
bearing two crops of 100 or more
a year. The fruit is much like a
custard apple in shape, but the skin is
thinner.
* * * *
“Shellback”: The ice brought by train
and fast buckboard from Perth to Broad
Arrow (W.A.) had a short passage com-
pared with the frozen water brought to
Sydney and Melbourne by the old wind-
jammers in the early days. The ice was
“insulated” with sawdust and shavings,
and an 80- or 90-day trip showed a loss
of only 5 p.c. Ships often carried ice from
England or America to India, thus mak-
ing two trips through the tropics, with
the same percentage of waste. By one
of Nature’s ironies, a ship that was tak-
ing ice from Boston to Callao collided
with a berg off the Horn, huge chunks
of which crashed down on her deck,
causing severe damage. The crew had to
break up and throw overboard tons of
the same stuff that was so carefully pre-
served in the holds. That freighter even-
tually arrived after a severe drubbing,
with a loss of only 30 p.c. of her cargo.
“Jobber”: Broken Hill and Orange
are not the only towns in the Ma State
to have experienced the thrill of an
escaped lion (B. 5/2/’36); and an escaped
lion is a thrill. Leo got away from
his cage in a circus in Cootamundra, and
gave the inhabitants some hurry-up
before he was caught. After killing a
horse the big fellow made his way to
one of the local banks, from the top of ■
which the manager, with the bank
revolver, opened up with five rounds
rapid, all scoring clean misses. As he
was loading up again the trainer and a
few offsiders blew along with the cage.
One word from the boss and the lion
dutifully hopped behind the bars.
THE LOST ROADS.
On the shining crest of the asphalt road that
passes before my gate
The eager motors rush smoothly by with
their cylinders six and eight.
All day ’neath the glare of a searching sun
their endless ranks go by;
All night through the ranges they roar and
drone, their great lamps light the sky.
Hot-foot from the city and business cares the
holiday-makers pass,
To seek their pleasure ’neath sun and stars,
By gorge and mountain and river bars,
As children out from class.
A motor road in a motor age has camping-
ground and stall
At every mile of the glassy track —“hot water,”
“fresh eggs” and all
The fruits of the season right at hand —and
the road becomes a street,
Where once there echoed but rattling wheels
and the shod hoofs’ rhythmic beat.
No asphalt surface we travelled on ’twixt dawn
and the end of day
What time the wool-team tugged its load
To its sundown camp by the dusty road
In the years that are old and grey.
In those spacious days ’twas little we cared
for what a man might be;
So long as he kept the roadside law he was
free of our company.
But dead as the ashes of old campfires are
the codes and ways we knew;
And the glowing logs and the leaping flames
are only known to the few
Who find their way far out beyond the furthest
metalled track.
For the old lost roads of yesterday
And the man-sized codes of yesterday
Are far —too far—outback.
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


(mm HnnH
JOObd
%
S.UH
SAI
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■
y*
Mi
v - -
r . .*4 ;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Preparing Low-grade Wools.
“Murrawong”; To be able to prepare
a clip to suit the market a classer should
have a fair idea, not only of what is
needed by buyers at the moment, but of
such factors as may cause the scourer
and the manufacturer to reject a line or
at least to diminish its value. When a
buyer finds a line even in length, quality
and yield, he can safely bid to the top of
his limit.
When buyers have to guarantee their
yields as they go, lines must be kept as
even as possible. Where there is any
doubt about a lot, the buyer plays safe.
From the scourer’s viewpoint, even
condition is important for still another
reason. Scouring treatment varies accord-
ing to the percentage of wool fat, so to
ensure thorough cleansing with the least
rigor don’t mix light- and heavy-con-
ditioned wools.
A common mistake is to mix fleeces
affected by water-rot with heavy-condi-
tioned fleeces. Water-rot stain will only
scour out if very light. As a general
rule, this stain requires special treatment,
and such fleeces should be marketed by
themselves.
Belly wool should never be mixed with
pieces, etc., and particular attention
should be paid to the removing of pizzle
stains from bellies.
Where a clip includes part of bought
sheep or sheep off different country
carrying more or less burr than the
average or variation in color or quantity
of dust, it is not only necessary to keep
the fleece lines apart but the skirtings and
even the locks.
For instance, the station sheep may be
free from burr while the bought sheep
have a fair sprinkling of trefoil on the
skirts. The pieces, being bulkier than
those of the free sheep, would naturally
be lotted apart, but the inclination to
run the locks together should be resisted.
Even if there were only one bale out
of a dozen affected by the burry locks,
it would settle the fate of the entire lot,
as they could not be bought as free
locks.
If it happened that that bale were not
noticed by the buyer, it would be dis-
covered by the scourer, and the brand
would possibly be sent to Coventry.
Sheep-rugging Problems.
“B-gar”: Only in districts reasonably
free from blowfly would sheep rugs
made from wheat bags be of use. (B.
11/3/’36). Every bushman knows that
blowflies, when in the humor, will strike
damp saddle cloths, blankets or bags.
What an attraction a bag rug, sodden
as a result of rain, would be!
My experience with various materials
points to duck being best of all. Canvas
and dungaree are good, but heavy when
wet. The last is also expensive to use
on big mobs.
One aspect of rugging calls for further
research. Is it contrary to Nature to pre-
clude rain penetrating to the wool and
skin? I’m inclined to think the fleece needs
a drink periodically. For that reason I
favor duck, which, though not as durable
as basil, which the ancient Greeks used,
will serve the purpose.
I’ve had good results from the follow-
ing makeup; Use cord or jute rope.
Secure a length of rope about 2£ft. long
to each side of the back of the rug. Tie
each end at the desired place on the
respective sides of the rug. To adjust
with another holding the sheep’s head,
lift one hind leg at a time, passing each
over the tied ropes. Draw the rug for-
ward and secure with rope across the
neck. The wildest woolly won’t buck
off that rug. Later, when increased wool
growth demands a new adjustment, it can
be carried out by lengthening the ties.
British Meat Organisation.
“Ghanam”: The article (B. 11/3/’36)
on the coming of S. American meat com-
panies did not go far as it might have.
There is a delusion in Australia that
the killing companies which operate on
the Plate are merely exporters, but this
is wronsr. Vestevs. in England, control
Southwold Down Lambs from Kyneton (Vic.) Show on display in London.
meat from hoof to housewife in many
districts. Their product comes out of
their own works into their own ships ;
out of their own ships into their own
shops—or into shops the whole supplies
of which they provide.
For them to co-operate in selling Aus-
tralian meat overseas means that our pro-
duct will have regular entry into 4000
retail businesses which make the best all-
round meat displays in Britain. Vesteys
themselves own 3000 of these.
Since they took over Angliss’s and
other works they have begun a British
campaign in favor of Australian mutton
in particular, and their window displays
are an index to what they can do with a
few good carcasses and to the improved
standardisation of Australian lines which
is taking place in the export trade.
Photographs best tell the story —the
one which accompanies this paragraph
is a fair average sample.
Yellow Big Head and Jaundice.
“Jethro Full”: “Valerin’s” new
disease (B. 4/3/’36) appears similar to
“yellow big head,” which, in its turn, has
some resemblance to toxaemic jaundice.
Both are due to ingestion of poison
plants. Yet, while toxaemic jaundice is
rapidly fatal, yellow big head is less
sudden, and an animal will be noticed
sick for a day or so before the appear-
ance of definite symptoms. With jaun-
dice, one usually receives first notice of
the disease on finding dead sheep.
In yellow big head, “photosensitisa-
tion” occurs, distorting the animal’s head
and ears, causing marked skin lesions
before jaundice appears, which, however,
is seldom intense. The skin remains
normal in color, or may appear anaemic,
the whites of the eyes assuming a yellow-
ish tinge.
The animal is uneasy, seeks the shade
and assumes a characteristic stand with
the head raised and bent backward as
though trying to ease the ears and to
gain all the air possible through the
mucus-blocked nostrils. The coronary
bands have an inflamed appearance, as
though scrubbed.
Animals do not succumb to yellow
big head as they do to toxasmic jaundice,
but the disease is sometimes protracted.
The skin thickens, the tips of the ears be-
coming hard and insensitive, later crack-
ing. Portions mummify and slough off.
There is absorption of the fluid and a
contraction of the swellings
Post-mortem examination shows secre-
tion of yellow lymph in the thorax, the
abdomen and the pericardial sac. The
urine is yellow, the faeces normal, the
kidneys congested but not enlarged or
discolored.
The disease is likely to occur at any
time, but on the N.S.W. tablelands and
slopes it is expected during late summer
after heavy rain. It affects all breeds
and classes of sheep, being more common
in rams than ewes or wethers.
Treatment in both jaundice and yellow
big head lies in the moving of the stock
to clean pasture —one with ample shade,
if possible. Knowledge of the cause can
be obtained only during actual outbreaks,
and is one reason why every stockman
should know the plants in his pasture,
and be able to spot a poisonous stranger
when it appears.
Hand-feeding Sheep.
“Granova”: Hand-feeding 2000 sheep
on chaff, as “The O.E>.” (B. 26/2/*36)
suggests, would be a big and expensive
job, and would keep two men busy.
A small farmer’s plant could not cut
more than five tons of chaff a day, so
that it would take 40 days to cut 200
tons of hay. The farmer-would have to
put in a large plant or have the hay cut
up by contractors at a cost of about ten
shillings per ton.
During the last drought, we —near
Reefton (N.S.W.)—got satisfactory re-
sults by feeding hay to sheep from a
V-shaped rack made of large-mesh wire-
netting. To accommodate 2000 sheep,
the rack would have to be eight chains
long, but £lO would cover the cost of
erection and materials.
The sheep soon learn to pull out one
straw at a time, and there is no wastage.
The rack would not have to be filled
more than twice a week.
No doubt the hay would not be as
good for the sheep as chaff, but, taking
relative costs into consideration, short,
fine-strawed oaten hay should prove
satisfactory.
Suitable hay can be provided by sow-
ing early-maturing oats in March, graz-
ing them till July, then cutting for hay.
Crowding a large flock in small pad-
docks would probably result in worm in-
festation, but an occasional spell on
green fodder would help to counteract
the trouble.
Crutching Breeding Ewes.
“Warramulla”: The crutching of
breeding ewes just prior to lambing to
help rear the lamb is a phase of the
sheepman’s craft that is rarely exploited.
Half of each of two mobs of separate
ages were recently crutched —the balance
being left alone. The result showed the
crutched ewes reared 13 p.c. and 17 p.c.
respectively more lambs. Had the result
been even less than 5 p.c., it would have
paid for- the crutching.
Clearing the track for the youngsters
should mean more and healthier lambs
reared, especially with ewes that carry
a mass of sweat-locks about the milk
supply.
The newly-arriveds have to forage
among these, seeking their staff of life.
The ewe that carries dags around the
hindquarters is, of course, objectionable.
It is irritating to the ewe, and this must
affect the lamb. Besides, the blowfly
may get busy; and it means murdering
the lambs to attempt to combat flies
among lambing ewes.
Many breeders will not crutch ewes on
the point of lambing, for fear of the
“lamb turning.” My experience is that
this is one of the safest times to do the
job, provided reasonable care is exer-
cised and the crutched ewe not just
pelted down the chute.
Recently, we put across the board
10,000 ewes, and finished crutching three
days before they were due to lamb.
Our losses, so far, are nil. There is less
chance of the “lamb turning” at this
stage than any other period while the
ewe is carrying it.
The wool which we have removed will
more than pay for the cost of the opera-
tions, and by the time general shearing
comes around, the ewes will have grown
more wool on those parts.
The Horse’s Hoof.
“Out West”; I appreciate “R.D.K.’s”
remarks regarding the care of a horse’s
foot (B. 5/2/’36), for I, too, was taught
to leave alone as much as possible the
frog, sole, bars and the horny wall.
However, on this loose, “ashy” downs
country (n.-w. Q.), where there is prac-
tically no wear on the hoof at all, and
consequently horses are seldom shod, we


BROAD FEET RECEIVE
PERFECT COMFORT
in this extra-comfortable Shoe. De-
signed for even the broadest foot, and
made of specially-selected Black or
Brown Calf, chosen for strength and
suppleness, this Shoe will satisfy even
the most discriminating.
ORDER BY POST.
Stocked in full and half sizes, and
medium and wide fittings to each half
size.
Black Calf, 37/6; Brown Calf, 39/6
When writing, ask for correct grade of
Abbey Boot Polish. The best, and only
6d. per tin.
fd
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE.
Write for our latest Catalogue. You will surely want to see
other styles and shapes. Also Golf and Tennis Shoes and
Riding Boots.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
224 PITT STREET,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’
W.A. 22
rM
a ft
HELPFUL SERVICE
FDR
TRAVELLERS
If you contemplate a visit either abroad or within
Australia, the Bank of New South Wales Travel
Department can smooth the way for you.
This Department of the Bank arranges world and
local tours, makes bookings and reservations for
travel by sea, land and air, secures accommodation,
advises on Income Tax clearances and passports,
and arranges baggage insurance.
The Traveller thus starts out with every detail ot
the tour arranged in advance and is supplied with
a complete schedule of movements and accom-
modation. No charge is made for the services
rendered by this Department.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
f
TRAVEL DEPARTMENTS
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Wellington (N.Z_.), Auckland, Christ-
church, Dunedin, Suva, and London.
Enquiries may be made at any other of the
Bank’s 760 branches.
df
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived;—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant, Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
P.B.
> LICK
IS THE BEST
for ALL STOCK. It is manu-
factured on the formula of the
New South Wales Stock Depart-
ment, contains 50 p.c. Sterilized
Bonemeal, and is recommended
by all Veterinary Officers.
PB.
STERILIZED
BONEMEAL
100% Pure.
Write for Free Pamphlets to
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
52 King Street, Sydney.
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition,)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/O POST
252 George St., Sydney, <*/ ** FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
have to reverse the process. This applies
to all very soft country where there are
no stones.
On horses left for length of time,
and particularly on those bred here, the
hooves (especially the forefeet) spread
out as round and as flat as a dinner-plate.
This is Nature’s way of adapting the
animal. The fault in the scheme is, of
course, that the horse’s hoof (unlike the
camel’s foot) was evolved for hard wear.
The wall of the hoof grows rapidly, and
has to be regularly cut back. The sole
becomes full of corns (up to {in. deep),
which have to be chopped out. The
heels, if left alone, turn underneath, and
cause the horse to walk on the butts,
making him very tender-footed to ride
along an ordinary country road ; while
the back of the frog grows right out over
the heels, and so has to be regularly
trimmed, as have, also, the bars.
A horse with hooves neglected is a
constant trouble.
The best plan, I find, is to cut hooves
well back, even to the point of making
the horse tender-footed. Then turn the
animal into a soft paddock to spell. If
this is carried out several times the
hooves will improve considerably. As
on each horse the distortion of the hoof
will be slightly different, it is best to
consider what you think was the original
shape, and trim the hoof accordingly. If
you are doubtful whether a particular
part should be cut or not, leave it alone,
as a deal of damage can be done by too
much cutting.
To have a foal grow up with nice
straight walls to its hooves, it is neces-
sary to start trimming them at about
three months old, and to carry on the
good work at regular intervals.
This looks a lot of extra work; it
repays when the time comes to break-in
the youngster.
Shorthorns in Mixed Farming.
“Cow Punch”: Consider the Shorthorn.
It is bred in all parts of the world under
all sorts of conditions. First-class animals
come from the byres of Scotland, Eng-
lish marshes, Argentinian lucerne plains,
U.S.A. ranges, and Australian runs.
When mixed farming is better under-
stood, and stock-feeding also, farmers of
the eastern Australian States will produce
hundreds of tons of beef annually from
grazing lucerne and improved pastures.
Full use must be made of second-rate
pasture lands and sheep country where
it is necessary to keep down coarse
native grasses. Cattle bred and reared
on these areas could be turned on to
better-class country at 15 to 18 months,
and turned off at 24 to 28 months as
fats—an age when they should com-
mand high prices.
Steers of good quality, 15 to 20
months old, are becoming more plentiful.
This is as it should be. Small joints
are wanted, now that the “family Sunday
dinner” is becoming a thing of the
past.
Tablelands, watersheds, ranges, slopes
and scrub country provide a large area
of cattle country whence weaners and
young steers could be conveyed to richer
country for fattening.
Thriftiness, docility and adaptability
make the Shorthorn or its crosses almost
ideal for this form of chilled-beef pro-
duction. For very rough country there
is the Shorthorn-Devon cross ; for cold
country the Shorthorn-Angus. The
natural gentleness of the Devon blends
well with the docile Shorthorn nature,
and from the combination you have an
animal that will fatten almost as well as
the pure-bred without losing its shape or
depth of flesh.
Lost Time and Effort.
“K.Mc.”: Henry Ford says: “I believe
that the average farmer puts to a really
useful purpose only about 5 p.c. of the
energy that he spends.” While not wholly
agreeing with Ford, I am convinced too
much time and effort are wasted.
In Ford’s view the time taken going
to and from work, to pick up a shovel
or any tool is lost effort—no actual pro-
ductive work is being done —and plough-
ing with horses and 3ft. plough instead of
a tractor and 6ft. represents over 50 p.c.
loss.
Often homes and buildings are incon-
veniently situated. If travelling takes one
hour each day, this means a loss of 31
10-hour days annually for each man —
more than a month’s work lost. Hay-
sheds built too far from the field entail
much loss of time travelling backwards
and forwards to load and unload.
Frequently fences are erected along
sidings and become silted up ; cultiva-
tion paddocks are irregularly shaped and
too short in length, necessitating exces-
sive turning. Pests are allowed to get
a hold before eradication is attempted.
Sheep cutting 61b. of wool are kept in-
stead of those cutting 81b. or 91b.
And frequently we find the hobo
worker. A typical day; He goes from
the workshop to the wool shed; then
returns, still looking for the wire-strainer
he left near the hayshed last week. Whilst
catching his horse he accidentally dis-
covers the strainer ; rides to paddock A
and strains one single wire ; ambles across
to paddock C, through which another
workman passed an hour previously, to
look at a tank. He returns to the work-
shop and amuses himself for ten minutes,
feeds his horse, goes in for lunch and
has a long rest afterwards.
In the afternoon he rides out to pad-
dock E to fix a gate latch, and, returning
home along the boundary, meets a neigh-
bor and yarns for an hour. After further
refreshments and rest he takes salt out
to paddock C, where the other workman
who passed through unloaded that morn-
ing. Returning via the homestead to pad-
dock E again, he brings in the killer
sheep. He calls it a day. He is tired out.
Another Pest.
“Valerin”: Some weeks ago a plague
of small white moths invaded many areas
of N. S. Wales. They left larvae which
are omnivorous feeders, taking every-
thing green, from burrs to lucerne, in
their stride.
The caterpillar is green in color and
about {in. long, and can move quickly.
There seems no method of coping with
this new pest, but the birds are having
the time of their lives on my lucerne
patch.
N.Q. Coastal Lands.
“Beefo”: There is nothing new about
the coastal fattening of beef cattle, “J.W.”
and “Dungeness” (B. 19/2/’36). Many
years ago stores were sent from n.-w.
Queensland to various coastal districts,
but fatteners realised how unsuitable
these inland-bred cattle were for the ex-
periment, after red-water had taken its
heavy toll.
At the present you couldn’t give a
beast away, if bred on clean country, to
any fattener whose country was in the
coastal tick area. Still, there are possi-
bilities in the scheme and some scrub
lands might fatten cattle forwarded from
the Gulf country, for instance, where
both ticks and flies are present.
For years past, however, locally-bred
cattle have fattened on the northern
coast stations, such as Woodhouse and
Strathmore (Townsville-Bowen district),
supplying thousands of prime bullocks
to the meatworks annually.
The Tully (N.Q.) Chamber of Com-
merce scheme sounds well on paper with
its 1000-acre beef farms, but I can’t
visualise beef barons coming into exis-
tence until artificial grasses have been
introduced that will wipe out many of
the rank and sour grasses now a feature
of the inner sea littoral.
Hints for the Farm.
“Wrash”: A pitchfork with broken
haft can be made into a first-rate bale
or bag hook by heating, shortening and
bending the prongs. Bolted to a long
handle it becomes an excellent tool for
dragging flood debris from a fence, or
for hooking thorns or thistles on to a
fire,
“Bimbo”: In dealing with bracken-
fern on second-class land with upwards
of a 20-inch rainfall in southern Aus-
tralia, super, and sub. clover are the
agents to employ. Clean out the rabbits.
Then in the autumn break up the land
and sow 21b. to 31b. of sub. clover per
acre, with a cover crop of oats and a
liberal dressing of super. Sow the sub.
on the surface, and cover with brush or
other light harrows. Having established
the clover, top-dress regularly with super,
and keep out the rabbits. In a few years
the better class of grasses will come in
without help. By using this method 1
have turned land that formerly wouldn t
carry a billygoat to the square mile into
a ewe and lamb to the acre proposition.
Make a start now. Super, and sub.
clover have never been cheaper.
“Wrash”: From a worn-out crosscut
or circular saw cut an ellipse of 9in. and
Sin. diameter. Drill it centrally with a
{-in. bit. Bevel it all round to a sharp
edge. Bend an old saucepan or similar
handle to half an S, and with the same
drill bore its short curve. Fasten it to
the blade with a wing-nut, and add a
broomstick about 3ft. long. You then
have a reversible tool that will outdo
any hoe you can buy for all-round use-
fulness in the garden.


BiiMi
:: x; .v • :
M&m . £
*1
■
m e
I itm
mm-mm
mm.
mm;-
n
For Heavy-Duty Work
Replaceable cylinders give added
life to International trucks.
Counterbalanced crankshaft, drop-forged
of chrome-nickel steel.
These inserts retard exhaust-valve seat
burning and maintain engine efficiency.
When seeking a heavy-duty truck you cannot go past International
—for quality is there. Look at the International 2-ton Model C-35
strength to spare in its frame—in its pressed steel channels and
uniformly stressed cross rails; flexible strength in the long semi-elliptic
springs, with auxiliary rear springs—concentrated strength in the
drop-forged chrome-nickel steel counter-balanced crankshaft—and
equal strength in all the scientifically fabricated transmission parts—
in the 4-wheel hydraulic brakes.
Or give your critical attention to International 3-ton Model C-40. A
dreadnought of the highway—6-cylinder valve-in-head engine, with
replaceable cylinders, heavy counter-balanced crankshaft, rifle-drilled
connecting rods, roller-bearing universal joints . . . five-speed trans-
mission—Powered to speed full loads on all roads.
It's the same with all Internationals from the up to the 5-ton
Model—every unit built to rise superior to its job. And the chassis
price range—from £267 up, plus tax—gives sterling value in every case.
Look them over—try them out. The truck you need is in the
International range.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
PI 306
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Creel”; The conger eel has an “iron”
digestion. If it happens to escape after
swallowing a hook it doesn’t suffer, as
the hook is rapidly dissolved by acids in
the eel’s stomach. A few months ago
on the Barrier Reef, outside Mourilyan,
1 helped to land a 7ft. conger that had
an old 4in. rusted hook in its lower jaw.
It hadn’t been able to dissolve that.
* * * *
“Third Base”: The Australian cricket-
ers played a baseball match at Jo’burg
for the Cameron fund, and surprised
even themselves by licking the locals all
round the town. There was a fine crowd,
and the fund will be the better by some
£3OO. O’Brien proved a star pitcher,
while Darling and McCabe batted like
a couple of Babe Ruths.
* * * *
“Everton”: The English Soccer
authorities have given up in despair their
attempt to beat the betting pools (B.
4/3/’36) by withholding the match dates
until the last moment. Such a howl arose
from the millions of “investors” that even
the powerful League had to crawl down.
Its leaders are now appealing to Parlia-
ment to pass an Act making the ramp
illegal, since the organised gamble is be-
coming a national menace.
* * * *
“Fi. Fa.”: Reno is out of date in the
divorce business nowadays. The Dic-
tator of Guayaquil, in Ecuador, has made
his first law decree in the form of a
five-minute divorce court which re-
quires only eight days’ residence-quali-
fication and the presence of the petition-
ing party alone. South American dic-
tators are apt to be short-lived, but the
goods offered by Senor Frederico Paex
are just as sound (or unsound) in Aus-
tralian law as any Reno product—■
which, after all, is saying nothing. The
Reno residential clause makes it much
cheaper to go to Guayaquil, and with
an almost interminable waiting list in
every Australian divorce court we may
soon expect luxury-divorce cruises to
South America. Why does not our Dead-
Fed. Government face the divorce situa-
tion in Australia?
* * * *
“W. 8.”: Apart from immediate first-
aid measures, Australian medical opinion
favors injection of antivenin serum for
snakebite —it is necessary, of course, for
the serum to be made from the venom
of the type of snake which inflicted the
bite. W. B. Bevan, the American
authority on reptiles, has little use for
this method, however. He believes in the
crosslike incisions, a quarter of an inch
deep, which are favored by most Aus-
tralian bushmen. But, whereas the Aus-
tralian uses Condy’s crystals to counter-
act the effects of the venom, the Yank
extracts the poison by means of suction-
bulbs. Hundreds of sufferers from
snakebite have been treated by this
method, and since 1928 only two, it is
claimed, have died.
# * * #
“Barangkali”: Tattooing is fast dis-
appearing among those natives who once
set great store on this means of decora-
tion. In North Borneo tattooing was
always closely related to head-hunting.
“Put a bit o’ ginger into it! Wot’s wrong
with y’?”
“Aw, me back’s crook. Missus made me
dig the garden all day yestiddy.”
and now that delectable pastime has been
frowned on by a spoil-sport Government
the tattooed stars on the shoulders are
to be seen only on the older men. The
initiates were eligible to be marked with
the sign of the scorpion when they par-
ticipated in their first raid ; those dis-
playing much valor and taking a head
were awarded with the decoration of a
tattooed star on the left shoulder, extra
stars being added on the right shoulder,
forehead and chest as additional heads
were taken. Any man displaying even
one star to the ferryman who takes the
warriors on their last voyage across the
Bornean Styx receives courteous and
rapid transit, but those of the departed
who cannot boast a star must cross the
river on a log. Women also received
tattoo marks for proficiency in cooking
and the weaving of baskets, the tattoo
taking the form of a torch on the right
forearm. According to Bornean logic all
women are fools, and without this torch
to light their way would be unable to
find the road to Kinabula, the magic
resting places for the souls of the
departed.
* * * *
“Decoy”: “Ex-rooer’s” fox which did
handsprings to attract wild ducks (B.
26/2/’36) was playing a very ancient
game. Up to quite recent times wild-
fowlers in the Cambridge and Norfolk
fens got most of their ducks for market
in long, winding traps of netting. The
ducks were attracted by small dogs,
specially trained, which began by gam-
bolling before them outside the mouth
of the decoy and then bolting up it. The
ducks followed.
* He * *
“Goosequill”: Some years ago the
British Post Office, stung by continual
disparaging references to post office pens,
placed a lordly article on its counters
with a stainless steel nib and a holder of
scarlet and gold. By the end of the first
year 75 p.c. of the new pens had
disappeared, and, where the holders were
left, the stainless nibs were taken. The
authorities then introduced a new pen
with the P.O. initials thereon and the
nibs secured with a locking device. The
losses have fallen to some 10 p.c., and
these mostly in Scotland. Delighted
at this manifestation of national integ-
rity, the officials are placing 100,000 of
the new pens in centres hitherto un-
graced by them.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Queer marine accidents,
you say? A turtle was speared from a
Torres Strait canoe, and dived with the
barb firmly embedded. A boy, following
the usual practice, went down along the
harpoon-line to rope the turtle. After
some minutes with no communication
from the boy the others of the crew
went down to investigate. They found
that a half-hitch had been formed around
the diver’s left leg and arm, pinioning
him firmly in a head-downwards posi-
tion in which he drowned before being
hauled aloft.
* * * *
“Busy”: The report that a judge in
a N.S.W. fishing competition turned the
catches upside down before weighing
them to make sure a lead sinker hadn’t
been slipped down their throats reminds
me that when shop-inspection was insti-
tuted in England—Liverpool was the
first' city, I think, to start the idea-
dozens of poulterers were nabbed for
playing a trick of this sort with their
wares. These are sold in England by
weight. When a customer came along
the poulterer took one of the plucked
birds from the shelf behind him and put
it on the scales. As he took it off to
wrap up, he dropped a lead weight con-
cealed in the carcass into a box of saw-
dust on the floor beneath the counter
and under the scales. There was no
noise or suspicious manipulation, and
the customer paid for a pound or so of
chook he or she didn’t get.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: The “mustering” of a
school of snapper was a commonplace
with the abos. of the Port Lincoln tribe
(S.A.). When spawning-time came round
the old bucks would take up their posi-
tions on the low, rocky cliffs around Tulka
and wait for the school of snapper to
appear. As soon as fish were sighted the
news would be relayed to the camp by
passing word from one scout to the next,
and everyone rushed down to the shore.
Young bucks swam out and surrounded
the school; the children and lubras
gathered stones for the older men to
throw at sharks, and the fish were worked
into the nearest bay with a sandy beach.
Then every adult plunged into the water,
formed a line and drove the fish ashore,
where the children grabbed them up and
piled them into a heap. Within a few
minutes of the capture of the last fish
fires would be smoking in the tea-tree
scrubs and fish would be grilling. Then
the whole tribe indulged in the father of
all blowouts.


SMOKE-OH!
Students are beginning to wonder
whether a peace treaty may be regarded
as a potential declaration of war.
b b b b
Coasting on the Wireless.
Seated one day at the radio I was
wearied and hard to please ; roving the
dial wildly I struck such words as these:
The Australian Broadcasting Commission
is using its best endeavors to give to
listeners.,,.
A lot of rot! lam acquainted with all
the great film stars. They marry
Thousands of happy wives. It is easy
for you to be one of them. Write or
telephone to
The League of Nations. No notice will
be taken. Germany seems bound to
win....
The Welter. If you get a Dead Horse
Form Guide it will give y0u....
The pip. This is a common name for
the ailment which affects birds like
Mr. J. T. Lang! When the next Parlia-
ment assembles we will have....
Songs by Irving Berlin, and a rich vein
of comedy provided by
The efforts of the S.P.C.A. to prevent
cruelty to crocodiles....
And having, up to zero, found no item
to my vein, I put the dial in reverse
and started back again:
The bride i 5....
124 not out. The innings was closed....
By the courtesy of Graveyard and Co.,
providers of dignified
Tips which will help you to make a
profit from racing. Remember this form
guide gives you full information about....
Affairs in Europe. It will be shown
that Hitler is merely....
An amusing impersonation by Gracie
Fields. Before we hear this record, how-
ever, I would like to remind listeners that
Studd and Co., makers of all kinds 0f....
Trouble in the film studios. Stars like
Mae West will be....
Included in the children’s session....
And once again I made attempt, still
with a hungry mind, to see if floating in
the air some gtfod stuff I could find;
The Archbishop will give an address
on
Sidelights of Hollywood. He has been
there, and actually participated in some of
those wild parties....
Wouldn’t you like to know what hap-
pened? Ah, that’s a secret! But it is
no secret that the trousers made by Clothe-
you and Co
Cover four acres of floor space. You
are invited to inspect what is in them.
It will surprise you. You will find
there
Detective Scott, who is determined to
make an arrest....
Of this tendency to moult. An immedi-
ate separation should be provided and
The services of this well-known firm of
private detectives can be secured. No
payments without results. The strictest
privacy is
Given to “The Manager and His
Typist,” a one-act play which wi11....
Rum-te-tiddley-um; tum-tum; rum-te-
tiddley-tum.
The whole lot seemed a little flat; I
switched the wireless off at that.
H. M.
b b *b b
“ ‘Although several derogatory charges can
be brought against Adelaide, it can at least
be said that it is thrifty,’ says traveller.”
The saving grace.
b b 4* b
Force of Habit.
The inveterate motorist sat in the rail-
way carriage, as ill at ease as if he were
on another planet. This was the first
time for years that he had travelled by
train, but his stolen car hadn’t yet been
recovered, and he had to go on a busi-
ness trip to the country.
When the engine bumped against the
carriages while coupling on, and the train
jerked back a few feet, his right foot
automatically shot out for the foot
brake, barking the shins of the lady sit-
ting opposite.
His eyes also kept wandering to where
the dashboard should have been; it
would have occupied approximately the
position of the lady’s knees. An indig-
nant glare and a studiedly-careful cover-
ing of her stared-at crossed legs didn’t
add to his comfort.
As the bell rang for “All aboard” the
porter came along and slammed the
door.
Then, with a deep sigh of relief, the
motorist leaned across the passenger sit-
ting next to him, reopened the door to
its fullest extent, and, with a solid grip
on the leather strap, slammed it again
with a terrific crash.
Quayeau.
“Well-known chess player has won six
championships running.” —News Hew.
Running? Chess must be a more
strenuous pastime than is generally be-
lieved.
"Mary, pack your things this instant! I’ll attend to this young man.”
Making It Clear.
“The Minister for Health, Mr. Fitzsimons,
says experience has shown that immunisation
is the only effective means of dealing with
diphtheria, as it seems to confer immunity.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Continuing, the Minister stated that'
the inefficacy of other methods was en-
tirely due to their ineffectualness. Per-
haps the fact that the profession for-
merly knew nothing of this phase of
preventive medicine accounted in a large
measure for the ignorance prevailing at
the time on prophylactics. Indeed, it
could safely be asserted that the know-
ledge since gained had been an impor-
tant factor in the doctors’ knowing as
much about the subject as they do. No
doubt in the fulness of time the disease
would be wiped out, a happy event that
would have its genesis in the noble efforts
to eradicate it.
There was in the world to-day a great
movement for the promotion of good
health ; he would say, without fear of
contradiction, that the only means of
achieving this was to keep well. Nor was
the Government blind to the advantages
of this trend. He and his colleagues were
determined not only to help, but also to
assist and, if need be, to even aid the
good cause. ( Redundant cheers .)
S. W. K.
b b b b
“Both ‘bursary’ and ‘cursory’ will rhyme
with it.”—“Age."
Nursery rhymes?
Naval History.
“Would it not be possible to train Australian
girls to defend their country?”— “Sun.”
It was 1947. Admiral Susanna Perm
was in supreme command of the Aus-
tralian Navy, with H.M.A.S. Lipstick as
flagship.
Admiral Susanna had abolished the
rum issue and substituted “Angels’
Breath” cocktails. All big guns were
adorned with nifty bows of ribbon, and
every uniform was a Paris model. The
petty officers were charming pets, and
the lower ratings delectable ducks deter-
mined to live up to the glorious tradi-
tions of a Drake.
A day in the navy now started with
powder-puff parade and finished with
black coffee and cigarettes.
It was a great day when Admiral
Susanna led the fleet into action.
Always the perfect little gentlemen, the
enemy had flashed the signal;
Hon. ladies, please to fire first shot
and much oblige.
With lightning strokes the crew put the
final touches to their make-up and sprang
to stations.
The admiral was about to give the
dread command when disaster, swift and
sudden, came upon the flagship.
Shrieking females rushed the boats, and
yelling, frantic, clawing crowds dived into
the sea, leaving H.M.A.S. Lipstick a
deserted ship, wallowing drunkenly on
her course, with one lone little mouse
wondering at the strange quiet that so
suddenly encompassed it!
D.Mc.M.
“ ‘What will stop the reckless motorist from
tearing along at 50 miles an hour?’ asks a
newspaper.”
One of those second-hand car bargains
in front of him.
b *l* *1- b
It’s True All Right.
‘‘Wit is more unkind than humor. It is an
attempt to score a hit it is regardless of
others, and aims at personal triumph.”
— P. G. Wodehouse.
I’m inclined to agree with this. At
a dinner given to Bill Pluggem, heavy-
weight champion of our district, I
proposed the health of the guest of
honor and ventured a little witticism at
his expense. I don’t know about per-
sonal triumph, but I certainly scored a
hit —he knocked me cold.
Ex-humorist,
b b b b
You’d hardly credit it, but there’s a
man in our street who thought Shirley
Temple was a church in Chicago,
b b 4* b
The Reminder.
As they removed the commercial
traveller from the wreckage of his car,
one of the rescue party chided the fellow
for his carelessness.
“You were driving much too fast.
Surely you saw that notice —‘Dangerous
Curves’—at the foot of the hill?”
“That’s what caused the accident,”
the traveller replied with a sigh. “it
reminded me of the Mae Westish barmaid
at the Summit Hotel.”
o.w.w.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
Vll.— East-West Expressions.
The tourist who strolls round Kal-
goorlie during the half-hour preceding
the departure of the East-West express
will be mystified at the large number of
people sneaking furtively from the many
hotels, carrying bags, cases and parcels,
and all bound for the station.
It’s really nothing—just the East-West
passengers laying in supplies. If the
tourist is wise he will take the same
precaution, as nothing harder than a split
soda is procurable on board.
As well as being the driest, the East-
West line boasts the longest stretch of
straight railway in the world (including
Coney Island, Addis Ababa and the
British Museum). Before he has gone
far the tourist will probably feel that it
would have been more interesting had
the builders not been so keen on geomet-
rical precision.
A few little twists and twirls here and
there would have made all the difference,
while a few tunnels, viaducts and hairpin
bends would have added much-needed
variety to the trip. Who wants to go in
a straight line, anyway?
The train is fitted with a refrigerator,
and by way of compensation almost in-
variably develops a hotbox. Why, no
one knows. It certainly isn’t the speed.
The journey is usually a peaceful one,
the only sounds being the mating call of
the wild turkey, the glug-glug of the Nul-
larbor blowholes, the plaintive cries of
the natives (see below) and the hopeless
crash of an empty bottle, its life’s work
accomplished, striking the gibber plain.
An interesting personality along the
track is the Ooldea Soak. This old chap
has never been seen sober, yet no one
has ever been able to discover the source
of his supply.
For hundreds of miles the monotony is
broken only by occasional little galvan-
ised-«ron structures which might be mis-
taken for anything but what they really
are —railway stations. They bear the
names of prominent Federal politicians,
and are regarded as memorials.
Extract from Sir Percy Whipsnoodle’s
diary;
.... an awful faux pas. The place
wasn’t what I thought it was at all, but
a railway station. I was frightfully em-
barrassed ....
The tourist will, of course, encounter
some blacks, but it is to be hoped he will
be spared the terrifying ordeal that Miss
Birdseed went through.
Extract from Antipodean Antics: —
was surrounded by a whole tribe of
savage blacks, almost nude. They were
dancing around me and shouting out some
barbaric chant that sounded like “Gibhit-
aback, gibbit-chillun.” I was terrified and
almost swooned. Louder and louder the
chant rose, and I don’t know what
mightn’t have happened if it hadn’t been
for dear, brave Mr. Counterpane, who
came up in the nick of time and ransomed
me.
Extract from Claude Counterpane’s
diary
....the nigs, were begging from the old
girl. I gave ’em a plug of tobacco and
a bad two bob.
Ultimately the traveller will arrive at
Port Augusta and wonder why he left
Kalgoorlie,
Jasby.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Benefactor.
“Yes,” said the bookmaker; “that’s
the bloke that keeps us fed and clothed.
I can’t remember his ever picking a win-
ner. Nearly everything he backs runs
last. You wouldn’t think anyone could
be such a mug. But it’s all right for us.
I wish there were more like Winkle the
Wonder Prophet.”
See.
4*
“Something should be found to discourage
those who bet upon horses and dogs.”— “Sun.”
Is there anything more discouraging
than betting upon horses and dogs?
4* 4* 4* 4*.
Strictly According to Season.
What the well-dressed Melbourne man
wears:
In winter: In summer:
Sac suit. Sac suit.
Soft shirt. Soft shirt.
Felt hat. Felt hat.
Raincoat. Raincoat.
Umbrella. Umbrella.
Goloshes. Goloshes.
P. C.
’Twas Ever Thus.
With needle and with thread she is so
skilled,
And she employs her handicraft so
much,
That, ere we wed, her glory-box she filled
With frocks, pyjamas, lingerie and
such.
Delightful supper-sets, quaint doyleys
which
Adorn our sideboard, plate-mats
worked with care,
Sdk quilts embroidered with artistic
stitch,
And pillow-shams, etcetera, were there.
I, too, collected garments right and left
And stored them in my “hoping chest”;
a box
That’s still jambed tight with pants and
shirts bereft
Of buttons and a host of undarned
socks!
P.O.M.C.
Desire.
Whene'er you pass my window by.
So graceful, so divinely fair,
I notice with admiring eye
Your queenly and disdainful air.
But knowing, in my humble joys,
That you I ne’er can hope to win.
I’d love to see you lose your poise
By means of a banana skin !
NAT.


New Serial by the Author of “Cattle Camp”:-
THE BRIDLE TRACK
By J. J. HARDIE
Chapter V.
THE return trip was a glorious affair in Bill’s
estimation. The sheep delivered and the respon-
sibilities over, the party broke up: Tom Dixon
to look up his seldom-visited family at the coast, and
the others, with substantial cheques in their pockets,
bound for a holiday in the Big Smoke—provided they
managed to survive the lure of the nearest pub. Only
Mac Andrew and little Mac, Dinny and Bill rode
northward.
After months of crawling slowly behind a mob
of sheep, Bill revived from that cramping, gloried
again in the comparatively swift progress where
his horse walked freely along, drawn by the
horses in front; and in a day they covered the distance
that had taken them a week to traverse with the sheep.
Every morning Bill crept out of his blankets before
daylight and followed Dinny, bridle in hand, toward
the distant sound of the horse-bells, which ranged
from the tinny tinkle of his brown mare’s bell to the
deep note of the Condamine on the bay harness-
horse, and his initiation into the science of horse-
tailing commenced.
He learned which horses were mates and always
fed together, and it was not long before he could walk
straight to his chestnut pony in the dark and his
“damper trick,” as Dinny called it, bore good fruit.
Mac Andrew, with the total release of responsi-
bility, was a new man, and his normal, unimaginative
self was even indulging in a bit of day-dreaming. In
the little town near Camelot, where he had paid off
his men, he discovered that part of his father’s old
property was shortly to be opened for selection, so
he put in an application at once. The others were
equally interested and as hopeful as Mac himself ;
his prospects afforded an everlasting topic of conver-
sation, and within a few days they had built him a
house —a modest one for a start —ringbarked his
timber, subdivided the block into smaller paddocks,
and even discussed the treatment to be observed
toward drovers passing through.
Mac accepted it all cheerfully.
“Droving’s all right for a young fellow,” he
would say, “He sees the country, learns what it can
carry in all sorts of seasons, and learns more about
handling stock than he ever would on a station. But
when a man has a wife and a family he wants to see
them more than just once or twice a year.”
“Yes, but look at the money you make!” Dinny
hinted.
“And don’t we earn every, brass penny of it?
How much droving is there in a good season when
plenty of grass and water make it easy? A dry time
comes . . . people keep on hoping for rain till there
isn’t a skerrick of grass left on the routes ; then there’s
a rush for agistment country, and they all want their
stock shifted at once! It’s a great life!”'
They pulled into the shade of lofty coolabahs
fringing a billabong, and Bill attended to the horses
while Mac got a fire going and put the billy on for
the midday meal. Bill was improving daily in his
handling of horses, and, as a result of his keenness,
practically all the horse work had gravitated toward
Dinny and himself.
Young Mac, scrutinising an approaching dust-
cloud, announced the arrival of the coach, and can-
tered over to pass the time of day with the driver.
The tucker-box had hardly been opened when he
came tearing back,, his pony, switching its tail and
laying back its ears in protest at tire treatment its
ribs were getting from the boy’s heels. He pulled, up
almost on top of them.
“Telegram for you, dad! ” '
Mac Andrew frowned.
“We can’t take on another job till the horses get
a spell.” He opened the missive with toil-clumsy
fingers, steeling himself against the unspoken possi-
bility of bad news from home. Then his face cleared
as he read, and he turned to Dinny with shy elation
and a surprised; “Well, what d’you know about that!”
“Someone left you a fortune, Mac?”.
“No. But they want me to go back to New South
for the Land Board.”
“The selection?”
Mac Andrew nodded. “Looks like I’ve got, a
chance, after all.” He sat down and thought hard
for a few minutes," then turned to Dinny; “I’ll have
to go straight back. Will you take the plant on to
Longreach?” , f ,■
“Suits me.”
“Good! I’ll take a couple of the freshest horses,
and Bob can go back with you.”
The usual leisure of the dinner camp departed in
an overhauling of gear and repacking, while Mac
passed instructions to Dinny, and young Mac unsuc-
cessfully tried to convince his parent that school could
get along without him while he went back across
the border, too.
As Mac’s preparations neared completion, a
stranger rode into the camp, nodded genially, and
accepted the offer of a meal. He was past middle-
age, wiry and active, with a close-cropped, greying
beard. He squatted on his heels, bushman fashion,
and discussed the standard topics—the season, the
prospects of rain, with an occasional question about
their trip —while Dinny dragged the tucker-box back
from the waggonette and Bill put the billy on for
fresh tea.
“On your way to pick up another mob?” he
queried.
Mac shook his head. “Horses’ll need a spell first,
and I’ve got to get back across the border.”
The old man ate in silence for a while. “I came
down with a proposition to offer you. If you can’t
take it, will you let your men take it on?”
“The horses aren’t fit.”
“I’ll supply horses and plant. All I want is two
or three good men. I just got a wire from my brother,
who is bringing in a mob of cattle we bought from
the Cooper. He’s had bad luck. One of his men
left him, then his horse came down on him and broke
his leg, so he’s in hospital now, and the cattle have
been let go.”
He shot a keen glance at Dinny. “You’re a cattle-
man, aren’t you?”
Dinny nodded diffidently.
“If you can get a couple of men you can have
the job of bringing that mob back. You can leave
your plant here on good feed till then. Does that
suit you?” ; ; .
Mac and Dinny exchanged hesitant glances ; Bill
looked forlornly at both of them, and wondered what
would happen to him if "they accepted, while young
Mac sat very still with a pleased smile dawning on
his face. He might get the trip, after all! The stranger
rose and pulled out a blackened pipe. “I’ll have a
look'round the waterhole and leave you to have a
yarn.”
When he returned, sucking at the short old pipe
jutting aggressively from his beard, one swift glance
told him that his proposition had been accepted. “How
about "shifting up to the station and we’ll talk things
over there? Turnbull’s my name ; my place is less n
a. mile on.” He addressed Mac Andrew. “I can let
you have a couple of fresh horses for your trip if
you want them.”
Bill did not realise that the old man’s eyes were
watching his every move as he passed quietly and
deftly among the horses, bridling and harnessing. His
own thoughts were in a disturbed state. Mac was
going south, Dinny was going west—what would
become of-him? He suddenly realised that without
Mac he would be, temporarily-at least, without a job,
but even more he would feel the absence of f Dinny;
the quick turn of events within the last-hour was
more than disquieting. > { - .. ;
Mac shook out the reins,-and the waggonette
moved off. As the others mounted, the old man
ranged alongside Dinny. “What about the young
fellow?”
Dinny nodded briefly, “He’s all right.”
Turnbull eyed him significantly. “He’ll be work-
ing for you, remember.”
“He’ll do me!”
Bill, rejoining them at that moment, caught
Dinny’s words with a premonitory thrill. The old
man’s eyes switched from Dinny to him. “Do you
want to go for the cattle?”
Bill tried hard not to show the commotion that
his feelings and thoughts were in ; he managed to
stammer, “Yes ... 1 would. Thanks very much!”
Then he rode on with shining eyes.
Next day Dinny, Bill and old Turnbull set out
for the west, driving a packhorse and spares. They
rode hard, following a faint track through dark scrub,
across dry creeks and over stony ridges, and Bill
marvelled at the endurance of the old man. The
hardest day left no apparent effect on him, and Bill
was hard put to it to disguise his own stiffness and
saddle-soreness. Nearly a week after they left the
station they topped a red ridge and looked over still
another dark, unbroken sea of dense, sombre mulga ;
Turnbull pointed ahead with his whip.
“We’re nearly there. We turn off at the next
creek.”
Bill, bumping along on a fractious brown horse,
sent up a heartfelt prayer of thanksgiving.
They found the camp on a long, narrow water-
hole, and from the shelter of a bough-shed a wizened,
toothless old man and a stoutish young fellow rose
at their approach. Turnbull nodded in greeting and
introduced himself without further preliminaries.
“My name’s Turnbull. Were you with my brother
when he got hurt?”
The young man brushed the dust off the seat of
his trousers. “I’m the horsetailer. Didn’t see it
happen, but we took him in to Toompine. How’s
he going?”
The wizened old fellow chimed in in a high-
pitched voice. “I’m the cook . . . Carr’s my name—
Jimmy Carr. Toothless Jimmy, they call me. I’ll
get you a feed in a minute.”
Sam the horsetailer ran their horses out into the
scrub to join the rest of the mob, and Bill glanced
uneasily at the cook; his appearance did not suggest
appetising meals or even a distant acquaintance with
soap and water ; still, some of his first impressions had
proved so unreliable that he was disposed to be charit-
able. The cook was fussing around with a greasy
old hat on the back of his head, a frowsy, dirty shirt,
and trousers that hovered precariously from his
narrow hips, and hung in concertina folds above his
boots. The horsetailer seemed pleasant enough ; he
had a sleek, well-fed look, but there was a furtive
glint about his eyes that decided Bill to suspend judg-
ment for a while.
They turned in soon after supper, with the mos-
quitoes serenading them ; and, tired though he was,
Bill lay in bed and looked pleasurably up at the
stars with thoughts of the morrow.
Chapter VI.
THE intended early-morning start did not materi-
alise. The only horses Sam could find were the
tired little mob the three men had arrived on the
previous night, and eventually they had to saddle them
up again for the day’s mustering. The four men rode
up the creek, mustering all the cattle on the western
side in toward Turnbull. It was a totally new experi-
ence for Bill. He was pushing ahead through the
scrub on what he reckoned was his course when the
crack of a whip close on his right halted him. There
was old Turnbull with a little mob of cattle and the
tall, green creek timber just beyond him. Bill turned
sharply and edged out as quietly as possible without
giving himself away.
Suddenly his horse pricked his ears. On the
fringe of a little clearing stood a huge, white bullock
with big, spreading horns; for a moment it stared
undecidedly, then, with an explosive wumph, it
plunged into the thick scrub, where a heavy crashing
advertised the presence of a hidden mob. The brown
horse jumped instinctively in pursuit, and the rider
had to clutch at the saddle to save himself from
being left behind. There was only the crashing of
timber ahead to guide them, but it was enough ; then
Bill caught a glimpse of red and roan through the
thinning timber ; he jambed his hat down on his head,
dug his heels in and prayed he would not be scraped
off by a tree. The horse shot forward, gave a convul-
sive leap over a fallen trunk, on again, slithered luckily
past a rabbit warren and out into the open.
A dozen bullocks were streaming across the clear-
ing, and the brown horse needed •no urging. Bill
swung his whip as he drew level with the mob; the
white leader had almost reached the opposite wall
of scrub, but the brown horse, responding nobly,
closed in on the galloping bullock, throwing his weight
WHAT THE STORY IS ABOUT.
Scene: On the track in Western
Queensland.
Characters:
“Bill” Muir (baptised Lancelot Ather-
ton, but not proud of it), a newchum.
who has joined up with
Mac Andrew, a sheep-drover.
Dinny, Mac’s right-hand man and
beau ideal of an Australian stockman.
Young Mac, 10-year-old son of
Mac Andrew, but as good as a man in
everything but size.
Sundry cattle, sheep, dogs and horses.
At the close of last instalment the party
had just, arrived ' at Camelot station in
“Noo South” with a mob of sheep.


against the shoulder. The bullock propped sharply
and swung back. The horse propped and swung with
it; to Bill, it seemed as if the horse had simply ducked
between his legs and he just managed to grip a hand-
ful of mane and hang on till a lucky swerve brought
him back into the saddle.
He drew a deep breath of relief, and mentally
registered a growing respect for his mount,' with a
prayer that no one had witnessed his near departure
from it. Anyhow, he had beaten the bullock! His
blood tingled with the exhilaration of the chase. This
was the life! No more plodding behind sheep for
him!
He cracked his whip and headed the mbb for the
creek. The sun was almost straight overhead when a
mob came crashing toward him, with Dinny on one
wing and the horsetailer “hoy-ing” them on from
behind. Bill fell in with them, and they joined up
with Turnbull on the creek ; only, about two hundred
bullocks for the morning—less than half the mob.
After camping for dinner on a drying waterhole,
Bill started the mob back down the creek toward the
camp while the other three combed the scrub on the
other side of the creek. At intervals the banging of
a whip and crashing of heavy bodies through the
scrub heralded the appearance of another mob. They
would burst through the leafy screen and halt with
surprise and suspicion, then, on recognising their
mates, they would merge and string off down the
creek. Bill had his work cut out to keep his mob
together. The leaders evinced a desire to make the
pace a fast trot, and they had to be checked continu-
ally ; or a bullock would, branch out from the main
mob and make for the scrub with a retinue of half
a dozen others. A touch of the heels, and the horse
shot out in pursuit. The gentle pace for wheeling
sheep was of no use here. Up on them . . . the whip
rose and cracked —sometimes —and the disgruntled
bullocks shot back into the mob.
Darkness came quickly, and the musterers
rallied on the cattle and pushed them along. Then
the campfire appeared like a red eye through the
timber, and the cattle snorted and rolled back on the
mob.
Bill rode up the wing and joined Dinny. “What
are we going to do with the cattle to-night?’’
“Watch ’em.” In the darkness that hid their
features Dinny sensed the look of puzzled interro-
gation. “We’ll hold ’em on that clearing in front of
the camp . . . take it in turns to ride round ’em
all night.”
He rode off to steady the lead and cut out the
horses they had picked up on the way. Sam the
horsetailer followed him to the camp and caught the
night horses, while Bill and old Turnbull rode steadily
round the cattle. After a few complaining bellows
at the curtailment of their freedom, they reluctantly
settled down for the night, standing about chewing
the cud or letting themselves down to the ground in
deep content.
Old Turnbull was singing an ancient song with
an interminable number of verses in a cracked, tune-
less voice. They were on opposite sides of the cattle,
and Bill, who was keeping as quiet as possible, won-
dered why he should keep on disturbing the mob with
his raucous old voice, A horseman rode out from
the camp-fire, momentarily blocking its glare, and the
cook’s squeaky tones hailed them. “All right, boys,
your supper’s at the fire. Woh, bullicks, woh! It s
only old Toothless Jimmy! ”
As Bill waited on Turnbull, the cook broke into
a quavering ditty and rode off round the mob. Turn-
bull glanced at his companion. “Well, it’s been a
good day.”
“Yes, I’ve enjoyed it,”
“Never done much cattle work, have you?”
Bill hesitated a moment, then replied simply,
“No. I haven’t.”
“When you’re on watch to-night ride a bit wider
of the mob, look out for any beast walking off the
camp, and keep on whistling or singing or making a
noise of some sort.”
“But doesn’t that disturb them?”
“Not on your life! While they hear you they
know you’re there.”
Bill did more than justice to the mysterious-look-
ing curry old Jimmy had concocted ; he was hungry
enough to eat anything without question.
Dinny, rolling a cigarette in the firelight, glanced
across at him. “Tired?”
“A bit.”
“You can take first watch and relieve the cook.
We’ll do two hours each. I’m going out to the mob
now, and I’ll send the cook in, so come out when
you’re ready.”
He led the spare night horse out of the shadows
and slipped quickly into the saddle. The horse took
a few steps, then, without warning, ducked his head
and bucked all round the camp. Turnbull jumped
to his feet, brandishing a slice of damper. “Nice
sort of a night horse that!” he snorted, casting an
anxious eye toward the cattle. “Damn’ good job
the right man’s on him!”
Bill finished his supper in silence. For some time
now he had cherished a secret ambition to try himself
out on a buckjumper —an easy, straight-ahead pigroot
for a start, anyhow —but he was quite certain that
if he had got on that horse to-night the first buck
would have given him a view of the treetops. Dinny
must have had an idea that the horse was fresh, and
the boy felt dumbly grateful.
Then old Jimmy rode in; Bill lengthened the
stirrup-leathers and rode out to the mob. Until his
eyes recovered from the glare of the fire he could see
practically nothing in the darkness. By the wan light
of a low crescent moon a certain fine distinction of
light and shadow came slowly into being, then the
dark mass of the camping mob loomed before him.
On the far side someone was singing “Waltzing
Matilda.” It was funny to imagine Dinny singing.
Dinny, whose everyday speech was reduced to the
irreducible minimum, the soul of brevity, mechanically
beefing out a bush ballad in a tuneful but lugubrious
voice Bill wanted to laugh out loud, but compro-
mised with a broad grin into the darkness.
The song shut off abruptly. “Got your whip?
Bill raised his right arm with the long thong looped
over it, and Dinny went on, “Well, don’t use it unless
you’ve got to. If a beast pokes out turn him ac
without ; stirring‘ up the mob. I don’t think they 11
rush, but if they do go like hell to the lead and pour
the whip into them till you wheel them.” He handed
over a heavy : silver watch. “Call me at half-past
eleven. You know where I’m sleeping? Well , . .
Hooroo! ” , , ■, , ,
Bill was alone. He touched the horse with a heel
and started his patrol with the mob on his right hand.
Most of them were lying down, but a few stood with
muzzles slightly raised, and the sound of their cud-
chewing was broken by an occasional gusty belch.
He racked his memory for something to sing .
what songs did he .know?. He never sang except in
the bath-. . . but in public . . . of course, there was
“God Save the King.” Still, better not. The bullocks
might be 'patriotically -inclined . . . his job was to
keep them lying down. What was that thing from
“The Merry Widow”? Or was it “The Quaker
Girl”? He started timidly on “Take a Pair of Spark-
ling Eyes,” gradually increasing in volume as his first
self-consciousness wore off.
On his second round the horse quickened pace
and veered away from the mob. Bill checked his
song and peered into the darkness ahead. There was
something purposeful in the way the horse had taken
charge, and memories of the camp-fire reminiscences
of Dinny and Tom Dixon on the unerring instinct
of night horses decided him to trust to his mount.
He leaned forward, and the horse quickened its pace.
A moving blur against the shadows ahead stopped,
and Bill spotted it for a bullock. The night horse
swung on to it and headed it back to the camp , as
it disappeared into the mob Bill slipped a hand up
the smooth neck of the horse and caressed it grate-
fully. Then he treated the camp to further excerpts
from Gilbert and Sullivan.
The night air was warm and balmy. Bill had
not worn a coat for weeks, and as he rode along with
shirt sleeves rolled up, the mosquitoes keened in a
cloud around him and gave him a keynote for his
song several octaves too high. The moon seemed to
linger a while on the rim of the horizon before it
was quickly pulled down, and for a space the world
was strangely dark. Then the sheer brilliance of the
stars asserted itself, and in their light the world became
a place of mystic inky blackness shot with long pen-
nons and pools of molten silver.
He found himself lapsing into silence between
songs. The silences unconsciously lengthened till sud-
denly recovering with a start he realised that he had
fallen asleep in the saddle. The horse was still pad-
ding softly round, and Bill hastily broke into song
again. His eyelids drooped like leaden weights. The
realisation of how tired he was had come on him
with a rush and an acute longing for sleep possessed
him. Surely his time was nearly up ; he lugged the
heavy watch out of his pocket and peered hard at it
from all angles. The hands were barely distinguish-
able, but ... his heart bounded . . . could that be
half-past eleven? He had only to ride in and call
Dinny, then bed .. . glorious bed! He turned the
horse towards the low red glow ot the fire, simmering
with the comforting thought of sleep, when some-
thing prompted him to look at the watch again. He
peered at it in the firelight . . . doubt placed a chill
finger on his dreams. That hand didn’t seem quite as
close to the top of the watch as it should be. It was
~ . half-past ten ~ . another hour to go! Oh, hell!
He rode morosely back to the mob, battling
against sleep, and his weary voice took up a long-
drawn refrain that required little concentration and
lasted a long time. The bullocks were camping well —
who wouldn’t be a bullock? Sleep when you want
to. One lay well out from the mob, and Bill began
to use him as a tally point to count each time he
circled the mob. He tried to force himself to think
about things, but it was hard to think and sing at
the same time.
What about girls—they were easy to contemplate.
But now that he thought of it he had been too busy
for the subject to occupy his waking thoughts for a
long time. The days had been too full of action ;
by nightfall you had barely energy enough for a meal
before you slipped into the blankets and deep, dream-
less sleep. v
Funny things, girls! Not that he had had much
to do with them. There was that little girl with the
long fair hair on the ship coming out from England.
He had kept aloof from everyone for the first week
or two, then he found himself watching the girl,
thinking covertly about her, but never daring to meet
her. Then came the night of the fancy-dress ball, a
tropic moon overhead. He had turned away from
the dancers and leaned on the rail watching the play
of moonlight on the sea when he felt a warm, lithe
presence at his side, and a pretty, lisping voice:
“Aren’t you ever going to dance with me?” He
looked down at the pouting mouth, and a fierce desire
to kiss it hard and long made his head reel. Then
he laughed shortly. “Sorry, I’m not much of a dancer
—shall we go up to the boat deck?” Yes, that was
a gorgeous night!
It seemed so far away, so long ago, yet it was
only a year.
A long-drawn, wailing howl holding the quin-
tessence of mournfulness and despair stopped the
beating of his heart, froze his blood and set his hair
standing on end. Again it rose and quivered hate-
fully in the night air as though a porthole of hell had
gaped open to spill a foretaste of demoniacal torture.
Bullocks were getting to their feet; a couple
advanced to the edge of the mob, shook their horns
and sniffed significantly. Bill swallowed his fear and
pushed the horse on, but his song had a quivering
note threading it. Dingoes were bad enough to listen
to from the heart of a camp with a big fire blazing,
but that one sounded too close and too horribly
bloodcurdling. He wanted to crack his whip, to assert
himself, do something energetic; if he could even
see the author of the fiendish howl it would help, but
the forbidding black scrub shrouded the mystery and
heavens only knew what other skulking things besides.
He shivered and peered at the watch. Surely . . .
He refused to risk disappointment by trusting to sur-
mise, and deliberately completed the tour of the mob,
jogged steadily over to get the light of the campfire
and peered again. Half-past eleven! Hallelujah!
(Continued on page 50.' 1
Dinny looked up sharply at the sudden snort and rush of hoofs.


Every Sufferer from INDIGESTION knows this to be true
' M
Every Sufferer from Indigestion wants
three things, and wants them quickly.
Firstly, he wants immediate relief from
his pain, feeling of fulness, palpitation
or flatulence.
(| Secondly, he knows that, unless his
inflamed or weakened stomach is
protected from the hot, burning acid
continually poured out, he will only have
the pains come back again.
§ Thirdly, he wants help for his weak
stomach to digest the food he must take.
All these requirements have been care-
fully provided for in De Witt’s Antacid
Powder.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s
Antacid Powder firstly neutralises the
excess acid and renders it harmless to
the inflamed stomach. Flatulence is
relieved, and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
H| Secondly, the valuable Colloidal Kaolin
ingredient coats the stomach walls, and,
while protecting the inflammation or
ulcers from the burning acids, allows the
ordinary work of digestion to go on.
Thirdly, another ingredient actually digests
a portion of your food, taking a further
load off the weak stomach.
Finally, by persistent use of De Witt’s
Antacid Powder, the system gets regulated
and healthy so that the stomach* can
digest your food, and medicine is no
longer required.
So every day that you put off getting a
supply of DE WITT’S Antacid Powder
means another day of unnecessary suffer-
ing for you.
Be sure you as\ for, and see that
you obtain,the genuine product —
De WITT’S ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists, in
Large S\y-blue Canister
2/6
A True-to-life Sketch:-
SUNDAY
By
JEAN
IRWIN
Illustrations
by
Scorfield.
IT was a fine Sunday morning. Peace
rested on the Milroy household.
Johnny lay and twanged from his
elastic pellets of paper at Greta Garbo,
whom Bill had pinned over the dressing-
table. As a matter of form, Bill mut-
tered “Stop that, you little rat!” but as
his heart was now in the process of stray-
ing towards Loretta Young he did not
stir himself further in defence of the
Swedish beauty, but turned on his side
and pulled the sheet over his head.
In the next room Emily gazed in the
wardrobe mirror at the reflection of her-
self draped languorously on the bed,
raised her hand and ran her fingers
through her hair, let it fall back again
and remained smiling at herself allur-
ingly. After a time she became aware
of the maid hesitating in the doorway.
She erased the smile quickly, and tried
to look as if she were thinking deeply.
In the front bedroom mother and
father finished their tea and settled back
again silently. Mother composed herself
for a little more sleep, but father was
restless. “What about getting up, dear?”
he kept saying,
“All right,” she murmured ; “you get
up.”
After a little time he said suddenly and
nobly, “I’m getting up. Someone must
see that those children go to church.”
“I thought Emily could help me this
morning as she’s got Eustace coming to
tea,” mother remarked.
Father grunted and tied his dressing-
gown about him. He went down the
passage singing “Fight the Good Fight”
to the tune of “Yes, We
Have No Bananas.”
“Get up there! Come
on, loafers!” he called
at the door of each bed-
room.
“You’d think he’d been
up for hours,” mumbled
Bill, and turned over
again. Johnny called the
dog into bed beside him.
Emily lay gazing at her-
self pensively. The bath-
room door slammed be-
hind their father. When
he came back up the pas-
sage again they all stirred
and thought bitterly that
someone else would be
sure to get in the bath-
room first and they
would have to hang
about.
AT the before-church snack Emily
asked:
“Do you think it’s a good day for
my new hat, mother, or a bit windy?”
“No, dear. Wear it,” said her mother.
Father grunted. “I thought you’d stay
home and help your mother as you’ve
got Eustace coming to tea?”
Mother turned to father. “But you
“Get up, there!”
said you wanted them to go to church.”
“No ; she can stay home and help you.
Bill can go.”
Bill glowered. He turned his wrath on
his sister.
“Is that fat oaf coming to tea?”,
Emily bit. “He’s not fat, and he’s not
an oaf.”
“But he soon will be the former, and
he was the latter before he started try-
ing to put it over you,” Bill said com-
placently.
Emily recovered herself. “Anyhow,
try to behave decently when he’s here,”
she said. “1 don’t know what he must
think of this family. We’re using the
new service. Don’t say anything about
it, Johnny.”
“I bet he does,” grinned Bill.
“All I ask is that you two do your
hair and Johnny doesn’t pipe up and
say, ‘What have we got these plates for,
mother?’ as if we usually ate off pieces
of paper. And, oh, dad,” she cooed
gently, “he’s awfully interested in flying,
and doesn’t know a thing about day
labor.”
“That’s all you ask, is it?” said Bill.
“Why don’t we build a new house for
Mr, Eustace to come to tea in and get
the Governor-General to pretend he’s
your father?”
“Get the butcher-boy to pretend he’s
my brother and it would be an improve-
ment,” she retorted.
“Now then! Now then!” said father.
Bill stretched himself. “What suit will
I wear to church, mother?”
“Your grey, dear.”
Father muttered bit-
terly, “That car’s got to
be cleaned.”
There was a silence.
At last he said sharply,
“That boy had better not
go to church.”
Bill grinned, “Change
the oil, dad?” he asked
cheerfully.
“Yes, son.”
THE house flowed into
mid-morning peace.
Emily did the flowers
and titivated generally.
Mother worked with
generous quantities of
cream, milk, raisins and
nuts in the warm, pleas-
antly - savored kitchen.
Father and Bill worked
on the car, father acting
more in the nature of a managing director
than a day laborer. Johnny hindered
the cleaning of the car zealously, smudg-
ing the nickel with a piece of dirty rag
and murmuring happily, “Gee, she’s get-
ting a shine up!”
When his father requested him to cease
he went into his mother and said bitterly,
“He makes a feller work himself to the
bone and then he doesn’t appreciate it.
I’m wore out.”
“Worn, dear,” corrected mother auto-
matically.
“Worn,” he repeated.
Emily came in.
“Mother, we’ll sit in the lounge after
tea. It’s so much cooler and nicer than
the dining-room.”
“If you like,” said mother. Emily
fluttered out again.
Father and Bill were late for midday
dinner, and had left the car in a bit of
a mess.
Emily, looking at Bill’s unbrushed hair,
sighed loudly.
Bill scowled.
“Bread?” he said to his young brother.
Johnny, totally devoid of any sensitive-
ness to atmosphere, threw him a slice,
left-handed.
“Take a pass.”
The bread cleared the gravy but
crashed on the peas. His mother leant
across the table and smacked Johnny
neatly over the fingers with a knife.
There was a deadly silence between them.
“That’s how he throws,” said Bill
scornfully, “like a girl,”
Johnny transferred his gaze from his
mother to his brother. After a moment’s
contemplation he announced, gazing at
his brother’s head, “I’d rather throw like
a girl than have curls like a girl, any-
way.”
Bill snorted. »
“Nobody,” said mother firmly, “is to
have more than
one helping of
wine trifle for tea.
We had hardly
any wine left, and
I couldn’t make
much. Eustace
must have two,
so remember.”
“Why?” asked
Johnny.
“Why what?”
said Emily.
“W h y does
Eustace have
two?”
“Because he’s a
visitor.”
“Do vi s i tors
have to have
two?”
“Yes,” said Bill. “Visitors have to
have two. So always remember that
when you go out, and, if you want to
be really polite, have three.”
“I do,” said Johnny simply.
His father looked at his watch. Johnny’s
face suddenly drooped over his nearly-
empty plate.
“I don’t think I’d better have any
more, mother,” he said pathetically, “I
don’t feel well. I’d better go and lie
down for a while, I think.”
His mother looked at him anxiously.
“You take a good dose of castor oil
and you’ll be all right for Sunday school,
son,” his father said sympathetically.
“Yes. I don’t want to miss it, dad,”
answered the angelic child, “but I’m
afraid I might have to.”
“You lie down for a bit and we’ll take
you in the car,” said his father. Johnny
went off dejectedly.
“That damn’ car,” said father; “the
brakes aren’t holding properly. I don’t
know what’s wrong. Considering the
money we’ve spent on it”
“They only need tightening, dad,” Bill
soothed him. “Another ten bob”
“I see Eustace’s father is back from
Queensland,” said Mrs. Milroy conver-
sationally to her daughter.
“Oh, mother!” exclaimed Emily; “he
hasn’t got a father. That’s his uncle. ’
Johnny reappeared.
“I think I’d be a little better if I had
some pudding, mother,” he said wanly.
“Yes, darling,” cooed his brother.
“Ickle angel love, come and have some
pudding, will it?”
His mother gave him a generous
helping.
It was Sunday afternoon, that blessed
space, growing more precious as the
week-end wanes to an end. Bill was out
somewhere; Emily at tennis with Eus-
tace ; Johnny at Sunday school. Mother
and father had a little sleep and then
went for a drive in the car. The dog
waited patiently on the couch in the sun-
room for Johnny’s return. When he got
back they shared a piece of cake, and
both of them were happy.
Later in the afternoon Eustace and
Emily arrived.
“Do we have to sit in there?” groaned
father, who had relapsed into his fav-
orite chair in the dining-room and un-
tied his shoelaces because his insteps
swelled in the hot weather.
“Yes,” said mother firmly.
He tied his shoelaces again, and went
up the hall behind her.
Civilities exchanged, father grunted, sat
down and untied his shoelaces.
“Do your insteps swell in the hot
weather?” Mrs. Milroy asked Eustace
lightly.
“Do your insteps swell in hot weather?”
“No,” Eustace answered. He seemed
a little blank.
“What about tea?” Emily broke in.
“We’re starving.”
“And I made some wine trifle for
you,” said Mrs. Milroy to Eustace.
“That’s the stuff,” he exclaimed with
satisfaction.
THE conversation at the tea-table was,
* until they reached the wine trifle,
polite and even interesting. But when
Emily rose to serve it, relaxing her firm
but gentle guidance of the talk, father
ran away with the bit, and for some time
they were the audience to a monologue.
“It’s no good, Eustace,” he was saying
earnestly as he received his trifle ; “the
country will never get anywhere on day
labor. It cripples a man. Take the case
of Mick Martin now”
“Sugar, father?” insinuated Emily.
“ —he was a man who could have
made millions. But he was shackled”
“Yes, sir,” agreed Eustace. Johnny
ate solidly and impassively. Mother and
Emily bowed before it. There seemed
no hope of rescue till Bill, between
periods, remarked loudly and crudely,
“The cat’s had more kittens.”


CHEQUE
A C C 0 U N TS
Almost every person of standing in
the community has a cheque account,
because to pay by cheque is safer . . .
easier . . . more modern and your
cheque-butt provides a record of
income and expenditure. A cheque
account may be opened at any
branch of the Rural Bank.
Fixed Deposits are also accepted.
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sydney Branch: 350 George Street, (Opp. Wynyard Street.)
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President) H. Rogers P. Kearns
You will\ of course, visit the . . •
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
NINE DAYS
SIX NIGHTS
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
6th to 15th APRIL, 1936.
Australia's Premier Exhibition.
SEE—
Australia’s Finest Cattle—Australia’s Best Trotters and Jumpers
Championship Woodchopping Contests—The Grand Parade Common-
wealth District Agriculture Exhibits—Pigs, Poultry, Dogs, Birds and
Flowers —Manufactures, Machinery and Motor Cars—Championship
Buckjumping and Campdrafting—Queensland v. N.S.W. Rodeo Events;
Exhibition of Cattle Throwing and Tying—Steer Riding.
Cossacks in Horsemanship Extraordinary.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W. G. C. Somerville, Secretary.
A GENTLEMAN’S RESIDENCE OF UNUSUAL CHARM.
“WREST POINT," HOBART, TASMANIA
“Wrest Point” com-
mands one of the
best home sites in
Australia. It is
ideally situated, with
very extensive water
frontages, within 2
miles of the centre
of the city, and
occupies over 3
acres of well-planned
gardens, which
combine to produce
an atmosphere of
refi nem e n t and
seclusion.
REMARKABLY
HEALTHY
CLIMATE.
OFFERED BY ORDER OF MRS. MINNETTE-LUCAS.
df
UNIQUE HOME FOR A GENTLEMAN OF DISCRIMINATION
Four Reception-rooms, Sunroom, 5 Bedrooms, 3 Bathrooms,
Maids’ Quarters, Splendidly Equipped and Finished throughout.
BE SACRIFICED AT HALF COST FOR IMMEDIATE SALE
Full particulars on application to
FREEMAN, DUFF & CO,.
OXFORD HOUSE, 148 COLLINS STREET, HOBART.
SINCE 1834
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford exceptional
facilities to its customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
C. Darvall, General Manager
That stopped dad, or, rather, diverted
him.
“Drown ’em,” he said.
“No!” said Johnny, suddenly roused.
“I’m keeping them. I’m starting a cat
farm.”
“No need to start one,” said Bill
dourly.
Eustace laughed.
“And Owen’s dog’s had pups,”
observed Bill.
“Where are the kittens?” said mother
nervously.
“In the tablecloth shelf in the linen-
press.”
Mother got up, hurried towards the
door, suddenly sighed and came back
“Why don’t you go out and play?”
wearily, as if she realised Nature were
too much for her.
“Let’s stop talking about it,” said
Emily sweetly.
John was staring at his plate with wide
and pensive blue eyes, and tracing the
pattern of the flowers thereon with his
fingertip. Emily leaned back in her
chair, ready for him. He looked up, as
she expected, his lips opening. Her
features contorted in a terrific grimace.
Johnny was arrested, and gazed in
wonderment. Finally he asked, “What
are you making those faces for, Em?”
“I’m not making faces!” she snapped.
He gazed at her thoughtfully,
“I know,” he said sternly, placating
her. “All right.”
“How is your work going?” Mrs. Mil-
roy asked Eustace hastily.
Johnny looked down at his plate and
began to trace the pattern again. He
could not drag his thoughts from it.
Finally he said, “These are pretty flowers,
aren’t they, Bill?”
Bill grunted. Johnny gazed interestedly
at his plate.
Mother, forestalling the moment when
his attention would transfer itself from
flowers to trifle, said, “Have a butterfly-
cake, darling?”
Johnny looked at Eustace’s plate,
whereon there was still a little trifle, back
at the respectable amount yet gracing the
auto-tray, and answered, with a sigh of
mingled hope and endurance, “No,
thanks.”
Mother, rushing her fence, said, “Pass
Johnny a piece of sponge, Emily.”
Johnny regarded the sponge. “Is there
enough?” he asked hoarsely.
Emily passed that off sweetly, but with
lightning in her eye.
“What a question, dear! Of course.”
She lifted a section towards Johnny’s
plate. But Johnny was capable of stick-
ing to an ideal.
“No, thanks,” he said.
There was a short, rather strained
silence. Mother looked at the laden table
and wondered if it could possibly be re-
garded as sparse. Eustace’s mother kept
such a lavish house.
“More trifle, Eustace?” she said sud-
denly and pressingly.
Eustace passed his plate.
“Yes, thanks, Mrs. Milroy. My word,
you make a good trifle!”
Mrs. Milroy, pleased, heaped it on.
There was still a little left.
“Emily?”
“No, thank you, mother.”
“Bill?”
“No, thanks,” muttered Bill.
Eustace gave him a grin- of offensive
cheerfulness.
“Off your tucker, young fellow?”
Bill’s answering smile was sickly, “Fat
oaf,” he muttered to himself.
“Don’t mutter to yourself,” said his
father sharply. “Speak up ; what did
you say?”
“Nothing,” mumbled Bill. He wished
poignantly that he could speak up.
“Trifle, dad?” asked mother. Dad
passed his plate dreamily. Still a little
left, for appearance sake, or Eustace’s
third helping. Emily passed Johnny t e
meringues.
“No,” he said tersely and bitterly.
Eustace and father were talking poli-
tics. Mother and Emily murmured hap-
pily together in feminine fqshion. Bill,
looking at Eustace, thought bitterly, The
gasbag.” But he felt it his duty to stay
at the table and supervise the entertain-
ment of the gasbag. Johnny appeared
to be sunken into a trance, his eyes on
the trifle. Suddenly Emily demanded:
“Do you want that trifle, Johnny?
Johnny rested a dreamful gaze on her.
“Is there
enough?” he mur-
mured gently.
She transferred
it to his plate in
silence.
AFTER tea the
whole family
migrated to the
lounge again.
“W h y don’t
you go out and
play?” Emily
asked the boys
gently. They re-
garded her with
u n f a t h o mable
eyes. Evidently
she did not know their duty as hosts.
Father was thinking there was only
one comfortable chair in the house.
His muscles yearned for it, but he knew
mother would not be pleased if he gave
way to temptation, and rudely deserted
the lounge. He slowly abstracted his feet
from his shoes and slept, in a fair amount
of discomfort. Mother, Emily and Eus-
tace carried on polite conversation. This
was very nice, thought mother. This
was awful, thought Emily. Why hadn’t
she asked him any day but Sunday?
Only on a Sunday did the family gather
about like this, with tender regard for
one another and their guests.
“Yes, I’m going to Europe at the end
of the year,” Eustace was saying. “The
firm has quite large interests there, and
it will be well worth while”
How nice! thought mother.
“You’re a lucky, lazy brute,” Emily
said firmly.
He turned loving eyes on her. The
goof! thought Bill. He produced from
his pocket a piece of elastic, which he
stretched tense between his fingers, drew
back with his teeth and let go. It was
an agreeable and effective antidote to
the boredom duty imposed on him. The
elastic varied its musical response.
Reaching a high note, he remarked:
“You should see those kittens”
“That’s enough, Bill,” mother said
firmly.
Father woke, and mother swept Johnny
off to bed. Before he went he kissed his
sister very affectionately.
“You won’t take that threepence back
from me for—you know what, Em? I
did, but there was enough, wasn’t
there?”
“Yes, darling, yes,” promised Emily
with speed ; “I’ll give you another.”
“There was enough, wasn’t there?” he
reiterated earnestly.
“Come along!” said mother.
“I suppose you come up against day
labor in Vour business, Eustace?” asked
father.
He had roused himself from his sleep
reluctantly, but nobly. Bill took a dirty
piece of paper from his pocket, of which
he made pellets, and shot towards
Eustace, per the elastic. The small ;
margin of his misses created a pleasant
excitement in him.
At half-past ten Emily got supper,
because this was the maid’s night out.
Father’s speech was dammed on biscuits
and cheese and ale. Eustace drank his
beer quickly and thankfully. Bill, having
put away his elastic, gazed dreamily
through his cake, and asked, in the voice
of one discovering a primal truth of the
universe:
“We haven’t used these plates before,
have we, mother? They look pretty
good after the old ones.”
Emily sighed, deeply and quite silently.
Then she raised calm and dispassionate
eves to Eustace. Eustace winked at
her.


jr
V*V
IH
'i //
Ati
*%\
SN
d
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
l.l'KE
IN
FIT
JF there were a Mazda lamp over
* the head of your bed you'd be
able to read without straining your
neck or your eyes — and you
could put out the light without
getting out of bed.
ML
rjudvd.
The.
Coil
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
5
k
t
V
r A
X
v.
4
WWm
&V
TO ENGLAND
f the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
MSS MM
mm
m
u
ImmlmmhMdmumMmnllnii
A Warning to Gamblers:—
Reptiles and Escalators.
BY HARRY PAULL.
AS I walked along the main street of
Bangalong with Peters, he called out
to a stout, bearded man who was
standing outside the bank.
“Is the game on to-night?”
The bearded man nodded.
“What’s the score at present?” asked
Peters.
“Seventy-five to twenty-three in my
favor,”
“Good man! Keep it up,” said Peters
fervently.
“That’s Simon Jones,” said Peters as
we entered the pub. “He’s a sheep-
dealer around these parts.”
“He’s got a big lead in the game, what-
ever it is,” I said. “What is the game,
anyway?”
“Snakes and ladders,” said Peters.
“Snakes and—don’t pull my leg!” I
said.
“You needn’t look startled,” he said,
“I suppose you think it is a kid’s game,
So did Bangalong—once. But I tell you
it’s the most cussed game ever conceived
by the mind of a fiendish man.”
Peters ordered drinks and explained.
“There’s a board with a hundred num-
bered squares and snakes and ladders
painted over it. You throw a dice and
score what you throw. If you reach the
foot of a ladder you go to the top. If
you come to the head of a snake you
drop to its tail. The first to reach the
hundredth square wins.”
“It is a kid’s game!” I said. “I re-
member it well. I used to play it with
my Aunt Adeline when I was a young-
ster. The old girl used to cheat like
blazes. A kid’s game!”
“It’s a gambler’s nightmare,” persisted
Peters. “It was in the back parlor of
this pub that we first discovered that,
The publican’s youngster had left a dice
and a board lying on the table one even-
ing when Jones and O’Lachlan came in
for a drink. O’Lachlan is the storekeeper.
Jones was idly rolling the dice when
O’Lachlan, for a lark, said he’d play
him a game of snakes and ladders for
two bob and drinks. So they read over
the rules and played,; and Jones won
easily.
“Then they played for four bob, and
Jones won again. By this time a few
other chaps had drifted in, and O’Lachlan
got annoyed at getting licked. He chal-
lenged Jones for one game for a quid.
Again Jones won, and started to crow
pretty loudly. They’d had their sixth
whisky.
“O’Lachlan produced his cheque-book
and waved it in Jones’s face. ‘l’ll play
you for a fiver!’ he cried. Jones should
have known better than to bank on his
luck too heavily, but he accepted the
challenge and lost the game, and was
out of pocket himself.
“I’d like to vary the monotony of this
account,” said Peters, “but you know
how it is when two men get excited over
a gambling game. They played ten
pounds or nothing, and Jones won.
“By this time the spectators were side-
betting, and they kept urging the two
men to continue. At any rate, over a
dozen games were played, and the stakes
and side-wagers got bigger and bigger.
And at last the fatal game started.
“It was fairly late by this time, and
both Jones and O’Lachlan were rather
sprung. They were about square on their
betting, and they decided on one final
game for fifty pounds aside. And there
was pretty well another fifty pounds in
wagers among the spectators.
“The game started in breathless silence.
Now and then a murmur of applause
arose from supporters as one or the other
went up a ladder. At other times groans
proclaimed the descent down a snake.
Once Jones reached ninety-seven and
then threw one and ran down the last
and longest snake on the board. Once
O’Lachlan reached ninety-four and fell
down the second-last snake on ninety-six
—and didn’t I cheer!”
“Were you betting?” I asked.
“I’ve got a pound on Jones,” said
Peters. “Well, it was about this time
that some of us realised that snakes and
ladders has a peculiar feature which
separates it from any other game ever
conceived. In other games a competitor
must win sooner or later, even if they’re
raw novices. But not so with snakes and
ladders,
“It’s a game,” said Peters impressively,
“that doesn’t have to end. If nobody
reaches the hundredth square nobody
w i ns or j oses
"Jones and O’Lachlan played the game
until one o’clock, when a conference was
held, and by popular vote the game was
held over until the following evening. The
position of the two counters was marked
evervbndv went to bed ”
and everybod y went to bed *
DETERS drank reflectively. “That was
* last winter. They’ve been playing this
game intermittently for seven months.
Jones finds it . y ssible to get to town
everv n ; e ht ”
f O „‘ T • , ttA j , v
cned - And they haven c
hmshed it.
How can they? Until one of them
thiows numbers that will take him past
* le , ejection of snakes the game can t
end ‘ , ,
Each player,” said Peters solemnly,
“ 1S simply a puppet of Fate. And the
B ame can,t be abandoned because, apart
from the sid e betting, Jones and O’Lach-
lan have become deadly enemies. In
fact > three months ago they had a bitter
quarrel and immediately doubled the
stakes.”
“Good heavens! ” I said, “The game
might never end!”
“Why should it?” asked Peters,
And as the so-called law of averages—
if it applies here—is the most elastic law
imaginable, I can’t see why the game
should end. I can only say to other
thoughtless gamblers:
Bet on all other games ; bet on two
flies on a window or the poker value of
your tram-ticket numbers ; but keep off
snakes and ladders.
New Yarn by the Author of “Karangi”:-
ORANGE BLOSSOM
By. FS.HIBBLE.
CONWAY STEEL was twenty when
he enlisted in 1915, a young man
enchanted by the sincere adoration
of a young girl, and it was not remark-
able that the realism of the A.I.F. and
the wider scope of the older world made
him forget the things at home. Abroad
he followed his natural bent for writing,
finding a ready market for his distinctive
and vivid style, deciding after the Armis-
tice to take his discharge in England and
to remain there. Success came quickly
to him, demanding the essence of his
being, and the memory ‘of Jenny Lee
faded into the ground of lesser things.
Perhaps the only time he really thought
of her in those busy years after the war
was when he saw the orange-blossoms
in the coronet of Evelyn’s veil.
In that moment, trying hard to beat
down the twinge disturbing his con-
science, he placed the two women side
by side. Evelyn was a splendid girl, re-
vealing her Viking blood in the creamy
cheeks, the blonde mass of her hair.
Jenny had been so slight, a brunette, with
pathetic eyes which seemed to be always
pleading. A sweet anachronism. It had
been just like her to reveal something
almost faery in the childish desire to
plant an orange-tree so that they could
be married when the first spray of
blossom uncurled. He could not deny
that he had been thrilled with the
romance of her wish, nor was the
memory pleasant of the moment of his
embarkation when she had told him that
the first buds had formed. She had
been so tragic, and inwardly he had
choked over the surging resentment
towards the bonds of honor which forced
him to leave her.
Now Evelyn . . . pretty, robust, ener-
getic, promising to be an ideal back-
ground for his life. Jenny, he persuaded
himself, would ultimately become an
invalid, a millstone round his neck. He
could see that clearly now. The war
had left no room for sentiment; besides,
he had been a raw boy. She had been
sweet at the moment, like a melody in
an empty cathedral ... It was better to
believe that the affair had been calf-love.
She was just a ridiculous kiddy. Want-
ing to grow her own wedding blossoms!
On that note of ridicule he choked her
out of his mind.
RETURNING to Australia, after twenty
years’ absence, Conway Stell experi-
enced only the well-being aroused by the
enthusiasm of the wel-
coming press notices.
&£
a pity, though, that
Evelyn had refused to
leave the children.
Yet she was not one
to understand a man’s feelings. There
was something crude about her, a
lacking of the desire for higher things.
Perhaps it was just as well that she had
stayed at home.
He thought of Jenny Lee. Was she
just the same? What would she do if
they met? He felt no remorse, but
rather a condescending amusement. Poor
kid. She had been so sentimental. That
orange-tree ... did it still thrive?
A FTERWARDS he could not sav
it was by design or not that
he went down to the wharf from which
the Parramatta River ferries departed,
but when he found himself there he per-
suaded himself that it would be an un-
usual experience to see the girl now, try
to read the expressions upon her face.
Familiar landmarks made him rest-
less on the ferry. The day was
warm and sunny, with no trace of
cloud in the serenely blue sky, and the
gentle breeze ruffling the water carried
the smell of mangroves and kelp. He
felt disturbed, a little angry with himself
HUMOR COMPETITION.
Next Week:
“TO-NIGHT, NO MOON WE
SEE”
A Foolish Fantasy, by
LES ROBINSON.
for a certain eagerness that was grip-
ping him. He was not going to Jenny
to apologise or to renew old intimacies,
but more in the idea of a joke. Perhaps
she had married.
The sight of the steel railway bridge
crossing the river made him look away
to the north slope where a blue-slated
gable seemed to be nestling in a mound
of laurel-leaves. There it was, quite un-
changed, with the pine-trees standing up
like Eastern spires. He might have turned
his back on it yesterday. Why was he
feeling so fidgety? He shook himseii
inwardly. He may have been moon-
struck once, but now he was too old, too
callous, to be sentimental.


★ To ensure
life and
m
mmmm
■
m
k' ' ■
mmSm
mm
■
mm
11
m
, :
■
m
£ *|* :£x JS
v ■ ,-:
iiiiii
ii
#1
c
0276
5f -i
a
»•
■
Airily, with his shoulders squared, he
left the ferry, walked up the curving
streets. One moment he was dappled in
the shade of the fig-trees, the next walk-
ing over the spines on the asphalt beneath
the cypresses. Twenty years in passing
did not seem to have made much dif-
ference in this locality, adding, perhaps,
a little further mellowness to the houses
built by an earlier colonisation. He was
glad that the spread of the city, with its
abominable staid, cut-to-a-plan cottages
that looked as formal as old maids, had
not encroached on these older estates.
He could picture Jenny only in the older
school.
Unconsciously he was walking more
slowly. Perhaps he had not played the
child fairly. It was his fault alone that
their correspondence had waned, and
he could have at least written to tell her
about Evelyn.
He shook himself again. This would
never do. He couldn’t turn back now,
and there was the well-remembered box-
tree at the corner of her street. In a few
moments she would be aware of him.
UNDER the box-tree he stopped. The
street was short, without any trees
planted along it, and he had an unin-
terrupted view of the lantana- and tree-
covered paddock at its end. It was still
the same. There was the hard-beaten
track angling into the lantana, vanishing,
as it were, under the gnarled arms of a
blue-gum. He could picture himself and
Jenny as they strolled up that path on
the way to the old, clock-towered
church, she holding his arm, he carry-
ing her prayer-book. She used to wait
while he closed the big iron gates in
that sandstone fence there. The sand-
stone was weathered a little, the over-
hanging olive-trees looked bigger. There
should be a hedge behind those trees,
a bushy, pale-green, vigorous thing with
pale-blue flowers in tiny clusters . . .
“pig-face,” Jenny called it.
Conway Stell walked slowly along the
footpath. There should be, he remem-
bered, an archway through that hedge
this end, to correspond with the main
arch for the entrance and the smaller one
at the other end. Through that opening
he would see the lawn and the house.
In a bed in the centre of that lawn they
had planted the orange-tree. She had
been so excited that day, with her parents
proudly interested and prophetic. Her
sisters had been away . . . Jane, wasn’t it,
and Ethel?
He stopped, lit a cigarette. Another
pace and he could see through the open-
ing. He was suddenly reluctant to take
that step, but the unpruned hedge, with
an interlacing of spikes thrusting into the
archway, made a shield which would
keep him hidden a little. He would not
like to be caught peeping before he
walked up to knock on the front door.
Yes, there was the sweeping lawn, the
colonnaded porch with its green Venetian
blinds, the blue shutters of the windows
latched wide back against the walls and
revealing the white muslin curtains
behind the old-fashioned windows. No-
thing altered . . . but the orange-tree.
It had been a gangly plant twenty years
ago, but now it was a grand dome
mantled with creamy flowers. Bees were
ravishing the sickly-sweet blossoms.
Butterflies, some with sail-like wings of
a delicate pale blue, some pure white,
others great brown fellows, polka-dotted.
Planted to provide the spray for her
wedding veil, he was thinking, and grown
to become a magnet for the sensuous
things. Poor little Jenny! What could
he say to her? She had been so sweet
and innocent, immensely so. He had
been rather vile. He could not flatter
himself that she had remained true to his
memory. Yet she had been funny, with
many peculiarities, and the greatest of
those had been her faith. Foolishly she
may have remained solitary. She would.
It was in her make-up. Poor little senti-
mentalist! She had given her heart to
him . . .
He gripped the sandstone kerb along
the top of the fence fiercely. He had
treated her shamefully. He had no right
to intrude upon her now. Perhaps that
twenty years had reconciled her; for
him to go to her now would be a repeti-
tion of his offence, reawakening her
feelings.
A tightness spread within his chest as
he saw her. She was moving slowly
from the corner of the house, a slim
creature in a white frock. Even from
this distance he could see that the years
had not so much as marked her face,
and her figure was wonderfully attractive.
She seemed, to him, to be ethereal, and
his mind swept eagerly to the compari-
son of her with Evelyn. There were
ashes there. The one with rosy cheeks,
plump figure, bovine personality almost;
this other fragile, pure . . . standing
looking dreamily at the dome of orange-
blossom. He had the sudden urge to
go to her, speak to her, touch her, try
to make up.
He was conscious of children prattling
eagerly, and he saw the instant smile,
the expression which leaped into her
face, as she turned to meet the two small
boys and the girl racing towards her.
The eldest boy waved an improvised
butterfly-net above his head. “I want
one of them blue fellows, Jenny Lee.
A hoarse cough behind Conway Stell
made him start and turn quickly. A
pudgy old man, his flat forearms red
and hairy under his rolled-up sleeves,
was glaring at him as if he resented this
stranger who was peering in on the
pretty scene. His eyes were red, watery,
“ ’Tam’t manners to sneak on folks,”
h e growled.
Conway Stell shivered. “No one could
Pass that picture without studying it,”
he returned. “Very touching. Mother
an d children”
“ ’Tam’t neither. That’s Miss Jenny,
“Miss Jenny?”
“Yeah.” There was marked belliger-
enc Y in the red e Y es - “ Miss Jenn Y to Y ou ”
“She’s not married?”
“ ’Tain’t got anything to do with you.
But she ain’t.”
Conway Stell immediately sensed the
man’s loyalty. Quite evidently he was a
gardener or something in Jenny’s em-
ploy, and he didn’t want to discuss her
with a complete stranger,
“Then, if they are not her children,
whom do they belong to?”
“ ’Er.” There was a sudden pride in
his old voice. “Lucky for ’em she’s their
auntie. Only for ’er Lord knows where
they’d be. Old man’s out of a job”
He stopped abruptly, as if he had said
too much, moved on down along the
stone fence. At the gates he turned and
stared back at Stell.
Conway Stell glanced at the lawn
again ; saw Jenny moving out of sight
behind the tree ; then he waved his hand
to the old man, turned on his heel and
walked briskly away. Quite evidently
Jenny had come into her own. She had
remained faithful to him, because she
was not the type who really needed mas-
culine love. With those kiddies about
her she would be wholly contented. Her
face, when they had come upon her, had
revealed something which had made him
feel throatily ill.
AS he marched down the curving
streets Conway Stell commenced a
faint whistling. He felt happy, filled with
well-being, as if he felt responsible for
the happiness which he had just wit-
nessed. Had she married him she would
most certainly not be thus. He was per-
suaded that the things of the flesh would
be repulsive to her. He had not been
mean; he had not thrust himself in
where he was not wanted. A brave
woman, more than brave to remain pure.
He stopped abruptly. There was a
postman coming out of the front gate
just below him. Old Charlie, still red-
faced and unkempt-looking. He eyed
Conway Stell, grinned.
“Come back to the old love, eh, Mr.
Stell?” he said. “You’ve put on a bit
of wood yourself.”
“Seeing you and everything makes me
think it was only yesterday when I went
away, Charlie.”
“She hasn’t altered much. But you
were lucky. You never dreamed she
had it in her.”
“In a way I did,” Stell mused aloud,
“She was made of finer things. She
looked so happy”
“So would you on your wedding day.”
“Eh?”
“She’s getting married to-night. Didn’t
she tell you?”
Stell shook his head. He wasn’t feel-
ing so hilariously inflated.
“Yes,” the gossipy Charlie went on,
“she’s off again to-night. Being away
like you’ve been, perhaps you haven’t
heard. This is her third try. The first
died on her, the second divorced her,
and this chap’s a horse-trainer. So she
hasn’t wasted that orange-tree after all.”
Haystack.
The creamy frost of toi-toi plumes
above the rushes’ blue-green shrilling
forewarns the farm that winter comes,
but the rich land is not unwilling,
for, where begins the yellow sward
against that trembling sea-green rumor,
strong hands have here in haystack stored
a whole green field, a whole gold
summer.
The field is bare that once concealed
so much of little fur and feather,
too shorn of cover now to shield
a fieldmouse from the hawk or weather.
And as on yellow pools at eve
the silver rains of insects bubble,
bright showers of starlings pelt and grieve
the still and saffron lake of stubble.
Yet what was there is gathered up
and will not perish for the cold;
though all the suns of buttercup
went down in one wild dusk of gold,
and daisy-moons like snow were shed
on soft green oceans toppling over,
and lark and hare in terror fled
the crumpling purple of the clover.
The meadow in the memoried stack
is gathered safe for winter food.
Already now the rains turn black
the walls of hay, the thatchlike hood,
and I beside the cold, shrill marsh
rejoice I heard that bitter rumor
and stacked me here for time grown
harsh
a whole green field, a whole gold
summer.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


wm
mm
a
a
9,
The wireless-equipped ships sailing the
seven seas are part of the world’s tele-
graphic system.
The wireless services are available for
business and private telegrams, for con-
gratulatory messages, birthday and wed-
ding anniversaries. Your friends at sea
will appreciate receiving a message from
you.
The wireless services are also available for
the transmission of all messages from Aus-
tralia to New Guinea, Papua, Fiji, and
other parts of the Pacific.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the all-
important factors that have resulted in
giving the public satisfactory communica-
tion services.
Messages may be lodged at the A.W.A.
Central Radio Offices in Sydney
and Melbourne, or at any Postal
Telegraph Office in the Common-
wealth.
mm
mn
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/ASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Largest Circulations
In Queensland.
THE
COURIER-MAIL
The net average cir-
culation for October,
3:935, was 69,061 copies
daily. Here is by far
the largest circulation in the Queensland daily field and
the essential basis of any Queensland campaign.
THE
SUNDAY MAIL
Second only to “The
Courier-Mail” in cir-
culation, “The Sunday
Mail” enjoyed a net
circulation of 64,686 copies per issue for October, 1935.
Obviously it must be the second medium selected for any
Queensland campaign.
Enquire about the Combined Advertising Rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON. Warwick Building. Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Repreeenta.ive: R. D. FISHER, New.paper House Coll.n.
London Representative : A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.F.H.; You spell badly, you rhyme worse
and you disdain punctuation altogether
G.G.; It makes a tolerable picture, but not a
readable rhyme... .H.L.8.: Can’t find a color
in them F.H.W.: A bit gloomy, aren’t
you? And you don’t versify trippingly
E.R.1.: Not very close yet. The best part
is the ending... .G.M.: It drags a bit, like so
many of those rhymed laments for the good
old days J.G.C.; A just enough comment
on changing conditions, but as jingle it falls
short 8.G.; Not quite up to the mark,
but keep at it. “Violet” was excellent
P.G.: Just as you said W.R.P.; You are
wasting time when you “All day long beside
these limpid waters sit,” and wasting more
when you write verse about it... .D.G.: “Rich
Gifts” lacks reality; “The Net” came closer,
but falls short of your standard J.T.S.:
Has some good spots, but not enough
C.A.: “Quo Vadis?” In the case of your
essay the answer is “Back to Toowoomba.]’
H.C.: It’s a slice of real life, but it
doesn’t make a very readable sketch
Z.V.W.: Send Phyllis back to the farm
J.C.S.: Even if it had been typed with double
spacing it wouldn’t have got by S.P.L.:
Man drinks poison he intended for someone
else. The Babylonians used to split their
sides over that p10t... .K.-0.C.: Not far off.
J.B.: Neither horse quite gets by....
E.C.W.: Apart from the interesting chemical
experiment, which sounds quite feasible, there
is little in the yarn. Dream idea clumsy
Lorin: No, thanks E.M.: Stick to the chil-
dren’s pages a bit longer; they’re good prac-
tice G.T.: So you mistook a discarded
snakeskin for the real thing? Well, well!
E.A.C.: Where on earth do you meet these
interesting people who, without the slightest
provocation, insist on telling their innermost
secrets to your eager ears? D.J.M.G.:
You’ve got an idea there, but you haven t
made the best of it 1.D.: Doesn’t appeal.
...K.K.: If we published that it would en-
courage tickling the peter to plunge on the
last race... .‘Nomad; Move on, brother!....
J.T. (M.L.): We gather you wish to forget....
A.C.: Your closest for some time.... F .DJ..
Not up to publication level L.G.: cnai-
lenge” not accepted....C.McA.; Sorry, but i
would lose most of its point unless we reprinted
the 23-year-old verse. And that is impossible.
T.L.W.: Both melodramas have too pur-
plish a tint... .C.T.: “Below Zero” frozen out,
but not by much —try at another counter....
D.T.F.; The undersized paymaster who, alter
beating a huge bandit in a battle of wits,
boasts in a deserted lane that his gun. too.
was unloaded deserves all he gets... .p.K.L...
Inky portals too well guarded for that aiticie
to get past... .L.G.C.: That escaped-murderei
yarn doesn’t ring true.—E.G.: S’/ 0 ]), impas-
sioned outpourings wear out readers fibres too
quickly.... K.T.: A previous attempt at
burglary might have explained the swag, but
the acid test of logic turns Pendexter green.
E.F.: The psychology is good, but the
yarn just fails to gpt there R.McL.: Same
with yours D.D.; Even the final twist
couldn’t get it there... .A.W.: When that
murder story hit the w.p.b. it sank like a stone.
~ DJ.D.; That ill-wind was only a gentle
zephyr G.M.: “Oriental Solution” lacks
logic 8.F.: Too many tears to the em....
J.M.: Sounds like a cocktail of penny-dread-
fuls and Hans Andersen H.A.C.: Style
can’t pull that load over the grade... .b.M.K.;
Not badly told, but it’s rather an old stunt;
have another go.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
JN.W.: Gag was so stale that it left a
musty odor D.R.: Reminded us of some
of the aboriginal rock carvings around Middle
Harbor (Sydney)... .C. 8.: Can see you draw-
ing for pleasure and not lor profit for a long
time ahead....R.J.L.: Your poster-size car-
toon is more confused than the international
situation W.V.: At this rate you might see
print around about 1950... .H.K.; Next time
it rains on a Sunday play draughts or dominoes.
A.M.: Anxious to know why the infant
wonder is floating midway between floor and
ceiling....P.T.S.: About as many mistakes as
there are lines to the drawing....O.D.: Surely
you were taught something about perspective,
C.F.W.: That fireman-and-pawnbroker
wheeze has had its day G.R.: Cannot
recommend any particular art school; there
are several in Sydney-list posted... .S.M.W.:
Sketch on cricket tour to India sadly belated,
H.B.: We don’t know the gentleman, but
we refuse to believe he looks like that
A.G.: Your progress is slow, but you
should eventually wrestle a cheque from some
newspaper.... M.J.8.: Don’t doubt your
ability to draw charming fairies, but you’re
far from a humorous artist.... C.D.H.: Now
making the return trip across the Tasman....
E.R.H.: Cannot distinguish the Domain dosser
from the rubbish he a P- • •
pca-shooling son used to make our ***
is still frowning, and we have h M . E
out of sight of lady visitors.... • ■■
are the first in 1936 to submit thlat < chestnut....
W.M.E.: Among this week s m the
morsue P P.: A milk-and-water gag ano
morgue... .r.jr.. n You ve missed
an anaemic drawing. • • q B •
the likeness in a number of cases u
Drawings too sketchy and nsible.
.. .P.C.: Scratchy; aiso, Ae lambs to
be made of concrete C.R.C.. Caricatures
must be of well-known people -... J
and uelv J R.: You re still wallowing m
the backwaters... .L.M.M.: AU w ron g -men
horses, dogs, fences, dead l HWator onthe
cattle ..S.T.: No use for the dictator on the
A.J.M.C.: They give the impression ot
falling to pieces.
A MIXED GRILL.
“0.P.”: When Potts became too drunk
to take any further interest in proceed-
ings at the pub, some kindly soul sent
him home in a billycart. All went well
until the goat tried to take it under a
post-and-rail fence. The docs, at the hos-
pital are still extracting assorted splinters
from almost every portion of Potts’s
anatomy.
* * * *
“Jim D.”: “Green Hide’s” bees (B.
26/1/’36) must have been native ones to
allow him to seal up the hole and
asphyxiate with tobacco smoke those
keeping the home fires burning. Had it
been a good swarm, properly working, he
would have had thousands of field bees
about his ears before he half-completed
the job.
He * * *
“Gardener”: I always regarded the
wistaria as the most robust garden
growth, doing as much as 50ft. a year,
but I now pin my faith to the choko.
My vine did 81ft. in the year, and bore
over 500 fruit —not bad going in between
frosts, as the runner hates the cold. A
shoot will move as much as 6in. in a day,
and in tropical parts doubles that.
* * * *
“Leirum”: Northern Binghi is getting
a taste for jazz. This practice is dis-
couraged by pious officialdom, which
points out that native dances were
not fraught with the moral hazards
of the modern cavortings. In this the
brasshats are wrong, for Binghi’s own
terpischorean efforts were largely erotic
preliminaries, and were attended by rites
which would make some of the scenes
on excavated Pompeian temple walls
look like Sunday-school illustrations.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”: “Tidapa” (B. 22/l/’36)
mentions the probability of snakes escap-
ing at one time from Taronga Park. At
Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.), where an
attempt has been made to establish a
sanctuary for birds and animals, kan-
garoos escape to the mainland by
swimming the lake. The island on which
they are confined, Pulbar, was thickly
covered with small timber and good
grass before the marsupials were nrst
placed upon if. The natural increase ot
the animals has been so great that the
island is now bare of grass and the roos
have to be hand-fed.
“Surcingle”: “Wool Away s York-
shire shearers’ tying methods (B.
5/2/’36) recall seeing a fellow bartering
Angora goats on a small island in Shan
Bay (W.A.). As the nannies kicked and
bleated from the first blow to the last,
their legs had to be tied and the animals
held by chocks while shorn in between
kicks. Blades were used because
machines run hot in the wool (which is
really hair and was worth then about
10d. a pound). Even that long-blow
artist doubled “W.A.’s” tally with 40 a
day at Is. a head.
* * * *
“Pack-bag”: Goannas are strong all
right (B. 5/2/’36), and strong at clinging
too. When I was a newchum musterer
in western Queensland, I flicked with a
stockwhip at a go. as I sat in the saddle,
and it ran up my mare’s leg. I went
about half a chain through space, and
when I picked myself up that reptile was
still hanging on to the buckjumpers
shoulder.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Rodent extermination, is
it (B. 22/1/’36)? On all runways,
scatter a mixture of caustic soda and
arsenic, powdered together. The rats run
over the powder; when it begins to
burn the soles of their feet they lick
them to ease the pain, with fatal results.
The wiliest old rat can be caught by
this method. If you dislike taking a risk
with arsenic, use caustic soda alone.
Equally good is to feed them up on a
mixture of flour and icing sugar. When
they are well on to the diet whip in some
dry plaster of Paris with it. A drink
left handy, and even a rat’s digestive
organs will be unable to cope with the
cement-like result.
:j> sfc sfc


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIV£, PUBLIC WINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 3.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.r
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4OOl.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dikectobs —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton., Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq. C.M.G.
General Manageu —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 16
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banning business.
OurServiceDeparment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover or i
Bulletin to hand. .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ~a
The right of selection and rejection is reservea.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Practical miner, with knowledge of drill-
sharpening, wants position in New Guinea,
Papua or Fiji. Exp. in handling native labor.
-804.
Chauffeur (30), Melbourne, desires position
Sydney or on station. Refs. —811.
Active, steady man (50), Sydney, wants posi-
tion as house-useful; home main object. Refs.
—B4O.
Two educated and ambitious young men, 21
and 23, office and sales exp., want positions
(together or individually) in the Pacific Islands.
Refs—BB 6.
Overseer (36), N.S.W., single, can drive car,
used to windmills, 10 years last position, 16
years W. Queensland, wants position, cool
climate preferred. Available after June 1. —
856.
Information Sought.
(1) Is is possible for a whale to swallow a
man whole ? (2) Was it published in a news-
paper about five years ago that a man had been
swallowed by a whale, and that the whale was
caught and the man rescued alive ? (3) If so,
did the paper give his name ? —642.
(1) The whalebone whales have a narrow
gullet and cannot swallow any large object,
but in the toothed whales the gullet is much
larger, and it would be quite possible for a
large toothed whale to swallow a man whole.
(2) and (3) It is believed that some time back
a newspaper did publish an account of a man
having been swallowed by a whale and re-
covered alive, but confirmation is lacking and
no details are available.
* * * *
What buildings in Sydney have the fastest
lifts, and at what speed in feet per minute do
they travel ?—SIA.
There are 30 lifts running in Sydney at a
speed of 600 f.p.m., and a further 10 are under
construction. The lift at Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh-street, was the first installed at this
speed, and 11 other buildings are now so
equipped, including the G.P.O.
* * *' *
I, am thinking of purchasing a tobacco kiosk
in Sydney. Is there a living in one; if not,
what class of small business would you .recom-
mend ? —396.
A kiosk in a restricted position with a
turnover of £35 to £4O per week and a rental
of approx. £3 should show a living, but every-
thing depends on position and opportunities of
competition in the vicinity. A sound mixed
business away from opposition, with a resi-
dence attached, is usually a better proposition.
* * * *
Who was the Englishwoman of title who,
in order to prevent her ex-husband claiming the
child of the marriage, pretended it was dead
and held a mock funeral service over it ? —■
872.
Lady Webster, the former wife of Sir God-
frey Webster, who eloped with Lord Holland.
The funeral service was held over the body
of a young goat. Byron’s lines,
Have you heard what a lady in Italy did
When to spite a cross husband she buried a kid?
refer to the incident.
* * *
What was Von Richtofen’s age at death ?
—B6l.
He was born May 2, 1892, and was shot
down on April 21, 1918.
* * * *
Number of the crew, first-, second- and third-
class passengers aboard the Titanic when the
vessel was lost, and how many of each category
were saved ? —894.
Crew, 885, 212 saved; first-class passengers,
325, 203 saved; second-class passengers, 285,
118 saved; third-class passengers, 706, 178
saved. Of the total number of 2201 souls
aboard 711 were rescued.
* * * *
(1) What are the chances of a uni. graduate
in Arts, with a little experience of freelance
journalism, making a success as owner-editor
of a country newspaper ? (2) Assuming one
employs a competent printer, what special
knowledge, if any, is necessary or desirable ?
(3) Some idea of purchase price and income
from an average paper (weekly or bi-weekly ) ?
(4) Where would one learn of papers for sale ?
• —709.
(1) An Arts degree would be of advantage,
but the purchaser of a country newspaper needs
to be a good mixer, and one able to adapt
| himself to the life of a country town and
country people—not always an easy matter.
(2) Provided one makes a correct decision as
to type of town and district, success in country
newspaper business is largely a personal matter.
There is probably no industry—particularly in
the country—in which the personal element
enters more than in a newspaper. A likeable
manner and an easy approach are worth many
pounds in the bank at the end of a year’s
t/admg (3) A business costing, say, £2OOO
(this should include a typesetting machine
and a f.a.q. plant) might be expected to return
; the owner £5OO a year for his own efforts.
Then, of course, the matter of judgment in
purchasing again comes in. (4) If you are
Brung to purchase in N.S.W., apply to the
N.S.W Country Press Association, where a
hie is kept of businesses for sale. If in Vic.,
write W. H. Waddell,, secretary of the Vic.
Provincial Press Association, 380 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
!(: * *
What educational and other qualifications
are necessary for appointment as librarian to
institutions such as the N.S.W. Public and the
Mitchell libraries ? To whom should appuca-
cations for appointment be forwarded, and
what are the chances of appointment and salary
offered ? —529. _
Candidates for appointment to the staff or
the Public Library of N. S. Wales and the
Mitchell Library must have at least the leav-
ing certificate. Application should be made
at the Public Service Board’s office. Salaries
range from about £lOO a year for juniors of
about 18 years of age. None of the libraries
is likely to appoint anyone older unless it is
seeking people with considerable experience
to fill higher positions. Few appointments are
made.
* * * *
Physical and educational qualifications neces-
sary to join the N.S.W. Metropolitan Fire
Brigade ? Are there any vacancies at present ?
—5lB. . . .
Candidates for the fire service must be be-
tween the ages of 21 and 30, sft. 7in. minimum
height, without boots, and 36in. minimum
chest measurement, without expansion. Candi-
dates are required to pass a preliminary ele-
mentary educational test and a strict medical
examination. At the momertt there are no
vacancies, and there is a long waiting list.
* * * *
I am in charge of a public hall (privately
owned) which is used for dancing and occa-
sionally a travelling show. The hall is licensed
by the shire council. Has the Australasian
Performing Right Association the right to col-
lect fees from the proprietor ? —BO5.
Persons conducting public entertainments
have to see that music is free _ for public
performance or that the permission of the
copyright owner has been obtained. _ The Aus-
tralasian Performing Right Association has a
form of license available to the owner of a
hall which authorises performances whether
given by the owner or by persons hiring the
premises. Under this system separate licenses
have not to be obtained by persons giving en-
tertainments at which music controlled by the
association is performed. Consequently it is
more convenient and economical.
* * * *
Who originally owned the Channel Islands ?
When and how did Britain gain control ?
855.
The Channel Islands were included in the
domaips of the Dukes of Normandy, and be-
came part of England on the accession to
the throne of William the Conqueror. In the
reign of King John they were formally
attached, although the duchy of Normandy
was by that time separated, and succeeding
kings confirmed the islanders’ special privi-
leges and immunities. Until the reign of Wil-
liam 111. the islands possessed the right of
neutrality.
* * * *
What saving in income tax is achieved by an
Australian whose funds are invested in Aus-
tralia if he resides in one of the Channel
Islands ? —522.
As the whole of his Australian income would
be taxed at the appropriate Federal and State
rate, he would be at no advantage by reason
of his foreign domicile. Probably the way to
pay the smallest tax rate would be to invest
in tax-free securities and live in Monte Carlo,
where Casino profits render direct taxation un-
necessary. Under Australian laws a person
domiciled outside Australia is at a disadvan-
tage; for example, he loses the benefit of the
Federal land tax exemption of £5OOO and the
Federal property tax exemptions for income-
tax purposes.
* * * *
(1) Method of curing beche-de-mer ? (2)
Preparation of beche-de-mer soup for immedi-
ate use ? (3) Preparation for beche-de-mer
soup in glass jars for deferred use ? (4) Any
other information as to uses of the sea-slug ?
372.
(1) Beche-de-mer are cured by boiling for
about 20 minutes, and then splitting them open
lengthwise and gutting. After drying in the
sun, they are placed in a smokehouse for a
day. They must be bone-dry. (2) A Chinese
chef would have to be consulted concerning the
preparation of the soup. (3) The preparation
of the soup in glass jars or cans would follow
ordinary commercial practice. (4) No other
uses are known.
* * * *
Who named the Leichhardt River after the
explorer ? —9453.
A. C. Gregory, who was at the time in
charge of the Leichhardt Search Expedition.
Leichhardt, while recording its existence, had
mistaken it for the Albert River, consequently
it still remained unnamed.
* * * *
(1) When was the Australian transconti-
nental railway constructed, and how long did
the work take to complete from Kalgoorlie to
Port Augusta ? (2) What is the distance from
Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta ? (3) How long
does it take the fastest trains to cover this
section ? (4) Is any of the country through
which this line passes used for pastoral pur-
poses, and is any of it occupied ? (5) Does the
average rainfall exceed eight inches ? (6) What
is the population of Eucla, and how do the
inhabitants make a living? (7) Is it true that
a large ‘section of the Nullarbor Plain is rabbit-
infested ?— 496. .
(1) Construction was started from both ends,
the first sod being turned at Port Augusta on
September 14, 1912, and at Kalgoorlie on
February 12, 1913. The rails were linked up
on October 17, 1917. Five days later the first
through passenger train was run. (2) 1051
miles. (3) Westbound, 39hr. 50min.; east-
bound, 38hr. 15min. (4) Large tracts of
country which in earlier periods were looked
upon as desert lands have, since the; construc-
tion of the railway, been turned into pastoral
runs. At the eastern end the country has
been subdivided as far as Wynbring, which is
located approximately 320 miles from Port
Augusta and 277 miles from the border of
South Australia. The furthest pastoral run,
however, is Bulga Downs (Malbooma), approxi-
mately 280 miles from Port Augusta. At the
western end the country has been subdivided
from Kalgoorlie to the border of South Aus-
tralia; but the pastoral runs Balladonia,
Madura Downs, Mundrabilla and Nullarbor
(last-named in S.A.) are located some distance
south of the railway towards the coast. Wil-
gena, one of the largest stations adjoining the
railway (and located in S.A. 250 miles from
Port Augusta), is 3000 sq. miles in area and
carries upwards of 30,000 sheep. (5) Averages
Sin. to lOin. p.a. (6) There have never been
more than a very few people domiciled at
Eucla. It was formerly an overland telegraph
station, with a limited staff, but in 1926-27 the
overland telegraph line between the Eastern
States and W.A. was transferred to the trans-
Australian railway poles between Port Augusta
and Kalgoorlie. (7) Although rabbits are
prevalent, the plain is not rabbit-infested.
* * * *
What is the formula used in ascertaining the
humidity from the readings of wet- and dry-
bulb thermometers ? —660.
The formulas for calculating humidity data
are a little complicated, and would require
too much space to print here. Tables are avail-
able from the Weather Bureau, Sydney, price
6d., from which the relative humidity can be
calculated without using a formula. Tables
for calculating absolute humidity (or vapor
pressure) are at present out of print, but the
formulae and explanations will be supplied by
the Sydney Meteorological Bureau on applica-
tion.
* * * *
Required to mark off 35 to 40 equidistant
points on the surface of a sphere. Nearest
possible number, and how is it done ? —582.
The greatest number of equidistant points
that can be marked off on the surface of a
sphere in the present condition of geometrical
knowledge is four. Put the four points, one
at the North Pole, and the other three at lat.
35deg. 16min. South, and long. Odeg., 120 deg.
West and 120 deg. East respectively (that is,
at the vertices of a regular tetrahedron, the
only possible arrangement of four points com-
plying with the conditions).
* * * *
What is the meaning of the aboriginal words
Ilbilbie, Ilbilba, Yarrawonga, Cannilla and
Koumala ? —690.
The first two named are not listed in any
book of reference available, the nearest being
Ilpilla, meaning “a bundle of eagle-hawk
feathers worn in the middle of back,” and
Ilibirra, “to wither or dry.” Yarrawonga
means “stony mountain”; Carmilla and Kou-
mala are also not listed, the nearest in sound
to the former being Caronemella, meaning
“to scratch,” and to the latter Koumana,
“portion of a corroboree movement,” and
Koumara, “blood.”
* * * *
(1) What are the proportions of zinc, nickel
and copper used in the manufacture of German
silver ? (2) Method of manufacture ? (3)
Names of textbooks on the subject ? —539.
(1) The proportions may vary, the amount
of copper ranging from 40 p.c. to as much
as 67 p.c., that of nickel from 19 p.c. to 31
p.c., and that of zinc from 17.5 p.c. to 25
p.c. At times one or two per cent, of iron
is also present. (2) Zinc melts at a much lower
temperature than nickel, and if the three
metals are melted together much zinc is lost
by volatilisation. Accordingly an alloy of
copper and nickel containing about 50 p.c. of
each metal is first made, and this is then melted
with brass, the amounts being so adjusted as
to give a final alloy of the desired composi-
tion. The melting is usually done in graphite
crucibles. (3) General textbooks such as
Alloys and Their Industrial Applications, by
E. F. Law, would be useful.
* * * *
(1) Is the thickened, soured milk that is a
staple food in Asia and the Balkans beneficial
to health ? (2) Is joghurt the milk thickened
and soured by Russian culture ? —745.
(1) The treatment of many chronic affec-
tions is directed towards a self-intoxication from
the intestines. Although various methods of
local treatment have been devised, it re-
mained for Metchnikoff to suggest that organ-
isms antagonistic to the putrefactive germs be
introduced for relief. He observed soured
milk as a staple article of diet among certain
peoples, so prescribed a definite lactic acid
organism as a routine. The Bulgarian bacillus,
Russian culture, etc., were exploited with vari-
able results. Senile cases appeared to benefit
most. Apart from this, experience has proved
that but few patients are suitable for the
treatment. Good results can be obtained only
when the bowel contents remain alkaline in
reaction for the first 24 hours. As an article
of diet in constipation sour milk has some
value as a laxative. The popularity of Rus-
sian culture otherwise has waned —it is now
but rarely used. (2) No, the Russian name for
it is koumiss; it is known as joghurt in the
Balkans.
* * * *
(1) How to color billiard balls red ? (2)
Blue? (3) Yellow?— 69B.
(1) Immerse in diluted nitric acid (1 to 32)
for 10 to 20 minutes, then for the same
length of time in a solution of stannous
chloride (tin chloride 1 to 200), and finally
boil in a solution of carmine (1 to 200) to
which a little ammonia water has been added.
When dry and cold, rub with a little linseed
oil to polish. (2) and (3) Use Prussian blue
instead of carmine, and for yellow either
turmeric or safflower.
Brief Answers.
8.J.M.: To increase weight, include starchy
foods with sugar and fats, fruit and green
leaf-vegetables in the diet; drink milk freely.
Enforce mental and physical rest. The
sedentary occupation demands regular out-
door exercise—a brisk morning and evening
walk stimulates the eliminatory functions.
Otherwise tennis, swimming, etc., at the week-
end are advised, but avoid extremes in any
form. Taken between meals, malt extract
is of value; substitute cod liver oil in winter.
At your age progressive loss of weight is un-
usual; health debilities of nervous origin demand
attention if present Shorty: It is generally
accepted that adult height can be increased by
exercise; best join a physical-culture class. No
danger to health need be feared... .A.W.M.: In
all cases of shingles general health demands
attention; there is usually a nerve disorder that
precipitates the trouble. Take frequent aperient
salines, curtail acids and heating foods, and
avoid rapid changes of temperature. Aspirin,
quinine, etc., may be prescribed internally. In
true shingles, a severe neuralgia may persist for
months along the course of nerves involved.
J.G.D.: On marriage, legally speaking,
the wife takes her husband’s surname but not
his Christian name or names; she retains her
own Christian name J.8.C.: The appli-
cant’s offer for a renewal of the lease at a
reduced rental having been accepted, this is
an agreement. He cannot set it aside on the
ground of changed circumstances E.T.: The
meanings of the words are as follows: Yambur-
gin, “camping-place”; Lalaguli, “forked tree”;
Noondoo, “a spring”; Narine, “the name of a
tribe of aboriginals”; Ingie, “a waterhole”;
and Guee, “fire”... .J.A.M.: “Ah! Sweet
Mystery of Life” was copyrighted in 1910
and “Coming Home” in 1914... .K.J.: The
Wannon was previously the Gale, and was
owned by the Canterbury Steam Ship Co. of
Maoriland; she is of 567 gross tonnage.
The Delhi (411 tons), formerly a Howard
Smith boat, was named the Sphene... .J.C.E.:
The installation of septic tanks in Queens-
land is governed by Regulations 30 to 32 of
the Sanitary Regulations, a copy of which is
obtainable from the Department of Public
Health, Brisbane G.F.; (1) The Invalid and
Old Age Pensions Office, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney, administers only invalid and old-age
pensions, the maximum rate of which is 365.
per fortnight, and the department has no
power to afford any assistance beyond a pen-
sion at this rate. (2) Apply to Chief Secre-
tary’s Department or Health Department,
both Sydney, to ascertain whether you are
entitled to N. S. Wales State Government aid.
....E.E.W.: Write Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Territories, Canberra, F.C.T.
C.S.: The irregular white patches suggest
leucodermia, a disease characterised by loss
of pigment in the surface-skin layer. There is
a tendency for the blemish to spread and per-
sist for no apparent reason —the cause of the
trouble is unknown. Under medical super-
vision arsenic (internally) is prescribed with
variable success; local treatment is of little
avail. For obvious reasons the part is sensi-
tive to sunlight and weather extremes—-cala-
mine lotion (flesh tinted) may be applied for
protection. Cannot make recommendations
in favor of any practitioner... .G.R.S.: It
seems as though you would be discharged
from liability to the guarantor by reason of
his having altered the terms of the contract
without your knowledge, but it would be
advisable to consult a solicitor, who could go
fully into the matter on investigation of any
documents you may possess... .M. 8.; Clara
Bow, Charles Rogers, Richard Arlen and Gary
Cooper were the principal players in the film
“Wings” H.G.: (1) (a) 2\ p.c. p.a. to
£5OO. (b) H p.c. p.a. on balances of £5Ol to
£l3OO (in Queensland up to £2000). (2) On
1/1 / ’35 the rate on balances up to £5OO was
altered to 2 p.c. p.a F.T.8.: Being a
parent of a member of the forces whose death
resulted from his employment in connection
with warlike operations, you are entitled to
receive a war pension provided you are at
present without adequate means of support
and subject to your relationship to the de-
ceased soldier being proved. Apply direct to
the Repatriation Commission, Sydney, for
form of application L.A.8.: Its value is
about £3 3s F.W.G.: The flat concrete roof
could be made permanently watertight by
applying a layer of bituminous felt material,
which can be obtained from any hardware store.
It needs to be attached to the concrete when
it is dry, using a thick coating of soft bitumen
on the concrete. The joins between the strips
of felt should be lapped over three inches,
using plenty of bitumen to waterproof the
joint. After two or three years the bituminised
felt could be reconditioned by painting it with
a mixture of bitumen and fuel oils J.E.J.:
There is no such phenomenon as “equinoctial
gales” recognised by meteorologists. Gales
occur in southern Australia any time of the
year, but, if anything, more particularly in
winter and spring P. 8.; Marcus Clark was
born at Kennington, London, on April 24,
1846, and arrived in Melbourne in 1863
A.A.: If the striker in making a shot
forces his own ball off the table with-
out coming in contact with another ball
he loses three points; if after contact with
another ball he loses two points, and his
opponent has the option of playing from the
position the other two balls are left in or
having the balls respotted—red on the bil-
liard spot, white on the centre spot, and play-
ing from baulk...-A.A.H.: As far as can be
ascertained, the Vic. Government railways em-
ploy the heaviest-steel rail sections in use in
the Commonwealth. In portion of the Mel-
bourne suburban area and in the Elphinstone
tunnel there are sections of track laid with
1101 b. rails. In N. S. Wales the heaviest section
in use is the 1001 b. rail... .J.A.L.; The Com-
panies Act, 1934 (S. 151, S.A.), provides that
a copy of the annual balance sheet and audi-
tors’ report, together with any documents re-
quired by law to be attached, shall on request
of a shareholder be supplied to him at a charge
not exceeding 6d. for every 100 words
(Many others mailed.)


=J;::
0
as®
l%&£
k&M
%
m
m.
V M
V/A
Y A
m
V/A
V//A
W.
V"
«
\%
»»*
&
»»*
»0»
»»*
v\\v"
The recently improved accommodation includes the re-
arranging and re-furnishing of "A" Deck and a number of
"B" Deck Cabins and the Public Rooms have also been
considerably enlarged and tastefully re-fumished.
SAILING DATES AND
ALL PARTICULARS ON
APPLICATION TO
LOCAL AGENTS.
These improvements, combined with the low fares, excel-
lent menus, efficient service and unrestricted deck space
offer the best value in travel comfort obtainable.
FARES FROM £3B PLUS EXCH ATSGE
65 I
BRANCH SERVICE
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“Atrocities”
The Italians may have a convinc-
ing explanation of the bombing of
Red Cross units in Abyssinia. Any-
way, even if there has been such bomb-
ing, the Italian aviators would not be the
only ones who have appeared to violate
the sanctity of the Red Cross or its
equivalent. On August 12, 1915, four
days after my capture by the Turks, I
was one of four Australians on a tender
that was carrying wounded from the
shore to a hospital ship. The tender was
painted white and flew the Turkish
equivalent of the Red Cross. We had
almost reached the hospital ship when
three British aeroplanes flew overhead,
and the tender sharply altered its course
and began zigzagging about the harbor.
After a time a bomb from one of the
aeroplanes fell in shallow water some
distance from the tender. The aero-
plane crews may, of course, have been
indulging in an aerial skylark, or have
become suspicious of the sudden altera-
tion of the tender’s course, and have
been genuinely convinced that its pas-
sengers were not all wounded. The crew
of the tender certainly thought the aero-
planes meant to sink us ; and the Eng-
lish-speaking steersman, whose friendly
conversation with me had been inter-
rupted by the aeroplanes funnily
enough, I had succeeded in convincing
him that we British did not ill-treat
prisoners, use dum-dums, or otherwise
violate the rules for the conduct of;war
between civilised nations —was sufficiently
tactful not to say another word to me
K. K. (Vic.)..
Indian Cricket
Frank Tarrant was wrong about there
being “no Indian gentlemen’s clubs which
do not admit Europeans” (B. 5/2/’36).
In Bombay there are several. Europeans
don’t wish to visit these clubs or feel
.offended at the rule ; and certainly no
decent Indian gentleman is offended at
being barred from a European club.
There are mixed clubs if one wishes to
co-mingle, and if one wishes to entertain
an Indian friend one does so in one’s
home.
Again, Sir Thomas Lipton was never
a member of the Royal Bombay Yacht
Club, nor was Ranji ever refused admit-
tance as a guest; Ranji would have been
the very last Indian gentleman to break,
even unwittingly, a club rule.
By the way, India as a whole was the
host of the Aussies, and glad to see
them too.
I have lived here for nearly 30 years,
so do claim to have some intimate know-
ledge of .Indian affairs and ways. My
advice to Tarrant would be to stick to
his job of coaching young rajahs at
cricket in a Native‘State, and leave poli-
tics alone— An Exiled Aussie (Bombay).
The Gold Premium
It may be true that South- African
goldmihes contribute one half of the
gold premium to general revenue (B.
■l2/2/’36); but Wiluna ,(W.A.) is doing
the equivalent. The average Wiluna
miner gets something like 18s. a shift,
and for every man the mine treats \\
tons a day. In effect, for every ounce
produced the mine is paying £2 for man-
power, and this does not include frac-
teur, oil" for flotation purpose or the
hundred-and-one other expenses on a
big mine. *
On the Rand man-power costs about
45.-6 d. a day. .If grade of ore and
other expenses there were the same as at
Wiluna, .their labor expenses would be
something like' 10s. per ounce pro-
duced. South African mines .pay £2
(half the gold premium) into general
revenue, plus 10s. per ounce into the
pockets of employees. Westralian mines
pay £2, per ounce into the public’s out-
stretched paw. Knock a couple of
pounds off what is left and 80 p.c. of
Westralian mines would close up shafts.
—Blowzac (W.A.).
The Juggernauts
For January and February persons
were killed in N.S.W., against 57 in that
period last year and 54 a year earlier.
The rise is too great to be explained
by the increased number of motors.
Australia is not alone in having a
regular motor holocaust. Mr. More
Belisha, British Transport Minister,
has declared that during the 25-odd years
of King George’s reign 2,500,000 were
killed on British roads —within 150,000 of
the losses of British combatants in the
war. But, whereas in England a speed
limit has been set at 30 m.p.h., with
substantial reduction in casualties, in
Australia the tendency is to increase
speed.
Modern cars are not necessarily more
dangerous than the old. They may be
a bit safer ; no cars are safe in the hands
of poor drivers and drunks. Of all acci-
dents last year, 79.4 p.c. were attribut-
able to failure in some factor by the
driver and 27.9 p.c. to pedestrians. Road
conditions cost only 5.4 p.c. of acci-
dents ; vehicle failures, 10.6 p.c.
, City police, by dogging motorists
across intersections when they wish to
clear traffic jambs—which should be
cleared by sweeping out the obsolete
trams and confining through traffic to
special routes—incline drivers toward
speed, and their harrying of stationary
motorists has its psychological effect.
Most of the 57,000 “breach” reports in
1934 in N.S.W. referred to “vehicles
standing contrary to notice,” “parking in
prohibited areas” and similar peccadil-
loes. Only 343 persons were convicted
of driving under the influence of liquor
and 874 of driving dangerously.
More attention should be given to the
dangerous side of motoring and less to
petty offences. A speed of 30 m.p.h. is
as fast as it is safe for any ordinary
driver to travel, except on long-distance
through routes. Drunk drivers need
drastic discouragement—say, hard labor.
—H. M. (N.S.W.).
Examination Tests
Since the question of the reliability of
examination results is at present under
discussion, it is interesting to note the
astonishing variation found in tests re-
cently conducted in England.
In one case, 15 history papers which
had received marks of equal value were
handed to fresh examiners, who returned
them at a scale ranging from 21 to 70
marks—that is to say, from utter failure
to “good.”
In another instance, the papers of 48
candidates for a school-certificate exam-
ination were sent to seven examiners.
One “failed” no candidate and gave
special credits to 12 (in a joyful mood
evidently); another “failed” 19 children
and gave no special credits.
Even the viva-voce examinations
proved equally unreliable. Two boards
were set up for a test arranged on the
lines of the higher division of the civil
service exam., The man chosen by
Board I came thirteenth with Board II;
and the candidate placed first by Board
II was No. 11 on the list of Board I.
These results seem to prove that the
unfairness of the test is even more
startling than the opponents of the sys-
tem supposed possible. In Sir Michael
Sadler’s words, “The fundamental need is
to make provision for the training of
the child’s body, mind and spirit, both in
town and in the country.”—M. L. C
, (Tas.);
Licensing Act Idiocy
A Victorian, stopped by the police at
10 p.m. as he was leaving a hotel with
two bottles of beer in a bag, won his
case when he explained that he had
bought the beer in the afterfaoon. When
the police brought' the case to the Full
Court, they argued that the intention of
the Act was that liquor, whether pur-
chased before 6 p.m. or not, must not
be carried away from a hotel during
prohibited hours, in any circumstances
whatever. His Honor remarked: “Then
anyone of us who takes a flask away
with him on circuit is guilty of an offence
if he leaves the hotel where he is staying
with'the flask either in his pocket or in
-■ his bag.”
Also,” it was pointed out that, accord-
ing to Section 190, non-intoxicating bev-
erages were deemed to be liquor, so that
people who drove into a hotel yard with
a bottle of soda-water in a car and left
after hours were committing an offence.
This Act —another example of shoddy
law-making—is the American prohibi-
tion farce all over again: trying to re-
form people’s habits by law, and raising
instead a host of ludicrous anomalies and
injustices which react practically wholly
upon innocent and long-suffering citi-
zens. — Hermish (Vic.).


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Lough Neagh was not disgraced in
being beaten in the sprint race at Rose-
hill by Falstaff (5 to 1) and Fernacre, a
pair of brilliant gallopers who were at
their top as the result of racing. After
Shean had allowed the chestnut to drop
out at the half-mile pole he did well to
gain a place. The time —Imin. 12|sec. for
the six—equalled the track record held
by Luita since 1930.
Lough Neagh carried 9st. 91b. He
drops to Bst. 111 b. in the Doncaster, and,
being a genuine miler who is suited by
any going, will be one of the fittest can-
didates. His owner-trainer Brosnan is
racing him into condition ; a fly in the
ointment is that this eight-year-old geld-
ing cannot be expected to improve as
much as the younger brigade.
After a series of unlucky runs Dulcedo,
carrying the colors of former Brisbane
jockey Barney Page, won the Club Han-
dicap in rather easy fashion from Oro
and favorite High Cross, who lost ground
at each turn and went wide at the top
of the straight to get a run. Dulcedo,
starting at 9 to 2, trailed Balgay to the
turn, and when Hanley pulled the whip
it was all over. Dulcedo was taken out
of the Sydney Cup apparently too early.
Jovial Son was supported from the right
quarter. He looked a trifle big, and raced
that way. Master Brierly surprised by
being prominent for over a mile ; this
sound stayer will be at his top for Rand-
wick.
Silver Standard has been backed for
the Doncaster, in which he has 7st. 51b.
In the Rydalmere Mile the chestnut son
of Heroic, carrying 21b. more, had to
be flogged to beat Loud Applause by a
long head, with Pavarti a poor third.
Both horses ran about in the last fur-
long, particularly Silver Standard, who,
however, came again right on the post
when looking beaten at the Leger. Barak
was hampered when Wild Dove lost her
rider, but he was heavily bandaged on
the forelegs, and in the early stages could
not stretch out. Flamari was slow away,
but Spear Prince went well, and pleased
his Sydney Cup backers.
Maoriland-bred mare Collstar did the
books a good turn when she won the
Novice from Patwood and Greek Play.
She started at twelves. Favorite
D’Airain was tailed off so far in the
first half-mile that many thought he had
broken down. Kenya’s fourth will keep
him in mind for an easier race at mid-
week fixtures, and Panhandle should
soon be a winner.
Tonga should have won the first heat
of the Juvenile. He was slow away, an
unusual happening for Harry Taylor’s
colt, and was on the outside at the turn,
where he lost ground. On the other
hand, Korimako, a well-grown Magpie
filly, who started at threes, was always
prominent. McCarten, outriding the
apprentice Curby, scored in an exciting
finish by half a head, with Connottar
Lad two lengths off.
Siren, a daughter of Valicare bred by
her owner, Pat Osborne, made hacks of
the opposition in the second heat of the
Juvenile. She started at 5 to 4 on. It was
her first start, and it could have been
expected that she would run “greenly,”
but she stood as quiet as a shearer’s
hack at the barrier, and hopped out well
to win, pulling up, by three lengths from
Jacko’s brother Quizzical, who carries
the colors of bookmakers Hackett and
Williams. The Caliph was a bad third.
Silver Cap, fourth, will win races.
Red Rosebud, carrying colors of Mrs.
Jack King, started at 4 to 1 for the
first heat of the Maiden Welter, beating
the much-boomed Disalto (evens), with
Spearmeta third. The second division
went to Sir Rion (7 to 1), raced by Ted
Morgan, a former pony trainer. He
beat Sir Mart and the hot favorite Ross-
joy, who carries the colors of pastoralist
Hunter Bowman.
* * * *
Moonee Valley was wild in spots, as
the stipes’ bag of four suspensions in six
events indicates, but no one in particular
was held blameable over the Sherwood
Handicap. Capris, though she got home
by only half a head, proved what a cer-
tainty she was in doing so. She was in
trouble very early, and was still well
among the last when the journey was half
over. At the turn she made up some of
the ground by going through the bunch,
but was knocked back again when she
drew in between the leaders. Webster
had to ease her then and get her on her
feet before tackling Orford and Maid of
France again, but she responded in some-
thing like her old style, and had her head
just in front of the first of them at the
finish. Maid of France, a neck away,
gave Voitre his only place for the day.
Drifting from sixes, Burlesque went to
the post at tens, was eighth into the
straight, and came home with a fine burst
to take the Moonee Ponds Handicap
easily. Royal Armour, backed with more
confidence than reason, let his punters
down horribly. Sent out a hot favorite
at 6 to 4, he took up the early running,
and was always in the van to the turn,
where Voitre, had him in handy behind
Yaropian. After that he faded out, and’
there were only three of the 14 starters
—two of the roughest and a 14-to-l
chance—behind him at the finish.
Dewhurst, for whom the stipes were
already sharpening the axe for an offence
earlier in the day, rode a nice race on
Burlesque. He let the Seremond five-
year-old bowl along easily, but handily,
under his 9st. 51b. steadier till the bunch
had turned into the straight. Then he
began to ride him, with enough in hand
to cut down Walarby (12 to 1), with a
comfortable length and a quarter to
spare. Whittingham (25 to 1) ran up
into third place, with the second favorite,
Nellie’s tip, just behind. Rhodes Scholar,
after disappointing at Caulfield a week
before, was never in the betting, and
justified it by never being in the race
either. Including the value of the trophy
Burlesque’s win netted £625 for G. T.
Coffey, bringing his total to £6440 for
the 16 months Coffey has had him on
lease.
Punters were even more astray over
the Hollymount Handicap, dividing their
notes fairly evenly among Excel (threes),
Caretta (fours) and Beurola (11 to 2).
The last-named certainly gave supporters
a good go for their money in getting
within a head and a half of the winner,
to be no better than third at that. Silver
Edge (25 to 1) gave the books their one
real turn-up for the day, apart from Bur-
lesque: all others were either second or
third favorites or thereabout. Save for
the closeness of the finish, it was just a
race. Silver Edge, after getting away only
moderately well, led into the straight, and
just lasted long enough to beat the always
handy Arabian Knight by half a head in
the ordinary time of Imin. 16sec. for the
six. Dewhurst, on the favorite, was sub-
sequently given a month off for crossing.
C. A. Goodfellow’s snappily-named
Pep (Vitality—Royal Battery)—and there
was Vim also in the race —was The Bul-
letin’s and also punters’ choice for the
Knoll 9\ furlongs. Fourth into the
straight, Pep drew level with the leader,
El Bassana, with a furlong to go, and
went on to win with a comfortable length
and half to spare. Dermid was a handy
fourth to Whitford, after going round
the outside of the field pretty wide near
the turn.
Fullarton, who had the mount on the
Sydney jumper Fashion Star in the
Armillan Hurdle, has had more form
than luck on his side in his last few rides.
He rode Blackford on Newmarket Day
at Flemington, when the Sydney hurdler
African put up such a good performance
that he was subsequently sent out favorite
for the Narong Hurdle at Caulfield. Ful-
larton rode him, but when well in front
African struck an obstacle and Fashion
Star was the winner. At Moonee Valley
Fashion Star was favorite, and with half
a mile to go Fullarton’s mount looked
to have the race won. Then Grey Lash
began to move up, had drawn level at
the home turn, and went on to win as
he liked. The stipes, holding that How-
son eased the second favorite, Beacons-
field, near the post, and was thus cut out
of third money by Field Rise, gave him
a month in which to think the lapse over.
Two other offenders —W. Elliott and H.
Badger —were also awarded a month
each for careless riding in the first divi-
sion of the Maiden. In both instances
one horse, Blazer, struck the trouble. The
offence of Badger, who won on Iva, was
causing interference to Blazer rounding
the home turn ; and Elliott, on Wren’s
Theodore (the horse), was held to have
crowded Blazer a furlong after the start.
Yet Blazer was fifth. Still, Iva won nicely
enough from Grand Hero and Theodore.
Great Feast (7 to 1) made even easier
work of the second division, with lengths
to spare from Empiric and the favorite
Maluno.
* * * *
Hadrian is not among the first accep-
tors for the Doncaster. There is nothing
wrong with him, and he was nicely han-
dicapped, but his owner has decided to
reserve him for w.f.a. races. If he decides
also to keep the colt in Sydney, where
w.f.a. races are few and far between, he
may be sorry.
* * * *
Rivalli has done so well in India that
it is likely other Queensland horses will
be in request for the Indian market
presently. Meanwhile, the Victorian
three-year-old Cardinal, who ran third
to Regular Bachelor and Valiant Chief
in the Newmarket, has been bought to
race over there. The price was 2000
guineas or so. R. J. Shaw gave 375
guineas for him as a yearling.
* * * *
Rogilla has seen the last of his racing.
The best he could do in the Randwick
Stakes was a moderate fifth, and a con-
tinuance of the round-bone trouble the
gelding suffered last year decided lessee-
trainer Haigh to turn him out. He had
his first race as a three-year-old, but put
together £21,370 in prize-money from 26
wins. The best of it came from a Caul-
field Cup (£4150) and a Sydney Cup
(£3613) as a five-year-old, a King’s Cup
(£1500) at six and a £lOOO Spring Stakes
at Randwick as a seven-year-old—his
first win in the Spring Stakes was only
worth £775.
* * * *
“Red Mud”: One of the characters of
Queensland racing, “Aug” Wagner,
called it a day in Toowoomba recently.
A printer before the Boer War, he turned
to training gee-gees on his return. The
old chap never handled a topnotcher,
but he had a keen appreciation of the
sweetness of little fish and picked up a
lot of useful minor events in his time.
It was his foible to present the Queen
Victoria chocolate tin every soldier in
the Boer War was supposed to receive
to each succeeding Governor, beginning
with Lord Chelmsford. The presenta-
tion was always made on the “touch and
remit” system customary when tribute
is offered in India. When the Prince of
Wales was in Queensland the veteran
made a supreme sacrifice. He opened
the sacred box and gave H.R.H. a chunk
of the long-preserved chocolate.
* * ♦ *
“Spare Archer”: For some reason not
too well defined the Q.T.C. has decided
to enter the weights of jockeys on their
licenses and have the boys weighed every
three months to see how they are faring.
The weighing will be done on the Ascot
scales in the presence of the stipes.
What will happen if Johnny'Armstrong
has gained or lost a couple of pounds
since the last weighing is wrapped in
mystery. Perhaps the committee has
some scheme of dieting and physical
training in mind, emulating the Davis
Cup players in Sydney.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.” is disgruntled:
A pity Sydney stipes don’t come down harder
on careless jockeys. There’s scarcely a
meeting goes by without two or three hoops
being “severely cautioned.” But suspensions
are few. Personally, I’m of the opinion that
25 p.c. of jockeys licensed by the A.J.C., and
that’s a conservative estimate, would lose control
of a rocking-horse on a merry-go-round. As
a matter of fact, the really competent riders
on Sydney courses could be counted on the
fingers. Dishonest practices apart, the poor
punter commits financial suicide when he backs
a horse ridden by a jockey of “harum-scarum”
technique. Punting is a mug’s game at best,
but if a few of the blockheads who habitually
lose their irons, drop their whips, fall off free-
goers, go for openings where there isn’t room,
get left 50 yards on docile animals, or regu-
larly drive their mounts on to the heels of
those in front were permanently delicensed
racing might be made a trifle less precarious
for the simpletons like myself who keep the
sport alive.
“Splash”: The N.S.W. amateur swim-
ming heads have been handing out dis-
qualifications to members who competed
in surf events with professional life-
savers, and there are others to go on the
carpet. Competition with professionals
might lead to the disqualification of an
Australian swimmer at an Olympiad,
and perhaps the whole team ; and Rugby
League players have been debarred from
amateur swimming competitions for the
same reason. Much of the trouble has
been caused by the surf lifesaving
authorities inveigling notable amateurs
for their competitions. As a result the
amateur swimmers are considering can-
celling the surfers’ affiliation with their
organisation.
* * *
The Davis Cuppers, due to leave to-
morrow, turned out for exhibition
matches at Rushcutter Bay at the week-
end. All looked splendid after their
training, but the tennis, with the excep-
tion of Quist’s, was woeful. Crawford
has never been worse ; Quist beat him
6-0, 6-2, and looked as if he could have
made it a worse licking. The South Aus-
tralian has improved all round, particu-
larly on his backhand. He should do
well at Wimbledon this year, but if
Crawford’s showing is to be believed
the Cup won’t be coming to Australia.
McGrath accounted for Sproule easily
enough, 6-4, 6-2, but he has done better.
The doubles pair, Crawford and Quist
or McGrath and Quist, might help us
out.
* * * *
“Stamford Bridge”; Cambridge won
the annual sports meeting with Oxford
by eights events to three. Australia was
represented on both sides. Horsfall, of
Melbourne, took the long jump for
Cambridge with 22ft. fin., and Mclntyre,
a Tasmanian, won the three-mile spin for
the Dark Blues in 14min. 37 3-ssec.,
extra fast time for the event.
Hi •<* H*
“Blade”; Though the Australian scull-
ing champion, Turner —he is still that —
missed selection for the Olympiad he has
been chosen to go to Berlin as an
emergency for the Police crew. Turner,
who is a member of the Police club now-
adays, was a regular member of the
Haberfield (N.S.W.) eight before he took
up sculling, and can be relied on to pull
his weight if called on. Dixon, of Syd-
ney club, is the other emergency, and it’s
now suggested that they should represent
in the double sculls.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Stung by the neglect
of women athletes in the selection for
the Olympiad, president Mrs. Field, of
the Ma State women’s swimming associa-
tion, has uttered a clarion cry, sent forth
the fiery cross and called on all the girls’
sporting institutions to combine in get-
ting women representatives on to the
Olympic and Empire Games councils.
The move is a commendable one, though
there are many carpers who would point
out that there are enough old women on
these bodies already.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: No longer will ath-
letes with journalistic leanings be able to
make a few bob out of the game with-
out endangering their lilywhite status. On
and after March 31 any amateur athlete
whose main source of income is not
derived from press work, lecturing or
broadcasting will forfeit his or her
amateur status by practising any of
these iniquities. This brings the ped. and
his mates into line with Davis Cup
tennis players, international cricketers
and other notorious amateurs.
FOR HAWKESBURY TO-DAY.
Highweight Welter: Bullomin
next, Concilio.
Hawkesbury Mile; Loud Ap-
plause ; next, Palady.
Autumn Handicap: Loud Ap-
plause or Cid ; next, Fireman.
Clarendon Handicap: Pavarti or
Bulletin ; next, Palady.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Wokingham Handicap: Capris or
Arachne ; next, L’Elite.
Ascot Handicap: Petau; next,
Warlaby.
Seacombe Welter: Capris or
Charles Fox ; next, Dermid.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Three-year-old Handicap: Oscu-
lum; next, Lolorua.
Rawson Stakes: Allunga; next,
Faith Australia,
Railway Handicap: High ; next,
Merrie Miller or Goorka.
Autumn Handicap: Salamander ;
next, Egmont.
Parramatta Mile: Loud Applause
or Merrie Miller; next, Prittle
Prattle.


MAKE TOY'S
am! NOVELTIES
m
Thousands of toy and novelty makers, for
hobby or spare or full-time money-making:,
are using the new “Delta” Scroll Saw. Runs
at full motor speed (1,800 strokes a minute)
without vibration. Uses, finest jeweler s blade
at full motor speed. Wonderful for many
COME IN
TODAY!
types of woodworking. To see
it is a treat. Don’t miss it. Ask
our salesmen to demonstrate.
No obligation.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED DELTA
BOOKLET, POST FREE.
Proprietary limited
51 BATHURST STREET . . . SYDNEY.
582 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
116 WAYMOUTH STREET, ADELAIDE.
532 MURRAY STREET PERTH.
INTRODUCING
THE NEW
BOLGA” POLEY SADDLE
£9/7/6
(Bare).
£lO/10/-
(Mounted).
This is a new
“Tumba” de-
sign, and fea-
tures a roll
built into the
seat. The tree
is well plated, and has
solid gullet plate, also
free stirrup bars.
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Mitt Shover”; Reported that Max
Rosenbloom, an American child of Judah
until recently light-heavy champion of
the world, has cabled Sydney Stadium
management that he is leaving by the
Mariposa on March 31. He is expected
to fight Palmer towards the end of April.
Miler, beaten by Palmer in Sydney the
other day, has fought Rosenbloom a
couple of times and reckons it will be a
toss-up. American scrappers are show-
ing an eagerness to rush Australian offers
that was not so evident in the days before
Uncle Sam practically went broke, and
there has been a growing idea that most
of the much-advertised rewards these
scrappers are supposed to pouch in their
native land are inflated, and with hot air
at that. In Australia what money there
is on offer is real money.
* * SJC *
“Mari-ja”: One thing about the fight-
promotion business, it keeps you guess-
ing. If the papers can be believed, the
man at the top knows as little about what
is to happen from one week to the other
as the “Daily-Slather”-bred expert who
shouts from the bleachers. Varying
accounts say that Ross, Lewis, Rosen-
bloom and half a dozen others are
booked to fight here, two promoters lay-
ing claim to them ; and other accounts,
quite as emphatic, state they won’t come
at any price. With regard to the locals,
things are no more definite. The N.B.C.
crowd kept Sydney Stadium closed on
Monday night because they couldn’t get
a match. First, Hough and Presciso were
to have filled the bill, but the Italian’s
ribs were troubling him. Then Marino
couldn’t meet Jones because of boils, and
Jones’s kneecap kept him from fighting
Purcell. As a last resource, Hough and
Campbell were offered a tussle, but
Hough’s knee wasn’t ready. It’s a
chancy business right enough.
H' '!» »f*
“Mitt Shover”; Yankee
coon J. H, Lewis —not to be
confused with Louis, the
cullud candidate for the
world’s heavy title —adminis-
tered a sound hiding to Jock
McAvoy in New York, re-
taining his light-heavy title
and winning 14 of the 15
rounds. Lewis was 41b.
heavier than his opponent,
but there was no doubt
about his being the better
man. The result is a bitter
disappointment to British fol-
lowers of the game, for they
were convinced that in Mc-
Avoy they had at last found
a world’s champion.
Footbrawl
N.S.W. Rugby League started its
season with a night football competition
at the Sydney Sports Ground. In spite
of some rain a crowd of 2000 paid £127,
and attendances should be good until
cold weather arrives. The profit is
put down as only £25 less than the total
for all games on the opening day last
season.
* * * *
“Gate”; The N.S.W. country Rugby
League seems to have fairly got the
wind up. At the recent conference in
Sydney, president Ferris successfully im-
plored the metropolitans to allow his
league to take all the profits from the
country-city matches in Sydney on May
9. Backing the request, vice-president
Hayes said that if the country league
didn’t get the profits “it may go out of
existence.” League football is being
seriously threatened by the amateur
code in the country. If the N.S.W.
Rugby Union had sense it would turn its
energies to re-establishing the game there
instead of trying to run the code through-
out Australia.
“Whyki”; English League full-back
Sullivan won’t be making the Australian
trip, after all; he decided to drop out
because his wife is ill, Jim Brough, Leeds
full-back, who was here in 1928, will
take his place as captain, and Gwynne
Davies, who plays centre for Wigan,
comes in to make up the team. The
tourists won’t go short of a full-back.
Belshaw will probably be rated second
for that position, but two other centres,
Atkinson and Risman, have also played
there.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: The Newcastle (N.S.W.)
R.U. had a slap at the governing body
of the game in Sydney for its methods
of selecting inter-State teams ; the play-
ful habit of picking inter-State teams
before any country players have been
seen at work was the subject of some
hard words. The Sydney crowd will
only have itself to blame if the New-
castle Union is reabsorbed in the League
as it was before. It is time the control
of Rugby in Australia was handed over
to an Australian Union representative of
all the States.
* * * *
“Hand Out”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union intends to distribute largesse to its
"I know I'm a wee bit late, but ye canna borrow four racquets and six
balls in five minutes !”
grade clubs on a more liberal scale, the
old worsted stocking in the cigar-box
under the bed having attained swollen
proportions during the last year or two.
Each club will be credited with 10 p.c.
of net takings at first and reserve
matches, semi-finals and finals excepted.
Advertising expenses and ground hire are
docked. The minimum amount for each
club is expected to be about £35; if
the sock permits, this may be jumped to
£5O. There is also a2O p.c. commish on
the sale of membership badges.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: Wales has re-
gained the British Rugby championship
after some years on the outer. After
drawing with England in the opening
match, Wales beat Scotland 13 to 3 and
Ireland 3 to nil. Close on 70,000 saw
the final match at Cardiff, and it was
anybody’s game until a* penalty goal
gave the Taffies the verdict.
* * *
“Port Adelaide”; If the Victorians
have thrown inter-State football over-
board for the coming season, South and
West Australia have not. It was origi-
nally arranged that Westralians should
play this year in Adelaide, but it is now-
likely that Wheatfielders will cross the
continent to try conclusions at Perth. This
shows little consideration for the feelings
of Victorian League clubs, which never
miss a clash between South Australia and
the West at Adelaide without having
hordes of scouts there to spot and seduce
promising new players away to Mel-
bourne. These will have to go to Perth
this year, and Melbourne clubs are, for
the most part, dashed hard up at present.
* * % %
“Red and Black”: “Hotham” (B.
4/3/’36) is well astray. Essendon F.C.
does not hold its ground from the
cricket club, but, in common with that
club, holds it from the Essendon City
Council. Neither does the cricket club
take the big end of the money; actually
a proportion of all cricket membership
fees is paid to the League club.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Huon”: Players at the big Tasmanian
golf carnival from March 28 to April 11
will do the round of tourneys at Hobart,
Launceston, Devonport, Ulverstone, Sea-
brook and Wynyard. Events include the
open championships of North and South
Tasmania, with £350 prize-money for
pros. Women are provided for by a
handicap and mixed foursomes at
Hobart. The heads will do their travel-
ling without the girls.
* * * #
“Cottesloe”; Westralian golfers have
set up a cry for the allocation of cham-
pionship meetings to their State. There
are now 110 clubs in the West, and new
ones are being spawned every day, but
it has Buckley’s chance of breaking into
the ring formed by South Aus., Vic, and
N.S.W. For years Queensland has been
standing weeping at the gates of Para-
dise, like the peri in the poem, and has
got the dirty push every time. The tale
pitched by the monopolists is that it is
too far for their golfers to journey to
Perth or Brisbane. On that showing
Perth and Brisbane golfers who would
like to 1 compete in championship events
are similarly handicapped. It is an old
story. In every sport one or two States
try to set themselves up as the final
authority for the whole of Australia.
“Baffy”: The managerial report on the
adventures of the Australian professional
golfers in the U.S.A. (B. 18/ 3/ ’36) bears
out many rumors on the subject. Most
striking is the statement that the Ameri-
can P.G.A, professed to have no know-
ledge of the team’s cpming and refused
to recognise it until official assurances
had been cabled from the Australian
body. Further, the American officials
deny having had any correspondence
with Australia concerning the tour. As
several letters from these people were
mentioned in the Sydney press before the
team left it is up to the P.G.A. at this end
to publish the entire correspondence and
so show whose memory is at fault.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The qualifying rounds for
the Lucifer Cup, open only to visiting
“colonial” players, will be played on the
English courses of Stoke Poges, Moore
Park and Oxley on July 6. There is a
huge entry to be thinned out, leaving
102 to compete in the final 36 holes
against bogey. Last year H. A. Parker,
of Sydney, took the cup, and the big Aus-
tralian entry this year has the material
to provide another winner from this end.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: According to Jim Wil-
lard, who has been helping Cochet
through his tour of Maorilarid, the M.L.
tennis heads were so taken with the
Cochet circus that they are talking of
staging a tournament open to amateurs
and professionals alike. The open tennis
tournament is bound to come, and Aus-
tralia would be quick to adopt it if the
path was smooth. But the International
L.T. Federation has so far refused to
countenance these all-in tourneys, and to
stage them without permission would
mean excommunication by that august
body and relegation to the shades of
professionalism.
“Rev. Knucklebone”; Mrs. R. S.
Cozens, who wields a big stick in Syd-
ney tennis circles, has returned from
England, and hinted of a visit from a
British women’s team in a year or two.
Moreover, she says an Australian team
would be welcomed in Britain next
season. It was this lady who, with a
few backers of her own sex, was re-
sponsible for the very successful tour by
Dorothy Round and her mates a couple
of seasons ago.
❖ jJc H 1
“Jachris”; Perry tried out his injured
back in a game with Austin, accounting
for his Davis Cup mate 6-0, 7-9, 7-5. He
said he was satisfied everything was all
right; but he pulled his services and put
little weight into his other shots. He’s
holding an Australian job down at
present, and hopes to be back here in
November, when, he says, he’ll do all he
can “to snaffle the Queensland cham-
pionship.”
Miscellaneous
A belated match with Western Prov-
ince at Cape Town while the Australians
were waiting for their boat went to the
visitors by eight wickets. The star turn
was the reappearance of veteran Dave
Nourse, who was here with the 1910-11
’Boks. The match did not alter the tour-
ists’ batting averages appreciably, though
a century by Chipperfield hoisted him to
third place. O’Reilly’s 12 wickets for 99
made his total 95, three ahead of Grim-
mett.
“Biltong”; Young Dudley Nourse is
justly claimed as the hero (on the losing
side) of this season’s big cricket in South
Africa, but his father, A. D. Nourse,
has put up something of a record.
Picked to play for the Western Province
against Richardson’s men, the
old ’un top-scored in the first
innings with 55. A.D.N. is
English-born ; he went out to
Natal with his regiment in
the ’nineties and stayed in
the country to prove himself
one of its finest cricketers.
Wisden gives his age as 58.
Is there any record of an
Australian player holding his
place in a State team till any-
where near that age?
* * *
“Aigburth”: It looks like a
sure thing that Australian-
born G. O. Allen will lead
the next English cricket team
against his fellow-country-
men. He is recovered from
the leg injury which has han-
dicapped him for the past
couple of seasons, and is
practising hard at Fairfax’s
school in London. Allen
would prove as great a suc-
cess as Chapman, and if, like that
good fellow, he got away with the Test
series, nobody on this side but will wish
him the best of luck.
* * * *
“Kibosh”: France is talking about
imposing a special set of sanctions on
Germany, to take the shape of a general
boycott of the Berlin Olympiad, if Hitler
doesn’t skedaddle from the demilitarised
Rhine area. The French reckon the ban
would cost the Huns some 14 millions of
foreign money. In any case, France itself
would not take part, and as the
French entry at these games is always a
large and important one that alone
should be a severe setback to the suc-
cess of the Olympiad.


To-days
aid
to sparkling
HEALTHand # FITNESS
‘Pep’ in a Few Minutes
m.
%
m.
r ;
mr
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments!
WHY be ntrvous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep uto your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain severd pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitress amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-,
me-up! Not only mikes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty”’ skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on altrictive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different beng when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
‘lt has
Hone me
a lot of
good 9
M
1
H
't'A
E
■
m
\
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
ONE
User says-*
“I find great
relief in Cream
„f Yeast; it has
one me good
in several
~ ways. Had
been in ‘-y. Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ \, going back in health, and
was in a v> bad way. Before finishing
my first h] e 0 f Cream of Yeast I
began to i%ve. I have spent no end
of money o 0 ther medicines, but none
have accomfbed the good that Cream
of Yeast ha9 one>>-- Such a vast im-
provement in, short a time.”
.—A.E., Y'oung, N.S.W,
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast Is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
est tonic pick-
me-up known."
f
df
df
d
fd
fd
fdf
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP*
TO-DAY—
Amazing Vitality To-morrow!
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to be thin, nervous and lacking in “pep”
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained Slbs. to 15lbs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Got a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money wall be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in If minutes. Banishes
Depression, Lore Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in S minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Golds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within Id
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Roils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Famous
A tit letcs
train on
Cream of Yeast.
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, 3/6 and 5/9,


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA! 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
March Issue Now on Sale.
POSITION OF BONDHOLDERS
IN
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY. AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
, For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., L td., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
m
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
m
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
To Buy or Sell?
The most pronounced setback since
1931 has recently been seen in the share-
market. Following a period of great
buoyancy in industrials, the general
marking-down here—however heavy —
didn’t wipe out the gains of the last few
months. There was a quick rally, in any
case. But goldmining shares, since the
mining revival commenced, have never
been sicker. In this section of the
market something like a collapse took
place.
The greater the speculation, the greater
the fall when doubts arise. The share-
market following increased considerably
when the gold-scrip boom started. When
investment stocks began their spectacular
recovery from depression levels, support
swung away from the gold gamble, which
by this time showed signs of cracking up
under its own weight. Taking a general
view, it is doubtful whether Stock Ex-
change activity has ever been greater in
Australia than during the past three
years, or the sharemarket a matter
of interest for a larger number of
people.
A lot of buyers acquired shares with
the idea of making capital profits—they
bought for market rises, and increased
dividends were but one of the necessary
influences for a good rise in such cases.
Income from dividends was often of
secondary importance.
Market buoyancy based on speculative
dealings such as these is prone to reac-
tions. Buyers may provide only a por-
tion of the finance necessary, their
brokers putting up the rest. Rarely do
dividends meet “carrying” charges in
such cases. The buyer therefore can’t
afford to hold unless he sees capital
profits coming in the form of market
appreciation. When market depreciation
occurs, or is threatened, nervous selling
emphasises the fall.
The imminence of tighter money and
higher interest started the present un-
certainty about three weeks ago. Then
Hitler’s remilitarisation of the Rhine
zone prompted more selling, as the
bombing of Adowa did last October.
Many punters decided to cut their losses
on gold shares. Market movements have
been so disappointing here that it needs
a stout heart to support gold scrip at
present.
Among industrials, prices will swing
into balance again sooner or later.
Genuine investors buying for income
will absorb any low-priced stocks of
quality offering and steady the market
at a level in keeping with prevailing in-
terest rates. Taking a long view, whether
a European war comes or not, ordinary
(or equity) shares are probably the best
investment offering in the Common-
wealth. That is, of course, after con-
sidering the present and probable return
available.
War, generally speaking, is not dis-
astrous to industrial concerns. Equities
of any kind are more valuable during
a period of rising prices, which in the
past have been an inevitable consequence
of hostilities. In financing the sinews of
war the first mediums to lose value are
money and securities of fixed monetary
value. Ordinary shares in industrial
concerns may represent (according to the
company) equities in commodities, land
and other assets likely to appreciate
rather than depreciate during a period
of inflation.
Weight has to be given, when buying
shares, to more things than market
“tone,” which is often psychological.
Dividends or similar income eventually
govern share values. Returns ol 3 p.c.
require a rosy future to justify them, and
concerns with extensive share registers
need large profits and reserves to
manage big dividends or bonus issues.
A thing to consider always with key
industries is whether the Australian
market is expanding sufficiently, as a
result of tariff protection or growth in
“Another spurt, boy, and she's ours!”
population, to indicate an increase in
earning power.
We live in a world of changes. But
Australian industry and management
have been tried and tested during the
last five years. However top-heavy
public finance may be, investors will
not be blamed if they put their faith
in private industries as investments. Still,
they should consider every purchase in
the light of whether it is an investment.
In arriving at a decision, full regard
must be given to market price and the
return —immediate and probable.
Fair Yields from Industrials
Some ordinary shares showing a return
better than 4 p.c. at present market
prices and div. rates:
Yield,
Price. p.c.
Castlemaine-Perkins 26/- c.r. 4.4
Australasian Paper 36/6 4.4
Australian Cement 30/- 6.7
Australian Knitting 28/9 *5.5
Broken Hill Prop 61/- 4.1
David Jones 43/6 4.6
Fairymead Sugar 37/6 5.3
Gordon and Gotch .... 47/6 4.3
Henry Jones 39/6 4.4
Kandos Cement 24/- 6.7
Millaquin Sugar 38/- 4.2
Myer Emporium 32/- 4.7
Prestige 17/6 5.7
Yarra Falls 41/- 4.9
* After distribution of 57 Yarra Falls shares
for 100 A.K.M., and assuming that 6 p.c. is
paid on A.K.M.’s reduced capital.
All are concerns of a number of years’
establishment. Some have demonstrated
more consistent earning power than
others. The cement cos. at present are
unusually depressed because of tariff
and interest alterations, which may or
may not reduce their earnings.
About a year ago it was shown before
the Tariff Board that, after converting our
currency to a gold basis, Australian
motor tyres were as cheap as anywhere
in the world. Yet the protective tariff
on tyres was one of the items recently
slashed; already surplus production of
other countries is being rushed in. There
is no excuse for imports as unnecessary
as these. Three competitive tyre-making
organisations operate in the Common-
wealth, and that is including Barnet Glass
with Dunlop-Perdriau.
* * * *
The Kraft paper and cardboard cos.,
Australasian Paper and Cumberland
Paper Mills (they control Australian
Paper Manufactures), have had a stable
market for their shares lately. A few
months ago £500,000 in capital and share
premiums was sought in order to finance
purchase of a new machine for produc-
ing glazed paper, in addition to a 100-
ton-a-day board mill. A market for in-
creased output exists, and effect of the
new plant should be reflected in earnings
before the end of this year. Cumber-
land’s old ords. at 345., give a yield of
£4 14s. p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Australasian Paper ords. at 375. return
£4 6s. sd. p.c.
* * * *
With a return of 2072 fine ounces from
6029 long tons, New Occidental (Cobar,
N.S.W.) showed a yield of 6.B7dwt. for
February, as against 6.93dwt., 6.6ldwt.
and B.osdwt. in the three preceding
months. It is the largest crushing to date
—l3Ol tons above that for last October,
when 21030 z. was produced. But be-
cause of lower-grade the yield was 31oz.
lighter than for October.
New Occidental’s bore from the 940 ft.
level revealed values between 14.5dwt.
and 17.6dwt. over widths which show no
shrinkage. In No. 9 crosscut highly-
payable stone is being developed in a
lode 75ft. wide.
% # H« *
Carshalton (8.M.L.) Mines, NX. (the
initials in parenthesis are the trade-marfc
of Bendigo Mines, Ltd., which sponsored
the float), since it was formed in October,
1934, has spent a good deal of time and
money in sinking a main shaft —now
down to over 900 ft. At No. 3 level
(300 ft.) a system of spurs was located.
Returns from stone from driyes on the
formation have given several yields going
better than 12dwt. Last crushing was 120
tons for 83|oz. The previous 111 tons
put through produced 540 r. Groups of
closely-spaced spurs on the Bendigo field
have sometimes been more productive
than saddle-reefs. Development, especi-
ally on No. 3 level, where extensive
quartz formations continue to be met
with, is now being pushed ahead. There
are 535,000 10s. share? out, 454,000 paid
to 3s. 6d. Vendors have an option (until
25/10/’3B) over 80,00) more at a 2s. 6d.
premium. Present market for the con-
tribs. is 6s. They are well held.
* * * *
Cement cos. continue to lack market
support. Kandos at 21s. yields 6 2-3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis ; Australian
Cement, representing the Victorian arm
to the control of tlie big operating co.
(Aust. Portland Pty,), shows the same at
30s. In an era of 2 p.c. to 4i p.c. re-
turns on sound indussrials, those incomes
look too good to b( true. The fact is
that the market is tfraid of tariff and
credit policy. But it is possible that the
construction trades, helped by more
vigorous trading coiditions, will be able
to withstand a certain amount of credit
curtailment. That Is the principal bug-
bear at the momerf.
*«/ * *
In Melbourne Ijst week:
There was a dffinib pick-up in the industrial
market toward? tffe middle of the week.
Broken Hill Pro>s. vere back to over 605., and
bargain-hunters sent prices of other sound
stocks (where homing a reasonable yield) to
higher figures. Yarra Falls, of which a parcel
or two had ben sold at 395. 6d., came back
briskly to 41s. Australasian Paper was sought
after. These tocks, with Gordon and Gotch,
show little los ground after the market shake.
G. J. Coles, mugh stronger than on Monday,
made slowerneadway, as did Aus. Glass and
British Tobago, two other stocks in the under-
3TP-c.-yield 4ass.
Indecisior was the keynote of mining-share
dealings. 3ase-metal stocks certainly were
firmer. Bv leading gold issues were generally
weaker. Jnperor, Loloma and Koroere were
conspicuoF Loloma touching a new low level.
New Ocdental, down to under 10s. follow-
ing laboi troubles at Cobar (N.S.W.), was
the lowe in its career as a leading market
stock. friton and North Kalgurli showed
stoutest distance to the market trend.
LondC Stores earned a shade under 10
p.c. on rd. capital, after paying the pref. div.
Ords. yre handed p.c., an increase of 2\
p.c.
Amok steadier gold issues were Morning
Star, bcks Eldorado and Wattle Gully, all
Victorp concerns. Carshalton (Bendigo) after
a dip,irmed around 6s. Gordon was some-
what eaker.


m
mm
LEATHER COATS
Direct from Sydney’s Leading Leather Coat Manufacturers at
Wholesale Prices.
ONLY GENUINE HIDES USED.
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS.
Warm Waterproof Lasting
Ladies’ Fashionable Leather Coats
Made from special ladies weight Genuine Calf-
skin. Shades of IVlid Brown, New Season s Tan,
Wine. Red, Light Bottle Green, Navy, etc.
Guaranteed fast colors.
4>
GUINEAS
MEN’S QUALITY HIDE COATS
Finest Workmanship and Finish throughout.
Smart, warm and waterproof. Mid Brown or
Nigger Brown Shades.
A Special, Guaranteed 5 Years.
SPECIALLY SELECTED SUPER HIGH
79 6
GRADE. 99/6.
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODHPURS
MEN’S JODHPURS, Grey or Fawn, Strong
Whipcord. Were 30/- 17 6
NOW, pair
LADIES’ JODHPURS, Well-tailored in
Saddletwist Gabardine. Uusally, per
pair 27/6 10/11
NOW, per pair
MEN’S and LADIES’ RIDING BREECHES,
made from Smart and Strong Saddletwist.
All sizes. Usually, per pair, 27/6. 15/11
NOW, per pair
MEN’S HIGH-GRADE RIDING BREECHES,
in Bedford Cord. Particularly well-
tailored to fit.
Usually, per pair 39/6 27/6
NOW, per pair
m
'sAlk
**
> '
SUM
Margaret Sullivan
(Universal Star)
Enjoy Motor Camping
MARQUEE MOTOR TENTS, 6ft. Walls. Size 12x12.
15oz. Waterproof Duck TOP. 9oz. Duck WALLS.
£4/17/6
.... JU.
O 09» . ' '
I .'VI
—.
s
All Marquee
and Goldo
Tents com-
plete. Tele-
scopic Poles,
Ropes, Pegs,
“Goldo” Marquee Motor Tents
Special Make and Extra Strong Construction.
Sizes.
Also MOTOR COVERS, TARPAULINS and Camp Equipment at Lowest
Prices. Write for Catalogue.
The Grosvenor “Dictator.”
The only unbreakable Tennis
Racket Frame. Oval or Flat
Top. Usually 80/-
1936 Offer 57/6
The Grosvenor
“J. O. Anderson.”
Flat Top. Usually
1936 Offer
All White
Oval or
.... 75/-
45/-
uE'Sßaufl»fcaasBiiHia«aßß
/IssfislilflllsSsSsssl
ns ««■■■■•■■
rmaifuiißnißiiaaapi
l\* g » » "»2SSS£S£Si£2JSfI
m* »H«jj
American
De Luxe
UNIMEX
FOLDING CAMERA
MODERN
DESIGN.
COMPACT
AND
LIGHT.
WORTH
2 GUINEAS,
Only
12'B
POST
FREE
The LOWEST-PRICED and MOST RELIABLE Pocket or
Handbag Size Folding Camera on the Market.
Fitted with Synchromatic Lens, New and Easy Peep-sight method of Focussing.
No delay when taking a picture, springs open ready for use at the press of a button.
Takes Good, Sharp, Crystal-clear Pictures,
PORTRAITS, SNAPS or TIME EXPOSURES.
The Fine-grained Negatives ensure Perfect Enlargements of your Favorite Snaps.
Unbreakable, made of Rustless Metal and beautifully finished in shades of Black,
Brown or Grey.
Attractively and artistically boxed for Presentation Purposes.
Illustrated and Printed Instructions with each.
Daylight Loading. ULTRACHROME ROLL FILMS, Bd. per Spool (6 Exposures).
The Grosvenor “White City” All Grosvenor Rackets carry full
Ordinary. Flat Top. GUARANTEE of 60 Days on
Usually 40/- Frame and 100 Days on Gut.
1936 Offer 25/-
All High-grade Goods at Lowest
Prices.
Write for Free Catalogues.
MAIL ORDERS POST FREE.
FREIGHT EXTRA only on Heavy Articles,
»uch as TENTS, TARPAULINS, etc.
d
254 GEORGE STREET
(Next Bulletin Office),
also at
429 GEORGE STREET
(Corner Market Street),
SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years. ’Phone: 85748.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“I Dream Too Much”
The world owes much to the screen;
not the least debt is the discovery that
the public wants singers who are good to
look at as well as to listen to. Avoir-
dupois has, contrary to all the traditions
of opera, been eliminated in the quest,
and bulk is no longer the twin sister of
hel canto. One result of the quest is
Lily Pons, who comes to the screen
with a big reputation. That reputation
is not only upheld but enhanced as the
result of her first film. In it she sings
two arias that are the delight and despair
of coloraturas the world over—the Bell
Song from Delibes’s “Lakme” and “Caro
Nome” from “Rigoletto.” Both are sung
effortlessly in a voice of marvellous
purity. Miss Pons possesses a big range
Ethel Morrison in “Night Must Fall.”
and excellent control in the half voice,
and is invariably in the middle of the
note. When it is added that she has
vivacity, charm, acting ability, good looks
and a neat, slim figure her value to the
screen may easily be appreciated.
The story is slight and has little to do
with the picture’s success. Only one
thing matters in the film —Lily Pons's
glorious voice. At Sydney State.
“The Widow from Monte Carlo”
Also at the State. Nothing like this
has ever been seen on the screen before,
and it is devoutly to be hoped that no-
thing like it will ever be seen again. An
utterly puerile plot, dealing vaguely with
the inanities of a dowager duchess, an
English lord, an impecunious lounge
lizard and a Manhattan tough. To im-
press on the audience its Mayfair
hall-mark countless “frightfullys” and
“awfullys” punctuate the idiotic dialogue.
Dolores del Rio is hopelessly wooden,
and her efforts to exude “it” border on
the laughable. Warren William is little
better. Herbert Mundin and Louise
Fazenda try hard to infuse a little humor
into the thing, but they seem depressed
with the hopelessness of their task.
“Foreign Affairs”
This is a Ben Travers comedy ; scene
mostly in Nice, at or not far from gaming
tables. Tom Walls is Capt, the Hon.
Archibald Gore, elderly, inveterately a
gambler, and almost perpetually broke.
Ralph Lynn is a young motor salesman
currying favor with a rich aunt (Mary
Lohr), and Robertson Hare is another
nephew, Lynn’s rival for the lady’s
favors. Diana Churchill is a sweet girl
employed as a decoy by a bogus count
who swindles people at cards, takes their
jewellery as security for their losses, and
returns imitations of the gewgaws if
and when paid. Walls and Lynn wind
up in the dock in a French court, where,
the principal witness against them being
a German, they are acquitted with honor.
Principal merit of the piece is Walls’s por-
trayal of that very downy old bird the
captain ; the borrowing technique of the
type is soundly demonstrated. There is
fun in the court scene, too, mostly con-
tained in passages between Walls and an
interpreter, and the action stays on the
saner side of the line dividing comedy
and farce. At Sydney Embassy.
“The Clairvoyant”
What sort of fortune would a gift to
see what is happening far away and to
foretell the future bring its possessor?
An interesting attempt to answer the
question is made in this English talkie.
Maximus, a charlatan of the type that
pretends clairvoyance, depending on
coded information from an assistant (his
wife), discovers during a contretemps in
a theatre performance that he a
genuine faculty of second-sight which
warns him of an impending railway
disaster. The daughter of a newspaper
proprietor, sitting in a box, seems to be
the source of his uncanny flash. He
forgets the incident, but remembers it
when he sees the girl again, in a train.
He pulls the communication cord, stops
the train, and insists on leaving it with
his party and the girl. A little later there
is a terrible collision. Under the inspira-
tion of the same girl Maximus foretells
the winner of the Derby and secures
newspaper employment. He prophesies
a disaster in a tunnel under the Humber,
a prophecy which the newspaper refuses
to print, so he goes to the tunnel him-
self and harangues the workers. They
disregard his warning, and go below,
when the tunnel caves in. Maximus is
arrested on a charge of having brought
about the accident by scaring the workers
into panic, and is tried before a jury.
In the course of the proceedings it is
brought out that the railway collision
of his first successful prophecy wouldn’t
have occurred if Maximus hadn’t de-
layed the train. However, by being able
to inform the Court that he sees the
men trapped in the Humber tunnel dig-
ging themselves out, which proves to be
true, Maximus get's an acquittal; de-
cides to have nothing more to do with
the society girl who impels his clair-
voyances, and clears off to America with
his own devoted wife. Claude Rains as
the clairvoyant. Fay Wray as his wife
and Jane Baxter as the third corner of
the triangle are convincing, and the sup-
port is -good. An original plot, intelli-
gently presented on the whole. At
Sydney Embassy.
“The Milky Way”
In this Harold Lloyd is a fighting milk-
man. His muscles are “soft as a bagful
of dead mice,” but through necessity in
youth he is master of the art of ducking
(i.e., dodging a hit). By mistake he gives
a “mouse” (interpretation: black eye) to
Speed (William Gargan), who is cham-
pion middleweight of the world, thereby
exciting the interest of Adolph Menjou,
cast as a gum-chewing fight-promoter.
Harold agrees to fight, for he badly wants
money to pay for medical attention,
which turns out to be maternity atten-
tion for his pal Agnes, the milkcart horse.
Events follow swiftly. Polly (Dorothy
Wilson) accuses Harold, by then known
as “the Fighting Tiger,” of being a killer
who should be hung on the wall with the
spoils of big-game hunting, a sort of
Jekyll-and-Hyde monster. Harold accord-
ingly practises gorilla noises in front of
the mirror. Then Agnes’s foal arrives
on the scene, goes to the stadium with
“Tiger” Harold, whose opponent Speed
it kicks by mistake in the face.
Speed sinks on the floor and is doped
with insomnia mixture instead of am-
monia, so that he goes to sleep during
the fight. And so forth. A good farce.
At Melb. Capitol.
“Mystery of the Mary Celeste”
This screen version of the 64-year-old
maritime puzzle makes no pretensions
to authenticity. It is a fictitious struc-
ture, the foundation of which is the
meagre evidence adduced at the Prize
Court at Gibraltar. The story is highly
dramatic—even melodramatic —but it is
no more unlikely than the many other
theories advanced for the unsolved
tragedy. The film opens with the court
scenes at Gibraltar, casts back to the
events leading up to the ship’s abandon-
ment, and finishes with the Court’s ad-
mission of failure to account for the
mystery.
With a shanghaied crew trouble was
inevitable for Captain Briggs, who takes
his bride with him on the death-ship.
The crew fall one by one to an unseen
hand, then the captain and his bride go
—the killing of them is not shown —
until the only two left are the brutal
mate and a former victim of his brutality,
now a religious maniac. The killer is
disclosed in the final scene, when a storm
takes the last one. The interest is well
sustained, and there is a surprise in the
denouement. The motive of jealousy,
with the skipper of another ’jammer in
love with Briggs’s wife, is the least con-
vincing. Bela Lugosi is satisfactorily vil-
lainous, and Shirley Grey has little to
do, but does it well. Arthur Margetson
and Dennis Hoey as the rival captains
bring the necessary dash of salt to their
roles. A few lovely shots of flying spars
against lowering skies whet a desire for
more. At Sydney Mayfair.
“Sylvia Scarlett”
Based on Compton Mackenzie’s novel.
How closely it follows it doesn’t matter.
Apparently the product of an American
film co.’s English studio it captures,
especially in the opening sequences, an
atmosphere of fantasy in which irre-
sponsible adventure seems quite in place.
Erna Living as the cook in “Night Must
Fall.”
In character the film is a hybrid of
“Good Companions” and “First a Girl.”
Katharine Hepburn masquerades in boy’s
clothes, and there’s a comedy costume
troupe. Edmund Gwenn as a character
who is the victim of “hard liquor and a
soft heart” proves his versatility. Cary
Grant presents a jovial, good-hearted sort
of Cockney crook, and Brian Aherne
satisfactorily fills a semi-romantic role.
The plot and the incidents that arise out
of it are compounded of moonlight and
champagne rather than the substance of
life, but the play of character is virile
and the story grips the interest. At
Sydney Lyceum.
“Two Hearts in Harmony”
An English talkie with a transatlantic
strain. Bernice Claire is an American
Lloyd Lamble as “Baby-face” Dan in
“Night Must Fall.”
singer who takes part in a puppet show
in a cabaret. A series of coincidences
lands her the job of governess to a
juvenile earl —a quaint little chap whose
serious good manners are a delightful
feature of an otherwise rather trite per-
formance. The noble marquess, papa of
the earl, falls in love with the cafe singer,
and that’s all there is to it. Miss Claire
has a pleasant singing voice and is pretty,
but neither she nor any other member of
the cast save the youngster has enough
individuality to stick in the memory.
“Lady of Secrets”
This talkie starts off very unpromis-
ingly, but develops, despite an overloaded
plot, many touches of melodrama and
recourse to that almost discarded artifice
the flashback, into something that holds
the interest well. Ruth Chatterton and
Otto Kruger have the bulk of the work.
The former is somewhat handicapped by
the double character given her —she has
to change overnight from a self-pitying
nerve case who has shunned society and
enjoyment for 20 years into a self-
possessed woman of the world fighting
for her daughter’s happiness—and her
own. In such cases the stronger the
impression made by the first character
the more difficult it is to accept the
second. Marian Marsh, in a part where
all that is asked of her is that she be
sweet, lovable and a little impetuous, is
sweet, lovable and a little impetuous.
At Sydney Regent.
“Man Hunt”
At Sydney Capitol. The reporter of a
small-town paper (William Gargan) and
the young schoolmarm (Marguerite
Churchill) are about to elope when news
comes that an escaped bandit is heading
for their town. Reporter decides to wait
—there may be a scoop in this. Bandit is
found by the girl hiding in her room. He
pitches a sad story, she falls for it, hides
him in her week-end shack and obligingly
sends a telegram to his “dear old
mother,” which brings his pals at the
double. Their plans for robbing the local
bank are overheard by the now disillu-
sioned girl, and she and the boy friend,
failing to enlist the incredulous sheriff’s
aid, start a rumor that the bank has
failed. Depositors flock to draw their
savings out, and when the bandits arrive
there is nary a dahlar in the peter.
G-men, who have been tipped off, get


Stuart Crystal, each piece an ex-
ample of exquisite design produced
by a master craftsman, cannot fail to
add charm and dignity to your home.
English .hand-made crystal. The
name Stuart is etched on every piece.
Obtainable wherever
beautiful glass is sold
Sole Representatives (wholesale only)
L. J. Wahlers & Co.,
317-23, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
Aberdeen House,
204, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Stuart
drtjstal
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original
Tenders.
THE MOUNT BISCHOFF TIN MINING
COMPANY REGISTERED.
Second-hand Plant.
TENDERS are invited and will be received at
the Company’s Head Office, Launceston, Tas.,
up to the 18th April, 1936, for the whole or
any part of the undermentioned Second-hand
Plant as it stands at Waratah, Tas.
15-ton Locomotive (Beyer and Peacock). Steam
pressure allowed, 1401 b. to sq. inch.
15-ton Locomotive (Beyer and Peacock). Steam
pressure allowed, 1001 b. to sq. inch.
Approx. 4000 ft. l}in. Steel Rope used for
aerial ropeway.
Approx. 4000 ft. lin. Steel Rope used for aerial
ropeway.
Two Gyratory Crushers, Bft. x 3ft. Sin.
Small Portable Engine. Steam pressure, 501 b.
to sq. inch.
12in. Gravel Pump and fittings, including 50ft.
of suction and delivery piping.
Pontoon and Superstructure, 42ft. x 42ft., 60ft.
in height, including tie rods, brackets,
angle irons, steel boxes, etc.
Large Revolving Screen and fittings, 30ft. x
6ft. diam.
200-h.p. Motor.
Jib Crane (Tangye).
Engine and Cornish Boiler. Steam pressure,
801 b. to sq. inch.
Breaking-down Saw. Length, Bft.
Seven Circulars. Diameters, sft., 3ft. 10in.,
3ft. 3in., 3ft. 2in., 2ft. 10in., 2ft. 9in.,
2ft. Bin.
Pulleys, fittings and belting.
The lowest or any tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
THOS. G. TRAYNOR,
Launceston. Manager.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
tllttll#
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Be well advised by an
acknowledged Expert!
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
Unrivalled Range /
High-grade
SHOT GUNS
No. B—HOLLIS’ D.8.8.L. SPECIAL DUCK
GUN, 12G., 341 n. steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, especially built for heavj
charges and long distance shooting; similar
in appearance to the No. 3; »
weight, about Bilb. dtlo/5/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 9 —CASHMORE D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
Solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
fore-end pistol grip, walnut ,
stock; weight, about 71b *l4/ IU/"
Carriage Paid.
No. 10—CASHMOBE D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
as No. 9, superior quality and f 1 C/C/.
finish; side clips oy
Carriage Paid.
No. 15.—MIDLAND GUN CO. “SPECIAL”
D.8.8.L. HAMMER GUN, 12G., top lever,
32in. barrels, right modified, left full, bar
locks, solid strikers, matted rib, nitro proof,
pistol grip, X bolt; chambered for 2-J
inch cartridges; weight, ntr\lir\l
about 7Jlb. *lll/ IU/-
Carriage Paid.
No . 20—CERT D.8.8.L. HAM3IERLESS
GUN, 12G., 30in. steel barrels, choke.
Greener cross bolt (A. and D. £Q/17/6
action) • '
Carriage Paid.
No. I—HARRINGTON & RICHARDSON’S
STEVEN’S RIVERSIDE, or IVOR JOHN-
SON’S 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12G., top action,
automatic self-ejecting, steel barrel, solid,
case-hardened, pistol grip, walnut r-r- /
stock; weight of gun about 6J1b... 00/-
Carriage Paid.
The New
“ LIGHTNING ”
Super Charge 12-gauge
fd
Cartridges,
19/6 per 100
A 2}in. charge in a
shell. Game
results are assured
with “Lightning.”
f
Sporting
RIFLES
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD
BS. RIFLE, MODEL 52, 22-cal.,
bolt action, 22in. round barrel, gold
bead front and ladder rear or- /
sight; weight, about 4Jlb. OD/-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 12— WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 07, for 22
short, long or long-rifle rimflre cart-
ridges; 27in. round steel barrel, one-
piece pistol grip stock, safety bolt
Mauser type, ladder rear and metal
bead front sight; weight,
about 4£lb
45/-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 3,
22-cal., ■ 24in. round steel
barrel, bolt action; handles
short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges; gold bead front and
adjustable rear sight, pistol
grip stock; weight, An
about 4Jlb 4^/0
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, & All Branches.
the gang, and the rest is wedding bells.
Brisk, and the acting lively. Ricardo
Cortez leads the villains, and Chic Sale
as a bloodthirsty ancient puts a new slant
into the humor.
Some First Nights
The plot of “Three Men on a Horse,”
the American farce running at Mel-
bourne King’s, revolves around Erwin
Troubridge (Jonathan Hole), who is a
poet of sorts. He certainly has a tempera-
ment: he can’t write his verses for
Mother’s Day (the job his office has
allotted to him) in the country because
of the noises made by the butterflies and
bees, and he can work out his system
for picking sure winners only on the
top of an Ozone Heights bus. Erwin’s
infallible system is a secret hobby on
paper only; he has never had a bet in
his life. He is a pleasant, unassuming
soul; but every worm will turn. Clar-
ence, an arrogant brother-in-law (Cecil
Perry), is the cause of Erwin’s playing
truant from work and getting drunk in a
pub where he meets and gives tips to
Charlie (John D’Arcy), Frankie (Fred
Sherman) and Patsy (Louis Tanno).
The threesome soon regard the inebri-
ated goldmine as their special property.
They even negotiate on the telephone to
sell a share of him to an unknown Gus.
To prevent him running away to deliver
his Mother’s Day verses they take away
his trousers. Patsy claws the air with jeal-
ousy, and tears up the verses in a burst
of anger when he finds Erwin and Mabel
in incriminating circumstances—-Erwin,
wearing his all-over underwear, and
Mabel in her petticoat, for she was once
in the Follies and wants to show Erwin
that she can still do a wobbly high kick.
The situation is purest farce. Mabel
is a good girl, technically anyway. It
took Patsy three weeks and a diamond
bracelet before she was “nice” to him.
Arrogance and greed appear in the
demeanor of the three punters, who by
physical persuasion get Erwin to back
his own tip. The horse wins, but only
after a protest and the manhandling of
the innocent poet. But the spell is
broken, and one gets the impression that
the goose that lays the golden egg can
make money only on a percentage basis
paid by his exploiters.
Jonathan Hole’s interpretation of Erwin
is without a flaw. His quiet manner,
soft voice, cold fishlike passion for his
appalling poems, his lack of excitement
about his system, his total lack of ambi-
tion, his nitwit’s brain and his kindness
of heart are all portrayed in an effortless
picture. Betty Hanna fits in neatly and
pleasantly as Erwin’s wife. Gay Sea-
brook plays the “cute baby” Mabel—a
brainless girl, but she has her principles.
Miss Seabrook never resorts to being coy,
but gets over with a natural smoothness.
An Australian audience reacts adversely
to the baby-doll voice she must use, but
that’s not her fault: it must be attri-
buted to the chunks of the same article
we are forced to swallow at so many
American talkies.
There isn’t much light and shade in
the acting of Cecil Perry as brother-in-
law Clarence until he is ruined after
backing a list of tips which he thought
were Erwin’s when they were in reality
Frankie’s. The three punters start at such
a high pitch that they have practically
nothing left to work up to. For instance,
if Patsy didn’t bluster so much to start
with and Frankie saved up some of his
gibbers and falsetto squeaks until the
climax, the total effect would be more
pungent.
4 1 4* 4*
“Night Must Fall,” presented by the
Firm at Sydney Royal on Saturday night,
is an exposition of the mental mechan-
ism of homicidal mania, a matter about
which most people know very little, but
in which almost all are interested. Save
that the final chapter is used as a preface
the story is unwound in straightforward,
logical fashion, interest piles up and the
most joyous anticipations of those who
revel in shuddersome thrills are more
than realised. Quite a good play, and
one meriting the welcome due to any
oasis in the extensive desert of musi-
comedy that stretches behind and before.
Acting was not all it might be. There
is a great deal of tense whispering in the
play, which helps to create a macabre
atmosphere, but it would have been nicer
it these mutterings had been more clearly
audible. Cast, with a professional back-
ing that included Ethel Morrison, Harvey
Adams and Campbell Copelin, had a
leavening (or thinning, it’s a matter of
taste) of repertory players. Producer
Gregan McMahon probably got the best
result possible out of the mixed team.
4* 4* 4 1 +
The allied forces of the A.B.C. and the
N.S.W. Con. occupied the Sydney Town
Hall one night last week and did their
best to disprove the old legend that the
building is susceptible to destruction by
sound. Vast waves of gloom and fury,
emanating from the dark mind of
Glazounov, whose Sixth Symphony was
one of the Big Berthas of the bombard-
ment, left the hall intact and the
audience (probably) exalted and de-
pressed in equal parts. Happier was the
result of a coruscation of rockets and
Roman candles presided over by Isidore
Goodman, whose playing of the Liszt
E Flat Concerto had very impressive
orchestral support. Dr. Edgar Bainton’s
conducting was masterly and efficient.
This commentator listened to' the pro-
ceedings from a safe stance seven miles
distant. The broadcasting of heavy
orchestral artillery is apparently not yet
an exact science, for at times the brasses
and the drums exuded too much volume
for radio valves to stomach, and the
sound transmitted suggested a riot in
Hades.
Current Artbursts
The works of 11 artists comprise an
interesting exhibition at the Sedpn Gal-
leries, Melbourne. One of the finest pic-
tures on view is undoubtedly “The Quay,
Pont Neuf, Paris,” by Will Ashton, and
the most expensive is a portrait of an
elderly woman by Mclnnes. Mclnnes’s
second exhibit is a painting of a young
girl, a far more decorative piece of work,
but with hardly a glimmer of the bril-
liance of the 200-guinea picture. John
Rowell displays a small but delightful
glimpse of “The Slip Panel,” and Louis
McCubbin charges his brush with
gorgeous blues to catch the sea-mists of
“Coast Near Lome.” In “The Edge of
the Bush” Charles Wheeler manages to
put on canvas the arid inland in the heat
of summer. Possibly Herbert Kemble’s
canvases would look more impressive if
viewed in not quite such talented com-
pany.
Among the water-colorists, Lionel
Lindsay and Harold Latham occupy one
wall. Lindsay’s glow of colors from India
and Spain, although pleasing individually,
provides in the mass too much of a good
thing. His reds and yellows become mon-
otonous. “Arches, Porto Fino,” one of
Latham’s worthiest efforts, is partnered
by three other works, all bearing the mark
of expert technique. There are two land-
scapes from the brush of R. W. Sturgess,
and “Old Houses, Greenwood,” is the
sole representative of J. C. Goodchild.
Harold Herbert hangs four pictures, all
typical examples of his style and color
sense. “Sketch,” done at Queenscliff
during a wet week-end, is his most recent
piece of work,
•I* 4* •J' 4*
Dorrit Black’s show in the Macquarie
Galleries is composed of pictures of the
impressionist school that drastically sim-
plifies things seen and represents a com-
plex scene by a few flat planes and oval
bulges. Occasionally, the method lends
itself to very pleasant designs and color-
ing, as in “The Bake Yard, Corfe Castle,”
and “The Mill Stream, Oberammergau,”
but many of these drawings require refer-
ence to the catalogue for a clue to their
intention. The most vigorous color in
the show runs riot in a lino, print, “Corner
of the Garden,” a very effective piece of
decoration. In the other exhibits arti-
ficialised simplicity seems to defeat its
object, weakening rather than strengthen-
ing the salient features of the scene
depicted.
“Sonata Poeme,” Roy Agnew’s latest
composition (Allan ; 3s. 6d.), retains very
little of the classic sonata form, but is
a remarkably subtle piece of tone-weav-
ing. Agnew’s style, though it has been
likened to that; of Scriabin, is highly in-
dividual, and in the work under discus-
sion the idiom defies attempts to give it
a tab. To thoroughly understand the
work, one feels, one would have to get
under the skin of the composer. Though
the outline is fairly simple and follows
understandable melodic and harmonic
rules, the frequent changes of tempo and
continual modulations and transitions
of key produce an impression of uncer-
tainty and emotional unrest. “More
interesting than inspiring” is a first-
glance verdict, but that has been said
about many a hard nut that was later
discovered to have a sweet kernel.
Allans have made a fine job of the print-
ing;—equal to the best that comes from
Leipzig or London.


AT
THE
H
GfITEMV of SYDN EV
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by all.
Yet. just around the
corner, within two
minutes' walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day;
Room and Breakfast from 10/G
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
0
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
Personal and Missing Friends.
EDWARDS or DUNN.—WILL anyone know-
ing the whereabouts of THEODOSIA
EDWARDS, daughter of Amelia and Samuel
Albert Edwards, formerly of Prahran, and who
was later adopted by Herbert John and Lilian
Catherine Dunn, formerly of West Melbourne,
please communicate with the EQUITY TRUS-
TEES Co., 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne?
WILLIAM CASSON DAWSON, formerly of
Newfield, Seathwaite, Broughton-in-Furness,
Lancashire, England, should in his own interest
get in touch with CRICHTON-SMITH &
INNES KAY, Solicitors, 30 Pitt Street, Sydney.
STEVENS. —Dallas, lan, Mayme or Marjorie,
Olive, Robert or Roland, nephews and nieces
of Elizabeth Bell Stepleton Merrill, deceased,
communicate DARVALL & HORSFALL, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne, to your ad-
vantage.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove even
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The first night of “Night Must Fall”
brought the well-dressed hustling and
bustling to the Royal. The vestibule and
the circle stairway by eight o’clock were
brightly colored, glittering with diamente,
an occasional diamond, and flecked
with ermine. It was just as well there
was brightness in the house, for on the
stage there was none. Sandwiched be-
tween murders even the beauteous Elaine
Hammill had to present a drab facade.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly in the circle and Mrs.
Sep Levy in the stalls created moments
of interest. Mrs. Kelly wore brightly
flowered white moires. With her was
daughter Mrs. John MacPhillamy in
hydrangea pinks. Mrs. Sep Levy covered
the glitter of her black sequins with a
floor-length wrap of Venetian-red velvet.
Tall Alix Lamb contrasted a tunic of
pale lilac with a skirt of deep-wine
tones. The blonde Lilian Pertka, of
“Anything Goes,” wore a slim frock of
black taffetas with a ruffled neckline.
Mrs. F. J. Davy’s chiffons were softly
blue ; so were Mrs. Alexis Albert’s. Mrs.
Lashmar and friend Strella Wilson were
others who drew a second glance. So,
by the way, did film star Charles
Farrell.
Saturday was vice-commodore’s day
at the Royal Motor Yacht Club, and the
activity on the waterfront of Rose Bay
was worthy the occasion. Speedboats
and cruisers rushed about in a bewilder-
ing tangle of foam and spirited evo-
lutions. Race-secretary F. Harris, how-
ever, kept his eye upon them ; so did
Mrs. Harris and the company of women,
smartly dressed in spectator sports
suits, that sauntered into the club from
half past two onwards. Mrs. T. W.
Green, wife of the vice-commodore,
wore a lightweight suit that toned in
with the blue sky, and Mrs. Harris’s
stitched-blue taffeta beret was in keep-
ing with the day. Not many of the
women turned up ready for active ser-
vice in the busy craft, but Pat Mac-
donald spent the afternoon in her
father’s boat sporting royal-blue slacks
and a white blouse. Another sailing fair
wore a deep-blue sailor collar em-
broidered in anchors on her dress of
white linen.
At the dance which rounded off the
afternoon’s excitements, Mrs. T. W.
Green’s frock was blue and silver. She
and the wives of other office-bearers en-
tertained at lavishly beflowered tables.
A Lenci doll in spreading rose-and-silver
taffetas was the subject of a guessing
competition. Each guess was worth six-
pence, and the money went to a worthy
cause —a fund for hard-up yachtsmen!
Sydney’s bookworms turned into but-
terflies last Thursday night and fluttered
up to the Mitchell Library in their bright-
est wings. The occasion was founder
David Scott Mitchell’s birthday party (it
he had lived he would have just reached
his century), and there amid the collec-
tion of Australiana which had been his
life work the trustees of the library
held court. Speaker Dan Levy, former
Minister of Education Tom Mutch and
Education’s present Minister D. H.
Drummond were the speechmakers. The
lastnamed declared the exhibition open,
giving a pat on the back to his own
Government for deciding to have the
library completed on an adequate scale
at a cost of something like £lBO,OOO.
William Dixson, who has given the
Mitchell positively miles of early paint-
ings and prints of Sydney and its sur-
roundings, was an honored guest. He is
as keen a collector as David Scott
Mitchell was, and he owns up to piles
of documentary treasures, every one of
which has been vetted by himself. He
told this Letter he never buys on an
agent’s say-so. A group of Macarthur-
Onslows were among the interested ; the
portraits not only of the founders of the
family fortunes, but of all the shepherd
kings of the State attracted them. Miss
Elizabeth Betts was there, very ethereal
in grey and real lace. A lovely visitor
was Miss Lee, whose complexion and
draped frock of azure blue drew the
whispered comment of every second
woman.
The Charlie Lloyd Jones couple were
among those who hung over the original
log of the Bounty. The Bligh exhibits
enjoyed tremendous popularity (here were
Dr. Mackaness and his wife) —a sort of
protest, no doubt, against the unfavor-
able light in which the former Governor
has lately been presented. A group of
Women Pioneers included Mrs. Lingham,
Carlotta Doyle and a daughter of ex-
Police Commissioner Childs, whose hair
shone like burnished copper above a
frock in which blues predominated. Went-
worths were among the browsers, Mrs.
David Knox was wrapped in a conspira-
torial cape of black velvet. National
Gallery’s Jimmy MacDonald was there ;
so was Victor Mann, of the Macleod
Gallery, Price Conigrave, almost as
much at home as Chief Librarian Ida
Leeson (she wore black velvet), wan-
dered to and fro. Conigrave’s book on
Northern Australia is one of Jonathan
Cape’s special spring offerings.
Mrs. Allen Lewis goes off at the end
of the month for another world tour.
She is the wife of the man known as
“Concrete” Lewis, whose buildings are
now making their mark on Sydney
skylines. Mrs. Lewis’s first port of call
will be Johannesburg, where she will in-
spect her eldest son, Tony, who is with
the Lewis Construction Company. Prob-
ably, too, her glance will stray to the
Post Office, which is one of her hus-
band’s buildings. After South Africa,
Mrs. Lewis will go to Paris and her
daughter Nancy, who is there at school.
During the 18 months she is away hus-
band Allen will be in charge of the baby
of the family. He is at King’s School.
The stage was fringed with palms like
some Pacific isle for the first of the
A.B.C. symphony concerts. The sensa-
tion of coolness got no further than the
brim of the stage, for on that hot and
sticky night the Town Hall was just a
steam bath, and the front-seater could
see Dr. Bainton visibly melting as he
conducted the spirited Glazounov work,
and the violins and the ’cellos looked
equally liquid. The audience was ex-
pensive in frocking. Nora William-
son’s dress was one of the loveli-
est. Of moonlight blue its fabric had a
look of softest kid. The latest blooming
in pastel-tinted posies dripped from its
right shoulder. She went on to young
relation Betty Minnett’s party at Eliza-
beth Bay House. A.B.C.’s publicity girl
Beryl Ross added an emerald-green
coque tippet to her black frock.
The private ball may have gone into a
decline, but her democratic sister the
public dance waxes in allure. The
Fellowship of Australian Writers, scout-
ing around for a floor for the ball it
plans, found that no dancing place of
any size is available on any Saturday
night between now and December. Even
the new Troc. is booked up to the eye-
brows. Now the F.A.W. thinks it will
switch to a Friday night, this being the
next best thing for the journalists in the
ranks. Latest suggestion is a masked
ball, with a slogan “The Longest Bar in
the World.” Proposed site, the Town Hall.
That needn’t alarm the civic fathers, for
the only drink allowed at the dance
would be the ration that goes with the
ball ticket.
Betty Minnett was 21 last Wednesday,
and 400 red roses made carnival in the
dining-room of Elizabeth Bay House to
honor the occasion. There were rose-
red candles on the tables, and the ice-
cream cake was also rosy tinted. Betty
was all in pink, too, and her presents
were as varied as the weather.
Here’s a girl who is both clever and
pretty.' She’s Dr. Sheila Drescher, of
Neutral Bay, Dr. Sheila has lately
graduated, and is now resident medical
at the Mater Misericordiae Hospital.
Montgomery Dunn photo.
The Fullwood Memorial exhibition
continues to be one of Sydney’s attrac-
tions, and a constant stream of visitors
attend at the Education Department’s
galleries. Some of these works are deli-
cately painted on linen —one or two of
them have the sweep and the delicacy of
Japanese art. The walls of the two
rooms are packed with beauty ; Henry’s
brush knew and loved England, Maori-
land and Australia. Rubery Bennett, in
charge of the show, is an old friend of
Henry Fullwood, who even to the last
wore his hat clapped on the side of his
head, his beard at a Captain Kettle
angle, and his own special brand of black
tie. This was French in design, and was
much in vogue among artists when
Henry lived between London and Paris.
One Christmas Henry presented Rubery
Bennett with one of these ties. They
had to be worn with a straight white
collar, around which they ran, a wide
black band finishing with a generous bow
in the front. “Wear that,” said the artist;
“don’t be content to look like a business-
man.”
Veteran artist Lister Lister, whose
show will be on about Easter in Anthony
Horderns’, told another tie story among
the Fullwood pictures. About 15 years
ago there was an outbreak of floppy
black ties among the artists of Sydney.
Soon it seemed to Lister Lister that every
brother of the brush had a bow under
his chin. He decided it might feel rather
nice to have one, too. He went into a
man’s store, and asked for ties. The
attendant showed ties with neat bows,
Lister shook his head, and explained he
wanted larger bows. Bows larger but
still neat were produced. Lister de-
manded still larger, floppier bows. The
attendant was shocked. “Oh, sir,” he
implored, “don’t wear anything larger
than that. They’d take you for one of
them artists.”
A week or more before the Joan
Hammond testimonial the King’s Theatre
at Gordon was sold out. Last Thursday
night filled it with probably the most
fashionable audience of its existence, for
society, spurred on by the Governor-
General’s lady and fhe beauty of Joan’s
voice, has put its best foot forward for
this Australian girl singer. The matrons
of the committee arrived mostly in
black, Mrs. Robert Dixson among them,
but the flower-girls and the sweet-sellers
were gay as blown confetti. The flower-
sellers took pride in their wares and
wore wreaths of fresh flowers.
Waves of lavender flowed from vesti-
bule to stage, for this fragrance was sold
in great clumps, and scarcely a woman
resisted its appeal. The bunches were
tied up and sold in miniature gold band-
boxes. More than half the audience were
golfers, for Joan is a champion. She
wore trailing parchment lace, and sang
like an angel. Lute Drummond, who has
coached her for over two years, played
her accompaniments. Lame that looked
like a strip of green lagoon washed in
moonlight shimmered on the pianist.
Flowers, bunches, baskets and banks of
them, were placed at their feet. Lionel
Lawson and Laurence Godfrey Smith
enriched the programme with the music
of the violin and the piano. In short,
all the best varieties of North Shore line
culture and horticulture were present.
Parliament House was just being
fitted for a suit of extra strong sandbags
and Archdale Parkhill had been called
in to submit a plan of defence when the
Government hauled down its flag and
gave unconditional surrender to the
Housewives’ Coupon Defence League.
The coupon and the little aluminium
saucepan or the pair of linen pillow-
slips represented by several pecks of it
are dear to the heart of the housewife.
The Government contemplated taking
it away from her. Half a million house-
wives replied grimly, “Hands off the
coupon. It may not be much, but it’s
our cash discount.” The Coupon De-
fence League was formed, with Mrs.
Ruby Duncan as general and Mrs.
C. Vaughan (she was Preston Stanley,
M.L.A.) as tactics expert. And didn’t
the women have a lot of fun! They
were going out to Cinesound to have a
picture made the very day the Govern-
ment called the Armistice. The pipe of
peace has been smoked, but out of the
ashes is arising a body active in the
cause of women. It’s to be called “The
Women’s Legion.”
There was a great lunch rally at the
Arts Club on Friday. Originally in-
tended as a council of war, it turned out
to be a victory lunch. Smiles and speech
were the only things that rippled the
placid surface of content. Hostess Mrs.
Florence Taylor was graceful in thin-
nest black and her usual large-size mil-
linery ; near her Portia Geach was small
and alert, her grey frock ruffled in white.
Chairwoman Mrs. Vaughan was dashing
in wine color. Mrs. Laverty spoke,
younger Feminists piped up, and Ruby
Duncan spoke. Everybody spoke!
The lucky girls who go to the Memo-
rial College of Household Arts and
Science at Kirribilli will learn to cook
in gas, electric and fuel stoves. In addi-
tion, they will be experts on food values
and costs, will know all about mother-
craft, and, in short, will be turned out
perfect wives. The college, originally
the home of Dr. Lucy Gullett, is not
far from Admiralty House, has nice
lawns, its own swimming-pool, and pos-
sesses two dormer-rooms that would be
the pride of any girl’s heart. Lucky the
student who bags one of them for a bed-
room! This college has long been the
dream of Dr. Mary Booth, and the
David lady, who made the opening
speech on Saturday, told how it had once
been a dream shared by herself, Mungo
MacCallum’s lady and Mrs. Watson
Munro. Winifred Stenhouse, from
Otago Uni., is the principal. She has
bright cheeks and a rather self-effacing
way of making a speech. The tea (all
baked on the spot) was a long pro-
gramme of delicious eats.
The new Apostolic Delegate (Arch-
bishop Panico) made his entrance to
Sydney at Man-o’-war Steps—a much
more inspiriting way than by an avenue
of wharves. The Westmead Boys’ Band
greeted him with a Papal hymn of wel-
come, and numbers of Catholic laity
welcomed him with smiles and hand-
clasps. Archbishop Panico holds doc-
torates in divinity and civil law, and
has represented the Vatican in South
America, in Germany, in Prague and
in the Saar Basin. The first few days
after his arrival were spent in official
calls. Now he is about to visit Canberra.


w
CONSENSUS OF OPINION STAMPS THIS HOME
A MODEL OF REFINEMENT AND BEAUTY.
'"THIS MAGNIFICENT HOME IS AT WARRAWEE, one
* of the most favored suburbs on the North Shore line,
altitude 580 ft., distance 12 miles to Wynyard station—train
time 29 minutes —and within 8 minutes’ walk from Warrawee
station.
Amidst a garden on which £2OOO has been spent stands the
residence, in perfect harmony with the beauty surrounding it.
Built by the owner for comfort and convenience, it contains
7 large rooms, separate maids’ quarters and all offices, replete
with every modern convenience.
A double garage, fish ponds, rockeries and one of the finest
tennis courts possible are auxiliaries to this exquisite home.
There are approximately 2 acres of land, artistically laid out
in gardens. Torrens title. Price £7OOO. Terms can be
arranged if desired. Inspection through the sole agents,
H. L. CROSS & CO., F.R.E.1., F.C.I.V.
Real Estate Agents, Auctioneers and Valuers,
HEAD OFFICE: 98 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 86861-3.
Branch Office at Kirribilli Wharf. ’Phone: X3BOl.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Peninsula Polo Club’s first picnic
races held at Mornington, were such a
orand success that they may become an
annual event. The “owners up” idea
made for a friendly atmosphere, every-
one seemed to know everyone else, the
weather was of the best and the bookies
paid up on favorites with clockwork
regularity. . .
T. B. Guest gave his Quince 18st. to
carry, but the gallant steed gathered no
moss by the wayside and only at the turn
relinquished the lead with a snort and
a wild look in his eye, to finish fourth in
the Polo Cup and to become unofficially
the weight-carrying champion of Vic-
toria. F. Richardson on S. A. Greaves’s
Toy shared the honor and glory of the
£7 trophy. Another competitor in the
same event was Colonel Pott, who in
cavalry vernacular has a good leg for a
riding-boot. His pony Mousey was un-
distinguished in both betting and plac-
ing, but aristocratic in his mode of trans-
port to and from the course in a float
drawn by a car bearing a vice-regal
stamp in lieu of a number-plate. Palais
Royal, Peggy McComas’s ancient of
nearly 17 years, upset the betting con-
siderably for the Polo Hack Race, for he
got his ears back and refused to budge
from the saddling paddock until his
backers lost heart and his odds length-
ened from threes to sixes, when he
changed his mind and, with Jack Doran
in the saddle, got away first from the
barrier and won the race.
As suitable mounts were not available
several of our best equestriennes did not
compete in the Ladies’ Hack Race. Mrs.
Ken Moore was favorite for the event
until the night before, when something
went wrong with her horse and she was
reduced to making the best of a pony
which finished a cheerful last. Nancy
Doran was the winner, with Winnie
Woodmason a close second. Spectators
and amateur jockeys gathered round
picnic hampers for luncheon and tea;
dressing too was picnickish, most of the
women bringing cardigans as a standby.
Marie White’s unconventional choice was
an anklet, but no stockings, and a red
silk frock over which she pulled a blue
woolly jumper.
The autumn tennis tournaments run
by the M.C.C. commenced on a spread
of 16 courts, clipped, rolled and netted
off in rows on the Albert Ground. On
Saturday, for the finals, space occupied
had dwindled down to four courts, and
late in the afternoon to two. Large
crowds arrived for the first big match of
the day, the singles between Joan Harti-
gan and Nancye Wynne. The younger
player lost the final to the more ex-
perienced Miss Hartigan, but her shots
are so perfect, her style so free and
boyish that great things are expected of
her in the future. This tall young player,
who keeps her hair cut in an Eton crop
and who always wears schoolboy hats of
white linen with dark-green linings, got
into three finals. She and Ennis, play-
ing the Hopmans, had to postpone their
match owing to the failing light when
they were one set all. The semi-final
match between Miss Wynne and Dot
Stevenson and Joan Hartigan and Kath
Woodward was a contrast to the usual
seriousness of end-of-tournament play.
There was no umpire, and the four com-
petitors laughed a good deal and seemed
to play for the fun of the game rather
than the issue. Afterwards, when Miss
Wynne and Miss Stevenson met their
Waterloo in Mrs. Pett and Mrs. Geddes,
they both seemed too worn out to fight
for a victory.
Mrs. Pett and Mrs. Geddes distin-
guished themselves in other events of
the tournament. A country player who
caused favorable comments was Aileen
O’Kane, who has for many years been
a shining light in the tennis world of
Benalla. Now that she is coming to
town to live the variety of play should
improve her game considerably. Sadie
Berryman is an example of what a dif-
ference the advantages of town play
make in a country girl’s game. Young
Sadie, who learnt tennis in Echuca, is
still a junior; she lost the girls’ singles
rather unexpectedly on Saturday to Mar-
garet Wilson, but after the experience of
a couple of seasons’ play round about
Melbourne tennis clubs she is in the front
rank of women players.
Melbourne’s newest rendezvous for
dinner-dancing opened with a charity
night at a guinea a head. Massoni’s has
not gone in for modem arty decorations.
Its pale grey, with a scarlet line round
the walls ; there’s an embryo balcony
opening from the ballroom, and upstairs
a flat rooftop opens to the stars and
lights of the city. Organisers of the
first night, in aid of the Children’s Hos-
pital and the children’s ward at the
Alfred, were Mrs. Barry Thomson (who
had as her guests some of the ingredi-
ents of “Three Men on a Horse”), Mrs.
W. G. Mcßeath and Colonel Burrett.
Mrs. Burrett, who wore black, with a
white flower at her throat, sold tickets
for drinks served to the tinkle of ice
up on the roof garden.
The Keith Carnegies were there, Mrs.
Carnegie in a lovely silver gown, tight
as a second skin, with a dash of scarlet
for a hankie. The Hugh Crawfords
were another twosome, Mrs, Crawford
with three gardenias on the top of her
head and a satin gown, its narrow straps
very white against her suntan. Mrs.
Horace Spry had a black lining to her
sleeve-wings, and her sister, Mrs. Peter
Collins, wore a single shoulder-strap to
her floral dress and a zinnia behind her
ear. Dr. and Mrs. Alan McKay were
noticed in a merry eightsome, and the
Geoff Smiths were part and parcel of a
table occupied by several members of
the Norman Brookes family. Mrs.
Smith was all black and white, her
white-satin gown hoisted to a black
yoke, while her cape and her sandals
were also black. Hersey Brookes caused
a stir with her sari of spangles and pale-
green chiffon.
Charlotte Ridgeway, recently admitted
to the Victorian Bar, is 22 and can
tag LL.B. after her name. Younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Ridge-
way, her elder sister is Mrs. G. King,
of El wood. The young barrister and
solicitor claims P.L.C. as her Alma Mater
and tennis and swimming as her favor-
ite sports. She is at present practising
with her father. Broothorn made the
picture.
Last wee k’s brides had bad luck in
t h e weather, for the fine spell broke on
t h e day most of them had chosen for
their weddings. Beth Paxton, who is the
on jy daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Norman
p ax fon, wore white velvet for her mar-
riage with John Gumming. Her head-
dress, which held in position the swirl of
tulle ve il, was a halo of translucent pearl
flowers. Beth Campbell, Beverley Butt-
field and Gwenda Byrne were a trio of
a ttendants in lilac chiffon, with sashes
G f damson-red velvet to match the twists
j n their hair.
p or fi er marr iage with Dr. L. J. P.
storey, Eleanor Austin and her ’maids
fitted i nto a pink-and-white picture. The
bride was all w hite, with a sheaf of white
lilies ly j ng on ber arm an d a bandeau
of pearls attaching her tulle veil. Joyce
Austin and Molly Storey wore gowns
of pale begonia-pink swathed upon the
cor sages below the line of the bateau
necks and cut with long sashes, the ends
of which fell a few inches in the wake
t fie brief trains,
Another bride who played a leading
part on the same day was blonde Noel
Boyd, who, while becoming Mrs. Russell
Gourlay, eschewed all conventional
shades to be married in apple-green
velvet. Her dress was designed on a
style of severe simplicity, with a tunic
top which had a snug neck, a flat collar,
long slim sleeves very tight below the
elbow and a pencil-narrow skirt falling
into the merest suspicion of a train. The
two attendants chose dissimilar notes of
autumn tonings. Mrs. C. Deighton (of
Ceylon) was in a tawny shade of plum,
with a touch of lilac upon sleeves and
neck, and Marjorie Boyd wore woodland-
brown sprigged with a design in gold.
The Grange, Toorak, was the meeting
place after the ceremony.
In the Broothorn portrait is Lorna
Embling, one of Melbourne’s well-known
equestriennes. Miss Embling, who is
the daughter of Mrs. H. A. Embling, has
been able to ride since she was a very
small girl. In the years following the
war she was among the group of horse-
women chosen for special training at the
police barracks, the object of which was
to prepare interesting equestrian events
for charity gymkhanas. In 1922, with
the modest capital of two hunters and
a pony, Miss Embling opened a riding-
school at Caulfield. As Melbourne grew
larger and hard streets and houses en-
croached upon her stables, she was forced
to move further afield, and now runs
a score of horses and employs several
grooms out at Oakleigh.
Miss Embling schools her pupils in-
dividually or in groups limited to
four. She rides with, the Melbourne
Hunt Club and the Findon Harriers, and
takes some of her most experienced
pupils with her to every hunt meet. She
loves hunting, not only for the ride, but
for the actual work with the hounds.
During the last 18 months Melbourne
has been the meeting ground of some
large and important congresses. Last
week accountants swooped down in
hordes, occupying most of the hotel
space in the city, and deep-dived all to-
gether into the technicalities of finance.
A committee of wives of members
planned a round of entertainments for
the womenfolk which included drives
to the hills, golf, theatre parties to “Jill
Darling” and “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” a dinner followed by dancing,
luncheons, teas and a garden party at
The Palms, Alexandra Gardens, where
deck-chairs and small tables were strewn
about in the plantation of the Henley
lawns. To this open-air function the
Allard lady, wife of the president, wore
a navy-blue coat and frock, and Mrs.
H. P. Ogilvie, who was a zealous worker
on the entertainment committee, wore
black sprigged with a small floral design.
In honor of the Australian premiere of
“Three Men on a Horse” the foyer of
the King’s was turned into a picture gal-
lery of horseflesh with photos, and color
prints on every wall. As an assistance
to the audience the programme runs a
glossary of American racing terms so
that first-nighters’ vocabulary grew to
the extent of knowing that “on the
nose” is a straight-out bet, “show” is a
place, “parlay” means all up, “playing
hunches” is backing fancies and “to dope
the horses” is to forecast the result of a
race. The band couldn’t be seen on
Saturday night. Playing below the level
of the stalls it was completely hidden by
green blinds and trellises. <
Sitting with some friends in one of
the boxes were Mrs. Cleve Kidd and her
daughter Betty, who that afternoon had
been guests of honor at a cocktail party
given by Mr. Harley Styles and Mrs. H.
R. Hamer. Mrs. Willie Bates was
noticed in all-black, and Kath Howell in
orchid chiffon with a brilliant clip in her
hair. In spite of the heat furs were in
evidence; Sheila Morell wore a dyed
squirrel cape with her prune-shaded dress,
and Peggy Fraser’s flowered lame went
with a little white ermine cape. Mrs.
Leo Franklin’s coat was of white-quilted
taffeta, and Mrs. Gordon Melville’s was
of gold tissue. Queensland visitors were
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Cubitt. Betty
Gravestock was there in lilac organdie
and white camellias. Joyce Dickson’s
blue-and-silver gown had a diagonal hair-
line stripe, and her corsage and the
crown of her head were ornamental with
frangipanni. Enid Stewart was also
noticeable for the gaiety of flowers in
her coiffure.
All sorts of possessions other than
trunks and suitcases pass through the
Customs gates with passengers’ luggage
from incoming steamers. Cars, furni-
ture and skis are quite usual; so are dogs,
which must go off into quarantine, dwarf
trees from Japan, bowls of goldfish and
packing-cases of silks and curios; but
Mrs. H. F. C. Larcher’s luggage in-
cluded 36 bottles of milk. This sounds
rather like bringing coals to Newcastle,
but the milk is specially prepared, steril-
ised and homogenised, with cream all
the way through and not only just at
the top. It will keep fresh indefinitely
if left unopened and kept cold but not
frozen. Its selling price in London is
Bd. per quart.
Mrs. Larcher, a past-president of the
Melbourne Business and Professional
Women’s Club, met in London Dorothy
Heneker, president of the Business and
Professional Women’s World Association.
Miss Heneker is a Canadian barrister
practising in London, for, although fully
qualified, she is debarred from working
in her home country, which does not
admit women to the Bar.
There was no official opening to the
exhibition of 11 Australian artists at the
Sedon Galleries, but art lovers have
soared upwards in the Elizabeth House
lifts to study one of the best collections
we can hope to see for several months
to come. Dr. Julian Smith, Oswald
Syme, Mrs, Ted Hudson, Mr. and Mrs.
Kingsley Smith, the J. B. Taits and
Alistair Gray were among early arrivals.
For the benefit of students with little
or no experience in orchestral playing
the Conservatorium is establishing a pre-
paratory class under the baton of Wil-
liam Mollison. Particulars are obtainable
from the secretary.
Here is a true story about a padre and
a pickpocket. The parson, who is a
popular member of a Melbourne club,
has one idiosynscrasy—he always carries
a roll of shaving paper in his hip-pocket.
One day he was waiting for the lift in
a Collins-street building when, looking
upwards, the light caught his spectacles
in such a manner as to reflect the actions
of a man picking the clerical hip-pocket.
The reverend gentleman let the thief get
away with his job.


QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts
For details see this week s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
%
M
i
i
&
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
advertisements than any
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
£lOO
IN CASH PRIZES
PRIZE-WINNING GARMENTS ILLUSTRATED AND
DESCRIBED.
Many Other Features:—
AUTUMN ENSEMBLE
WHAT SHALL WE DANCE?
YOUR CHILDREN’S TEETH
NEW PATTERN SERVICE.
Fourteen Attractive Designs. Free Pattern of Schoolboy’s Pyjamas.
°7ke
AU S T R_A LI A N
WOMAN’S
MIRROR
ON SALE FRIDAY. PRICE 3d.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Held by a dead calm, all the craft in
the Royal Perth Yacht Club’s Lady
Skippers’ race came in hours late ; some
didn’t sail in at all but were towed home
just in time for their crews to change for
the evening dance in the clubhouse.
Mrs. John Hargrave’s jaunty sailing suit
was replaced by sweeping flame georg-
ettes ; Mrs. Frank Downing had a white
lining to the cowl of her tucked black
satins ; a brilliant ornament fastened Mrs.
W. McKendrick’s burnt-orange corded
silks, and Dick Trigg wound a fur-
edged scarf round her turquoise matt
crepes. A silver thread glittered in
Gladys Hadley’s ice-blue phantom crepe,
and Jean Lang’s chiffons were a riot of
brown, orange and green geometries.
Ola McCrae and Walter Easton went
into double harness at Forrest Park
Methodist Church, Mt. Lawley. Sunray
pintucks outlined the square neck and
full sleeves of the bride’s ice-blue French
cloque, and soft matching feathers en-
circled her wide blue tagel straw hat.
Twin frocks of softest pink georgette
swished on Beryl Clarke and Marjorie
Green as they followed her down the
aisle ; deep shirring merged into bodices
and sleeves from trim Peter Pan collars,
and their pink Swiss straw hats were
clustered with daisies.
The 11 courses of “Dinner at Eight”
were served with dispatch at the Rep.
Theatre. Producer Cyril Riley did good
work with the large cast, and trimmings
were delightful. Marjorie Butler’s
negligees were frothily alluring; Mrs.
Keith Farrington’s highlight was a gold-
spotted brown taffeta ; Margaret Paton’s
elongated brown fez set off tailored wool
de Chine in her biggest scene, and Mrs.
Hubert Member added sausage curls
and a wealth of furbelows to her Car-
lotta Vance outfits.
Dorothy Porter left for England after
a series of valedictory parties. Her
pastel-blue chiffons were in the box-seat
at Mrs. Gerald Blake’s competition even-
ing ; she shared honors with Mrs. Mel-
ville Smith at Mrs. Ernest Shenton’s
gathering and with Beryl Sanders at
Gwen Lough’s shivoo. At Dora and
Margaret Robertson’s luncheon, Mrs. de
Courcey Clarke’s tea and Jill Hargrave’s
party she was the undivided centre of
attention.
St. Patrick’s Day celebrations wound
up with Gerald O’Sullivan’s play, “The
Curse of Tor Conal,” at His Majesty’s.
Anita Fitz Gerald produced and Sydney
Smith arranged the musical numbers and
conducted the orchestra. The 60 mem-
bers of the cast were headed by Lorna
Sydney Smith, Anita Fitz Gerald, May
Hart, Stan O’Brien, Fred Burke and P.
Ryan.
The art season opened with a display
of Dora Wilson’s canvasses at Newspaper
House art gallery. Dr. J. S. Battye
(fresh from being elected Chancellor
of the University) was official spokesman,
and a goodly rally of local brush-
wielders and connoisseurs were there to
offer congratulations.
Isla Taylor’s departure for Canberra
to take up residence with her brother,
Gordon Taylor, will be a sad blow to
golfing circles. Several times top of the
list of Royal Fremantle Associates and
consistently to the fore in State cham-
pionships, she well earned a position in
the team that played the English visitors
last year.
The Orsova brought back Frances
Scully and her assistant, Lorraine
Norton, who went to London to attend
a conference of the Royal Academy of
Dancers. The Academy has formed an
Australasian advisory committee and
has decided to award a scholarship in
1937 for the most promising Australian
dancer. On her arrival at Fremantle
Miss Scully received word that she has
been appointed a Children’s Examiner
of the Royal Academy; she is the first
Australian to achieve this distinction.
While in Perth on their way to Sydney,
the two dancers were entertained by
Mrs. Arthur Wilson and Kitty Gillies.
Margaret Evans was welcomed home
from a year’s kindergarten work in
Sydney with a sherry-for-sixty shivoo.
Her twin, Barbara Evans, and elder
sister, Mrs. D. M. Cleland, were hostesses
in the lounge of Mrs. Cleland’s home at
Dalkeith.
Dorothy Parr, who leaves shortly for
Maoriland and matrimony, combined
jade-green and brown in her frock for
her first bride-elect party. Marjorie
Huddleston, cool-looking in lettuce-green
georgette, hostessed the gathering at her
home in Mt. Lawley.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide is in the throes of electing a
“Miss Centenary”—the Lord Mayor s
Relief Fund benefits. “Miss Radio
(Yvonne, daughter of Prof, and Mrs. A.
E. V. Richardson) started the proceed-
ings, which are to include lashings of
parties, with a dance at the Palais Royal
at which Lud Mayor Cain was present.
Her parents brought Dr. and Mrs. J.
Davidson, Mrs. Wells and American
Consul Wolcott and his wife. Yvonne’s
white crepe fitted to the figure and
merged into a train, the cowl neck em-
broidered in silver. Mrs. Richardson’s
orchid mauve satin was draped with a
chiffon scarf. Mrs. Davidson chose white
chiffon beaded all over in crystal and
embroidered with a large floral design in
jet. Mrs. Wells was in Egyptian-red chif-
fon velvet, with coatee to match, and
Mrs. Wolcott wore black lace and georg-
ette. “Miss Racing” (Premier Butler’s
daughter Jean) will have her dance at the
Palais Royal on Easter Monday night
after the Onkaparinga meeting.
To get votes for “Miss Tennis” (Ruby
Skinner) Mrs. H. J. Lipman organised a
bright dance at Memorial Drive Club-
house. The grass court at the side of the
clubhouse was brilliantly lighted and
served as a dancing floor. Mrs. Lipman
hostessed in Marina-blue beaded georg-
ette, Miss Skinner chose pale-pink georg-
ette, Roxy Sims danced in a floral green
chiffon, and Barbara Morgan sported red
georgette.
Opinions were varied as to whether the
race meeting at Cheltenham was a
summer or winter affair. Frocking was
mixed. The chairman (Dr. A. V. Ben-
son) received a warm welcome on his
reappearance after a long illness. Mrs.
Benson wore black marocain, coin-
spotted in white, with white silk collar
and revers and a touch of white in her
black straw hat. Mrs. R. L. Butler’s
black matelasse had a hip-length cape
effect and a white collar and jabot.
Jean Butler sported a jacket suit of
powder-blue kashi cloth, a brown velvet
hat and a brown fox fur. Mrs. S. J.
Jacobs, who has surely never missed a
meeting, was gowned in black marocain
with a small black straw hat and an
ostrich feather boa in black and white.
Mrs. H. Allan Morris looked well in
triple navy georgette, with cape effect,
and a wide-brimmed navy ballibuntal
straw trimmed with grapes.
Mrs. H. Swift and her sister, Miss Pea-
cock, gave a farewell cocktail party for
Dr. and Mrs. Brian Swift before the lat-
ter’s departure in the Orion.
A farewell cocktail party was given
by the Kidman lady at her Millswood
home for her son-in-law and daughter,
Commander and Mrs. Nelson Clover,
who left in the Orion after having spent
nearly a year in Adelaide. They came
to be present at the golden wedding of
Sidney Kidman and his lady; then there
was the marriage of their daughter, fol-
lowed by the death of Sidney, which
caused their visit to be prolonged. Lady
Kidman received her guests in the
lounge, gowned in black triple georgette
with a touch of beige chiffon at the neck-
line. Mrs. Clover wore a dark blue and
pale grey flowered chiffon with V back
and long sleeves, the diagonally-cut skirt
merging into a slight train. Her daughter
Pamela was frocked in a black woollen
georgette on slim lines. Mrs. Sidney
Reid, Mrs. Walter Kidman and Mrs.
Crozier assisted in looking after the com-
fort of the guests. Among the guests,
who numbered 130, was the Bruce lady,
in Marina-blue figured marocain and a
black halo hat. Mrs. Albion Tolley, who
leaves shortly for London, was there in
a black ensemble. Mrs. Frank Wilcox
chose a black-and-white check skirt with
a black military cape and a black hat.
TASMANIA
The racing at Elwick was blessed with
lovely weather which brought out a
swarm of pretty frocks. Chairman A. J.
Miller and Mrs. Miller dispensed hospi-
tality, Mrs. M. in printed chiffon, carna-
tions on a black ground. The Jones
lady was in blue, with silver-fox stole. In
the throng were Mrs. E. M. Williams
in a tailor-made, Mrs. W. B. Propsting,
Mrs. Thos. Lyons in blue, the Terence
Butlers, the Cyril Lewises, the Ashbolt
lady, the N. D. Fergusons, the Alan
Millers, Alys Jones, the Geoffrey Clerks,
the Russell Ibbotts, the Ainslie Woods
(Adelaide), Miss Curtis (Syd.), Dr. and
Mrs. E. A. Rogers, the T. H. Keys, the
James Murrays and the C. H. Ikins.
Women graduates of the Uni. gave a
welcome party to Jean Batt (just
returned after two years’ Orient Scholar-
ship training) at the Lyceum Club. The
guest of honor gave a talk about her ex-
periences, and music and supper wound
up the proceedings.
Launceston Bachelors spread them-
selves over their ball at the Metropole.
Lounge and supper-room were beauti-
fully decorated. lan Wall was hon. sec.
to a committee of 20. Invitations drew
guests from the western district and the
Midlands as well as from the northern
capital. Frocking was smart and pretty.
Crowds assembled at the wharf to see
the Orion go out. Among her passengers,
bound for a European tour, were Mr.
and Mrs. Henry Allport. Mrs. H. A.
Nicholls keeps their house at Sandy
Bay warm for them in their absence.
Mrs. C. E. Davies, with son and daughter,
Mrs. Cecil Allport and Molly and Bonnie
Thyne were also passengers for the
whole journey. Before leaving Launces-
ton the Thyne girls gave a farewell party
at their home in Belhaven-street.
Kitty Cook, whose clever performances
in the Rep. co. and other stage shows
have made her a favorite with the public,
and Graeme Young, Montpelier-road,
announce their engagement.
Dorothea loan, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Templeman, and W. A. Harrison,
Lord-street, Sandy Bay, are another
couple who propose partnership.
G. B. Lancaster (Edith Lyttleton) blew
into Hobart, for a few days, and Mrs.
Roland Turner, with whom she stayed,
asked a few friends to meet the authoress
one afternoon. Another book is brew-
ing, but won’t see the light for some
time yet.
News comes from London of the
death of one of the Speck’s eminent
sons, Ronald Giblin, brother of Dr.
W. W. Giblin, of Hobart. He had a dis-
tinguished career at school and uni-
versity, but has lived abroad for many
years. He is the author of a compre-
hensive history of Tasmania, published
a few years ago.
Passed away at 83, Leonard Rodway,
the Speck’s Govt. Botanist and a mem-
ber of the Royal Society. Among end-
less other activities, he included the
Field Naturalists’ Club, the National
Park Board and Tasmanian Fisheries.
His book, The Tasmanian Flora, has a
worldwide reputation.


mmM
is*m
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
JOHN HEINE!
5 Y D N EY
Representatives: McPHERSONS PT V. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
D-r-zouif*
MAKE MODE MONEY! SEU THESE! ST^i
your district. Full time returns good steady income; part time brings
extra money weekly. No outlay—use our capital. Buy from manu-
facturer —best quality, lowest prices, good profits. Nothing so per-
manently profitable as your own business. Full information posted—
no obligation. Write JOHN GILMOUB COY., LTD., Dept. 113,
Cnr, Pyrmont Bridge & Parramatta Rds,, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: The Administrators seem to
have been converted to the idea of firmer
methods with the New Guinea natives.
Twelve years ago there was a cry of
horror when somebody suggested that
the Australian Administration should to
some degree imitate the Germans’
methods. A fat lot the new severity seems
to be helping native manners, though.
The “Rabaul Times,” which is edited by
one of the oldest hands in the N.G. capi-
tal, deplores that “boys” who once rode
on the steps of motors now ride inside ;
that they lean against doorposts when
talking to white “missuses,” that they
address “marsters” with fags hanging
out of the corners of their mouths, that
they go slow and are cheeky and gener-
ally reprehensible by comparison with the
native of old time. There is a lot of
trouble being stored up by slackness in
managing natives. One of these days
the official hand will be badly
bitten by some native recalci-
trant who has the organising
power to enable him to com-
mand a following.
* * # *
“Captain Pintle”: The Com-
monwealth Lighthouse Service
is putting in automatic lights at
Eshelby Island (Whitsunday Pas-
sage) and Saddle Island (near
Lizard Island, 50 miles north-
ward of Cooktown). The Saddle
particularly will save many an
anxious moment on the bridge
in hazy weather. Completion
is expected in June. Prepara-
tions have begun for another much-
needed light on Turtle Island near
Albany Pass (Cape York). An inter-
mittent easterly set, occurring especi-
ally under conditions of bad visibility,
makes a mariner’s nightmare of this
small rocky islet, surrounded by dan-
gerous reefs. But the parting advice of
Captain Schilling (B. 4/3/’36) as to the
urgent need for a radio beacon on Booby
Island (Torres Strait) should be acted
on without delay.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The Great Barrier Reef
Committee is doing valuable work on
the study of the world’s greatest
coral formation (all the rest of the
coral on the earth’s surface would not
extend the Barrier’s 1100 miles by
another hundred). Eight years ago the
committee financed a scientific party
which included some of the world’s lead-
ing authorities on coral, and a year of
intensive study was put in at Low Isles,
just north of Cairns. Results have been
checked and continued by an Australian
scientist employed by the committee since
the expedition left. This year two parties
from England will work on the southern
end of the reef. Australian scientists will
be attached to the expedition, and the
committee will control the work gener-
ally.
* * * *
“Zedo”: One of the most curious
examples of bureaucratic method is the
regulation which may ruin a good many
N.T. graziers by prohibiting the taking
of cattle from the Territory into Queens-
land in certain areas because of buffalo-
fly. The dividing line between Queens-
land and the N.T. in the rugged country
above the Barkly Tableland is unfortu-
nately invisible to any animal, and walla-
bies, kangaroos, birds, bullocks, dingoes
and other fauna without passports make
regular excursions between watertight
administrative compartments. Also,
compulsory education has not yet been
extended to the buffalo-fly, and in ignor-
ance of the verboten he has already emi-
grated in large quantities, if report
speaks truly. Presently, the logical move
will be to quarantine the Gulf cattle ex-
cept for taxation purposes. Then N.S.W.
may quarantine Queensland and Victoria
quarantine N.S.W., and presently the only
place where it will be legal to carry on
the cattle trade will be out at sea on a
lugger. It is incidental that in a small,
earnest voice I pointed out in 1924 that,
while the b.f. was teeming in Arnhem
Land, he had not yet got further south,
but that he would come unless urgent
measures were taken. But the pundits
of Brisbane and Melbourne —there was
no Canberra then-thought differently.
They doubted whether he would be dan-
"Hey. you can't swim here!"
“That all ri', boss . Good 'nuff f'r you; good ’nuff f'r us.”
gerous further south. It seems to me
that when an Australian pest breaks out
in an isolated spot it would be a good
thing to quarantine a pundit or two in
the area, with the admonition that he will
be allowed out when he has certified the
country free.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The emissaries of Herr Hitler
who are urging Australian Germans to
support the Nazi cause and remember
the Fatherland must feel singularly dis-
couraged when they contemplate the hyp-
notic influence of Australian surround-
ings on Brother Teuton. During the be-
ginnings of the war I helped to close
the Brisbane Turn Verein —the German
Club —and the German Consul was
solemnly deported, leaving behind his
Australian-born and -educated sons, while
the large German population, of which
most of the older section could scarcely
speak English, was exhorted wildly
to be neutral. This it refused to do, and
proved its determination by sending its
young men in hundreds to join the A.I.F.
And after the war the German Consul,
Dr. Emil Hirschfeld, came back, and I
notice his name as a substantial donor
to the Queensland King George
Memorial Fund. The Turn Verein also
came back, and its name also appears
as a donor, with an explanation by the
president —John Dilger —that the cheque
was written “as an appreciation of the
free conditions under which Germans
lived in Australia.... there were no
better conditions of liberty and justice
anywhere in the world.”
* * * *
“Vic”: After struggling with the
N.T. native problem for years, the Com-
monwealth has decided to resume Mata-
ranka station —the old Bitter Springs-
adjoining the Elsey, “in accordance
with plans for developing North Aus-
tralian natives as economic producers.
Of course, the cart has been put before
the bullock, and before acquiring the
country, which is sparse-carrying sa-
vannah, the Administration has “not
decided in what manner the prop-
erty will be worked, but considera-
tion has been given to the possibility
of cattle-raising.” And “inquiries
would also be made as to whether
natives could profitably undertake vege-
table growing there,” The Agricultural
Department should have been able to
say in 10 minutes that there is about as
much economic vegetable land in the dis-
trict as would cover a threepenny-bit, and
that unless there is going to be one
native to every bullock the chances of
settling an appreciable number will make
Buckley’s look like a certainty. But even
the memory of the Batchelor Farm dis-
aster is not likely to stop a Government
when it is bent on well-doing.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The Commonwealth has
recently appointed, as Marine Biologist,
F. W, Moorhouse, MSc., who for
several years has been doing research
work in northern waters under the direc-
tion of the Great Barrier Reef Com-
mittee. He will work on the investiga-
tion vessel about to be built for the
survey of food fish round the Australian
coast. A special feature of his work will
be an inquiry info the actual causes of
the annual migration of sea-mullet and
other species of outstanding food-value.
It is high time that such work was begun
—the present wastage and spoiling of
our sea-harvest is a national tragedy.
Japanese vessels already come thousands
of miles to gather the riches which lie
just outside our front door —they are tak-
ing hundreds of tons a month out of
north-west Australian seas, and have
established a special depot at Singapore
to handle the trade.
* * * *
“Bathurst”; After two years of com-
plaint and argument, the Common-
wealth has appointed a captain to the
patrol vessel which is to warn Japan-
ese and other shell-poachers out of North
Australian waters. Now it only remains
to get the boat, which will not be deliv-
ered for a little while. And then things
will be easy—the small, three-man, vir-
tually unarmed vessel will have about
11,000 miles of seaway to look after in
the affected areas, and if it happens to
be at Broome and it hears of invaders
off Cape Upstart it will have only a few
thousand miles to rush to the rescue.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Just after Easter is the time chosen
for Nora Halford’s wedding to Dr.
Harold Love. The pre-wedding teas
started this week, when Mrs. Lipscombe,
who was Marjorie Byram, gave a party
in honor of the bride-elect. Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson will be hostess at a bridge-party
in honor of Nora.
Jack Gilbert Wilson, who was in the
Customs service in China and who died
there on Christmas Day, was an old Bris-
bane Grammar School boy and an ex-
Digger. He had many friends in Bris-
bane. He leaves a widow and small
daughter.
Mrs. Charlie Persse and daughters
Pamela and Nancy entertained a large
covey of guests at a cocktail-party in
the Eastern Lounge at Lennon’s as a
farewell to Mrs. Duncan Nelson and her
daughters Janet and Mary. A big roll
up of friends went to the wharf to wave
good-byes at the departing travellers.
Mary Macgregor is en route from
Hollywood to Australia. It is said that
she and John Wood have been signed up
for a new film to be produced later in
the year.
The Governor will open the Royal
Queensland Society Show at Too-
woomba, which has record entries.
Mrs. Alex. Inglis has arrived in Bris-
bane to join her husband. Dr. Alex.
Inglis, of Sydney, who intends to settle
here. The attractive lady has been travel-
ling on the Continent and lately visiting
relatives in Sydney.
The J. P. Mulhollands are back again
after a trip to Colombo, by way of Java
and Singapore. They looked over several
tea and rubber plantations.
The Legacy Club is losing two of its
most valued officers —president A. W.
Savage, who is to live in Sydney in
future, and A. D. Pearce, vice-president,
who is to reside in Melbourne. There
was a farewell dinner at the Belle Vue,
at which the departing duo and their
wives were the guests. Former presi-
dents of the Legacy Club were the hosts,
G. C. Reid, the present occupant of the
chair, and his wife doing the honors.
The Oronsay carried away a batch of
Bundaberg citizens who are going to
Europe via America. Among them are
Mr. and Mrs. J. Bearkley, Joyce Sheldon
and Agnes Williams.
Mrs. R, G. Wilde, who is off
to New Guinea to join her hus-
band, was tea’d by Mrs. G.
Unsworth before sailing, Mrs.
Unsworth’s two daughters, Mrs.
W. R. Hunter and G. S. Uns-
worth, helped to look after the
guests. Tawny zinnias set in
puffings of lemon-and-green
tulle made the tables gay.
A round of pre-wedding teas
for Greta Robertson, who mar-
ries Mostyn Hanger shortly, has
begun. First to start the ball
rolling were Dr, and Mrs. A. E.
Mason, who, with Clara and
Jessie Robertson as helpers,
gave a bridge-party at the
Masons’ home.
Mrs, S. J. Thrupp, a wonderful lady
who is 81 years young, has been visiting
Brisbane. Broadmarsh, Yeulba (s.-w, Q.),
is Mrs. Thrupp’s home. She motored down
from Surat just after her birthday. The
local C.W.A. branch presented her with
a clock, and the children of Surat enter-
tained her at a party at which the chief
decoration was a cake with 81 candles.
A business girls’ club in Brisbane has
been in existence for about three years.
Membership is about 50, and the com-
mittee decided to do something to draw
the attention of business women to the
organisation, with a view to increasing
the roll. A bridge-party at the Hotel
Canberra attracted some 100 players,
and Mary McMinn did the honors.
Funds are to be used to pay off an
amount owing on the recently installed
piano.
When Vince Fogarty went to Hobart
in 1933 with the debating team from
Queensland University, he met Patricia
Kinane, a charming lass who was with
the Perth Uni. team. She has been stay-
ing in Brisbane, and the engagement has
just been announced. Wedding bells are
to ring before the end of the year.
Mrs, Harry Sterne, of Warwick, who
is a foundation member of the C.W.A.,
will attend the conference of Associated
Country Women in Washington (D.C.).
It is possible that Mrs. Duncan Nelson
also may be there.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. Ail
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
m
Vs
v
RADIO NEWS
SEMI-TUNED R.F. SHORT-WAVE THREE.
DON B. KNOCK.
r I ’’HE advantages of a tuned stage of R.F. amplification
preceding detection in a short-wave receiver are higher
sensitivity, better selectivity and, in the case of superhets,
suppression of twin-spot tuning. Applied to the simple
regenerative detector receiver, the tuned R.F. stage necessitates
a separate tuning control if the frequency range to be covered
is wide. By the use of a peaked or semi-tuned stage, a sur-
prising amount of R.F. gain can be obtained, without the addi-
tion of another tuning control. This type of R.F. amplifier
is efficient over a wide range of frequencies and is controlled
by a seldom-used selector switch.
So many requests reach The Bulletin
for circuit diagrams and details of short-
wave receivers using earlier filament
types of battery valves that it was de-
cided to select three such valves at
random, and evolve a receiver of a simple
nature, but with a better performance
The circuit diagram. All necessary values are indicated. Many combinations of screen-grid (or R.F. pentode), triode
detector and audio pentode may be used in the various directly-heated ranges of battery valves.
than the average O-V-l arrangement.
O-V-l, for the benefit of those not con-
versant with earlier-day practice, means
simply “no R.F. stage, a detector and
one audio.” It was decided to make the
receiver’l-V-l, but to simplify the R.F.
stage with a variation of the well-known
“untuned R.F.” method. Where a screen
grid or R.F. pentode valve is used in
such manner, the valve becomes nothing
more nor less than an aerial coupling
stage, and in effect removes aerial “dead-
spots” from the regenerative detector.
The valve is used with either a 10,000-
ohm resistor in the grid circuit or an
R.F. choke designed to peak somewhere
in the usual short-wave bands. This
method does what it is intended to do,
but certainly lacks in R.F. gain. With a
little forethought, the valve can be used
much more efficiently. If, for instance, it
is desired to use the receiver around 20
metres, the insertion of a 40-metre in-
ductance will peak the R.F. stage grid
around 20 metres, and so on. It can be
done simply with plug-in coils, to which
there is really no objection. By fitting
an appropriate tapped inductance and
simple selector switch, considerable R.F.
gain can be obtained, and the only coil
to change manually is in the detector
circuit. Thus the receiver goes a good
step further than the usual regenerative
detector plus audio alone, yet is simpli-
fied. It is obvious that, with a ganged
three-deck switch and suitable receiver
lay-out, wave-change could be done
wholly by switching, and there is no
reason why it should not. The receiver is
fitted with a plug-in detector coil because
a simple three-point single switch can
easily be made from scrap.
The Circuit.
The choice of valves is left to the
reader, and there are plenty of valves to
choose from. They may be any of the
usual battery two-, four- or six-volt types
of various makes. In the Philips four-
volt range, the A 442 serves as R.F., A 415
as detector and C 443 as audio pentode.
The corresponding Philips six-volt range
can be used. In Mullard make there are
similar two-, four- and six-volt valves,
and the new Radiotrons, IC4, 30 and
ID4, would make a good combination.
Practically every make, including Cossor,
Osram and others, was tested in this
receiver, and all gave good results. The
R.F. stage is semi-tuned by switching,
and biased by a H-volt torch cell fitted
near the valve socket. The detector uses
the familiar triode “throttle” method of
regeneration, requiring use of a good
tuning condenser, free from erratic
action, plus a back-lash free vernier dial.
The regeneration condenser must also be
a good one. The R.F. stage is capacity
coupled to the detector grid through a
small condenser of the “trimmer type.”
Twenty mmfd. maximum capacity is
ample. The R.F. choke in the plate cir-
cuit of the R.F. valve is the usual three-
section short-wave type. Screen-grid
voltage is applied from B positive max.
through a .1 meg. 1 watt resistor, and the
screening grid by-passed as usual. Audio
transformer coupling is used between de-
tector and audio stage, and the detector
is decoupled by a 20,000-ohm resistor
and 2mfd. condenser. It is a wonder that
any of the old-time short-wave receivers
were free from audio instability minus
decoupling. The R.F. choke in series
with the audio transformer primary is
similar to the one in the R.F. stage. The
pentode audio stage uses resistance bias,
and this is done by connecting a 500-ohm
resistor between B negative and A nega-
tive, as indicated. Thus no external bias
battery is needed, and battery connec-
tions are kept down to four only. Across
the secondary of the audio transformer
is the usual 500,000-ohm potentiometer
for volume control, and with headphones
this receiver gives plenty of volume, it
can be used nicely, with a good aerial,
on a permag. speaker on average signals.
To avoid “wandering” of signals with the
receiver critically tuned, the headphone
leads are filtered by two R.F. chokes and
a .005mfd. condenser as shown. The
chokes are plain single-section honey-
combs as used in broadcast receivers.
Coil Data.
Using a .00015mfd. tuning condenser,
which, if purchased new, should be some-
thing of the J.B. type (Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
Sydney), the usual coil specifications for
formers hold good for grid and
reaction windings. Almost any small size
of D.C.C. or D.S.C. wire may be used
for these windings experimentally. r f
ranges do not overlap, spacing windings
or moving the reaction coil closer or
further away from the grid coil will
usually do the trick. Turns should be
left uncemented until calibration is com-
pleted, and then fixed in position with a
touch of clear cellulose lacquer or shellac
varnish. Approximate turns for ranges,
using 26 to 22 wire for grid coils, afe:
20-metre range 5 turns, 40-metre range
10 turns and 80-metre range 22 to 24
turns. Reaction coils may be of much
finer wire, such as 30 gauge, and gener-
ally about four turns for 20 metres, five
turns for 40 metres
and eight turns for 80
metres will serve. The
grid and reaction
windings should be
separated by about
|in. Four-pin Mar-
quis type ribbed for-
mers are recom-
mended,-
The switched coil
in the R.F. grid cir-
cuit consists of 40
turns of 26 D.S.C. on
l|in. diameter, and
tapped at 10, 18 and
30 turns respectively
from the top (aerial)
end. The switch used
in the original is one
section of the early
Marquis all-wave type
switch, using three
contacts. The coil
and switch are so
connected that
moving the switch
arm shorts out the
unwanted portions of
the coil. The correct
and most suitable set-
ting for this switch will be found
by experiment on each band, and
some variation in tapping may be neces-
sary with various R.F. valves. When
first trying the receiver, a signal is tuned
in on the detector, and the switch altered
for maximum gain.
Construction.
No chassis size is specified, for the
reader can make the receiver up in a
variety of ways. In the original, illus-
trated, a deep chassis was used, so that the
regeneration condenser could be placed
underneath, out of the way. Note that
a screening partition is used vertically
between R.F. and detector stages. On
the detector side of this screen is fitted
the 20mmfd. semi-variable coupling con-
denser. It must be well insulated from
the metal to preclude any chance of
shorting. The detector coil socket is a
good four-pin one, and the isolantite
Hammarlund type (John Martin, Ltd.,
Clarence-street, Sydney) is strongly
recommended. This socket is mounted
on four small stand-off insulators, Hin.
above the top of the chassis. By so doing,
leads can be kept short in the grid cir-
cuit, and the detector coil is well away
from the metal top of the chassis. All
values of parts are indicated in the cir-
cuit diagram, and it is quite likely that
many readers will have available most of
the material to go ahead with con-
struction.
Operation.
Although the original receiver gave
surprisingly good results on a short
inside aerial, this is no criterion, for
much depends on location. Therefore use
the best aerial possible ; out in the open,
well insulated and as high as convenient.
Eighty feet total length is ample. The
A-battery supply depends on the type of
valves used, and three Ever-Ready super-
dyne 45-volt blocks, giving 135 volts, will
run this receiver for the best part of a
year. B-battery drain is negligible. The
receiver will be found particularly good
for country short-wave experimenters, as
the likelihood of shock excitation in the
R.F, stage from a near-by broadcasting
station is remote. If, in a metropolitan
suburban area, such trouble is encoun-
tered, it is readily overcome by the in-
clusion of the usual old-fashioned broad-
cast wavetrap in series with the aerial
lead, and such gadgets can be picked up
to-day for a shilling or so. Apart from
batteries, the receiver runs nicely from
one of the ever-popular Philips B
eliminators, of which there are still some
thousands justifiably in use for such small
receivers. On the popular short-wave
broadcast bands, this semi-tuned R.F.
SW3 does a very good job with Daventry,
Paris, Berlin and all the familiar stations.
D.B.K.
Wireless for Aircraft.
I. G. Oxenford, of A.W.A., in a lec-
ture to members of the Australian Air
League on wireless and aviation said
wireless was used on commercial air-
craft to enable the pilot to obtain weather
reports. This was a great advantage, as a
pilot could often choose an altitude where
he would pick up a favorable current of
wind. Mr. Oxenford described the radio-
direction-finding station established by
A.W.A. at Essendon Aerodrome, Mel-
bourne, and demonstrated how a pilol
could be informed of his bearing on the
aerodrome and his position. This meant
that a pilot could remain at a consider-
able height until he reached his destina-
tion, having no necessity to come
The receiver, with switched, semi-tuned R.F. stage.
The switch is on the left, in front of the R.F.
valve. The three controls at the base of the chassis
are, left to right, battery switch, regeneration con-
denser and volume potentiometer. The audio trans-
former is at the right, on top of the chassis. The
1 ½-volt bias battery for the R.F. stage is fitted in a
clip mounting on top of the chassis for accessibility.
down low to ascertain his position. The
use of aircraft radio in the pursuit of
motor bandits was illustrated. The sys-
tem enables an aeroplane to follow a
fugitive in a car, and it is a simple matter


GREATER
ECONOMY IN
OPERATION
WITH
TYPE IC4
TYPE ID4
VALVES
fd
Radioiron
IC4. .. .A new high gain non-micro- ID4. .. .A power output pentode of
phonic super-control radio frequency overall higher efficiency than any
pentode. equivalent.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LIMITED
Sydney - - Melbourne - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney - - - 167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Va've Company Limited
for the pilot to maintain touch by wire-
less with a following police car. The
lecture was illustrated with the aid of an
aircraft radio transmitter and other gear
manufactured by A.W.A.
Aviation and Television.
The National Physical Laboratory,
subsidised by the Air Ministry in Eng-
land, is engaged in research into the use
of television transmission for guiding
pilots to landing grounds in foggy
weather or when snow is falling. Once
the position of the aircraft has been
fixed by means of the direction-finders,
a map of the landing ground and the sur-
rounding country may be projected on to
the viewing screen situated in front of the
pilot. His own position could then be
indicated to him at any instant by means
of a moving spot of light. As he would
know the height at which he was flying
by means of his altimeter, it should thus
be possible for him to land safely in
the thickest weather.
Amateur Chatter.
For those who like marathons, the
W/VE DX contest is, at the time of
writing, in full swing. Such contests have
Divisional No. 1 set in action during 1st. Cav. Div.
Signals training at Liverpool, N.S.W. These transmitter-
receivers are easily transported at short notice, are
battery-operated, and provide for C.W. and ’phone com-
munication. Amateurs would find them simple to use,
and amateurs are wanted to use them!
the merit of speeding up the key work
and operating standard generally of the
younger and inexperienced participant.
The idea, fits in admirably with Ameri-
can amateur radio, where traffic
handling is comparatively open and
unrestricted. In Australia and other
British territories, where message hand-
ling in a third-party sense is taboo, such
contests can have no value other than
the one mentioned. Admittedly, the
participant meets a lot of new DX
friends, but it is only a fleeting glimpse,
so to speak, involving a hurried inter-
change of serial numbers. Far better
would be contests conducted on experi-
mental lines, such as the solving of
technical problems associated with trans-
mitting and receiving apparatus, set by
a number of examining stations, the
answers to be given in rotation within a
limited time. Key and ’phone stations
could take part with equal interest.
Ist Cavalry Divisional Signals have
been in camp at Liverpool (N.S.W.),
and many of the personnel, accustomed
only to amateur communication, have
gained valuable insight into the work-
ing of an army signals communi-
cation network. The No. 1 set for
W/T and R/T working is a compact
portable transmitter-receiver powered
from accumulator and B batteries, and is
a job to delight the heart of any amateur.
In many forms of military communica-
tion line and visual systems predominate,
but in certain operations radio may be
the key to communication, particularly in
cavalry and artillery movements. Aus-
tralian amateurs should seriously con-
sider applying their experience to one of
the Defence services ; it would give them
valuable knowledge and the satisfaction
of knowing that they are doing- some-
thing for their country. Officers of Ist
Cav. Div. Signals are looking for sig-
nalmen recruits, and amateur trans-
mitters in the Sydney area will be wel-
comed at the orderly room, Moore Park,
Engineers’ Depot, on Wednesday even-
ings.
VK2NO.
City Short-wave Diallings.
To short-wave listeners the most
notable happening during the last few
weeks has been the withdrawal of GSF
from Empire transmissions Nos. 1 and 2,
and the substitution therefor of GSN
(25.38 m.) in No. 1 and of GSD (25.53 m.)
in No. 2. GSF is not heard till midnight.
Neither GSN nor GSD
measures up to the
standard of the 19m.
station. Both suffer
from the distortion that
has been afflicting the
25m. band, and one or
other at times has been
subject to signal inter-
ference. On March 10,
for example, Anthony
Eden’s important state-
ment to the House of
Commons, for which
all the world waited,
was only readable by
tuning in on the fringe
of the wave, and even
then the offending sig-
nal could not be en-
tirely eliminated —an
intolerable trespassing
upon a premier trans-
mission. In the absence
of GSF, attention has
been turned to GSG,
which, as might be ex-
pected at this time of
the year, is somewhat uncertain. In-
cidentally, it may be recorded that
on several occasions an incursion into
the 16m. band has found the Ger-
man DJE in fine strength—which is
rather remarkable seeing that, not very
long ago, it was considered quite an
achievement to log DJE at all.
In the early mornings GSD has at
times been strong and clear, but fre-
quently it has been affected by static or
rapid fading. GSC still holds pride of
place, though it has a possible rival in
GSL, which, when quieter atmospheric
conditions become established, should be
worth the listener’s regular attention.
Another good station on the 49m. band
is the German DJC. At 7 a.m. on March
11 I heard what appeared to be an
American or Canadian station on 55m.
playing “Marche Lorraine.” The only
part of the announcement I could catch
was the statement that it was “in the
west of the north-west” and that the time
was “7J minutes” past the hour (when
Sydney time was 7.28 a.m.).
After 11 p.m. the congestion on the
upper 40m. band is indescribable—a veri-
table babel of sound-signals. I had heard
of a so-called “mystery station” on 48m.
Tuning in for it was as simple as the
task essayed by Stephen Leacock s great
detective who for four days and nights
moved, unobserved, through the streets
of New York, looking for a man who
had lost a hair. Behind the strong signals
of the local amateurs there are many
foreigners, and one of them does possess
some of the attributes of mystery. He is
heard every night just after 11 giving a
succession of coarse shouts (like the
“Piff Paff Pouf” of comic opera) to the
accompaniment, and in rhythm with the
quickening tempo, of a dance measure.
At 11.30 he takes a rest. His identity is
a matter of speculation, but the time of
the reception is rather inconsistent with
the supposition that he is the Cuban
CO9GC on 49.74 m. reported from West-
ralia. He may be the new I2RO on
48.7 m. (announced in B. 5/2/’36), which
broadcasts in several European languages,
including Spanish. If some local ama-
teurs could be persuaded to say their
“73’s” at the reasonable hour when most
good children say their prayers, DX iden-
tification would be easier for the rest
of us.
Amalgamated Wireless’s station VJZ at
Rabaul has been heard several times re-
cently on 21.9 m. Until a few days ago
“dreadful” would have been a mild word
to apply to its modulation, which was
suggestive of an elephant prancing on
loose sheets of galvanised iron. How-
ever, the operator was heard explaining
that he was using only a temporary
microphone and that he would be glad
to have one of standard type as well as a
microphone transformer. Apparently his
requests have been heeded, for the station
is now coming through in fine style with
excellent quality.
Javanese stations, with the exceptions
of PMN and YDB, have not been pro-
minent of late, but usually a few are to
be heard on Sunday evenings, including
one on about 26.16 m. which gives the
same programme as PLP.
During the Radio Exhibition a good
deal of entertainment was unconsciously
provided by those people —not all of the
Scottish race —who took advantage of
the opportunity of holding a free ’phone
conversation with London. Every variety
of accent, from succulent Whitechapel to
incisive Leicestershire, was heard in its
native sweetness, and it was hard to be-
lieve that the whole thing was not a
clever exhibition of character acting.
P.R.W.
The Little Twin.
This receiver (described (B. 29 /1 / ’36)
uses a Class-B battery valve as regenera-
tive detector and single audio stage. It
is particularly suited for use with the
type 19 valve. In testing the original
receiver, other corresponding Class-B
valves were used, with equally satisfac-
tory results. It may be found, however,
that, owing to slightly different charac-
teristics of other valves compared with the
19, trouble may be experienced with lack
of oscillation or audio instability. For
best results in this circuit the 19 valve is
to be preferred.
Casual Comment.
Officers of the Radio Society of Great
Britain will be interested to learn that
the society’s monthly journal of long
standing is referred to in an Australian
trade weekly as the “P. and R. Bulle-
tin,” Just a matter of Pip for Toe!
The Q. and A. Column.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
(1) Why is it that a set using a pentode gives
a lower B-battery current reading on very
strong signals than on moderate signals ? (2)
What causes a set to choke up altogether on
loud bursts of static ? (3) Do you consider
the metal valves give better results; if so, in
what particular ? (4) I wish to run a 12 -volt
car generator from my milking-machine
engine and thence light my A house from the
batteries charged from the combination. Can
I legally do the job myself ? (5) The distance
from the house to the engine is 60 yards.
Having the batteries in the house, would it be
possible to charge up more than 12 volts of
battery ? —393.
(1) If the milliameter dips on strong signals
this will normally indicate that the valve is
under-biased. Use more grid bias. The rule
applies to any output valve, pentode or triode.
(2) Overloading of the detector. (3) Metal
valves have not been established long enough
to make a definite statement to such a query.
There are arguments for and against them.
They have advantages, but so have the familiar
glass valves. (4) Yes, as only low tension is
concerned. (5) Heavy-poled cable will be
necessary to avoid undue voltage drop. Two
12-volt banks could be charged in parallel,
but will take much longer. Two or three
extra cells could be included over the 12
volts during each charge, using them in series.
* v * *
Enclosed are two circuits of short-wave re-
ceivers taken from an American magazine.
These receivers operate on the super-regenera-
tive principle, and I would appreciate comments
on the circuits. (1) I have made up the
second one and results are very good, con-
sidering that only one valve is used. Here in
Townsville (Q.) I have heard VKIME
VK3ME, VK3LR and Berlin around 11 p.m.
Would the interruptor unit designed for five-
metre super-regenerative receivers be suitable
for use on the 19-, 25- and 31-metre bands?
(2) A receiver of this type should be popular.
Do you intend describing one ? —394.
(1) and (2) Yes. A receiver of the self-inter-
ruptor kind is under consideration, but not
especially for short-wave purposes alone. When
experiments are concluded it will be described
fully.
* * * *
I have some good type 35, 24/1 and 47 valves
on hand, and wish to make up a simple “three
and rectifier” tuned R.F. receiver of the type
once popular before the superhet era. (1)
Will such a receiver be usable to-day ? (2)
Please supply a circuit. —395.
(1) Yes, particularly if some of our coil
manufacturers will pay attention to straight
R.F. coils, in addition to the production of
iron-core I.F. transformers for superhets. The
cores are now available in quantity in this
country, and there is no reason why such coils
should not be manufactured here. You will
be well advised to hang on until you can get
iron-core R.F. coils. They are certain to come.
(2) Circuit illustrated with all necessary values.


USEFUL DATA ON CHEVROLET SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 13 2-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 2-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 21ft.
Maximum speed, 70.03 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 22.4 m.p.g.
“SILVER
EDGE 9 *
ij&uJUbtfos
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest. .j
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
for “Raybestos” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.R.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC,
LONG EXPERIENCE
wate SHORT WORK of pumping
Only long experience could produce the
RENRUT Quadruple HAND PUMP. Forty
years of craftsmanship have made this the best
hand pump on the market —for quicker, easier
tyre inflation —for longer life and service.
The secret of the RENRUT is in the
quadruple compression principle, which
renders the total capacity of the pump almost
twice that of
the large cylin-
der. This large / \
volume is then /\
taken up by \
the small high- Af\
p r e s sure
cylinder and J/t
delivered t o //
the tyre with
surprising ease. W U -y(f
60-
less Gauge
Sj m extra
with gauge.
Take it ease/ with a
BENRUT
aUADFLU PL€
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, 48 Hardware
Street, Melbourne, G.l.
Sole Manufacturers; WILLIAM
TURNER & BROS., LTD., Sheffield,
England.
The Steering Column.
CHEV. SIX PUT THROUGH
ITS PACES.
NEW FEATURES EXPLAINED.
By FRED BERRY.
' I 'HE Chevrolet has for some years been an attractive proposi-
tion for Australian motorists, its low price placing it within
reach of a wide circle, while its possession of such important
merits as reliability and economical operation could not be
questioned. The new Chevrolet Six, tested recently over the
“Bulletin” course, shows further improvements, and incorporates
a number of details previously included only in “de luxe”
models.
Wheelbase has been increased from
Io7in. to 109 in. to improve passenger
comfort and riding qualities.
Chassis is now box-girder construction,
with additional cross members, instead
of the conventional channel section, giv-
ing much greater resistance to twisting
stresses when driven over rough roads,
and so being less likely to develop
squeaks and rattles in the coachwork.
A capacious luggage compartment is
provided behind the rear seat squab, and
spare wheel and tools are hidden in a
recess at the rear, the result being a
cleaner body profile and greater con-
venience for passengers.
The six-cyl. valve-in-head
motor is retained, 3 5-16 in.
bore and 4in. stroke giving
a piston displacement of
206.8 cubic inches and an
R.A.C. rating of 26.3 h.p.
Compression ratio, using a
specially - designed “n on-
detonating” head, is 6 to 1,
permitting 79 b.h.p, to be
developed at 3200 r.p.m.
without pinking or knocking in the
motor. Cylinders are cast en bloc
integral with the upper half of the
crankcase, water jackets extending the
full length of the piston stroke.
Overhead valves are of one-piece type,
of alloy steel, operating in remov-
able cast-iron guides. Valve gear is
actuated by rocker arms and push rods
with integral ball sockets and provision
for lubrication. Exhausts are located
close to spark plugs, intakes at furthest
Cutaway section of Chev. Six motor, showing method of
lubrication: (1) Oil return pipe, (2) delivery pipe, (3) rocker-
arm shaft, (4) crankshaft, (5) con.-rod dipper, (6) drain plug,
(7) big-end oil trough , (8) sump.
point in combustion chamber from
plugs, so controlling mixture temperature.
Valve clearances with motor hot, inlet
6 thou., exhaust 13 thou.
To further promote cool-valve opera-
tion eight small copper nozzles are pressed
The Chev. Six for 1936, tested over the BULLTIN course.
into the inside wall of the cylinder head,
delivering cool water directly from the
radiator on to the exhaust valve seatings.
Pistons are of annealed cast-iron, tin-
plated, with two compression rings and
one oil-retaining ring above the gudgeon
pin.
Gudgeon pins are chromium-plated,
hollow, reinforced at centre, being locked
in con.-rod little-end and floating in a
bronze bush within the piston boss.
Connecting rods
are forged-steel I-
beam section, Bab-
bit t-1 ine d, the
lower-bearing caps
being fitted with
pressed - steel oil
scoops.
Crank shaft is
statically and dyna-
mically balanced,
runs on three main
bearings and is
fitted with counter-
weights. A har-
monic balancer is
incorporated with
the fan-drive pul-
ley to further elimi-
nate torsional
vibration.
Thrust is taken
by a bronze plate
forward of the
front bearing, and
a large cork seal is
inserted to prevent
leakage of lubri-
cant.
The camshaft runs on three bearings,
and to ensure even wear of tappet gear
cams are offset from the centre towards
front of engine, causing tappets to rotate
continuously while the engine is in opera-
tion. Fuel supply is held in a llygal.
tank at rear and fed to a Carter down-
draught carburettor by means of a
mechanical fuel pump driven from the
camshaft. The carburettor is fitted with
air cleaner and intake silencer, accelerat-
ing pump and automatic choke control,
the metering rod being graduated in
three steps to control mixture and ensure
economy. Metering rods are available in
various sizes where special tuning is
desired.
The intake manifold is of D section
with flat at bottom, the carburettor being
insulated from the casting. The exhaust
manifold is of the cast-iron four-port
type, with hot-spot and automatic heat-
control valve. Semi-pressure lubricating
system is used, with pressure feed to main
and camshaft bearings and rocker-arm
shaft. Special provision is made for keep-
ing the oil to the valve gear cool by first
passing the pipe
through the water in
cylinder head.
C o n n e cting - rod
bearings, gudgeon
pins and cylinder
walls are splash-lubri-
cated by dippers in
connecting rods which
are supplied with oil
from the low-pressure
side of the system. The
dipper troughs hold
sufficient oil to pro-
vide immediate bear-
ing lubrication when
engine is first started.
The six-volt Delco-Remy electrical sys-
tem is a separate unit. Generator is of
third-brush type, air-cooled, with cut-out
relay. Starter motor is Bendix drive, foot-
operated, and is mounted on flywheel
housing. Ignition is by coil and battery,
the distributor being of the jump-spark
type with vacuum-controlled automatic
advance and retard of firing point. An
octane selector, with vernier adjustment
is attached to distributor head for manual
alteration of firing point when using dif-
ferent grades of fuel. Distributor point
opening 18 thou., spark-plug gap 30 thou.
Firing order is 1-5-3-6-2-4 ; breaker point
gap, 18 thou. ; plug gap, 32-35 thou.;
plugs, 14mm. Pyrox.
Transmission is through a 9in. single-
plate dry-disc clutch with graphite re-
lease bearing to a three-speed-and-reverse
gearbox unit, second-speed gears being
helical cut constant mesh. An interlock
is fitted in the gearbox to prevent dif-
ferent sets of gears being engaged
simultaneously.
Drive line is through a tubu-
lar propeller shaft enclosed in a
torque tube mounted at front in a
cast-iron, bronze-lined bushing, and
at the rear to the pinion shaft by a
splined sleeve.
Single all-metal universal joint at
the front end is totally enclosed and
lubricated from the transmission. A
fitting is also provided for manual
lubrication.
Rear axle is semi-floating, in
pressed-steel banjo housing. Ring
gear and pinion are spiral bevel, and
reduction ratio is 4.11 to 1. Road
clearance is 8 l-3in.
Semi-elliptic springs are fitted front
and rear, overslung at front and under-
slung at rear. Front springs have threaded
sleeves at front ends and threaded
shackle at rear. Rear springs have
rubber bushings at front and threaded
shackles at rear end. Shock-absorbers
on all four wheels are single-acting
hydraulic.
Service brakes on all four wheels are
operated hydraulically. Emergency hand-
brake equipment operates shoes on rear
wheels through rod-and-cable connec-
tions.
Steering is semi-reversible, fully adjus-
table with worm-and-double-roller tooth
gears ; gear reduction, 17.5 to 1 ; turn-
ing circle, 38ft.
Bodywork by Holden is neatly fin-
ished, the floor being of pressed steel.
There is controlled ventilation to front
and rear windows, a large cowl
ventilator, controlled from driver’s seat,
being let into the top of the scuttle dash.
An electric windscreen-wiper is fitted to
the bottom of the V-type windscreen.
Dashboard is neatly finished, and con-
tains large speedometer and the usual
instruments. Exterior hardware, radiator
grille and lamp fronts are chromium-
plated. Bumper bars and bumperettes
are standard equipment. Tyres are 5.25
x 17 four-ply balloons.
The car tested was a Chev. Six four-
door sedan driven by Murray Wilson, of
Larke, Neave and Carter, Ltd., N.S.W.
distributors. Speedometer reading was
434 miles, and gross weight, including
driver, observer and full tank, was


SIMONIZ
Certainly
keeps Cars
Beautiful!”
sr
G\a
Cat
Out
SOLD BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE, 5/-.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
'"PHE famous Airship, “Graf
Zeppelin,” has flown over a
million miles, and every one
of them on VEEtDOL. Over
raging seas through Arctic
and Torrid regions
electrical storms this famous
Airship, carrying throughout
her career thousands of
passengers and valuable
merchandise, has never
once been held up by lubri-
cating troubles. Truly a
wonderful achievement, and
in no small measure due to
the outstanding lubricating
qualities of the world’s finest
OiI—VEEDOL MOTOR OIL.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED • ALL STATES
304 cwt. The motor was still far from
thoroughly run in, and, although smooth
in operation, would show a better road
Distributor unit with head removed,
showing (1) condenser, (2) cam, (3)
breaker arm, (4) breaker points, (5)
octane selector, (6) and (7) adjustment
for breaker-point gap.
performance with a further 1000 miles
to its credit.
The comparatively short wheelbase and
light steering enables the car to be
manoeuvred with great ease in traffic,
while parking in congested areas is re-
lieved of most of its terrors. Accelera-
tion in top gear, despite the high back-
end gearing, is very good ; brakes are
highly efficient and smooth in operation.
On the open road a cruising speed of
between 45 and 50 m.p.h. was comfort-
ably maintained without fuss or vibra-
tion, and with but a small throttle open-
ing. Suspension is very fair, whilst over
the rough unmade roads through Grose
Vale roadholding qualities proved up to
standard requirements. Results of per-
formance tests were as follows:
Coasting from 15 m.p.h. in neutral,
702 yards.
Maximum speed (over measured mile),
51 2-ssec., averaging 70.03 m.p.h.
Hill climb (2 1-5 miles, Kurrajong
Mountain), 3min. 35 2-ssec.
350 yards’ slow running in top gear,
2min. 42sec., average 4.4 m.p.h.
350 yards accelerated in top gear, 16
4-ssec., average 42.8 m.p.h. ; 10 to 30
m.p.h. in top in 8 2-ssec.; 10 to 30 m.p.h.
in second in ssec.; oto 50 m.p.h. through
gears in 13 2-ssec.
Service brakes stopped from 25 m.p.h.
in 21ft.
Lifting hinged rear seat squab gives
access to luggage compartment.
Average speed, inclusive of 'all tests
(distance 119 miles), 34.7 m.p.h.
Fuel consumed, sgal. 2\ points; aver-
age m.p.g., 22.4 (34.1 ton-miles).
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
T.R.M. (Marlborough, Vic.). —(1) I am con-
sidering buying a four-cylinder used car
{named). Is there any particular weakness in
this model, and what should I look for in an
examination ? (2) What can an amateur use in
repainting body ?
(1) No inherent mechanical faults. Warm
engine thoroughly and listen for bearing and
piston knock. Then switch off and turn motor
oyer with starting handle, place ear to breather
pipe and listen for blow by post rings. Note
wear in valve guides. See whether starter gear
and generator are functioning well. Inspect
radiator core for leaks or patches. Remove
cam plate from gearbox, note whether pinions
are worn or chipped. Look for play in univer-
sal joints, diff. assembly and rear-axle splines.
Check wear in front- and rear-wheel bearings.
Note condition of brakes. Examine steering
connections and king pins. See there are no
cracks in side members of frame. Inspect body
for cracked bed plate or dry-rot in wood, fit
of doors, etc. (2) Brushing lacquers are easily
applied and make a good job.
* * $
Z. (Albany, W.A.). —(1) Which of the two
cars named should stand up to rough usage
best and be most suited for my work ? (2)
What is the track of Vauxhall Light Six? (3)
Will knee action stand up to rough usage?
(1) A. (2) 4ft. 2in. (3) Yes.
* * * *
L.R.S. (Toolleen, Vic.). —In what order do
you place the five cars named ?
As selected by you.
W.E.A. (Grong Grong, N.S.W.).—(I) / have
recorked plates of clutch in my ’25 Morris
Cowley. How far on each side of plates
should corks protrude, and how can I get
them all level ? (2) Crankshaft and main
hearings are worn. Shims on big-ends are all
out, yet there is still too much clearance.
What can be done, and what clearance is neces-
sary ? (3) Can the excessive play in front-end
gears be eliminated, and how ? (4) A petrol
motor coupled to the dynamo interferes with
my radio. Can the trouble be stopped or, if
not, be reduced ?
(1) Place corks in face plates, lay flat on
bench and, using a true piece of 3-32 metal
as a guide, cut off high spots of corks, using
a sharp table knife lubricated with water. Do
each side; then, when assembled, a straight-
edge should pass freely between corks and
plate. (2) Apparently wear is so great that
the only satisfactory solution would be to re-
move the crankshaft and have it ground true.
This will entail remetalling all main and con.-
rod bearings, clearance about three to four
thou. (3) Not without considerable expense
and experiment with minus gears oh crankshaft
drive. Really a job for expert service mech-
anics. (4) Suppressors on spark plugs and
condensers across generator brushes will reduce
interference.
J.A.Y. (Uralla, N.S.W.). —I propose buying
a well-known make of car fitted with free-
wheeling attachment. (1) Is freewheeling dan-
gerous, and does it involve high costs in brake
maintenance ? (2) Is it dangerous to coast
without freewheeling ? (3) Is the unit prone
to give trouble ?
(1) No, although one accustomed to driving
conventional gearing takes some little while to
accustom himself to the car “carrying on”
when accelerator pedal is released. Brake shoes
wear from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. more rapidly
than when continuously driving in fixed gear.
(2) Risky procedure when operating cars
equipped with crash-type gearboxes, but, where
synchromesh gears are fitted, either top or
middle gear can be engaged from neutral even
when engine has stalled; consequently noise is
reduced, fuel consumption improved, and there
is little if any greater risk than when driving
the whole time in gear. (3) No.
sj< *
W.O’D. (Geelong, Vic.). —My 14 -h.p. sports
car does not give either the speed or accelera-
tion expected, and is passed frequently by stock-
model sedans. Would I get the extra speed by
fitting a supercharger, how should I go about
the convertion and what approximately would
it cost ?
To fit a blower to your motor would cost
anything from £3O to £5O, but even if the
mechanical work is skilfully done it is doubtful
if overall road performance would be improved.
To be effective, valve timing, induction mani-
fold, combustion chamber and compression
pressure must be carefully matched to super-
charged design; so, while your maximum speed
when the car really “goes” would possibly be
higher, yet the machine would almost certainly
be extremely cranky at low and moderate road
speeds.
* * * *
L.L.D. (Cairns, Q.). —The bore of my six-
cylinder engine is 3|/n. and stroke 3 iin. How
can I calculate the maximum brake-horsepower
that this engine will deliver ?
Particulars supplied are of no value except
for calculating R.A.C. rating, which in this
case is 27.4 h.p. Developed horse-power is
approximately 80, but the only way it can be
determined exactly is by actual test on expen-
sive equipment such as a Froude waterbrake
or an electrical dynamometer.
Motor Oddities.
“Scrap Iron”: Winton (Q.) boasts a
unique collection of derelict motor-cars
and trucks. They occupy every patch
of vacant ground about the streets, the
huge chassis of the aristocrats of a
bygone age forming stable landmarks.
The P.O. must often have to deal with
addresses such as: “Miss Ethyl Spini-
fex, cnr. Vindex-street and the 1908 Dar-
racq.” Looking over the hosts of very
pre-war chassis, one marvels at the
audacity of the old-timers who ventured
with them into parts like this, but, after
running into a few of the ruins after
dark, one sees sense in the ways of the
Americans, who push cast-off autos, over
cliffs.
* $ * *
“Canopus”: While I was sailing along
at 40 m.p.h. on a road with a fairly rough
surface a horn blasted right on my tail.
Moved smartly to port to let the other
car go by. Only result, more and yet
more imperious blasts. I’m hanging
right over on the edge, pumping the air
with one hand and cursing volubly.
When will Malcolm Campbell make
up his mind? Rear-vision mirror was
not set, windscreen was up. Looked
round to see what was behind. Nothing.
My own horn was doing the job, owing
to a loose lead.
* * * *
“Fed”: My friend’s wife never buys
matches. Hubby, who doesn’t smoke, is
an engineer. He bolted an old mag-
neto to the back of the home gas-stove
and connected a metal-pointed insulated
lead a yard long to the distributor.
When the gas needs lighting, the metal-
pointed end of the lead is held near the
gas-burner, the gas is turned on and a
flick of the handle gives a fat, healthy
spark to ignite the gas.
* * * *
“Wakooka”: Saw a tram in one of
Sydney’s western suburbs hit the tail of
an old Ford runabout twice. On the
second impact Lizzie was lifted up and
balanced vertically on her front wheels,
crumpled mudguards and radiator cap.
The jar did not stop the engine, and the
back wheels revved up at a great pace
in mid-air. The driver was flung clear
and was unhurt. He switched off the
engine, onlookers helped him put the
old car on her wheels again, and after
the usual exchange of names and
numbers he drove her on her way.
* * * *
“Minerva”: I nominate as the oldest
car in Australia still able to run George
Saville’s 3i-h.p. De Dion, which was im-
ported into Melbourne by J. H. Craven
in 1899, being one of the first cars manu-
factured by Count de Dion.
“Pick”; Touring Gippsland (Vic.)
after recent floods, a Queensland motor-
ing party were hopelessly bogged for
hours on the muddy Orbost flats. Efforts
made to pull out with chains resulted
only in the wheels spinning madly and
burying deeper in the mire. Seeing their
predicament, a farmer of the district
wrapped chaff-bags around the wheel-
rims. Then after a few strenuous heaves
the car drew up to the sound ridge 100
yards away.
Incorrect Brake Adjustment.
Incorrect adjustment of braking equip-
ment, as well as careless application on
the part of the driver, is not alone a
source of tyre-squealing in all circum-
stances, but has also a decisive influence
upon the life of equipment and also upon
the safety of the vehicle. Ruthless appli-
cation of the brake pedal in cases of
emergency will always result in the
locking of all road wheels of modern
vehicles, but, apart from causing con-
siderable noise and far more wear of the
tyre tread than is necessary, this is not
the most efficient method of bringing the
car to a standstill.
The correct procedure in an emergency
stop is to apply pressure to the brake
nedal so as to give the maximum retard-
ing effect with-
out locking the
wheels. By
this means
the vehicle can
be stopped in
from 10 p.c. to
20 p.c. less dis-
tance than with
the tyres skid-
ding, particu-
larly upon tar-
paved or loose-
dirt roads.
For tunately,
the disadvan-
tages accruing
by reason of the
high co-efficient
of friction of
modern tyres
are more than
offset by greater
break efficiency.
Striking illustration
of damage caused
to tyre by locking
wheels on a rough
road.
With old-type cars using high-pressure
tyres, with braking equipment and tyre
tread in perfect order, stopping distances
were very much greater than they are
to-day.
Formerly, at 20 miles an hour, condi-
tions needed to be favorable for the car
to pull up in 30ft. ; from 30 miles an
hour, 60ft. ; from 40 miles an hour,
90ft. To-day, with low-pressure tyres,
the stopping distances from 20 miles
an hour are generally between 17ft. and
20ft. ; from 30 miles an hour, 30ft. to
40ft. ; and from 40 miles an hour, 60ft.
to 70ft. ; so that, although drivers must
of necessity exercise greater caution in
taking corners at speed, the overall
safety margin is considerably improved
when the stopping power of the braking
equipment is taken into consideration.


“THE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money, involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
CIK mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
"The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
P. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative,
If we could
only tell YOU
What WE know
about our
customers’ results
THEN . . .
Everyone with
Goods to Sell
would “be in”
ADELAIDE’S ONLY
EVENING NEWSPAPER
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor
Newsnauer House. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON —P A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgatf
Hill. E C. 4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of "‘The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. *•»
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T-HE SATURDAY EVENING
A
Is published and circulates in Launceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North-East,
North-West, and the Midlands. No papers are
published on Sundays in Tasmania; therefore,
advertise in “The Saturday Evening Express’’
for the Sunday readers.
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD., 71-75 Paterson-st., Launceston
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins-st., Melbourne C 1
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter-st., Sydney.
SJ9U3I *©
spuesnoqx
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden AVest . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
He turned the horse towards where Dinny lay
when a movement in the shadows there halted him,
then Dinny’s low voice, “Heard you coming. I’ll
be out in a minute.” He rode back and made a final
triumphant tour of the mob, beefing out at the top
of his voice, “A policeman’s lot is not a happy one,
happy one! ”
Chapter VII.
WITH the first hint of dawn old Turnbull started
the mob off camp, the leaders swaying down
the creek on the second stage of their journey
with long, stiff steps, barely pausing in their stride
to curl a long tongue round a mouthful of grass or
break down a bough with their horns.
Dinny and Bill breakfasted hurriedly and caught
fresh horses when Sam arrived with them. The new
horses were a wild lot and hard to catch. Just as
Bill finished saddling a bay mare, she whipped the
reins out of his hands and rooted all round the camp.
The horsetailer caught her and handed the reins back
with a sarcastic smile. “You’re safe now!” Never-
theless, Bill took no risks; he tightened the near
rein, got a good grip of the mane and slipped quickly
into the saddle in imitation of Dinny. The mare stood
irresolute a moment, then walked resignedly off, the
nervous rigidity of her muscles gradually relaxing as
she went.
Dinny’s big, raking chestnut stood quite still for
a few seconds, then his head and tail met underneath
him in two high, jarring bucks. Suddenly changing
his tactics he dived for the timber, and Bill, racing
in his wake as fast as he could dodge the low, hanging
limbs, expected to see the rider swept off at any
moment. He lost sight of him, and only a receding
crashing marked the line of the chestnut’s flight; then
the crashing grew louder again, and they reappeared,
but in different roles. Dinny was boss of the situa-
tion now, and the bolting chestnut was getting a bit
of his own medicine. The doubled whip thong swung
under his dripping flanks ; he tossed his head wildly
and leaped for the scrub, but this time the man in
the saddle was directing.
When they overtook the mob, Turnbull glanced
at the heaving flanks of the chestnut, then at the rider.
“Did he do much?”
Dinny shook his head casually. “Tore my shirt
in the mulga. He’ll be all right!”
Turnbull rode back for breakfast with a satisfied
smile. This man would do him.
At the end of a week Turnbull prepared to leave
them; he was going on to visit his brother, who was
in hospital about forty miles away. For the rest
of the trip there would only be Dinny and Bill with
the cattle, and the cook would have to stand a regular
watch with the others.
To Bill it had been a week of hard but enjoyable
work. He hated the thought of gqing back among
sheep again. To revert to the slow/Tnonotonous pace
and the deadly unresponsiveness of sheepdrovers’
horses after this would be worse than going back to
school after the holidays. You could do something
with a bullock; he had intelligence, and you had
to use your wits and those of your horse to beat him.
But a sheep! A cranky sheep could do as he liked
with a horseman unless he had a good dog. Try
and turn a sheep from its path and what did it do?
Kept on going, got amongst your horse’s legs and
almost brought it down, or lay and sulked till you
turned your back on it in disgust—then it got up
and kept on running.
Turnbull turned chatfingly to him one dinner
camp as they lay stretched out under a coolabah with
hats over their faces to keep the flies off. “What are
you going to do with all your money when you get
back, Bill?” :
There was a short silence, then a muffled voice,
thoughtful but decided, came from under Bill’s hat.
“I’m going to buy a good saddle and a good horse.
A real good one.”
“And after that?” prompted Turnbull.
“I’ll look out for a better horse and buy him.”
“Umm—well, that’s better than pushing your
cheque across the bar.”
Turnbull subsided again, but Bill’s eyes glim-
mered into the hot, dark crown of his hat and saw
himself riding down Eagle-street in a fine new saddle
on a slashing, clean-limbed hack ; pictured the men
looking critically after him and saying:
“Good sort of a horse, that! Who owns him?”
“Oh, that’s one of Bill Muir’s. He’s always on
something good.”
And the girls! At that point an adventurous fly
got into his mouth and he sat up spluttering, to find
the cattle stringing off the camp in a long line. As
he cantered off, Turnbull glanced after him, then
retired again beneath his hat, murmuring, “Good kid,
that!”
From Dinny’s hat came the lazy, drawled re-
sponse. “He’s not too bad!”
“A bit flash, but he’ll get over that. I like a bit
of flashness in a young fellow.”
On the morning of Turnbull’s departure he started
the bullocks off camp as usual. When the horses
came in Bill’s mare was limping .badly with a stake
below the shoulder. They removed the mulga splinter
and washed the wound, then Bill eyed the horse he
had ridden the previous day with misgivings. Sam
the horsetailer concealed a furtive smile, and sug-
gested a chestnut horse that had not been ridden since
they joined the camp.
“Who does he belong to?” Bill asked.
“Oh, he’s mine, but you can have him for a
couple of days—unless you’re scared of him!”
“Why, what’s wrong with him?”
The horsetailer smiled airily. “Nothing—nothing.
He might do a couple of straight-ahead pigroots, but
if you’re scared take the old horse.”
Dinny, glancing up from doctoring the mare’s
shoulder, glimpsed Bill’s clean-cut profile with the
eyes narrowed, the nostrils flaring at the challenge,
then he looked past him to the chestnut. “Catch him,
Bill, and I’ll take the rough edge off him.”
Bill’s jaw set stubbornly. The horsetailer’s deri-
sion was no longer concealed —Dinny’s last remark
had branded him openly as a newchum. He saddled
the touchy chestnut in a dogged silence. It fidgeted
in a narrow circle round him while he girthed it up,
and showed definite hostility when he attempted to
slip the crupper over its tail. Twice it lashed savagely
at him, but in the end he won and stood back and
looked it over.
Dinny was still tending to the puncture in the
mare’s leg when Bill slipped the reins over the chest-
nut’s ears and tightened them up on the neck. His
knees felt shaky, and he could feel the loud beating
of his heart. He had never ridden a buck before, but
he was going to:start now and do his damnedest.
The chestnut stood rigid as he fitted a toe in the
stirrup, his right hand crept to the pommel, his body
lifted in the quick sliding action he had practised
for months. ... •_
Dinny looked up sharply at the sudden snort and
rush of hooves. He saw the chestnut’s lightning swerve
as Bill’s weight left the ground, the quick spinning
buck that tore his grip from saddle and mane and
threw him outwards. As he fell the horse lashed at
him, missed by a fraction, and jumped forward. Dinny
jumped at the same moment, his eyes grim, fierce
muttered oaths crowding to his lips as the chestnut
plunged wildly for the scrub, dragging Bill by the foot
caught in the stirrup-iron.
The chestnut lashed wildly at the form bumping
along at its side, and the horsetailer turned ghastly
white at the sickening thud. Again a smashing blow
. . . and Dinny raced past like a demon in pursuit
just as the stirrup leather pulled clear and the chest-
nut galloped on, leaving a huddled, inanimate form
half-hidden in the rank grass.
Dinny was off his galloping horse before it
checked. He turned the still form carefully over and
drew his breath in sharply at the sight. One side ot
Bill’s face was cruelly battered and covered with blood
and dirty ; Dinny laid the head gently back and rose
to his feet with cold fury in his eyes.
The horsetailer, following up with fear sagging
his slack mouth and whitening his eyes, stopped and
fled precipitately to obey the curt, incisive order.
“Get Turnbull! Quick ! ”
The old cook, trotting up, was halted in his tracks.
“A couple of blankets and hot water. And get a
bloody move on ! ”
Things happened quickly; the unloaded buck-
board set out, Turnbull driving as fast and as care-
fully as the rough, narrow track would let him, and
mentally apologising at every jar to the grim, motion-
less figure swathed in towels and held in the narrow
tray between firmly-lashed swags and blankets. Some-
where on ahead, Dinny was galloping to a homestead
where there ought to. be a telephone. The nearest
doctor was forty miles away, but they had to ensure
that he was there and ready for the case ... if Bill
survived that far. », „ . -
The station-owner listened intently to Dinny s
terse account, and acted quickly. While his wife tele-
phoned the doctor, he had fresh horses harnessed
to a light waggonette and arranged for a relay half-
way to the little bush town. He sent two stockmen
back to help with the cattle, Dinny found his saddle
on a fresh horse, then they drove to the main road
and awaited Turnbull. While they transferred Bill’s
apparently lifeless form to the more commodious
waggonette the woman got to work with hot water
and bandages, but it was evident that the damage was
not merely superficial; she did what she could, then
stood back beside her husband and watched the emer-
gency ambulance disappear in a cloud of red dust.
It was nearly three days before Dinny rejoined
the cattle. Fifty sleepless hours of hard riding with
practically no time to spare for eating had left their
mark on his impassive features. He rode into camp
as the horses were being unharnessed, and at the sight
of the grim-set purpose outcropping through the
fatigue, the horsetailer decided to keep out of the way.
Dinny turned briefly to the cook. “Get me some-
thing to eat, will you!”
The old man paused in his hustle to get the fire
going to venture a question. “How’s the young
fellow?” ' ■'■■■’ v ' . j
“He’s alive —but only just. And if he does get
right you’ll never know him by his face again.”
(Td be continued next week.)


''rutliuirr
f s»cots 6JbiikJ
ii
u mif
lilil
Eu'.."
i
I
'ame /s
e
d^GolliUD’s
Jj{e (D/i/sAi
'7SKI/ IS
o
&
&
33
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO.. Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME *
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
0° o o /
Jtf . V / .
V 6 -•’ ••- •-
,ie v ’ v 3 ' ■ ••■ .•••’ .-•■' > • < 'S e^
r / ..•••■ ..••■’
~v ° ..•** O'S '»•i*’«.-s<*•


y
or
P
•is. ,: «
1
* <' +
»
■
WHETTEE
m
■Bl
saafea
mmm
■'■: "L
<>-•
.<1
••••■■..'
4MMW
•t.
;. •
i
ae
as
.
H
ill
H:
l
The World’s Best Safety
ROYAL EASTER SHOW. The Rolls Razor will be
exhibited and demonstrated at Stand No. 31, Hordern Pavilion
Inserted by THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., Sole Agents for Australia and the Islands of the Pacific.
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Interstate Representatives: QUEENSLAND—ButIer Brothers (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
