

w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
IHamiltons (Justraiasia) limited
Investment and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capitol ----- £250.000
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING. MARGAREI STREET. SYDNEY
Rhones: BW 1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 5752 S.S.)
Branch Office: Commercial Bank Chambers. Beardy St.. Armidale. N.S.W: Phone,: Armidale 150. Box No. 125. Armidale
Metropolitan Building
89-91 Queen Street
MELBOURNE
G.P O Box J
.ommonwea III) Building
Queen Street
BRISBANE
GPO Box 1017 M
3H
C.M.L. Building
King William Street
ADELAIDE
G.P.O Box 650 F
Representatives at
Perth, W.A.
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z,
The Bulletin
Miles Franklin's Great Story
Vol. 57.—N0. 2957.
Wednesday, October 14, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK'S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
mu
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
101) Russell Street, Melbourne.
- CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Itogklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, "•«
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My .Wime
M a .‘J dd rets
S.B. 336
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
lo recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor ot The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information-
lo intending competitors on application, will publish the successtul
work in book form, and in serial form any drey may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rales in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book fofin, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bojui fide Australian resident or any person bora in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which ip^ st be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A “BOUNTY”
EPILOGUE
The revival of
interest in the ab-
sorbing drama of
the Bounty
mutiny and the
story of the Pitcairn Islanders, stimulated
by an Australian, Charles Chauvel, who
produced a book and a moving picture,
“In the Wake of the Bounty,” three years
ago, only to be followed by Nordhoff
and Hall in both fields, is carried further
in The Heritage of the Bounty, by Dr.
H. L. Shapiro.
This book breaks new ground. Dr.
Shapiro is an American anthropologist.
Twelve years ago he set out for Pitcairn
to study the heredity of the hybrid
Anglo-Polynesian descendants of the
Bounty mutineers, but, failing to reach
Pitcairn, went to Norfolk Island, to
which the Pitcairn Islanders were trans-
ferred in 1856. The result of his studies
was embodied in a monograph published
by the Bishop Museum, Honolulu, in
1929.
But this did not satisfy Shapiro. The
Norfolk Islanders had too many con-
tacts with civilisation. He wanted to see
the unspoiled native Pitcairner. This
book is a result of his recent visit to the
island. One thing he learned there, in-
cidentally. If there is anything new to be
known of the early history of the muti-
neers it is idle to go to Pitcairn for it.
Instead of a rich store of local tradition
handed down through generations, Dr.
Shapiro heard men telling him their story
in the very phrases he had read for him-
self in two or three books on the sub-
ject.
The present population of Pitcairn
Island is about 200, descendants of six
families totalling 47 persons—-one-fourth
of those at Norfolk Island—who returned
to Pitcairn homesick in 1859 and 1864.
As there are about 600 on Norfolk
Island, the original six mutineers who
left children have now a living progeny
totalling about 800.
On Pitcairn, particularly, they are very
closely inbred, the only outside blood
introduced in 164 years being seven
white men and two women, one a
Danish-Chilean and the other a Poly-
nesian. Shapiro declares, however, that
the highly inbred mating of the Pit-
cairners has not debilitated the stock.
Physically they are robust and healthy,
with no evidence of degenerative diseases
peculiar to them. Abnormalities of phy-
sical structure are practically non-
existent, except that most of them are
dental unfortunates. Mentally they fit
into the general average of intelligence,
with a fair average of men and women
displaying qualities of leadership. “The
new blood has not added anything notice-
ably superior to the population; the
finest individuals appear to be those from
the purest Pitcairn strains.” It has to
be remembered that the original six muti-
neers who left progeny were Fletcher
Christian and Edward Young, both of
“good” families, and Adams, McCoy,
Quintal and Mills, who were picked, not
pressed, seamen —sound stock to begin
with. None of the six Polynesian men
who accompanied them left any chil-
dren.
“If the genetic line is sound, there
should be theoretically no unpleasant
consequence from cousin marriage,” and
experience at Pitcairn, where the care-
fully kept records enable every individual
to trace his genealogy back for six
generations throughout which cousin-
marriage has prevailed, seems to bear out
this theory in practice. They are a very
healthy, long-lived lot, in spite of the
total absence of medical assistance on the
island. On the whole their appearance is
definitely English, the white strain having
dominated the Tahitian.
The masculinity at birth is the highest
in the world, with males at 118.7 to 100
females (the Australian ratio is 104 to
100), but the males there, as elsewhere,
have a higher death-rate, and after 45
years the women outnumber the men by
three to two. The frequency of twins
is practically double that of any known
population—-evidently hereditary. In
recent years there has been a substantial
decline in the birth-rate (Shapiro was un-
able to ascertain the cause of this), and
the percentage increase of population is
only 11:88 over the last decade, so there
is no danger of Pitcairn becoming over-
populated. The present birth-rate hardly
suffices to maintain the existing popula-
tion. The average age of the women at
the birth of their first, child is 19 years
nine months, and of the men 25 years.
The average age of the women at their
first marriage is 20 years three months.
With strangers, the Pitcairners are shy
and extremely prudish. Since 1886 they
have been Seventh Day Adventists, and
this tiny community, which depends on
passing ships for supplies of second-hand
clothes, is exhorted to send away about
£2OO annually for the support of the faith
elsewhere. Perhaps they have no other
use for money. They are vegetarians,
teetotallers, eschew tea, coffee and
tobacco, and are deeply religious. But for-
merly the most moral people of the South
Seas, they have 25 p.c. of illegitimate
birthi. The school has four teachers for
44 pupils, and the salaries of the teachers
total 10s. per week.
Dr. Shapiro has embodied a historical
introduction to his story, but he is an
anthropologist, not a historian. For his
account of the mutiny he relies on Bligh’s
Narrative and Morrison’s Journal, appa-
rently unaware that there are important
omissions from the Narrative that appear
in Bligh’s logs and letters which he could
have seen at the Mitchell Library, Syd-
ney, where he would have found also
more original-source material on Pit-
cairn and the Bounty than anywhere else
in the world. He does not even appear
to have read Dr. Mackaness’s Life of
Bligh, which contains the most authorita-
tive and most judicial account of the
mutiny in existence.
But Shapiro has added an interesting
chapter on the audacious hypocrite
Joshua Hill, the 60-year-old impostor
who landed alone on Pitcairn in 1832
with spurious documents, set himself up
as Governor, imposed on the credulous
islanders, kept a loaded musket in the
pulpit, read the Riot Act, bluffed a cap-
tain of the Royal Navy, flogged and
banished Nobbs, Buffet and Evans, and
single-handed assumed control of the
whole island. He claimed to have dined
with two Kings of England, given his
arm to Lady Hamilton, breakfasted with
Sir Joseph Banks, attended Napoleon’s
coronation, drunk the wine of Conti-
nental princes and danced with the most
exclusive ladies in Europe. He made one
mistake. He claimed to be a near rela-
tive of the Duke of Bedford, and when
that noble’s son visited the island on
H.M.S. Acfieon in 1837 he was at last
exposed, but the British Government had
to send a warship to remove him. and
he was ignominiously dumped at Val-
paraiso. Here is a figure that all the
novelists seem to have missed —one of
the most astonishing characters that ever
appeared in the South Seas. Dr. Shapiro
has written a most interesting epilogue
to the story of the Bounty mutiny,
T.D. Mutch.
Sierra and
the
Quinteros
It is nearly 30
years since I
heard it; I
thought I had for-
gotten it; but yes-
terday, by favor
of Sierra and the
Quintero brothers, it murmured in my
ears again. A vesper song sounded every
day in Buenos Ayres, a wandering music
that came from every courtyard, every
patio and doorstep on my way home
from my job. A guitar might chime it, or
a mandolin ; but mostly it was the human
voice—like children’s voices singing with-
out conscious phrasing, just for the sake
of singing. Bits of hymns, bits of love
songs, of invocations to the Blessed
Virgin, of lullabies, of longings for other
older slums in Cadiz or Valladolid —
anything might drift out into the street
in old, dry voices, throaty baritones, a
girl’s dreaming soprano, a child’s alto.
Children singing in thanksgiving was the
thought that often rose in one’s mind.
The Argentino men are sincere, simple,
pious blokes with whom one can work,
live and play the fool in comfort and
kindness; their wives and families, on
the other hand, one treats with an elabo-
ration of respect, a devout solemnity of
courtesy which is not mere gesture but
a serious working part of the mind. That
is Spain, the aristocratic sanctuary-
tradition, the faculty of wonder; by corol-
lary it is also faith in kindness and grati-
tude and their ceremonial. So that even
the glaring day may not die without- the
slums’ murmured song of thanksgiving
for dusk and rest.
Martinez Sierra has this sincere sim-
plicity at its highest in his two great
plays, “The Cradle Song” and “The
Kingdom of God.” In both plays the
protagonists are nuns, and in both the
plot is the service of God. Nothing could
be more austere ; yet “The Cradle Song”
was a wild success 25 years ago, has been
played in a dozen languages and is still,
despite its age, a static in repertory and
a perennial in Madrid,
A foundling girl-baby is thrown upon
the mercy of a convent of nuns ; the nuns
bring her up, pouring into her spirit all
their suppressed motherhood; they give
her back to the world, to a young man
in marriage. So ends in renunciation
their lovely cradle song. In Gran-
ville Barker’s translation a lucid sim-
plicity of dialogue, spare ~ and most
moving, most, vital, shows in great
beauty the human heart making even its
suppressed instincts an engine for the
service of God, suffering and rejoicing,
taking toll by proxy of the radiant sor-
rows of the mothers out in the world. In
the beautiful ending of the play one
heard the vesper song again, the wiping
of the slate: all these troubles and
ecstasies of the day are done according
to the will of God. Now we rest, thanks
to Him.
“The Kingdom of God” flies higher
yet. It is a story of the service of God
without even the earthly reward of
radiant pain. A girl renounces earthly
life that others may enter the kingdom
of God ; for herself there is nothing here,
nor ever shall be. The play is her youth,
her middle-age, her old age. First she
is a girl ministering in an asylum for
old men; then in a home where the
children of fallen women are born ; in
her old age she is the mother of an
“orphanage.” Nothing diverts her from
this selfless service—not the scorn or
pleading of her family, not love and
marriage (the vows of her order are not
final), not the jaded, empty poverty of
her old age. Her job is the fitting or
the sorrowful and unfortunate for the
kingdom of God ; and she does it with
gentle grace and an unremitting iron
resolution. The last speech in the play
is hers, addressed to one of: hei
“orphans,” a revolutionary who
wants to kick the world to pieces: “Don t
cry . . . for men don’t cry, you know.
And they don’t complain. They suffer
. . ; but they work and hope.”
That is all very austere and stark -
little enough there for fiesh-and-blood.
But the average flesh-and-blood reader
hangs on every word, every luminous
vivid speech, hoping and praying that she
will hold till death to her splendid job
that has no reward save itself.
The Quinteros are a horse of a dif-
ferent color, but the same spirit. The
two brothers, Serafin and Joaquin
Alvarez Quintero, have always collabo-
rated since their first play’s produc-
tion in 1888, when they were respectively
16 and 15 years of age. By now they
have completed some 200 plays.
Their business is not the strict heights
of Sierra’s two plays, but what he does
for his nuns, his shy, ecstatic girls, his
fallen women and defiant, heartbroken
“orphan” boys, the Quinteros do for the
ordinary Spaniard. In lucid simplicity,
the truest of all touchstones, the same
that Sierra also has in his pen. This
simplicity in workmanship means sim-
plicity of vision ; it means benevolence,
compassion, humor, faith —life, in fact.
So that, in a page or two, you feel as
if you had just learned to read, so fresh
and spontaneous has this touchstone
made the work. You are in this Anda-
lusian town; these girls and women and
men are yourself—you see with their
eyes, think with their minds. All your
delicate shades of thought are here in
the characters’ words, swift and vivid,
touched with laughter, with tears, with
hope and regret. It doesn’t matter which
play you are reading—“ The Women’s
Town,” the beautiful “A Hundred Years
Old,” “Fortunato,” “The Lady from
Alfaqueque”—this spirit of truth is there,
together with its graceful, kindly cere-
monial which makes the pattern of
Spanish life.
HILARY LOFTING.
To the
Pioneers
One of Walt
Whitman’s poems
contains an oft-
quoted tribute to
“The Pioneers” ;
from Alex. Melrose comes a slim paper-
covered oblation on somewhat similar
lines, dedicated to the memory of the
pioneer colonist's of his own State. The
centenary, of course, has inspired it, and
the profits on the sale of the verses
(price: two shillings) go to the Pioneers’
Association. There are six pieces, all to
the same theme, in different metres, but
all full of generous appreciation of what
South Australia owes to its pilgrim
fathers and founders. Mr. Melrose
shows, as often before, a real proficiency
in numbers and a knack of happy and
graceful phrasing. Perhaps he is at his
best in the final piece, A ere Perennius:
O brave pioneers!
Our paean of praise
May fall upon ears
Unattuned in the days
Of pleasure and ease, yet your record is written
where none may erase.
You came, you have gone,
Not as conquerors pass,
But enduring as stone,
Renewed as the grass;
Your virtues unnamed, yet enduring as triple
perennial brass.
This people are we,
By these signs we abide;
We are strong, we are free,
In a kinship of pride.
Yet behind all the flags and the fervor stand
ye who came, conquered and died.
(■Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
—and in every act.
, *-
1111
■
mmm
H
~ ':'
M
/
“The Senior Store ”
“While I Live I’ll Grow”
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
20 Days Genuine Spring
Savings for Men
19 6 FUR FELT HAT,
Quality Hats of Pure Fur
Felt. Smart style with
medium width snap brims,
and greaseproof leather.
Light and Mid Grey, also
15/-
Steel, Slate or Fawn. Price 19/6
Sale Price 15/-
156 QUALITY HAT,
ẅ
w
or medium width snap brim styles.
Light, Medium or Dark Grey, also
Fawns and Browns. Price .... 15/6
Sale Price 12/6
Send for Copy of Special Men’s Wear Store News
ŵ
ẁ
7/6 SPORTS SHIRT MADE BY
I. & R. MORLEY’S,
Latest style . . . fine workman-
ship . . . comfortable fit are the
outstanding features of this
Locknit Cotton Shirt for tennis
or golf. Short sleeves . . . White
ẃ
ẅ
3/3 COOL WHITE CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR,
Cool open mesh cotton Under-
wear. Undershirts are made
with short' sleeves; also Trunk
Drawers, Sizes 32in. to 44in.
chest or waist.
w
Price, per garment .... 3/3
Sale Price, per garment
2/1 1
10 6 BRITISH HAIRCORD PYJAMAS,
PER SUIT
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
& Mercery Ground floor, George Street . Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Common wealth.


The Shadow
of the
First Folio
One- volume
editions of Shaks-
peare’s complete
works do not
apparently vary
very much ; the
result to date is
far from satisfactory—at times, indeed,
verges on the exasperating. After 300
years of scholarly research one has a
right to expect something better from
the modern publisher. This type of book
is much favored as a prize for youthful
students of both sexes ; at least, it should
not be misleading. Reference was made
on the Red Page (l/5/’35) to the inclu-
sion of a large number of minor poems
which are definitely the work of con-
temporaries and predecessors. For this
departure from the truth, the First Folio
cannot be held responsible, being con-
cerned only with plays, but it can be
indicted on more serious grounds.
It is one of the tragedies of world
literature that its most eminent contri-
butor never had a chance to review his
own work for publication, or even check
a proof sheet, with one exception. The
qualification refers to the two narrative
poems “Venus and Adonis” and
“Lucrece,” which we may read to-day
as Shakspeare intended. Had a like
opportunity been afforded in regard to
the plays an army of commentators and
a fair-sized library of books, resulting
from their labors, would never have
materialised. The playwright of the
Elizabethan period, unfortunately, if
attached, as Shakspeare was, to a com-
pany of actors, was not permitted to pub-
lish his plays for fear of an adverse effect
on box-office receipts, a ruling factor
then, as now. Even after his retirement,
live years before his death, Shakspeare
either could not or would not take any
steps to preserve his creations from
oblivion or mutilation. His friends, in
good faith, after he had lain seven years
“cold in the earth,” made a valiant
attempt to repair this grave omission,
and the First Folio, with all its imper-
fections, was given to the world.
The most colossal blunder in the First
Folio, undoubtedly, is the inclusion of
“Titus Andronicus” as an authentic play.
Every subsequent edition of Shakspeare’s
complete works has followed this fatal
lead, and for no other apparent reason.
Even the Quartos of this play do not
show his name on the title page, a signi-
ficant exception and proof of careful
editorship. Other companies are known
to have staged it, quite an unusual occur-
rence where Shakspeare’s work was con-
cerned. The internal evidence alone,
however, metrical and otherwise, is suffi-
cient to urge discerning critics to discard
the play, which is, comparatively, a crude
melodrama of the blood-and-thunder
type calculated “to split the ears of
groundlings.” The box-office magnates
probably, seeing money in it, handed to
our poet some old play, author unknown,
or perhaps a reject, with a hint to touch
it up—an uncongenial task, one imagines,
reluctantly performed but accounting
possibly for the lines here and there
which seem to have the genuine ring.
And the b.o.m. were right, as usual, for
the play was popular and drew good
houses, with the groundlings, no doubt,
preponderating. The Folio version, how-
ever, was not acted after 1678, when it
was superseded by an adaptation written
by Edward Ravenscroft, himself a firm
believer in the non-Shakspearean author-
ship of the original play.
Then, again, the First Folio gives us
no assistance on the question of divided
authorship, though it is now generally
agreed that Shakspeare did collaborate
with his fellow-playwrights in several of
the plays. It is probable that we owe
the greater part of “Henry VIII.” to John
Fletcher, who has not received the credit
to which he is entitled. “Timon of
Athens” and “Pericles” both reveal dual
authorship, and George Wilkins, on avail-
able evidence, may, in both these cases,
have lent a hand. There are good
grounds for the theory that Greene and
Peele wrote the original three plays of
Henry VI., and that they were recast and
moulded to their present form by Shaks-
peare and Marlowe. No wonder Greene
was moved to his famous if bitter denun-
ciation of Shakspeare as “an upstart crow
beautified with our feathers.”
In the First Folio the comedies, his-
tories and tragedies form three distinct
groups, but there is neither rhyme nor
reason in the order of arrangement of
the plays, with the exception of the his-
tories. which dp follow' a natural time
sequence. The world still awaits a pub-
lisher with the flair to produce a volume
ot that master s works which will satisfy
it assthetically and judicially.
J. W.R.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
OUTBACK IN ASIA
The scribe visiting London intent on
writing a popular travel book should
stick to the flower girls of Trafalgar
Square and the delights of Soho if he
wants large sales; or going, let us
say, to the Barrier Reef, he had
better have lots of glorious winter sun-
shine even if—as is possible—it rained
most of the time he was there. Some
such reflections as these must have been
in the mind of Peter Fleming, author of
News f rom Tartary (Cape), when he
paused in the middle of his narra-
tive to remark: “It occurs to me
that there is too much grumbling
in this book. I am trying to give
an honest account ol the journey,
but perhaps fidelity to the facts fails to
reflect reality by just as wide a margin
as the unscrupulously imaginative treat-
ment which until quite recently was
alone considered capable of securing a
public for a book of travel.” That
hokum is still in widest demand is be-
side the point; the important thing is
that Fleming s doubt, fortunately, is but
a flicker confined to the paragraph in
which it is expressed. Throughout he
trusts to “fidelity to the facts” to reflect
the reality he so commendably desires
to represent.
In company with a Frenchwoman,
K-ini Maillart, author of Turkey Solo,
he travelled from Peking to Kashmir—
-4000 miles —a journey full of trials and
hardships. The partners, newspaper cor-
respondents, wished, apart from answer-
ing the lure of strange places, to learn
the extent of Russian penetration of
Mongolia and Tartary. They found it
extended to the border of India, that it
was commercial and political, but not
social in so far as there appeared to be
little active propagation of Communist
doctrines. Its forerunners, curiously
enough, were the White Russians who
sought sanctuary in China after the revo-
lution, but whom the U.S.S.R. had since
made to feel that loyalty to the idea of
Imperial Russia was a too costly luxury.
The travellers met many of these
singly and in settlements, in China. The
two chapters dealing with these matters
have a special interest apart from (he
rest of the book, which is a record of
travel in remote and very inhospitable
regions.
The early stages of the journey were
by train and motor-lorry, packed among
verminous and malodorous Chinese
yokels. Camels were hired for cross-
ing the Gobi desert—a thousand miles
from tree to tree ; and horses to cross
the mountain passes—2o,ooo feet alti-
tude. The troubles they encountered
were duststorms accompanied by ice-
cold winds, acute hunger, thirst, great
fatigue, dangerously narrow cliff paths
among the mountains, trouble with
guides, difficulties of transport owing to
the inferior quality of the pack and
saddle animals, irritating delays because
of passport difficulties, official suspicion
and discourtesy, and the unsettled state
of the country, due to intermittent civil
disturbances. From inclination and
reasons of expediency they travelled
light; they literally washed in the camp
frying-pan. How the woman stood up
to the rigors of the march is difficult to
understand. The author is eager to offer
praise of her courage and mateship.
From the outset their chances of
reaching their destination were remote.
When at last they came in touch with
white civilisation, people looked at them
“with the mingled disapproval and envy
with which you look at a man who picks
a horse with a pin and wins a lot of
money.” The author tells an absorbing
story of the happenings of the march,
the country and the people met along
the way, and has the imaginative touch
necessary to make his pictures vivid. The
mile-long camel caravan they joined on
the Gobi desert was “like a chapter out
of Exodus.” A cart containing an
elaborately decorated coffin, driven by a
Chinese and followed by a little boy rid-
ing a donkey and carrying a white rabbit
in arms, was “rather like some sort of
fable. A pleasant feature of the story
is the travellers’ comradeship with their
animals, and their ceaseless efforts to
save them from the worst brutalities of
the natives.
Mr. Fleming, keeping- to the facts of
the matter, and declining to “write it up”
when he came to anything susceptible to
that soft of treatment, has produced a
fine book. and. though he is right in
suspecting that it won’t undermine the
popularity of. let us say, Mr. H. V.
Morton, it will have its own discriminat-
ing and appreciative public. Its author,
iater on, will possibly be rewarded with
the triple-ringed halo said to be promised
to writers who are penworthv while on
earth.
* * * *
WINNOWED GRAIN
Tare Harvest, by Eleanor Peters
(Cape ; 7s. 6d.), the story of an English
family farming in the Chilean Andes, is
a deeply satisfying novel. As its name
suggests, it is essentially tragic in theme,
but the Nemesis that overtakes John
Guilder and in part fastens on his daugh-
ter Justine, though poignant, is offset by
ihe acceptance and appreciation of life
implied in every page of the book. Its
bitterness is in the rind ; it is sweet at
the core. Most ot the action takes place
at the Guilder homestead, dominated by
the sharp Andean peaks that seem to
enclose the story just as they enclose the
green pastures that spread away from
the farm.
The working out of the webbed pat-
tern ol late is hidden even from those
most tragically involved in it. John
Guilder doesn t know that the crippled
Chileno—member of a race held in
hatred and contempt by the English
settlers—who haunts the foothills is the
Miguel whom, for petty theft, he de-
livered years ago to brutal justice, when
he was a mine manager. Miguel’s motive
was that Alejo, his little son, lay ill.
Guilder subsequently shoots the cripple,
as he might shoot a dog, to assuage his
wrath when his daughter gives herself
in love to a handsome member of the
despised race. A pious man at heart, he
is haunted by the memory of his deed
and lives in the conviction that God will
punish him. He never learns that the
Chileno who ill-treats Justine, once the
first tide of tender passion is spent, is
Alejo, son of Miguel.
The Guilder household is large, and
its members all become fully known to
the reader, the older, English-born
persons urbane, the Chilean-born a
trifle uncouth, but at ease in their en-
vironment. Their separate and some-
times conflicting destinies are part of the
cross-weave of the book. By a special
quality in the author’s gift they are
present and their individual influences
felt even when they are not part of the
immediate action of the story. This
intense awareness of things out of sight,
of having all the threads in hand at once,
is a marked quality of the writer’s, and
one that subtly reacts on the reader. It
extends to the physical ; the reader is
throughout imaginatively aware of such
things as the-smell of the sun-warmed
thatch, the sound of a meal sizzling over
the embers, the distant lowing of cattle,
the odor of newly-turned earth, the
clatter of children playing about the
door, the river near by gliding glassily
over its stony bed, the coming and going
of wagoners, cattle thieves and gaudily
caparisoned Chileno horseman. Tare
Harvest —a first novel apparently—is
something more than a fine technical
achievement. There is something spon-
taneous about it. Without quite know-
ing how it occurred—it is to be sus-
pected—the author has created and main-
tained for the length of her story a world
that lives and moves in all jts parts. It
is the kind of book which the mind
returns to and consults as if what it
contains had been a part of personal ex-
perience. Lest it be feared that the story
is too grim, it might be worth explaining
that, while Guilder meets a fate largely
of his own creating, Justine is at length
liberated from things that appear to
hold her fast, by a further working out
of the pattern that was commenced when
Guilder discovered Miguel pilfering.
* * * *
TWENTY YEARS AFTER
Sherston’s Progress, by Siegfried Sas-
soon (Faber and Faber ; 7s. 6d.), would
scarcely stand by itself. It depends in a
large measure for its interest on the
reader knowing that the author, an army
officer —with a good fighting record —
got himself into serious trouble, both
with the military and socially, during the
middle years of the war through start-
ing a single-handed stop-the-war cam-
paign. That he got small thanks from
either civilians or soldiers is explainable
by the simple fact that a people com-
mitted to a major struggle knows instinc-
tively that it needs its war mentality—
however foul a thing that may be —to
sustain it. (A kinder name for war
mentality is fighting morale.) Sassoon
showed himself morally as well as physi-
cally courageous, but he was soon over-
whelmed. He had to accept the helo
of influential connections who—with his
consent presumably—had him sent to a
shell-shock hospital.
The early part of the book deals with
his experiences and cogitations while in
that institution. “This heroic gesture of
yours—‘making a separate peace’—is ex-
tremely convenient for you, isn’t it?
Doesn’t it begin to look rather like dodg-
ing the Kaiser’s well-aimed projectiles?
Twelve weeks ago you genuinely be-
lieved yourself to be a man with a mess-
age, but unless you can prove to your-
self that your protest is still effective you
are here under false pretences.” He had
some “murky moments” in the course
of his reflections, and at length decided
that the only course open to him was to
return to active service. He could get
rid of the war only by taking part in it.
The second part of his book deals
with fox-hunting in Ireland, where he is
sent to join a battalion in training. It
is pleasant reading, but has little to do
with the subject in hand, and really be-
longs to another book. The third part
is the diary of his journey to Palestine
and his almost immediate return when
his battalion is transferred to France.
His comments on his fellow-officers are
notable for their outspokenness. “One
gets an occasional glimpse of disquiet in
the emergence of a hunted look or an
uneasy laugh—the fear of what awaits
them in France. They are to be pitied.
But the pity needs to be vast. No little
human patronising pity like mine is any
use.” The fourth part records very
modestly—but nevertheless does record
—his exploits in France, where he be-
came a company commander, and was
at length wounded while out in No
Man’s Land with a corporal bombing a
German machine-gun.
It is a man of 50 writing an apology
and a defence for the man of 30 whom
he remembers. “Of course, the weak
point about my ‘protest’ had been that
it was evoked by personal feeling. It
was an emotional idea based on my war
experience and stimulated by the acquisi-
tion of points of view which I accepted
uncritically. My intellect was suffering
from trench fever.” It seems rather a
pity that the author should think it neces-
sary to take up the attitude he does
towards his younger self. Truth has
many aspects. He might, with equal
reason, feel that young Sassoon needs
defending for not having stuck to his
pacifist principles to the last ditch—
although no one who remembers those
years will think so. His record as a
warrior needs no comment, and at the
stage of history in which he writes —the
present —his attempt to stop the war
appears, at the worst, as a very honor-
able indiscretion. It scarcely needs say-
ing that, given a little knowledge of the
matters implicitly discussed, Mr. Sas-
soon’s book is eminently readable.
* * * *
IT CAN HAPPEN HERE
Arthur W. Upheld, author of Wings
Above the Diamantina (Angus and Rob-
ertson ; 65.), carries no highbrow top-
hamper. A squatter and attractive
daughter, driving in their car, come
upon an unattended aeroplane and
find in the cockpit a young girl—also
attractive—apparently asleep, but actu-
ally, as they subsequently learn, in
the grip of a mysterious drug of long-
enduring effect. How did she come
there, why was she drugged and how did
the pilot leave the ’plane without mak-
ing tracks on the ground? The answers
have to do with a forged will, some vil-
lainous plotting, a doctor who experi-
enced a very sad love affair in his youth
and who stifles a gasp when he sees the
victim, certain items of knowledge
gleaned from the blacks and, most im-
portantly, Bonaparte, a half-caste detec-
tive. It all ends with a truly Dickensian
distribution of rewards and punishments
and a double peal of wedding bells.
Bonaparte is the outstanding achieve-
ment of the book, a character humanly
interesting apart from his function as un-
raveller of mystery. The story is obvi-
ously machine-made, but it is well
made. It is very well written, derives
authentically from the Australian scene
and is every bit as good as —if not a little
better than—the same kind of thing from
overseas. It should prove popular.
* * * *
RECOMMENDED
Novels: Tare Harvest, Eleanor Peters
(Cape); The White Hare, Francis Stuart
(Collins); Heyday in the Blood, Geraint
Goodwin (Cape); Education Before
Verdun, Arnold Zweig (Martin Seeker);
In Dubious Battle, John Steinbeck Heine-
mann; Tugboat, Roger Vercel (Chatto
and Windus). Travel: News from
Tartary, Peter Fleming (Cape). Bio-
graphy : Sherston’s Progress, Siegfried
Sassoon (Faber and Faber). Poetry:
Tom Groggin and Other Verse, Mary
Lang (Dent).
F.D.D.


“Crocodile egg not bad tucker,”
ŵ
says CHUNUMA,
the “Little Bit King” of the Black Community
of Argyle, in the Kimberleys, the home of Norah,
Nubbudah and Boxer, who made “ALL-ABOUT”
the best-seller for 1936.
The authors of “ALL-ABOUT,” the two clever
daughters of Nor’-west Australian pioneer M. P.
Durack, have produced another happy book, in
the same inimitable style and with even more
delightful illustrations.
Seldom are two such lovable characters as
Chunuma, the first grandchild of the bush king
Bungyee, and his shy little mate Dingyerri found
together in .one book; and the assertive, possessive
Gwennie, “a smart kid properly” who “sings like’m
crumaphone,” is too beautiful a study to miss.
Big Brother to “ALL-ABOUT”
“Chunuma” should beat “All-About’s” wonderful
sales record.
Order your copy at once —in time for the English
Christmas mails.
The book has just been published and is now on
sale at booksellers in all States.
CtiUNUMA
MARY and ELIZABETH
DUR A C R
PRICE
3/6
(Postage 4d.)
Make sure of an early copy by sending
postal note for 3/6, plus 4d. for postage, to
“THE BULLETIN,” Box 252188, G.P.O.
Sydney.
“Bulletin
Book
—
n
111*
l||§
SfiftSf
il- ;.
i if i*
:
i m
:; 11
llllllli
■
' ; ’. ' ■: f ' ;
w gt g, 1 ™ X
, .- ......
siiiiiisiiiiiii isiiii* inn i
■ . ■ ...."... %-Y- ■'
m
1111
■ i
iiiili
liiil® likitilSri
WrnmlSmSmm ..■ l
■ :
-e.".
■
■
Hi
Mm
■ a
11 ®§
ill
1 11
m
1 ill i
liillSifi . ; I i lllllll : : . illlipi
s
*
8 lii
m
mtm
■'i
11 111
™w
liillll
■
ev -
ill
■
Hr
iiiilifir
-e:-' : ■
in


ẁ


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—Nb. 2957.
October 14, 1936.
MARCHING FROM GEORGIA.
“A Georgia negro has teken up a position on the top of a 100ft. smoke-stack. All efforts to bring him down are met with a shower of bricks
Hey, it won’t hurt you fellows to come down, especially if you land on your heads.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HLAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
w 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
• Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Wlstrai.ia : 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Latnbton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.: 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To ANY address Overseas : 12 months. £1 10s ■
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
Fluted Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THINGS THAT HANG TOGETHER.
Mr. Scullin, making an interesting reappearance as
a debater, pleaded earnestly in the House of Repre-
sentatives for the neglected cause of Australian litera-
ture and that almost-forgotten man the Australian
writer. He suggested that the vote for the Common-
wealth Literary Fund should be increased to admit
of living writers being helped to remain in Australia
instead of becoming exiles, as so many have done,
or to devote themselves wholly to literature instead
of combining it with the struggle for a crust, as has
happened in a still greater number of cases.
Persons who have proved their capacity to do
creative work but are prevented from exercising then-
abilities. because of their financial stringency should be
granted assistance. We should provide money for the
printing and publishing of new works of national interest
and the reprinting of Australian publications already
out of date. And annual prizes should be offered for
the best literary works submitted to a properly-qualified
authority, in prose and poetry and in research as well.
It was Mr. Scullin’s Government that forbade
the sale in Australia of an eminent Australian’s book
whose merits had been recognised in Britain and the
U.S.A. ; but let tlt? f pass. The present Government’s
interest in letters .ems to begin and end with plans
for preventing Australians from reading classical and
contemporary works which offend its Little Puddleton
tastes and prejudices. It would be a wonderful change
if the Literary Fund were increased ten- or twentyfold
and applied to the purposes which the former Prime
Minister specified ; but the age of miracles is gone.
It seems far more likely that the annual vote will go
on being less than a Minister’s salary (“average
annual expenditure under this heading,” said Mr.
Scullin, “has been about £1250,” and Australia has
73 Ministers) and being distributed in weekly amounts
of 10s. to 12s. 6d. —old-age pensioners get 19s. a week,
and their poverty is never officially exposed as is that
of men of letters on the Literary Fund list.
A few days after Mr. Scullin spoke the head-
master of the district school at Tweed Heads, a Mr.
A. E. Williams, came out with an astonishing attack
on what is called the N. S. Wales system of education
—astonishing because the public which pays £4,000,000
a year for its maintenance is periodically assured by
some homing Minister or departmental bigwig that
“the N. S. Wales system of education is the finest
in the world.”
We have a type of education throughout the State
which is suitable only for a city. It was framed by city
men with city interests. The result has been that the
child has been made to fit the scheme of education and
not the scheme to fit the child.
Mr. Williams went on to say that “rural, domestic
and technical branches have been starved, while an
academic type of education has been built up.” As
to this, the Minister of Labor and Industry has himself
admitted that, whereas his Government has tens of
thousands of unskilled laborers whom it doesn’t know
what to do with, there is a shortage of skilled workers
in many trades (together, of course, with a famine in
domestics). But the same conditions obtain in almost
every State. While there has been abundance of
money for frills, technical education has been starved
throughout Australia. As for frills—Mr. Williams
again speaking:—
High schools sprang up like mushrooms all over the
State. A few professional men were able to exercise
a pull over the rest of the population in country centres,
and were able to put a case to the authorities, who are
blind to any but city needs, and to get these white
elephants built, equipped and staffed.
And a considerable proportion of the pupils for
whom these high schools were built, equipped and
staffed don’t stay in them long. In 1934 (no subsequent
report has-been published) N. S. Wales Government
high and intermediate high schools had a gross enrol-
ment of 35,046 (there were 1360 teachers), a net
enrolment of 33,957, an average weekly enrolment of
30,419 and an average attendance of 27,646.
Mr. Williams’s indictment was followed within
24 hours by a blast from Mr. W. H. lfould, head
man of the public library of N. S. Wales, on the
subject of free libraries. Free libraries exist in Aus-
tralia. but Carnegie Corporation men told us last year
that the general average is unspeakably poor, and after
comparing them with British free libraries Mr. lfould
sadly confirms their verdict. Sydney and Melbourne,
he says, have the best of a bad lot, but neither is
"comparable with libraries to be found even in second-
rate English towns,” and the residents in “fifth-rate
English towns” would laugh at "the best example of
a Victorian municipal library,” the proud possession
of Prahran.
No progress has been made in Australian libraries
for 50 years. The basic trouble is that everything is left
to the politicians, who do nothing unless votes arc
attached.
They order these things better in France. There
“the Academy has an annual sum of 200,000 francs
to administer in literary prizes,” and “literature plays
a far larger part in the cultural and national con-
sciousness of France than it does in that of any other
nation.’.’ The witness is a German, the Bonn historian
Curtins:
Tn France, if a man wishes to be regarded as a
politician he must be able to express himself in some
form of literature. No man who is not master of the
spoken or written word can exert any influence in public
life. Chateaubriand was a Cabinet Minister; Claudel,
the ambassador, is one of the great French poets of the
present day; some of the most briliant books of the
most recent French literature have been written in the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
A bit different from Australia, where almost the
only politician known to have written a book has
had incomparably better books censored, and where
to wade through a volume of "Hansard” —almost any
volume of any “Hansard”— is to leave the reader
nauseated with cheap abuse and cheaper brag.
In France, of course, education is under national,
not provincial, control. If it were placed under
national control in Australia, and if nation-wide free
libraries were made adjuncts to it, and if the best
minds in the country were commissioned to award
annual literary prizes, as are “the Immortals,” there
would in process of time be no occasion for the sighs
of a Mr. Scullin or for the sarcasm of a Mr. Williams
or a Mr. lfould. It would mean scrapping six systems
of State education (i.e., Government schooling), each
“the finest in the world,” and dismissing at least five
Cabinet Ministers and droves of other politicians and
Government clerks ; but these are the sort of losses
that nations easily survive.
An Aerial Somersault.
For as long as anyone can remember mails have been
carried from Australia to Britain, and from Britain
to Australia, in British sea-boats—sailing-ships,
steamers, oil-burners —nor has anyone found the
arrangement unpatriotic. So Australian sentiment was
not outraged, though politicians pretend that it was,
when it was proposed that mails should be carried
from Britain to Australia, and from Australia to
Britain, in British flying-boats at a great reduction on
present air-mail charges and with a great saving in
time, as well as an evident lessening of risks to pilots
and passengers.
It was vaguely understood that the proposal would
mean unification of control, now divided among three
companies, but it was taken for granted that Aus-
tralians would have their fair share in the management
and operation of the unified enterprise, as well as
having sole authority over all internal air services, in
being and to be.
Opposition to the British proposal did not spring
from the Australian public. It began at Canberra,
where Mr. Lyons and Mr. Parkhill said “No.” They were
against flying-boats ; flying-boats were too slow. “Quite
inadequate for a trunk service of such importance,”
said Mr. Parkhill. Mr. Parkhill had not then heard
of the Canopus type, which carries 24 passengers and
three tons of mail, and has a cruising speed which
would allow of a seven-day schedule from London
to Sydney—the present service connects the two
extreme points in about double the time when it is
not running late.
Mr. Parkhill was against reduction of the letter-
carriage fee from Is. 6d. to Hd., the charge which
the British Post Office has decided to establish on
all Empire airways next year. And he wished to
“retain control of the Cootamundra-Singapore route,
which is strategically important.” Important it may
be, but it is aerially defended by Singapore squadrons,
a bomber from which brought Dr. Earle Page home
after his tour of Europe.
Mr. Lyons, for his part, found the idea o£ air
carriage of all mails “attractive,” but also found diffi-
culties, “including finance.” Australia was to find
a subsidy of £140,000 p.a. for 15 years, and that would
reduce the annual Post Office surplus, which amounted
to £2,407,900 in 1934-35, and probably reached
£3,000,000 in \35-’36, though the result has not been
announced. Mr. Lyons’s notion of a fair air-mail rate
was 6d. from Australia and sd. the other way. The
Commonwealth Government was prepared to intro-
duce its own twice-a-week service from Singapore.
Eight months of wrangling followed, the public-
being left in the dark. At length it occurred to Mr.
Lyons and Mr. Parkhill that Maoriland might be
interested in the matter. Dr. Page had meanwhile
had that close contact with Downing-street which
helps to form an Australian Minister’s opinions. And
now Cabinet has changed its tune.
Landplane services are to run, as before, from
Darwin to the south. Seaplanes will come south by
the coastal route, and thence cross the Tasman Sea. The
necessity for Australian control of the Cootamundra-
Singapore route seems to have ceased to exist, though
Mr. Parkhill says the “right of control has not been
surrendered.” And Australia is to be saved £lOO,OOO
a year.
Still the Minister has his uncertainties:
I am not able, neither is any other member able, to
say whether the flying boats being constructed in
Britain or multiple landplanes are the better form of
aircraft for use in this service.
Yet months ago he was certain that a seaplane
service would be “inadequate. ’’
The strangest part of the Minister's admissions —
they were made on September 23 —was that on the
subject of an air route which is to link Australia with
Maoriland, as well as with Europe, there had “never
been any personal communication between the Gov-
ernments of Australia and New Zealand.” “Personal
communication” there has been since he blurted this
out ; and he was positively charmed with his recep-
tion. There is now reason to hope that Canberra will
cease to regard Maoriland as a wholly foreign and
unfriendly country, while still suspecting it of sinister
designs to bring down the price of spuds.
Japan and China.
If Japan and China go to war again, a fresh shambles
is inevitable. Even the most humane belligerents
cannot fight with modern weapons in the middle of
a vast industrial area like Shanghai, surrounded by
waterways packed with the navies of every nation,
without somebody getting damaged.. And belligerents
cannot be humane, however humane their intentions.
The Japanese are concerned with defending their
conception of national honor and of racial develop-
ment and progress. The Chinese are engaged in
defending their conception ; and the two conceptions
do not coincide.
In the Chinese conception the intellectual comes
first; after him comes the farmer; and at the very
bottom, and despised even by themselves, come the
businessman and the soldier. So little does the soldier
regard himself as the type of the Chinese nation that,
when General Wu Pei-fu was defeated in battle, he
invariably retired to a monastery and resumed the
writing of poems. The businessman believes so little
in what he is doing that as soon as he has made his
pile he sets up a university or retires into the country
and founds a model colony.
Nor does the Chinaman believe in political democ-
racy. He believes in the Superior Man of Confucius
who is first of all the head of a family, then a matt
of learning and finally the Son of Heaven, who is
simply the divinely-wise father of his people. When
a Son of Heaven committed an error (and droughts,
pestilences and civil disturbances were regarded as
among his errors) he confessed it before all his people,
and if he failed to repair it the people had the privilege
of kicking him off his throne and setting up another
ruler. But it was never supposed that his children
could Tell the Son of Heaven how to repair his error;
he had to go to the Temple of Heaven and beg for
guidance from his ancestors —in other words, to think
a second time about it.
The Chinese do not believe in physical aggression.
They cannot see that it has any value. They believe
only in the appeal to the intellect, and when a business-
man considers himself to have been injured by a
rival he commits suicide on his doorstep as a final
argument addressed to his rival’s conscience. When
a statesman fails the people he confesses his inade-
quacy and goes into retirement.
China grew into a vast empire mainly because
it had to protect its culture from invasion by outside
barbarians. When it had conquered a foreign country
it went back to its poems and pictures. When the
barbarians conquered China they were conquered in
their turn by Chinese culture, and in a few genera-
tions they became indistinguishable from Chinese.
The Japanese conception is quite different.
Everything in their culture has been borrowed. They
obtained their religion, art and philosophy from China,
their commercial and industrial equipment from
Europe and America ; and their political institutions
are a hodge-podge of German, French and British
procedures. The soldier is the highest type, and his
virtues of implicit obedience and complete self-abnega-
tion are copied by every citizen. A soldier is not
permitted the vice of self-pity, and when he loses a
battle or his emperor is insulted he commits suicide —
in order to draw attention not to his own sufferings
but to the wrongs of the nation.
The soldier needs the assistance of the businesjs-
man, so the businessman ranks high in Japanese esti-
mation. The statesman is only a soldier or a sailor
in civil uniform, and the democratic politician is
regarded as such a joke that newspapers can
indulge in any flights of fancy they like about his
goings-on without the slightest fear of libel.
When two conceptions as contrary as this come
into conflict there is bound to be trouble. It might
be imagined that the pacifist conception of the
Chinese has not a hope against the aggressive
conception of the Japanese; but necessity is
the mother of invention. It required a World
War for the Germans to invent synthetic food-
stuffs. If it had not been for the war there would
have been no necessity to invent them. If it had
not been for the fact that China was surrounded on
all her boundaries and coasts by aggressive neighbors
there would have been no necessity for her to invent
a compromise between her traditional conception of
intellectual passivity and the modern idea of physical
aggression.
In order to defend her own conception China
had to study the conceptions of her neighbors. She
has done so to such purpose that now, if her generals
still write verses in retirement, they also occasionally
win battles ; if her manufacturers prefer to see Old
Ming in their homes, they can make pots and pans
with the best of their Western rivals ; if her statesmen
still burgle the public chest and bank the proceeds,
they also know how to mortgage their country’s
natural resources and use the money to raise armies
to keep out the lenders.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tragic Trade Minister.
In the House of Representatives on Friday a Minister
accused a Labor member of standing for the intro-
duction of “shoddy goods” made by “outside sweated
labor.” The Minister was Mr. Gullett, who has never
been reckoned much of a Protectionist; the Labor
member was Mr. Forde, Mr. Curtin’s deputy: “the
arch-tariffist” he has been called by U.A.P.
newspapers. Yet nobody laughed.
Amid “uproar” and “shouts of anger” Mr. Forde
had challenged the trade-war policy which has resulted
\ in the Japanese withdrawal from the wool market.
He said that if Japan had been buying wool prices
would have been 15 p.c. higher, that Parliament and
the people had been kept in the dark, and that the
Ministry should place all its cards on the table.
Japan has never challenged the right of the Aus-
tralian Government to decide its trade or tariff policy.
When the 1931 tariff prohibitions were imposed Japan
was treated the same as other nations and made no
protest whatever.
Then came Mr. Gullett with a roar that
Mr. Forde was “taking the side of Japan.” Mr. Forde
might have found a better riposte to this accusation
than to demand its withdrawal as being offensive.
He might have waited till the end of Mr. Gullett’s
speech and analysed it. At one moment Mr. Gullett
said:
The whole policy of the deputy-leader of the Opposi-
tion is in the interest of outside sweated labor. Unless
this competition is checked Australia will have no
future as a white country.
And the next moment he remarked that
The Commonwealth Government has a great admira-
tion and respect for the Japanese people and hopes
soon again to establish friendly relations with them.
After that Mr. Gullett achieved another flight of
fancy:
Of our sales to Japan practically 100 p.c. is wool.
The Gullett Government’s own “Overseas Trade
Bulletin” for 1934-35 (no later issue is on sale) gives
a list of 40 Australian commodities other than wool
exported to Japan in that twelvemonth, the value
of these commodities being £3,415,395 sterling.
But it has been made drearily plain that Mr.
Gullett does not read his own Government’s statistics.
“The wool market,” Mr. Gullett proceeded, “is
firming.” So it is —in South Africa and South
America. A Sydney “Herald” report from Buenos
Ayres is to the effect that “the exceptionally high
price of 18.25 pesos per 10 kilograms (about Is. 6fd.
per pound Australian)” was realised there for “Aus-
tralian-type merino.” The Bulletin works it out at
just on Is. 7d. per pound. The Australian average
for three months to the end of September was 12.46 d.
per pound, as against 14.01 d. for the full 1935-36
year; and a large proportion of the wool offered in
Queensland was not sold.
Mr. Gullett once denounced a Prime Minister
who is now his colleague for not borrowing
£50,000,000 to bring in British immigrants. Another
gentleman who is now his colleague he described as
“the tragic Treasurer.” Presumably each of these
gentlemen thought Mr. Gullett was wrong then. Do
they think he is right now, when, as a result of his
policy—or the policy of which he is the mouthpiece—
South Americans are getting Is. 7d. a pound for wool
that Australians have to sell at Is. or Is. Id. when
they can get buyers, and when the Government
Statistician reports that “the unfavorable commodity
balance of trade for two months of 1936-37 was
£5,796,000”? Or do they take the easy view that it is
not their business?
Graziers' Losses in Queensland.
In a report for the year to June 30, published last
week, the position in which Queensland graziers
find themselves after “the recent drought crisis, which
affected many more people than in 1898-1902,” was
discussed with knowledge and sympathy by the State’s
eminently capable Land Administration Board. Some
extracts:
Seasonal conditions, as well as prices, have been
against sheep graziers. In many places losses, not merely
of profits, but of capital, have been considerable. The
north-western districts had a particularly bad time, and
restocking after heavy losses is now the chief problem
of that region.
It would seem that the steadfast courage, patience
and endurance of the people over the last 10 years are
at length to be rewarded. Sound wool prices will need
to continue for some time to repair the ravages of the
past.
These remarks were evidently written before the
Government at Canberra plunged into
its trade war with Japan, and thereby jeopardised the
“sound wool prices” on which Mr. Payne and his
colleagues lay so much stress. They obviously influ-
enced Mr. Forde to come out with his searching criti-
cism of the trade-war and hush-hush policies, but the
chances are that they will be wasted on the Govern-
ment. Judging by the persistent assertion that
Japanese purchases in Australia are “practically”
confined to wool, the Government doesn’t read the
reports of its own statistician, let alone those of the
Queensland Land Administration Board.
Australia BUYS British.
While Britain’s trade is of vast importance to
Australia, Australia has no need to feel any inferiority
complex when it comes to a question of “buying
British.”
Anglo-Australian trade figures issued by the
Commonwealth Statistician show that, with purchases
in 1935-36 of British goods worth £30,767.000 sterling
(£27,888,000 in 1934-35 and £23,085,451 in 1933-34),
Australia buys from Britain much more than Canada
(only £22,590,000 in 1935-36). Australia buys more
from Britain than any British country, South Africa
and India excepted, and far more than any foreign
country. It buys more British goods than the Argen-
tine and Denmark combined. These two countries
are Australia’s chief rivals in the U.K. meat and butter
markets.
And the apparent disparity between Australian
purchases from and sales to Britain is made up by
payments for interest, shipping and insurance services,
etc. The London “ ‘Times’ Trade and Engineering”
estimates these payments at £26,000,000 p.a.
Britain is a prodigious consumer of United States
goods, but 125,000,000 Americans take British goods
far smaller in total value than Australia, with a popu-
lation of 6,750,000, takes. The following figures are
interesting:
Imports into U.K. Exports from U.K.
Australia .. .. £57,368,000 £30,767,000
Argentine .. .. 42,641,000 15,461,000
Denmark .. .. 32,628,000 13,979,000
U.S.A. .. .. 94,588,000 25,273,000
As a supplier of goods to the U.K., Australia
is third to Canada and the U.S.A. Its sales to Britain
have increased by £7,750,000 in three trade years.
So while it is remarkable enough that a country with
only 6,750,000 people should sell so much to the
Mother Country from which it has ceased to borrow
(when it did borrow there was a huge annual balance
in the U.K.’s favor), it is by no means one-way traffic.
Australia has every right to speak with a bold
and confident voice when the Ottawa treaties come up
for revision, knowing that the promotion of its own
interests will in the long run help Britain.
Over the Million Ounces.
From Wiluna across the continent to Mt. Morgan
toilers and machinery are winning a growing quantity
of precious metal.
Commonwealth gold output was 100,438 fine
ounces in August, one-fifth more than the quantity
won in the same month of 1935. During the first
eight months of the present year 731,6710 z. has been
mined and extracted. In the whole of 1935 —there
was a miners’ strike in Westralia for two months—
-917,2620z. came to light. In 1936 more than
1,100,0000 z. should be the reward of operations in all
States, but more particularly in Westralia, Queensland
and Victoria.
« Over a million ounces! We must go back to
1919 to find a similar record. At that time the industry
was fast fading, and equal production brought in less
than half the money of to-day. That money (£ for £)
bought about two-thirds the goods of to-day. The
buying power of a million ounces in 1936 would be,
in fact, 170 p.c. more than that of the same quantity
in 1919. Goldmining is now an industry of definite
importance, and in the value of our exports it is ahead
of butter.
It has risen to its present state in spite of some
very bad examples of company promotion and man-
agement. A painfully large amount of investors’
money has been wasted in fruitless prospecting and
development, in wrong plant, and in excessive ven-
dors’ costs. But a national income of £1,000,000
Australian a month from the yellow metal, which
should soon be in sight, softens the picture; and,
though absentee shareholders get a whack out of the
profits, Australian labor, materials and dividends
absorb the greatest proportion of the proceeds. Here’s
hoping that two million ounces will be the annual
production before long! A lot of stragglers and
several definitely good shows are only now getting
into their stride.
Jean Batten Arrives.
Jean Batten, a Maoriland girl who looks as if she
had never known rigors greater than those of the
family drawing-room, arrived in Darwin on Sunday
5 days 21 hours out from Lympne, in Kent. She
had flown the route before in 14 days 23 hours, and
she had a modest hope of halving the time of that
pioneer journey. The ’plane was a Percival Gull, and
it already had done good service for her, because she
had flown in it to Brazil from London last November
—a feat for which she received the leading pilots’
awards of Europe for the year and a C.B.E. She
had no difficulties on the Lympne-Darwin journey
except physical ones. She kept up a steady 1500
miles a day.
The Percival Gull was designed and built by an
Australian. It is about 36ft. wing-span, 24ft. long
and under 7ft. 6in. high. It has a working cruising
speed of somewhere about 150 m.p.h. and one 200-h.p.
engine. It is a much better machine than the open-
cockpit jobs in which Hinkler and Amy Johnson made
their flights, but that does not detract from the great-
ness of the achievement. Even if the spirit of adven-
ture did not justify it, it serves a useful purpose in
providing a standard of comparison with our mail
service.
The mail service is flown in a series of machines
specially built for the job monsters beside Miss
Batten’s. No pilot is called on to fly the whole
distance, or even half of it, and on all sections there
are relief pilots and navigators. A mail closed in
London two days before the girl left. It is advertised
to be delivered in Sydney on October 16 —five days
after she reached Australia. And it may be delivered
on time and it may not.
The last one, which came into Darwin on the
same day as Jean, was 24 hours late. Half the pre-
vious 60 mails have not lived up to a 13-day schedule.
Twenty-one have been a day late, three two days late,
two three days late, three four days late, and one
11 days late but that was due to an accident en
route.
Stevens "Faces Facts."
N. S. Wales Premier Stevens returned from his
expensive and totally unnecessary seven months’ trip
abroad to a situation with all the elements of a political
crisis, as these things go in State politics.
Unemployment is distinctly worse than when he
went away; thousands of single men have been flung
back on the dole, and in response to SOS signals from
Macquarie-street stonebroke councils are improvising
useless “works” that will cut out before long, leaving
them, the Government and the unemployed in a worse
position than ever. Because of this unemployed-relief
fiasco some U.A.P. members are talking flat mutiny,
and the relations between the U.A.P. and U.C.P.
have lost the old cordiality, and the civil servants
have renewed their clamor for full restoration of pre-
depression pay, pointing out, unanswerably, that the
Sydney Government is the only Government that has
not conceded it.
And of the financial position, which was bad
before Mr. Stevens set out on his travels, the Auditor-
General has reported, in effect, that it has grown
horrible.
Was Mr. Stevens perturbed? Not a bit of it!
The U.A.P. politician is cased in an impenetrable
armor of self-satisfaction. Australia has never known
a party so much in love with itself.
Mr. Stevens met the situation with a flow of flap-
doodle. He talked so much and so fatuously that
even the faithful “Herald” lost patience with him:
Mr. Stevens was inclined to exaggeration in need-
lessly misty language.
The plans he means to recommend will “ensure
our economic progress and security against any con-
ceivable aggression.” This is surely the language of
excess, especially when the ingredients of these plans are
stated to be “assurances.” “Methods to be devised
for promoting development differ fundamentally from
those of pre-depression years and still more funda-
mentally (sic) from those of pre-war years.” This is
politicians’ English run to nonsense.
“Granny” actually indulged in the impertinence
of “making a guess at what Mr. Stevens wants to
say.” But not even this seems to have shaken the com-
placency of the returned wanderer, and it was the same
with the reproaches of U.A.P. mutineers at a party
meeting—“quite a good meeting” was Mr. Stevens’s
description to a reporter. After that, he faced U.A.P.
and C.P. members at a joint gathering. According to
his own version, “I spoke for more than an hour
and described life and conditions in the different
countries which I visited.”
The “Herald” account says
He mentioned the many countries he had visited, the
problems of European nations, the strength of Britain
in the world and his many conversations with British
political and industrial leaders.
Everything, in short, except the affairs of N. S. Wales.
The excuse for foreign travel in which so many
political deadheads indulge is that it “broadens the
mind” and stuffs the enlarged cavity with useful infor-
mation. It seems rather to atrophy the wanderer’s
sense of perspective, if he started out with any, and
give him grotesquely false notions of his responsibili-
ties and his position in the scheme of things.
The Red Badge in Spain.
The Spanish Reds are losing their civil war, and the
Russian Reds are alleging that it is because the winners
have had men and machines and munitions from Italy
and Germany. The real reason is that they are better
fighters, with a moral and patriotic appeal to the
Spanish people—proud even when fallen on evil days
—that the Reds, standing on their imported doctrines,
lack.
At the beginning the alleged constitutional
Government had everything in its favor —numbers,
command of the sea, control of big cities, ports, “bank-
ing and currency,” possession of arsenals, military
depots and transport services. Why did it fail to push
these advantages home? Obviously because its Marxian
warriors had less stomach for fighting than for
making or listening to speeches, and —in cases which
have appalled even well-disposed British correspon-
dents for butchering prisoners regardless of age
and sex.
In Toledo the Spanish counterpart of the wonder-
ful Red Army could not beat even a few hundred
resolute men imprisoned, with their women and
children, in the ruins of an old fort. For nearly three
months the position was shelled, machine-gunned,
dynamited and mined (and there could be no counter-
mining), but the defenders held out till, reduced to
a crust of brick-hard bread and a swig of water per
day, they were relieved by “Franco’s mercenaries,”
who towards the finish couldn’t see the Communist
militia for the dust raised by their flying feet.
This failure of Red nerve will have important
political consequences, and not in Spain alone. The
French must now be wondering whether their new
Russian alliance is worth a row of pins. For the
British there cannot now be even the shadow of a
possibility of a new Russian alliance.
Silly-season Politics.
The silliest motion of an abnormally silly season in
Australian politics stands (or stood) in the name of
Corser, the C.P.-U.A.P. M.H.R. for Wide Bay (Q.).
He demanded:
Constitutional alteration to permit the organisation
of primary producers on an Australian basis, with com-
plete sectional control of internal and external marketing
of each primary product, such control to be exercised
exclusively by the organised producers of such commodi-
ties, enabling them to speak with one voice of authority
in regard to any arrangement which might be taken by
them to conserve their interests.
“That,” said Maurice Blackburn acidly, “means giving
them what the organised workers have never had in
respect of their product—exclusive control of prices” ;
and so it does.
In February, if nothing happens to' wreck the
plan, U.C.P. and U.A.P. members will be rushing
about the country demanding “complete sectional
control of internal and external marketing of each
primary product, such control to be exercised exclu-
sively” ; and in the process consumers will be expected
to vote the inter-State freetrade clause out of the
Constitution and bring down on themselves another
avalanche of boards and commissions. That will be
a sillier season still.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Wagga”: I recall a Victorian stipen-
diary magistrate, now deceased, whom
neither hotels nor boarding-houses were
anxious to entertain. One of his pecu-
liarities was an insistence on having his
ham-and-eggs brought to the table in the
frying-pan. If sausages were on the
menu he would retain one on the plate
and pop the other couple into his tea or
coffee cup to keep them heated. He
always carried his own sheets wherever
he went. His two fine-looking daughters
were not allowed to wear stockings—
bare legs and sandals he regarded as
sufficient for them, so that in that respect,
at any rate, he was a pioneer. One C.T.A.
hotel refused his patronage because of
his table manners; but he got his own
back later when the proprietor came
before him for trading after hours and
was socked in the maximum fine.
“Sixenate”: An Adelaide publican
has been fined £5 for permitting a “bob
in and the winner shouts” competition
in his bar ; it was stated that the only
previous conviction for such an offence
took place 40 years ago at Horsham
(Vic.). The “bob-in” business is known,
of course, wherever drinkers congregate ;
it is a simple device for lessening the cost
of “shouts” when there is a large number
in a group. In the Adelaide case, dice
decided the issue; the usual form is
“selling a horse.” I have known only one
disturbance to arise out of a “bob in.”
That was when someone pointed out
that one of the company had been
profiteering by ordering a one-and-three-
penny cocktail each time he put in his
bob—his nefarious conduct being aggra-
vated when, on winning the pool him-
self, he dropped his order to a sixpenny
beer.
“Bookie”: Peculiar book censorship?
Alice in Wonderland was barred in
Hunan Province, China, in 1931—because
“to put animals and human beings on
the same level is disastrous.” Nicholas I.
of Russia forbade the reading of Hans
Andersen’s Fairy Tales, and Tom Sawyer
was confiscated on the Russian border
in 1930. Queen Elizabeth outlawed most
of Holinshed’s Chronicles, the inspira-
tion of Shakspeare. In 1933 the U.S.A.
Customs confiscated “pornographic” re-
productions of Michelangelo’s paintings
on the Sistine Chapel ceiling, and held
them for six months as obscene. The
most honest censor was Pitt, who, in
banning The Rights of Man, said, “Tom
Paine is quite right, but if I were to
encourage his opinion we should have
a bloody revolution.”
* * * *
“Hack Writer”: These sticklers for
accuracy who wax sarcastic over Yankee
and British magazines picturing our Aus-
tralian buckaroos using six guns leave
me cold. Bombarding London a few
years ago with slabs of real Australian
life I had one parcel heaved back with
the editorial note, “Not strong enough.”
There was no lack of strength in the next
lot. Furious Australians have written to
that editor denouncing me as a sensa-
tionalist and a liar, but the cheques have
come in. Britishers and Yanks like their
literary pabulum well spiced with violence
—as also do the great bulk of Austra-
lians—which explains why these many
ambitious strivings after the Great Aus-
tralian novel cut so little ice. Australian
writers need to develop a Wild West
cult. It could be done! What does
Sydney or Melbourne know about
Edjudina, or the Leopold Ranges, or
Turkey Creek, or Roper River?
* * * *
“General Prac. ’: Dr. Cumpston, of
the Fed. Health Department, doesn't
like public swimming baths. If he refers
to salt-water baths with little ebb and
flow of tide or to the suburban variety
"It's all right, Ma; the gent's apologised."
of wash-trough filled from the nearest
reservoir, I’m with him. The job of
keeping the latter perfectly clean, even
by special treatment of the water, is a
tough one. Overseas medical journals
have had a lot to say lately about the
water (and germs) in some English baths.
For a fee of a penny or so, it seems, one
may pick up anything from typhoid,
diphtheria or scarlet fever down to ring-
worm or a boil on the neck. Cities out
of reach of the surf, such as Melbourne
and Adelaide, may need such establish-
ments ; what Sydney wants with them,
when her front verandah is mostly all
beach, is problematic. This is not to be
taken as meaning that a surf-beach is
always spotless; it isn’t' —provided the
crowd is thick enough and dirty enough.
The safest place in which to shoot the
breakers is your own porcelain tub.
“9 P.M.”: If “Sally’s” only argument
for Friday-night shopping in Sydney is
the lack of opportunity afforded subur-
ban workers of spending their wages at
city stores (B. 30/9/’36), it doesn’t
amount to much. Brisbane abolished
Friday-night shopping over 20 years ago
without any complaint from the public
and to the immense relief of tired shop
assistants.
* * * *
“Jungor”: The Southern Cross pearl,
of which “Nor'-west” writes (B.
7/10/’36), owed whatever value it had
or has to its freakish shape. It consists
of nine separate pearls, of no great size
or beauty, seven of them forming the
upright and the other two the arms, the
whole presenting a very bulgy and bul-
hous resemblance to the sacred emblem
of the Christian religion. As to its value
—largely a sentimental one—that has
often been exceeded, even in this coun-
try, by single pearls. The A ust. Encyc.
gives pride of place in this connection to
“The Star of the West,” a drop-shaped
gem the size of a sparrow's egg that was
found (off Broome. I fancy) in 1917. Its
value was assessed at £14,000, though
there is no mention whether it ever
changed hands at that figure.
* *
“Fisher's Ghost”; "Findings keepings”
is bad law, but there is a vague idea that
the finder has a better title to his find
than anyone except the actual owner. It
depends where it is found, however, A
chap picked up £5B in a bundle in a
bathroom at a Sydney hostel, and handed
over the notes to the manager to await
a claimant. No one claimed. The finder
then sued the custodian for the return
of the cash, and found that when a
rightful owner cannot be found land-
lords have better claims than tinders to
this sort of treasure trove. The judicial
decision will hardly make for future
honesty among finders, as no law to
compel a man to disclose that he has
found money has ever yet been framed
or suggested.
* * * *
“Thakur”: Punishing criminal animals
in the Middle Ages (B. 30/9/'36) recalls
that a former Maharajah of Jodhpur kept
a gaol for recalcitrant tigers. If a beast
was reported to be killing native cattle
instead of deer or pig he was trapped,
and jugged in a special set of cages,
where he had to face the ignominy of
public ridicule. Mankillers were handled
in the same way, but much more rigidly.
From the imprisoned tigers specimens
were selected whenever a visiting poten-
tate was invited by the Maharajah to a
shoot. Well fed and released in a bit
of jungle they were easily located by
their guards and bagged without trouble
when hardly awakened from their morn-
ing snooze. The show only went wrong
once. That was when Little Willie of
Germany was the guest of honor.
Against all precedent he insisted on get-
ting off his elephant and inspecting his
bag. His behavior when he found the
quarry’s claws had been specially gilded
in his honor shocked even the untouch-
ables who had followed the chase to eat
the tiger when the skinning had been
completed.
“Der Jong”: The house of Churchill
can always be relied on for front-page
stuff. The recent embarrassing flight to
the United States of Winston’s daughter
Sarah for matrimonial, movie or stage
purposes recalls her namesake and rela-
tive, Lady Sarah Wilson, who insisted in
taking part in Baden-Poweli’s carefully-
staged siege of Mafeking and made her-
self such an embarrassment there —she
was a correspondent for some London
paper—that when she asked permission
to make a dash through the notoriously
lax Boer investment for Kimberley, 8.-P.
assented. Lady Sarah was grabbed, and
Commandant Eloff wrote to the British
commander in high glee demanding the
release of a dozen important Boer
prisoners if the titled Englishwoman was
to be set free. While 8.-P. was consider-
ing this, a second message arrived from
Eloff saying he would waive the exchange
if only Mafeking would again absorb
Lady Sarah, who insisted on going to
Kimberley if she were released. A few
hours later an escort of cowed-looking
Boers delivered Lady Sarah at the first
Mafeking outpost without conditions of
any kind, and fled back to the veld,
* * * *.
“Tidapa”; Hundreds of men can read
Morse who have never signed a declara-
lion of secrecy (B. 30/9/’36), their know-
ledge having been obtained in amateur
and short-wave working. It is easy
enough for such amateurs to listen-in
when the speed used on the lines in the
post offices is only about 25 words a
minute. I have never signed a declara-
lion of secrecy, and during the transac-
lions 1 have made at suburban P.O.
counters have probably unconsciously
read hundreds of telegrams that were
being taken off. 1 might add that 1 have
never heard one the contents of which
1 could have used to my own advantage,
* * * *
“M.E.D.”: “Hamer” slips in his zoo-
logical reminiscences (B. 16/9/’36). The
elephant Jumbo mentioned by him was
never at Moore Park Zoo; Wirths’
acquired him from Taronga. It was an-
other bull elephant, Curdy, a shipmate of
Jumbo, who was shot after he attacked J.
Welby Cooke, Wirths’ ringmaster. And
Cooke was not killed ; he died in Mel-
bourne years after. I was “drummer”
c f the show at the time, and have photos,
of the execution of the elephant.
“Ike Holler”: The thor-
ough censorship of the
mediaeval ages (B. 7/ JO/’36)?
In 1482 a forebear of mine
was found guilty in Perth,
Scotland, of having produced
a “profane and Satanic
book.” The literary effort
was publicly burned. So was
its author. The pens, inkhorn
and desk he had used were similarly
treated. Then holy water was scattered
over the rooms he had occupied.
* :p * *
“G.S.L.”: The poem quoted by
“Cooper” did not inspire my remarks
about the chastity of the gipsy woman
(B. 30/9/’36). My father had a farm in
the Scottish lowlands, and his experi-
ences with the Romanies led him to
curse the whole tribe as rogues, thieves
and vagabonds; but he always gave
their women credit for being sternly vir-
iuous. Many people confuse those wan-
dering tinkers the “Mumpers” with the
true gipsy. Every writer about the
Romany, from Borrow onward, has
praised the virtue of the Romany lass.
I wouldn’t be at all surprised if it was a
gipsy woman who said to Henry VIII.
“There is only one door to my bed-
chamber, sire—the chapel door.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The Turks must have
long memories as well as more national
pride and sensitiveness than they are
generally credited with. A cable tells
how a valuable Gobelin tapestry, “de-
picting the repulse of the barbarian Turks
from Vienna,” was presented by the Aus-
trian Government to the League of
Nations and duly hung on the wall of
the new council hall at Geneva. The
priceless gift, however, was regarded as
offensive by the Turkish delegate, who
refused to sit there unless it was removed
and carried his point. There were two
unsuccessful sieges of Vienna by the
Turks, in 1529 and 1683 —presumably the
Gobelin tapestry commemorated the
second one, when Jan Sobieski arrived
with a composite force of Poles and Ger-
mans to beat back the pugnacious Otto-
man. After two and a half centuries one
would have thought the incident for-
gotten —but the sting doubtless lay in the
pictorial equivalent of the word “bar-
barian.”
THE CENSOR.
Who’s daily bid to go to —well,
Where sinful souls in torment dwell
And ice is unobtainable?
The Censor.
Who piled Redheap upon the list
Whereat he shakes a heavy fist?
Who banned The Cautious Amorist ?
The Censor.
Who, with a lip that sourly curled,
Into the mounting discard hurled
Too-candid Huxley’s Brave New World?
The Censor.
Who sniffed at that established class-
ic, Apulcius’ Golden Ass,
As if the stuff were poison gas?
The Censor.
True, and by whom is it decreed,
As by the Persian law or Mede,
What sort of books you shouldn't read?
The Censor.
Who prunes the films of scenes you can’t
Conceive would shock a maiden aunt
Or make a curate look aslant?
The Censor.
Who is the super-virtuous soul
That arrogates entire control
Here of the Mother Grundy role?
The Censor.
Nathless, who doesn’t think the (food
Of Yankee mush and slush and blood
We get each week is up to mud?
The Censor.'
Who is it lurks, remote from sight,
Cresswell O’Reilly sometimes flight.
And sometimes Colonel Thomas White?
The Censor.
Who gels so many piping-hot
Terms of opprobrium at him shot?
Which sort of makes me glad I’m not
The Censor.
And who is it, for better or worse,
I feel reluctant to asperse
Lest he should lay his blighting curse
On my exhilarating verse?
The Censor.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tasma, Jun.”: Launceston is en-
joying thrills, citizens having received
letters asking them to join a proposed
nudist club. They are not quite sure
whether a practical joker is at the bottom
of things or not; but so seriously has
one section of the community taken it
that a petition asking the Premier to
iorbid the ungodly scheme is being ex-
tensively signed. But a place with a
winter climate like Launceston requires
strong determination on the part of
males and females who have a desire to
go unclothed.
❖ * * jJ:
“General Prac.”: When a man dies the
fact may be proved by a score of ac-
cepted tests, but an aged Sydney man hit
upon a new one the other day. He
directed that after his presumed decease
capsicum (or cayenne pepper) was to be
placed on his eyeballs. Though unusual,
the request showed sound reasoning.
Capsicum, applied to living skin or mem-
branes, quickly causes redness or blister-
ing, while nothing happens to dead
tissues. The idea was no more freak-
ish than a clause in a one-time American
will. This directed that the attending
physician was to apply a piece of red-
hot iron for ten seconds and in two
places to the deceased’s skin, and to make
sure that no blister subsequently formed.
To be certain about this, burial had to
be postponed for three days.
“M.R.P.”: But who wants women
without make-up (B. 30/9/’36)? Nature
is rarely so perfect that she can’t be im-
proved on, as the early photographs of
our now most devastating film sirens
prove. The so-called schoolgirl com-
plexion is carefully acquired and seldom
achieved until the early twenties. Any-
how, Australian complexions which are
not protected with at least a good coat
of powder become sallow and leathers
through our dry summer long before
middle-age is reached.
“Saddle Flap”: Bushmen used to be
fastidious about humans bathing in
waterholes used for drinking purposes.
As a youngster, I struck trouble because
I swam in a dam from which camp sup-
plies were being drawn. There were over
a million gallons in the dam ; I weighed
about seven stone ; and the possibility
of contamination from my youthful
frame seemed so remote that I took the
chance. But those arguments didn’t go
down with the bushmen. It was no use
my pointing out that 10,000 sheep were
watering at that hole, to say nothing of
a hundred or so big stock, that horses
pawed and swam in it and that thou-
sands of galahs dipped in it while drink-
ing. They remained obdurate, and in the
end 1 had to promise to bathe in a
bucket in future.
* * * *
“Canbulla”: Ex-Priminister Scullin,
himself a former inkywayfarer, has been
getting a word in at Canberra for the
Australian writer, pointing out the in-
adequacy of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund. The allocation allows only a bare
pittance—usually to authors who are too
old for further work. Britain, for the
matter of that, is no more generous.
The Civil List pensions recently pub-
lished show a distribution of only about
£l2OO a year, doled out in meagre sums.
The highest award in the recent English
list is £l2O (p.a.) to an R.A. A similar
sum was at the same time awarded to
Lady Watson, the poet’s widow, and also
to Sir Ben Greet, a veteran of the drama.
* * * *
“Hech, Sirs!” Latest advices from my
Highland friends is that the grand old
sport of deer-stalking is going to the
dogs. This is not due to the depresh but
“Keeping a surprise from me, eh?”
“Yes, dear — l've just cut up your lodge regalia to make a dress for Judy!”
to the fact that the deer forests —which
are not forests at all, but bare mountain
ridges—are being overrun by hikers
who make their way across the corries,
sporrans, clachans, duniwassels and other
features of the Highland landscape with-
out regard to the deer, which, wary
always, are now as wild as hawks. Not
only are the corpulent London stock-
brokers who now form the great mass
of Scotland's stalkers in the season
robbed of the shots they have paid for,
but the gillies are having a lean time.
Convention demanded that a gillie got a
fiver from his shooter bagging a stag and
more if the head was an extra-good one.
Now fivers are few and far between, and
shooters are so exhausted chasing the
deer fruitlessly that they drink all the
whisky themselves.
* * * *
“Don Ogemawsko”: There are still
pretenders to thrones which have ceased
to exist (B. 7/10/’36). Prince Napoleon
(de la Maison Imperiale) and the Due
de Guise {de la Maison de France ) are
both pretenders to the French “throne,”
“Did you think of me when you Were run over?”
”You? It Was all I could do to think of meself!”
and there is an Orleanist as well. The
old Due de Guise is rather a back
number, but his son, the Comte de
Paris, is a sprightly young man about
the same age as the Napoleonic heir.
Both live in Brussels, but little is heard
of either nowadays, because one of the
conditions upon which they are allowed
to live there is that they do not talk for
publication. Archduke Otto, another
youth, is pretender to the “throne" of
Hungary or Austria, or both.
“0.-t.”: An illiterate publican may be
fairly rare (B. 7/10/’36), but I have
known a squatter who couldn’t read or
write. He began as a rabbiter, and when
I last saw him had about 70,000 acres
of country, 50,000 sheep, four cars, the
necessary horses, dogs and men, a fine
homestead and a big family. All he
could do with a pen was to draw his
signature on a cheque.
“Binduli”: A police constable stationed
in a hotel bar to discourage s.p. betting
is a sight, I learn from the dailies, that
one may view in Bondi (N.S.W.) on any
afternoon when racing is in brisk swing.
There is something in it that makes one
think of a skeleton at a feast. Still, )
have known cops detailed for quite as
strange though perhaps less tantalising
duties. I once edited a Sunday newspaper
on the Westralian goldfields where one
never knew what Monday might bring
forth. An irate citizen once arrived with
a gun and a tomahawk to emphasise a
protest against some article. In the end
our business manager, who had a whole-
some regard for his skin, applied to the
local inspector for police protection at
the office on a certain Monday when he
had special reasons for apprehending
violence. He was told that he could have
if he paid the usual fee —a pound or so
—and for two successive Mondays a
rather bored-looking John Hop sat inside
the door to intimidate anyone inclined to
take the law into his own hands. Things
quietened down a bit after that, but a
few years later a constable was stationed
in the office for a whole Saturday (pub-
lishing day). The then editor had been
committed to Fremantle Gaol for con-
tempt of Parliament, but permission had
been accorded him to see the paper to
press before he was escorted away on the
night train. The man in blue kept an
eye on him till the last proof was cor-
rected and the last forme made up.
“First Blue”: Two Melbourne flappers
have had their faith in the chivalry of
the press shattered. They were standing
outside the Vic. Wool Exchange in King-
street when a press cameraman tore up
and began focusing directly at them.
“O-00-00-oh!” shrilled one of them de-
lightedly, “he’s going to take our photo,
for the society page.” Their disgust
when he asked them to get out of the
way was accentuated when they saw
what he was sighting at —a party of City
Council navvies who had unearthed a
coin dated 1826 in the foundations of a
building!
“Old Unionist” —his musings:
I had a look at Sydney’s Six Hours procession
and found it a drab affair. The one cheer I
heard came for the Felt Hatters’ display; the
"Wear Australian” and the rabbits provided
the only exposition of Australian sentiment.
In the turnouts of some industries in which
hundreds of men are employed, only half a
dozen marched; an exception was provided by
the Clerks’ Union, which had quite a good
muster —its wharf section fines members for
non-attendance. The whole show was over in
about 20 minutes. Obviously the celebration
has decayed. The Eight Hours banquet which
took place on the Saturday night before the pro-
cession has vanished with the “art union” which
provided the cash. The banquet used to be a
notable event; at one, Andrew Fisher an-
nounced a Commonwealth Labor Government’s
policy. Time was when the sports gathering
at the Agricultural Ground attracted twice as
big a crowd as Randwick. The picnic sports
at Clifton Gardens are a pale shadow of
what they were. Maybe the love of pageantry
is fading, but there are other reasons for the
Jack of enthusiasm. Eight hours was a great
principle for which men were prepared to
struggle and suffer. Six hours stirs nothing but
windy oratory.
“D.8.K.”: Many old R.N.A.S. men
who served in the TSgean in 1917-18
have good reason to remember the
Goeben, now renamed the Yawaz (B.
7/10/’36). With the Breslau she left the
Narrows bent on the destruction of our
air bases at Imbros and Mudros. The
Breslau hit a mine and sank, but not
before she had accounted for the Rag-
lan. Turning back for safety, the Goeben
ran on to the sandy bottom at
Nagara Point. A hectic week or so
followed, during which R.A.N.S. fliers
peppered bombs all around her. In
one case, an old Maurice Farman
lugged aloft a specially-fused depth
charge, which thudded harmlessly into
the sand alongside the target —a dud. It
may have been the excitement or sheer
bad luck, but I believe not a single bomb
scored a direct hit. Working like Tro-
jans, the German and Turkish crew got
her afloat and back to Galata, literally
thumbing their noses at us.
“Kauri”: “East Riding” (B. 7/10/’36)
puts his linger on the reason of the Maori’s
unique position among brown races
when he remarks on the marriage of an
officer-ancestor of his with a Maori lass.
A number of Imperial officers married
native girls, and as the wars had engen-
dered a great respect for the Maori in
most pakeha breasts there was no
bother over social situations. Later,
various influential citizens, including
members of Parliament, were added to
the list of those who secured Maori con-
sorts. Also, an astonishing number of
Native Land Court Judges linked up
with brown damsels, and the com-
bined descendants, who mainly remained
in M.L., soon formed a big section of
society and established the brown race
on terms of equality with the white.
Then pakeha girls began to marry the
second and third generations of mixed
origin, all resulting in a situation rather
bewildering to outsiders educated in
color-line schools, but accepted by all
Maorilanders as entirely satisfactory.
❖ * * *
“Say 99”: Maoriland was lately sur-
prised—l hope unpleasantly—by the
birth at Waikato of Siamese twins,
luckily both dead. I wonder, had the
poor mites lived and prospered, whether
ordinary decency would have permitted
their public exhibition. To the non-
morbid, such people most be inexpressibly
pathetic. And yet in the same breath
with the Waikato news we are told that
Violet and Daisy Hilton, Siamese twins,
noted on American vaudeville circuits,
and rivals of another pair, the Gibbs
sisters, are front-page stuff. Violet Hilton
wishes to divorce her husband, “whom
she married as a publicity stunt.” The
original Siamese twins, Chang-Eng, after
raking in a tidy fortune by the show
business, bought adjoining farms, mar-
ried two sisters and fathered 22 children
between them. There was but one flaw
in their happiness. Chang drank, while
Eng hated liquor, the more so that he
could not escape its effects. Still, the
pair reached the respectable age of 63.
The Mille-Christine twins, who flourished
about the same era, were dancers, and
sang so melodiously (one was a soprano,
the other a contralto) that they were
billed as the “Two-headed Nightingale.”
But that was 60 years and more ago.
THE MATRIMONIAL LOTTERY.
“Any girl marrying a N.S.AV. policeman is
getting a physical prize.”— -Dr. Cooper Booth, at a
Health Week symposium.
Some girls dream that dear Mr. Right will
appear
From the ranks of more glittering chaps,
A rising young star of the Church or the Bar,
Or a wealthy young squatter, perhaps.
1 fault not the worth of boodle and birth
And brains as a conjugal prop,
But—a word to the wise—
There’s a physical prize
For the maiden who mates with a cop.
Though years may have sped o’er his helmcted
head
Ere he rise from the lowermost rungs,
Though he can’t, on the hoof, accumulate oof,
As butchers and bakers and Bungs,
Still, his sinews and thews must be given their
dues,
And with health he will hum like a top.
She’ll have had a whole heap
Of luck in the sweep,
The damsel who marries a cop.
He’ll tape round the chest, you can bet, with
the best;
He’ll have limbs, will that limb of the law,
A sculptor would love into marble to shove
Or an artist on canvas to draw.
As a real he-man, in cubit and span,
He’ll stand in a class at the top.
She’ll have landed a prize
In stature and size,
The darling who clicks with a cop.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


C^AV
m
A.
20forl&
10 for 9 d
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVEN A
W 1874
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
C ORK TIPPED
CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
An account of Premier Stevens’s heart-
to-heart talk with his followers mentions
that “the U.A.P. policy was criticised but
not voted on.” How could you put a
vacuum to the vote?
The retail price of milk is up half-
penny a pint in Adelaide:
Prices will now be 3d. a pint delivered
and 24d. a pint in shops.
Adelaide is indignant, but Sydney is
envious. The price in Sydney, which en-
joys the blessings of “control,” is 34d. a
pint delivered and about 6d. in glasses
over the counter.
Contemplating the trade war and pos-
sible repercussions in the electorates, little
Hunter must be the most worried man
in the Ministry. In his Queensland divi-
sion, Maranoa, there are many graziers,
and they had troubles enough before the
Government placed their interests second
to those of Manchester. For Maranoa
Flunter has been elected seven times, and
on every occasion he was behind until
the graziers’ boxes were counted. They
won’t be so devoted next time.
In Victoria these days the Opposition
party is making a miserable exhibition
of itself. It is divided into three groups,
U.A.P., Country and Lib., and Young
Nats., and they don’t seem to be able to
agree on any subject except the hopeless-
ness of contesting electorates held by the
Country party. They have given up doing
that. It was reserved for a Ballaginnie
storekeeper, F. A. Cook, to come out and
beat five C.P. men in the by-election for
Benalla, represented by the late E. F.
Cleary ; but the Opposition can claim no
credit for Cook’s success, nor escape
ignominy. He stood as an Independent
and fought lone-handed.
On the morning of the Benalla by-
election Melbourne “Age,” which seems
to be in the confidence of the boss
Cockies, announced on the authority of
“Mr. H. Dow, organiser,” that there
would be “an exchange of U.C.P. prefer-
ences, and the party expects to win
easily.” And it looked like winning
easily at the end of the first count, when
the Cockies had 7274 votes against
Cook’s 2446. But electors, not organisers,
have the last word on exchange of pre-
ferences. They made it Cook 4993 and
Cleary 4630.
The N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Association ex-
pects tax-revenue to reach £100,000,000
this year, and as the £95,000,000 figure
has been passed it seems very likely. A
hundred millions, and the population just
6,750,000 and —leaving out the multitudes
on the dole and relief work —550,000 re-
ceiving pensions! Only politicians think
it can go on.
Parliament has voted £l5O p.a. to the
widow of W. J. McWilliams, once
M.H.R. for Franklin (Tas.). It may seem
churlish to criticise any pension payment,
but it has to be said that this is a new
departure, inasmuch as McWilliams never
held office. At any given moment there
are 616 members in Australia, and prob-
ably twice as many ex-members. If the
job carries pension rights, the electors
ought to be told, if only that they may
take steps to reduce the liability by re-
ducing the number of members.
Tackled again on his conflicting state-
ments about London funds, Treasurer
Casey vouchsafed another explanation:
It is anticipated that the value of exports
will exceed the value of imports by an
amount more than sufficient to cover all
overseas payments.
Then exports will have to increase and
imports diminish to some purpose.
Casey’s own statistician has since re-
ported that “the unfavorable commodity
balance of trade for the first two months
of 1936-37 was £5,796,000 sterling” ; and
a favorable balance of £23,000,000 is
needed to meet “London commitments.”
Melbourne “Argus” discovers merits in
quinquennial Parliaments, among them
“the advantage of ensuring continuity of
policy.” Yes, but the policy might be
one like Lang's.
Westralia’s A.N.A., which contended
valiantly against secession when to do so
at public meetings in secesh hotbeds was
to risk buying fights, has come out
for the abolition of State Parliaments,
declaring that “the Commonwealth Con-
stitution should be remoulded on the
principle that the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment should have power to make laws
on all matters.” On the other side of
the continent, N.S.W. shires and muni-
cipal councils are co-operating to the end
that abolition of State Parliaments may
be put to the vote at the “orderly-
marketing” referendum, if any.
' Makin, M.H.R., now deputy-leader of
Federal Labor, has been in Sydney “ob-
serving” the latest A.L.P. hullabaloo. It
is asserted that he and Curtin are greatly
worried at the turn events have taken ;
“THE FIGHT IS ON’’—IN AUSTRIA.
“In Austria, Major Fey, the new leader of the Heimwenr, has challenged Prince
Starhemberg, who claims the leadership, to a duel.”
but they need not be. The Lang faction
is ridding them of Garden, „and the
Garden faction is rendering Lang harm-
less.
Willoughby, which is borrowing an-
other £60,000, and getting a grant of
£40,000 from the Sydney Government
for unemployed-relief (the Government is
also meeting principal repayments and
interest till the end of. 1938), is employing
505 men on full time at award rates of
pay. “At that rate,” an alderman com-
mented, “the money will last a little over
a year,” and he was told it was correct.
When the money gives out —well, the
Government’s ear may be chewed again.
Warringah Shire, which is borrowing
£60,000 for unemployed-relief and get-
ting a £40,000 grant from the Govern-
ment (latter is also meeting principal
repayments and interest till the end of
1938), has, it transpires, outstanding rates
amounting to £BB,OOO. “Each year we’re
getting further and further into the mire,”
was another local alderman’s comment.
But in this case also there is a Govern-
ment with a large red ear about.
Having let the Sydney Water Board
go on the open market for a million, the
first of many, the Loan Council couldn’t
deny the privilege to Brisbane City
Council when it mentioned £450,000,
“portion of its requirements for the cur-
rent year,” especially as the State Gov-
ernment guaranteed principal and in-
terest —44 p.c. The rate is \ p.c. more
than the forced-conversion rate, and 13s.
p.c. more than Commonwealth loans
maturing in 15 years are yielding. It
is too early to judge what this Loan-
Council complaisancy will cost; but pos-
terity will know —and cufse.
Benalla administered a severe bump to
the Dunstan group, and the effects may
be felt in other States, particularly S.A.
There Cameron, M.H.R., has been con-
ducting a wrangle with Lamb, M.L.A.
for Lowan, touching Dunstanite
manoeuvres in S.A.
Lawson, M.H.R. for Macquarie, wheie
there are orange-growers who can’t
send their fruit to M.L. because of Can-
berra policy, let fly at the Government a
week ago, accusing it of having let the
citrus growers down and been guilty of
“one of the sorriest exhibitions of sterility
in statesmanship that have ever been
known.” Lawson concluded by inviting
the Labor party “to stand with a group
of this party to get justice for the citrus-
growers.” There was no response to this
invitation, and Mr. Lawson subsided.
He generally does subside after these
ebullitions.
The editor of Brisbane’s “Courier-
Mail” was an interesting witness when
Baker, M.H.R., sued the newspaper for
£2OOO damages (he was awarded £lOOOl,
and interesting questions were asked:
Mr. [Keith] Murdoch is the largest share-
holder in your company?—He is a large
shareholder.
And John Wren?
Defendant’s counsel: I object.
Plaintiff’s counsel: I want to ascertain
whether the largest shareholder in the
“Courier-Mail” is one of the largest share-
holders in the Melbourne “Herald.”
The question was not pressed.
Returning from abroad, Mr. Keith
Murdoch gave Sydney “D.T.” the in-
formation that “the squalor, illiteracy,
poverty and fierce bigotries which re-
tarded development under the old
regime.... were in evidence everywhere
while I was in Spain.” There were no
reporters present when Mr. Keith Mur-
doch met Mr. Wren.
State as well as Commonwealth Gov-
ernments are planning to alter their Con-
stitutions—in Melbourne, to remove the
Leg. Council’s veto ; in Adelaide, to pro-
vide “permanently” for five-year Parlia-
ments. On the strength of some hazy
references to the subject on the hustings
(a iot of candidates never even mentioned
it), Butler had the Parliament elected in
1933 made a five-year-old show. With
the characteristic modesty of provincial
politicians he says this performance “con-
stitutes the greatest political reform in 50
years.”
Kipling’s soldier at Lichtenberg longed
for
The little homestead at Hunter River
And my young vines joining hands.
The warrior from the veld would be
hard put to it to find .young vines join-
ing hands in those parts nowadays. In
10 years, the Federal Viticultural Coun-
cil states, the area under vines in the
Hunter River Valley has been reduced
50 p.c. It is an effect of idiotic licensing
laws, which cramp what should be a
great home market for light wines as
delicious as any in the world.
Former Treasurer and Lord Mayor
Cocks is 74, and his eyesight troubles
him nowadays, but he hasn’t lost his
punch. In a letter to “S. M. Herald” he
got heavily home on Minister Spooner
and his County Council, whose two-jobs
president, a very minor U.A.P. M.L.A.,
“gets £750 a year and the use of a car.”
With two other aldermen, who, like the
two-jobs president, are elected by other
aldermen,
The County Council is disregarding
arbitration and declaring that the em-
ployees of the electric light department
should work 40 hours per week and the
taxpayers 44 hours. It costs them nothing
but puts an additional burden of £50,000
per annum on the taxpayers.
The veteran recalls that Spooner was
advised to remove the city lighting de-
partment from aldermanic control and
put it under a commission of three. But
Spooner knew better —or thought he
knew better.
Following a Communist lead, Trades
Hall bosses in some Australian States
sent out strident appeals for funds “to
help the people’s Government in Spain.”
This manoeuvre met ;with so much hos-
tility in other Trades Hall quarters that
alms-askers are now explaining that they
were misunderstood. In Melbourne, how-
ever, disciples in the University Peace
Group called a meeting to discuss the
sending of the funds to Spain. A whole
aviary assembled, but there was nothing
dovelike about the manner or chatter of
the birds. The only resolution put was
that, “in view of the failure of the Span-
ish Government to maintain religious
freedom, the meeting supports General
Franco and the patriots.” Carried almost
unanimously: 79 to 3.
The Q.C.E. didn’t take six hours to
tell Baker, M.H.R., that if he had really
criticised State Labor administration, as
asserted in a newspaper report published
that morning and subsequently proved
false, there would be “no room for him
in the party.” It took six days to dis-
avow a repudiation speech made in
the Assembly by Labor-member Taylor,
who said of the public creditors:
“If I had my way I would repudiate
every pound of interest payable
to these people to-morrow morning.”
And then it merely endorsed as “a cor-
rect and full interpretation of Labor
policy” Premier Smith’s reply to his fool-
ish follower:
The inviolability of Crown contracts is
a basic principle of government without
which anarchy would be brought about.
This Government has honored every con-
tract made either by itself or by any of its
predecessors, and will continue to do so.
More will be expected of the Q.C.E.


EQUALITY.
“Given equality with men in rights and wages, women will be prepared to assume responsibility for the maintenance of husbands.”
Bold declaration at a Melbourne conference of the Federation of Women Voters and the Women's Citizen Movement.


SUMMER
MOTORING
LO 74 D
M
PERSONAL ITMES
Captain L. J. Brain, of Qantas, has
passed the million-miles-in-the-air mark,
coinciding with the completion of a mil-
lion and a quarter miles by Qantas
Empire Airways. The nine captains of
Q.E.A. have now completed a total of
48,000 hours’ flying, representing five
million miles. Crashers should take a
leaf out of Brain’s book. His motto is
“Never take a risk.”
T. S. Cheadle has not as much time
now for golf; once S.A. amateur cham-
pion. chairman of Bennett and Fisher
and S.A. Wool brokers’ Association, his
T.S. CHEADLE.
activities help to keep him busy. Few
men are a better judge of wool or
sounder estimators of future pastoral
conditions. He knows Australia thor-
oughly.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide has honored Wil-
liam Light, its founder, by a “pilgrimage”
to lay a host of official wreaths on his
grave, which is in one of the city’s
squares. When he died, that west end
of the city was the fashionable quarter.
Later it went to the other extreme,
Adelaide’s very few Asiatics mostly
gathering there. When the time came
for a statue it was placed centrally by
the G.P.0., with Sturt and Stuart; but
a theodolite such as Light used in sur-
veying was placed on a pillar over his
grave. Several descendants were present
at the wreath-laying.
Fifty years ago Brother Fred W.
Hoskin was appointed district secretary,
1.0. R., in Queensland. Now 75, he is
probably the oldest d.s. in any friendly
society in Australia. There were 12
Tents with a total membership of 900 in
the Brisbane district when he took office,
and to-day there are 66 Tents with 6890
members.
J. W. Ferguson, who takes over duties
at the N. S. Wales Premier’s office, was
a well-known figure among Australians
in Britain, where he had been the State’s
official secretary since 1924. For two
years he was in full charge of the N. S.
Wales office while there was a hiatus
between Agents-General. He is a Sydney
University graduate, and was originally
in the Lands Department. During his
years in London his nomination in
Who’s Who of “surfing” as one of his
recreations lobked like a confession of
homesickness.
J. V. Fairbairn establishes a record as
the first M.P. to fly from Australia to
England and back. He has done it com-
pletely without fuss, but though only
39 he has had a long flying experience.
He served in the R.F.C. in the war, and
was using ’planes for transit between his
several stations long before he succeeded
S. M. Bruce as member for Flinders in
the Reps.
Stace Lloyd, dead at 84, was the oldest
inhabitant of the N. S. Wales U.A.P.
when he retired last year, and had an
unbroken record of election work since
he helped Henry Parkes in 1877. He was
born at sea, educated in Tasmania and
came to Sydney in 1873, and knew every
leading politician in Australia from the
’eighties onwards.
The death of Lars Halvorsen has
robbed Sydney of a leading boat-
builder. Lars, a happy Norwegian
with world-wide experience, was taken
suddenly ill when sailing on the harbor
a few days ago, and went out at 49. His
luxury cruisers were known all round
the Australian coast.
Passed out suddenly at 42, George St.
Clair Potts, one of the best-known men
in N.S.W. rural districts. Son of a former
principal of Hawkesbury College, he was
born at Euroa (Vic.) and educated at
King’s School, Parramatta. He took
diplomas in agriculture and dairying at
Hawkesbury, and became an experimen-
talist in the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment. After a period as lecturer in agri-
culture at Seddon Memorial College,
Auckland (M.L.), he became chief coun-
try valuer for the N.S.W. Rural Bank.
Potts was a Fellow of the C.1.V., a well-
known judge at agricultural shows and
a steward of the R.A.S. He was G-D-LW.
of Riverina Freemasons.
The learned-looking gentleman of this
Dubois sketch is J. Stuart Smith, director
of Distillers Agency, Ltd., of Edinburgh,
and a recent visitor
to Sydney. Past
th e three - score-
and-ten mark, he is
not looking in on
Australia on busi-
ness ; he is merely
chasing the warm
weather.
S. Australia lost
one of its sons by
the transfer to
head office in Mel-
bourne of R. Dar-
ton Hack, previ-
ously assistant-g.m.
of the Vacuum Oil
Co. in Adelaide.
He is a grandson
of the John
Barton Hack
who, with his
sheep, fruit-
trees and pro-
gressive ideas,
landed in S.A.
a few weeks
after the State
was pro-
claimed. Darton Hack is back in
Vic. for the third time. He has
had six inter-State transfers in his
25 years, including a term in Perth.
Recent Japan-China moves have had a
personal interest for him: before joining
his present company, he was a marine
engineer with a Shanghai shipping firm
trading in Eastern waters. At the time
of the Russo-Japanese bother his ship
carried Russian refugees to the Black
Sea. Married, with a son and daughter,
he will be at M.C.G. for the Tests.
El Kaukaji, the Arab rebel chief, has
put a price on the head of Lieutenant-
General E. J. Dill, British C.-in-C. in
Palestine. Dill will love it. ’A Northern
Irishman with a dash of southern blood
in him to salt his determination with
humor, he had a good war record ; was
colonel when the show ended and
major-general 10 years later. He would
be among the front-rankers if a big
scrap were to break out in Europe.
Albert E. Faul, a mining man with
long experience in Westralia, suc-
ceeds Joe Mcßrian as chief engineer
for the’De Bernales group there. Mc-
Brian is returning from U.S.A., where he
spent some years, mostly in association
with Joe Thorne, now general manager
of Lake View and Star. How they move
about! The first chief engineer of the
De Bernales group, Harry Urquhart, who
was recently in Moscow, is now in Lon-
don en route to S; America and else-
where.
R. H. Horsfield, chairman of the Vic.
Water Supply Commission, is dead. He
had a catholic experience in his youth,
based on a thorough training in Thomp-
son’s Castlemaine foundry. He was
Albury (N.S.W.) shire engineer when he
joined the commission in 1908, since
when he helped to build many important
water works, including Pike’s Creek,
Melton and Hume reservoirs. He be-
came a commissioner in 1926 and chair-
man in 1932.
“Hamer”: Old Archibald Siddell, gone
west in Sydney, used to claim that he
had cured himself of cancer with brandy
and salt. A queerer expression of his
character was the provision in his will
that as a precaution against burial alive
his deadness should be tested by placing
capsicum, or cayenne, on the eyeballs.
He was a member of the Sydney Society
for the Prevention of Premature Burial
—a body which has agitated for the erec-
tion of “watching chapels” where the
certified dead can remain under obser-
vation before interment or cremation.
The young man behind Bennett and
Fisher’s new Adelaide stud-stock depart-
STUART SMITH.
ment is G. M.
Blyth, a recent im-
port a t i o n from
Maoriland’s Loan
and Mercantile
Company in Wel-
lington. Journal-
ism and moun-
taineering have
been mixed with
hi s agriculture.
After leaving Wan-
gan u i Technical
College he was
with the Auckland
“H era 1 d” for a
while, and was
then a guide on
Ml. Ruapehu,
which his father,
T. A. Blyth, of
Ohak u n e, has
climbed over 100
times. Rugby
Union football
claims his
spare time in
the winter, and
he has already represented his new State.
Brisbane should like its new U.S.A.
Consul, Joseph H. Ragland, a Virginian.
Most of his service has been done in
Canada and Mexico.
Everybody in Brisbane knows E. R
Isaacs, head of Hoffnungs. Counihan
j ias caU ght his expression well. He is the
kindest of men, always ready to quietly
help a lame dog? and behind his spec-
tac]es is an observant brain, a cool head.
sound know|ed of affairs . During
E. R. ISAACS.
the war he worked hard and un-
obtrusively in charitable causes, and he
takes a busy part in the public affairs of
Brisbane. No musical show of any
tonnage is complete without his figure in
the stalls.
A. C. Blacklow, who was Franklin’s
Federal member for a term (1931-1934),
is back in Parliament, having won a by-
election for a vacant seat in the Tas.
Leg. Council. Blacklow went to the war
as captain in the 36th Battalion, and in
March, 1918, was in command of the
3rd Machine Gun Battalion. He re-
turned with the D.S.O.
“Avon”: Ettie Rout (Mrs. F. A. Horni-
brook), who died in Rarotonga the other
day, is remembered throughout the
Empire as the woman who became the
target for a storm of puritanical obloquy
through her war-time efforts to protect
British and Dominion soldiers against
venereal disease. That she persisted in
her campaign to provide prophylactics
and commonsense advice was evidence
of exceptional clearness of conviction and
strength of mind, but it was no surprise
to those of the Inky Way who knew her
in Maoriland. She was a reporter when
1 first met her —not a writer of social
gossip, but doing an ordinary senior’s
job, court reporting, political meetings,
interviewing and all the rest of it. Later
she ran a commercial college. F. A.
Hornibrook, long before he married her
{he was Sandow’s favorite pupil and a
man of marvellous muscle) used to de-
clare that she was the only woman he
ever met who came up to the Venus di
Milo standard of physique. More re-
markable was her mind. Her convictions
were like granite, but they weren’t based
on intuition or sentiment but on the
closest of cold, hard logic. Sentiment she
heartily despised. She had the respect
and admiration of every man who ever
tried a mental tussle with her, but she
would have been better liked if she
hadn’t had such contempt for all the little
shams and humbugs that make life live-
able.


The WORLD'S GREATEST BRIDGE
V>
*SWt;
S*f*
*&
&3&RGS
ir
SM
5
xf
m
K
m
33
\
r~
s:*
v
f
€•
'P.
C^4\o
A.
>£r
Mf.
%
xz**?
-■::
-/.
f
\
...r
-d
V.".
OS
jJ.v^
X*
i£S
w?s
m
4 I STR^ V
ẁ
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


Your Will may be
'‘void for uncertainty”
ŵ
Home-made wills, printed will forms,
carelessly drawn wills, all are pos-
sible sources of long litigation and
the defeat of the testator’s intentions.
Read your will now, take it to your
solicitor, and have it revised by him in justice to
your family and beneficiaries. Your action may
be the means of preventing not only costly liti-
gation, but absolute hardship.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us,
we will be glad to discuss with you and your
solicitor, the important aspects of practical
administration of your estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Kordyce, Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G..
Major-Cen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K, M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
MODERN MILLING MACHINERY
For Gold and Base Metal Mines, Etc.
The following equipment is manufactured under license in our own works at South
Melbourne: —
DORK Classifiers, Agitators. Thickeners, Pumps, etc.
OLIVER Continuous Drum and Disc Filters.
M ERRILL-CROWE Cold Precipitation Plants.
ALLEX-iSHERJIAX-HOFF Hydroseal “Maximix” Soft Rubber-lined Sand Pumps.
WESTERN-PRECIPITATION Dust Collection and Recovery Units.
Units of the above equipment have been, and are being, supplied to all the principal
Alines in Australasia, such as (treat Boulder rty., (told Mines. Ltd.. Lake View and
Star, Triton. Laneefield. Big Bell. Mount Isa, Mount Morgan and Mount Lyell. etc.
BY
CROSSLE & DUFF PTY., LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
SYDNEY OFFICE: Crossle. Duff & Macintosh. Ltd., Winclicombe House, 52 Bridge
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
192(1. . 147,915 9 p.c. = 90,000 57,915 447,165
1927.. 159,101 10 „ „ 113,675 45,426 492,591
1928.. 168,449 10 „ „ 120,000 48,449 541,040
1929.. 170,294 10 „ „ 120,000 50,294 691,334
1930.. 148,184 9 „ „ 108,000 40,184 631,618
1931.. 78,050 61 „ „ 78,000 60 631,568
1932.. 72,027 6 ~ ~ 72,000 27 631,695
1933.. 72,659 6 „ ~ 72,000 659 632.254
1934.. 84,426 61 „ ~ 78,000 6,426 638,680
1935.. 92,751 7* „ „ 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936.. 108,819 8 „ „ 96,000 12,819 654,250
N. S. Wales developed its biggest thirst
(29,475,000 gallons of beer) and Tooheys
reaped its best profit (14.1 p.c. on capital)
during 1928-29. Slump, etc., brought
both consumption of beer (18,122,000
gallons) and the co.’s profit (6 p.c. on
capital) to their lowest levels in 1931-32.
There has since been a steady improve-
ment in conditions generally, and
Tooheys’ earnings have continued to
climb. Unemployment, 33.2 p.c. for the
June quarter of ’32, fell to 22.7 p.c. for
the second quarter of ’35 and to 16.2
p.c. for the corresponding quarter of
’36, while consumption of beer reached
23,764,000 gallons (up 2,191,000 gallons)
for the 12 months of 1935 —figures to
June 30 last are not yet available.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, Tooheys’ gross earnings
sprang £64,261: —'
1929. 1935. 1936.
<Jvoss earnings £782,921 £551,022 £615,283
Kxes 612,627 458,271 506,464
Net profit .. ..£170,294 £92,751 £108,819
Exes, took £48,193 of the increase, leav-
ing the net result £16,068 better at 9 p.c.
on capital, compared with 7.7, 7,6, 6,
6.5, 12.3 and 14.1 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was lifted from 7j p.c. to 8 p.c.,
and there are prospects of further im-.
provement in earnings.
The next table shows the effects of
movements in earnings and of economic,
political and other developments upon
the market for the scrip:
, Scrip x Return Net
Face Market at Market Tangible
Sept., Value. Price. Div. Price. Cover.*
1929.. 16/- 38/- 10 p.c. 4.2 p.c. 23/11
1930.. 16/- 17/3 Sf ~ 7.4 „ 24/5
1931.. 16/- 14/9 st„ 5.5 „ 24/5
1932.. 16/- 21/6 6 „ 4.4 „ 24/5
1933.. 16/- 23/9 6 „ 3.9 „ 24/5
1934.. 16/- 29/9 6i§„ 3.4 „ 24/6
1935.. 16/- 28/9 7J „ 4.1 „ 24/6
1936.. 16/- 31/9 8 „ 4.0 „ 24/9
*Kast balance, tFinal 8 p.c. p.a. JFinal 5 p.c. p.a.
§Final 7 p.c. p.a.
The investor who looks for a shade over
41 p.c. on his money counts on a 9 p.c.
distribution. Those who bought at
14s. 9d. in ’3l, and still hold their scrip,
are getting a return of 8.6 p.c., and can
see a capital profit of 115 p.c. on their
investment.
The outstanding feature of balance-
sheet figures is the way in which the
co. has tightened its grip upon the trade
over the last couple of years:
1929. 1934. 193'). 1936.
C £ £ £
Capital .. 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,200,000
Sundry
creditors .. 497,220 245,933 328,252 363,762
Loans* .. 325,773 609,792 791,485
Breweries,
hotels, eta 1,593,197 1,891,05.3 2,134,951 2,331,009
Stocks .. 161,886 77,354 75,661 77,886
Book debts 584,413 437,784 570,398 602,572
Cash and
public
.securities . 24,059 7,146 6,905 6,471
Shares in
other cos. 39,050 39,560 39,560
* Advances by subsidiary.
Since the close of accounts in ’34,
£439,956 (£196,058 of it in respect of
the last term) has been added to the book
value of fixed assets, mainly hotel free-
holds, debtors’ balances have increased
by £164,788, while there has been little
change in the stocks item. To meet the
outlay, the co. called upon its sub-
sidiary for an extra £465,712, and upon
sundry creditors for a further £117,829.
Leaving loans from the subsidiary and
shares in other cos. out of the reckon-
ing, more or less liquids exceeded the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
•£323,167 when the books closed, or only
£1545 less than at the previous balance,
notwithstanding the year’s addition to
the book value of fixed assets.
The subsidiary, Tooheys Standard
Securities, was formed at the end of
1929 to make finance as far as possible
a domestic matter. Paid capital is
£762,440 in 300,000 prefs., 450,000 A
prefs., both 54- p.c. cumulative, and
49,979 ords. The ords., on which
£12,500 has been paid, are held by the
parent, who has guaranteed the pref. div.
and whose shareholders have put up
most of the pref. capital. At the end
of July, the only assets were advances
to Tooheys, £791,485, and cash, £49. At
225. 9d. the 54 p.c. prefs. return 4.8 p.c.
Were’s Investment Trust
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£
Preliminary exes., £3788 .. .. 3,788
Reserves.
Net surplus on sale of stocks, £4140.. 352
£ £ £
1929.. 10,332 6 p.c. = 7,641 2691 3,043
Deficit.
Loss on sale.of investments, £4985.. 1,942
Reserves.
1930.. 13,145 2|p.c. = 7,617 5528 3,586
Loss on sale of investments, £2892 .. 694
1931.. 7,672 Nil 7672 8,366
Loss on sale of investments, £1760 .. 6,606
1932.. 11,996 2Jp.c. = 9,375 2621 9,227
Profit on sale of investments, £331 .. 9,558
1933.. 12,729 21 p.c. = 9,375 3354 12,912
Profit on sale of investments, £7655.. 20,567
1934.. 14,723 3 p.c. = 11,250 3473 24,040
Profit on sale of investments, £3442.. 27,482
1935.. 17,661 4 p.c. = 15,000 2661 30,143
Profit on sale of investments, £5120'.. 35,263
1936.. 22,655 5 p.c. = 18,750 7 o S 4 s q
Exchange fluctuation a/e, £709 J di9 °
As a long-term investment, shares in a
well-handled investment trust have much
to recommend them. The first aim of
the management should be security of
capital, and, among other things, that
generally means moderate returns until
substantial reserves have been accumu-
lated. These reserves are the cornerstone
of this class of business; they arise
mainly from capital profits on the sale
or exchange of securities, and, instead
of being distributed as dividends, they
are used to swell the volume of invest-
ments and returns therefrom. A trust
should also offer the investor expert ser-
vice at low cost, thus relieving him of
the anxiety of managing a small port-
folio to the best advantage.
Judged on this basis, Were’s, formed in
Melbourne in 1928, has put up an en-
couraging performance. It has also
adopted a policy of complete frankness,
disclosing the full contents of its invest-
ment portfolio. At June 30 the invest-
ments numbered 569, made up, as to
nominal value; of bonds and debentures
6.97 p.c., preference shares 7.14 p.c. and
ordinary shares 85.89 p.c. —a year earlier
the proportions were 8.13 p.c., 8.02 p.c.
and 83.85 p.c. respectively. The lot
stood in the books at £625,198, or £16,429
less than their market value, whereas
three years ago the market value was
£78,926 below book value. No account
has been taken in the books of the
exchange value of the co.’s sterling securi-
ties (£31,933 in the co.’s favor at June
30). Here is the position so far as bal-
ance-sheet figures show it:
3 931. 1933. 1935. 193 G
Paid capital. . £375,000 £375,000 £375,000 £375,000
Loans, etc. . . 97,850 24,899 102,444 173,138
Sundry creditors 2,309 15,438 18,483 14,334
Investments .. 441,555 418,607 543,863 625,198
Debtors, etc... 7,775 13,785 3,539 1,076
Cash .. . . 30,186 12,210 174 237
The year’s growth of £70,694 in loans
and of £81,335 in the book value of in-
vestments suggests a rising market on
which the management could profitably
employ borrowed funds.
Divs., etc. (£27,191), turned in an extra
£5305, and exes. (£4536) took only £312
of the increase, leaving the net result
£4994 better at a shade over 6 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 4.7 p.c. and 3.9 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The div. was lifted
from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c., and looks like re-
maining at the higher figure for the
current term.
The board considers the time ripe for
investment of further capital. Those on
the register at Oct. 31 will be offered
300,000 new ss. shares at par, one for
five. When all the money on that lot is
in paid capital will be £450,000, on which
5 p.c. will call for £155 less than was
netted last term. After exercising the
rights, which are around Is. in the
market, the shares at 6s. Id. return 4.3
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Including the
new issue, the net tangible cover is
ss. sd.
Farmer, and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
r~ Dividends N
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
•July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 98,413 12,000 28,000 39,721 181,199
Discount on debentures, £17,600 . . 163,699
Insurance fund appears, £13,983.. 177,682
1927.. 102,506 12,000 28,000 40,000 200,188
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28.000 40,000 215,331
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40,000 227,351
5 p.c.
1930.. 64,167 12,000 28,000 20,000 231J518
Prom inner reserves, £25,275 .. 256,793
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
Prom inner reserves, £18,490 .. 246 284
1932.. 11,106 12,000 28,000 Nil 217,390
1933. . 33,891 12,000 28,000 Nil 211,281
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
63 p.c.
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
7J p.c.
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 30,000 1
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. j 244,231
The co. owns the entire end of one of the
busiest blocks in Sydney, and it enjoys
an extensive goodwill, of which no ac-
count is taken in the books. It also
handles the type of quality goods which
was most affected by slump. Partly
because of this, which meant big changes
in merchandising policy, partly because
of the difficulty of getting overhead, in-
cluding delivery costs, back far enough
without affecting service, partly because
of competition and partly because of the
pressure of fixed charges, net earnings fell
short of pref. div. requirements and the
ords. went without for the three years
to the close of accounts in 1933. It was
the first time the ords. had been passed
by since the present co. took over the
business in 1897 ; they received a steady
10 p.c. for the nine years to July, 1929.
However, net earnings have responded to
the efforts of the management and the
improvement in conditions generally, and
are almost back to pre-depression levels
again. Prospects of further improvement
are encouraging.
The million of share capital is in
200,000 first 6 p.c. and 400,000 second
7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 400,000 ords. The
prefs. are not subject to the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act, the co. being
registered in England. In front of share-
holders is £500,000 of first-mortgage de-
bentures maturing in ’39, and secured on
the co.’s freehold ; they were issued in
’27 to help finance the new building, and
interest has been reduced by statute from
6 p.c. to 5 p.c., a saving of £5OOO p.a. to
the co. A sinking fund (now £70,745,
held by trustees), to which the co. pays
£lO,OOO annually, has been established
for redemption of these debentures. At
the end of July the floating debt was
£209,705, down £5312; it includes an
unspecified amount on overdraft and
something for contingencies.
During the last term, the shop was
made still more attractive by remodel-
ling the ground floor and windows of
the Pitt-street end of the premises. Also,
an air-conditioning plant, designed to
maintain an even temperature at any re-
quired level with a requisite degree of
humidity and complete change of air
every 10 minutes, is being installed ; it is
claimed to be the first thing of its kind
in a retail store in Australia. After
writing off £6667 more than was spent
on fixed assets, net earnings were £12,763
better at £90,187, which was enough to
hand the prefs. their £40,000 and show
12.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against 9.3
p.c. and 7.5 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. The div. was lifted from 61 p.c.
to 1\ p.c.
Balance-sheet movements were in the
right direction:
1924. 1931. 1935. 1936.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . 994,415 1,000,„00 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures . . —. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Other creditors 129,792 181,952 215,017 ■ 209,705
Freeholds and
plant .. 627,950 1,436,822 1,403,636 1,396,969
Leaseholds .. 1,700
Stock . . 467,002 313,077 326,959 331,648
Book debts.. 101,718 77,606 151,741 165,960
Cash and in-
vestments. . 91,708 82,240 91,725 99,359
The reduction in the floating debt,
which is well covered, and in fixed
asests was accompanied by a growth
of £14,219 in debtors’ balances and of
£4689 in stocks. Investments include the
debenture sinking fund (£70,745) and
shares in and advances to subsidiaries
(£18,663).
At 245. 6d. and’ 255. 9d. the first and
second prefs. return 4.9 p.c. and 5.4 p.c.
respectively. The ords. at 345. 3d.
(235. 3d. two years ago) yield 4.4 p.c. on
a 1\ p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover is £6 4s. sd. firsts, £2 12s. 3d.
seconds and 325. 3d. ords.
Waldas Shoes, Ltd.
Nomi-
Dividends. nal
r 4 To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 13,092 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 9,174 3918 3,923
1934.. 17,549 8 „ 15 ~ ~ 13,211 4338 8,261
Share premiums, £13,875 .. .. 22,136
Unexplained reduction, £2319 .. 19,817
1935.. 16,174 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 15,272 902 20,719
1936.. 15,227 8 „ 15 „ „ 16,039 19,907
This co., which took over the shoe-
making and distributing interests of F. J.
Cook in May, 1930, for £106,000-odd (in
scrip), of which £51,677 was for goodwill,
has given a very good account of itself.
Over the last six years net earnings have
aggregated £86,156, of which £71,714
has been distributed in divs. averaging
8 p.c. to the prefs. and 11.9 p.c. to the
ords. The co. operates two factories,
planned on a mass-production basis,
which supply women’s shoes only to 24
of the co.’s own stores (approximately
half are in Melbourne and the balance in
Sydney and Adelaide), as well as to
other retailers in the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. The policy has been first to
rent shops—if custom has to be followed
(‘‘Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


51
y
B&pi
I
CAPSTAN
SHANTIES
n
’Better not bag the bosun’s beer—
You’re sure to be caught, and you’ll
pay dear,
For you’ve no idea how cross he gets,
When you merely borrow his
cigarettes:
Better—Oh certainly, very much better,
Better buy Capstan
(they’re blended better)
■wwstfv
nmn
—TV
mum
) QOrttle n by their
dßa llad‘Qflonger'in'o rdm ary
and issued by.
<7
0
s
■<y
MAKERS OF CAPSTAN CIGARETTES
inmnm
4
7
mu
Si
4859-10-6


jB? OTHER. COR'D!.AC.%. %
. .***-
"V~JB
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in four sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
TRITON GOLD MINES, NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
2nd) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been de-
clared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Thursday,
the 12th day of November, 1936.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, the 20th day of October,
and reopen at 10 a.m. on Thursday, the 22nd
day of October, 1936, and shareholders regis-
tered on Wednesday, the 21st day of October,
1936, will be entitled to receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
HUGH G. BRAIN, Manager.
Collins House, Melbourne,
6th October, 1936.
T enders.
Department of Mines, New South Wales.
MINING PLANT, ETC.
TENDERS will be received at the- Office of
the Under-Secretary, Department of Mines,
Sydney, up to noon on Friday, 30th October,
1936, for the purchase in one lot of the lease-
hold lands embracing the Mount Charlested
Wolfram Mine, near Frogmore, New South
Wales, and the mining, treatment and power
plant, machinery, chattels and other property
situated thereon.
Full particulars of the conditions and .terms
of sale, and also an inventory of the plant
and particulars of the leases, together with the
form of tender, may be obtained upon applica-
tion to the undersigned, or to the Department
of Mines at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
lender to be accompanied by deposit of 5%
of purchase price and to be suitably endorsed.
No tender necessarily accepted.
A. N. GRAHAM, Under-Secretary for Mines.
there is less difficulty in moving—and
then lease them if the sites prove suit-
able.
During the last term turnover ex-
panded. and gross earnings (£104,693)
were £2740 better. Exes. (£89.860, in-
cluding £lB5O written oft' leaseholds, said
to be worth more than their book, value)
took all the increase and £1341 besides.
Taking an unexplained addition of £394
to reserves into the reckoning, the net
result was £947 lighter at £15,227, or
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
14 p.c. on ord. capital as against 16.1,
21.4 and 14.9 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. The div. was kept at 15 p.c.,
reserves being tapped for £Bl2 for the
purpose, increasing the amount of ord.
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £31,770.
Since the close of accounts turnover
is reported to be “many thousands of
pairs of shoes” better than for the corre-
sponding period of the last term. Also,
leases in Sydney, Melbourne and Adel-
aide have been renewed on “favorable”
terms, three new shops have been opened
—one each in Melbourne, Adelaide and
Geelong—and other new sites are under
consideration.
Still, the market, doubtful whether last
year’s rate of distribution will be main-
tained, priced the fully-paid pound ords.,
covered by 12s. 7d. in net tangibles, at
345. last week-end, as against 445. in
April, when the scrip was listed in Mel-
bourne. The return at 345. is 8.8 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis, or 5.9 p.c. on a
10 p.c. distribution.' At 40s. the return
would be 6.2 p.c. on a 12y p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 245. 6d. yield 6.5 p.c. Last
year’s net earnings more than four times
covered their annual requirements, and
the net tangible backing is £2 6s. lid
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances:
1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. . . V 106,380 £125,332 £125,595
Overdraft .. .. 39,8] 7 2,910
Sundry creditors . . 12,942 8,479 17,353
Freehold.. .. ) ~, noQ * < 6‘>.‘>nn 62,248
Leasehold, etc.. . \ ’ ( 8,840 8,815
Plant 14,513 11,171 10,857
Stocks 18,703 28.930 35,656
Book debts .. . . 13,183 13,136 13,136
Cash, etc 1,735 1,979 1,405
* Includes goodwill, £51,677.
To carry an extra £6726 of stocks —the
most vulnerable item in the sheet—and
wipe out the overdraft (£2910 at the
previous balance), the amount coming to
trade creditors was increased by £8874.
There was little movement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£32,844, including
stocks, in at cost).
Tin
The immediate outlook for tin is less
perplexing than it was, but what the
future that is not so immediate holds for
the industry it is difficult to say. For the
12 months of 1935 the average spot price
of standard tin in London was £225 14s.
For January, 1936, the figure was £209
18s. There was a fairly steady recession
until June, when bottom was touched at
£176 10s. Since then there has been a
persistent strengthening of the price, the
figure reaching £202 12s. last week-end.
Chief factors responsible for the reces-
sion were (1) doubts about a satisfactory
renewal of the international restriction
agreement, which runs out at the end
of this year, (2) fears that Siam, and,
perhaps, Belgian Congo, might stand
aside and flood the market, and (3) un-
certainty concerning Bolivia, which had
fallen behind in its quota production to
the tune of 10,288 tons at the end of
May last.
As for renewal, there has been no
serious opposition to the principle of
restriction. Certainly Siam continues to
bargain concerning the annual quota
offered to it (14,000 tons). But its capacity
to produce is limited, which suggests that
danger to the market from that source
was more psychological than concrete.
Bolivian producers agreed to surrender
their right to the unproduced portion of
their quota —this was split up among
other signatory countries, whose quota
was thus lifted from 75 p.c. to 90 p.c. of
standard (1929) production for the third
quarter of 1936. Continuance of short
production in Bolivia appears to have
helped the upward trend of the price of
the metal. At the moment, the most dis-
quieting sign is the declension in market
value of surplus quotas in Malaya. This
might be taken to mean a pending altera-
tion in the structure of restriction in
the F.M.S. and elsewhere. In July last,
C. V. Thomas, chairman of Tonah Tin,
the big English holding co. with exten-
sive interests in Malaya, said a good
deal of confusion and conflict existed
in connection with restriction. Bolivia
is capable of producing a lot more than
its present quota, and its political and
labor troubles, and exchange difficulties,
cannot be expected to continue indefi-
nitely—the war with Paraguay has been
responsible for the most recent of them.
The brightest spot in the picture is the
improvement in world trade generally,
especially in the motor-car and tin-plate
industries.
From an Australian mining man in
Moscow:
A. Serebrovski, president • of the Soviet
Gold Trust, announces a remarkable ex-
pansion in the Russian gold industry. The
population on the fields is 1,500,000
persons; work is being intensified, and 75
p.c. of the mines are mechanised. Since
the beginning of 1934 efforts have been
centred on extracting four times as much
gold as before, and equipment has been
brought into line. The miners have been
given the slogan: “Work as much as you
can. There is no official limit to your pro-
duction, and no limit to your income.”
Living is much dearer than in Kalgoorlie
or Broken Hill. I paid the equivalent of
16s. (Aus.) in roubles for a serve of steak
and 4s. for a lemon.
t\i j|s ijs
For some months Bundi Tin —it pulled
out of Malaya last year at a loss of
£44,726—has been digging a 200-acre
block of unbored goldbearing wash at
Greymouth, on the west coast of Maori-
land’s South Island. Altogether 20590 z.
of bullion has been won from 684,900
c.y., an average of 4.lgr. per yard, which
wasn’t enough to cover working and re-
placement costs, wear and tear being
excessive owing to the hard nature of the
ground. It is now intended to raise the
dredge, through Mile Creek, to China-
man’s-terrace, where checkboring has
disclosed 1,679,000 c.y., averaging 5.54 gr.
Here local director G. Pool figures a
working profit of £17,000 p.a. on a turn-
over of 120,000 c.y. monthly. Another
2s. has been called on the 85,000 con-
tribs., making them paid to 275. each.
Co. also holds a prospecting license over
further areas on the New River, where
600 acres of pay-dirt is expected to be
proved.
hs * * *
With only £2OO of its £17,500 of capital
left, Gold Mines of Fiji, which acquired
half a dozen prospecting licenses over
ground adjoining the Emperor and
Loloma areas on the Tavua field (Fiji),
has brought its £l5OO diamond drill back
to Australia. Shareholders may be asked
for more if something promising heaves
in sight.
A southern co. has taken six months’
option over Meredith’s lease, near Mt.
Coolon (N.Q.), and testing has com-
menced. At Longford Creek, 30 miles
south-west of Bowen, water has brought
operations to a standstill at the Golden
Gusher, where crushings to date have
averaged about 240 z. The reef is 4ft.
wide. A couple of other small shows
are being worked in the locality, where
the first nugget was picked up about 50
years ago. The Duffer, at Kelsey Creek,
15 miles outside Proserpine, has got
of gold from approximately 50
tons ore since the beginning of 1936.
More similar stone is said to be avail-
able, though how much remains to be
seen.
The Falcon, formerly Rose and
Thistle, at Soldier’s Cap (N.Q.), is down
50ft. on a 2ft. reef, and the last 22 tons
crushed at Chillagoe yielded 42|oz. of
gold. In the Gilded Rose area near by,
several shows are on good-sized reefs,
yielding profitable, returns. Recent
crushings from Ironblow averaged an
ounce —here driving is in progress from
the 70ft. level on an 18in. reef —at the
Silver Lining }oz. stuff is being crushed,
while at Victory Consolidated, where the
shaft is down 56ft., the last seven tons
returned 12+oz. of gold, the sands assay-
ing 24 ‘weights.
* * * He
A party recently sent 60 tons of sands
from the old Mount Success battery,
Charters Towers (N.Q.), to Chillagoe.
Although the yield was 250 z. of gold,
the consignment was a dead loss ; freight,
cartage, treatment charges, etc., gobbled
the lot. Some thousands of tons of
dump material, including sands and
sludges, are available at Mount Success,
which suggests that a mill and treatment
plant on the spot might prove to be
worth while.
He * *
The Queensland Government intends
to construct a new road for heavy trans-
port from Weymouth Bay to the new
goldfield at Iron Range, Cape York
Peninsula, some 19 miles inland, where
20 leases are being developed. The road
will enable the field, which has drawn
many miners from the lonely old Batavia
diggings, further north, to be worked
continuously.
* * * *
Towers Minerals, N.L., an Adelaide
co., which holds an option over the prin-
cipal tailing heaps at Charters Towers
(N.Q.), is installing a pilot plant capable
of treating 100 tons a day. If results are
good enough, the intention is to erect a
plant with a daily capacity of 1000 tons.
* * 1 * *
Pratten Gold Development Ply. has
been formed to work shows on the
Pratten and Thane’s Creek fields, War-
wick (Q.). It has taken over two new
leases (Vettkyn and Southern Cross
North) and four claims (the Sultan,
Taylor, May’s Extended and New
Louisa), and plant is being erected at
Condamine River. A feature of the
field is that the sulphides are more valu-
able than the free-milling ores.
* - * * *
New Middle Creek Alluvials, at
whose 5000-acre property at Avoca
(Vic.) Placer Development nibbled in
September, 1935, has taken an option over
40 acres of virgin ground at Fryerstown.
This new area contains a large anticlinal
folding similar to the Wattle Gully and
Spring Hill anticlines, between which it
lies. This and the auriferous nature of
the wash in Golden Gully, below
the outcrop, and of cross-veins in present
workings (less than 60ft. deep) in the
centre country, have encouraged hopes
of finding a fair-sized saddle-reef. W.
Baragwanath, director of the geological
survey in Vic., has recommended the area
as a prospecting proposition, and geo-
logical surveyor O. C. Smith is making
an inspection. The co. has about £285
in cash and £1449 of outstanding calls.
The richness of the alluvial deposits on
the field placed it second
only to Bendigo as a gold-producer in the
early days, but exactly whence the yellow
metal came is a matter of speculation.
* * * * •
B.H. Prop, has called for tenders for
purchase of its controlling interest in
Kalgoorlie Enterprise (W.A.). The main
property has changed hands several
times in the last 40 years. It was first
acquired from the prospectors by
Boulder No. 1 Co., which, after doing
some shallow development, became dis-
satisfied and gave up. Then a local syn-
dicate, in which Boulder Perseverance
held a quarter interest, delved more
deeply, and, after recovering £23,000
from 7700 tons, gave an option to
an Adelaide co., which for the want
of capital was soon unable to carry
on. B.H. Prop, then came along, and,
following a long option, bought out the
syndicate and formed Kalgoorlie Enter-
prise Mines, Ltd., to work the property.
For its interest in the vendor syndicate
Boulder Perseverance received £5OOO
cash and 6875 fully-paid £1 shares in
the operating co.
* *
Ore developed in the main mine work-
ings at Wiluna (W.A.) continues to de-
crease in value with depth, but the effect
of this upon profits may be offsfet by
better-grade ore from the northern Happy
Jack lease, or from ore in new forma-
tions tributary to the main series. Ore re-
serves are now figured at 2,413,000 tons,
averaging 23.2 shillings, with gold at 85s.
per ounce. This estimate shows a gain
of 373,000 tons and a drop of 3.05 shil-
lings per ton compared with a year ago.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant is searching for
gold again. So far it has had five un-
successful tries in the West. First a low-
grade proposition at Coolgardie, “aver-
aging 4dwt. to sdwt., with every chance
of enrichments,” didn’t come up to ex-
pectations ; then a show at Hope’s Hill,
“believed to hold a continuation of
Fraser’s lode,” was turned down ; later
ventures at Yellowdine and Yalgoo were
rejected; later still an area with a
production of 22500 z. from 600 tons
to its credit, and near a mine which years
ago “yielded 29,0000 z. from 5750 tons,”
was found unsuitable for the co.’s re-
quirements. Now it is trying its luck at
Mt. Magnet. Meanwhile funds are
dwindling.
* * *
New Golconda (W.A.) is recondition-
ing its small mill, leased from the neigh-
boring Lake Austin Eureka, and a prom-
ising ore-body, recently exposed in an
old crosscut at a depth of 240 ft. in the
north shaft workings, is being sampled.
The show is a resurrected Murchison
venture, in which both East and West
are interested. So far the richness of
the old workings has not been dupli-
cated in the new.
* * * *
Tributors continue to obtain good
crushings from Kimberley Options, near
Yarri (W.A.), but shareholders have not
benefited. According to a Mines Depart-
ment report, the last yield of 408 oz. from
424 tons brought production from this
property since 1930 to 50240 z. from
3866 tons. Why the mine is worked by
tributors and not by the co. is a puzzle
to shareholders.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York’and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
' valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest ■ Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOE (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE ’ MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. —Advt.


Supplying a demand since 1859
9
Bathroom Ware
Bath Heaters
Tiles
Hot Water Systems
Electric, Fuel and Gas Stoves
Builders' Hardware
Wood Workers' Tools
Metal Workers' Tools
Garden Hose, Tools, etc.
Ice Chests
Galvanised Iron
"Hush" Silent Flusher
Kitchen Sinks
Kitchen Cabinets
Electric Lighting Fixtures
Electrical Appliances
"Billabong" Pumps and Windmills
"Cooee" Auto Oiled Windmills
Plumbing Requisites
Piping
Berger's Paints
Ormonoid Roofing
Fencing Wire
Sheet Metal
S.T.O.T. Silverfish Exterminator
Mantelpieces, Grates, etc.
Wallpapers
Motor Accessories
Write for Leaflets of Lines You Are Interested In.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TWO TEMPERS
FOR TWO REASONS
fk
I
f l
- f 2%
v^o
r\
\\
% %
% \
HARDER STEEL
HERE THAN
EVER BEFORE-
TAKES A MUCH
KEENER EDGE
Two definite advan-
tages are achieved
by Gillette's new elec-
trical tempering pro-
cess which puts tv/o
tempers into one
blade. Firstly, the super-hard steel
at the sides takes a much keener
edge. Secondly, the softer steel at
the ends allows the blade to bend snugly to
the razor. That is why every Blue Gillette gives
you cleaner, closer, smoother shaves and more
shaves per blade.
PACKET OF FIVE, 2 / -
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Kcrys”: Sydney is not the only place
where unexpected bridge-openers turn
up. North Auckland (M.L.) was await-
ing the ceremonious opening of a fine
new bridge, and the stage was set foi
an imposing official crossing. Along
came a drover, on his way to the old
bridge, across which he proposed to
drive a prize Jersey bull. The sight ol
the new structure (and possibly the reali-
sation that he was supposed to use the
old one) roused the pedigreed animal’s
fury ; he charged across the new span
bellowing his indignation. The drover
perforce had to follow and become the
first actual user of the bridge, and the
local authorities are now wondering just
what is the correct way to deal with the
incident.
* * * *
Kingsley Fairbridge again:
Although it is almost forgotten nowadays,
Fairbridge had a shot at politics in Westralia.
When the Country party was young he joined
the organisation and attended two or three
annual conferences. It was the custom then
for a delegate rising to speak to state who
he was and where he came from, and the
Rhodesian’s precise way of announcing himself,
"Kingsley Fairbridge, Mur -ray,” used to amuse
tfic other delegates till they got used to it—
they, of course, called the place “Murry.
Although the Murray branch had very few
members, Fairbridge tackled W. J. George,
then Minister of Works and in other years
Commissioner of Railways, for the Assembly
scat, and very nearly won it. A second attempt
would almost certainly have been successful,
but before the next election came round Fair-
bridge had decided that farm schools and poli-
tics would not mix. He did a bit of writing,
too, in Westralia, on one occasion taking the
place of his friend Vic Riseley as editor of
the “Primary Producer” during Riseley's annual
holidays: and he completed a novel of South
African life on which he had been engaged off
and op for years. That novel ought to be
worth digging up. Some of Fairbridge’s verses
have been reproduced in at least one South
African anthology.
* * *
“Lancaster Park”: Maoriland, which
was looking forward to the visit of an
Indian cricket team with a real mahara-
jah in charge and a prince for offsider,
has been grieved to hear that the jaunt
is off. No reason is given, but as the
potentate in charge was to have been
Ranji’s successor, the Maharajah of
Nawanagar, who is an important figure
among the Indian princes, the tip has
probably been given that his presence in
Hind during the delicate process of put-
ting Indian Home Rule into working
order is desirable.
* * * *
“Splash”: Masaji kiyokawa, the
Japanese backstroke swimming cham-
pion, who was second in the 100 metres
race at Berlin, is being transferred to
Sydney by his firm. Whether he swims
here or not, local swimming men expect
that he will be available for advice and
instruction in the Japanese methods
which have proved so successful. As
a rule champion swimmers run to
fleshiness. Kiyokawa is only sft. 54in.
and weighs 9st. 61b.
* -fi * ’ *
“Hoylake”: The colorful Gloria
Minoprio has made her annual appear-
ance in the English women’s golf cham-
pionship in flaring pyjamas and armed
with a single iron club. When she first
turned up in this guise at Westward Ho
a couple of years ago desperate efforts
to suppress her were made, but without
success. On that occasion she beat one
of England’s leading golferettes, who
alleged that she found the pyjamas and
the single club too much for her nerves.
* * * £
“Top Spin”: W. H. Ifould, a mem-
ber of the N.S.W. Golf Council’s greens
and research committee, has returned
from a tour abroad with the conviction
that Australian courses are ridiculously
easy compared with those of Britain and
the U.S.A. The Bulletin has stressed
this fact for years, and has pointed out
that it accounts for the failure of our
players to maintain abroad the reputa-
tion they enjoyed in Australia. It also
accounts for the emphatic success in
Australia of such players as Sarazen,
who cannot conceal their gratitude for
the manner in which good golf-money is
offered them on a lordly dish by the
easy playing conditions in this country.
* $ * *
“Tenth Slip”: A N.S.W. cricket colt,
Jack Walsh by name, has dropped into a
promising job, thanks to Alan Fairfax.
He has been engaged for three years as a
member of Sir Julien Cahn’s private
team, known to Australians who visit
England. In addition to playing in
Britain, Sir Julien takes his side abroad,
and will next year tour the F.M.S. Walsh
is to join this team at Colombo in March.
He is a very promising bowler and a fine
slip field, as well as a useful left-hand
batsman. He has played with N.S.W.
Colts against Queensland and with
N.S.W. second XI against its Victorian
opposite number, and is now with Glebe
district club.
“Amateur Pro.”: Fairfax has engaged
Ward also for Sir lulicn Cahn’s team.
Brought to S.A. by Bradman from Syd-
ney St. George club, Ward took 50
wickets for S.A. in his first season. It.
is stated that in the winter members of
the Cahn team are employed in chain
stores run by the millionaire.
* =i= * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Yugoslav
tennis team that won into the Davis Cup
semi-finals is going to no end of trouble
to improve its form. It went to India for
the international experience, and now it
is to tour South Africa. With a little
foresight and trouble Australia might
have secured this promising side, which
beat the Czechs and France and gave
Germany a hard gallop in the zone final.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Johnhop”; After months of inquiry
1 must sink my pride and openly beg
for an explanation of the origin of two
terms commonly met with in The Bulle-
tin. Firstly, how did the crow become
"Kelly”? Presumably there is involved
some obscure reference to the famous
Ned, but just where the connection lies
no one seems to know. Secondly, why
is a solitary spot a “Jimmy Woodser”?
A number of expressions are used in
referring to this unpopular practice, but
none with meaning less obvious. For
instance, “One with the flies” is easy,
but why “Jimmy Woodser”?
* $ .I** *
"Gnarlbine”: Firing out a shaft at
Edjudina (W.A.), a miner lit 16 fuses,
then started up a chain ladder to the
plat, 20 feet overhead. Half-way up he
slipped and fell to the bottom. He
started up again, and his mates —seconds
being now precious—tried to accelerate
his ascent by pulling up the ladder as
he climbed. Within reach of the plat,
however, he fell again. Despairing of
getting up, he started to draw the
smoking fuses. He managed to get five
out. That gave him a patch in one
corner which wouldn’t explode beneath
him, and here he crouched while the other
eleven shots went off. At the finish he
was found buried beneath four feet of
stone, seriously injured but still alive and
with prospects of recovery. Apparently
the first couple of shots covered him
with stone which protected him from
further injury. As a final touch, he was
conveyed 100 miles to Kalgoorlie in an
aeroplane. Truth is sometimes nearly
as strange as fiction.
* * * *
“Tristram R.”: In the sheer witchery
of the early chapters of All That
Swagger Miles Franklin refers to Aus-
tralian gums: “Some of the most regal
trees on the globe.” Gums have wan-
dered far since Danny Delacy’s day.
There is an avenue of them between La
Linea and Algeciras, and dozens flourish
in Gibraltar. They line the boulevardes
of Algiers and make cool shades around
Mena. At Latrokion (Greece) there are
notices in French: “Love and protect
the trees.” Practically every tree in that
pretty little town is an Australian gum.
* * * *
"Plus Fours”: Talking of bushmen’s
sight. 1 was “sight-testing free” in the
backblocks,' and went through the usual
procedure of fitting a spec frame without
lenses. Dave could see through them
so well that he could “count the blanky
(lies crawlin’ up the wall.” When in-
lormed that there were no lenses in the
I rames, he declared he “didn’t want any
damn’ lenses in them—they’d do as they
were.”
* * * *
"Laetitia”: Pastoralist-medico Hirsch-
leld's advocacy of saltbush sandwiches
as a nutritive bill of fare recalls old
Wiregrass, our N.Q. district’s successful
grazier and one-time bullocky, who spoke
wrathfully to his son when the men’s
huts had complained to the old man
about the young fellow’s overbearing
ways. Enlarging on his own lowly
origin old Wiregrass boasted that, in
addition to being “reared with the brolgas
and born in a drought,” his daily bread
was at one stage “stock-route sand-
wiches.” Pressed for a definition of that
heroic fare, Wiregrass barked truculently,
“A bit o’ goanna between two sheets
of bark, and too good for ye, me young
whelp, despite your college education.”
However, young Wiregfass survived to
become a very successful pastoralist,
whose employees swore by him ; he even
awakened old man Wiregrass's later
admiration.
* * * *
“James W.”: Of all instances of ani-
mals’ differentiating between sounds,
most striking is that of working bullocks’
recognition of fiery oaths. When a team
was watering in the Willows Ford on the
Coomera River, near Canungra, S.Q., and
a bevy of female tourists arrived and
parked close by to watch, bullocky
turned polite for the nonce, but his
entreaties made no impression whatever
on Pilot, the black leader. One of the
lassies sized-up the situation, and the
startled bullocky saw his team take up
the strain and pull to the commands of
a .clear contralto: “Hup! Pilot, you
——' ! Geeee, Screwey!
Spotty! Bend it, you !”
The bullocky passed on with a grateful
if somewhat sheepish grin.
“Two packets of wild oats, please !”
“Old-timer”: We arrived at the sheep-
camp after dark one night, bringing
fresh bread and other supplies from the
head station, Prill Park., We ate by fire-
light, and the sheepmen fell on our
bread with ! avidity. Later my mate,
strolling in the darkness, stumbled and
cursed. “A flamin’ great lump of lime-
stone out here!” he exclaimed. It was
near Prungle (s.-w. Riverina), a place of
sandhills. I was puzzled, too, when the
dim light of a match revealed a whitish-
grey, roughly round lump of rock
bigger than a man’s head. We carried
it in to the campfire, and all sorts of
conjectures were aroused. Some held it
to be a petrified skull, others a lime-
coated mallee-root. My mate decided
to send it to Melbourne Museum, hoping
it “might be worth a bit.” He dis-
patched it, carefully wrapped. A week
later came the official reply: “What pos-
sible worth could be attached to a
crudely-baked loaf of bread?” i
* * £
“Phalanger”: Though it lasted only a
month officially, the open season for
possums in Queensland yielded over
2,000,000 skins to the public sales, and
heaven knows how many more were
slipped to dealers unrecorded. How it
was done may be guessed from a case
in which three men located a patch thick
with possums and applied for a permit.
When they got on their ground with a
specially purchased truck on the day
before the season opened there was not
a possum left in the area. Instead, dead
bodies of possums, old and young, were
scattered thickly through the bush" to tell
their own story.
* * * *
“De Bee”: My storehouse of un-
pleasant memories became sadly confused
at reading an Aboliar on “rabbits walk-
ing off the place in a body” at the ap-
proach of drought. We’ve warred with
them through good season and bad, and
we’ve seen them fat when sheep and
cattle were staggering. Trapping, dog-
ging, fumigating and poisoning, in colla-
boration with drought, utterly failed to
shift them before the netting fence and
the shovel were introduced. They were
the captain of the ship, and lived up to
it by being the last to leave. The man
who has had a gruelling with them suffers
from such a rabbit complex that he
would be overjoyed if they walked off in
a body, even if it denoted that hell was
lurking round the corner.
* * * *
“Hanko”: The densest I’ve seen red-
backed spiders was in a self-sown oat
crop near Coolamon, Riverina (N.S.W.).
After cutting, sheaves and stubble simply
swarmed with the things, and my mate
and I were dubious over stooking the
stuff. But we hopped in, shirt-sleeves
buttoned, trouser-ends tucked into socks.
We stayed swaddled thus an hour or so ;
after that we were down to athletic
singlets, hugging spider-covered sheaves
'twixt bare arms and nude top ribs.
Since then I’ve placed the redbacked
spider on my list of debunked bogies.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: All night long the
numerous tykes tied up outside Henare’s
whare had been kicking up a persistent
din, but with the coming of dawn there
was a sudden silence. Henare sighed,
rose from his rugs and peeped out the
window. “Somepotty must be coming,”
he shouted to his snoring wahine. “Te
kuris hafe stopped barking!”
* * * %
“Nedlands”: If the marine borer
(cobra) that refrains from dining on blue-
gum is in any way akin to the teredo,
which ranges from the Irish Sea to
Fremantle, I’d be surprised to learn that
any Australian timber is immune from
its attack. Even jarrah is table d’hote
to this worm, unprotected piles being
reduced to colanders in astonishingly
short time. Hardness is no protection—
tuart and other W.A. hardwoods credited
with being little inferior to lignum vitas
offer about the same resistance as ice-
cream at a picnic.
* * * *
“Hanko”: After seeing an odd few
corellas among the flights of galahs in
Riverina (N.S.W.) and seemingly attached
thereto for company’s sake, it surprised
me when the author of “Amathea” had
these birds in flocks. I didn’t imagine
they could happen that way anywhere.
Down the ’Bidgee the core 11a is a rara
avis these days, with the mission and
station abos. ever alert for its nursery.
Fledglings sell readily, and are in demand
more than the blue-bonnet or Murrum-
bidgee lory, another bird becoming
scarcer each year.
* * * *
“Palmdale”: “L.W.’s” suggestion that
’roo flesh is disdained in all parts of
Australia, partly because it is considered
niggers’ food (B. 23/9/’36), would bring
a storm of ridicule in W.A. I’ve yet to
meet the Sandgroper who won’t tackle
’roo with gusto.
* * * *
“Creel”: Fish-teeth oddities (B.
23/9/’36)? The devil ray of the Great
Barrier Reef has no teeth at all in its
upper jaw but has rows of thousands of
tiny white blunt teeth in its lower jaw
beneath a covering of thin skin. The teeth
are apparently never used, and the jaw
of an Bft. ray I saw must have contained
at least 5000 teeth. The deep-sea angler-
fish is another —its teeth are hinged!
When a victim is seized the teeth fall
backwards towards the throat, dragging
the victim in. When the meal is over
the teeth swing back to a vertical posi-
tion.
“Larrakeah”: Buffalo-shooting in the
N.T. can give points to African lion-pot-
ting. All the professionals shoot from
horseback, ranging up alongside the flee-
ing beasts and dropping them one after
another. The amateur who only wants a
pair of horns usually shoots in country
where buffs, are scarce and mostly found
in wallows among tall grass on the lagoon
edges. The beast must be stalked on
foot, and after one shot, if the second
fails to stop the animal and there is no
tree handy, things are not good for
the shooter. If there is a tree near by
it is unhealthy to drop the rifle when
clambering for safety, for the buff, will
stay at the tree doing his best to uproot
it. Also, about 10 minutes is long
enough to spend in any Territory tree ;
they abound with green ants, and green
ants can sting. 1 have unpleasant memo-
ries of half an hour in a tree near Kool-
pinyah, my rifle on the ground and an
outsize in buffs, trampling the weapon
to pieces.
:J; :|: ; i ;
“Musca”: Commentators on the
cleanly habits of rabbits, ants and other
insects seem to have overlooked the
common fly, which has even the ant
licked to a standstill in the matter of
face washing and all-round grooming.
Yet the fly is by common consent the
world’s most dangerous conveyor of filth
and contamination ; as dangerous as the
typhoid-carrying human who, meticu-
lously clean in person and habits, is yet
a walking arsenal of sudden death to
those with whom he comes in contact.
* * * *
“Ben Macdhui”: What's wrong with
crow as a menu item, anyway? I’ve
eaten dozens and liked ’em! In the
North of Scotland in March and April
each year crow was as much cle rigueur
as grouse in August, and probably still
is. Breasts of fledgling crows only were
used, but a couple of dozen in a piedish
under a flaky pastry was the event of
spring.
* * # *
“Spotty": Thirty years ago a bower-
bird that used to hang out about the Pig
Hole, on Ihe Alice River
(C.Q.), was famous among
drovers, travellers and stock-
men. As soon as any man
tied his horse up at the hole,
filled his quart and com-
menced his lunch, the bird
would go through all his
tricks, giving vocal imitations
of everything that hops, flies
or crawls in the bush. He
rarely failed to get his pay.
I don’t know how long a
bower-bird lives, but it’s
over 20 years since I saw
that feathered vaudevillian
at the Pig Hole, and I learned
recently that one answering
his description is still on the
job. It mightn’t be the
original; if it isn’t, one of his progeny
has inherited his repertoire as well as his
country seat.
* * *
"Look Ahead”: Fifty years ago the
transportation of shad (king of the her-
rings) from the Atlantic to the Pacific
coast of the U.S. was a magnificent suc-
cess. The fish, after a few years, was
found along 3000 miles of coastline, hav-
ing spread from the Golden Gate. There
are immense hatcheries in the eastern
States. It would cost only a few thou-
sands at most to repeat the experiment at
the mouth of an Australian river.
* * * *
“Roselia": Those pale-headed rosellas
that tackle sugarcane (B. 2/9/’36) are a
new breed to me. I have grown cane for
years in the Proserpine (N.Q.) district,
and though these maize-eaters come in
hordes I have never seen them tackle cane
in its ordinary state. After a fierce fire
has been through they sometimes pick
the grains of sugar off. If other pests
did no more harm the sugar cocky would
be on velvet.
* * * *
“Kali”: Two crocs, were once shot
in the Mary River —that seems to be the
most southerly point from which they
have been authentically taken. A few
years ago the skipper of a small coastal
steamer reported seeing one swimming
strongly southwards a few miles east of
Stradbroke Island; other unconfirmed
reports have been made of crocs, sighted
off Smoky Cape. It is only the brutes’
instinctive dislike of the cooler waters of
the south that keeps southern beaches
free of another menace. Certainly the
distance from his usual waters would not
trouble him. A 16ft. specimen landed at
Cocos Island one morning, 1500 miles
from his nearest habitat, and no land-
ing-places between on which to have a
spell. After his record-breaking swim he
must have been a little hurt at his recep-
tion about two pounds of lead dis-
charged from the assorted firearms
hastily collected on the atoll.
BUSH BELIEFS.
1 hese writer chaps who treat .so very lightly
Old “bush beliefs” with which they don't
agree
Won’t mind, l trust, my. telling them politely
They’re barking up a legendary tree.
In other days most bushmeii spent their leisure
In yarning, but the sport that always lent
To idle hours the maximum of pleasure
Was that old game of courting argument.
One question which invariably entered
Their minds was what was right or what was
wrong;
Ihe thoughts of all were resolutely centred
On keeping the discussion going strong.
As proof that this was ever their objective,
That this, and this alone, they kept in view,
They argued sometimes which was most effec-
tive,
I lie vesta lipped with crimson, brown or
blue.
I o cope with colds' all doubted others’ tactics;
On patent nostrums some were very keen.
But more were strong on pungent prophylactics,
Like eucalyptus, turps or kerosene.
Some swore by greenhide, others clung to
leather;
As prophets, most adopted different lines.
Some took as warning of a change of weather
A circle round the moon; some, other signs.
Those “bush beliefs” some writers treat so
lightly
As childish fancies, warded off for years
From station hut and lonely campfire nightly
The silent spells a bushman hates, and fears.
And, since in old hands’ thoughts about them
lingers
The memory of bush life at its best,
Why not allow Time’s sympathetic fingers
To lay them tenderly away to rest?
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNEIL.


“The O.D.”: Next time I want a good
stock-horse I'm going to send over to
Wyoming (U.S.A.). They breed ’em
tough there. Just read The Virginian, a
tale of a wild cowboy who rides into the
lirst chapter on his neddy Monte. This
Monte carries his owner through all
sorts of adventures, including 100-mile
rides to see a girl, performs slock work,
etc., and nine years later carries his boss
to be married. This would make him
at least twelve years old, and still full
of life. Read on: “By this time he was
an important man —their eldest boy
rides the horse Monte”.... Yes, my
next horse comes from. Wyoming.
=!= * * *
“Shamuseen”: Two trepangers in
Arnhem Land whose base-camp was
being pillaged by abos. decided that
pourri-pourri was the sole solution.
So the aid of that powerful sorcerer Sir
Henry Jones, of Hobart, was invoked, per
medium of a tin of his carbide. Some
of the stuff was buried at nightfall in
the wet sand not far from the stores tent.
Then one man took his place in the
centre of the then gas-impregnated circle
and a match was dropped. In the sight
of all the Binghis concealed in the scrub
he was transformed into the most potent
oi debbil-debbils by the eerie blue light,
and the lesson was printed indelibly on
the abo. mentality. No more pillaging.
$
“Palmdale”: Vote the common mon-
grel breed of kangaroo dog as the gamest
specimen of canine I know. Out one
day with two dogs in thickly scrubbed
south Westralian country, one of ’em
made a flying tackle at a big ’roo as
they raced through the timber. The ’roo
swung around, and dog number one had
his ribs cracked against a near-by jarrah.
Dog number two tore up, to receive a
kick which opened him up almost the
lull length of his body. We pushed his
tummy back in, and sewed him up with
a piece of string. Three weeks later,
they were both catching again, their
wounds forgotten.
* * A- *
“Walkabout”: The wagtail isn’t a
sacred bird with Binghi, but its presence
or otherwise has a big influence when
a tribe is on the move. With Willie pres-
ent, everything is all right; but, if neither
seen nor heard, the country is voted no
good (“too much debbil-debbil sit
down”), and Binghi and co. move on.
* * *
“Bushy”: Sheep certainly know a thing
or two. When a solitary ewe came
along to where I was lopping a bauhinia
she ignored the leaves, but shook each
pod with her nose for the rattle that
would proclaim the presence of dried
seeds. That in a drought!
* * #
“Laetitia”: That hardy Westralian who
preferred his “beer on the boil” (B.
19/8/’36) would be at home at Cooktown
(N.Q.). Ice is not stocked at the pub,
though available —the clientele, mostly
pensioners from the roaring
days of the Palmer field, can-
not drink cold beer ; hence it
is served lukewarm. Inciden-
tally, Cooktown’s one pub is
a place worth visiting. Round
the walls of one bar-parlor
frescoes of marked artistic
standard depict every phase of
life on the Palmer field—first
news of the rush, men leaving
every sort of calling, shanties,
gamblers, ladies are portrayed.
The most striking piece is the
last, depicting an old grey-
beard loon spilling nuggets
crazily from his dish, with the
dark spectre of Death overshadowing
him, symbolising the wealth that comes
too late.
* * i- *
“Orsova”: The butcher-bird gets its
name from its habit of spiking its cap-
tures on projecting points of timber to
assist dismemberment. The belief that it
stores food for future use is fallacious,
as it is one of the cleanest of feeders,
never stooping to carrion. It is actually
a feathered murderer, and seldom is its
swift dive successfully evaded. The
swamp hawk is perhaps the only bird in
Australia that lays in a reserve supply.
“Tommo”: Some Afghans left a good
pack-saddle near my camp in the bush.
They were going to Coolgardie, and in-
tended to pick it up on their way back
to Menzies. I nailed the tail off a side
of bacon to the saddle, and, though hun-
dreds of camels passed there every week,
nobody ever touched it.
* * A* *
“Bill O’C.”: These bush biologists are
hard to keep up with. No sooner is the
“marsupial teat-birth” theory
laid to rest (temporarily) than
another wiseacre affirms that
the absurd “cat-rabbit” cross
(between two widely-separated
genera—not mere species, mind
you) does “definitely exist,”
and now “Johnhop” (B.
18/9/’36) says with the same
air of confidence that the wal-
laby and kangaroo possess the
ability to “postpone pregnancy
for long periods.” If he means
the ability to prevent at will
the development of that condi-
tion he is just as much at sea.
No animal, not even homo
sapiens, is so endowed, and all
that the latter has learned in
the vast age of his ascent is
how to prevent it by artificial
interference. The mating time
of most wild animals is dic-
tated by the plenitude or other-
wise of their natural food and
protective harbor. The diffi-
culty in the way of determin-
ing the actual period of gesta-
tion in animals is not in the
far-fetched “postponement of
pregnancy” guess, but in the
lack of speech, the possession
of which permits, in the case
of homo s., of a few confi-
dences so useful to Mrs.
Gamp.
“Jindivick”: Retreading hoop-snakes?
That’s nothing. While riding to the
starting-post at a Gippsland race-meeting,
where I had entered for the Grassfed
Hacks Stakes, I dropped my whip. I
leaned down (I have a remarkable
reach), grabbed it hurriedly, and arrived
just in time to start. About a furlong
from the winning-ppst I got my wrists
caught in the knotted reins (I see that
Gordon Richards lost a race the same
way) and was unable to use my whip.
The prad immediately lost pace and fell
back. Suddenly the whip leapt to life
and automatically thrashed the mare’s
flanks. Away she went. Recovering
from my surprise, I looked at the whip.
One end was securely fastened to my
coat, while the other end flogged the
horse. A whip-snake, it had realised
my predicament when my wrists caught,
and had acted on its own initiative. We
won, of course, and the snake is now
a family pet.
* * * *
“Mako”: Henare arrived on a busy
morning to sell me his brown hen. I
“Well, any'ow, this rain ought t' do
the cockies a lot o' good!”
didn’t want that lean and ancient bird,
but finally handed out a shilling. Taking
a short cut through the orchard a few
minutes later, I came upon Henare
returning to the kainga with the hen
under his arm. “Isn’t that the hen you
just sold me, Henare?” I asked. “Werra,”
said Henare, not at all perturbed, “she
te pad hen. She forrow me pack, so I
take her and cut off her head. Ten she
not forrow me any more.” 1 haven’t
seen Henare or the hen since.
“Petrie”: When 1 met my old mate
Bill after a long absence I told him how
well he was looking. He explained with
pride that it was because he had cut out
ihe booze. "Of course,” he added, "I
still have a pot going to work, a couple
at lunchtime and a few on the way
home; but apart from that 1 never touch
the stuff, and I feel all the better for it.”
“I've lorst me teeth, Joe —'aoe y' seen 'em?”
“Y airs—the babbler borrowed 'em to crimp the pie!”
“S.M.G.”: Talking to an old bush
storekeeper, who also had a petrol
bowser, I suggested that he would get a
wide variety of callers. “Yairs,” drawled
the old chap, “we get all the funny
here. The other day a big gleamin’ sedan
pulls up and out gets a bloke as flash as
lightnin’. He wants petrol, and, as y'
see, I always make sure they get the lot.”
Suiting the action to the words, he care-
fully drained the hose into my petrol-
tank. “Well, after I finishes, he grabs
the hose and drains it himself, and then
he fishes out a little cigarette-lighter and
holds it under the hose to get the last
drop. Lousy ain’t the word! ”
* * * *
“Kriz”: Nishioka, the No. 1 diver,
seemed to be on the bottom a long time,
so the “tender” tugged at the life-line
and, getting no response, shouted to me.
We hauled him up and stripped his head-
gear off. His face was as white as a
brown skin can be, and he seemed all
in. Just as we were pulling his corselet
off he tried to sit up, but fainted. I
rushed to the cabin for the medicine
chest and got back in time to see Harota,
the “tender,” pull out the last of Nishy’s
two front teeth. The shock and loss of
blood apparently brought him to, for
he sat up and took the nip of brandy I
gave him, and in between great heaves of
his chest explained that the hosepipe had
got a twist in it when he got caught in
one of the deep holes. He didn’t seem
to mind the loss of two perfectly good
molars, and after a good night’s sleep
was ready,to go “below” again in the
morning.
“Post Hole”: Here in western N. S.
Wales it is quite a common occurrence
to see two or more chicken hawks fol-
lowing a horseman, ready to dive on any
bird foolish enough to rise at the
approach of the horse. Ground larks
are the easiest marks, and have no
chance to avoid the claws of the
feathered Richthofen. Quail also fall
victim occasionally, but are more wary
than the lark, and when disturbed rise
only high enough to clear the tops of
the grass, ready to drop to earth (and
safety) as soon as the hawk dives.
**• « *
“Ads”: The sandalwood-tree has two
little-known features. Its nuts —and
most trees give an abundance —are
edible. About the size of a Barcelona
nut, the kernel is pure white, and easily
munchable, improving with a taste of
salt. The other is that it isn’t necessary
to parasite it on some other tree or
shrub. Numbers of them have been
raised from seed, and can be seen in the
grounds of the W.A. University.
* * * *
“Centre”: My money is on the so-
called “ triantelope ” as a weather-
prophet. With the approach of rain he
comes into the house through every
ventilator and prowls about the ceilings
and walls after flies and other game. He
deserves to be called Huntsman Spider,
for he sets no snares or nets but stalks
his tucker in among the leaves and
grass-stems. But he doesn’t like hunting
in the wet; therefore he seeks the shelter
of any house, cave or dry spot when
rain threatens.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Cabled recently that the
inhabitants of Tristan da Cunha in the
South Atlantic were contemplating mov-
ing to another of the group, Inaccessible
Island, because rats were eating up all
the crop of potatoes. About a decade
ago the ancestors of these rodents landed
on Tristan from a wrecked ship, and
multiplied so rapidly that before long
their progeny was devouring the stand-
ing wheat in the island’s meagre fields.
Soon it became impossible to grow any
cereals, and the islanders fell back en-
tirely on potatoes. A dozen cats that
were tried against the plague had to be
guarded to save them from being de-
voured. Australia has seen similar island
tragedies. Recherche Archipelago, west
of the Bight, used to be the home of
millions of mutton-birds. Misguided per-
sons let loose numbers of pigs with the
idea of selling pork to Yankee whalers
calling at Albany ; the porkers to fatten
on mutton-bird squabs. They did: but
about 10 years’ feasting cleaned all the
squabs out —and then the pigs died. And
the Recherches are still barren of mutton-
birds.
A WORD TO THE WISE.
t he crow is very happy
When 1 am planting corn;
The crow is very happy
When the little lambs are born;
The crow is very happy
When the wheat begins to grow;
And I am very happy
When 1 can kill the crow.
The crow has wings to fly with;
A mocking voice and raw;
But, what is more effective,
Sharp beak and cruel claw.
Could 1 oust the crow by talking,
I'd talk till set of sun;
But 1 find it more effective
To keep a loaded gun.
QUHtNSLAND.
L. O'NEIL.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: SO5 QUEEN STREET.
BERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE *279 GEORGE STREET
Capital Authorised . . £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ~ £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Governntent and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
> m i
0k
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
October Issue Now on Sale.
CHAIN STORES
FRANC-DOLLAR-STERLING EXCHANGE
ANGLO-EASTERN OIL
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
PRICE 2\- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED .
]’uWished bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
n
Sheet
metal
H STAMPING
1 MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide, - Perth,
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LAINSEED MEAL.
More Skirting Points.
“Dead Finish”: In recent hints on
skirting wool, “R.N.” dropped on the
fleece with a heavy hand. With a small
clip, he recommended removing top-
knots (which the shearer frequently
attends to), neckfolds and jowl pieces.
After having a go at the shoulder and
skirting heavily on the britch for burr
and coarse wool, he suggested taking out
all wasty backs, in addition to making
a separate line of “necks.”
In the face of all this, his filial in-
junction to “ignore heavy burr or there’ll
be no fleece left” seemed unneeded.
There should be no fleece left by the
time he had finished with the back. What
would find its way into the woolbins
would be nothing more than piece lines.
It is debatable whether any big line of
wool warrants such harsh treatment.
Small ones certainly do not.
The main consideration every classer
should keep before him is the ultimate
return to his employer consistent with
the requirements of the woolbuyer. The
latter can fill orders more easily with big
lines classed to uniformity than with
many small lots classed technically to the
last staple. Moreover, he is prepared to
pay better for the big lots.
Keeping a check on the amount of
wool skirted from the fleeces by the wool-
rollers is an important part of the
classer’s duties. Rarely does it pay lo
indulge in heavy skirting. Admitting
that the “broken” line usually sells well,
it is far better to make bulky fleece lines.
Hot-iron Lamb-marking.
“Corriedale”: Many sheepmen oppose
searing the tail immediately after cut-
ting ; the purpose
of this treatment
—to prevent
post - marking
mortality is
overlooked. It is
clearly economi-
cal to take twice
as long over the
job and cut losses
to \ p.c. when
by the common
tailing methods anything from 3 p.c. to
8 p.c. loss is usual.
Searing with a black-red iron closes
the three arteries and prevents excessive
blood loss. A four-week lamb hasn’t
much more than a pint of blood in its
body, and if, as frequently happens, one-
third to a half of this is lost soon after
the operation, the lamb hasn't much
vitality left to combat infections.
With searing the lamb suffers no blood
loss worth talking of, and is fit and strong
next day. This is important, especially
with suckers for export, with which a
check must be avoided.
No dressings are worth a tinker’s cuss
in warding sepsis off if applied to a
bleeding stump, though the residue that
is not washed off may possibly be repel-
lent to flies.
The correct thing in antiseptics for a
plain-cut tail is to yard the sheep next
day and apply any good dressing to the
dried tissue surface.
Blowfly Treatment.
“Gurra Gurra”: The C.S.I.R. now
definitely states that the fly-trap does
reduce the incidence of strike. Pre-
viously the council was of the opinion
that too many secondary flies were
caught. These secondary flies (green to
bluish green, with transverse bands at
the line of junction between the
segments of the abdomen) produce the
hairy maggots which devour the smooth
maggots, and for this reason the useful-
ness of flytraps was very much dis-
counted.
Since that time, however, the C.S.I.R.
has undertaken experiments extending
over a period of years in the Boggabri
(N.S.W.) district, and is now satisfied that
checking the fly with traps lessens the
sheepman’s evils.
It sounds commonsense to me. There
are places on the run, apart from cooks’
galleys and offal heaps, which are favor-
ite playgrounds for the fly—sheepyards,
for instance, and any place where sheep
camp. Traps set in such places and
properly baited and attended to would
help the grower considerably. People
who condemn traps usually forget about
them after setting. An excellent trap is
“ That's the last time We'll ever take these blasted nags to the tin hares!"
procurable, made lo the design of a
C.Q. grazier, but any handy person can
make one from the familiar old kero-
sene-tin and a piece of gauze.
Self-feeding Troughs.
"Albarmount”: Millions of our sheep
grow wool for eight or nine months only.
During the balance of the twelvemonth
—when the feed has gone off—wool
ceases to grow and the fleeces lose
bloom and often tensile strength. This
is when a little extra feed pays for
itself many times over by increasing
weight and quality of clip and the
number and sturdiness of the lambs. It
will also reduce the death roll and worm
trouble, and help to develop a vigorous
flock that will fatten quickly when the
natural feed becomes sufficient.
Sheep should not be given access to
the self-feeders until after midday;
otherwise they might make the supple-
mented feeding serve as a whole ration.
Fine-cut oaten hay chaff or lucerne chaff
is the most suitable for sheep.
The material for a self-feeder large
enough for 250 to 300 sheep costs from
£2 to £5 according to the amount of
bush timber and second-hand material
used. Feeders should be portable, on
wheels or bolted to a two-log slide
firmly braced together with crosspieces.
Make the outer frame 9ft. long, 3ft.
wide and sft. high with 3x2 hardwood.
Allow lOin. for legs (to be bolted to
whfcel axles or slide logs). Then build
the feed floor, using 6 x 1 boards, and
nail a 3 x 1 batten round the edges
to form a ledge. The hopper itself
(which is built inside the frame) begins
at the full width of the frame at the
top (i.e„ 3ft.), and the sides slope
towards each other until they are only
9in. apart 3in. above the feed floor. The
ends do not slope in and are covered
to the floor.
Use 3 x li battens for the hopper
frame and line it with flat galvanised
iron—corrugated holds back the chaff.
Doors 9ft. long and Ift. wide (made
with two 6 x 1 boards) are swung at
the bottom of each side of the hopper.
The bottom of these doors should be
3in. above the feed floor so that when
the sheep bump against them the chaff
comes out. By having a peg at each end
and a series of holes in the floor the
flow of chaff can be regulated by these
doors. Fine-cut chaff, of course, comes
through much more freely than long-cut.
The top of the hopper is a hinged lid of
corrugated iron braced with battens, and
must overlap the frame on all sides.
Cattle Parasites.
“Mookau”: There seems to be a
general belief among dairymen and gra-
ziers that cattle are born with cast-iron
stomachs, make light of lungworms and
enjoy having other internal pests for
company. Sheepmen rush to deal out
medicine as soon as somebody whispers
the word “worm” ; but some Australian
districts are full of sad-looking young
cows with faded hair and lacklustre eyes
and of dairymen and graziers with bank
accounts like the crater of Vesuvius be-
cause of internal worms.
The signs are generally well defined.
See a cow with very pale mucous mem-
brane of the eye, bottle jaw, poor con-
dition, depraved appetite and general
anasmia and the trouble is probably
twisted wireworm. Spring and later
summer are times to keep most careful
watch for signs of this worm, which does
its damage by bloodsucking in the
animal’s stomach. There isn't much
scouring when this worm is present.
Another, which causes both scouring
and stunted growth, is tricholostrongy-
losis, and a good name for him, if you
can say it. If you can’t, there are several
words largely used in the A.I.F. which
fit him just as well. He usually battens
on weaners to two-year-olds ; older cattle
have a natural resistance. It is not often
that bottling under the jaw is due to
tricho., but the animals he attacks die
just the same.
Treatment should be early and
thorough. Dissolve Boz. powdered
copper sulphate (bluestone) in rain water.
Add Boz. nicotine sulphate (do the mix-
ing in an enamel bucket, as copper sul-
phate is corrosive). Warm the water
when mixing bluestone. Doses are about
as follows:
Calves, four months, 30z.; six months,
40z.; nine months, 60z.; 12 months, 8oz.;
mature cattle need lOoz.
Starve the animals before dosing.
Once paddocks are infested, they will
not be safe for some time. Preventive
doses should be given three times, 14
days apart. ,
“Holding-up” of Milk.
“Silky Bag”: Recent studies of the
structure and function of the udder have
shown that, contrary to the popular con-
ception, there are no valves, sphincters
or any mechanism which will let the cow
wilfully “hold” her milk.
In fact, the boot is on the other foot,
and it is a matter of giving the cow
enough of the correct stimulus or en-
couragement to allow her to “Jet down”
the liquid, which she cannot do in un-
congenial circumstances.
The main part of the udder is com-
posed of fine passages and pockets which,
have the knack of holding the liquid
contents back against the force of gravity
by capillary attraction.
Unless there is some systematic way
of securing the co-operation of the cow
in driving out the milk contained in these
ducts, all that can be withdrawn is
what is in the sinus and large ducts
directly above each teat. With the aver-
age cow you would be lucky to get one-
half the full milk yield from this region.
The balance of the secretion has to be
expressed by the combined contractile
action of muscles and of veins swelling
abnormally because of retained blood.
Muscles, which surround all the ducts,
large and small, are involuntarily tight-
ened when the cow receives the correct
stimulus. The milk is raised to a pressure
of lylb. per square inch from half a
pound in heavy milkers in quarter of a
minute. This is the phenomenon known
as “letting down.”
As the muscles tighten they compress
the veins at certain spots so that blood
return to the heart is delayed. Conse-
quently the veins swell up, which also
increases the pressure of the udder on its
internal milk. This, by the way, is wholly
formed before the cow enters the bails.
The trick about the muscle contrac-
tion, however, is that it can occur only
with the co-operation of the cow, whose
intelligence is admittedly small. She
works largely by the correlation of exter-
nal sights, sounds and smells to her in-
ternal affairs, such as rumination and
milk secretion. Unless a perfectly regu-
lar and somewhat congenial routine is
carried out each time the cow is yarded
and bailed up, the stimulus for “letting
down” is never twice the same, let alone
likely to prove efficient.
The result is that a good deal of the
milk is retained in the fine passages be-
cause of weak muscle contraction.
Sidebone Again.
“Horsey”: Since reading “Stump
Jump’s” remarks about concussion as the
cause of sidebone (B. 9/9/’36), I have
(Continued on page 24.)


SUNSHINE
HARVESTING MACHINES
Sure
Speedy
and Successful!
■ From 1884 to 1936, comparatively a short period of 52
years, marks a wonderful development in farm machines
and agriculture in Australia. It is an achievement to be
proud of, and exemplifies the general acknowledgment to-day that
Australian-made agricultural machinery is superior to any other.
The invention of the first Sunshine Stripper-Harvester by Hugh
Victor McKay in 1884 was epoch-making, and was the forerunner
of the Sunshine line of 1936—machines outstanding for speed,
surety and’ satisfaction in harvesting grain crops in all conditions.
No better array of harvesting machines exists anywhere, and it is
obtainable at moderate prices and on liberal terms.
H. V. McKAY'S STRIPPER-HARVESTER -
- 1884
6
A machine suitable only for a
museum now, but its invention and
subsequent development and im-
provement have been of incalcul-
able value to farmers and agricul-
ture. Because of that alone, if not
for patriotic pride that it paved
the way for Australia to become
a wheat-exporting country, it is worthy of the foremost place.
Size 2ft. 9in. cut.
SUNSHINE STRIPPER-HARVESTER
r
The strongest, most durable and
lowest-priced machine; costs less
than any other in annual repairs,
and the latest model is the nearest,
approach to perfection in stripper-
harvesters. Retains all the best features of the old Sunshine
machines strength, light draught, durability, accessibility, extra-
ordinary roominess, etc.—with numerous improvements reducing
draught to the minimum, and to deal with even heavier and more
difficult crops. Sizes Bft. and 10ft. cut. Ask for the STRIPPER-
HARVESTER CATALOGUE for full details.
SUNSHINE HEADER—Ground-Wheel Drive -
- 1936
ẁ
Has averted disaster for thousands
of farmers by its ability to rescue
grain from storm-flattened crops of
wheat, oats, barley, etc. Whether
the crop is light or heavy, storm-
tangled or thistle-infested, on hillside or plain, it gets all the grain
possible and turns out an excellent sample. Sizes Bft. and 10ft. cut.
Ask for the HEADER CATALOGUE for full details
SUNSHINE HEADER—Engine-Functioned
1936
ẃ
Eminently suitable for light or
abnormally heavy crops, and par-
ticularly where ground conditions
are sticky, sandy or hilly and effi
cient ground-wheel drive is difficult.
The 1 6.9-h.p. engine works all the
mechanism; only three or four
horses are required merely to draw the machine through the crop.
Simple to operate, and unexcelled for speedy, low-cost harvesting.
Sizes Bft. and 10ft. cut. Ask for the E.F. HEADER CATALOGUE
for full details.
SUNSHINE RICE HEADER—Engine-Functioned - 1936
K
The machine that overcame the
difficulties of ricegrowers when har-
vesting and helped to make rice-
growing practicable and profitable in
Australia. The latest model—more
powerful and efficient with less draught—has 16.9-h.p. engine, runs
smoother on low fuel consumption, with ample speed and power
for field or stationary work. Equally effective in wheat, oats or
barley. Size Bft. cut. Ask for the RICE HEADER CATALOGUE
for full details.
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER—SeIf-Propelled
1936
ass
ssassw.
wmrmnnmxsfi
w
The outstanding machine of the
harvest field! Harvests large areas
quickly and inexpensively year after
year without horses or tractor.
Can be driven straight into a crop
anywhere—no need to cut a track
—and does everything except tend
the bags. Speedy—4o acres a day is a common performance;
low fuel consumption gallon per acre; easy to manage, inexpen-
sive to maintain, it has proved pre-eminent in many parts of the
world for harvesting grain crops with the least time, labor and
expense. Size 12ft. cut, equipped with 32-h.p. engine. Ask for
the AUTO HEADER CATALOGUE for full details.
VARIOUS ATTACHMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
for special purposes and conditions are obtainable for all harvesters.
Details in the catalogs
Ask the local agent,
write to the nearest branch for descriptive catalogue
with prices and liberal terms —free on request.
H. V. MeKAY
MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD.
MASSEY HARRIS
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS,
SUNSHINE.
Streets e ptrth 54^ - 66 4 Boiirke Street Melbourne; 27-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King
Streets, Perth. Queensland Dtstr.butors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q land) P,y„ Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane


YOUR
APPEARANCE DOES COUNT!
C HOES are a definite part of your appearance, so they
O should be good shoes —Abbey shoes.
This square-toed Oxford, with a hand-made appearance,
is splendid value. Made of high-grade calf, with a broad
welt and punched facings, it should appeal to all. Stocked
in full and half sizes. Black Calf, 39/6, Brown Calf, 39/6.
Have you tried Abbey Polish yet ? Price 6d.
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
W.A.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140 1-
AU post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in cwo
widths. Sin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keDt in order for two
Tears free of charge.
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel. Xvlo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24'6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—TH/NK OF
SEMITE
mm
IBIEILILtCSo
Bi!i
51
&
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A
TO
ofl
Coro^ atl ° n
via NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" ...... . . From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
■ Fares. Itineraries, arid all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. Ltd.
247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. PHONE B 7671
looked up leading veterinary works, and
all bear me out.
Concussion does not cause sidebone
in a healthy hoof. There must be an-
other cause, such as faulty shoeing
most common of all- —or malformed feet,
or both combined.
Unless frog pressure is evenly distri-
buted and the weight of the animal in
action falls evenly on the hoofs in order
of use, sidebone results, especially if
susceptible animals are galloped on hard
roads.
1 know a dozen men who do their own
shoeing. Most of their horses have or
are getting sidebone ; those that are not
getting it have been carefully ridden.
Though I am nearly 16st. my two aver-
age blood hacks have served me for the
last 12 and 10 years respectively in ex-
tensive stock and station work. One
has always been carefully shod ; the other
never needed it, but was carefully hoof-
trimmed. They are as sound as the day
they were born.
“Home” shoeing has already produced
four cases of s. among other hacks on
the station doing the same class of work
as my own. In my experience the moral
is: If you are not a trained smith, let a
competent man shoe the horse. It is
cheaper in the end. .Shoeing is a special-
ist’s job.
Seeding Kikuyu.
“J. Want”: It is a pity more Kikuyu
does not run to seed than the isolated
specimens that have been found in N. S.
Wales, because the African grass, if more
easily disseminated, could be one of the
most useful we have.
Once established, Kikuyu spreads
quickly, throwing out creeping shoots
which in turn shoot at the joints. The
grass presently develops a heavy turf
about itself and a firm anchorage which
will stand trampling by almost anything
lighter than a brontosaurus.
As a bracken controller, there is no-
thing better. Country to be reclaimed
should be ploughed this month. The
roots should be set in drills 3ft. apart,
made with a single-furrow plough. Roots
should be dropped every three feet and
harrowed in, the harrow travelling along
the drills. (On light, free soils the
bracken may be cut and Kikuyu put in
with a hoe.)
When winter comes, growth of fern
will most likely shelter the tender young
grass from frost; by spring the grass will
have turned strangler, and can be aided
in destroying the fern by the trampling
of cattle, put in the paddock to feed.
Kikuyu is, of course, a summer grass,
and it is a good idea to add variety to
the pasture by an autumn broadcast of
white clover, about 4lb. to the acre.
It is a delusion, however, that Kikuyu
lives on air and admiration. Anything
from to 2cwt. of super, harrowed
in every autumn will more than pay for
itself.
Will Skeleton Weed Spread?
“Grass”: Skeleton weed is a native of
low-rainfall Southern Asia. Hence, there
is every possibility of the menace spread-
ing from the southern wheat districts of
N.S.W. to the much drier western wheat
area, where it will find light, sandy soil
similar to that of its native land.
In Asia the weed seed will germinate
when covered with 3ft. to 4ft. of dust
and sand.
K. G. Carn, of the N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department, states that heavy
stocking with sheep and rotational crops
of lucerne, oats and subterranean clover
are effective methods of control. Lucerne
has played the major part in checking the
weed in N.S.W. and should show a
comparative result in the western wheat-
belt.
Lucerne sown at the rate of 21b. to
31b. per acre will compete with the weed.
It will also provide good grazing in the
winter, a determining factor when select-
ing an anti-weed crop.
:
!
Poisoning Trees.
“Andy”: Trees and saplings ring-
barked shoot out again, and suckering
may have to be continued for a long
while before the trees cease taking nour-
ishment from the ground. »
Forestry experts recommend cutting
into the ringbarked tree about six inches
from the ground with an axe ; the cut
must be downwards and deep enough to
' break the sapwood. Slightly wrench it to
| leave the bark opened outwards. For the
| poisoning mix 2|lb. arsenic and 41b.
washing soda with three gallons of water,
j and boil slowly in a kerosene-tin until
I the arsenic is dissolved. Then add an-
other gallon of: water, which should be
heated.
Pour hot into the cut with a watering-
can. Half a pint will kill a tree a foot
through. Small saplings can be cut off
close to the ground, and the poison
poured into a split in the stump.
The poison is effective all the year
round, but autumn is the best time to
work.
Two men, one to ring the trees and
the other to pour the poison in, can cover,
a good bit of ground in a day. Stock
should not be put in the paddock for a
couple of months after the poisoning.
Grow Cassavas.
“Cockyson”: Where sweet potatoes
won’t grow—they run to vine under
some conditions —try the cassava. Most
soils suit this crop, but the best results
are obtained in moderately fertile vol-
canic or alluvial river-flat earths.
Propagate by planting mature stems
cut into 6in. lengths. Set in drills, spaced
about 3ft. apart, the distance between
the rows being 4ft.
Plant in October, covering the sets
about 6in. in light soils, shallower plant-
ing being the rule in clayey soils.
The crop matures in about six months,
and the tubers may be left in the ground
and dug as required. As pig feed, the.
cassava is considered by some as better
than the sweet potato ; it is extensively
cultivated in parts of Queensland for this
purpose. Cassava may be fed boiled
or raw.
Hints for the Farm.
“Scot”: A good easy application for
brittle hooves is made by heating some
resin until it melts and adding as much
castor oil. Rub well in with a small
brush when the hooves are inclined to
crack.
“Andy”: Ever try hay tea, when the
milk’s a bit short? Fill half a sugar-
bag with chaff, and cover it in a bucket
with boiling water. Let it stand for half
or three-quarters of an hour, and mix
with milk. If the milk is gradually
lessened and the tea increased, the
poddies will still do well.
“S.A.”: Here’s a handy landsaver for
dairy-farmers. Plant maize in the usual
way about 2ft. 6in. apart and harrow it.
Broadcast Jap millet over the same
ground and harrow and roll the seed in.
The millet will be 4ft. to sft. high when
the maize is cobbing. Cut, and throw to
the cows. It is best to drill on fallow so
as to allow the crops to get ahead of
weeds.
“D.”: It takes a lot of bags to keep
the weather out of a small haystack.
For such purpose, and even for cow- or
horse-rugs, bags are improved greatly by
an application of cheap waterproofing.
A good, simple mixture is two parts
boiled linseed oil to one part raw linseed
oil. It should be worked well into the
bags and dried. Two applications make
a better job. A rough-and-ready job can
be done with tar and fat mixed together,
and sprayed on hot.
“McA.”: When stacking hay, sprinkle
a little salt and sulphur on each layer.
The salt lessens fire risk and makes the
hay more palatable, and the sulphur will
keep away mice.
“Sandy”: To make an efficient home-
made spiked roller for breaking clods
use 3in. angle or T irons, usually procur-
able from blacksmiths or building yards.
About Ift. to 3ft. long is best. Bore two
or three holes in each piece, according to
length, and spike (fix with wood screws)
on to the roller. A better job is done
if the irons are fixed at intervals after
the manner of cultivator tynes, thus
allowing the partly broken clod to be
caught on the next iron.
“Zedo”: The grasshopper has appeared
in mid-western M. S. Wales this year, but
is having a hard time. The weather has
been too dry to provide much green
shoot, but, given heavy rains, the country-
side would soon be swarming. Authori-
ties usually wait until there is a nice crop
of pests before they act; they should
operate now. If it were made an offence
to have small patches of grasshoppers
there would be a lot of richer farms and
a lot of poorer pest-killer salesmen.
“Agrarian”: The late A. W. Howard,
of Mt. Barker (S.A.) district, was the first
to commercialise sub. clover. But it was
observed by John Clezy, now of Nara-
coorte (S.A.), many years before Howard
saw it. The Clezy family owned a small
farm near Nairne where s.c. appeared
after heavy dressings of cow and horse-
manures. The first and best sub.-clover
paddock of any size in the Mt. Barker
district was owned by the late A. C.
Daw, who treated the land similarly. As
a boy prior to 1890 I often saw cows
lying about suffering from “bloat” caused
by the “blanky clover” which grew pro-
fusely on the roadsides.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phiillo aul Yo’it» straps, nvinev
II
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
A Trans-Tasman Tragedy.
“Wanted, shorthorn typist”
—“S. M. Herald.”
That must be a cow of a job!
-I* *p *p *p
“A clergyman complains that very few mar-
ried men attend church.”
Perhaps they nurse a grievance about
what happened to them there.
•!«
If reports are true, a lot of illicit arms
are dodging those old Spanish customs.
•!•
“Pickpocket pleads that he took man’s wallet
in a moment of abstraction.” — News item.
Ab- or ex-?
"Like travllin with the hood off —y see more o’ the country .”
“People engaged in mining pursuits develop
hass voices.”—' “Sun.”
It would certainly be hard to find a
tenner among them.
4- * * *
These Big Ships.
• „
J he great new leviathan, built specially
to chop another eight minutes off the
Atlantic record, was speeding in mid-
ocean, and the millionaire passenger was
trouncing the waiter attending his table
during breakfast.
“Where’s all this fresh milk and cream
straight from the cow that you skite
about in your advertisements?” he
roared.
“Sorry, sir,” replied the waiter, “but
the herd of saloon cows broke away last
night and wandered aft. We have just
received a wireless message from the
ship’s drover to say that he cannot pos-
sibly have them back this way before
nightfall.”
Me.
•f *
" A child with large, red ears usually has
veiy good hearing,’ says a specialist.”
That’s probably how he came to have
ihe large, red ears.
“ ‘No one has ever written a poem about
tripe,' says an essayist.”
Nonsense! Some poems are full of it!
►l* *p 4' *P
Knights—New and Old.
The idea of the chain store is very
old. After buying their shirts of
chain mail at the local chain store
bunches of budding knights would blos-
som f or th as stalkers of fiery dragons.
Hence the term “When knighthood was
in flower.” Nowadays knighthood is in
flour, beer, real estate, racing and other
thin § s where the going is good -
At the joust, or tournament, brave
R n ights on sturdy horses would charge
fiercely at each other in the lists. The
knight of to-day prefers to do his charg-
j n g in the price lists,
The Crusades gave birth to an idea
that is still popular. The knight would
rush home, heave his extra suit of armor
and a couple of screw wrenches into a
carpet bag and start fuming about the
place because his shirt of mail wasn’t
back from th e oxy-welders. This fuming
would be brought to a sudden stop by
a « icy female voice at his elbow,
“Another Crusade, m’lord?” the
knightess would ask, deadly calm,
“Yes, m’dear,” the big lout would
stutter. “Frightfully important Crusade ;
must hurry, y’ know.”
“May I ask if the present Crusade is
blonde or brunette?” she would snap,
and the poor fool would start to snort
through the lattice work of his helmet,
but to no avail. He generally finished
up by stamping out under either the port-
cullis or star boardcullis muttering to
himself, “Blast her! I’ll have to think
up a better one next time.”
Of course, modern knights never get a
chance to have a tilt at a fiery dragon,
but they are still quick on the draw
when they encounter a fiery flagon!
D. McM.
“A medical institution in Paris pays special
attention to increasing the height of patrons.”
Apparently one of those places where
they go for a stretch.
►r. »p
The attitude of the modern wife
towards her husband is “cheque-mate.”
“Spoils a bloke's surf , Charlie, to see a figure like that!"
“After Card and I were married he would
work in the garden, but now he goes out.”
—Court case.
Diamonds, hearts, spades and then
clubs.
•P 4* 4* •!*
“ ‘Prisons are only hospitals to cure crime,’
says a writer.”
Most would prefer to be treated as
outpatients.
Suppliant.
Yet once again your cool, disdainful
“No”
Dampens my ardor, causes grief and
pain.
Must I once more from fruitless errand
go ?
Must all my earnest striving he in
vain ?
Ah! why do you so obstinate remain —
What further can I offer to persuade?
My home is yours if only 1 may gain
Some guerdon for my toil: my acco-
lade
So justly due. Your every wish and need
Have had my due fulfilment in the
past;
You’ve hade me hope — nay, promised
me indeed
Some satisfaction of my plea at last.
So I'll take heart; I will not yet despair
Nor barren deem the efforts I have
spent :
Once more I’ll try — and, gay and
debonair,
I’ll call again next Monday for the
rent!
GENT A.
Six O’Clock Tea.
Where’s the salt? No salt on the table!
Who set the table? Maud, go out and
get the salt and save your mother's legs.
Yes, my boy, you’ve lost more money
on horses than I ever had when I was
a young man. This damn’ shaker! Gee.
it’s pretty hard lines when a man can’t
spend his own money. I earn it, don’t
I? Stan, don’t speak to your father like
that! Butter, please, Maud. Get it your-
self ; you’re closer. Think you’re funny,
dontcher? Well, you’re not, see! Not
at the table, children. Holy mackerel, I
asked her properly, didn’t I, Mum?
Just you wait, Maud! Be different if
I got drunk and went on binges or any-
thing, but there’s no harm much in horses
(my money, anyway). That’s enough!
That red Hadley in the long bed is dying,
George. I’m afraid it will have to be
pulled up. Jam, Mum. Jam, please.
Mum! Thanks. Mrs. Sparks’s stocks
are a lovely show this year. I do wish
we’d planted some. And if you think
I’m going to swap you that stamp of
mine, Maud, well, I’m just not, see! 1
don’t want it; thank you very much, al!
(he same, Ernest. Not getting it. Not
at the table, children. Holy mackerel.
Mum, does tea stain? Clumsy thing!
Shut up, Maud! Leave the table at once,
you clumsy little lout! I’ll thrash you
within an inch of your life if I hear you
speak to your sister like that again. Holy
mackerel, Dad! Put a serviette under
it, son, so that it won’t ruin the table :
and this a clean tablecloth, too. It would
do you children good to have to do the
washing. Look, Mum, Maud’s laughing
at me. I was not, pardon me, Ernest.
Were so. Are you leaving the table, or
do I have to make you? I’m going.
Holy mackerel (finished me tea, anyway).
J. Q.
“The new trans-Tasman liner, the Awatea,
has a gyro-compass which eliminates the helms-
man on the voyage.”
I invented something like that once,
but I called mine an autogyro compass—
like the autogyro propeller and the music,
it went round and round.
I was at the time assistant fourth
donkeyman on the old Rumswiller, a
four-masted, charcoal-burning tramp in
the fried-egg and ambergris trade which
at that time held the trans-Tasman record
of four days—that is, it took four days
longer than any other ship on the Auck-
land-Sydney run. Passionately fond of
maritime instruments, 1 had landed this
important post through the influence of
my step-uncle, who as a big waterfront
restaurateur (he weighed 18 stone) held
the contract for buying the ship’s bilge-
water. He never did like stock as a basis
for his soups.
Doubtless I derived my engineering
genius from my maternal grandfather,
who, though he died when still a lad, had
already shown signs of greatness as a
French polisher of the post-vorticist
school. This despite the handicap that
he wasn’t French.
Working on the principle that the in-
fluence of third dimensional sound on
the sextant must bring the binnacle in
conjunction with Uranus and the mag-
netic north, I began experiments with a
bag needle, some sensitised stove-pipe
wire and an empty sardine-tin. The
result of my researches amazed and de-
lighted the skipper, and on arrival at
Auckland he had me installed as chief
engineer, the only qualification for the
job in those days being a Scotch name. 1
changed mine to McTartan, though not
without a shudder.
Nothing loath to gain surcease from his
arduous bridge duties, the Old Man
gladly gave me permission to steer the
ship by my invention. It also gave him
the chance to get the 2s. sd. back that
the helmsman once won from him at
nap.
Prior to sailing 1 set the autogyro
compass so that we would pass between
R a ngitoto and Motuihi Islands with Bft.
to S p are on both sides, adjusting it so
that at the end of 74 days the ship would
snake in alongside the wharf at Iron
Cove, our Sydney destination. The
ski PP er Ht the ridin g H 8 after taking
certain he had a ful , head of kerosene
up, rang for full speed ahead and with a
fin . al jVA ali t ™ t # ! i” T
paired to the foc sle, where all hands
. i f nti] vnvnoo wat
settled down to nap until the voyage was
over.
jV. t * le 7 ihe skippet
Pu".ed out his watch as the shtp bumped
a S^ l i l st tne wnai t.
to „ ,he he “““
exultantly; a splendid trip. Then, with
work in sight? he became the o!d hard .
dr j v j n g ca p’ n a g a j n . “Come on, scum!”
he roaredi „ it on to that caps t an .”
wheh j went on deck the skipper was
scratching his head-
“ This don’t look like the Parramatta
to mer he said “Ain’t that Mt. Eden
over there?”
a wharf-lounger got sarcastic,
“No,” he said, “it’s them meat-ants
buildup up again; goin’ to rain, 1
s ' pose \ ”
Then the awful truth dawned on the
old Man He turned ferociously on
O’Mulligan, the squarehead seaman.
“Here, you!” he bellowed ; “didn’t you
hear me give the order to heave off the
h nes yesterday week?”
O’Mulligan' looked thoughtful for a
minute.
“Aye ban t’ank you make mistak’,” he
sa.id slowly. “All you said was tell
Karstoff, the big Russian, to ‘look alive.’
Anyway, aye ban t’ank (he hooks are
still down!”
S.W.K.


The Novel Which Won the S.H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1936:-
'ALL THAT
SWAGGER'
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
drawings by
DOUGLAS PRATT.
Chapter XXXII.
(Continued.)
IN eavesdropper could have heard them
swimming the Yackandandah in ’52, and
bottoming their shicers at Bendigo or
Mount Alexander, and burying the digger
murdered by the bushrangers. They went
farther back to the burning of Burrabinga
hut homestead when Danny had returned
to desolation and tragedy.
“Sure, Sandy, we’re the greatest pioneers,' bar
none. Anny man who thinks he surpasses us, ’tis
calumny. Those fellows on the Plains had much
clear country and no precipices to be climbed, and
as manny assigned men as they could employ, and
money, and a mort of other advantages. A lady
could pioneer by watching others put their backs into
it. But those that did is the rale men —and, by damn,
we’re them! Those Camerons and the like only
overlooked while the poor dayvils in chains were the
rale pioneers—sure, there ought to be statues of them
erected.”
“It would never do to let the working man get
above hissel’ or the colony might as well be aban-
doned.”
THAT; was a dangerous lead to the great open sore
that'the older Angus was a felon. At this hour
Sandy “had enough drink taken” to be downright
nasty, while Danny was philosophical beyond even
lunacy’s license.
“Sandy, acushla,,the old mate of me great days
of long ago, what does it matter? Do you know
who your great-great-grandfather was? And who the
dayvil cares? And these would-be dukes on the
Plains—who are fine people aside from their little
of gentility—in the Old Country would
not have the pedigree of anny buckeen in the bohreen.
Sure, that’s nearly poetry I’m wasting on you. Wait
till the next generation scatters what we are gathering.
All the sliprails ‘ are down, and they’ll all be boxed
and never drafted, and you and me will have carried
our hides to the tanyard —and carried them like men.
Sure, we have good hides to carry. There’s never a
feather of use in worrying about old Angus, alias
Farmer. Let the tail go with , the hide! Sure, my
breed is so good that I can affoord to purify the
Anguses. No blame to them that they want to rise.
Maybe in less than a hundred years nothing will
matter: , :
“In the immeasurable immensity of space. Sandy,
’tis beyond the furthest limits of moind to compute,
will they know ’twas you and me who first civilised
the Murrumbidgee? Even then you had others before
you, and before me was the poor dayvil whose wife
and child fell in the river. They say they cry there
still, and. though I’m not for encouraging such foolish
notions, yet.often I think maybe that those who believe
in ghosts have a case. What proof have we, Sandy,
that they have not ; and what does it matter when
'twill all be the same in a hundred years?
“And a hundred years is but the twinkling of an
eye. And the bunyip and the banshee—sure, they
exist, Sandy, to them that can see and hear them.
It’s all in the moind. There are only time and the
wind and space to last for ever. Time and space are
the same thing in different dimensions. If our facul-
ties were fully developed we could maybe hear in
the wind all that wint on here when there were cities
like Babylon and Tyre. Think of the immensity of
oblivion that enwraps this continent regarding what
wint on in times when ancient Asia was young, and
youthful Europe was a wilderness!”
URQUHART had been as silent as an old bison,
and the glare in his eye was that of a bison about
to charge. Overproof Jamaica on top of potent
Scotch was working in him. He burst into a sullen
roar.
“You are havering, Daniel Delacy blethering
about nothing, like an auld apple-wife selling pears.
My heid is reeling with the clack of your tongue like
the clapper of a bell in your empty skull. A hundred
years, you fule! It is what happens now that matters.
If I did something because it would not matter in a
hundred years I’d be as big a fule as you are, which
the Lord forbid. 1, Alexander Urquhart of Aberdeen-
shire, and now on the Murrumbidgee, 1 do not tamely
submit to my bluid being mingled with that of a
felon.”
“But what can you do about your fine blood,
Sandy, aVic? You cannot extract it. Sure, a lot
of pleasure is quinched with age, but a lot of sting
is also flattened ”
“You’re a fule, Daniel Delacy, a blethering fule!”
“Sure, you are proclaiming it like a blast of
wind from Monaro in me face. You’d talk the teeth
out of a saw yourself, and as for a fool ” Danny
laughed in alcoholic glee. He arose with the intention
of slapping Sandy on the back, but he sat with a
whack on the floor. “Sandy, give me a hand. I’m
not so soople as when I broke it in the Yackan-
dandah. ‘Sure, I’m Denny Blake from County Clare,
and ready at command to sing a song in praises of
me own dear native land’ ”...
In coming to the rescue Sandy fell upon his mate
and they roiled together until Danny reached the leg
of the table and went up by that, followed by Sandy.
When they were re-seated Sandy began to sing:
“Scots wlia hae wi’ Wallace bled,
Scots wham Bruce has often led,
Welcome to your gory bed,
Or to victory.”
“Gory bed or victory, Danny Delacy ; there’s a
model for you!”
“You’re looking for ructions, Sandy.”
“You’re a fule, a donT fule, Danny. Let the tail
go with the hide, ye blether, but the foul tail is taking
the hide.”
“What can you do to stop it, Sandy asthore?”
“Do!” he yelled, infuriated by Danny’s laughter.
“I’ll show you what I can do.”
“You can’t show me that a few years will not
put a flattener on the praytintious and heave up the
under-dogs like a volcano.”
Sandy brandished a tomahawk
from the dresser while Danny watched
with the pleasure of a child. Near
at hand the retired cradle was full of
eggs awaiting
J o h anna’s
housewifery.
With a clans-
man’s screech
Sandy jumped
straight into
them for the
ẅ
Synopsis.
Allured by reports of prospects for
settlers in Australia, Daniel Delacy at 18
ventures forth from County Clare, in-
ducing Johanna Cooley to elope with him.
They take up Bewuck, on the Murrum-
bidgee, and, later, Burrabinga, out in
mountain fastnesses. The blacks give
them a little girl, Maeve, and young
Doogoolook becomes attached to them.
Of the children born to Danny and
Johanna in the early settling years five sur-
vive ; Della, Robert, William and Honoria
(twins), and Harry. Through a fall from a
horse Danny loses his right leg; also, he
suffers a head injury which leads him to
wear thereafter an enormous hat filled with
leaves. A fearful experience when the
house is burnt causes Johanna to re-
nounce Burrabinga and settle at Bewuck.
Honoria (Norah) marries Stewart Butler,
and Robert, after various escapades with
Hennessy’s niece, Molly McCathie, Grace
'Fullwood and Janet Urquhart, which last
nearly makes enemies of the families,
marries Margaret Syme, and is given
Burrabinga. Della, at 40, marries Ned
Angus, much younger, and Harry marries
Josephine Battle (the Princess). Norah
and Margaret both give birth to girls;
Della provides the first Delacy grandson,
Daniel Cooley ; Josephine also has a boy,
Johan Darcy. Other characters include
the elder Butler, the Full woods, the Urqu-
harts, the Evanses, the Moores, Hannon,
Hennessy and Mrs. Fitzhugh. Old
Urquhart discovers that the Anguses
changed their name while their father was
in trouble. He and Danny discuss the
matter over whisky and rum while the
womenfolk are away in town.


down. He invariably wakened in a dangerous mood
after a spree, and now flamed with rage against Janet,
but in sane stretches he upheld her, was sensitive about
social mistakes, and had a high sense of what was due
to the ladies.
He laved himself, put on another suit and said
grandly to Jane Hannon that he had taken some of
Mr. Delacy’s overproof and must have stepped in the
egg-box. Profuse apologies. If Mrs. Hannon would
rectify the damage he would split five pounds between
her and Maeve. Mrs. Hannon worked with a will
after that, and the hens cackled all day long as if
conscious of emergency. The hacked side of the table
was turned to the wall, and Jane later reported that
everything but it had been restored to normal.
“What table?” asked Urquhart, and the stupid
woman led him to it.
“Mrs. Delacy sets such store on it, sir ; I only
hope she won’t blame me, sir.”
Urquhart said nothing but glowered in a frighten-
ing way. Craving for a “wee drappie” got the better
of him in the afternoon, but Hannon had finished all
that remained. Sandy therefore drove in maniacal
fury, hurling imprecations at his old mate Danny,
asserting that that besom of a Janet would find the
door shut in her face if she attempted to return to
Keebah ; nor would he suffer the other besom’s tongue
about her table.
WILLIAM brought the ladies home at dusk. Jean
had her arm bandaged mightily; the journey
had tried her and she was grateful for William’s
kindness. The baying dogs, the carrying of parcels to
the house, the rich meal awaiting, the stimulating
presence of “company,” and the adventure of Jean’s
visit to the doctor obscured Sandy’s absence for the
moment.
“Has any accident happened Sandy?” Janet asked
when preliminaries had subsided.
“No accident.” Danny took her aside. “Sure,
Mrs. Janet, he and I celebrated a little overmuch last
night. You being Sandy’s old mate the same as I am
meself, only on the inside of the bedroom door, know
that he can be a little cantankerous next day”...
“And he’s taken the needle and gone off?”
“Dayvil a needle! He’s craw sick and gone to
look for a sup of whisky.”
“He’d make to the nearest pub, but we did not
meet him.”
“He went the other way.”
“I can’t do anything now,” said Janet calmly.
Danny clutched this straw, and the cheerful meal
proceeded. A great deal of attention was given to
Jean, especially by William, who cut her food for her.
Every ear was alert for Sandy each time the dogs
barked, but they announced only possums or other
marsupials invading the homestead.
Danny thought it better to inform Johanna before
she found out.
“Sure, me brave Johanna, Sandy was so afraid to
meet you that he has cleared out.”
“Is the drink still in your senses that ye talk a
double ass-load of foolishness?”
Danny confessed about the eggs first.
“They’re nothing that can’t be replaced by the
hins, but Sandy got a bit beyond himself and cut your
table. Whin he remimbered he was so ashamed that
he took to his heels.”
“And did he think he’d be ate up by me?”
exclaimed Johanna with spirit. “Since whin am Ia
man-eater? And what was yeT part in this, me brave
gladiator? Ye did not sit by like a son of timperance
with a blue-ribbon bow on ye’r beard.”
“A man is entitled to a sup or two whin meeting
an old mate who saved his life in the Yackandandah ;
and, sure, it made me so sleepy that the pipe singed
the bolster.”
Johanna gasped. “The place afire! Have ye
destroyed me best things, the workbox and the stuffed
birds?”
“Not at all! ’Twas nothing. Think if the house
had caught fire and I and Sandy to have perished in
the flames.” •
“Ah, as long as ye had really perished—the pair
of ye together—l’m thinking that Janet and I could
have borne up under it very well entirely.”
Johanna could track as well as Doogoolook
among her sacred elegancies, and when she found that
her secret still had been raided she quickly recon-
structed the orgy.
“Sure, they swam the'Yackandandah and found
gold all night and were the finest pair of marvels in
the universe: but I’m distressed that poor Mr.
Urquhart should feel it upon him to run away, as if
from an ogre.”
“He had every right to feel upset. I wish it would
be a lesson to him. I’ll have to be taken after him as
soon as William can spare the time,” 1 responded Janet
imperturbably.
She knew what had led to such an outbreak, but
with superlative discretion let it be attributed to mixed
drinks.
T HE crisp day and the skill necessary to handle his
1 pair cleared the fumes from Urquhart’s brain and
he thought better of running away. Instead he went
to Queanbeyan, about fifty miles distant, and had a
refresher at the Royal, and left his horses to the
groom.
At dawn next morning he was again rattling
across the plains. Janet was relieved to see him and
pleased with the tiny book-cabinet, the walnut table
and the brocade which he had procured as a peace-
offering to Johanna. Gallantry and friendship were
both served, and the mutilated table, repaired by 1
Hannon, still exists in one of the family store-rooms,
a refuge for spiders and empty flowerpots.
Jean remained at Bewuck for her arm to mend,
and so quiet a maiden was she, so esteemed was
William, that he was permitted to drive her home
later unchaperoned.
Sandy, subjugated by the eggs-and-table outbreak,
agreed to divulge nothing of old Farmer, and in due
time Mrs. Farmer conveniently died and Tom did
his duty to the family by taking his father to India
to end his days respectably under the alias of Angus.
The secret was nobly kept. It became known only
to some of Danny’s grandchildren fifty years later,
when neither an Angus nor an Urquhart was left in
the district.
Chapter XXXIII.
MOBERT’S children were growing
healthily, as Danny observed when
he went up for the shearing. Sheep
had been introduced. Danny helped
to muster with splendid yells from the back
of a Nullah Mundoey. He could still burst through
the scrub and descend sharp declivities with elan.
William was also much at Burrabinga, trying to reduce
the dingoes. He and Harry were sometimes ill of
cramp through long hours of sheep-washing. The
Delacys began too late to readjust themselves to sheep.
Where horses inspired swagger, sheep compelled a
poking and slogging which irked the reckless Cabal-
leros. The paradox of mounted infantry was beyond
them.
The children grew to need tutors. A supply of
remittance men was to be found at the hotels in the
townships, some of whom had been sent out for
unalloyed uselessness, others because to this they
added imbibing. Among them were charming and
expensively educated gentlemen with documented
family trees, and as Burrabinga was celebrated for
its inaccessibility to pubs the Delacys could pick and
choose.
Little Clare Margaret, known as Clare for short,
was the pride of the station. She grew tall for her
age and had her mother to thank that the Delacy floss
turned up in adorable curls. She had the blue eyes
of Danny, with a darker tinge, and lashes that were
early a snare. Her lips rippled with laughter. They
had much practice, as she was a merry little cricket
with a sense of humor and of devilment. She held
court with station hands, squatters, drovers, remittance
men and relatives in her kingdom of eucalyptus. So
little of the bush had then been driven back that
from the house she could gaze down its aisles. They
had no end, the big trees swept the sky and the magic
birds were as plentiful as flowers.
There were kookaburras to laugh, leatherheads
to fulminate, parrots and yang-yangs of gay colors,
magpies and cockatoos of several varieties, honey-
eaters, coach-whips, wagtails, tits and robins, peewits,
curlews, plovers, pigeons, quail, cranes, ducks galore,
the ibis and a hundred other species, for some of
which the bushmen had endearing onomatopoeic
names, now forgotten. When Clare could escape
to the hut the men could tell her what the birds said,
and she could watch the lyre-tails playing on the
sideling across the river or hear them crowing like
her bantam, who would sit on her shoulder. The mer
often caught her one and tied it up by the leg, but ii
always died, and then its tail was pretty on the shelf
above the fireplace.
Peacocks as big as clouds flew high in the gum
trees. They were swaggering fellows who descended
as the reivers of old and wrung the necks of chickens
and cannibalistically ate eggs, or harried the hens
until some had to be shot. Then their tails, like
tapestried panels, beautified the corners of the sitting-
room. Grandpa was proud of the peafowls.
Aunt Della, who was superstitious Grandpa
called it childish—would not have a peacock-feather
in Homehurst for fear her daughter would never
marry, but ma and Aunt Josephine said that there
would be time for the moths to eat the feathers before
the girls were marriageable—thank God!
A dog guarded Clare Margaret from forest or
stream. Sometimes she would escape to a cleared
space in the foal-paddock to see the peacocks spread-
ing their tails like rainbows in the sunlight until she
clapped her hands with glee, when Rover would rush
up with a “Woof!” and disperse the exhibitionists.
Clare Margaret rode on Rover at the beginning but
soon progressed to a Nullah Mundoey of her own and
went to the muster or sat on the top rail and gave
her opinions like the best horse-coper of them all.
It did not seem that peacock-feathers would be able
to keep her out of mischief or marriage. At three
and four and five there were males slaving for recog-
nition, and opportunities for mischief were illimit-
able. Uncle William had the spanceled idea that
physical freedom or any mental capacity beyond that
of a hen would rob a girl of womanliness.
“Clare Margaret is as rough as a boy,” he con-
fided to Josephine. “Sitting up on the fence and
knowing unladylike things about stock. I blush at
what she says to the buyers.”
At New Glenties Norah, too, had had a boy,
christened Cooley Stewart Butler, but always known as
Coole to distinguish him from Della’s Daniel Cooley.
A DOCTOR of medicine, with high degrees but no
resistance to alcohol, was retained by Robert, who
said he would come in handy in case of accidents.
He was asked to give Clare lessons,
but was unsatisfactory. Another
tutor was then introduced to relieve
the harried Margaret, who had the
duties of a large staff of servants
to cope with practically single-
handed.
The tutor
diminished
Clare’s leisure
until she pro-
moted him as a
glorified Rover
and made him a
party to her
adventures. She loved to visit Aunt Della, where she
had three followers, but they mostly followed into
mischief.
The current tutor at Burrabinga'soon had a school
of three. Another remittance man resided at Aunt
Della’s, and it was his office to ride with Daniel Cooley
Angus each morning to within a mile of Burrabinga
and return for him in the afternoon.
The remittance men carried culture beyond the
Murrumbidgee. They patronised modern writers as
well as the classics. Even Walt Whitman and Zola
were read (one by the men and the other by the
women), and some of the tutors could sketch, and
some could play chess, and all were
appreciated for their company.
The schoolhouse was away from
the main abode. Through the doorway
Clare could watch the butterflies on the
flowers in her mother’s garden. She
could see the cherries reddening in the
orchard beyond, where she would climb
to the highest bough as soon as lessons
were past. She could also see the plovers
and magpies assailing approaching
horsemen and feigning broken wings to
lead them from the direction of nestlings.
Kangy lay on the verandah sunning
himself, safe from strange dogs, and Cocky swore at
him from the gate-post, where he had come to. rest
after pulling the pegs from the clothes on the lines.
A full and glowing life for a little girl, but with a
minimum of restraint.
Tutor or doctor sometimes secured an illicit
bottle. The children learned that the gentleman in
question was ill, and enjoyed the results of these indis-
positions. There were other hdlidays connected with
the post office, when the tutor made up the mailbag
and sealed it carefully as deputy for Queen Victoria
herself.
ON a certain summer afternoon when Clare Mar-
garet should have been pricking her fingers and
a piece of rag called a sampler with a needle she was
at liberty while her mother wrote letters, so she led
Johan and Daniel Cooley to the foal-paddock to play
hide-and-seek among the mares. She could stoop
under the taller ones’ flanks and, holding on by the
stifles, peer out from the ambush of tails that swept
the ground. When the fat little boys came near she
would skip on to another animal.
“God help us!” Grandpa looked over the fence
of the vegetable-garden and saw the danger. Those
children to be running between
the legs of treacherous mares
with foals! “And not a hair
of their heads to be hurt!
Every wan of the Nullah Mun-
doeys should be hung with a
blue ribbon for their motherly
conduct. Sure, the breed was
always gentlemanly: they ray-
serve their energy for their
work.”


Reprimanded and cautioned, Clare Margaret was
allowed to lead her men to the mice-hunt. The hay-
shed had to be cleared for the new hay. It was grown
for the stud horses, but some of it wasted, and some
was used to pack the pumpkins and fruit on lofts of
stringybark. It was all rich provender for the mice,
and the mice made sport for the dogs. The men
prepared for the massacre by chaining dogs at certain
points to keep mice from the house. Others worked
with the men who were active with waddies as the
straw was pitchforked out. Mice ran about like a
disturbed antbed, the dogs were delirious with excite-
ment and the kookaburras gathered for the booty.
The children found many nests of baby mice
and collected them. The intention was to have live
lambs whose tails could be cut off. Clare Margaret
was a hardy little girl developing in a natural environ-
ment.
The men shovelled the stunned mice into empty
tar-drums for dispatch later. Their minds slipped off
the children, who stole avyay dragging a can of mice.
Clare Margaret knew of the drowning of kittens and
puppies. Arrived at the river, she had the idea of
swimming races. The smooth hole was best for this,
dangerous and deep under the pulpit of Billy the Goat.
Chubby hands set scores of mice in the water. Small
feet waded in to give them a start. Fannie reported
that the kitchen was invaded by bedraggled mice.
They had swum to land as the water revived them.
They were traced to the river.
Margaret’s heart lost a beat to observe the
children’s danger. Then she was so angered that she
plucked a quince switch and went for them. Her
switchings were aimed impartially at all offenders,
and Clare Margaret stepped aside and let her male
cousins take the stripes. They yelled so loudly that
the men heard them and ran. Mrs. Robert nearly
laid the stick about them in her fright.
“You are a pack of nullities, as old Mr. Delacv
would say. If you can’t be trusted with children you
should be in a fishbowl for newts.”
The men were meek, relieved to have escaped
tragedy.
Clare Margaret was angelic for the remainder of
the day.
The Mesdames Delacy, aiming at style in the
society of which they were the summer centre, chafed
under the tutelage of William, the treasurer of the
partnership. He kept such a string on the purse that
Margaret said “He mistakes himself for an almoner.”
“It is ridiculous that we cannot order a new
saucepan till he approves of it,” agreed Josephine.
“Nor even a thimble ; and his ideas are so old-
maidish.”
William, on his side, was shocked by the general
extravagance of Burrabinga, and particularly by the
wastefulness of Mrs. Robert.
Danny was corroborative. He made many trips
to keep his eye on the extravagance, with no result but
his own annoyance. He and William and Della were
for ever complaining of the spending, and Mesdames
Robert and Harry were irritated by William’s ques-
tioning of their every trivial requirement.
Harry, too, had his discontents. He was growing
tired of being the drudge. Robert was no longer his
hero. An attitude of worship adopted in adolescent
fervor had grown irksome. Margaret had her hands
full in bearing a family, in making their clothes, in
running a house that was used as a hotel, in raising
poultry, in making jam and butter with only the aid
of Fanny and occasional rouseabouts. In addition,
she managed to read and hold her own as a clever
woman in the estimation of her guests from the cities,
and this she could not have done had she cultivated
penuriousness. She looked forward to the help of
her daughters.
Clare was already a marvel when housework
could be presented as an adventure. Otherwise she
took adventure out of doors. At seven and eight she
could ride like a stockman in her pretty side-saddle,
and she could sew and spell and cook, but she was
for ever leading her devoted swains Daniel and Johan
into trouble.
“Wait till she doubles her age,” chuckled a stock-
man ; “Then you’ll see the fur and feathers fly among
the men.”
SHE was eight when a mail holiday fell on a splen-
didly rainy day and Johan and Daniel stayed
overnight because the river was high and the approach
to the footbridge under water. She loved to hear the
ground sing after rain, and between downpours the
children paddled about driving in sticks to halt the
shrilling of crickets and frogs.
“What a lovely lot of water for the geese! Let’s
drive them in,” she exclaimed as she beheld the river
swollen to its outer banks.
Twenty descendants of the birds imported by
Grandfather were sheltering near the pig-sty. They
had no gout for the fierce stream, but their resistance
was broken by Clare and her boys with sticks and
stones. The sty full of grunters was at their back,
the flood before. They took the flood.
“They bob up and down like the ships in the
poetry.” Clare could mimic them exactly. Her
inferiors laughed to . see
the geese riding so
bravely. They could
not land on the oppo-
site bank for the castel-
lated rocks of Billy’s
pulpit. The current
rushed them away.
Margaret came out
in time to see them in
the distance. “Aren’t
they lovely? We drove them in!” cried Della’s boy.
Margaret plucked a sucker from the quince-tree
by the kitchen gate. Clare escaped by diving from
the pig-sty fence on to a large barrow, which flung her
in the mire. The boys received the switch, and pink
streaks appeared on fat legs. Daniel howled. Johan,
though only five, bolted on to the swaying bridge
through water above his middle, and home to his
mother. Seeing that he was safely across, Margaret
sent a horseman after her property. He followed for
twenty miles, but not one of the beautiful birds ever
returned to Burrabinga, alive or dead.
Josephine was none too pleased to have her
darling come bawling home at the risk of being
drowned, though she recognised Margaret’s difficulties
and admitted that she must be weary of other people’s
children in addition to her own.
“If Clare Margaret can lead Johan about by the
nose now you can see how it will be later.”
“It might lead to marriage,” responded Harry.
The Delacys, themselves without cousins, thought
of them as scarcely removed from sisters and brothers,
and Danny had instilled into his family a nausea at
the idea of marriage between cousins. This maturing
danger and the gathering irritations of the ill-defined
partnership led Josephine and Harry to consider
removal.
Chapter XXXIV.
WHEN removal was mooted
Grandpa was astounded ; more,
he was dismayed, grieved. Leave,
after Harry and William had
sweated to enclose the ranees with leaeues
Tf wwvt.'wv* WXXWiVVOW tJLAW JL VVJLLJUL IV^O-gU-V^O
of fencing! Forsake the kingdom which he and
Johanna had squandered their youth in civilising ;
now, when the lonely years were past and roads were
making the area accessible! Even Johanna was aghast
that Burrabinga should be abandoned by Harry now
when it had grown desirable.
Nevertheless the Delacy partnership fell to pieces
because of reasons indicated. Harry secured a place
in the direction of Cootamundra and he and Josephine
were both relieved to go, though regret also seared
Harry. He had put more hard labor into the making
of Burrabinga than either of his brothers, had spent
more years immured in its solitude and had deeper
poetic imagination to bind him to it. However, he
wanted to be free.
The ordeal of surmounting the passes with infants
was direful to Josephine and she was glad to escape.
Her ideal was in parts that of her mother-in-law.
Though she had spent all her life in the bush Josephine
never loved it. Her hunger was ever for the pave-
ments, for city conveniences, city pleasures. She
would have found more satisfaction with a conven-
tional city man of English mind and habits. None
had been available so she had accepted a fey Irish
bush native, and, in thinking she could change him
to her mind, was as fatuous as Johanna had been in
believing that she could woo the freethinking Danny
to her creed.
Johanna almost keened her lamentations. “Harry
will never collect a shirt to his back once he leaves
his brothers. He’s his father over again, only much
worse. Danny had no heart to grasp and gather like
those who became rich, but he was content to be
thrifty. Harry is extravagant. Sure, Josephine, stop
it, for the love of God! ”
“How can I stop it?” said Josephine, who was
aching to be free of the Delacy association.
Only Johan Darcy wailed all the way to
Birrabee. He cried to leave Clare Margaret, and
for other causes beyond his understanding. He
was a dreamy child, and Grandfather’s pro-
nouncement that he should have been a “fay-
male” was apposite.
They remained some days at Keebah bidding
good-bye to other neighbors as well as their beloved
Urquharts. Then they passed away to a different
district, and Johanna’s prophecy of indigence was
fulfilled over and over again, though it did not affect
the main Delacy comedy.
Della and Ned Angus also left in the reorganisa-
tion. Ned went back to Victoria, and his family like-
wise dropped from the trunk line of Delacys. Robert,
the eldest son, the one Delacy who had been born at
Burrabinga, now reigned there alone. Danny retained
Bewuck, and William, the confirmed bachelor,
remained with him.
Hannon had died, and his wife gone elsewhere.
The timber of his hut was taken to build Johanna a
new kitchen, as the old place had worn out.
The two vacated houses at Burrabinga were
partly removed to make a shearers’ hut and to board
certain obscure rooms at Robert’s which had remained
unfloored until now. Robert needed accommodation
for his expanding household.
A YEAR after the dissolution Grandpa reported:
“Sure, Robert is bursting into the heavy swell
now.”
“Why should he be climbing down into a wombat
burrow like the rest of the Delacys? Who is more
entitled to be a swell than my Robert?”
“As long as he can support it he can become a
duke ; but surely, Johanna, I can engage in a little
descriptive conversation without having me throat
jumped down? If I don’t tell you the news you say
what use am I as a companion at all.”
“Well, what is Robert doing?” inquired William,
who never read a book, and derived his mental nutri-
tion from gossip.
“The house is spread all
over the place from wan ind
to the other. He’ll soon be
down to the river. That eldest
girl is a treat to see. She is
you over again,
Johanna.”
“She has
blue eyes.”
“That is
an inconsequen-
tial detail in the
main scheme of character. They also have a lady com-
panion who teaches the little girls music. Bedad, I
think the boys are learning the piano too. They have
an old lag living in Harry’s kitchen, and he does the
gardening. Sure, I thought I’d be eaten up whin
I wint to help him.”
“I wish ye’d be ate up whin ye pull up me best
flowers.”
D OBERT was happy in exercising his talent for
1 organisation and for hospitality unfettered. He
disposed of the sheep with the partnership. Sheep
were subject to footrot and fluke, and the dingoes
could never be stemmed, but the horse was still in his
zenith. Della had taken some of the sheep as her
portion, and in Victoria she and Ned progressed
towards prosperity by relentless thrift.
Robert had ringers and fencers all through the
hills. The rich river flats of mineral loam that had
silted from the hills through centuries were freed of
timber for grazing paddocks, and some of the heaviest
beasts that went to Sydney and Melbourne were fat-
tened there. And horses! A horse of the Nullah
Mundoey strain won at Randwick. Robert’s breakers
had to turn out saddle-horses which were known at
all the up-country shows. His personal preoccupation
was a coaching strain of big fellows for Cobb and Co.,
and light harness ponies.
The animals that Robert bred for tandems and
four-in-hands were famous from Melbourne to Bris-
bane.
Money came in a stream to Burrabinga, but it
went as easily. An absence of skinflint thrift charac-
terised the menage. Robert had a head on him: so
had his wife to advise him, but both were more givers
than graspers, and not by such are great fortunes
retained.
Those who rise to
great estates from
drover or bullocky
beginnings are weft into
legends of parsimony
or tight-fistedness, or
sharp practice of some
kind. If Danny had


been known as Hungry Delacy instead of Honest
Danny he might have transmitted a strain to
make his sons financial nabobs. Tales of Delacys
were all on the other side of the ledger. Burrabinga
was called a free hotel, and it staggered its descendants
to estimate how much could have been invested more
profitably than in the unreturned thousands of meals,
in the tons of rations distributed in tuckerbags, in
horses lent that never returned.
“Sure, it’s come-aisy, go-aisy,” Grandfather
remarked.
“And that is ‘good-iron, wingey! ’ till there s a
stoppage in the come-easy part,” added William.
Johanna hungered for Robert. He of all her
children gave her the most heart-warming attention.
Her sole pleasure now was visits from her grand-
children so that she could reward them with presents.
Like Danny, she was a giver. She complained of
feeling poorly the year that followed the dissolution
of partnership. “Sure, I’m past the allotted span, and
that is the ind of the road for most of us. If ye want
to see me, Robert, ye must come without waiting too
long between whiles.”
“The death of poor Maeve and the departure of
Jane Hannon has dispirited her,” said Danny.
Maeve had passed like a sigh in the chimney-
corner one daybreak - in the ashes, despite all
Johanna’s training. They laid her where she had for
ever the susurrant lullaby of the Murrumbidgee
released from the bunyip hole where her vanished
tribe had come to feast on the cod, and later to accept
the bullocks given to them by Danny as rent.
WHEN Clare was nine Margaret visited her sister
near Bungendore to help with a family event and
Robert decided to take his eldest daughters to his
mother, who was always asking for them.
One morning saw him pulling the tails of the
best four-in-hand to the correct outline. No one could
thin a tail more expertly nor so cleverly escape the
lashing hooves of the irritated animals. Robert
enjoyed his family’s credit in his mother’s eyes and
took pains in staging this event.
Everyone was assisting. Wong Foo had ridden
rn with a pack of gifts. Robert had taken over
Wong’s allegiance with the departure of Danny. Doo-
goolook also preferred Burrabinga when it came to
settling down. He had a lair at the end of the stables,
and, like Maeve, was addicted to the chimney-corner,
for its company as much as its warmth.
They set off with the usual routine of extra horses
and a vassal sent ahead to boil the billy at Danny’s
spring at the top of the pinch where the top of the
morning saw the sun enchant the mists to rainbow
veils beneath the travellers. Robert drove, with
Margaret beside him and Vida between them. Miss
Hassall, the music governess, sat at the back with the
two little boys. Clare and Mavis rode horses fit for
a pageant. Their velvet mouths responded to the
children’s fingers: the bridle-bits gleamed in the sun-
shine, the children sat with the certainty of monkeys
on hogskin saddles, which were the fashion at the
height of the horse age, and part of its special
swagger.
These two girls who should have been boys were
the joy of Robert’s heart, but Grandma never saw them
on their beautiful horses.
She lay down one afternoon complaining of
feeling queer. Danny suggested the doctor. “I wish
ye would fetch Father Shannon,” said Johanna. “He’ll
do me much more good than the doctor.”
“Nonsense!” exclaimed Danny, a little sharply
because he was startled. Johanna said no more.
On the following day .she sat in the garden under
a climbing rose that she had early planted, and
seemed herself again. Later she was so strange that
William galloped a swift Nullah Mundoey to the
doctor. Danny reported on his return that Johanna
had been wandering. She had talked of the bunyip
and the banshee and the keening of the river oaks,
and had held a conversation with Kathleen Moyna,
though she had scarcely mentioned the little girl
during the years that had gone since her tragic death.
She looked at the doctor quietly. “Ye can do
nothing for me, Doctor. It was Father Shannon I
needed.”
It was Danny —surprised to see it —who picked
up the rosary on the coverlet and handed it to her.
“It does not matter now,” she murmured, the'nostalgia
of life-long exile in her voice. “It is a long time,
Danny-boy, that ye and me have been together, and
a long time and a long distance away from old
Ireland we’ve wandered in this lost place ; but I am
going home now. They are all waiting for me —ye’r
mother and me own, and Kathleen Moyna... Is that
the wind, Danny or is it the oaks crying for ever?
What can be their grief, I wonder.”
With that she turned her head as though weary
and left her old partner all alone with the little
elegancies she had so gallantly accumulated —at the
furthest extremity of the globe.
Chapter XXXV,
THE Delacy men were helpless with-
out women respectable women.
Other grades were unknown to any
of them but Robert.
Danny and William were not only
bereft, but as the abandoned on an island. William
recognised that life had stopped until he should
bring a woman to Bewuck. He decided to invite
Jean Urquhart. She was reaching the no-man’s-land
of spinsterhood and deserved to be rescued. The
property that would later be hers was a bait to him,
while Danny was overjoyed to have an Urquhart.
William was accepted without quibble after an
awkward and prosaic proposal. When he had
recovered from his stage-fright he joked about their
swimming the Yackandandah together and recalled
the spree enjoyed by Sandy and Danny while he and
Jean had been absent. Jean confessed that it was
because of his kindness when her arm was broken
that she had come to love him and had waited for
him. William was contented to hear this.
Following their marriage they took possession of
the main bedroom and Danny moved out to the “ind
room,” where he was free henceforth to be a tobacco
or a rum “kag” with none to care enough to reprimand
“ im * , , , T ,
It was the loss of Johanna which Anally defeated
youth in him. Zest of life waned in him upon the
realisation that he was alone, a supernumerary, and
that the vision which had led him forward in high-
geared courage had eluded him by changing character
and position. The beautiful mountain ranges no
longer lured him; he grew indifferent to the extension
of life through the medium of his children. The
source of beauty and inspiration was as far away as
ever—farther, and retreating still. His aisling was
now in the rear ; a young man sitting on a furze-bank
with a high-spirited girl entranced by his tale of the
land of opportunity at the far end of the universe.
“Oh, moi! Oh, moi!” he would murmur, and
croon to himself old songs that he had heard at
cabin doors. , .
William said in his hearing that he was childish,
but Danny was not annoyed by that. His sweet
temper did not fail him, and scandal and criticism
went sick in his presence. He knew that his sons
except perhaps Harry, were too childish to attain any
but mundane wisdom. Desp.te h.s years and wooden
leg he would mount an easy-paced Nullah Mundoey
and call upon those of the old squatters still above
ground. Their misdemeanors were forgiven ; only
their companionship was craved now.
“Arrah!” he would cry. “If I met a man of
_, . , , , , , j , i ,
fifty or sixty he s only a boy who does not know what
I know. He hasn’t seen the Murrumbidgee as I first
“ aw fT u , j , , f
The year of Johanna s death two others of
Danny s circle passed: O Neill and Doogoolook.
O’Neill was found dead with his dogs. One of the
faithful creatures had to be shot before Robert’s men
could approach the corpse in the hut on Dead Horse
Plain. Among the man’s belongings was a packet,
sealed and sewn in sacking and addressed to Danny.
Robert brought it to his father, who took it to the
end room to investigate. Some stray literate must
have written for O’Neill the request that Mr. Delacy
Senr.—or, in case of his death, Harry or William
(Robert was not mentioned) —should deliver his will.
“You must take me to Sydney,” commanded
Grandpa.
William said he would go alone, but his father
demanded “Am I to be shamed by a dog who would
not be cajoled from his trust? Shall I fail in a
human act put upon me by a lonely soul who depended
on me character?”
So he and William set out, and in a room in a
terrace in Surry Hills found one Katherine Magee
who had lain nearly a lifetime on her back. Delacy
handed her O’Neill’s hoard.
“Larry took me up wrong,” she muttered. “I was
only teasing him a little before giving in, but he rode
his fine horse over me, and ye see before ye the
result.”
“Wan result,” said Danny. “The other was a
man dead after fifty bitter years with no companion
but a dog.”
DOOGOOLOOK went in the ashes —like Maeve, the
shadow of a shadow departed to rejoin his lost
tribe. Clare Margaret staged his funeral. All the
flowers from the garden were piled upon his coffin
and the children followed sobbing lustily. There were
now two other graves in the enclosure on the hill
above where the curlews wailed in the tea-tree.
Burrabinga hospitality extended even to wayfarers
who came there to die and to return to its clean,
deep earth.
Others of the early associates deserted Danny.
Charles Fullwood had gone. James, husband of Bella
Rafferty, remained, retrieved a generation since from
cattle-duffing and now living in the old Heulong home-
stead. Mrs. Charles was much with her sister Mrs.
Hennessy. Both men’s sons were hard-working bush-
men. Some of both broods got jobs to fence or horse-
break on Burrabinga, which was a refuge for all
classes.
William became a father without losing his
bachelor aridity. Jean was easy-going and kind.
Johanna’s standards of housekeeping were abrogated,
but no word of criticism escaped Danny. Jean did
not heel him from one retreat to another as a demon-
stration of her abilities, and he appreciated peace.
The children grew and murdered Johanna’s
garden. Grandpa saw the elegancies which his
Johanna had earned so valiantly and treasured so
tenaciously being spoiled and hacked. He was so
wise that these things meant little to him now. He
sat where the sun could warm him, and the Murrum-
bidgee gorges would disappear, and in their place
would materialise the young Johanna and his mother
and others, each detail of their environment in Ennis
in old County Clare as clear as though a spotlight
rested upon it: Athlunkard-street out of Limerick,
the ruined Abbey of Donough Cairbreach O Brien,
the Austin Priory, founded by the last King of


Munster, where Danny had played as a boy. Ah,
those roads to Crusheen and Kilrush! “Oh, moi!
Oh, moi!”
William’s interest in gossip shifted base as he
became a family man. He had some of Johanna’s
pride, and looked forward to good matches for his
nieces and nephews, with whom he kept in affectionate
association. He was pleased with the Butlers, who
were firmly in the stirrups of the highest squattocracy.
Coole Butler of New Glenties was one of the best-
set-up young men in the district and the desire of all
the girls of his circle.
Another interest to William was the Nullah
Mundoey stud. He did a little breeding and could
still sit a buck-lepp, though he was like Danny in his
lack of horse-swagger. He neither betted nor raced.
He had improved the Nullah Mundoey stock and was
always hoping for the perfect beast by a process
dependent upon knowledge and selection, equine
heredity and a sixth sense ; and then, when everything
had been attended to, a fluke, as with the appearance
of a great diva or a major batsman. The horse artist,
as every other, is never satisfied. Still, William had
the usual share of luck, and his picked colts and
fillies were worth a lot of money.
He received a plea from Coole Butler in the
nineties, a few years after the bank-breaking crisis,
when pastoralists were beginning to return to
normality. The Butlers, in continuance of early
custom, were the hosts for a picnic race-meeting on
Boxing Day. On this occasion several good horses
were coming, and Coole, for the honor of the family,
wanted Uncle William to lend him a Nullah Mundoey
to knock the stuffing out of rivals.
“By damn!” said Grandpa, thinking of the pearl
that had come to light at last. “Lend him the brown
colt. The Vances nor annywan else can’t produce a
beast to get within coo-ee of that wan.”
Coole followed his letter and was allowed to take
the colt back with him. William had an ambition for
this nephew. He was to marry Fannie Vance. Old
Vance of Longview was the rising wool champion of
the district, a settler who had the qualities for enlarging
fortune so conspicuously absent from the Delacy
temperament. His only daughter was now twenty,
a handsome girl with none of the dubiety of a siren.
The Vances hoped she would marry a connection of
the Plains —money to money. The Butlers were pros-
perous, but Fannie commanded one even more pros-
perous than Coole.
Fannie and Uncle William, however, saw eye to
eye in this. The colt was being lent to Coolu to add
to his popularity. William had another match in
view between Coole’s sister Laura and Humphrey
Vance. This young man was three years older than
Fannie and did not squander his resources on any but
useful horses. Laura was a sturdy girl, like the
Butlers, and William felt that she would need some
pushing to set sail on the best pond of matrimony.
Laura and Humphrey, both big and ungay, would
make a fine buggy pair, thought William —fallaciously,
seeing that suitability as a pair, or anything else, is
rarely conducive to marriage.
Aunt Jean decided that she would be more com-
fortable at home. She did not housekeep smartly, but
could stay alone at Bewuck and keep an eye on the
stock as well as the children while she sped her men’s
departure.
RANDPA announced that he would ride to the
races. This was opposed as childishness, but the
pride of still being a horseman at nearly eighty-two,
and the prospect of meeting the remnants of the early
settlers, was sustaining old Nullah Mundoey. He was
sometimes seen to cling to the pommel like a child,
but the mare was not too stiffening, and upon arrival
at New Glenties Norah gave him a good taggeen and
put him by for a sleep.
Shortly after this Robert was foreshadowed by
his brindled marauder Prince. The Burrabingas were
spending Christmas with Aunt Nessie,
near Bungendore, and Robert had
cantered over to the races with Clare
Margaret, now nineteen, tall and
finely developed, a competent eques-
trienne who showed off to perfection
the form-following habits of her day
with their absurd jackets with pert
little tails weighted with shot.
She had Johanna’s complexion
and features and the willowy grace
of the Delacy men. She was supple
and straight as a quince-rod, rosy-
brown, such as her mother had
plucked for the impish escapades with
mice or geese, and hers was the un-
usual beauty of the quince-blossom.
She was merry and witty. In serious
mood she had the poise of a woman
of twenty-three. Angry, she was like
a thunderstorm. Old as well as young
livened in her company. She was
Robert’s pet and he was vain when he walked in the
wake of the sensation caused by her appearance.
Robert’s advent created a stir. His dogs always
ensured that. By greyhounds, bloodhounds, wolf-
hounds, bulldogs, Irish terriers and other strains inter-
mingled he had acquired some extraordinary animals.
His kangaroo and cattle dogs and dingo-killers were
more useful to their master than men, and a menace
to everyone else. He was usually to be seen about
Burrabinga with a pack of pets, some of them pups
receiving their training. Fowls, food, clothing and
other articles disappeared with them, but complaints
were received by Robert either with satisfaction in the
prowess of his champions or dismissed as false reports.
Prince soon had a pullet. Aunt Honoria squawked
as loudly as her bird and rushed out with a broom.
Clare Margaret skimmed to the rescue, seized the
big brute by the collar, and with merry disregard of
his growls kicked him spiritedly until he dropped the
bird, which was fit only for decapitation. Coole ran
to help in chaining Prince and the cousins were imme-
diately friends. Coole asked her to name the Nullah
Mundoey colt.
“Oo! I’d love a sprint on him. Then I could
choose a suitable name,” gurgled Clare Margaret.
Coole forthwith carried her saddle to the stall where
the embryo champion was housed, and they took a
gallop in the sweet respite of twilight after a baking
day. This ’was a horse as near perfection as the girl
would ever feel under her—with long elastic stride,
intelligent and sweet-tempered, a thorough gentleman.
When Clare sprang off him into her cousin’s arms
she turned and buried her face in the animal’s sweet-
smelling neck and exclaimed
“Oh, the love, the darling! I
wish I could ride him in the
race.”
“I have his name!” cried
Code. “We’ll call him True-
love.”
Code went to slip this into
the programmes, the top conceit
of the occasion. Coole had
procured a hand-press on which
they were copied —on tawdry
pink paper. In the interests of surprise, the press was
hidden in Coole’s bedroom.
“Lady Grey was so frisky that I’m tired,”
remarked Clare Margaret. “She stood on her hind
legs all the way and shied at her own shadow.”
“Flop on the bed and get your wind while I
tackle this fakement,” said Coole.
Reared in the Delacy idea of cousinship, they
had no amorous thought, but they were congenial.
No one had yet awakened Clare Margaret, and Coole
was half in love with Fannie Vance.
T T MCLE William thought the presence of cousins
in the same house dangerous. He saw Clare
Margaret going into Coole’s bedroom. He had known
the girl was not safe as soon as he saw her alight from
Lady Grey. The way the young men—and the old
ones too —were electrified was proof
of it. None of the women of his
family would have thus entered a
man’s bedroom with him unless the
man were invalided. Uncle William
strolled past the door. It was closed!
With the convention to support him,
he blundered in. “I thought it was
Grandpa’s room.”
The scurrying to hide the press
suggested guilt.
“You had better go to your
aunt.”
Uncle reserved the remainder for
Coole.
“Lordy, Uncle, she was only
helping me with advice.”
“What advice could she give
worth taking?”
But what young man would take
the advice of a seed-onion when that
of a quince- blossom was to be had?
“If anyone saw this there would be a scandal.”
“Oh, I say, Uncle, don’t draw the long-bow. She’s
only a kiddie.” When Coole next saw Clare Margaret
he remarked “Whoop, there was a dust-up!”
“I’d like to do something to shock Uncle William
properly. He’s like a clucking hen.”
“The name for the colt will
stick in his craw.”
“You bet!”
“Don’t let him hear you
say ‘You bet.’ ”
“Let’s get Grandpa on our
side about the name. He used
to help me secretly when I
couldn’t do sums.”
Grandpa had awakened and
was being fortified with a nip
of rum. Clare had changed into
a muslin frock billowing with
frills and a sash, and fresh from
the iron. She had her hair up,
hasting to be adult, and came
to Grandpa with a girlish laugh
and pinned a rose in his coat.
“Grandpa, will you advise
us? Can you keep a secret?”
The old vision winged to
County Clare on a May morning
long ago. Here was Johanna, lovely as his youthful
and aged dream of her blended.
“Johanna, me brave Johanna!” he murmured.
Then half to himself:
"The place is little changed, Mary, the day is bright
as then,
The lark’s loud song is in my ear, and the corn is*
green again.
But l miss the soft clasp of your hand, and the breath
warm on your cheek,
And l still keep listening to the words you never more
may speak.
You never more may speak!"
Tears ran down the old man’s cheeks. Clare
Margaret was touched. Coole was awed.
“Grandpa, pet, am I like Grandma?”
“Sure, acushla, I thought she had come back
again, no less. And be all the pipers, ’tis me old friend
Clare Margaret grown into a grand young lady. Sure,
you should be grand, too, seeing you had me brave
Johanna as a copy.”
To forestall fresh grief Coole interposed:
“Grandfather, the Nullah Mundoey colt is yours as
much as Uncle William’s, isn’t he?”
“Ne’er a Nullah Mundoey at all would there
have been if I had let them shoot the original. Sure,
am I not Nullah Mundoey meself, honorably named
by the blacks? You’ve reminded me of what I have
forgotten for years... Sure, everyone is dead but
a few inconsequential boys.”
“Then we can name the colt for the races?”
“Where could there be a prouder name than
Nullah Mundoey?”
“That’s his surname. He must have a Christian
name too.”
“Sure, he is a Christian. Oh, moi! Oh, moi!
Then, me love, call him something to please yourself
and we’ll all be pleased.”
“You will be on my side, even if Uncle William
doesn’t like the name?”
“I’ll support you if you call him the Pope or the
dayvil himself.”
“And it’s a secret, mind!” The girl pranced
away.
Grandpa sat on his bed and chuckled. “Begor,
it’s a secret as far as I’m concerned, for I don’t know
it, ’Tis safe that way, me little Johanna-over-again.
‘And the red was on your lip, Mary, and the love-
light in your eye. The love-light in your eye.’ Oh,
moi! Oh, moi! ”
YVN Boxing Day most of the neighbors and towns-
people assembled on the plain near the homestead,
where the races went with zip. Humphrey Vance
immediately forsook Laura Butler to squire Clare
Margaret. Laura was a childhood’s friend, but here
was a thrill.
Uncle William interfered. Clare had plenty of
time, and Humphrey and Laura would be ideal. Clare
went away, laughing back at Humphrey. Uncle
thought it a wanton laugh,
but it was the girl’s
ordinary chuckle at a male
subject, and with such she
had been surrounded in
all ages and degrees of
surrender since she had
first arrived at Burra-
binga. Inured to the
admiration of men, she
found no more danger
with them than in the
company of horses and
dogs.
As she twitched her habit about her alluring form
Uncle thought she would look more modest in a dress.
She was wearing her habit because she felt unfurnished
without a horse, and she was so stylish in bearing
that William feared a tendency to be “fast.” She
might be taking after her father’s youthful flashness.


Horrors, if she should be a menace to the families
of Delacy, whose women were all as far above
reproach as if embalmed!
The chief event for William was the race in
which the Nullah Mundoey was entered. The pink
programmes were distributed. Uncle, nursing his knee
and exercising his best conversational graces to impress
Mrs. Vance, unfolded his. He ran down the names.
The colt was not there. He re-read. Messrs. Daniel
and William Delacy were in the owners’ column, and
Coole Butler was “up.” This Truelove must be the
Nullah Mundoey. The peerless colt to be insulted
by the sick, effeminate name of Truelove! It was
nauseating to Uncle William, who had never experi-
enced any inspiring demonstrations of true love.
He hurried to correct the blunder. Too late.
The horses were ramping, while Humphrey Vance
waited to drop the handkerchief. The Nullah Mun-
doey was causing the trouble. He had a fancy for
galloping in the wrong direction. Clare Margaret
was among the men, shouting superfluous advice in
a voice shrill with excitement and devilishly unlady-
like.
The horses were off at last, Truelove in the ruck,
but when it dawned on him that the rabble was
trying to outdistance him he reached out and came
in some lengths ahead. He was so undistressed that
Coole put on Clare Margaret’s saddle and let her
have a run, himself in attendance.
The day was spoilt for William. The origin of
the flash love-sick name for the colt was as evident
as a toll bar. The girl was a trouble-maker. William
went to Robert. Did he wish to see his daughter
making a spectacle of herself with a cousin? Robert
swore that he knew nothing of the naming of the
horse. He was proud of Clare’s popularity.
“Your Uncle William is blaming me for the
colt’s name.”
“Grandpa knows all about it,” said Clare.
Old Cameron of the Plains had arrived —a ducal
honor—and wanted Clare Margaret to mount his
horse too.
“If she would only do something there,” mused
William, “instead of making a mess in her own
family.” But, alas! there was no eligible Cameron,
merely a susceptible one.
“Did you know about the name of the Nullah
Mundoey?” inquired William.
“And what is his name?” countered Grandfather.
T
Truelove! snorted William.
“Be the poipers, that’s fine!” Grandfather
guffawed with youthful gusto. “Tis easy to see how
that was inspired. And if it hadn t been the young
mm of to-day would have been nullities entirely...
That s me grand-daughter he said to Hennessy.
Dayvfl if ever I saw a prettier girl. You must drink
ner nealtn.
William.grunted about childishness.
N n - , .
O youths in the throes of adolescence were more
delighted with each other’s company than Grandpa
and Hennessy
•‘Sure, Hennessy, I’m so glad you’ve come that
I could lepp over you.”
-p. ' -p\ i t i- t .
h• h S^ e ’f P anny delacy, I could lepp twoice
to / eey^ me i f ould s°PPmgb eaut y-
ould Nullah Mundoey himself-and his colt to be
coming out as Thruelove at this date! God hilp us'
The day that was imply as a barn in spring is now
furnished for me loike a palace by ye’r prisince.”
tt *• ir , . \
Hennessy practically owned the township. Banda-
ZestSrofilfSrs Thr,i Dea H Cy ' he m ° St
Inseparable, 0 * ploneers ‘ The ,w 0 old men were
c , .
Spread around them were the “improved”
properties, the result of sixty years of war against the
indigenous trees, and far away was the panorama of
blue distance to liberate the eye and the spirit with a
calming foretaste of eternity. The for-everness, the
wistful divine for-everness of the massed ranges strung
the soul to nobility and to the understanding that
eternity was there and then. The old friends leant
upon a four-rail fence, after passing upon its timbers
and the craftsmanship as artists examine a picture or
book, and smoked with the distance before them
while the stewards buzzed with preparations.
“Sure, Hennessy, there’s a lot of country there
that has scarce been seen and never trod upon yet.
All me tigrinising and dragging—what has it amounted
to? I had more than twenty miles square to meself
when I went there, and all I’ll need now will be six
feet by two. A power of people have carried their
hides to the tan-yard since I struggled through that
gap.”
Clare Margaret galloped up and tweaked Grand-
pa’s beard.
“You’re a truelove of a Grandpa. Uncle William
is as scotty as a French hen with her feathers the
wrong way. So please say that you called the colt
Truelove after me, and I’ll say I called him after
you, and that will mix them up.”
“Sure, they’d be efts if it did, but we’ll play hide-
and-seek if it pleases you, me beauty.”
“And if annywan disbelieves, shure, I’ll shtamp
on him,” added Hennessy, thinking that the girl had
her father’s dash without his sting. As she curvetted
away he said to Danny “There is wan that to be look-
ing at makes ye think of ye’r youth and the pains
and proizes of it. Some there are, Danny Delacy,
that ye shake hands with, and others ye take off ye’r
hat to and thrimble to contimplate. Oi’m thinking
that all the young min will be standing in line to
marry that wan, and they’ll have to struggle through
the scrub of ould fellies that will feel young again to
be looking at her.”
“Sure, that is the sort that never picks the best
match after all. She’s the spit of me brave Johanna,
and didn’t she pick me?”
“Ye must have had ye’r points, no less, or she
wouldn’t have done it.”
HE Butlers had an overflowing house-party and
there was dancing in the evening in the biggest
rooms. Grandpa was given a bedroom to himself, and
dormh^ie^wprp witll f or c ° m P aa y- Two
dormitories were set up for the crowd: at one end
of the house the schoolroom for women, at the other
the billiard-smoking-room for men
Fannie Vance was the belle, in a fussy ball dress,
and Coole danced with her often enough to encourage
Uncle William. Clare Margaret had to be content
with the muslin of the previous evening, but she
danced like a sprite and had everyone dithering with
interest.
“Give her a couple more years and there will be
heartburnings,” said the men.
uu . x , ,
, , r , . r , t 0 after her or there’ll
be trou bl e > said the women as she danced with
LaUra , B “ tler ' ook ' d <”■ u She
danced with everyone, including Grandpa and Hen-
nessy, and between dances played follow-the-leader
with t he row dies of her own age, or charged down
the orchard in search of boofy - half-child, haT"
woman, wholly captivating,
w -,i- , ,A- • , „ ,
hlS v mm t d off , her t 0 P rance about
ke if f r 6 ’ seekin f n ? ake a B ° oc j im Pression
on behalf of Laura and Coole. Around 2 am al
the non-dancers grew weary and began to slip”way
one by one ‘ Uncle William realised’'wfth a M
he had not seen Clare for a long time and that Coole
was also absent. He set off on patrol and came upon
the girl in a side garden where gooseberries were the
attraction, though Uncle suspected Coole.
“Is the men’s room this end?” he asked, to cover
his presence, and pointing over his shoulder, but
glancing past his niece to ascertain if Coole was
lurking in the shadow of the bushes,
“Yes,” called Clare Margaret, on the wing. Uncle
William felt that he should wait about to see what
mischief she was in, but sleepiness won and he left
her to good luck.
Chapter XXXVI.
WILLIAM was unofficial steward
of the proprieties. Respectability
was esteemed in his day, and the
whole boiling of Delacy women
was blameless. Technical chastity was
obligatory for all decent women and had to be
vouched for by watchdogs of sexual decorum called
chaperons. Feminine frailty of mind and physique
was sentimentally idealised, and to complement this
faked fruit of chivalry masculine virility was so
emphasised as almost to induce satyriasis. However,
all the Delacy men were so civilised that none of
those tragedies common to servant-maids in the pro-
tection of gentlemen’s homes had ever disgraced the
habitations of the Delacys or of their in-laws: and
Uncle William was the most correctly chaste of all.
He therefore wakened with Clare Margaret on
his conscience. As he yawned he was thinking that
he should have consigned her to her aunt before
retiring.
Sissy Vance, adopted sister of Fannie, was already
out of bed and surprised to see a formidable black
beard other than her foster-father’s beside her foster-
mother. She was only twelve, but the code was
embedded in her mind. Surprise ripened into startled
astonishment. She was transfixed. So was the bearded
one as his wits cleared.
Sissy emitted an hysterical yelp, “Ma!” which
brought that person to consciousness. Uncle William
and Mrs. Vance sat up and confronted each other as
though the Judgment Day had come and wiped out
distinctions.
Sissy ran out shrieking “Ma and Mr. Delacy are
in bed together!”
The announcement electrified like fire. The
elder women said “Ssh! Ssh!” too late. Suppression
of the scandal was impossible.
“Shure, William must have been very drunk,
though I did not see him take a dhrop,” was Hen-
nessy’s comment.
A general summarily degraded at a drumhead
court-martial could not have felt worse than William.
He fled.
Mrs. Vance, sensible, kind, placid, appeared
blushing but valiant and said “It was an accident.
Poor Mr. Delacy is so terribly upset that it would
be nice to say no more about it.”
She had been asleep when William came in, and
no light but the dimmest of lanterns on a high mantel-
piece. The incident was the funnier because William
was almost a teetotaller.
Mr. Vance dug Robert in the ribs: “If it had
been you, Bob Delacy, it might have been more
dangerous! ” Robert retorted too gorgeously for print
in Australia, and nettled Vance.
“When old Hopping Danny dies the best of the
Delacys will be gone,” he said, and meant it.
“And when you go the worst of the Vances will
be out of sight,” returned Robert, throwing his legs
about and departing.
The young gathered out of sight to giggle: it
would have been disrespectful to let their features
curl before their elders. The elders upheld dignity
by laughing when the young were out of sight. The
pressure of merriment speedily united both camps in
that hearty laughter memory of which persists to this
day. There was much laughter in the unexpected
continent where even the birds chortled in derision
and were mimicked by their own kind.
WILLIAM was too much of the Puritans—later
derided as “wowsers” —to disappear. When some
wag started a subscription to buy spectacles for Mr.
W. Delacy that person demanded
a scapegoat in the person of his
niece, as he believed that she had
purposely misdirected him to
spoil the promising state of
affairs between Code and
Fannie Vance. He insisted that
Clare should apologise to him-
self and Mrs. Vance, and that
Robert should remove her from
the meeting. He was in such a
fantod that
Robert had to
take notice,
though he
thought his
brother a
number of
obscene kinds
of fool.


Clare was found by her father in her grand-
father’s bedroom, where she had hidden because her
sense of the ridiculous was too immature to surmount
the scandal in an affair for which she was blamed.
She was furious with Uncle William’s stupidity.
Robert smothered a smile in his beard as he asked:
“Why the deuce did you do it?”
“Uncle William mistook me. I did not do it on
purpose.”
“I should have been even more amused if you
had,” said Robert, and decamped with a swagger.
Clare Margaret’s humiliation evaporated. Her
smiles returned. There were cheers when she
reappeared on the racecourse.
“She’s going to the devil straight,” said William
to Norah. “Does no one care that a girl with the
name of Delacy promises to be looser than Molly
Macallister was in her day?”
Norah was too busy to bother with Clare. “Tell
Grandpa to speak to her. He was always very strict
with us.”
Danny roared with laughter when Clare Margaret
came before him. William rebuked his venerable
parent as both drunk and childish.
“Arrah, William, if only you had been a little
of each it would have saved you from being a whole
ass-load of fools at wanst,” retorted Danny. He had
thrown off Grandfather and become Danny again for
an hour.
William walked from him.
“Och, mavourneen!” exulted Danny, speechless
and weeping with mirth. “That this should have
happened to your poor Uncle William, no less. If
only you had done it to him years ago it would have
been good for what ails him. He’s too long in the
tooth now... There’s a five-pound note for a new
dress. Goforth,
me dear, and
pluck the
flowers while
they bloom.
‘And the red
was on your lip,
Mary, and the
love-light in
your eye! ”’ he
murmured as
she sped away.
“Och, Hennessy,
if I could go
home and find Johanna there to tell about this!”
“Shure, women don’t look at things the way min
do. Would she have seen the rale fun of this?”
“Maybe she wouldn’t, but ’twould have been a
satisfaction to tell her, all the same.”
"P HEY went and leaned over the fence again with
its sound grey rails, moss-patterned, of uniform
length, well-shouldered into perfect mortice-holes in
stout posts sunk unshakably in the earth —a sample
of the early fences set in undeviating alignment, up
over ridges and down into gullies, mile on mile
on mile. Danny, as ever, was tranced with that
view wreathed in speaking silence and translucent
light.
“ ’Tis a commentary, Hen-
nessy, such a botheration whin
nothing has happened. Have we
the morals of the kennel that we
take this in such a way? There
hasn’t been another such hullabaloo
since Sandy Urquhart danced in a
hundred fresh eggs.”
“ ’Twould have been better
had they been rotten.”
“Maybe ... Sure, Hennessy,
ine son William is always saying
I’m childish, but ’tis himself that is
not childish enough to permit anny
wisdom ... Sure, life is curious.
Did we ever think we should ind up
together looking over the fince here into —into —why,
by damn, into eternity, Hennessy?”
“Begob we didn’t, and with thim that wanst took
dark glasses to protect the ois from their effulgence
so faded and shrivelled that a telescope is called for
to discern thim at all.”
“By that token, I forgot to ask how is your wife.”
“She loikes more and more to get away to Sydney.
Sure, Oi’ve a good moind to pinsion her and her
sister, only for the look of it.”
“You were always the gentleman to her, Hennessy.
Now, on the last lap, it is never me generosities that
I have regretted.”
HEN Clare Margaret withdrew from her grand-
v father she was overcome by conflicting emotions
due to her age and temperament. Humphrey missed
her and found her alone in a buggy. He elicited that
everything was hateful, Uncle
William was the most hateful of
all, and that she was ashamed to
look Humphrey’s mother in the
face: only Grandpa was a dear.
Humphrey was an easy victim
of feminine tears. Something had
to be done to cheer Margaret, who
was talking of leaving to escape
her notoriety. Hang the races!
Humphrey suggested a spin in his
new sulky, ostentatiously silver-
plated.
They were soon speeding
towards the township where Mount
Bowning stood like a blue dome on
the horizon. The highway, undu-
lating across the plains, whose ivory
contours were dotted with con-
tented livestock and birds, had
known the early explorers. The
ringing hoofs, the wheels crunch-
ing the fine gravel, took them six or
seven miles into that fair view
before Humphrey remembered that
luncheon would be on and that he had made matters
worse for Clare Margaret.
“We’ll take the track behind the wool-shed and
you can slip into the house and come from there
later.”
“Why?” demanded Clare Margaret.
“You’re a grown-up young lady now and should
not be leading me astray.”
Dimples beautified her cheeks. “I’d love to shock
them. If Uncle William says anything you must stand
by me.”
“I’ll do that to the finish and back again,” said
Humphrey, elated to rollick into the picnic with the
prize girl in his sulky and the high-stepping trotter
under it.
Again Clare Margaret eclipsed the races. Uncle
William came at her as she went to the house to tidy
her hair. “If your father hasn’t the sense to keep you
in order you are old enough to understand things for
yourself.”
“Yes, Uncle,” she said demurely, but with mischief
underneath.
“Then why did you, on top of the other ugly
thing, go driving off in that flash way with young
Vance?”
“He wanted a chance to propose without you all
listening.”
“Propose! ... You are not old enough.”
“Humphrey wouldn’t mind waiting for —for his
truelove ! ”
“I’ll speak to Humphrey.”
Before it was possible to warn Humphrey of the
joke he and Uncle had moved aside together.
“You shouldn’t have taken Clare for such a con-
spicuous drive. She is so flighty that she says you
needed a chance to propose.”
“Surely she did not say that?”
“It shows how rattle-pated she is ; but she is
only a child, and I want you to say nothing about it
and be careful with her.”
“You can trust her never to come to any harm
with me.”
“She was just poking fun at me again.”
“More likely at me.’
“She is very young.”
“If a fellow didn’t get in early with Clare Mar-
garet he might not stand much chance.”
“Then I’ll say no more now. She is so taking
that she had better be married early. This is a
pleasant surprise.”
“Yes, indeed,” agreed Humphrey.
William reflected that he would have to select
someone else for Laura, but it would be a relief to
have Clare tied up out of mischief with such a steady
young man.
j—J UMPHREY, smiling fatuously and thrilled to the
* * core, hurried to find Clare Margaret, but she had
fled the field, blushing furiously
and as disconcerted as Uncle
William had been at the beginning
of the day.
“Clare Margaret!” Humphrey
repeated to himself. “Clare Mar-
garet, you little pet! You must
mean it. Clare Margaret Vance.
Mrs. Humphrey Vance!"
When he descried his love she
was coming from the house with
a young man who was leading a
hard-ridden horse in poor condi-
tion. Her embarrassments of the
last twenty-four hours were all
forgotten.
“Humphrey!” she called with
beaming face. “See who has come
all the way from beyond Coota-
mundra to see me.”
“And Grandfather,” added the
traveller. Humphrey was relieved
by his youth. Not a suspicion of
down on the lad’s lip! He was
made known as Johan Darcy
Delacy, son of Harry, who had left Burrabinga at
the dissolution of the partnership.
“His name is Johan after Grandma, because she
went mad with joy because he was not a girl like me.
As Grandma is dead and her feeling can’t be hurt,
I’m going to call him Darcy. Don’t you think it the
prettiest name you ever heard?”
“Rather girlish.”
“It’s ever so stylish—like a book.”
“But we’re not in a book.”
“I think it just perfect. Darcy. I can’t help
saying it.”
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


w
and Uncle Stewart.
“You must stay
at Bewuck,” said
Uncle William.
“You are coming home with me to Burrabinga,”
was Uncle Robert’s interpolation in his grand-seignor
manner.
Clare Margaret answered for him: “Of course
he is.”
Darcy was impressed by Uncle Robert, his leg-
gings and spurs, his tall, striking carriage, his con-
descending air, his enviable dogs.
“By damn! He should have been a faymale!”
observed Grandpa to Hennessy. “The eyes of him like
an owl, with the lashes like the reeds around a pool,
and the gentle expression.”
“Shure, only that ye had a beard loike a billygoat
from the first minute I beheld ye, this youngster
remoinds me of ye.”
Darcy had the eye of the dreamer. He was both
Danny and Harry on their imaginative side, with a
plus of his own, and he was homing to his own place
and people after exile. He looked towards the
wreathed blue ranges that lay as a glory on the day,
and was impatient to complete his journey. Only the
presence of Clare Margaret enticed him to delay.
The day, the occasion were enchanted for him; all
that he had expected, could he but return t.o that
delectable region.
His horse, Deerfoot, had a reception matching
her rider’s. She, too, was a relative. She was by a
famous polo pony and mothered by an old Nullah
Mundoey that Harry had taken away with him, a tire-
less beast as free from vice as an unborn child.
“She’s a clinker,” said Uncle William, “but it
doesn’t do to break their hearts at that age.”
“I’ll coddle her up a bit,” said Coole cordially.
Clare went with them. “I want to show you
Lady Grey and Truelove.”
“Clare Margaret,” called Grandpa after her,
“you go get me the Nullah Mundoey mare. Johan
can have her to ride while his own spells. I’ll go
home in the buggy. I feel a little stiff.”
A wave of sadness, of relinquishment, bathed the
old man as he looked towards the hills that had so
long bewitched him, and realised that he would never
ride thither again with the wide sunlight casting its
spell all day until he came at evening to the valley
he had tried to tame.
The field of Venus was
left to Fannie, Laura and the
other grown-up young ladies.
Clare Margaret reappeared with
her hair in a plait, and a
manner in keeping. She had
returned to childhood with her
old playmate. Humphrey found
the boy a nuisance, but hoped
that he would guard the girl
from others as well as himself.
Even Uncle William saw no
danger in so young a cousin.
Humphrey noted the boy’s
mended bridle and gave him a
prize on the score that, had
the filly been in condition, she would have
won more than a bridle. “Your old bridle will do
one of my men for poking about... I want you to
take care of Clare Margaret. You are an older friend
of hers than I am.” Darcy thought Humphrey one
of the nicest men he had ever met.
Aunt Norah gave the boy a sovereign for his
birthday, “Just as if you had been here for it.”
There were other presents. Darcy had not
dreamed of such riches.
Chapter XXXVII.
DARCY was not to be diverted from
going home with Uncle Robert.
His visit among the affectionate
Bandalong relatives was merely the
prelude to his homing. Uncle Robert
agreed that Deerfoot needed a spell before tackling
the mountains. He said with a twinkle “Supposing
I leave Clare Margaret to show you the way.”
“That would be spiffing,” interposed Clare Mar-
garet. “Then we can stay with everyone who invites
Darcy.”
“Can I trust you never to take your eye off her?”
Uncle smile escaped from his beard, but
Darcy was serious.
“It wasn’t necessary to say that,” said Aunt Norah
later. “He follows her like a spaniel.”
“Good job he’s so much younger, or there might
be a case of cousins,” remarked Uncle William, and
everyone laughed.
Darcy rode Grandpa’s Nullah Mundoey to
Bewuck. Humphrey promised to bring Deerfoot at
the end of a week. Coole drove Grandpa in the
Butler sociable. Uncle William led the colt with the
disgraceful name. Clare Margaret and Darcy
careered ahead on their perfect saddle hacks.
Uncle Stewart put another
sovereign in Darcy’s pocket.
Aunt Jean gave him new boots.
Hennessy pressed him to stay,
an invitation which delighted
Clare Margaret. She and Euphe-
mia were warm friends. Clare
admired her elder’s luxuriousness.
Darcy was uneasy about all the
gifts. He murmured something
about paying back by-and-bye,
which made everyone smile. He
was a true Delacy, for they never
could take. Give. Give. They
needed no exhortation to give to
the poor. They gave indiscrimin-
ately to rich and poor the fortune
which could have been theirs had
avarice walked with industry in
their pioneering exploits.
Darcy and Grandpa enjoyed
each other. The old man took
the boy over every paddock of
Bewuck and told its history and
grew voluble about the bunyip-
hole and Delacy’s Crossing.
Darcy adored the sighing she-
oaks. Mounted on the Nullah
Mundoey of rocking-chair paces
grandpa rode up on to the plateau
to explain the landscape.
“Oh, moi! Oh, moi!” he
cried, suffused with emotion as
he beheld that holy of holies, that
chapel of his soul, as remote and
witching as when he first beheld
it.
His eyes glazed with memo-
ries. They could see so far and
so much —the roads leading to
Limerick, and to the Atlantic
beyond Cooley Hall on a May
day when a beautiful girl awaited
Danny Delacy in the coomb ; the
long, lone trails that he had
blazed, extending to eternity, and
foreshortened until Ennis and
Burrabinga coalesced. To his
inner consciousness the scene was glamorous and
haunting, plangent with silent voices of past and
present. Future or past —which was which, in the
bewildering circles of time and space?
He could only repeat “Oh, moi! Oh, moi!”
The boy must grow to it himself.
The lad gazed, his dreams colored with youth.
He listened rapt to the story of Burrabinga being
tamed, and without murdering the blacks. How
Grandpa came by his wooden leg, and how he swam
the Yackandandah in ’52, were grand stories.
Darcy wanted so many others that Aunt Jean
gave Grandpa a toddy of rum when he came in, he
looked so white and old and illuminated;
but the alcohol loosened his tongue again
so that he tried to explain to Darcy that in
the aura of Australia were a thousand
mysteries awaiting those with grace of
understanding, but that most human beings
were inferior in insight to the
quadrupeds.
“Be the poipers, the lad is
meself over again. He has the vision of posterity
in his eyes.”
Uncle William rapped out “Posterity be damned!
He seems just like Harry—a damned fool that will
never know a shirt to his back.”
“Sure, there’ll be somewan always to see that he
has a shirt.”
“Childish!” muttered William.
“Leave him alone,” said Aunt Jeart, and promised
him a second toddy if he would go to bed.
C"' LAD of the excuse to see Clare Margaret,
V ''-J Humphrey Vance brought Deerfoot at the end
of a week, and the filly’s condition was a certificate
of special care. Humphrey was frank about his pre-
dilection for the girl but agreed with William that it
might be unwise to force her emotions for another
year.
At the end of January Margaret called Clare
Margaret home. Grandpa confirmed the gift of the
Nullah Mundoey to Johan and added a ten-pound
note. He was giving practically his all. Care was
exercised that he should not have too much to “strew
around.”
Clare Margaret pooh-poohed Uncle William’s
suggestion of accompanying her, so he showed the
short cut through Old Glenties by which Keebah could
be reached the first day, and thence to Birrabee and
Burrabinga in old-fashioned stages.
On the last stage Darcy had the adventure of
seeing the mists below the sun breaking from the
ravines like veils of pearl and rose flung aside by a
dancer. No prince had more poetic exaltation in
regaining a kingdom than Darcy upon returning to
tnis region spiritually bequeathed to him by Danny
and Harry.
His cousins and their parents gave him a warm
welcome. An extra bed was placed in the boys’ room,
an informal apartment where the cracks were stopped
with strips of tin. The slabs were whitewashed ; there
was no ceiling. The possums often came in at night.
The floor, also of slabs, was softened with splendid
skins. The bedsteads were of rough wood. There
was a shelf on pegs, and a stool or two to complete
the furnishing. There was not even a mirror.
Darcy was a little shocked after the qualities of
his mother’s housekeeping, but the atmosphere of the
family was intoxicating to one who had never been
called a pet name, and he took to the careless freedom
and livelier life of Burrabinga as a duck to water.
Clare Margaret and Mavis were his elders ; Syme,
Vida and Roger followed them. What Clare Mar-
garet decreed was law. Under her protection Darcy
became a leader in those enterprises demanding
imagination.
The younger ones were still slaves to the school-
room for the greater part of the day. After that
there was a young lady to instruct in piano, sewing,
fancy-work and dancing at a wage of £l3 per annum,
plus unrivalled opportunities for marriage.
Josephine wrote at the end of a month calling
Darcy home, but he asked to stay a month longer,
and then another month. He then pleaded to see
the snow which covered the ranges in the months of
July and August. Then when the snow came the
rivers were swollen and prevented his getting out for
weeks.
There was a dreadful drought all down the Bland.
A springless spring gruelled Murrumbong, with not
a blade of grass in the locality, and all but eight of
Harry’s horned cattle died. Life could barely be
kept in his horses. Half a dozen faithful friends lay
down under the brassy skies and breathed their last.
Harry was mortgaged to the limit and in debt every-
where. Josephine kept the house going by rearing


fowls and selling eggs. There were three other children
besides Darcy, but Grandma Battle always had one
of them.
In the circumstances Darcy was allowed to linger
at Burrabinga, though not without misgivings on
Josephine’s part, one of them because Robert derided
teetotalism. He boasted that his sons should grow up
to be men-of-the-world who could take a drink and
meet other emergencies like real men and not like
girls in pants. They learned by imitation and grew
to be resourceful and so lavishly hospitable that, in
a predatory society, they must eventually beggar them-
selves.
BUT those fell days were not yet.
The Burrabinga youngsters were enjoying a life
of experiment which filled Josephine with another
apprehension in regard to her beautiful boy, than
whom she would have pre-
ferred to see all her other
children dead in one sweep.
In Darcy’s letters to Isa-
bel, which Josephine had
fished from the girl’s secret
cubby, there recurred the
swear-word damn. Josephine
never went further than d
in indicating such an oath.
Harry was not allowed the
relief of it in her hearing.
“A foul mouth indicates
a foul mind,” she observed,
firm in her understanding of
what was purity.
Margaret did not read her
children’s letters unless re-
quested to do so, and at that
date the Burrabingas were
effervescing in the adolescent
swagger of oaths tacked on to
their speech for ornament,
while their parents remained
unaware of their reputation as
“foul-mouthed young rips.”
They were merely in advance
of the fashion in smart ex-
pletives.
As the terrible seasons at
.Cootamundra did not mend
Darcy was allowed to linger
indefinitely at Burrabinga.
Harry could not send him a
penny, and it did not occur to
Robert to give wages to one so
young, though he acknow-
ledged that the lad was as
useful as a man. He had his
own horses and gear and a few
pounds in his pocket to begin,
which quickly went in the
common store. Darcy was
not a hoarder. He made some-
thing from the price on dingo
pelts and the sale of possum skins, and for the
remainder was in love with living and ambitious to
become as good a rider as his associates. He was that
from the beginning, but they jeered at him for a
townie because they knew the way down a few preci-
pices which at first made Darcy pause.
Life was a tournament and a picnic spent largely
in the saddle. If Robert was harassed by the bank
overdrafts and the mortgages, which piled up during
lean years, he did not pass his worries on to the young
beyond developing his gift for sarcastic comment, He
was a silent man, and indeed when had he opportunity
to talk? During meals he looked down a long table
which held twenty eaters and where the minimum was
twelve. All had to be served before he could take a
bite, and third helpings were common at that generous
table. Talk was for those with leisure.
Great days for Burrabinga, to be remembeied
with regret and affection!
. . .
trying
to kiss Mimie, one of the successors to Fannie, who
had long since married and retired to a selection
beyond James and Bella Fullwood at Cherry Tree
Hill. Robert recalled Molly McCathie and the hotel
girls to whom he owed similar education, and said
that girls in the kitchen would be a constant menace.
A Chinese cook was substituted, a man who did won-
ders in the garden and laundry in addition to the
kitchen. Lady-helps were engaged for the house.
Time drifted along in the remote station life,
idyllic and sufficing. Neither Darcy nor his cousins
went as far as Sydney, and there were thousands more
in the same untravelled condition. Out in the world
of the capitals women like Catherine Spence, Ladies
Jersey and Windeyer, Rose Scott and Annette Bear-
Crawford, with Vida Goldstein, were leading women
towards political enfranchisement. They provided a
popular subject for caricaturists, one well within the
grasp of all from the city slums to the Never-Never,
and there was no fear that revolution would grow
from an amusing demand in direct opposition to
what Nature had decreed for
the female brain.
A more tangible revolu-
tion, and one which was to end
the supremacy of the horse,
was invested in the bicycle.
The “ penny-farthing ” veloci-
pede had been superseded by
well-proportioned pairs of
wheels which multiplied like
mushrooms. The bicycle
became the vehicle of sport.
Bicycles were the rage. Bullet-
headed varlets, with all their
power in their thighs, pedalled
like demons around banked
asphalted tracks and were the
heroes of envious crowds of
congenial mentality.
There was lively inter-
visiting with other stations.
Uncle William would rave
from one visit until the next
at what he observed.
“Harry, of course, is a
born fool,” he would say.
“He would give away what he
had not got. He could be
swindled by a three-year-old ;
but Robert was supposed to
have a head on him, but is it
sense to work as hard as he
does and then squander it all
in keeping a private pub for
every loafer that comes
along?”
“It’s as bad at Keebah,”
said Jean placidly. “I was
tired of always slaving for
callers.”
“Sure, wasn’t I always
telling you that everything is
as free of charge as if it was
this Utopia the agitators talk
about?” This from Grandpa.
“Queen Victoria can’t afford that,” said Jean.
“I’ve been told from Keebah that they all, from Mar-
garet down, put on a new dress and wear it regularly
instead of keeping it for Sundays.”
“They have orchards enough to supply the town-
ship, but I saw a dray-load of tinned jam going in.
There were three leading doctors there being run
after like gods there for pheasant and kangaroo
shooting—and if Robert got a belly-ache in Sydney
they wouldn’t take a bob off the fees.”
“Robert must be heavily on the banks. Such
extravagant habits are shocking—shocking.”
“Arrah!” said Grandpa contemplatively, remov-
ing his pipe for emphasis. “It’s difficult to do anny-
ng w ith children after they get out of arms. Didn’t
x elope against me parents ? And did Robert ever
perform wan thing that his mother laid out for him?
And maybe. Robert can do nothing with his
ramfiy-
“Bosh! You are childish! Robert and Mar-
garet never tried to rule their children. I shall never
let mine have these extravagant notions.”
“Huh, be the pipers! Robert and his family
have the pleasure of squandering in company. You
may drag yours up with their noses on the dunghill,
like a lot of gomerils in moleskins, and before
you are cold in your grave, William, me brave
warrior, they may have started to scatter what you
leave.”
Chapter XXXVIII.
BICYCLES caused no uneasiness at
Burrabinga. The precipices were
against them. Only a few far-seeing
horse-breeders were alarmed. The
parrotry, clacking that no new invention can
influence the existing order, remained undisturbed.
People who rode bicycles were graded as flash townies.
Squatters and selectors had a feeling of wholesome
superiority over the town-dweller as a parasite;
the male townie was on a lower grade of man-
liness generally. In the incipient Australian
nation the parasite had not then become as a
whole more important than the person who sup-
ported him.
Banking cycles moved in irregular but inevitable
tides. Hard times came, but there remained enough
slack in the manipulation of world resources for them
to pass. The colonies, with plenty of elbow-room for
mistakes, had recovered from the panic of ’93 and the
Empire was drifting towards eruption in South Africa.
Spectacular imperialists glittered there. In huts or
in smoking-rooms from Burrabinga to Brisbane and
Ballarat men read of the parties given in Mayfair.
The newly arrived remittance fraternity were as popu-
lar and as ribald as Scheherezade with tales of noble
ladies —lovely females decked like Arabian nights by
South African millionaires.
’Struth, they were appetising reports!
Men so red-blooded that, unless they were tanned
to the color of shoe-leather they looked like trussed
beef, swore bullockies’ and squatters’ oaths —in which
there is no dif-
ference —as to
what they would
do if any pluto-
crat tried to
have the loan of
their women, and
felt themselves
superior to the
effete fellows in
London society;
but ladies pro-
tected their com-,
plexions and
dreamed of going
Home to be presented at Court, to appear at the
opera at Covent Garden and at the Derby.
The “moind” plays tricks with perspective, and
London was near to Sydney and Melbourne, while
Australia remained a terrific and uncouth distance
from England.
All this scarcely touched the Delacys. They had no
hankerings for England. Danny and Johanna had not
transferred to them any desire to be, nor any sense
of being, other than Australians.
At that time, too, young Australians awakened
to a sense of nationality which is ever the special
gift of poets. Native balladists were interpreting
Australia’s magic in an inspiring and satisfying form.
Rhymed stories and challenges were recited in every
school or church, concert-hall, drawing-room, hut or
camp.
For A ustralia was a vital slogan.
THEN war with the Boers was definitely proclaimed.
Australians were wild to go. Here was a congenial
adventure for those whose lives approximated a cavalry
campaign since ever they could sit up and say gee-gee,
a word as early in their vocabulary as dadda. There
was some talk of the foolish waste of money involved
in sending men all the way from Australia when the
mighty General Buller and his forty thousand
men would have Johnny Boer back in his place
before ever the Australian contingent could land in
Africa.
Still, the gesture must be made. One people!
One flag! Britons never will be slaves! There is
life in the old bulldog yet! The British Lion cannot
have his tail tweaked without the Kangaroo giving
the tweaker what-for!
But Chamberlain would accept only a handful of
colonials and seemed to think they would be a
nuisance. The rush to get away was so great that
men were selected as carefully as offerings to the
gods —as indeed they were.
It was splendid for horsebreeders. Men came
through the land offering good prices for military


The REAL
GINGER ROGERS
Scintillating star and vivacious red-
haired personality of the silver screen
the girl with the twinkling feet
who has danced her way into the
hearts of millions of picture fans.
Phyllis Fraser, the writer of the
article, is not only a first cousin of
Ginger Rogers, but her friend, com-
panion and confidante.
Read this very interesting article in
next Friday’s issue of the “Woman’s
Mirror.” ,
Radio
Studio
Photo
68 PAGES OF BRIGHT FEATURES FOR 3d.
GIFTS FOR OVERSEAS FRIENDS.
Useful Embroidery Novelties Make Splendid Xmas Presents.
Mothercraft Feature: EDUCATING DAUGHTERS,
DELIGHTFUL OVERSEAS FASHIONS.
Margot Hill-Manners’s Interesting Letter.
THREE SHORT STORIES.
ON SALE FRIDAY AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
9K<?
A U S T R. A L. I A N
WOMAN’S MIRROR
horses. Burrabinga rejoiced. The still-dominant
horse was refurbished with cavalry swagger.
Grandpa was disturbed by the prospects of war—
he who had been born in the year of Waterloo and had
heard the drums all through his childhood. He did
not feel so lightly about the outbreak as did the young
fellows reared on a continent too distant for war to
reach. He knew the wreckage and poverty inseparable
from military glory.
He had not been on a
horse for more than a year,
but he insisted upon a mare
being saddled so that he could
visit Butler at Old Glenties.
The old man was valiant,
mounting a little stool to a
chair and thence to an old
nag’s back. His hair was
still unsilvered, his grey beard
long on his chest; his ex-
quisitely fashioned hands,
frail wjth age, were small.as.
a girl’s upon the reins.
Sophie, William’s eldest, went
with him to open gates.
“He’s very childish,” said
William as they went. “What
does the war matter to him?
Old Butler won’t be in-
terested. I’ll get a better
price for those horses.”
William had never fathomed
the man who was his father,
had early regarded him as a
fool, and now as senile ; but
despite a wooden leg old
Danny, in the neat suit and
bowler hat bought long ago
to impress his Johanna, had
dignity and distinction. He
could be recognised as a man with culture behind'him
—a personality ; whereas William remained an honest,
uninspired bushman to whom all flights of imagination
were insanity.
“The poor old man wants a yarn,” said Jean.
"He is lonely with all his mates gone.'’
The visit was disappointing. Butler never had
had any mind beyond his own runs, and had pros-
pered on sheep. The reviving effects of war were not
so readily apparent among the jumbucks. Butler was
for smashing the Boers without argument low
ruffians that they were. Delacy had looked forward
to discussing the Boers’ side of the fracas, where lay
his sympathies. After a few nobblers on both sides
he grew so noisy and was so trounced by Butler that
Sophie was excited by the scandal she would have to
report.
Hr HE nag’s aged action jarred the rider, who was in
f pain from fatigue and bruising when he returned
to Bewuck. William had to undress him and put him
to bed, and he gave the old man an unfeeling lecture
for a fool—to think he could ride at his age.
It did not ruffle old Danny. He could retreat
beyond his son’s animadversions. He was not merely
forgiving, but superior to the rancor which must be
purged by forgiveness. He was a week recovering
from the ride, and then he complained anew of loneli-
ness. Women were gabbletraps. He ached for an
intelligent political discussion of the war, or a yarn
on horse-breeding with an old mate. He asked Sophie,
who was precocious with her lessons, to write to Sandy
Urquhart inviting him to come down for a good
conversation.
“Nonsense!” said William. “The war is of no
interest to anyone.”
“But a little conversation ”
“Conversation! Blather! It won’t pay the taxes
for anyone but the publicans, who set a trap of con-
versation for the windbags. He's quite childish,” he
concluded, without bothering to lower his voice.
Grandpa refuged in the storehouse of memory —
those days when the larks sang loud and high. One
of the children fell over Grandpa’s foot and howled.
To divert him Grandpa sang “I'm Denny Blake from
County Clare,” etc.
N ° one would analyse the implications of the war
* though it speedily became more personal to the
Delacys than a horse-fair. Syme Delacy and Jimmy
Fullwood joined the Australian
Horse and let the mustering
go to attend drill and go on
cross-country cavalry picnics.
Uncle William chuckled
with relief. “It would be
grand if the war would last
until Syme got there.”
“1 think of his mother.”
said Jean.
“So do I. .She'll have
something
worse to face
than a hero
killed at the
war if that
tellow hangs
around town
much longer.
If he got out
of Burrabinga
he would be fit for nothing but horsebreaking;
he has an evil tongue ; he'd be good enough to shoot
Boers.”
Syme had his father’s gift of satiric repartee, and
no discretion in employing it. He was the bete noir
of his uncle, who could not discern the charm he-had
for women and who considered him a flash jackass
with no more brains than a turtle. He was, however,
a smart horseman, with more than his father's swagger
at the same age. and the days were glorious for him
and Jimmy. To the deviltry of reckless horseman-
ship was added the cavalry swagger war danger,
acclamation of heroes, all the swashbuckling senti-
mentality of bugles and uniforms. They were a gay
pair of cockerels in olive-green and hats to match
turned up at the side with chookie-feathers.
Margaret was thrilled with the look of her darling.
“It will keep him out of mischief,” she said.
The impression still was that the Australian con-
tingent was a mere gesture
of empire and that a war
against a few untrained
farmers would be ended
before it could reach the
front. It was unlikely that
a second contingent would
embark.
But the war ripened. The
Australians arrived and were
absorbed into various British
regiments. Methuen’s check
at Magersfontein with - great
loss, the Colenso disaster,
where Buller suffered a
humiliating defeat by the
River from a. force
much smaller than his
own, was incredible. The
superciliousness concern-
ing Australian and New
Zealand troops had
turned to a special call
tor volunteers who could
ride and shoot —shoot a
mosquito at 300 yards
and live on fresh air
and exercise as long as
there were holes to pull
in their belts.
“Moi! Oh, Moil”
moaned Grandpa. “Going
out to shoot colonists like themselves, to uphold a few
bloodsuckers in London!”
Kitchener and Bobs were taking command. There
was a call for 20,000 men to take the places of those
cut to pieces in the first engagements.
A second contingent was to depart after the New
Year, and Syme and Jimmy were trying to get into
this. Some of the lads from the land were so shamed
by military rejection that they would not return to
their own districts. The Delacys and Fullwoods were
puffed with pride when Syme and Jimmy were
definitely accepted because they could not be thrown
by a horse, unless by a miracle, and could top the
score with rifle, carbine or revolver. Also they were
each presented by their vain parents with a superb
Nullah Mundoey. Women are always exalted to
sacrifice sons to Moloch, and fathers believe that war
is the thing to make a man of a lad.
Hurrah for adventure!
The idea still was that Syme and Jimmy were
lucky young devils because this detachment would
never need to land in Africa but would go right on
to England for a jamboree. The Queen would be so
pleased with the whelps from the far Southland who
had rushed to her aid that she would invite them to
Buckingham Palace. They would go up to London
to look at the Queen. Lucky young beggars indeed!
THE family went to Sydney to see Syme embark.
His youth and the willowy Delacy grace and
sensitiveness of feature attracted attention as the
marchers struggled through the embracive crowd,
delirious with imperial fever. Margaret walked on
the pavement. Girls threw so many handkerchiefs
at the boy that he was covered.-; He thrust them across
to his mother with his rifle. “Here, ma—souvenirs.”
The excited crowd collected them and handed
Margaret the spoil at the wharf, where she put it in
a cab —300 handkerchiefs. There were paragraphs in
the papers. Margaret was extolled as the magnificent
type of Australian woman who produced such heroic
sons to serve the Empire. It was said that if everyone
who had enjoyed the gentle and generous hospitality
of Burrabinga could have thrown a handkerchief Mrs.
Delacy would have been smothered and the traffic
blocked.
Thus the departure of Syme at the touching age
of seventeen, and a heavy bill to be met at the Grand
Central and for the cabs the family had constantly
occupied during the festivities.
After that the war settled into its stride, and
enteric and other martial emissaries did their part.
Grandpa continued to grieve. “You’d think the war
was a personal affair with him,” grumbled William.
FINALLY, in the interests of harmony Grandpa
suppressed his peculiar ideas and contented him-
self with dreaming in the sun.
(To be continued next week.)


FOR SHORT STORIES
J&uLletin
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition:
January 31, 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
DEAF
mm
Write for Booklet
and Details
of Trial Offer.
and PROVE that the
VIBRAPHONE defeats
DEAFNESS
NOW available in Australia.
A perfectly safe hearing aid.
Non-electrical Practically
invisible —No wires No
batteries —No head-bands.
The VIBRAPHONE is
not an artificial ear-drum.
B. NATHAN
37 Austral Buildings,
115 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Service to its customers, and the public generally,
has been the paramount consideration of the Bank
for over a century.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
ASSETS EXCEED £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING AND EXCHANGE
BUSINESS EXPEDITIOUSLY TRANSACTED.
Ct Darvall, General Manager.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Sympathetic Study of Childhood
NEW YEAR'S DAY.
BY MARGARET TRIST.
THIS was the day of all days! Eleanor,
lying in bed watching the sunshine
trickling across the top of the orange-
trees, felt her little tummy wobble de-
liciously, and clasped her hands to-
gether on top of the cotton coverlet.
Then she heard a stir in her parents’
room, and her father going round the
verandah to light the kitchen fire. It
was lovely, thought Eleanor, to lie still
and know that happiness had arrived,
and to be fully aware of it. Though she
was only seven Eleanor thought a lot.
You did if you were a little girl on a
sheep run that was a good way off from
everywhere.
Suddenly impatient, Eleanor slipped
out of bed and pattered out to the
verandah. The morning was soft and
clean and bright. It was cool now, but
Eleanor, looking at the deep blue of the
sky, knew that as the day progressed it
would get very hot. She looked along the
not over-used track up to the home pad-
dock gate, and suddenly trembled. To
think that such joy could really be! Per-
haps it was better not having people come
to see you very often and then having
thirty or more all come together. They
came on New Year’s Day each year,
relations and friends from miles away.
Some from the township, some even
from the town, but mostly from farms
and holdings. They were never invited ;
they just came, because Great-grandma
had started it years ago, and once a thing
is started it goes on for ever.
Great-aunt Mattie would come out
from town ; old Mrs. Simpson and her
daughter, Harriet Green, and Harriet’s
two grown-up sons and their wives; her
uncle and aunt and their children ; and
lots of people whom Eleanor couldn t
even remember. Last year she’d been
silly and wouldn’t mix with the other
children —£he’d been shy and nervous
and afraid to speak, but then she was
only six. This year would be different.
She would smile at them as they came
in, and shake hands, saying “I’m Eleanor.
What’s your name?” She had rehearsed
the little scene often in the last few
weeks, and thought it sounded very
polite.
She went over it again now, and was
just at the point where she shook hands
gravely with herself when she saw her
mother going towards the kitchen.
ON ordinary days Eleanor and her
mother bathed at three o’clock in the
afternoon, but to-day was different. As
soon as breakfast was over and the dishes
washed and put away, Eleanor’s mother
lifted the kerosene bucket of hot water
off the newly-blackened stove and said,
“Come on, Eleanor.” Then, her mouth
screwed up tightly and one arm outflung,
she started for the bathroom.
By half past nine Eleanor was arrayed
in her new white voile frock that had
arrived from the city by the last
mail. It had tucks in it and rows of
insertion. Around
the waist was a
broad blue ribbon
that tied in a
bow at the back.
Eleanor, smiling
and happy,
though a little un-
comfortable,
looked at herself
in the mirror,
quite unaware of the quaint little figure
she cut with her brown, too-thin arms
and legs and her sunburnt, serious face
with its large grey eyes.
“You can go to the gate if you
promise not to get dirty,” said her
mother, and Eleanor, glad not to have
to keep still any longer, promised, and
ran off into the sunshine.
THE gate was quite a long way off. It
wasn’t just the ordinary gate that
led from the outer paddock into tne
home paddock, but the gate that led
into their property from the Govern-
ment reserve. From it sometimes you
could see a car speed by on the Harvey
Plains road, and on a very clear day
you could hear the rumble of a passing
train and see the smoke on the horizon.
But to-day it was very still, and all that
could be seen were heat hazes dancing
and shimmering.
Eleanor stood a long time, watching
the track down the reserve, and then
suddenly intent on a little cloud of
dust far away. A wave of excitement
rushed over her, her throat tightened, and
her hand clutched the railing of the
gate convulsively. She wanted to run
away, and turned to go, but her legs
trembled, and she fell over on to the
hard, brown earth. Her concern for
her frock calmed her, and while she
brushed the dirt off it the sound of
horses’ hooves came to her. Quite
serenely she faced round and watched
the oncoming sulky and the two horse-
men who were riding behind it. She
climbed on to the gate and waved, then
slid the bar at the top. Puffing and
panting she pushed back each side of the
big gate, and waited.
The sulky was packed. Harriet Green
was driving, with old Mrs. Simpson
squashed in beside her, while Mrs. Jim
Green sat on the knee of Mrs. Tom
Green. They all laughed as they swayed
past Eleanor, and she laughed back at
them, and jumped excitedly up and
down. Then the horsemen came through
the gate, and Tom, who was large, with
a big red face and sea-blue eyes, put
down his big arm and lifted Eleanor off
the stump near the gate just as a crow
swoops down and takes a chicken. He
put her on the saddle in front of him.
“I have to shut the gate”’ said Eleanor
shyly.
Tom rumbled with laughter and,
swinging the horse round, swung the
gate to. Then with a whoop he touched
the horse with his spurs, and they set
off at a great rate, flashing past the
other brother and the sulky, and pull-
ing up in fine style at the front steps.
Tom set Eleanor on the ground just
as her mother came hurrying down the
steps. After greetings the women went
off to the bedroom to take off their
hats, while the mert went off to
unsaddle the horses and put the sulky
in the shade of the woolshed. Eleanor
stood on the bottom rail of the bed,
leaning against the top rail, and sur-
veyed them all, while they looked at
her and said, “Hasn’t Eleanor grown?”
and “Isn’t she like her great-grand-
mother?” which delighted Eleanor, even
while she doubted its truthfulness.
Then old Mrs. Simpson, who had
known Great-grandmother, cried and told
them all about the fine old lady she had
been—how she had helped her husband
fence in the property and ridden sixteen
miles by night with a baby in her arms
to warn a family of the ’eighty floods.
Eleanor listened intently, even though
she had heard it all before.
Outside a motor-car drew up near the
steps-
“It’s the Mackenzies!” exclaimed
Mother. “Come on, Ellie, you’ll have
Doreen and Jamie to play with now,”
and she went out quckly, followed by
the others.
Eleanor, jumping down from the rail,
went to go too, and then suddenly she
felt very small and silly and weak in-
side. What would she say to Doreen
when she saw her? What was it she
was going to say? “I’m Eleanor. What’s
your name?” A shudder went through
her. She couldn’t say that; it was too
silly when she knew the name already,
What else could she say? Things went
through her mind in halves. Halves
were no good. They were almost in
the room now. With a wild movement
she flung herself under the bed and
rolled up where the mosquito-net would
hide her completely.
“Eleanor!” called her mother. “Wher-
ever has she gone? Eleanor!”
Eleanor, peeping through the mos-
quilo net, saw her mother’s frown. Per-
haps she would be smacked to-night
when everyone had gone, but that
wouldn’t matter as long as she could
get away now. She could not face
those children with their staring, curious
eyes. Then her mother, seeing how the
mosquito-net was trembling, suddenly
put her hand down in behind it and
grasped Eleanor’s arm. Eleanor, sur-
prised, came out headlong.
“Whatever were you doing there?”
asked her mother.
Eleanor tried to shrink out of sight,
but the arm that held her was strong
and determined. In all her life Eleanor
never knew another such dreadful
moment. In the mirror she caught a
fleeting glimpse of her lowered crimson
face. Everyone stopped talking and
looked at her.
“You silly girl ” said her mother, shak-
j ng her a little and letting her go ; “did
you think someone would bite you?”
and t h en she smiled in a self-satisfied
way as everyone laughed, while Eleanor
sto od with her hair tumbled over her
face and her eyes on the linoleum.
ED Y eleven o’clock everyone had
ED arrived. Outside in the paddock
cars and sulkies stood side by side, clus-
tered together in the shade by the wool-
shed and barn. Near by little groups
of men smoked together, some sitting
on their haunches, some leaning against
a fence or wall. As the heat grew
greater they took their coats off and
hung them over posts, absent-mindedly
unloosening their ties and folding them
into neat little rolls. In the bedroom
the bed was covered with straw hats,
veils and assam silk dustcoats, and all
through the house was the sound of
women’s voices and laughter. Eleanor
found there was no place she could
escape them
In the sitting-room old Mrs. Simpson
and Great-aunt Mattie sat in the corn-
fortable chairs and argued about the
merits of their respective faiths. Their
voices were cracked and shrill, rising and
falling in tremulous waves of venom.
Every now and again the sharper Mrs.
Simpson would completely floor Great-
aunt Mattie, who would fold her hands
in her lap, lift her shoulders impatiently
and, first running her tongue round her
indrawn mouth, say, “You always were
an obstinate woman, Maria.” There
would be silence till the quarrel broke
out at some fresh point,
At the table near by several younger
women pored over the December issue
0 f the “Home Journal,” and discussed
jabots and raglan sleeves and the price
of patterns.
Eleanor wandered
sullenly from room to
room, running when
she saw children and
muttering angrily
when she was spoken
to. She knew sud-
denly that she hated
these people. Hated
them! Hated them!
There was a baby
asleep in one of the
back rooms. She
crept in and pulled
its arm roughly. At
its sudden scream she
laughed and fled out-
side. Once in the
open she wished she'd
stuck a pin in it.
Nobody loved her.
They thought her a
disagreeable, stupid
little girl. They had
laughed at her. Didn’t
they know that she was
Eleanor, great-grand-
daughter of the
pioneers of the dis-
trict? Eleanor, who
one day would be the
owner of the place in
which they were.
They thought her
stupid and little and
disagreeable. Well,
she wasn't, so there, so there!
Frantically she pulled at her hair
and dug her teeth into her arm. She
felt better somehow, and wondered where
her father was. He loved her anyway.
Men were different from women ; they


A
FRIEND
Money on Fixed Deposit is the most reliable
friend you can have. It does not vary iu
value as do many other investments, but
goes on steadily earning more money. If
desired, interest will be paid at the end of
each six months. There are no commissions,
brokerage, or other charges to pay. Sums
from £5 upwards will be accepted.
BAM
UjUruJecL
w
B RANCHES 1 H R O U G H O U T AUSTRALIA
7?/1 ?/7«
■mmm
pH
tV\c
too
t
00 e
rtf'*
l v . c \udfe cu ca usf «" *«’
to®
dcc»l
• tV'® 1
to
■
■
»co«* W *° '°'tiV' e S.s
:■
ness a "
iff.
£/%
°Ol
Ojr e
r e/H
m.
oy e
IH
««
does this to you
Remove it daily as only Pepsodent—the Special
Film-Removing Tooth Paste—does
How to remove film
TN removing film the Pepsodent
laboratories have made a great
discovery. A new cleansing and
polishing material has been, devel-
oped. As a film-removing agent
it stands unsurpassed. Yet in spite
of its high cleansing powers, this
new material is far softer than the
one most commonly used in denti-
frices. Being softer, it cannot
harm precious tooth enamel.
And so, in judging a dentifrice
ask yourself: Does it remove film?
Is it safe? These are your dentist’s
standards. Judged by them, Pep-
sodent stands unique. No other
can give you Pepsodent results.
SAVE MONEY!
Buy Pepsodent in the new
io°/ 0 . larger tubes at the old
prices. You can’t afford to
take chances on cheap “bargain”
brands now that it costs no
more to insist on the special
film-removing Tooth Paste.
PEPSODENT
the Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
N.63c?
didn’t bother you about silly things or
say things that didn’t mean anything
just for the sake of speaking. Like a
hare, running swiftly and in a straight
line, she went to find her father, wormed
herself into the circle of men, and hid
her face against his leg. He did not
speak to her, but he put his great rough
hand on her head, and gently stroked
her dishevelled hair.
T” HINGS were better after that. At
1 the midday dinner she sat near her
father, and stared about the table with
wide, insolent eyes that said, “You’re all
mad, and 1 hate you.” She followed him
about all the afternoon, and when any-
one came for her she threatened to
scream till she fell down dead if they
disturbed her.
At five o’clock those who milked
went home, and the others, after seeing
them off, played rounders in the flat
home-paddock. For a while Eleanor
stood apart. Then a ball came down
near her and rolled away beyond her.
"Fox if, Eleanor,” called someone, and
Eleanor, not waiting to think, turned
and ran swiftly after it. In a second
she had it and threw it wildly. By
chance it went straight to the wicket.
Everyone clapped and shouted, and one
of the men rushed over and, picking her
up, tossed her into the air. Eleanor
laughed, a wild hysterical laugh that cut
the late-afternoon calm and sent echoes
ringing down the reserve.
When the man put her down she went
with him to the ring of players.
“My word, you can run, Eleanor,”
said one.
“And how straight you throw,” said
another.
“I can jump, too,” boasted Eleanor
eagerly, and she sprang .up and down
several times.
The game went on. Eleanor shrieked
when the ball came near her; shrieked
when it went near anyone else ; shrieked
when it hit the wicket. She clasped her
hands, waved them frantically, swung
herself round on her heel, and when
there was nothing else to do contorted
her face and laughed. She was deliri-
ously happy. When she spoke someone
answered; when she laughed someone
laughed with her; when she played
someone watched her ; when she touched
someone's hand the warm, real feel of
it suddenly intoxicated her.
When the sun had gone the grown-
ups went to get tea, while the children
played “See this pretty little girl of
mine” and “Here cpme three Spaniards.’’
The next few hours were just a flash,
At tea Eleanor nearly choked herself
laughing, and coughed and spluttered
many times. Afterwards they sat on the
verandah, and the men told strange tales
which made the little girls shudder, and
then everyone sang: shrill childish i
voices, old cracked ones, masculine ones, !
feminine ones.
WHEN everyone had gone Mother,
Father and Eleanor stood together
on the steps watching the swinging lan-
tern on the last sulky grow dimmer
among the shadows on the reserve.
“I’ll have to start watering the sheep
in the far paddock to-morrow,” said
Father, a little wearily.
“There’ll be a lot of cleaning to-
morrow,” said Mother, suddenly tired.
“To-morrow,” thought Eleanor. “To-
morrow! Why was it there were more
to-morrows than to-day?”
A Yarn for Gardeners:—
A STROLL BY THE
BRICK WORKS
BY FRANK MIDDLEMISS
((II 7ELL!” said Mr. Draper.
YY “Well!” returned Mr. Tout,
advancing from the kerb.
His manner was faintly jocose. Each
week, felt Mr. Draper, it became more
quizzical and easy.
“Been waiting?”
“Couple o’ minutes.”
“Golf links again —or round by the
brickworks?”
Just as Mr. Draper liked, said Mr.
Tout.
The initiative on these occasions had
been left to Mr. Draper from the begin-
ning—since that morning six weeks ago
when, moved by a common indignation,
they had spoken of the delinquencies of
motorists, the rights of other users of
the road. There had been warrant for
their protests. “ Road-hogs ” had been
Mr. Draper’s term ; Mr. Tout’s had been
more forceful —it was a marvel that he
had escaped with only a spattering of his
clothes. That he had was small credit
to the driver, Mr. Draper had agreed.
Too late he. had realised whither this
loquaciousness was leading. Even then,
though the fact that their ways coincided
seemed to commit him to further cour-
tesies, he might have avoided any serious
complication but for the fellow's refer-
ence to sweet-peas.
All men are approachable on one
subject. With some it is economics, with
some the breeding of bull-terriers ; with
Mr. Draper it was sweet-peas. At their
mention life took on a richer texture, was
shot with purpose and meaning ; he
quickened as any artist quickens at the
mention of his art.
Everything had conspired to his seduc-
tion —the almost perfect ignorance of the
man, his seeming appetite for tuition. It
had come as a surprise to Mr. Draper to
find himself back at the tram-shed. He
was still at the peak of his inebriation:
he had felt it no trouble to jot down for
Mr. Tout the proportions of the
manures. He could see it was a study,
Mr. Tout had said on parting. He lived,
it appeared, in Fig-street, not a stone’s-
throw from Mr. Draper. It was not
surprising that the following Sunday
morning their paths should again have
happened to converge.
“S'long as we keep moving,” Mr. Tout
now appended.
He had a habit of these addenda,
these drippings from the first flush of
his thought. He was a sandy-colored
plum p i s h little
man, much
troubled with
catarrh.
He had a posi-
tion at the abat-
toirs, a family and
a six-valve wireless:,
but he had not at
once obtruded these
claims to notice.
His mien had been
modest and sober.
His' comments, if
not profound, had
been sympathetic to the flow of Mr.
Draper’s discourse. Each week, under
the stimulus of his audience, Mr.
Draper had delved deeper into the
wealth of his horticultural experience.
And each week as they parted at the
tram-shed he had been more shocked by
his verboseness, more aware of some
vital loss.
Such expansiveness was quite foreign
to his habit. Even with Mrs. Draper he
was guarded in his pronouncements on
this subject. The time must be pro-
pitious. Things so easily lost their savor j
—a distrait air could rob them of their
bloom.
“Westerly, by the feel of it,” went on
Mr. Tout. “Wife’s cold better?”
“It seems to be mending,” confessed
Mr. Draper.
He had considered making it a pretext
for defaulting in his appointment. A
certain superstition, the thought of some
“ judgment, ” had deterred him. He
wished sometimes he was less fearful in
his fondness for his wife. A woman
not without fault, with no turn for flori-
culture, too often perfunctory in her
approach to the problems it presented,
but amiable and balanced in her outlook,
with some assuasive and stabilising
virtue.
She knew, of course, of his ability—
had she not on her mantel silver proof ?
She saw, had she known it, in this
symbol not merely the tribute of the
Rosebank Horticultural Society but a
solace and inspiration only less precious |
than herself. A fount of sweetness, a j
staff in that drab round to which his
affection had betrayed him, his title to
distinction, the mark that saved him j
from the plebeian—from such as puffed
at this moment at his elbow.
“Tunes up the old bellows!” breathed
Mr. Tout.
It was his staple comment as they
rounded the quarry and came out on
the rise. Mr. Draper pulled up and
waited, received (with an interest that
grew fainter each Sunday) Mr. Tout’s
report on his affliction, marked the line
of firs beyond the dairy, the dip to that !
green patch on which they would
presently emerge. A pleasant place, so
near man’s habitation, scored by a tiny
stream that fed a rush-fringed pool. A
pool half overhung with rock grown with
grey and turquoise lichen, with thinas
ihat skated on its surface and dropped


[>£<) B£LViOtß£ L>^ ! B£ L \/101 RE T>2<J
r
ai
The Ideal
2S.
of all
Well-
Dressed
Men
m
s>v£
SS:
3S
1 1
Suitings and Coatings
BS
MADE BY
MARTIN SONS AND CO. LTD.,
§
OF
HUDDERSFIELD
Who were the Founders of the Worsted
Industry), and are equipped with the greatest
number of Pattern Looms known to th&
trade. Thus
BELVEDERE
RANGES CONTAIN ONLY THE NEWEST
.fiND FINEST CREATIONS IN CLOTH
DESIGN.
THERE IS QUALITY
AND CHARACTER IN
EVERY YARD
OF
BELVEDERE
SUITING
LOOK FOR THE NAME IN THE SELVEDGE
•/?/////////,
of a sudden to its depths, with two of
Mr. Tout’s tobacco-tins now defiling its
pebbled bottom.
‘ ‘ J SEE,” Mr. Tout observed as they
1 proceeded, “this ‘Secateur’ chap has
a bit about manuring. By what he says,
you can’t beat fowl-manure.”
Properly composted, said Mr. Draper,
it was of course beneficial. He spoke
rather stiffly. He had thought he had
done with this matter of poultry drop-
pings, made plain the need for caution,
the risk of damage to the roots. This
“Secateur” person, too, he had flattered
himself he had disposed of, sufficiently
deflated. Strange how people were im-
pressed by anything in print. It was
in such remarks that he found Mr. Tout
so jarring; remarks perhaps not wit-
tingly offensive, but of their nature
contentious, conducive to an emulative
mood each week, Mr. Draper was
aware, his responses grew less gracious,
the display of his authority more prodi-
gal and gross. It was in this mood, on
an impulse almostly instantly regretted,
that he had referred to his letter on
pruning in “Gardening News.”
He had not so far made mention of his
talk over 3BZ —an anxious but memor-
able occasion. True, he had got his notes
a little mixed, nor had he so far been
approached for a sequel to his chat;
but the fact remained that for almost
ten minutes one oppressive February
evening there had monopolised a portion
of the atmosphere one H. Draper on the
subject of sweet-peas. Such a conscious-
ness, properly conserved, was a constant
source of strength, a food for the spirit,
a vivifying cup.
So lofty for a while was the plane of
Mr. Draper’s meditations that he quite
lost track of Mr. Tout’s intentions regard-
ing the removal of his hydrangeas, the re-
sodding of his lawn. They had reached
the road along the cliffs when his com-
panion’s comments again assumed a
sharpness and significance.
“Nothing like concrete,” he was say-
ing. “Bit different to the old road.”
It certainly was, agreed Mr. Draper ;
it was like a plank across the landscape,
its whiteness hurt the eyes. He had liked
it better before it put on this garb of
progress. It had been his favorite walk.
He liked the sound the wind made in the
grass, the feeling of nearness to the sky.
Up here, above the fret and press of
people, things had a simpler tempo, a
sort of rhythm ...
“Same as in America. You've got to
hand it to the Yanks.”
One had to, said Mr. Draper vaguely.
In America, it seemed, according to a
bit that Mr. Tout had been reading, they
graded their traffic according to its
speed. Not, as Mr. Draper knew, that
he had any patience with this craze for
speeding. In his opinion they paid a
pretty stiff price for all these modern
ways of living. Take the matter of diet,
for instance.
It was by way of diet that Mr. Tout
came to the story of his teeth.
He had spoken of them before, but
never so graphically as this morning.
With two miles of open road before him,
he did justice to the subject, from the
time of his suspicion that all was not as
well as might be with his gums to his
fateful submission to the dentist.
In his rude but vivid recital the whole
distressing business came to life. One
saw the first pink fleckings on his brush,
the slow seeping of the poison through
his system, the decline of appetite and'
vigor, the final screwing of his courage.
dTDARK the old anatomy for a
* minute?” It was Mr. Tout’s
regular proposal as they turned into the
lane alongside the brickworks. “Looks
like some bird’s bagged our seat.”
Mr. Draper murmured an assent. He
resented the suggestion that they had
some joint title to the seat, but it
annoyed him that the fellow should
usurp it. It was not a large seat. Two
might sit on it in some dignity and ease ;
three only in uncomfortable propinquity,
after a deferring of behinds.
“Room for a little one?” inquired Mr.
Tout agreeably.
“Should be room f’r a little one,”
allowed the man.
Too late Mr. Draper realised to what
these roguishnesses were a preface.
Here, clearly, was a man well used to
dalliance on public benches, versed in
its etiquette and idiom, mellowed by half
a morning’s sunning, overripe for talk.
A large, loose, leisurely-looking man,
rather stained as to the vest and unpre-
tentious as to his neckwear, whose cast
of brow and pendulousness of cheek gave
him a somewhat bloodhoundish appear-
ance, with his tail already wagging for
a game with Mr. Tout. They were at
once upon terms of the liveliest rapport.
Only one in Mr. Draper’s mood could
have regarded but benevolently their
gambols, maintained such dignified aloof-
ness — forborne, as it were, to fling
the pair a stick. Not that they were in
need of such assistance. They had spied
on their approach the material for a
scamper. They seized on it at once, this
diverting theme of size, returned to it
continually. It served for the best part
of their capers, for allusions ranging
from bathing-suits to beer.
“Talkin’ of swimming,” observed the
bloodhoundish man, “never forget one
time I took the wife to Manly.”
“Sure it was the wife?” perked Mr.
Tout.
And off they went again. To Mr.
Draper’s austere fancy it seemed an age
before he marked a flagging in their
frolics. They had come on the topic of
climate. He remembered one time in
Perth, said the man, when he had slept
for ten nights in nothing but his singlet.
“Telling us now you been to Perth!”
mocked Mr. Tout.
“Buried an aunt there,” returned the
other succinctly. “Went off like that.”
And he conveyed with a snap of his
fingers the speed of his relative's passing.
"Heart?” suggested Mr. Tout.
“ ’Eart,” confirmed the nephew, and
mused awhile on the circumstances of
his errand. “Settled ’er,” he resumed,
in final evidence as to temperature.
“Great one f’r gardening pansies an’
gladioluses an’ that. Gardening an’ pre-
serves. Great ’and at jams an’ pickles.
Them little green fellers in perticler.”
“Gherkins?” suggested Mr. Tout.
“Right as ninepence in the morning,
then just after dinner” ——
Again he made a sign of the sudden-
ness of her ending, brooded on the
memories he had conjured.
“Last meal 1 ’ad there was saddle o’
mutton with some o’ this yeller pickle.”
“Piccalilli?” tried Mr. Tout.
But the man gave neither yea nor nay
to piccalilli just left it to lilt in the
silence, a mark of ellipsis to a conver-
sation apparently expired. There was a
brief resumption when Mr. Tout touched
on the subject of the brickworks:
“Big run now on these biscuit-colored
bricks, by what they tell me.”
It was doubtful for some .time whether
ihe bloodhoundish man would counten-
ance the rumor.
“By what I ’ear,” he at last sufficiently
roused himself to allow.
Mr. Draper took out his watch.
“S’pose we’d better be moving—make
room for other customers,” yawned Mr.
Tout.
“Pay at the counter,” directed the
bloodhoundish man in good-bye.
‘ < D REAK-UP of a bird,” remarked
* Mr. Tout.
Mr. Draper declined to offer any
judgment.
“Give a bob to see ’im pickled.’
Nor to this could Mr. Draper conceive
a temperate retort.
“Place to see gladioluses,” Mr. Tout
pursued, “is in those King-street florists
windows. Of course they're grown by
experts. Tricks o’ the trade, I s’pose,
same as fn your job and mine.”
A painful erubescence suffused Mr.
Draper’s features ; he felt a queer con-
striction of the throat. The man’s tone
was casual and agreeable. To all out-
ward seeming he was unaware of any
invidiousness in his statement that he
had challenged in one word the very basis
of their relations.
“Same as these long-stemmed Iceland
poppies,” he proceeded. “If it wasn’t
for the slugs I’d have some very fairish
poppies. By what this chap ‘Secateur"
says”
But Mr. Draper had been afforded
time to rally, and he had reached
the limit of his forbearance.
“ Tobacco - dust, ” he interpolated
brusquely ; “that's what you want for
slugs.”
"By what this chap”- recommenced
Mr. Tout.
" Tobacco - dust, ” reiterated Mr.
Draper. “Just a sprinkle round each
plant. I’ve part of a packet I’ve no use
for—enough to do you. You could drop
round and pick it up now.”
He supposed he could, said Mr. Tout.
Already he had ringed them from the
marauders, was admiring the benefits of
his foresight. He was not sensible of
any hostile influence about him, of any
motive ulterior to his welfare. He per-
ceived in this suggestion merely the
civility of a neighbor.
Only Mr. Draper knew it for the
stratagem of one who in his pique parts
with the last elements of his pride.
Even as he elaborated its details he
upbraided himself for his weakness.
More than once he had been tempted to
invite the fellow to see his winter
flowerers, but some fastidiousness had
hitherto prevented his sufferance in the
neighborhood of his home. With all his
babblings, he had been at pains to avoid
any note of intimacy in their exchanges ;
of all his disclosures he regretted most
those references partaking of the personal
or domestic, such as the matter of Mrs.
Draper’s tonsils, the fact that her name
was Maud. A subtle discomfort attached
to the memory of these revelations —a
sense of violation, of infidelity almost.
“S’long as I’m not a nuisance,” quali-
fied Mr. Tout.
“Might as well make use of it,” said
Mr. Draper. He would let him wait in
the lounge-room—if he had any eyes in
his head he would notice it for himself.
“Bit of a trophy,” he would explain. Or
“Thing the fellows at the Rosebank
Horticultural Society gave me.”
And now they had turned from Fig-
street into Spring-street, were passing the
convent, old Mrs. Ridley’s, “The Pines,”
“Montana,” “Dorset”
“Next house but one,” announced Mr.
Draper. “One with the white fence.”
Mr. Tout fingered his tie, framed a
final protestation:
"Rather a cheek —wife might be busy.”
But Mr. Draper’s key was already in
the latch.
MRS. DRAPER was indeed busy.
The hall exhaled an odor of
activity ; it was at once evident to Mr.
Draper that she had taken advantage of
his absence to give rein to an impulse
long bridled by reason of her cold. A
sudden misgiving seized him, a thought
of the special vulnerabilities of females.
Had she observed his strictures as to
lifting? It transcended all other issues,
quickened again that consciousness of
recreance. Had she moved the side-
board by herself!
But whatever injury she had invited
she was not as yet disabled. From the
region of the lounge-room came snatches
of humming, a dry and astringent aroma.
She was at the climax of her fever: the
final furbishing and replacing, bright
from their sojourn in the kitchen, of
divers samples of the metalworker’s
cunning her fluted candlesticks, her
rosebowl, her colony of vases, her
Benares jardiniere.
So engaged was she with her chamois
she had not heard his entrance, his foot-
steps b'ehind her in the hall; so engrossed
with her burnishings and breathings
hastening, no doubt, against his coming,
all primed for his reproof; with some-
thing about her, had she known it, always
potent to disarm him ; with more grey
now than auburn in her hair; no longer
a girl, but how childlike in her diligence,
with the beam from the hall fanlight


ẃ
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
to
JAVA
At your request we shall be
pleased to -forward folder
No. 61.
This land, of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs — ; colourful
bazaars—the land where East
meets West. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
i
p p
uMI 10
1 £ HOLE
In ypvdz pocket/
NLESS you deliberately set your-
self to save a little each week, or
each month, usually your earnings
are used up completely. Without stinting
yourself of any necessary thing, try and
put aside a little (however little!) regu-
larly. You’ll be most pleasantly astonished
how even trifling—but regular—savings
mount up.
If you don’t provide for the future —for
possible ill-health or other contingencies
and needs—you have a hole in your habits.
Stitch up that hole with a Savings Account
and know the safety and satisfaction of
having “money in the bank.”
commonuienLTH
SAUM6S BflllK OF AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES AND POST OFFICE
AGENCIES EVERYWHERE.
VL
gilding the scrap of cobweb on her ear.
How innocent in her duplicity in com-
parison with his deviousness!
With a satisfied sigh she lifted from
the table the piece that she was polishing,
raised it high before her into the shaft
of sunshine, into his line of vision, on
to the very centre of the mantel. A silver
cup. inscribed
But you could not read its lettering
for its brilliance.
It was as if in its effulgence a hurt in
Mr. Draper, a vexation he had nurtured,
had dissolved. So exalted for a moment
were his emotions that he quite lost sight
of his duty as a host, so full was he of the
feelings of a husband, of the felicity of
his choice.
A woman not entirely without flaw,
with no fioricultural instinct, outwardly
casual sometimes in her responses to his
interests, but how jealous in her heart
for his repute! How solicitous for the
proof of his achievement, how alert to
speck or blemish! So precisely must
she place it, she did not hear him retrace
his steps to the front door, close it softly
behind him.
Mr. Tout detached his attention from
the horizon.
“Sorry,” said Mr. Draper. “I remem-
ber now I put it in the toolshed. Don’t
look at the garden next week-end 1
really must get busy. No more Sunday
toddles, I’m afraid.”
HIS tone was genial and crisp; he
spoke as a man restored and re-
established with himself; a man skilled
beyond the common run of men, urbane
but firm in his assurance, who needs no
grudging witness to his gifts.
"Champion wrestler ’ He Sneers . ' He Couldn’t
Throw Off a Cold.’”
THE RIVAL SHOWS
BY CON DREW
WHEN two rival boxin’ shows strike
the same town there’s liable to
be trouble; especially if there
ain’t enough customers in the dump to
go round. I had a sample of that one
summer when 1 was tourin’ New South
Wales with a team.l had collected in
Sydney. We had a wrestler with us, a
real blown-in-the-bottle, first-class mat-
man. We’d started at Maitland and
had done most of the towns on the
road to Scone when about ten o'clock
one mornin’ we lobbed in a bit of a town
near Aberdeen.
We got the shock of our lives when
we seen that Joe Morgan was showin’
there with his team of boxers and
wrestlers. He had been workin’ down
from the Queensland border and had
lobbed there two days before us. There
certainly wasn’t room for two boxin’
shows in the town, but we meant to get:
our share of whatever was goin’. I
figured it out that the locals had seen
Morgan’s boys and would be lookin’
for somethin’ fresh. Besides, our turn-
out had it on his for size and up-to-
dateness.
Well, we put in a busy mornin’ riggin'
the tent, and after lunch I took a stroll
up town, for there was one or two things
1 wanted to do. When I got back the
boys had fixed up the ring and seatin’
accommodation, and everythin’ was ready
for the night.
1 had a fine upstandin’ bunch of lads
with me, and when I lined them up on
the board at eight o'clock the crowd
turned up in force to watch proceedin's.
We could see Morgan’s show on a block
of land across the street. He’d opened
up for business, too, but there didn’t
seem to be more than a dozen or so
around the joint. Morgan was addressin’
his clients, but what he was sayin’ I
couldn’t hear.
Well, I started off with the usual spiel
about the merits of the mealtickets. That
took about ten minutes. Then I intro-
duced them all. I had a pretty good
line of talk, let me tell you, and I could
see that the crowd was impressed. Just
as I’d started the usual ballyhoo about
our brilliant wrestler Boreo there was a
stir in the crowd, and Morgan pushed
his way to the front. He had four or
five of his team with him, so I reckoned
he had closed down.
“Oh,” says Morgan, takin’ an eyeful
of the business. “The only show on
earth, eh?”
“You’ve said it,” I come back.
"You re a man of keen discernment.”
"You ain’t too keen on the uptake,’
snaps Morgan.
“No?”
“No, you ain’t.” says Morgan. “Other-
wise you'd have given this town a miss
when you seen that there was a show
here.”
“As far as that goes,” says I, “we’d
included the town on our list two
months ago when you were tourin’ in
Queensland. Anyway,” I adds, “the road
is open to anyone and there ain’t no
close season.” With that I went on with
the ballyhoo about Boreo.
MORGAN stood quiet for half a
minute, and then he Jets out a laugh.
“Champion wrestler!” he sneers. "He
couldn’t throw off a cold.”
The crowd starts to snigger and 1
steps to the edge of the platform.
"See here, Morgan,” says I. “If you’ve
come here thinkin’ to crack up my show
say so straight out and we'll know how
we stand.”
“Sayin’ that your big gorilla there
can’t wrestle ain’t crackin’ up your show,
is it?” says Morgan.
“It don’t go to help us none,” says I.
“Anyway, I don’t see nothin’ in the
immediate landscape that he couldn’t
throw.” And I looked at Morgan’s star
grappler Harris, who was standin’ right
alongside him.
“Oh, don’t you?” come back Morgan.
“And suppose I prodooce a grappler that
he can't throw?”
“If you can do that,” says I, “the
bloke can earn the usual fiver by stayin’
six minutes with Boreo here.”
“And fill your tent for you,” jeers
Morgan. “I’ve got a better’ idea than
that.”
“Then spill it quick,” says I, “and let
us get on with the business.”
“Right,’ says Morgan. "You fancy
your gorilla, don’t you?”
“I do.”
“Well, I’ll back Harris for twenty quid
to beat him in a fifteen-minute bout,”
says Morgan. “Arc you game to take
it on?”
“It’s a bet,” says I. “Take him right'
inside.”
Maybe the crowd didn’t
make a dive to get inside and secure
a Talk about a cattle rush ; it
wasn’t in it. It was a good job I had
my team well trained, otherwise the
crowd would have burst the entrance
barriers. As it was it took us all our
time to keen them in check and get the
sugar from them. We got them in even-
tually, though, and when the last man
was in there wasn’t even standin’ room.
We’d let Morgan and Harris in
through our dressin’-room entrance.
Harris had come over from Morgan’s
line-up board with an overcoat thrown
over his wrestlin’ togs, so he had only
to take it off and he was ready.
I took a close view of Harris when he
squatted in his corner. He was a dur-
able lookin’ gent, with splendid chest
and limbs, and 1 knew that he had
bumped off a few near-champions in
the wrestlin' wigwams in Sydney. He
had about half a stone on my bloke, but
that didn’t worry me much, for I knew
exactly what Boreo could do.
There was a quarter of an hour’s
debate as to who should referee the go.
Finally we appointed the local auction-
eer. He d done a bit of amateur
wrestlin’ himself, and appeared to know
the rules. When everythin’ was ready
we hooked the chairs out of the rins
and the ref. sent the grapplers into battled
Whew! How them fellers tore in at
one another. The affrav hadn’t been
goin’ two seconds before Boreo snapped
on a waist hold and threw Harris clean
over his shoulder. Harris had hardly
hit the floor when he was up again and
had got a headlock on our baboon. It
was mighty near to a strangle-hold. Jet
me tell you, but Boreo didn’t mind. With
a mighty heave he got his head loose
and slammed Harris face down on the
mat. He was on top of him in a wink,
but Harris was a quick thinker. Reach-
ing back he grabbed Boreo by the back
of the neck and heaved him across the
ring.
As soon as the pair were on their
feet again Boreo clamped on a double
wristlock. Down they went on the mat,
with Harris underneath. The fall broke
my boy’s hold, and there was a lively
two or three minutes while they tore at
each other on the canvas.
It was a ding-dong go without a doubt,
and there were no beg-pardons. Boreo
was bleeding from a cut above the eye
and the side of Harris’s dial was swollen.
Several times, as the bout progressed, the
referee cautioned the men for butting,
but they were too intent on the business
on hand to take any notice. The pace
was too fast to last, and I knew that
somethin’ would have to happen soon.
It did, and it came with startlin’ sudden-
ness.
Boreo, who had been havin’ slightly
the better of things, had just back-
slammed his man, and Harris got to his
feet lookin’ a bit the worse for wear.
Boreo reached over to repeat the dose,
but Harris ducked and grabbed his wrist.
With a sudden wrench Harris jerked my
boy towards him. Then, changin’ the
grip like lightnin’, he caught him under
the armpits and swung him round.
Three times he swung him round for
all the world as you’d swing a cat. Sud-
denly he let him go, and Boreo sailed
over the ropes like a shoo tin’ star. He
landed on his back ten feet away from
the ring and stayed there. The affray
was over.
The laugh was on us, and after we
had collected Boreo the crowd went out
chucklin’. They'd seen a real good go
for their money and were satisfied.
So was las far as that goes. Boreo
had strained his shoulder a bit, but it
was worth it. Morgan had raked in
good money by backin’ his man at the
ringside. It was a fine cut-up, let me
tell you, when we added the gate-money
to it. Morgan and me had been friends
for years.


rj^CAREER
f OR
..rJSU YOU
J^STRA LUiIf
f?
Havs*
/ RAHWAY
/ SQWAH*
# SYOHSY /
1
* :
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW
Take that 35-cwt. load off your mind/
fNMBBHfIiiMMMMftpuTI it on < model
C-30
• • •
. ■ * AV/AVAvVVVV \i: -
the steely-strong
six-cylinder
International
truck .. .
Si
m
//
N
vv
\ \
4.4
*Kf4
LK4
international
4.4
'^sSS
Si
ss
A
* »
■ -
<ooo«S»A
fUSi
>s
K* <•
m
R
*9»
:
V
#: # > 0
V\
m
♦V* v
VTA
is: •
Sixty per cent, of truck-users today require this truck. On long runs or
little street-to-street trips—fully loaded or empty—lnternational Model C-30
always does an economical job ... there's no waste metal in the sturdy frame
—every ounce of it counts for load bearing and strain resistance . . . the
V-shaped radiator and back-swept bonnet and cab design give just the
adequate amount of streamlining . . . The fore-and-aft balance . . . the flexible,
semi-elliptic springs . . . make C-30 a delightful truck to drive anywhere.
Come and see it—Let us give you a demonstration.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
? n on BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Low price.
35-cwt. capacity (55-cwt. including
body and payload).
♦
Six-cylinder engine.
78.5 horsepower.
Hardened exhaust-valve seat
inserts.
♦
Two wheelbases 133 and 157
inches.
•
Hydraulic brakes.
Full-floating rear axle.
Sold and serviced by
International Harvester Company.
CHASSIS PRICES from
(plus tax)
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o} a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken ie
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.McC.: Whatever doubts you may have on
the subject, there is abundant evidence that
Robert Emmet did speak at his trial. The
Encyc. Brit, quotes half a dozen authorities of
the period to show that “he defended himself
in a speech of remarkable eloquence”
R.L.D.: You’ve struck a mare's nest. R. L.
Stevenson's Strange Story of Dr. Jckyll and
Mr. Hyde was written and published in 1884,
five or six years probably before the author had
ever heard of the Rev. Dr. Hyde, of Honolulu
....J.8.: We liked the bird too well to wring
its neck 1.M.: The final rhyme grated
R.U.: Twelve lines of tameness R.J.F.: The
covering letter is better than the poem
C.N.: Full of creaks and jolts T.W.E.: Not
the paper that counts, but what’s on it....
E.J.C.: Don’t want any more “gems” like that,
And we can’t send reasons for refusal by post.
. ...J.S.W.: Neither quite rings the be 11....
J.S.C.: —
Give me the bush beneath a star-bright sky
In which the Southern Cross rides high.
Bowl in, son, and help yourself... .A.J.W.:
Can’t foresee any future for a bard who tries
to rhyme “Babel” with “rebel” and “reward”
with “forward” K.E.: The subject, as you
claim, is full of interest, but the verse is packed
even more tightly with blemishes.... R.C.: The
sonnet, apart from some technical errors, is on
the mawkish side; the other piece lacks punch,
N.H.: The most amazing screed we have
grappled with for years:—
.1 had a dream.
Many times since I have asked myself if it was
merely a dream.
After wading through 12 foolscap pages of free
verse seeking to answer the question we should
say it was the sort of nightmare that waits on
Welsh rabbit and pickled onions... .R.C.:
Quite a good ending, but there’s too much ex r
planatory preamble... .E.G.; “Ode to a Gar-
bage Tin” a trifle too pedantic M.R.E.8.:
Far too long and not strong enough... .M.T.:
Too little in it E.E.: Love story rather
100 fragile... .W.G.H.: Needs more racy treat-
ment... .R.K.D.: Theatrical and illogical....
G.G.; Off our beat. Also, please double-space
your type.... J.A.D.: Just a schoolday inci-
dent S.W.P.: An old stunt, and not told
very we 11... .E. M.T.; You've said U....W.C.:
If that is only partly fiction, we prefer it wholly
50....R.R.: After a gallon of potheen we held
a wake over that Irish drama burlesque
J.N.: Glimpsed a few grins in it, but not up
to standard; avoid over-use of puns....
A.C.H.: Weakest you've turned in for a while.
. ...C.C.: Nothing wrong with your sentiments,
but doesn’t fit among the stories... .H.H.;
Brightest bit was “his certaintaneous captor.”
1.M.: You make that boneheaded wife a
bit 100 maddening... .N.D.Y.: Economists
might revel in it, but it would pain most
readers J.R.: Skits don't quite make the
grade E.J.; Stood tw'o readings before it
went 0ut....G.R.; “Retribution” the best ol
the sextet, and it falls a lot short ol publica-
tion standard.. . .E.M.-H.: Like most spin-us-
a-yarn-Tom stories, the tale is weak... .S.C.:
Character limning not bad; plot nebulous....
J.M.: Resubmission hasn't shown sufficient
improvement... .S.R.; Snap ending has a weak
spring... .B.McK.: “Cold Feel” can't be
parked on u 5.... Astolat: Style good, but you
take too long to say little.. ..8.C.: “Pork’
indigestible, and the theme touches thin ice
R.p. : You told that yarn about fruit as if you
we re unconvinced yourself S.G.S.: Its sheer
audacity nearly got it in—try again on those
lines Cappy Ricks (Mauritius): Thanks for
goodwill expressions; regret we have no niche
for two sketches D.R.: Country slapstick
not up Sash: Just a mild little fishing yarn.
....ELM.: Nicely done, but rather slender....
D.B. : Idea not strong enough to carry detective
story C.W.P.: All three miss; might place
elsewhere.
.
ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
T °
CORKboI UNUbNIa.
A.J.8.: Couldn't decide whether they were
head studies or portraits of cabbages.... L. f.:
Wild and woolly drawing and very ancient
wheeze... .R.M,: Is the new hand an autogyro,
floating there above the dead bullock?
A.D.: Drawing gave us eyestrain and gag set
us yawning L.H.M.: Both show -promise;
make your figures less statuesque C.D.:
You'd do a perish if you had to depend on
art... .A.S.G.: Effort of sozzled clubman to
climb into dog-kennel failed to amuse....
P.R.: The picture should tell the. story
K. 8.: Lines need to flow more smoothly, and
jokes could do with some nourishment H.S. :
Trade-war cartoon too involved; also badly
drawn T.N.: Heard that in recent Mae West
picture... .E.D.: Except for the feet he doesn t
look like a copper W.H.K.: Lessons needed.
N.R.C.: Couldn't recognise the people
you claim to have caricatured... .P. 8.: Figures
seem to have been immersed in a bog before
being run through a mangle; gags have
whiskers... .G.H.: You should know that we
do not require colored sketches... .A.8.J.: You
fall down on anatomical details... .W.L.: Gag
about the small boy fishing on a Sunday and
parson was pensioned off years ago... .E.S.P.:
Keep away from those harsh diagonal strokes.
C.W.: Hurried back to the canefields
whence it came... .M.T.: An older park-dosser
made that identical remark in our pages years
ago... .N.S.R.: Drawing and gag made us edge
the w.p.b. a little nearer... .8.G.: Binghi is
not civilised enough for such subtle and sophis-
ticated retorts; also, you can’t draw him....
A.L.S.: Ended among the stragglers... .C.N.:
This week’s worst.
“Hotham”: H. Francis, formerly secre-
tary of Hawthorn-East Melbourne, has
written interestingly about cricket in Cali-
fornia. He says the game is played regu-
larly there ; in one competition, which in-
cludes Los Angeles, there are 13 clubs—
and many good grounds. One of these
is named after Aubrey Smith, the movie
actor, who as “Round-the-corner” Smith
was one of England’s leading amateur
bowlers in days gone by. He was seen
in Australia as captain of Shrewsbury’s
1887-88 team, when he took 98 wickets
at 4.38.
* * * *
With a sale of 5000 copies,
a book reaches the saturation point of
Maoriland's buying public, according to
John Brodie, who, under the name of
John Guthrie, has written two M.L.
novels, The Little Country and So They
Began. Maoriland journalists in Mel-
bourne and Sydney met John Brodie
when he was returning to New Plymouth
after seven months in Britain, where he
studied the English setting he proposes
t 0 use f or book. For real
financial success he says the M.L. and
Australian author should attempt to cap-
D as well as
ture part of the Brittsh market as wen a
that °f his own countiy ,
short stones and articles are necessary
if earnings are to exceed those or me
average office boy. Brodie, by the way,
radio’d two front-page stories to
gy dne y “Daily Telegraph” from the
Ormonde when it had the fire,


MEHor« s u h easF
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write:
Rev. WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercomiminieatirig Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.15 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.15 pan,).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
ESS
TRAIN SICK
Comfort
Speed
in
il
Moth
s
s
e
SEASICK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid contusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
w
1922, £600; July, 1925, £875; April, 1930, £744;
August, 1931, £706; December, 1932, £670.
* * * *
(1) After what period of time does a patent
expire ? (2) How can l ascertain the owner of
a patent, the number of which 1 know? (3)
Is a patent effective for one particular purpose
only? That is, if Jim Smith has a patent and
Bill Jones thinks he could use it for an alto-
gether different purpose from that for which it
is marketed, can Smith force Jones to pay any
price he likes for use of it, or is there a tribunal
which would establish a fair royalty? —3l9s.
(1) Sixteen years from date of application,
unless through non-payment of renewal fees it
becomes void earlier. (2) The published official
records of the Patent Office disclose the name
of the registered proprietor; any patent attor-
ney can supply the information, or the Patent
Office, Canberra, will do so on payment of
fee. (3) It depends on the wording of the
patent specification; the Court has power to
determine what is a reasonable royalty. It is
difficult to answer this question satisfactorily
without a specific instance.
* * * :!-.
(1) What are the provisions in respect of bag
Hunt and rod license required of trout anglers
in the latest N.S.W. Fisheries Bill ? (2) Has
any provision been made for more effective
measures of patrolling trout streams? —3lß4.
(1) The maximum number of trout which
may be taken by any one person in any one
day is 10. The open season for trout com-
menced on October 1, but it was not neces-
sary for trout anglers to take out a license at
the outset. The Act will, however, be in opera-
tion at an early date, from when it will be an
offence for any person to take or attempt
to take trout unless he is the holder of a
license to take such fish. The fees which will
be charged cannot be disclosed at this stage.
(2) The Act provides for the appointment of
honorary vigilance committees in any locality
where it is considered that the effective super-
v-'-;on of fisheries renders such a step desir-
able.
»s * %
How was the construction of the Australian
East-West railway financed ? —2948.
The capital cost of the Trans-Australian rail-
way to June 30, 1936, was £8,000,000, of which
£1,400,000 was provided from revenue and the
balance of £6,600,000 from Works Loan Fund;
£5,300,000 of this represented investments of
the Notes Fund in Commonwealth securities
and the balance represented investments of other
Commonwealth funds.
:!: * *
(1) Average words per minute for shorthand
typed words; also record rate ? (2) Average
words per minute by linotype operator; also
record or exceptionally fast rate ? (3) Average
words per minute by public speakers? —2649.
(1) Forty words per minute, reading back
from shorthand notes, is the examination speed
at the majority of business colleges. Figures
regarding record not available. (2) A good
average rate would be about 33 words per
minute; an exceptionally fast operator might
do 50. (3) Average is about 160 words per
minute, but some fluent speakers reach 400
words per minute when in full flow.
# % Jfc
(1) Are proceedings in the Queensland Parlia-
ment reported verbatim ? (2) How many re-
porters are there on the “Hansard” staff? (3)
By whom are they appointed, and how do they
become eligible ? (4) How do the newspapers
get their Pdrliamentary pews? —3loß.
(1) Yes, both in House and Committee. (21
Five to six. (3) The Governor-in-Council
makes appointments. The members of “Han-
sard” staff gain their experience as press re-
porters or official law reporters. (4) They have
their own reporters in the press gallery.
* * *
What is the law concerning working hours
in the sugar industry in Queensland ? —2775.
Since 1933 the Sugar Industry Award has
prescribed 44 hours per week, for all employees
in the industry.
* * * *
What are the conditions governing the grant-
ing of a maternity allowance ? When and
where should application be made in Sydney ?
—3164.
A maternity allowance is payable when the
child is born in Australia and is a viable child,
and where the income of a claimant and her
husband for the 12 months prior to the date of
child’s birth did not exceed £221. Where
claimant is the mother of previous children
who are living and under the age of 14 years,
the income limit is increased by £l3 in respect
of each child to a maximum limit of £312
(seven children and over). The amount of the
allowance is £4 10s. where there is no previous
surviving issue and £5 where there is any such
surviving issue. Claim for the allowance must
be sent to the Deputy-Commissioner of Mater-
nity Allowances, Sydney, within three months
after the birth. Application forms may be
obtained from the Registrar of Births when
registering the .birth, or from the post office.
* ft ft =:<
(1) Particulars of the life of the Scottish
patriot William Wallace ? (2) What was his
height and weight? —2364.
Born 1270, the second son of William Wal-
lace of Elderslie, in Renfrewshire. During his
student days he was outlawed for killing an
Englishman in a quarrel. Gathering a band of
followers, including many nobles, he eventually
drove the English from Scotland (1297), and
was elected Guardian of the Kingdom. In
1298 he was defeated by Edward T. at Fal-
kirk. Terms were made with other Scottish
chieftains, but Wallace was expressly excepted,
and a price was put on his head. Through
treachery, he was captured, taken to London
and there executed with great cruelty. (2) No
exact particulars, but evidently well above
average height, well proportioned, of handsome
features and great strength, endurance and
agility.
* * * *
Information regarding Julian Thomas, in-
cluding date and place of birth, where educated,
rank in Confederate army and battles in which
engaged, date of arrival in Australia, particulars
of journalistic activities, date and place of
death and where buried ? —3099.
Julian Thomas was the assumed name of
Stanley James. Born about 1840 at Walsall,
Staffordshire, the only son of Green James,
solicitor, he was educated at Walsall High
School. He entered his father’s office as
articled clerk, but after a quarrel went to
London, dabbled in journalism, and spent some
time with the London and South Wales Rail-
way. In 1870 he went to Paris, was immediately
arrested as a spy and imprisoned. Later he
was Paris correspondent for several London
papers. He changed his name to Julian Thomas,
and went to America in 1873, some years after
the Civil War. There he married a wealthy
widow, but left her and came to Australia in
1876, joined the staff of “Argus” and special-
ised in investigation of public institutions. In
1877 he moved to Sydney and joined “Sydney
Morning Herald” staff, doing special work in
New Caledonia. After revisiting the U.S.A.,
he returned to Melbourne, collaborated with
Alfred Dampier in a play venture, rejoined
the “Argus,” and was later with the “Age.”
He was found dead in bed at his lodgings,
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Sept. 10, 1896, and buried
in Melbourne General Cemetery under name of
Julian Thomas, his tombstone also bearing his
famous pen-name, “The Vagabond.” His work
is distinguished by vigorous English and fine
humanitarianism, and many of his publications
are in the Mitchell Library. A fairly detailed
account of his life is to be found in an article
by J. Butler Cooper in “Life,” 1/1/T2.
* * s{c Jjc
Biographical particulars about Ada Crossley ?
—3204.
Born at Taradale, Gippsland, Vic., March 3,
1874, the daughter of Edward Wallis Crossley.
Studied in Melbourne with Signor Zelman and
Madame Fanny Simonsen. First stage appear-
ance was with the Philharmonic Society, 1892.
Going to London, she studied under Charles
Santley, and in Paris under Marchesi, making
her first London appearance at the Queen’s
Hall, 1895. In addition to many concert en-
gagements, she appeared at all the principal
oratorio festivals in the United Kingdom, and
was a favorite singer with Queen Victoria and
Queen Alexandra. She revisited Australia, 1903-
04, and toured South Africa and the U.S.A. In
1905 she married Dr. Francis F. Muecke, for-
merly of Adelaide. During the war Madame
Crossley interested herself in the welfare of
Australian soldiers; and she helped many Aus-
tralian singers in England. She died in London,
October 17, 1929.
& ;Jc
Particulars concerning Dr. Thomas Hood,
including reason for his visit to Australia ? —■
3268.
Thomas Wood, Mus. Doc., M.A., was born
Chorley, Lancashire, November 28, 1892, only
child of Captain Thomas Wood, R.N.R.; and
was educated at Exeter College, Oxford, where
he took his musical degree. He was Director
of Music at Tonbridge School from 1919 to
1924, and has travelled extensively. His visit
to Australia in 1930-31 was in connection with
examinations of the Royal College of Music,
of which he is an honorary associate. He com-
posed the incidental music to Clemence Dane’s
play “Will Shakespeare,” and, in addition to
other musical compositions and books dealing
with music, is the author of Cobbers, which
deals with his Australian visit, and the just-
published True Thomas, which also deals in
part with his rambles about this continent.
* * O
(1) What was the “brehon law” in relation
to Ireland ? (2) Has the surname Breheny
any connection with it? —3178.
(1) Brehon is an old Irish word meaning
Judge, and the brehons constituted a class of
professional lawyers or petty Judges, the occu-
pation becoming in later times a close pre-
serve for the members’ pupils or sons. They
administered the brehon law, which was a code
of legal rules compounded from the ancient
pagan laws, together with the Scriptural and
canon laws. The practice was in existence
until the time of James I-, when it was abol-
ished. (2) Not known.
* * * *
What English poet used the phrase “Great
honors are great burdens,” and can you quote
the remainder of the stanza in which it
appears ? —3236.
Ben Jonson in “Catiline,” Act 111, Scene 1,
where Cicero speaks as follows:
Great honors are great burdens, but on whom.
They are cast with envy, tie doth bear two loads.
His cares must still be double to his joys,
In any dignity; where, if he err,
He finds no pardon ; and for doing well
A most small praise, and that wrung- out by force.
* * »J» *
English translation of die following sentence
in German, which occurs in a book I am read-
ing: “ ‘O was miissen wir der Kite he Gottes
halber leiden,’ rief der Abt, als Him, das
gebratene Huhn die Finger versengte” ? —3193.
“ ‘Oh, what we must suffer for the sake of
God’s Church!’ as the Abbot said when the
roasted fowl burnt his fingers.”
** • *
A few details concerning the loss of the
Schomberg on her first voyage to Australia ?
3240.
The Schomberg, 2600 tons, a wooden clipper
ship of the Black Ball line, commanded by
Capt. James N. Forbes, was stranded on her
maiden voyage from London to Melbourne,
December 27, 1855, about 35 miles west of
Cape Otway. Weather was calm, but there
was a strong current. The vessel broke up a
few days later; no lives were lost.
Brief Answers.
R.N.: (1) “Chu-Chin-Chow” had a run of
2238 continuous performances in London. (2)
“Charley’s Aunt” had a run of 1466; “The
Beggar’s Opera” 1463 A.J.W.: The native
name for Hunter’s Hill, Sydney, is Moocoo-
boola... .S.M.: (1) Nellie Stewart died at
Mosman, Sydney, on June 21, 1931. (2) She
was the daughter of Richard Stewart, actor-
manager, and his wife, the widow of James
Guerin 8.L.T.: No J.M.: A. C. Campe
and Cos., Sydney-arcade, George-street, or
J. H. Smyth, Ltd., 121 a Castlereagh-street—both
Sydney... .M.F.: The National Herbarium,
Botanic Gardens, Sydney, has no record of
any plant known as “Falls-flower” in the Ade-
long (N.S.W.) district. If you forward a
specimen to the Herbarium you will be
given the required information J.G.C.:
(1) Yes. (2) H.S.G. (Australia) Pty., 67-75
Roden-street, West Melbourne. (3) Approxi-
mately 151 b. of charcoal. (4) As there are
no grates through which sparks and cinders
can fall out, the risk of fire is no greater than
in a lorry burning liquid fuel 0.T.: Prob-
ably a joint tenancy would be the more suit-
able for your purpose. Joint tenants have one
estate in the whole and none in any particular
part. In such a tenancy if one joint tenant
dies the estate goes to the survivors, and the
last of these takes the whole. This would in-
volve little expense beyond the cost of drawing
up the original settlement. As stated by your
solicitor, the mother would have to pay probate
duty on the value of the estate settled
T.R.: From Sir Walter Scott’s The Heart
of Midlothian. It reads: “Where the heart is
prepared for evil, opportunity is seldom long
wanting” G.D.C.: The “Lone Hand” was
first published in May, 1907 J.M.: Com-
plete details of syllabus in all subjects may
be obtained from the Board of Surveyors,
Lands Dept., Sydney. Certain exemptions are
allowed in respect of University on Technical
College work, and, in some cases, of practical
experience.... J.E.: (1) An 8x field glass is suit-
able for general purposes, especially sports and
touring. At a long range a telescope is pref-
erable. (2) The larger field glass, owing to the
increased size of the lenses, has greater light
capacity and is consequently suitable for dull
light or foggy conditions. (3) Prismatic glasses
are usually of higher power L.S.A.: Get in
touch with Australasian Massage Association,
185 Elizabeth-street, Sydney A.G.: Sean
O’Faolain, Irish novelist, was born in 1900.
and educated at National University of Ireland
and Harvard. Publications: Lyrics and Satires
front Tom Moore (1929), Midsummer Night
Madness (1932), Life Story of De Valera (1933),
A Nest of Simple Folk (1933), Constance
Markievicz (1934), There’s a Birdie in the
Cage (1934) and Bird Alone (1936)... .E.L. :
Guide to Theatrical Make-up, by Charles S.
Parsons (55.)... .C.E.: It’s a polite way of
saying “plum in the mouth” C. 8.: Helen
Hayes was born at Washington, D.C., U.S.A.,
October 10, 1902. She made her first stage
appearance as a child of six in a pantomime,
and commenced her film career in 1931 in the
“Sin of Madelon Claudet.” Address: C/o Gil-
bert Miller Office, 124 West 43rd-street, New
York, N.Y., U.5.A.... .A.J.R.: In Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) district South Australian standard
time is generally observed: 142-j-deg. of east
longitude, or 9 hours 30 minutes east of Green-
wich. ... A.P.L.: Nubingerie means “young
man”; Weabra, “camp”; Kulkerung, “a river
crossing”; and Erbrai, “a big mountain” —
all are N.S.W. abo. place-names C.K.:
The Australian Authors and Artists’ Handbook.
1937, will be published by Richard Geraint,
Box 2455 MM, G.P.0., Sydney; price, 3s. 2d.
posted... .N.F.H.: Conflict Group is about 70
miles eastward of Samarai. Well planted in
coconuts.... R.R.: Write District Naval Officer.
Naval Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff, Syd-
ney... .G.W.F.: The difference between East-
ern Zone standard time, U.S.A., and N. S.
Wales standard time is 15 hours. Sydney noon
would be 9 p.m. previous day in Eastern Zone,
U.5.A..... W.P.: Archer won the first two Mel-
bourne Cups. In 1861, carrying 9st. 71b., he
ran the distance in 3min. 52sec. Next year he
carried lOst. 21b. in 3min. 47sec A.R.D.:
No tax is payable on that amount G.S.:
Broom-holders on this principle are not new.
but yours may have special advantages. Get
in touch with Australian Broom Cos., North-
cote, Vic., and Lee Manufacturing Cos., North
Fitzroy, Vic L.R.: Write Tanners and
Leather Dressers’ Union, Room 52, Trades
Hall, Goulburn-street, Sydney... .8.L.: Scrub
the portion with a strong disinfectant.. . .A. 8.:
Particulars regarding the Hammond electric
organ sold to the A.B.C. can be obtained from
George Fincham and Sons, 2 Stawell-street,
Richmond, Vic W.N.: George Grossmith,
the actor, died on June 7, 1935; age, 61....
T.L.: Lord Mayor’s Day in London is on
November 9of each year... .L.M.D.: Repre-
sentatives elected from the various States to the
House of Representatives in 1934: N.S.W. 28,
Vic. 20, Q’land 10, South Aus. 6, West Aus. 5,
Tas. 5. Additionally, one representative of the
Northern Territory elected to attend and par-
ticipate in debates without having the right of
vote... . D.8.A.: The Administration of Estates,
by L. A. Brook arid L. A. Whitfeld, Law Book
Cos. of Australasia, 140 Phillip-street, Sydney;
12s. 6d L. 8.: Mrs. C. M. Edgerley, hon.
sec., Bronte Society, Bronte Parsonage, Haworth,
near Keighley, Yorkshire, England W.H.1.:
A certificate of marriage in England can be
obtained at Somerset House, London, on pay-
ment of fees amounting to ss. Id. To this it
would be necessary to add postage and ex-
change. The money could be remitted by a
post office order. Full particulars of the in-
formation required should be given H.M.:
At Port Hunter (N.S.W.) the average rise and
fall of ordinary tides is 3ft. 3in., and of spring
tides sft. 4+in., the greatest range being 6ft. sin.
The highest tide registered was 7ft. 4in. in
May, 1898... .C.A.M.G.: Coleman Quick-Lite
Cos. of Australia, 500 KenLsffeet, Sydney, stock
the spare parts W.J.F.: Apply to the Har-
bors and Marine Dept., Edward-street, Brisbane.
for a copy of the regulations J.D.: Water
Diviners and Their Methods, by Henri Mager,
and The Divining Rod, by Sir W. Barrett and
T. Besterman (Many others mailed.)


FINISHED YOUR FENCING ALREADY?
W
C2EZ--
i!rv
S.
1
•xT,-
r
=t!
P
<4
FINISHED
EIGHT DAYS AGO!
W
The speed of finishing a fencing job with “Cyclone”
comes as a complete surprise to people who are not
accustomed to this fence. Erecting “Cyclone” takes
a quarter or less of the time needed for an ordinary
fencing job. Straining the fence tightly is easy with
the “Cyclone” strainer, lent free.
The resulting job is the strongest and most perma-
nent fence of all. The wire is HARD steel wire,
unbreakable by beast, wear or weather. The fence
follows any rise or fall of the ground without buck-
ling, twisting or breaking. It is the only fence that
will stand re-rolling and re-erecting.
Every length is guaranteed from top to bottom and
from end to end.
“Cyclone” is not a type of fence, but is our registered trademark, and
can only be legally' applied to fences manufactured by us.
Qiclone
RING-LOCK FENCE
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
The Grace Building, 77 York Street, Sydney.
And at .Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
Queensland Agents: Sew Zealand Loan & .Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
“ Cyclone ” pro-
ducts are obtain-
able from your
local distributor.
For fully illus-
trated catalogue
of all types of
“ Cyclone” gates
and other pro-
ducts write to the
“ Cyclone” Com-
pany. The cata-
logue will be sent
free and post-free.
wCLO|^
f/
&
7C
VP
ŵ
ẁ
Foremost in the
Metropolis
THE
TELEGRAPH
Queensland’s Premier Newspaper
Announces
A Unique
Achievement
Latest circulation figures
show beyond all doubt that
“The Telegraph” predomi-
nates in the whole of the
Greater Brisbane Area.
No wonder that
Local Advertisers prefer
“The Telegraph. ,)
Queensland Owned and Controlled.
Greatest in Greater Brisbane.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Fisher”: I attended the first gas-
school held at Randwick (Sydney) since
ihe gas chamber was erected there, and
left with the impression that the
latest of masks still falls short of the
, . r c ~
regulation .deal of performing all
duties with equal efficiency with and
without.” During the endurance test,
the veteran of the squad showed signs of
distress and had to be given a special
“Gas clear for you by the instructor.
When he recovered from his partial
asphyxiation, the mask was found to
. 1 , i ’, , . . , . . .
bc the trouble—jambed inlet valve in-
. a f i ’i
stead ol advanced age of wearer.
' ' ’
P.H. : Shep is a bit out when he
writes (B. 9/9/’36) of the anti-gas gear
used by our side in 1918. He suggests
that we were then using the Balaclava
type, known officially as the P.H.
helmet, but this had been superseded by
thc box respirator at least 12 months
before the Strazeele stunt. This respira-
tor was a face mask not unlike that of
the Germans’, but its “works” were con-
tained in a square canvas box, which
in the battle area was carried at ihe
“ready” on the soldier’s bosom. The
helmet was a flannel-bag allaii
fitted Wltb B lazed e y eholes and a mbber
oud f f . tube - It was saturated with a
smellful chemical, and was more likely
(o make Qnc vomi( any gas the
, s eyer had to face
* * *
“Make”: A veteran M.L. journalist
te i ls the s t o ry of his first scoop. He was
~ , . t 1 . . .
on a ,. smaU u P- n ? rth tn ' W f "o™-
ro ™ d for news m the somno-
lent township. The local constable re-
\ y ... . - „
ported there was nothing doing except
1 , f *
a couple of cases of smallpox just come
into the cottage hospital.” “You mean
c hicken-pox, of course,” said the youth,
xhe insisted the hospital had called
jt smallpox, and asked if there was any
difference in the two complaints,
“Enough to make all the country sit up
if you’re right,” said the journalist, start-
ing for the hospital. It was the begin-
ning of M.L.’s smallpox scare of 23 years
ago, and the youthful journalist spent
the next few weeks reporting progress
of the local cases for most of the big
papers in the Dominion, as well as writ-
ing screeds for home consumption.
* * *
“The 0.D.”: Nobody taking part in
the symposium on dusty occupations
has mentioned loose sulphur, possibly
because its effects are only temporary.
As a goods hand at a break o’ gauge
railway station in S.A., I often shovelled
the yellow stuff from trucks. It pene-
trated the body, opening all pores, and
the workers were certain to contract a
heavy cold and abnormal bowel move-
ments. Goggles failed to save our eyes,
which ran for days, and we could shake
a fine yellow cloud from our hair for a
week after handling a truckload. Never-
theless, we always felt better after its
first effects had worn off, though it
might be different if a man worked
among the stuff continuously.
* * V *
“Oxmead”: The Mayor of Coolan-
gatta (Q.), where the Spooner bathing-
costume regulations have been adopted,
has been telling the world that he and
his aldermen “are not prudes, but will
not countenance the wearing of trunks
or the absence of top-pieces” among
those who disport themselves in the
billows. Still, the council could hardly
be “prudes” anyhow, for every authority
I have consulted limits that term entirely
to the feminine sex. What is the mascu-
line of “prude,” I wonder, if one ex-
cludes that overworked word “wowser,
which has hardly yet attained dictionary
rank. “Puritan” is about the nearest
can get to it, with possibly “killjoy as a
second string.
* * * *
Max Afford thinks that life is full of
coincidences. He left Adelaide during
the centenary celebrations for a new
radio job in Sydney. Passing through
Melbourne he met for the first time lace
to face his first novel, Blood on His
Hands, a thriller written around Mel-
bourne's centenary. That same morning,
with the brown paper wrappings of the
new novel’s packages still strewn over the
floor of Hutchinson’s office, the author
handed in the MS. of his third crime
yarn. According to the publishers, his
are perfect manuscripts, for they even
include a suggestion for wrapper design.
Afford’s second novel, Death's Manne-
kins, is being published this month in
London.
* * * *
Among the odds and ends with which
Broken Hill Prop, manages to scratch a
living is a line of steamers which ship
iron-ore from Whyalla (S.A.) to Port
Kembla and Newcastle. Two new
vessels, of 7900 tons deadweight, are on
order in Glasgow. The B.H.P. line gives
the co. a measure of independence as
regards freight charges, etc.
* * *
“Lucky Joe’s Ghost”: If any reader
will apply to me, enclosing a.shilling in
stamps for postage and a starting-price
slip on anything good at the races as
baksheesh, I shall be delighted to
help him make his pile in a “for-
tunate investment.” I can’t tell him
what the “investment” is because we Aus-
sies are a peculiar people, and you have
to be dashed careful. If I name the “in-
vestment” in one part of Australia, it s
all serene with everybody, but if I try
to send a mention of it across a rabbit
fence between two States I become a
criminal and promoter of a “foreign
lottery,” so everything has to be under
the lap. The chances of a good return
in this “investment” of mine, howevei.
are good enough. A man who put 15
bob in got £50,000. And there were only
196,000 who “invested” 15s. and didn't
get anything. Where do I come in? Oh.
I'm a philanthropist —just one of the
kindly gents, who split up £122,996 in
my State last year as a reward for col-
lecting six bobs and fifteen bobs from
“investors.”


FOR CAULFIELD.
Cup: Donaster, 1 ; Desert Chief.
2 ; Bustard, 3.
Gwyn Nursery: Lochlee.
Burwood Handicap: Siren ; next,
Ramdin.
Windsor Handicap: Young Idea ;
next, Arachne.
FOR RANDWICK.
Flying Handicap: Cereza ; next,
Palm.
City Tatt.’s Handicap: High or
Fireman ; next, Lancaster King.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Disalto ; next, Stalin.
Club Welter: High or Autoland ;
next, Golden Chance or Fireman.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the ’nineties and early-nineteen-hun-
dreds a good three-year-old invariably
commanded support for the Caulfield
Cup. Horses of that age won in 1895
(Waterfall), 1897 (Amberite), 1899
(Dewey), 1903 (Sweet Nell) and 1906
(Poseidon). Then there was a gap to
Bronzetti (1917) and another to Whittier
(1922); and after that no three-year-old
scored till last year, when Palfresco fur-
nished a surprise.
Now another three-year-old, Talking,
is one of the favorites, with 7st. 71b. Pal-
fresco had 7st. 11b., Whittier 6st. 131 b.
and Dewey 6st. 121 b. The only three-
year-old winner for the last 40 years who
carried the weight Talking has was
Amberite, that good son of Carbine.
Talking is a sturdy fellow, and 7st.
71b. won’t bother him a bit. Moreover,
he is smart enough to take up a good
position early—always an advantage at
Caulfield. Still he will have formidable
opposition. Golden Promise would get a
good deal more than Bst. 61b. if he could
be rehandicapped. For the Herbert
Power Stakes Golden Promise was
weighted to give Journal 21b. ; in the
Caulfield Cup Journal will have to give
him 51b.
All the same Journal is not badly
treated, considering that he won as a
four-year-old with 7st. 131 b. and was
fifth last year with Bst. 101 b., having in
between dead-heated with Epigram for the
Toorak Handicap, carrying Bst. 91b.
Hymettus was first in 1898 with 7st. 61b.
and in 1901 with Bst. 121 b. ; Whittier won
his second Caulfield Cup with 9st. in
1925. Journal is probably not the equal
of either, but, like Hymettus, he reserves
his best races for Caulfield.
Gay Blonde (Bst. 101 b.) is well in on
Sydney form, but is Sydney form as good
as Melbourne form these days? This
Page doubts it.
Donaster and Bustard, each with the
same weight as Golden Promise, are a
pair to be respected, as also are Petit Fils
(Bst. 51b.), The Chanter (Bst. 41b.), Prittle
Prattle (Bst. 31b.), Gay Lover (7st. 121 b.),
Silver Standard (7st. 101 b.) and Desert
Chief (7st. 101 b.). The Bulletin has
always had a weakness for The Chanter,
and his Toorak Handicap performance
was brilliant, but a mile and a half may
be more than he cares to go. It was
too far for Chatham and Winooka, those
other good-looking sons of Windbag.
Donaster is finally selected on the
score of being an honest and very con-
sistent fellow who should be at his best
on Saturday. He has won over the
distance, and his form in Adelaide last
May was very good.
j{C 5jC ,
Jack Holt added to his big list of Caul-
field Stakes victories when Young Idea
led the field home on Saturday. Second
money went to another of Holt’s horses,
Golden Promise, who commanded far
more support than the Constant Son stal-
lion. In fact, the race impressed punters
as a match between Charles Fox and
Golden Promise, their respective quotes
being 11 to 8 and 9to 4. About Young
Idea 10 to 1 could have been got.
When on a visit to Melbourne in the
autumn Cuddle equalled Chatham’s
record for nine furlongs at Caulfield by
setting lmin. 51sec. in the St. George
Stakes. She had a pretty strong follow-
ing on Saturday, being (at 11 to 2) next
in request to Charles Fox and Golden
Promise. To Cuddle may be accorded
the credit of the record being brought
down to lmin. 50isec. For more than
five furlongs she carried Charles Fox
along at top speed. The mare from M.L.
dropped out at the home bend and
finished last. She is apt to do that if she
doesn’t get things all her own way.
Always handy, Young Idea then chal-
lenged Charles Fox, while Golden
Promise, who began slowly, commenced
a splendidly-sustained run under punish-
ment. Had the judge’s box been 10 yards
farther off Golden Promise must have
won. He beat Charles Fox by half a
head for second, and was only a head
behind Percy Miller’s representative. Gay
Lover, who lost the A.J.C. Epsom on a
protest, finished five lengths behind the
place-getters. He had been backed for
the Caulfield Cup on the previous day,
but this was far from being a good Cup
trial.
After the race Golden Promise dis-
closed lameness, due to a recurrence of
the trouble that prevented him compet-
ing in the V.R.C. Melbourne Stakes. The
heel of his near fore hoof had reopened,
and Holt immediately sought veterinary
advice. Golden Promise is a gross horse
and needs a lot of racing. He may not
be thoroughly fit on Cup Day, even if
able to start. Moreover, the son of
Limond will not be suited by a big field,
according to keen judges. J. M. Niall,
who owns Golden Promise, returned
from abroad in time to see him run in
the Stakes.
Desert Chief achieved a most meritori-
ous win in the Herbert Power Handicap
of ,11 furlongs. Just after'leaving the
straight he lost ground by galloping on
the heels of another horse. This leeway
was recovered without apparent effort.
Carrying 81b. more than his Caulfield
Cup impost, the Chief Ruler four-year-
old reached the judge two lengths in ad-
vance of Frill Prince, who set the pace
and defeated A. T. Creswick’s colt, Dic-
tator, by nearly a length for second
money. Donaster was kept too far out
of his ground in the early stages to have
any chance of winning, but he earned
high credit by heading the unplaced
division.
Lochlee (Veilmond —Mooch Along)
emphasised his claim to the title 'of
champion juvenile by appropriating the
Debutant Stakes, for which he started
at 7 to 4 on. The winning margin was
only a neck, Sir Grey, a Cimbrian colt,
being second ; but Lochlee would have
scored by lengths if he had not shirked
and jumped a crossing in the straight.
The race for fillies went to Sweet
Memories (Gay Lothario —Sweet Mar-
guerite) by half a neck from Spencer
Brunton’s Leaderfoot, who missed the
jump-out and was very unlucky.
Newhaven (1896), Sylvanite (J 904),
Alawa (1908), Prince Foote (1909), Whit-
tier (1922), Trivalve (1927) and Hall
Mark (1933) each ran second in the
Caulfield Guineas before annexing the
Victoria Derby. Prince Quex (5 to 2)
may be forgiven for losing by half a
head to Beechwood (3 to 1), particularly
as the latter lowered the course record
for a mile by a quarter of a second.
Frank Musgrave, the veteran trainer,
had further cause for elation when The
Chanter, a stable-mate of Beechwood,
brought the mile record down to lmin.
37Jsec. in the Toorak Handicap.
Adapting himself to the left-handed
direction of galloping, Shakespeare ran
fourth in the Caulfield Guineas. Having
so recently arrived from Sydney, he did
pretty well. The race was won practi-
cally from start to finish by Beechwood.
Caulfield patrons were divided in
opinion as to whether Desert Chief of
The Chanter had given the best display
of galloping during the afternoon. The ,
Chanter (10 to 1), trained by Frank Mus-
grave for the Baillieu brothers, “came
from the clouds” to win the Toorak
Handicap after the issue had seemed to
rest between Sunraysia (20 to 1) and
Counter Patrol (7 to 1). Last season it
was hoped that The Chanter (Windbag—
Even Song) would develop into a classic
winner. He led off by beating Pal-
fresco at' Caulfield in August, but was
so far below par in the Rosehill Guineas
and A.J.C. Derby that the owners threw
him out of training.
No doubt about Counter Patrol being
a consistent horse. Consider his record
since Easter-time: First' A.R.C. Welter,
1 mile, lmin. 40sec.; second (to
The Riff) S.A. Tatt.’s Welter, 9 furlongs,
lmin. 54-]sec.; second A.J.C. Mayor’s
Handicap (again to The Riff), 10 fur-
longs, 2min. ; second (to Don-
aster) S.A.J.C. St. Leger, 3min. 3sec.;
first A.R.C. Osmond Handicap, 1 mile,
lmin. 40sec. —with two unplaced per-
formances. After a spell of 11 weeks, a
close second to Petunia Park in the Vic-
toria Park S.A. Corporation Handicap,
5 furlongs, lmin. fsec. Coming to Vic-
toria, he was second to Palatinate in the
Dandenong Welter at Mentone, 1 mile,
lmin. 4 ; first, 1\ furlongs, lmin.
31isec., at Moonee Valley, and second to
Prince Quex in the V.R.C. Melbourne
Stakes, 1 mile, lmin. 37Jsec.
* * * *
It seldom pays to follow form at
Randwick, but it would have been pro-
fitable last Wednesday. Three of the six
races —another was for fillies starting for
the first time —were won by horses al-
ready successful at the meeting: the
Craven Plate by Gay Blonde (14 to 1),
the Suburban Handicap by Celebrate (10
to 1) and the Sydney Handicap by
Rogerio (5 to 2). And in the .Second
Hurdle race Bonnie Rollox was first and
Alleviate second —the exact reversal of
the placings in the First Hurdle Race.
Gay Blonde, Rogerio and Record, the
winner of the Gimcrack Stakes (at 20
to 1), are trained by King, and so is
Oro, second to Gay Blonde ; Silver Ring
was third. Silver Ring was favorite at
5 to 2; the jockey contributed to his
defeat by letting him go to the front.
There was a bit of money for Pamelus
at 8 to 1. As in the Shorts, he showed
pace for a few furlongs. He fell back
when interfered with in the straight, but
was done at the time. Although he is
far from being in first-class condition, he
is obviously no wonder.
Rogerio, who had won four races since
June, was leniently treated by the handi-
capper, having only 7st. 51b. He was
actually meeting Grand Warbler 21b.
better than in the Trial Stakes, in which
he beat her by four or five lengths.
Putting up an extra 21b., W. Cook had
small trouble in getting him home three-
fourths of a length ahead of Osculum,
who was lengths clear of an outsider,
Bronze Ruffle.
Celebrate’s performance was emi-
nently creditable to the old Magpie geld-
ing, for he carried top weight, 9st. 31b.,
and ran a mile in lmin. 37sec. Verdun
ran a capital race. He was in front a
furlong from the judge’s box, but he
seems to be a one-pace horse, and was
just cut out of a place.
Rob Roy’s run in the Derby—he was
fifth —must have improved him im-
mensely. Though he had Bst. 91b. in the
Members’ Handicap he made all the run-
ning, and came right away towards the
end, winning by six lengths from Billy
Boy and Warrawee in 2min. 4sec.
faster time than Gay Blonde put up in
her 10 furlongs race with cracks to do
the pacing and only 41b. more. Rob
Roy is a stylish-looking colt by Phar
Lap’s sire Night Raid out of Quadri-
lateral, dam of the ill-fated Homer. It
will be recalled that Homer made rapid
improvement at Randwick last season
after a few slovenly performances earlier
in the spring. Perhaps this kind of thing
runs in the family. Rob Roy is now to
be taken to Melbourne for the Derby
and Cup—in the latter race he has only
7st.
* * * *
When Tapestry hits the front he is
invariably hard to beat. In the Waverley
Handicap at Randwick on Saturday he
was ridden by young Jim Duncan in
much the same manner as Duncan rode
Young Crusader in the Metrop. Soft
Step (7 to 2) tried to run him down, but
shifted out and was second ; Satmoth was
a poor third, and Rogerio, the only other
starter, last. Tapestry covered the mile
and three-quarters in 2min. 56|min.,
equalling First Acre’s < record for Aus-
tralasia, and beating Phar Lapp’s Rand-
wick time by 2isec. He was the out-
sider of the field: 5 to 1.
Tapestry is owned by a Bathurst medico
who prefers to be known on racecourses
as “F. Jason,” and is trained by A. H.
Shea at Canterbury. He has now won
four races at Randwick, two Wagga
Cups and the Newcastle Cup.
The Ring took liberties with Silver
Ring in the Randwick Plate. He was
reported lame, and drifted to 5 to 2 (in a
field of three), but firmed to 6 to 4. Oro,
opening favorite, receded to 7 to 4. Old
Lough Neagh, who won the race last
year, acted as pacemaker, but Oro had
him beaten at the half-mile. Turning
for home, Silver Ring went up fast on
the outside, and won easily from Oro
and Lough Neagh. Silver Ring thus
dominated the weight-for-age events;
better ridden in the Craven Plate, he
would have won all three.
Theolos was a solid tip for the
Breeders’ Plate, but missed the jump-out
and was never in the hunt. In the Canon-
bury Stakes, starting at 9 to 2, Dan Lewis’s
small chestnut, a half-brother to Raleigh,
led throughout and beat L Spencer
Brunton’s filly Nightingale—she is a
sister to Rob Roy—by half a length, with
Only One, trained by Jack Cameron, a
similar distance away. Nightingale
should have won, and the favorite,
Micawber, was doing good work at the
Leger when he was squeezed back.
Canegrass (6 to 1) proved too solid for
the pacemaker, Heroic Faith, in the
Chester Handicap. Heroic Faith red for
home with a good advantage, but showed
no determination wjien tackled by Cane-
grass. Disalto was a good third, and
Thebez was fourth. He had every
chance, but will win in weaker company.
Capris, when beginning what might have
been a victorious run, sprained a fetlock.
A pity ; she looked even better than on
Epsom Day.
Friar’s Switch was a disappointing
favorite in the Clibborn Stakes. The fast
pace set by Ilium appeared to trouble
him ; anyway, he could not hold his posi-
tion when they went faster still at the
half-mile. Mark Antony (6 to 1) scored
in good style from Bobby and Tonga.
Raced by W. J. Smith and “Mr. Con-
stable,’’ he is a nicely turned Brazen colt
who may do well in the autumn.
The finish of the Final Handicap was
very exciting. On Parade (6 to 1), from
M.L. but trained by Frank McGrath,
secured a half-head win over the Queens-
lander Auto Buz, with Cabalist a similar
distance away. Turbine looked danger-
ous when he flashed through on the rails
in the last furlong, but could not sustain
his run, and finished fourth, just in
advance of High and Salamander.
Attendances and tote receipts at the
spring meeting were down compared
with 1935 figures: attendances declined
from 168,423 to 160,000, and tote re-
ceipts from £190,746 to £169,073. The
weather could not be blamed. Only two
Victorian horses were seen in action on
the first day and only one on the second ;
after that there was no Victorian com-
petition. That contributed to the slump,
for inter-State rivalries have a healthy
effect on gates. People complain of the
bleeding to which they are subjected by
the Sydney Government (9 p.c. tote tax
and 3s. .4d. to enter the saddling pad-
dock) ; of the 18d. charged for scones,
sandwiches or “poi” and tea brought in
the cup ; of the hour’s delay insisted
upon while they partake of this fare or
go without, and of the lack of a doubles
tote. The A.J.C. will have to get out of
its rut or it will never catch up to the
V.A.T.C., let alone the V.R.C. For a
start, it should tell the stupid Govern-
ment that it is Government “policy” that
drives people to s.-p. shops.
* % * *
V.R.C. committee has declared that
the mare which won a number of races
as Uruba (Yeneda —Footbolt mare) is
identical with Sonnica (Eastern Mon-
arch—Vivere). It disqualified Thomas
Davison (five years), McNaughton, Ley-
shon and the mare for life. This
ends a protracted inquiry which created,
a sensation in Melbourne turf circles.
Leyshon conducted a training stable at
Flemington for many years. He pre-
pared the first Cantala Stakes winner,
Chal; and won the first King's Cup with
his own mare, Spear Maiden.
**■ * “ *
Darby Munro’s appeal against his
month’s suspension for careless riding in
the Tramway Handicap at Randwick on
September 12, which he won on The
Marne, was dismissed, so he was not
seen in the saddle at the A.J.C. spring
meeting. He had been engaged to ride
The Marne in the Epsom and Talking in
the Derby, and was assured of other
good mounts. He was also obliged to
stand down on the first day at Caulfield,
but will be able to ride Gay Blonde in
the Caulfield Cup. There will doubtless
be a rush for his services, now that
Voitre is out of action with a leg frac-
ture and McCarten has been suspended
for a month for “careless riding” in the
Shorts.
(Continued on next page.)


Under the Whip
Gold Rod is not to be seen at Mel-
bourne this spring. He was the Cup
favorite for months after the declara-
tion of the weights, but his failure to
stay in the A.J.C. Derby would have
shattered all illusions as to his having
a Cup chance, even if his party had de-
cided to send him to Melbourne. In
point of fact he jarred a joint in the
Randwick race, and is to be retired until
the autumn. The trouble is not at all
serious, and was in no way responsible
for his being done to a turn at a mile
and a quarter; and no more will be
heard of the ridiculous assertion that he
is “the greatest three-year-old since
Phar Lap.”
H: =!< H= *
The A.J.C. handicapper rarely makes
mistakes, but it is now abundantly clear
that he blundered in letting Young
Crusader into the Metropolitan with
6st. 91b. It would be safe to wager that
no other animal that had won two good
races at Randwick as a three-year-old—
one of them the Winter Plate, run over
the Metropolitan distance —was ever be-
fore handicapped for the Metrop. as a
four-year-old at 21b. above the minimum.
Presumably the handicapper was de-
ceived by the poor quality of the Winter
REG ROWE,
Secretary to the Rosehill Club.
Plate field ; El Senorita, the runner-up,
had Bst. 91b. and Young Crusader 7st.
131 b. All the same, the time, 2min. 44£sec.,
was actually two seconds faster than
High Cross and Oro made in last year’s
Metrop. when all out. And there was
nothing wrong with the track that day.
The V.R.C. man formed a sounder esti-
mate of Young Crusader’s performance ;
he awarded the chestnut 7st. 41b. in the
Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Track work is reported far
better in Melbourne than in Sydney news-
papers. All the year round the gallops at
Flemington, Caulfield, Mentone and
Epsom are recorded in detail, and with
an illuminating note here and there when
such is deemed necessary, whereas Sydney
has to rub along with very scrappy ac-
counts of the work done at Randwick,
Victoria Park and Rosebery, with an
occasional —very occasional —reference to
Warwick Farm, Kensington and Rose-
hill. The whole sporting world would
have liked to know how Pamelus was
shaping at Warwick Farm, but precise in-
formation was not furnished. And there
was very little mention of Talking’s
gallops at Rosehill, though it was dis-
covered that he had been beaten 15
lengths by Sarcherie in a trial over a
mile. If Sydney papers gave more atten-
tion to tracks and less to club chit-chat,
punters would be better informed.
* * sH *
“T.”: Sydney racing reporters differ
more than doctors do. On Monday of
last week the “D.T.” stated that “the
successful protest against Gay Lover”
had meant “the wiping out of practically
all” Epsom and Metropolitan doubles.
Not only were the bookmakers colossal
winners of spot cash, but liabilities on the
Metropolitan were wiped out at a stroke.
One bookmaker wrote £5OOO Capris-High
Cross and another £5OOO Capris-Sporting
Blood. These are the sole standing liabili-
ties of any size.
On the following day, however, the same
paper discovered that the bookmakers
did not escape entirely:
Young Crusader was the only horse
coupled to any extent with the Epsom
winner, and this double was backed to win
about £50,000.
However, the “D.T.” did allow that the
“first two days of the meeting” were
“disastrous for punters generally.” The
“Herald” asserted that “the second day
was all in favor of backers.”
Leading bookmakers reported having ex-
perienced one of the worst days of a spring
meeting. Although Capris started at 33 to 1,
she had been joined with Young Crusader
by many enthusiasts. It was estimated that
at least £40,000 would be paid out by
double bookmakers.
Now for the “Labor Daily”:
The Metropolitan result was very well
received by the bookmakers, particularly
those who had restricted their ante-post
operations to doubles It is generally ac-
cepted that not a layer of note had occasion
to write the Capris-Young Crusader com-
bination.
You pay your three-halfpence and take
your choice.
* * He *
The late Limond was M.L.’s most
successful sire for many years. It is
quite on the cards that his son Veil-
mond will become as fashionable in
Australia and as successful perhaps,
though it is, of course, too early to say
that. Seldom is a young stallion brought
into such prominence by the first of his
progeny to race as Veilmond has been
by the smashing victories of Lochlee
and Roxborough in their first starts —
Lochlee at Flemington and Roxborough
at Randwick. Early two-year-old suc-
cesses mean a great deal to the owner
of a stallion, for buyers of yearlings
naturally like to get some return for
their money as early as possible ; and
already it is certain that Veilmond colt's
and fillies will fetch excellent prices at
the next yearling sales. In fact, the new
sensation may threaten Heroic’s position.
* * * *
The news that an offer of 4000
guineas for Mala had been refused drew
expressions of astonishment in Maori-
land. A “Dominion” writer recalled the
sad case of G. L. Stead, who refused
6000 guineas for Tarleton thinking his
colt had a mortgage on the A.J.C. Derby.
Tarleton was a good-looking fellow, but
he failed in that race, and the time came
when the owner would have been glad
to take 600 guineas for him.
* * * *
“Ron the B.”: I got the cream of the
market, £lO to 4s„ from our local barber
for The Bulletin double, Epsom and
Metrop. Caught the goods to Tamworth
to await the news in my old pub. Hav-
ing one leg in, I had to shout a few on
Monday morning ; towards 6 p.m. was
full of beer and praises for The Bulle-
tin. We toa,sted all the staff in absentia.
Caught the late train home and was met
by the barber, who took me over to cele-
brate. I paid, and after a. couple he
admitted he’d been caught properly. Then
he came at me with this: “What do you
say if we take it out in haircuts?”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A year ago Jimmy Day looked to be
a first-class welterweight in the making.
He is now paying the penalty of taking
on men heavier than himself. The
“National” Boxing “Club” matched him
against Jones, a middleweight; the white
boy gave a sterling display of courage
and endurance and made a draw of it,
but took a dreadful hiding. It seems to
have left its effects ; anyway, Day petered
out suddenly in a bout with Coady at
F. DALTON,
Trainer of Silver Standard, second in the
Metrop., and a Caulfield Cup fancy.
Leichhardt on Wednesday, and the towel
went in at the end of the eighth round.
Coady (lOst. 81b.) was heavier by 51b.
He belongs to a fighting family—a
brother won a lightweight championship
as “Bluey” Jones —and is handled by
Tod Morgan.
* * H: $
“T.”: In his reminiscences of ring
personalities he claims to know all
about, Mclntosh proceeds from error to
error. Referring to the Louis-Schmeling
fight, he asserts that before the battle
Tom O'Rourke, “the octogenarian
trainer and pugilist, fell dead at Schmel-
ing’s feet,” and invites the reader to
imagine “Schmeling's state of mind
“YOUNG SAM ” HORDERN,
A greatly-liked member of a family
with a splendid sporting tradition.
when he entered the ring with the dead
trainer’s last instructions still ringing in
his ears.” The truth is that O’Rourke was
not his trainer, and the fact of the old
man’s death was kept from the German
till after the fight. Again
Another manager-trainer of the old days
whom I knew very well was Bill Brady,
who handled Fitzsimmons and Jeffries. I
remember the time when Bob, then at the
pinnacle of his career, had a disagreement
with Brady on a certain method of train-
ing.
That would be in America nearly 40
years ago. Mclntosh was a schoolboy
then.
The argument developed into high words,
and the comical scene was witnessed of the
world’s heavyweight champion flying for
his life down one of the streets of America’s
small towns followed by Bill Brady armed
with a kitchen chair.
No such scene was ever witnessed.
Brady never had Fitzsimmons in his
string. He managed Corbett and Jef-
fries. Nor did he train either: he wasn't
such a fool. He employed trainers,
notably Delaney. Brady was an actor
and a theatrical manager, husband of
Grace George and father of Alice Brady,
still acting at Hollywood.
Ins and Outs
Richardson’s men, the lot that toured
South Africa, batting first in the Bardsley-
Gregory match, made 363. Brown
showed splendid form to top-score with
111, and McCabe, though shaky at first,
had some bright patches in his 76. Oiu
field got to 78. Ward took 7 for 177.
Bradman’s XI reached 385 ; it was nearly
all Bradman (212) and O’Brien (85), the
champion hitting out merrily. O’Reilly
(4-96) and Grimmett (4-146) bowled
pretty well; but nobody took things very
v seriously.
The week-end will see the English-
men open their season in Australia with
a three-day game against Westralia, and
on October 22 will follow a match with
a combined “Australian” team at Perth.
The tourists will then go through the
State teams on their way east, varying
this with a match against an Australian
Eleven at Sydney on November 20.
Then, after a meeting with Queensland at
Brisbane, the first Test will begin there
on December 4. By that time we should
know the tourists’ strength.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Many cricket addicts in
Queensland are tipping that the Austra-
lian selectors may have to eat a whole
Chinaman’s basket of leeks before the
end of the cricket season and call on
Oxenham to help get the Englishmen
out. With Grimmett growing old
and Fleetwood-Smith a doubtful quan-
tity, O’Reilly may have to carry the
burden of our bowling,- especially
as Ward, of South Australia, is
going abroad. Outside these there is no
other bowler in Australia with claims to
come before Oxenham. There is prece-
dent for a crawl down by the selectors.
While at his prime Hornibrook, of
Queensland, was shouldered out of team
after team for England. Included at
last because the selectors could not do
without him, he took over 100 wickets
and won the deciding Test in 1930 with
his left-hand bowling. Grimmett was
the only other bowler of the side to take
over 100 wickets.
“Five Ways”: It was suggested that
Oxenham might retire from Sheffield
cricket at the end of last season, but the
veteran is again on the warpath and
apparently bowling better than ever. In
his 63 matches for Queensland Oxenham
has captured 217 wickets, 154 in Sheffield
games. Perhaps his greatest feat was
taking over 100 wickets with the Austra-
lian team recently in India.
% i’fi *
“Gabba”: After banning Eddie Gil-
bert from playing in club matches dur-
ing his stay in Brisbane and insisting that
the abo. express bowl only at the B.C.G.
nets (B. 7/10/’36), the Q.C.A. has turned
a characteristic flip-flap and ordered the
native to play with the Colts team. This
has had the advantage of bringing him
under the captaincy of the State coach.
Brown, and the good effect of this was
seen in the abo.’s first match, in which
Brown gave him a lot of useful tips.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. cricket selectors
have picked 25 men to practise for the
season’s big matches. Among them is
Hunt, the Balmainer, who did good work
for N.S.W. with bat and ball before going
to England for a term in League cricket.
He has been given little chance since his
return, but his left-hand bowling may yet
find him a place in the State team.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The dropping of Richard-
son from the South Australian selection
committee comes as a surprise ; his ex-
perience far exceeds that of Walker, who
succeeds him. Richardson has played
for South Australia for 18 years, and
scored over 6000 runs. He had only one
trip to England, in 1930, when his dash-
ing batting hauled more than one match
out of the fire.
* =!'- * *
“C. G. Salis”: “Tenth Slip” (B.
23/9/’36) is confusing his barrackers.
When “a crowd is moved to anger” it
generally has pretty good reason, and
NEIL McKENNA.
He has trained many a good jumper ai
Randwick.
nothing short of a baton charge by a
large force of police would quell the row.
The barracking to which exception is
taken is that of isolated half-wits who
advertise their deficiency by shouting in-
sulting remarks at individual players.
The giggle press and certain of the
broadcasting stations have encouraged
these until barracking has become almost
a cult. And not only overseas teams
suffer. When a metropolitan side visited
Dubbo (N.S.W.), barracking of this type
became so intense that Wendell Bill (the
captain) and O’Reilly (the victim) thought
it worth while to leave the field to
remonstrate with the chief offender.
Louts who bawl offensive personalities
at players should be dealt with swiftly
by the police and severely by the magis-
trates.
* $ * ❖
“Static”: The cricketers have settled
their differences with the broadcasting
authorities. All five Test matches will
be sent over the air ball for ball. Other
matches will be described at intervals
during the day.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
E. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Joliy, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. IIAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
HOW JIM GOT HIS RISE !
WONDERFUL NEWS. DARLING/
I'n FETCHING OUR MANAGER/
OUT FOR DINNER
TO-NIGHT// y-
OH. JIM, ,
"that's great:
YOU'LL BE
> GETTING THAT
c RISE SOON // .
0(9
WE SIMPLY LOVE TO
LISTEN IN TO
THE RADIO.
MR JONES
MR JONES
LEFT VERY
EARLY Jl M
DO YOU THINK
ANYTHING
OFFENDED HIM ?
/VAu/im'T
} BY JOVE,
( WHAT A
7 FOOL I'VE.
V been/ 7
6
HERES THE CURE FOR VALVTO-
AND NRJONES 15
COMING AGAIN NEXT
WEEK/'/ ~7T~V-
RADIO
DEALER
m
THE FOLLOWING WEEK/'
WELL.FOLKS. I'VE ENJOYED THE .
EVENING VERY MUCH.YOUR RADIOS
MARVELLOUS.? SEE ME TO MORROW/
ABOUT THAT/'-Ah-'"''
RISE. JIM / /
sa*
ẅ
THE
lIIIITCn INSURANCE
U 111 IIU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner"
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
New High
Figures
THE COURIER-MAIL
has reached a new high figure in circulation for the
6 months’ period ended March 31st, 1936. Its
average net circulation daily for th* period is
69,240
THE SUNDAY MAIL
too has bounded ahead in the Sunday field, far out-
distancing ALL other Queensland newspapers
(excepting, of course, The Courier-Mail), and
discloses a net average weekly circulation of
64,794
No Queensland campaign can be complete which does
not include these two outstanding national media.
Enquire about the combined advertising rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Now that most of the big
golf is over complaint comes from all
quarters of the miserable prizes offered
to professional players in this country.
Among the suggestions to mend matters
are levies on the clubs with a member-
ship over a certain amount and even a
regular contribution by the players them-
selves! The obvious remedy would be
for the P.G.A. to take a firm stand and
insist on better prizemoney for cham-
pionship events before it would permit
its members to enter. Apart from the
cost of journeying, say, to. Melbourne or
Adelaide on the chance of winning a
measly £5O, players lose time which
would otherwise be employed in coach-
ing and clubmaking. In England some of
the leading newspapers find good adver-
tising in the annual donation of prizes.
Since these special tournaments were
started a few years ago British profes-
sional golf has, by general consent, im-
proved out of sight. Australian jour-
nals which have been losing money in
fatuous puzzles and similar competitions
might take the hint.
* * • Jl: *
“Molly”: The once-despised left-hand
golfer has been making quite a splash
of late. Following on the good showing
of Williams and Nettlefold in Adelaide
and Melbourne, Alex. Rae, of Victoria,
won into the final of the national ama-
teur championship, won by Ferrier. Rae
is only 22, but as he started the game at
11 he can say he has spent half his life
at it. A very long hitter, Rae has never
won a big event, though he is among
Victoria’s leading amateurs and is cham-
pion of his club, Yarra Yarra.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Sarazen told a Mel-
bourne interviewer that the Australian
system of playing State and national
championships off at one meeting was
due for the axe. Gene took the just-
finished Australian championships as an
illustration. The players in these had
for the most part come straight from
another marathon tourney in South Aus-
tralia, and were properly fagged before
the Melbourne meeting was half over.
He suggests that the Australian open,
amateur and professional championships
be played for at the beginning, middle
and end of the season respectively and
in different States. He countered an
objection to the cost of travelling by
pointing out that it was just as expen-
sive for a visiting golfer to stay a fort-
night in one place. One possible ad-
vantage he overlooked. That is that the
splitting up of the fixtures would per-
mit Queensland and other States now
clamoring for the honor of a champion-
ship meeting to have a fi'nger in the pie.
* * * *
“Floylake”: Pam Barton won the
U.S.A. championship by beating Maureen
Crews 4 and 2 on the Summit course in
New Jersey. Pam is the first British girl
to win the title since Georgey Ravens-
croft turned the trick in 1913.
Hf sfc % H*
“Brassey”: Corry, of the N.S.W. Pro-
fessional Golfers’ Association, has told
the Melbourne press that the Japanese
Consul-General for Australia has offered
£250 as a guarantee of the expenses of
an Australian professional golf team to
Nippon next year. There will also be
£l5O going for an exhibition match with
Japan.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Though the Austra-
lian amateur golfers will not leave for
their tour of Britain until 1938, the Aus-
tralian Golf Union has appointed the
selection committee, comprising Ivo
Whitton (Vic.), C. W. Rundle (N.S.W.)
and L. Nettlefold, of Tassie. Among the
Australian side’s engagements will be the
British open and amateur events.
Racquet and Bawl
“Amateur Pro.”: At time of writing
about the only definite news of Perry
seems to be that he is not coming to
Australia after all. What he intends to
do instead seems to be “wropt in mys-
t'ry,” iike the birth of Jeames Yellow-
plush. It appears, however, that he is
doing a lot of radio stuff with his wife.
If this touches on tennis, especially on
the coaching side, Frederick may have to
face a charge of professionalism.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: It is not absolutely im-
possible that we shall see Tilden and
Vines here shortly (B. 7/10/’36). The
pair are playing in Japan in November,
and may yet come on. Everything seems
to hinge, according to letters received in
Sydney, on whether Perry turns pro. and
joins the Tilden circus. If he does, all
hands must get busy gathering the honey
offering in the U.S.A. The Americans
know the terms for the Australian visit,
and are satisfied. They are to get 50
p.c. of the gross gates and pay all their
own expenses. Out of the other half
the State associations will have to pay
local professionals and the cost of the
matches.
* * * *
“North Quay”: Brisbane tennis-
players are upset over the condition oi
the courts at the official ground at
Milton. Some of these are described as
“full of potholes,” and players are said
to be seriously considering asking per-
mission to employ golf niblicks on them
instead of racquets. As Quist and other
constellations are expected in November,
officials are developing a cyclonic de-
gree of windiness.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.A. is feel-
ing quite perky at the discovery that it will
be able to hand out £6O to each of the
clubs—£s4 from the semi-finals and finals
and £6 from the profit on the first round.
This is the best for a long time. Last
year the divvy was £35 and the year
before that a dismal £4 10s.
* * ♦
“Cottesloe”: Kalgoorlie City is a
slightly different football club. It
arrived in Sydney the other day to play
a match with the N.S.W. Australian
Rules premiers, Newtown. Including
players, managers, trainers, officials,
first-aid experts and baggage-masters, the
invaders totalled 48. The club takes only
about £250 at the gate in the season, but
has a credit of £l2OO. It is explained
that when it wants money it just “raises
it” and then proceeds to blue it on jaunts
such as the present one.
Kalgoorlie won 15-13 to 10-11 ; its
football was equal to the best' seen in
Sydney.
* * * *
“The best line-out forward
in the world” was Jack Manchester’s de-
scription of Aubrey Hodgson after the
last Rugby Union game with Canter-
bury. Manchester and Hodgson have
contested line-out possession in a number
of Maoriland-Australia clashes in the last
few years, and the former All-Black is a
good judge. Hodgson played tireless
Rugby on the last M.L. tour, but his
right to Manchester’s tribute must depend
on his showing against next season’s tour-
ing Springboks. Manchester knows his
British forwards, but he has never played
against the South Africans —and it was
from those lusty forwards that Hodgson
got some useful tips during the Wallabies’
1933 tour.
“Stand Off”: Gordon club celebrated
its first senior season in the N.S.W.
Rugby Union by taking a trip at its own
expense to Tasmania, where it engaged
that other Rugby infant the Tassy R.U.
Two matches were played, Southern
Tassy being beaten 31->6 and Combined
Tasmania 19-8. The game is catching
on well in the islet, and there is any
amount of promising material. The
Apple Islanders are keen on a visit from
the Springboks.
iH ❖ ❖ He
“Spike”: Lovelock failed in his
attempt to raise a new mile record at
Princeton, U.S.A., being beaten by one
San Romani in 4min. 9sec. Lovelock
was in front at half-way. The result
proved his contention that a miler can
run only one “perfect” race in a season.
$ * * *
“Splash”: N.S.W. amateur swimmers
have raised the capitation fee on mem-
bers of affiliated clubs to Is. instead of
the 6d. at which it has been standing
for years. Generally in an impecunious
condition, the association summoned up
its pluck recently and tried to get the
thousands of club members who benefit
by its activities to spar up Is. 6d. annu-
ally. This was fiercely fought, and the
Is. rate was accepted only after it was
agreed to leave the junior rate at' 6d. As
only a small percentage of the capita-
tion fees has been paid in the past it
looks as if the increased rates will leave
the association dependent on champion-
ship and other carnivals for spending
silver.,
* * * *
“Hotham”: Henley-on-Yarra regatta
is set down for November 28. In addi-
tion to the Grand Challenge and
Stewards’ Cups for senior eights and
fours there will be the Challenge Sculls
and events for schools and juniors. A
big inter-State entry is expected, and it
is hoped a Maoriland crew may make the
trip.
$ $ $ $
“Cover”: A record in Australian in-
surance and athletic circles went up
when hammer-thrower Rosenblum, of
Sydney, took out a third-party policy to
cover risk of accident to spectators. He
was moved to this by the case of the
Irish champion O’Callaghan, who injured
a spectator so severely that he had to
pay £3500 damages. The policy is for
six months, and will safeguard damage
to property as well as to individuals.


The Latest Vogue with Horsemen!
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING
BOOTS
Popular for mounted and unmounted
wear.
Easy and quick to put on and take
off.
In Full and Half Sizes.
33/9 Pair.
Send Ynur Order To-day.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
In Queen Street ------ Brisbane.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
t ____________
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
K. RAWNSLEY MOSS. Chairman. R. A. MAN/IK, Central Manager.
r rf
t f L
B
m
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from J4/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
m
■ HOTEL
SYDNEY
.sS' r *'-S
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Questioning the Gods
A number of things have happened in
the past two years to increase our real
and apparent national income. Some
results have been a drop in trade-union
unemployment from 20.9 p.c. in June,
1934, to 12.8 p.c. in June, 1936; a lift
in the Sydney share-price index of manu-
facturing and distributing cos. from
154.8 in September, 1934, to 195.3 in
August, 1936 ; and a rise of about 13
p.c. in average bank clearings over the
past 24 months.
At the back of this revived employ-
ment, confidence and spending have
been:
A rise from 111 in the wool-price
index in Sept., ’34, to 154 in Sept., ’36.
A lift from 85 to 136 in wheat over
the same time.
An improvement in the price of lead
from £ll Is. sterling a ton ( average ) in
1934 to £lB 6s. 3d. last week.
Rises from £l3 15s. 6d. in spelter to
£l3 18s. 9d. and £33 lls. 6d. in elec-
trolytic copper to £44 55., on the fore-
going basis of comparison.
A stable price level within the Com-
monwealth for most non-rural goods.
Only a slight increase in money wages
—the Commonwealth index in June, ’34,
was 811 ; in March, ’36, 825. Buying
power of wages dropped from 1029 to
1012 in the same period, but more
people got such wages.
Increased company earnings.
In addition:
The public debt mounted by £32,000,000
in the two years to June, ’36, a consider-
able part of which went on “works” and
in grants, and for a time increased
spending.
It may be good philosophy to accept
what the gods send without question, but
it is often bad business. Take away war
preparations overseas and support for
metals will relax. The extent of the
slackening would depend upon what real
recovery world domestic industries have
made since the low prices of 1934. The
same applies to some extent with wool;
a poor world harvest has sent wheat up.
Four principal internal dangers to a
stable economy exist under present con-
ditions. They are that
(1) Governments may let up on economy
measures and taxation reductions that are
still urgently necessary;
(2) There may be overextension of credit
in some quarters;
(3) Our London funds may be further
depleted ;
(4) There may be unwarranted ventures
in land, shares and other avenues of specu-
lation.
The future cannot be foreseen with
much certainty at present. The greatest
aid to a steady progress should be the
experience of the past 10 years—know-
ledge that the boom was unjustified, and
that the panic of the slump should never
have occurred. While our finances,
public and private, remain adaptable to
possible setbacks as regards seasons and
world prices, we are justified in having
a certain degree of confidence. But
where politics have entered into trade
and finance there has already been a
loss of confidence. Burdened though they
are by taxation and regulations, our
land industries, factories and banks are
the country’s mainstay.
Mr. Duffy’s Disclaimer
Dear Bulletin, — I desire to inform
you that I neither saw nor approved of
the "prospectus” to which you referred
in B. 7/10/'36, and with which my name
was associated.
The use of my name was not author-
ised by me, and I was not aware of
the issue of the circular until I read of
it in your paper. I trust you will publish
this statement in order to clear any re-
sponsibility from me in the public mind.
—M. B. Duffy, 371 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne.
[Published with pleasure. The “prospectus” was
that issued by Mammoth East G.M. Syndicate.]
Now that devaluation has happened in
France, repatriation of French capital is
taking place, and money is leaving
London. Hence last week’s drop in
sterling and the further strengthening in
the price of gold. The change is in sharp
contrast to conditions a month ago.
* * * *
The recent rise of roughly ss. an
ounce in the Australian price of gold
should mean increased revenue to the fol-
lowing mines at the rate mentioned:
Per Month. Per Ton.
North Kalgurli £lOOO Is. lOd.
Wiluna 2500 Is. Od.
Mt. Morgan 675 11d.
Lancefield . . .. '.. 820 Is. Bd.
Triton 600 Is. Bd.
The calculations are made on recent
“’Oo DID the job? Fat lot YOU know about it!"
tonnage and recovery figures. London
quotes for the yellow metal showed signs
of slackening after their first rise, but
there was a firming towards the end of
the week.
# -f' &
In the first two months of this year
there was an adverse Commonwealth
trade balance of £4,061,000 sterling—up
£1,302,000 compared with last year. An
increase of £2,146,000 in imports was
mainly responsible. Certainly part of the
jump is due to hurried shipments of
Japanese goods to beat the operation of
the ban ; but it is disquieting just the
same.
“You cannot deny that invention and
technical efficiency have far outstripped
the capabilities of the present financial
system”—one of the principal claims of
all economic revolutionaries, including
Douglasites. The motor-car industry
should be a complete answer. What has
made mass-production possible? Finance,
as illustrated in the ramifications and re-
sources of General Motors, the Ford,
Austin and Morris cos. Mass produc-
tion has made outlets for most of the
useful additions and refinements of auto-
motive invention over the past 20 years.
Not that everybody is living in a “para-
dise” as a result, of course. Only Doug-
las promises that.
* & * *
Whether we like to believe it or not,
at present boom conditions are a feature
of the sharemarket. Speculative buying
is everywhere obvious, and speculators
in industrials have had a remarkably
profitable run to date. Stock Exchange
gambling is much better organised than
it ever was before in Australia. It is
believed here that sound industrial ord.
shares are among the best of investments
at present available. But while specu-
lation is the basis of high prices buyers
who are relying on borrowed money
should be particularly careful. Anything
that caused a setback in share prices
might also lift the cost of carrying
charges.
* * * *
Those who aim eventually to sell their
holdings of Consols before maturity date
may not find a more favorable oppor-
tunity to do so than at present. Last
week opened with quotations generally
firm for all Government securities; a
low point was reached in August, and
there has been noticeable recovery since.
Next time the Loan Council comes on
the market there will almost certainly
be a recession in prices despite the
acknowledged market manipulation
which has preceded new flotations
recently.
* * * :|:
Textile co. scrip is not highly valued
in Australia. Holeproof ords. are bought
to return 6.7 p.c., Lustre 6.1 p.c., Beau
Monde 5.8 p.c.; Prestige 5.6 p.c., Berlei
5.1 p.c. and Yurra Falls 5 p.c. Yet these
cos. are more efficient than some other
Australian manufacturers, and their
profits are earned in keen competition.
There is a growing future for the con-
cerns, more especially in the case of
Yarra Falls.
•f* “l 5
Caldwell’s Wines ordinaries, after a
long spell in obscurity, have become a
market stock of interest. In a recent
week 2000 shares changed hands in small
parcels, at prices ranging between 1 Is.
and 12s. The Australian wine industry,
profitable enough up to 1929, was some-
thing of a Cinderella during the depres-
sion, and is only now recovering. Cald-
well’s report much better prospects.
* * *
September was a favorable month for
base-metal marketers. Electrolytic copper
was worth 17s. Id. sterling a ton more
at £43 10s. Id.; lead was up 235. 6d. at
£l7 19s. lOd.; spelter 7s. lOd. higher at
£l4 os. Bd. ; and tin £lO 19s. lid. higher
at £194 17s. 7d. Last week showed
further improvement in all metals except
spelter. Lead is now over £lB and tin
over £2OO.
* * * *
Zinc Corp. 10s. ords. reached the record
level of 935. last week. This mine has
the longest proved life of any at Broken
Hill. Attention was drawn to this and
other facts here when the scrip was at
the 705.-80 s. stage.-
South wSeas copra has shown a down-
ward trend in London over the past two
weeks. After touching £l4 sterling a ton,
quotes have since dropped to £l3 10s.
It is still at a comparatively good price
New Guinea copra, hot-air-dried, fetches
£1 a ton more.
* * * *
Triton’s declaration of a sixpenny div.,
payable Nov. 12, follows the first, of
similar amount, on July 3. It is a well-
handled show, owning what looks to be
a sound property at Cue (W.A.). Prin-
cipal drawback is the large capital
(£480,000).
* * * *
Every time an extension of that part of
company law dealing with accounts in-
formation is proposed, loud objections are
raised. Why, it is usually demanded,
should the public be entitled to anything
like complete information about a co.’s
affairs? The answer is that persons com-
prising a co. have been granted the privi-
lege of limited liability ; also, that direc-
tors of a co. have wide powers, and so
long as they do nothing illegal cannot be
called to account for asset wastage.
* * * *
North Broken Hill’s claimed profit of
£636,940, after providing for deprecia-
tion, compares with £390,683 in 1934-35,
and £685,794 in 1923-24, £888,995 in
1924-25 and £715,343 in 1925-26 the
three occasions on which last year’s
showing was exceeded. Average export
value of lead during the co.’s latest finan-
cial year was £l9 15s. Aust., as against
£l3 2s. 6d. in the previous term.
New Occ i d e ntal
(Cobar, N.S.W.) pro-
duced 25730 z. (a
record) in September,
an average of 6.Bdwt.
per ton. Recoveries
were the best for a long
while. The share-
market is still cautious
of the stock, paying Bs.
6d. or thereabouts;
there have been dis-
appointments as re-
gards grade of ore
milled, and no divs.
have yet come along.
* * *
France has cancelled
the “currency deprecia-
tion” tax on Australian
and Maoriland goods.
Exchange taxes on the
goods of other coun-
tries have been re-
duced, and there has
been general revision
of duties and quotas.
These moves are aimed
at defeating any exces-
sive rise in French traders’ prices. There
has, of course, been wild speculation fol-
lowing devaluation of the franc, in cur-
rencies, commodities and stocks. If a
French trade revival follows (an Ameri-
can stock boom succeeded devaluation of
the dollar), money may perhaps be made
in French industrial shares. Some Aus-
tralians made a packet of cash out of
U.S.A. equities during the last three
years. Opportunities in France, with
smaller-scale industries than America,
won't be so great.
* $ * *
In Melbourne last week:
Buckley and Nunn netted £17,013. In the
two preceding years losses aggregated £37,800
—due partly to heavy writing-down of stocks,
made necessary in a measure by centenary
anticipations that didn’t materialise. Merchan-
dise values at the latest balance were £24,400
lower.
Mt. Lyell shares sold up to 325.
Electrolytic Zinc declared profits £66,840
higher at £322,860 —over 12 p.c. on capital.
The ords. firmed to 445. 9d.


“PIANGOBLA” STATION
(Including “Invermay”), MOONGULLA, N.S.W.
Will be OFFERED FOR SALE by PUBLIC AUCTION at the WOOL
EXCHANGE, SYDNEY, on TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1936, at 12 NOON
By GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & COMPANY, LIMITED
In conjunction with
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES COY., LTD.
AREA:
Approx. 59,153 acres, comprising;—
2,680 ACRES FREEHOLD, AND
56,473 ACRES WESTERN LANDS LEASE.
W.L.L. No.
2129
2160 and 2467
SO4
Area.
10,171 acres
17,471
28,831
Expires.
30/6/1943
18/12/1944
16/1/1948
Rental per Annum.
£BB 19 11
136 2 7
176 11 10
Total Rental ..
£ 401 14 4
W.L.L. No. 2129 —10,171 acres —is subject to one-eighth resumption immediately,
and arrangements have (been made to take this area from W.L.L. No. 804.
IMPROVEMENTS: Comfortable W.B. Homestead at “Piangobla,” eight rooms, water laid on
to House and Garden. 'Telephone connected with Moongulla. Woolslied, 12 stands.
Sheep Yards and Comet Steel Dip. Stables, Garage, etc.
Boundary Rider’s Cottage at “Invermay”-—four rooms.
Water: Fourteen Good Tanks, totalling 64,000 cub. yards. Nine Silt Tanks.
Eleven miles of Bore Drains carry supplies from Dungle Ridge and Moongulla
Bores (the former a Trust Bare and the latter controlled by Public Works
Department), which water some 22,000 acres at a charge of £142 per annum.
Fencing: All in good order. Seventy-two miles of boundary fencing, of which
34 miles are dog- and rabbit-netted and a further 19 miles rabbit-netted.
Subdivided into 23 sheep-proof paddocks.
“PIANGOBLA” is situated 27 miles north-west of COLLARENBBRI, 37 miles
north-west of POKATAROO Railway Station and 14 miles from MOONGULLA
Post and Telegraph Office.
It has been in the hands of the present owners for a long period of years
and embraces excellent woolgrowing and grazing country, favored with a good
rainfall, the average for the past 11 years being 16} inches.
The Grown Sheep shorn just recently, principally breeders, cut au average of
approx. 101 b. per head.
TERMS: £2OOO on signing Contract; a further cash deposit making up to one-third of the
total purchase price on possession, and the remaining two—thirds pa3 r able in equal
annual instalments in 2,3, 4 and 5 years from date of Contract, bearing Interest
at the rate of 4} per centum per annum, payable half-yearly.
POSSESSION: Ist December "(to be extended to 31st 'December at option of Vendor).
This property does not come under the (provisions of The Western Lands
(Amendment) Act, 1934.
It is being offered UNSTOCKED (Plant, Stores, Cattle and Horses can be
purchased at a valuation).
For further information and arrangements for inspection, apply to: —
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & COMPANY, LTD., or
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
THE FORD V-8
3-TONMER
■ ■
mm
mmm
SSSBB
mmmmm
<:>-«:-:-:- : :.:;>SW:::':::.:x:'-W-
More Powerful V-8 Truck Engine (developing 90 h.p.) with
Greater Sustained Pulling Power (Torque) Over a Wide
Range of Speeds. Six 32 x 6 10-ply Tyres. Heavy-Duty Full-
Floating Rear Axle. Heavier Axle Shafts. 39 Ball and Roller
Bearings. Needle Bearings in Universal Joints. Greater
Crankshaft Bearing Area. Improved Steering. Heavy-Duty
Truck Clutch and Transmission. Improved Cooling System.
Heavy-Duty Front, Rear and Auxiliary Springs. Rugged
7-inch Frame. Oil Bath Air Cleaner. Quick-Action
Safety Mechanical Brakes. Safety Glass All Round in Cab.
Ford engineers have taken nothing
for granted in V-8 truck design and
construction. The question they con-
stantly ask themselves is: "What can
we do to make them better?" All the
above features and many more have
resulted from this effort to "make
them better." Therein lies the reason
for the soundness of Ford design.
Ford V-8 Trucks have been proved
by the past and are improved for
the future. Ask your Dealer to
demonstrate. Easy and convenient
purchase terms may be arranged.
Ford Has Built 3 Million Trucks and Utilities—One-third of the World's Total
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V-8 TRUCKS
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victories F97/?0C
Interest Rates
Banking averages for the three months
ended September will be available early
next month, and they should be of par-
ticular interest, representing as they do
the first full quarter in which the higher
deposit and advance rates operated.
“Interest rates” sound of minor con-
cern tp the ordinary person—they are an
item which the investor and speculator
both are liable to overlook when putting
their capital into something for the pur-
pose of income or appreciation. The
operation of interest-rate movements on
share and security values isn’t always
automatic, but in the end a lifting or
lowering of interest rates, through con-
certed action by the banks or by the
greatness or smallness of public borrow-
ing, usually exerts a definite influence.
Early this year the trading banks were
faced with having to meet their clients
with much greater assistance towards
buying overseas goods and financing
business expansion within the Common-
wealth. At the same time fixed deposits
were being withdrawn for Stock Ex-
change and other purposes. These move-
ments were the reverse of those two
years earlier. The reversal was so sudden
that the safeguarding measures (a lifting
of interest charged and allowed) came as
a shock to many ; one immediate result
was the sharpest setback for some time
among Stock Exchange securities.
That was about six months ago. Since
then the readjusted bank rates and credit-
curtailment policy have not fully coun-
tered sharemarket buoyancy, created by
trading conditions still showing expan-
sion and by speculation. The general
level of share prices in Australia is the
highest ever recorded.
The average yield on Consols in
August was the widest since the record
• “low” was reached towards the end of
1934. The rise was accelerated by the
lifting of bank deposit and advance rates
and the floating of a new loan a couple
of months back. Since then various
public bodies, in Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, have been on the market for
some millions at higher interest rates.
These loans out of the way, Consols
strengthened a little, and just now are at
the firmest figure for some time.
The stability of this position will be
governed to some extent by what the
banking figures shortly to be published
will show, by future Government borrow-
ing policy, and by returns looked for
from other investments. It seems certain
that any cheapening in money cannot
reasonably be looked for. The banks
generally are not averse to lifting rates
when business conditions can stand
them ; and there is no doubt that for
some time interest returns have been
down to a figure considerably lower than
the level reached by commodities and
wages during the depression.
“Cheap” money is often good for
trade, but it cannot remain cheap always.
Sooner or later balance must be restored,
even if only to curb unwise use of credit.
With the London position still unsatis-
factory and a great deal of city and
suburban building going on, it seems very
likely that the hire of money will cost
more, and that fixed-interest securities
will be worth less.
During the current wheat season the
equivalent of 84,897,000 bushels of wheat,
in grain and flour, has been exported
from the Commonwealth. Over 1,000,000
bushels was exported in the latest week.
On trucks, Williamstown, bulk wheat
was worth around 4s. lid. last week,
and bagged grain was between ss. 2d.
and ss. 3d.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.,
the co. which earns the income for
Australasian Paper and Cumberland
Paper, showed £192,203 of profit in the
year to June 30 (after providing £50,000
for taxes, bad debts, etc.), as against
£172,115 in the preceding term. In
November, 1935, the two holding cos.
issued £400,000 of share capital and
£lOO,OOO of premium capital; only
£200,000 of this has so far been called
up, and it appears to be earning its keep.
A large new paper machine has been
completed in Victoria,, and a modern
board-making plant is to be installed at
Botany (Sydney). Most of the new capi-
tal has been allocated to plant purchase
and extension. The all-round 8 p.c. paid
by the holding cos. appears safe, subject
to possible tariff alterations. Capital
owing on the contrib. shares is to be
called up in quarterly instalments of
2s. 6d., the last due on March 31, 1938.
* * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords. at
665. 6d. yield 4.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The visible net tangible backing
is 375. 6d. per share, excluding trade-
marks, formulas and goodwill. The co.
has the Australasian agency for Crown
seals as well as other brewers’, grocers’
and butchers’ lines, and its business is
flourishing. Last term 26 p.c. on ord.
capital was shown, as against 21 p.c. in
the preceding year. Investments in sub-
sidiary cos. contain undisclosed financial
strength and earning power, features
which may be made more public when
the new N.S.W. Companies Act comes
into force next year. It is a very sound
stock, and. as values go at present', isn’t
over-priced.
* * * *
From a Sydney “D.T.” version of E. W.
Bonwick’s report on Mandated Alluvials’
property in Papua (Sept. 29):
It is a promising prospecting venture, and
nothing more. And even at that there are
some disquieting features.
The same journal on October 2 gave
the “full report.” The paragraph men-
tioned then read: —
The proposition is a promising prospect-
ing venture, and nothing more, and even
at that there are disquieting features as to
extension towards centre of basin if the
synclinal theory prove correct.
What the “Telegraph” published on Sept.
29 chanced to be of considerable assist-
ance to the bears. The market collapsed
that day. Support following the meeting
has been weaker still. An estimate of
ore reserves in the sections already
worked is expected shortly.
* * * *
For the month to Sept. 8 the now
disfavored Lady Shenton (its shares
touched 17s. 6d. in January) treated
948 tons ore and 65 tons sands for
9820 z. bullion, containing 6610 z. fine
gold. A working profit of £1656 is
claimed, compared with £1254 in the pre-
vious month. The scrip is around 2s. Id.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Toll of the Road”
Road-safety propaganda skilfully
mixed with melodrama and comedy.
Hero (Randolph Scott) is chief of the
traffic-control police of a large U.S.A.
city. By drastic methods which the law
allows him to use (these include a com-
pulsory visit to a morgue and a moving-
picture show that demonstrates the
horrible results of reckless driving), he
cures rich girl (Frances Drake) of a pro-
pensity to step viciously on the accelera-
tor pedal. Then, while she is in a
coupe with drunken young brother, they
hit a bus-load of children. One is killed,
and the girl, assumed to be the driver,
goes to gaol for a long term on a charge
of murder in the second degree. Traffic-
squad boss had to give evidence against
her, though he loves her dearly, but later,
examining photographs of the wrecked
coupe, discovers proof that drunken young
brother must have been in the driver’s seat.
D.y.b. (Tom Brown) breaks his neck
in one last sensational smash, girl gets
free pardon and wedding bells ring, Scott
is well suited as an earnest young officer
of the law ; Miss Drake has humor and
intelligence as well as charm, and many
chuckles are provided by their experi-
ences while pretending t'o go house-
hunting. They strike a Mr. Tweets, a
house agent who exudes the most frank
and virulent abuse of the properties he
has for sale. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Yours for the Asking”
Puts a new twist on an old theme.
Gambling-house proprietor (George Raft)
has hankerings for “class,” so enters into
partnership with orphan daughter of a
one-time Wall-street magnifico to run a
joint in the highest style of social ele-
gance. His loyal but tough associates
(headed by James Gleason) disapprove
of this excursion, and to wean their chief
from such aspirations fit out a pair of
gentle grafters (Ida. Lupino and Edgar
Kennedy) as aristocratic colonel and
niece. The victim for a while swallows
(he fairy-tales told by these impostors,
bait, hook and sinker, but when the
colonel sells him for 25,000 smackers an
allegecf antique miniature worth 40 cents
Bing Crosby and his bull (they seem to
have got mixed up) in “Rhythm on the
Range.”
he takes a tumble. After the show-down
he finds that he loves Wall-street’s
daughter (Dolores Costello Barrymore),
and resolves to marry her and go into
some more respectable business. On this
outline is hung some entertaining comedy.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
“M’liss”
Bret Harte’s story of early Californian
gold-rush days has been converted into
mild melodrama, peopled with characters
dear to the playgoer of the ’seventies,
from the thin-lipped, bosomless scandal-
monger to the treble-dyed viilain who
audibly hisses as he walks sideways like
a crab, his schemes baffled.
There is nothing startling in the fic-
tional recipe. We see the old wastrel
Ned Sparks in “Two’s Company," at
Sydney Lyceum.
father (Guy Kibbee), supported by his
very innocent but high-spirited darter,
who tells the gossips off with refreshing
abandon and entertains tenderly roman-
tic thoughts about the handsome young
school-teacher (John Beal), who has to
stoically wait through 6000 ft. of celluloid
before he can nobly refute the charge
that he is “y a^er ” } the big-hearted
saloon-keeper (Moroni Olsen) who pulls
beer-pump handles and political strings
with equal facility; the tough but gentle-
gambler (Douglas Dumbrille) and the
good-natured barber (Frank Thomas),
bachelors both, who keep a foster-
fatherly eye on the young orphan girl
when her old man backs his 48in. chest
against lead pills and Joses; the town
mayor (Arthur Hoyt), a sort of super-
Creswell O’Reilly, who sees the devil
and all his works in a mild labial peck,
and the Detestable One (James Bush), who
smirks greasily and curls his lip like
a gigolo’s marcelle.
Character-acting is excellent. Guy
Kibbee, Moroni Olsen, Arthur Hoyt and
Douglas Dumbrille are well placed, and
Anne Shirley’s beauty is such that, in
the role portrayed by Mary Pickford
in the silents of a generation ago, she
can wear the awful monstrosities of the
period and still be charming. Her act-
ing, too, is smoothly capable, as is that
of John Beal. Good entertainment,
though the denouement is poorly man-
aged. At Sydney Capitol.
“36 Hours to Kill”
A bank-robbing gunman (Douglas
Fawley), his sweetie (Isabel Jewel), a
breezy-mannered G-man (Brian Don-
levy) and a hard-boiled newspaper goil
(Gloria Stuart) are the principal actors
in this train fantasia, with comic inter-
ludes by Stepin Fetchit (the soprano
negro) and Warren Hymer. The G-man
has a dictaphone in the gunman’s boudoir
and learns all his secrets, but despite
this the bad man gets away, abducting
the newspaper goil at the same time,
leaving the way clear for the G-man to
fight it out with the villain single-handed
in the approved fashion. Donlevy is
now enjoyable in any role. Miss Stuart
has poise and humor, Fawley makes a
most convincing killer, and Miss Jewel
not only looks her part but can act it.
Events move briskly, and the opus kills
80 minutes very entertainingly. At Syd-
ney Capitol.
“Star for a Night”
Quite a good comedy, though the
material is well worn. Frau Lind
(Jane Darn well) leaves her home in the
Austrian Tyrol to pay a surprise visit
to her son and two daughters in New
York. She’s blind, and her offspring, who
report that they have attained . great
wealth and fame in the U.S.A., have
sent her money for specialist treatment,
but without benefit. When the old lady’s
impending arrival is announced per radio
from the ship, her family are horror-
struck. Eldest daughter isn’t a concert
pianist of international fame ; she plays
song-hits in a music store. Younger
daughter (Claire Trevor) isn’t a musi-
comedy star; she shakes a leg in the
chorus and is understudy to the star.
Son isn’t a wealthy automobile manu-
facturer ; he drives a taxi. They live
in four rooms on Third-avenue. Still,
mother is blind, so they are able to keep
up the deception for a while. Then
arrives on the scene a New York eye
specialist of Austrian extraction (Edward
J. Bremberg). Mother’s sight is restored.
So they have to borrow an expensive
apartment overlooking the park, and
younger daughter’s chorus-girl pals abduct
the star of her show so as to put the girl
in the lead on the night mother goes to
the theatre. Of course, everything turns
out all right. It is Jane Darnwell’s film,
but she has excellent support. In the
cast is Alan Dinehart, for once in a way
released from villainy. He’s a theatrical
manager with a heart of gold. In fact,
everybody has a heart of gold except the
musical-comedy star, and Nemesis falls
on her with a frightful bang. Previewed
at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
“A Woman Alone”
Anna Sten’s first English picture is set
in pre-revolutionary Russia. Anna is
Marie, a peasant girl whose dimples
catch the eye of a dashing cavalry
Gordon Harker in “Two’s Company.”
captain, Ilyinsky (Harry Wilcoxon),
but the affair does not go beyond
some merriment over cows and spinning
wheels. Ilyinsky marries a cold aristo-
crat, and Marie later gets a job as nurse-
maid to the Ilyinskys. Yakov, a soldier,
Marie’s fiance, believes, quite wrongly,
that his Marie is unfaithful, attacks Ilyin-
sky in a fit of jealousy, and is court-
martialled. As he had an anti-Govern-
ment propaganda pamphlet in his pocket,
the case appears political. If proved it
means death. His dctence, jealousy,
carries every hope of ultimate release
Marie is by now a famous dancer (these
swift transitions are a bit
She’s a witness at the trial, where she and
Ilyinsky, their love still pure as a crystal
stream, rise to the topmost peaks of no-
bility, and confess sins they never com-
mitted. Miss Sten acts with feeling, and
her soft voice and broken accent
heighten her charm. Wilcoxon is satisfac-
George Raft settling an argument in
“Yours for the Asking,” at Sydney Prince
Edward.
lory, but some of the best acting in the
film is done by a minor character, an
officer of the regiment putting questions
to Ilyinsky and Marie. There are some
fine crowd scenes. At Melbourne
Athenaeum.
“The Revenge Rider”
A soundly-constructed Western, in-
habited mainly by the stern, relentless,
taciturn Tim McCoy. Tim’s brother, the
sheriff , is bumped off by cattle-rustlers in
ambush. Tim speedily finds out that the
main rustling organisation in the country
is the Cattleman’s Protective Association.
The association runs the country and has
the new sheriff in its pay, but it cannot
prevail against the man with the steely
eyes, the quick draw and the unerring
aim. After a satisfactory amount of
shooting the bad hombres are all filled
with lead and Tim unbends sufficiently
to emit a frosty grin as he rides off on,
his honeymoon. The girl and the rest of
a big cast are merely background for
Timothy. At Sydney Civic.
Some First Nights
“Heritage,” at Adelaide Tivoli, S.A.'s
first centennial stage play, is an amazing
mixture of State history with ballet danc-
ing. Flinders and Sturt are glimpsed
discovering the new territory, Welling-
ton and Wakefield in London planning
a province, Hindmarsh and Light on the
spot “proclaiming” it and fixing the capi-
tal site. I hen various good spirits attend
the State’s progress, in a host of scenes.
Ellinor Walker wrote up the historical
part, Heather Gell arranged the ballets
and Rendall, of the Theatre Royal,
looked after the financial side, which was
very prosperous. A ballet of bushfire
and another of a swaying wheatfield
were among the high spots. John Horner,
conducting an orchestra of 30, made
great play with (and around) the local
“Song of Australia” —which is about
due to be recognised by the whole Com-
monwealth. He added music by him-
self, Percy Grainger, Harold Davies,
Brewster Jones and Miriam Hyde. The
players numbered about 500, chosen
some for social tonnage and some for
acting ability. Australians can always
dance well, and most of those with
speaking parts had only a minute or so
each in the limelight.
*!•
Another revival of “dear old ‘Maid
of the Mountains’ ” (Gladys Moncrieff s


Painful BACKACHE
-inflamed KIDNEYS
Relief comes quickly
when you take
GIN PILLS
WHEN your back aches you
know that something must
be out of order to cause this
ache. Nine times out of ten it is
the kidneys. They have become
weak and inflamed and are per-
mitting impurities to accumulate
in the blood streams.
This condition lowers the vitality,
and, if allowed to continue, more
serious results often follow.
A course of Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills is what is needed to
correct this condition. Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills act directly on your
Kidneys—will make them strong and
healthy again—will assist them in
quickly eliminating all impurities
from the blood streams, and rid
you of your pain and suffering.
It is useless to take drugs
which merely deaden the pain for
a few hours—you must get right
down to the root of the trouble—
V
The Beit
you must remove the cause ; and
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills will
do this for you in no uncertain
manner.
Gin Pills are absolutely safe
for anyone to take. They contain
no harsh irritants or injurious sub-
stances, and cannot help but benefit
you. They are unequalled as a
Kidney Remedy.
Cease worrying about your-
self give Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills a chance to restore your health.
They will soon banish that run-down
feeling and remove all trace of
Backache, Rheumatism, and any of
the other signs of Kidney Trouble.
27 Pills I'9
Ahdderii
60 Pills 2 f 9
GIN PILLS
words after the final curtain) by a J. C.
Williamson company at His Majesty >,
Melbourne, won applause and bouquets.
Many in the packed house must have
heard Miss Moncrieff as Teresa at Mel-
bourne’s old Theatre Royal in January,
1921 ; they gave her plenty to do on the
1936 first night, when they repeatedly
called for more of their old favorites
from a singer whose voice hasn’t sul-
fered much with the years. Frank Leigh-
ton is a convincing Baldasarre and
Arthur Clarke a hearty Beppo. Hilarious
Cecil Kell away (General Malona) pleases
Melbourne with the kisses he showeis
on Teresa in the last act. Vittoria and
Tonio (Lois Green and Don Nicol) are
well played.
•b *b *b *b
Dr. Malcolm Sargent charmed two
enormous audiences at Melbourne Town
Hall as much by his electric personality
as by the sounds he got out of his
orchestra. A master of appropriate
gesture, without being in the least histri-
onic, there is no part of him which does
not seem to be infused with the meaning
of the music. The playing of the
Brahms Fourth Symphony showed that
the orchestra had been both smoothed
and quickened; it has seldom, it evei,
mastered such changing tempos and
manipulated such brilliant contrasts as it
did in the Strauss symphonic poem, “Don
Juan.” Debussy’s “L’Apres-midi dUn
Faune” seemed to be out of the doctor’s
medium, and, in fact, sounded so strange
that it might have been some other com-
position, and the Elgar overture, “Cock-
aigne,” which concluded the first night’s
programme, seemed like a gate-crasher
in too-distinguished company.
“A Windy Day” opened Saturday
night’s proceedings. This is a compo-
sition of the conductor’s own musical
adolescence, and its author does not seem
to like it. Not out of politeness the audi-
ence disagreed with him so wholeheartedly
that he probably muttered to himself:
“There must be more in it than I thought
there was.” The violin concerto in D
major, Op. 77 of the majestic Brahms,
brought the Sydney violinist, Lionel
Lawson,* on to the platform. It had
been done before by Szigeti. Lawson
handled his part with competence (and
the famous cadenza with brilliance), and
the orchestra was never better than in
the lovely adagio. Holst’s ballet from
“The Perfect Fool,” with its wild, excit-
ing rhythms and its extraordinary color,
gave Sargent fresh opportunities for elec-
trification. The soberer beauties of the
Cesar Franck symphony in D minor
closed the evening. The lovely melody
for the cor anglais in the second move-
ment, enraptured the audience, which
held its breath in expectation of a stumble.
After the great climax of the final move-
ment there was an ovation, and orchestra
leader Edouard Lambert came in for a
big share of the honors.
•b *b »b *b
Dorothy Helmrich sang her farewell
to Australia at Sydney Con. Hall one
night last week. She was not at her very
best, but she presented several groups of
songs by British composers in the polished
manner which endears her to students of
the minutiae in vocal art.
•b *b *b *b
Buttressed by stalwarts from the A.B.C.
orchestra and choir, Sydney Phil, put
on an overcrowded programme at the
Town Hall on Thursday night. Main
items were Rossini’s “Stabat Mater” and
Mendelssohn’s “First Walpurgis Night,”
both nicely done so far as the choir was
concerned. Soloists of the evening were
Lillian Wilson, Eileen Boyd, Walter
Kingsley and Lance Jeffree. G. Vern
Barnett conducted.
•J* »■«
It’s a lawless, primitive Spain that
Jacinto Benevante unfolds in his “Passion
Flower,” presented- by Scott Alexander’s
players at Sydney Kursaal. The scene is
Castile, the atmosphere electrified by
a fanatical devotion to family name that
grips even the servants. A nobleman,
infatuated with his stepdaughter, by
whom his advances are repelled, con-
nives at the death of her fiance in such a
manner that suspicion inevitably falls
on an old flame. The suspect is exon-
erated in court, but the Court's verdict
doesn’t satisfy the aristocrats, and, with
feeling running so high that the sur-
rounding villages are about to spring at
each other’s throats, blood flows ere
Nemesis takes his grim toll in a whip-
snap climax. The piece has evidently
been weakened in translation, but the
seething background of passion was pre-
sented effectively. Agnes Cullen was a
convincing type of doglike serving
woman, Raymond Irons demanded his
pound of flesh with fine verve, and Shir-
ley Geddes and Nancy Stewart played
emotional roles commendably. Others
who caught the spirit of the drama were
John Russell. Nan Lowe and Marjorie
Griffiths.
Sydney Players’ Clubites were looking
forward to Edith Sterling Levis’s “The
Spirit Host” at St. James’s Hall, but pro-
ducer Jack Appleton fell ill and Robert
Morley’s “Short Story” was hurried on.
Morley’s play had a mild London West
End success, but it is a machine-made
lightweight, the theme slight and plot
worn. Some humor in it keeps audience
from reaching for hats. It is about a
respectable English citizen, happily mar-
ried to a retired actress, who goes holi-
day cruising in the Mediterranean and
has an affair. Back with wife and roses
he forgets the episode. The lady turns
up, but is forced to throw in the towel.
Alice Gould took the part of the wife,
which required all Marie Tempest’s skill
to keep it alive when the piece was pro-
duced in London. Miss Gould, though
not a Tempest, did very well. Edward
Cavill, as the straying husband, gave a
straightforward performance. Clarence
Street played a foolish- member of the
British aristocracy along conventional
lines. Beatrice Wines, as his lady (ex-
stage), made the hit of the evening.
Kathleen Gaffney, as a gossiping spinster,
was also to the fore.
* * * *
“Libel,” by Edward Wooll, an Eng-
lish Judge, is Adelaide Repertory’s latest
venture, and an odd novelty, the sole
i „ *
scene being a court, and the sole interest
a civil action against a newspaper. But
as this is a reputable journal, and has
cheerfully undertaken to prove its libel.
that Sir Mark is not the baronet of that
name but an impostor, it is actually he
who is on his trial. Being a war wreck,
he is a singularly bad witness, and about
the second day his own wife is con-
vinced that she, too, has been duped ; but
all ends well for Sir Mark and his lady,
... ”
with thumping damages by consent.
The Rep. is fortunate in having bar-
risters among its best actors, and the, ex-
changes between Don Downey (who also
was producer) lor Sir Mark and Basil
Harford lor the paper had the true ring.
Another of the profession, L. B.
Mathews, was the mentally-toituied
baronet in the box, and Arthur Fay on
the Bench gave humor without burlesque.
Among a clever crowd m smaller parts
were Beryl Kook as the wife, Jack Ham
and Phyllis Simpson. Altogether, one of
the best things in the Rep.’s history.
C urren t ArtburstS
, .
Though Women Painters in their ex-
hibition at Melbourne Athenaeum are
limited to three canvases each the
pictures suffer through overcrowded
walls. Mrs. W. Mclnnes’s flower studies
f are accomplished with her usual feeling
for color and groupings, and reflections
j n p o ii s h ec l wood are nicely managed.
Individual in style are Sheila McCubbin’s
so j e contribution “Marguerites” and M.
Barrett’s “Bowl of Magnolias.” Sybil
Craig has achieved an interesting design
Traill an Elizabethan staircase. Dora
Searle offers a satisfying piece of crafts-
manship in her study of lilies, russet
apples and a blue jug. In academic
fashion is Stephanie Taylor’s long
narrow still-life Mellow Fruitfulness.
Aileen Dent shows a portrait nead, Jessie
Traill an Elizabethan staircase and Dora
Wilson has captured an illusive but very
rea [ S pj r it c f charm in her glimpse of
Swanston-street and in her simple but
cleverly-balanced still-life “Peasantry.”
Marguerite Mahood exhibits glazed
earthenware of her favorite pompadours,
mermaids and grotesque gnomes. Ola
Coin, Marjorie McChesney and N. M.
p a t e rson display sculpture, and Helen
Qgilvie’s contributions are color prints
execu f ec i w ith her customary care,
(Continued on page 52.)


•Jhe itichardson Chain Hotel
»!
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... rrom 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
"More than a Famous Hotel ... if Is a Delightful Home"
For 102 years, Petty's Hotel has given service to guests. Even to-day
this tine old hotel is still renowned for its service; its comfort; and its
conveniently central position.
See the new private dining room and lounge.
Tariff, room and breakfast from I 1/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(I) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Randwick has never known a more
colorful spring meeting. Even on the
day when the wind sang high and blew
cold, there was enough sunshine to coax
out the panama hat, the silk suit and the
brightly-belted linen frock. The John
McKelvey lady wore her small panama
straight on the head, with its front brim
turned down to shade the eyes. Her
navy ensemble was giddy with spots and
dots. Mrs. Jimmy Dickson’s toque was
brimless and circled by white flowers ,
Anne Gordon’s peaked black velvet
beret had a knot of white daisies at the
side, and Betty and Lorna Bradford did
their home town, Melbourne, proud both
in looks and frocking ; Betty Manton did
the same for Maoriland. The attractive
Midge Nelson banded her wide straw hat
with the pink linen of which her suit
was made.
Both Commonwealth and .State Gov-
ernment Houses added their bit to the
week’s happenings, and had cheery lunch
parties. One race dress of Lady Murray
Anderson’s was of cruiser-grey lace of
heavy weave. Flowers of the same shade
decked her black hat. The De Pledge
girls and Anne Vanneck appeared again
and again. Mrs. L. A. Robb was
tailored in assam silk, and Rosemary de
Sausmarez seemed to grow smarter each
day. Mrs. Eric Pratten was one of the
striking. Her sleek black frock showed
the hobble influence ; her wide-brimmed
hat was of black velvet. Of the family
groups none was more attractive than
the David Maughans. Mrs. Maughan’s
white crepes were patterned in black ; her
cool-looking sleeves were of pleated
chiffon.
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar’s hat out-
brimmed all others. It was brown and
had a pink swathe. Mrs. Charles Lloyd
Jones, Chief Justice Jordan's lady and her
aunt Miss Roche picked winners in the
heat of Wednesday. Mrs. C. L. Jones
was coolness from her white shoes to her
white hat. In between occurred a bright
tunic frock that would have made
Joseph’s coat look pallid. Mrs. Rodney
Dangar wore quills in her straw hat ; the
Walder lady’s tunic was black and flower
patterned. Mrs. Walter Burfitt con-
trasted a pink suit and brown millinery.
Harry Budge and his lady lunched with
the G.-Gs. Elise and Sadie added their
quota to the ruffling, bright-hued frock-
ing that everywhere prevailed.
Every year Maorilanders flock across
the Tasman to peep at the horses in a
Randwick setting. Audrey McLeod,
from Hastings, has, with her mother,
Mrs. J. S. McLeod, been enjoying the
spring-meeting gaieties. Photograph by
Dorothy Welding.
Randwick on Saturday was white hats,
white coats, white shoes and white
frocks. Helen Hughes, Rosemary de
Sausmarez, Mrs. Sam Hardy and Mrs.
Alan McGregor were among the white-
frocked. Viki Gordon wore black both
in hat and frock. Green gloves were a
bright half-way spot. Mary Hordern
was among the good-looking. Her floral
chiffons were bright as the flower-beds
scattered about the trim lawns. The
last day of the meeting was as radiant
but not so crowded as the first. A hat
on which red currants grew caught the
gaze. So did Mrs. Graham Body’s
chiffon frock with its puffed and tucked
sleeves and its brown daisies. Philippa
Stephen’s blue-and-white printed frock
and large white hat were attractive.
Doifothy Porter was pictorial from her
flowered sandals to her green hat. Lyle
Mason was cool in lilac. Both vice-
regal parties came to have a last flutter.
Lady Cowrie wore a lace jabot at the
throat of her Quaker-grey frock, and her
wide hat had a white crown and a black
brim. The black of Lady Murray Ander-
son’s frock was spotted in white.
If the frocks worn at the White Ball
had displayed their snow and glitter
against a background of white touched
here and there with black, the effect
would have been Aubrey Beardsley-ish.
But, of course, the Trocadero couldn’t
be entirely redecorated for the occasion,
and if a stylised comedy-of-manners
atmosphere was lacking, so also was the
sinister suggestion of Wilkie Collins’s
Woman in White, and the dance was
one of the happiest and most successful
parties of race week. The beneficiary
was the Blind Institution. When the
ball was first thought of it was hoped
that every woman would appear in white,
but some preferred black, and some
couldn’t bear to be shorn of their gay
little flowered chiffons. However, the
ultimate effect was at least 80 per cent,
white.
The Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie came to the party. Lady
Gowrie’s frock of off-white crepe had its
shoulders outlined in gold sequins. In
the Admiralty House group were the
Hon. Anne Vanneck, whose white
organdie wore large puff sleeves; Pat de
Pledge, whose white cr§pe was patterned
in silver true lovers’ knots; sister Maud,
on whom silver lace gleamed, and Ebba
de Dardel, reminiscent of an old minia-
ture in her off-the-shoulder frock of ivory
brocade with its puff sleeves. Mrs. Eric
Sheller was all white, even to the flower
in her hair and her spray of orchids.
Her fabric was ivory net, and her skirt
was corded and ruched at intervals. The
finest silver lace graced Mrs. Roy Buck-
land. Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones accented
the rose-white of her crepes with a jade
ornament, green as a shamrock.
White flowers were massed in the
centre of the foyer, where the white-clad
committee, led by Mrs. Eric Sheller,
received the vice-regals; in high
standards white flowers flanked the door-
ways, and in the ballroom, arranged
fanlike in front of the dais, they served
as an inspiration to the band. Arum-
lilies, white roses and gladioli shone on
every table; that of the vice-regals was
thickly hedged with lilies and other albino
flora. The presentation bouquets were
white, but flowers worn by dancers
occasionally struck a color note. Square
necklines, worn, by many, were often
bordered in garden reds and blues and
yellows. Pretty girls made money for the
cause by decorating mere males with a
white carnation or rose in the button-
hole. Some lucky ones found a guinea
on their white-streamered tray in ex-
change for a flower.
Bea Meeks, a good-looking member of
the white sisterhood, made a display of
green orchids. There were prizes for
the most beautiful white frock and for
the most attractive woman present. Mrs.
Eric Pratten won the first. Her frock
of white net was scattered with leaves
and had a frill that stood upwards from
the waist. Mrs. Lennox Bode was
adjudged the Helen of the night. Her
frock was of heavy crepe. With it she
wore white daisies and a cape swathed
at the waistline. A Valentinish head-
dress was Mrs. Graham Body’s. This
was a tiny wreath of pink carnations
worn on the top of the head just above
the forehead.
Fishes, birds, flowers and running
water were worked into the scheme of
decoration for the Union Club’s after-
the-race party on Wednesday. From the
entrance hall, where nice girl attendants
in green frocks and green-and-pink
flowered smocks offered orchids from
beribboned trays, the place was like some
wonderland. Truly no women’s club will
ever so transform itself. The sex is too
economical. Over the stair rails drooped
wistaria, and at each side of the stair-
way was a softly-lighted pond where
goldfish swam while cranes stood lost
in meditation. These pools were banked
with geranium and other highly-colored
flowers in pots. In the dining-room was
a plashing fountain, its basin inhabited
by more goldfish and more cranes. Here
grew blue and gold iris. Add ceilings
clustered with balloons; tall standards
vivid with gladioli, lupins, tulips, del-
phiniums ; soft masses of the green elm
flower, and tables laden with delight for
eye and palate.
On each table were green wickerwork
baskets with high handles. These were
tightly filled with Radiance roses and
stock, posies of primroses and tulips.
Pansies and rosebuds and greeny shoots
were scattered with design on the tables
themselves. Roses and purple and blue
iris grew in boxes on every window sill.
The centrepiece on the vice-regal table
was a Grecian urn fashioned of pink
carnations and filled with tulips. This
table had purple iris lying flat on its sur-
face. The urn, with the cream-and-red-
veined beauties it held, was Lady
Gowrie’s loot from the party. A flower-
crinolined lady was taken home by Lady
Anderson. At the vice-regal table were
the club’s president, Consett Stephen, the
Philip Streets, the Rodney Dangars, the
Shepheard Laidleys and the James Kidds.
The Kelso Kings, Mrs. Walter Swinson,
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, Percy
and his sister Agnes and Brigadier-
General Lloyd were among the groups
that wandered about the pleasant rooms
and out on to the flag-decked verandahs
and the strip of lawn. The Alexander
Gordons were there. They have just re-
turned from their honeymoon. Anne
Gordon was there, too, looking like a
grown-up Wendy in her printed linen suit
with its natty coat. The personality of
the afternoon was Mrs. J. B. Donkin with
her erect carriage. Her black frock had
touches of lavender and old lace. Her
toque was of lavender tulle.
Beatrice Meeks finds time in the midst
of the social whirl to work on the cnm-
mittee for the Blind Institution in Wil-
liam-street. In a snowdrift of a frock
and green orchids she was at the White
Ball, for which she was treasurer. This
glimpse by a Freeman camera.
There was a soldier band on the lawns
of Colonel Bundock’s home late last
Thursday afternoon, and it put quite a
stir into the still-fashionable end of Mac-
leay-street. The reception-rooms of
Cravenna (the old A. J. Brady home)
were thrown wide, and within soldier
and sailor, Consul and important civilian
and their wives made their bows to one
another, while outside the band rollicked
along and, with the falling of hot, still
night, melted into the “Blue Danube.”
Mrs. Bundock, receiving her 250 guests,
was effective in black and white. Her
hat was large, white and banded in black.
Baritone Robert Nicholson leaves Syd-
ney for New York on October 23. His
farewell concert at the Town Hall
brought in £3OO. He will have more
than £9OO to help him on his way. Tenor
Richard Crooks has taken him under his
wing, and expects to hatch a Metropoli-
tan and Covent Garden artist. Crooks's
own teacher will tutor him.
Every year the Lyceum Club holds a
flower show, and this year again the out-
standing exhibit was entered by Mrs.
Darsaw. It was a miniature florist’s
window, complete with indirect lighting.
Thimbles painted green and large metal
coat-buttons made perfect holders for the
tiny blue and pink flowers. In the centre
was a chromium-plated stand topped
with a spray of pink flowers tied with
blue ribbons. Other displays were as
beautiful, if not so intriguing. The heat-
wave proved too trying for the delicate
mauve clematis, but the tulips, roses and
mignonette and the homely buttercups
had lost none of their first freshness by
the late afternoon. Curator Hawker, of
the Botanic Gardens, was judge.
Premier Stevens, his wife and family
were greeted at a U.A.P. conversazione
more than 1000 strong, and David
Jones’s ballroom was filled with the men
who come to the aid of the party, like-
wise the ladies whose votes have the
same counting-power. The Premier
(somewhat slimmer) and Mrs. Stevens
smiled on all. Her frock was a symphony
in pink and mist-grey chiffons. Gwen
Stevens, who was squired by betrothed
Philip Rudder, wore a frock as gaily
striped as a Venetian scarf. Sister
Lorna’s floating white chiffons were
moored by a turquoise sash. Colonel and
Mrs. Playfair (he’s the president of the
U.A.P.) were importants. The jacket of
her black taffeta frock wore smartly-
puffed sleeves. Ministers, members of
the U.A.P. executive and their wives
imposingly proceshed along the ballroom
in the wake of the State’s pilot and Mrs.
Stevens to the accompaniment of “For
They Are Jolly Good Fellows.”
Nathalie Rosenwax goes to London to
act as a link between the Australian
traveller (especially the music and art
student) and the big city. It was under
her wing some years ago that singer Renee
Maxwell went abroad. Musical Sydney
farewelled her last week at the Carlton,
and Nathalie, handsome in Tudor-red
taffeta, told about the service she hopes
to give Australians in the city she knows
as well as she knows Sydney. Singer
Emily Marks was radiant in roseate
laces; Josephine Marks was in black
and silver. Aubrey Halloran made
one of the best speeches of the evening.
The Roy Agnews came, and Roy played.
Nancy Gurr, in lilac, was there with
mother and father (he and Mrs. Varney
Monk won second place with “Collits’
Inn” in the competition Miss Rosenwax
inaugurated). Arnold Mote, who with
Mrs. Margery Brown won the first prize,
made a speech ; so did T. S. Gurr. A
wallets of notes, a small mountain of gifts
and “Auld Lang Syne” speeded the de-
parting one.
Last year Mrs. Harold Weigall netted
almost £2OO for the Sydney Day Nurseries
from the Christmas-cake competition she
organised. This year she is running
another competition with even higher cash
prizes. Details can be had from the gen.
secretary, Day Nursery Association, 92
Pitt-street. The need for these nurseries
is urgent. They mean help and peace of
mind to the mother who has to go to
work.
At least two generations of Sydney
dancers will drop a sigh over the passing
of Mrs. Maclurcan Lee, always spoken
of as Mrs. Maclurcan. For many years
she reigned over the Wentworth Hotel
on Church Hill. It was she who intro-
duced the dinner dance to this city, and
made the ballroom the main centre of
charity dance and fashionable party.
Everybody danced at the Wentworth
in the afternoon or in the evening. When
our present King visited Australia as the
Prince of Wales his personal staff used
to drop in. Melba stayed there. A story
is told of a Continental prima donna
being firmly rebuked by the hotel’s
intrepid and all-observant head for
arriving in what she considered too low
a clecolletage. Mrs. Maclurcan’s cook-
ery book is still in use in innumerable
kitchens.
The dance for the Elizabeth Kenny
Hostel will take place in the Nieuw Hol-
land on Monday.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft Or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwadc
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
'Phone: BWI2IB
k
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The IJmeu.
Westralia’s
Happy Station
On its new power of 1000
watts is a welcome guest
in every Western radio
liome. A sales medium for
every advertiser in Aus-
tralia.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1628 of 1936.
BETWEEN LORRIE SOLMAN Petitioner
And GEORGE ROBERT SOLMAN Re-
spondent.
TO GEORGE ROBERT SOLMAN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LORRIE
SOLMAN has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-eighth day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of Septem-
ber, a.d. 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Sydney; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
&
itrope
*
THE SMART WORLD SAILS
&mpeess of
THERE’S nothing to com-
pare with the luxury
provided by “ Empress of
Britain ” on the sheltered
St. Lawrence route to Europe.
Three whole decks for sports
. . . lounging . . . sunning.
Full size tennis court . . .
Olympic pool . . . ball room
.. . theatre . . . every apart-
ment with outside light and
air. And then there’s Canadian
Pacific personal service and
cuisine. No wonder the smart
world travels “ Empress of
Britain ” to Europe.
*n n n.. I
Literature and all details from
Any Tourist Booking Agency or
8.6.7
World*s Greatest Travel System
59 William Street, Melbourne,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
For the spring new featherweight
tweed suits or a wardrobe of coats,
medium and lightweight, are the thing.
So endowed, with a couple of silk frocks
to go with the coats and perhaps the
optimistic luxury of a large straw hat,
feminine racegoers can face the season
with confidence. For the first meeting
(the Caulfield Guineas) there were snaps
of both spring and winter. Showers did
little good to shoes of green, blue and
London-tan, but no harm to Homburg
hats of felt or woollen weaves. Cosy
wrap-over coats with furs, tailored suits
or dark frocks with hip- or three-
quarter-length swing-away coats were
very popular. Mrs. John Winter-Irving
was among the large majority of women
whose botanical interests were carried
out in lily-of-the-valley; Mrs. Gerald
Ormiston was of the minority for
orchids —her single pink bloom accom-
panying a Deauville-blue coat collared
with smoky blue fox. Mrs. J. S. Feehan,
just returned from America, was all in
nut-brown—dyed ermine coat over crepe
frock and small primped hat of thick
moire ribbon. Mrs. Gerald Patterson
combined grey coat and brown dress and
hat and Gladys Brunton was all for
tailored sportsmanship in a suit of shag-
bark cloth.
This year’s V.L.G.U. champion-of-
champions contest (played off among
the champions of each club) was won
by Betty Kernot, of Geelong, who de-
feated, in the semi-final, Mona Mac-
Leod, representing Metropolitan, and, in
the final, Nell Hutton, of Eastern. In
her match against Miss MacLeod Miss
Kernot, with her 77, knocked a stroke
off the Yarra Yarra course record. An-
other player who has been on her game
lately is Mrs. O. H. Coltman, who got
as far as the semi-final of the champion-
ot'-champions, to be defeated by Miss
Hutton. Mrs. Coltman won the country
women’s championship, defeating in the
final that wizard of match play Ruby
McKenzie, who lives at Woodend, plays
for Bendigo and has been country
champ, on several occasions. Mrs. Colt-
man’s last success was a few days later
at Ballarat, when she won in good style
the women’s annual 36-hole event at the
Alfredton links.
Crowned heads of the A.8.C., with
Lord Huntingfield in their midst, spread
over the front row of the balcony for
the first concert conducted by Malcolm
Sargent. Audience was enthusiastically
receptive and so large that extra seats
were wedged round the stage and even
a few rows of the organ loft requisi-
tioned. Percentages of men and women
seemed to balance fairly evenly, and
there were children who showed no sign
of sleep in spite of the fact that their
teens were still some distance away.
Noticed upstairs were Dr. and Mrs. John
Shaw, she in violet chiffon and a white
fur coat. Dr. and Mrs. Ken Hadley
were not far away on the south balcony ;
Mrs. Hadley’s black taffeta frock had its
sleeves puffed to the elbow, and its neck-
line, set in the same old-world tempo,
was edged with Irish crochet lace. Mrs.
Gordon Chi i nside wore her hair in a
very modernistic style, with two bows,
one gold, the other black, and a cur-
vilinear roll over her brow.
The Tristan Buesst couple were there,
Mrs. Buesst looking her best with a
narrow string of pearls in her hair and
scarf draperies of sapphire, olive-green
and coral-rust-red masquerading as
sleeves on her black chiffon gown. Mrs.
Frank Faulkner’s black lamb’s-wooi
coat went over a flowered frock, and
Mrs. Esmond Kiernan’s black taffeta
flew a pennant of jewel-green. Arthur
Mundy proved such a surprise that he
wasn’t at first recognised by people who
hadn’t seen him for some time. Arthur
started his career by getting successfully
through some years of a medical course.
Then he switched to law, completed his
course and practised with success. To-day,
having been bitten by the art bug, he
paints, has grown a beard and has put
away with his law books in a forgotten
trunk both his dinner coat and tails.
At his second concert Dr. Malcolm
Sargent took unto himself none of the
honor and glory of the D Major
Brahms violin concerto. With audience
and orchestra he vigorously clapped
soloist Lionel Lawson. A noticeable
point about a big house was that nearly
all, even to the furthermost rows of stalls
and back balcony, were in evening dress.
The A.8.C., with an assortment of
special guests, again seated itself in the
front row upstairs. A distinguished-look-
ing couple downstairs were Col. Rupert
Fanning and his elegant wife, she in black
with a dangly handkerchief of ice-blue
chiffon and white fur cape. Chinese
coats were more prevalent than usual.
Among their wearers were Mrs. E.
Barnes and Mrs. Florence Cussen. The
William James couple were there, and
the Stan Smiths, she with a cluster of
gardenias high on her head. Mrs. Basil
Kirke, all in leaf-green, sat with her
husband. Freda Latham wore a chiffon
dress of pale sea-green. Distinguishable
among the sea of heads were those be-
longing to the Ivan Maxwell couple, the
loosely curled coiffure of Mrs. Lindsay
Biggins and the white fur shoulder calyx
of Mrs, Leo Doyle.
Malcolm Sargent’s reception by the
Music Teachers’ Association might easily
have turned into a grim duty gathering ;
instead it was informal and almost frisky
As a contrast to the association’s last
party, for Rethberg and Pinza, when
everybody shivered in the Lower Town
Hall, it was so warm that all detachable
wraps were removed. Lillian Stott’s
second group of songs included “Epi-
taph,” by Maurice Besly, which so
pleased the guest of honor that he asked
for an encore, “for,” he added, “Mr.
Besly is a friend of mine, and I’ve never
heard that particular song before.” In
his speech of thanks Dr. Sargent said
that another friend, Kreisler, also figured
on the programme in Phil Cohen’s violin
solos. Special appreciation was added
for Ida Scott’s accompaniments.
Herewith an Athol Shmith photograph
of Nance Summers, a newcomer to ama-
teur footlights, who made her debut in
“A Murder Has Been Arranged.” Miss
Summers will be Elsa in “Dying Pangs,”
one of Schnitzler’s faithless-Anatoi
plays, which figures among Terence
Crisp’s selection for Friday and Satur-
day. The other items of the menu are
Cyril Roberts’s “Exit,” set in a city
office ; the problem of the negro ques-
tion as considered by Laurence Hous-
man in “The She-Ass and the Tied Colt,”
and “Sordid Story,” a curious bit of
melodrama from the pen of an M.L.
journalist, J. A. S. Coppard. By a co-
incidence two mistresses and a pupil of
St. Catherine’s are taking part in the
same season. Helena Moyes and Valerie
Paling play in the Coppard piece, and
small Angela Fink is the child in the
Housman one-acter.
Not only hot-blooded feminists but
most level-headed women have had an
eye and ear open for the conference
held under the auspices of the Australian
Federation of Women Voters and the
Women’s Citizens’ Movement. Subject
under discussion was women’s equality
with men in industry, professions and
public service, and Mrs. B. M. Rischbieth
presided. Among speakers on the first
day was A. R. Wallis, general sec. of the
clothing trade workers, who said that
women existed in industry only because
it was possible to pay them lower wages
than men. Owing to modern machinery
less experience and skill than formerly
are now required, and many women are
being replaced by juveniles. Regarding
the professions, Madame Marita said
that women figured in only 81 of the 909
trades and callings listed by the Gov-
ernment Statistician. Throughout the
public service there are very different
rates of pay for men and women.
Women teachers are especially worried
over the new bill now before Parliament.
Herewith a Peg Clarke portrait of
Mrs. Lanfear Thompson or Madge Free-
man, as she is known in the art world.
Mrs. Thompson and Dina Roach have
for the moment paused in their painting
and are hard at work with French paste,
modelling buckles, clips and other deco-
rative dress accessories which they will
exhibit at the Arts and Crafts show next
week. Afterwards the pair will hold ex-
hibitions of their handwork in their re-
spective studios; Miss Roach’s is in
Collins-street. Mrs. Thompson’s, in East
Melbourne, is an example of what trans-
formations upon a disused stable can be
effected by paint and varnish, gay
cushions, crochet rag rugs on the floor
and the afternoon sun pouring through
the windows.
Mrs. Thompson was born in Bendigo,
where her parents still live. On her
marriage she went to East Africa. After
her husband’s death she returned to
England, took up art once more and
later gave up her flat in Chelsea and
settled down to serious study in Paris.
Recently she has lived in Spain and
Corsica.
Among overseas visitors who have
arrived in good time for the racing
season are Col. and Mrs. C. E. Hughes
and Mrs. Hughes’s mother, Mrs. A. W.
Murdoch, all of Cairo. Col. Hughes, a
Tasmanian, is chief administrative officer
of the Imperial War Graves Commission.
His tall, fair and very attractive wife
was born in Cairo, of English parentage,
arid has lived in Egypt most of her life.
As young Phyllis Murdoch she met many
Australians, including her future hus-
band, in Egypt during the war. Not
long after leaving a finishing school at
Eastbourne (England) she married and
spent two years at Kelia, opposite
Anzac. Mrs. Hughes’s home was of cor-
rugated-iron and mud ; the menus she
planned were subservient to the tin-
opener, quantities of fresh olives and new
camouflages she could invent for goat.
Tennis was a popular sport, and in the
summer swimming. In winter, hard frosts
and occasional snowstorms were encoun-
tered in that arid country.
Eunice Weston has gone to Sydney
to adjudicate for all grades in the exams,
held by the N.S.W. Dancing Teachers’
Association, but. will be back and ready
for the Russian Ballet, which com-
mences on October 31 in Melbourne.
Forerunner of the ballet, conductor
Jascha Horenstein arrived in Melbourne
last week, and left for Adelaide a few
days later. His English is very shaky,
but is much better than it was when he
embarked from London. He was an
assiduous student on the trip under the
tuition of several of the Oronsay pas-
sengers.
Among the stars of the particular
Monte Carlo Co. Australia is to see is
Paul Petroff, who is usually allotted
Nijinsky’s famous role in “The Spectre
of the Rose,” and Leon Woizikovsky,
who on one occasion narrowly missed
serious injury when a heavy piece of
timber fell from the roof of the theatre,
crashing on to the stage between himself
and Nijinsky.
Since France has gone off the gold
standard Mademoiselle Matis, of 562 St.
Kilda-road, is wearing, figuratively as
well as actually, a feather in her newest
spring hat. With more francs to a pound
sterling many more tourists should visit
France for the Exposition in May till
November of next year. Mdlle. Matis
has been appointed Australian represen-
tative by the general manager of the Ex-
position, M. Labbe, an acquaintance of
her father. Overseas travellers who avail
themselves of reductions may go on any
ship, any class ; the only condition is that
,they must go to Paris as soon as possible
after arriving in a European port.
The E. Alstergrens and their brood of
five are oft this week for Norway. This
is Mrs. Alstergren’s first visit to her hus-
band’s country ; though she has blonde
coloring and spun-gold hair she is not of
Scandinavian descent. Next year the
couple hope to leave their children in the
care of relatives and skip off to London
for the Coronation and Paris for the Ex-
position. They won’t be home again for
eight months at least.


mm
m
mm'
*
■'•••,■ a
Below
Par
• •
SKIN
ERUPTIONS..
disappear like MAGIC
when you take this
Great Yeast Remedy
•
If your nerves ore bad; if the
children seem always to be fretful:
if your skin breaks out in place
after place—if nothing 'seems to
help you— -TRY CREAM OF YEAST.
‘Below-Par’ feeling, constant weariness, headaches, and skin troubles are usually
due to intestinal and blood disorder. The best way to combat such misery-causing
ailments is by taking medicinal Yeast, the best type being Cream of Yeast.
w
Cream of Yeast clears your intestinal tract of
putrefactive germs, purities your blood, in-
creases the germ-fighting White Corpuscles in
the bloodstream, and promptly raises the
skin's own natural power of self-disinfection!
Cream of Yeast gives new energy, quickly drives out such
troubles as headaches, and rheumatism
not vaguely and indirectly, but positively, noticeably and
in a manner without equal. In fact, Cream of i east is
an all-round remedy for weak, ailing men and women;
an unrivalled tonic pick-me-up, nerve-soother; skin-
clearer and life-giving medicine. Chemists, Doctors and
Public alike declare that Cream of Yeast is a boon to
those in poor health. Good for worried Parents; for
Young Men and Women and
for tired Old Folk, too.
I^L3I
CREAM
Cream of Yeast is sold by reliable Chemists and
Stores everywhere—24 Tablets, 1/1 la., 48 Tablets,
3/6d., or 125 Tablets, 5/9d. Be sure you get
genuine Cream of Yeast if you want the best!ind
quickest results —BETTER HEALTH, CLEARER
SKIN—AND GREATER ENERGY AND PEP!
For SPARKLING Health—Take
"Cream
of Y east”
m
mui
M
E. W. Fevyer, 24 of whose pen-draw-
ings adorn the walls of one of the
Anthony Hordern galleries, has de-
veloped a technique of his own inven-
tion with which nobody else seems to
have experimented. Its basis is a fine
horizontal and vertical cross-hatching
with just enough laziness in the lines to
suggest the texture of canvas. It doesn’t
sound very promis-
ing, but it produces
effects that Nor-
man Lindsay and
Walter Jardine,
who also have ex-
perimented consid-
erably, have not
been able to attain.
The Fevyer method
enables the most
delicate gradations
of high lights to be
retained in con-
junction with a
crisp, sparkling
effect in the
shadows. Lace (as
in various studies
of ladies in Spanish
mantillas), the
plumage of swans,
the delicate con-
formation of the
passion-flower, the
hazy distance in
leafy glades, the
glow of water
under a bright sky
-—all these are suc-
cessfully repre-
sented, Fevyer,
who studied paint-
ing under Julian
Ashton and Dat-
tilo Rubbo, but
threw away his
colors 10 years
ago, is a fine
draughtsman and
has a good sense of the decorative in
design, so he builds his pen-and-ink
mosaics on a sound foundation. Without
this the 400,000 or so of tiny rectangles
that he blends into a not-very-large draw-
ing would be wasted labor. As it is, the
result seems to amply justify the means.
As Fevyer puts it, he’s not trying to be
eccentric or to produce curios, but to
develop a pen method whose possibili-
ties seem to grow wider with every new
application.
“The White Mantilla,” pen drawing by E.W. Fevyer, in
Anthony Horderns’ galleries, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Funds for the Florence Nightingale
International Foundation scholarship
were augmented by the White Angel
Ball held in G.-H. ballroom. Uniformed
nurses formed a guard of honor for the
v.-r. party, and chairwoman Mrs. H. C.
Griffiths, cloudy in black Chantilly, and
organiser S. W. Perry received the guests.
Sister Yates touched secretarial black
matt crepe with jade green, Mrs. Ter-
ence Anketell clasped a crystal belt
around filmy white ninon, and Matron
Stokes wove a gold leaf design into her
black matelasse. June Perry’s black silk
nets floated over rustling taffeta ; pink
flowers were painted on Mrs. Cardell-
Oliver’s white chiffons and chenille
petals fell on Norma Monger’s misty
georgettes.
Ursula Johnston and Len Keating held
the ends of the knot tied by Archbishop
Prendiviile at St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Bride and ’maid swept down the aisle
like driven snow, with Ursula’s classic-
cut satins streaming out into a long-train
and her sister Imelda’s silk nets billow-
ing from a beaded collar. The lone
touch of color was the attendant’s bou-
quet of mauve blooms.
Girl Guides wound up their anniver-
sary celebrations with a floral festival
at Gloucester Park. Led by two o.s.
butterflies the thousand green-clad
figures danced to their prepared garden
beds, where their full-bloom head-
dresses and the buds held in hands made
a colorful collection of flowers. With
the advent of spring (a fluttering of
nymphs in gossamer gowns) a border
of tightly-folded water-lilies unfurled
shining petals. Rain marred the tableau
“The Garden Rests in the Sun,” but after
the downpour the scattered blooms con-
verged again and formed two huge
posies, one in front of the Mitchell lady
and the other before the State Commis-
sioner, Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere.
Show Week parties preceded the Agri-
cultural Society’s fixture by several days.
Naval and Military Club was first with
a strong gathering of dancers in balloon-
and-streamer-decked rooms. Col. Mar-
golin, club president, escorted his wife’s
jewel-girdled black satins, and guest of
honor Talbot Hobbs had his lady’s
silver brocades at elbow. Nancy Hobbs
flanked hand-painted taffetas with black
net sleeves, Mrs. C. W. Courtney’s
ameythst nets were pleated over silver
taffeta, and Sheila Hayes belted black
georgette with a wide band of green
and silver.
Old Guildfordians from town and
country danced at the Embassy. Beneath
the school flag draped above the official
loge stood president C. M. R. Sinclair
with his other half’s draped apple-green
cloque alongside. Guests of honor
were the headmaster and Mrs. Freeth,
(her diamente-trimmed black velvets
trailed in her wake) and representatives
from the public schools.
Rita Carter and George Winning were
made one at St. George’s Cathedral.
Lace motifs were appliqued to the bride’s
silk net veil, which frothed over a sheaf
of cherry-blossom held against the full
sleeve of her trained creamy satin. Little
Barbara Pickstone, in ankle-length cream
satin and fluffy tulle hat', carried the
train. At the rear were Kitty Winning
and Lulu and Madge Carter, whose blue
cellophane georgettes were cuffed and
collared with silver lame.
Rockets preluded the opening of the
Mining Exhibition, and before Govern-
ment House opened a mining atmosphere
was established. Outside, a prospector’s
camp was erected, complete with dolly-
ing outfit, campfire, shaft head and
general paraphernalia. Inside, the build-
ing provided a liberal education in pro-
ducing and minting precious metal.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Stanton Hicks, Adelaide’s youngest
knight, was host of an afternoon-tea
party in the Uni. Refectory, when he
entertained 40 housewives assisting in the
Nutrition survey that he has charge of.
Irene Glasson, social worker for the
scheme, Mrs. Amy Wheaton, Direc-
tor of Social Service Training, and
students who are assisting to collect the
records were among the guests.
A show of Christmas gifts at the
Unemployed Depot launched by Lady
Dugan was well patronised. The presi-
dent of the committee, Brig.-General
Price Weir, and the Bonython lady re-
ceived the guest of honor, who was
presented with a bouquet of primroses
and forget-me-nots that brightened a
black ensemble coat of marocain worn
over a white silk frock. The Bonython
lady chose a swagger suit of. black-and-
white floral crepe de Chine, the bodice
of the frock shirred at the neck and the
coat' caught with a white camellia on the
shoulder. Mrs. Harold Rischbieth,
director of the depot, was gowned in
black crepe satin.
Society rolled up in force for the
pianoforte recital by pianist Vina Barn-
den, who was assisted by Fred William-
son, with Jessica Dix as accompanist. A
committee has been formed to send Miss
Barnden to New York for further study.
Spanish in appearance, with large brown
eyes, creamy skin and soft curling hair,
Miss Barnden has a graceful carriage,
and is quite at home on the concert plat-
form.
The reception-room of the Lady
Mayoress at the Town Hall was crowded
for the civic welcome to Sir Geoff and
Lady Whiskard, briefly visiting Adel-
aide. Huge boughs of Judas blossom,
bowls of Golden Emblem roses and
others of Lorraine Lee sweet-peas and
heuchera made a great show. Mrs. H.
Dunstan’s black marocain ensemble went
with a grey-and-white blouse of knife-
pleated chiffon and a black tagel straw
hat trimmed with ribbon. Lady
Whiskard’s white linen suit was pat-
terned with a cross bar in black, and her
small black straw hat was banded in
white and finished with a bow in front.
Mesdames R. L. Butler and H. S.
Hudd invited friends to the Queen
Adelaide Club to meet Lady Whiskard.
The executive committee of the Vic-
toria League also entertained the visitor
at the Liberal Hall, and the Lyceum
Club committee gave a morning-tea in
the clubrooms, now up with the birds
in the new pink-and-white Colonial
Mutual Building in King William-street.
Mr. and Mrs. Whitmore Carr on their
return from overseas were welcomed at
a cocktail party at the home of Dr. C. B.
Sangster, Unley Park. The joint host-
esses were Mrs. J. Sangster, the doctor’s
mother, and Mrs. George Braund. The
reception-rooms were fragrant with Lor-
raine Lee roses. Mrs. Sangster was
gowned in black georgette cut on
princess lines, and her sister, Mrs.
Braund, looked well in a smart black-
and-white-spotted silk toilette. Mrs.
Carr chose a becoming wine-toned en-
semble with a hat of the same shade
and a brown Arctic fox fur.
TASMANIA.
Friends’ School and Hutchins held
their end-of-term shivoos in the same
week. The Friends’ annual dinner pre-
ceded the dance, when 140 old scholars
rolled up to the spread in the Hodgkin
Hall, presided over by Charles Mitchell,
head of the Old Scholars’ Association,
Hutchins School’s dance was held in the
gym., which was gay with spring blos-
som and flags. The head and Mrs. J.
Oberlin Harris received guests —about
400 of them. The young and the very-
young were all catered for, as the kinder-
garten had a show consisting of games,
movies and conjuring tricks, finishing up
with supper served in the billiard- and
dining-rooms.
At Elwick chilly and dull weather
ushered in the racing season, making
winter frocking wiser than risking new
spring turnouts. Many women were
very suitably rigged in “just-between"
tailor-mades, smart, serviceable and ap-
propriate. Chairman E. M. Johnson and
Mrs. Johnson were there, the latter in
soft blue with tan jumper. Mrs. Alan
Cameron (Ross) and Mrs. Eustace Cam-
eron (Mona Vale) were among country
punters.
The Brownell Centenary Ball in the
City Hall was run in aid of the Deaf,
Blind and Dumb Institute and the Wattle
League. The stage was laid out as a
garden, with paths and growing plants,
and the color scheme was carried out in
the firm’s centenary badge colors —red,
black and tango. Lady Clark was at-
tended by the new aide, Captain John-
son, and his attractive wife. Twelve
debs, made their bobs to the vice-reine.
The liner Zealandia was pressed into
the service of Tattersall’s “Popular Man
competition, an enterprise on behalf of
the Wattle League. Over 500 bridge-
players and dancers turned out to a party
in the ship. The whole of the deck space
was canvased-in for dancing, and supper
was served in the dining-saloon.
Betty Perry ran off with the Northern
golf championship after an unbroken
record of first-class play. At the end
of the championship matches King’s
Meadows Club ran a dance at the club-
house, with Mrs. Noel Browne and Mrs.
D. L. Hollis at the head of an active
committee.
Mrs. Hope Gibson, one of our Mid-
land horsewomen, was justifiably prouc
when at the Melbourne Show her hack
Harmony won the first reserve champion
hack prize.


Patents,
IMPROVEMENTS IN BREAD TOASTERS.
"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
4158/21 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PACKAGE
SEALING APPARATUS.
'’THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
5277/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
ẁ
The Centre of Tas-
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
ẃ
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from:
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
For Sale
For Sale, Cheap.
BARRIER REEF TOURIST
ISLAND.
LONG ISLAND, Whitsunday Passage, 2
houses, 5 double shacks, llOv. e.l. throughout.
Fully furnished and newly erected 1935. 35ft.
auxiliary launch, 4 boats, 3 acres orchard,
citrus and tropical fruits, 5 milking cows, riding
and harness horses, 400 acres richest soil,
wonderful safe anchorage and good beach,
spendid fishing, oyster beds and coral gardens.
Close to mainland, with good mail service. All
steamers pass the door. Wonderful chance.
Particulars —
W. TRONSON,
Prosperpine, Queensland.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Monospar Affair
The rescue “by a miracle” of the crew
of Lord Sempill’s Monospar finishes a
story which emphasises the suitability of
seaplanes for the Singapore route. The
aeroplane with its crew of four set out
at the beginning of last week to try to set
a record to London. Its first day’s flight
between daylight and dusk took it to
Darwin. After it left there and no re-
ports of its arrival were received either
at Koepang (518 miles) or Rambang
(1068 miles), Darwin was stirred to
action and sent the Larrakiyah into the
vastness of the Timor Sea to search.
Fourteen hours after the fliers started,
weak SOS signals were picked up. A
bearing taken on Darwin’s directional
wireless then placed the position of the
lost men as Timor Island, 68 miles from
Koepang. So they should have been 500
miles from Darwin, longitude about 125
or 126 degrees, latitude between 9 and
10 degrees.
After a search which lasted from
Wednesday to Friday night, they were
picked up on Seringapatam Reef, which
lies about 122 longitude and 14 degrees
latitude—3oo miles from where Darwin
expected to find them. They had been
rescued by native fishermen, and were
taken off the reef by the steamer
Nimoda.
The leader of the party cabled
London: —
We are bitterly disappointed at Darwin
wireless bearings. The errors are incompre-
hensible. We are alive by the merest
chance. We have consistently received 288
degrees when the real bearing was 260.
The incident needs a thorough inquiry.
Darwin is the key point of the London-
Australia mail route, and it should have
an efficient radio beacon. But there have
been hundreds of flights over the Timor
Sea, and no such charge was ever made
before. Darwin states that other ’planes
using its bearings the same day found
them accurate.
“Wanderer”: After many years of
faithful service, delivering mails and food
supplies to Australia’s loneliest mission
stations in the Gulf of Carpentaria and
the isolated police stations and settle-
ments along the McArthur and Roper
rivers, the little 26-ton lugger Noosa,
often described as “Australia’s loneliest
mail boat,” has had her last run, and is
being replaced by a modern 50-ton
motor-vessel, built in Brisbane by John
Burke, Ltd., which pioneered the Gulf
shipping service. The new boat, called
the Leisha after the wife of the late John
Burke, founder of the firm, will have
passenger accommodation which the old
Noosa lacked, and her commander will
be popular old Captain Ruska, who
pioneered the service in the Noosa. He
knows as much about the Gulf as any
man.
* * * *
“Vex”: It has been suggested that a
seaplane base and boat harbor should be
established at Wynnum, and that Cab-
bage Tree Creek (Sandgate) should be
improved to provide flying facilities in
Moreton Bay. The scheme might be de-
veloped to provide berthage in the bay
for coastal shipping during flood periods
at the northern end of Waterloo Bay.
The completion of the Kangaroo Point
Bridge would bring the people living on
the northern side of the river close to
Wynnum. A boat harbor at Cabbdge
Tree Creek would be a stepping-stone to
opening up Moreton Island. Tt is all
deep water between Sandgate and More-
ton —there ps no shelter for small craft.
If a harbor were erected at Sandgate
the northern end of the bay would be
quite safe for the smaller boats.
* * * *
“Flap”: A Toowoomba saddler has
left £32,000. Time was when the leather
business was one of the most profitable ;
to-day Queensland towns which used to
support a couple of saddlers have not
even one.
sjc *
“Anthony’s”: Queensland central west
is becoming civilised —there has been a
wholesale round-up of Longreach goats,
once famous, and unregistered ones are
being destroyed. It is a pity that the
goat is treated so cavalierly. There should
be a fortune in exporting him. A good
sea - traveller, he can be shipped live,
which is necessary in dealing with the
Indian and Malay trade. Most of the
waste land in Cape York could raise
large quantities, and I’ll defy anybody
to tell a good joint of kid from a western
merino lamb. Money will one day be
made out of canning him.
* * * *
“Monocantha”: Queensland Land
Board report shows pictorially and other-
wise what the wiping out of prickly-pear
"Right-oh, Ma-y' can chuck us that post now."
means. A few years ago Dalby and Miles
(Q.) were stationary towns and Chin-
chilla was dying. To-day all three thrive,
with new banks, new shops and new in-
dustries. During the past year 2,714,000
acres of former pear land were taken on
by 2712 settlers. In all, pear clearance
has already meant 5000 new farms.
* - $ * *
“East Point”: Darwin’s town picnic,
which used to be a feature of northern
life, has been revived after a ten-year
lapse. It was held at the Adelaide River,
80 miles away, and practically the whole
town and its dog was on board the special
train. One man who missed the train
turned up at Qantas aerodrome to be
taken to Bachelor —half-way—to catch
up. He had his girl on the train, and
no northerner ever disappoints a lady.
The ’plane trip was something of an
adventure because a landing had to be
made among anthills and stumps. There
was another picnic many years ago at
which the engine-driver, after the day’s
jollity, started to push his train back-
wards to Pine Creek. When some un-
reasonable person protested that it was
the wrong direction, he remarked: “1
don’t care. Pine Creek’ll do me. 1 want
to have a drink with me mate Jim Hag-
gerty.” It took a lot of persuasion to
convince him that Darwin is part of a
democracy and that the will of the
majority rules there.
“X.T.”: Dead at Chatswood (N.S.W.),
at 84, W. R. Gordon, who wrote Pack-
horse and Waterhole. Gordon, a New
Englander, was trained to the land
around Goulburn (N.S.W.). He and his
brother Hugh went off like a pair of
Canaanites nearly 60 years ago with a
mob of cattle and a carefree outfit to see
if there was any country between the
Queensland border and the North Coast
worth taking up. They picked on Wave
Hill, nearly 3000 miles from home,
now Vesfey’s show property. Then they
took up Flora Valley, and there have
been Gordons around the North ever
„: nce
uk d.
“Australia Jane s Buaget
Thelma Verrier and Alexander Roy
Christison were married in the crypt of
the uncompleted Holy Name Cathedral.
Rev. Father Jordan tied the knot, and
a profusion of flowers made the place
lovely. Thelma wore a charming gown
of magnolia satin. Afterwards Mrs.
Verrier entertained at the National Hotel.
The bridegroom is r^n o^.^ s r
of Lammermoor,
a good friend to Queensland Umvers y.
The death of Mrs. L e . , _
Sydney came as a shock to her Brisbane
fnends who had i seen her a few
before, looking well and youthful. Many
struggling young artists and musicians
have reason to remember her with feel-
ings of gratitude.
Mrs R Shaw arranged the musical
programme for the monthly meeting of
the musical coterie of the Brisbane
Women’s Club, and Mrs. G. L. Byth,
president, .welcomed the guests. The
programme was all Scotch —solos, duets
and part songs. Mrs. Shaw (Agnes Kerr
to the music-loving Scots who fore-
gather at St. Andrew’s concert yearly),
her daughter Mrs. Norval Smith, Lena
Hammond, Evelyn English, Gwen
O’Donnell and others were the artists,
and Mrs. W. H. Debnam the accom-
panist. . .
The Queensland Women’s Club had
Mrs. Chauvel along at their Tuesday
tea-drinking to tell them all about the
birth and development of the Australian
movie industry. The president, Mrs.
H. L. Hartley, welcomed the visitor, and
Mrs. T. Craddock presented her with a
huge sheaf of gerberas.
The garden-party at Wynberg, the resi-
dence of Archbishop Duhig, to raise
funds for a home for aged Italian resi-
dents of Queensland, was a pleasant and
unusual garden-party. After paying the
modest sum asked for admission the sur-
prised guests found that there were no
other charges. There was a bouquet of
spring flowers for each woman.
Mrs. Dan Joyce, springlike in blue
and white and a wide-brimmed navy-
blue hat, went to the Brisbane Rowing
Club’s regatta, the first of the season.
Dan, patron of the club, was a mighty
oarsman in his younger days, and both
sons pull a good oar, one for the G.P.S.
and one for Brisbane Rowing Club.
There was a big attendance on the wide
verandah of the club, and spring frocks
fluttered freely in all the colors of the
rainbow. The useful and sensible helmet
covered almost every second head instead
of a floppy hat.
Essil Longland, who returned from
London with a diploma from the Im-
perjaj Dancing Society, is to give up her
career f or matrimony. Her engagement
£) r _ Horace Johnson is announced,
. , _
Tom Allen Armstrong, of Raceview,
Charleville, and Elvira May South,
daughter of the H. S. Souths, New Farm,
exchanged their “I wills” at St. Paul's
p res byterian Church. The bridal gar-
ment D f blue chiffon was worn with a
s t raw bat of the same shade, and the
bride carried carnations, delphiniums and
forget-me-nots. Dorelle South, in ash-
rose c biffon, was bridesmaid. After the
wedding the bride’s mother entertained
a j. b er home at New Farm.
Tall, handsome, capable Matron Hart,
who has been in charge of Rosemount
MjUtary Hospital for the ]ast ] 0 years,
is leaving for Sydney to take on a similar
at the p rince oJ ; Wales Hospital. Her
war service brought her the R.R.C.
At St. Stephen’s Cathedral on October
8 Bobbie O’Sullivan, daughter of the
M. J. O’Sullivans, of Toowoomba, mar-
ried Dr. Edward Clayton, of Pomona,
Eve Douglas and Miss D. Clayton
’maided, and Dr. Emil O’Sullivan was
best man. The bride lived in a whirl of
parties during the month before the wed-
ding.
Dr. Clayton was guest of honor at a
purely male gathering at the Belle Vue
and was presented with a silver water-
jug. The party mainly was composed
of medicoes and lawyers, the O’Sullivan
clan turning automatically either to medi-
cine or law. Ex-Justice O’Sullivan, the
bride’s uncle, her father and a group of
younger men were the hosts at the
gathering.
The Macartney lady, who is Girl
Guide Commissioner, went' up to Too-
woomba for the garden-party in aid of
the Helen McDonnell Memorial, held at
Mrs. David Cullen’s home. Mrs.
McDonnell took a great interest in the
Girl Guide movement, and the Downs
Guides intend building a Helen
McDonnell Memorial hut in memory of
her work.
At the inauguration of the Faculty of
Medicine at the Q’land University robes
and spectacles gave the Premier an
academic air, and our leading doctors
and a horde of recently-fledged young
doctors turned out. The Cilento lady, Mrs.
W. N. Robertson, Mrs. Scott Fletcher,
Mrs. Wilkinson and Mrs. Brigden, Freda
Bage, Mrs. Henchman and a few girl
graduates were there.


mmrnm
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
ou the broadcast band.)
Send jor Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.AV. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Kuyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mullard Radio Valves.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOVAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
\j
4-Valve Battery
BROADCAST SUPER-HET
Cash only.
Complete with Latest Type Valves,
Heavy Duty Batteries, Ampliou Speaker,
100-liour Accumulator, High-grade COlll-
- Aerial and Earth.
Assembled and Tested £ll/5/-
Eitted in handsome floor model cabinet,
£l3/2/6.
This is a particularly efficient set,
moderately priced. Guaranteed for one
year.
Other models, Broadcast and Dual-
wave, 4, 5 and 6 valve. Prices and in-
formation by return post.
RADIO PARTS.
Our prices are right! See for yourself.
A price list will be posted if you men-
tion this paper.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Kadio. ’Phone: 8X5494.
RADIO NEWS
RADIOLYMPIA, 1936.
British Manufacturers Cater for Overseas Market.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
The annual radio exhibition at Olym-
pia more than fulfilled expectations.
Interest centred in the stands on
which the new high-definition tele-
vision receivers were displayed to the
public for the first time. Demonstra-
tions were given twice daily, when pro-
grammes were picked up from Alex-
andra Palace. The programmes con-
sisted of excerpts from, talking films,
actual studio productions and “shots” of
open-air scenes surrounding Alexandra
Palace. Much interest was shown in a
new battery receiver operating without a
B battery, and obtaining power from
a low-tension accumulator. Overseas
visitors were impressed by the wide
range of new short-wave and all-wave
receivers suitable for reception of the
8.8. C. Empire station.
This year the British manufacturer
has studied the problem carefully, with
the result that there were many sets on
view at Radiolympia eminently suitable
for use abroad. In the first place the
designs of many new sets make use of
every known development to ensure
satisfactory operation in countries of
humid climate. The cabinets of battery
sets, in many cases, are airtight; and in
mains receivers, where adequate ventila-
tion is essential, the coils, power and out-
put transformers, and field coils of loud-
speakers are all wax-impregnated to keep
out the damp. Condensers have been
specially treated with the same object
in view.
The technical aspect has received
equal consideration. The superhetero-
dyne circuit has been almost universally
adopted, and many manufacturers have
incorporated one well-designed high-
frequency stage—a welcome trend. The
new overseas models are very ambitious.
There are literally dozens of six-, seven-
and eight-valve receivers, and many even
larger. One manufacturer has produced
a 14-valve A.C.-mains-operated all-wave
radiogram especially for overseas use ;
another has gone one better with a 20-
valve all-wave A.C. radiogram, with a
15-watt speech output, costing 120
guineas.
Quality of reproduction has appar-
ently received a deal of attention, judg-
ing by the extended audio-response
curves claimed by some manufacturers.
A frequent cause of complaint with
regard to British sets has been that
short-wave ranges are not of sufficient
coverage. Listeners in transmissions two
and three sometimes have to receive
Daventry on 13.97 metres, and therefore
an essential requirement is that lowest
wave-range should adequately cover be-
tween 13 and 14 metres. In past years
many sets would not receive stations on
wave-lengths below 15 metres. This year
manufacturers have begun to recognise
the necessity of covering adequately the
band down to 13 and 14 metres. On
show were many converters and adaptors
that cover these essential wave-lengths,
while some embrace the ultra-short
wave-lengths between five and ten
metres, on which experimental tele-
vision transmissions are now being made
by the 8.8. C.
Many Empire listeners have to rely on
battery sets, and a feature this year was
the increased number of battery short-
and medium-wave receivers designed
especially for overseas use. Those on
show were mostly of the four- and five-
valve types, which have given good ser-
vice, as reports indicate, in many parts
of the Empire. One leading manufac-
turer, who caters primarily for the over-
WORLD DISTANCE MAP FOR SOUTH-EASTERN AUSTRALIA,
CENTRED ON MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Measurements can be made accurately from any spot within the dotted circle to
any other place on earth. Lay a ruler connecting any spot within this circle to
any other location on the map, and refer this distance to the scale in miles or
kilometres. This will give the actual Great Circle distance. This map is also useful
for indicating the correct position for directive aerial systems for transmission
and reception.
seas market, was showing an eight-valve
battery superhet covering all essential
wave-bands, and with a full tropical
finish.
Perhaps the greatest attraction was the
television exhibits. A few days before
the exhibition opened it was announced
that experimental transmissions would
be given from Alexandra Palace. Manu-
facturers interested in television receivers
and kits for building “televisors” were
not slow to take advantage of the situa-
tion. Three or four of them were show-
ing complete receivers in handsome
cabinets. The controls —and there are
many—are neatly hidden away under
lids, and all one can see is a viewing
screen, some ten by eight inches, at the
top, and a loudspeaker opening about
half-way down.
F. H. T.
Radio Comment.
“VK2NO”: The amateur spirit?
GSGQ told me that Spanish amateurs
have formed a “succor service” in
which they give lists of killed and
wounded in the civil war. Stations in
rebel territory are heard in telephony
communication with others behind the
loyalist lines and vice versa, inquiring
about the welfare of friends and asking
relatives to communicate. Spanish ama-
teurs are helping the people impartially,
and are apparently immune from unwel-
come attention from one side or the other.
The “EAs” will probably have some
interesting material for radio magazines
when arms are finally stacked.
$ * # $
“Querex”: Key conversation with an
English brother “ham” brought to light
some interesting % facts regarding the
Alexandra Palace television transmis-
sions. In. the vicinity of the Palace the
transmissions are ruining ordinary broad-
cast reception, and the 8.8. C., faced with
a pretty problem in dealing with the
stacks of complaints, is seeking a cure.
Television receivers cost around £lOO and
cathode-ray tube replacements £l5. Also,
the effect of a 6in. human image on
the screen, accompanied by a giant voice
from the speaker, is humorous. Popu-
larity is more likely to rest with the
Scophony system, which gives a picture
sft. square and uses no cathode ray
tube. On the day of reopening of the
Alexandra Palace transmissions on
2/10/’36, the station was forced to close
owing to a burst water main.
* * * #
“Enno”: Andy Couper, an old-time
“ham” of Mareeba (N.Q.), still keeps
schedules occasionally with VK4KR
Willis Island and others up North. DX
has no lures for him, but hand key has.
With no power supply, his method of
keeping a six-volt battery charged is in-
teresting. A wind plant made up from
an old Dodge 12-volt generator, re-
wound to cut in at six volts at 200 r.p.m.,
does the trick. The generator is mounted
direct on a shaft to a 6ft. blade. For
three years this has supplied power for
both transmitter and shack lighting. The
battery is nearly always on trickle, and
mostly a stiff breeze provides a steady
12 volts. Only twice has the battery had
to be taken elsewhere for a charge.
What’s What in Radio.
Radio has been fitted to bicycles for
Liverpool (England) police. The two-
valve sets weigh about 301 b. Motor-
cycles also have their radio attachments.
* * * *
A motorist in Denmark recently
damaged nearly 100 A.C. sets and a
quantity of electric light bulbs. He col-
lided with a post carrying three electric
light cables feeding a group of houses
by the three-wire system, the two
“outers” being at a potential difference
of 440 volts. The centre wire broke,
and that end of it which still remained
connected to the houses came into con-
tact with one of the outers. The result
was that one section of houses had power
cut off altogether and the other section
received double voltage. By a co-
incidence, the motorist happened to be
on his way to buy a new set, but he
little thought that he would be involved
in the purchase of 100 instead of one.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Just now there is no lack of enter-
tainment on the short waves at every
hour of the day. In the morning especi-
ally there are many overseas stations
operating, the best just now those on the
25m. band.
It is as well to run over the band
rapidly to see what is offering. At the
high-frequency end there is RNE, Mos-
cow, which nearly always sends out a
powerful signal, although its quality
is inclined to be coarse. This station
, occasionally springs an agreeable sur-
prise, as when on September 7 it gave
a broadcast talk on Russian music by
Carlton Smith, editor of the piquant
' American journal “Esquire.” Next
comes TP A 3, Paris, always attractive
and at times second to none in quality.
A little higher is 2RO, Rome, usu'ally
the best of the group ; it specialises in
grand opera. A little higher still there are
three good stations very close together—
DJD, Berlin, the Prague station on
25.51 m., and GSD, Daventry. Careful
tuning is required in order to avoid
heterodyning. A shade further up the
dial one may log the new Swedish station
SMSSX ; in strength, however, it is not
to be compared with those already men-
tioned. One Sunday morning the writer
heard the excellent French station TPA4
at seven o’clock, though usually it does
not open till 8.15.
In the early evenings DJB, Berlin, may
now be heard continuously, at good
strength, until it closes at 8.15 p.m. (A
few weeks ago it used to fade out shortly
after 6.30 p.m.) Between 8.15 and 9 p.m.
practically the only overseas stations
worth listening to are the Japanese and
the Javanese. At 9 p.m. the German
stations resume their transmissions and
rapidly improve in strength and quality
until, by 10 p.m., they are at max. Dur-
ing this session the writer has found that
the 16m. station DJE is better even than
DJB. Close to DJE, but somewhat
weaker, is GSG, Daventry.
W2XAF, Schenectady, is usually heard
in the early mornings, but occasionally
it gives a special evening broadcast which
comes through very clearly. On Sep-
tember 14 it relayed from the Vatican
Radio Station the translation of an
address by the Pope to the Spanish
refugees.
During the Olympic Games the Ger-
man transmitters DZH and DZC were


SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT!
Commencing with an early issue, the “Radio News” pages of ‘ The Bulletin
will include a section under the heading of "The Home Workshop,” in which
such hobbies as model railways, aeroplanes, electrical models, science, and
all kinds of handicrafts will be dealt with. This new section will also be
edited by Don B, Knock, who, in addition to his radio qualifications, is a
trained mechanical engineer. He served an apprenticeship as fitter in one
of the largest North of England shops on internal combustion and steam,
went on active service with the R.N.A.S. as engineer-armorer during the
war, and served as engineer afloat with the P. and O. Steam Navigation Co.
Subsequent years of experience in radio engineering, commercially and
experimentally, have been augmented by a keen interest in model work.
Mr. Knock possesses an up-to-date home workshop with precision machine
tools, and readers, young and old, can be assured of skilled treatment of the
many subjects that will be covered.
Xtilf/
I!<:{<; Dual-wave
PES TAtiKID I'OUK,
£B/5/-.
A BARGAIN.
The original “Wide-World Two” Short-
wave Receiver is for sale. Has band-
spread for amateur ranges. Laboratory-
type tuning dial. Gecophone slow motion
condenser. Headphone filter. Covers
continuous range from 10 to 100 metres.
Complete with valves and coils. Price £B.
Don B. Knock,
Radio Editor, “The Bulletin.”
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
“RADIO”
The world-wide technical authority of
amateur, short-wave and experimental
radio.
Owing to an increase in the price of this
magazine, subscriptions are now 20s. per
year in Australia, acceptable at The
Bulletin office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly, in-
cluding special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all radio
magazines—on the bookstall to-day, sold
out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy !
outstanding. Afterwards they disap-
peared from the dial until September 23,
when DZH was heard once again.
The writer recently received a QSL
card with the callsigns of two German
“youth-amateurs,” D4GZF and D4GPF.
These “youth-amateurs,” of whom there
are nearly 600, ages ranging from
fourteen to eighteen years, form a special
group of the DASD and exemplify the
use made of the Hitler Youth Movement
for the purpose of recruiting the ranks
of German radio amateurs. D4GPF has
had QSOs with many VK stations, in-
cluding SHW, SRX, 2RO, 3RX, 6AA
and 6JL, and would be glad to make
other Australian contacts. Our German
friends certainly do not lack enthusiasm.
A passing reference made by the writer
a few months ago to the possibility of
co-operation between the amateurs of the
two countries immediately brought a per-
sonal letter from Hauptreferent Clemens
Panek and the QSL card.
Two Javanese stations on 26m. and
44.6 m. respectively, which have been
mentioned at times in these notes with
the confession “name unknown,” may
now be identified, thanks to information
supplied to the “W.A. Wireless News” by
Hardeman of Java. The 26m. station is
PMK, the 44.6 m. station PMH. Of the
latter Hardeman says: “The Nirom
Eastern (Native) Network has a new
powerful short-wave outlet; it is the
Bandoeng transmitter PMH on 44.60
metres, with a power of 3kw. This
station is relaying the native programme
from the Bandoeng studio.” The Javan-
ese station on 19.8 m. which we have
been calling “YDA” is, he says, YDC.
It, too, is situated at Bandoeng, has a
power of 3kw., and at present is relay-
ing the Nirom Western Network (from
YDA, Batavia), but these 19m. trans-
missions must be considered as purely
experimental. The Bandoeng trans-
mitters PLP, PMN, YDC and PMH are
all post telephone and telegraph stations
and are hired by' the Nirom Co. for
broadcasting purposes. Perth reports
PLP as having fallen off in volume, but
here the opposite has been observed—
in the writer’s experience PLP has never
been better.
P. R. W.
Amateur Chatter.
Sharp at 10 p.m. Sydney time on
3/10/’36, the VK/ZL International DX
Contest started with a bang. What a
scramble for contacts, and what a swift
realisation that QRM can be QRM! The
writer, normally too busy to indulge in
such marathons, tried to help along the
cause for a few hours. At 1.30 a.m.
sleepiness decreed a pulling of switches,
and one signal dropped out of the 20m
band. By the sound of VK2LZ’s stereo-
typed method of calling, there is prob-
ably an automatic wheel device at work ;
certainly a saver of time and aching arm.
The seething collection of signals of all
kinds went on through the next day, but
VK2NO was content to take one peek at
the bands and depart to the workshop
to get on with the new sm. rig.
Reported from VK2WJ and others' that
five metres is well alive around Sydney
in the evenings. No wonder ; the QRM
on other bands probably accounts for it.
Yet there will still be interference on five
Amateur radio in South America. The neat station
CXICX, operated by Pablo Sere mini, at Montevideo,
Uruguay. The call is well known to Australians.
unless something is done about stable
receivers and transmitters. The new
transmitter for VK2NO starts off with
an M.O.P.A. arrangement, using two
6L6’s, one as e-c oscillator at 10, doub-
ling to five, followed by another as
buffer. It is intended to continue the
line-up with 801’s in PP, and finally two
35Ts similarly.
Talk is rife on 40 of deputations and
petitions against the amended regulations.
A minority fails to see the necessity for
cleaning up the ether in these crowded
times, and forgets that the amateur bands
are no longer listened to by amateurs
only. Also, in pressing for “rights,”
these people evidently overlook that
there are fewer than 1600 licensed experi-
menters in VK. Surely fortunate to be
given the scope they enjoy! Whatever
the views of some, it is cutting off the
nose to spite the face to launch micro-
phone abuse at the W.I.A. The institute
is recognised by the authorities as being
the official mouthpiece. It deserves this
recognition, being about the oldest ama-
teur radio organisation in the world.
VK2NO.
Uses for Loudspeaker Rectifiers.
There are still loudspeakers with low-
voltage rectifiers of the copper-oxide
plate type; their general construction
and performance are good, even by to-
day’s standards, so the rectifiers and A.C.
transformers are usually stripped off and
the fields rewound to 2500 ohms. The
serviceman or experimenter can put such
rectifiers to various worth-while uses.
As a rule these oxide rectifiers operate
at 10-12 volts A.C. and deliver something
like six-eight volts D.C. at an amp. or
so. For the charging of small accumula-
tors of the glass-case type or for the
trickle-charging of larger types one of
these rectifiers is excellent. Anybody
who owns more than one can connect as
many as he has in parallel to give greater
charging rate and longer life for the
rectifiers themselves, since they depend
for their length of life upon the tempera-
ture at which they are operated and the
load they are called upon to bear.
It is simply necessary to connect
together the respective A.C. input and
the D.C. output lugs to produce a larger
rectifier.
Amateur transmitters who work ’phone
will perhaps be interested in the adapta-
tion of a speaker rectifier to the job of a
handy monitor. If desired the unit may
be unbolted and one
single disc assembly
taken out and used or,
perhaps more conveni-
ently because of ease
of connection, the unit
left whole and connec-
tions made to the origi-
nal lugs. The unit
should, of course, be
used as a half-wave
rectifier and wired in
series with a pair of
’phones and the wind-
ings of the pick-up coil
placed near the tank.
For half-wave connec-
tion ignore one A.C.
and one D.C. terminal.
The writer knows one
“ham” using an 80-
type rectifier merely
run off a five-volt transformer wind-
ing and connected as a half-wave recti-
fier. The oxide rectifier should perform
equally well, and in addition would
possess the advantage of requiring no
external voltage.
Although quite out of the question for
accurate work, the oxide rectifier of the
type referred to can serve as a cheap and
effective output-meter rectifier for align-
ing sets. If connected as a half-wave
unit and placed in the voice coil circuit
of a speaker, with a low-reading meter
attached, good indication of changes in
volume level may be obtained. No doubt
the three uses outlined here will sug-
gest other jobs for the discarded speaker
rectifier.
R.H.A.
Care of Dry Batteries.
Those who use battery receivers
in hot climates should bear in mind
that batteries are adversely affected
by high temperatures. Excessive
heat causes the electrolyte to dry up
and shortens the working life of
cells. Batteries produced by Ever-
Ready and Diamond are designed
for such conditions, but even these
should be helped. If a receiver
stands on a table with the back to
the window, the sun’s rays may
reach the B batteries and thus
speed up the end. Cases have
been known where batteries that
have been out of use through a hot
season have been little short of use-
less when cooler weather came
along. The remedy is to keep the
receiver, with its batteries, in as
shady a position as possible. A
good tip is to stand the B bat-
-1 erics on a small shaded platform
where relatively cool air can circu-
late.
D. B. K.
Permeability Wave-changing.
The diagram illustrates the application
of a recently patented German invention
for gradual and noiseless wave-changing
in the high-frequency circuits of a re-
ceiver. The yoke (P) and side-members
(PI) of the iron core are moved relatively
to the windings (W) of an R.F. trans-
former through the action by rotation of
a number of screws (S) with hemispherical
heads which fit into a recess in the base
of a spring-loaded slider (M). Several
sets of screws are mounted at intervals
along the same control shaft (T) in order
to control the wave-band setting of
several tuned circuits in cascade. At the
farthest point of penetration of the iron
core, keepers (K, Kl) complete the mag-
netic circuit.
Latest in the Trade.
There is always scope for development
in tuning indicators for broadcast re-
ceivers, and new ideas are always crop-
ping up. At present the popular form
of dial is the circular or clock-face type,
appearing on various manufacturers’ re-
ceivers with variations in the method of
indication. A radically new dial is the
“Astralight,” pictured here. In this dial,
designed particularly for broadcast-band
indication, the illumination is made use
of in an ingenious manner. Correspond-
ing with perforations outlining the names
of the more prominent broadcast stations
in Australia, rotation of the control
brings into line apertures admitting white
light. Thus, when the receiver is tuned
to, say, 2FC Sydney, the letters “2FC”
appear boldly outlined. It is a mechani-
cal application of a more direct method
of visual tuning. The development is the
work of N. J. Pritchard, and new re-
ceivers marketed by W. H. Paling and
Co., Sydney, utilising the Astralight dial,
are distributed to this co. in N.S.W. and
Queensland.
Radio Question Box.
1 have been lent a four-valve all-world Eddy-
stone receiver with an option of purchase. Liv-
ing in New Guinea, / am anxious to know if
there is an Australian agent, and if it is possible
to obtain spares ? —482.
No agency known, but a representative of
the makers visited Sydney recently. Eddystonc
parts are handled by Murdoch’s, Ltd., Park-
street, Sydney, who would no doubt be able
to supply any information.
* * * *
(I) Circuit of a B eliminator using a Ford
coil ? (2) Any copies of “Australian Radio
News” dealing with such eliminators still avail-
able ? —484.
(I) One was illustrated B. 15/1/’36, and an
article appeared on vibratory power supplies
for receiver B. 18/12/’36. Copies available at
this office. (2) Yes, 15/12/’33 and 2/3/’34.
* * -i- *
(1) Enclosed is a circuit diagram for a two-
valve set based on the Improved Wide-World
Two and the Electronic Battery Four. Is this
correct ? (2) What two-volt valves should give
best results ? (3) What size coils should be used
to cover all wave-lengths from 14 to 650
metres ? —483.
(1) One error ; the suppressor grid of the
R.F. pentode should be connected with one side
of the screen potentiometer to earth. (2) The
new Philips KF4 as detector and Milliard
PM2A as audio. (3) See coil chart (B. 30/9/’36)
lor short-wave data. For the broadcast range
two coils will be needed on formers. Grid
winding 150 turns of 36 enamelled, tapped at
the third turn for one coil, and a grid winding
of 250 turns, tapped at four turns, for the other.
* * * \ *
My location is 80 miles west of Brisbane,
completely enclosed by hills. 240 volts A.C. is
available. lam a novice in radio. What text-
books do you advise ? —4Bl.
As you have no experience it would be
better to disregard A.C. power and start off
with the construction of a simple battery re-
ceiver, preferably for short waves. Two valu-
able handbooks are the Radio Amateur’s Hand-
book, published by the American Radio Relay
League, and the Radio Handbook, by “Radio,”
Los Angeles, U.S.A. Both 7s. 6d. from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney.


*SfLVER
EDGE' 9
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
UiE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P-O. Box 71, Melbourne, Wc*
VEEDOi
MOTOR Oik
v; cosub tOfa pint
A\ ii would, itilL be cheap
Yet —It costs no more than
other oils.
Veedol, the world’s best
Motor Oil. 100 per cent.
Pure Pennsylvania.
Obtainable everywhere.
1
Z
\
\
Ys
H
f 2
o
'NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED All Slates/
/
The Steering Column.
INTERNATIONAL C3O MODEL TRUCK
TESTED OVER “BULLETIN” COURSE.
GOOD PULLING, BRISK ACCELERATION AND
MODERATE FUEL CONSUMPTION.
BY FRED BERRY.
YY/HEN in pre-war days the high-wheeled I.H.C. lorry, with
* * its horizontal, twin opposed engine and epicyclic two-
speed-and-reverse transmission, entered the transport field a
standard of efficiency and reliability was established which ever
since has been carefully maintained by the International
Harvester Co.
Though the C3O model, tested recently over the “Bulletin”
course, in no way resembles its prototype, the same high
standards of engineering have been adhered to in manufacture,
and particular attention has still been given to such important
factors as accessibility, simplicity of design, reliability and low
cost of maintenance.
Mounted in the chassis at four points
on rubber cushions, the six-cyl. L-head
motor, R.A.C. rating 26.3 h.p., develops
78.5 b.h.p. at 3400 r.p.m., the power
curve rising steeply from low revs., a
maximum torque of 151 foot pounds be-
ing available between 800 and 1400
r.p.m.
A cast-iron detachable cylinder head
with combustion chamber of non-
detonating design is fitted. Bore 3 5-16 in.
and stroke 4|in. give a displacement of
213 cub. in. Compression ratio is 5.7 to
1, giving a gauge pressure of 951 b. at
120 r.p.m. The cylinder block, integral
with the upper half of the crankcase,
is of grey iron ribbed internally to pro-
vide rigid bearing supports for the
crankshaft. The side-by-side valves have
removable guides. Exhausts are of sil-
chrome steel; exhaust valve seatings are
hardened steel inserts shrunk into the
cylinder block.
The pistons, of grey iron, are
of the flat-top type, with bronze
bush for gudgeon pin. Three compres-
sion rings and one oil-regulating ring
are located above the pin. Con. rods
are of I-beam section forged steel, with
thin-shell, replaceable babbitt-lined bear-
ings. Crankshaft is of forged steel
with integral counterweights, and runs on
Phantom section of Ross cam and lever
steering box, showing threaded sleeve for
adjustment.
four steel-backed, babbitt-lined, inter-
changeable main bearings. Camshaft is
driven by silent chain and runs in four
bearings, the front bearing being of bi-
metal removable type, the other three of
grey iron, integral with the crankcase.
Lubrication is of full pressure type,
oil being drawn by a gear-driven pump
The C30 model International truck, with pay load, tested over the “Bulletin
course.
and delivered to all main and con.-rod
bearings, camshaft and timing chain.
Cylinder walls and pistons are splash
lubricated.
A “Floato” variable level oil strainer
is iocated in the sump. Chassis is lubri-
cated throughout by pressure gun. Cool-
ing system is controlled by thermostat
unit in cylinder head. Radiator is of
fin and tube high turbulence type. The
water-impellor and four-bladed fan,
together with generator, are driven by a
flexible rubber belt from the crankshaft
pulley, adjustment of tension being made
through the swinging generator bracket.
The carburettor, Tillotson D2E series, is
of down-draught type with accelerating
pump, flame arrester and air silencer.
The fuel tank, of 25gal. capacity, is
mounted at the side of the cab, and
fuel is drawn to the engine by a dia-
phragm type mechanical pump equipped
with settling bowl and filters. Intake
manifold is fitted with hot spot to assist
cold starting.
Electrical system is of six-volt single-
wire type, with separate units. Gene
rator is third brush regulated, with
relay cut-out, opening at 2.5 amp. dis-
charge and closing at 7 amps., and is
mounted on the casing. The starter
motor, four pole, is fitted with Bendix
inboard drive. Reduction, pinion to
ring gear, is 10.5 to 1. Starter button is
mounted on toe-board.
ẁ
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry-disc clutch with external adjustment
to a four-speed-and-reverse gearbox
mounted in unit with the engine. Pinions
are straight-cut, the reduction ratios
being: First, 6.4 to 1 ; second, 3.09 to 1 ;
third, 1.69 to 1 ; top, direct; reverse, 7.82
to 1.
The propeller shaft on the 157 in.
wheelbase chassis is two-piece, /with self-
aligning centre bearing and three all-
metal needle roller bearing universal
joints. Short wheelbase chassis has one-
piece propeller shaft with two universal
joints.
Hotchkiss drive is used in rear axle
assembly, the full-floating axles being
Cutaway section of sturdy back axle,
differential and crown wheel assembly
housed in a malleable iron banjo-type
housing. Crown wheel and pinion are
spiral bevel cut, the reduction ratio being
6.166 to 1. Differential and wheel bear-
ings are equipped with tapered rollers.
Gear reductions from engine to rear
wheels are: First gear, 39.46 to 1 ; second,
19.05 to 1 ; third, 10.42 to 1 ; top, 6.166
to 1 ; reverse, 48.21 to 1.
The frame is of channel section pressed
steel with six cross-members. Side rails
are 7in. deep, 7-32 in. thick. Track, front
wheels, is 60in., rear
60jin., with standard
tyres. Minimum road
clearance under rear
axle is Bfin.
Springs are semi-
elliptic, front and rear,
loading per inch of de-
flection being front,
6001 b. ; rear, 8501 b.
Auxiliary semi-elliptic
springs are fitted at
rear.
Front axle is an I-
bearn, heat - treated
steel forging with fore-
and-aft steering hook-
up, tie rod at rear for
protection.
Steering gear is of Ross cam and lever
irreversible type, with a reduction ratio
of 15 to 1. Adjustment is by a threaded
sleeve at the lower end of the steering
pillar. Turning circle, 1. and r. lock, is
52ft.
Service brakes are of four-wheel hy-
draulic duo-servo internal expanding
type, with cast-iron drums. Total effec-
tive area of braking surface is 277 sq. in.


FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
ẃ
ht
0
/
0
0
£
3
<4l
a
:It«l
**| \)i
•£'. ;
sUis if
A
5 s
FOR POWE R.STAM INA & DEPE N DABILITY
Emergency hand-
brake is external
cont racting,
applied to rear of
t r a n s m i s sion.
Road wheels are
of malleable iron
spoke type. Tyres,
single - wheel
equipment, are
32 x 6 heavy
duty or 7.50 x 20
balloons on 6in.
rim. Dual-wheel
equip ment is
available at extra
cost.
A wide choice
of bodywork is
available to com-
ply with indi-
vidual require-
ments, but in
each case the
driver’s cabin is
standard equip-
ment, being
totally enclosed
with comfortable
seating accom-
modation, wind-
shield wiper and
rear - vision
mirror. D a s h-
b oard instru-
ments are in-
directly lighted
h>r night driving,
and neatly
grouped directly
in front of the
steering wheel.
The vehicle tested over the “Bulletin”
course was a C3O type, 157 in. wheel-
base, made available by the International
Sectional view across front of C30 engine, showing manifold
design, dome-type combustion chamber, piston and con.-rod
construction, oil pump and other details.
Harvester Co., N.S.W. distributors. Gross
weight was 3 tons ll|cwt. ; tare, 2 tons
2|cwt. ; pay load carried, 1 ton Sfcwt.
On a preliminary test for petrol con-
sumption over a course of 88.6 miles,
Brake-horsepower and torque curves of the 26.3-h.p. six-
cylinder International truck engine.
starting and finishing at the same point
and averaging 22.8 m.p.h., the truck aver-
aged 18.41 m.p.g. AH main road hills
on the route were
negotiated in top
gear. •
On the test hill,
grade 1 in 6, start-
ing at a steady 10
m.p.h., the climb
was made in 17
l-ssec., second
gear being used
throughout.
Descending this
steep grade at 15
m.p.h., the service
brakes stopped the
vehicle in 15 feet,
whilst the emer-
gency handbrakes
from a similar
speed pulled the
load up in 30ft.
Ascending th e
test hill again, a
stop and restart
test was made on
the steepest portion
with satisfactory
results, the trans-
mission taking up
the load under
exacting conditions
evenly and
smoothly. Accel-
eration tests with
pay load in top
and third gear from a steady 10 to 30
m.p.h. were clocked in 16 l-ssec. and
lOsec. respectively. Maximum speed with
32 x 6 tyres and back-axle ratio of
6.166 to 1 was 58 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
T.S. (Hamilton, Vic.). —The ignition on my
'35 model six-cylinder sedan has been giving
trouble recently, and, although new plugs have
been fitted, all wires and connections checked
over and spark point retarded and advanced, the
defect cannot be located. Misfiring and falling-
off in power begin whenever the car is driven
fast for 10 or 15 miles, and sometimes is so
pronounced as to slow the car down to 30
m.p.h. Cause and cure ?
Since ignition has been so carefully checked
defect probably will be • found in induction
system. Symptoms similar to those described
may arise from partial blockage of fuel lines or
filter, vapor lock due to fuel pipe running
too close to exhaust pipe or blockage of the
vent hole in the filler cap of the petrol tank.
* * * *
L.L.D. (Parkes, N.S.W.). —During the last
few months I have had occasion to put much
more distilled water in one cell of my battery
than in either of the other two. The iron case
is rusting badly, and on taking the battery out
1 found a slight leak in the container. Is it
essential to purchase a new battery ?
To rectify the defect the battery will have
to be taken down and the leaking cell repaired.
Safest plan would be to buy a new unit.
* -a- * *
N.D.A. (Hornsby, N.S.W Cylinders of my
’34 four-cylinder car after 52,000 miles have
been rebored, but although the job was done
by experts I am now worried with loss of oil
pressure and fear trouble when travelling in the
country. Cause and cure ?
Pressure should be higher than before over-
haul, but suggest, as oil pump is not submerged,
you should drop sump and examine suction
pipe for fractures or loose connections. The
slightest air leak between pump and oil supply
would account for the trouble.
H.N. (Sale, Vic.). —l want to fit new piston
rings in my ’3l model six-cylinder car, but
although I have removed all bolts and studs in
the sump 1 cannot drop it to get at the big-end
bolts. What is holding it, and how can the
difficulty be overcome ?
If all studs have been removed the only thing
to prevent removal of sump will be the joint-
ing compound applied when originally
assembled. Tap joints with a lead mallet, and
if this fails break the joint carefully with a
sharp, thin chisel, working alternately on each
side.
# * *
I.S. (Port Macquarie, N.S.W.). —I have been
troubled lately with oil leaking to the back
wheels of my ’27 model car. Also I now find
it impossible to adjust brakes. Have fitted new
felt washers, but still trouble persists. Cause
and cure ?
Ball races are evidently badly worn, causing
undue movement of axle and unequal pressure
on brake drums. Only remedy is to fit new
laces and washers. This will also prevent oil
passing out to brake housings.
$ :]t sfc *
W.E.S. (Port Lincoln, S.A.). —I propose
giving my sedan a top overhaul, but the last car
I had top-overhauled showed no improvement
and 1 was informed that the valves had not
been properly ground-in. How can I be cer-
tain the job will be successful this time ?
After-all traces of carbon have been removed
from stems and under mushroom heads the
valves should be ground-in until there is a
clean, bright ring, without pits or blemishes,
right round the valve face and seating. First
use coarse grinding compound and wash off
with benzine. Then use fine paste and finish
off, if a good job is expected, with jewellers’
rouge. In the process
of grinding fit a
light coil spring over
the valve stem within
the port sufficiently
strong to keep the
valve head off its
seat. When Using the
grinding tool rotate
half turns only and
let the coil spring lift
the valve every few
turns to clear paste
and change position
of face contact. Final
test should be made
by lightly smearing the
valve face with Prus-
sian blue. On with-
drawing after one
complete turn a perfectly clean ring should be
seen on both valve face and seating.
* * * *
N.Z.L. (Cloncurry, Q.).—(l) Do you advise
use of colloidal graphite for the next 10,000
miles in my new ’36 Chev. sedan ? If so, where
can it be obtained ? (2) What was maximum
speed and petrol consumption of this model
when tested over the “Bulletin” course ?
(1) Colloidal graphite assists in the running-
in of a new engine, but its use can be discon-
tinued after the first three or four sump
changes. Obtainable from any city accessory
house and at most garages. (2) Maximum
speed 70.03 m.p.h. Petrol consumption 22.4
m.p.g.
H*
F.E. (Atherton, Q.). —The brakes on my ’34
model four-cylinder car have commenced to
shudder when applied, more especially when
pulling up from low speed or reverse. There
appears to be plenty of lining on shoes. Kero-
sene temporarily stops the noise, but after a
day or so it is as bad as ever. Cause and cure ?
Brake drums are of pressed steel and have
probably worn or warped out of round. Sug-
gest having drums turned up true and thicker
linings fitted to shoes.
A phantom sketch of Ford’s aristocrat the Lincoln-Zephyr,
showing unit construction of body and chassis.


"THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London —F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily :Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using, space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume'of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates; in every, corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian, newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of-the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That 'it continues to grow in
popularity is. proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. IUEUSSET, Representative.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Long White Cloud
Wool-sale Signs
Maoriland wool sales open at Auck-
land on November 28. About 700,000
bales will be offered between November
28 and April 24. Local mills go after
an average of 15 per cent, of the fine
wool (about 100,000 bales this year), and
if Japan is still out of the Australian
markets prices for these types should
bring smiles from M.L. producers.
For the year ending in June, Japan
took 60,000 bales of M.L. wool. Tokio
reports that at least 200,000 bales will
be bought at the approaching sales.
Maoriland sheepmen who have been
watching the cables will be falling over
each other to get their wool in the first
Auckland catalogues.
All Maoriland has been following Jean
Batten’s latest record-breaking flight.
There has never been an airwoman like
her, and her greatest performances have
been put up in a machine designed by an
Australian, Edgar Percival. It is the hap-
piest of alliances, and an example to
politicians on both sides of the Tasman,
$ * * *
“Korero”: Unless farmers organised
they would find themselves serfs, working
land they did not own and earning profits
they would not get—gloomy statement
of W. W. Mulholland, the Farmers’
Union president, at a Canterbury meet-
ing. Discounting some of his pessimism
as legitimate bait for membership in-
W.W. MULHOLLAND.
creases, the fact remains that Labor has
made unionism compulsory for most other
sections of the community ; Poison’s suc-
cessor evidently realises that the farmers
have been left to fend for themselves. To
have any real say in the government of
their country, the M.L. farmers will have
to stick together.
* * * *
“D.N.”: That keen-eyed Canadian
R. B. Bennett noticed in Maoriland some-
thing that visitors from Australian fre-
quently comment on —the well-kept
appearance of farmhouses and -buildings.
The average farmhouse in M.L. is better
built and contains more conveniences
than the majority of Australian country
homes. There are fewer large station
homesteads, because holdings are smaller
in area ; Maoriland has only 54 privately-
owned sections containing more than
50,000 acres, while many Australian prop-
erty owners assess their areas in square
miles. In Queensland particularly the
older settler often went to his holding
with the fixed intention of making money
and getting out; most early M.L. farmers
took with them a determination to make
their acres an inheritance for their chil-
dren. Modern transport and communi-
cation facilities are now inducing outback
Australians to plan the permanent homes
the Maorilanders built when they first
cleared their land.
“Moa”: Aerial surveys are common
enough in parts of Australia, but in
Maoriland, where distances are not so
great, they are something new. Two such
surveys have recently been carried out
in the South Island: one was for the
proposed main south road in Westland ;
the other, also in Westland, was over the
Paparoa Ranges —for an English com-
pany which plans to develop iron- and
steelworks at Onakaka. Ap Air Force
Vildebeest was used for the road survey
and a Waco from Blenheim searched the
Paparoas for the most likely coal trans-
port route down to Cobden.
“F.”: Farmers who read the Welling-
ton (M.L.) Acclimatisation Society’s
advice on catching stoats and weasels
“now protection has been lifted” would
be surprised to learn that the pests were
ever protected. Poultry and eggs are
favorites with both animals, and few
settlers have refrained from shooting or
trapping those seen near their henyards.
Native birds like the weka, as well as
imported game birds, have suffered
severely from their hunting depredations ;
and with sportsmen, too, the protection
law was honored mainly in the breach.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Maoriland obtains overseas
publicity (B. 7/10/’36) by methods not
always apparent to travelling sticky-
beaks. The Tourist and Publicity Depart-
ment regularly issues for overseas dis-
tribution a sheet ‘ crammed with M.L.
news paragraphs, trade statistics and
.scenic baits. The Maorilander in Hong
Kong or Lima who is delighted to learn
from the local papers that the Pohutu
geyser in the native reserve at Rotorua’s
Whakarewarewa . played 64 times be-
tween September 1 and September 9,
1936, compared with a miserable five
times for the same period the previous
year, might wonder how the news
reached Lima or Hong Kong. Items like
these are carried into newspaper offices
in nearly every country by this overseas
news-sheet; when some Lima reporter
takes a siesta instead of an assignment
his sub-editor snips at the M.L. news-
sheet for paragraphs to fill the holes in
his pages. Hong Kong, Buenos Ayres
and Brisbane utilise the sarne buckshee
items when siesta- or pub-time means a
scarcity of local news. And it is good
publicity.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: The golden bloom of the
noxious ragwort has impaired the appe-
tites and tempers of many good farmers
on holiday tours in Maoriland ; it re-
minds them of the hard work waiting at
home. Gippsland (Vic.) is becoming con-
cerned with the same problem of rag-
“Old man been layin' down te law again ?”
“Been layin' down le son-in-law t’is time !”
wort control, and M.L. efforts to anni-
hilate the weed are being followed with
interest. Southland (M.L.) discovered the
poisonous nature of this pasture weed
nearly 30 years ago ; since then ragwort
has spread through the hills of both
islands, and in 1929 the Cinnabar moth
was introduced. Its larvre feed on the
plant and frequently eat it down to
ground level. North Island! farmers par-
ticularly still want more Government
assistance in their fight with the weed,
and Agricultural Department officers are
on e . 1; JO ‘ * * *
“Mak”; The M.L. National party,
now Labor’s official Oppositipn, has
gained an experienced fighter in C. A.
Wilkinson, a businessman from Eltham,
whose name has; been mentioned as a
possibility for Opposition leadership. It
was the Government’s “drive towards
socialism” that turned-him back.to party
politics after nearly eight years as an
Independent. Wilkinson entered Parlia-
ment in 1912, and it was largely his mi-
tiring advocacy that brought about - the
universal six o’clock bar-room lament,
“Time, gentlemen, please!” As an In-
dependent, he set out after a separate
coinage for M.L. and the facts he used
so well during his successful campaign
netted the M.L. Government a profit of
£570 000 last year. He is a farmer as
well as a trader and politician, and at
Pukearuhe, on the coast north of New
Plymouth, he has a stone house solic|
enough to have come out of an English
history book.
$ * *
“Trim”: Conservation of native forests
is the ideal behind a Hawke’s Bay (M.L.)
request to the Prime Minister that native
timbers should no longer be exported.
Many types of commercially valuable
native trees were found in the heavy
bush that covered most of the country
penetrated by the early settlers ; axe and
fire cleared this land for pastures. As
settlement crept further into the back
country, rains brought landslides and fern,
and more caution was necessary when
similar clearing methods were pursued.
Along the main trunk railway line in the
North Island, tracts of timber were left
for the sawmillers. Kauri from the north,
matai, white pine and beech from South-
land all went overseas, much of it to Aus-
tralia. Matai and beech are still ex-
ported in quantity, but the depletion of
native forests and the poor quality of
much of the cleared kind have resulted in
the present agitation for conservation,
* „ * . *. *
Mow : The Maori princess who can
recite her genea ogicaldescent from^the
land °t ,he Tamul “P
<B 7/10/ 36) is not unique ; motit MaoM
handed on. Although modern historians
have to sift fact from traditional trim-
mmgs, most of these tales are remark-
ably accurate. For instance, Maori tradi-
ti°n declares that ML Egmont erupted
an d buried a village in the lifetime or
Tahurangi, a chief who ruled in South
Taranaki about 500 years ago. Only
eight years ago, Public Works employees
cutting a road near the Stratford moun-
tain house on Egmont s eastern slopes
unearthed a native oven of stones below
layers of volcanic material; in 1883, men
cutting trees, on the. same mountain-side
found pumice stone high up in an ancient
matai. Count of the tree s annual rings
placed its approximate age at 600 years,
and it was estimated to have been a
chicken of 150 years when the mountain
belched that pumice into its young fork.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
A Course of
Pelmanism will
1. train you to remember
names, faces, appoint-
ments, figures and use-
ful data o‘f any kind,
and to call to mind
promptly the apt word
or argument;
2. strengthen your power
of Concentration ;
3. give you a Strong Will;
4. give you a definite Aim
in life, and the ability
to achieve that Aim;
5. enable you to develop
Initiative and the power
of accepting Responsi-
bility ;
6. strengthen your Self-
Confidence ;
7. Remove all trace of
Inferiority Conscious-
ness ;
8. make all your contacts
with other people—
social, business and
casual—easy and com-
fortable ;
9. enable you to express
yourself better either in
Writing or in Speech :
10. increase your energy,
direct it into the most
profitable channels, and
so enlarge your earning
capacity ;
11. broaden your mind and
improve your judg-
ment ;
12. give you a stronger and
more effective Person-
ality.
The Pelman Institute is a
world-wide organisation of
40 years’ standing. Its head-
quarters are in London. The
Institute in Melbourne was
established 29 years ago.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more
than 35,000 have enrolled
with the Institute in Melbourne.
The 78 days
left in 1936
A S in the days that are gone, so in the days that are left
in 1936, life will be surging around us, vivid, exciting,
full of opportunities for those who start each of the 78 days
with freshness of outlook, renewed mental vigour and unabated
courage to try. These are the Pelmanists by training or the
Felmanists by nature. To them we say, “Keep going, and
good luck.”
yO those who shrink from the conflict, who stand aside from
the stream of activity and let opportunity pass them by,
or who, with courage and goodwill enough, still dissipate their
energy and mishandle their opportunities, we say that
Pelmanism is a proved means by which they can strengthen
their determination, clarify their mental outlook and increase
their powers of concentration and judgment so that they will
have power to select, and use properly, the right opportunities
as they come along.
The unique position
of Pe'manism
r pO mqn and women of every class, business, profession and trade,
this Institute has taught' its System of Mind and Memory Training
with benefits so direct, so unfailing and so permanent as to leave no
loophole for doubt as to its practical value.
Not only is the Pelman Institute unique in the full sense of the
word'—being the only Institute of its kind in the whole world but it
must necessarily remain so. Experience is an essential factor in educa-
tional training of this kind, and the Pelman Institute possesses the
accumulated experience gained in deeding with over half a million
students of all occupations and positions ;n life.
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,’’ 76 pages, post free. You Tan write us fully, or
you can make just a bare application by using or copying
the form below. In any case, your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communication. . We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
for the scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (cnr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 11255.
Three of the many
distinguished
Pelmanists.
LOKD BADEN-POWELL.
“1 feel tliaf no man—no matter
how educated, or wliat his ago—
who seriously takes up the course
can go through it without im-
proving himsel£.’ v
Dr. F. W. NORWOOD, D.D.,
The World’s Evangelist.
“Pelmauism,” Dr. Norwood of
the City Temple. London, says,
“is sound Psychology and an
admirable system of Mind-train-
ing.....!}- proper grasp of Pelman-
ism would save any life from
futility....Pelmauism teaches
that man has the key to his own
cured'.’’
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.
“Pelmauism,” says Dame Sybil
Thorndike, “gives, mind exercise
scientifically. It not only im-
proves, but actually discovers,
dualities that would otherwise
have remained dormant.”
You are sure to be interested in
at huist one of the people who,
in “Tlie. Efficient Mind,” speak
highly of Pelmnnism from practical
experience. It may be a prominent
personality who has captured your
imagination, or it may be a neigh-
bor who has earned your respect.
Cel- a copy of “The Efficient Mind”
now — write at once.
Pelmanism may be mastered by
giving to it half an hour a day
for about four months. There are
lb lessons in the Course. It is
intensely interesting, and the
results begin to show within a
week. It is taught-by' post.
TO THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a copy
of “The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
446
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ill
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
TP
-0<
&%*:■■■■■,■
! '*> '■■■••■’ '
\\©
& *•■
s e
o'*
c *>


: >■' ... 5 '
mm wmim r*-
’ « > • x* ' . *> “ *
US
,
. ... .. ,
> • -
Uf
■
WTa
\
'
1
mi*.
"‘A*. / v i
-
A
-'w:
MatfH'VAj \ v
0
>*= !
: 3%m- c '*yjL ?
A
: *••>■ ’■ 1 --A
■ ,
Ok * ♦ A&> a>/ . '+*£ i
.V. ■
.>
G
A
,
>:■>• ;
..
A
E A '
A/ y
W
i
if«
r ... -
fm
■ r-. :;
" S.
.. -'
ms
V:
'
Clear-toned Overseas Broadcasts
with a
3ia4ma
Detail-built
Dual-wave All-electric or Battery Receiver
Take a world-cruise whenever you like! Call in at the Paris Opera
House . . . run across and hear what America is doing ... be in
time for the King’s Coronation. Cross to Japan, listen to what the
East has to say. Visit Holland, Berlin, Moscow. Go Continental!
Be Cosmopolitan! Tour the world with a Tasma!
Voyaging by Tasma is LUXURY cruising. No wondering whether you’ll get the
place you want ... no delays . . . no interruptions or interferences . . . clear, full-
toned reception ALL THE TIME.
Why fight the ether with an ordinary short-wave receiver when you can enjoy every
thrill that’s qn the air (short-wave or broadcast) with a Tasma?
All Tasma Receivers (and ONLY Tasma Receivers) have the amazing Ferro-Coil.
No jittering, no background hiss, no inter-station “clashing.” The transformers are
air-conditioned so that climate and weather make no difference to the perfect Tasma
reception. You get the famous Tasma Bandspread Dial . . . you get every new
development of modern radio science ... in cabinets you’ll be proud to own.
FOR COUNTRY LISTENERS, TOO.
Whether you live in the city or miles from a power line, you can tour the globe with
a Tasma. SEE them! HEAR them! They make all the world your neighbours!
There is a Tasma All - Wave Heeeiver at the price YOU want to pap.
Ash pour Tasma dealer to show you the complete ranpe.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA: HAKTLKVS
IXIXDKKS STREET,
John Hoilway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
son'll AUSTRALIA: Oliver ,T.' Nilsen & Co., JAO.,
1!) King William Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND: New Zealand Eleetrie Equipment,
PTY.. LTD;, 2TO WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Thomsons. Ltd., (W'l Hay
MELBOURNE. Street, Perth; 51 Adelaide Street, Fremantle;
and at Kalgoorlie, Narrogin, Bun bury.
Carlyle & Co., 915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Grice, Ltd.. 90 Queen Street.
Brisbane, and Branches at Gympie. Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mackay.
DARLING DOWNS: Rosenstengels . Pty., Ltd.,
Rnthven Street. Toowoomba.
Ltd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z.
t/eifrma,
DUAL-WAVE RECEIVERS
iMMBKt'
PI
1
*
wife
;;SKiSM
*rw
A# i
IP
if if,. ?
SB
TABMA MODELS BSS nn<l 335
in tlu> new anil beautiful
Masefield Cabinet. These siv-
valve DUAE-WAVE Receivers
embody the FERRO-COIE
•air-conditioned transformers,
floodlit bandspread dial,
velvet tuning drive and con-
tinuously variable tone
control. Heavy duty com-
ponents throughout; noise
suppressor; all vital parts
iin p regnated again st h u mid tty.
Price (for Model 325), £37/10/-.
for Model 335, BATTERY
operated. £43/10/- (slight ly
higher outsiile N.S. W.).
Radiogram-
Cabinet.
THE T >SMA " RARIOG RAM.”
A beautifully constructed
Combination Receiver offered
for the first time in eight
models and three types—A.C.,
A.C./D.C. and Battery. Motors:
A.C., A.C./D.C. constant-speed-
Garrard with Pickup (as
used by the 8.8. C. and major
broadcasting stations). Bat-
tery Models have double-
spring motors. Features:
Automatic Noise Free Volume
Control; Bandspread Dial;
Air Conditioned Transformers;
Ferro-Coil, etc.
Prices from 41 guineas.
Slightly higher outside New
South Wales.
mmmtm
m.
m
m
“ ' r
*• r “ I- i
m
■
1
■•fr
TASMA MODE! 3XO is mow
featured in the perfect crafts-
manship of the new Gilbert
Cabinet. This Five-Vat ve
Dual-wave lieceiver is BAT-
TERY operated and is one of
the most effective and attrac-
tive sets produced by Tasma
for rural use. The remark-
ably low battery consumption
of the Tasma 310 comes as a
distinct surprise to those ex-
l>erieneiug it for the first
time.
Trice, £33/19/6 (slightly higher
outside N.S.W.'). » If in
I.awrence Cabinet. £35/10'-.
'TASMA MODKLS 330 , 365
and 400. Battery Operated
Dual-wave Receivers in the
graceful n e w JLawrence
Cabinet. Tasma 350 is a six-
valve receiver; 365 has five
valves and Tasma 400 has five
valves also. These receivers
feature Ferro-Coil and every
famous Tasma development.
Perfect world-wide reception
for the country listener.
Prices: Tasma 350, £3l/15/-;
Tasma 365, £29/15/-; Tasma
100, £35/10/- (slightly higher
outside X.S.W.).
