

m im
il. m
DIOGENES hu LAM P
The Greek Philosopher lived long
before the days of Condor Lamps
hence he had to use but the feeble
light from his oil lamp.
Today Condor offers the utmost in
lighting efficiency the greatest pos-
sible amount of light for the lowest
possible current consumption.
The new Condor Coiled Coil lamp
offers yet greater economy in that it
gives up to 20% more light without
the slightest increase in cost.
W&,
i
*5
S 3
«i*sl
mm
I
There is a Condor Lamp for every
lighting need Wherever a lamp is
used use Condor.
YOU CANNOT BUY A BETTER LAMP
THAN CONDOR.
♦
It ts said of Diogenes—the Greek Philosopher of old*—-
that- he discarded all his belongings other than his
cloak, his purse and a wooden bowl , declaring that the
more a man had the greater were his needs Another
story tells of Diogenes walking the streets of Athens,
carrying a lamp t searching , he said , for truth and an
honest man
COILED COIL ELECTRIC
P s
EXTR.fi LIGHT THAT COSTS VQU NOTHING
Advertisement of Condor Lamps {Australasia), Ltd.
3C6.
The Bulletin
A Hundred Millions of Tax-Money
Vol. 57.—N0. 2960.
Wednesday, November 4, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper^


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
df
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ...»
S.B. 336
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
CONVERT TO
LAWRENCE
It is interesting
to speculate
whether Law-
rence of Arabia,
had he lived,
would haye been able to compose the
present differences between Britain and
the Arabs. This speculation is suggested
by the appearance of yet another Life of
Lawrence—Portrait of T. E. Lawrence,
by Vyvyan Richards simultaneously
with the arrival of crisis in Palestine. But
it is doubtful whether Lawrence would
have taken on such a mission. His mood
after the Peace of Versailles was one of
bitterest disillusionment. He maintained
that both he and the Arabs had been
let down by his country. For that reason
he bluntly refused a title from his
monarch, and told him why : he would
not accept a knighthood from the king
of a country “that was about to dis-
honor pledges he had been led to give
in her name.”
He went further: he refused, on cog-
nate grounds, to make a penny out of
the war, and therefore refused his mili-
tary pay. He went further still, and re-
fused to make money even indirectly
from that source. He had planned to
build a gorgeous house from the pro-
ceeds of The Seven Pillars of Wisdom,
and then suddenly decided that would be
ignoble—tainted money.
Furthermore, he was offered high ad-
ministrative posts in Egypt and India
after Versailles, but turned them down
and fled, as Aircraftsman Shaw, into
virtual anonymity and the profound
privacy of the lower ranks of the Air
Force.
For these and for other reasons Law-
rence’s critics have brought against him
a charge of posing. The truth is that
Lawrence was the romantic slave of an
idea, and he himself would have been the
last to withstand the suggestion that such
was the case. “I raised a wave,” he said,
“with the breath of an idea, which swept
clean across the desert and broke in
Damascus.”
Lawrence’s idea, put crudely, was that
the primitive was the only clean and
wholesome way of life; that modern
decadence set in about a.d. 1500 with the
invention of printing and gunpowder;
and that the whole of Western civilisa-
tion, upholstered and efficient, was effete.
That was why he found affinity with the
Arabs, with their clarity and single-
mindedness. He lived in a world of old
things castles, churches, memorial
brasses, pottery and books —books—
books. He claimed to have read in the
six years of his youth at Oxford practi-
cally all the books in the Oxford Union
library. Before the war archaeology was
his passion, and, in fact, the war caught
him on an archaeological expedition in
the Middle East.
It was consonant with his love of
primitive simplicity that he eschewed
tobacco, alcohol and all narcotics —in-
cluding that of sex —and that he trained
his body to a toughness which later
proved a match for that of any desert-
reared Bedouin in a foodless and water-
less forced march. He held unconven-
tional views on eating and sleeping, and
acted on them. The pleasures of the
table were anathema. He maintained
that the aesthetic side of eating was an
insidious snare, that the only legitimate
purpose of food was specifically to main-
tain bare bodily strength, and that 99 per
cent, of people exceeded that purpose at
table. Consequently he was opposed to
regular meals and ate only to appease
hunger. He believed also that most
people clogged their faculties with sleep.
Lawrence’s biographer gives a graphic
outline of his desert campaigns. He tells
of his first encounter with Allenby and of
how those two sat sizing each other up
in Allenby’s headquarters. Allenby at
first suspected the charlatan and made
little secret of his suspicions. Lawrence
won. His achievements could not be dis-
puted. He had just taken Akaba and
compassed all the arduous preliminaries
which that involved. Allenby couldn’t
laugh that off. The two became fast
friends, and Allenby, not given to paying
compliments, later let his employers
know emphatically how vital Lawrence’s
work had been in consummating the
final conquest of the Turks.
Lawrence’s biographer is a manifest
hero-worshipper, but not so blind that
he could not grinningly write a chapter
headed “Devil’s Advocate,” in which he
expounds his hero’s human weaknesses.
But even were the author quite uncritical
in his hero-worship, it is the historical
facts of this book that are the revealing
thing about Lawrence.
What Lawrence himself endured in his
fighting is the real test of whether he
was a poseur. No poseur will suffer pri-
vation to the utmost limit of endurance,
nor will he expose his life without calcu-
lation. Lawrence did both continuously.
I am converted to Lawrence. I came
to this book to scoff and was deterred.
In Palestine the Lawrence legend was
so well garnished and embroidered that
we got there an even more distorted view
of this pseudo-mythical figure than that
which seeped through to our friends at
home. Lawrence may have been (he was)
self-deceived, a paradox, a neurotic, a
fanatic, a romantic ; but a poseur, no.
HECTOR DINNING.
Journalese
The “points”
of a case are no
longer as “salient”
as they were when I became a boy-
reporter, and “the devouring element”
has ceased to do its infamous work,
though “the fire fiend” still rages here
and there. But other crops of cliches
and pet phrases and words twisted from
their proper meaning have started up.
In journalism, every age has its own.
The war brought us many. It made
the verb “to issue” wholly intransitive;
and we are still “issued with” articles
which were merely “issued to” our not-
so-rude forefathers. On all the fronts
the enemy “suffered the heaviest losses,”
though on such occasions it was some-
times we or “our gallant allies” who left
the annihilated foe in his trenches and
“took up a prepared position according
to plan.” There was a pronounced dis-
position to make the Italians in Abys-
sinia and the “rebels” in Spain “suffer the
heaviest losses” until circumstances ren-
dered it difficult.
And “evacuate” is still used as it was
used during the War. A lady wrote to
the “Times” thanking the British Navy
for having “evacuated” her and some
fair companions from a Spanish town.
The “Times” nowadays is no well of
English undefiled. Like thousands of
other newspapers, it calls farmers “pri-
mary producers,” and applies the term
“primary produce” to the things they
sell. Our Mr. Menzies, pondering on
the constitutional amendment which is
to “implement marketing schemes,” has
discovered that these barbarous expres-
sions are “terminological inexactitudes”
(invented by the young Winston
Churchill and still in good going order
for divers purposes). The coalminers
have no “marketing scheme” ; the cow-
farmers have one which must be “im-
plemented.” But coal is “primary pro-
duce” and butter is not.
“Purchase” is a greatly overworked
word. You never hear it from a human
mouth; a man would be laughed at if
he said he was going out to “purchase”
a hat or a beer. But nearly all news-
papers prefer it to the good old Saxon
“buy.” And many of them put docile,
helpless, even inanimate things “in
charge of” their real custodians. “A
horse in charge of Alf Swiggins, local
milkman, bolted down the street, and a
baby in a perambulator in charge of a
pretty nurse had a narrow escape.”
“Beyond Orbost their car was bogged,
and a- bullock-team in charge of Jim
Slattery, well-known driver, pulled it
out.”
Much bad newspaper English is trace-
able to careless sub-editing of abbrevia-
tions employed by correspondents to cut
down expenses. Hence “heaviest losses”
and the current craze for leaving out the
definite and indefinite articles, to which
even the Sydney “Morning Herald” has
surrendered. “Gertrude Darlingpoint,
young Sydney beauty, who achieved
world fame as one of Patou’s manne-
quins, has secured a position” (in modern
newspapers nobody ever gets a job) “in
Ragtackers, celebrated Wiest End em-
porium.” That appeared in another Syd-
ney newspaper, and is characteristic of
the New Journalism. “Dolly Bare-
back, Melbourne personality girl, has
passed her screen tests, and is to be given
a part in ‘She Had Good Gams,’ which
Gene Pflaumberger is making for Mar-
ietta Garbovich, fascinating film star.”
If the “personality girl” gets on she, too,
w!ill be “elevated to stardom” or to
“stellar rank.” And then, of course, she
will figure in the “hot news from Holly-
wood,” another original feature of the
New Journalism, so much of which gives
you the impression that it is written by
imbeciles for imbeciles.
D. EMPSON.
About Serials
WILL LAWSON.
J. J. Hardie’s
remarks about
serialising novels
in Australia (R.P. 2/9/’36) seem to point
to a golden opportunity for the Aus-
tralian author to get at least one fair-
sized cheque for his work. But it must
be remembered that not all novels are
suitable for serials; in fact, very few
are, except in large instalments, such as
The Bulletin prints nowadays. In daily
papers only about 1200 words are used
at a time, and unless there is a thrill in
each spasm the readers soon let the editor
know what they think of the tale. This
means that there must be from 60 to 70
dramatic situations in a story if it is to
be suitable as a serial.
It is very rarely that anything like £100
is paid for a serial. Some overseas agen-
cies syndicate them at as low as £8 each ;
in Maoriland the price sometimes is £6
for a whole novel. But Australian editors
prefer Australian stories and pay a good
deal better than the price just quoted.
Anything which offers thb struggling Aus-
tralian writer a new avenue of revenue
is to be welcomed, and as time goes on
the price paid for serials may even reach
£100.
The effect of publication in serial form
on the sales of a novel is still matter for
debate. Much depends on the class of
novel. Personally, I think that in the
cities, where citizens have little time to
read serials, except on Sundays, the ad-
vertisement given by serialisation is bene-
ficial, while in the country, where every-
one reads serials, the book is robbed
of sales.
Literary
Nudism
“Some of the
audience were
shocked by the
nature of the
language used,
and others mildly amused by its very
crudeness,” said the “S. M. Herald
the , one-act play “Waiting for Lefty,
with which the New Theatre League
Players won that division of Sydney s
eisteddfod. To use Clifford Odets’s own
words, the unexpurgated script of his
series of dramatic incidents in the lives
of speakers at an American strike meet-
ing is “as full of guts as a slaughter-
house.” It had to be ; the subject was
“tough” and, if the play were to be at
all realistic, characters had to speak in
character.
But people don’t go to the slaughter-
house for .They prefer
Mae West. The sophistication that
makes them enjoy her would make them
sick if aped by a lesser artist—which
also applies to passages in “Waiting for
Lefty.” Odets is the more skilful drama-
tist in “Waiting for Lefty” than in “Till
the Day I Die,” in which he permits
political propaganda to stifle him. And
it is the dramatist in Odets that carries
us through “tough” passages, just as it
is the artist in Mae West that skips us
past what would otherwise be doubtful
wisecracks.
So it is in literature. Writers who
subordinate their story to the removal
of garments rouse hostility in decent
readers; those who subordinate their
characters’ garments and speech to the
requirements of their story rarely give
offence. This represents all the differ-
ence between a good writer and a bad
one. If they pajise long enough to con-
sider the matter, readers are amused by
good writers’ liberties; they are
nauseated by what the American Edwin
Balmer has dubbed the “literary
nudism” of writers whose stories are not
sufficiently enthralling to hurry the
reader on.
The canons of decency vary from age
to age and from country to country, but
if a writer is powerful enough and his
story worthy he survives his age and
can interest people whose customs are
at variance with those he has portrayed.
For this reason there can be no stan-
dardisation of language for literary use.
But writers who use objectionable words
without literary justification soon die ;
literally, and of starvation if their liveli-
hood depends on sales.
Balmer, the editor of the “Red Book”
magazine, refers to a more deplorable
aspect of this nudism. He says he has
been amazed in recent years to see the
“apparently unashamed increase of per-
verted subjects.” As he says, it is far
easier to be “courageous” than creative.
Most Australians and Maorilanders are
old-fashioned enough to be decent, and
perversions don’t appeal to them.
LACHIE MCDONALD.
From Plough
to Peerage
Henry Snell
(his Anglo-Saxon
surname means
“valiant”) was
born in the ’six-
ties at Sutton-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire.
His parents were field workers, and his
home a hovel full of children and rheu-
matism. In winter, whenever the near-by
river overflowed, its waters ran in be-
neath the cottage door and added, to the
general discomfort. The poorhouse and
the bailiff were never far away, and the
overspending of a few pence in one
week meant starvation the next. Young
Snell, by hoeing turnips and frightening
birds out of the crops for 12 hours a
day, earned as much as three and six-
pence per week. Later, he forsook the
(Continued on page 4.)


“ Truth in Advertising "
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
The Senior Store
Anthony
Horderns’
AN
GAM E S
YOUNG GAud OLD
A THRILLING GIFT
REASONABLY PRICED
<O,
&
129
L£ ve r
\m
FOUR WAY
AUTOMATIC
CRANE
A mechanical toy like
this will ■■ delight the
most modern youngster.
This crane turns to left
or right and raises or
lowers anything at a
touch of the gear lever.
Price 12/9
rear*
Si
•m*
BOX OF 12 TOOLS
Here’s a set of tools he can
really use. British made. . .
they’re strong enough to
withstand all the hard
knocks they get. Com-
plete in wooden box, Isf
x lOf inches. Price, 11/6.
Including:
Saw., Plane,
Mallet, Gimlet,
Metal Vice,
Screwdriver,
Chisel,
Hammer,
2ft. Rule.
CO
mm.
00
*
a m
E:
*
"** i • ****
8 j2sis£
u>
CN
o
CD
\
00
CD
Sil
CD
\
Lfl
CD
Q
x
m
X
u
D>
V
in
!_J
O)
in
:i*Sa»a*^
=1 <
— -3
n
fXI
AIRFLOW SEDAN CAR
The “Kingsbury” Airflow Sedan Car
has a specially strong clockwork
mechanism. Complete with real
electric headlights. Price .... 12/6
Batteries to fit, 9d, extra.
CLOCKWORK FIRE
ENGINE.
A yea] Fire Engine will give plenty
of amusement. It has extension
ladder, alarm and all equipment
complete. Price, each 18/6
A —“Cutie,” a pretty Kewpie Doll with golden
hair. Size !4in., 2/3; 16in., 3/11; 18in., 6/6.
B —The ever-popular favourite. A lifelike
Mickey Mouse dressed in velveteen. Price, 5/9.
C —A Golliwog Doll that stands plenty of rough
treatment. He’s brightly dressed in silk and has
a firm stuffed body. 23 inches. Price, 5/9.
Q Toys—Second Floor. Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.
D—She’ll certainly be delighted with this doll.
16in- Sleeping eyes, beautifully dressed.
Price 1 0/6
E—Cinderella, the miniature theatre which con-
tains all the characters and scenes of the
favourite fairy tale. Price, each 6/~
F—Choral Humming Tops. A range of bright
colourings. Size 10in. diameter. Price . . 5/6
G—This doll has a strong composition head and
stuffed cloth limbs. 22 inches tall. Price, 8/6.
A FASC' W^TING q //:
45
ROULETTE WHEELS
A pleasing gift, Roulette Wheels
in Bakelite, beautifully finished.
Sizes, inches, 8 10 12
Prices, each, 45/- 63/- , 75/-
Roulette Cloths, each .... 10/6
o
61s
“GEE-WHIZ” HORSE RACE
GAME-EXCITING!
It is a source of endless amusement
and is very exciting. Well made.
Price 6/6
m
m
ESCALADO
Another fascinating Race Game
that makes a very acceptable gift.
Prices, each .... 14/6 and 21 /-
nr
<J
%
V
N
p. y jy
O
Si
THE LATEST CRAZE
The new Cricket Game that pro-
vides almost as much fun and ex-
citement as a real Test match.
Price . 18/9


1°
o*
ft*
ft*
t*
1°
iM®
»©
**®
HO
;* c
* e
\* * x - •* ’ -*tVv 0
Ml®' oO&* 4V 16 cA x
" * «* „ n
a AYI aftV
t> *°. » *•
V<v
*o*°*
*•*
G'
\1
V* e
VxV-®
v» e
>** c ’
Vvv
a\' v^ 0
,\\°^ s °
S'
© ' ox o<i
■ V‘"”
e®"' 1
Now is the time to change to
SUMMER MOBILOIL.
land and worked by turns as a groom, a
ferryman and a potboy.
Those were the days when British
statesmen and economists regarded pov-
erty as inevitable, and believed that all
industrial ills were permanent and or-
dained by Providence. This doctrine,
approved by clergy and capitalists alike,
had won the powerful support of Bright,
Cobden and Harriet Martineau ; young
Snell determined to spend his life in re-
futing and smashing it. He commenced
his labors as an official in an institution
for the blind, picking up his education by
fits and) starts. He had a flair for public
speaking and, either from the soapbox
or in some dingy hall, talked much on
economic, social and religious questions.
His reputation spread fast, and he be-
came lecturer to the Fabian Society and
to the British Ethical Movement. His
work brought him into close touch with
John Burns, Annie Besant, Will Thorne
and William Morris, and led to more
than one brush with the police. Thus
it is that Snell writes with first-hand
knowledge of the Dock Strike of 1889,
when the dock workers, led by Burns,
paralysed the shipping trade of London
for 10 weeks, and the ranks of the
trade-unions were strengthened by
200,000 enthusiastic recruits.
Snell twice unsuccessfully contested the
Huddersfield electorate, but won the seat
of East Woolwich in 1923. This seat he
held until, in 1931, Ramsay MacDonald
elevated him to the post of Parliamen-
tary Under-Secretary of State for India,
when he became a peer.
Lord Snell’s autobiography— Men,
Movements and Myself (Dent; 18s. net)
—is not an absorbing work, but it
is the plain record of a man who,
though physically weak and often a
quivering mass of raw nerves through
overwork, has spent a long life in for-
warding the cause of Labor and a sane
Socialism. Devotion to this cause blazes
through the book at white heat.
So, in 1931, Baron Snell of Plum-
stead, in cocked hat and ermine, entered
the Lords for the first time. It was an
off day—no reporters, nobody in the
gallery. And to the new peer, straight
from the tumult of the Commons, the
Lords of Parliament were a strange
assemblage. “Their manners are impec-
cable, and they would as soon agree to
wear a bowler hat with a morning coat
as be guilty of deliberate discourtesy....
They rarely, in public, show either per-
sonal affection or dislike The mental
climate is habitually torpid, the prevail-
ing note is one of gloom. Public affairs
are rarely permitted to encroach upon
the sacred hour of dinner. Their lord-
ships like their soup hot.”
F. J. Bridges.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
BLACK PAGEANT
D Y way of the printed word two things
contribute to our understanding of
the race that we have largely displaced
on this continent; the ethnological state-
ment and the literary image. Each sup-
plements the other. Science gives us an
accurate if somewhat abstract statement
regarding a primitive man and his social
habits. Literature, no less accurate when
it is worthy of the name, sets up a living
image that we can understand through
our emotions as well as our reason. Of
the two the latter is the more effective
in reaching the general consciousness, for
it relates its subject-matter more inti-
mately to us.
Fortunately both methods are at the
command of J. R. B. Love in Stone-age
Bushmen of To-day (Blackie and Son ;
Bs. 6d.), a work that is among the best
books for general reading that we have
yet had on the aborigines.
The author, a missioner, spent 40 years
with the Worora tribe, whose country lies
north of the Glenelg River, West Kim-
berley (W.A.). The quality of mind he
brought to his work can best be judged
from the following remark in one of the
early chapters: “About this time I began
to think that the natives were likely to
do me as much good as I hoped to do
them: an opinion which the years have
but confirmed.” That is his attitude,
throughout. He considered the use of
pidgin English insulting as from man to
man, so he learned the Wororas’ lan-
guage that he might give them his mes-
sage in their own tongue.
A chapter devoted to his lingual dis-
coveries is among the most interesting:
The verb in Worora is a very compli-
cated part of speech, the different inflexions
amounting to several thousand forms
The daily life is reflected in the language.
The verb for “eat” is “I do eat”; but the
verb for “drink” is “I go drink.” The
Worora do not drink with their meals, but
eat by the cooking fire and go for a drink
when thirsty.
There is hardly any phase of tribal
life that Love does not detail and por-
tray. His scene is never remote ; he and
the reader are always present. He tells
of family life:
Sometimes in the play corroborees —
fancy-dress dances —the fathers will paint
their little boys, who will take their places
with the men to the accompaniment of the
women’s chanting and beating time by
slapping their thighs. Truly the acme of
bliss to a small boy is to be painted with
red and white clay, and to prance and
stamp beside his father in the dance, while
the women shriek with delight.
He describes the making of stone
spearheads:—
When it is finally shaped the native puts
it in his mouth, wets it, and holds it up to
appraise its beauty and keen point. If it is
a translucent stone, he holds it up to the
light and lovingly ponders over its color.
He touches on their humanity one to
another:
In the camps Ilerdum brought blind
Imandang a piece of hollow bough con-
taining honey so that the blind man might
not only eat but have the pleasure of taking
the honey from the hollow branch.
Domestic bliss among them as drama-
tised by the children:
I saw two little girls, one kneeling on
the ground uttering the most blood-curdling
screams, while the other belabored her
with a stick. Horrified, I went to inter-
vene, when the kneeling girl sprang to her
feet, laughing. They were only playing
husband and wife.
It was not this missioner’s practice to
break down the tribal life ; he aimed at
encouraging it where it was compatible
with humane practices, on the ground
that it sprang from an inner need. He
was prepared to read the burial service
over a hole in the ground—white-man
fashion—or alongside a platform of
boughs in a tree, as the relatives wished.
In the ceremonial corroborees he saw
the rites of the Christian faith performed
according to the. black man’s level of
understanding. After watching a cere-
mony in which a young man was
initiated into the tribe, he says:
I had been witnessing in all their crude-
ness of administration the rites of the
laying-on of hands, of baptism, and of
a sacred meal that could without irrever-
ence be called a communion.
Aside from being an absorbing account
of the lives of the Worora blacks, this
book—inadvertently, for its tone is ex-
tremely modest—reveals its author as a
man of extraordinary qualities. It
would be interesting to know more of him.
* * * *
A VERY LONG EPITAPH
Richard Blaker’s eleventh novel, But
Beauty Vanishes (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.),
is a sequel to his tenth, the widely-read
Here Lies a Most Beautiful Lady; but
the. two are so closely knit as to make
in reality one long book divided at a
convenient place into two volumes.
At the beginning of Here Lies a Most
Beautiful Lady John Billiter is murdered,
quite casually and without any plot or
mystery, by thieves on the oil conces-
sion he is working in the Caucasus. His
wife, Hester, the most beautiful lady, is
severely wounded, but survives because
Pollock, her husband’s young engineer,
manages to hide her in a dog kennel,
although himself suffering from desperate
head injuries. While Hester lies uncon-
scious, slowly returning to life, we learn
in retrospect the story of her life.
The author attempts two miracles. The
first is that which Willa Cather achieved
in her Lost Lady, when, while appar-
ently focusing all the limelight on Myra,
she gives a true and living portrait of
her husband, Daniel Forrester. Blaker
uses this difficult style of indirect por-
traiture: John Billiter makes all the
noise while Hester really holds the centre
of the stage. He achieves only partial
success. (The length of the book is
against him, 750 pages being overlong
in any case for the story he has to tell.)
The second miracle is one frequently
attempted but never —so far as the re-
viewer knows—brought off. It is gather-
ing figs from thistles or bringing romance
out of Big Business. Billiter is pre-
sented as the Splendid Knight of the Oil
Concessions —suitably flawed to the re-
quirements of Greek tragedy and modern
taste.
Here Lies a Most Beautiful Lady ends
with Hester’s return to England, broken
but living, in the care of her daughter
and son-in-law. It is at this point that
the sequel, But Beauty Vanishes, begins.
For the convenience of new readers
Blaker gives a rapid precis of Hester's
story in the first 14 pages. This raises the
first of several questions which his ad-
mirers may consider sacrilegious: If the
tale could be embodied in one book why
didn’t he do it in the first place?
Again the stage is fully occupied by
the minor characters, and Hester remains
a delicate influence permeating the book,
almost an ethereal and feminine Colonel
Bramble:
She herself was never a story at all, any
more than the point of stillness and rest in
the heart of a cyclone is the cyclone.
While these others strained at a bond or
chafed against a bar; while they were full
of muddle or anxiety or anger, or of
thought, she sat and moved among them
and quietly loved them; by this love alone
knitting together the strains, the muddle,
the anger and the thought, so that the
crazy swirl about her became, in some
degree, a pattern.
Again a question arises. Blaker
strikes a romantic note in his titles, taken
from De La Mare’s Epitaph, and Hester
has a delicate bouquet of her own. Why
then must he disrupt his own carefully-
achieved effect by the heavy machinery
of his plot, by his almost farcical charac-
terisation —the cantankerously honest
Scot, Pollock, the beautiful Beryl, with
whom it is so easy to fall in love and so
difficult to live, the opera-bouffe George
—and, above all, by the incessant,
hideously wearisome badinage in which
everyone indulges?
The. novel completes its pattern with
Hester’s death, brought about indirectly
and at long last by the husband who
ruled her all his days. She dies of her
Caucasian injuries after eight years, the
end being precipitated by the shock of
seeing for the first time her husband’s
illegitimate son who exactly resembles
him.
* * * *
AN END AND A BEGINNING
D. J. Hall’s No Retreat (Harrap, 7s.
6d.) is a first novel, but not a first book.
It bears the mark of a mind used to
handling ideas and words, but less skilled
in the management of the novel form.
Paradoxically, it is none the worse as a
novel for that ; the beauty of its prose
and the sincerity that underlies it turn
this slight stiffness into a virtue and
express from it a quality of freshness.
No Retreat does not fit into any ready-
made slot, belongs to no school or
fashion, but is a deep, delicate and subtle
piece of work in its own right.
The scene is laid in a Rumanian
village, where life has been undisturbed
for centuries until the discovery of oil.
The major theme of the book is the con-
flict between the old and the new, the
ravelling away of the old through con-
tact, not with events, but with ideas.
The peasants are debauched first by the
idea of easy money and then, when the
oil company does not prove the fairy
godmother they all hoped, by easy
violence. The structure of their lives,
their independence, their contact with
the soil, their pride in traditional rural
crafts are shaken and they begin to de-
teriorate.
This is not a propaganda novel. Hall
sees the old and the new —civilisation
and primitive life—as an artist sees
masses of light and shade. But he is not
coldly detached: both are equally an
aspect of life; their clash is a reality,
and so a part of the universal drama.
It is natural; there is no patent remedy.
The two forces are personified: the new
in Stephen Rait, the English engineer;
the traditional in Petre Bucutsa, the
peasant, who clings to his fields and the
old manner of life. Neither is a rigid
symbol. Rait has the subtlety of mind
to see and to regret the change he is
bringing, Petre the nobility to value the
good qualities even of his enemy and to
remain sane in the face of fanaticism.
The situation is not resolved by victory
to either side ; the oilwells peter out and
are abandoned, but the changes they
have brought cannot be undone.
The story moves against a double in-
terlaced background: the procession of
the seasons to which the rhythms of
agriculture are set and the technical
business of the oilfields, with the poof-
poof of the drill and the oom-oomp of
the bailer going on night and day, winter
and summer alike; the natural and the
mechanical world.
The great flowing patterns of life are
so strongly suggested that sometimes the
events of the story —the enmity of the
brothers Petre and Josef, Josef’s dis-
grace and death, the brief passion of
Rait for the peasant girl Anica —seem
meagre beside them, like paper boats on
a strong current. The universal over-
shadows the particular. But this, one
thinks, is intentional and is a reflection
of the author’s sense of proportion.
The telling of the story is a little un-
even. It moves from one unresolved
human situation to another without anv
of those professional “clicks” to which,
as novel readers, we have been accus-
tomed. The eft’ect is plastic but some-
times a little difficult. Passages stand
out by reason of a curious bloom of
beauty upon them—a dinner at the
boyar’s, the coming in of Well A, the
first glow of love between Anica and
Stephen—and this gives them a value and
prominence that have nothing to do with
their importance in the narrative.
The beauty of the book cannot be
measured in quotation, for it is slow and
cumulative ; nor can its philosophy be
set down in a few words, for.it is cres-
cent. Its last word is life’s, “An end and
a beginning.”
* * * *
RECOMMENDED
Novels: No Retreat, D J. Hail
(Harrap); The Brothers Ashkenazi, I. J.
Singer (Putnam); An Ordinary Life,
Karel Capek (Allen and Unwin); Tare
Harvest, Eleanor Peters (Cape); The
White Hare, Francis Stuart (Collins);
Heyday in the Blood, Geraint Goodwin
(Cape). Travel: Stone-age Bushmen of
To-day, J. R. B. Love (Blackie); News
from Tartary, Peter Fleming (Cape);
Sky Pilot’s Last Flight, K. Langford
Smith (Angus and Robertson). Bio-
graphy: Sherston’s Progress, Siegfried
Sassoon (Faber and Faber), p j) q
Reviewed Briefly.
GENERAL . . .
Martin, Come Back !: Henrietta Leslie
(Robert Hale; 7s. 6d.). Husband,
Martin, gets knocked on the head in an
accident and for years and years is a
mental wreck. Wife keeps the home fires
burning by working in a beauty parlor
and later as a secretary. When Martin
does “come back” he almost allows him-
self to be seduced by a flapper. Nicely
written, but there’s a lot of padding.


STEPHENSEN v. “THE BULLETIN” AND
PENTON.
[ln the previous instalment of this
report, the plaintiff had stated in evidence
that he had been associated with The
Bulletin Newspaper Co. in the enter-
prise known as the Endeavour Press, of
which he was managing director ; that
he had left it and started P. R. Stephen-
sen and Co., Ltd.; that he had published
the novel Mezzomorto, the Endeavour
Press, after his association with it had
ceased, having published Landtakers, by
Brian Penton ; that 500 copies of Mezzo-
morto had been sold prior to the publi-
cation (on October 10, 1934) of a Bulle-
tin article on it by “Conn Bennett,” a
pseudonym of Penton; and that the
article had wrecked the sale of the book
and resulted in his company’s having to
go into liquidation. To Mr. Curtis,
K.C., leading counsel for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., he admitted having pub-
lished works by D. H. Lawrence in
London.]
Cross-examined by Mr. Curtis, plaintiff
said that Mezzomorto was a proper book
suitable for publication in every respect
—every page, every paragraph and every
sentence. His main complaint was the
comparison made in the article between
Mezzomorto and the kind of works
analysed in Lawrence’s pamphlet. He
himself had written an article, an attack,
on Lawrence nine years ago.
Mr. Curtis: Listen to the attack. “It is for
this reason I say ‘Hail to D. H. Lawrence,
populariser of the blood’s reality!’”—That is
sarcasm.
You wrote this, whatever it may mean, after
Lady Chatterley’s Love f had been published?
—There were two versions of Lady Chatterley’s
Lover, as I said yesterday.
Do you mean that? First of all, you told
me yesterday you had not read Lady Chatter-
ley’s Lover? —I wondered which edition you
meant.
I asked you: “Do you know that book,
Lady Chatterley’s Lover?” and you answered
“I have no knowledge of it at all.” Were you
serious in making that answer? —Your question
was ambiguous. There are two editions.
“Do you know that book Lady Chatterley’s
Lover?” Is that ambiguous? Do you know
the book?—Yes.
Had you never read it? —I would not be
bothered with such stuff. I have had a glance
at it. I have looked at it, but I never read it.
After further exchanges plaintiff said:
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover was his swan-
song.”
Mr. Curtis: Then you must have read it? —I
have admitted that I have read that book —
I am not a student of it. I have not read the
book —the two editions.
You read the two editions —that is, the ex-
purgated and the unexpurgated?—l have seen
both. I have read the expurgated.
You stated you read both editions? —I have
read sufficient to form an opinion.
Did you read both editions or not?—l have
seen both of those.
Did you read both editions or not? —Not
right through.
How long ago?—l looked at it in manuscript.
A moment ago you said you read both
editions. Was that a mistake? —I have seen
both editions.
A moment ago you said you read both
editions? —I read portions. I read enough to
form an opinion.
Had you read certain passages and certain
poems before you wrote the article?—No, I
had not seen Lady Chatterley’s Lover before
I wrote that article. I could not swear at this
stage; it is so long ago.
You had certainly read it before 1936? —Yes.
You as a publisher say that books such as
Lady Chatterley’s Lover should not be banned
on moral grounds?—On silly moral grounds.
What do you mean by silly moral grounds?
His Honor: I take it he means a ground
which could be called silly as against a ground
which could be called sensible? —Yes.
Mr. Curtis: What is the distinction? —-The
censor draws the distinction.
His Honor: I do not think that witness’s
knowledge or the opinion which he had in 1929
when he wrote the article on Lawrence has
anything to do with the action.
Mr. Curtis: He says he is claiming damages
for injuries to his reputation as a publisher
in London.
Mr. Curtis: Mezzomorto was killed by the
criticism of The Bulletin? —That is so.
Do you suggest there is nothing in the book
that might kill it itself? —;No. On the con-
trary'.
You knew when you published it that it con-
tained a passage to this effect: “When Guilia,
after thus listening in vain for the tongue-
tied lover, closed her window, he stayed there
looking up, angry with himself and with his
cousins. ‘Why do you wait when you have
nothing to say?’ whispered Giovanni, catching
him by the arm. ‘She is in bed now telling
her beads as penance for missing a chance to
sin.’ ” Do you mean to say that passage would
not offend any person of the Catholic religion
who uses a rosary?—l mean to say it would
not offend any person of the Catholic religion
or Protestant religion or any other religion. It
is historical. It deals with the situation in
Italy, and there was no Protestant in Italy.
It throws light on the character of the girl
Guilia who lived 600 years ago.
You think it is a book which could safely be
read by a young girl?—Certainly, by all of
them.
Mr. Curtis said he proposed to ask
whether the witness knew that the book
contained a scene describing flagellation,
“the whipping of a person for the pur-
pose of sex.” In the course of argument
it was mentioned that the book had not
been put in by Mr. Piddington. His
Honor disallowed questions regarding the
contents of the book ; and Mr. Curtis
closed his cross-examination.
Cross-examined by Mr. Reimer (for
the defendant Penton), plaintiff said he
had 750 shares in P. R. Stephensen and
Co., to which he transferred a going
concern —books, stocks, blocks, con-
tracts, options to publish and bank bal-
ance. Two hundred and fifty shares
went to his co-director.
I suggest that at that time you were in-
solvent?—-I was not insolvent. Ridiculous!
I put it to you that your company has been
insolvent from the date it was incorporated? —
That is ridiculous. I published 14 books.
What salary were you to receive as managing
director? —Ten pounds a week for the first
year, with provision for a bonus or an increase
in subsequent years if the company went well.
I put it to you that the agreement provided
that you were to get £750 a year salary as
managing director? —I had £750 with The
Bulletin.
With P. R. Stephensen and Co., Ltd.? —I
actually drew only £10 a week. I drew it
regularly right up to the time of the publica-
tion of this Penton libel.
You deny that P. R. Stephensen and Co.,
Ltd. was up against it throughout the period of
its life? —Yes. I deny that it was up against it
until after the publication of this libel. It
had a very good chance up till then.
Plaintiff was questioned concerning the
books his company had published. Of
the first, he said, 2000 or 3000 copies
were issued at a cost of £40 to £50. The
published price was 2s. 6d.
Mr. Reimer: The sale or distribution of
that book did not exceed 316 copies?—It was
a Christmas book.
His Honor: Can you remember the total
number? —Counsel is stating that. I do not
remember the exact figures. It would be be-
tween 300 and 500 copies that were actually
sold. The rest were in stock, and good stock
still.
Mr. Reimer: You received 750 shares and 250
were given to your co-director. Any other
shares issued?—Preference shares.
What amount of capital did the company
receive from preference shares? —About £800.
From about 14 subscribers. They were fully
paid up.
Regarding other Stephensen and Co.
books, witness said one was published in
December, 1933, another before the co.
was incorporated, another in February,
1934, two others about Easter, another
about June, two others about July, an-
other in July or August, two others in
September, another about the same time,
and another in October. Of one book
588 copies were sold ; of another, 364;
in other cases sales were 369, 438 (in this
case witness thought another 128 had
been sold), 974, 557, 333, 457, 79, 134,
150 and 969.
Mr. Reimer: The total amount received by
all retailers of all books produced by P. R.
Stephensen and Co. up to the end of November,
1934, comes to £1695, roughly?—I will accept
your calculation.
A wholesale price of £1129 would be the
total amount of money P. R. Stephensen and
Co. would receive? —That would be the approxi-
mate figure.
Ten per cent, on the gross for royalties would
reduce the amount available for your company
to £930 or £940?—No, that is not the way to
look at it.
There is a liability to the authors of £170? —
To the printers.
The printers have never been paid?—Most of
them have been paid something—all of them
have been paid something. The company is in
liquidation.
The company had as at the end of November
a very large number of outstanding debtors? —
Bookseller debtors. That is so.
Making a total amount at that time of
£443 7s. lid.?—Yes.
You drew as salary during this period
£416 13s. 4d.? —I don’t know whether the
figure is correct.
You drew £10 per week? —Not every week —
not after things began to get difficult.
When did things begin to get difficult? —
After the publication of this libel- —on the 10th
of October.
You allege there is owing to you by way of
salary £53 8s.?—I did not allege it. That was
salary I had not drawn. I paid the staff first
always. I paid the staff before I paid myself.
Has any member of the staff garnisheed the
assets of the company for payment?—When it
was going into liquidation, yes.
Have you ever had the bailiffs in before this
article was ever produced?—Not before that
article was printed, certainly not.
Before this article appeared you had the
bailiff in for £10? —I do not recall the occasion.
I am not suggesting that is in connection with
wages. You went to Canberra to form a com-
pany there? —In June or July.
You collected £395 from prospective share-
holders there?—Some amount.
There were never any shares issued for that?
—No.
What happened to the £395? Was not that
used in P. R. Stephensen and Co.? —They were
applications to P. R- Stephensen and Co., Ltd.
A new company in Canberra?—No, not as
I understand it. No shares were issued in the
new company in Canberra.
You went to Canberra and formed a com-
pany there? —That is so.
You stayed at the Hotel Canberra?—That
is so.
And the Hotel Canberra got a judgment
against you?—No.
Did you pay your board?—I paid my board.
There was another man who ran up a bill who
claimed to be an agent.
Do you deny that there is a judgment against
you?—He has a claim on the liquidation.
The hotel has got a judgment against the
company?—For one of the three persons, who
ran up a bill without my knowing it. At the
time the matter was first brought to my notice
the company was going into liquidation. After
this article, it was a shower of writs in all
directions.
You had a typist at £78 a year. Did you
have anybody else?—Yes; a sales manager,
working on commission.
Is that all he was entitled to?—He was en-
titled under the award to £4 something a
week.
And he got a judgment against the company?
—For the difference between the commission
and the award. The amount was £2O Is. He
eventually received the amount of his award
wages.
At the end of 10 months’ trading, starting
with a capital of £l3OO, receiving by the end
of November £5OO or £6OO in cash, you end up
with liabilities amounting to £2585 14s. 2d.? —
And stocks to cover that I take it.
Sundry creditors, £1302 os. lid. —They would
be printers.
Arrears of salary, £129 14s.? —Yes.
Authors’ royalties, £233 os. 10d.? —That is so.
Unsecured loans, £475 18s. sd.? —That is so.
Share capital applications, £395? —That is so.
That £395 is in connection with the money
you got in Canberra? —Some of it may have
been.
Interrogated by Mr. Reimer touching
certain of his company’s financial trans-
actions, plaintiff admitted that on Sept. 3,
1934, it had been sued by Baker and
Vickery for £l4 11s. 9d., electric-light
work done early in the year; the amount
of the claim was paid into court. On
Sept. 10 Shipping Newspapers sued for
an advertising account, £2O ; got judg-
jnent, and on Oct. 23 put a bailiff in. He
went out on Oct. 31, £lO having been
paid on account. The balance was not
paid, and the bailiff was put in again.
On that occasion plaintiff asked the
Court, under the Moratorium Act, to
exercise its discretion in favor of the
company on the grounds, among others,
that it was and had been undercapitalised,
that there was another District Court
action pending, and that assets exceeded
liabilities. Smith and Lane, typesetters,
issued a plaint for £lB 16s. 7d., and plain-
tiff again lodged an application under
the Moratorium Act. Jackson and
O’Sullivan sued for 16s. lOd. in respect
of business cards printed in June; Car-
michael and Co., typesetters, for £l5 10s.
5d., incurred prior to October; Sun News-
papers sued on October 4 for £5l 65., ad-
vertising space occupied in April and May,
plaintiff applying for a stay of proceed-
ings under the Moratorium Act; the Fleet
Composition Service obtained judgment
for £7 6s. lid. in respect of linotype
matter and rental of metal from May on-
wards ; and one of the authors sued for
£2O 13s. lOd. for May and June royalties,
the summons being issued after October
10. That particular author was a share-
holder. Other authors were creditors of
the company.
Mr. Reimer: I have mentioned all the 14
books in the order in which they are there.
Three of them you took over from The
Bulletin, and the royalties were paid by The
Bulletin. Of the remaining 11 authors, one
took royalties in the form of kind of his books?
—Yes.
That leaves 10 authors. Of those 10 authors
not one has ever received a penny?—They are
all creditors of the liquidator.
I am not concerned whether they are
creditors; they have never been paid anything?
—No, and no money was due to them.
Except Crockett. Crockett is the only one?
—Yes, he was paid in advance.
Mezzomorto is one of the last books that
were published. Of 2000 copies you sold
557?'—Yes, up to that date.
Roughly 30 p.c. up to that date? —Yes, I said
that had very good sales; phenomenally good
first sales.
And that is up to the end of November?—
That is so.
Your complaint in this case is that, as the
result of the article of October 10, your busi-
ness was ruined? —That is so.
On September 1 you had an overdraft at the
bank? —I don’t know.
You did have an overdraft some time before
this article was produced?—An overdraft on
the business, yes.
I am talking of the business. On the Ist of
September the overdraft was £2 9s. Bd.? —I
will not deny it.
And on the 15th of September it was the
same amount? —I will not deny it.
From then on until the 30th of November,
when you prepared that document, you never
had more than £6 in credit in the bank?—l
was paying accounts and the bank money is
going in and out. I did not want a big credit
balance; what use is a big credit balance?
You received £395 from people in and around
Canberra when you went up there?—Yes.
That money was given to you for shares in
the new company?—Shares in the old com-
pany. The Sydney company was promoting the
Canberra company.
And it was going to be amalgamated into the
Canberra company?—Yes.
Is not this the wording of your prospectus
for the Canberra company? —The draft pro-
spectus.
“Prospectus of Stephensen’s National Book
Publishing House, Canberra. Authorised
capital, £50,000, divided into 50,000 ordinary
shares at £1 each.” That right?—l will agree
that you are reading correctly from the draft.
“Issue of 44,000 ordinary shares of £1 each.”
Then you set out the total, calls on application
and so on, and you refer to directors, bankers
and solicitors and the other usual information
like that? —I deny that prospectus was ever
issued.
Will you deny it was shown to people who
gave you money in Canberra?—To some of
my prospective co-directors there it was shown.
Was it shown to any of the people who
supplied you with the £395? —They were share-
holders in the Sydney company and it was
shown to them as shareholders.
Any shares ever issued to them? —I cannot
remember. Letters of allotment were sent to
all who applied, I believe —I cannot swear.
When you got the money, what did you do
with it? —It was transferred to Sydney.
To pay wages?—Transferred to Sydney for
that and other purposes—for the purposes of
the business.
Up to June you got £4OO from shareholders
and also loans to carry on? —Yes, at various
times.
Three hundred and eighty-five pounds odd?
—That was the total over 10 months.
When this company went into liquidation in
February you busied yourself in promoting and
having registered Australian Book Service, Ltd.?
—Yes.
You were managing director? —I was so
named in the articles of association. It was
an attempt to reconstruct this company in
liquidation.
You had some dealings with a man named
Boynton?—Yes.
You entered into an agreement with Boynton
whereby you were to give him 200 shares and
a position at £6 a week? —That was I must
refresh my memory as to the date. That was
in February or March of 1935 that I gave him
that arrangement. He was a shareholder in the
previous company.
For that he gave you £2OO? —That is so.
No shares were issued to Boynton, were they?
—I have been sued on this matter. Boynton
sued me personally.
And got judgment against you?—Yes, sued
me personally. The company did not go to
allotment. Before it went to allotment Boynton
sued me and got a judgment for the £2OO.
Four hundred? —Yes, that is right.
What did you do with Mr. Boynton’s £200?
—Developed the company, formed it, incor-
porated it.' All this was thrashed out in the
other court. There is a lot to be said on both
sides.
You say that in England you and Penton
were at arms’ length; is that right?—l did not
say we were at arms’ length. We had disagree-
ments.
You are not suggesting that those disagree-
ments had any lasting result; that either
Penton had any grudge against you or you
against Penton? —I had none against Penton ;
he had one against me.
Before you left England you wrote Mr.
Penton a letter? —Yes.
In which you called him “Dear Brian”? —
Yes; I wrote that at Lindsay’s suggestion.
You made some suggestion with regard to get-
ting the rights of his forthcoming book in
Australia? —Yes, that was to help him.
Do you remember saying “I hope something
on these lines can be arranged profitably to
all concerned. I hope your English publisher
will try the experiment, as the experience thus
gained will perhaps be valuable for other books
on your list if you make a success of yours.
Kind regards, yours sincerely.” You were per-
fectly friendly with him then?—No, I was not
perfectly friendly, but I was not doing anything
hostile to him.
Re-examined by Mr. Piddington, plain-
tiff said that he had made preparations
for the publication of other books, which
did not appear. One of them was a book
of anecdotes and reminiscences by Mr.
W. M. Hughes; it was to have been
issued in November, 1934. Before the
appearance of the libel he had not failed
in the publication, according to contract
time, of any book. He had not known
when employing Tucker that the engage-
ment was subject to the Commercial
Travellers’ Award. Vickery’s charged
more than the contract price, and he dis-
puted the excess. In “Foundations of
Culture in Australia” he referred to —
the cynicism of Aldous Huxley in Brave
New World and the eroticism of D. H.
Lawrence in Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
These books are both works of decadence,
of English social decadence. (I use the
term decadence in the sense of ultra-sophis-
tication and not in any simple “moral”
sense.) Both these products of modern
English culture are formally banned in Aus-
tralia on the silly “moral” ground and not
for the more exact reason that they repre-
sent a culture in decline which in such a
tendency is against the grain of our poten-
tial-expansionist Australian culture. There
is no need for the silly “moral” censorship;
I think these books of the English deca-
dence could never have profoundly moved
and influenced Australians.
Mr. Piddington: Do you remember any other
suggestion in cross-examination that you sup-
ported Lawrence’s sex views? —Yes; 1 had
placed into my hands a copy of Lawrence’s
last book, Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
Have you ever in any writing expressed any
approval of that kind of writing?—No, I have
not done so because 1 don’t approve of that
kind of writing.
Was Mr. Boynton an employee of yours?—
We had an agreement—a service agreement
between himself and me. He recovered £4OO
odd under that service agreement for two years’
wages.
How was the £4OO made up?—lt was made
up of a salary claim for future years that
he had not worked. It was compensation in
lieu of notice. When I failed to get going
again he held it against me personally.
Did he, in fact, ever do any work? —No,
because 1 could not get the business started.
He was ready to start, but I was not ready to
employ him.
Was any part of that £4OO money that he
had brought into the new business? —Yes, £2OO.
He was trying to finance me in the start. Two
hundred pounds for that and two hundred
pounds for salary. The judgment has never
been enforced.
Evidence was given for the plaintiff by
Robert Eric Pryor, indentor, who pro-
duced a report he had made to the liqui-
dator of P. R. Stephensen and Co., Ltd. ;
and by Bartlett Adamson, journalist, who
said the name “Stephensen” appeared in
The Bulletin article of October 10,
1934, and he took it to refer to P. R.
Stephensen.
Mr. Curtis moved for a nonsuit.
His Honor: I think the article is cap-
able of being defamatory to the plaintiff,
and the jury can say whether it is.
. Mr. Curtis: Under those circumstances
I elect to call no evidence.
Mr. Reimer also asked for a nonsuit,
which was refused. No evidence was
called for the defendant Penton.
Counsel addressed the jury, and Acting-
Justice Owen summed up.
The verdict was for plaintiff; £750
damages. A stay of proceedings was
granted.


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
pilililjj.llVy
irnmrnim
1
J te.
\ ...j
An Idea of Portion of One of the Vast Storage Cellars,


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2960.
November 4, 1936.
THE RETREAT TO MOSCOW.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Larnbton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any. address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
CONSCRIPTION IN TWO
COUNTRIES.
Conscription for foreign service, adopted without
any fuss in every other country concerned in the war,
was put to the vote in Australia on October 28, 1916,
and rejected by 1,160,033 to 1,087,557, though three
States (Victoria, Westralia and Tasmania) approved.
Survivors among the winners have been celebrating
the victory, and two “advanced” Labor orators of the
period returned from Russia, which has conscription
for foreign service, in time to join in the rejoicings.
At a public meeting in the Sydney suburb of
Paddington Mr. Lang was the leading orator. His
Great Thought for the night was “Every war is a
sordid trade war.” Mr. Beasley recalled with emotion
that “twenty years ago” he “ had no vote” (the record
shows that he was born on November 9, 1895, so he
very nearly had a vote); but he found saviours.
They fought for me and those who were with me,
and may I pray that I can fight for them and their
families in the years to come!
Diggers? No; anti-conscriptionists! At Can-
berra the Parliamentary Labor party, by resolution,
“congratulated Australia on the result of that vote,
and the present generation of Australians on its free-
dom from military domination inspired by Fascism”
—which did not exist in 1916 and would never have
arisen but for Communism, with which Labor politi-
cians flirted for so many years. Congratulations were
succeeded by pledges: “The party pledges itself to
oppose in the future as in the past the odious policy
of conscription for foreign service.” Presently Mr.
Parkhill was heard shouting in agitated sentences that
his Government was against conscription too.
There has never been conscription in this country.
No such question has ever been considered by this
Government. This Government is committed to a policy
of voluntary enlistment, the policy that was carried out
during the period of office of the Scullin Government.
The Government is carrying out that policy because
it thinks it is the right policy and because it is an
adequate policy.
Mr. Parkhill, who has never heard a shot fired in
anger, is Minister of Defence. Now the U.A.P.’s
champion vote-catcher, he was a Liberal when the
Liberals took credit for passing Defence Acts estab-
lishing the principle of universal liability to serve in
time of war, and making training and service compul-
sory in time of peace—and those were comparatively
quiet times. And as secretary of the Liberal League
he organised the N. S. Wales campaign for conscrip-
tion in 1916.
In 1916 the number of women enrolled in the
electorates was nearly equal to the number of men
enrolled ; the difference was a mere 88,990. For that
reason alone there should have been no referendum;
if the Government was not resolute enough to intro-
duce conscription by Act of Parliament it should have
dropped it altogether rather than place so much of
the responsibility on women. By putting the thing
to the vote, it divided the nation into two camps and
encouraged bad men to hope that the division
would be permanent—or, rather, that it would
last long enough for them to exploit it evilly.
And Mr. Hughes and Mr. Pearce contributed to the
defeat of their referendum by informing the startled
people that the War Council required 16,500 recruits
a month ; by calling single men to the colors in anti-
cipation of the result, and, as three Ministers put it,
“by issuing regulations providing that military ques-
tions might be put to voters in polling-booths,” though
this crowning folly was prevented at the last moment
by the resignation of the three Ministers.
No other country has had a conscription referen-
dum, but conscription was one of the issues at the
U.S. Presidential election in 1864. An Act providing
for “the enrolment of the national forces” was passed
by Congress just before it was dissolved. It author-
ised the President “to make drafts at his discretion” —
of blacks as well as whites, and aliens also, provided
they “had declared their intention to become natural-
ised,” “anyone drafted and not reporting for service to
be considered and treated as a deserter.” The President
enforced it: anti-draft riots in New York were sternly
suppressed. The Democratic platform pronounced the
Civil War a failure, and demanded that “immediate
efforts be made for a cessation of hostilities, to the
end that peace may be restored on the basis of the
Federal Union,” plus slavery. It asserted that “under
the pretence of military necessity, the Constitution
has been disregarded in every part and public liberty
and private right alike trodden down.” McClellan
was chosen to oppose Lincoln and to secure peace
with disunion and dishonor.
A comparison of voting by States at this Civil-
War election and our Great-War referendum is very
interesting (only men voted in the U.S.A.):
Lincoln. McClellan.
Maine 72,278 47,736
New Hampshire .. .. . . 36,595 33,034
Massachusetts 126,742 48,745
Rhode Island 14,343 8,718
Connecticut 44,693 42,288
Vermont 42,422 13,325
New York 368,726 361,986
New Jersey . . .. .. 60,723 68,014
Pennsylvania .. .. .. 296,389 276,308
Delaware .. .. .. .. 8,115 8,767
Maryland 40,153 32,739
Kentucky 27 786 64,301
Ohio ' 265,154 205,568
Indiana 130,233
Illinois 189,487 158,349
Missouri 72,991 31,026
Michigan 85,352 67,370
lowa 87,331 49,260
Wisconsin 79,564 63,875
Minnesota .. .. .. .. 25,060 17,375
California .. .. .. .. 62,134 43,841
Oregon 9,888 8,457
Kansas 14,228 3,871
West Virginia 23,223 10,457
Nevada 9,826 6,594
Total 2,213,665 1,802,237
Lincoln’s popular majority, 411,428.
Yes. No.
New South Wales .. .. 356.805 474,544
Victoria 353,930 328,216
Queensland .. .. .. 144,200 158,051
South Australia .. ■ .. .. 87,924 119,236
Westralia 94,069 40,884
Tasmania .. .. .. .. 48,493 37,833
Federal Territory 2,136 1,269
Total 1,087,557 1,160,033
Anti-conscription majority, 72,476.
The ayes in Westralia constituted 69.71 p.c. of
formal voters and 56.13 p.c. of electors enrolled. Their
achievement will be remembered by historians of
democracy when Mr. Lang and Mr. Beasley are
forgotten.
A Hundred Millions in Taxes.
The seven Governments of Australia have given such
other parts of the world as may be interested a fresh
proof of the capacity and endurance of the nation.
They collected in the last financial year more than
£100,000,000 in taxation. Details follow, the States
being mentioned in order of demerit (where 000’s
appear units are not available —no doubt they are
averaged): —•
Per Head of States’
Tax-revenue. Population. Index.
Queensland .. .. £7,324,330 £7 10 8 142
Tasmania .. .. 1,418,000 6 2 2 116
South Australia .. 3,204,000 5 9 3 103
New South Wales .. 14,101,000 5 6 2 100
Western Australia .. 2,186,000 417 7 92
Victoria 8,444,000 4 11 7 87
All States .. .. £36,677,330 £5 5 9 100
Commonwealth .. 63,617,330 9 8 5
Grand total .. £100,294,660 £l4 14 2
Although the goal of a hundred millions has only
just been reached, substantial strides had been made.
In the last 20 years taxation trebled (from £31.7
millions to £100.3 millions). In the last decade there
was a “progressive” rate of nearly 26 p.c. (from £89.8
millions to the present figure). By 1934-35 the amount
had been raised to £95.2 millions. Thus the develop-
ment has been persistent as well as rapid, and should
not take the people by surprise. Nevertheless, the
total ought to be impressive. On top of this Govern-
ment taxation, over a thousand local authorities levy
rates to the tune of about £14,000,000 a year.
The gross value of industrial production in
1934-35 (the last recorded year) was a shade over
£356,000,000. Thus taxes and rates absorb approxi-
mately 6s. 6d. in the £1 of the returns —gross returns
—obtained from fields and farms, mines and factories ;
from all measured production.
But the Commonwealth Statistician has been at
some pains to make an estimate of net value of
“primary” production, by deducting costs of marketing,
seed, fodder and other items. This brings the esti-
mated worth of all industries per head of the popu-
lation to £45 2s. 4d. Taxes and rates come to not less
than £l6 per capita. On this basis every £1 of net
value of production, so far as the net amount has
been calculated, seems to be distributed like this:
Taken by governing authorities .. ..£079
Left to producers .. .. .. .. 0 12 3
£lO 0
Queensland’s prominence in the amount and
development of taxation should be gratifying to
Premier-Treasurer Forgan Smith, for it has long been
one of his alleged grievances that the Commonwealth
Government takes more taxes from Queenslanders
than does the Queensland Government. That is open
to question—the States Grants Commission reckons
that Queensland gets back practically 100 p.c. of its
Federal taxation in the form of pensions and services.
However, Premier Smith has rapidly removed the
ground for his grievance. In his four years of office
the advances per head of the population have been:
Queensland .. ..£284
Federal .. .. 13 9
Had all the State Governments been taxed on the
Queensland basis last year their total would have been
£52.7 millions, or £16,000,000 greater than it was.
Had Victorians been taxed under Queensland schedules
their bill would have been £13.9 millions instead of
£8.4 millions. This may help to explain, among other
things, why throughout the north-eastern State Mel-
bourne boots are preferred to Brisbane boots; why
Victoria has ten times as many boot and shoe opera-
tives as Queensland, although the latter State is the
greatest producer of hides in the Commonwealth.
During the four years to June, 1935, State
unemployment taxation totalled £38.4 millions, distri-
buted thus: —
£ Millions.
Queensland .. .. •• 7.3
Other five States .. . • 31.1
Per capita, Queenslanders paid in this special
taxation 38 p.c. above the average of other States.
In that period factory-workers increased in Queens-
land by 5147, or 13.6 p.c.; in other States by 105,608,
or 35.1 p.c.
Castles in Spain.
Spain has always been a country to see from the
outside. From the Mediterranean on a sunny day the
high peaks of the Sierra Nevada seem to be sleeping
in a faery haze, and Malaga is a dream town about which
the only realities are the red-sailed fishing-boats far
out on the water. The Atlantic coast, if you are not
too near it, has the smooth green of a velvet cushion.
Here is Cadiz, the town in Europe which has retained
its name longest in all history—for 3000 years.
Every ancient civilised race took a hand in
colonising Spain. The Phoenicians, the Greeks, the
Carthaginians left their traces; the Romans pacified
it and settled it. From Spain came the crack Iberian
legions which helped to colonise England, leaving their
descendants behind to merge into English blood.
Spain gave to Roman literature Quintilian, Martial,
Seneca and other immortals. The Emperors Trajan
and Hadrian were born in Spain. The Roman era
left behind monuments —the aqueduct of Segovia
carries water to this day, if gunfire has not
destroyed it.
But when the barbarians came Spain set out upon
centuries of bloody adventure. For 120 years it was
a prey to wandering bands and hordes of robber Van-
dals and Alans, reinforced by escaped Spanish slaves.
For 200 years the Visigoths maintained a ramshackle
empire; of their 23 kings five were murdered and
three deposed. Spain awoke partly Christianised, with
the Moslems from Africa knocking at its gates. It
went through a nightmare of centuries, during which
it had Moorish rulers who warred with the Christian
kings isolated in the north —kings who rejoiced in
names like Charles the Fat and Wilfred the Hairy.
Spain wallr z& through periods when Berbers
ruled, through times when the roads were so dangerous
that for seven and eight years at a stretch there was
no communication between neighboring great towns.
It gloried briefly in times such as when Abdurshaman
III. (912-961) restored order and his son restored some
semblance of civilised culture. It merged into the
early Middle Ages, the years which preceded the
Crusades, when it became the victim of terrible reli-
gious passions, Mohammedan and Christian vying
with each other in cruelty and slaughter.
Spain split into kingdoms of Aragon and Castile
and the Moorish Granada. It gained kings like Peter
the Cruel and Henry the Impotent. In Aragon the
politics were complicated by a barons’ war which
ended, not in a Runnymede, but in a coup by Peter —
he wrenched from his rivals the charter which they
had obtained and cut it to pieces with his dagger,
salting his victory with rivers of blood.
It was not till 1492, with the conquest of Granada,
that the Moors were sent packing. Then, united Spain,
in effect, won a lottery. Its position gave it an
advantage in the colonisation of the New World. It
bought thousands of tons of gold and silver, paid for
in the blood of slaughtered Peruvians and Mexicans. It
became the richest, most arrogant country in the
world—the country which captured and imprisoned
the king of France —till it tried to conquer England
and its Armada went down. After that the centuries
held for it only a gradual decline. It was governed by
Austrians and Bourbons. Its colonies left it—Naples
had revolted in the seventeenth century. Portugal
contemptuously parted from it. It was thrown from
dynasty to dynasty. Napoleon overran Spain and
plundered it as others had done before. It emerged
from the eighteenth century into the nineteenth to
meet colonial revolts and dynastic struggles. It
emerged into the twentieth century stripped of its
New World and its East Indian possessions, but left
with its infusions of African, Asiatic and Amerindian
blood.
There has not been a single 20 years in 19
centuries in which Spain has not seen turmoil. There
has not been a half-century in which its people have
not known bloodshed.
The lesson of Spain should not be lost on Australia.
It is a lesson in what may happen to a sub-tropical
country which mixes the blood of its race and carries
provincialism to excessive lengths. In climate Spain is
more like southern Australia than any other part
of Europe. It lies in that part of the Northern Hemi-
sphere which corresponds in the south to the parts
of Australia between Moruya (N.S.W.) and Hobart.
Much of its central country reminds one of Australia,
but for the ever-changing color of the inhabitants,
the squalor, the poverty and the endless relics of wars,
foreign and civil.
PAPPAMOSCE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sir Murray Anderson.
Sir Murray Anderson was fated to die in harness,
as did Sir Walter Davidson. That bluff, hearty English-
man was identified so long and so intimately with the
lives of the N. S. Wales people that his passing was
felt in thousands of homes as a personal loss. It was
not reserved for Sir Murray Anderson to form a
multitude of friendships, but the regret and sympathy
expressed in so many quarters, and in so many ways,
when the State knew that he was no more came from
the heart.
New South Wales likes admirals, and admirals
like New South Wales. There is no pleasanter place
than Sydney for an old seadog in the evening of his
days. It is a pity that Sir Murray Anderson was not
spared to experience this in full measure, for his war
service was peculiarly exacting, and bleak Newfound-
land, distracted by financial troubles which necessi-
tated measures far more drastic than this country has
had to accept, was no place to relax in. Taken ill
aboard the boat that bore him to Australia, he had
to break his voyage at Fremantle to enter a Perth
hospital, and was still a very sick man when, several
weeks later, he reached Sydney. Of such of his
duties as a woman could discharge, his wife relieved
him with a touching devotion and dignity. He literally
strove to do his job when he was dying. Fortunate
is the country which has such faithful servants and
has never been without them!
Two Trade Treaties.
Mr. Gullett has ceased to be the Minister for No
Trade Treaties. He has been safely delivered of a
trade treaty with Belgium and another with Czecho-
slovakia, and with the conscious pride of parentage
he exhibited them in the House last week. Both are,
of course, designed “to facilitate the export of primary
produce.” These arrangements are apt to have
consequences unforeseen by their authors, but such
Australian manufacturers as may be affected will hope
for the best and prepare for the worst.
Meanwhile our trade relations with Japan remain
bad, and those with the U.S.A. threaten to grow
worse. The Americans point out, reasonably enough,
that Mr. Gullett imposed his restrictions on their
exports at a time when their purchases from Australia
had gone up £2,000,000 sterling in a twelvemonth
and when their Government was preparing for an
election. They might also remind Mr. Gullett that
their country will always be a great Pacific Power;
and so will Japan. Czechoslovakia is a remote
republic which buys little from Australia, whose friend-
ship, though pleasing, is of no material value to it,
and which may npt last.
Will-o'-the-Wisp Charity.
A hundred thousand pounds is to be taken from
Victoria’s unemployment fund “to relieve hospital
finance.” It is robbing Peter to pay Paul, but
Melbourne’s overcrowded hospitals draw most of their
non-paying patients from the unemployed; so, apart
from the fact that it is bad in principle to levy a tax
for one purpose and use the revenue for another, the
bit of jugglery doesn’t matter much.
What does matter is that Victoria, like other
States, is learning that social services cannot be
efficiently conducted when they depend so much on
charity.
Chief Secretary Bailey has ordered an inquiry
into the management of two Melbourne church homes
for boys. These homes depend on the charity of a
section of the taxpayers contributing towards Vic.’s
other appeals. One of the allegations is that the boys
have been insufficiently fed. Should this be substan-
tiated it will very likely be found that the reason is lack
of cash; and what can the Chief Secretary do about it?
Blind, deaf, dumb and mental asylums all share
in the boxes flourished under the noses of city pedes-
trians ; members of suburban younger sets tire their
little heads thinking up stunts to which they can lure
their friends and extract a few more shillings.
The Dunstan Government’s proposal for a hospital
tax (Westralia has one) was not well received by the
hospitals, whose spokesmen feared it would “dry up
other sources of revenue.” They mentioned national
insurance, which, after all, is just another name for
the tax. N. S. Wales Premier Stevens learned in
Britain that the Treasury there bears 20 p.c. of
national-health-insurance payments.
Social services are being nationalised overseas.
In Australia they have grown with the States until
they now demand co-ordination and expert State-wide
administration. Whether the community foots the
bill by direct tax or health insurance, either would be
preferable to haphazard charity-boxes.
Paterson's Curse.
Australian Governments or their agents have banned
books, broadcasts, films and parts of films. Now the
Department of the Interior has begun to meddle in
the love affairs of overseas visitors.
An Englishwoman of good family, a passenger
from Bombay by the Maloja, bound for Melbourne,
was subjected to a language test at Fremantle. Not
Gaelic but Italian was the tongue chosen this time. She
didn’t make the grade, and was forbidden to land in
Australia, though she was permitted to continue her
voyage to .Sydney, and then to transfer to the Wan-
ganella, with Wellington as first stop. At Melbourne
she denied that she harbored political ideas of any
brand.
A matron with two children, she had divorced her
husband, an Army officer in India, and had arranged
to marry a Melbourne man, who had yet to get his
divorce. A queer set of circumstances, no doubt; but
then it is a queer age, and even queer Governments
have no business interfering in matrimonial arrange-
ments merely because they consider them queer.
Minister Paterson, it seems, sanctioned the depart-
mental refusal to let the lady land. It would be
interesting to have the King’s views on this action of
one of his Ministers. On his voyage to the Levant
his Majesty, as everyone knows, entertained as an
honored guest a lady who was about to divorce the
gentleman she married after she had divorced her first.
And the department which refused, on moral
grounds, to let the shoe of this Englishwoman pollute
Australian soil has admitted crates of colored pugil-
ists from foreign parts. Minister Paterson himself
has let two American negro boxers enter upon their
second year of residence. Some of their predecessors
had not even the morals of cats.
This country is being run by a set of politicians
whose administrative performances, in their more
irrational moods, suggest that their studies in art are
confined to paintings like “Bubbles,” and in literature
to works like Eric, or Little by Little, and Self-Help.
Not a Mouthpiece.
Words when used by politicians seem to have a
meaning entirely different from the same words when
used by the common herd.
Mr. C. L. A. Abbott, M.H.R., who has been
mentioned at Canberra for weeks past as a possible
Administrator of the Northern Territory, was accused
by the N.T. member, Mr. Blain, of having been the
“mouthpiece” of a group which wished to borrow a
million pounds from the Government. He denied it,
adding that he had no interest in any N.T. or Queens-
land land—which was never suggested.
There exists a pamphlet entitled “The Present
Scheme of Development for the Barkly Tableland.”
The foreword is by “C. L. A. Abbott, House of
Representatives, Canberra, F.C.T., Feb. 20, 1936.”
The foreword begins:
In submitting this precis of information, I feel im-
pelled to do so for two reasons. The first is because,
although the negotiations between the Federal Govern-
ment and the lessees have been proceeding for over two
years, Parliament itself has received no information at
all on the subject, and that surely should not be the
case.
It surely should not. The case could have been
put forcibly again and again. Then there might have
been no need for pamphlet or foreword, or for the
following printed sentences:
I [Mr. Abbott] am anxious that the public of the
Commonwealth should know the details of this scheme,
submitted by practical men who are lessees on the
Barkly Tableland, supported by actuarial investigations
and confirmed by the examination of experts.
Mr. Abbott says that he “interested himself in
this matter because for a year” he “had the privilege
of administering the department controlling the N.T.”
The pamphlet, in substance, is a prospectus for
the scheme. One sentence reads: “The Government
was asked to loan the company one million pounds,
or to guarantee a loan -for such amount.” There was
plenty to say in opposition to it— The Bulletin had
a good deal to say itself. But none of the demerits
is discussed by Mr. Abbott, either in his foreword or
in a supplementary “Short History of the N.T.”
There is nothing wrong in an M.P. supporting any
scheme which he thinks will be of benefit to the country.
But the Administrator of any territory should be
above even groundless suspicion of being the mouth-
piece of any group within his area which is seeking
financial benefits from the Government. Also, he
should have tropical experience, which Mr. Abbott
does not possess.
Australia and the League.
From Arthur Griffith:
In view of the proved futility of the League of Nations
in preventing wars of aggression, the question arises, Is it
worth the cost? Its utter failure to prevent two member-
nations, Japan and Italy, from attacking fellow member-
nations and annexing their territories is clear proof that it is
incapable of fulfilling its one important function, and the
payment by Australia of over £52,000 per annum to maintain
its membership of an impotent organisation is clearly a waste
of money badly needed for other purposes.
Total contributions by the Commonwealth (inclusive of
exchange) up to date amount to £688,620. Had this vast
sum been retained by our Government and made available
for the provision of a fleet of aeroplanes Australia would
have some guarantee of immunity from attack. Membership
of the League gives none. Even the amount of our yearly
contribution, added to funds otherwise available, would go a
long way in this direction.
Further, there is the consideration that, should any such
course be adopted, the money, in place of going to Europe
to pay extravagant salaries to a crowd of officials, would be
distributed among Australian workmen employed in the manu-
facture of our aeroplanes.
A Mining Ancestry.
During the last few centuries practically every man
who has lived to middle life has seen or heard of at
least one mining boom. Every age has produced its
prospectors and fossickers in countries where minerals
were still to be won from the earth’s crust. The last
100 years have been noteworthy for the opening-up
of fields in newly-populated lands —in North America,
in South Africa and in Australia.
Excluding perhaps coalmining, there is invariably
a picturesque side to the search for minerals.
Romance was associated with the hunt for and dis-
covery of oil in U.S.A., with the rushes to California
in ’49, to N. S. Wales and Victoria a couple of years
later, to Broken Hill and the rugged west coast of
Tasmania, to Westralia and Queensland.
Fathers and grandfathers of many present-day
Australians earned their first money in this country
on a mining field. Many more Australians can
trace a change in the family fortunes to the
lucky or unlucky pick of a “spec.” To-day
across the length and breadth of the mainland and
in Tasmania gold, silver, lead, zinc, copper and minor
metals are being won in increasing quantities and
value. The Broken Hill cos. are flourishing, Golden
Mile shows and Wiluna are doing excellently, and Mt.
Lyell—largely because of increased technical efficiency
—is making good profits frojn the Speck’s low-grade
copper ores.
Fossickers, technical enthusiasts and the Broken
Hill metallurgical and financial influences —all have
played their part in sustaining interest in the industry
during the depressed years, so that advantage might
be taken of the better metal prices which always seem
to come again.
An Excessive System.
Recently the Commonwealth Taxation Department
got a judgment for £41,150 against Trautwein, the
Sydney publican, racing man and M.L.C. It claimed
£143,506. Trautwein’s solicitor put in an affidavit
to the effect that upwards of £lOO,OOO was made up
of “fines imposed at the maximum rate,” and his
leading counsel stated that it was proposed to submit
to the Privy Council that the section (67) of the Income
Tax Assessment Act under which the penalties were
imposed infringed the Constitution.
A day or two later the Sydney coroner conducted
an inquest on the body of a master-printer who had
hanged himself. He left a letter deploring his passion
for gambling and acknowledging his wife’s forbear-
ance. He added a postscript in pencil.
Things might have had a different ending if the
Taxation Department had not garnisheed my wages.
I had no hope when it took a pound a week. However,
I hope the Budget will be balanced.
The poor devil lived in the Sydney suburb of Rock-
dale. He had called at the police station, a local
constable testified, and mentioned that he was worried
about his wages tax.
At heart taxgatherers are no different from other
Australians, and harshness is foreign to their general
practice. As a rule, they treat persons in distress with
consideration. But they are identified with a system
which is thoroughly bad, being excessive. The system
breeds income-taxes, enactments and departments —
though one of each would be enough—and miles of
regulations. It gives rich, poor and those who are
neither the feeling that they are lost in a region where
they are without power, and whence it is useless to
appeal to Parliament if they' have grievances.
A New Scharnhorst.
A new German battleship, the Scharnhorst, 26,000
tons, is to join the other 26,000-tonners, the Ersatz
Elsass and the Ersatz Hessen. The names are signi-
ficant. Elsass is Alsace. Ersatz means compensation,
damages, reparations. Australians and Maorilanders
remember the . old Scharnhorst.
The new Scharnhorst will be one of the most
formidable ships in the world. Nine 11-inch guns,
which are practically quickfirers, are her main mount-
ing—six aft and three forward. They have a 60-degree
angle of elevation and an amazing range of cover.
They are reinforced by two treble batteries of six-inch
guns amidships and a sprinkling of anti-aircraft and
machine guns. They also carry two large aeroplanes
with catapults. There are no masts —only a heavily-
armored and -armed conning and navigation tower.
Germany is ostensibly not now a Pacific Power,
but one of its new fighting vessels, the Roln, has
been in Australasian waters twice in recent years —
she turned up at Rabaul not long ago in advance of
an Australian naval visit.
The old Scharnhorst was an 11,599-tonner, as
was the Gneisenau. They were armed with eight 8.2-
inch guns and six 6-inchers. But H.M.A.S. Australia
had 12-inch guns, so they kept well away from us
in 1914.
Any nation with one new Scharnhorst in the Pacific
could now almost exactly reverse the position. Our
biggest ships are about the size of the old Scharnhorst,
and carry 8-inch capital armament. Any one vessel
of battleship standard would send them to shelter
behind Sydney’s 9.2-inch coast-defence guns.
"Welcome to Australia."
First impressions of visitors to Australia, uniformly
favorable when they arrive on a fine day and their
boat glides up a harbor they find “deeply, darkly,
beautifully blue,” change rapidly when they scan the
unutterable dustiness and drabness of the wharf at
which she ties up. , Those who meet visitors have
even more reason to realise the second fact. In Sydney
it is no uncommon sight to see a hundred or so
depressed-looking women and children sitting on
concrete or leaning against dirty walls round the
closed entrances of wharves, to which they are
admitted with a rush only when a vessel which was
perhaps to have arrived at daybreak is made fast.
Australia is not singular in the unattractiveness
of its landing places, but there is no reason why it
should follow a bad foreign example. Attractive
waiting-rooms, planting of garden strips round main
passenger centres and brightening of the dirty, draught-
racked tombs in which luggage is handled by the
Customs would produce impressions of far greater
advertising value than the posters adjuring tourists to
“come to a sunny Australia.”
By all means let tourists come to Australia;
but when they step ashore in a smellful, half-lit atmo-
sphere of dirty wood looking out on acres of inhospit-
able cement they are apt to feel that they have been
“had.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”: Mrs. Simpson has got her
divorce from Mr. Simpson, who seems
to possess at least one of the character-
istics of Mr. Jorkins, of Spenlow and
Jorkins. American newspapers—they
have been chronicling the lady’s progress
with almost as much attention as they
give to the second Roosevelt —announce
that “she is to marry King Edward, a
month after the Coronation.” One of
the. Sydney papers which have assisted
to make Mrs. Simpson a celebrity (not
the one which is running a biography of
her) dismisses the report as “fantastic”;
and fantastic it is. For one thing a
British sovereign has to get the consent
of Parliament to any marriage he (or
she) may propose to contract as sover-
eign. For another, he (or she) is the head
of a church which is against divorce;
and two-fifths of his white subjects be-
long to a church which doesn’t recognise
it.
* ❖ S»S :J;
“Adelaide”: The unusual perils of
motoring. Two men were recently killed
in S.A. on, the same day. One was driv-
ing a buckboard and touched the side of
a lorry which was carrying a ladder. It
came loose and practically stabbed him
to death. The other was in a trailer
behind a car driven by his brother. A
shotgun had somehow been left loaded
in the dicky of the car; at a bad bump
it slipped to the level and went off, the
charge going through the front of the
trailer with fatal result's.
* * * *
“Babblin’ Brook”: The professor of
geology who discovered some joker had
substituted a piece of brick for one of
his specimens, and ironically remarked
“and this, ladies and gentlemen, is a
piece of impertinence” (B. 21/10/’36),
might have been Edgeworth David, but
it wasn’t. The credit for the apt com-
ment should go to Professor “Cockie”
Young, of Glasgow. At least I first
heard the story there, and that was 35
years ago.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: At an exhibition of
antiques and curios held in Scottsdale
(Tas.) the other day the first telephone
used in Australia was on view. It is a
quaint-looking couplet of wooden instru-
ments put together in 1870 by A. B.
Biggs after close study of an article in
the “English Mechanic.” It did its job
quite efficiently, according to the present
owner (a son of the maker). Scottsdale,
by the. way, is the home of the first
branch of the Royal Society of St.
George in Australia.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: Whisky and beer, no
doubt, are delectable flotsam —the last
present of this sort was when the Mala-
bar was wrecked and its cargo of beer
was strewed along the coastline near
Sydney, to the joy of many seaside in-
habitants. But probably the queerest
largess from the ocean has been pianos.
When the war broke out firms which had
indented German and Austrian pianos
refused to take delivery, and as dumping
them on the wharves meant accumulat-
ing wharf charges, for which there was
likely to be no reimbursement, the only
alternative to letting them remain as mere
ballast in ships’ holds was to take them
out to sea and dump them. Some were
washed up on near-Sydney beaches,
usually in a hopelessly broken condition.
Still, one piano which came ashore this
way is doing duty as well as ever in a
Curl Curl cottage; and there may be
others.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Sydney’s St. Mary’s
Basilica has had several fires, but none
to which such a queer cause is assign-
able as a recent trivial affair on the roof
of the presbytery. The blaze that caused
the alarm started in a bird’s nest in the
eaves. The theory is that a bird dived
on a smouldering cigarette butt on the
street, took it aloft to the nest (the. flight
through the air would keep it aglow) and
dropped it on the inflammable material
of the nest. It is the cigarette-in-the-
bed episode again in an entirely new
form.
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: The first time I met the
late Ettie Rout was during a trip to
Paris, when my 10 days’ leave had almost
“ Signal, sir , from the flagship—'Talking unlikely startersir."
run out. Having heard a lot about her
powers with the army heads, I ferreted
out her headquarters—they were in a
back street —to see what she could do
with my leave ticket. Her office, was full
of Diggers: some down and out, others
wanting to find out the cheapest method
of getting around the country (among her
other activities, Miss Rout, as she then
was, ran a sort of Diggers’ tourist bureau
after the Armistice). She surveyed my
pass for a moment, scrawied three days’
extension across it, and, initialling it,
handed it back. Her endorsement was
never questioned, either by M.Ps. or by
my own O.C. when I returned to my
unit. Vale, Ettie!
* * * *
“Morita”: England saw the slouch
hat on Australians before 1900 (B.
28/10/’36). The detachment of N.S.W.
Lancers that went to Britain for the
Queen’s diamond jubilee celebrations in
1897 wore the forerunner of the Digger
lid, turned up at the side and adorned
with black feathers. In our climate the
slouch hat is on its own for field service,
as a protection against rain or sun.
Plumes, however, are useless. Crowds of
us wore them turned down in France,
but the London Jacks threatened wearers
with the cancellation of leave from the
front for being so improperly dressed.
* * * *
“Shep” : For a check-up on the lack
of male interest in being photographed
(B. 28/10/’36) watch street photographers
at work. They will wave mere
males aside to focus girleens either
singly or in groups. “Long ago I found
it was waste of time handing men tickets
unless they had a skirt with them,” one
of them told me ; “and when the ladies
are not their wives they can’t rip up the
ticket quick enough.”
“Mish Bish”: Is it so certain that
most men would run a mile rather than
face a newspaper camera? Look in
the “society” papers and you will
find as many photos, of men as of
women. I see portraits of the most
hideous-looking men in photographers’
windows (they outnumber the women in
these studio displays). Men are really
just as vain as women. Go to any surf-
ing beach any day of the week and you
will find numbers of men who go through
the most elaborate processes to get their
skins tanned. In the surf sheds you can
see them carefully oiling their bodies
and then lying in the most uncomfort-
able positions—for hours on end—in
order that they may look more beauti-
ful.
* * * *
“Keg”: Touching the finding of lost
property, the N.S.W. Tramway Depart-
ment returns 25 p.c. of the amount
found to the conductor who has handed
it in when no claimant has appeared in
three months. This, however, is merely
an act of grace. My union sought legal
advice on the matter, only to find out
that the Government was on solid
ground. Its right rests on an English
case of a farm-laborer who dug up a
diamond ring. No owner being found
the case went to the courts, where the
owner of the land was adjudged the
owner of the ring.
* * * *
“Dingo”: A man who served in the
Foreign Legion mentioned to me a point
where the pictures go wrong. The long
columns in fours that stride over North
African backgrounds don’t exist; the
formation is a wide line of small bodies,
once the roads are left behind. The
reason is that the sand will remain firm
only under the passage of two or three
men ; after that it drops latecomers down
to the fetlock. The A.I.F. struck the
same thing in the Canal country, and it
is well known that cars in the desert
never follow directly in one another’s
tracks. In Australia, except for coastal
sand-dunes, this characteristic seems
missing in sandy patches, but it crops out
in swamp lands.
* * * if
“Hamer”: Condemnation of our
liquor laws is frequently heard, but the
youthful bottle-collectors who scavenge
the Sydney parks nightly would lose a
lot if hotel hours were lengthened. Some
of them are distinctly enterprising, too.
The other night when two men were
about to knock the head off a pint of
malted, one of the watchers approached.
“Hey, mister,” he appealed, “don’t break
it. Here’s an opener; I’ll lend it to you
if you’ll give me the bottle afterwards.”
He got the reward his forethought
deserved.
* if * if
“Shake the Bottle”: The growl about
chemists’ charges may be unjustifiable
(B. 28 /10/’36), but it is a long-standing
one. It has even slopped over into fic-
tion. The late F. Anstey in Vice Versa
referred with gentle irony to “the lavish
employment of white paper, string and
sealing-wax with which the struggling
chemist seeks to reconcile the public to
a profit of 250 per cent.”—l quote from
memory. O. Henry was a bit more bit-
ing. In “The Assessor of Success ’ Morley
insidiously takes charge of the dollar
with which a youngster had been en-
trusted to buy a bottle of medicine, for
his mother and warns the chemist that
he knows what is a fair thing for the
mixture: —
“Fifteen cents,” said the druggist with
a wink after he had compounded the
order. “I see you understand pharmacy.
A dollar is the regular price.” “To gulls,”
said Morley smilingly, dropping into his
own pocket the 85 cents accruing to him
by virtue of his chemical knowledge.
And O. Henry was himself a druggist
before he became a bank clerk.
* % % *
“Kellick”: I would like those aggrieved
people who talk of obtaining a court
injunction to restrain pneumatic-drillers
from operating in cities during the day-
time to visit a man-o’-war during an
extensive refit. I’ll back fifty dockyard
mateys caulking decks plus fifty sailors
chipping rusty and painted steel against
any noise known to man. The inventor
of the noise scale 0-13 would increase it
to a thousand if he ever heard this
racket.
* * * $
“D.A.”: The words “pretender” and
“claimant” have really no fundamental
difference in meaning (B. 21/10/’36).
Pretender, which did not become part of
our language until the eighteenth cen-
tury, is derived from the French pre-
tendre —to claim. Hence pretendant an
trone merely signified a claimant to the
throne. The son and grandson of James
11. were so dubbed by their hosts, but
the Whig rulers of England rendered
the noun as “pretender” in order to
damage the Stuart cause, the word hav-
ing a more sinister ring than “claimant.”
# * * *
“Brix”: They were having a remini-
scent half-hour after luncheon, and the
conversation turned on the use
to which each had put the first
money he earned. One told
that he had bought his first
silk shirt, another had satisfied
an old longing for a good
fountain pen, a third had
handed his earnings intact to
an invalid sister. The only
member of the party who re-
mained silent was the one who
is to-day most noted for his
social and philanthropic work.
“Well,” he said finally, “I may
as well make frank confession.
With my first money I bought
a pair of red silk stockings for a bar-
maid ! ”
* # if
“Rooftree”: I’ve seen my countrymen
living in all sorts of quaint shacks, rang-
ing from bag huts to kerosene-tin hum-
pies, and including even a disused boiler,
but I hand the palm to a dwelling I saw
recently in the Dubbo (N.S.W.) district.
Originally the house was a two-roomed
residence, but a violent windstorm lifted
off the roof and deposited it neatly along-
side. The owner came home, surveyed
the wreckage philosophically, knocked a
door in one gable and a window in the
other and shifted into his new shelter.
“It still keeps out the wet,” he explained,
“an’ when it gets too hot I sleep out-
side.”
* * * *
“Undistributed Middle’’: The differ-
ence between the summing up of Mr.
Justice Stareleigh (B. 21/10/’36) and
that of a State C.J. in a recent case is
a marked one, Dickens’s Judge told
the jury how to find if the material fact
were proved one way or the other, but
did not provide for a case where the
fact might be doubtful. The C.J.’s direc-
tion was that, if the necessary fact were
proved, the party proving it was entitled
to a verdict, otherwise not. The “other-
wise” provides either for the fact being
disproved or unproved. The Stare-
leigh fallacy is amusingly exposed in
the apocryphal summing-up of an
American Judge. “If you believe what
the plaintiff’s lawyer says, you will find
for the plaintiff. If you believe what the
defendant’s lawyer says, you will find
for the defendant. But if —as I do —you
believe neither of them, Lord knows
what you will do.”
* * * i'fi
“Oxmead”: Lloyd George’s recently-
published Memoirs probably constitute
the most acrimonious attack ever made
by a statesman on military commanders.
The most bitter strictures of all are, of
course, directed at Haig, but the “brass-
hats” generally, with few exceptions, get
their whack. “It is one of the ironies
of political warfare,” one learns, “that
the perpetrators of these calamitous mis-
takes were not only excused but lauded,
and according to precedent ultimately
rewarded.” Possibly, and one may re-
flect with a shrug of the shoulders that
when Haig received the thanks of Par-
liament, a grant of £lOO,OOO and an earl-
dom, the. Prime Minister was Lloyd
George.
THE ACCOLADE.
“The Minister of Defence knelt upon a hassock
while the Governor-General touched him on the
shoulder with a sword, and said: ‘Rise, Sir Robert
Archdale Parkin'll.' ”
A hassock on the floor they thrust,
Where he might kneel at case,
With no plebeian dirt or dust
To soil his dapper knees.
A tap upon his shoulder light
Fell, as the custom is.
“Arise,” he heard a voice recite,
“Sir Robert Archdale Parkhill, knight”—
And Archie Parkhill “riz.”
Although in verbal combat hot
He’s oft been known to score,
It’s doubtful if he ever got
So near a sword before.
But Peace has triumphs still, you know,
And such a one was his,
What time, with honest pride aglow,
Serenely as a batch of dough
Our Archie Parkhill “riz.”
Not his on hard-fought fields of war
His way to fame to forge,
But valiantly he’s battled for
St. Michael and St. George.
So now, wherever levees are,
Right to the front he’ll whiz,
Decked with a ribbon and a star,
To tell the story, near and far,
How Archie Parkhill “riz.”
He knelt, and felt his loyal frame
Thrill to that gentle stroke.
And, once upended, he became
Another sort of bloke.
Methodic’lly our good G.-G.
Performed the usual biz.
“Arise,” in ringing tones, said he,
And, glorying in his new degree,
Like Venus rising from the sea
(Yes, that’s a better simile),
Our Archie Parkhill “riz.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Woodki”: In 1930 a Sydney business-
man and his wife quarrelled and parted.
He went to Queensland, she to Mel-
bourne, and the only communication be-
tween them was a monthly cheque for-
warded through a firm of solicitors. The
other day the wife’s car, carrying her
on a tour along the N.S.W. coast,
skidded and overturned at a tricky
corner. A minute or two later another
car pulled up, and the driver hurried to
the rescue. “Good heavens —Elaine! ”
cried an astounded hubby as he lifted a
slightly injured woman out of the sedan.
“You, Jim!” she exclaimed ; and neither
said anything more as they waited for
the ambulance. In fiction, I suppose, the
pair would have been reunited and lived
happily ever after. But, this being a
true story, I am compelled to add that
his last words as the yellow vehicle
started off were: “Well, perhaps you’ll
break your blasted neck next time! ”
whereat the lady shot over her shoulder
“I’d sooner do that than live with you
again! ”
$ $ * $
“Bags”: What’s the matter with “rain-
ing-in-London” trousers anyway (B.
28/10/’36)? “D.E.” refers to them as
“of other years.” The turned-up trouser
leg is going as strong to-day as when
America introduced it early in the ’nine-
ties, and a more sanitary innovation
never was established in the world of
“gents.’ outfitting.” The long trouser
was a champion collector of dust, mud
and street filth. The turn-up, keeping
the garment clear of the ground, did
away with that unpleasantness.
* * * ' ❖
“Laetitia”: Years ago I read this
forthright announcement in a Brisbane
pub:
Two men I won’t have in my bar —
Jack Blank and Bill Dash.
One name was that of a celebrity of the
period.
* * * *
“Oquay Deauk”: It may interest
“Walky” (B. 21 /10/’36) to know that
Victorian State-school children are
taught how to find bearings from the
sun and also the use of the compass.
The trouble, however, is that city kids,
having no immediate use for such know-
ledge, are wont to lump it with history,
grammar, geography and other dull sub-
jects that are forgotten as soon as school-
days are done. Hence their helplessness
in later life, when fate leads them into a
locality where there are no street-names,
milk-bars, dance-halls, or other distin-
guishing points to give them their bear-
ings.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Possibly my version of
the Lady Sarah Wilson episode (B.
28/10/’36) was incorrect, but it was
gathered first-hand on the spot and was
the popular one throughout South Africa.
The opinion of the man on the spot often
differs from later official history. For
instance, the South African war-time
story of the “siege” of Mafeking is quite
different from those in the books; so
much so that the venerated defender
was known from one end of the country
to the other as “Barnum.” That story
of a homing pigeon bound for Mafeking
descending in Eloff’s camp and not in
his own loft is too incredible for argu-
ment. I stayed in the same Pretoria
hotel with Lady Sarah for a week, and
don’t hesitate to believe the version
which says that Eloff sent her back to
Mafeking without any conditions what-
ever except that her escort saw that she
was left there on pain of something hor-
rible.
* * * *
“Wagga”: South Australia’s centenary
has unearthed some interesting history.
For instance, it has been recalled that
Kangaroo Island once had a “Governor,”
"You'll have to make shift with those , George, till I sew the buttons
on yours."
a runaway sailor named Robert Wallen.
When the barque Duke of York dropped
anchor in Nepean Bay in 1836 with a
company of pioneer colonists on board,
a strange-looking figure dressed in
possum . skins and wearing kangaroo-
skin moccasins met them on the beach
and introduced himself as the Governor!
Also he led his visitors to Government
House —a log hut with mud floor—where
he entertained them with supplies from
his garden and the surrounding bush,
including bread made from his own
hand-milled flour. Friendly relations
were established; but the “Governor”
and his staff hesitated about accepting
the captain’s invitation to attend some
prayer-meetings, declaring that to take
their black partners along with them
would be “like taking dogs.” Some
while later, at' a gathering of all the
settlers, “Governor Wallen” agreed to
abdicate in favor of the South Australian
Company.
"When I said ‘ Pass' I meant the chocolates!"
“Hamer”: In a Sydney suburb I came
upon the most up-to-date street musician
1 have yet encountered. He has a car
with a loudspeaker on the roof; his
music comes from a gramophone inside,
and his records are all first-class. Band
music, sounding as if a regiment were
marching up the street, attracts the
crowd, and the enterprise appears to be
remunerative. The outfit must have been
expensive, but the operator follows the
time-honored custom of wearing shabby
clothes. Personally, I am not sure
whether it is essential for the man who
lives by the donations of the many to
look hard-up. The most prosperous
beggar Sydney ever had —the “Masked
Singer”—was wont to arrive in evening
clothes, opera coat and hat and wearing
a black domino, to warble before Sydney’s
theatres and pubs in the pre-war days.
He was a really good music- and sing-
ing-master who found it difficult to make
a decent living at his calling, and his first
“masked-singer” stunt was said to have
been the outcome of a bet that he could
make £2O a week at it —which he did
for some time. But the free booze offered
and accepted led to his deterioration, and
when he became shabby he lost his pull.
* * * *
“Templar”: It seems rather futile to
appoint professional magistrates with
legal qualifications if their decisions can
be vetoed by mere amateurs in the form
of Jay Peas. Yet this is what happened
at Footscray (Melbourne) the other day.
A man was convicted of having driven
a car while drunk, and police evi-
dence followed that a similar offence
had been sheeted home to him three or
four years before. The P.M., remarking
that “a motorist under the influence of
liquor might at any time be responsible
for a serious accident,” wanted to make
it three months. Two honorary justices
reckoned it would be sufficient if the
delinquent bound himself over to be of
good behavior for two years, and not to
apply for restoration of his driving
license during that period. And, being
two to one, their decision went. It sug-
gests a glaring defect in Vic. police-court
law.
* * * si:
“Xanthus”: I have, always had a
theory that all the din and tumult and
blither and bleat and hot air indulged in
before an election have very little influ-
ence on the broad result; the great
majority of electors have already made
up their minds too firmly to be swayed
by last-minute propaganda or harrowing
disclosures. Still, I suppose, there are
exceptions. The publication of the
Zinovieff letter —stigmatised as a forgery
but probably genuine—is generally held
to have cooked Ramsay Mac’s goose in
Britain in 1924. And I can recall an
election in Westralia, soon after the
route of the Trans, railway had been sur-
veyed, when a simple map did more
damage than any spoken or written
words could have done. The Labor party
had high hopes of regaining office, but
when a newspaper published a chart
showing that Labor members had got in
early to avoid the rush and taken up
immense blocks on either side of the
line for pastoral purposes there were
blank faces at the Trades Hall, and the
late Tommy Walker, who could explain
away most things, wrung his hands in
despair. “That’s cooked us,” he groaned,
and whether it did or not the Labor-
party had to spend another three years
in the wilderness.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: “Cape Barren” sug-
gests that the six bottles of brandy
found at Preservation Island, Bass Strait,
came from the Cambridgeshire (B.
21/10/’36). But that vessel went ashore
in calm weather on Night Island in ’75,
and the little light wreckage washed
ashore was smashed to pieces. Apropos,
a pipe, a silver button and a silver coin
were picked up 28 years ago on Kangaroo
Island (Furneaux Group). They were
sent for identification to R. M. John-
ston, the Tasmanian statistician, but he
died soon afterwards and no one knows
what became of them. Button and coin
bore the head of a woman wearing
a voluminous ruff. If this was Queen
Elizabeth, as supposed, these relics ante-
dated the sealing days ; they may have
been from an English ship, the Pene-
lope, dismasted off Madagascar in 1591,
which drifted through Bass Strait more
than two centuries before Flinders.
* * * *
“Alpha”: “Jum Tooit” (B. 21 /10/’36)
is off the mark when he tells of “a
lingering taste of cordite” as a sequel to
the firing of blank cartridges. Cordite is
a bit too expensive for such work, and a
cheaper compound is used, which com-
bines extreme foulness with a feeble
bang. As for the danger associated with
blank cartridges in mock fighing, troops
are now forbidden to use the stuff at
shorter ranges than 50 yards in daylight.
At night it must not be used at all.
# * * *
“Double Express”: E. E. Bullen’s
claim (B. 28/10/’36) that the Zane Grey
type of fishing is more sporting than big-
game shooting because modern firearms
do not give the animals a chance is a
very weak one. The best proof of that
is that every year, in Africa especially,
there is a tidy casualty list of big-game
hunters, and nearly always the profes-
sionals who have been shooting for a
living for years head the list. Big-game
shooting is like flying—the longer you
keep at it the poorer your expectation of
life is. In Africa there are four animals
always regarded as deadly dangerous to
the best-equipped hunter—the elephant,
lion, buffalo and rhino in that order,
with the leopard also quoted in the bet-
ting. In India the tiger holds pride of
place as a killer of the people who try
to kill it, with a wounded forest bison in
next place.
j[s ij! * *
“Sixsnate”: A neat legal point has
saved a Tasmanian from a conviction for
manslaughter. He was placed on trial in
March, but the jury failed to agree. Be-
fore the second trial the new Tasmanian
law allowing majority verdicts in jury
cases came into effect. The jury again
failed to agree, but under the new law
a 10-to-2 verdict for a conviction was ac-
cepted. On that an appeal went to the
High Court, which held, in effect, that
the accused was entitled to be tried
according to the system in existence
when he pleaded in March ; hence the
majority verdict could not stand.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Barcelona looks likely to be-
come the last stronghold left to the
Spanish Government when Madrid has
fallen. One of the oldest cities in
Europe, it had a 400 years’ history before
the Romans rubbed it out; and it was
refounded by Hamilcar Barca, father of
Hannibal. In a.d. 878 it became an in-
dependent realm ; in the twelfth century
the Count of Barcelona became King of
Aragon. At one time Genoa was the
only more important port in Europe.
Barcelona has been a hard, nut for
attackers to crack, the one exception be-
ing its capture by a handful of men
under that dashing military genius Lord
Peterborough in 1705. For years past it
has been the strike centre of Spain.
YO-HO-HO.
“The Cuban Rum Co. has offered the three placed
fliers in the Miami-Havana air race free drinks in
alt Havana bars for the rest of their lives.” Cable.
Some heroes of aerial excursions
Acquire a title as a quid pro quo;
Others are recompensed for their exertions
By quite considerable wads of dough;
While some who soar across a heaving ocean
Get naught but glory for their stress and
strife.
But here you have the very latest notion —
Free drinks for life!
Old Grecian athletes were rewarded sparsely
For skill at discus-throws and cestus-plugs
With homely wreaths of laurel and of parsley
(Which wouldn’t much appeal to modern
Pugs);
Now there are cups and trophies, rare and
viewy,
For champs, who manage any sporting coups.
But this, I think, is what you’d call a
“newey”—
Limitless booze.
Acclaim will doubtless wait, and wild hosanna,
Stake money, too, in plenty —win and place —
For birds who’re earliest to hit Havana
In this approaching short but strenuous race.
And, just as obviously, those who gain their
Objective the most quickly, it appears,
Will have a strong incentive to remain there
For years and years.
Grog will be theirs of right, from rum and
honey
To crusted port or lager off the ice,
Without the slightest need to count their money,
The least necessity to think of price.
At any time, in any pub whatever,
Until their bodies rest beneath the sod,
They’ll always get their nobblers on the never,
Nips on the nod.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


e *A\
m
M
20/„rlf6
lOyorß'*
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
dsf
ObeM4£44i£eh.
CRAVENA
l5)9I
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
mat.
■ i
mm
mm
C I G ARETTE
fel jryi'g:WWirfM
POLITICAL POINTS
With four Queensland Labor members
voting for it under instructions from the
almighty Q.C.E., Menzies got his Consti-
lution-“amendment” bill through the
House by the required absolute majority.
It is not anticipated that the Senate will
administer the coup de grace ; but the
electors' will.
The Federal Council of the Australian
Dried Fruits Association admits that “for
the year to September sales of A.D.F.A.
sultanas were well ahead of last season’s
sales”—s6oo tons, compared with 5100.
It nevertheless demands that the inter-
state Freetrade section should be
“amended”— i.e., emasculated —to pre-
vent “the marketing chaos” that hasn’t
arrived.
Vic. Premier Dunstan’s skirmish with
the Leg. Council over the Reform Bill
ended tamely. The “Age” demanded an
election, and Dunstan was willing, but
his own people wouldn’t have it. So
the Council’s “unacceptable” amend-
ments were accepted by an Assembly
which had refused them twice. And the
Premier had described it as “the most
important measure for 30 years”!
A week ago the N. S. Wales Industrial
Commission fixed the basic wage for
men at £3 10s. —85 p.c. of the 1929 rate.
That same day Premier Stevens an-
nounced that after June 30 civil servants’
pay-cuts would be wholly restored, half
of the restoration to come on Dec. 1,
1936. Eighty-five per cent, and 100 per
cent, don’t harmonise. The first figure
is based on the cost of living, the second
on political expediency.
For 40 years in The Bulletin James
Edmond championed the little ports. If
news from Australia reaches him on the
Other Side, he must have been delighted
to learn that, whereas in 1926 23 per
cent, of the wheat exported from Vic-
toria was* lifted from Geelong and 77
per cent, from Melbourne, in 1935
Geelong handled 69 per cent, and Mel-
bourne 31 per cent. The pleasure would
be enhanced by the fact that the records
appeared in the “Argus.”
Strange how authorities differ on the
subject of deficits. While N.S.W. Premier
Stevens was abroad, Spooner, his locum
at the Treasury, declared the State
deficit for 1935-36 at £1,687,200. In his
Budget speech, Stevens said it was
£1,694,300. The Auditor-General insists
that it reached £2,293,000.
Possibly in the hope of winning
N.S.W. support for the referendum —
politicians have such queer ideas!
Main, the State Minister of Agriculture,
has introduced a bill empowering him to
“declare the amount of butter and cheese
that is to be sold locally.” Replying to
some testy remarks about the price of
butter, he said “No consumer should be
called upon to pay more than Is. 4|d. a
pound”:—
If a higher price is demanded the public
is being robbed.
Then a great deal of robbery is going
on. In some Sydney suburbs it would
be hard to find a consumer who is pay-
ing as little as Is. 4^d.
Holey Alliance stocks are so low in
Queensland that the Kennedy by-election
is to be left to the other side, whose
Q.C.E. has “selected” a 28-year-old
nephew of the late member, “Darby”
Riordan. Yet a Nat., Grosvenor Francis,
represented Kennedy for four years. Cer-
tainly he won it in the first place through
the late Charles McDonald dying between
nomination-day and polling-day, but he
held it at the next general election. If the
Holey Alliance can’t dig up a candidate
in Kennedy, how is it going to save
Hunter in Maranoa?
Sometimes the truth about the wool
position does creep out. It did in a
London cablegram, which found its way
into the Great Dailies one day last week:
Bradford estimates that Japan has
bought 75 p.c. of the wool offered in South
Africa. British purchases have been neglig-
ible, as importers were not able to pay
the prices Japan was prepared to give.
They are transferring their attention to Aus-
tralia.
To Australia, which has a “mug” Gov-
ernment, and where on that account they
can get the best wool for the second-best
price.
Lyons and co. named McNicoll, the
member for Werriwa, Administrator at
Rabaul—and promptly lost Werriwa. If
they send Abbott to Darwin as Adminis-
trator they will lose Gwydir also. Per-
haps the idea is that Gwydir is as good
as gone already.
Stevens still has a wonderful “press.”
His most effusive barracker these days is
the Theodore-Packer paper, which is
“The N.S.W. Premier, whose annual deficits are reckoned by the Attorney-General at
£3,640,400 in 1932-33, £3,779,000 in ’33-34, £2,540,000 in ’34-35 and £2,293,000 in ’35-36,
proudly announces that the Budget will be balanced this year—and that loan expenditure will
amount to £8,772,380.”
STEVENS MICAEVER : “Sir, the Budget is now balanced, and I can once more look
my fellow-men in the face.”
more U.A.P. than the U.A.P. itself.
“Parliament,” it blithered, “meets with a
balanced Budget.” This when the tin-god
of it's idolatry admits that expenditure
exceeded revenue by £1,694,300 for the
year to June 30, and by £1,183,800 for
the three months to September 30.
For the year to June 30, revenue from
sales tax (£9,432,483) exceeded revenue
from income tax (£8,775,380) for the first
time. It couldn’t have happened had the
Taxation Department been able to col-
lect even half the income tax outstand-
ing (£6,164,326), but a lot of that may
have to be written off as a dead loss.
Sales tax was introduced in Canada as
a substitute for income tax. In Aus-
tralia, of course, it has become an un-
pleasant addition.
During an Assembly debate on the
James case, Westralian Labor was taken
to task by the Country party for inter-
vening on the side that was successful.
“Iggy” Boyle, the member for Avon,
who is very thick with the Dunstan
Government —he attended one of its
C.P. conferences and arranged for a
Dunstanite to be present at a Boyle party
pow-pow in Perth —interposed notably
concerning the Attorney-General who
pleaded for the Commonwealth, receiv-
ing his salary and £1559 for expenses for
himself and private secretary.
Victoria briefed Mr. Menzies with a
£2OOO brief and gave him £1550 for ex-
penses.
Any denial from Canberra? Boyle’s
assertion appears in the Westralian
“Hansard.”
In the jargon of broadcasting people,
one of M.L.’s “radio personalities” is
the Rev. Scrimgeour, who pays out chin
music labelled “The Friendly Road.”
During the election campaign the
reverend gentleman’s flow of flapdoodle
was plugged by the Tories because, it'
was alleged, his sentiments were Labor.
He is to be richly rewarded by the Labor
Government for his brief martyrdom,
having been appointed manager of four
commercial broadcasting stations at
£5OO p.a. and 7| p.c. of advertising re-
ceipts.
Prof. Campbell, Bonython professor
of law at Adelaide University, has drawn
attention to “the deplorable tendency of
Parliaments to delegate to executive and
departmental bodies the right to legis-
late by order, regulation and by-law.”
The latest of a thousand examples is the
Trautwein taxation case, in which a
gentleman in a department fined the tax-
payer 2\ times the amount of the fax
claimed, and this without reference to
any Court.
It seems to have become a settled
thing that Australian politicians who go
overseas at the public cost should write
a series of newspaper articles when they
return. N. S. Wales Premier Stevens has
just contributed eight to a group of
U.A.P. journals. He said nothing in any
of them that wouldn’t have come just as
trippingly from his tongue, and in that
case he would have been helping profes-
sional newspapermen instead of compet-
ing with them in a restricted field.
Through amalgamations and dissolutions
hundreds of journalists have lost their
jobs these last few years, and many have
never got others.
Mr. Stevens improves on history:—-
It was stated in the last century that
America had been called into being to re-
dress the lack of balance in the Old
World.
Canning’s version is preferable. He said
—and the reference was to his Govern-
ment’s recognition of the South American
republics that broke away from Spain—
“l called into existence a New World
to redress the balance of the Old.”
Tax-revenue collected by the Queens-
land Government in the last financial
year (a considerable part of it is paid
into Trust Funds) amounted to
£7,324,330, equal to £7 10s. Bd. per head
of mean population. Movements since
Labor returned to office in the middle
of 1932:
Year to Per Head of
June 30. Collections. Population.
1932 £4,761,880 £5 2 4
1933 5,661,151 6 0 4
1934 5,846,301 6 3 0
1935 6,546,263 6 16 3
1936 7,324,330 7 10 8
Rise in four years £2,562,450 £2 8 4
One excuse offered by the Premier-
Treasurer for high taxation is the vast
area of the State. If this had swollen
with taxation Queensland would now be
bigger by twice the size of Germany.
Friends of J. M. Keynes claim that
his economic theories have greatly in-
fluenced President Roosevelt, whose fate
was being decided as this was written.
But Keynes repudiates responsibility for
Maoriland Labor’s experiments in social
legislation, which, according to some
people, were borrowed from his book
General Theory of Employment, Interest
and Money. On the contrary, he. says the
Savage Government is in danger of com-
ing to grief owing to “an excessive mix-
ture of muddled thinking.”
“Yours is a sheltered calling,” said
N.S.W. Transport Commissioner Mad-
docks to his staff, which is to be housed
in a grand new building. How “shel-
tered” it is was demonstrated to Judge
Nield at Newcastle in the case of a
former motor-busman whose business
was “socialised,” and who, broke and
desperate, his wife being at death’s door,
made a mad attempt to steal. Said
Judge Nield:
This man is bound over on his own
recognisance. I would not dream of pass-
ing sentence on him. By his own efforts he
built up a decent, honest business, which
served the public interest. The whole
thing was snatched from him by some
bureaucratic organisation without a farthing
compensation. It is in the nature of legal-
ised stealing by the community.
It was while Foster, M.L.A., was protest-
ing against such “legalised stealing” that
he fell dead in the Leg. Assembly. The
cause should not be allowed to languish.
From a Sydney tram-footboard:
For tramwaymen, the main result of the
N.S.W. Transport Commissioner’s world tours
has been the R-type tram, which is pitiably in-
capable of dealing with Sydney’s passenger
traffic. The new car cannot be electrically
coupled, and the department dare not, for fear
of ridicule, put it in districts where the loading
is heavy. It still costs twopence to travel 100
yards in a tramcar, though wages have de-
creased 20 p.c. and cost of material at least as
much; and passengers still pay Is. to go to race-
courses in trams that were obsolete a quarter
of a century ago. And we still have the deadly
footboard.


DISCARDING TO A WEAKNESS.
“In order to attract husbands for girls too long on the shelf, Herr Hitler has decreed that brighter clothes replace blue skirts and mustard blouses now worn.”


CHRISTMAS
IN SYDNEY!
Make “The Australia” Your Headquarters.
Make “The Australia” your headquarters in Sydney—and be assured
of luxurious comfort —-flawless attention to personal preferences.
When you can enjoy “Australia” excellence at moderate cost . . .
why be satisfied with any accommodation of lesser quality?
NEW TARIFF—“ROOM ONLY” RATES.
Single Room ----- 10/6 per day
Double Room 20/- per day
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
PERSONAL ITEMS
Death came to Sir Murray Anderson,
Governor of N. S. Wales, on Friday
morning. He was a very sick man when
he arrived —he had a stroke at Colombo
—and, cerebral haemorrhage carried him
off. His father was a general and colonel
of the Cheshire Regiment. The son
joined the R.N. in 1889. He was with
the Brass River, M’wheli and Ashanti
expeditions. During the Great War he
joined in the operations which destroyed
the. Konigsberg. With the Grand Fleet
afterwards, he commanded the China and
African stations, represented the Ad-
miralty on the League of Nations Perma-
ment Commission and became Governor
of Newfoundland. The colony saw hard
times while he was there. He came
through with an enhanced reputation but
with impaired health.
D. H. Paisley has been appointed
N. S. Wales Government printer in suc-
cession to A. J. Kent, who retires. His
whole career —40 years—has been spent
in the G.P. office, and he has been assis-
tant head for 13 years. There is no job
in the institution’s routine which he does
not know thoroughly from personal ex-
perience.
Edgar Britten, who collapsed and died
in his cabin on the Queen Mary, was
the second British mercantile marine
commander to be knighted and the first
to serve in charge of a ship so large that
it needed two captains to run her. He
was born and educated in Birmingham,
about as far from the sea as it is possible
to get in England, and had been plough-
ing the waves since 1892.
The look of concentration which his
friends knew so well on the face of A. V-
Kewney will change to one of relief
after the Melbourne Cup—his twelfth
as secretary of the V.R.C. Cup
Week is more than the climax to
months of hard work for Kewney;
from early in October miners, pas-
toralists and businessmen from West
and S. Australia drop in to shake his
hand. Racing and horses have inter-
ested Kewney since he was a youngster
in England. Landing in Coolgardie in
1896, he was with a firm of mining en-
gineers there, going on to Kalgoorlie to
become, for four years, secretary of the
Kalgoorlie R.C. He left the West in
1919 for Adelaide and the S.A.J.C. sec-
retaryship. You can’t keep down the in-
stincts of a good secretary ; for Kewney,
Spearfelt’s 1926 Melbourne Cup is out-
standing—there was a record crowd that
day.
Bill Ditchburn is the Queensland
C.T.A.’s new president. Melbourne-born,
he joined Foy and Gibsons and later
transferred to Adelaide. He served
with the 10th Battalion from 1915
to 1918. In 1920 he went to Towns-
ville (N.Q.) and managed B.P.’s hard-
ware department until this year. He
was twice a Townsville City Councillor,
president of the R.S.S.I.L. branch and
president of N.Q.C.T. Club. Early this
year he went to a Brisbane firm, White
and Petrie. He angles, bowls and plays
golf in his spare time.
Newton Moore's death in England re-
duces the number of Westralia’s living
ex-Premiers to four. These are Walter
James, K.C., whose period of office
finished in 1904, Agent-General Cole-
batch (he had a precarious few weeks
ati the top in 1919), Lieut.-Governor
Mitchell and the recently-retired Phil
Collier. James is 73, Mitchell 70, Cole-
batch 64 and Collier 62.
Very few who new Harrie Skinner in
the days of his theatrical glory were
alive to go to the funeral. Skinner quitted
a bank in Melbourne to go on the stage ;
he failed lamentably as an actor, but
took to the business side, and he was
Rickards’s Melbourne manager for years.
He was a venturer in many early adver-
tising schemes; “Skinner’s Railway
Guide” remains an annual publication.
He died in Sydney; Darlinghurst was
always the home of his heart when he
was not travelling the Commonwealth.
Julian Ashton, English-born, came
from Paris in 1878 —he exhibited once
or twice at the Royal Academy
before his arrival. He reached Vic-
toria in time to be sent by the
Melbourne “Argus” to Glenrowan to
draw the capture of the Kelly Gang, and
he survived to become Sydney’s leading
art teacher and a trustee of the N.S.W.
National Gallery. At 85, he has not
lost his dual facility in both oil and
water, nor his vibrant vigor of opinion
THREE MUSKETEERS OF ART.
Donald Commons (painting), B. E. Minns (the tall figure) and Julian Ashton.
and power of leadership. His son,
Howard Ashton, associate-editor of Syd-
ney “Sun,” paints deftly; his grandson
Dick is one of Sid Long’s most promising
students and another grandson is a fine
instrumentalist. B. E. Minns is the living
pioneer among Bulletin artists, Aus-
tralia’s leading portrayer of the abori-
ginal. Donald Commons, who is second
in age to Ashton, is a very mirror of an
old Sydney which has gone—the Sydney
of white stone walls and Georgian brick
and of the leisurely and spacious
days when it was a drowsy city without
green tramcars and s.p. shops. He is
at present showing his vitality by hold-
ing his first exhibition in Sydney.
S.A. is to have at its centenary cele-
bration in December two descendants of
its first Governor, Hindmarsh, who “pro-
claimed” the province on the shore at
Glenelg on December 28, 1836. A grand-
son, Evelyn Stephen, was Registrar of
Mines in N.S.W. till his retirement in
1926. John St. John Hindmarsh, who is
to come from M.L., is a great-grandson.
On Monday Fred Berry, who conducts
The Bulletin’s “Steering Column,” lay
seriously hurt in a Melbourne hospital,
the result of an accident in which his car
and another collided in Victoria. He
was returning from a conference in
Adelaide at which he had been one of
the N. S. Wales representatives. A
lean, hard, typical racing driver, Berry
in an earlier day held most of the
inter-capital records and virtually every
big motor-racing prize in the Common-
wealth. Son of a schoolmaster, he
earned the money to buy his first
motor-bicycle by teaching shorthand.
In his spare moments he reported local
council meetings, and he was about the
first man in Australia to use a motor
vehicle regularly to hasten the delivery
of news. He became a qualified in-
dustrial chemist, president of the
Sydney Technical College Chemical
Students’ Association and a Fellow of
the Chemical Society. He was chairman
of the technical committee of the
R.A.C.A. for five years, and became
vice-president and the leading car-tester
of N. S. Wales, as well as one of the
three Bulletin men on the round-Aus-
tralia car contest executive.
As a driver, Fred Berry’s mileage was
approaching the million mark when he
was so gravely injured in Victoria. He
never indulged in high speeds except
under conditions of absolute safety, and
his technique was a lesson for beginners.
His one dread has been of driving in the
twilight or in the early morning, and
when on journeys he always insisted on
himself being at the wheel when day was
changing into night or the other way
about. And it-was in the late dusk that
he was hurt.
Frank L. Gratton, of the Soustralian
Education Department, has just staged
his ninety-first thousand-voice concert.
Slight and unobtrusive, he is responsible
for the Teachers’ Training College and
the High Schools’ choirs, but the thou-
sand-voice concerts are his big job for the
centenary year. Since the concerts were
commenced in 1891 there have been three
conductors: Alexander Clark wielded
the baton for 22 years, Mcßride for
seven and Gratton has to date managed
16 years. The singing of Carl Linger’s
“Song of Australia” is always a feature
of the programme.
Arthur Evans, dead at 47, was one of
the little band of Tommy V.Cs. who
made their home in Australia. He got
his Cross for rushing a machine-gun
single-handed and holding off an attack
with rifle fire while an officer who had
been wounded coming to his aid was
rescued. He had been with the Lincolns
in France almost since the first shot, and
had earned a D.C.M. for earlier gallantry
when he sneaked single-handed behind
the German lines and exploded an
ammunition dump. He served five years
in India after the war, and for a time
was with the Maoriland forces. His
health began to fail about seven years
ago, and he had been in the Prince of
Wales Hospital, Sydney, since January.
Perth’s hardiest veteran is Thomas
George Anstruther Molloy,- city busi-
nessman, hotel-owner, theatre-owner and
half a dozen other things. Ex-politician,
too ; he sat in the Leg. Assembly as long
ago as 1894, and his incessant efforts to
get back there at every possible oppor-
tunity, though always unsuccessful, have
done more to advertise him than all his
business activities. Also he was Mayor
of Perth for a term or two in the far
past, and has been a defeated candidate
for the job more times than anyone can
remember, unless it be himself. Yet age
cannot wither “Old Tom” ; at 84 he was
among Melbourne Cup visitors from the
West.
E. J. Taylor, managing editor of the
Lithgow “Mercury,” is the new presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Country Press Asso-
ciation. He has been on the executive
for eight years, and became a vice-presi-
dent last year. Fie was trained under
James Ryan, M.L.C., one of the present
N. S. Wales Ministers, whom he suc-
ceeded in the editorial chair of his paper.
J. P. Baxter, traffic manager of the
Patrick shipping line, died in Sydney at
49. He was one of the best-known and
most popular of Sydney shipping men,
always in good spirits and apparently the
best of health. He joined the firm in
1922.
E. C. Buttfield looks young to be man-
ager of the £500,000 Australian National
Airways merger co., but he can claim
experience. While with Adelaide ship-
ping agencies, he was the first honorary
aero club secretary, and, with the late
Ivor Mclntyre (who was Wing-Com-
mander Goble’s companion on the
round-Australia seaplane flight), he sur-
veyed most S.A. landing grounds for his
club. In 1926-27 he was associated with
Australian Aerial Services, which had
’planes on the Adelaide-Sydney run, with
connections to Melbourne, Mildura and
Broken Hill. Buttfield was in Melbourne
and Sydney for the Orient Line before
transferring to London ; from there he
went to major Continental ports inspect-
ing equipment, and he studied as many
English and European airports as pos-
sible. The knowledge then acquired
stands him in good stead to-day when his
Melbourne desk faces an Australian map
with marked A.N.A. routes connecting
Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Melbourne and
Sydney. Ivan Holyman and A. D. Hill
(Adelaide Airways) will help manage the
merger co.


Sc
▲
▲
▲
1
f£t
fi
vr
<£7
t
w.
I
o
HEALING DEALERSHIPS
REFRIGERATION: From HEAL-
INGS PTY. LTD., 261 Swanston
Street, Tel. C 2064, or your district
Healing Dealer.
RADIO: From HEALINGS PTY.
LTD., Ball & Welch, Oliver J.
Nilsen, Sutton’s, The Myer
Emporium or your district Healing
Dealer.
STEEL FURNITURE: HEALINGS
PTY. LTD., Special Showrooms, 266
Post Office Place. Tel. C 2064.
BATTERIES: Your local Healing
Garage.
BICYCLES: From HOLLAND'S. 241
Elizabeth Street, or your district
Healing Dealer.
0
0
L
*P9
uaJifq Produces
AUTHORISED DEALER
SHOP WHERE YOU
SEE THE SIGN.
THE question to-day is not
"Can I afford a refrigera-
tor?" It is, "Can you afford
to be without one?" Even
by the most elementary
reckoning, the weekly saving
to the average household
with a Healing Electric Re-
frigerator is 6/- a week. An
ice chest, with anything ap-
proaching the Healing's
capacity, would cost at least
4/- a week for ice. The run-
ning cost of a Healing Elec-
tric Refrigerator is never
more than I/- ... an out-
right saving of 3/-. Another
3/- a week at least can be
saved in buying at quantity
or mid-week prices and stor-
ing food in perfect safety
until used.
The Healing's amazing
COST-CUTTING UNIT is
but one of the 29 new and
important features that
mean ease and convenience never before dreamed
possible, and the beautiful Healing will be an addition to
your kitchen of which you will feel proud. Why wait
longer to invest in Healing Electric Refrigeration? Send
coupon for illustrated literature ... it will come by return
. . . or call at the Healing Showrooms.
Models, with £6/10/- deposit,
from
£64'W-
HEALING the All-feature Bicycle
• Healing Golden Voiced Radios entertain thousands of
happy owners through years of trouble-free service. Their
little extra cost is more than compensated in the tone, extra
refinements and their modern design. Healing is radio that
introduces the latest developments in the world's research
laboratories. Send a coupon for free literature or call at
your nearest Healing dealer. Prices commence, « r~
with easiest of terms, at I vJllb.
'JJ
dsf
• Offering highest grade plates, oversize sediment cham-
bers, Port Orford insulation, reinforced plate carriers, a
two years' guarantee and cartoned for your protection—a
Healing battery gives LASTING POWER. Ask for price
lists, or see the Healing battery chart at your (“*7/0
nearest garage. Car battery prices from .. +J / O
• For comfort and smartness in lounge, waiting
room or office, nothing approaches modern steel furniture.
Its resilience brings new ease and its design a fresh note
in home and business furnishing. Colourings to match
any scheme. Ask for catalogues or call at the special
Healing Steel Furniture Showroom. Chairs
from
35'-
Ill
00000
unoo
PRODUCTS
4
1
ELECTRICALLY
ENAMELLED
lor
Gleamkif
Beauty
i
All the new exclusive Healing features, including
FREE INSURANCE against theft and accidental
damage, and a 10 YEARS'
WARRANTY may be obtained _ /4/%/Z
with every Healing machine. IQ» O
Models from Lm+J \77 \J
10/- deposit with 3/- weekly will bring it home.
dsf
★ LISTEN IN to the
Sessions. “IVlillions
Making” every Monday at
3 DB with country network.
Island” every Tuesday and
at 8.15 from 3 UZ.
Healing
In the
8 from
"Matlc
Thursday
0Y buying raw materials at lower prices and
using up-to-date methods, Healing—Aus-
tralia’s largest cycle manufacturers—produce
bicycles that are leaders not only in quality #
and exclusive features, but are the
greatest value-giving machines it is
possible to buy. No other machine,-'
approaches them for mechanical
perfection and beauty. See
the gleaming range at
any of the 300 Vic-
torian Healing
dealers.
1 send
me Literature
and the name of
the Heating Dealer
nearest to me.
Healing Refrigerators.
Healing Bicycles.
Healing Golden Voiced Radio.
,'' Healing Batteries.
,-' Healing Furniture.
(Tick product you are interested in
and post to A. G. Healing Ltd.,
167-173 Franklin Street, Melbourne, C. 1.)
WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS IN MARGIN
r
ALL HEALING DEALERS A REEQUIPPED TO GIVE SERVICE WITH THE PRODUCTS THEY SUPPLY


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
. Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors - .
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL 11. DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
yL tu L
ee
THE "GRINNELL" AUTOMATIC
SPRINKLER IN AUSTRALIA
Nov. 2nd, 1886 . . . Nov. 2nd, 1936
The first fire extinguished in Australia by
the "Grinnell" Automatic Sprinkler & Fire
Alarm System was in the premises of
Messrs. Laycock, Son & Nettleton, Mel-
bourne, on November 2nd, 1886.
WORMALD BROTHERS
LIMITED
FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERS
A!S States and New Zealand
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless
To Re- De-
June, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, licit.
1926.. 23,617 Nil 11,42112,196 178,589
Forfeited shares, £193 . . .. 178,396
Nominal
Reserves
1927.. 39,036 Nil 13,886 25,150 21,294
Deficit.
Establishment account disclosed, £49,795 28,501
1928.. 70,722 6 p.c. = 43,96123,297 3,464 25,037
Written off establishment exes., £717 .. 24,320
1929.-108,326 8 p.c. = 59,543 28,73120,052 4,268
Written off establishment exes., £ll .. 4,257
Nominal
Reserves.
1930.. 84,283 8 p.c. = 59,543 24,740 20,483
1931.. 59,196 6 „ ~44,657 14,539 35,022
1932.. 77,159 71 „ „ 55,821 21,338 56,360
1933.. 82,172 8 „ „ 59,543 22,629 78,989
1934.. 137,934 10 „ ~74,428 63,506 142,495
Staff fund, £5OOO 137,495
1935. .119,824. 10 p.c. = 74,428 1. „ ()( . Ifi7
Staff fund, £15,000 .. .. j 107,8J1
1936. .109,701 11 p.c. = 81,870 27,831 195,721
The contraction of £10,123 in last year’s
net earnings was more apparent than
real. The ’35 and ’36 figures were sub-
ject to non-recurring charges. Allowing
for these, last year’s profit was about
£3OOO better than the previous year’s,
the chairman says. Furthermore, pro-
vided nothing unforeseen happens, he
expects the result for the current term to
“show an improvement over all previous
years.”
All-round expansion of the busi-
ness is reflected in a spring of £33,814
in gross earnings (£579,245). Exes.
(£469,544) were £43,937 heavier, leaving
the net result at 14.7 p.c. on capital,
compared with 16.1, 18.5, 11, 10.3, 7.9,
11.3, 10.6 and 6.4 p.c. back to 1928.
That leaves out of the reckoning a net
addition of £42,416 (£3367 more than
for the previous year) to the reserve
against patents, depreciation, etc., raising
it to £369,717. Intangibles total
£142,067, of which £49,067 represents
capitalised expenditure in connection
with the Beam service, and the balance
patents. A 1 p.c. bonus was sent out
with the 10 p.c. div., making 11 p.c. for
the year.
Notwithstanding the Commonwealth
Government’s commanding interest,
managing director E. T. Fisk, to whose
energy and foresight the co. owes much
of its success, has had to fight hard
to keep the business under thoroughly
modern control. The Beam service,
which has saved the people who use it
nearly a million pounds since it was
opened in 1927, continues to carry most
of the increasing telegraphic service be-
tween Australia and Britain. Under a
short-term agreement, revenues of the
cable and wireless services at the Aus-
tralian end are. pooled and shared “on an
agreed basis” between A.W.A. and Cable
and Wireless, Ltd., London. Business in
the wireless telephone section—it has put
Australia within speaking distance of the
rest of the world, including the principal
Atlantic liners and the Awatea, on the
Tasman run —continues to increase, and
so do transmissions in the photo-tele-
gram department. The coastal radio ser-
vice, previously a drag on other sections
of the business, is now showing a profit
of about 2 p.c. p.a. on the capital in-
volved. In this connection the co. re-
ceives a Federal subsidy of about
£30,000 p.a.
On the manufacturing side the co.
made and sold a record number of
Radiolas, and turned out a further 30,000
telephones for the postal authorities. It
equipped a 60,000-watt broadcasting sta-
tion at Wellington (M.L.) —the. largest in
the Southern Hemisphere—as well as five
others in Australia, one in Fiji and an-
other in Papua. Also, ships in Britain
and elsewhere continue to be fitted with
the co.’s Australian-made equipment,
and the demand for direction-finding
apparatus for aircraft, including a radio
beacon at Brighton (Vic.), continues to
increase. Further, the co. is now mak-
ing a number of automatic road signals
for the N. S. Wales and Queensland
Governments. It may be some time
before television becomes a commercial
proposition ; still, experimental activities
in this and other directions are not being
neglected.
The year’s increased activities are
further reflected in balance-sheet move-
ments :
1930. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £744,283 £744,283 £744,283 £744,283
Sundry creditors 113,652 259,143 230,838 240,287
Freeholds .. 267,376 297,677 307,178 377,243
Plant, etc. .. 295,011 395,253 478,245 563,949
Beam service 160,412 159,647 170,266 171,495
Book debts .. 125,268 139,636 223,228 259,058
Cash, etc. .. 114,565 282,080 258,052 137,362
Freeholds and plant, etc., are up £70,065
and £85,704 respectively. To meet the
outlay and carry an extra £35,830 of
debtors’ balances, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £120,690 and £9449 was added
to the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors. The contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£156,133) was
£94,309.
At 535. (41s. 6d. a year ago) the fully-
paid pound shares return 4.1 p.c. on
an 11 p.c. div. basis, with prospects. In-
cluding the reserve against depreciation,
etc., the net tangible cover is 325. Bd. per
pound of paid capital.
Hordern Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends— N Towards
Prefs. Re-
July, Profit. 9 p.c. Ords. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 30.857 9,000 6 p.c. = 13,500 8,357 37,616
1927.. 40.639 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 18,139 19,477
Reserves.
1928.. 42.596 9,000 0 „ „ 13,500 20,096 619
1929.. 43.046 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 20,546 21,165
Preliminary exes., £3275 .. .. 17,890
9 & 8 p.c.
1930. .27,725 12,939 4 p.c. - 9,000 5.756 23,676
1931. .17,319 17,000 Nil 319 23,995
1932. ..28,231-14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933.. 30.207 13,175 6 „ „ 13,500 3,532 27,967
1934. .31,007 13,175 6 „ „ 13,588 4,244 32,211
1935.. 34.860 13,175 6 „ „ 13,669 8,016 40,227
1936.. 39.048 13,175 6 „ ~ 14,124 11,749 51,976
As buying agent for the community he
serves, the retail draper’s success or
otherwise depends largely upon whether
he buys the right type of goods at the
right price. Judged on this basis, Hor-
dern Bros, has given a very good account
of itself. Another factor which means
much is a bright store. So, just before
the slump, the co. remodelled its
premises. It was a protracted job ; still,
despite inevitable dislocation, net earn-
ings continued to climb, reaching their
peak in 1929, when there was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 15.1 p.c. on
ord. capital. Then slump called for big
changes in merchandising methods ; and
the co.’s figures show that the manage-
ment lost no time in successfully grap-
pling with its problems. Only once, in
1931, were the ords. shown an empty
basket; they received 6 p.c. again in the
following year, and the div. has remained
steady at that rate since. Meanwhile,
turnover and earnings have advanced
with the improvement in conditions
generally.
Gross earnings, which fell from the
peak figure of £252,170 in ’29 to £195,483
in ’3l, were £245,705 for the last term,
when the improvement was £7Oll. Exes.
(£206,657) took £2823 of the increase,
leaving the net result £4lBB better at
£39,048, or enough to pay the prefs.
their full contract rates and show 9.1 p.c.
on the £240,825 of ord. capital. The
ord. div. was kept at 6 p.c. and the prefs.
—there are 100,000 first 9 per cents, and
a like number of second 8 per cents. —
owing to the statutory cut, got 6.9 p.c.
and 6.2 p.c. respectively. They are en-
titled to advance beyond these levels to
their original contract rates point for
point with the ords. That raises the
question whether the ord. div. is likely
to be stepped up correspondingly or
whether the board may prefer to hold
off until it is ready to pay, say, 9 p.c.
Much depends upon the extent to which
earnings continue to improve, and that,
in turn, will be partly governed by
seasonal conditions ; the outlook in other
respects is favorable.
The financial position further im-
proved :
1929. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £325,000 £425,000 £427,825 £440,825
Liabilities* .. 325,640 273,913 193,614 190,635
Premises, plant
and fittings 375,318 405,858 405,178 403,099
Stocks .. 200,291 175,683 150,441 156,861
Book debts .. 47,894 49,956 55,920 66,586
Cash, etc. .. 61,807 91,410 58,100 65,317
* Includes unspecified amount of mortgage.
To carry an extra £10,666 of book debts,
add £6420 to the stocks item, £7217 to
cash, etc., and snip £2979 off the amount
coming to outsiders, £13,000 of fresh
ord. capital was gathered. This fresh
capital and the year’s surplus earnings
are further reflected in a growth of
£27,282 in the more or less liquid surplus
(£98,129).
The market, doubtful of an early all-
round lift in div. rates, prices the firsts
at 275. 6d. and the seconds at 255. 6d.
The return at these figures is 5 p.c. and
4.9 p.c. respectively. The net tangible
cover is £4 18s. 7d. and £3 18s. 7d.
respectively. The ords., covered by 245.
4d. in net tangibles, are not listed.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£t & £» £»
1926.. 15,572 9 p.c. = 9,900 5672 31,529
1927.. 16,333 9 „ „ 9,900 6433 37,962
1928.. 13,686 9 ~ ~ 9,900 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 ~ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ ~11,000 4441 50,730
1931.. 11,675 7 „ „ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,168 6 „ „ 6,600 2568 57,273
1933.. 8,712 6 ~ ~ 6,600 2112 59,385
1934.. 8,962 6 „ „ 6,600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,630 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68,186
Shares in a well-handled trustee co. are
a sound investment. Apart from the
chances they take when investing their
own funds, these cos. haven’t got to
risk much. If there is any doubt about
the interpretation of a will, there is
always the Court to go to for instruc-
tions, thus eliminating the risk of capital
loss arising from error in this respect.
Also, the volume of business entrusted
to the care of the cos. keeps on expand-
ing, partly owing to a growing apprecia-
tion of the advantages of the corporate
trustee, and partly to complications now
associated with the administration of
estates.
The Permanent’s record is a pleasing
one. Shareholders got a steady 10 p.c.
for the 15 years to the close of accounts
in 1919. Then £50,000 (= ss. per share)
was transferred from reserves to capital,
and another shilling per share was
called, raising paid capital to £llO,OOO
(its present figure) in 200,000 £5 shares
paid to 11s. each. After that the div.
dropped to 6 p.c. (=ll P- c * on ca .
paid capital), climbing to 10 p.c. again
in ’29 and ’3O. Then slump, etc.,
affected corpus and other commission
earnings as well as returns from the co. s
own funds, and the rate fell to 6 p.c. in
’32, remaining at that for the next three
years.
Meanwhile, the business kept on ex-
panding, and, with the improvement in
property and other markets and the
hardening of interest rates, earnings have
responded. During the last term the net
growth in the volume of trusts on the
books was £578,460:
Exes. p.c.
Gross Gross
Trust Funds. Earnincs. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. .£3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 0,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 ~
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931.. 16,777,007 61,944 49,669 80.2 „
1932.. 17,909,175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933.. 18,150,645 54,663 45,350 82.9 „
1934.. 19,048,805 54,142 44,580 82.3 „
1935.. 19,613,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191,48? 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
Gross earnings were £6252 better. Exes,
took £3731 of the increase. After strik-
ing the usual £6OO off the book value of
premises, the net result was £2521 better
at 10.5 p.c. on capital as against 8.2,
8.1, 7.9, 8.3, 10.6 and 14 p.c. back to
1930. A 1 p.c. bonus was sent out with
the 6 p.c. div., making 7 p.c. for the
year.
At the end of September, the co.’s
own funds, together with £6626 coming
to sundry creditors, were invested in
Government securities and mortgages,
£113,670; premises, etc., £56,721;
debtors, £123 ; cash, £19,300.
Over the last 12 months the scrip has
been fairly steady in the market around
17s. 9d. The return at 17s. 9d. is 3.9 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis, or 4.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. distribution, which is already well
within reach. The cover is 17s. 9d. in
net tangibles.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 782,106 95 p.c. = 665,000 1 .
Written off, £16,493 f 100.613 1,813,9~e
1927.. 529,038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928.. 369,882 40 „ „ 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
1929.. 528,646 424 „ „ 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930.. 275,663 50 ~ ~ 350,000 2,064,655
1931.. 103,571 8|„„ 61,250 42,321 2,106,976
1932.. 205,762 25 „ „ 175,000 30,752 2,137,728
1933. 15 „„ 105,000 91,565 2,229,293
1934. . 303,355 274 „ „ 192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935.. 420,683 40 ~ 280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936.. 666,940 70 „ „ 490,000 176,940 2,658,771
*Half-year.
The sharp spring of £246,257 in last
year’s net earnings was due mainly to the
rise of £4 18s. sd. per ton in the average
spot price of lead in London. The lift
of £2 6s. 4d. per ton in the price of
spelter (zinc concentrates are sold under
contract to Electrolytic Zinc and Imperial
Smelting Corp.) helped too:
Silver
Average— Lead. (Fine). Zinc. •
5 years June, 1929.. £2O/8/- 2/6.9 £3O/7/1
12 months June, 1932.. £l2/16/7 1/6.4 £l2/18/9
12 months June, 1934.. £ll/16/6 1/8.5 £l5/12/-
12 months June, 1935.. £ll/6/- 2/3.8 £l2/16/7
12 months June, 1930.. £l6/4/5 2/2.3 £l5/3/11
The 402,097 tons (up 5922 tons) of
crudes treated assayed 15.2 p.c. lead,
9.10 z. silver and 11.8 p.c. zinc, the metal
content being 61,354 tons lead,
3,691,3930 z. silver and 47,805 tons zinc
-—it is the richest ore mined at the Bar-
rier, which helps to explain the relatively
high premium which the co.’s scrip com-
mands in the market. Recoveries were
95.2 p.c. lead, 88.1 p.c. silver and 85.5
p.c. zinc. Also, sales of lead exceeded
the year’s production by 10,506 tons, re-
ducing stocks on hand to 21,038 tons
{“Wild. Cat” continued on page 18.)


tf. HERE’S TOEE
\ L
0
*
pi
S'}
S
V
t>
I
V
r/
s
Xi
it,
(im
L>»
g
s**=
xr
%
X
A
r*^
v
=o
ft
A
>
,1„ f?
s
y
tC
\
m
i
NS
X
X
\\
N
%
\
&
/:
vN
i
&
—-H
\V
1
■l
i
\
«*n
\K*\VUr%
•&-s ,&>
(W
A\
IW^'«
Sfs?s
‘■.A
«p
i°?-i*Sss-
-
fOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: VICTORIA —Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND— Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., La\mceston.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
MM
mx
m
rm.
m
m
*2*
A.M.P. Policies encourage
MARRIAGE
MARRIAGE being a social, as well as a romantic,
venture, considerations of finance come into it.
Love is not enough. There must be a home, an
income, and provision for rainy days, and that is why
A.M.P. policies play so large a part in encouraging
marriage, and in helping married couples to acquire a
sense of security.
When (through the foresight of his father) a young
man, at 25 draws £3OO or £5OO from the A.M.P.
marriage is encouraged; oh! definitely encouraged on a
sound basis, and, moreover, if the father of the lass in
the offing has been similarly long-sighted, and the girl
can bring a few hundred pounds into the common
marriage fund, the couple starts on a good financial
basis, and the A.M.P. has done a national good.
A thousand couples a week are married in Australia.
Are you, reader, to be amongst the early venturers? Or
are you already a father of young people for whom you
would like to make the way easier than it was for you?
If you are either, get in touch with the nearest A.M.P.
office and ask that an experienced adviser be sent to you.
You will be wise to do it without delay.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
(C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary,
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector,
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
$ * * *
TAYMER MILL. —For Fine Crushing, Grinding and
Amalgamating. Light, Robust and Portable. Weight,
4 tons. Output 25 tons and upwards per diem,
depending on class of ore. Approximate life of
wearing parts, 10,000 tons. Can be erected by two
men in three days. Apply Taymer Mill, 293 Queen
Street, Brisbane, Queensland. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
1935 General Catalogue.— Advt.
BRISBANE CITY COUNCIL
PUBLIC LOAN OF £400,000 NOW OPEN
INTEREST: 4| PER CENT. PER ANNUM;
CURRENCY: 15 YEARS; PRICE OF ISSUE: £lOO.
Guaranteed by the Queensland Government.
The Loan is a Trustee Investment in Queensland and Tasmania.
Interest Payable and Principal Repayable Free of Exchange in Canberra, Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
Applications for the Loan will be received at the offices of the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia in Canberra, Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perm and
Hobart up to three o’clock p.m. on Monday, 16th November, but the Council
reserves the right to close the Loan without notice at any prior date. Application moneys
and all instalments will be accepted free of exchange at the aforementioned centres.
Copies of the Prospectus, with application form, may be obtained from the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the Brisbane City Council or from members ol
recognised Stock Exchanges (through whom applications may be lodged).
Application will be made for listing the Loan on the Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart Stock Exchanges. _
The Loan has been underwritten by J. B. Were and Son, Membeis of the Stock
Exchange of Melbourne, Capel Court, 375 Collins Street, Melbourne.
a .1 .TONES. Lord Mayor.
when the books closed ; the figure was
41,998 tons at June 30, 1934. The co.
has thus reaped a deferred reward from
its policy of relatively high production
during the worst of the slump years,
when large stocks of metal, which the
market could not absorb, were accumu-
lated.
Revenue and expenditure figures com-
pare as follows:
Revenue:— 1933. 1935. 1936.
Mine production. . £619,822 £991,460 £1,347,111
Investments .. 111,584 109,560 123,806
£731,406 £1,101,020 £1,470,917
Expenditure:—
Mine .. ..£493,157 £560,370 £643,309
P. and 1. items.. 71,684 149,967 190,668
£564,841 £710,337 £,833,977
Net profit . . . . 166,505 390,683 636,940
In each year the p. and 1. items include
an allowance of £30,000 for depreciation,
treated as profit in the introductory table.
The £636,940 was equal to 18s. 2d. per
share, of which approximately 3s. 6d.
was from investments and the balance
from mining. Divs. and bonuses totalled
14s. a share, as against Bs. and ss. 6d.
for the two preceding years. Since the
close of accounts a div. and bonus at the
rate of 100 p.c. p.a. have been paid.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus was £116,265:
Assets other than 1928. 1935. 1936.
mine and plant £1,702,970 £1,893,810 £2,078,605
Liabilities .. 132,687 136,601 205,131
Net liquid assets £1,570,283 £1,757,209 £1,873,474
The £1,873,474 (equal to 535. 6d. per
share) includes shares in other cos.,
mainly in allied industries (£867,156, up
£45,027).
Australia has much for which to thank
the big silver-lead-zinc mining cos. at
the Barrier. They have contributed
largely, in cash and personnel, to the
establishment of the iron and steel, zinc
manufacturing and lead smelting and
other industries here. Now B.H. Associ-
ated Smelters, on behalf of the Bar-
rier cos., has joined with B.H. Prop.,
Imperial Chemical Industries and Gen-
eral Motors-Holden’s to establish an
aircraft and aero-engine manufacturing
industry here. The idea is to meet the
Commonwealth Government’s aircraft
requirements for defence purposes, as
well as the wants of civil aviation.
The co.’s milling performances com-
pare as follows:
Ore ( ; —
Treated, r Lead t Zinc
Tons. Tons. Assay. Tons. Assay.
1931.. 293,069 59,990 72.5 p.c. 13,730 51.6 p.c.
1932.. 306,052 61,430 73.6 „ 58,140 52.5 „
1933.. 313,782 60,130 74.6 ~ 57,746 52.8 „
1934.. 395,577 76,810 74.8 „ 67,180 53.3 „
1935.. 396,175 79,060 73.5 „ 74,370 53.3 „
1936.. 402,097 79,330 73.6 „ 77,070 53.0 „
A shade over 47 p.c. of last year’s ore
was raised through No. 2 shaft (down
2300 ft.), recently sunk to quicken and
cheapen the extraction of ore from the
northern end of the mine.
Costs were up 3s. 9.7 d. per ton:
1930. 1935. 1936.
Crudes, raised, tons. . 450,157 395.995 402,619
Mining .. .. 245. 8.2 d. 17s. I.ld. 19s. 10.9 d.
Development .. .. 2s. 2.7 d. 2s. S.9d. 2s. B.ld.
Milling .. .. 10s. 9.3 d. 6s. B.Bd. 7s. 9.5 d.
375. 8.2 d. 265. 6.Sd. 30s. 4.5 d.
The rise was due to the new industrial
agreement, under which hours were re-
duced and a bonus of 2s. 6d. a week
added to award wage rates for every
pound by which the London price of
lead exceeds £l6 in terms of Australian
currency.
The London price of lead, which aver-
aged £l5 4s. 3d. in June, was £l9 10s.
last week-end. The rise was due partly
to increased demand in the U.K. and
partly to the trouble in Spain and to
strikes at the Hoboken (Antwerp) and
El Potosi (Mexico) smelters. Still, the
immediate outlook favors maintenance
of a strong demand and profitable prices.
The position with regard to zinc is less
favorable, owing to more zinc concen-
trates than smelters require being pro-
duced and marketed as the result of
treating lead-zinc ores primarily for lead
concentrates.
Since the close of accounts, production
has been resumed at the British section
of the co.’s property, which had been
idle since the end of June, 1930. For
the 12 months to that date 158,589 tons
of crudes, assaying 11.8 p.c. lead, 6.70 z.
silver and 8.6 p.c. zinc, was hauled from
the British, where ore reserves are now
put at 800,000 tons. There is another
200,000 tons measured up in the Junc-
tion and 3,750,000 tons in the North sec-
tion.
The pound shares, presently to be split
into four shares of ss. each, are priced at
£ll 17s. in the market (they were never
higher), as against £8 10s. a year ago.
At the higher figure the immediate return
is 8.5 p.c. on a 100 p.c. div. basis.
Profitable returns are being obtained
from a number of small shows in the
Georgetown district (N.Q.), where
Georgetown Gold Mines is successfully
developing several low-grade leases.
Crushings at the old International have
averaged 28dwt. from a reef 2ft. to
2ft. 6in. wide. A flotation plant is being
installed at the Dry Hash, which has
been idle for some months. Pozzi and
Paganoni’s mine continues to yield rich
stone, the last 12 tons crushed at Chil-
lagoe returning 19oz. gold and 40oz.
silver. In the Forsayth district, the Bal-
moral and Try Again West report crush-
ings ranging up to 2oz. In the Gil-
berton area the old Limonite is down
85ft. on a 20in. reef, crushings averaging
soz. A lot of gold was won from this
district in the. early ’seventies.
* * * *
New Gympie Gold’s second clean-up
of 165 tons yielded lloz. 6dwt. smelted
gold, estimated to be worth about £BO.
This disappointing result is due, the
chairman says, to a deficiency of carbon
in the plumbago. Two adjoining leases
have been taken over and are to be
worked from the New Gympie shaft.
Meanwhile, crushing has been suspended.
* * * *
According to Minister for Mines
Munsie, Westralia’s gold output for 1936
will probably be worth £7,000,000
(Aust.), which will be very close to
the figure for 1903, the peak year, when
gold fetched less than half what it does
now. In the last two years, the number
of men employed in the industry has
risen from 12,523 to 15,670, and the
figure is still mounting. The “all-comers
prospecting scheme has cost the State
£86,660 to date. It has yielded gold to
the value of £75,688; advances repaid
amount to £13,737. Men who left the
scheme to mine on their own account
have won £39,200 worth of gold, making
total production as a result of the
scheme £114,888. State batteries, recon-
ditioned at considerable expense, have
treated a record tonnage. Common-
wealth grants amounting to £14,700 have
been spent in assisting the erection of
privately-owned treatment plants. Before
long Big Bell and Youanmi should join
the list of leading producers. From its
inception to the end of July last, Western
Mining Corp., one of the biggest con-
cession holders in the West, spent
£1,278,567, and the De Bernales group
laid out £572,565 during the first nine
months of 1936. The number of men
employed by these two concerns totals
1600.
♦ 5 1 : : i'* *
At the end of May, Hill 50 (W.A.)
had £489 of its £50,000 of paid capital
in the bank. Debtors, stores, etc., totalled
£923. There was £5272 coming to
sundry creditors; the figure has since
grown to £10,090, of which £5000 is
coming to the Westralian Government
and £3750 to one of the directors. The
plant, to which extensive alterations had
to be made, set in again about the middle
of September, and is reported to be run-
ning smoothly. It is capable of handling
at least 2000 tons a month, the chairman
says, and capacity can be doubled for
an expenditure of not more than £5000.
Mining, milling and development costs
are estimated at 25s. a ton. It is figured
that there is 60,000 tons of 7dwt. ore
above the 200ft. level.
:J: sic ❖ $
The auriferous wealth of Cosmo New-
berry Ranges is again being talked
about in the West. They lie about 50
miles north-east' of Laverton, and so
far nothing that looks like being perma-
nent has been disclosed. Some Adel-
aide money was unsuccessfully spent
there years ago, and Michael Terry and
others have searched the place since.
Mt. Shenton, 35 miles further east, is a
similar sort of field.
* * * *
First Hit, Menzies (W.A.), which has
nearly completed payment of the ven-
dor’s £50,000 purchase consideration, is
beginning to dream of dividends. But
the shoot is small, much development
has yet to be done, and shareholders
will be, lucky if they get into the picture
before Christmas.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
B.P.: (1) Over the last decade divs. averaged
5.3 p.c. Outlook favors satisfactory earnings.
(2) Amalgamated Wireless and Mt. Lyell are
worth consideration... .C.McC.: Net tangibles
exceed liabilities under policies, but difficult to
say when regular bonuses to policy-holders
likely to begin C.C.B.: A gamble.. . .J.M.:
(1) The bonds are a long-term speculation, and
guesses as to what profits, if any, are likely
to come out of the business aren’t worth much
at the moment. (2) You are liable to the extent
of your contract. If you are unable to pay,
write to the secretary and put your position
fully before him.


THREE-THREES'
ALWAYS LEAD
m
\ - c
Sc
>TAT£ SXPBfcS’
\ ,
4006-8-<>
"Difference of opinion makes horse racing," but there
can be no difference of opinion about the success of
"Three Threes." The reason for "Three Threes' " success
lies in fine tobaccos, brilliantly blended to a formula
that will always be a closely guarded secret. Remember
—"The Secret's in the Blend."
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
9—6 d.: 18H/-: 27-1/6
Aiso Flat 50's, Flat
100’s, and Round
Airtight 50’s.
CORK.TIPPED AND PLAIN


ABORIGINALITIES
“P.M.”: It happened at a Diggers’
Saturday-night dance in a Gippsland
township. A little black pup sat dis-
consolately wagging his tail outside the
door. He was worried and mystified. He
had followed his boss right to the door
and then the boss had mysteriously dis-
appeared. Now and then he thought he
heard a familiar voice from the ticket
window, but his doggy mind reasoned
that it was impossible ; a 14-stone Digger
couldn’t be inside a little box nine inches
square! Then during a lull in the ticket
sales there came a sound of a bottle-
opener at work. The aroma of hops
drifted out from the ticket window. All
doubts dispelled, the little dog jumped up
round the window and yelped with de-
light.
* * * *
“Opal Lynn”: The Westralian wheat-
belt has more than its share of pests. A
Parliamentary orator suggested training
emus to eat the swarming locusts. Quite
so. And if we can only train Parliamen-
tarians to usq machine-guns accurately
on the emus, and then allow the drought
to wipe out Ms.L.A., we shall be left
only with the drought. Cheers!
* * * *
“H.S.G.”: Cootharaba Lake, just
south of Gympie (Q.), is one of the most
curious in Australia. About 11 miles
long and five miles wide —an impressive
sight from the surrounding hills —it's aver-
age depth is only three or four feet.
The only deep place is the channel of
the Noosa River flowing through it. When
fishermen get tired of rowing across
against a heavy western wind they get
out and walk —or wade—pushing the
boat in front of them. To the uninitiated
it is a startling sight to see a fisherman
stand, hauling on his nets, a couple of
miles from the shore.
* * * *
“Moucher”: I always thought the
Maorilanders an intelligent people, but
the news that they not only imported
the murderous stoat and weasel but pro-
tected the brutes (B. 14/10/’36) shakes
the conviction. What use the importers
proposed to put the vermin to has me
beat. In Britain, their native land, every
man’s hand is against them, and they
are recognised as inveterate destroyers
of poultry and their eggs. They are also
a curse to those preserving game, and
make the natural rearing of pheasants
and partridges impossible, eggs having
to be gathered as soon as laid and put
under well-protected hens. Foes of
rabbits in a country where bunny is re-
garded as an asset, they are outlaws to
be dealt with without mercy and treated
accordingly.
* * * *
“Fin”: Typical of a certain class of
Australian is the suggestion by “Look
Ahead” (B. 14/10/’36) that Australia
should introduce the American shad, a
sort of herring, to its coastal waters.
Right round the continent our seas teem
with uncountable millions of magnificent
food fishes. Yet Australians of this
type make no organised effort toward
catching and marketing them. Apart from
the salmon areas, few countries in the
world possess such valuable fresh-water
fish as our perches, headed by the
Murray cod. Yet year by year lack of
protection and the inroads of rubbishy
imported fish like the carp and the red
English perch are shepherding these to
extermination. Meanwhile the best thing
the Australian citizen can think of to set
things right while opening a tin of
Soviet salmon or Japanese crab is to im-
port a very ordinary eating fish from
American waters simply because it isn’t
Australian.
* * * *
“Nordbo ’: One night in dangerous
Barrier Reef waters the skipper of a
Cairns fishing launch gave the course
N.N.W. to the new hand. But the helms-
man was very new indeed, and the small
air bubble often present in a spirit com-
pass, which happened to rest for the
moment directly on the N.N.W. sign, he
took to be the guide the old man had in-
dicated. He chased that bubble very
faithfully all over the compass (which
was quite a creditable bit of steering
seeing that the boat was pitching and
tossing in a heavy swell) until the
skipper’s sailor-instinct, working even in
sleep, sent him on deck in time to pre-
vent the catastrophe.
* * * *
“Naturala”: One of the wonders
missed by most people, is the garden of
the sea seen through a water telescope.
Even sub-tropical waters at the latitude
of Sydney and Perth are worth while.
The kaleidoscopic colors due to the re-
fraction of light in conjunction with a
sandy bottom ; the forests of coral, huge
“I say, Basil, don't you think these sailor johnnies rather overdo this
hardship-round-the-Horn stuff?"
cabbages and cauliflowers standing 20 and
30 feet tall; sea grasses, kelp, sponges,
fish, sharks, octopuses, turtles, reefs and
caves and deep chasms down between!
How far down can one see? After a spell
of fine weather about 100 feet. Fish
looking no bigger than a little finger
prove half the length of the arm when
landed. One can watch them take the
hook. The Mediterranean around the
Riviera is exploited in this kind of sight-
seeing, tourists being taken out in glass-
bottomed boats. But quite probably Syd-
ney Harbor holds gardens that would
put Mussolini’s lake completely in the
shade, while further north along the
Barrier Reef there should be wonders
beyond the imagination.
H: * * *
“Silica”: Makeshifts, is it? One old
n.-w. Q. prospector, finding himself short
of pen, pencil and paper when he wanted
to send an order to the storekeeper, sat
down and “wrote” the order on a piece
of pine from an old box with a red-hot
length of fencing wire. The order read:
“Fir., sug., te, tbco., mtch., jam.”
* * *
“Kambailie”: A bald-headed Binghi?
Yes, but only one. And, curiously, he
was the only henpecked abo. husband
that I ever struck. A wizened runt,
he followed the tallest and most raw-
boned gin imaginable. Thoroughly de-
jected, he dragged along loaded with
billycans, dillybags and the rest of the
usually feminine paraphernalia, while
wifie strode ahead burdened with no-
thing but a hunting spear with which she
effectively put to flight any white-pfeller
dog daring enough to bark. Clothed in
a suit many times too large, and with
a hard-hitter that rested on his ears, he
betrayed his baldness on removing the
headgear to wipe his perspiring brow.
But possibly his dominant partner may
have been largely responsible for such
hair shortage—that’s if she used him with
any of the ruthlessness ordinarily used
by the dominant buck towards his gin.
* * * *
“Oro”: For the longest and most deso-
late stretch between telegraph stations I
nominate the 150 miles from Barrow
Creek to Tennant Creek (C.A.). No sign
of habitation or life is noted on that long,
dreary road except for an occasional
roving nigger and his gin at one of the
wells. On this track the Devil’s Marbles
are seen. Huge slabs of granite, in some
cases shaped in perfect circles, form a
weird sight, especially to night travellers.
* * .*{: *
“Colon”: We doped, dogged and dug
out the rabbits on a netted 100-acre block
till we had the last of the tribe in the
last warren. Pars, and counter-pars, in
The Bulletin on Brer Rabbit’s ability to
out-camel the camel in the way of doing
without a drink prompted us to experi-
ment, so we blocked up some of the holes
with paper and dirt, and placed one-way
wire netting traps at the only exits.
Thirty days later we had our one and
only catch —four emaciated bunnies, and
each one had its ears nibbled off.
* * * *
“Lingerie Parade”: Arrived at the
Murchison sheep station, the squatter’s
city-bred wife was not long in discover-
ing that Nellie, the young kitchen gin,
was deficient in what women’s papers
call “intimate garments.” Willingly
Nellie promised to wear a creation in
pale blue, and surrender it on washing
day, when she would receive another pair.
With a consciousness of duty accom-
plished, Mrs. Squatter turned to other
matters. But it was not long before she
became aware of a delighted uproar in
the yard outside. Stepping on to the
verandah she discovered her husband en-
joying the comedy. “By Jove, old girl,
you’ve done it this time.” Her eyes met
a scene that almost transfixed her with
horror. Before a mixed assembly of sta-
tion hands and members of her own tribe
Nellie was doing a mannequin parade.
Deciding that her new finery was much
too splendid to be hidden, she had dis-
pensed with her calico skirt.
* * *
“J.W.O’K.”: A slate-grey old-man ’roo
has for years haunted a spot on the
Roma-Wallumbilla (Q.) road. All motor-
ists on this road know Joe, who recog-
nises their presence by aiming a series
of flying kicks at the car. So far he has
never connected, and in the mutual in-
terests of ’roo and car I hope he never
does. i
**i * *
“F.Y.7”: In that discourse on side-
saddles (B. 7/10/’36), the extent of
“Poley’s” experience is suggested by his
reference to a “Sunday ride.” He is evi-
dently one of those gay lads from the
men’s quarters who take the new house-
maid from Brisbane out for a Sunday
canter, which explains his bitter refer-
ence to sore backs. A bad break is
when he speaks of the “lopsided
seat” of side-saddle users. A good
horsewoman sits as straight fore and
aft on the horse as a man riding
cross-legged—more so than many of the
carelessly-seated loafers who are respon-
sible for most sore backs. But “Poley’s”
reference to “the rare woman who rode
regularly even in the old days” and
adopted a man’s saddle verges on the
preposterous. Writer’s recollections can
hark back to the days when every woman
save the very matronly rode as a matter
of course, and in the side-saddle. Old
ladies who could recall the early days
of the Darling Downs, my mother
among them, have told me countless
stories of long rides from station to
station, with dancing and the ride home
next day to follow. To see sore backs
you had to go to the mounts of the sta-
tion hands, in those days callously care-
less about their horses. A well-made
side-saddle is little heavier than a good
straddle seat, and requires no more girth-
ing. And, far from being archaic, the
side-saddle is in constant use to-day. In
the British and Continental hunting fields
most women out of the flapper stage
ride in it, and the same can be said of
the Victorians and South Australians who
follow the hounds in those States. The
chief drawback to riding side-saddle in
the old days was the very long and
voluminous habit which made walking
a burden. The modern short habit, cut
nearly to the boot-tops, has done away
with that.
* * * *
“Deseret”: Once upon a time the
dream job of the outback worker was
boundary-riding on a bee farm. It may
yet become fact. Queensland experts have
been conducting experiments in brand-
ing bees, a special instrument to that end
having been invented by a Czech expert.
So far only the queen bees have had the
iron, or whatever it is, slapped on them,
but the practice may become general in
the bee herds. There is a world of pos-
sibilities in the roping, throwing and
branding of bees or even running them
through a crush. Personally writer would
sooner handle a whole paddockful of
old-fashioned longhorns from the
Balonne belar and pine scrubs than a
matchboxful of bees.
*** . *
“The 0.D.”: Horses in queer posi-
tions? We had a fat old mare on Tapalin
(mid-Murray) that was a bit of a pet.
When she disappeared, the boss and the
boys searched high and low, and found
her anchored between a bifurcated tree
that grew out from
ground level. The com-
bined efforts of four
men and three dogs
failed to shift her, for,
in moving along feed-
ing, she had wedged
herself by the flank in
the fork. In the end
somebody walked over
a mile to the station
and got an axe. There
was a good deal of
argument over the best
way to fall the thinnest
limb so as not to hurt
the mare ; then the first
relay took up his
stance, and struck the
first blow. The shock
made Molly buck
straight up, her rump passed through the
wider part of the fork, and she was free.
*
“Lower Tops’l”: Reference to blue-
gum as a shipbuilding wood recalls that
the Harriet Macgregor was constructed
throughout of this timber. Designed and
owned by the Macgregors of Hobart
whaling fame, this little 330-ton barque
year after year performed almost clipper-
like feats with steamship regularity in
making the voyage from Hobart to Lon-
don. For 24 years she was sailed hard —
she was passed only twice—and in 1895,
when sold to foreigners, was still as
sound as when she came off the stocks.
* * * *
“Pack-bag”: A four-shilling bonus for
fox-scalps (B. 7/10/’36) is a record only
officially. Long ago in N.Q. I knew
a ’roo-shooter and dogger who received
mangy fox-skins from the South regularly
by post. I was puzzled till he let me into
his secret. “They cost me about four a
dollar,” he told me, “an’ the Dingo
Board gives me a quid a head each for
’em. There’s not a shire-clerk in the
North what knows a fox-skin.” But
keep your hats on, boys—they know
now.
“C. 8.”: On the Cairns-Chillagoe rail-
way (N.Q.) the now-flourishing tobacco
industry has given names to new sidings.
Tabacum, Chewko, Leafgold and Lemon-
siding are some.
* * * *
“Jerrick”: “Kelly” as a title for the
rascal who robs hen’s nests, picks the
eyes out of stricken sheep, flies off with
my golf-balls and performs other devil-
ries became popular in the days of my
early youth after the publication of a
story by Henry Lawson. In this an
ancient, telling of the time when he was
“bushed,” asserts that the crows “follered
him up” and cawed “Kelly-yore-lorst.”
THE SMOKER.
I can’t help smiling when l hear some bloke
Who’s riding with me when it’s cold and wet
Say, “Well, l think it’s time we had a smoke,”
And see him start to roll a cigarette.
1 watch him fumbling as I fill and light
The good old briar pipe that’s served me well
Through many a dreary day and sleepless
night;
I’ve had it —let me see —oh, quite a spell!
“A smoke” they call their cigarettes, but 1
Can’t fancy how they would have got along
When those who worked outback could only
buy
Some brand of stick tobacco, black and
strong.
Need flavored it; we smoked it with a will,
And found it handy as at night we sat
And puffed away, to do our best to kill
The stink of slush-lamps fed with rancid fat.
With twelve months’ use a pipe was but a pup,
Half-broken in, its best days yet to come;
A thing half-seasoned which, when lighted up,
Was lacking in that vital virtue “hum.”
It took the three- and four-year-olds to spill
That heady fragrance, that aroma rare,
Which hangs about deserted shanties still
And lends old huts a pleasant, homely air.
I find to-day, when riding with some bloke
Who puffs his fags, it’s nothing new to hear
Him sniff, cough, spit and then commence to
choke
Before he drops some distance to the rear.
They’re all so soft. I ask him with a smile
“A fly?” although I know quite well what’s
wrong.
He answers “No”; and in a little while
He’ll add, “My word, that pipe of yours is
strong.”
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


“Macßoderick”: Talk of the decline
of deerstalking in Scotland reminds me
of a gillie who looked forward each year
to the return of a particularly munificent
patron whom he religiously nursed. Each
season Donal’ received a healthy tip as
well as two bottles of the best. But one
year, after the patron’s departure, his pal
noticed that Donal’ was very down in
the mouth and inquired if the patron
had slipped on the tip. “Och na,” said
Donal’ moodily ; “Ah hiae the siller a’
richt, but the bluidy Sassenach gae me
just ae bottle o’ whusky—an’ what’s ae
bottle o’ whusky among ae man?”
* * *
“A.D.T.”: The Georgina is about the
only water in Queensland where the
oldest abo. hasn’t yet seen a crayfish.
Yet it abounds in shrimps and prawns.
Given a bait of fresh meat and a bag net
stretched round a cask hoop, it’s easy
for a man to collect half a pint of
prawns every time he hauls his net.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: Whilst breaking down
a consignment of cedar and other soft-
woods from Borneo we often came across
fractures right across the grain from
one side of the log to the other —caused
probably by unskilled native fallers drop-
ping the big tree on to cleared ground.
But the most curious part was that these
fractures were always partly healed, the
green wood, even when lopped and sawn
into lengths, evidently still possessing
sufficient sap flow and vitality. Have
handled hundreds of Australian hard-
wood logs, but have never found any
“ He's been reading ‘Ben Hur,' sir!"
healed in such a manner —though ad-
mittedly fractures caused by unskilful
falling were also extremely rare.
* * >:-• *
“R.W.D.”: In the crime dossier of
Maggie there are chronicles of chicken-
slaughter, but I would never have sus-
pected her of bigamy. A pair nested in
our schoolground. Mr. Magpie displayed
unusual ferocity, and, as the result of
clawing some skin from the nose of a
howling urchin, was shot by an outraged
parent. Some anxiety was felt as to
whether the widowed bird would be able
to support her kids. After an almost in-
decently short period of mourning, she
produced two boy-friends, who entered
into grub-carrying operations with a zest
which would certainly have called forth
some leading questions from the de-
parted one.
* * * =K
“K’bundah”: Everybody seems to
have an unreasoning derry on centipedes,
who do far more good than harm.
They’ll bite if cornered, but are non-
poisonous. Their chief tucker seems to
be the white-ant, or
termite. Burning oft
recently we saw hun-
dreds camped among
the timber-destroyers ;
they ranged from 3in.
to Sin. in length, and
all shades of blue-green
to reds. Not one had
100 legs, as is generally
supposed. “Centi” in
their case means one
pair of legs to each
segment of the body.
Millipedes, their
cousins, have two pairs
of legs to each seg-
ment, which seems to add to their speed ;
and millipedes are much faster than
centipedes.
* * * *
“Tristram da Luna”: 1 don’t really see
why the Tristan da Cunhaites should
move over to Inaccessible Island simply
because of rats (B. 14/10/’36). What
will happen to the rats after the Tristans
have gone ? They will simply come up
and see them at Inaccessible Island, mak-
ing the voyage on pieces of flotsam. You
can’t get rid of rats as easily as that.
There are plenty of rats on Lord Howe
Island, but there is a 4d. bounty on rat
tails there, and that keeps them down.
After all, there are probably more rats
in Sydney, proportionately, than there
are on Tristan, but we do something to
keep them down. Why don’t the Tristans
get rat-conscious and ask the Govern-
ment to give them a bounty on the tails?
* % *
“Golden Mile”: Much more valuable
things than obsolete documents have
missed recovery when buried, despite the
most careful taking of bearings. Slink-
ing home one midnight with a hefty
parcel of amalgam, a Westralian battery
hand got the notion that detectives were
waiting at his camp. He buried the
parcel beneath a salmon-gum stump,
at the same time taking bearings
from the lights of the nearest mines.
Despite his hunch, the police weren’t
waiting, and with daylight he went
out to retrieve his spoil. But there
were so many stumps! Nor did he do
better at night, the lights that had seemed
such certain bearings proving curiously
deceptive. Years later, the scrub now
entirely vanished, some kids went out
firewood-getting, and tried their axe on
an old ant-eaten stump. They knew what
the stuff was and took it home to dad.
Being honest dad handed it to the Crown,
which generously handed it back with
permission to have it scientifically treated,
Just on £2so—a substantial deposit on
the farm dad had so long desired.
* * * *
“Urban”: 1 have a Chow whose intelli-
gence I would back against all the bush
dogs ever Bulletined. I’ve trained him
“Stop moanin' about y'r face an 'ave a screw at the dent you've put in
this mudguard."
never to dig in my garden, and, since
instinct won’t be thwarted, the old dog
makes a practice of burying his bones in
the next-door flower-patch —an excellent
scheme which suits us both. Unfortu-
nately, Simpson is a hot-tempered man,
and at the slightest squeak of his
atrocious iron gate he rushes out, ready
to throw things at my old Chink, who
has to squeeze through it now that he’s
too old and rheumatic to jump the fence.
The other evening Chink trotted down
the path with a lump of butter in his
mouth. I was surprised, because he’s no
thief; but in a few moments I saw all
and felt ashamed. The old dog was
only lubricating Simpson’s gate.
* * * *
“Bungarrer”: If “Tristram R.” (B.
14/10/’36) had to depend in midsummer
on that same “cool shade” cast by the
Australian gum he would speedily revise
his opinion. For its size and foliage the
gum gives a shade as patchy as a quilt
and about as satisfying as warm beer. To
guard against excessive transpiration the
eucalypt leaf presents an edge as thin as
a knife blade. For the same reason it
has been toughened and given a certain
amount of oil.
“R.W.D.”: The problem set by
“C.C.C.” (B. 7/10/’369 regarding the pre-
paration of porcupines for dinner by
dingoes is an easy one. To an unedu-
cated dog the tightly-rolled ball of quills
certainly presents difficulties, but Warri-
gal simply rolls the prey over on its back
and with his cold nose tickles its belly.
Porky straightens out and then
“Nor’-west”: Clean clayey water is an
excellent antidote for poisoning. For
ages the W.A. aboriginal has soaked the
green nuts of the zamia palm in a mud-
hole for a week in order to rid them ol
their poison. Drifting across the Ash-
burton, dead parched, I struck a timely
waterhole. Absorbed a bellyful of the
lukewarm semi-mud and moved on.
Hours later, parched again, I came on
a broken-dowh wool-wagon carrying a
full load. Hunting a drink I finally
struck a small tank with a nice handy
tap. Swallowed several pints before
realising peculiar taste. Rubbed off dust
and read POISON. The stuff carried
for relieving the donkey team of tick!
Frightful pain, followed by days of
weakness. Later, medical opinion that
residue of clay in stomach and other
parts of the digestive tract must have
counteracted the poison. Incidentally,
when a man is dead parched his stomach
won’t be cajoled into rejecting even a
poisonous fluid, not even by tickling the
throat with a finger.
¥ ¥ * *
“Western”: Emu as table d’hote ?
Like the Muscovy duck it depends mostly
on the age. Up around Pinjar (W.A.)
we often put the thighs of a young one
in the pot and found them not too bad.
Not in the chicken class certainly, but
well ahead of the patriarchal jumbucks
which our cocky host used to reckon was
prime mutton.
* * ¥ *
“Pack-bag”: Albert Bennett, a half-
caste of Eureka Creek, near Petford
(N.Q.), is the best brumby-chaser I’ve
seen. He believes all wild horses run in
circles, often up to 20 miles in circumfer-
ence ; so, before attempting to catch
them, he closely studies their habits.
Then one day he sets a mob galloping,
and, doubling across the circle, he inter-
cepts them at a chosen spot. Then he
drives them across country towards a
yard. If the distance is long and the
horses can take in water on the way to
knock them up it helps. Nearing the
yard Albert spurts and “puts the whip
into ’em.” He’s a magnificent horseman,
and I’ve never known him to fail. Once
he explained the reason: “I work for
boss one time. He tell me, ‘I don t
want ’em brumby horses chased to hell.
I can get any fool to do that. I want
’em in yard.’ So,” went on Albert
proudly, “I always make up my mind
first to get ’em, or I don’t try.”
* * * *
“Kali”: Slipped into an outlying farm
when returning from a week-end run
and wanted a couple of dozen fresh
eggs. “Can’t do it,” said the proprietor ;
“they must all go through the Egg
Board. But,” he added, “what about
buying half a dozen of these mandarins
for two bob and I’ll make you a present
of the eggs.”
* * * *
“Toheroa”: “The parrot with the price
on his head,” as Maoriland’s kea is
popularly called, is regarded as wholly
a denizen of the South Island. . But a
shepherd on a property near Auckland,
looking after a small flock of stud South-
downs, was intrigued by the appearance
of an unfamiliar bird in proximity to the
pedigreed woollies. He presently made
the disturbing discovery that the visitor
was a kea, and dispatched him, the first of
the kea family on record as having been
shot in the North Island.
THE URGER.
When Sandy comes to town he brings
The latest from the outback camps;
He gives the real strength of things
And puts us “owe courang” with ramps.
He knows which shows are down and done
(And that to heaps of them applies),
But always he can tell of one
From which a man may make a rise.
He knows how rotten is the game;
And every time he comes to town
He tells us it’s a crying shame
The way that we've been taken down.
And always he is glad that he
Can give us, at a trifling cost,
A splendid opportunity
Of getting back what we have lost.
She's good; the values and the size
Leave not the slightest room for doubt.
And we’ll come in, if we are wise,
Before the dinkurn oil gets out.
He counsels us no time to spare,
But plank our cash down, there and then;
But we’ve, alas! begun to share
His lack of faith in mines and men.
When Sandy comes to town we get
The inside story, so to speak,
On the best show discovered yet
From Widgiemooltha to The Peak.
Yet there are few of all his “friends”
Who rush in now to get the plums;
For Sandy always recommends
A different mine each time he comes.
WESTRAUA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


LYSAGJHTFS
£7l
m
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
77-F—
-fWHJk*
'JO. ■ V
c£>
*er
%'i-A'y*'*
*
: .11
V
i
1:1 i
ESTABLISHED 1884
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Shearing with Old Plants.
“Doitnow”: Many sheepmen who own
two-stand plants of ancient vintage can
make them very serviceable with but little
expense, and so save putting in overhead
gear.
In old-model plants the down tubes
have solid rods. These cause excessive
vibration, especially if a fraction out of
true. Replace with gut cores. Later im-
provements in driving arms can also be
attached and are well worth the money.
The engine can always be rebored or
fitted with a sleeve if too far gone, and
made like new at very reasonable cost.
The latest-model handpieces can be used.
The greatest cause of trouble is found
in small grinders supplied with these
plants. It pays to put in a new or good
second-hand double-ended grinder, which
the engine can pull quite easily if in
ordinary working order.
Adopting such principles, I have, used
a 1920 two-stand plant to shear
and crutch 5000 sheep every year for 10
years. I have no trouble ; a perfect grind
is furnished—the all-important thing—
and men can do as many sheep as on the
overhead gear. A 200-a-day man tried
my plant and said he wouldn’t lose a
sheep on it. Everything cost me under
£2O, including a s.-h. double-ended
grinder, and I seldom experience any
trouble at shearing.
Sheep in Coastal Parts.
“Murramac”: With the expansion of
fat-lamb-raising the question of utilising
N.S.W. coastal districts for the purpose,
is again exercising many minds. Advan-
tages of the coastal belt are the heavy
carrying capacity of the land and the
large local market available in towns
which now get their requirements from
Sydney or the Tablelands.
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
is of opinion that the humidity of the
climate is an insurmountable obstacle,
and quotes the experiences of farmers who
have, run small flockk in conjunction with
dairying. On the other hand, lamb-
raisers from Maoriland find the condi-
tions similar to those under which
countless thousands of lambs have been
reared in their Dominion.
Worms, excessive fat, fluke and foot-
rot are admitted disabilities. But they
should offer no serious trouble to an ex-
perienced flockmaster, as the prevalence
of these disorders is mainly due to ig-
norance and neglect. Paspalum is an-
other difficulty. The prospective lamb-
raiser would need to adopt pasture-im-
provement and fodder conservation
to provide against dry spells. Small
paddocks, heavily stocked, would miti-
gate the fat trouble, with its con-
sequent effect upon fecundity. A high
location with a light soil is to be pre-
ferred to heavy flats. Taking it by and
large, there is no reason why sheep
should not thrive in the N.S.W. coastal
belt, provided the problem is tackled in
a businesslike manner.
Soil Erosion—Marginal Areas.
“Steve”: A change in general practice
in soil-erosion districts is badly needed.
In S.A. marginal areas an increase in
stock and less cereal growing for grain
will help. Bacterial action more rapidly
decomposes organic matter in sandy
soils. This is due to the presence of
more air. Hence a greater supply of
organic matter is necessary. Burning off
stubble will not help, but cereal growing
for fodder will, provided enough pacl-
dock growth is present to supplement it.
The usual application of super,
in 14- to 17-inch rainfall areas leaves
little or no residual phosphate after the
crop is taken off. Where increased
growth is desired, a heavier dressing
must be given to sponsor grass growth
during following years. In this way the
intervals between cropping can be ex-
tended.
The grain output should eventually
return to its normal level, but on less
acreage—there is increased fertility con-
sequent upon heavier stocking and a
reduced drift area.
Summer is the most difficult period for
wind erosion, and here lucerne has proved
“ Did. they pull well, Jacky ?"
“Pull? They pretty near wore the
brakes off comin up from the gully!"
good with its 20-30 feet roots. It holds
together both on top and below the
surface.
Differences of opinion exist about
shelter belts along fences. Certainly the
sand tends to bank up in these belts,
often covering the fence. The time to
plant shelter belts is before drift begins.
Sowing oats or rye on fallow to hold
it together serves its purpose, but defeats
the object of fallowing by depleting the
soil of plant food and moisture.
Binding with brushwood will help with
wandering dunes until some hardy plant
can be established, such as rye, blue
lupins, Kikuyu, marram grass or evening
primrose.
Where new fences are being built, it
is a good idea to plan the paddocks to
run lengthways at right angles to the
prevailing winds.
To Combat Erosion.
“D.E.”: The Bishop of Willochra
(S.A.) knows the arid parts of the con-
tinent well and is concerned about their
future. For “the lamentable conditions
which prevail” he blames neither
droughts nor rabbits, since droughts Aus-
tralia has always had, and though
the rabbit has aggravated the conditions
it has not caused them. He selects as
“the two main immediate causes” (a)
overstocking and ( b ) the wholesale de-
struction of trees. And the remedies? :
(1) In areas of very low rainfall the intro-
duction of rhizomatic grasses to bridge the
gap between the short-lived herbage which
occasionally appears and the long-lived trees
and perennial shrubs. By this means it may
be possible for some of the long-lived
species to survive. The valuable mulga is of
abnormally slow growth, and unless it is
protected by some cover in the early stages
of its growth is likely to perish under ex-
isting conditions.
(2) In order to prevent overstocking a
clause should be put in every lease to the
effect that no stock shall be allowed above
the carrying capacity of drought years.
Drift and duststorms are largely the result
of overstocking.
(3) Security of tenure for the owners of
those stations who really look after their
property. It is a great temptation to over-
stock when leases draw to a close because
the best paddocks may be taken away from
them.
(4) On every sheep station there should
be compulsory wire-netting of a small por-
tion of the run for periods of 20 years to,
enable the herbage to recover. This should
be done at the expense of the Govern-
ment.
(5) Every town and every isolated home-
stead in the bush
should be surrounded
by a belt of timber
and vegetation. This
would help to reduce
the menace and in-
convenience ot' the
duststorm.
(6) Exemption
from taxes for people
who settle on low*
rainfall areas.
Very sound advice ;
and the bishop is to be
thanked for addressing
himself so earnestly
to a national problem
which the politicians
are shirking.
Pasture Points.
“Hortus”: N.S.W. North Coast experi-
ence demonstrates that highly-productive
pastures will thrive on soiis hitherto un-
successful. Plant Kikuyu on stony hill-
sides. The grass has a controlling effect
on erosion ; what’s more, it gives better
grazing in winter than paspalum in
similar positions.
White clover does quite well mixed
with Kikuyu. Clover and paspalum do
well if treated properly, but not other-
wise.
Paspalum, top-dressed with lime and
super, for two years, was allowed to
grow tall last year in one patch and
grazed short in another. This year both
areas, after renovation, were sown down
with red and white clover and Italian
rye grass. Clovers germinated well
where there was a mulch of rotting pas-
palum. In the paddock grazed short very
little seed appeared above ground.
It’s best to top-dress paspalum and
white clover paddocks annually with
2cwt. super, and lOcwt. lime every third
year.
New Zealand Italian rye is the best and
strongest annual for red, volcanic soils.
Sow 251 b. to acre either alone or between
maize rows after last scuffling. The
latter idea is the cheapest method of
forming a winter pasture. Especially is
this the case when the crop is free from
weeds.
Phalaris tuberosa is coming into its
own on big-scrub soils. It looks as if it
will oust perennial rye as the most popu-
lar perennial grass in permanent pas-
tures.
To get the best quality of paspalum-
clover pastures, mow regularly, harrow
and top-dress with super. (2cwt. per
acre). The super, stimulates the clover,
which, being a leguminous crop, adds
more nitrogen through bacteria to soil.
This all tends to produce a more vigor-
ous and leafy paspalum growth.
There is nothing like crop- and pas-
ture-rotation. The best scheme is this.
Crops like maize and sorghum are grown
for not more than two years in a pad-
dock. Then land is sown to rye, white
and red clover. The pasture is grazed for
a few years, and land is cropped again.
Super, is used with crops.
N.S.W. North Coast opinion is grow-
ing that Italian rye grass gives more
grazing than oats. What’s more, it is
proving a better butter-producer.
These improved pastures are proving
that a dairy-farmer is able to maintain
the winter production of his herd to
within 33 p.c. of midsummer production.
The fall per cow is only 20 p.c. There-
fore it pays to establish such pastures —
especially the sowing of both annual
and perennial pastures among maize.
And it’s cheap into the bargain.
3501 b. Dairy Cows.
“Silky Bag": The national average
production of dairy cows is around 1701 b.
of butter-fat a year, but 3501 b. cows are
not rare. Actually the performance of
this type of cow is still better, as she nor-
mally milks from four to six weeks
longer than the standard test period.
I have had opportunities of studying
5001 b.-cow herds this last twelvemonth.
Most comprise between 18 and 30
animals—fewer than the ordinary dairy-
man would milk on the same farm.
Individual production has been raised
partly by giving all the feed to fewer
animals. Labor is saved in the pro-
cess, besides avoiding the wasteful keep-
ing of extra animals on the farm.
Ordinarily there is nothing unusual
about the type of the stock. Often they
are just good grades that once tailed off
at 2001 b. of fat under the “don’t-care"
system of management. Invariably, how-
ever, a pure-bred bull from a good milk-
ing strain is used.
The noteworthy feature, however, is
that the cows are kept up to their pro-
duction for at least 10 months each year,
and not allowed to dry off at seven and
eight months. The latter practice is evi-
dently a big factor in keeping the
national average production so low.
To secure ten-month lactation, pas-
ture is mainly relied on. Both winter
and summer grasses are sown, and, of
course, top-dressed without exception.
This feed, together with the meadow hay
cut from it, forms the whole bulk of
most rations. Some herds yield above
4001 b. on the pasture-meadow hay ration
alone.
Where there is extra feeding, it usually
is confined to 21b. or 31b. a day of bran
or ground oats in 51b. to 81b. of oaten
chaff. Sometimes, 51b. to 81b. of lucerne
chaff alone is used, with telling results.
The story is always simple: good
average cows fed continuously with plain
o Continued on page 24.)


1
m
m
m
I
■
H
m
MM
m
m
I
■
H
H
H
* . ...
' :
' ■ $:
■
, .. V ' •
J§l • .-■ u
... :>a:
■
m
' ■ \
w ■■;
MS '
'
1
* 3 m g | mmmm
■ ‘Hi
i
*yw;V, tJjMfc. !
■its®
H
■ m
- r :'
gj£
■
. i
Uli
■i
spa ■
ms
mm
m
a
W&& -f'
Johnnie Walker keeps it in the dark
All over Scotland, in remote Highland glens, in Western Islands and
in Lowland vales lie thousands and thousands of casks of fine whisky
waiting patiently in the cool darkness of bonded stores for the day
when they shall be fit and ready to be blended as Johnnie Walker.
For good whisky grows old slowly—it needs many years in the wood
to allow it to develop its natural depth and richness of flavour.
This mellow maturity has been attained by every one of the different
whiskies from which Johnnie Walker is blended. But do not think
this makes them all alike. Each of these whiskies has its own
definite characteristics, subtle though the difference between
some of them may be. The blender knows them all; and it is
his skill in being able to decide a blend of perfect harmony
that makes Johnnie Walker always worth asking for by name.
Johnnie WalKer
Born 1820 —Still Going Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
o^3


A STURDY ABBEY
BOOT . . .
WITH THE EXTRA WEAR
OF A SECOND PAIR.
Prices:
DOOTS are still popular with many men.
Here is an Abbey Boot, medium weight,
good-looking, and made of strong calf, which
for fit, comfort, and long life, is unequalled.
If you wear boots, ask for this one next time
you are ordering.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
Black Calf . . . 39/6
Brown Calf . . 42/-
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET.
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
W.A. 52.
r^v~
LIJCK
i >
UL
THEY
ALL
WANT
IT
Foremost in the
Metropolis
THE
TELEGRAPH
Queensland’s Premier Newspaper
A nnounces
A Unique
Achievement
Latest circulation figures
show beyond all doubt that
“The Telegraph” predomi-
nates in the whole of the
Greater Brisbane Area.
No wonder that
Local Advertisers prefer
“The Telegraph”
Queensland Owned and Controlled.
Greatest in Greater Brisbane.
BRANDAUERS
SVWr-
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAOER * CO- Ltd- BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO.. LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Brandies.
20th Century Miracle.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS
R.D.L. LEVER
RAILWAY SERVICE WATCH
Unbreakable —— Shockproof
Non-magnetic aiul Accurate.
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS
Against Constructional Faults, and
Oiled Free Every Twelve Months.
Built to Standi a Knock or Fall.
POST
FREE
12
11
10
2
LEVER
9
3
8
4
/
7
5
USED BY 60,000 PEOPLE.
R. Dixon Long, Designer and Director of the
World-famous R.D.L, Wonder Watches, bo
successfully used and recommended by 60,000
people during the past 11 years, now offers you
this marvellous Railway Lever as the acme of
Perfection in a dependable timepiece.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
R.D.L. Watches, designed by an Aus-
tralian, were first introduced in 1925 and
are still sujjrenie.
None Genuine W ithout the B.D.L. Brand
on the Dial.
R.D.L. LEVER WATCHES are specially
constructed on scientific lines to combine
reliability, strength and economy in up-
keep, and to give hard, dependable service
to Farmers, Tram, Rail, Police and
Business Men.
Each Watch Fully Tested by our staff
of experts and guaranteed 10 years (in
writing).
Pocket Size, Plain Dial 17/6
Pocket Size, Luminous Dial . . 207-
Lady’s Service Wristlet Size. . 20/-
Gent.’s Large Service Wristlet, 20/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (small
round nickel case), Luminous, 257-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (nickel
cushion shape case), Luminous, 30/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (Oct.
gold-filled cushion case),
Luminous 457-
Lady’s Gold-filled and Solid
Gold Dress Wristlets,
(jewelled) 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Obtainable only from
R.D.L. WONDER WATCHES,
Est. 1917. R. Dixon Long, Director,
Fourth Floor, Cromwell Buildings,
366 V Bourke St., Melb., C.l, Vic.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., King St„ Sydney
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
lor the original.
TTfe'^xilleix/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
economical rations, special care being
taken to provide enough fodder when
dry spells hit production.
Oaten Hay as Fodder.
“Valerin”: The value of oaten hay for
feeding sheep depends on its palatability.
Cut on the green side it is bitter, and
sheep will nibble the heads and leave the
straw.
But cut it when dry and with the head
nearly ripe, and sheep will rush it. It
should be chaffed and fed in troughs.
Oaten chaff has a higher value in
albuminoids and carbohydrates than
wheaten, and these are important factors
in feeding.
Eradicating Yacca.
“Bogaduck”: Yacca is a useless vege-
table growth, a soil-robber, a smotherer
of grass and a haunt for rabbits. It takes
a good plough to do anything with yacca
ground, and several ploughings arc
needed to kill it out.
It can nevertheless be eradicated at
small expense with no other tools than
a kerosene torch, an engineer’s oilcan with
a long spout and a light grubbing axe or
an adze.
First burn off the yaccas with the light-
ing torch. A good one can be made
from a three-foot length of inch water
piping, a foot length of half-inch ditto,
an inch pipe union, a plug of the same
size and a reducing socket. Thread both
ends of the long pipe, screw the
union and plug on one end. Put the re-
ducing socket on the other, screw the
small pipe into it and press a piece of
lamp-wick into the end.
To use, unscrew the plug from the top,
fill with kerosene, replace, the plug and
put a match to the wick. Poke the end
of the torch well in under each yacca,
to get at the dry leaves, and it will light
in a few seconds. Press the wick in
tightly to avoid the kerosene leaking out.
The job can be done with safety in mid-
summer, provided a damp day is chosen,
for a yacca burns out within an hour and
never smoulders afterwards.
Within a few weeks the yaccas will
start to send up fresh shoots from each
crown. Fill the oilcan with kerosene,
push the long spout into the heart of
each sprout, and release a spoonful of
kerosene. Carry the grubber at the same
time and chop off a bunch of sprouts on
each yacca, to indicate which have been
treated, otherwise there is a big chance
that you will find yourself going over
the same ground twice.
A few weeks later it will become evi-
dent that the yaccas have been settled ;
within a year the rotting crowns can be
kicked out of the ground with the foot.
Ploughing is then a simple job, but this
should be done only when the ground is
to be cropped ; a fine pasture can be
grown with the use of a combine alone.
Rye-grass and early sub. clover are most
suited to the new ground, but the job is
best left alone unless a heavy dressing of
super, is applied, for I know of no type
of soil which needs super, more to give
results than that which has carried
yaccas.
Several acres can be treated per day
by one. man, and it is a very dense
growth which will use more than four or
five gallons of kerosene per acre.
Pneumatic Tyres on Tractors.
“Granova”: If the experiences of the
brothers Krebs, who grow wheat near
Temora (N.S.W.), are general, pneumatic
tyres are going to be used extensively on
farm tractors.
The brothers were fallowing with a
10-farrow disc, pulled in high gear by a
Diesel tractor, shod with low-pressure
pneumatic tyres. There was some wheel
slippage, owing to wet patches, so they
thought that better results would be ob-
tained with steel wheels. These were
placed on the tractor, and fitted with
long spud grips.
Not only did the steel wheels fail to
reduce wheel slippage, but they reduced
the available power of the tractor to such
an extent that low gear was required to
handle the load that was formerly pulled
in high gear.
The explanation lies in the fact that a
large proportion of the power of the
tractor was lost in pushing the grips into*
the ground and climbing over them. It
takes six horses to pull a tractor fitted
with long grips along, whereas two will
easily pull one fitted with pneumatic
tyres.
Pneumatic tyres are fairly expensive,
and replacements would probably be
heavier than with steel wheels, but with
such tyres a farmer could go in for a
smaller-model tractor and save a large
amount of fuel. And these tyres also
save the tractor from a lot of jolts and
jars, and should decrease the repair bills.
Tomato Caterpillar.
“Heliothis”: Plants should be exam-
ined once a week after the first blossoms
appear. Lead arsenate, lib. to 40 gallons
water, and lead arsenate dust and kaolin
dust in equal proportions are excellent
control mixtures. Dusting acts better than
spraying, but don’t use lead arsenate
after beginning to pick the fruit. Hav-
ing used lead arsenate at any stage, be
careful to wipe the fruit free of arseni-
cals before packing it. Safest plan is to
concentrate on the destruction of the
first caterpillar broods so that all the
dirty work will have been done before
the fruit comes near maturity.
Hints for the Farm.
“Valerin”: Never use sump oil as a
dressing for fly-blown sheep. It has no-
thing to commend it as a preventive, and
the steel “filings” in it irritate the sores
and keep them from healing.
“Junee”: Coal tar makes an excellent
preservative for gates and fences exposed
to the weather. It should be applied hot,
and the heating process should be carried
out in a vessel immersed in a larger one
and brought to the boil. Heating direct
over a fire tends to thicken the tar, and
the painting job is unsatisfactory.
“Warral”: The dry spell in N.S.W.
wheat areas has burst the theory that
skeleton weed will not flourish in drought
periods. The weed is smothering out
wheat and spreading rapidly. As soon
as paddocks are available they should
be heavily grazed to check the weed be-
fore it gets out of the rosette stage. There
should be no trouble in getting sheep for
that purpose.
“Valerin”: Travelling through the
country one wonders why graziers on
the plains do not grow shelter trees for
their sheep. It makes me wild to see
jumbucks trying to find cover behind a
fencing post, a piece of rock or a stunted
briar as a protection against the baking
sun or sleety winds. To say trees will
not grow on the plains is nonsense.
“Edeng”: Apple Islanders don’t grow
all the giant carrots. A Cleveland (Q.)
grower sent 36 carrots to the Brisbane
markets and staggered the natives with
their weight—B7lb. One turned the scales
at 31b., enough for a family of six. They
were grown without irrigation on ground
which has natural moisture ; fowl manure
was the fertiliser. Anything larger else-
where?
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the best treatment for greasy heel in
a draught-horse ? —3375.
Prepare the animal with two bran mashes,
six hours apart, fast him for 12 hours, and
give him a five-drachm aloes ball. After this
has done its work, give him one tablespoon of
Fowlers’ solution of arsenic once daily in his
feed. Damp down with a pint of water every
morning. Clip all the hair around the affected
part with a pair of scissors, wash it with soap
and water and swab it when clean with methy-
lated spirits. When dry, rub in powdered alum.
# # * $
Recipe for preserving beans? —34ss.
Pick the beans when fully grown, but before
they harden, and dry them well. Take a
large earthenware crock or jar, and put in a
layer of beans about an inch thick. Sprinkle
well with common salt. Then pack in a slightly
less thick layer, and again add salt. Fill the
jar thus, cover with muslin and store in a
cool, dry place. If there is fungoid disease
among the beans or red spider, etc., the
process may fail. Soak in water before using.
* $ * *
(1) Approximate electrical resistance and
weight of No. 16 gauge steel wire ? (2) Could
this wire be used for an earth-return telephone
circuit between farms 1| miles apart ? (3) Par-
ticulars of earth connections ? —3431.
(1) Resistance, 107 ohms per mile; weight,
581 b. per mile. (2) Yes, provided the line is
properly insulated and low resistance earths em-
ployed. Up to 1884 telephone lines were mostly
of No. 11 gauge iron wire. (3) A soldered con-
nection to a water pipe just above the point
where it enters the ground, otherwise a galvan-
ised-iron earth plate 2ft. square buried in damp
soil.
* * * *
What are the chances of obtaining employ-
ment as bag-sewer during the coming harvest
season in N.S.W., and in what part of the State
is the harvest likely to be best; also, to whom
should l apply?— 33ol.
There should be plenty of opportunities of
employment. Cowra district promises the best
harvest, and Wagga and Temora should also
do well. The State Labor Agency in Sydney
might help you to get into touch with wheat-
growers.


SMOKE-OH!
“Archibald was solid and stately—but cold.”
— Woman’s paper.
A marble Arch, so to speak.
4- 4- 4* 4
“ ‘The life of a professional thought-reader
isn’t as easy as people imagine,’ says an item.”
No, some clients absolutely refuse to
tell anything about themselves in pre-
liminary discussions.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He did his beast to be unpleasant.”
— “Sun.”
What a swine of a man!
4 4 4-4
“Study this simple chart, and within five
minutes you’ll be playing the ukelele like a pro-
fessional.” — Advertisement.
Well, that’s fair warning, anyway!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“His ambition was to cut down expenses in
the works.”— “D.T.”
Many are fired by such ambitions.
•J* *-•-« *|«
“Fine Motor Hogs.”— “D.T.” heading.
Of course, and the splendid fellows
are responsible for some really beautiful
mutilations.
4* 4 4* 4
“Modem people take to motor-driving as a
matter of corse.” — “Sun.”
It appears to be coming to that.
4 4 4 4
“ ‘Many lawyers are keen on walking,’ says
an item.”
In fact, they’ve now got it down to
a “t.”
“Stop, Mabel, stop!
That's me auto-
graphed bat!“
“Talking Fit.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Hyphenated, this describes the missus
admirably.
“Artist Attends Show in Diving Suit.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Apparently thought he’d be submerged
with praise.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Two married men of meek appearance for
electrical sales work.”
—‘‘American Legion .Weekly.”
But surely the “meek” is redundant!
4* 4* 4 4-
“How to Live a Century.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Absurdly simple. Just a matter of keep-
ing the respiratory organs functioning
for 100 years.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Color Sense.
“Women have a more subtle appreciation of
color values than men.” — Fashion journal'.
When I showed that to Bill —he’s my
boy-friend—he just snorted. But Bill’s
like that. He doesn’t think women know
anything.
Why, only last month I bought him a
marvellous tie for his birthday. It was a
bright canary-yellow, with tropical-green,
heliotrope and candle-light red diagonal
stripes. In between the stripes were the
daintiest little powder-pink and cerulean
dots. It was really a darling tie. Even
the salesman —such a nice boy, with
black wavy hair and one of those thril-
ling little moustaches —told me he’d
never seen anything like it.
But, would you believe it, when I gave
the tie to Bill he just gulped and looked
sick. The mean thing simply refused to
wear it, even when I told him it would
be a nice contrast to his blue eyes and
navy-blue suit.
Men haven’t any aesthetic sense, have
they?
Jo.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘There is nothing easier than keeping a
few fowls in the back garden,’ says a poultry
expert.”
Particularly when they belong to your
neighbors.
Plants, Plots and Whatnots.
It is when a man is feeling seedy that
he appreciates a little “plant” at home.
The rosemary plant stands for remem-
brance. The hop plant can give you
good cause to remember it, too.
Old rakes are no good for turning
over new leaves.
Orange blossoms come to a head very
quickly in a good garden plot where no
hedging is allowed to interfere with their
development.
The deadly nightshade is the one you
see at the top of the stairs after you’ve
removed your boots and try to imitate
a climbing rose. - s
Clinging Ivy can often be found doing
her clinging to old beans in Winter
Gardens.
D. McM.
“Th' boss says y ’ gotter get orf ’er!”
A Ray of Hope.
Mr. Wiffleton Tittlebat writes:
“A lamentable and pestiferous result
of Jean Batten’s great flight is that the
women, regarding the feat as just another
proof of their superiority, are putting
on more airs than ever. The large ones,
married to little men like me, have
become more managerial, domineering
and nagsome, if possible, than ever.
In their opinion men are mere insects,
receding in the scheme of things further
into the background, thus bringing nearer
the time when the “weaker sex,” which
is a dangerously misleading term, will
run the world and alter everything in it
to suit themselves.
“There is, however, one little ray of
hope for the oppressed male in the fact
that women are becoming air-minded.
The more we can get them into the air
the more peace we shall have. If I could
afford it I’d buy my missus an aeroplane
this Christmas, one. in which the
direction-finder was inaccurate
and the wireless installation, if
any, irreparably deranged. I
would then, but not before pinch-
ing her chart, encourage, and urge
her to attempt a record-breaking
flight to Kamchatka or the
Antarctic. But, perceiving at' the
last minute, I suppose, despite an
earnest endeavor on my part to
conceal it, that my spirits were
rising instead of sinking, she’d
spoil everything by suddenly de-
ciding either not to go at all or
to take me with her.”
L. R.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Perry refuses to sign.”— Cable.
In his case the sward is mightier than
the pen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Bald men usually have steady nerves,’
states a doctor.”
In fact, they never turn a hair.
4- 4* 4* 4*
“After his marriage there was a marked im-
provement in his boxing ability.”
—Sporting story.
He fought like a man possessed.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some Little-known Facts About
China.
II. — General Knowledge.
Fuel is scarce in China, owing to the
denudation of forests and failure to ex-
ploit coal deposits known to be exten-
sive. The reason for the latter is that the
Western idea of starting a coalmine from
the ground and working downwards b
unthinkable to the Chinese mind. Thus
coun try awaits some genius who will
be a b] e commence a mine from the
bottom and work up.
As a result of this lack of fuel houses
are n ot heated during the severe winters,
and the people have to wear one coat
on top of another to keep warm, the
poor having but few and the rich many,
The record for the number of coats worn
all at once is held by Sum Por Kow, a
wealthy kite-tail merchant from Long
Wei Awei, who at the age of 98 had to
have removed an ingrown fingernail that
was piercing his elbow. After 35 had
been taken off the services of the
anaesthetist were dispensed with, the last
17 coats being removed surgically.
The Great Wall of China was built
by the Emperor Shi Hwang Ti, with the
approval of the Chinese Loan Council, in
the third century b.c. to keep the Tartar
off. The tremendous expense involved,
however, was not justified, for the Em-
peror lost his teeth through decay just
tne same.
The Great Wall is one of the Seven
Wonders of the world —the Eighth
Wonder (by the Chinese people) is when
it will be paid for, as it was built out of
loan moneys raised abroad, with in-
terest in perpetuity. The name of Shi is
venerated by all Australian Governments,
and the principles borrowed from him
have kept them perpetually “shy” ever
since.
The names of Chinese rivers alter as
they pass through various sections of
the country. Thus the Hwang Ho be-
comes the Hwat Ho after passing
through the province of Ting Ling Ling.
Then, on entering the great plain of Hei
Ho, where it gets very shallow, it is
known as the Pong Hi. Thence, in rapid
succession, it becomes the Tse Tse Fli,
We Li Lo, Hop Yu Chow, Ri Tow, Wun
Gin Sling and the Wa Tah Wow until,
passing the rum-distilling district at the
delta, it finally becomes the Yo Ho Ho.
The present solid footing of the silk
industry is due to the untiring efforts
of China’s Burbank, Wun Wing. Con-
sternation was caused during the late
’eighties when the silkworms took a
liking to the tea plant and started spin-
ning cocoons containing brown silk, the
effects of the tannin they’d imbibed. The
great botanist succeeded in crossing the
mulberry with the opium plant. When
the worms were all put back the nar-
cotised leaves of the mulberry-trees kept
them in just sufficient of a stupor to pre-
vent their leaving while yet giving them
enough energy to carry on with the
national work.
The language has been greatly simpli-
fied by having the alphabet limited to
approximately 40,000 characters. It
takes about 70 years for a Chinese to
learn one dialect, and there, are 18 in all.
That is why longevity is rampant in the
country. It is possible for a foreigner to
learn the language, provided he has a
cleft palate, catarrh, no teeth and 100
years to spare.
Peculiarly, the language is responsible
for the lack of forests. Kum On Sing,
the celebrated lexicographer, used up the
entire lumber supply of the nation to get
sufficient paper to compile a dictionary,
but was still short of seven dialects when
the supply ran out. It is hoped that
when one of the concessionaire coun-
tries commences reafforestation com-
pletion of the philological work may be
in sight.
Police identification line-up picking is
China’s most popular sport. Totalisators
have now been installed, and long odds
may be obtained about picking the right
one.
S. W. K.
Sworn-in—and Out.
He swore that she was his ideal,
She swore her love for him was real.
They kept on swearing this and that
Until they swore that holy mat.
Was their desire; and so they swore
To have and hold for evermore.
Since then they swear both hot and
strong,
She swears she’s right, he swears she’s
wrong ;
And both have sworn they’ve got a
grudge
To swear on oath before the Judge!
MC.
Popularising Piety.
“The era in which cinema projectors will be
as essential in churches as organs is fore-
shadowed by a church paper.”
“Good house?” asked the rector as he
entered the vestry.
“You bet your sweet life we have!”
exclaimed the verger enthusiastically.
“The wings are filling pretty well con-
sidering the angle, the nave’s packed and
there’s hardly an orchestra-pew left.
Pulpit’s booked for Mrs. Fitz-Boodle and
party, and reservations in the mezzanine
lounge —er, that is, the organ-loft—are
heavy.”
“Organ-loft! But there isn’t room to
swing a cat up there.”
“Don’t make no mistake about that,”
the verger smilingly assured him. “We
yanked the organ out last week, put in
some comfy chairs and installed a wur-
litzer in the chancel!”
“Wurlitzer? Splendid! But do you
think Miss Primm can play it?”
“Miss Primm! Be your age, your
rev.,” admonished the verger. “No, we’ve
engaged Eddie Quaver direct from the
Luxor-Luxurious. That’s him warming
up now.”
“Sounds snappy. What’s he playing?”
“The theme-piece from our feature for
to-day, ‘I Love Too Much.’ ”
“Good,” murmured the rector as he
donned his surplice. “Well, stop that
beastly bell,” he added, “and douse the
lights.”
PERCY.
Hard to Swallow.
“Governments of various nations are to
protect the whale from extinction.”
If whales should vanish from the sea,
The world might feel bereft;
But, anyhow, there’ll always be
A lot of Jonahs left!
J


Another Fine Australian Novel
I SOLD MY HORSES
BOOK ONE.
Morning Without Clouds.
Part One; 1902- 1909.
BY ERIC LOWE
“My grandfather died, and l never knew how ;
He left me six horses to drive in the plough.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
“I sold my horses, and I bought a little cow,
But when 1 went to milk her / didn’t know how.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
“I sold my cow, and / bought a little cat;
The wicked little thing on the mantelpiece she sat.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
“I sold my cat, and I bought a little mouse;
Its tail caught fire and it burnt down the house.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.”
[HERE was sudden movement in the gully
at the bottom of the homestead paddock,
and men were running towards it. Two men
were running from the hotel on the far side
and across the main road. One of them
was fat and short that would be George
Pollock, the publican the other, whom
Robin did not recognise, was a tall man in moleskins
and a grey flannel ; he carried a piece of broken rail
and was quickly outdistancing his companion. Donald
Stewart, Robin’s father, already almost on the bank
ot the gully, stopped behind a tree and peered
cautiously around the trunk, his gun held ready for
quick action. A man in the uniform of a police
trooper was riding furiously down the main road,
which stretched, brown and narrow as a bridle-rein,
between green fields, dividing the station paddocks
and running on into the sunset past the little wayside
pub.
ROBIN stood on the slope of the hillside, holding
the new gun as his father had taught him to hold
it, his right hand grasping the stock slightly below
his shoulder, the trigger-guard uppermost. He stood
very still, strangely incurious and detached. He knew
why the men were running not clearly, with his
mind, but dreamily, with‘something at the back of it,
something that had seen all this before. His mind
told him, even more vaguely, that their running was
in some way mixed up with the reason for his carrying
a gun, the new gun which he held with such pride.
He had longed without hope for just such a gun, with
no thought of ever asking for it, not daring even to
let his father guess that he thought about it; and
then, miles away, in a district he had never heard of,
four people, three of them children, had been killed
in the night.
It was queer, Robin thought, the way events were
always linking up. Something happened, right away
somewhere, that had nothing to do with you. You
heard about it in a casual way and forgot it, or
thought you had forgotten it. “Mrs. Morley and
three of her children were murdered on Sunday
night”—it meant nothing to you except as a picture
of destruction and death that was probably wrong.
A week or so later there was talk of more killings,
and a reward set on the heads of three men —Mooki
Bob, a blackfellow, and two half-caste brothers,
Tommy and Joe Major. One of the men on the
station knew Tommy Major well, and said he was
a fine athlete ; and Robin’s father had told him of
old Jacky Major, who discovered the Ronaville Silver-
mines and was given a horse and dray in full payment
for his claim, and whose feet were so hard that once
in Jack Bennett’s blacksmith’s shop he had trodden
on a red-hot horseshoe without knowing it. There
were more killings, closer at hand this time, and a
bigger reward offered for the capture, dead or alive,
of the three men —and at last the taking of Mooki
Bob at Bill Andrews’s selection, within ten miles of
Malwa.
With the capture of Mooki Bob this series of
events for the first time seemed to have a direct
bearing on Robin’s life. Laura Andrews had been
his nurse, and Laura had captured the blackfellow.
She was a frail little woman —or at least she looked
frail and delicate, though she had, as Robin knew,
an immense vitality and a hardy spirit. She proved
it when she married Bill Andrews, huge and black,
with a chest like a barrel and a great spade beard out
of which-his voice roared and rumbled like thunder
behind a timbered hill ; but she managed and con-
trolled him as easily as she had managed and
controlled the child Robin.
Mooki Bob, hard-pressed, weary and desperately
in need of food, looking back over his shoulder like
a hunted dingo, came to the selection one evening
just after sundown and found Laura alone in the hut.
His only weapon was a nulla-nulla, and with this he
threatened the woman, ordering her to make tea and
give him food at once. Quietly and with no sigp of
tear she pulled a chair up to the kitchen table, put
soda-bread, salt beef and pickles before the black and
told him to eat in peace ; no one would disturb him ;
Bill would not be home until the morning, and, as
he knew, the hut was miles away from anywhere.
Mooki Bob sat down to his meal with one eye on
the woman. When she moved to go out the door
he was on his feet in a moment, so she laughed and
turned back to the stove. The blackfellow started to
eat ravenously. By the side of the fire there was a
heap of wood split into lengths to fit the stove, and
Laura, bending down, lifted a billet and stood with
it in her hand as though to stoke the fire.
Mooki Bob was bolting his food like a starved
dog ; while he was between the woman and the door
he was, he thought, safe. Laura filled the cup with
tea and brought it to him, standing beside him for
a moment; and then like a flash her right hand
swung from behind her apron and she hit him. He
dropped from his chair like a pole-axed bullock, but
she hit him again for good measure.
When Bill Andrews came home in the early
morning he found Laura singing as she boiled wheat
on the kitchen stove, and Mooki Bob sleeping the
sleep of utter exhaustion, tied hand and foot with
greenhide leg-rope. The three hundred pounds
reward, Laura explained, would come in very handy.
They could get a four-furrow plough now, and a
small flock of breeding ewes.
Robin had seen Mooki Bob next • day sitting
handcuffed in the coach between two troopers. The
coach ran through twice a week and stopped at
Pollock’s pub to change horses, and when Robin
rode down with the mailbag there was Mooki Bob
grinning at him from the back seat, and Constable
Kennedy from Ronaville told Robin how Laura
had made the capture and showed him the nulla-
nulla wrapped round in brown paper, which the
trooper unwound so that Robin might see the dark
stain on the knob which Kennedy said was “blood
from Mrs. Morley’s head.”
Robin felt tremendously important when he
was home again. He told his two elder sisters, who
were back from school for the holidays, all about it,
especially the nulla-nulla with the “blood from Mrs.
Morley’s head” on it. They thought it all out together
and decided that they had better take steps to defend
themselves in case the two Majors should come to
Malwa in the night; so all that day they searched
around the homestead and in the bush for something
that looked like a nulla-nulla that, they decided,
would be the most adequate weapon either for attack
or defence.
Robin and Nora, the elder girl, managed to secure
two gum-sucker roots that, when trimmed down, made
excellent nulla-nullas ; but Kathleen’s efforts were in
vain until she came across an empty limejuice-bottle
shaped like an Indian club. These desperate weapons
they kept under their beds, and went to sleep with a
fine feeling of security and tingling with excitement
that almost amounted to a hope that the homestead
would be raided.
Donald Stewart laughed when he heard about it,
but when one night the station horses were driven
into the stockyard at the back of the homestead and
Mrs. Stewart’s favorite hack and a bay colt were
stolen he took a more serious view of things and,
calling Robin, told him that he was going to buy him
a gun and teach him to use it. In a week’s time the
new .410 double-barrel arrived, and Robin, quite
inarticulate with joy, was taken into the front paddock
ROBIN stood on the hillside that sloped down to
the gully and watched the men running and the
trooper galloping down the road. He felt lethargic,
impotent. Once or twice, though never so strongly
as now, this feeling had come to Robin as though
from an infinite distance he were watching something
which had happened ages ago. He had never told
anyone about it, but once he heard his father say
“Most of us, one time or another, coming to a strange
place, have the feeling that we have been there before ;
in some unaccountable way the place is familiar.”
This, Robin supposed, was the same sort of feeling,
though with him it was not so much places he recog-
nised as events. He could never at any time, have
said something was going to happen, but when it did
happen his inner consciousness nodded to itself and
said “Yes, yes. That’s as it should be —that’s how it
was before.”
Robin saw now that all the men had stopped
running. The trooper was sitting sideways on his
horse and looking over the fence into the gully ; he
had a revolver in his hand and rested it on the pommel
of his saddle. George Pollock had joined the man
with a broken rail, and they were both crouching
behind the fence that ran along the bank of the
gully. They stayed like this, motionless, for a little
while and then Robin’s father came from behind the
tree and disappeared down the bank. He shouted
something and laughed and the other three men
climbed over the fence and came down to him.
AS they were walking home across the paddock
Donald Stewart said “You were quite right not to
move, to stay where you were. Were you scared?”
“No,” Robin answered, and hesitated. Now, he
knew, was the time to tell his father about the queer
feeling of familiarity with events; he started to
speak of it and stopped. If it had been his Uncle
Brand he would have spoken without hesitation, but
with his father he was uncertain, afraid of doing or
saying the wrong thing. There had always been a
barrier between them. Robin wanted to get closer, to
tell his father his worries, to ask for explanations of
things that bewildered him, but at the first suggestion
of intimacy the barrier rose and Robin became awk-
ward and inarticulate.
Donald Stewart did sometimes talk about the
things that so intrigued Robin, and the boy liked
nothing better than to curl up in the big leather chair
in his father’s office and listen when Donald and his
brother Brand were talking together or when Dr.
Morgan paid one of his rare visits to Malwa. On such
occasions, if he could evade his mother, who did not
altogether approve of her husband’s conversation
before the children, especially when he was bandying
quips with his brother, Robin would follow the men
into his father’s office after dinner at night. Donald
would look at him with a tolerant smile, and if Brand
Stewart were there he would throw the emu-skin
over the boy and, with a face as solemn as an owl’s,
say “No” when Mrs. Stewart came to ask if they
had seen her son.
His father was speaking now as they climbed the
hill to the homestead. “There was nothing there,
Robin, and I don’t know what we expected to find.
I suppose we all had the thought of the Majors at the
back of our minds, and when something moved in the
gully—and I couldn’t swear now that 1 really did see
anything move —the same idea suddenly came to all of
us —the Majors! It was ridiculous, of course. Utterly
absurd. They couldn’t possibly have been there in
broad daylight, with the open country all around. If
we had stopped for a moment to think we’d have
realised that. But we didn’t stop to think ; we just
ran. Have you ever seen a mob of cattle drowsing
in the shade suddenly, for no reason at all, throw up
their heads and heels and race around? All in a
moment the same idea seems to strike each and every
one of them. Well, we were like that a lot of
damn fool animals.”
Chapter 11.
IT would be nearly an hour yet before
sunrise. Rubbing the sleep from his
eyes, Robin stood by the open window
watching the dawn-light growing. Bald
Head, high, round-topped and bare, stood
out ten miles away, distinct among its rolling foothills.
Nearer at hand the crest of Battle Ridge showed
darkly against the morning. Robin loved its ragged
skyline : the twisted ironbarks silhouetted along the
climbing ridge were fraught with a mysterious beauty
that was always new. Above them now hung a
narrow cloud-bar that turned, as the boy watched,
to a blood-red flag.
Robin dressed quickly. He was not often up so
early, but to-day they were branding calves at the
old stockyards. The first mob, he knew, would be


in before eight o’clock, and he wanted to be there
to meet it. He slipped quickly into his clothes and
ran out on to the back verandah to get his spurs and
whip, which hung there on a nail. The back verandah
ran around three sides of a cemented square. On one
side, past the door of his father’s office, he discovered
an unslung horse-pack, and a little further along
Brand was curled up in a grey blanket, his head on
a saddle. In the horse-paddock, grazing just outside
the back gate, were Black Harry, Brand Stewart’s
stock-horse, and old Bobby, the South Australian
brumby which Brand had caught on one of his wild
inland journeys and had used ever since as a pack-
carrier. He boasted that Bobby could go for three
days without water and show no effect at the end
of that time but an added surliness in his always
uncertain temper.
AFTER three years Brand Stewart was back. Ever
since Robin could remember it had been like this.
His uncle would disappear like a summer cloud. No
word would come from him, no one would hear of
him ; and then after a while, sometimes years, he
would turn up again at Malwa, stay for a while, and
as suddenly depart. Sometimes, as now, he would
arrive in the night, turn his horses into the paddock
and camp on the verandah until the morning. Some-
times he came in the coach, and once he had limped
in on foot, carrying a very light swag, pathetically
lean and with his boots so worn and broken that his
bruised feet, quite innocent of socks, had little or
nothing between them and the stony road.
No one questioned his coming or going nor asked
where he had been. Robin never knew why, or how
such an understanding had originated, but there it
was, an unwritten law which no one, not even Mary
Stewart, thought of breaking. Nor did Brand make
any effort to enlighten them.
Now he stretched himself luxuriously and sat
up yawning, with the grey blanket falling from his
shoulders. “Hallo, Robin!” he said. “I thought
you’d be away man-hunting.”
Robin held out his hand, smiling shyly. “I’ve
got a gun,” he said.
“Well, it’s too late now. Joe Major was shot
dead two days ago, and Jimmy must be either dead
or taken by this ; he’s very badly wounded —half his
lower jaw shot away.”
“Were you after them, Uncle Brand?”
“I!” Brand stood up. He was still wearing
spurs, and looked very tall and supple in dark mole-
skins and flannel shirt. He stretched his long muscu-
lar arms above his head.
“No, I wasn’t after them. There were enough
without me horse, foot and guns, police, and a
whole army of civilians with cartridge-belts and felt
hats and rifles and shotguns, like a Boer commando —
and all of them scared stiff and ready to pull trigger,
whichever way their guns were pointing, if they so
much as heard an owl squark. They were as thick
as flies amongst the Bendi Hills, where Joe was shot.
I happened to be coming through that way, but I
didn’t stop —it wasn’t safe.”
He picked up his hat and, smiling ruefully,
stuck a huge forefinger through two neat holes in
the crown. Robin looked at the hat with awe, wishing
it was his.
“They were here, you know,” he said. “That’s
why I’ve got a gun. They took Whalebone and a
bay colt out of the horse-paddock one night. Whale-
bone came back last week, very thin and footsore,
but the colt is away still —gone for good, Dad thinks.”
“He might turn up,” Brand said, “but it’s not very
likely now.”
He looked down at his young nephew with an
approving smile. Robin had grown considerably in
the last three years. How old would he be now?
Eleven or twelve ; he was not sure which. Twelve, he
thought. The boy was absurdly like Donald had
been at the same age, only his eyes were a darker
blue and his body slimmer. Well, he’d be tall enough,
and there was plenty of time for him to fill out.
“Where are you off to with whip and spurs?” said
Brand. “Do you always get up at daybreak, or was
it just to welcome me?”
“They’re branding in the old yards to-day, and
I wanted to help get the first mob in,” Robin told
him. “But I won’t go now. I’ll stay with you till
after breakfast.”
“No, you won’t. Come on and we’ll saddle Pie.”
They walked together to the stable, and Brand
asked “Is it still Pie? Or have you been promoted?”
“Still Pie,” Robin answered dolefully.
They carried saddle and bridle from the harness-
room to a small lucerne-paddock near the stockyard
where a fat piebald pony was feeding. Robin slipped
the bridle on.
“Pie’s getting very lazy and slow,” he said, “but
Dad says when I go to school he’ll get me a new
horse for the holidays. I ride Whalebone sometimes,
but not by myself.”
“Well, you can ride Black Harry some day.
We’ll go over and see Tom Milsom. So you’re going
to school?”
“After Christmas. John Morgan’s going too.
Can I really ride Black Harry?”
“Yes, if I come with you. Now away you go
or they’ll never get those cattle yarded.”
BRAND wandered around the stables and down
past the cowyard to the vegetable-garden. In
front of the gardener’s cottage Paddy Glyn, stripped
to the waist, was washing in a tin basin. He greeted
Brand joyously through a lather of soap.
“Is it yourself that’s home agin! Sure, the place
had been dead widout ye, and you at the wars and
all.”
“I didn’t get as far as Ireland, Paddy.”
“Then it’s a grand country ye never saw —though
divil a bit of it do I remember, me bein’ but foive
years old whin me father —God rest his soul! —came
over.”
Brand passed on and came at last to the orchard.
Everything, he thought, looked cared-for and pros-
perous, comfortable. It was good to be back again.
He felt lazy and contented. Yes, it was good to have
somewhere some place that was always the same to
rest in—a place which you could leave and come back
to when and how you liked. Malwa was like that,
now that Donald had it. It had been different when
their father had been alive.
Then, Brand was not sure what he would come
back to after a long absence. He would not have
been surprised at any time to find a stranger in
possession. Their father had lost all interest in Malwa
after their mother had died —had let the place go to
wrack and ruin and had drunk himself to death while
Donald struggled grimly to hold things together. His
father had never liked Mary, Donald’s wife, and she,
Brand knew, had loathed the old man. Oh, well, the
place was right enough now ; and, after all, it was
Mary’s money that had helped to make it so.
He looked across a wide olive hedge and over the
homestead paddock. The pub was still there! He
chuckled. Every time Brand came to Malwa Donald
swore he would buy out the pub and pull it down,
but either George Pollock would not sell or the pub
had to be kept going as a relay-station for the coach,
for year after year it remained standing, a worry to
Donald when his brother was home, and a constant
source of irritation to Mary. She regarded it quite as
a personal insult, and would, Brand believed, readily
have burned it, occupants and all—and would have
been truly satisfied had her brother-in-law been one
at the time.
Long ago, while their father was alive, he
and Donald had come to an understanding about
drink. Donald had said “You cannot drink here.
You cannot come here drunk. It is not a question
of morals, and I don’t want to interfere with your life,
but there has already been quite enough drinking at
Malwa. Do you understand?”
Brand, seeing the reasonableness of it, had ans-
wered “Yes.”
So then it was perfectly clear. He could drink
anywhere, at Pollock’s bar even, but not at Malwa ;
and so long as he came home sober Donald would
make no comment. If he came home drunk he must
go. Well, he never had come home drunk —not drunk
enough to be turned out, at any rate.
BRAND moved towards the house. It must, he
thought, be nearly breakfast-time. Walking
slowly through the orderly comfort of the big orchard
he turned into a long green tunnel of trellised grape-
vines that led him almost to the kitchen door. At
the end of the trellis stood Mary Stewart, tall and
straight, the morning sun making highlights on her
red-gold hair.
“Hullo, Mary!” he called.
Her eyes were hostile under level brows.
“You’re back!” she said. “Brand, why must you
camp on the verandah like a blackfellow for the
servants to laugh at in the morning? Why can’t you
go to your own room?”
“There might be someone in it. Three years, you
know! Might be anyone—a governess, a lady-help.”
Mary Stewart said coldly “Knowing your habits,
is it likely I’d put anyone in your room —even for one
night? No! You know perfectly well it’s kept for
you, and you only. Breakfast is ready.”
Brand laughed.
“All right, my dear. I’m coming.”
“Is it too much to ask you to take off your spurs
and to have a wash? If you want a clean shirt or a
coat I’ll ask Donald to bring them to you.”
“Mary darling, I’d do anything in the world for
you but shave —I won’t take off my beard. I have
clean shirts in my pack, and a coat —quite a respect-
able coat.”
She turned without replying, and Brand followed
her into the house..
Chapter IIL
& b UT up the top rail, Robin,” Mary
|Mf Stewart said. “Of course he can
“But, Mother, Uncle Brand
says that even Black”
Mary Stewart broke in hotly: “I’m not concerned
with your Uncle Brand —or Black Harry. I don’t
know whether he jumped it or not, but Whalebone
can, and I’m going to take him over.”
Robin tied the piebald pony to a post a little
way along the fence and went back to the sliprails
to struggle with the heavy top bar. On the other
side of the fence Mary Stewart, in a straw hat and
a dark riding-habit, reined Whalebone back. She
looked slim and young as she sat side-saddle on the
big chestnut, her small gloved hands steady on the
bridle-reins and her face flushed with temper and
impatience.
Robin, loving her and admiring her with all the
generous warmth of his young soul, was nevertheless
angry and depressed. It was a stiff jump for any
horse ; he had been witness to one bad smash that
day, and if his mother was hurt they were miles
from Malwa, and the hunters were even farther away
behind them. He was annoyed, too, because his
mother had made him leave the hunt and ride home
with her, just when they were moving on into the
pig-country.
THE day had started With such promise. When
Robin went to the stable to saddle Pie he had
found Brand Stewart tightening the girths of Mary’s
side-saddle. Whalebone looked a picture of health
and vigor, and Robin knew from the sheen on his
coat and the wave in his mane and tail that Brand
had been up at dawn, putting on a final polish that
Ted Cluff, the stableboy, could never achieve.
Black Harry was already saddled and standing
at the hitching-rail. Robin’s heart gave a leap of
joy when he saw leaning against the rail his uncle’s
lance, which was always kept in the loft above the
stable. So they would be hunting pigs, he thought,
as well as kangaroos. Robin had never been to a
pig-hunt.
Ted came out of the stable leading Donald
Stewart’s roan mare, and Brand, looping three bridles
over his arm, handed the lance to the already mounted
Robin. They walked the horses round to the
gravelled drive in front of the house, and in a little
while Mary in her close-fitting riding-habit, and
Donald wearing white breeches and topboots, came
out.
Leaning down, Brand offered his hand for Mary’s
left foot, and lightly she went up to the saddle. She
smiled down at her brother-in-law.
“Brand, for all your villainy, you put a woman
on to her horse more adroitly than any man I know.”
Brand slipped over Mary’s foot the loop of
elastic that kept the riding-skirt down and, stepping
back, bowed with exaggerated courtesy. “Mary,” he
said, “you look more beautiful than ever on horse-
back.”
BRAND was still chuckling as he forded the river
and opened the boundary gate to meet Peter Brain
and the Burnt Plains party.
Peter Brain came out to meet them.
“Why, Brand Stewart!” he said. “I haven’t seen
you for years. Are you going to chase kangaroos
with a spear?”
“No. I brought it to protect Mary from dragons
and cattle-duffers, but she’ll have none of me, so I’ll
hide it in a hollow tree till this afternoon.”
There were twenty in the party, four of them
women and three children. Emily and Gillson Brain
were both older than Robin. Gillson, who was
fifteen and already at boarding-school, was inclined to
be patronising, and Emily Robin disliked intensely.
He did not quite know why—probably because he
had been forced to play with her when they were
both very small children. He had put a stop to that
one day by luring her up into the stable loft and
taking away the ladder, leaving her there to howl all
the afternoon while he went looking for bees’ nests
with the stableboy. It had earned Robin a good
strapping, but he had considered it worth while, for
Emily never came again.
Robin would have liked to ride with his Uncle
Brand, but that was impossible, for Pie could not
make the pace, so he was forced to stay back with
Gilly, who was afraid he could not hold his pony if
he let it out of a trot, and Emily, who rode a steady
old stock-horse, too old and too wise to be bustled.
Emily’s chief delight seemed to be riding old Pilot
through the fallen limbs at the bottom of dead trees.
She liked to hear them crackling and breaking, she
said.
“Fool!” Robin muttered. “She’ll stake him in a
minute, and then he’ll be lame for the rest of the day.”
ROBIN watched from a regrettable distance while
two or three kangaroos were run-down and
killed. Then suddenly a huge “old man” hopped
leisurely out from the shade of an apple-tree not
twenty yards in front of him. Yelling at the top of
his voice, Robin, vigorously plying whip and spurs,
drove Pie along in a reckless gallop. The little mare
was willing enough, but her short legs were hope-
lessly incapable of gaining on the kangaroo, now
racing for its life towards a tumbled mass of granite
that marked the beginning of a short ravine through
which ran the Pipeclay Creek. The others had
noticed him now, and Robin saw that they were
riding to head the “old man” before he reached the
rocks. Whalebone, looking the thoroughbred he was,
was fully extended five lengths in front of them all.
After him came Black Harry, racing neck-and-neck
with a fine grey horse ridden by Dick Marshall, a
friend of the Brains. Close behind them came Donald
Stewart, while the rest of the hunt trailed away over
half a mile of plain.
If they could reach the rocks in time to turn the
kangaroo there would be no other crossing-place for
him until the creek emptied out of the ravine a mile
lower down. Robin knew he had no hope at all of
catching up, but the gorge was shaped like a horse-
shoe, so if he rode straight for the mouth of it, and
if they managed to turn the kangaroo, and if it
followed down the creek when it was turned, he would
be in at the death. It was a chance worth taking,
and, swinging to the left, he galloped madly across
the plain. Looking over his shoulder as he rode, he
saw that his mother had been first to the rocks. The
“old man” had turned down the creek, and Brand
and Dick Marshall, anticipating the turn, had cut
across to the left. The black and the grey were in
front now, and Mary was riding side-by-side with
Donald, the chestnut moving with long, effortless
strides, its head pulled in to its chest.
Robin reached the mouth of the ravine and
turned to watch the chase, now tearing towards him.


His heart was thumping with excitement. The
kangaroo was still full of running and holding its
lead. It seemed certain that it would cross the creek
well ahead of the hunters, and, once over, the odds
were all in favor of its reaching the timber-country
and safety.
There was only one thing to do, Robin thought:
he must try to turn the “old man” back across the
plain. Swinging his whip and shouting, he rode
forward a little way so as to meet the kangaroo where
the creek still ran through a rocky gorge. The ravine
narrowed here to barely twenty feet.
With this unexpected menace in front, the
kqngaroo hesitated ; its pace slackened and the hunters
gained with every stride. Robin saw Brand slip his
foot out of the stirrup-iron and pull the leather from
the saddle. He was almost within hitting distance
when the kangaroo turned suddenly to the right and
made straight at the boy on the pony. Robin
scarcely knew what happened ; there was a flash of
grey above him, hot fur brushed his face, and then
the kangaroo was across the creek and racing for
the timber. In one tremendous bound it had cleared
boy and pony and ravine. Almost with the kangaroo’s
leap a grey and a black horse flashed past Robin on
either side. He heard the grey horse grunt as it rose
to the jump, he heard Brand Stewart shout a warning,
and then, as he swung Pie around, there came a
sickening crash.
Across the creek the grey, riderless and with
flying reins, was galloping towards the timber, and
Brand Stewart with a terrific wrench had pulled Black
Harry back on to his haunches. Fifteen feet down,
lying half in the water of the creek, and very still,
was the crumpled form of Dick Marshall. The grey
had cleared the gap splendidly, but had jumped
under the bough of a tree swinging low on the
opposite bank. The bough had caught poor Marshall
breast-high, tearing him from the saddle and flinging
him back into the creek.
Robin threw the reins over Pie’s head and
scrambled down the side of the ravine. Brand Stewart
was there before him and had dragged Marshall out
of the water. In a little while Donald and Mary
had arrived at the top and Donald came down.
Suddenly, in a flash, the old, bewildering feeling
came over Robin, drowning his senses. He lived
age-long through one suspended moment —a remem-
bered moment. It was as though someone was tapping
a single note with incredible speed, a note plucked
from a jumble of sound heard ages ago. He knew
the whole setting, as though he had seen it portrayed
in a picture: The two men and the boy grouped
around the still figure at the bottom of the ravine ;
the great gum-tree on the northern bank with its
low-sweeping branch; on the opposite bank Pie
standing with drooping head and heaving flanks ; and
Mary Stewart sitting very straight on Whalebone,
holding the roan mare’s reins and looking down into
the creek. It was unreal, like a dream, uncanny and
horrible.
Brand Stewart spoke, and the world moved on
again. “I think he’s all right,” he said. “There’s
nothing broken that I can find, but he came a hell
of a crash.”
He was wiping mud off the white face with a
wet handkerchief when Marshall’s eyes opened. In
a little while he sat up and looked around in a dazed
way. They found that he could walk but felt sick
and very shaken. Burnt Plains homestead was little
more than a mile away, and when Donald suggested
riding back there with him he gladly accepted the
offer.
The rest of the hunt had come up by this time.
Someone caught Marshall’s horse, and while he and
Donald rode slowly towards Burnt Plains the others
camped for lunch on the creek at the mouth of the
ravine.
7|FTER lunch Mary Stewart decided that she did
** not want to stay for any further hunting. She
had been very upset by Marshall’s accident and had
no great wish, she said, to see Brand Stewart showing-
off with a pig-spear. As Donald was still away she
made Robin ride home with her, much to his disap-
pointment.
As they rode along Robin spoke of Brand
Stewart, of Black Harry, of Brand’s riding, but his
enthusiasm merely served to reawaken Mary’s anger
at Brand’s raillery. She even included Donald in her
displeasure, blaming him for sharing an intimacy with
his brother from which, she made herself imagine,
she was excluded.
It was this feeling of pique, more than anything,
that made her ride Whalebone at the sliprails, for
Robin, in all innocence, had quoted his uncle as
saying that Black Harry had once almost come to
grief over these very rails and he doubted if any other
horse in the district could clear them.
Robin stood back as his mother wheeled the big
horse and came racing at the rails. Perhaps the
chestnut was tired from the morning’s galloping, or
it may have been that in her anger Mary brought him
too fast at the jump ; whatever the cause, he took off
too late, caught the top rail with his knees and, turning
half over, crashed to earth on his neck and shoulder,
throwing his rider yards away.
For many months afterwards it worried Robin,
every time he thought of the accident, to remember
that his first anxiety had been for the horse. Whale-
bone lay in a hideous jumble, his neck bent back so
that his head was hidden beneath his body. Robin
felt sure the chestnut’s neck was broken. Physically
ill with apprehension, he seized the bridle-reins and
pulled with all his might. The horse, when his head
was freed, struggled to his feet and stood dazed and
uncertain while Robin dropped the reins and ran
across to his mother.
Mary Stewart was sitting up, her face very white
now and her lips tight shut. “I’ve hurt my shoulder,
Robin badly and my side,” she said. “I can’t
possibly ride.”
“It’s only a little way to where the Milsoms live,”
Robin told her. “Shall I ride over and get help?”
‘‘Yes, go quickly. Oh, Robin, it is hurting dread-
fully.” But before he had mounted she asked “How
far is it to the Milsoms?”
“Why, only over in the next hollow,” Robin
answered. “This is their boundary fence.”
“Then I’ll come with you. I can walk, at least.
“I don’t want to stay here alone.”
Leading the two horses, Robin walked beside his
mother. After what seemed to her an infinite period
of time they came to a rough slab hut in the centre
of a clearing in thick timber. A dog barked, and a
woman wearing a man’s shirt and blue dungaree
trousers came out of the hut.
Mary was struck by the woman’s free carriage,
her broad shoulders and the bold dark beauty of her
face.
“Mrs. Milsom, Mother’s hurt,” Robin said.
Without a word the woman put strong arms
around Mary and, lifting her bodily, carried her into
the hut. Robin stayed with the horses, and in a little
while Bella Milsom came out.
“Your mother will be all right now,” she said.
“Her collarbone’s broken but I’ve fixed it up. You’d
better tell your father. Do you know where to find
him?”
“Yes. They’re all in the long swamp after pigs.
I’ll ride Whalebone if you’ll help me change the
saddles.”
When the woman was tightening the girths Robin
said slowly “Mrs. Milsom, don’t steal any more
cattle.”
Instantly her fierce whisper came: “Ye devil’s
spawn, keep your bloody mouth shut. Who told you
I stole cattle?”
Robin was suddenly afraid, but he answered,
trying hard to keep his voice steady: “I’ve heard
them say it —Father and Mr. Brain—Uncle Brand
wanted to warn you, because of Grandfather Milsom.”
Surprisingly, Bella Milsom laughed. “So your
Uncle Brand’s home. Well, tell him this from me:
Bella Connelly needs no warning from a man who
passes his troubles on to another ; and Slip Harden’s
niece will never be tricked by a Stewart, as her uncle
was.”
Later in the day Robin faithfully delivered this
message and asked what Mrs. Milsom had meant.
“Bella is Harden’s niece,” Brand Stewart
explained. “Harden was a bushranger, and Malcolm
Stewart, your grandfather’s brother, shot him.”
“But what did she mean by the other?”
Deliberately Brand answered “I don’t know.”
Chapter IV,
A HARE was racing along the line of
shooters. John Morgan, next to
Robin on his right, fired a single
shot and missed. In a moment now,
Robin thought, it would be within range,
and, steadying his excitement, he turned a little and
raised his gun. “Not yet,” he kept telling himself.
“Wait. Don’t fire too soon. Wait until he’s running
past you and then aim about a foot ahead.”
Suddenly, away to Robin’s left and behind him,
there was a double report, and almost with the sound
a score of flying pellets struck him on the shoulder,
thinly covered by a cotton shirt. But the hare was
within easy range now, and Robin, scarcely realising
that he was hit, took careful aim and fired. As the
hare crumpled and fell Robin became aware of the
stinging pain in his shoulder. It was hurting now,
hurting a great deal, and, dropping his gun, he turned
to see where the shot had come from. Dr. Morgan,
John’s father, was walking towards him.
“Well done, Robin,” he called cheerfully. “A
nice, clean shot, coolly taken. Why, what’s the
matter?”
Robin, struggling to keep back his tears, said
“You shot me!”
JU| ARY STEWART’S broken collarbone had been
* T I only part of her injury, and Donald, not trusting
at all to Bella Milsom’s rough surgery, had sent for
Dr. Morgan. The doctor had driven his buggy and
pair the fifty miles from Clune to Malwa and, as was
usual on such occasions, had brought with him his
son and his gun.
John was the same age as Robin, and they had
spent much of their twelve years of life together.
John, too, had just been given a gun, but a single-
barrel, and therefore in Robin’s eyes an inferior
weapon to his own, though John boasted that his was
a sixteen-bore and so the better of the two.
When a hare-drive had been suggested both boys
were in a fever of excitement and spent the preceding
afternoon oiling and polishing their guns, loading
cartridges and fitting them into bandolier and belt.
The only cloud in the sky for Robin was the fact
that his Uncle Brand had refused to take part in the
drive. There was, he said, some excitement in chasing
pigs or kangaroos on horseback, but absolutely none
in murdering driven hares from ambush.
Wishing them good hunting when the party set
out in the morning, Brand, with time rather heavy on
his hands, wandered down to Pollock’s pub, where he
flirted outrageously with Emily Pollock, a girl of
nineteen. Tiring of this rather soon, he started drink-
ing and playing cards with two drovers and a travelling
hawker. This was Brand’s first drinking-bout since his
return to Malwa, and George Pollock shook his head
forebodingly as he carried tray after tray of whisky
to the players. He knew how drink affected Brand,
and he muttered to his wife “He’s started on it proper
to-day, Mother. You know what his tongue’s like
when he has a few across his chest and Danny
Grogan’s been looking for fight for three days. Well,
it’s no use warnin’ him. God grant his legs don’t
go before the row starts! ”
It was after lunch when the trouble came. Lean-
ing across the table, Brand touched the red-headed
hawker on the arm. “Bluey,” he said lightly, “is that
a new fashion or just a hawker’s privilege?”
The red-headed man glared across the table, the
half-dealt pack of cards gripped tightly in his hand.
“What d’you mean?” he demanded truculently.
Brand leant back in his chair, his thumbs hooked
in his belt, his eyes dancing and his mouth set in a
crooked smile. “Well, most people deal from the
top of the pack!”
One of the drovers pushed back his chair, but the
other was too drunk to move and sat staring stupidly
at the cards on the table.
“Look here, mister,” the hawker said slowly, “do
you mean I’m cheating?”
Without moving Brand replied “Why, yes, you
clumsy dolt; of course you’re cheating.”
The red-headed man flung the cards straight into
Brand’s face and, thrusting over the table, he swung
a hairy fist viciously at Brand’s head.
Grogan should have waited a while longer, for
Brand was still master of his legs, and the fight was
over before it had well begun. Hardly realising where
the punches had come from, the hawker sat on the
floor, his hand up to his face, staring in amazement
at the man he had picked as an easy mark. As Brand
stepped up to him he shrank back against the side of
the bar, shutting his eyes and throwing forward a
protecting arm. Brand seized the outstretched arm
and with little apparent effort jerked the man to his
feet. Before anyone could grasp his purpose he had
thrown the hawker over the bar, jumped across after
him, and was holding the red head amongst the suds
and corks in the overflow trough while he vigorously
worked the handle of the beer-pump.
He was laughing now. George Pollock, seeing
his bar-room flooding with beer and good money
going to waste, tried to pull him away, but got a kick
on the shins for his pains and retreated hastily. Not
until the cask was empty and the pump starting to
suck air did Brand release the unfortunate hawker.
Giving his head a final push into the brimming trough,
he turned away and walked up to the publican.
“George,” he said, “whatever that beer cost I’ll
pay you for it in the morning. I haven’t the money
with me now.”
Still laughing, he walked out of the bar and
through the back door. He’d had enough of the pub
for that day, and would go home to Malwa and tease
Mary.
As he walked past the kitchen window he heard
someone sobbing, and, looking in, discovered Emily
Pollock sitting by the kitchen table, her head on her
arms. Turning in to the kitchen, he walked over to
the girl and put his hand gently on her shoulder.
“Why, Emily,” he said, “what’s the matter?”
She wiped her eyes with her apron but said
nothing.
“Tell me, child, what is it? Has someone done
anything or said anything to hurt you?”
“No.”
“Then what is it? You mustn’t cry like that.”
Suddenly she caught him by the arm. “Mr.
Stewart,” she said, “why will you do it?”
“Do what?” Brand said in amazement.
“You drink and drink, and play cards with that
crowd, and fight... Oh, you know what I mean.
You’re not one of them—you oughtn’t to be one of
them—you oughtn’t to be here.”
“Bless your silly little heart,” Brand said, and,
picking her up in his arms, he kissed her. Immedi-
ately he was sorry. For a moment she was inert, then
quickly she threw her arms around his neck and
kissed him hard on the mouth. “That’s another thing
you oughn’t to do.” Her voice was a sob. “Go
away—go away!”
ALKING across the paddocks to Malwa, Brand
felt that his day had been a failure. He was
uncomfortable, annoyed. He tried to believe that he
was irritated with Emily because, she had taken it
upon herself to question his actions, but he knew
that the discomfort was deeper than that. For some
reason this brat of a girl had made him see himself
for a moment, as no one else had, in the cruel white
light of truth. A useless creature —a drunken sot —a
braggart. He admitted to himself that he had
deliberately brought on the fight with Danny Grogan,
and his gesture with the beer-pump had been pure
swank.
JU|ARY STEWART was lying on a cane lounge on
* v | the front verandah when Brand walked up the
gravel drive. He had lost all zest for teasing her, but
he came over to her side and sat on the boards of
the verandah, throwing down his hat and leaning
back against a square-cut post. Mary looked at him
suspiciously, then, her nose wrinkling in disgust, she
said “You stink of beer.”
“It’s mostly on the outside,” Brand said. “If it
annoys you very much I’ll go and change ; but I don’t
want to move. I’m feeling soft and melancholy, and
this is too lovely a spot in the late afternoon to leave
it hurriedly.”
“I hate it!”
Brand looked at her curiously.
“I don’t understand,” he said. “You can’t mean
that you hate the outlook from here —that arch of
wistaria, the blossoms on the wild apple-trees, the


roses, the green of the hedges and the brown of the
gravel, the hillside, the long skyline of Battle Ridge,
old Bald Head—you can’t hate that. It could make
you feel all sorts of ways, but not hateful.”
He added with a grin “It has even made me feel
repentant —I’m not sure that it doesn’t now. ’
“In your catalogue of beauties,” Mary said, “you
forgot to mention Pollock’s pub.”
*<\/OU have comfort,” Brand said to Mary, “you
* have pleasures, you have your children. You’re
surrounded with happiness and interest. What more
could you want?”
“The girls are at school, Robin will soon be
going, and in any case I see little of him. He’d sooner
be out on the run with the men than with me.
Interest! What interest have I here? To order
meals, to see that Donald’s clothes are clean and have
buttons on them, to read a newspaper three days old,
to see nothing but men from year’s end to year’s end
—to sit and listen to their silly chatter about stock
and windmills and wool and fences.”
“You, a country girl, to talk like that! And
there’s your garden. Could anyone help but be
happy in that?”
“I left the country when I was twelve. It was
like starting a new life when I came here. And the
garden is Paddy Glyn’s, not mine.”
Brand, exasperated, said “Good God, what would
you have? What do you want?”
“To live in Sydney—to travel. Donald is well
enough off now, and I have an income. I want my
girls to have all the advantages that I had, and more,
for they could travel. I’ve begged Donald to sell
Malwa, but he’s selfish and hard ; he won’t listen to
me.”
“I should hope not. What about Robin?”
“Robin will never own Malwa. He will go from
school to the university and take up a profession—
medicine or law.”
Brand laughed. “Robin and Don both will have
something to say about that. Why, the boy loves the
land —he’s part of it. And do you think Don will
let Malwa go into any hands but his son’s?”
“I know what you mean. Robin may be part of
the land, but he is also part of me, and I am deter-
mined that he will be something more than just a
breeder of animals, as his father and grandfather have
been. I cannot tell you how I know, but Ido know
most positively that Robin will never own Malwa.”
Brand gave it up. “Well,” he said lightly, “he’s
making the most of his time while he is here. Listen
to the guns in the front paddock. They’ll be bringing
home hares by the dray-load. Do you like jugged
hare, Mary? That’s one of the nice things that come
to you when you live in the country. Tell Clare to
use port this time, not claret.”
g g |>LESS my soul!” Dr. Morgan said. “You’re
peppered with shot. It’s only spent shot,
ricocheted off the ground, but I expect it stings like
the devil. To-morrow you’ll have little blue bruises
all over your shoulder. There are two or three pellets
just stuck in the skin. Stand steady for a minute and
I’ll pull them out with the tweezers.”
Donald Stewart, who had come across to see
what was the matter, said “Do you feel all right,
Robin? Would you like me to take you home?”
Robin, though his shoulder was smarting a good
deal, strenuously denied that he was troubled by it
and certainly did not want to go home. He stayed
to the end, and the pain went out of his shoulder,
though it left it rather stiff. He and John Morgan
came home that night with their bags bulging with
game.
Chapter V.
RAND STEWART lay at the bottom
jM|. of the orchard in the soft shadow of
,Ui an olive hedge. He was drunk. As
usual on such occasions, his mind
was extremely active—a riotous medley of
rich thoughts—but his legs were traitors. They had
brought him precariously as far as the orchard and
had then refused duty altogether. He was at ease
and perfectly content, although he knew that before
very long he would have to call loudly for someone to
help him up to the house. And Donald would send
him away, and Mary Stewart would tell him again
that he was a dissolute wastrel and not fit to associate
with her children.
As a matter of fact he rather enjoyed a skirmish
with Mary, except that it annoyed his brother, and
Don was too good a fellow to worry. Brand knew,
too, that what really annoyed Donald was the fact
that his wife was no match for his brother in an
encounter of wits, and when Brand had “drink taken,”
as Paddy Glyn expressed it, his wits were unnaturally
bright and his tongue had an evil, saw-like edge.
Oh, well, he thought, it was time to move on
again. Three months at Malwa was a long spell, and
Emily Pollock was becoming rather a problem.
Goodness, how the child had grown! She was a
woman now, and last time he had seen her she was
all knees and red flannelette bloomers, and pigtails
half-way down her back. If he stayed much longer
Mary might have more cause to revile him. He had
told her once, he remembered, that the pub was
damned inconveniently situated —too close for prop-
riety and too far for comfort.
WHEN he had ridden down to the hotel that
morning Brand had had no intention of staying.
George Pollock had asked him to come, to see if
he could do anything with a horse that was hard to
shoe, and Brand, whose power over horses was pro-
verbial in the district, had readily agreed to help.
The horse, a stupid creature but more frightened than
vicious, had plunged about a good deal before Brand
succeeded in quietening it, and in the preliminary
struggle his hand had been torn on a jagged tooth.
He took no notice of it, but George Pollock swore
that a horse’s tooth was poisonous and had insisted
that Emily should bathe the wound with carbolic
lotion and bandage the hand.
Emily had been rather shy and nervous and
unresponsive to his badinage, but when she had
finished dressing the hand she looked up at him with
a smile, her face flushed and happy. To Brand she
was suddenly very desirable. He wanted to take her
up and kiss her. “Did anyone ever tell you you were
beautiful?” he said.
She laughed, entirely free from any small vanities
but pleased with what she thought was his banter.
“No,” she said. “No one is likely to.”
“Well, it’s true. You’re wasted here. What are
you going to do with your life?”
“I want to be a nurse. Next year I’m going to
Sydney to train. Don’t you think it’s a good idea,
Mr. Stewart? I’ve put that bandage on well enough,
haven’t I?”
“Very well indeed. You’ll have a hospital of
your own some day and I’ll come to you to be looked
after. You’ll treat me as a special case, and I’ll call
you Matron!”
“You’ll do nothing of the sort!”
“Then if you won’t let me call you Matron you
can’t call me Mr. Stewart. If you do I’ll get out of
bed and catch pneumonia and die. Where are you
going to stay in Sydney? I’ll come and see you.”
Emily said quickly “Oh, you musn’t!”
“Why not, silly?”
Emily was silent, and Brand saw that her face
was white. The wish to kiss her was very strong ...
To take her in his arms ... To take her away ... He
knew that if he persisted she would not deny him, and
the urge to take her was almost unbearable.
George Pollock was calling him from the bar.
He went in and swallowed two stiff whiskies, but
with the drink tingling in his veins he went back to
Emily. She was gone —nor would she come for his
calling ; and, suddenly enraged, he stamped back to
the bar and called for more drink.
IT was time to move on. The children would miss
him, especially Robin. So would Donald. Good old
Don! A man of property, solid, with a handsome,
wealthy wife and three bonny children. And yet
Brand often wondered if his were not the better life —
no property, no cares, no hampering morals, no
handsome wife. He laughed out loud —“Could I ring
and be still at the Church’s will?” What a line! He’d
try it on Mary some time. She would realise its
evil intent, even if she did not appreciate its aptness.
What was wrong with the woman, anyhow? She
was growing sour and prudish as an embittered old
maid, and was almost insanely jealous of Donald,
whose faithfulness, Brand knew, was as absolute as
it was surprising. She exasperated Brand. He wanted
to take her and literally shake the foolishness out of
her.
The truth was, he thought, that she had led too
secure a life. As Mary Graham, the daughter of rich
and dissolute old John Graham, she had been brought
up by her mother in a convent-like seclusion, shel-
tered and protected from the wicked world, of which
John Graham was an ever-present example. She
had married Donald Stewart very much against the
better judgment of her mother, who saw in the pros-
pective husband just such another as John Graham,
but without that worthy citizen’s ability to grow
money. Her fears, however, were unfounded. Donald
prospered and was faithful, but Mary, though she
could appreciate the results of his providence, had
been taught to distrust all men.
Brand thought that probably if poor old Don
were to keep her thinking a bit harder she would have
less time to harass him with her utterly ridiculous
jealousies. Brand wondered if, after seventeen years,
his brother was satisfied with his bargain. You could
never tell with Donald. He had grown very like
their father in the last few years, dour and taciturn.
He must have loved her once, though, for she had
been a beautiful girl and was still a very beautiful
woman. Oh, what did it matter! Perhaps they got
along quite well together in spite of her sourness and
foolish unfounded suspicions.
THE shadow of the hedge lengthened, blending
■ with the surrounding shade, and Brand was about
to call for someone to come to his assistance when
he saw Robin and Nora in the orchard. He called
to them gaily, and the children came over to him. He
sat up rather uncertainly and motioned them with a
magnificent sweep of his arm to sit in the grass beside
him.
“Nora,” he said solemnly, “you’re getting more
like Mrs. Pollock every day.”
Robin giggled delightedly, and Nora, growing
very red, pulled her dress further down her long, slim
legs. Mrs. Pollock was as long and gaunt as her
husband was short and fat.
Brand Stewart laughed boisterously.
“Nora at least will be glad to be rid of me. I’m
going away to-morrow.”
Nora immediately was full of concern.
“Not to-morrow —not yet —I’ve only just come
home from school. Wait till the nectarins are ripe ;
no one likes them but you and me.”
“But, Uncle Brand,” Robin broke in, “you can’t
go yet. You promised I could ride Black Harry.
You promised to come over to Bald Head with me to
see Grandfather Milsom. You can’t go yet.”
Brand looked from one agitated face to the other,
little wrinkles of humor forming around his fine, bold
eyes nectarins in a garden; quiet rides through
green, fenced paddocks; sober, orderly, civilised
things—but not for Brand Stewart; not yet.
“Yes,” he said, “I’m going. I’ve been here nearly
three months, and that’s longer than I’ve ever stayed
at Malwa since your Grandfather Stewart died. Don’t
worry about the nectarins, Nora ; there’ll be all the
more for you, and you can make jam of what you
can’t eat. We’ll have that together next time I come.
I’m sorry not to see old Tom Milsom, Robin. I’d
leave him some money, but I don’t think he’d have
the use of it; his damned daughter-in-law would get
it. As for Black Harry, I’m not taking him, so you
may ride him to your heart’s content until I want
him again. Old Bobby can have a long spell; he’s
earned it.”
The children were silent. Both were genuinely
distressed at the thought of losing their uncle, though
they knew this was inevitable sooner or later, Robin
for an added reason. Two horses had always stood
out for him as the greatest of their kind—Romany,
the black stallion which had died five years before,
and Black Harry, a son of Romany. Robin had
ridden Black Harry once. He was a magnificent hack
and a clever, experienced stock-horse. No one ever
rode him but Brand, and though on occasions he
was left for a while in the Malwa paddocks he was
never even yarded until his master came to take him
again.
Brand could see that the boy was struggling with
words to express his gratitude.
“All right, Robin,” he said, “I know you’ll
look after him. Now run along, both of you, and
teil Paddy Glyn to come down here.”
AFTER dinner that night Donald Stewart sat on
the edge of his brother’s bed.
“I suppose it’s no use telling you you’re a fool,”
he said. “Why don’t you give it up, man, and live
like a decent citizen?”
Brand looked up with a crooked grin.
“I would have thought that you knew why better
than most people. I may not have much longer. The
pain is bad now sometimes and comes more often.”
“You’re morbid about that. Sinclair said it was
nothing. Anyhow, you’re not improving matters,
going on the way you do.”
“What Mary calls my evil ways are harmless
enough, God knows —no one is affected by what I
do.”
“I was thinking of yourself. You’ve been drink-
ing more than usual lately—a hell of a lot more.”
Brand’s mouth hardened.
“Is this a lecture, Don? I’m going to-morrow as
I told you, so you’ve got no kick coming.”
“It’s just that,” Donald said. “I don’t want you
to go —at least not to go wandering all over the place
like a brumby stallion. This is not meant for a
lecture, but I have a scheme in view, and I do
sincerely wish you’d help me with it. I’m buying
Wilga Downs, and I’d like you to manage it for me.
Your salary would be £SOO a year and everything
found. I know it’s more than an ordinary manager’s
screw, but you’d be worth that to me. Father left me
practically everything, which we both know was not
fair. I’d like you to share in it in some way.”
“How are you going to manage the purchase of
Wilga? You wouldn’t mortgage Malwa, would you?”
“No. Wilga is in the bank’s hands and going
for a song. Of course I can’t manage the full pur-
chase price even at that, but the bank has agreed
to let some of it stand on mortgage, and a little of
Mary’s money will be invested; it’s good, sound
security.”
Brand laughed gaily. “And there’s no pub near
Wilga Downs. You want me to settle down, be a
good little boy, and manage Wilga and marry, I
suppose, and beget a crowd of sinful little Stewarts
to be a menace to society and a constant source of
anxiety to their respectable parents. No, Don, I
won’t.”
Donald stood up. “Very well. Do you need
any money?”
“No. The rolling stone gathered quite a lot of
moss the last roll. I’ve two or three hundred in the
bank, and some loose stuff about somewhere.”
“Where are you going? Can you tell me?”
“I would, but, frankly, I don’t know. To Sydney
first, anyhow. I’ll take the coach in the morning and
leave my horses here. I told Robin he might use


Black Harry until I came back again. He’s quite
safe, and the boy rides well. I think I’ll take another
sea-trip—l’ve acquired a taste for it.”
Chapter VI.
BOYD FREEMAN rammed a pair of
tennis-shoes into an already over-
flowing suitcase and called to Robin:
“Here, Vol —and you, Tibby—come
and sit on this while I do the straps up!”
“You’re a damned nuisance,” Robin said. “I’m
not half packed, the train goes in less than an hour,
and I want to go in and say good-bye to the boss.”
The three boys were packing in the big dormi-
tory ready to start away for the long Christmas
holidays. Boyd Freeman was going to Malwa with
Robin, and, as Clune was on the way, they would all
be travelling together.
Robin, at the end of his second year at school,
was beginning to feel that he was a part of the
institution. To most boys, he realised now, this
feeling of kinship came very much earlier. John
Morgan, for instance, had taken to school life with a
zest that amazed the more reserved Robin. At the
beginning of his second term John had been as much
at home at Macquarie as if he had been born there,
cheeking his elders, ragging the new boys, getting
in and out of scrapes with a happy insouciance that
endeared him alike to masters and boys.
But to Robin the first year at least had been
unmitigated hell. A series of jolts and jars and dis-
illusionments that left him raw and smarting, ashamed
of himself and his fellows and bitterly resentful of
a system that organised and controlled his every
action, even encroaching on the privacy of his
thoughts, herding them together and driving them
willy-nilly along ordered and uninteresting ways. But
in the autumn of his second year two events happened
that led him to a truer sense of values. Arthur Have-
lock, the old headmaster, who seemed to live in a
half-dream, awoke to the fact of Robin’s existence —
and Boyd Freeman came to the school.
SITTING one day amongst a score of boys in one
of the smaller classrooms, Robin, in the front
desk, idling with a pencil and scribble-pad, had waited
with feelings of apprehension and loathing for the
entrance of Mr. Benson, the Latin master.
John Oliver Benson, known to the boys as Job,
was in charge of McKrinnon House, where Robin
boarded. His wife, of course, was Job’s Comforter.
Robin hated both of them. Job, he had discovered,
was a hypocrite of the first water.
Circumstances had compelled Robin to stay at
school over the short Easter holidays, and Mr. Benson
had made the boy’s life miserable by enforcing a
strict observance which, he considered, included
hours of scripture-reading—of all the holy days.
Good Friday had been made particularly irksome
to Robin, but in the afternoon he had been allowed
out for a while and had gone boating on the river.
Hurrying home in the evening rather late for tea,
he had almost collided with Job, very much the worse
for wear, being assisted by two disreputable com-
panions from the side door of a hotel.
Fresh from an English lesson which he liked,
Robin thought of this incident now as he waited for
Mr. Benson to come in. With a malicious grin he
scribbled something on the pad and, tearing off the
page, turned to hand it to John Morgan, when the
door opened, letting in Job and with him a gust of
west wind that tore down the room, snatched the
paper from Robin’s hand and laid it with a flourish
just in front of the master’s feet on his path to his
desk. Mr. Benson shrugged his shoulders, adjusted
his glasses and bent to pick up the oblong of white
paper. )
“Jack! How agrees the devil and thee about
thy soul, that thou soldest it on Good Friday last ■
for a cup of Madeira ?’’
Red-faced and shaking with rage, Job turned to
the class. “Who wrote this?” he demanded.
And Robin, terrified, flustered, hardly knowing
what he said, answered “Shakspeare, sir.”
THE Rev. Arthur Havelock, dreaming in his study
over a volume of Racine, was suddenly aware of
a slim uniformed figure standing in the doorway.
“Well,” he said wearily, “what is it?”
Robin said “Mr. Benson sent me down, sir. I
was to report to you for being insolent.”
It was not the words, but the bitter, rebellious
quality of the voice, that caused Arthur Havelock to
shake off his lethargy. For the first time he looked
at the boy’s face, and what he saw there shocked him.
Bewilderment, hatred, contempt. Such things as
these should not be stamped on any face so young,
and especially not on the face of one of his boys.
“Come in and sit down,” he said quietly. “Now
tell me all about it. You’re a new boy, aren’t you?
What is your name?”
“I’ve been here a year,” Robin said. “My name
is Stewart.”
“I’m sorry I should have remembered. Of
course, you’re Robin Stewart. Your father was one
of my boys, and your uncle, Brand Stewart; he was
a fine full-back. So you’ve been here for a year, and
you look like a new boy. Are you homesick still?”
“I don’t know, sir. I’m not homesick, but every-
thing is so different here —I just don’t seem to fit in.”
“Who are your friends amongst the boys?”
“Morgan, sir. We’ve known each other for
years.”
“That graceless scamp! ” The headmaster
smiled. “Well, at least he’ll do you no harm. Who
else?”
“No one else.”
“I see. Well, now, tell me what the trouble is
with Mr. Benson. Why were you —insolent? I think
that was the word you used.”
Robin was silent.
“Well, tell me what happened. What did you
say? What did you do?”
Robin, feeling the hopelessness of trying to
explain, and firmly believing that the greatest sin on
earth was to be an informer, still would not speak.
Rather impatiently Mr. Havelock said “I can
only gather from your silence that you know you
deserve a caning. Is that so?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Are you afraid to tell me?”
Robin, on the verge of tears, answered “No!
I’m not afraid.”
The headmaster put his hand on the boy’s
shoulder. “Robin,” he said, “don’t you realise that
Mr. Benson will tell me all about it? I would rather
hear it first from you.”
Robin blurted out “He won’t —he couldn’t — he'd
be afraid!”
For the second time that afternoon Arthur Have-
lock experienced a sense of shock. In a flash he
realised that Robin’s confession would incriminate
the master. It was patent, too, that it had never
entered the boy’s head that any story he told would
be denied by Mr. Benson and disbelieved by the head-
master. “Stand up, Robin,” he said. “I want you
to answer me truthfully. Were you deliberately rude
to Mr. Benson?”
“No, sir. I wrote something on a bit of paper,
but I didn’t mean him to see it.”
“Something that was offensive to Mr. Benson?”
“Yes, sir.”
“And you would rather Mr. Benson told me what
it was than tell me yourseff?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Very well. I’m quite satisfied with that —but
one fact is clear: you did behave offensively to Mr.
Benson. Bend over.”
T\ T the door of the study Mr. Havelock said “What
** football team are you in?”
“The thirds,” said Robin.
Mr. Havelock smiled. “You won’t run as freely
as usual this afternoon ... Stewart, I want you to
have tea with me after chapel on Sunday night.”
As Robin left the study Mr. Stone, his English
master, came in.
Mr. Havelock said to him “I want you to keep
a special eye on that boy who has just gone out.
How do you find him?”
“He’s never given the slightest trouble. One of
the most intelligent and interested pupils I’ve had.”
The headmaster carried the cane across the study
and put it on top of a high bookcase. “One of my
contemporaries has the reputation of never forgetting
a boy’s face. I can’t claim that virtue, but I believe
I could remember most of them by the shape of
their bottoms. I’ve been caning them for thirty years
and I’ve had enough of it. In future I shall hand them
over to you.”
ROBIN had tea in the headmaster’s house on
Sunday night, and came away with a feeling of
happiness and content such as he had never known
since he came to the school. It was the first of many
such visits, sometimes to tea but mostly to the head-
master’s study, on Sundays and on wet afternoons,
when there could be no games played. Mr. Havelock
quickly discovered Robin’s love of reading, and he was
given a free run of the headmaster’s bookshelves.
To Robin the study was a treasure-house of great
and wonderful writings, and under Mr. Havelock’s
sympathetic guidance his appreciation grew, and with
it his capacity for enjoyment. Mr. Havelock showed
him, too, how much fuller would be his pleasure if
he could explore in other languages as he was doing
now in English. Greek and Latin and French, lessons
that he abominated, took on a new significance ; and,
though his classical master was the loathsome Job,
Robin contrived to think of him only as someone who
could help him to attain an ultimate goal.
With the boys Robin’s position was peculiar. Apt
at all sports, plucky and generous, he was as yet not
one of them. In the beginning, when he was raw
and strange, his over-sensitive feelings had been
tortured as only schoolboys can torture. Instead of
laughing through it like John Morgan or cringing
under it as some of the lesser spirits did—to remain
under-dogs, tolerated and enslaved until the end of
their schooldays—Robin retired into himself. And
as he grew less bewildered and more certain of his
own strength he hedged himself around with a fence
of savage resentment, ready to fight to a finish should
anyone invade his privacy.
Fight he did, again and again. Being sturdy,
and having a natural aptitude for the game, and
carrying in his soul a hundred times more bitterness
than any of his opponents, he won his fights, while
John Morgan, who took a belting every time he put
his hands up, held his tunic and danced around the
ring behind the gymnasium, yelling encouragement
and worthless advice.
After a time Robin found that he could no longer
single out individual opponents, but was baited
unmercifully by groups of boys, usually about his
own size or slightly younger. It became the stock
method of passing the time, on days When there was
nothing much to do, to go and “tickle up the Volcano
until it erupted. This nickname, shortened later to
Vol, stuck to him throughout his school life.
One Saturday morning the old familiar group
approached Robin as he sat at his desk in Upper
School, reading. For five minutes he stood their
baiting ; then he rushed them. Down the room they
ran, laughing and shouting, and Robin followed, blind
with rage. As he reached the door a boy walked in,
and, not caring whether he was one of his attackers
or not, Robin hit him. In an instant there were
shouts of “Mill on! Mill on! Freeman and the
Volcano!” and a crowd of boys were around them,
pulling them apart.
It was a recognised thing that every fight should
take place behind the gym. after breakfast on the
following morning. So if two boys quarrelled they
were immediately parted, and their differences of
opinion could not be settled until next day. This
procedure was countenanced by the staff in the belief
that many a boy’s ardor would cool during the waiting
hours. There was little chance of this, however, for
in the face of public opinion only the most craven
would shirk his obligations in the morning, and the
boys looked upon the postponement as a chance to
circulate the news throughout the school.
Boyd Freeman was a new boy. He was Robin’s
age but slightly taller and perfectly built. He had
come to Macquarie from a school in Melbourne.
During the afternoon Boyd came up to Robin.
“Stewart,” he said, “I don’t want to make a
public exhibition behind the gym. Let’s both get
exeats and go where the crowd won’t see us.”
FROM the beginning Robin was outclassed, though
he fought back savagely long after he knew it was
hopeless. At the end of one devastating round, as
Robin sat on the ground struggling to regain his
breath, Boyd Freeman said “You can have some more
if you want it, but you’d be a fool to go on. I’ve
learnt boxing and I’m still fresh. You’re done.”
Reluctantly Robin agreed. He was feeling very
sore and unhappy.
“If we’d gone behind the gym.,” said Boyd, “I
suppose you wouldn’t have given in until someone
stopped you—and you’d never have forgiven him for
stopping you. That’s the sort of a damned fool you
are. So keen on thinking about yourself that you
believe everyone else is doing the same thing. Well,
they’re not. Look at Morgan; belted every time,
and does anyone think the worse of him? They all
know he’s game. But you’re just a fool, and that’s
why you’re the butt of every nitwit in the school.
You want to take a tumble to yourself.”
Walking back together, Boyd said with a grin “It
was a good scrap. You had me worried once or
twice —you’re so damned savage. Look here, I’ll tell
you something. If we’d fought behind the gym. you
might have beaten me —I get windy in a crowd ; that’s
why I lost the lightweights at Bear’s.”
“Oh, rats! I know you licked me,” Robin said.
“I don’t mind now. We’re getting a boxing teacher
next term. I’m going to learn.”
“Stewart,” Boyd said awkwardly, “what I said’s
right about the crowd ragging you. I’ve seen the
same thing before. Look here suppose we stick
together! ”
It was a long while, even with Freeman’s help,
before Robin’s status amongst his schoolfellows was
properly adjusted, and though in time he became
universally liked he was always more or less of a
lone wolf. His friendship with Boyd grew stronger
as the days passed, though Freeman was ahead of
him in school work and at the end of the football
season was captaining the seconds when Robin came
in to play on the wing.
It was with genuine regret that the whole school
learned that Mr. Havelock would be retiring at the
end of the year, but to Robin his leaving seemed little
short of a tragedy, lightened only by the fact that the
hateful Job was also going.
Chapter VII .
HALF-WAY up Bald Head the three
boys were skinning a wallaby.
Below them the country opened
out in a vast expanse of plain and
rolling hills. Away to the north the white
roofs of Burnt Plains homestead sprawled in the sun,
while to the west and on much higher ground was
Malwa, almost hidden amongst its marry trees.
Between the two flowed the river, wandering lazily
here across the wide plains. Far down, red-and-white
cattle moved slowly through the long grass, lemon-
colored now in the ripening heat of the summer sun ;
and high above it all an eagle swung in great circles,
the shadow of its spread wings racing like some
hunted thing over valley and hill.
To Boyd Freeman it was new and very wonder-
ful. With appreciative eyes he followed the course
of the river, saw the flash and sparkle of its granite
bed where it swung around the base of Bald Head
and climbed to the great gorge, cutting through the
mountains and up to the high wild country in the
south. At the mouth of the gorge, and so immediately
below him that it seemed as though he could drop a
stone into the clearing, Boyd discovered Milsom’s
hut. A cow and a calf lay beneath the drooping
boughs of a big apple-tree, and in the protecting shade
of the hut wall an old man dozed on a bench. Peace-


ful it seemed in the mid-day stillness, calm and secure.
But as he watched the shadow of the soaring eagle
broke into the clearing, hurried furtively down the
length of it and lost itself in the green timber of the
hillside ; and almost with the shadow came a horse-
man, riding hard. Farther away, in the dark of the
gorge, Boyd became aware of other mounted figures
threading their way through the tall trees. He caught
Robin by the arm. “Look!” he said.
The blood drained from Robin’s face, leaving it
white and set. “Mounted troopers ... They’ve come
from Hope’s selection, and they’re after the Milsoms,”
he told Boyd.
GRANDFATHER MILSOM walked slowly and
rather uncertainly across the mud floor. He was
very old. He leant against the side of the door,
peering through faded blue eyes out across the white
sunlight that flooded the clearing around the hut. A
huge skeleton of a man, bent and gnarled like a
giant gum-tree, he seemed to fill the doorway. Every-
thing about him was big and faded. Grey moleskins,
patched at the knees, wrinkled around long bony legs
and were held at the waist by a thin saddle-strap,
stretched and worn. A rusty coat with tattered sleeves
hung across the great framework of his shoulders.
Beneath the coat he wore a faded grey flannel, and
around his neck a frayed yellow handkerchief. A
battered felt hat, shapeless and stained with sweat,
was pulled down on his forehead as though to aid
the shaggy grey eyebrows in protecting his old eyes
from over-bright sunlight. Behind him a woman’s
voice was raised in a wicked tirade.
“But why did you bring it here? Can you burn
the whole hide in the kitchen stove? And if you cut
the brand out of it it’s as bad as ever. What do you
expect me to do? Oh, you fools! You bloody
fools! ”
Vaguely Grandfather Milsom sensed a note of
fear in Bella’s voice. What it was all about he didn’t
know. He moved from the doorway and sat on a
bench at the side of the hut. The bench was a flat
nine-foot slab, squared with a broad-axe, with round
hardwood legs fitted into slanting auger-holes at each
end. He leant back against the wall and dozed in the
shade.
Bella Connelly’s tongue had always been poison-
ous, he thought. She had led Tom a hell of a life.
God only knew why he’d married her. Oh, yes, he
vaguely remembered, Tom had to marry her because
of the baby; but people said that Maggie, their
daughter, was not Tom’s at all. There was a story
about young Brand Stewart... But that wasn’t true.
Brand was a fine boy, a better horseman than his
brother Donald. And old Donald Stewart, their
father, had given Tom a pure-bred bull for a wedding
present, and a cheque which Bella had torn up and
flung in his face like a fool. Well, Maggie was
married herself now, to George Hope—had married
him just to get away from her mother’s bitter tongue.
They’d come over to-day to quarrel. They always
quarrelled.
INSIDE the hut George Hope was saying “But what
could I do? Sergeant Morton rode up to Maggie
while I was saltin’ the hide in the loft and asked her
where our Christmas beef came from. She says
‘From Mother’s, of course.’ Anyway, you had half
of it, and Tom helped me yard the bullock.”
Grandfather Milson stared at the pine scrub
across the clearing and dozed. The quarrelling
voices did not worry him. For years now he
had lived in his past, undistracted by events around
him —the past that came back to him so vividly that
it became blended with the present until he lived in
a world of his own that was three-parts dream.
The old man stared into the sunlight. A blue
cattle-dog came from behind the hut and, trotting
across the clearing, disappeared into the thick pine
scrub. Grandfather Milsom didn’t see it. He was
dreaming of cattle-hunting in Queensland. He was
racing down the side of a mountain after a wild bull.
His forearms were wrapped in bagging, and he held
one arm bent stiffly in front of his face. They broke
out of the scrub on to a cleared spur, and he urged
his horse close behind the bull. Leaning from his
saddle he caught the bull’s tail and, lifting as the
beast’s hindquarters rose in the gallop, he called
sharply to his mare and swung to the left. The micky
crumpled on its knees and rolled over and over, to lie
still for a moment, dazed and blown. Grandfather
Milsom was out of the saddle in an instant with a
narrow strip of greenhide in his hand. At each end
of the greenhide thong were loops, and into these he
thrust a front leg and a hind leg of the bull and stood
back to let him rise. The bull struggled to its feet,
but could not move fast, either to charge or break
away, because of the greenhide hobbles. Grandfather
Milsom rode on down the spur to where Sam Bell
was holding a small mob of station cows. They
brought them up to the wild bull, and gradually they
worked him down to the stockyard.
The voices in the hut broke through his dreaming.
Maggie was saying querulously “He says to me
‘Where’d your mother get it? I ain’t seen no fat
beasts on Tom’s place this summer. Where’s George?’
I told him I didn’t know. ‘Scoopin’ in the black
dam, maybe.’ He ’as a sniff at the brine-cask and
rides round the cowyard and away past the waggon.”
Grandfather Milson thought: Sam Bell couldn’t
throw a beast, but he was a good stockman for all
that, and the best man in a drafting-yard that I
ever saw. But Sam didn’t know black poleys, and black
polled bullocks were the worst of all, though the
bailies looked wilder.
The old man was dreaming again. Sam Bell
was in a drafting-yard, and a black poll four years
old was charging him. He held his hat in one hand
and a loaded stockwhip handle in the other. As the
bullock came on he waved his hat at it and then hit
it on the nose with the stockwhip handle. Sam was
used to Herefords and Durhams. Grandfather
Milsom had told him when he gave him the loaded
whip handle that the only way to stop a black bullock
was to bring him down with a shrewd blow on top of
the poll. But Sam hadn’t heeded or had forgotten ...
So Grandfather Milsom had to drag him out of the
dust with an injured spine. He would never go into
the drafting-yard again.
The old man moved uneasily on the bench and
shook his head slowly.
George Hope’s voice came through the doorway.
“Maybe we was mad to do it, Tom, Knowing they’ve
been watchin’ for us.”
“Mad?” the woman snapped. “Of course you
were mad. D’you think that bullock jumped the
fences and wandered into the gorge by chance—a fat
beast, lazy and contented on good grass? That’s a
Stewart trick —they planted him there!”
GRANDFATHER MILSOM was standing now with
W a group of miners on the Stringy Bark diggings. They
were all talking excitedly and passing round a lump
of quartz with a streak of yellow running through it.
Lame Barty McNeil, the half-witted fiddler, was
standing on a mullock-heap, with a fiddle in a sugar-
bag strapped to his back, leaning on a heavy stick.
He was telling them how he’d come across the stone
in Saw Pit Gully. He’d hit a lump of rotten quartz
with his stick and it had broken open, leaving
exposed this bit with the gold in it. Grandfather
Milsom suddenly grabbed the lump of quartz and
looked at it closely. Then he started to laugh. The
miners looked at him curiously, but he took Lame
Barty’s stick and hit the quartz with the end of it,
leaving another gold streak across the stone. Both
marks were brass from the ferrule of Barty’s stick.
Bella Milsom was speaking again. “You’re a
damn’ lousy cur, George Hope. Hiding in the loft
while Morton pokes into Maggie’s brine-cask
frightened to show your white face. Then you carry
the hide over here for Tom and me to get rid of.
Take your stinking hide and get to hell!”
Grandfather Milsom thought: Poor Tom, he’d
married Slip Harden’s sister’s girl Bella Connelly.
Harden had taken to the bush. The first dead man
he had seen had been Harden. Grandfather Milsom
was a young man then, riding with his father from
Clune to Hogan’s Gap along the Wattle Reef-road.
As they started to climb the Reef they heard a shot,
and then a man with a black handkerchief over his
face had come galloping down the road and wheeled
his horse into the timber as he saw them. When they
reached the top of the hill Malcolm Stewart was
standing beside his buggy holding the reins and bend-
ing over a man who lay on his back beside the road.
Grandfather Milsom looked down from his horse and
felt suddenly sick. The bushranger had been shot in
the face.
THE first dead man! . . . He’d killed a man himself
later on. One of Morton’s gang. Grandfather
Milsom was thirty or thereabout —the year he married
Bessie McLeash. He and Sergeant McLeash had been
following Morton for weeks. Grandfather Milsom
was by himself at the Tamborine Spring, on foot,
watering his horse, when Morton and Hill came riding
up the gully. There was no chance of reaching
shelter ; there was only one thing to do, so he opened
fire with his .44, aiming at Morton. Morton turned
at once and galloped down the gully, but Basil Hill
rode forward a little way and got off his horse beside
a flat rock. Grandfather Milsom fired quickly at him
as he swung his leg over the saddle, but missed. He
saw the heavy bullet hit the rock, leaving a long
splash of silver, and then Hill was lying flat on the
ground, shooting at him. A terrific blow in the side
swung him half round. He dropped on one knee and,
taking steady aim, fired. He saw Hill’s head sink
down slowly, and his hands tearing at the gravel;
then everything went black.
Inside the hut Tom’s voice sounded low and
savage. “For God’s sake, Bella, shut up. We’re in
it as much as George. We’ve got to do something.”
Grandfather Milsom thought: Hill’s bullet is
inside me somewhere. Morton swore to get me
for shooting his mate, but Morton was a coward.
When the troopers caught him in Bell’s shanty he
never attempted to fight. He was hanged at Bathurst.
There was a Sergeant Morton at Beni —no relation.
Grandfather Milsom was dreaming of Bessie
McLeash, who had nursed him after his fight with
Hill. He sold his waggon and horses when Bessie
was sick, but money couldn’t keep her for him. She
died, and the kiddie died too.
Grandfather Milsom was sitting on the rail of
the Beni saleyards. Men were bidding for Toby, his
near-side leader. There was some question about the
horse’s brand, for the trace-chain had rubbed the
K.L. brand till it looked something like a crooked R.
Toby was the best leader in the West. He’d never
get another like him. But Bessie needed the money.
Someone was saying the horse was broken-stepped.
Maybe he was, a little ; he was getting old, but for
all that he was still the best leader in the West. Bessie
was dead. The money hadn’t saved her. What was
left of it he’d spent on a mad drunk, and Bessie’s
father had to lock him up.
Bella was saying “There’s only one thing you can
do. You’re both as good as taken—cold as meat. I
say there’s only one thing to do now. Shoot him
when he comes and take to the bush.”
Morton had sworn to get him, but Morton was
hanged.
Maggie cried out “Oh, God, Mother! Not that
—not that!”
Morton and Hill were always together. Hill
was a fine bushman. “He’s as good as me,” Grand-
father Milsom muttered. But they’d never get him.
He wasn’t afraid of Morton or Hill.
A BOY on a chestnut horse burst out of the pine
scrub and raced across the clearing to the hut.
He almost fell off the horse and through the doorway.
There were high knee-pads on the saddle, and a
monkey-strap. Grandfather Milsom snorted “Monkey-
strap, monkey rider!”
Inside the hut the boy was shouting wildly
“They’re coming! They’re coming! Sergeant
Morton”'
The shouted name mingled with the old man’s
dreaming. Morton! he thought. So that was it
after all. Morton and Hill coming for him, Grand-
father Milsom. But he’d shot Basil Hill at the
Tamborine Spring, and Morton had been hanged.
Morton had sworn to get him. Morton was a coward ;
he’d proved that before.
His old muzzle-loader was standing in the corner
of the lean-to kitchen. It had stood there loaded for
years. He shuffled round to the kitchen as quickly
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney,
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


as he could and came back with the gun. The chest-
nut horse was standing with head down and laboring
sides. It was yellow with foamy sweat, and one
forefoot was staked and bleeding. Inside the hut
there was a confused mumble of excited voices and
someone was sobbing. That would be Maggie.
Grandfather Milsom sat down on the bench
again, watching the pine scrub. He was breathing
heavily, and his legs were shaking a little from his
hurry to get the gun. He was excited in a queer
way, tremendously exalted, but quite calm.
Three men rode to the edge of the clearing and
dismounted. Which was Morton, he wondered. He
should know him, but he couldn’t see very well. One
of them was moving round to the back of the hut;
the other two walked towards him. Grandfather
Milsom stood up. He must shoot quickly, before they
did. He raised the gun and pulled the trigger, but
no report came. He had forgotten to put a cap on
the nipple. One of the men was running towards
him, and he realised with amazement that it was a
trooper in uniform. In a dazed way he lifted the
gun again, but it was wrenched from his hands. He
staggered back against the wall and sat down suddenly
on the bench. The other trooper had come up now
and the two men in uniform went quickly into the
hut.
After a while they came into the sunlight again
with Tom and George, white-faced and sullen,
between them, while inside the hut Maggie was
screaming.
Grandfather Milsom didn’t heaF her. He was
dead.
Chapter VIII.
u ex ND they went down both into the
water, both Philip and the eunuch ;
and he baptised him.” The head-
master closed the Bible on his
finger and looked down from his dais over
the heads of the divinity class. “That will be all.
Is there anything in to-day’s lesson that any boy
would like explained?”
Robin asked “Please, sir, what is a eunuch?”
The Rev. Dr. Bolte looked down coldly at the
brown-faced boy in the front row.
“In this case, Stewart,” he said, “eunuch merely
signifies an officer of the court —as Potiphar was
Pharaoh’s eunuch —and not such as your dirty mind
would have me explain. Come to my study at half-
past three and we will thrash the question out.”
THE beginning of his third term at Macquarie had
marked a definite period in Robin’s life. He was
fifteen, technically a senior boy, and had been
appointed captain of Upper School, which meant that
the next vacancy in the ranks of the monitors would
be filled by him. Boyd Freeman was already a
monitor, and Robin was looking forward to the not-
far-distant time when they would share a study
together. Boyd was now in the firsts for cricket, but
Robin, who had no great love for the game, barely
managed to hold his place as a slogging bat in the
seconds, and waited with impatience for the com-
mencement of the football season.
Robin boarded at the School House now, where
Mr. Stone ruled, and he soon discovered that the
English master’s bookshelves were as free to him as
those of Mr. Havelock had been. With the new
headmaster, Dr. Bolte, Robin felt ill at ease and
unsympathetic. He resented what he felt was a
usurpation of the old boss’s seat. Mr. Havelock had
been to Robin everything that a man and a gentleman
should be—kindly, serene and courteous ; in sym-
pathetic touch with every boy; tolerant, firm, and
with an infinite understanding. There was not a boy
in the school but had loved him and held for him still
a deep and lasting loyalty.
Dr. Bolte, many years younger, and obviously
over-pleased with the importance of his position, was
an entirely different type. He had in the beginning
courted popularity, winning the easy affections of the
weaker boys but rather disgusting those of more
worth and receiving from Robin nothing but scornful
dislike ; and as the boy had never learnt to cloak his
feelings his estimate of the new Head was only too
obvious.
Quickly realising his mistake, Dr. Bolte’s manner
changed to one of hard indifference, but to Robin
alone he was coldly contemptuous. To the boy, rather
more introspective than was good for him, and just
beginning to struggle with psychological problems,
this singling out of himself for special vindictiveness
showed a weakness in the headmaster which he was
quick to seize upon and use to his own ends. He
felt that he had hurt Dr. Bolte’s vanity, believed that
he could still hurt him, and with this new and
dangerous power in his hands he set out to use it
how he could, not realising that the dice were heavily
loaded against him.
ROBIN came through the door connecting the head-
master’s house to the school and walked down
the long classroom to his desk. The room, he thought,
was empty, but as he reached his desk Boyd Freeman
rose up from the seat where he had been lying.
“How many, Vol?” he said.
“Ten!” said Robin shortly. His face was hard
set and dark with temper.
“Did you” Boyd asked diffidently.
“No,” Robin snapped, “I didn’t. Get off that
desk. I want to get my dictionary.”
“Dictionary! What for?”
“To look up ‘eunuch.’ ”
“D’you mean to tell me you don’t know what
it means?” Boyd asked in amazement.
“Of course I don’t. Why the hell do you think
I asked him?”
“Then, you stiff-necked idiot, why didn’t you say
so when you went in?”
“I did. Give me the book.”
He turned the pages until he found what he
wanted. He flung the dictionary into the desk.
“That!” he snorted. “What’s dirty about that?
Do you think if I’d known what it meant that I’d
have thought twice about it?”
PURING the following season Robin won his way
into the first fifteen. He and Boyd now were
playing on opposite wings, and in the next year—the
year they won the championship—John Morgan came
up as scrum half.
Robin was going ahead with his school work too,
taking home prizes each half-year for mathematics
and English. In languages he was not so comfort-
able. Greek he had been allowed to drop altogether,
but Latin and French were bugbears, and he never
quite recovered from his early hatred of the subjects,
inculcated by the odious Job.
Dr. Bolte’s unrelenting antagonism he felt in
many ways. He remained merely captain of Upper
School, and it was galling to him that boy after boy
was promoted to monitorship over his head. In the
playing-fields two instances of brazen injustice seared
deeply into his rebellious soul. Robin, who could
never bring himself to treat cricket seriously, still
played with the seconds. Every year it was the
custom at the end of the season to play one-day
matches against two teams of Old Boys, and each
year a bat was given to the boys making the highest
score in each team. In Robin’s fourth season, hitting
wildly at anything and everything, he knocked up a
whirlwind 108 and so, top-scoring for the second
eleven, won his bat. The trophies were presented in
the dining-hall on the evening of the matches, during
a special dinner at which the Old Boy players were
present, but before the ceremony Dr. Bolte called
Robin aside and told him that only one presentation
bat had arrived ; so in order that things would go
smoothly, Dr. Bolte said, he would present Robin
with an old trophy bat of his own. No one would
know the difference ; Robin could hand it back next
day, and in due course would be given the real prize.
Everything went off well, but Robin never
received his own trophy. He brought the matter up
time after time, but was always put off with some
excuse, until finally he grew tired of asking and
bowed to the inevitable.
The second blow was more openly hostile.
Robin represented Macquarie in middle-distance events
at all inter-school athletic meetings; he was also
captain of the school tennis team, though tennis was
not a recognised school sport and any outside matches
were regarded as relatively unimportant. It happened
that a tennis match was arranged on the same day
as another school’s athletic meeting, and, since every
school put one all-schools race on its programme,
Robin went off to represent Macquarie. Before leaving
that morning he picked his tennis team and appointed
a captain.
Robin won the all-schools race. On his return
to Macquarie he was told that Dr. Bolte wanted to see
him, and, expecting that the call was merely to
express formal congratulations on his win, he went
into the head-master’s study.
“Stewart,” Dr. Bolte said, “I understand you were
not with the tennis team to-day.”
Rather surprised, Robin answered “No, sir I
was running.”
“So I heard. Knowing you could win the race,
you preferred running, no doubt, to going with your
team to a rather uninteresting tennis match. I know
your type unfortunately too well. You think of
nothing but your own glorification. Since you have
shown yourself so lacking in the realisation of a
captain’s duties you will be replaced by Britton. You
may go.”
Chapter IX.
DONALD STEWART carried his cup
of black coffee away from the
dinner-table. At the door of the
dining-room that opened from the
back verandah he turned.
“Robin,” he said, “I would like to have a talk
with you before you go to bed. Come to the office
in about an hour’s time. I have a few letters to write
but will be free by then.”
Robin had come home for the Christmas
holidays for the first time since Grandfather Milsom
had died three years before. One Christmas he had
spent with Boyd Freeman, yachting and swimming,
and for the second he and John Morgan had gone
camping with pack-horse and tent to Kosciusko and
the Snowy River. Both holidays Robin had enjoyed
immensely, but particularly the camping trip.
Kosciusko was as yet hardly known as a tourist
resort, and in the summer was quite deserted.
Robin was eighteen now, and the following y ea r
would, he believed, be his last at school. He looked
forward to it without enthusiasm. Boyd Freeman
had gone to the University, and six months earlier
John Morgan had left and was now jackerooing on a
station in Queensland.
Robin was heartily sick of school. He had, he
felt, been there too long. Though doing the same
work as Boyd, and quite his equal in every subject,
Robin had not been allowed to sit with him for the
final examinations, Dr. Bolte saying that he was not
yet fit to pass. Though Robin knew that this was
absurd he could do nothing in the face of the head-
master’s ruling but submit. He was beginning to
feel weary, too, of the unequal fight with Dr. Bolte,
and would have been immensely thankful to be free
of it all.
He had now no wish to go to the University,
looking on such a course merely as another four or
five years added to a seemingly interminable period
of school life. All he wanted —longed for —was to
come back to the peace of country life and to escape
for ever from the monotony of school routine and
the galling indignities to which he was subjected by
the head-master.
He was thinking of this as he walked down the
verandah to his father’s office. Donald was still
writing when he entered, so he sat in the big armchair
where as a youngster he had so often curled up,
covered with the emu-skin, while his father and Brand
Stewart smoked and talked.
In a little while Donald swung round from his
desk. “Robin,” he said, “two letters came to me
to-day. I want to talk to you about both of them.
The first is from Dr. Bolte. Frankly, I don’t under-
stand it. He has practically asked me to take you
away from Macquarie, suggesting that you are a bad
influence in the school, though he makes no direct
accusations. I don’t like the letter and I don’t believe
his insinuations, but 1 would like to know what it is
all about. Can you tell me?”
ROBIN did not answer for some moments. He was
gathering together his thoughts, deciding where
he could begin, how best he could make his father
understand all that had led up to the present impos-
sible position. He started to speak, but with startling
suddenness the old lethargic feeling surged over him.
He sat in a maze, impotent, numb, existing through
a repeated moment of time. Like a man struggling
out of a heavy sleep he made shift to answer “I can’t
explain.”
The moment passed. Donald was saying “I’m
sorry. I hoped you would be able to tell me.”
Robin felt disappointed, cheated. He knew he
would be given no further opportunity to explain.
His father was like that. If he asked an intimate
question he accepted a negative reply without com-
ment, as final. He continued:
“It makes no difference, though. Your report
from all the other masters is very satisfactory. As
a matter of fact I have already answered the letter.
You will go back, of course.”
“Must I?”
“I’m afraid so. I’m sorry if you’re not happy
there, but it’s rather too late to sen<j you to another
school now.”
“But need Igo anywhere? Can’t I stay at home
now? I’ve had six years of school. Isn’t that enough?
I’ve been in the top class for a year. I could have
matriculated with Boyd.”
“No! I can’t let you do that. You don’t realise
now what you would be missing. I would have given
anything for your opportunities. After your grand-
mother died I had to leave school to take charge of
Malwa. Brand, who had far more ability, did nothing
but play football and get into trouble with girls. But
I want you to go on to the University. Your mother,
as you know, wants you to take up some profession.
It is not a bad idea —purely as a matter of experience
—but I would be satisfied if you went no further than
an Arts degree. I want you here with me at Malwa,
but first I would like you to have a gentleman’s
education. To learn to live—not necessarily to earn
a living. That, I hope, is already arranged for you
suitably.”
“I don’t want to go to the University. If I’m
coming home to Malwa it seems such a waste of
time. Four more years at least. What good is it
going to do me?”
“The University is not the school. You’ll feel
differently when you know your schooldays are over.
I’m not going to discuss the question any further with
you now.”
“Supposing I feel the same way about it after
I’ve matriculated?”
“Wait till you have matriculated,” Donald said
shortly. “We’ll talk about it then.”
It was useless, Robin knew, to bring forward any
more arguments ; his father would not listen. He
had intended during these holidays to ask if he
might stay at home now. Donald had lately bought
Lammas, a fattening property of 5000 acres, seventeen
miles down the river, and Robin had imagined that
with this added responsibility it would not be hard
to persuade his father that he really needed a grown
son’s help in managing the various properties. He
was very disappointed. His mother, he thought, was
at the bottom of all this University business. She
had set her mind, it seemed, on his taking a profes-
sional course, and had almost certainly influenced his
father to a degree, though Robin knew that she would
never persuade him to think of his son in any other
capacity than that of a landholder.
Some thought of this must have been in Donald’s
mind, for he said “When you are through you will,


Ready This Week
JUNGFRAU
WSlmim
■ -
m m H
Dymphna Cusack.
By DYMPHNA CUSACK
Price
S'-
(Postage 4d.)
A strikingly unusual Australian novel which won for Dymphna
Cusack second place in the 1935 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
for Australian Literature. The setting is Sydney at the present
day; duration of the story only a few months. Into this time the
young author compresses the dramatic story of three modern
young women, the central character a teacher whose affair with
a university man is the core of the novel. The other two, her
friends though not each other’s, are a young woman doctor and
a prison-aid worker. The story is swift and arresting.
of course, come back to Malwa. Eventually you will
be very well off. Malwa now is a valuable property.
What would you like me to leave you Malwa or
Wilga Downs and Lammas? They’re worth about
the same.”
Robin chose without hesitation. “Malwa!”
“I hoped you would choose that way. I knew
you would, really. The others will be sold, for the
girls and your mother. If you liked I would leave
them all to you, but I wouldn’t advise you to take
on the responsibility. You would have to pay
annuities to the others and might find it very incon-
venient at times.”
“I want nothing more than Malwa.”
Donald smiled. “Then that’s settled.”
He picked up an envelope from his desk. “The
other letter,” he said, “is from your Uncle Brand.
You may read it later. He is back in Sydney and
will be here in a few days’ time. It appears he has
been in Burma and round about, shooting tigers and
doing this and that. In between whiles he seems
to have made some money out of tin-mines, and now
he has the idea of buying horses and shipping them
to India. The scheme is quite a good one, 1 think —if
he sticks to it. He proposes to buy horses where he
can get them, here and in Queensland, and take them
over himself. Thinking you had already left school,
he has asked me in the letter if you might go with
him. I’m sorry, Robin. I know you would have
liked to go. In the present circumstances it is impos-
sible ; but if you would care to spend part of your
holidays with him when he goes buying I think it
would be a good experience for you. Brand is an
excellent judge of a horse, and though he is a careless,
improvident beggar there is no one with whom I
would rather trust you than him. In fact I think it
would be good for both of you if you went.”
“Of course I’ll go. I’d love it!”
Donald laughed. “Your mother won’t like it,”
he said. “She knows nothing about the letter yet.
You’d better not mention it until I’ve had time to
talk to her.”
He stood up and closed the desk. Then he looked
at his son standing in front of him and discovered
with surprise that Robin was the taller of the two. A
great wave of affection surged up in his lonely heart,
and, putting his arm around the boy’s shoulders, he
drew him close. Robin felt shy and uncomfortable.
He had never known his father to be in the least
demonstrative. He stood awkwardly, rather ashamed
that he felt no responsive urge and not knowing quite
what to do. He was relieved when Donald dropped
his arm and said “Come into the billiard-room. I’ll
play you two hundred up on a twenty-five break.”
ON the day that Brand Stewart was expected Robin
had afternoon-tea with his mother in the shade
of the great willow-tree beside the rock pool in the
garden. Donald had driven down to meet the coach,
and they were alone together. Mary asked “Must
you really go off on this silly horse-buying expedi-
tion?”
“Yes, Mother ; of course. It’s all arranged.”
Mary laughed. “You’re just like your father.
Because a thing’s ‘all arranged’ you think there’s
nothing more to be said about it. But, Robin dear,
can’t you stay at home for these holidays? Last
Christmas you were away, and the Christmas before.
I never see you now.”
“But I’ve been home for all the mid-winter
holidays.”
“Perhaps you were, but somehow I never see
anything of you. When you’re at the University 1
shall come to Sydney and we can live together. Kath-
leen is to be married in June, and Nora can look
after your father. If only he’d sell Malwa.”
“Sell Malwa!”
“Yes. I’ve wanted him to sell for a long while,
but there’s never been so good an opportunity as
now. Your uncle, William Graham, has offered him
the managership of the Graham Wool and Produce
Company. The salary would be three thousand a
year. Land is selling well now, and Malwa would
bring a big price. With this capital invested in city
real estate or industrial shares we would be very well
off indeed. Donald would still have landed interests
in Wilga Downs and Lammas.”
“But it would kill him to lose Malwa—to let it
go out of the family.”
“That’s ridiculous. Malwa can never be passed
on from father to son indefinitely. It’s too big. The
railway will be coming through before very long,
and then Malwa and other places like it will be
resumed and cut up into smaller holdings. The days
of the big landholdings are over. My father realised
that years ago and went to the city. My brother is a
wealthier man to-day than Donald will ever be. He
is the head of the great wool firm that your Grand-
father Graham started, respected and admired a
successful man. He has made his name great, as I
hope you will do. What will it be, Robin—a great
lawyer or a great doctor?”
Robin realised the futility of trying to explain
his feelings to his mother ; and because of what his
father had said a few nights previously he felt in
closer sympathy with him than ever before. Mary
Stewart, deliberately misinterpreting his silence, leant
forward and took his hand in both of hers.
“Never mind, Robin,” she said; “There will be
plenty of time for you to decide. Now about this
horse-buying nonsense; you won’t go, will you?
You’ll stay with me just for this once? There’s so
much I want to talk to you about.”
Robin closed his hand over hers in an affectionate
squeeze.
“Mother dear, we’ll have years to talk in, but
this chance might never come again for me —to see
fresh country, different conditions, and to learn all I
will learn from Uncle Brand about horses.”
“Don’t you think you’re very selfish? Robin,
you don’t know how much alone I am. Your father
is drawing into himself like a hermit-crab into its
shell. Don’t you forsake me too.”
“Of course I won’t, you silly old darling.”
“Then stay.”
“No, Mother, I can’t,” Robin said patiently.
“Uncle Brand is expecting me to go with him.”
Mary flamed into sudden rage. “Brand Stewart
a drunken wastrel, unstable as water—and you will
grow like him.”
She buried her face in her hands and burst into
tears.
“Robin! Robin,” she sobbed, “you’ll break my
heart.”
Robin stood up beside her chair. He noticed,
looking down at her bent head, that her hair was very
grey. He put his hand down, covering it. “I’ll stay,”
he said.
Chapter X.
boy sitting at the next desk to
| Robin nudged his elbow and whis-
| pered “Barney Case has been under
the bridge.”
Robin looked down at the red-headed
boy four rows in front of him and laughed. Clearly
imprinted on the back of the grey uniform coat was
a large black hand. He scribbled a note on the
corner of his writing-pad, rolled it into a tight wad
and, making sure that Mr. Stone, in charge of night
prep., was not looking, tossed it on to Case’s desk.
It amused Robin to watch the effect of the note
on Barney Case. He shifted uncomfortably in his
seat, shrugged his right shoulder forward and, twisting
his head around as far as he could, tried to look at
his back. Finding this impossible, he grabbed the
shoulder of his tunic in his left hand and tried to pull
it into view.
By this time the boys in the three rows of desks
behind him were bursting with suppressed laughter,
and Robin saw Barney’s freckled face break into a
sickly grin. Mr. Stone, becoming aware of the dis-
turbance, said:
“Case! Turn round and get on with your work.
What’s the matter?”
“Barney Case, his face fiery-red, said “I wanted
to borrow a book from Stewart, sir.”
“What book?”
Barney, flustered and rather slow-witted, couldn’t
at the moment think of any book at all, but Robin,
quickly realising the position, came to his help.
“My English Ballads, sir. It has some notes in
it that you gave us to-day.”
“Why didn’t you take the notes yourself, Case?”
said Mr. Stone. “Get up and go for it, and stop
screwing yourself into knots.”
Here was another poser. Robin knew that
Barney would not be game to show his back to Mr.
Stone, and that, if left to himself, he would flounder
hopelessly and inevitably be caught. He stood up.
“I’m not quite sure what you meant in one place,
sir. Would you explain it before I hand the notes
over to Case?”
“Yes,” Mr. Stone said. “Bring the book here.”
On the way back to his desk Robin handed the
book to Barney and whispered “Don’t go out with
the others when prep.’s over. Say you want to stay
back and work.”
Sitting at his desk, Robin thought “Under the
bridge.” That meant that Barney Case had been out
again with a girl. Barney was about nineteen, but
Robin knew that some of the younger boys too went
out with girls. The bridge that crossed the river just
outside the school grounds was usually the meeting-
place, and on the river-bank beneath the protecting
planks of the landward span many a boy came to his
first adventure in the realms of sex.
(To be continued next week.)


The Novel Which Won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for 1936:-
'ALL THAT SWAGGER'
BY
MILES FRANKLIN.
DRAWINGS by
DOUGLAS PRATT.
— ——-
Chapter LI.
(< Continued .)
lOLA was frantic to escape from Ferny Creek
and suggested to Clare Margaret a descent
upon Sydney to surprise Brian. She needed
Clare to drive. This was agreed upon, and
Ferny Creek was left to Mrs. Thingamebob
and Roger.
Up and away at the first hint of dawn in the
powerful car to do in half a day what had taken
Danny and Johanna weeks to cover with bullocks and
dray. It was lovely weather but Lola scarcely deigned
to cast her eyes back at the panorama which had
enchanted Danny and Harry.
Upon parking the car Clare Margaret hurried
to Neutral Bay to see Josephine, who had hurt her
foot and was confined to her apartment. In accordance
with her design Lola went unaccompanied in pursuit
of Brian. She walked into the Metropole without
luggage and took the key from the attendant but
brought it down again to the office so that Brian
could come up.
“Don’t mention that I have come,” she said. “I
want to have a rest.”
“Good-o,” said the man, and forgot all about
her. The lift operator did not recognise her.
Brian’s things were flung about with his cus-
tomary disorder. Lola was orderly, She took a coat
from the back of a chair to transfer it to a wardrobe.
Letters fell from the pockets, an inscription upper-
most :
“Darling, dinkydi Brian.” What followed was
in the same vein, and signed “Coz Adrienne.”
“Indeed!” mused Lola. “So that is the how
of it.”
She then
read all the let-
ters. They oozed
mush from a
variety of fair-
weather ad-
mirers. Lola had
had her own
share of this,
and knew how
little the reci-
pient was to
blame. Adrienne
was different.
“If Uncle
Humphrey
would finance
you you would
not need poor old Lola's money any more.”
Lola’s nausea was replaced by a pain like a knife
in her being. She read on: “It’s no use. If I couldn’t
see you again I’d kill myself and leave a letter saying
why. I don’t mind so long as I can see you every
day. I count each hour when I don’t. I don’t care
about my character. Perhaps if Lola knew she would
get a divorce and then you’d be free.”
If Lola knew what? How far had this gone?
Lola pondered each phrase. The suspicion grew that
Adrienne would not have gone on without response.
Was Brian posing as a martyr tied to an old woman?
The sentence about poor old Lola’s money stung.
A box of powder and a perfume that Lola did
not use were on the dressing-table.
SHE went downstairs and made herself agreeable
to the office staff, finger on lips and honeyed
words underneath. Was her husband at Mascot? He
was. Would she like to get through on the telephone?
Oh, no —she was going straight out by car. She was
expecting her cousin, Miss Butler. Had she arrived?
“She is in and out with Mr. Delacy. They are
usually here to dinner, but go out to dance afterwards.
There is some mail here,” said the attendant, handing
a sheaf of cablegrams and letters. “I hope you are
feeling fit again, Mrs. Delacy.”
“Yes, thank you. lam glad my husband is get-
ting some dancing. Don’t mention my return, as I
want to beat the game by an hour or two. There is
the key.”
The key was in its place, evidence of her
departure, but at the door she doubled back behind
an influx of pastoralists and escaped upstairs, where
she had left the door unlatched. Some of the cables
were greetings and congratulations, but others in-
formed her of further decline in her industrial securi-
ties. In fact she had overdrawn, and was practically
without resources. She was so depressed by this
second shock that she craved to lie in peace in the
dark. She got through to Ercildoun on the telephone
and confessed that she was feeling queerly and did not
want anyone to know that she had returned to town.
Ercildoun recommended a doctor, to which Lola con-
sented. She then crawled on to a corner of the bed
under the motor rug and hatboxes and other dis-
order, and, placing something to keep the light from
her eyes, drifted into sleep. It was the ability to sleep
when under strain that so stood to her as an airwoman
and preserved her youthful appearance.
Chapter Lll.
SHE was awakened some time later by
the entrance of Brian. Adrienne was
with him. Lola remained quiet, and
it speedily became apparent that
Adrienne was entering surreptitiously to
dress.
“I’ll go down to the lounge till you come,” said
Brian. “And the room next-door will be ready for
you to-night. Old Fullwood from Heulong has it and
will be leaving after dinner.”
“It’s going to be gorgeous to-night. The Mono-
wai has nice long decks. Ta-ta, darling!”
The sound of kissing inspired Lola to pop
up and say “Too cousinly!” but that was not
sufficiently annihilating. She lay stricken while Brian
departed and Adrienne changed her dress, posturing
before the mirror as she hummed happily “You will
remember Vienna” and tossed her discarded garments
on to Lola.
At the end of ten minutes Adrienne cautiously
opened the door to a knock. Brian, in the aperture,
began “I say! They tell me downstairs that Lola
came to-day and went out to Mascot to meet me.”
“Damn! Spoils all our fun. Jump into your
things and let’s escape before we’re stopped.”
“I couldn’t do that.”
“Are you frightened?”
“Rot! No. But I shan’t have so much time for
you now. I’ll have to take Lola about. I don’t want
her to get a wrong view of Australia.”
“Aren’t you going to tell her about us?”
“What about us?”
“All we mean to each other.”
“It is you that has worked up the vamp stuff.
I have no time for it now.”
“Yes, but we have a right to love. We are young
and strong. Lola is too old to fly. That’s why this
has broken her up.”
“I wouldn’t say that. She can give me points
yet as a pilot, though I beat her in knowledge of the
engine. I use scientific knowledge ; so does she, but
she has intuition or something in addition.”
“Everyone says she is too old for you.”
“Rats! All the others I tried were too young!
This boy-and-girl mugging business soon palls on me.”
“But you would never, never have thought of
her if she hadn’t money. That’s true, isn’t it?”
“It’s true that she wouldn’t have been able to
afford me only she had money.”
“If you only look upon it as boy-and-girl mugging
business I’ll die. Why did you let me think you
cared?”
“Hell, I couldn’t stop you! You’ll get over it.
A year from now you’ll be wondering why you felt
like this. It’s only puppy love.”
“But there could never be anyone the same again.
Don’t you care at all?”
Tears and hysterics were adumbrated. Brian
hated such manifestations as the plague. “Yes, yes,
of course I care in a way, but Lola is my wife.”
“What difference does that make, if she is an
old thing that you couldn’t love? Besides, she is a
Yankee, and the Yanks never stay married to the
first husband. If they want a man they just horn-in
and take him without worrying that he is married,
like in both those talkies we saw last night. If you
had your choice”
“Yes, if you had your choice?” said Lola, who
had squirmed noiselessly from her position and stood
up behind them. Her voice was as startling as a
pistol.
“When did you come in?” asked Brian.
“A little while before Adrienne.”
Adrienne was aggressive. “Well, now you
know! ”
“Yes, I know,” said Lola slowly, as if very tired.
S E felt as though her voice was coming from
ameone else and her limbs had turned to lead. As
a novice in the first stages of intoxication striving to
keep control of himself, she resolved to say as little
as possible. She stood looking at them.
Brian was confounded, and enraged with Adri-
enne for putting him in a foolish position.
“You listened!” Adrienne accused shrilly.
“I surely did . . . and I heard”
“Well, what are you going to do about it?” pro-
ceeded Adrienne defiantly, but her heart was pound-
ing madly and her knees threatened to collapse.
“About what?”
“About Brian and me loving each other.”
“Why should I do anything? I have so many
important issues chasing me that you and Brian must
settle these paltry disturbances between yourselves.”
“Adrienne is a nice little cousin, and only a bit
sentimental,” offered Brian.
“Are you trying to crawl out, and pretend you
did not mean it?” flashed Adrienne. “Coward!”
“You’ll learn that men are always cowards or
brutes when they find themselves in a fix between two
women ; what else can they be?” Lola knew that
she loved Brian to agony, but something at present
made him so distasteful to her that she could have
thrown him away like an old glove. “You can have
him. All I want is a ’plane. I’ll need that, as I have
no other resources now. I have just heard that my
industrials have declined to nothing, so I can’t be
useful in the way of money... If you don’t mind,
I’d like my room. I want to rest. You can decide
your future elsewhere.”
Brian signed to Adrienne to go. “It’s useless
making signs for me to clear out. Didn’t you mean
what you said? Was it all hooey?”
A man can accept a girl’s offering as easily as
walking into the sunlight, and Brian had not until
that moment realised the intensity of Adrienne’s pre-
dilection for him.
He saw in a flash
that he had been
culpable careless
of the furnace at
the end of amour.
He could have
wrung the girl’s
neck, but there was
in him too much
of old Danny and
Harry and Darcy
to be brutal. “I’ll
be likely to break my wooden leg in this Yackan-
dandahhe thought, suppressing a grin. The women
would not forgive amusement in such a crisis.


“This is a hell of a mess, Adrienne. I must say
I never thought you were interested in me for more
than the flying racket, and being a nice little Delacy
cousin.”
“Are you beginning to crawl down?” demanded
the girl, intransigent.
“Don’t mind me. I’m only an old thing married
for my money.” Lola threw this bitterly into the
controversy.
“Come, now, Lola, we had the whole business of
age back and forth before we started to swim the
Yackandandah of marriage. It’s not like you to nag
about it now.”
“But I’ve lost my money since then: and Adri-
enne wouldn’t have used that line of talk to you if
you had any respect for me. You’d have told her that
my age was not her business.”
“I have as much right to him as you have. I
love him. Love has first right.”
“You’ll find it has second and third and no rights
at all when you’ve had as much experience as I have.
You always have to be pulling a man away from some
kind of creature. Old or young, tripe out of the gutter
can seduce most of them. You can take on the job
if you want it, I’m tired and sick.”
She swayed and leant on the footrail of the bed
in a determined effort against fainting. Her face was
ghastly —sallow, puffy under the eyes. Distraught,
she suddenly shouted “Get right out of here, this
instant—both of you! ”
“Oh, I say,” exclaimed Brian. “Really, Lola!
No harm has been done. I can swear”
Angry expostulation
broke from Adrienne. The
chambermaid knocked
loudly and said “The
doctor has come, Mrs.
Delacy.”
A DOCTOR of medicine
is a sacrosanct official
of society. In Australia
he is naively
an aristocrat
to boot. This
one was an
imposing,
authoritative
female, one of
th e cleverest
gynaecologists
in the world. Even Adrienne could not buck a person-
age of such standing. It would have required a
debauched outlaw to gainsay Dr. Hester Augarde, and
Brian au fond was of Murrumbidgee respectability and
family discipline. He was also disturbed by the state
of Lola’s health.
“Good evening! Are you the patient?... I
see you are,” said the physician, moving towards the
bed and Lola, who had now lain down. “Are you
the husband?” she inquired of Brian, as though he
was some kind of spider, and -placing him then and
there in the centre of the diagnosis.
Adrienne was relieved to slip away. The adven-
ture had lost incandescence with this commanding
official regarding Lola stretched on the bed, though
Adrienne clung to the flattering delusion that this
collapse was due to jealousy of girlish charms. It
would be miraculous if Lola had appendicitis or some-
thing similar and died under the operation.
“I’ll remain in the hall in case you need me,”
said Brian.
“Thank you. Close the door,” said Dr. Augarde.
Adrienne descended to the
lounge, where she met one of the
polo heroes straight from Cobbittv
—young Rodney Lillingston of
Cooma. He was elated by the
prospect of such a listener for a
recital of the day’s play, but
speedily came to the conclusion
that flying swank was deranging
Adrienne’s brain.
Brian walked up and down the
corridor in a whirl of emotions.
The doctor was so long that the
husband had time to cool —to
freeze and to think. Blast
Adrienne! He had been a fool, but he reckoned
all men were when a woman was young and pretty
and eager. She need not be pretty so long as she
was pressing. A succession of tripe, Lola had said
in her bitterness, and the evidence was on her side.
A man needed sentinels to warn him, or he was in
a bog before he saw it.
He recalled how Lola had stood by him in his
defeat and depression in London, and in the long
watches in the air, the latest over the Timor. She
had been none too fit before they hopped-off, but
would not hold up the flight. Now she had lost her
money. He was happy to find that this reverse
endeared her to him. His affection had roots in com-
radeship. Lola was generous and kind, and the best
pilot he had ever worked with. She seemed to possess
some harmonious power over the machine, as women
used to have over horses that were dangerous with
men ; and when she had to fly blind she held to her
course as straight as a sextant. He hoped that she
was not seriously ill.
Dr. Augarde came out and closed the door
behind her.
“\/ ou are Mr - Delac y» 1 suppose.” Assured on
i this point, she said with authority: “If care is
taken there is every hope of saving the child.”
Brian went so white that she led him to the
drawing-room at the end of the passage.
“Does this come as an unpleasant shock?”
“The greatest thing that has ever happened in
my life. I had no idea. Poor little Lola! May Igo
to her?”
“Yes, but rest and quiet, mind —no
excitement. No celebration . . . Mar-
vellous. My first aeroplane case. Three
months and she took that flight. Mad-
ness!”
Brian’s eyes flashed blue flame,
reflecting such excitement as, generations
past, Johanna had seen in young Danny's
when there had been no resisting him,
when she had had to follow to the
furthest extremity of the globe, and from
there farther still into the wilderness.
This was something greater than himself,
greater than amour; it was the extension
of himself, a link in an unbroken chain
—immortality.
“She never told me,” he stammered.
“She had her reasons, doubtless,”
said the doctor drily.
“The fourth generation of Delacy to
fly! ”
“You must be careful —no strain, no excitement.”
“Shall you send a nurse?”
“A sensible friend to seclude her for a month
would be better. Absolute quiet for the next forty-
eight hours, mind!”
AS Brian escorted the doctor to the door he saw
Ercildoun approaching and ducked to the florist’s
counter to escape her. He seized an armful of wattle
—not so much as his forebears had sheaved-up to
make wattle-and-dab shelters or sheepfolds, but he
ascended the stairway draped in perfumed fluff. He
burst into Lola’s presence, a golden cloud. She saw
his expression and knew his mind.
“Some wattle, my love.”
“I thought it was mimosa.”
“That’s its trade moniker; its home name is
wattle—good old wattle! God, is there anything so
ethereal in the world!”
He stood by the bed, then went to her. tender
arid exalted, curbing his urge for corroboree.
“Congratulations, darling!” he said, kissing her
gently. “This is unbelievable. I’m mad all through
with joy. It’s the most tremendous and symbolical
thing that has happened in the history of Australia
since Cook landed. A flying son. Flew before his
birth, as I and my father and uncles and aunts and
cousins went on horseback with our mothers before
we were born. That’s the way to have a nation of
airmen.”
“Or airwomen.”
“Oh, yes—forgive me. We can have an air
son later if you’d prefer one of your own sex to
start,” he gallantly amended.
“One may be plenty for me to produce and you
to raise. I’m not as tickled as I might be about the
loss of my income. I chose a bad time. This will
put the kibosh on my flights for some time.”
“A glorious time! Plenty of room for us all
in the skies above Aussie, the biggest skies in the
world over our own back-yard. Never mind about
the flight to America in the new plane. It’s off for
the present. The M.-V.-G. company has some new
safety improvements and wants
the Nullah Mundoey over
there ... Humphrey Vance has
been wanting me to stay here.
There is a project to map-out the
unknown parts of Australia
properly, and old Humphrey
wants to fly, and will fork up for
that. Civil aviation, air mail—all
sorts of leads. This settles it.
Humphrey can be godfather of
the kid as he was of me. You
wouldn’t mind, would you?”
Lola raised herself with
effort. The feeling of unreality
persisted. “I’ll make a bargain with you. Mr. Vance
can be one of the godparents, on one condition.”
“What’s that? It’s granted, anyhow. The kid is
ours, of course.”
“You must be more dignified about my age. If
you had the right attitude, or any respect for our
union, you would not let these flappers lose their
heads. You are to blame somehow, or they wouldn’t
write you those sloppy letters.”
“I never read their cows of letters.”
“Maybe you don't, but if you can’t control
the situation with more dignity ] can’t go on
with the wear and tear all my life. I’d rather
end it now.”
“I never think of the damn’ flaps at all —
only to dance.”
He saw his mistake, but could not recall
his words. Lola was not a dancer. She would
be ungraceful on a dance-floor angular and
big-boned. She had her ascendancy as a goddess
°f the machine. Up and away into the skies
she was glorious, an albatross, enduring, courageous,
inspiring. She came to earth, like an albatross,
awkwardly.
P ORTUNATELY for that excitement, forbidden,
* Ercildoun knocked on the door. Lola called
“Come!” and welcomed her in such a way
that Brian was glad to obey doctor’s orders and give
place. The caller sent him on an errand.
“So the murder is out!”
she laughed to Lola. “Took
a long time, seeing the clues
were as clear as a waggon-
track on the Blacksoil Plains
after rain.”
“I guess they never
dreamed I would be on a
big flight—that fooled them.”
“Yes, they thought yon
were too modern for this
business.”
“This modern business
gets my goat.”
“Are you glad?”
“More worried. I’d go
mad if I had to go through
this among those women
around Ferny Creek. They’re
darlings, but away back in
the Middle Ages. They don’t
know a thing about anything
that's happened since our Civil War. How the heck
do you put up with them?”
“] leave ’em, as you left Michigan.”
“But Michigan has a few gadgets that Ferny
Creek does without.”
“Gadgets don’t finally satisfy the mind, and you
have to pick your clique in London to escape the
fundamentalists or the ‘spit-and-polish’ imperialists
and such. There are times when I know that one
whiff of Ferny Creek is worth all the intelligentsia
of London and New York and Paris and Moscow put
together.”
“That could be true too, but there is something
else.” Without reserve Lola gave the facts of the
Adrienne complication. “Do you suppose the girl is
neurasthenic? I don’t know how Australian girls
take things. Here, in this very paper, is a case of a
girl in England who took poison when the man had
to choose between chere amie and his wife and
chose the wife.”
“I forgot all about Adrienne in this issue.”
“It is to be hoped that she will forget.”
“This will cure her. She’s of good prosaic old
stock. I recall my disgust when I was Adrienne's age.
A man cavorted before me with caterwaulings of
deathless love, and I found out that at the same time
his wife was within a month of her time.”
“That was pre-Ark delicacy. Girls are more
advanced to-day.”
“Advanced where?”
“Oh, well, it is considered smart to chisel-in on
a married woman now. You’re only entitled to* a
man while you can hold him. In my case the darlings
have to rescue the martyred hero.”
“Adrienne will be all right. We folk that were
reared on ferny creeks are not so neurotic yet, thank
God. I have telephoned for Clare Margaret. A word
in her ear and she will prick the whole mess like a
toy balloon.”
DRIAN had gone to telephone “old Humphrey”
about his godfathership to the first air-born child
of the coming air-borne race. He was so excited that
he could hardly hold the receiver.
As he came out of the booth Adrienne was wait-
ing for him. He had forgotten her, but he had a
stupendous alibi, as Lola would have expressed it.
His thoughts were of Australians in the air, of
to be born in air-planes as they had been born in
hulks or in bullock-drays in the early days. He was
impersonal, detached, as Danny of yore when the far
blue peaks of his kingdom enthralled him.
“Oh, Adrienne, old scout! ” he exclaimed. “Such
news! A miracle—an air miracle. Come, I’ll tell
you.”
The girl’s heart leapt. Heaven knows how she
interpreted that miracle in relation to her own infatua-
tion. Brian’s culpability had been passive ; he did
not think of Adrienne as a disappointed amoreuse.
“It’s immense, Adrienne! You must be god-
mother,” he concluded. “The only other flier of old
Nullah Mundoey’s breed.”
Adrienne turned a ghastly color under her flam-
boyant lacquer. Her romance, her drug, was being
torn from her without warning or alleviation.
“I don’t want to be an old cow of a godmother!”
she protested shrilly.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the_ World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(I WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .).
UNION
LINE
• ---
'<Jy-
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ... 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney . . .
Saturday, January 2nd, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from £5.
Full
particulars
from
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island of New Zealand,
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. 1.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney, Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
Early
bookings
recommended
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Agent
The NEW
AIRFLOW flask
makes POWDER
so easy to use
5.1.T1
IV>
EASY
TO USE
An dentifrices contain some
powder, that’s what does the
cleaning. But Calvert’s is ALL
powder, that’s why it makes
teeth whiter. Now Calvert’s
Airflow Flask makes powder
even easier to use than paste
from an old-fashioned tube.
DOWNOY
S
CA
C R
ki
ds
in ADVERTISING
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner’’ (Est. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
“THE EXTMINER’S” ADVERTISE-
MENTS REACH THE HOMES IN
LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
Cjhmbae
•AUDIT
«UREAU OF-
.CIRCULATIONS.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Fortunately there were only one or two people
present. The hotel had emptied for the picture
theatres. While Brian had been in the telephone-
booth Ercildoun had been giving Clare Margaret
the facts. They both now came forward to blanket
a scene. Adrienne had been through too much on
her nerve with an
unseasoned frame, fed
on excitement and
modernistic notions
of securing thrills;
and they had all been
too preoccupied for
dinner. Ercildoun
put her arm around
the girl, who strove to hurl some-
thing denunciatory at Brian, but it
foundered in sobs.
“You go to Lola; I’ll take
care of Adrienne,” said Clare
Margaret to her son.
“Of course Adrienne will be
godmother,” said Ercildoun over her
shoulder. “She’s the right person the
second flying Delacy.”
Brian was glad to bound away up the
staircase. The women entered the lift.
“As soon as it is decent to mention it
I’ll put it in the papers,” said Ercildoun as they
reached the empty drawing-room. “Another honor
for the popular young airwoman, Miss Butler.”
“He made me love him desperately, and then he
doesn’t care,” sobbed Adrienne.
“Don’t let anyone know that,” advised Clare
Margaret.
“They all ought to be told what he is.”
“Never let a man know how much he has hurt
you.”
“Why not?”
“Oh, perhaps so that he can hurt you some
more,” she replied, with a cynical chuckle. Her
own husband had adored her from his birth until his
death; her father and mother had been congenial
comrades as long as the partnership lasted. “Never
let a man get under your skin. The more he hurts
you the more cocky it makes him —and you become
a laughing-stock.” Nevertheless she was concerned
for the girl’s wan face, and put an arm about her.
“Come on, old hard-timer, this is a Yackandandah
that millions of women have to swim, but this one
is only a creek, and you know how to fly. You can
say ‘Ka-poop!’ and thumb your nose to the whole
blinking lot.”
It was a woman’s night. Clare Margaret attended
to Lola’s wants and ensured the prescribed quiet.
Ercildoun had full charge of Adrienne, and fortified
her against making a fool of herself. She took the
girl to her apartment in Darlinghurst, fed her, con-
fessed to having survived crises of her own, so that
Adrienne emerged her admirer for life and on the
way to recovery.
A sense of satisfaction was mingled with Lola’s
recoil from the restricting and tiresome stretch ahead
of her. She would avoid all risks. Other women
should not be able to assume airs of superiority
towards her because of mere motherhood, a detail
she would take on the wings of her career. Her
secret out, her status with Brian re-defined, sweet
relief sent her to sleep for the ensuing twenty-four
hours.
BRIAN found himself superfluous, and was thank-
ful to be dismissed. The urge was on him to
commune with the invisible, so he arranged for a
’plane to set off for his home region.
It was glorious weather in the heart of spring,
warm and soft, the winds asleep. Up, like a god,
from the drome carpeted with dew-sopped grasses
which had come when plentiful rains followed the
winter drought.
The works of men shrank as the machine climbed
into the rosy dawn. The receding dwellings resembled
verminous incrustations flat upon the soil, the move-
ment of traffic that of insects. Only the Pacific, blue
abeam, and the roads stretching across and beyond
the wide horizons, retained their dignity. Along the
best of the roads old Danny and his lohanna had
crept for weeks like ants under the mighty timber.
To-day, in an hour or so their great-grandson sped
the distance in the eagles’ domain, a spot upon the
sun. Below him a million acres cleared and pad-
docked danced in waves of light where scarcely enough
trees remained to lend graciousness.
Before him lay the destined land of Daniel Brian
Robert M. Delacy, and its aura of palpitant silence,
enchantment welling from its ageless mystery. From
that pregnant oblivion, glittering free of humanity
to the Pole, shimmering broadly to the equator, might
come the revelation for which man was toiling upward
from the abyss. There a man had space to escape
from the limitations of his outer shell into the bound-
less freedom of his inner consciousness. There the
sun rose as the promise of God and set as His bene-
diction.
Brian alighted upon an emergency ’drome in an
early holding in the Gap, long since cleared except
of wattles and commanding a view of the far, piled
ranges beyond Canberra that lie dreaming for ever
in blue forgetfulness. The hills were an altar, this
a vigil of oblation. The worshipper possessed the
day undisturbed by his fellows in his private chapel
with a choir of magpies, kookaburras, warblers —each
after his kind—filling the invisible transepts with
music.
The prospect of perpetuity through his child
liberated the young man to that which has ever been
found upon the hilltops, which some must miss and
which those who seek to condition by explanation
must lose. Brian, as Danny long ago, was realising
that he was free of eternity in the present, that by
the release of spiritual emotion man transcends intel-
lect and gains a glimpse of the kingdom of the uncon-
ditioned and unexpressed, with ecstasy vested in its
being unconditionable, inexpressible. The soul’s con-
sciousness of infinity in such rare moments thus adds
knowledge and experience to mere acknowledgment of
immortality.
The son of this soil and sunlight thrilled with his
destiny as guardian of a habitat for a new race of
men —a race, by developments in communication and
transport, to be liberated from the primitive and panic
trade necessity of gregariousness and proliferousness.
Why not a people selected from the world’s best
—people worthy to occupy a sensitive land protected
by phantom qualities, a land that would return to
desert to cleanse herself of too dense a population, a
delicate, elusive land whose suns and floods could
cleanse her from the stupid greed of wrongheaded
commercialism; an eerie, luring land of elfin flowers
and animals, a land not to be bludgeoned but wooed,
a land of vast oblivion whose past history might for
ever remain in the realm of conjecture.
Such was his land.
Australia had sent him abroad to the best in
the Old World, had welcomed him home effusively.
Here he was. He stretched himself on the warm, clean
earth and exulted in the fact of being born to this
when he might have been dropped where the very
stones were worn with the footprints of countless
generations, so that he was paralysed
by his realisation of being only one
more leaf to fall on the humus of
history.
Through disregard of the impos-
sible, men had
come to fly.
The aviator
and humani-
tarian pon-
dered upon the
spectacle of
men who could
dare and har-


Complete Travel
Service to
Europe
SUSP
the way Home, see Can-
ada—Land of Glorious
Surprises. Canadian Pacific
trains through the Rockies
. . . Banff, Lake Louise. Pal-
atial hotels at all resorts, and
the famous “Empress” and
“ Duchess” ships on the
sheltered Atlantic Crossing.
These, combined with the
renowned service of Canadian
Pacific, make the most enjoy-
able trip to England and the
Continent.
Illustrated literature and deta3s|
Irom any Tourist Booking Agency
or
P. 6.7
QuudliAAlGkcifac
World’s Greatest Travel System
Street, Melbourne,
247 George Street, Sydney
MONEY TRANSFERS
fds
throughout the WORLD
The Bank of New South Wales makes complete
facilities available for the transaction of
banking business throughout Australasia and
between Australia and all other parts of the
world.
The Bank establishes commercial credits by
mail or by cable. It issues drafts and makes
money transfers by letter or telegraph. It
negotiates and collects Bills of Exchange and
issues, for the convenience of travellers, Letters
of Credit and Travellers’ Cheques, available all
over the world. Exchange quotations direct on
all countries are issued daily and trained officers
of the Bank are always available to advise cus-
tomers on matters relating to overseas money
transactions.
4V
vu
i
775 Branches throughout Australia, New
Zealand, the Pacific Islands and London.
831 A, 1936
Simplicity
itself to fill!
Hblef
2ssS*
f oh J' tyn
*°fil
of *k
ONE0 NE • two • full!!! Yes, it’s just as simple
, as that. And the mechanism of the Leverless
is so strong and sound that it cannot go wrong !
See it demonstrated at any good Stationers or
Jewellers —soon 1
Prices. —The Leverless (‘ Quick-fill’) Swan from
21/-. The Visofil (‘ Big-fill ') Swan 32/6. Ladies'
Size, 27/6. Other Swans from IS/-. Blackbirds
from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All in
black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE LEVERLESS
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE SWAN' INK
A4.3fi
ness the elements and yet submit to physical want in
the midst of abundance. There upon the hilltop in the
crest of vigor he laughed aloud at stupidity which
could so easily give way to sane employment of the
resources at man’s command. This ludicrous system
of exploitation which wasted food
while people wearied in bread-lines
had long since been brought to
judgment and condemned and was
being superseded despite all the
false briefs, the specious and
special pleading and the lethal
armaments. To every youth worthy
of human estate the readjustment of
the human comedy in the pattern
of sanity and happiness appears
immediately practicable; all the
old men are doomed, when choked
with experience, to see that re-
adjustment deferred to posterity.
He took a letter from his pocket and tenderly
unfolded it, happiness playing upon his features. The
paper was patched at the folds, the faint writing in
pencil, but Brian valued the document as the deed of
his inheritance. It was the last letter that old Harry
had written, which Josephine had covered with
apology. Brian treasured both letters, felt in himself
the qualities of the two writers and the divergent
understanding of character.
The trembling sentences ran:
I can see it clearly now at the threshold of
everlasting life, believe me, boy; the new
conceptions of time and space will knock man’s
present superstitions sky high and liberate his
mind. The infinite immortality is with us always.
Future and past are words that can be used one
for the other. Man presently will be able to look
round time as you fly around the globe. Man
only needs to give intelligence full play and fair
play to own the potentialities beyond the frontiers
of present human knowledge in the Never-Never
and the Never-Yet of the mind.
Australia is the most wonderful country in
the world, but new ideas must be freed to save
and develop it. Australians must do something
better than copy anyone else on the globe. There
has been too much pioneering of destruction
trying to force Australia to the mistakes and
achievements of Asia and Europe. Science must
learn to take Australia on her own lines and
let her remain different.
A dream is the highest possession of man.
I can see in a vision the pioneering that is to be
done in the mind. “The mind!” your great-
grandfather used to say. He was a great man.
Your father was a delicate link, but he held the
chain. I was a failure by all accounts, but I held
the torch for you and will finally be a success
if you are worthy of old, fearless Danny of the
Murrumbidgee. His vision of the future and the
past and his contentment with the big mysteries
was a greater possession than all the moneybags
in the banks because he could both take it away
with him and leave it behind him too. In the
eras which are coming it is not those who
can grasp at the expense of their fellows who are
to succeed in the fullness of living, but those
who”
The frail hand had here failed its master, but
there was enough for Brian. And it was all true.
He gazed across the blue-green ocean of ranges which
Danny and Harry had seen as the vitals of the con-
tinent. There nestled his stake in the soil —as much
as a m&n might retain in the choppy seas of evolution.
Had old Danny been a grasper instead of a dreamer,
what might have been his descendant’s position to-
day? Doubtful.
Danny, Harry and Darcy had given him vision.
What had the financially successful achieved? From
the Plains spread before him they had been dislodged
by an urgent democracy and had left no distinguished
representative. Had any of the old squatter clans of
Danny Delacy’s kingdom done
so? A scholar and one or
two literary men and women
occurred to him.
Grandmother Josephine! He
chortled to contemplate that
masterpiece. How she had worn!
She must be the most beautiful
woman of her age in Australia, and
undefeated still. First-class material throughout
was there, and no lyrical sensitiveness to betray her
into weaknesses. Grandfather Harry had been a real
man to lure her into marriage and to stand up to her
through all those years!
“I’m glad you have some of my character, boy,”
she had said. “I do admire character.” There was
no hedging in her judgments. “You want to guard
against the Delacy weaknesses —blathering poetry and
ranting like red-raggers against moneybags while the
thieves plucked them bare: or else giving away all
they had. All that pleasantness and talk about a sense
of humor and that haw-hawing at silly jokes cannot
make up for a lack of backbone. Ido respect a man
with character —one who can make his way in the
world and rise to something substantial for himself
and his family.”
Conspicuous results on the concrete level had
been achieved by the operations of character as she
conceived it. Babylons and modern empires had
arisen at its will, and passed because of its lack of
spiritual ascendancy. His grandfather had had an-
other conception character as mind the spiritual
man as of more importance than the physical. He was
right. The pathways to the shrines of the saints
grow smooth from the feet of pilgrims long after the
tombs of the conquerors are smothered by the jungle.
At the opening of his farewell letter Harry had
exhorted his grandson of the new generation, as an
aviator and man of vision, “To surmount the clouds
to woo the moon and dare the sun.” To his grand-
mother, what a typical example of Delacy poetical
blather! But Brian could distil exaltation from the
hyperbole. Without such dreamers men could not
have achieved even mechanical flight. He understood
both progenitors and gloried in the temperament that
was his by such a combination of qualities.
“Grandad was right. He was a great ancestor to
transmit the inheritance of an outlook to fit me for
the uncharted future. Let it come. I’m ready for it,
no matter which way the wind blows. I’m a two-
headed kangaroo.”
ALL too swiftly the day ascended and declined.
The shadows lengthened from the cropped tus-
socks pimpling the hillsides. Perfume of wattle
bathed approaching evening in delight. The bright
landscape danced in air translucent and dazzling. The
westering sun, laying vesper offering on the rim of
day, melted sky and mountains into a glory of filtered
light and retreated to the core of a continent over
which as yet man has no sure dominion. A land of
distances, a land dependent upon distances for preser
vation ; a land gorgeously empty and cleansed frorr,
the accumulations of centuries of human occupation :
a continent surveyed, fenced, patrolled and policed by
the nucleus of a nation analogous to a patriarchal
family with unwieldy wealth.
“Australia the incredible feat!” he chanted, with
old Danny’s habit of talking and laughing aloud to
himself when lacking an audience to his mood or
depth.
He returned to the ’plane and set the engines
running. An old mare and foal frisked up to inspect
him. Their points denoted his great-grandfather’s
breeds. Brian could see in memory his grand-uncle
Robert riding on those plains with his dogs seeking
sport and pillaging as they went. All the roads far
and near had rung with the music of equine hoofs,
which now echoed along the currents of past time
and lingered in actuality west and north on stretches
of country still held by a handful of men with their
interminable leagues of fencing, their immortal horses
and dogs, their intrepid and lonely women and chil-
dren, awaiting the reinforcement of aircraft.
Airman Delacy pondered on the extension of his
being back to his great-grandfather through living
memory, and on to his own great-grandson with
luck. The pert foal frolicking up to sniff the machine
illustrated the revolution in transport. He was part
of the transition and had the good fortune to be in his
prime at this stupendous parting of the ways. He
recalled his youth a-horse, the thrill of companion-
ship with spirited quadrupeds. Horse and man had
labored together, the man the lord, the horse the
generous, unrewarded collaborator who had trans-
formed the yokels of Europe into a nation of cavalry.
In step with change, they must now graduate as bird-
men in vessels which could attain the stratosphere.
Critical days ahead with the machine as master,
looming as the destroyer if manipulated to Satanic
ends!
But it was inconceivable that men would hurl
themselves into the abyss when the way out was as
clear and wide as the shimmering track of the depart-
ing sun.
“I must have my eye on a promising Nullah Mun-
doey for the young beggar that’s coming,” laughed the
aviator. “A Nullah Mundoey of the air.”
The engine shuddered and hummed, moved, ran,
ascended: roaring it rent the upper air, drowning the
rhythm of ghostly hoofbeats, swiftly was gone above
the ranges, while on the silver screen of night appeared
the spectral forms of bullock transport and receding
Delacys moving against ancient unfamiliar apparitions
on the palimpsest of Time.
[The End.]


Could qoiir Widow
balance herßudqet?
ds
Why have
any doubt
about it . . .
why leave
her future to
chance when
you can
create an
estate immediately by taking out
an Insurance policy with this
company ? The saving required is
very small . . the security obtained
gives peace of mind. Mortgage
Insurance guarantees your
dependents’ inheritance of debt-
free property.
t Q\IITABU PROBtft
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L™
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
U. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED
1834.
Service to its customers, and the public generally,
has been the paramount consideration of the Bank
for over a century.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
ASSETS EXCEED £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING AND EXCHANGE
BUSINESS EXPEDITIOUSLY TRANSACTED.
C'. Darvall, General Manager.
'SS£
m
m
w;
w
fds
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
I MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
lD-«r-20uH>»
Representatives: McPHERSO PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane'
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Violence Never Pays:—
"EASY DOES IT. PETER"
BY FREEAN SANDOM
OTT im Himmel,” cried old Peter
I I to the blue sky, “haf 1 ein fish-
drap mit schwett oont elbowgrease
built for anodder man to rob? I vill
der schwine-dog schtone-dead shood, ja! ”
“Seems you have, Peter,” I told him.
“But according to British law a man is
innocent until proven guilty. We’ll give
him the benefit of the doubt until we
catch him. And the shooting business is
no good: a dead man means all trouble
and no profit. Easy does it, old feller!”
The situation was fishy enough. Old
Peter and I were the only two on Dugong
Island, and we were catching salmon in
plenty. Then Charlie Thompson arrived,
and straightway the fish became scarce.
“I dell you, Pill Flowers,” repeated
the old man, “der man iss ein dief. Fish
mit der fines? Poof! Von day he to
der town mit plendy fish go, oont I ged
noddings! Anodder day he. go, oont I
ged noddings. Von, doo, dree, hondert
dimes. Penefid of der doubt? FJod on
your fifes! I shood him dead!”
He rigged a shotgun to a stick in the
wafer, a fishing fine leading from the
trigger to the “box,” so that when the
robber lifted this he would shoot himself.
In the middle, of the night the gun
banged off. The dose of birdshot pep-
pered the mango on the beach where
Peter’s fowls roosted, bagging two. When
the frantic German, tumbling into his
flattie and rowing hell for leather,
arrived at the box he found it hoisted
high and empty of fish. The gun had
been turned round and was now point-
ing shoreward.
The following afternoon Peter called,
and after a long palaver we tramped
across to Charlie’s camp. As I said to
the old man, there’s no harm in making
a few inquiries. This is a free country.
Peter wanted to ask questions with a
gun, but I blocked that scheme —there
are limits to the freedom*.
CHARLIE’S tent was pitched at the
head of a little beach between the
two traps, handy—too handy—to both
of us. Charlie was stretching a fine,
new, one-hundred-and-fifty-yard net be-
tween the she-oaks.
“He bought dat mit your fish oont
mine!” whispered Peter.
Charlie. Thompson was powerfully
built, red-haired and with small, twinkling
eyes. He wore a pair of shorts only,
and his hairy torso glinted metallic in
the sun like the back of an ibis.
“Out walking?” he asked genially.
“Just a sec. and I’ll make you a pannikin
of tea.” Then to Peter: “Did he do
much damage last night?”
“How did you know his trap was
robbed last night?” I shot at him.
“Trap robbed?” He seemed genuinely
surprised. “I was fishing over at fhe
fairway-buoy with Harry-the-Sailor and
another half-caste when I heard the shot-
gun go off, and, seeing the dead fowls
as I passed your place this morning, I
guessed a carpet-snake had paid you a
visit. Was somebody at your trap again,
Pete? Too bad, too bad!”
“You know! You know” Peter
began on the. high note which means
trouble. I choked
him off in time. All
violence is foolish-
ness.
“We’ll be fair
and square and
aboveboard,” I said
to Charlie, “and
I hope you won’t
take it up the
wrong way. We’ve lost a lot of fish
and are making some, inquiries. You have
an alibi, though Harry-the-Sailor’s repu-
tation isn’t exactly lilywhite. You don’t
mind us talking up square?”
“Not a bit! ” he said heartily. “I’ve
no time for trap-robbers meself, and, to
show you I mean it, I’ll take turns about
with you fellers watching t'o-night.”
“Nod on your fifes” began Peter
loudly, and I had to choke him off again.
I talked fish and weather for a decent
interval, then dragged Peter away. “Easy
does it!” I told him. “What can we
do? Charlie is in the best possie—he. has
nothing to lose. We have.”
WE continued to lose fish of nights.
Ours were four-box traps, over
six hundred feet long, and guarding the
two efficiently was impossible. We
scrubbed the grease off the windlass
rollers to make them squeak when lifted,
but I knew that was of little use, a
handful of water splashed on a bearing
would silence all noise.
Charlie was busy, too. He collected
mangrove bark and tanned his net. While
the net was still drying he came back
from town with an engine in his boat.
An engine! Old Peter swore volubly,
and put padlocks on his boxes. But
what’s the good of padlocking a trap-
box? Then he constructed a crocodile
trap ; caught a twelve-footer and chained
it near a box as a surprise for the thief.
As an additional precaution he “fished”
the trap and put the catch in a “live-
box” which he anchored near his motor-
boat. In the morning both croc, and
live-box were gone.
That week Charlie bought sheets of
corrugated-iron and began building a
house. Finished, he. came home with
coils of' wire-netting and started trap-
building. We learnt that he had got a
license. Also that he had sold a twelve-
foot croc, to the Lone Bay Zoo just
before that. This information set old
Peter raving.
“Vee must der man gill, you oont me,
Pill, mit von pig biece off voot!”
“And hang for it?” I asked. “Besides
he might kill us. No, mate, the violence
stunt is up to putty. Take your time
and we’ll find a better way out of it
than that.”
I called on the fishery inspector.
“Sorry, Bill,” said he, “but you’ve got
to catch your man red-handed —with re-
liable witnesses on the spot; and bring
the stolen fish as evidence.”
“All on a golden tray?” I asked.
As soon as Charlie’s trap was up out-
fishing became much better. We caught
reasonable quantities on the night-tides.
“Vee haf bought for him nets, oont
inschin, oont house, oont drap,” said
Peter bitterly. “He haf now no more his
need for schteal.”
That seemed true. For, although I still
gave Charlie the benefit of the doubt in
public, privately I agreed with Peter.
At the same time the present situation
had a side to it which Peter missed
seeing.
ONE morning a mob of ducks flew
over the island and appeared to
settle near Shark Cove on the other side.
I took my shotgun from the rack over
the bed, loaded both barrels and stuffed
a handful of cartridges in my pocket. I
called at Sunshine Bay, which was
Charlie’s brand-new name for his little
cove.. He had painted the name on a
plank nailed to a tea-tree, “Sunshine
Bay Resort,” in big, white letters, and
underneath: “Fresh Fish, Oysters and
Dugong Steak Suppers.” He aimed at get-
ting a tourist hotel put up there some day.
He was mending a net —one of three—
when I arrived.
“Hallo!” I called cheerfully. “White-
ants been at your net, Charlie?”
He scowled. “If I knew for sure how
that net fell down, and how it walked
twenty feet right on top of that blasted
antheap, I’d kick the guts in for the joker
what did it, blast him!”
“Violence never pays,” I murmured,
shaking my head disapprovingly and
patting the blue barrels of the gun ab-
sently. “Using force is a mug’s game.
As I’m always telling Peter, ‘lt’s easy
that does it.’ ” I sat down on a log, put
the gun across my knees and lit a
cigarette.
“I’m on my way to Shark Cove—saw
a mob of ducks land there —but I’ve
plenty of time,” 1 remarked. “My word,
Charlie, you’ve done well since you came
here—broke. Nets, trap, house and the
beginning of a fine cafe!”
“Fishing’s been good,” said he, begin-
ning to watch me keenly.
“Sure,” I agreed, “and you’re a good
man, Charlie! But have you ever
thought that owning property has draw-
backs? I remember a cobber of mine,
a bit of a cocky. He’s that scared of a
match being stuck in his cane that he
won’t say boo to a soul —can’t call his
soul his own—and all because he owns
a bit of cane.”
I broke off and smoked thoughtfully.
Charlie had stopped mending the net
and watched me like a cat watches a
mousehole.
“Out with it!” he spat at last. “I
know you, Bill! What you driving at?”
“Driving at?” I asked in surprised
tones. “I’m just talking, Charlie. You
know I’m not what you call an edu-
cated man, though dad —he was a foot-
man in the Old Dart —showed me a
thing or two. ‘Take a hypothetical case,’
he used to say, and then spin some sort
of fairy yarn. How long’ve you been
here, Charlie? Ten months, isn’t it?
And you’ve done well! Donsky told
me —I know he shouldn’t, but he’s a
cobber of mine. He gave me figures
showing the quantity of fish you sold
him before y&u got. your trap and your
nets. You know, Charlie, you’re the
only man who’s made anything out of
line-fishing round about the harbor, and
you’ve, made enough to get a start with
all this”
“Get on with it, get on with it!” he
interrupted. “I’m not a fool, Bill.”
“■ | KNOW you aren’t, Charlie,” I said
* heartily, “that’s why I want to tell
you this hypothetical story. Suppose a
man —call him Snooks —owned a fish-
trap, and another man —Spinks, say—-
pinched his fish. What could Snooks
do? He could do a lot. But whatever
he did he wouldn’t get his fish back, or
the value of it, because Spinks hadn’t a
bean to pay up with. Besides, Spinks
might turn nasty, and damage Snooks’s
trap or nets or burn his house. You
follow me, Charlie?”
He had let the pipe he, was smoking
go out. Now he bent forward and re-
garded me intently.
“Spit it out!” he said brusquely.
“Right! Well, this Snooks joker knew
this, so he took it easy, biding his time.
By-and-bye Spinks got a little. Pr°P-
together, then more and more. 1 _
and Snooks were on an even 100 •=,
then. You see, if Snooks’s net was ea e
by white-ants, there was nothing to pi
vent Spinks suffering a similar loss,
if Snooks had a trap which
robbed —why, so had Spinks!
Charlie chewed his cold pip e 1 ( - c ,‘
tively. “Spinks might be the st /’ on f. e ? 1 ’.
he said. “He could give the other ie ei
a hiding.”
“He might,” I agreed. “But again he
mightn’t. Snooks might be quickei ana
have more science. Also he might carry
a gun. But, anyway, traps might he
destroyed, nets and houses burnt, anc
so on. And Snooks, having money in
the bank, would be on the best wicket.
have plenty of tucker and cartridges, anc
could start again when it was all over.
1 COULD see that Charlie was inter-
t ested. “Well,” he said after a silence,
“what did Snooks do?”
“He went to a lawyer (Scudder and
Hanson, we’ll say it was) and had a
document drawn up for Spinks to sign.
In this document Spinks acknowledged
receiving a certain sum of money and
promised to pay it back in monthly in-
stalments —plus five per cent, interest and
the lawyer’s fee.”
“Like hell!” Charlie was suddenly on
his feet, and came towards me with
clenched fists.
I rose, too, and as I did the shotgun
pointed straight to his stomach. He
stopped dead.
“Easy does it, Charlie!” I said smil-
ing. “This story of mine seems to have
heated you up considerably. I didn’t
know I was as good a spruiker as all that.
Apparently tne situation did not seem
so funny to him as to me. He was
scowling unpleasantly.
I said: “A man sometimes does a
thing in hot blood which he is sorry for
after —lucky for him if he is stopped in
time.” I slung the gun over my shoulder.
“Well, I must' be going. You’ve done
great work here, Charlie. Only the other
day I said to Peter: ‘Charlie is a dinkum
go-getter, and if he’s left alone he’ll have
a fine tourist hotel and what not be-
fore long.’ Hope that net isn’t ruined
altogether. Hurroo, old man!”
A FAIR spell later I sat in the star-
light listening to old Peter full to
the neck with a grievance as usual.
I listened patiently to the end ; then
I said: “There’s no pleasing you, Peter.
When this mysterious lunatic we call
Spinks paid money into your bank ac-
count every month you were belly-
aching about it, reckoning it was a trick
by somebody or other to get the best of
you. And now he has stopped you com-
plain about that. What do you want,
anyway?”
“Vant? Vant?” cried Peter beginning
to pace the verandah floor and helping
his tongue with gesticulating hands,
“Gott im Himmel, Pill, I must off some-
dings dalk! I dell you all der schtories
vat to me happen—von, doo, dree dimes
I dell ’em, oont a hondert dimes. I dalk
of der vedder, oont der fish, oont ev’ry-
dings. Der moneys vat dis schtoopid
loonadig bay me —dot iss noddings. But
der dalk about it —dot iss goot, dot iss
ev’rydings.”
The old man was on the verge of tears.
“Never mind, old-timer.” I rose with a
smile hidden by the night. “Come along to
Charlie’s and I’ll shout you a pot of tea.”
Until Charlie gets the pub license he
has applied for we call the right stuff by
the wrong name on Dugong Island.


TMOIMCWq..
A TWIST. .ITS OPEN !
DROP IN BLADE
/
THE GILLETTE
“one fikce’
ARISTOCRAT
O
No loose parts ... all one-piece
. . . simplicity itself
Adding amazing convenience to shav-
ing comfort, the Aristocrat marks
still another achievement in the great
manufacturing record which began
with the invention of the Gillette
Safety Razor 40 years ago.
Ingenious—revolutionary in design—
The Aristocrat is all one-piece. Just
a twist of the handle opens the cap to
remove or replace the blade. Another
twist locks it securely into position
for perfect shaving. You can whisk
through a smooth, comfortable shave
in less time than ever.
Sturdy, simple in construction, The
Aristocrat is built to watchmakers’
standards of accuracy. What a per-
fect razor for the new Blue Gillette
electrically tempered blades!
Ask your dealer to demonstrate this
marvellous new razor.
•
Perfectly balanced, heavily silver-plated,
equipped with a man-sized handle and packed
in a handsome nickel-plated case together
with ten Blue Gillette Blades.
m
■
[THE GILLETTE
tla to era t
flVibHUlbl
CE
RAZOR
A Tragi-comedy of Matrimony:-
THE HOLD-UP
BY HAROLD MERCER
A PALL of midnight silence blanketed
the suburban street; the shuffle of
uncertain feet made a disturbance
that was almost startling. The hesitancy
of the man who lurched through the night
was not altogether that of intoxication.
He paused, now and again, swaying, as
if unwilling to advance at all; and he
talked to himself of his sorrows.
The troubles were feminine. “If a man
wassen drunk,” he told an electric-light
standard, “he woulden go home at all ;
yet she’ll nag, nag, nag about it until all
he wants is to get drunk again to-
morrow!” He pulled himself together.
“Got to be done, I s’pose,” he sighed ;
and he lurched forward again.
A shadow detached itself from the
blackness of a wall.
“Put ’em up! All I want is your cash ;
I’m desp’rit. Put ’em up or I’ll shoot.”
The words came in an incisive, deter-
mined whisper. Involuntarily the drunk’s
arms began to move up; then they
dropped again. He blinked at the shadow
that confronted him.
“Go on, old man,” he said, “shoot!
Tha’sh besht shing you could do! End
of all my mish —mishery. An’ I’m in— *
inshured.”
The bandit was embarrassed. The
hearty welcome to his threat was totally
unexpected. It sounded like a joke. By
way of hinting that it was no joke on his
part, he pushed the nose of his revolver
into his victim’s waistcoat.
“Come on!” he commanded. “I’ve got
no time to waste. Hands up! ”
“Well, don waste time! Go on!
Wha’ d’you want to keep me waiting
for?” moaned the drunk querulously.
It was a deadlock. When the bandit
repeated “Come on!” all the command
had gone out of his voice.
“If you hadder wife like mine,” wailed
the drunk, “you’d want me to shoot, if
you wash me!”
His bluff called, the robber eyed the
drunk for a moment, calculating his
chances of a sudden spring and a knock-
out. The other, however, was a sizable
man and might be more trouble
than he was worth, seeing that he had
a nagging wife and had been spending
what money she might have left him.
With a snarling “Go to hell!” he com-
menced to back away.
“Wai’ a minute,” urged the drunk, fol-
lowing up, and putting a fearless hand on
the bandit’s arm. “Wha’sh your hurry?
I’ll tell you about it. I wanner talk. I
musht talk to shomeone!”
ALERT for any movement dangerous
to his liberty, the bandit listened
impatiently to the man who staggered
beside him, babbling of matrimonial
troubles. The shaky one grazed a seat
placed for waiting tram passengers, and
slumped into it, extending a clutching
hand to induce the bandit to sit beside
him.
“If you had shot me, ash you shaid,”
he complained, “I would be out of me
mishery. Sit down, an’ I’ll tell you about
it.”
The bandit hesitated, and did sit down.
The garrulous fool might become sleepy,
if allowed to talk ; that would give the
opportunity to “rat” him without risk.
“Trouble ish,” mourned the drunk,
“I’m fond of th’ wife, inner way. I
wanner look after her ; but she nagsh,
nagsh, nagsh! I don’ wanner get drunk
every night, but if I go home shober I’ve
gotter lissen to her about wha’ I did when
I wash drunk. I alwaysh have shome
drinks to help me bear it. An’ in the
mornin’ I feel ash if I musht have a
whishk—whishky; sho it all startsh
again.”
“I’ve hadder missus meself. Women
are rotten!” commented the bandit bit-
terly. Surprised, he found the drunk’s
hand sympathetically on his arm.
“You pore schap! But you didden
have ash bad a wife ash mine. No one
could have ash bad a wife ash mine.
I'll tell you abou’ wha’ she doesh.”
The bandit became restive.
“Why the hell don’t you leave her?”
he cut in, attempting to rise, but finding
himself detained.
“Fond of her, I sh’pose. She was alone
in th’ worl’; sho wash I” .. . The drunk
threatened to lapse into sentimentality,
but remembered his sorrows. “Why
didden you shoot
me? Tha’ wooda
been besht way.
I’m inshured;
she’s gotter good
home ; no troub —
troublesh but me ;
a quiet life”
“I’d give ’er some excitement if I was
’er ’usband!” remarked the bandit
harshly. “That’d cure ’er!”
“Would you?” the drunk asked ad-
miringly, and he went on, musing. “Ex-
shitement? Tha’sh an idea! A jolly
goo’ idea! ” r
THE bandit, alarmed for a moment
until he found that it was only an ex-
pression of suddenly-born enthusiasm,
found his arm gripped by two hands.
“I know! Goo’ idea. You be a
burglar! Scare hell out of her. Then
she finds me home ; you get away; an’
she’sh too shankful to shay anyshing to
me!”
“A burglar? No blanky fear I won’t.”
“I know where there’sh a quid fer
you. Got to hide my money to keep
it. lt’sh yoursh if you jusht come home,
let me wake her up, and let me push you
out. I’ll give you the quid d’rectly we
get home.”
A quid is a quid. Unwilling at first,
the burglar found himself walking beside
a man whose spirits were now buoyed up
by the prospect of peace for at least a
night; the man who had intended to
rob him become a bosom pal, a real
friend in need. The drunk deplored with
one breath that he knew of no more than
one hidden pound with which to reward
his pal; with the next he exulted in con-
templating the success of his scheme.
The approach to the bungalow was
made with due caution, and the bandit
was handed the key so that the door
might be opened without fumbling. As
silently as it was opened, the door was
closed again ; and the drunk, dropping
on his knees, fumbled along the edge of
the linoleum. When he rose, the bandit
felt something that was certainly a note,
and seemed like a pound-note, pushed
into his hand.
“There! All 1 wan’ you to do is to
wait long enough to scare her. When I
shay ‘get out’ go for your life,” whis-
pered the drunk.
“Who’s there?” demanded a voice
from the interior. “That you, Peter? Of
course! Coming home after midnight
again.”
The two men kept a close silence.
“Answer me, Peter! Who’s there?”
There was now a quiver of fear in the
voice. The springs of a bed creaked, and
an electric button clicked, the globe
throwing a thin stream of light under
the door on the left of the hall. Then
the handle of the door rattled, and the
door itself opened, cautiously.
“\WHAT the devil are you doing in
W this house? I warn you, I have
you covered. Put your hands up!”
Peter, considering his state, had mas-
tered his voice well, and thundered the
words excellently. The woman squealed
fearfully as she heard them; and the
light in the hallway was switched on
sharply.
The woman, obviously terrified, stood
in the doorway ; by the front door the
bandit held his arms in the air ; further
up the hall, with pipe in hand to repre-
sent a revolver—he would be able, after-
wards, to boast of that quick-thinking
bluff as well as giving it as a reason for
allowing the burglar to escape —Peter
made a really fine figure.
“It’s all right, May,” he said reassur-
ingly. “I’m here. So I came just in time
to catch you, my fine fellow! Any
exshplan—explanation ? ”
“It’s a cop,” said the burglar sullenly.
“It is!” retorted Peter masterfully. A
brilliant thought came to him. “I’d
say you could go, myself, but what I can’t
forgive is the way you have frightened
my wife.”
He moved towards her protectively
but with a gasped “Oh, my gracious!”
May had fallen faintly against the lintel
of the door, staring, pale-faced, at the
intruder. Both the jaw and the arms o
the latter went down.
“May! Jumping cats, May!”
“\WHAT the hell’s this?” snappe„
*V Peter. The sudden tenseness of
the situation, completely different from
the mock one he had planned, had swept
the intoxication from him. He moved
heroically to support the drooping May.
“Well, this is a go!” remarked the
bandit. A look of fear came into his
eyes. He moved towards the door.
“Get out!” thundered Peter quickly.
He had almost forgotten that cue.
He got a surprise when May’s faint
turn dropped from her. She became
violently herself again ; and she sent him
backwards with a push as she advanced.
“No! Now you are here, you stay
while 1 talk to you, you worm!” she
cried. The burglar was like a man petri-
tied, and allowed her to cut off his retreat
to the door, where she stood facing both
of them.
“So you are still alive ; and you have
come here! I thought you were dead!”
“1 couldn’t help it, May,” said the
intruder feebly.
Even as he felt the ascendancy going
to the vimful May, Peter thought he did
hold some points over her. This, then,
was the model husband May had so
often held up to him—a footpad and
burglar and not dead after all! But
the thought faded quickly. May had
not discovered his trick, perhaps, but
she might guess at something worse —
a league between him and Tom.
There was going to be trouble. Panic
seized Peter. At a moment when May’s
attention was on the man who had re-
turned from the dead, Peter slipped out
through a back door.
Coming round the house he heard
the front door bang and then the sound
of it opening again, and a feminine voice
smote on the air.
THE man he had left to his fate was
beside him as he turned at a run up
the street. They kept together, doubling
round a corner and making a beeline for
a laneway, then to the right, and to the
right again.
“Keep going,” panted Peter as Tom
showed signs of slackening. “She some-
times gives chase.”
“Don’t 1 know it!” the other panted
in reply,
They turned every corner, sometimes
doubling on their tracks, as men who
knew they had to foil a cunning pur-
suit, but still working further and
further afield. At last sheer exhaustion
stayed them to a walk, and eventually
they rested on the doorstep of a hotel,
“We ought to be right here,” said
Peter. “You can get a drink at this pub,
sometimes, at five in the morning.”
“Gawd! I could do with a drink!”
exclaimed the bandit. “May! Jest fancy
your missus being May!”
“Thank heaven I gave you that quid! ”
said Peter. “I’ll need some of it; but
if you come to town with me”
“What? ’Aven’t you any money?”
demanded the bandit.
“Only a copper or so.”
The bandit laughed hoarsely,
“But there’s that quid,” said Peter
anxiously.
“That quid! May saw it sticking out
of my pocket and she grabbed it. She
said it would go towards some of the
maintenance I hadn’t paid her.”
The two relatives by marriage sat de-
jectedly on the doorstep facing a hope-
less dawn.


HI
mm a i
sm career!
fOR
YOU
r.m i
mimf
SQUARE
SYQHIY
mm® »
.*- -"l* "1
,*. ss£„ ’ ’■lf
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW
WHY WAS IT REJECTED ?
When your contribution is rejected, ask your-
self if it has been submitted in the best
possible form.
Editors greatly prefer typed copy, double
spaced. If you feel that your MSS. can be
more attractively presented, write to-day to
Stott & Underwood, Ltd., 16 Hunter Street,
Sydney, for full details of their reconditioned
typewriters and special easy payment plan for
writers.
vO 1
Good Tools Are Cheap
“Van-Chrome”: the
name tells the
quality—c h r o m e
vanadium steel, the
toughest steel known.
From this material
the wrenches are hot
forged in the “double-
hexagon” pattern,
which gives a firm,
non-slip grip on the
nut with greater
turning power.
These are the best
wrenches obtainable.
For a slightly higher
price they will give
many times the ser-
vice you get from
ordinary wrenches.
A splendid gift for
your motorist friend.
"VAN CHROME"
SOCKET SET No. SA-72V 2
STANDARD SERIES-%" DRIVE
The set consists of 16 pieces: 10 “Van-Chrome” 12 point
sockets, 7/16in., *in., 9/16in., fin., 21/32in., 11/16in., aim,
25/32in., 13/16in., jin. ; Reversible Ratchet, Speed Handle,
Sliding T Handle, Extension Sin. long, Extension lOin. long
with revolving grip, and Universal Joint. Packed in a metal
tool box. Weight, lljlb. Price, complete ...... G ? /6 :
With this set the mechanic can build any combination required
to suit .the need of the moment.
£Plicrsc
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney
546 Collins Street, Melbourne
And at Adelaide, Perth.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
V
Ss=
%
35:
lV«$
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.J.W.: Peace be with you!... .Wearied Wil-
liam : “Wearisome” would be a more appro-
priate adjective... .T.E.McC.: Worse and
worse V.G.W.: No new note in your
imagery K.S.: An echo of Kipling’s style
with no trace of Kipling’s craftsmanship....
V.H.: We’re all agreed that war is hellish, but
it’s not going to be stopped by swearing that
you’ll never fight again for anything or anyone.
P.H.: Didn’t score even an outer
F.E.E.: A hundred lines of mournful dog-
gerel... .J. A.: Somebody has been pulling your
leg. Cecil Rhodes was never “down and out
and desperately hungry in Sydney in 1870.
For that matter, he was never in Australia.
....K.S.: Might do for a daily... .M.S.: Too,
too theatrical... .H.G.W.: Nothing in that in-
terlude K.McC.: Neither bad nor good.
. ...H.S.G.: Snap ending not bad, but yarn
doesn’t quite make the grade.... 8.H.N.: Not
enough in sketches; and get a new pen-name
—the one you used has been pre-empted for
years M.S.: You seem to have no illusions
left C.C.: Just an average period piece
J.H.S.: Overstresses the sentimental 8.T.:
Written well enough, but plot rather melodra-
matic D.J.McL.: Not quite F.G.H.:
“Time” counted 0ut....M.M.: Dialogue stilted
and plot poor—otherwise all right... .Ming:
Flashes of humor, but not enough to carry it
in J.M.E.: The final twist couldn’t save it.
A.T.A.: Over-erotic K.S.: Sound sense
enough, but it makes very unsound verse
F.A.L.: Quite out of our line... . M.L.: Can’t
do anything with them... .J.L.S.: The verse
is passable enough, but the themes are not
arresting Bellerive: Cheer up, you aren’t the
first bard whom envious tongues have dis-
paraged:—
GILE.
Said a lover of verse
The other evening to me.
“With the way you’ve been
Treated I don’t agree.
For The Bulletin you’ve
Contributed for years
Enough for to make
A poet shed tears.
Maybe you were hasty
In verse and prose.
In your frequent replies
Against your literary foes.”
Pointing my finger
To my old dog Tim,
I did boldly retort,
“Go and tell him."
T.H.F.: You left that sketch ending in the
air J.W.O’K.: It doesn’t say enough
V.A.M.: Fair for first effort, though rather
magazine-ish; have another shot.... Jeames:
Rustic slapstick at best... .T.L.W.: That screed
would qualify you to write a treatise on how
smuggling isn’t done... .F.W.: Highly-colored
melodrama dragged in to support a most un-
likely affection... .G.E.M.: Alteration hasn’t
affected it—the whole thing just lacks appeal.
P.M.C.: Stories in the first person by
animals have to be particularly strong; yours
isn’t E.W.: That second will is an old device.
E.D.M.: Better get that bloodstained
skewer analysed by Sir Bernard Spilsbury....
E.D.: Just a little mild philosophy, but it
doesn’t make a story... .C.J.R.: Doubt whether
you’d land it elsewhere; plot lacks strength.
V.E.N.: “Or do I flatter myself?” You
d 0... . R.W.D.: Your mermaid can’t land
here 1.M.M.: No E.C.H.: Not for us.
... .R.H.C.: Nothing in that batch J.F.H.:
Bluey does that about once a month 8.5. G.:
Dog yarns have to be very good L.M.8.:
Still don’t like that C.C.8.: Emphatically
no N.A.P.: “One day the editor came to
the office looking very serious. His wife, to
whom he was passionately devoted, had melan-
cholia.” Not even an editor could stand that.
. . ..1.M.: No escape here for Henry....
P.S.M.: Too obvious.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.8.C.: In the position you’ve gqt that
wrestler he could bite himself between the
shoulder-blades... .D.K.: Gag weak, and
you’ve given one lady hoofs instead of feet.
S.T.: No snap in the jokes. A cojuple of
the drawings came close, but that abo.’s head
looks like a spud with the Irish blight
L.G. (M.L.).: The gags that aren’t pointless
are hoary, and the sketches crude G-McA.:
Little appeal in that automaton stuff... .N.T.:
You’ve devoted nine-tenths of the sketch to
the girl’s figure... .S.L.T.: What, another
strawberry-box wheeze? ... .M.S.M.: You ve
put an excellent imitation of a downpipe be-
tween his chin and shoulders R.T.: But
not arty enough... .K. 0.5.: Is that a trip-
hammer or a broomstick hammered into an
encyclopaedia?... .F.T.A.: Have a heait,
brother! That was the abo. joke that made
Governor Bligh so bad-tempered.
A MIXED GRILL.
“S.T.S.”: At the recent Winegrowers’
Conference in Adelaide, two claims were
made, and not contradicted. (1) That
S.A. makes 80 per cent, of all Aus-
tralia’s wine. (2) That N.S.W. drinks
80 per cent, of it.
* * * *
H. F. Laurence, dead at South Yarra,
Melbourne, at 73, was a co-worker of
knight William Bragg, a Nobel Prize
winner and one of the world’s leading
physicists, while the latter was at Adel-
aide University. Laurence was born to
medicine —his father was Melbourne
Uni.’s first M.D. He was president of
the Victorian Dermatologists’ Associa-
tion.
* * * *
“Cave”: Moved probably by the de-
pression, the U.S.A. postal department
has resolved to banish the annual bill pre-
sented to it by postmen for torn trousers.
Orders have been issued that where what
Yorkshire folk call a “witherin’ tyke” is
kept the postie need not deliver the
letters. Owners of such dogs must either
get rid of them or walk to the nearest
P.O. for their mail.
* * * *
Lieut. Bill O’Brien, of Figtree Pocket,
Brisbane, has joined the Great Battalion,
at 54. A contributor to The Bulletin
and other publications, Bill was an elo-
quent speaker on behalf of his Digger
cobbers. Enlisting in 1914, Bill was at
The Landing and transferred to the
machine-gunners. He was badly
wounded at Romani, and returned
an invalid in 1918. Bill was presi-
dent of the Brisbane sub-branch of the
R.S.S.I.L. for some years. His war dis-
ability sent him to Rosemount Repat.
Hospital, where he answered the last roll
call.
* * * *
“Ichabod Crane”: I am not sure that
school-teaching shouldn’t be added to the
list of dusty jobs. Blackboards are
treated with a liquid slating which, when
dry, powders off and mixes with the
chalk-dust. Standing close to the board
to clean it, the teacher gets the full bene-
fit of the combined cloud. Judging by
the amount deposited on one’s shoulders,
a good deal must be taken into the lungs.
$ $ * *
“Tid’apa”: Ex-Prime Minister Scullin,
after putting in a word for the Australian
writer (B. 14/10/’36), might have got
in another one for the local story-teller.
Two or three weeklies, notably The
Bulletin, publish only stories written
by Australasians, but most of the dailies
and at least two weeklies seem
to go overseas for these, as well as
publishing a complete novel as a irec
supplement. What is required is some-
thing on the lines of a quota system,
legislation that would compel all papers
that buy serials from oversea syndicates
to publish at least an equivalent number
by local authors.
* * * *
“Morita”: My misfortune in finding
brandy in the sand (B. 21/10/’36) was
that the bottles were broken. It was near
Hazebrouk during the Fritz push. A
Tommy casualty clearing station, had left
a dump of its stuff behind. A guard
confiscated the brandy after sampling
a few bottles, and the unmistakable
liquory odor attracted us to the damp
earth, moving an Irishman to the almost
tearful comment “Sure the blasted ground
is worth chewin’.”
* * * *
Australian statisticians are collecting
facts which shatter the notion that only
“primary produce” can be exported. The
N.S.W. man notes as “a feature of recent
activity” the “growth of exports of iron
and steel” from his State:
Quantity (exclusive of scrap iron) was
445,600 cwt., valued at £262,919, in 1933-
34, and 1,245,250 cwt., valued at £428,800,
in 1934-35 —including 552,265 cwt. to N.Z.,
248,072 cwt. of ingots, blooms, etc., to
India and 415,446 cwt. of pig iron to Japan.
There must be some mistake about the
last item. Australia has Mr. Gullett’s
word for it that Japan buys nothing from
Australia but wool; and Mr. Gullett is
one of those politicians who are always
right.
* * * *
“Are”: In the old days of censorship
books regarded as obnoxious were not
only publicly burned (B. 14/10/’36), but
sometimes underwent a whipping. As late
as 1859 a book printed in New York by
one Edward Cole came under official dis-
pleasure “because it tended to beget ill-
will.” Accordingly, after proper notice
by beat of drum, it received 39 stripes, in
accordance with the Mosaic law, by the
fiagellator of the period, before it was
reduced to ashes.
* * * *
“R.A.Z.”: Taranaki surf beaches are
carpeted with black sand. About 90
years ago a Cornishman, Perry, built the
first furnace for turning it into iron. He
got a sample, and London found it made
surprisingly good steel; repeated efforts
since then to turn the sand to commer-
cial use have failed through the high
costs entailed. Now a Sheffield company
has a license from the Patea Harbor Board
to remove iron-sand for the manufacture
of steel. New processes might succeed
where older methods failed. And there's
iron in the sand at Patea —a small coastal
steamer missed the narrow entrance to
the river a few years ago and piled up
on the beach, where children still play
in its hull.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: It is estimated that the
receipts for the Bardsley-Gregory testi-
monial match will touch £2OOO. Ex-
penses will take about £4OO. Eight hun-
dred each is not too much when one con-
siders the services both these men have
rendered to Australian cricket at small
profit to themselves.


Mothersills
SCASICK REMEOY
Guarantees A Perfect
Voyage
32
Ha
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.ni. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. 1
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
mist be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to~Se!l” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Mother and daughter would like to lease
(with option of purchase) flower farm close
to Sydney, Epping or Pymble preferred. —3463.
To buy stamp collections and loose lots. —
3460.
To buy books or correspondence courses on
public speaking, books of famous speeches, etc.
—3476.
Information Sought.
(1) What Australian spiders are poisonous?
(2) Is the centipede poisonous ? —3365.
(1) A description of the poisonous spiders of
Australia may be found, together with their
names, in articles by Dr. W. Ingram and Mr.
A. Musgrave in the Medical Journal of Aus-
tralia, Vol. 11, 20th year, July 1, 1933, pp. 10-15,
and the Australian Museum Magazine, Vol. V,
1933, pp. 121-125. The two species of “trap-
door” or “funnel-web” spiders, Atrax robustus
and Atrax formidabilis, are described in detail,
together with the third poisonous species,
Latrodectus hasseltii, the “red-spot” spider.
(2) The large centipedes of the genera Scolo-
pendra and Ethmostigmus * are capable of in-
flicting a poisonous and painful bite, but
records of bites are very rare.
* * # *
What proportion of Australian taxation,
State and Federal combined, has been direct,
and what proportion has been indirect ? Could
you give figures for quinquennial periods since
Federation ? —3306.
State figures not available. Federal taxation,
1910-11 to 1914-15, indirect 90.2 p.c., direct
9.8 p.c.; 1915-16 to 1919-20, indirect 57.5 p.c.,
direct 42.5 p.c.; 1921-22 to 1925-26, indirect
67 p.c., direct 33 p.c.; 1926-27 to 1930-31, in-
direct 71.1 p.c., direct 28.9 p.c.; 1931-32 to
1935-36, indirect 77.1 p.c., direct 22.9 p.c.
* if if
A few biographical details about General
Franco, leader of the insurgents in Spain ?
—3417.
General Francisco Franco was born in
Galicia, and is about 50 years of age. He
commanded Moorish troops in Africa for many
years. He was Commander of Baleares in 1935,
and General of Brigade before that. He is a
brother of Ramon Franco the aviator, who
crossed the South Atlantic.
* * # -e
(1) On what date were Germans flogged in
Rabaul for ill-treating a missionary at Nama-
tani ? (2) How many were flogged ? (3) Who
carried out the flogging, black or white men ?
—2949.
(1) Nov. 30, 1914. (2) No precise informa-
tion on this point is available. (3) White
men. The natives were forbidden to be in the
vicinity, and guards were posted to prevent
them approaching.
* * *
(1) In the case of marriage before a Registrar
in N. S. Wales, is residence in the district for
a stipulated time necessary for either party ?
(2) Fees ? (3) Is a church ceremony legal at a
later date, and need the civil ceremony be dis-
closed at the time of the second ceremony ? —•
3434.
(1) Yes, by both parties, but the Act does not
specify period. (2) The Clerk of Petty Ses-
sions in your district is the District Registrar
for the celebration of marriages. Notice of the
intended marriage should be given to him, and
information as to fees, procedure, etc., can be
obtained from him. (3) The parties haying
been married cannot be married a second time,
but there is no objection to a purely religious
ceremony. It is an offence under the Marriage
Act for a minister to give a certificate of mar-
riage under such circumstances without refer-
ence in it to the fact that the parties have
already been lawfully married.
* $ * *
What was the method of manufacturing
Sheffield plate, silver on copper ? Is the pro-
cess still in use ? —3447.
Copper and silver were combined in the
form of an ingot having the silver at one side.
This was rolled out to the desired thickness
and cut into shapes and moulded, and finished
with soldered edges and relief designs moulded
in pure silver and soldered to the plate. Later
both sides of the plate were silvered and so
treated. About 1837 the present system of
electroplating was brought into extensive use
in England and on the Continent, and its speed
and cheapness rapidly killed the Sheffield form
of work, which is now sought by collectors
of antiques.
J{S
(1) What causes a yawn, and what is the
mechanism of the act ? (2) What causes a
sneeze, and its mechanism? When sneezing,
more air seems to be exhaled than inhaled. Is
this so ? (3) Same information about laughter ?
(4) Why is it that when the human heart is
pierced the person dies, and yet will probably
survive any other injury to the body ? (5)
What causes hiccups, what are they, and how
do they work? —3401.
(1) The breathing of air in a close atmosphere
contaminated by the products of expiration
will cause yawning. Bodily fatigue, resulting
in the storage of waste products in the system,
is also a cause. The act is strangely infectious
in any group of persons. Physiologically, a
yawn is merely a deep involuntary respiration
made with the open mouth. (2) Sneezing may
follow the irritation of the nasal mucous mem-
brane by any one of a number of stimuli —
strong light, various dusts or chemical agents,
inflammatory changes. The act consists of a
sudden, violent and audible expiration through
the nostrils and mouth following the sudden
contraction of the respiratory muscles, which
are reflexly activated by the nasal irritants.
Sometimes a little more air is expelled than
had been inhaled previously ; the violent mus-
cular contraction drives out a small quantity
of the “supplemental” air in the lungs. (3)
Laughter is a spasmodic contraction of various
muscles, beginning with those which half-close
the eyes and those which draw backwards and
upwards the sides of the mouth and open it
to expose the teeth. The contractions next in-
volve the muscles of breathing, with the effect
of producing short, rapid expirations accom-
panied by sound. The movements may in-
volve the limbs, causing stamping, waving of
the fists, etc. (4) This belief is erroneous; a
patient does not necessarily die if the heart is
pierced or touched. Bullets have been success-
fully removed from its walls, and an American
surgeon has just recorded seven cases in which
the patients recovered after he had sewn, up
stab wounds in the organ. (5) A hiccup is a
sharp inspiratory sound due to sudden spasm
of the glottis and diaphragm. It is a fre-
quent accompaniment of gaseous distension
of the stomach and intestines, and often a
fatal sign in the terminal stages of heart dis-
ease, peritonitis, and some infectious fevers. In
milder degrees, the phenomenon commonly
follows over-indulgence in food or drink.
* * * *
Particulars of British vessels engaged in the
battle of Trafalgar, with names of commanders ?
—3326.
The flagship Victory, 104 guns, 2162 tons,
had on board the commander-in-chief, Vice-
Admiral Nelson, the captain being Thomas
Masterman Hardy. The Royal Sovereign, 100
guns, carried the second-in-command, Vice-
Admiral Collingwood (captain, Edward Rother-
ham); the Britannia, 100 guns, the third-in-
command, the Earl of Northesk (captain, Sir
Charles Bullen). The others were: Temeraire,
Capt. Eliab Harvey; Neptune, Capt. Thomas
Francis Freemantle; Dreadnought, Capt. John
Conn; Prince, Capt. Richard Grindall (all 98
guns); Tonnant, Capt. Charles Tyler (80 guns);
Belleisle, Capt. William Hargood; Revenge,
Capt. Robert Moorsom; Spartiate, Capt. Sir
Francis Laforey; Mars, Capt. George Duff;
Defiance, Capt. Philip Charles Durham; Mino-
taur, Capt. Charles John Moore Mansfield;
Conqueror, Capt. Israel Pellew; Achilles, Capt.
Richard King; Colossus, Capt. James Nicoll
Morris; Defence, Capt. George Johnstone
Hope; Leviathan, Capt. Henry William Bayn-
tun; Bellerophon, Capt. John Cooke; Orion,
Capt. Edward Codrington; Swiftsure, Capt.
William Gordon Rutherford; Ajax, Lieut. John
Pifford; Thunderer, Lieut. John Stackham (all
of 74 guns); Polyphemus, Capt. Robert Red-
mill; Africa, Capt. Henry Digby; Agamemnon,
Capt. Sir Edward Berry (all of 64 guns);
Euryalus, Capt. Henry Blackwood; Phoebe,
Capt. Thomas Bladen Capel; Naiad, Capt.
Thomas Dundas; Sirius, Capt. William
Prowse (all 36-gun frigates); Pickle, schooner,
Lieut. John Richards Tapenotiere; Entrepen-
ante, cutter, Commander Robert Benjamin
Young.
(1) What qualifications are required of a hair-
dresser in an ocean liner? (2) Where should
application be made for such a position ? (3)
What are the chances of a qualified man getting
such a position ? —3427.
(1) Competency in all branches of hair-
dressing, including ladies’ coiffures. (2) Apply
personally to co. owning the line, producing
references. (3) Very slender, as vacancies seldom
occur.
* * * *
What is surrealism in art? —2186.
According to one of the few articulate ad-
herents to the school, the object is to “recon-
cile the dream and waking life, the real and
unreal,” so as to interpret “the lyrical element
of human thought.”
* * * *
First-aid treatment for snakebite? —3170.
Apply a ligature round the part of the injured
limb where there is a single bone (i.e., above
the knee or elbow); lose no time, for every
second counts. Wash or wipe the wound to
remove surface venom and make several deep
cuts through the punctures. Cause the wound
to bleed as much as possible by squeezing or
bandaging downwards from the ligature. If
available, Condy’s crystals may be rubbed into
the cuts. Take the patient to a hospital or
doctor as soon as possible. Ease the ligature
after half an hour; this is essential. In four
or five minutes replace it for 15 minutes ; ease
again and replace for a further 15 minutes,
after which it may be removed.
if * * *
Most suitable material and method of model-
ling and coloring a large relief map ? —3454.
On a perfectly level base board make a very
accurate drawing of the map, and with a pencil
or crayon shade in darkly all the lowest levels,
leaving the highest points untouched. Build
up the contours with “gesso,” a modelling
paste made of |-oz. ordinary varnish,
boiled linseed oil, 4oz. glue, and as much
whiting as required ; dissolve the glue in water
over gentle heat until it is like thin treacle,
then add the varnish and the oil, stirring all
the time. Crush the whiting to a smooth mass,
and add it gradually, a little at a time, to the
liquids until it forms a thin paste. Test by
placing a little on some surface, and if it
spreads add more whiting until it will stand
in one place when used. Pour into a jar and
keep covered. The paste is applied with a
brush, and high parts are built up in layers.
To build up mountains in large masses quickly
make the paste in small quantities and add
whiting to make a stiff mass just when you
require to use it. This tends to weaken the
strength of the gesso and make it crumbly, so
that, if you have time to build it up by brush,
it will be stronger. When finished and quite
dry the gesso relief may be painted with water
or poster paints, artists’ oil paints, enamel or
lacquer. Small objects such as houses, trees,
etc., may be made of the paste and stuck to
the map while they are damp.
*. * * *
Are there in Sydney any girls’ secondary
schools not controlled by the Education Dept,
which offer scholarships to outside students who
pass well at the intermediate certificate exami-
nation ? If so, value of scholarships ? —3398.
Such scholarships are offered by the Presby-
terian Ladies’ Colleges at Croydon and Pymble.
The Church of England Grammar Schools at
Darlinghurst and Abbotsleigh have scholarships
for the daughters of ex-pupils, and the C. of E.
G.S. at Moss Vale makes reductions in fees to
promising pupils. Details of Croydon and
Pymble scholarships have been posted to you.
# * * *
(1) Name of a book dealing with the basic
principles of electric motors and dynamos, suit-
able for someone possessing no electrical know-
ledge ? (2) Cost, and where obtainable ? —•
3444.
(1) and (2) Dynamo and Electric Motor
Building and Small Dynamos and How to Make
Them (Amateur Mechanic and Work Hand-
books), 2s. 9d. each, from Dymock’s, Sydney.
These should be supplemented by Elementary
Lessons in Electricity and Magnetism, by S.
Thompson; 10s. from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.
;Jc %
1 am the patentee of an article which is
made for me by a firm at a price which ini
eludes sales tax. I am not registered under the
Sales Tax Act. Some of these articles I supply
direct to users, others to retailers, on order,
and some are sold by canvassers on commis-
sion. I understand that my paying sales tax
to the manufacturer relieves me of responsibility
for further tax as far as sales to users direct
and through canvassers are concerned, but there
seems to be a doubt about sales to retailers.
What is the legal position ? —3366.
The Federal Taxation Department states that,
as you make sales of the articles by wholesale
you are liable for registration as a wholesale
merchant under the Sales Tax Assessment
Acts Nos. 1-9, 1930-35. If you inquire at the
taxation office, 21-23 Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
you will be advised regarding registration and
payment of tax. If you supply the materials
from which the articles are made you are
deemed to be the manufacturer of the articles
for sales tax purposes, and must also register
as such.
* * * *
(1) What constitutes a mechanics’ hall and
library in Vic. ? (2) Once started, have the
trustees power to close or sell ? (3) On wh(it
basis are they generally worked ? —3356.
(1) and (2) Vic. has mechanics’ halls and
libraries on public reserves and on privately-
owned land. The former come under the
authority of the Lands Department and the
latter under appointed trustees. Whether
trustees could close or sell would depend on
conditions in their deed of trust. For more
detailed information, apply to the secretary
of the Vic. Lands Department in the case of
Crown land institutions, and the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department for those on private property.
(3) Generally by the direction of subscribers’
committees, but here, too, procedure varies
with individual cases.
# if if sH
(1) On what date was the battle of Witte-
bergen (Cape Colony) fought, what units of
the British and colonial forces were engaged,
and under what command ? (2) Was a soldier
serving on the field with the fighting forces at
the time of King Edward Vll.’s succession to
the throne and his later coronation eligible for
the King Edward VII. Coronation Medal ?
3295.
(1) It was more a campaign than a single
battle. The clasp Wittebergen was issued to
all troops who were within a line drawn from
Harrismith to Bethlehem, thence to Senekal
and Clocolan, along the Basuto border and
back to Harrismith between July 1 and 29,
1900, both dates inclusive. British troops were
under the command of Lieutenant-General A.
Hunter, and comprised approximately 14,000
infantry, 1930 colonial troops and 2550 other
mounted troops. Owing to the continued move-
ment of troops in and out of the area a list
of the units concerned cannot be readily com-
piled. (2) The King Edward VII. Coronation
Medal was issued only to personnel present at
the Coronation; soldiers serving in South Africa
were not eligible.
* . $ $ *
I have a set of Shakspeare’s works in the
Pictorial edition, edited by Charles Knight and
published in 1838. Is this edition of any
special value, and, if so, to whom ? —3415.
A leading Sydney bookseller states approxi-
mate value is 10s. to 155., but only for a
fine copy.
* * * #
Approximate cost of a 35ft. yawl-rigged
yacht, 10 ft. beam, draught 6 ft., including
fittings ? —3093.
Cost depends entirely on the “taste and
fancy” of the builder, how and where you
want it built and what it is to be built of.
A well-built yacht of this size would cost at
least £l5OO in Sydney.
* * * *
(1) 1 am a man of 44, active, not corpulent,
but my nerves have never been same since war,
when I had shellshock. Ido hour’s physical
jerks every morning, and am very tired lately
after it. Do you think I am too old to be
doing them, and would you advise them in hot
weather ? (2) Are uncooked vegetables ( carrots,
swedes and beetroot ) energy-giving if shaved
down before eating ? (3) Can you prescribe a
nerve tonic ? —3330.
(1) In middle life and after physical exertion
causing languor or distress should be avoided,
no matter what the climate. (2) Vegetables
mentioned are valuable as containing certain
food-factors essential to health. They are
better eaten raw, since their value is partly
destroyed by cooking, especially if soda is
added to the cooking water. (3) Dilute phos-
phoric acid 10 minims, citrate of caffeine 3
grains, extract of calisaya 4-drachm, Liquor
strychnince 2 minims, chloroform water |oz.
Does Anybody Know?
What is the derivation of the term “routine
flush” as applied to a straight flush in poker,
and when did it first make its appearance? —
3096.
Brief Answers.
R.C.: (1) Consult your hostess; some people
dislike it in their homes. For a short visit, if
you have required little attention, tipping is not
necessary; on a longer stay, where extra work
falls on the servants, they may appreciate it.
(2) Depends on house and amount of attention
you have had; from 2s. upwards—there is no
set rule... .C.D.: “The Merry Widow” was
performed through 2FC and national stations
on March 11 last, and repeated through 2BL
on March 20. Gladys Moncrielf and Sydney
Burchall were the leading artists... .K.F.O’N.:
Marabou was owned by Fell and Hogan and
trained by Lou Robertson T.H.D.: Wini-
fred Shaw’s The Aspen Tree was published in
1920, The Yellow Cloak in 1922 and Babylon
in 1924.... A.W.P.: Buyers of chrome ore
usually stipulate a minimum grade of 40 p.c.
chromic oxide, but sometimes accept parcels
containing as low as 38 p.c. Ruling prices for
chrome ores are low, and, for export, material
of 45 p.c. to 47 p.c. grade would appear to be
essential. For particulars as to prices payable,
application should be made to F. Hambridge,
22 Bridge-street, or Norman Hill and Co., 11c
Castlereagh-street both Sydney Bralga:
Misses Burness and Mack, florists, of Rowe-
street, Sydney, give lessons in flower-wiring.
There is a florist in Toowoomba who might
undertake to give you instruction A.N.C.:
Not possible to state what award covers the
duties of the employee concerned, as the work of
driving, assisting mechanics and serving petrol
and oil comes within three separate awards.
The employee will be covered by that award
which covers the major and substantial portion
of his duties. Suggest that you furnish the
Industrial Registrar, Dept, of Labor and Indus-
try, Sydney, with information as to the duties
on which you are substantially engaged in a
typical week J.J.: There is an article on
surfing by Owen Griffiths in a publication com-
piled by Dudley Hellrririch, secretary of the
N.S.W. Swimming Association, and obtainable
from Macrae Knitting Mills, Federation-road,
Newtown, Sydney. Hellmrich is at present
writing another book on surfing and swimming
in general. Inquiries should be addressed to
him at Yandoo, Fortescue-street, Chiswick,
Sydney K.C.K.: P. Thatcher, secretary, 16-
foot Sailing Club, Clubhouse, Spit, Sydney.
S.C.: Albert and Son, 139 King-street; W.
H. Paling and Co., 338 George-street; Nichol-
son and Co., 416 George-street—all Sydney;
Allan and Co., 276 Collins-street, Melbourne.
W.K.B.; Mirrigang, N.S.W. abo. place-
name meaning “playground of the dingo”....
AJ.M.: Obtainable from Dept, of Labor and
Industry, Sydney....A.L.: Gerrards, Fifth
Floor, 15 Park-street, Sydney, will furnish you
with particulars of the 2500 dollars novelette
contest being conducted by Little, Brown and
Co., Boston K.D.: Hawkesbury River
(N.S.W.) is 293 miles long; Hunter, 287 miles;
Shoalhaven, 206 miles... .A.W.L.: The Daring
Young Man on the Flying Trapeze is the title
of a collection of short stories by William
Saroyan... .W.H.C.: Tahiti and French
Oceania, by Samuel Russell; obtainable Pacific
Publications, Ltd., 247 George-street, Sydney.
C.R.: At Vila, on the island of Efate. It
is about five or six days’ steam from Sydney.
A.M.P.: From Morris, Hedstrom and Co.,
Suva, Fiji... .M.V.F.: Write Civil Aviation
Branch, Defence Dept., Melbourne H.J.F.:
Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Sydney, for
leaflet, “Prevention of the Growth of Algas in
Water”... .R.G.N.: Get in touch with Officer-
in-Charge, Rural Industries Agency, Rural
Bank, Commonwealth Bank Buildings, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney W.G.M.: Write War
Historian, Victoria Barracks, Paddington,
Sydney... .H.T.: Bungle-Boori is a N.S.W.
abo. place-name meaning “crooked bend”....
R.W.L.: See The Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook, 1937, to be published by
Richard Geraint, Box 2455 MM, G.P.0.,
Sydney C. 8.8.: Try sponging with plain
warm water. Almost impossible to remove the
smoke stain and retain the pattern, as smoke
alone , would tend to destroy the blue lines
M.G.G.: The amounts of wages tax payable
on £1 15s. per week, plus keep, as from May 1,
1931, to September 30, 1932, was 2s. per week;
from September 30, 1932, to November 30,
1933, Is. 6d. per week; from November 30,
1933, to December 31, 1935, Is. 3d. per week;
from December 31, 1935, to date, 9d. per week.
S.H.B.: Write to or interview Matron
Scurr, of the Bethel Rest Home, 96 Holden-
street, Ashfield, Sydney... .W.C.P.: A business
system cannot be protected. As to copyright,
you should consult a patents attorney; see
advertisers at end of “Wild Cat” column....
V.E.S.: The fact that your husband has left
his property among his children and made no
provision for his wife does not, of itself, in-
validate the will. You may apply to the Court,
under the Family Maintenance Act, for ade-
quate provision to be made for you out of
the estate.... 9RY: The mortgagor is legally
liable in accordance with the usual provisions
of a mortgage, and the fee, which it is assumed
includes cost of registration, etc., is not exorbi-
tant... .A.K.: Pictures by the deceased artist
you mention are worth from one to five
guineas (Many others mailed.)


“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
'••III
+ '
1 The world’s sharpest
contrasts are drawn in
muhiui
OLD and hallowed, Trinity Church looks with Gothic
dignity up the sheer canyon of Wall Street and listens
to the modern heart-throb of New York. Almost beneath
Los Angeles’ massive City Hall, Mexican peons strum guitars
along Olvera Street, as Latin as a calle in Old Spain. The
gabled pagodas of San Francisco’s Chinatown cast Oriental
shadows against the towering sides of new office buildings.
Speeding over Southwestern deserts, travelers pass near by
the cliff-dwellings of an ancient race. In America, from
Coast to Coast, Yesterday truly meets Tomorrow! * * *
America’s railroads, exemplify this spirit. Luxury and com-
fort are the keynote. In Pullman cars for restful sleep; club
cars for diversions; diners for superlative refreshment, air-
conditioning controls the temperature’, a.trained staff in-
cluding valet and ladies’ maid assures immediate satisfac-
tion of every whim and need. Economy of fares and stop-
over privileges en route add to this fascinating travel wav!
* * * Every mile of this short, swift trails-America route
to England is featured by amazing contrasts. Starting on a
Matson-Oceanic liner, the “Mariposa” or “Monterey,” there
is an 18-day wonder-cruise to California, pausing to acquire
indelibled South Sea memories at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii. Then from Los Angeles or San Francisco, a
choice of numerous rail-routes to the Atlantic Coast, where
another choice awaits of many liners bound for England!
The contrasts of this distinctive journey
are described in our free illustrated
booklet .. . “England Across America.”
American Railways Travel
and Information Bureau
(Incorporated in U.S.A.)
12 Bridge St., Sydney, Phone B-7981-3
JIF
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Donald Commons, one of the older
generation of Sydney artists, and one
who discovered 50 years ago that the
strongest ingredient in the. city’s charm
is its Georgefourthian flavor, shows in
the Macleod Gallery, Sydney, 30 paint-
ings that simply shout with vigor.
Commons is an impressionist of the
downright sort that seemingly lays color
on with a trowel, but, unlike some who
work that way, he conveys the most deli-
cate nuances of color, light and shade.
He revels in the jagged coast that flanks
the Sydney Heads, and in such canvases
as “Ben Buckler,” “North of Bondi,”
“South of Coogee” and “Storm at
Bondi” he does justice to those wildly
picturesque seascapes.
But it is in his impressions of old Syd-
ney that Commons pierces most directly
to the heart of his subject. Sydney bricks
and sandstone mellowed by a hundred
years present a fascinating study in
color, and in such glimpses as “Gas
Lane, Miller’s Point,” “The Old Com-
missariat Store,” “St. James’s Church from
Hyde Park,” “Gloucester-street, Old Syd-
ney,” and “Cumberland Place” he has
captured very charmingly beauties seldom
appreciated.
After the sparkling vigor of the. oils,
Commons’s water-colors appear sub-
dued, but “The Gap” and a pair of
glimpses of the now-gone Merrimans
Steps (they used to give access to “The
Rocks”) are models of firm, effective
technique.
.r. .?, .j.
The Painter-Etchers and Graphic Art
Society’s show at David Jones’s gallery,
Sydney, is so extensive and so excellent
an exhibition that even to catalogue the
works of high merit would occupy far
more space than can be spared on this
page. Attention therefore can be paid to
only a few of the show’s features. First
come some exquisite pencil-drawings by
Sir Edward Poynter and Ambrose
Poynter, lent by Sir Hugh Poynter, who
opened the show. John Longstaff’s one
exhibit, a charcoal portrait, is easily the.
most vigorous portrait he has done.
Cedric Emanuel’s pen-drawings, an etch-
ing and an aquatint depicting the Sydney
waterfront in its quieter moods have a
beautiful clarity and sincerity. Victor
Cobb’s etchings of old Melbourne and
Hobart have a similar charm. One goes
to Sydney Gallery. James A. Crisp
draws working horses to the life ; L. Roy
Davies in a lino-cut gets a clinking effect
of ripples on calm water; Harold Byrne
excels in bookplates; Cyril Dillon
makes effective use of gulls in “Serenity” ;
Sydney Long, G. W. L. Hirst and Wil-
liam Hunter are each represented by a
liberally big panel of worth-while work;
Lloyd Rees and Douglas Pratt show
masterpieces of pencil craft; Austin
Platt’s etchings contain some of the
soundest architectural drawing in the
show ; Max Ragless brings South Aus-
tralia to the front in his brave, bold aqua-
tints ; Squire Morgan’s eye for the pic-
turesque is indulged effectively in
“Hawkesbury Corn Barn,” and J. S.
Watkins and George Johnstone present
fine figure studies.
V *l* V 4*
John Eldershaw’s show of water-colors
at Melbourne Athenaeum is neither mono-
tonously realistic nor radically modern.
He paints with sincerity and subtle imag-
ination, and there is exhilarating variety
about his subjects. He gets solidity into
his green hills and turns the arid ugly
peaks round the mining settlement of
Queenstown (Tasmania) into magnificent
geological gestures. His brush is sensi-
tive to the mellow notes of old brick
walls, and one can feel a soft, warm
wind among the rhythmic gum-trees in
his largest painting. Though they are
delicately stressed feathery bushes are
most important in the scheme of design
for the charming “Cliff Pool.”
‘l* V >l*
Harold Herbert, who is holding an ex-
hibition at Melbourne Fine Arts Gal-
lery, stands high as a draughtsman, a
resourceful designer and a water-color
technician. In several pictures are Her-
bert’s favorite nonlars or hoarv old euros
with tender new shoots growing low on
their rough trunks.
•b *J* •b 4*
Carlyle Jackson gets quantities of color
and a feeling of light and sunshine into
the pictures he is showing at Kozmin-
sky’s Galleries, Melbourne. In some
water-colors his poplars are intensely
golden and his skies exorbitantly blue,
but his drawing is careful and there is an
admirable quality of movement in his
best pieces.
*!*
William Hunter is showing etchings,
aquatints, drypoints and a few water-
colors at the Collins Gate boardroom,
Melbourne. His water-colors are a new
departure, and he. is seen at' his best in
prints, which are examples of painstak-
ing care, a talent for design and enthu-
siasm for experiment. Some pictures are
successfully framed and beaded in white.
One pale-greenish aquatint with white
mount and green beading seems particu-
larly suited to chime with modern in-
terior architecture.
Opening William Hunter's exhibition
of pictures R. H. Croll gave a brief
summing-up on the patience and dex-
terity required from an etcher. Mr.
Croll is at present engaged on what he
finds a depressing task, destroying,
according to instructions in John Shir-
low’s will, Shirlow’s copper plates from
which some of Australia’s first and fore-
most etchings were made.
*l* *l*
Sydney visitor Mary Edwards is hold-
ing her first Melbourne exhibition in the
Assembly Hall reception-room, where
neither lighting nor wall treatments are
conducive towards showing pictures
to advantage. But this artist’s talents
are easily discernible, and her vigorous
work is an eye-opener. Of the 26 can-
vases displayed the majority deal with
South Sea Island life, a few are deco-
rative flower paintings and there is a
mystical piece of work, “The Mother.”
Dusky souls unfold under Miss
Edwards’s brush. The uncatalogued
“The Javanese,” “Fijian with Hibiscus,
“Little Suvan” and “Tiana of Tamavua
have a gripping vitality. Though strong
men might quail before “A Fijian Smile’
the lady who possesses it is, when
summed up in paint, a “corker.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Talking’s win in the. Victoria Derby
was worthily achieved, and it settled the
question of three-year-old supremacy for
the season. The Magpie colt may not be
worth the £19,000 that Alan Cooper paid
for him ; but he did his job well in the
classic, his future on the turf looks
bright, and he ought to be successful as
a sire.
Considering that rain had fallen in
the morning and at intervals for days
beforehand at Flemington, 2min. 33sec.
was most excellent Derby time. A year
ago Feldspar set 2min. 3 Usee., reduc-
ing Hall Mark’s 1933 record by a frac-
tion. If Andy Knox had seriously sent
his mount after Beechwood at an earlier
stage Talking could have done better
than “33.” His pursuit of Beechwood
was rather leisurely until two furlongs
from home ; the N.S.W. colt then col-
lared the pacemaker like a good one.
Taking no risk of a late challenge from
some other quarter, Knox rode Talking
out with his hands from the half-
distance.
Those, who had backed the Magpie
colt down to 6 to 4 were pleased that
Knox left nothing to chance. If the
jockey had tried to cut things fine and
ride a clever finish the result might have
been disastrous, for Mala, third-last at
the mile post, came home at a whirlwind
bat to beat Beechwood on the post by a
head for second. Beechwood battled on
with fine courage, considering the manner
in which his speed had been used up
from the word “Go!”
Neither Shakespeare nor Prince Quex
could handle the “dead” going. The
M.L. colt was never in the picture.
Shakespeare ran up third, behind Beech-
wood and Talking, at the half-mile ; but
when the racing began in earnest Pat
Nailon’s representative began to labor.
He finished fourth, five lengths behind
Mala, against whom he had put up such
a wonderful struggle for second money
in the W. S. Cox Plate on Moonee
Valley Cup day.
With Sylvandale out, half-heads
divided Gay Blonde, Allunga and Young
Idea at the finish of the. L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes. Punters had pinned their
faith to Young Idea (5 to 2), with Silver
Ring and Gay Blonde equal second-
favorites at 7 to 2. Allunga was a rank
outsider. Evidently he is on the way to
renewing the renown that he. earned in
1935 by dead-heating with Homer in the
A.J.C. Derby.
Oro set the pace in the Mackinnon
Stakes, which his stable-mate, Gay
Blonde, captured. Oro was beaten for
fourth place by Donaster in the last
stride. Silver Ring, after being second to
Oro at the straight entrance, died away
and whipped-in the field.
Harry Freedman, who rode over fences
many years ago for the late Septimus
Miller and his brother Albert, achieved
his greatest triumph as a trainer when
he landed the Maribyrnong Plate with
Sweet Memories (Gay Lothario-Sweet
Marguerite). He holds this filly on lease
from Guy Raymond and H. B. Ranken,
of the St. Albans stud. Sweet Memories
had won the V.A.T.C. Debutante Stakes,
but was allowed to go out at 25 to 1 on
Saturday.
Sweet Memories, like the favorite,
Lochlee, carried a 71b. penalty. This
extra weight was considered to put the
filly out of court; but Lochlee is a strap-
ping colt, and he closed at 7 to 4, St.
Constant, trained by J. W. Cook for
Talking’s owner, being second in request
at 4 to 1. Admirers of Lochlee were
staggered when Sweet Memories led
throughout and vanquished Lochlee by
24 lengths. The favorite did not gallop
with his accustomed vim.
Guy Raymond, a member of the
V.R.C. committee and part-proprietor of
the St. Albans stud at Geelong, is on his
way to England after fresh bloodstock.
He would be delighted to learn by cable
that three of the races at Flemington on
Saturday had fallen to St. Albans-bred
horses, Sweet Memories taking the Mari-
byrnong Plate, Gay Lover the Cantala
Stakes and Balkan Prince the Hotham
Handicap. All these gallopers are. by
Gay Lothario (imp.).
Gay Lover lost the A.J.C. Epsom to
Capris on a protest. His owner, J. W.
Heeney, and the trainer, Steve Murphy,
had a stroke of luck in the Cantala
Stakes. From the moment that he sup-
planted Disalto in control it looked a
case of “pay out” for Pamelus, who had
started from the outside; but Ashley
Reed brought Gay Lover along with a
late rush on the rails and, surprising
Tanwan, won a pot of money for the
Murphy stable, by half a head. “Couldn t
get my whip out,” said the unhappy Tan-
wan. “It got tangled in his mane.”
Charles Fox was a fair third.
The Hotham Handicap finish was
equally exciting. Ridden out with monu-
mental energy by Skidmore, the 3-to-l
favorite, Balkan Prince, wore down the
pacemaker, Young Crusader (8 to 1), to
win by three-quarters of a length; Bus-
tard was a good third. Young Crusader
had a lead of eight lengths at one stage,
and struggled on well when tackled. It
was his first race at Flemington; and
it was one of Duncan’s “off” days. Dark
Chief wore himself out chasing Young
Crusader, and Sarcherie and Break Up,
both heavily backed, never once gave
their supporters any hope.
Siren had started the day well for the.
Sydney division by clearing away from
her opponents in the Wakeful Stakes.
And 7 to 2 was laid, while many people
got threes, though it was twos when bet-
ting ceased.
** 4 * *
Talking’s Cup price in Melbourne on
Friday was 8 to 1, and in Sydney on
Saturday before the Derby was run it
was 10 to 1 the field, Talking being
bracketed with Shakespeare, Sarcherie
and Silver Standard. On Monday Talk-
ing was 5 to 2, with layers anything but
anxious to go on at the price. The pre-
vious weakness was attributable partly to
doubts as to his being a wet-weather
horse but chiefly to the new owner’s talk-
ing so much. First he said he wouldn’t
start the colt in the Cup. Then, after the
V.R.C. had refused to let him have two
extra tickets for Talking attendants, he
talked of scratching his purchase for both
Derby and Cup. He would be well ad-
vised to let the horse do all the talking
in future.
Young Crusader was 25 to 1 for the
Metrop. and 25 to 1 for the Melbourne
Cup when tipped by this paper. His
Metrop. price on the day was 14 to 1 ;
and on Monday he was 10 to 1 for the
Cup. When if became known that he
had shifted out in the Hotham Handicap
—as he did in his last race prior to the
Metrop. —there were signs that he would
go out third favorite on Tuesday!
# * * *
Ike Foul sham was greatly cut up when
Rob Roy broke down in what was to
have been his final Derby gallop at
Caulfield. Foulsham is about the oldest
trainer in the business, and he reckoned
Rob Roy one of the best horses he ever
had—and he trained Chatham in that
great miler’s first and second seasons on
the turf, besides a multitude of other good
ones in earlier years. In the case of
Percy Miller, the owner, a measure of
relief was mingled with his regret.' His
brother Robert, who owned Windbag
and Topical, had died a few days before,
and Percy Miller seriously considered
whether he would let Rob Roy go on
with his engagements in the circum-
stances. Rob Roy was to have galloped
nine furlongs with Silver Standard.
Silver Standard completed the journey—
in lmin. 59isec. —but Rob Roy had to
be pulled up between the seven furlongs
and the mile. The suspensory ligament
in his near-foreleg had gone. He had
jumped over the, first tan crossing he
came to, and he repeated the performance
at other tan crossings as they were
reached. Other horses are addicted to
this sort of thing—Panax varied the pro-
cedure by trying to leap over shadows
in a race —but the consequences are
seldom serious, except perhaps to
backers.
Rob Roy is a half-brother to Homer,
who fell in a race on the last day of the
1935 A.J.C. spring meeting, after dead-
heating with Allunga in the Derby on
the first day, and never rose, again. The
condition of the track was blamed on
that occasion, but it now seems possible
that a dotty pin was the real cause. Rob
Roy may not race again.
$ * * *
Latest on the uncannily long list of
good horses that have gone wrong this
year is Sylvandale, the best four-year-old
last season. Tendon trouble developed
after his meritorious second to Dark
Chief in the Moonee Valley Cup, and
Sylvandale will race no more. “Lorna
Doone,” his owner, has had no luck this
season. She sold Billy Boy for a frac-
tion of what he would have been worth
had he fulfilled his two-year promise, and
Tuckerbox, bought to fill the vacant
stall, has done nothing since.
* * * *
The Moorefield Club’s £5OO Quality
Handicap attracted some of the best
milers now in Sydney—which isn’t say-
ing much. It was a good betting race ;
at one stage “9 to 2 the field” was
called. Eventually King’s Head went
out at 7 to 2, a slightly better favorite
than High; there was solid support for
Windbird, Bobby, Flamari and Cid.
Coolspell was at tens. He was cantering
behind the pacemaker, Barramul, to the
turn; he shot away from that point to
run down King’s Head, who had taken
charge at the Leger. Curator came from
the clouds to run third, ahead of High,
who went sourly throughout.
Apprentice R. Cox deserved his victory
on Measure (11 to 2) in the Moorefield
Handicap. Half a mile from home the
Magpie gelding met with check after
check. The lad coolly took his mount
away from the rails and gave him a
chance to stride out. At this stage Dis-
tinguished looked to have the race in
his keeping ; he was lengths in front and
pulling James out of the saddle. Appar-
ently the M.L. gelding pulled himself
out' of the race ; he was done half-way
down the straight. Then The Brewer
was in front, but Measure, wide out,
beat him half a head, with Sally—inter-
fered with more than once —a length
away third, and Rose Gem a close
fourth. Distinguished was fifth. He will
do better when allowed to have his
head.
Handsome, a neat filly, bred by T. C.
Trautwein and raced by his wife, led
all the way in the Juvenile Handicap.
Backed from 6 to 4 to 11 to 8 on, she
won by six lengths, and it' could have
been more. Hirai was second, and Third
Clair third. Sukiyaki jumped out well,
but was not suited by the track.
Un Brave is proving a useful horse.
He may have been a bit lucky to beat
Stalin in the first division of the Flying
Welter, getting a run on the rails turn-
ing for home while Stalin —wide at the
barrier —was “never on the course.” In
an exciting finish Un Brave (4 to 1) beat
the three-year-old by a head; White
Lilac was a poor third. The second
division proved a soft snap for Nel
McKenna’s Many Fril, backed from fours
to twos. McMenamin, who had scored
on Un Brave, drove his mount along to
get to the front, and slowed them down.
The way was made easier when Kurra-
wid ran wide at the turn; Charalf
(third) also had to go out wide. Golden
Moa, a flash track galloper, was fifth.
“Jamwood”: If I owned a racecourse
or decided to buy one —you can still do
it in N. S. Wales, and the Sydney Gov-
ernment will grant you exemption from
the betting laws while socking your tote
punters to the extent of 9 p.c. of the
pool—I wouldn’t worry about going to
law against people who broadcast re-
ports of the races from a high platform
outside my main fence. I would get a
fireworks man or somebody to make me
a large supply of bombs guaranteed to
raise an impenetrable smoke screen be-
tween the platform and the racing track
and hire boys to throw them up for as
long as might be necessary. Then a
now-familiar story would be interest-
ingly varied: “It is just on quarter
to three, listeners, and the starters
for the Potwallopers’ Welter are lining
up. Tuckpointer is a bit out of position,
but the others are standing steady, and
they will be off in a minute. They’re
off! Urger gets away best and takes up
the running. But, hang on a minute,
listeners ; something’s happening. There’s
a fire on the course! The race is being
run in dense clouds of smoke. As I was
saying, Urger went to the front, but just
at that moment the smoke came across
and —well, as there seems no chance of
seeing any more of the race you’ll have
to possess your souls in patience till I
can give you 1, 2, 3. While the judge
is putting up the placings, we will go
back to the studio, where the Bobby-
dazzler Boys will entertain you with
their latest number, ‘Keep on Keeping
On’... Cheerio, listeners! We’re back
at Robbery Park, and the smoke has now
cleared away, but the judge has taken
down the numbers and —but we’ll get
you the results presently. They are
hoisting the starters and jockeys for the
Flappers’ Flutter. The fire’s gone out,
and you can be. sure of getting a good
account of the Flappers’ Flutter..They’re
now at the barrier for the Flutter. Up it
goes ; but, blast it all, those smoke clouds
have come over again. I can’t even see
what horse hit the front.” After a few'
such experiences, competition with my
business would cease. The beauty of
smoke bombs and boys is that they can
be moved to wherever you want them.
Platforms can’t.
*• i . * . * * *
“Sturt”: The steeplechase mare Tolraf
has been killed at Strathalbyn (S.A.) in a
strange way. Trying to run off at a
jump, she struck the. guard rail, which
snapped and literally impaled her, going
in through the chest and coming out
behind the saddle. The jockey escaped
with a broken collarbone.
0 Continued on next page)
Ins and Outs
“Ibn el Issar”: India is already rival-
ling Australia in the perfection of its
racecourse appointments. According to
A. E. Tarrant, son of Frank of that ilk,
who is in this country at present, Bombay
is making a cricket ground which is to
excel anything in the Commonwealth. The
ground, the erection of which Tarrant is
supervising, will include an Olympic
swimming pool, racquet courts and club
rooms in addition to the usual stand ac-
commodation. The playing oval, on
which only hockey and cricket are. to be
staged, will be 180 by 160 yards.
* * * *
“Stumper”: Every prickly-pear has its
Cactoblastis. The devastating news that
Allen’s two official wicketkeepers had
been incapacitated had no sooner been
released than a couple of others who
had been blushing unseen outside the
team proper were discovered to be avail-
able if wanted. These were Wade and
Sheffield, of Essex, who have followed
the English team out on a busman's
holiday. Sheffield was the No. 1
stumper for the county until last season,
when the shortage of slip fieldsmen was
so pronounced that he was shifted into
the gully. Both are good county per-
formers, and should render useful ser-
vice if called upon.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Malign Australian influ-
ences continue to discolor the clear
stream of English cricket. The latest
evidence of this is the gloomy forecast
of the London “Daily Mail” that the
English Board of Control will at its meet-
ing this month accept the proposal for
five-day Tests which Australia has been
pressing for some years. It is doubtful
whether they will be necessary in an
average English season. In the old days
of three-day matches draws were cer-
tainly frequent, but the addition of the
fourth day has been a big factor in bring-
ing about a decision. The new l.b.w.
rule, which is already speeding up bat-
ting and making innings shorter, must
also be taken into consideration.
(Continued on next page)
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Oaks: Siren.
Linlithgow Stakes: Young Idea ;
next, Beechwood.
Carnival Handicap: Shakespeare ;
next, Prince Quex.
Veteran Stakes: Salamander;
next, Donaster.
Batman Stakes: Beechwood ;
next, Prince Quex.
Fisher Plate: Talking; next,
Young Idea.
V.R.C. Handicap: Young Cru-
sader ; next, Salamander.
Final Handicap: Prittle Prattle ;
next, Aitchengee.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Wise Boy or
Stalin ; next, Raleigh or Beaupre.
Canterbury Handicap: Distin-
guished or Curator; next, Sally or
Kilfern.
Highweight Handicap: Wise Boy
or Sailor Prince; next, Medallist
or Raleigh.
Ashbury Handicap: Distin-
guished or Curator; next, Golden
Chance or Kilfern.


■■PUSHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING;
My
Multiplying
Big Game
Fishing
Reels:
“UNDOVEK”
for top anti
bottom r o d
fishing, £27/10/-
m,
Ml
m
“SWORDFISH/’ top rod only £25
Capacity 700 yards 39-cord cutty hunk
or 850 yards 36-cord.
“SWORDFISH SENIOR,” 1000 yards 39-
cord cutty hunk or 1200 yards 36-cord.
All Reels made of phospher bronze and
monel metal and stainless steel.
Big Game RodSj with heavy screw winch
fitting:
Heavy Hickory £B/5/-
Double-built Cane £lO
Treble-built Cane £l2
Hardy No. 6 Salt Water £lB/10/-
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU,
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
nw
i
~7ieoct ■to- 7nu4es-
-
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
-VHt
FOB
TRAD*
otS^
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC.. NEW YORK.
Needs the besf "...
fycWd l
Always
uses...
m"
W'W
iiiSlili
m
T
ZEISS
EiIIVOCIJLARS
Sold by teading Jewellers and Opticions. v
Particulart and literature from the Australian Representatives
E. C. HEYNE PTY. LTD. 100 Flinder* Street
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Under the Whip
Aitchengee followed up his success in
a division of the Werribee Cup with a
rather remarkable victory in the Kyne-
ton Handicap, also a nine-furlongs race.
A 7-to-4 favorite, he was last after travel-
ling five furlongs, 10 lengths behind the
horse nearest to him; and on a heavy
track, too. Percival began riding him
from the six-furlongs post, and in an-
other half-mile or so he had everything
else settled, going on to win by eight
lengths from Plankton. Aitchengee was
nominated for the Melbourne Cup, but
his party did not accept for him, nor
did he race on the first day; but he
ought to win a pretty good handicap
presently. He is a five-year-old bay geld-
ing by Curialis-Waranie.
* * * *
Black Laughter showed in the Flying
Handicap at Victoria Park (Sydney) on
Wednesday that his close fourth in the
Epsom was no fluke. By no means
badly treated with Bst. 31b. in a field of
second- and third-raters, the Queens-
land horse was favorite at 6 to 4, and
at the finish of 6\- furlongs—run in
lmin. 19sec.—he was three lengths to
the good of Stalin, who just beat Green
Isle for second place. Stalin might have
been closer with a better position at the
barrier, but he had no chance with the
winner.
Black Laughter is trained by Morrow,
who took Regal Star up to Queensland
and did well with him there —in N.S.W.
also till Regal Star met with an acci-
dent that finished him.
* * * *
The A.J.C. committee has accepted
the recommendation of its starter that
the fractious Cereza should be banned
from metropolitan racing until it can
be sho.wn that' she has mended her
manners. An interesting decision, for
Cereza is a committeeman’s horse.
* H: * *
Sometimes racing men who are. rubbed
out have to remain out longer than the
period for which they were disqualified,
because disqualification cancels their
licenses and the ruling club may turn
the glassy e.ye on applications for re-
newals. This has not happened in the
cases of J. T. Jamieson and Bartle, who
at the last V.R.C. spring meeting were
disqualified for 12 months over the run-
ning of Country Party. The A.J.C. has
issued a jockey’s license to Bartle and
a No. 2 trainer’s license to Jamieson. He
held a No. 1 license before the change
in the number, and he is not to train
at Randwick.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The “National” Boxing “Club” has
been trying to make a box-office attrac-
tion of young Cohen, who was picked in
the Olympic Games team, but decided
he had better prospects in Australia. For
months Cohen has been knocking over
unknowns, and the “club” predicted great
things for him, as also did his manager,
a lady. It was decided that Cohen had
done enough to become a headliner, and
last week he was pitted against the
featherweight named Smedley. There is
no lady manager in Smedley’s outfit nor
any other romantic feature. He is just a
matter-of-fact little biffer with a busy
right hand ; and he swung and hooked
the right on the Cohen countenance and
body—so often and to such purpose that
he had Romance, as it were, down at
nine-fifteen: down and done to a turn in
the twelfth two-minute round. Cohen
is by no means a bad boxer, but the
“National” Boxing “Club” seems more
of a handicap than a help to the develop-
ment of a good boy.
H' ❖ ❖
It is interesting to read in a Sydney
paper whose boss has (or had) an in-
terest in the Stadium that ‘‘Leo Kelly
has been in Australia 12 months and re-
gards himself as the residential cham-
pion.”
Before Richards talks about claiming the
heavyweight championship of Australia he
should beat me first.
Richards is an Australian. Kelly is an
American negro. According to Paterson,
the peaceful cow-farmer who is Minister
for the Interior, American negro boxers
are admitted to Australia “for limited
periods only.”
* * * *
The conquering march of Hobbs, the.
Sydney lightweight, was stopped at
Leichhardt on Wednesday by a certain
Young Kimber. Kimber was the lighter
lad, and looked hopelessly beaten in the.
second round, when he was down for
nine seconds, but he struggled up and
saw the round out by means of a game
offensive-defensive. After that he took
a deal of punishment, but his persistency
and ruggedness gradually wore Hobbs
down. Kimber got a well-merited de-
cision at the end of the tenth round.
Ins and Outs
An unusual thing about both the
week-end’s first-class matches was the
success of the bowlers. In Adelaide the
slow man Ward took 5 for 79, and with
Hammond contributing 104—-his third
century in three first-class games since
he landed —the visitors were, all out for
233 (Verity 31 and Worthington 25).
Grimmett got 2 for 62. S.A. fell for 160
(Cotton n.o. 37, Grimmett 33 ; Allen 6
for 53).
“Stop givin' me advice, will y'?"
“ Certainly, George; but don't forget what Sarazen says - ‘Keep an
open face.'"
Bradman was to have led the South
Australians, but on the morning of the
match his son, born two days previously,
died, and Richardson took his place. It
was sad news.
The first of the season’s Sheffield
games started in Brisbane on Friday,
N.S.W. sending a team to meet the
Bananalanders. Queensland, batting first,
was all out on a good wicket for 132,
O’Reilly (four for 47) and Hynes (three
for 41) accounting for most of them.
The ’keeper Tallon did best with 29, but
it was a sorry display. Thanks chiefly to
Robinson (163) and Marks (48) N.S.W.
made 322 (Dixon 4 for 79).
“Quorn”: The Englishmen broke their
trip overland from Kalgoorlie with a
one-day match at Clare (S.A.). Rain
interfered with what cricket there was,
and a draw resulted. Clare closed with
4 for 62 to let the tourists bat, and
they lost 6 for 141. Hammond made
40 and Williams took 3 for 51. Essex
’keeper Wade was efficient behind the
stumps.
“Whitecoat”: An interesting feature
of the England-Clare match was the
appearance of the old-time N.S.W. fast
bowler Jack Scott as ump. John is said
to have developed into a most capable
arbiter, but in his heyday had more than
one fiery difference with umpires who
no-balled him.
* * * *
“Rottnest”: This tour is so far an un-
lucky one for English Aunt Sallies. With
Duckworth and Ames on the shelf, Fagg
was given a gallop against the Com-
bined Australians at Perth, but' he. also
is troubled with a hand injury. Fagg’s
selection as ’keeper is interesting. He
does not ’keep for Kent, where Leggett,
a brilliant amateur, officiates when
Ames is not behind the sticks. A search
of Wisden does not reveal that he has
any reputation as a custodian either.
Ames is suffering from a recurrence of
the muscular trouble which kept him out
of cricket for a season and a half.
“Jonah”: To just before the match
with South Australia, Allen’s record is
three matches, three casualties. If he
keeps this up he may have to cable for
a ’planeful of reinforcements by the
time he reaches Brisbane. The latest
addition to the list' of lamed is Wyatt,
the. ulna bone in whose left arm was
broken by a bumper from a fast bowler
in the one-day picnic match at Clare.
This sort of thing seems to have become
an obsession with Wyatt. In the West
Indies his jaw was broken by a fast
ball, and when the Australians were last
in England his portion was a smashed
thumb.
* i|! t- *
“Bunbury”: Admirers of a sticker will
congratulate Horrocks on his fine show-
ing with the bat against the Englishmen
at Perth when he and Badcock made
most of the big Australian score between
them. Horrocks has tried hard to get
somewhere up the ladder in big cricket.
Lancastrian by birth, he returned for a
couple of years to the Red Rose county
on an engagement at Old Trafford. In
spite of fair performance he failed to
gain the county team. He should con-
sider the cases of Badcock and Mor-
risby, of Tasmania, and transfer him-
self at once to Adelaide, Melbourne or
Sydney if he hopes to win inter-State or
international recognition.
* * * *
“Stooge”: The public has hitherto
been favorably impressed with the band
of young cricketers known as the N.S.W.
coaching team, and will be pained to
hear of its serious lapse from the ac-
cepted conventions of the noble, game
which give myself, Mr. Cardus and
others of lesser importance a chance to
air our literary capabilities. Playing a
Northern District team at Sydney C.G.
the misguided youths lapsed into a
cricket orgy and made 305 runs in 120
minutes. This sort of thing simply isn’t
done. I am glad to notice that the Syd-
ney press has given the outrageous per-
formance very brief notice.
* * * *
Tenth Slip”: After long cogitation
the trustees of Sydney Cricket Ground
have decided to allow the reservation of
grandstand seats for matches played by
Allen’s XI. Queensland first got the reser-
vation idea when Chapman’s team played
a Test in Brisbane. Melbourne followed
suit this season. Why the practice has
not long become general, as it is on Eng-
lish grounds for Test matches, is a mys-
tery, especially as our ground manage-
ments are always howling about short-
ness of cash.
*'* * *
Five Ways”: The reappearance of
Amos in the Bananaland side against
N.S.W. recalls one of Brisbane’s record
flops. Some enthusiasts formed a com-
pany to run professional cricket on the
lines of the North of England Leagues.
Incidentally, it was also to run dogs, night
football, pedestrian events and pretty
well everything else, save two-up and
cockfighting. The cricket scheme was
the first to start, and attracted a few well-
known players, including Amos. It was
also the first to crash, and the project
faded out.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Among recent impor-
tant golf events were the Queensland
professional and the M.L. open cham-
pionships. In Bananaland 24-year-old
Ossie Walker took the title, his first
major event, by beating C. Brown 6 and
4. Brown has now played in eight finals
of this event, and won four of them. In
M.L. the everlasting A. J. Shaw, of Wel-
lington, won his seventh open champion-
ship in 10 years, with a score of 292 for
four rounds. Guy and Galloway, also
professionals, tied for second with 297,
and amateur Silk, well known in Aus-
tralia, was third with 300.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Melbourne is to have
yet another golf course. This will be at
Dingley, in what is known as the Mel-
bourne sand belt', and will be 6700 yards
long. It will open in March, 1938, and
in addition to a £25 debenture from
original members the subscription will
be seven guineas annually. The “belt”
already carries seven golf courses: King-
ston Heath, Victoria, Royal Melbourne,
Yarra Yarra, Commonwealth, Kingsford
and Cheltenham. The land is rolling
sand ridge covered with scrub —ideal
“links” country.


fds
Conklin.
ENDURA
Sm»a UmcmmditwtmLli tS ftrprtuolly GuamaUrd
PENS and PENCILS
Color Combinations of
unique artistic character in
the modern modes. Smooth,
easy-writing quality. Day
by day dependability. All
future requirements pro-
vided by the famous
CONKLIN ENDURA
unconditional and perpetual
service guarantee.
A pen for any time ... a
pen for all time.
Imperishable beauty, un-
ending utility. The Gift of
exquisite propriety, Conklin
Endura Pen and Pencil
Sets are available in beauti-
ful Presentation Cases,
affording ultra-modern dis-
tinction and style to the
Set which is bestowed as
a Gift.
Gent.’s Large Size Pens,
Four Different Colours,
40/- each.
Gent.’s Regular Size
Pens, Eight Colours,
30/- each.
Lady’s Size with Chate-
laine Ring, Six Colours,
30/- each.
Pencils to match the
above in all colours,
25/- each.
Complete Sets in Pre-
sentation Case, 55/-
and 65/-.
From all Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores.
FRED BERRY'S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George St, Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
HARVEST ECONOMICALLY
*- m
* sa ™m
Use the Efficient, Low-Cost, Powerful Fordson
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR - 26 H.P. ON BELT "JSS&tZySZsfr
The English Fordson, illustrated above, is
pulling a 10-foot Header in a 12-bag crop of
Free Gallipoli Wheat. With its ample reserve
power, the Fordson handled this heavy crop
with ease. Its economical fuel consumption
showed an exceptionally low cost per acre.
An ever-increasing number of farmers
throughout Australia are putting Fordson
Tractors to work they have proved that
Fordson increases profits by saving time and
mbney, The Fordson purchase plan provides
easy payments spread to suit your convenience.
FORPSON FEATURES:
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT . . .
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION . . . GOV-
ERNOR CONTROL. .. SPECIAL AIR CLEAN-
ING SYSTEM . . . CRANKCASE VENTILA-
TION . . . “ HOT-SPOT" VAPORISER . . .
CLUTCH PULLEY . . . REAR END POWER
TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
The Lowest Priced Tractor per Horse-Power
FOrdSOlt Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &.
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street. Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., Williaiustown Road,
Port Melbourne, Vic,
POWER PLANT LTD., 93-100
Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F113.27.T
“Whirroo”: The disthressful Isle got
a bit of her own back when the Irish
amateur championship was won at Port-
marnock by J. C. Brown, of Wexford,
who carried his Sassenach opponent to
the thirty-ninth hole before disposing of
him. This is the first time an Irishman
has won the title for seven years. One
may conclude that the triumph was fit-
tingly celebrated.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Australia has
resolved to challenge for the 1937 Davis
Cup provided a worthy team can be
found. This being so the defi. will prob-
ably be for the Yankee zone, since pas-
sages have been bespoken by the Niagara
leaving Sydney at the end of March.
With Hopman and Quist a*s a nucleus a
good team could be sent. There is no
better doubles pair playing, and Hopman
has shown this season that he is still
formidable in singles. Quist, of course,
is by himself as a singles exponent. If
he improves in health and shows a return
to his old form, as his play this season
hints so far, McGrath might be con-
sidered for a place.
* * * *
The untimely death, at 52, of Rodney
Heath leaves Australia the poorer for a
fine fellow and one of the best tennis-
players the country has produced. Heath
belonged to the golden age of Australa-
sian tennis as a contemporary of Brookes,
Wilding and Dunlop. He was both
singles and doubles champion of Aus-
tralia, taking his first singles title as far
back as 1905. He first figured in the
international trophy series in 1911.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Perry continues to
issue denials of any intention to turn
professional, though he. admits he has
been “considering” big cash offers. Also
he announces that he has bought a house
in Hollywood and intends to settle down
in those Arcadian surroundings with the
missus. When the young man took a job
with one of the big tennis goods firms
it was reported that he would periodi-
cally visit this and other countries in the
interests of his firm. How he is going
to do this and yet abide in Hollywood
has all the stickybeaks, including the
writer, gravelled.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: In further cables the
English L.T.A. has enlarged its original
offer of £250 for a visit from four of our
girl players, including Miss Coyne and
Miss Hartigan. The team will also be
given the first £lOO from the takings, and
after that 60 per cent. This sounds a
mighty good offer, especially as the girls
are to star at Wimbledon. It is likely, if
arrangements can be made, that the team
will play on the Continent' and take in
America on the way home.
“Milton”: Queensland finds itself un-
able to send a special team for the
matches with N.S.W. and Victoria in
Sydney, there being hardly a razoo in
the old sock. However, it is expected
that most of the leading Bananalanders,
including Moon and Mrs. Westacott, will
be in Sydney for the N.S.W. champion-
ships soon after the inter-St'ate matches,
and a team to clash with N.S.W. may
be fixed up then.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: A start is to be made with
preparations for the Empire Games in
Sydney in 1938. There is to be an in-
spection of the Showground, where it is
proposed to house the visiting com-
petitors. It is probable that Sydney C.G.,
in spite of it's steep slope from one end
to the other, will be the athletic arena,
and the paleolithic system of grass run-
ning tracks will be adhered to. Swim-
ming will be at North Sydney stadium—
filled with fresh water —rowing and scull-
ing on the Nepean, boxing and wrestling
at Sydney Stadium and cycling at
Pratten Park.
“Fitzcray”: By way of a sweetener for
the end of the season the 12 League foot-
ball clubs in Melbourne have been noti-
fied that their divvy from the finals is
£570 each. The four final matches
turned in a total of just under £12,000.
Costs were heavy, including, as they did,
£l2OO training expenses for the four
clubs concerned. Other costs, including
ground rents, ate up £3924. The catch
is that the clubs must contribute from
their cut to the V.F. League and the
Australian Council for propaganda pur-
poses, and even with the takings for the
season’s matches added to the divvy none
of them will be deliriously wealthy.
* * -I* ❖
“Nark”: “Stiff” misses the point in
his story of the proposed Rugby League
“carnival” in Sydney (B. 28/10/’36). The
participants were to have been, not only
Ma and Queensland as stated, but M.L.
and France! Further, the idea was to
hold it next season as a sprag in the
wheel of the Rugby Union, which will be
entertaining the Springboks. The notion
came too late.
si: * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Australians continue
to show out in Cambridge rowing.
Several Victorians have taken part in the
trials, and now Simon Fraser, of Mel-
bourne, has been tentatively selected as
stroke of the Light Blue trial eight for
the race against Oxford next year. Fraser
is an all-rounder. He scored the. only
Cambridge win in the swimming match
with Oxford, and has done some good
work over the middle distances on the
running track.
* * *
“Stand Off”: Commenting on the
38-13 hiding given the Australian R.U.
team by the All-Blacks, a “Daily Sketch”
expert remarks that either Australian
Rugby has slipped since the times of the
Waratahs (1927-28) or else the Maori-
landers have improved out of sight since
they were in Britain last season. He
goes on to say that the All-Black side
which England beat at Twickenham
couldn’t have scored 38 points against
an average English public school team.
This last may be taken as a slight' ex-
aggeration. As I write, The King’s
School team now in England has won
all its matches against English schools,
and King’s is by no means the most
formidable G.P.S. side in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: The feud between the
rival 18-footer sailing clubs which has
raged for the past two seasons may be
ended. It started when boatbuilders
began to put out the Queensland “skiff”
type of “18.” Diehards ruled these boats
illegal, and a rival body was formed to
race them. Now it is proposed to amal-
gamate the organisations and to allow
all sorts and conditions of 18-footers to
compete against each other. It is a
good move. Sydney’s open-boat sailing
has attracted world-wide attention, and
anything tending to its deterioration
should be wiped out instanter.
* * * *
“Quick One”: There is a move afoot
in Melbourne to curtail the opening
ceremonies of individual bowling clubs
each season and substitute one grand
jamboree under the wing of the Bowling
Association at the green of the cham-
pion club. There is much to be said
for the change. Under the old system
a dozen different clubs spread their cele-
brations over a fortnight or so. Con-
scientous bowlers, after attending all of
them, found that it might take a fort-
night to get back to normal. Under the
new scheme, with the celebration held on
a Saturday, there will be all Sunday to
recover from a simple one-day razzle,
with a return to work on Monday.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
AS FINE AS THE SUN!
WATCH COMPASS A SDN DIAL
3
Cannot Fail or Get Out of Order.
P:
No Winding. No Regulating.
No Cleaning. No Trouble.
Always Reliable.
Serviceable for Everybody—Bush,
men, Prospectors, Scouts, &c.
Price only 5/6, post free any address.
The Watch Compass and Sun Dial is
a most useful Combination, serving the
double purpose of a Watch and a Com-
pass, always showing the- correct time by the sun
randenabling anyone to find their way through the wildest
[bush country It is nicely made and fitted like a medium-
>sized watch, with ring to hang on watchchain or belt,
[and ivoroid tablet upon which notes may be written.
Printed directions are affixed to the cover. Obtainable
Sonly from Union Mfg. Co., 299 "Elizabeth ,St„ Melb., C.l.
ADVERTISING AND SALES EXECUTIVE
AVAILABLE.
HIGHLY-QUALIFIED executive seeks greater
scope for creative energy, seasoned experience
and progressive ideas.
Exceptional local and overseas experience in
Advertising, Sales Promotion, Market Research,
Industrial Psychology and Staff Training.
Available at short notice.
“EFFICIENCY,” Box 1394, G.P.0., Sydney.
SvniHrv
and
I Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
CERRARD SERVICE
Wire Tying Machines— Wire-Seal Strapping Flat Band Strapping
Corrugated Fasteners Fountain Stencil Brushes Fountpencil
Label Tackers—Tack Strip for Automatic
abel Tackers - Conveyors Packing Equipment
GERRARD VlRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
Jgerrardi
Melbourne Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville. Perfh, Adelaide, Hobart
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Whakatane Paper Mills
The mill site at Port Whakatane (Bay
of Plenty, M.L.) is being levelled, and
a paper-board machine with a capacity
of 18,000 tons p.a. has been ordered.
Power plant is also being designed over-
seas, and most of the equipment is ex-
pected to arrive in May and June next
year.
The plant for pulping is included in
the board-making unit on order. In
March last shareholders were advised
that in a second section of the plant
15,000 tons of chemical pulp a year
would be turned out, and from pre-
vious correspondence the inference was
that pulp requirements of N.Z. Paper
Mills would be supplied from this
source. Latest advices are concerned
only with the first unit, and no antici-
pated surplus of pulp is spoken of.
With the exception of a few bonds
still outstanding in A and B series, most
of the finance subscribed is now in the
form of shares. At June 30 last paid
share capital was £1,774,457 (up
£153,944 during the term, partly from
the placing of 74,128 pref. shares), in
1,917,129 ords. and 128,128 prefs. There
was then £270,800 uncalled.
Balance sheets since the title, was
changed from Timberlands Woodpulp
and the bonds converted into shares
have shown the undertaking (including
figures of subsidiary cos.) in the follow-
ing perspective:
1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. .. £1,620,513 £1,774,457
Owing on land .. 51,250 36,250
Trust fund .. .. 20,456 17,552
Other liabilities .. 6,163 1,229
Land and forests .. 1,010,622 1,055,697
Plant, railways, etc. .. 14,638 46,553
Debtors .. .. 2,440 480
Shares 1,920 1,920
Consols and mortgages 186,829 119,512
Public Trustee.. .. 20,456 17,552
Cash 52,780 152,665
Establishment and con-
version exes 409,447 436,111
Land and forests, now valued at
£1,055,697, cost something more than
£400,000. Revaluation followed conver-
sion of bonds into shares—ss ords. were
exchanged for each bond. There are
69,000 acres of forest, 41,000 acres
representing the original plantation.
On an immediate realisation basis, for
Whakatane’s £1 shares to be worth 20s.
cash, fixed assets would need to fetch
£436,111 (the amount of establishment
exes, capitalised) more than their written-
up book value. It should be plain,
therefore, that main hopes for the scrip
turning out to be a worth-while invest-
ment rely on the milling programme
now in hand. The first outlay in this re-
gard will be something like £350,000.
Liquid assets and uncalled capital should
be ample to provide it'.
Whakatane’s activities represent an
attempt to justify the claims made by a
number of people that the growing and
milling of Maoriland softwoods would
be profitable to investors. A substantial
proportion of the co.’s funds was ex-
pended in obtaining bond capital, and
is not now available to finance de-
velopment. If the co. is successful it will
represent one of Maoriland’s biggest
manufacturing concerns, in which Com-
monwealth investors have almost a 50
p.c. interest.
Commonwealth estimates for the
1936-37 wheat crop were issued last
week. Subject to weather conditions up
to harvest time, a yield of 129,556,000
bushels is looked for—9 p.c. lower than
last year, and the smallest since 1929-30.
N. S. Wales will show the chief drop,
South Aus. next, then Westralia and
Victoria. The 1935--36 Commonwealth
harvest was 142,668,000 bushels.
* * * *
1.C.1. Alkali (Australia), Ltd., was
registered in Melbourne the other day
with a nominal capital of £2,000,000.
The co., a pup of Imperial Chemical
Industries, is to make alkali products at
Port Adelaide (S.A.). It is estimated
that over £1,000,000 will be spent on
plant. In order to manufacture caustic
soda, bicarbonate of soda, soda ash, etc.,
large quantities of salt, limestone,
ammonia, coke and coal will be re-
quired, and practically all these raw
materials will be obtained in South
Aus. or N. S. Wales. Men are already
preparing salt fields near the factory site
on St. Vincent’s Gulf. Lennon Raws, a
director of Howard Smith’s and Com-
monwealth Fertilisers and Chemicals, is
on the board.
* * * *
Electrolytic copper fetched £46 10s.
sterling a ton last week in spite of the
principal world producers (outside of
"The bailiffs will be coming to-morrow .”
"Just like a man! We cant pay the rent, and here you go having
GUESTS in the house!”
U.S.A.) having decided to increase pro-
duction to 95 p.c. of the basic quota de-
cided on some time back. Prior to
August last the rate allowed was 70 p.c.
The average London price in July was
£4l Bs. 9d. World price of copper
is governed to a large extent by the out-
put of the great Chilean and Rhodesian
mines, the latter including Rhokana and
Roan Antelope. The U.S.A. is largest
producer and consumer of the metal,
but there production has been restricted
below absorption in order to eat up ac-
cumulated stocks. It will take some
time before the full effect of recent
authorisations to produce more metal is
seen in prices. There appears to be a
more sustained demand for copper than
existed for tin about this time last year,
when restriction quotas were raised and
the market shortly afterwards slumped.
If Mt. Lyell produced for export
(most of it's copper is consumed in the
Commonwealth) its disadvantages as
against, say, Roan Antelope would be
tremendous. The African co.’s ore aver-
ages 3.4 p.c. copper, with costs at £23
sterling a ton. Lyell’s ore grades about
2 p.c., with costs, after deducting value
of gold and silver content, at £43 Aus-
tralian. Present price of the metal, how-
ever, should show the West Coast mine
about £l5 (Aust.) a ton profit.
* * * *
Scrip in Drug Houses of Australia
took a knock in dealings last week as a
result of the foreshadowed entry of
Boots (England) into the chemist-shop
business in the Commonwealth. It was
325. 9d. in September ; there followed a
persistent weakening to 265. 3d., then
back to 275. 3d. last Thursday. Shares in
Washington H. Soul’s, the N. S. Wales
chain-store chemists, sold at 82s. early
this month, and there are now sellers at
80s. 6d. Which gives no support to a
story that Boots contemplate linking up
with this prosperous organisation.
* % H 1 sfc
A furphy which had a short, sharp
run in Pitt-street, Sydney, last week was
to the effect that Meggitt, Ltd, was going
to call up unpaid capital on the ss. con-
tribs. As in the case of Peters’ contribs.
a month or so back, substantial market
appreciation took place on extensive
dealings ; then arrived official notification
that speculators had got hold of a wrong
idea. Back came the scrip to its old
level.
♦ ♦ # *
Cumberland Paper ords. at 325. yield
5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis —a rate
which should not be assailed if the tone
of general business activity doesn’t
change to a different key. Later on,
when the operating co.’s large new plants
in N. S. Wales and Victoria get to work,
capital at present unproductive is likely
to begin earning more than its keep.
Australasian Paper, the larger holding
concern, has a wider and more popular
market for its shares. At 365. the ords.
here yield a trifle under 4.5 p.c. Before
the new scrip (at present paid to Bs.)
was issued, Cumberland held one share
in the operating co. for every £1 of its
own capital. A.P.’s ratio was 1.08,
which means that a 10 p.c. distribution
from the operating co. (16s. shares)
would amount to 8.6 p.c. on A.P.’s share
register, as against 8 p.c. in Cumber-
land’s case. When all the new capital
is in, the proportion of pref. capital (8
p.c. participating) in A.P. will be 15.7
p.c. ; in Cumberland, 46.5 p.c.
❖ $ * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords., to
which notice has been given here lately,
went to a record quote of 745. last
week. If this stock were more widely
held the market would have appreciated
its merits sooner. It is strong in present
earning power and future possibilities.
Bottle-seals are one of its chief lines.
v *!'■ *•*
Those people who like to have a wide
spread in their investments might find
a holding in' Intercolonial Investment,
Land and Building, Sydney, worth while.
The shares are paid to 165., and at 20s.
3d. yield 4.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
The co., largely interested in suburban
property, weathered the ’nineties, and in
the late depression paid nothing lower
than 5 p.c. Reserves amount to 12s. 2d.
a share. At present a distinct revival
in home-building is apparent.
* !jc *
Yarra Falls shares were taken to
41s. 9d. in Melbourne last week. Rarely
has this price been exceeded.
* * * *
United Provisions, Ltd., controls
Foggitt, Jones Pty. and J. C. Hutton Pty.,
curers of bacon, etc., and food-canners.
Last term, principally on account of an
increase in exes, that was unaccompanied
by any improvement in income, the
pups’ profits were £2OOO lighter at
£68,045. The Maoriland section of the
business was more prosperous. A 2 p.c.
div., the same as in 1934-35, was paid to
U.P. ord. shareholders —much to their
disappointment. The scrip, up to 15s. a
short while ago, was between 10s. and
11s. last week. Except that debtors rose
by 9 p.c., there is nothing in the ac-
counts to suggest that trading results
were better than claimed. It has been
a bad year for bacon-curers.
* * * *
Henry Jones scrip did not hold its big
rise to 48s. 6d. for long. There was a
sharp drop to 455. in a couple of days,
with a steadying round 465. Accounts
were made up on October 31 and
will be presented this month. A final
div. of Is. 6d. has been declared, mak-
ing 10 p.c. for the year. In the last
complete term 8f p.c. was paid.
* * *
Lake View and Star, the largest gold-
producer in the Commonwealth, is pay-
ing p.c. for the year to June 30, as
against 50 p.c. in 1934-35.
* * « *
N. S. Wales gold production for the
first nine months of 1936 was 42,8840 z.
fine (compared with 34,382 dz. to the
same date in 1935). Victorian output was
79,5690 z., compared with 64,0630 z. In
N. S. Wales New Occidental (Cobar) is
largest producer, and in Victoria Morn-
ing Star (Wood’s Point) tops the list,
though just recently crushing has been
held up pending installation of new
plant.
* . * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Carlton and United Breweries declared a
net profit of £381,650, up £llO,OOO, and equal
to 13 p.c. on capital. A 10 p.c. div. was de-
clared to the holding cos., as against 8 p.c. last
year. The increase was forecast in The Bulle-
tin early this year. After lifting to a shade
under 705., Carlton (holding co.) scrip steadied
around 675. 3d. last week.
Lincoln Credits, Ltd., in conjunction with
Snows., Ltd., the Flinders-street drapery store,
announced an offer to issue interest-free cash-
orders to shoppers at Snows. As the orders
seem restricted in their negotiability, they may
not affect other cash-order cos. at this stage.
Broken Hill Prop, scrip sold at the record
price of 84s. 9d.
Adelaide Steam shares were in demand at
325., a rise of 4s. 6d. in a little over a month.
Herald and Weekly Times showed a profit
of £185,416, up £16,740 for the year. The
ords. are being paid 12 p.c., as against 10 p.c.
last term. The opposition evening paper, the
“Star,” passed out early this year, but the
“Argus” has been rejuvenated and may become
increasingly competitive with the “Sun-Pic-
torial,” one of the “Herald’s” subsidiaries.


Mo Jirb
Cohl^jfM
mM
m
%
M
L
mSL
WOA
m
:;;s
;:;.:.-.-.-.-.v.v.-.:.;.:.;:: : : : x.
BUT CHILD’S PLAY FOR
AN...
f
INTERNATIONAL
International trucks make easy work of any truck job because they are truck~built
through and through . . . engine, transmission, frame, wheels, steering mechanism—
all truck quality, tried out in the crucible of engineering knowledge through long years
of practical truck building . . . International has always concentrated on turning out truck
masterpieces—never had time nor inclination to produce cars, was always dead certain that car
work and truck work are poles asunder.
So when you buy an International you buy a truck. Men who have owned and operated Inter-
nationals for a working lifetime will all tell you the same thing—you can't knock out an Inter-
national with hard work.
In heavy, rough, precipitous forest country where massive loads of logs have to be moved from
the forest to the mill-head; in deep quarries, on mountain road constructions, wherever rugged
jobs are being tackled, you'll find Internationals revelling in the most difficult work— and they
keep on doing it days—months—years on end . . . saving labour, fuel and maintenance costs
all the time.
International truck models cover every type of truck required in modern industry. The line
includes speedy, economical 6-cylinder light delivery vans and smart, nippy, businesslike utilities.
In the medium and heavy divisions there are economical and speedy trucks for all purposes from
one ton to five ton capacities, and beyond these is the range of big six-wheelers for the
roughest, heaviest haulage jobs.
You need a truck?—go direct to International.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLP PTY. LTD.. HOBSRT. AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
U1818
dsf
ds
THE
Gilbert
River
COWBOY
SADDLE
£l5/11/6
is made on a
best “Fouright”
Tree, the pads
are set high up
along the
rider’s thighs
fo r security,
and the panel
short. It is
fitted with iron
or wood stir-
vups as preferred.
N.S.W. FREIGHT PAID
FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
Write for Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN TRUSSES.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
24579/25 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of Victoria made in the action 1936 No. 568
in which ALEXANDER McINNES is Plaintiff
and JOHN KINGSTON is Defendant the per-
sons claiming to be the next-of-kin of Mary
Kingston (daughter of John Kingston and Ellen
Kingston nee Halpin) born at Williamstown in
Victoria in 1867 who died at Preston Victoria
on the 24th day of January 1929 are by their
Solicitors on or before the 18th day of March
1937 to come in and prove their claims at the
office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts Melbourne
Victoria and in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order and the said estate will be distributed
having regard only to the claims which shall
have been so proved. The first day of April
1937 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon is appointed
for adjudicating on the said claims.
DATED this 27th day of October, 1936.
M. M. PHILLIPS, Chief Clerk.
HENDERSON & BALL, of 430 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
JOHN HENRY WILLS, late of Tallygaroopna,
Victoria. Anyone knowing his present where-
abouts is requested to communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
LOUIS VOGEL, late of Georgetown, Queens-
land. Anyone knowing present whereabouts
is requested to communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
ALLEN, FREDERICK ROBERT, age 49 (ex-
A.1.F.), assistant Major Hewitt, of Lever Bros.,
Solomon Islands, 1909, born Cricklewood,
London, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
will hear something to his advantage. Com-
municate WOOD & ARMSTRONG, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
DENNING HOWARD, last heard of near
Adelaide in December, 1934, selling soap sticks
“On the Spot,” please communicate with
Advertiser, c/o The Bulletin Office, 252
George-street, Sydney.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Chain Store Inquiry
• ' T i „ j rv»
Two directors of G. J. Coles and Co.
gave evidence before Browne, J., m
Sydney last week. E. B. Coles said his
firm had 50 branches in Australia, 17 of
them in N. S. Wales. The first store
was started by G. J. Coles, then 25, at
Collingwood, Vic., before the war. Re-
, . e ... . • iQiQ n t
turning from active service, in 1919 G. J.
and A. W. Coles set up a Jargei sloie,
and the principles were then laid down
that buying should be for cash, prefer-
ably direct from Australian factories, and
that articles should be well displayed in
stores, with prices (limited to 2s. 6d.)
clearlv marked
„ . . .. .
Staffs were engaged from the districts
served by the shops, where possible, and
bonuses were paid. At present 206 em-
ployees held 70,000 shares in ihe co. The
co. did not employ girls under 16 ; the
Judge, after eraminiSg a list of Coles’s
employees, said that ages of the girls
didn’t bear out the charge that girls
were dismissed when they became due
for senior wages
K. F. Coles said his firm would not
object to the ratio of male to female
employees in grocery and hardware de-
partments being made one-to-one if the
restriction applied to all retailers. This
witness stated that 80 p.c. of goods
sold by his CO. was made in the Com-
monwealth, 20 p.c. being imported. In
several cases, he added, by reason of
the large orders Coles’s gave, factories
in Sydney and Melbourne had been able
«® produce lines in competition with
Japanese, and other foreign imports. His
co anxious to have a 10() p . c . Aus .
tralian turnover.
E q O’Dea, secretary of the Shop
Assistants’ Union, in asking to be allowed
to give evidence, said his case would be
against “female chain stores”—firms em-
ploying too large, a proportion of women.
G. J. Coles, Woolworths, Seltndges and
Gi|pins we ; e „ the ’ stores he had
j n m j nd> ]-[ e thought that Coles’s em-
pioyed a larger proportion of men than
the others.
C. R. Hart, secretary to Woolworths,
Ltd., said the co.’s first store was opened
in 1924, and it now had five Sydney
stores, 10 in Sydney suburbs and tour
in N.S.W. country districts. At present
8Q of the goods so i d by the co. was
made . Australia .
. ~ , ~ , __
. rh f w “"f s added H 4a L t^ rc W 5 e !1 »e
female employees under 16 years of age
a " d *1 commencing wage was 16s. a
»cek Every employee received an extra
week s pay at Christmas and aJortmght s
holiday annually on fu py.
worths employed 58 male shop assis-
tants and 844 females - 0f th £f ’ 3B
™ en and 445 wo j men w< f e ov , ei KT 2l * n
The inquiry adjourned until Nov. 9.
Turnover in N. S. Wales land has
, •, • * • *l-1,-,
sho '™ definite revival in 1936 For the
first nme months of the year £-4,886,00.)-
worth of property changed hands, as
against £19,382,000, £17,015,000 and
£10,693,000 in the same periods of the
three preceding years. Real estate turn-
over is now around 44 p.c. of pre-depres-
sion activity, but mortgages registered
are on the scale of about 30 p.c.
* * * *
An interesting observation from
Winchcombe, Carson’s latest wool
review:
Probably the world’s greatest single influence
on wool consumption and prices is the trade of
modern multiple stores such as the “Fifty Shil-
ling Tailors” in Great Britain. Those concerns
use millions of yards of fabrics in a year, and
work to a definite price. If the cost of goods
increases, the price level is not raised, but the
class of fabrics used is lowered. That is a
brake on extreme rates for the sheep’s staple.
It would, however, be incorrect to assume that
those multiple traders are a detriment to the
wool industry. Like every other movement, it
has some disadvantages, but it has been de-
cidedly beneficial in encouraging the use of
wool by millions of people for whom the pur-
chase price of clothing is of paramount import-
ance. If woollen apparel were more costly,
they simply could not buy it.
* * *
There has been considerable activity in
Bond’s Industries debentures, at prices
around £4O per £lOO. Market informa-
tion is to the effect that the co.’s factory
is working at full pressure.
i $ :!: =K *
Those who have faith in the picture-
show business as an investment will find
West’s shares best buying at the moment.
The price is around 9s. 3d., the co. has
over 2s. per share in Consols, etc., and
has the largest “per share” holding in
the Union Theatres group. Not for some
time has demand for the shares been so
sluggish.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Sweet Aloes”
A psychological study in the modern
manner. The beautiful young wife (Kay
Francis) of a prosperous young New
York lawyer (George Brent), though she
loves her husband, is continually brood-
ing over an episode in her past. She is
the mother of an illegitimate male child,
the father being a young English peer
whose wife is unable to bear children.
By amicable arrangement the infant was
published to the world as the offspring
of the peer and his lawful spouse. The
young mother’s anxiety about her lost
baby is set at rest' by an old friend
(Roland Young), who introduces her to
Roland Young in “Sweet Aloes,” at
Sydney Regent.
the foster-mother, a lady of almost in-
credibly sporting spirit, who demon-
strates that the little boy is loved and
well-cared-for. Whatever may be thought
of the feasibility of the circumstances,
the plot is interestingly and intelligently
developed. Roland Young, in the most
congenial part he has ever enjoyed, quite
eclipses Brent and just misses stealing
the show from the leading lady. Young
brings a breath of whimsical comedy and
commonsense into every situation, and
his courtship of an American lady doctor
is delightful. Another of those models
of clever direction and smooth acting
that Hollywood seems to be producing
at increasingly short intervals. At Sydney
Regent.
“Down the Stretch”
Mickey Rooney is the hero of this
cross-section of sporting life, and he
plays his part, that of a jockey, very
creditably. But the plot is thin, the de-
velopment long-drawn-out, and the final
sequences, in which the rider of one horse
does his best to make another horse win,
and, failing at that, bowls his own mount
over, all with the purest and most altru-
istic motives, are too incredible. How-
ever, the horses act faultlessly and a
negro lad, William Best, earns a chuckle
by a weird transition into the Oxford
accent. Patricia Ellis as a benevolent
lady has a colorless part'. At Sydney
Regent.
“Postal Inspector”
The world’s most efficient institution
is the U.S.A. postal service ; come fire,
famine, flood, shipwreck, cyclone or
sudden death Uncle Sam gets his mails
through—yes, sir-r! At least, so one
gathers from this film. It appears, too,
that the carriage of mails is just a side-
line, the Post Office’s chief activity being
the pursuit of criminals who, by means
of lying letters, lure the trusting citizen
to buy (say) a patent stretching machine
guaranteed to increase the height by two
inches.
On the framework of this popularised
guff an unlikely and highly melodramatic
yarn has been spun. There is an honest
postal inspector (Ricardo Cortez), de-
voted to de-uty and his younger brother
(Michael Loring). The latter blabs to
his blonde baby, who yawps dolefully at
a night club run by a furtive villain (Bela
Lugosi), that three million old green-
backs are about to go back to the
Treasury at Washington for half-soling
and heeling. Result: the three million
bucks are pinched. Then the heavens
open, and the rest is floods, villains and
cops, hero, motor-boat chases and happi-
ness, ending in Sing Sing for the villain
and a sing-song between the y.b. and
his girl friend.
Ricardo Cortez forsakes his usual
screen villainy for the paths of rectitude
and performs capably enough. Michael
Loring hasn’t much to do, but does it
fairly well. Bela Lugosi is a mild sort
of gangster, and Patricia Ellis as a night-
club crooner makes one wonder why
Americans frequent such places. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Pepper”
There is hardly a vestige of probabil-
ity or even possibility about this fan-
tasia. One little girl can’t weld the
juvenile population of a city into a dis-
ciplined army; crusty old millionaires
don’t allow street-urchins to beard them
in their lairs, nor do financial potentates
hobnob with garbage-men. But what
of it? If the small gangster queen is
Jane Withers, the wealthy cove is Irvin
Cobb and the refuse-collector is Slim
Summerville, a super-democratic flavor
in the proceedings is not only pardon-
able but praiseworthy. Jane and Irvin
do Coney Island together; Irvin’s pocket
is picked, so she blacks his spectacles,
sits him on a bench and wails a lugu-
brious ditty, interspersed with heart-
rending boo-hoos. Enough dimes fall
George Brent in “Sweet Aloes”
into the hat' to get them home on the
subway. A gloomy ballad about one
Matilda who in the cemetery lies is done
by Jane, Irvin and Slim with a couple of
beaming babies for audience. The main
thread of the plot is concerned with the
efforts of Jane and Slim to unmask a
bogus German count who is on the verge
of marrying Irvin’s daughter. The old
man has offered them five thousand
smackers if they ditch the alliance. They
do. “What’s the first thing you’re going
to do with all that money?” says the mil-
lionaire. “Count it!” says Pepper. Not'
a bad curtain. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Beloved Vagabond”
Maurice Chevalier has bobbed up
again at Melbourne Athenaeum in the
film version of William Locke’s The
Beloved Vagabond. Maurice has no
Henry Stephenson in “Sweet Aloes”
voice, and is unimpressive when he
attempts melodrama (as in the early part
of the film when the girl of his choice is
“sold” to another bidder by an em-
bezzling father). But his charm and per-
sonality are very positive assets and in
straight comedy he’s fine. Betty Stock-
field is statuesque in her small role. Mar-
garet Lockwood commands sympathy as
the little gamin Blanquette, and Des-
mond Tester as Asticot shows that Eng-
lish juveniles are not much behind
young Americans in talent. The cameras
have caught lovely bits of urban scenery,
A successful continuity innovation is
the scrapbook of pen-and-ink sketches
and caricatures attributed to Asticot.
“East Meets West”
Just a setting for Mr. George Arliss,
who, as the Sultan of Bhong or some
such place, combines benevolence with
sagacity in exactly the same manner as
Disraeli, Richelieu, the true and false
Rothschilds and all the others of the
long line of characters that have been
raised up or chopped down to the Arliss
tradition. In the instance under review
the pose of calm omniscience, diversified
by childish delight in exhibitions of
schoolboy cunning, strikes a consistently
false note. Another artificial figure is
an envoy from a foreign Power who
dresses like a pre-revolutionary Russian,
talks like a Japanese and looks like an
Irishman. Drama, of a sort, is provided
by a villainous British official who ill-
treats his French wife (Lucie Mann-
heim). But the lady loves him despite
all, and his reformation provides the
happy ending. Most natural figure in the
quaint extravaganza is Godfrey Tearle
as the Governor of a small British
colony. Oriental mob scenes are effec-
tively managed, but some of the. scenery
is quite obviously cut out of cardboard.
Previewed at the Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
“His Brother’s Wife”
Here is good drama, efficiently acted
and directed, on which the brake of
sophistication has been firmly applied
whenever it starts to toboggan to bellow-
drama.
Chris Claybourne (Robert Taylor), a
rising young scientist, is about to leave
for the tropics on a research expedition
when he meets Rita Wilson (Barbara
Stanwyck), a mannequin, at a night-
gambling-club run by “Fish-eye” Davis
(Joseph Calleia). After a hectic week
they find they are in love and decide to
marry, Chris determining to withdraw
from the expedition. His brother Tom
(John Eldredge), however, forces him to
go as the price for paying Chris’s gam-
bling debts. The lady is furious at them
both, and later, for revenge, marries
Tom, leaving him immediately after the
ceremony.
Back on short leave, Chris persuades
the girl to go back to the tropics with
him, thus enabling his brother to get a
divorce and marry his old fiancde. There
he and Professor Fahrenheim (Jean Her-
sholt) wage a long and seemingly hope-
less war on spotted fever, but eventu-
ally meet with success in dramatic cir-
cumstances involving serum experiments
on Rita, whom he had decided to send
back once she had served his purpose of
freeing Tom. All comes right in the end,
but only after some highly exciting
sequences.
Barbara Stanwyck gives easily her best
performance to date. She has acquired
poise, and handles a none-too-easy role
deftly. Robert Taylor enhances his al-
ready high reputation, and Jean Hersholt
could scarcely be bettered as an elderly
scientist inclined to the sentimental.
Joseph Calleia is a Latin-type villain
whose acting is confined to the move-
ment of his heavily-lidded coal-black
eyes. John Eldredge and Samuel Hinds
fill minor parts capably. Previewed at
M.-G.-M. Theatrette.
Some First Nights
The Russian Ballet opened its Mel-
bourne season according to Covent
Garden tradition with “Les Sylphides”
to Chopin music—the seventh prelude,
slow and quick waltzes, mazurkas and
nocturnes expressed in the choreography'
of Fokine by fairylike groupings of
snow-white sylphs. The charm of this
ballet lies in its simplicity. Helene Kir-
sova is as a scrap of thistledown. With
Igor Yousskevitch to lift her she appears
to float through the air like a figure on
a slow-motion film screen.
Fokine’s barbaric “Scheherazade” to
Rimsky-Korsakov’s music is a dramatic
whirl of color and vitality. Woizikowsky
as the favorite slave has splendid “eleva-
tion.” His leap to the cushion (one of
Nijinsky’s great moments) and the un-
canny tremors, in dying, of his utterly
William Best in “Down the Stretch,” at
Sydney Regent.
limp body exploit some of his versatile
gifts. Nina Raievska possesses elastic,
sinuous muscles and, as the unfaithful
wife, acts with dramatic feeling. As a trio
of odalisques, Natalie Branitzka, Tamara
Tchinarova and Olga Valevska express
an Eastern dance with their slim, supple
bodies. Fokine’s brilliance as a choreo-
grapher is seen throughout this ballet in
the orchestration of action and music.


CANT BUY THESE
EXCEPT IN A
Rub*
I
!$&
NO OTHER CAR IN THE WORLD HAS ALL BUICKS FEATURES
<k$*<
The 193 7 “Air Chief”
car radio, designed
for Buick, includes
a special remote
control to match
fittings on the in-
strument panel. A
new 6-valve set with
tone equal to the
best home radio and
increased distance
reception. Speaker
fits in header bar
flush with roof lining,
giving ear-level re-
ception to all pas-
sengers. Ask for a
demonstration.
8358-44.
One, two or a dozen of Buick’s features, would not make another
car “as good as a Buick.” To be “as good as Buick”—well, it
would just have to be a Buick—built as Buick is built—with all
Buick’s features—and the 33-year-old Buick quality hammered
into every bolt and forging. What other car can give you all this—
Buick Valve-in-head Straight
Eight Engine. 10% more efficient
than other types —giving more power
from every drop of petrol—and
silent all its life. The wellspring of
Buicks all-conquering performance.
Buick Anolite Pistons. A new
metal to meet the year-ahead per-
formance of that phenomenal engine.
As durable as cast iron yet 50%
lighter—prolonging bearing life by
150%.
Buick’s Genuine Knee Action.
The fact that the world’s most
modern racing cars use Knee Action
speaks volumes for its safety and the
extra margin of road-control it gives.
Comfort is not the only virtue of
Knee Action—although a day in
Buick is less fatiguing than a few
hours in ANY conventionally sprung
car.
Buick Torque Tube Drive
Another reason for Buick’s famous
“gliding ride” and freedom from
back lash and chassis shudder.
Torque tube drive puts no driving
strain on back springs—their only
job is cushioning the car.
Buick Perfected Tiptoe Hy-
draulic Brakes. Buick’s pheno-
menal performance needs super-
brakes. That’s what these are. Not
just a case of liquid doing the work
of rods—but the whole braking
mechanism perfected for the quickest,
smoothest straight-line stop of 1936
—at a toe touch!
Buick Built-in Luggage and
Tyre Compartment. Ample
capacity—and helping instead of
hindering the graceful lines of the
body.
Buick’s Beautiful Safety Body
by Holden, with"Armourplate’‘
Safety Glass Windscreen. The
smartest, safest, strongest body built
—luxuriously upholstered and fitted,
and endowed with more head-
room and legroom than you’ll ever
need.
Buick Centre Control Shock*
less Steering. Keeps road shocks
from being transmitted to wheel and
takes all the “fight” out of the
steering.
Buick Sealed Chassis. Keeps
dirt and water from all moving
parts, protects from wear and
erosion.
Buick Girder X Type Frame.
Built like a battleship, keeping the
car firm, stable and level-keeled.
Buick Automatic Starting,
Ignition, and Heat Control
for convenience, efficiency, economy.
Buick Ride Stabiliser for
elimination of sidesway at speed or
on curves.
TThose are but some of the things that money can’t buy— except in a Buick. There’s more than
could be told here—the many other mechanical features—the “feel” of driving a Buick—the pride
ot possessing a car with beauty and quality that are more than duco-deep. Take the wheel of a Buick
and let the car speak for itself! GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED BUICK DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Buick dealers throughout Australia
During the sultan’s absence there is a
wild orgy of dancing among the wives,
concubines and slaves On his return
there is chaos which resolves itself into
order, with a climax of death to the un-
faithful ladies.
The third and last ballet on the pro-
gramme was another contrast in struc-
ture: “Aurora’s Wedding,” a collabora-
tion of Tschaikowsky’s music and
Petipa’s dance-interpretation. There is
a lilting rhythm about the polonaises and
mazurkas of the court ladies and duch-
esses in the colorful cast. Valentina
Blinova (who co-stars with Kirsova)
has a flair for pirouettes, a pretty figure
and a charming smile. Among the fairy-
tale interludes is the “Blue Bird,” per-
formed by Kirsova and Roland Guerard,
a male dancer who on Saturday did his
best when dancing solo. He is very light,
his “flying six” is splendid and he’s a
master of the fouette in all its complexi-
ties. Woizikowsky, Serge Unger and
Dmitri Tovaroff do some thrilling leaps
in the Three Ivans, a dance that calls
for knees like steel and finishes with a
fine climax of tableau design. Light
moments of the same ballet are provided
by male dancer Jean Hoyer and two
girls, Vanda Grossen and Sonia Woizi-
kowsky, in a charming piece of comedy,
“Porcelain Princesses,” and in “Red
Riding Hood and Her Wolf” with Irina
Bondireva and Valery Shaevsky. The
seven ladies of honor at the court of
Aurora deserve a word for their beauti-
ful pirouettes “finished in attitude.”
The whole ballet is strong on its foot-
work, particularly the pirouette, the most
difficult accomplishment of classical
dancing. One is fluffed occasionally, but
that’s often a matter of luck. It takes a
genius like Pavlova to know that every
one of her pirouettes will be perfection.
On Saturday the orchestra, conducted by
Jascha Horenstein, did excellently.
Scenery, except in “Scheherazade,” was
disappointing, and the lighting in “Les
Sylphides” was not very imaginative.
+l*
The Duke and Duchess of Plaza-Toro,
attended by the Grand Inquisitor, gon-
doliers and contadini, took the stage of
Sydney Royal on Saturday night and
said the second of eight farewells. They
are all very old friends of Australian
theatre-goers, and in recent years have
formed the staple of theatrical fare.
Even the most enthusiastic Savoyards,
one would have thought, must by now
be sated. But no! Encores were as
numerous and as persistently demanded
as in any previous season, and the dance
quintet had to be repeated five times.
Ivan Menzies, as sprightly a Duke as
ever, made the farewell speech. He was
associated with Godfrey Stirling and
Gregory Stroud (as Marco and
Guiseppe), Richard Watson (as the In-
quisitor) and Winifred Lawson (as
Casilda). The only newcomer of note
was Evelyn Hall, who replaces Evelyn
Gardiner in robust roles. Miss Hall’s
Duchess was not quite so full-flavored
as Miss Gardiner’s, but it had as good
a voice, and “There Is Beauty in the
Bellow of the Blast” went splendidly.
* * * *
A pianoforte concerto by Maorilander
Frank Hutchens had a first performance
by the A.B.C. Symphony Orchestra at
Sydney on Sunday night, the composer
at the piano. It is in the modern free
manner, with many changes of mood,
tempo and rhythm. The first entrance
of the piano, after a dashing orchestral
introduction, is very effective, and there
are mellifluous passages later in which
the leading voice passes from violins to
wood-winds. To form a just estimate of
so long and varied an opus on one hear-
ing is impossible, but it can be said that
file work is original in conception and
very soundly scored. The orchestra has
never played better, so it must have
liked it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Only once in a while does Sydney see
a production like Alfred Sangster’s “The
Brontes,” and when it does the presenta-
tion, as in the case of the Thespians’
latest essay, is usually limited to one
night. Which in this case is a pity, for
Sangster’s play has the breath of life ;
it is pathos that avoids bathos, and is
relieved by the epigrams of the incum-
bent of Haworth Parsonage. The old
man’s brushes with his family are among
the best bits of the piece. But it’s the
three literary sisters who really matter:
Emily, secretly nursing a blighted love ;
limelight-craving Charlotte ; and Anne,
sharing the others’ confidences without
quite understanding them—all creditably
portrayed by Joan Howard, Mavis Cor-
ven and Cree Jackson respectively. Sub-
sidiary characters have been neatly
etched, and the workmanlike handling of
these, notably Ernest Nicholls’s Thack-
eray and Beatrice Wenban’s serving-
woman, was among the highlights of the
Muriel Conner production,
* * . 'l* _ *
Supported by David Sisserman and his
admirable ’cello, and with Elsie Fraser
at the piano, Nancy Fryberg brought
her excellent soprano to bear on a pro-
gramme of exalted quality and moderate
dimensions at the Assembly Hall, Mel-
bourne, last week. The encores were
few, but this was not the fault of the
singing. Miss Fryberg has a fine top-
note and an impressive, middle register,
ar *d she bestowed these gifts to the best
advantage on the only Wagnerian
number, “Elsa’s Dream,” from “Lohen-
grin.”
(“Current Arthursts” reviewed on
page 42.)


AT
THE
CATTOV SYDNEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by all
Yet. just around the
corner, within two
minutes’ walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Lending Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann. 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
V kort Story
Writing
tyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most Hiorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Est. 1818.
THE GENUINE DANISH
HEERING’S
CHERRY
BRANDY
THE LIQUEUR FOR
THE DISCRIMINATING PALATE.
When you call for Cherry
Brandy, see that you get
Heering’s.
Supplied by all Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Stores in Bottles and i Bottles.
If any difficulty in obtaining supplies, please
refer to the Sole Australian Agents,
SWIFT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
On Thursday evening 1500 guests were
bidden by the Mayor to meet the State’s
Governor, Sir Murray Anderson. The
engagement at the Town Hall Sir Murray
did not keep. He kept tryst with Death.
And on Saturday morning at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral he lay in state while a seem-
ingly unending stream of citizens made
their final gesture of respect to their
King’s representative.
Earlier the city had echoed to the
measured tread of soldier feet as, to the
solemn notes of Chopin’s Funeral March,
they escorted, with arms reversed, the
dead admiral to the cathedral. The pro-
cession, led by the Mounted Police, their
horses for once noticeably restive, paced
through the gates of Government House
and along the sunny length of Macquarie-
street. Blue of the Air Force, blue of
the Navy, the red stripes of the Royal
Australian Artillery conveyed for once
no sense of animation. There was that
in their midst that drained the color. A
sombre thing was the gun carriage on
which the coffin lay beneath the Union
Jack. Gently stepped the naval ratings
who drew it, so gently that the flowers
on the coffin were not fluttered. These
were a long cross of violets outlined with
lily-of-the-valley, and Lady Anderson’s
snow-white wreath. Beside this were the
owner’s cocked hat and sword. His
decorations were carried for all the world
to see on the open hands of his two
aides-de-camp.
At St. Andrew’s Archbishop Mowll
and the clergy of the cathedral received
the body with book and prayer, while
grave and solemn the strains of the organ
lingered on the air. The body Was placed
in the chancel, and a detachment of the
Air Force took up its vigil, standing
motionless, head bent. Soon the flowers
were piled high, snowy and mauve and
pinkly-petalled mounds. Now near by
the cocked hat and the sword and the
dead Governor’s decorations were laid.
He was ready for his last levee.
In their hundreds mourners passed
with a grave little inclination of the head.
They came straight from their jobs, from
the morning’s shopping. They came with
their parcels, their implements, their suit-
cases, men and women, girls and boys.
And now the last prayers have been said
in a thronged cathedral, and the dead
Governor, going to the private chapel at
Bishopscourt, has taken his last ride along
Sydney streets, resting, as well a brave
sailor may, on his horse-drawn gun
carriage.
Not a woman in the State last week-
end but sorrowed with Lady Murray
Anderson. Since her arrival she. had
turned a cheerful face to a long list of
vice-regal duties. Her tone had always
been one of courage and hope, with
never a hint of self-pity. And yet all the
time her husband was desperately ill,
beyond the expected remedy of our
golden days.
Lady Murray Anderson’s presence at
the Mayoral reception will be remem-
bered as a triumph of graciousness and
courage. Hiding her wifely anxieties
behind an official smile, she saw it
through. Not till after eleven did
she slip away to the room in Government
House where her husband lay dying.
On top of the Town Hall steps were
palms in green tubs. Inside the vestibule
the lights glowed softly. The corners
were massed with palms. Below the
glittering chandelier, to the right and the
left was an island of gladioli, iris and
snapdragon, fringed with flower-pots a-
bloom. Opening from this, the long hall
was like a bushland glade.
Smilax and other green shoots gar-
landed the gallery and swung between
its bark-covered pillars. There was a
lush undergrowth of palms. The plat-
form, with its thick grouping of pot-
plants, was like a small overgrown hil-
lock. Floodlights made a perspective of
blue beyond the organ pipes. Arum-
lilies, milk-white against their glossy
green leaves, flanked the stage. Below,
guarding the four corners of the low
dais, were standards of gladioli, iris and
golden broom.
The way to the lower hall was hung
with the flags of all nations. In the
supper-room the walls were lined with
the Union Jack and the Australian flag.
In one space the Scottish standard was
yellow and scarlet against the shining
whiteness of the walls. It was directly
opposite where Sir Murray Anderson
would have sat. The official table was
banked from end to end with blue del-
phinium and golden iris. Lord Mayor
Howie, resplendent with chains of office
and ermined robes, the Mayoress (Mrs.
George A. Parkes), her gold satins caped
in tucked bronze net, and Town Clerk
Roy Hendy, in wig, knee breeches,
buckled shoes and lace jabot, greeted
the 1500 guests. Decorations, academic
dress, and the uniforms of the Navy,
Army and Air Force added brilliance to
the march past. Churchmen came; so
did Consuls.
Lady Anderson’s frock shone anemone
pink, soft folds of the material making
its cross-over bodice. She wore pearls
and carried long-stemmed red-and-gold-
striped tulips and gold water-lilies. Arch-
bishop and Mrs. Mowll were there. Mrs.
Cole came with Commander Cole, a
bolero of cream lace on her black frock.
The wife of Chief Justice Jordan pinned
Parma violets on grey-blue taffetas. The
Brigadier Hardies came, her frock of
ivory lacei worn with a pink scarf. Mrs.
Roy Hendy was all gold and blue tissue.
The wife of Premier Stevens trailed
black velvet.
Philippa Dale, one of Sydney’s best-
known swordswomen, is newly returned
from Europe. This daughter of play-
wright Margaret Dale represented the
N.S.W. Fencing Association at the
annual congress of the International
Fencing Federation held in Berlin on the
eve of the Olympic Games, and found
to her surprise that she was the only
woman delegate. On her travels she was
accompanied by Mrs. R. T. E. Wood-
house, president of the Sydney Ladies’
Fencing Club and treasurer of the N.S.W.
Amateur Fencing Association. Miss
Dale is secretary of both. In London
they studied with Andre Gauthier and
practised with the Penguins. They
fenced with France’s women champions,
Madame Reuche and Madame Turgis,
and saw the finals of the French Epee
Championship held at the Pre Catalan,
Bois de Boulogne. Ronald Esler made
the portrait.
Fans were found useful as well as de-
corative at the. Royal Empire Society's
party. The night was warm and the ball-
room of the Australia was filled to capa-
city. Members had turned up in force
to this, the society’s first reception to
the new Governor and Lady Anderson.
C. M. C. Shannon shared the spotlight
in the reception act with knight Hugh
Denison and his wife. Her frock of
black-and-white printed pussy-willow
wore a spray of red and purple flowers.
Gertrude Drayton, who came with the
vice-regals, was in delphinium-blue. The
first lady in the State brought a black-
and-silver frock, an emerald-green fan,
pearls and red carnations to the colors of
the night.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly’s outsize fan was also
of emerald-green plumes. This was waved
against a background of white satin pat-
terned in silver. Mrs. Toby Browne’s fan
was rose pink. The medical Wheatleys
and Crawford Robertsons were there,
Mrs. Robertson’s palely pink and blue
brocades worn with a pink satin jacket.
With them came the Leonard Johnsons,
she very fair in rosy chiffons. George
Fuller’s lady was graceful in black and
gold lace. Lace and ninon were com-
bined in the frock of Mrs. Talbot, whose
mother, Mrs. Vert, was clad in black
marquisette rich in gold embroideries.
Knight Frederick McMaster’s wife wore
white lace topped with a shoulder cape
of brown marabout.
Isobel MacKenzie has seen and
sketched bits of Switzerland, Bavaria, the
Tyrol, the fields and woods of England
and the reaches of the Seine during the
seven months she has been away from
Sydney. She is art teacher at the Haber-
field Demonstration School, and found
much to interest her in the methods of
art-directing in the English schools. A
Victorian, Keith Doubleday, who was a
pupil of Chezik in Vienna, has acquired
fame in England by his methods of train-
ing the young mind. Raymond Sawyer
photo.
Patsy Dangar, one of the State’s heir-
esses, married Grant Giblin last week.
Outside AH Saints’, Woollahra, long
before the coming of the bride, the usual
crowds had gathered. Inside the. church
the sun streamed through stained-glass
windows, flashed on the gold standards
and on the spikes of broom in basket
and on the pew heads, and touched to
deeper flame the gold candelabra on the
altar.
The bride, slim, small and dark—
Phoebe Patricia Dangar, to give her her
full name—is the younger daughter of
the late Major Clive C. Dangar and of
Mrs. Hubert Gordon, of Gostwyck sta-
tion, Uralla, and the bridegroom, Wil-
liam Grant Giblin, of Mullengah, Gular-
gambone, is the elder son of the H. N.
Giblins, of Woollahra.
Her stepfather, the Rev. Hubert
Gordon, tied the knot, her mother gave
her away, and cousin Harry Dangar
squired her to the altar. Her frock of
gleaming ivory satin made on Empire
lines had a high standing collar. The
four-yard train, cut' into the skirt, flared
from the pleated waistline. From the
shoulders, where, it was moored with tiny
clusters of orange-blossom, flowed a
Honiton lace veil that has been in the
Dangar family for generations, and a
coronet of tiny, curled ostrich tips held
in place the billows of tulle that lay, a
filigree of snow, over satin and lace. An
armful of golden water-lilies was a fin-
ishing grandeur.
Four ’maids, sister Noreen among
them, followed the gleaming bride. A
classic simplicity marked their frocks,
which were of lilac chiffon and had flow-
ing drapes from shoulder to hemline. A
twist of the chiffon, held in place by a
cluster of ostrich tips at the sides, gar-
landed their heads and golden tulips
filled their hands.
The reception was at Elizabeth Bay
House. Here, again, was the gold of
broom, bowls of gold and mauve iris
and of lilac. On the bridal table was
lily-of-the-valley. Mrs. Gordon received
the guests, the delphinium-blue of frock
and hat effective against her armful of
golden iris. The bridegroom’s mother
wore hydrangea-blue and a lapis lazuli
brooch and buckle at neck and waist of
the ensemble. The presents would not
shame a minor royalty.
As an appropriate gesture, no doubt,
Mrs. Harold Bott took a week off her
duties as secretary to the November fete
at Elwatan in aid of the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital to present Australia
with a new citizen. Baby Moira arrived
at Charlemount last week. Already the
bedside ’phone is in use on business con -
nected with the fete.
Sydney keeps on turning them out
young. David Madison, a small boy
pianist, kept an audience in thrall at the
Forum Club one night last week. Lady
Murray Anderson was an attentive lis-
tener. It was the vice-regal lady’s first
visit to the Forum, and the flower deco-
rations were worthy the occasion.
Stately gladioli in tones of rose and red
were massed in great bowls. The same
flowers, with delphinium and rose, filled
the box that was handed to the guest of
honor. Lest David might feel lonely in
the, intervals of his music, two boy
friends were there to keep him com-
pany. Lady Anderson’s frock was of
burgundy lace, her ornaments pearls.
With her came Miss Gertrude Drayton,
of Victoria League renown, in blue bro-
cade, and Rosemary de Sausmarez, all
hyacinth-pink chiffon and lace. Pretty
Mary Stevens was the night’s soprano.
The club’s president, Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax, brought Mrs. Harry Dangar and
Sybil Hinder. Miss Shadforth Hooper
was in the company.
As in the popular song, “Ten, twenty,
thirty, forty, fifty years ago” were as
yesterday when veteran artist Julian Ash-
ton was declaring his friend Donald
Commons’s show open. This was one
of the most mellow speeches the
Macleod Gallery has echoed to. The
two artists were young together in the
’eighties, when Sydney was more pic-
turesque than it is to-day. Then people
still used candles, bullock wagons caused
no sensation in George-sfreet, and the
thoroughfares were wide enough for the
free passage of the population. Both
men link the leisure of those times with
modern days. Reminiscences of the old
Sydney are to be found in this, Mr.
Commons’s first one-man show. It was
not till his retirement from his engineer-
ing job in the Railway Department that
he was able to concentrate on an ex-
hibition.
Charming and pictorial bits of Sydney
now hang on the gallery walls, and the
opening was flavored with rosemary and
lavender. A very proud Mrs. Commons
was there, greeting old friends; so were
the artist’s two daughters, Mrs. Kingsley-
Strack and Mrs. E. G. Wiggan, the last-
named coming down from Condobolin
especially for the opening. Margaret
Blumer and her mother, artist B. E.
Minns and the Hanke couple were
others glimpsed. Lady Murray Ander-
son was one of the first visitors. She
came for a quiet view early in the morn-
ing. Next after her came Sir Hugh and
Lady Poynter.


• The Victoria offers delightful
appointments, service, cuisine. In heart
of city. Moderate tariffs—“ Room Only,”
Singles, 4/- to 7/6 per. day; Doubles,
'26 NEW
VICTORIA
8/- to 16/- per
day. Write
Dept. 819 for
free booklet.
PALACE
201-239 Little Collins
St., Melbourne, Cl.
Ilf
""HU
nfn
mini!
imi
mini
■ ■■■
lifts
M!
»i»«T
M*
LARGEST NON LICENSED HOTEL IN AUSTRALIA
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper Hcuse, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
'Phone: BWI2IB,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 522 of 1936.
BETWEEN DOROTHY MABEL HOLGATE
Petitioner
And EDWARD WILFRED HOLGATE
Respondent.
TO EDWARD WILFRED HOLGATE late of
Rockhampton in the State of Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
MABEL HOLGATE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-seventh day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A certi-
fied copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge. _ ,
DATED this 26th day of October, a.d. 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
W. C. DICKIE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
chatter
Alan Cooper went to the Derby full of
hope and returned home, irrespective
of his bets, with £3500 of the £19,000
he paid two or three weeks ago
for Talking. “Fine work, Alan,” said
his pals, “but you ought to tell us how
you do it.” It was a festive week for Mr.
Cooper, who has been so much in request
that he even had to include morning- teas
in his Race Week diary of engagements.
At Flemington the new stands were a
great advantage. The new public stand
seemed to absorb several thousands, and
in the members’ enclosure there is an
extra area of shelter. Women making
use of the recently-constructed upstairs
tote need no longer venture from under
a roof during the whole afternoon.
The worst possible weather made dress-
ing a matter of uniform, and a very dull
uniform, for winter clothes have lost their
freshness. Hats that had been pushed
away to be “given to the poor” came out
again looking the worse for their sojourn
in back cupboards, and most coats were
wrapped so tightly round their owners
that the frocks beneath were never in
the picture.
Among the wearers of fur coats were
Mrs. Richard Turnbull. Hers, of beauti-
ful dyed squirrel, went with a little brown
hat, its frontpiece a bunch of feathers
and a chou of veil. Mrs. Cecil Le Plas-
trier, in a coat of summer ermine, was
accompanied by her husband, who kept
the chill out of his ankles with white
spats. Anne Stawell’s handsome coat was
of broadtail. Beverley Lansell wore a
brown ensemble, a plain coat over a
dress scattered with white sixpenny spots.
D’Arcy Lawry twined crossed foxes be-
tween the contrasting color chords of
crimson hat and Gloucester-green coat.
Mrs. Edric Henty’s fob watch bravely
ticked through gale and storm as it
dangled from the leather belt of her suit.
The staff corps dance of the Defence
Department was just the right kind of
follow-on for the birthday of the Secre-
tary of Defence. Mr. and Mrs. M. L.
Shepherd arranged a dinner party at
their own home, after which they took
their guests on to the Ormond Hall. Mr.
Shepherd says that he has enough
hankies to last him a year, colds and
all, so many did he get with birthday
wishes. To add to the variety of his
gifts there was a very handsome cork-
screw from his daughter Peggy and six
bottles of beer brought all the way from
Sydney (just to show that they have
good beer in Sydney) by Charles Duval.
Mr. Duval, who was at the party, has
for the moment deserted the pet pea-
cocks in his Sydney garden for the links
at Peninsula Country Club.
Others at the dance were Mr. and
Mrs. Lindsay Shepherd and Mrs. Tom
Murray, in a black gown and an
emerald-green jacket, who arrived by car
from Sydney the previous day. Her
husband disembarked from a cold train
journey only that morning, but he was in
fine form and showed no sign of loss of
sleep. Also present were the Jim Fitz-
geralds, she in lilac satin and a little
white fur cape. Denis Creal divided his
time between secretarial duties, dancing,
and giving an eye and ear to the band.
Just after midnight, when Mr. Shepherd
was saying to himself “Well, that’s that
for another year,” Mrs. A. H. Cobby
remembered that her birthday had just
dawned. Her husband wasn’t one of the
forgetful ones; only the length of one
dance delayed his greeting.
An innovation at the Naval and Mili-
tary Club Ball in the Melbourne Town
Hall was the loudspeaker in both bars
announcing the numbers of coming
dances. The council chamber bar was
most popular, for an icy wind crawled
through the chinks in the canvas blinds
of the balcony rendezvous. Another
favored drifting place was the “oyster
bed” in the side foyer, where succulent
molluscs, pearls and all, disappeared
almost as quickly as they were displayed
on trestle tables.
A naval couple present were Com-
mander and Mrs. J. B. Newman, she in
dark-green full-skirted taffeta. From
army headquarters came Major and
Mrs. Bill Bridgeford, she in a black
gown with her dark hair rising from a
calyx of white taffeta coat. The Ivan
Holymans were there, the dance making
their fourth evening party in the four
days since they arrived from Tasmania —
excellent going considering they were
both in hospital a few weeks ago. Dr.
Garnet Leary danced every dance, and
his North of Ireland tongue tossed off
repartee with its usual agility. Mrs.
Newman Stirling wore chiffon with con-
trasting swathes of pale-blue, lilac and
navy slipped through buckles at her
shoulders. Captain and Mrs. Ernest
Mustar were there, she in white satin
with swaying silk fringes at the neckline.
Just before supper a knot on the stairs
when it disintegrated turned out to be
composed of all “Freddies” —‘Fred Haig,
Fred Knight, Fred Knox-Knight, Fred
Scherger and Freddie Thomas.
Herewith a Ronald Esler portrait of
Mrs. E. M. Turner’s youngest daughter
Margaret, who will fill her first important
dramatic role as Natasha in Maxim
Gorki’s “Lower Depths.” Mrs. Turner’s
three daughters had their first experience
of acting during their schooldays at St.
Catherine’s. Afterwards Joyce, now Mrs.
Lindsay Biggins, had professional ex-
perience. Geraldine’s present walk of
life is officiating in a doctor’s surgery.
Margaret is one of the busy young
women with a nine-to-five job in the city.
For thoroughgoing rehearsing Dolya
Ribush’s preparations for “Lower
Depths” must constitute a record. With a
cast of 18 (with a few exceptions the
original 18) rehearsals have been held
continuously for eight months. In addi-
tion there have been make-up and dress-
ing-up rehearsals and “living the
parts” in costume for whole Sundays.
Ribush is a dynamic driving force who
in his native Russia had vast experience
as an actor and producer. On the day
the play opens he will have been in Aus-
tralia exactly eight years. Sonia Revid,
the dancer, is his wife’s sister.
With diamonds aloft and furs amid-
ships the audience at His Majesty’s on
the first night of the Russian Ballet was
in its most expensive clothes. It was bad
luck about the furs —we have seen their
kindred for the last nine months, and
would get more exhilaration out of un-
cloaked evening gowns. Seen in the
foyer was Arnold Haskell, the authority
on the Art of the Dance, who had been
to the Derby in the afternoon, enjoyed
himself very much in spite of the appal-
ling weather and come home with almost
as much money as he started with. He’s
exactly like the photographs which appear
among the illustrations of his books —
small, dark, youngish, with a moustache
as intense as his very dark eyes and a
cultured English accent. Eunice Weston
had a particular thrill when introduced
to this most famous of all balletomanes.
Quite unprompted he said he’d heard of
the work she used to do in London, and
suggested that he would be pleased to
see a demonstration by her pupils.
A distinctive figure in the audience was
Mrs. Fred Dennett, who was with her
husband and a small party of guests. Her
white gown, cut in Grecian fashion, was
encrusted round the hem with gold
sequins. On her shoulders was a beauti-
ful cloak of white ermine. With Mrs.
Harry Johnson was June Dyson, looking
very handsome in her stiff white Chinese
coat elaborated with embroideries and
worn with a coiffure which showed gar-
denias fastened snugly at the nape of the
neck. Mrs. D. S. Rolls was there with
her dark-haired daughters, Mrs. Deric
Pearce, with a camellia placed behind her
ear and a bunch of purplish flowers on
her corsage, and Mrs. Furze-Morrish, in
fuchsia with osprey feathers fluttering on
the cuffs of her black coat.
Wearing the sporty beret is Mrs. G. D.
Bowcher, secretary of the auxiliaries and
one of the organisers of St. Vincent’s
Ball, which took place on Cup Eve. This
annual ball is a special effort to give
poor patients extra comforts right
through Christmas week. A fe.w years
ago Mrs. Bowcher was instrumental in
inaugurating St. Vincent’s golf tourna-
ment, which is played on different links
every year and has grown to enormous
proportions. A result of the big entry
lists is the establishment of a special
“Golfers’ Ward” at the hospital (not for
followers of the little white pill, but for
unlucky folk whom it indirectly bene-
fits). Another auxiliaries’ effort, in 1928,
was the collecting in a few weeks of
£7OOO for a radium and deep therapy
plant. An Eve Ray portrait.
With the double object of saying good-
bye and giving her friends an oppor-
tunity of seeing her portrait, which has
just been painted by W. B. Mclnnes,
Mrs. Hylton Dale gave an afternoon-
party at the Quamby Club. The portrait,
for which the sitter wore black velvet, a
spray of flowers on her corsage and long
off-white kid gloves, was placed on an
easel in the largest reception-room. Tea
was arranged as a buffet, and later sherry
was served in a small ante-room.
Among the brave men present was
General Jess, in his own words “van-
quished after three-quarters of an hour’s
verbal sparring with my wife” (he never
goes to tea parties or women’s clubs).
H. P. Ogilvie was there also, keeping a
promise to his wife which he felt like
breaking when the lift stopped at the
Quamby floor. The Bert Burtons were
present; also the W. Tralford Fosters; and
Dr. Reg Morrison came on his own will-
power, for his wife is in England. Hyl-
ton Dale, Walter Leitch, a Frenchman,
Monsieur Burgatt, and the Rev. Dr. Law
were among masculine guests who drank
tea and recommended meringue cake to
their friends as to the manner born.
Noticed between tea-table and picture
were Mrs. Fred Bishop, wearing a little
fur cape and roses tucked into her belt;
Mrs. George Chilvers, with tiny flowers
of pink mother-of-pearl clustered round
the crown of her large black hat; Mrs.
Eric Thonemann, in black with a beauti-
fully-waved coiffure, and Mrs. A. H.
Gasquoine, whose lapel-posy had every-
body guessing; its realistic white tuber
roses were made by a cripple-girls’ guild
in England. Mr. and Mrs. Hylton Dale
leave this week for Egypt; afterwards
they will visit Italy, England and the
U.S.A.
With Patricia Higgins directing set
and location, the Charles Chauvel couple
played host and hostess to a group of
Melbourne people interested in the pro-
gress of the cinema. The party was a
late-afternoon affair at the Windsor.
Among guests were ,Mrs. Dal Mein,
otherwise Margot Rhys, leading lady of
“Uncivilised” ; tall, blonde Lesley Crane,
who has been a decorative figure in the
recent J.C.W. musical-comedy season;
Helen Powell, a Sydney visitor with a
winsome smile and a cape of summer
ermine; and Lola Thring, in a quaint
black flowerpot of a hat —one of her
trousseau hats, for she’s being married
very soon to Tom Holt. Lola has no
qualms about becoming a “step.” Daugh-
ter of the late F. W. Thring, she has
a very nice stepmother of her own. The
stepson she is to acquire on her marriage
is several years her senior—Harold Holt,
our youngest politician.
A new departure for art-show open-
ings was Harry Fern’s idea of making
Hans Heysen’s private view an evening
affair. It succeeded very well, and, in
spite of the fact that there was no actual
opening speech, about 100 people, clad in
anything from tweed coats to formal
evening dress, came along to inspect the
work of this Adelaide painter. Ernest
Buckmaster was present’, wearing, figura-
tively speaking, seven laurel wreaths as
a result of the. seven portrait commis-
sions he has just executed in Perth. Mrs.
George Chirnside, elegant in black
chiffon and pearls, studied the pictures
with interest. So did the Percy Searles,
F. O. Harper, J. H. H. Inglis and his
daughters, apd Flo and Mrs. Bob
Lawrence.
Charles Bryant, whose exhibition
opened at the Athenaeum on Monday,
was also a visitor. Bryant specialises in
marine, paintings, and one of the jobs
which gave him greatest pleasure was
the decorating of the interior of the
M.V. Kanimbla, which was put on the
Australian coast run a few months ago.
He’s president of the London Sketch
Club, a jovial soul and a bachelor.
Joan Lewis has justified the high hopes
held out for her golf by winning with a
sound 76 the women’s scratch event on
the first day of the. Albert Park open
meeting. Miss Lewis partnered Harry
Williams in an exhibition match at Vic-
toria against Sarazen and Helen Hicks,
but she’s had little experience of gal-
leries, and was too nervous to do her
best. Helen discerned her young oppo-
nent’s capabilities and named her one
of Australia’s most promising players.
Unfortunately Charlie Reynolds did
not come on to Melbourne in the Lock-
heed Electra but disembarked in Sydney,
hearing that Victoria was too cold for
lads who spend their lives in shirts and
shorts on tropical islands. Mr. Rey-
nolds, who is an Englishman, has made
many Australian friends travelling on
ships between England and Australia and
in other odd parts of the world. He
grows coconuts up near Siassi, and runs
his own trading schooner between the
islands and up and down tropical rivers.
The weather has given an inhospitable
welcome to Tommy O’Dea and his
through passengers. Unless it clears by
the end of the week it’s a bad advertise-
ment for Melbourne Cup-time that they
will hand on to the pals in New Guinea
who are contemplating a trip by air next
year.


Quicker getaways . . . faster speeds
. . . instant stopping! The certain
grip of the broader, deeper " Checkskid ”
tread is safe for many more thousands of
miles. The safety of " Checkskid ” Tyres
inspires confidence fit them and forget
them .... they’ll carry you through.
m
MM
■
■
M.76.30.36
CHANGE FOR
THE BETTER...fit
Barnet Glass
CheckskicT tyres
ds
• WITH MORE RUBBER
BROADER DEEPER TREAD
The Tyres with the Longest Non-Skid Life
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Claremont Yacht Club's big boatshed
served as ballroom when members rallied
friends to their dance* The premises
were lapped by wavelets made rainbow-
colored bv the reflection of the twinkly
lights festooned around the building.
Commodore and Mrs. R. Long (she with
diamente glittering on her caped black
satins) were on deck with an eddy of
honored guests. Mrs. Mengler ran a
silver stripe down her royal-blue mate-
lasse, Mrs. G. P. Meredith covered black
taffeta with silk net, and Mrs. G. Linton
pinned gladioli on her black moire. Mrs.
S. C. Rosier splashed gold cloque with
brown velvet, dollar spots gleamed on
Mrs. V. Johnston’s navy-blue nets, and
Ann Oldfield’s leaf-green satins were
arrayed with giant blooms.
Josephine Sewell, elder daughter of the
W. O. Sewells, of Pingelly, went into
double harness with Evan Secombe at
St. Mary’s, West Perth. The bride’s shell-
pink cloque trappings were striped with
silver, bridled with tulle and Cecil
Brunner i*oses and girthed with a tasselled
girdle. Edith Sewell stepped at the rear
of her sister’s long swinging train in
powder-blue crepe roubaix, cut on old-
world lines and worn with a close-fitting
matching hat.
A trophy from the Gloucestershire
Regiment held pride of place among the
goodly display of gewgaws won by the
28th Battalion on view when members
gathered to dance at the Karrakatla Club.
The flags draped round the room con-
verged into a cross-over at the dais, where
the C. 0., Lieut.-Col. H. Wilson, did the
honors. Mrs. Wilson’s rust-red French
crepes were in an official pew next Mrs.
G. F. G. Weick’s pond-green cloque.
Mrs. W. B. Garner’s Edwardian black net
coat fell over floral satin, and Mrs. Don
Cleland wound gold rope about her shell-
pink oatmeal crepe. A long spray of
gold roses dangled on Mrs. Bartlett-Day’s
blue-and-gold-striped matelasse ; lace and
georgette were combined in Mrs. Horley’s
delphinium-blue confection, and Stercia
Blankensee flecked her tea-rose crepes
with violet.
The balcony of the Hotel Esplanade
was enclosed with flags, scarlet gladioli
were banked in nooks and crannies and
roses and larkspurs adorned the tables
when the A.B.C. gave a reception for
Dr. Malcolm Sargent. Mr. and Mrs.
Conrad Charlton, she in navy blue and
white figured ensemble, and Prof, and
Mrs. A. D. Ross (her beige outfit was
topped with a matching hat) assisted C. J.
Moses to receive the hundred-odd guests.
Final judgment in the Pleiades Club’s
one-act play competition was given after
the production of the four prize-winning
efforts. First award went to Nancy
Rogers’s “Where Craggy Dragons Play,”
an amusing interlude on a desolate
island, with neat plot, easy humor and
orthodox characters. “Just Before Dark,”
a brief domestic drama built compactly
by Sylvia Hodgson, came next; “The
Happy Journey,” a poignant incident
from the Spanish rebellion, from the joint
pens of Nancy Rogers and Leily Davy,
pipped Margaret Giles’s shipboard
comedy, “Shall We Talk?” for third
place.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Mayoral Ball was an outstanding
feature of the centennial celebrations.
There being so many visitors, it was
impossible to invite whole families,
as on previous occasions, so parents
had preference, and, instead of elder
folk sitting round watching the young
people enjoy themselves, the young-
sters looked on while their elders
took the floor. The white organ
made an excellent background for the
floral decorations on the stage, converted
under Mrs. Frank Harcus’s direction into
a garden scene with a green lawn, an
arched trellis over which real red roses
trailed, and a huge mirror behind it all.
Large earthen jars and low troughs were
filled with roses, larkspur, gladioli, sweet-
peas, stocks and purple flag lilies. The
introduction of huge mirrors, on the stair-
way, in the foyer and the ballroom, was
an old fashion revived. The supper-
tables were decorated all in pink, with
long mirrors edged with a frame of small
flowers, high silver vases full of pink
roses and silver candelabra with pink
candles and shades. Lord Mayor Cain
and Mayoress Dunstan received on a
dais at the side of the hall, the lady in
a frock of orchid mauve satin ribbon
mounted in circular rows on net over-
lapping, flaring at the feet and merging
into a train, worn with a corsage spray
of orchids.
The vice-regal party arrived at 9 p.m.,
Commander B. Phillips, Captain St. John
Forbes and Legh Winser attending the
Governor and his wife. Lady Dugan
looked charming in pale-pink net veiling
pink tatfeta, with a corsage spray of
shaded pink flowers, and she carried a
pink ostrich fan. Overseas guests present
included Canada’s former Prime Minister,
R. B. Bennett, and Lord and Lady
Waleran, the latter topping shell-pink
chiffon with a shoulder spray of pink
roses.
The weather has been very considerate
to rose-growers, and the National Rose
Society’s show in the Town Hall was
most successful, the crowd for the open-
ing being so dense that it was difficult to
get round and view the exhibits. Lady
Dugan wore white chiffon faintly pat-
terned in navy blue with a navy silk en-
semble coat and a large blue ballibuntal
straw hat with a big bow of navy ribbon
in front. The Bonython lady, who was
responsible for the decorations, presented
the Governor’s wife with a sheaf of
apricot-toned roses tied with ribbon the
same shade.
The 10th Battalion’s ball took place in
the Torrens Hall in the new and impos-
ing barracks on the parade-ground. An
advantage of an entertainment there is
the generous space afforded for parking
cars. About 500 were present. The
decorations, which had been done by the
women’s committee, were bunting and
palms, with flowers on the official dais,
where Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. Veale re-
ceived the guests. Cabaret tables were
set round the vast hall. The Base Com-
mandant (Brigadier-General A. M.
Martyn) and Mrs. Martyn, the Naval
District Officer (Commander S. R.
Symonds) and Mrs. Symonds and their
daughter Kathleen, and Commander
Quick were among the dancers.
For the dance at Government House
the guests were mostly of the younger
generation. The floral decorations were
gorgeous, the reception-rooms being a
blaze of delphiniums, gladioli, snap-
dragons and roses. Lady Dugan’s gown
of mist-blue satin beaute was cut on prin-
cess lines, the bodice shirred at the sides.
A long scarf effect from the shoulder
was lined with soft rose-pink, and a
diamond coronet topped all. Mrs. J. 0.
Haselden chose a black net veiling black
taffeta with full skirt and transparent
yoke and long sleeves. Mrs. Norman
Birks, one of Adelaide’s prettiest young
matrons, sported powder-blue satin with
orchids on the shoulder. Mrs. Burling-
ham was a striking figure in aquagreen-
and-gold brocade on fitting lines, with a
long train and a coronet of gold leaves.
Jean Butler, daughter of the Premier,
looked charming in ice-blue satin beaute.
Her sister, Mrs. Neil McEwin, danced
in peach-pink satin.
TASMANIA.
R. E. Allwright had beginner's luck
for his first day of presidency at the
Royal Hobart Show. Though the week
began gloomily the day itself was superb.
The Governor opened the proceedings
after the official lunch, and Lady Clark
opened the women’s industries section,
which had given the judges a tremendous
1 amount of work the day before. Ex-
hibits were wonderfully good, especially
considering the dry season.
Show Week was a gay one for Hobart.
A strong contingent of country visitors
brought the scent of the hay over the
footpaths. Dinner parties, many and
various, made things hum at Hadley’s
before the Show Ball. There were
dances nearly every night, preceded by
dinners, and numerous cocktail parties
wound up the afternoons.
A committee of 50 matrons and
maidens, with Betty Viney and Mar-
garet Pringle as joint secs., ran the main
private dance in Show Week. The Con-
tinental ballroom held about 300 dancers,
and other guests played bridge. Decora-
tions were in mauve and pink, with
masses of lilac and pink peonies. Frock-
ing was good.
At the 40th Battalion dance at Anglesea
Barracks, Lady Clark was in heliotrope;
Mrs. Findlay (wife of the commanding
officer) was in black touched with blue.
Flags and the usual military atmosphere
gave character to the party.
The Bankers’ Ball (proceeds to the
Child Welfare Association) was one ot
the festivities of Show Week. The Con-
tinental ballroom was crammed with its
800 guests. A. J. Lewis and E. K.
Connor did the secretarial job.
Janet McPhee and Harvey Rex shared
secretarial work for a committee of about
50 young spinsters and bachelors in con-
nection with a dance at the Continental
after the show.- Spring decorations,
flaming youth and pretty frocks made a
gay sight.


When in Sydney Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
<<c lhe Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
NORTH OF
WENTY- EIGHT
Governing the N.T.
“Koolpinyah”: As a station-owner,
buffalo-shooter and trepanger in the Far
North for nearly 25 years, 1 should like
to set down my views of how the woe-
fully mismanaged N.T. should be gov-
erned.
“The N.T. wants no political
appointees at its Residency” (B.
21/10 / ’36); true. The. Territory should
be ruled from Darwin by a body of men
who know the country. Four should be
enough—one for mining, one for finance,
one for the cattle industry and a chair-
man.
Minister Paterson is reported to have
said that no Minister for the N.T. re-
mains in office long enough to become
acquainted with its needs. He does not
require such knowledge if the right
officials are in Darwin. He can act upon
their recommendations, unless they con-
flict directly with the Government’s
policy.
“Kaloa”: Tommy O’Dea —he was the
man who first sidled down with a grin
on to Kingsford Smith’s forced-landing
ground at Coffee Royal, in the Kimber-
leys, when the Southern Cross was lost —
has put up a new record. Having left
Wau (Mandated Territory) on Thursday
morning and spent a night in Brisbane,
he arrived in Sydney with eight passengers
at 9.25 a.m. on Friday morning. It gives
one an uneasy feeling, and supplies an
unanswerable reason why New Guinea
must never again become foreign terri-
tory. One hundred and ten of the
Electras or 50 of the new Imperial Air-
ways flying boats could land a machine-
gun battalion in Townsville, with several
days’ equipment, in five hours. And there
wouldn’t, at present, be a machine-gun
battalion in the whole of Australia —
much less in Townsville —to deal with
them.
$ $ $ $
“Aileron”: The news that the Civil
Aviation authorities intend to “spend
more than £lO,OOO to give Brisbane a
modern airport” will send chuckles
round an overseas world which thinks
nothing of spending a quarter of a
million on the same sort of job. Modern
airports for capitals are not built for the
price of a Minister’s trip to London.
But the theory is all right. If the State
and Commonwealth Governments, which
are fast turning Brisbane into a forest
of official palaces and civil-service homes,
were as parsimonious about other build-
ings as they are about aerodromes, which
are the heart of communication and de-
fence, taxation could be cut considerably.
* * * *
“Oaf”: “Babblin’ Brook,” discussing
the widening enterprises of universal
stores, remarks that' nobody will be
surprised if one of them “barges into
the undertaking business” (B. 30/9/’36).
I know of one. that has done so —in one
of Queensland’s biggest towns.
* # * *
“Ampere”: I was canvassing the
tradesmen of our Queensland township
for prizes for our cricket club. Most of
them responded readily enough;
McCohentosh the barber proved an ex-
ception. Finally, he promised a free hair-
cut for 12 months to the man who should
have the biggest bag of wickets at the
end of the season. Mac’s luck was in.
Hardwood, our googly bowler, who
finished an easy first, is as bald as Uncle
Ned in the negro ballad.
* * * *
“Poopoonbah”: Another instance of
the deadly properties of carbon monoxide
gas is reported from Thursday Island. A
diver was overcome by the poisonous
fumes when working on the sea bed, 19
fathoms below; he was dead when
hauled to the surface. The tragedy
seemed unaccountable until it was found
that the air inlet of the supply pump
was close to the exhaust pipe of the
engine, a tiny leak from which had
allowed the gas to be sucked into the
diver’s air-line. A half-caste boy who
operated the pump was a second victim.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: There is ample evidence
that Torres, Deprado and other old-time
Latin mariners manifested more than a
mild exploratory interest in Australia.
It may be found in old wrecks and other
relics studding the waters of Torres
Strait, and in that solid engineering feat
the stone, wall skirting Darnley Island.
Whether this wall, which is arranged on
the maze pattern, was designed as a huge
fishtrap or a system of locks is uncer-
tain. In the old Federal Hotel in Thurs-
day Island, engraven Spanish swords,
coins and cannon balls form part of the
bric-a-brac littering a bar parlor. Here
were born, or at least nurtured, many of
the stories from the pens of Idriess,
McLaren, Somerset Maugham, Beatrice
Grimshaw and Guy Boothby, all of
whose names adorn the visitors’ book.
* * *
“Koolpinyah”: “Larrakeah” states (B.
14/10/’36) that all professional buffalo
hunters in the N.T. shoot from horse-
back. The writer, who was one for 15
years, generally did the work on foot.
He was also part-owner of the very
station quoted by your correspondent—■
Koolpinyah. Once he was shooting solo :
his three native marksmen were spread
over a huge swamp the other side of
Bridge Creek. He had already grassed
seven beasts and used all his shells except
two. The hides had been sent back to the
camp with a request for three more
packets by return. Deciding not to use
his rifle until they came, he was making
his way back to the plain, and met a big
“Have you done any manual labor ?”
“By cli, yes. Just bin lucky Chinaman to lottery syndicate !”
bull. He tried to dodge the brute, but
it came towards him, stopped, then shook
its massive head and pawed the ground
with its fore hooves, ominous signs. The
hunter backed on to the plain, facing the
buff., and retreated for over half a mile,
the bull keeping step for step and not
more than 10 yards from him. The writer
admits that he did not have the courage
to have a shot; if he. failed to score he
was a gone coon. Now and again he
took a hurried glance over his shoulder
to see if the packs were returning. At
last he could see them in the distance.
Soon the bull heard them advancing. He
stopped and gazed in their direction, but,
like all of his kind, possessed poor sight.
He sniffed the air for their scent, but
the wind was blowing across. Getting
nervous, he bolted. The hunter tried a
snap and broke an off hind leg ; with the
last bullet he knocked the beast over.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Mary Harbottle is to marry Lieut.-
Commander Emile Dechaineux at St.
David’s Cathedral,‘Hobart, on Novem-
ber 20. Queensland lays a claim to Mary,
who is great-granddaughter of Tom
Petrie, the first white child to be born in
Moreton Bay Settlement, and, on the
other side of the family, great-grand-
daughter of that courtly old gentleman
Philip Pinnock, one of Brisbane’s best-
known P.Ms. Petrie Terrace and the
township of Petrie, on the road to Red-
cliffe, are named after the Petrie family.
As a lad Tom Petrie was initiated into
the tribe of his dusky foster-mother in
what is now the showring of the National
Association Grounds at Bowen Park.
York Hollow, as it used to be called,
was a very important bora ring. Abos.
in the old days used to ask Tom Petrie
to mark them with the irons he branded
his cattle with so that they would be safe
from the hostile attentions of other white
settlers.
Another wedding of interest to old-
timers will take place in Sydney in
November, when Leila Langberg, daugh-
ter of Mrs. Langberg, of Brisbane, and
granddaughter of Justice Chubb, will
marry Bill Noyes, son of Mrs. E. Noyes,
of Melbourne. The Noyeses are old resi-
dents of Brisbane, Mr. Noyes for years
being a member of the committee of the
National Agricultural Association.
Barbara Balls is here looking after her
father, Dr. Raymond Balls, who has been
very ill. They are staying with Mrs. Eve
Lister, the doctor’s sister. Barbara’s mar-
riage to Dr. Ralph Huntley, her father’s
partner, is listed for next April. She is
a granddaughter of that grand old lady
Sara Balls, who pioneered in this State
with railway refreshment-rooms and
made a packet out of them.
Thirty-six members of the Oxford
Group in Queensland spent a recent week-
end at Caloundra, and were spurred on to
greater effort by a comradely wire from
Ivan Menzies, dispatched from Perth.
Masses of Christmas bells decked the
dining-room at Parliament House for the
dinner party given by the Premier and
Mrs. Forgan Smith in honor of the
Deputy-Premier and Minister for Lands,
Percy Pease, and his wife, who are off to
the U.S.A. There were about 120 guests.
On the same day in the Lord Mayor’s
reception-room, Mrs. Forgan Smith
handed over to Mrs. Pease, who is presi-
dent of the women’s section of the Social
Service League, and Mrs. Hugh Olive,
who is secretary of the D.N.A., a cheque
each for a little over £lB, result of the
musical morning-tea arranged by Mrs.
Forgan Smith and held at the Canberra
a few mornings previously. These musi-
cal mornings are ousting bridge parties
from favor. About 500 women went
along to the one at the Canberra.
Peggy Richards looked radiant in her
gown of magnolia satin and coronet of
orange-blossoms, from which fluttered a
priceless veil of Brussels lace, when she
said her “I wills” to Dr. N. W. Martin,
a Maorilander, at St. John’s Cathedral.
The decorations were in pink and blue,
to match the four bridesmaids, Joyce
Davies, Alison Nelson, Noel Stephens
and Elizabeth Luxton, cousin of the
bride. The wedding breakfast was at
the Belle Vue Hotel.
Esme Campbell wore pink and car-
ried pink and mauve orchids when she
married her medico, Allan Vernon
Henry, at St. Paul’s, Cleveland. Dorothy
Campbell, of Bundaberg, was the only
bridesmaid, and Roy Cribb, of Ipswich,
the best man. After the knot-tying, the
bridal party motored back to Brisbane
for the wedding reception, which was
held at Rowe’s cafe.
The Baby Debs. Ball, which swelled
the fund for the Bush Children’s Health
Scheme, was an unusual show. One
small girl was driven to seize her part-
ner and shake him soundly before drop-
ping a demure curtsy to the Governor,
who received all the baby debs, and
their escorts. Decorations were gum-
tree boughs, ferns and palms, a hut with
a campfire complete with a boiling billy
and possums among the greenery.
One of our frock shops has a notice
in the fitting-room that is a bit startling:
“It is not necessary for ladies to
remove all their clothing before frying
on bathing suits.”
Few appeals for funds have, had so
wide a response as that made on behalf
of the bush children’s health scheme.
Finney’s employees, after three months
of solid work among themselves, have
raised £7OO. And £5 gives a bush kiddy
a month at the seaside. November 7
is the opening date of the Leslie Wilson
Home at Redcliffe, and the first quota
of kiddies is to come from Boulia.
Another home, for which various sub-
branches of the R.S.S.I.L.A. all over the
State are working, is the King George
Home for Aged Diggers. Each sub-
branch has promised a quota, and fetes
and bridge parties are dragging in the
shekels. A bazaar at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. H. Frazer East (he is a vice-
president of the Queensland branch)
brought in a tidy sum for the Toowong
sub-branch quota.
Oxley Golf Club staged a delightful
Hallowe’en party, complete with cats and
dragons and bats and owls, and a witch
(with cauldron) who uttered dark hints
about the future, and ghosts that walked
when the lights were turned down, and
a ghost story, told in the dark. Mrs.
Angus Buchanan, wife of the club’s
president, was the organiser, with Mrs.
E. Le Brereton as sec. It was a nice
party.
The Central Flying Club gave a Hal-
lowe’en party at its rooms, and the
Northern Rivers Flying Club had its
celebration at the Canberra.
Prof. Winifred Cullis, who went off to
M.L. in the Orion, had a busy last day.
First of all the executive of the Women
Graduates’ Association motored her
down to Redland Bay and Cleveland,
and gave her a picnic luncheon with true
billy tea. Later in the day the professor
was hostess at a little dinner party in
the Orion.
First rally of the Junior Red Cross in
this State was held at Government
House. Over 20 circles, 15 of them
being country ones, were represented by
the 300 children who marched past the
vice-regal pair, and afterwards formed a
huge human red cross in the grounds.
It was a blazing day, but the small
people seemed to enjoy the affair. Lady
Wilson presented long-service certifi-
cates with seals to some of the veteran
workers, and also to members of the
Junior Red Cross.
Mrs. Tom Curnow is up from Mel-
bourne with a bonny baby son to show
all her old friends. She is staying with
her father, Justice Macrossan. The Blair
lady gave a tea-party for her at the
Hotel National one afternoon, and
several others are being arranged.


Uatter.v “International 1
7-valve l)aal-\vave,
£l3/17/6.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/—; GA7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. Ail tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
S ROYAL, ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Vs
m
READ
m
n
(INAUSTRAUAANPNEW ZEALAND|
Published on the First of Every Month.
PRICE, 6d. PER COPY.
On sale at all Newsagents throughout Aus-
tralasia; or 7d. per copy, post free, from
the publishers.
P.O. BOX A, HURSTVIUE, N.S.W.
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and I'actory Service for
Rola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mullard Radio Valves.
THE HOME WORKSHOP
INCORPORATING
RADIO NEWS
WOODWORKING.
Equipping the Workshop.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
Probably the first form of handicraft
the home worker will undertake, unless
he is an engineer apprentice, will be
something or other in woodwork. Wood
is easy material to work with, and with
Fig. 1. —A suitable design for a wood-
worker's bench.
only a few tools a variety of useful and
attractive articles can be turned out in
leisure time. Whether the material to be
used is wood or metal, the question of
the correct type and the quality of tools
is important. Good workmanship cannot
be achieved with poor tools. Above all,
Fig. 2. — Metal-type wood vyce.
tools must be kept in good condition,
and that is a matter more or less depend •
able on the temperament of the worker.
If pride is taken in work, the same, pride
will be extended to the tools. Otherwise,
slipshod work and methods will result
in tools being strewn carelessly around the
place, with little regard for their welfare.
The first essential for the home work-
shop is a woodworking bench of good
solid construction. As the first job, the
construction of such a bench is a good
start. It should be fitted with tool racks,
Fig. 3. —
Chisel
Types.
have two or three shelves
with small compartments for
keeping items such as screws,
nails, etc., and possess at
least one drawer and storage
space for fair-sized pieces of
scrap timber, such as sheet
plywood and odd board
lengths. A woodworkers’
vyce is indispensable, and
the larger this is within
reason the better. This item
is fortunately not particu-
larly expensive, and some ex-
cellnt vyces suitable for
woodworking can be ob-
tained from such suppliers as
Anthony Hordern and Nock
and Kirby.
Fig. 1 shows a convenient type of
workbench. If a rear vertical panel
carrying shelves is fitted, such a bench
will be self-contained. Dimensions should
be about sft. long, 2ft. 6in. wide and
2ft. lOin. deep. Necessary tools for ele-
mentary work are trying and jack planes,
chisels of various
types, marking
gauge, crosscut and
tenon saws, an
oilstone, a bench
hook, ratchet brace
and bits, wood files,
a mallet, glue and a
supply of nails of
all sizes. Such
tools are obtain-
able inexpensively,
but at the same
time it is desirable
to avoid the very
cheap variety. They
may look all right,
but the quality of
the steel is usually
inferior.
Quite a lot of satisfactory work can
be turned out with the suggested hand
tools, but, for the more ambitious, power-
driven tools, of which there are now
many available, have a place all their
own. They are time-savers, turn out
work speedily and accurately, and if a
good deal of work is done will pay for
themselves over and over again. Such
appliances will be dealt with in detail in
future issues.
D. B. K.
Y.M.C.A. Hobbies Exhibition.
Some idea of the wide variety of sub-
jects in which boys are likely to be in-
terested as the basis for any particular
hobby was indicated in the Hobbies
Exhibition held in the Sydney H.Q. of
the Y.M.C.A. on October 30 and 31.
There were 12 competitive sections, which
included the following;
Model aeroplanes, flying and non-flying;
mechanical models, Meccano, engines, etc.;
miscellaneous models, boats, yachts, etc.;
Fig. 4. —Flow to hold a
chisel or plane iron for
oilstone sharpening.
toymaking; woodwork, plain, carving,
pokerwork, inlay, etc.; manual work, raffia,
basketware, cardboard, bookbinding and
metalwork; drawing, black and white,
crayon or pencil, water-color, technical and
mechanical; mapping; penmanship, ticket-
writing or -printing, handwriting; collec-
tions of stamps, coins, curios, shells, wild-
flowers, butterflies, cigarette cards and
scrapbooks (history, geography, Nature,
etc.); photography, landscape, seascape,
camp, animal study, portrait and interior;
gardening, flowers and vegetables.
The exhibition was well supported. As
the boy who takes pride in his amateur-
ish efforts is laying up a foundation for
what may develop into professional
ability in future years such exhibitions
are to be commended.
D. B. K.
Bronze Fly-door Screens.
Door and window screens to keep out
winged and other insects have in the
past been made mostly
of galvanised-iron mesh.
This deteriorates fairly
quickly, particularly in
coastal localities. Bronze
mesh is now supplanting
the iron, but there is a
rather important point
for the home handyman
in connection with the
fitting of this. Common
iron tacks should not be
used to attach the bronze
screen to the wooden
door or window frames.
With iron in contact with
bronze, electrolytic
action takes place in
damp weather. In time
the screen will become
slack and will sag. The
electrolytic action will, in time, destroy
one or the other. Real copper tacks
should be used ; not the copper-plated
Fig. 5. —One of the most useful wood-
work tools —a power-driven jig saw.
iron variety. If in doubt about such
tacks, put a magnet to them. Iron will
be attracted, but pure copper will not.
Scientific Comment.
Senor Juan da la Cierva, who invented
the autogyro, recently demonstrated his
latest type in England. Dubbed by him
the “flying bedstead,” it rises 30ft. on
the take-off without any forward run.
Thus Jules Verne’s “helicopter” comes
closer. a
* * *
Col. Lindbergh, who made the first
solo flight across the Atlantic, has per-
fected an invention known as the
“mechanical heart.” It is claimed to be
capable of performing all the functions of
blood circulation when connected to the
anatomy of any large animal, humans
included.
* * * *
A New York underground railway
system employs photo-cells for light con-
trol. When a train enters or leaves a
tunnel the lights are automatically turned
on or off.
* * si= *
The tandem bicycle is still seen on the
roads. In England the “sociable” type
that seats the two riders side by side
has come into favor.
“Lionel” Accessories.
No model railway system would be a
replica of an original if it were not en-
hanced by the proper accessories and
equipment. Even if signals, signal-boxes
and gantries are merely dummies, they
add “atmosphere.” In the case of the
Lionel electrical railway systems men-
tioned by this Page last week, the
majority of the accessories serve a useful
purpose, as well as just looking the part.
An example is the twin-signal bridge (or
gantry) illustrated. This is not of the
semaphore type, but the indicating
colored light kind. Three lights are in
action at a single time. “Proceed” is
indicated by vertical lights and “Stop”
by horizontal lights. This is not a figure
of speech either, for this interesting
accessory actually does control the
passage of the model train.
The operator uses the panel control
board supplied, and moves a lever one way
to bring the horizontal lights into action.
The train will automatically stop
as it approaches the signal bridge.
Move the lever again, the vertical lamps
are illuminated and the train starts off.
This accessory can be used for single or
double track and the direction of the
light housings can be reversed.
The four knife switches in the panel-
board, shown in the centre, can be wired
to control other accessories. Dimensions
of this signal bridge are 20in. wide by
14yin. high.
Radiating Superhets.
Do They Infringe Regulations?
Mention of a very prevalent trouble,
image interference, by “D.8.K.” (B.
30/9 / ’36) brings up the problem of radi-
ating supers. These receivers are in most
cases of the type mentioned in the article
referred to —cheap dual-wave jobs with-
out pre-selection. For that reason, at any
rate, the two problems have a common
solution —better design.
When the superheterodyne was first
used many years ago the practice was to
employ a frame aerial in order that the
oscillations produced by the local oscil-
lator might be prevented from interfer-
ing with other sets. With the introduction
of the S.G. valve, the rebirth of the
superhet and the latter’s universal popu-
larity, this problem of radiation seems
to have been forgotten. That it
exists in a definitely troublesome degree
is becoming increasingly evident as the


Radio Constructors,
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
’V 0 '
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
For Local or Overseas programmes there is a
Radiotron to suit every requirement. Built to the highest
standards their world-wide reputation for better perform-
ance and longer life is your guarantee of satisfaction.
RAD OIRfIHS
V2U
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
number of four- and five-valve dual-
wave receivers increases.
The writer has noted frequently that
dual-wave receivers in the immediate
vicinity of his home are guilty of inter-
fering with reception on amateur and
international broadcasting bands. The
“whoop” as these sets are tuned around
the band is terrific, and reminds one of
a self-excited transmitter being swept
through the frequency spectrum. Sets
operating with large outdoor aerials
are the worst offenders, which goes to
prove that the trouble exists in the oscil-
lator-mixer stages of these jobs, and that
considerable oscillatory current is present
in the aerial-grid circuits fed from and
feeding the aerial. With such valves as
the octode (very commonly used in five-
valve dual-wavers) there is no excuse for
this, since valve manufacturers have
taken precautions to prevent feedback
of the oscillator voltages through the tube
itself. The fault, it would appear, lies
in the design of receivers, and the lay-
out of coil assemblies.
Other Forms of Interference.
Dual-wave sets are not the only
offenders, though they are the worst.
Standard broadcast jobs can and do
radiate over distances great enough to be
extremely troublesome to neighbors. The
interference in this case takes two forms
—direct and harmonic. Direct. interfer-
ence is usually in the nature of unac-
countable heterodynes, 465 kc. or 175 kc.
away from the station to which the
offending set is tuned, on inter-State or
even local stations. These heterodynes
may remain constant for hours on end,
depending on the length of time the
offending set remains tuned to a parti-
cular station.
The harmonic trouble is not so easily
traced. Its usual manifestation takes the
form of strong “carriers,” minus any
modulation except, perhaps, hum, tuned
in anywhere between 50 or 60 and 200
metres. At lower wave-lengths the
harmonics are so weak that no trouble
is experienced. Above 80 metres, how-
ever, they can exhibit considerable
power, and give a clue to their origin by
carrying very weak modulation from
some local B.C. station or by suddenly
whisking away up or down the fre-
quency band. When such a harmonic
happens to coincide with a frequency
close to that of a “ham” or s.-w. broad-
casting station the effect on reception can
be imagined.
Who Is the Real Offender?
All this, of course, boils down to the
fact that the superhet, far from being
innocent of interference with other sets,
can, in certain instances, be a very bad
offender. The trouble is made worse
because (a) the interference is “off fre-
quency” and non-apparent to the
operator of the set, and ( b ) there is no
reaction or similar control which can
be retarded to stop the trouble. As long
as the set remains in operation it will
continue to radiate.
The cure lies in providing all super-
heterodynes with* pre-selection and in
confining oscillator voltages to the cir-
cuits concerned.
Under Wireless Regulations it is an
offence to cause interference to other
listeners by the use of a radiating
receiver. The operator of a straight
regenerative two* or three-valve mantel set
knows when he is causing interference ;
his own reception is ruined. The super-
het owner is blissfully unconscious of
anything amiss since he is listening 465 kc.
or 175 kc. away from the interference.
Further, there is no adjustment he can
make to the set which will stop the
trouble. In my judgment this trouble
and image interference call for im-
provement of receiver design and incor-
poration of at least one stage of pre-
selection.
R. H. A.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
The radio experimenter has a hundred
and one uses for a pair of headphones,
but really good quality ’phones are not
easily obtainable these days. Reg Cooke
Radio Co., of 84 Brook-street, Coogee,
N.S.W., offers high-grade Continental
lightweight ’phones at 7s. 6d. per pair.
These are 4000 ohms and particularly
sensitive. Country readers should add
freight when ordering.
Radio Exhibition.
Of particular interest to North Sydney
radio enthusiasts and residents is the
allotment of space to the North Subur-
ban Radio Club in the exhibition to be
held in the Town Hall, Chatswood, from
November 4. This exhibition has been
organised by local electrical and radio
retailers in conjunction with the Sydney
County Council (electricity undertaking).
The club’s exhibit will be to the left of
the main hall entrance, and will comprise
mainly high and ultra-high frequency
transmitters, receivers and most other
apparatus used by radio experimenters
on the North Shore. Practical demon-
strations will be given of some of the
apparatus. New members are welcome
to this club, and applications should be
made in writing to the hon. sec., 39
Ronald-avenue, Greenwich, .N.S.W., or
personally at the club premises, Brown-
street and Pacific Highway, Chatswood.
Meeting times are Saturday 3 to 5 p.m.
and Tuesday 8 to 10 p.m.
Amateur-radio Chatter.
For the benefit of interested distant
listeners it may be stated that the writer’s
station VK2NO is transmitting CW on
58 megacycles every Sunday at 11 a.m.,
2 p.m., 4 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. Sydney
time. The transmission consists of the
call “CQ Five DX de VK2NO, QSL,”
sent at present by hand for 15 minutes.
In a week or so these transmissions will
run automatically for 30 minutes or an
hour, with longer periods alternatively.
For the time being, radiation is north
and south, to take in Qld. and Vic., the
aerial consisting of four half-waves in
phase horizontal. Listeners with five-
metre CW receivers are requested to
look out for signals, and reports will be
much appreciated. The transmitter
radiates a stable T 8 signal with 150
watts input.
A few local Sydney stations are active
on five, including VKs 2WJ, 2HL, 2YE,
2ADW, 2ZN, 20D and others, but, as in
the previous wave of activity of two
years ago, super-regenerators are caus-
ing widespread interference. An appeal
is hereby made to all interested in this
ultra short-wave band to use something
of a non-radiating nature in the way of
receivers. The Jones resistance superhet
in the 1936 handbook is well worth
while, giving equally sensitive results,
minus the aggravating hiss of the super-
regenerator. More attention should be
paid to plain CW reception. In order
to further the standard of operation on
this band, the N.S.W. Division of W.I.A.
has formed a special U.H.F. section for
technical meetings and a general weekly
get-together to discuss equipment. Visits
will be paid to five-
metre stations in
rotation.
Ten metres is
still well alive, and
conditions on this
band indicate that
CW DX may be
possible on five.
As for 20 metres,
it is possible to
work anywhere
and everywhere
with only a modest
’phone input. On
the morning of
26/10 / ’36, at 5
a.m. Sydney time, English ’phones were
very strong, and the writer received R 9
reports. SUICH, in Cairo, was heard
working Englishmen on ’phone at RB/9.
VK2NO.
Opposition to Sydney Radio Show.
At a recent meeting of the Radio and
Telephone Manufacturers’ Association in
Sydney, 23 firms signed an undertaking
not to exhibit radio receivers and equip-
ment at the exhibition usually held in
Sydney Town Hall. Later nine other
firms decided not to exhibit. There are
now only two manufacturers in favor of
continuance.
“Bulletin” Radio Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
Astor Table-model Vibrator Superhet.
With the present popularity of the
“batteryless” type of receiver, it was in-
evitable that soonor or later a small
model would appear. David Jones, Ltd.
(Sydney), has submitted a vibrator-
powered five-valve superhet for broad-
cast reception of mantel cabinet size,
modelled on the lines of the 77 D.W. re-
cently reviewed, but minus the dual-
wave feature. This latest product of the
Astor engineers has several features to
commend it. Despite the necessarily
compact arrangement of the chassis, due
attention has been paid to the isolation
of the vibrator power unit from the R.F.
portions of the receiver, and although
the complete job must fit into a small
cabinet the vibrator is actually separate
from the chassis.
The sole power supply for this receiver
is a six-volt accumulator, and the total
drain is one ampere at the most. The
valves are: Pentagrid converter IC6,
two I.F. stages using lC4’s and a 185
second detector, resistance-coupled to a
ID4 output pentode. The second de-
tector also incorporates A.V.C. Series-
parallel filament connections are em-
ployed, and each two-volt section is used
to obtain bias. The intermediate fre-
quency transformers, at 465 kc., are of the
iron-core type, thus enhancing selectivity
and gain.
As with the 77 D.W., this mantel re-
ceiver has a rectangular dial with a par-
ticularly sweet vernier motion, and slight
pressure on the tuning knob switches on
the illumination as required. That the
dial lamp is not wired continuously in
circuit is one more feature making for
battery economy in the interest's of the
country user. Dial lights burning con-
tinuously eat up power unnecessarily in
battery receivers.
The Astor people, the first in the Aus-
tralian market with the modern vibrator
type set, have taken steps to exclude
mechanical as well as electrical vibration
noise. The valves in the model sent for
test are fitted with rubber bands around
the glass to guard against any possible
minute vibration between valves and
screens.
On test it was found that there was
no period of waiting for the set to come
into action. There is no lag in the de-
livery of power from the vibrator, and
the action is noiseless on the weakest of
stations, using a reasonable external
aerial. As the A.V.C. builds up between
stations the presence of the vibrator is
just noticed, but, as a receiver will not be
used where there is no station to listen
to, this is of no consequence.
Fusing is taken care of, and should
anything go amiss internally a fuse
located in a holder in the battery cable
will blow, and thus save damage. This
fuse' is rated at 10 amps.
As this is a broadcast receiver, the dial
is calibrated in station callsigns, wave-
lengths and frequency in kilocycles, so
that reference to a station chart shows
the uninitiated just where to look. David
Jones, Ltd., of Sydney, has been ap-
pointed agent for Astor receivers, and
its price for this attractive and effi-
cient little apparatus, £22 10s., seems very
reasonable. This price includes the six-
volt accumulator, which is no half-
hearted affair, but a solid heavy-capacity
type capable of standing up to hard
work.
Radio Question Box.
(1) My Ideal Amateur Superhet, constructed
as in the article B. 15/4/ ’36, is very unstable
on 10 metres and slightly so on 20. What steps
should I take to cure this ? (2) Would increas-
ing decoupling resistors and condenser values
improve things ? (3) Would replacing the
valves by metal types improve the set in any
way ?- —489.
(1) Try using the oscillator electron-coupled
instead of the plate feedback arrangement now
used. A slightly faulty oscillator valve could
be responsible. (2) Not in this case; only
where I.F. instability exists. (3) Only in the
case of the mixer, which could be a 6L7.
This valve has a special injector grid for coup-
ling to the oscillator.
* * * *
Enclosed is a diagram of a two-valve short-
wave set. With plug-in coils for broadcast I
get excellent reception, but on short waves I
have been able to get only Japan and Java. I
tried altering coil windings, and with those
recommended I can only get oscillation with
one coil. Spacing between coils is \in., but
by having coils all close together I get oscil-
lation easily. Reason for this behavior ?
Connect the .OOlmfd. condenser now across
the primary of the audio transformer to earth,
instead of to B positive. Possibly more than
45 volts is needed on the plate of your A 415
valve. Also you can try the 2meg. grid leak
across the grid condenser instead of to earth
as now connected If the valve is good, all
leads are short, and plate voltage is sufficient
there is no reason why the set should not oscil-
late with the grid and plate coils reasonably
spaced.


*SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure ?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd Londo n, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Via
o
XMduig whe>ie ■ • •
vital
Accuracy in tyre pressures is vital. It is a safe-
guard against excessive and uneven tyre wear,
and provides comfort and protection for you on file road. But oidy
an ACCURATE tyre gauge can assure you accurate pressures. Cheap
gauges save you a shilling or two, but may lose you pounds in
tyre wear alone. ,
Put your trust in a KISMET for unvarying truth at every reading—
A Gauge is useless unless accurate-worse, it is misleading
JLSIH3SIIXI
CADGE
Tn lib. units on wide, flat surfaces.. . Handsomely
finished in plated metals and complete in a
leather wallet : 8/6
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER
AND BROS., LTD., Sheffield, Engl and.
l’aet ory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD,
•13 Hardware Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
h
m
i
The Steering Column.
THE GOOD OIL.
PRACTICAL HINTS ON LUBRICATING THE
MODERN CAR.
BY FRED BERRY.
VV7HEREAS in pre-war days motorists perforce had" to
* accept a designer’s particular and sometimes peculiar
ideas in whatever stock model cars were offered by manufac-
turers, post-war models, almost without exception, have
revealed an increasing tendency to comply with public demand.
Consequently the car of to-day is for all practical purposes fool-
proof. The motor, although highly efficient, is flexible and
silent, so enabling the fully-laden “family” type of sedan to be
driven great distances without changing from top gear; and,
when changes do become necessary, synchromesh gears totally
eliminate the necessity for skill or experience. Chassis bodies
and transmission details are both stronger and lighter than
hitherto, without in any degree sacrificing reliability or reducing
effective life, while passenger comfort, closed-car ventilation and
quality or design of internal fittings and equipment can scarcely
be criticised.
Despite the robot-like qualities of new-type vehicles, how-
ever, the human element still remains the deciding factor in such
matters as road safety and in determining the potential life of
the car, for, although road sense can be acquired only by
diligent practice, the novice can ensure faithful operation and
long life of wearing parts by careful attention to the problems
of lubrication.
The modern motorist is apt to treat
the subject of lubrication of his car in
a rather offhand fashion. He pulls into
the service station, looks at the dipstick,
calls for a quart of oil, pays the money
and goes blissfully on his way, forgetting
at the time that the life of his car and
the service he obtains from it are, every-
thing else being equal, dependent upon
the care and attention given to lubrica-
tion.
Every motorist must realise how im-
possible it would be for a number of
rapidly-moving metal parts in the engine
to function without adequate provision
being made for their lubrication.
Although an internal-combustion engine
will start up and run without oil, its life
would be a short and merry one, perhaps
of ten minutes’ duration.
In the instruction book of every car a
lubricating chart is supplied in which
motorists are advised when and where
to attend to various units. Obviously this
chart can be only in the nature of a
guide, and it is far better to attend
to this important matter more often than
is specified than to develop casual habits.
Cost of Neglect.
Owners and drivers of cars and trucks
are only just beginning to realise the
expense and annoying delays which may
be avoided by making careful inspection
of all wearing parts at specified intervals.
On making such an inspection it is
usually found, much to everyone’s sur-
prise, that repairs and replacements of
worn parts will have to be made which
would be unnecessary if lubrication had
been properly attended to. More than
half of all replacements on cars are
necessitated as the result of improper
lubrication.
Running an engine with too little oil
in the sump is now rather a general prac-
tice, people evidently having the impres-
sion that economy is thereby effected.
Why, then, is the dipstick fitted by the
engine designer? That indicator mark was
put there for the very good reason that
the motor requires a definite volume of oil
in the sump in order to carry off excess
heat generated by friction of bearings
and reciprocating masses, and anything
less than that volume must sooner or
later be paid for in the shape of the cost
of an extensive overhaul.
The correct procedure is always to
keep the sump full, and any loss, even
a small quantity, should be made up by
the addition of fresh oil at the first avail-
able opportunity. The wise motorist
completely drains the sump and puts in
a fresh supply of oil at regular intervals.
Admittedly, owing to the now general use
of air cleaners on the carburettor and
oil purifiers in the system, sump oil re-
tains its value for a longer period than
when used in the older types of engines,
but it has been definitely proved to be
sound economy to refill at some period
between the 1500- and 2000-mile mark.
Reward of Care.
Instances have been recorded of ultra-
careful motorists, with visions of disaster
through overlooking some point on the
lubricating chart, pulling up on the open
road and applying the oilcan to a genera-
tor drive, or some other secondary unit,
simply because the speedometer showed
1000 miles from the last oiling. There is
no occasion to adopt such extreme
measures, but care and commonsense will
always be adequately rewarded.
Whenever two surfaces are placed in
contact, and either or both begin to
move in relation to each other, friction
is set up. In the case of spring leaves,
where the movement is relatively small
and slow, very little heat is generated,
and lubrication, while perhaps increasing
efficiency and eliminating squeaks, has
very little bearing upon wear.
Shackle bolts, king pins and steering
connections, each carrying heavy loads
and subject to rapid and considerable
movement, are a more serious problem.
Consequently one should, with an eye to
long life and good service, give these
units a good lubricant at regular intervals ;
but it is when we come to examine the
engine itself that the necessity for highly
specialised lubrication becomes most
apparent.
A peep inside the crankcase reveals the
steel crankshaft held rigidly in place by
a number of metal bearings, and the four,
six or more connecting rods also held
firmly to the crankshaft by metal
bearings, and the whole assembly being
rotated and subjected to enormous
stresses at speeds of 2000 to 5000 or more
revolutions each minute.
Reducing Friction.
Without adequate lubrication, and even
in many cases when using inferior oils,
very great local heat is rapidly generated,
bearings will melt and, possibly, the
assembly be wrecked. Should the correct
oil be used, none of these terrifying
things happen, not because a good oil
is more slippery than one of inferior
grade—that feature is a minor function
of any oil —but rather because the very
thin film introduced between the metal
surfaces keeps them positively apart,
prevents friction and, what is also of
great importance, is able to absorb and
readily dissipate heat generated without
losing its lubricating qualities to any
marked extent.
In earlier motoring days, when rather
crude systems of the splash type of lubri-
cation were incorporated, the connecting-
rod scoops dipped into a large volume of
oil held in the sump at each crankshaft
revolution, and, being fitted with sloppy
bearings, the quality of the oil did not
matter much ; one needed only a lot and
very often.
In modern cars designers of engines
work to extremely fine limits in order
to secure high performance and extreme
silence, and they take it for granted that
only specified high-grade oils of un-
doubted repute will be used in their
motors. Any other course is an ex-
tremely short-sighted one, and one that-
will almost certainly bring trouble in its
train.
THRILLS OF ROAD-RACING!
Dobson (Alfa Romeo ) sheds a wheel at 100 m.p.h on the Donington circuit.
Bouncing over pits and officials, and finally careering among following fast cars,
the wheel finally came to rest half a mile away without anyone injured.
Illustration from the “Motor.”


Want more speed?
U you were a racing driver, preparing for a P
great race, you would test you car with vari-
ous types of equipment and you would find
that you could reach your highest speed only
when your engine was equipped with
Champion Sparldng Plugs. The choice of rac-
ing champions for 12 years. The choice of
motoring millions for 25 years. Choose the,
sparking plugs champions use!
e &h*s
hampion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
made in windsop Canada •
-I_l_A_N EMPIRE PRO DUC t •
ir<
am
i
m
m
s
§£
//..
X
HOL
MOTOR OILI
v: -
I T takes you hours—sometimes weeks, after
numerous visits by car salesmen, for you to
decide on your £250, £5OO, £lOOO or £2OOO car.
Yet you take any Oil offered for its lubrication.
Be logical. Think over the Oil question, and
when you do you will be another VEEDOL user.
There are millions of VEEDOL users throughout
the world today and remember VEEDOL, the
world’s finest Motor Oil, costs no more than
other Oils.
"NEPTUNE OIL CO. LIMITED
AIL STATES
Oil technologists have to-day reduced
the manufacture of lubricating oils and
greases to an exact science, but there are
certain matters affecting oil efficiency, or
the suitability of some special oil for a
particular type of engine, that should be
thoroughly explained, for many old-
fashioned beliefs—particularly with re-
gard to the use of heavy oils for hard
usage—are still held by motorists who
should by now have learned better sense,
In actual fact, there are light oils more
viscous at working temperatures than
others of considerably higher consistency,
.
Phjrsiesd Properties Deceptive.
The appearance of an oil m a can
its properties when cold a e b
point. What matters is its behavior under
exacting conditions of loa d 7 and heat
When inferior grades heavy o 1 are
used, a policy unfortunately adopted by
motorists operating cars of uncertain age
which use relatively large quantities
of oil, one gets an example of very bad
be havipr
A high-grade thin oil should, and usu-
ally does, maintain what is popularly
termed “its body” under the most exact-
ing conditions of operation. A heavy oil,
however, after being circulated through
the engine for some little time, and par-
ticularly where the car is driven fast or for
long periods on second gear, may lose
its original heavy consistency, and, in
many cases, if a sample were taken it
would be found to be of a lower viscosity
than the apparently thinner oil under
these conditions.
Everything else being equal, one
should use the lighter oil, for it saves
power in many directions—a matter of
particular interest to light-car owners,
where every ounce
of kick is welcome.
Furthermore, friction
losses are, as a rule,
lower when these
light-bodied oils of
high quality are used.
Another point is
that light oils are
usually fluid, and
flow easily in cold
weather, thus reduc-
ing wear and the risk
of seizure when
making an early-
morning start, so
that motorists with
an eye to economy
should remember this aspect.
Cheap Oils Expensive.
Cheap and inferior lubricants come ex-
pensive in the long run, by reason of the
formation of excessive quantities of hard
carbon in the combustion chamber.
There are few motorists who really under-
stand the effect of carbon formation in
the combustion chamber and valves, and
its influence not only on performance
but on economy.
When a motor is designed, the swept
volume of the cylinders is such as to
give the best all-round effect when the
car is driven under normal conditions.
If, owing to the use of unsuitable lubri-
cants, accumulation of carbon on the
cylinder heads and other parts exposed
to the burning gases becomes such as to
greatly reduce the swept volume, then
when the car is driven on long hills, or
the throttle is quickly depressed from
low road speeds, the operator becomes
aware of a peculiar metallic knocking
sound that emanates from somewhere
under the engine bonnet. This pheno-
menon is commonly called “pinking,”
and under such conditions no motor can
give its best performance.
There are two reasons why “pinking”
occurs. The first is that, owing to the
accumulation of carbon, the compression
ratio of the motor is increased to such
an extent that only fuels of exception-
ally high grade may be used without
knocking or pinking. The second reason
is that, when a car in which the corn-
bustion chamber is thickly coated with
carbon is driven at high speed on full
throttle for any length of time, certain
projections in the carbon formation be-
come incandescent and, instead of pink-
ing, as is the case when the compression
pressure is unduly raised, these high
points at white heat tend to ignite the
charge of gas in the combustion chamber
before the timed spark appears at the
plug points.
Furthermore, excessive carbon will
tend to restrict the free passage of the
ex haust gases, both in the exhaust pipe
and silencer, thus the saving made in
diture in purchase of oils can
be mQr / than offset b the increase d
volume f fuel neC essary for the car to
d . work as the restriction on exha ust
and muffler has a serio us influ.
» petrol consumption .
v f v
Specialised Lubrication.
.. r
With regard to the lubrication
transmission details motorists n a y e s
a good deal to learn. Few, excep °
who have given the matter very sen
thought, know that to get best icsu s
special material should be used toi Be-
b°x, differential, shackles, water-p p
glands and the various electrical acces-
sones that are usually fitted,
In the earlier days of motoring,
shackles, gearbox and differential were
generally filled with a heavy grease that,
in the light of present-day knowledge,
would not be used for any more exact-
ing purpose than the lubrication of the
axles of tip-drays and wheelbarrows.
Hypoid rear-axle gearing, as fitted to ’37 Studebaker.
To-day, the oil technologist even pro-
vides a different class of lubricant for
the various type, of back-axle assemblies,
and where hypoid drives are used it has
een conclusively proved, after years of
experiment, that a special lubricant is
ne £ for best effect.
The hypoid drive is a radical deviation
f rG m conventional practice in differential
construction, its triple object being to
maintain a low centre of gravity without
increasing dimensions of the assembly, to
increase efficiency and to secure quieter
runnm S-
H ~ r
pDI . ear *’
To accomplish this purpose the teeth
on crown wheel and pinion are so de-
signed as to remain in contact for a
relatively long period. This sets up a
rubbing action which under extreme
~, , ,
P ress ur e produces great local heating,
and should other than E.P. (extreme pres-
sure) lubricants be used there will be an
ever-present possibility of seizure. Owing
to the chemical composition of these oils,
their essential qualities are rapidly ab-
sorbed in doing the work for which they
are designed. It is advisable to flush out
and change at least once each six months,
or whenever the speedometer registers
7000 miles since last refill. Furthermore,
it is inadvisable to “top-up” an E.P. oil
in any diff. assembly without exact know-
ledge of the lubricant originally used, as
chemical reaction may possibly destroy
efficiency of both. It is a far safer plan
to refill completely with some particular
grade.
And so throughout every unit of the
car, motorists who have any regard for
economy or reliability should forthwith
make a check on oils and greases at
present in use, and make certain that they
are of undoubted repute, of high quality
and most suitable for the particular unit
to which they are applied.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
C.McK. (Oorindi, N.Q.). — I am experienc-
ing trouble with the ignition of my ’3O four-
cylinder car. The only time I can get a spark
between the platinum points of the make-and-
break is when a screwdriver is placed between
them. Ammeter shows no discharge unless
points are shorted, but when car is towed in
gear normal charging rate is shown. Cause and
cure ?
Symptoms point either to a seized rocker
arm bearing or to a gap setting too wide to
allow points to close. Dismantle rocker arm
and free pivot bearing; replace, set gap to
16 thou, on top of cam. See that points are
directly opposite one another and that faces
are true and clean.
* * * *
R.G.C. (Leeton, N.S.W.). — I travel about
7000 miles annually with an average passenger
load of four adults, using the car for camping
tours and sometimes travelling 400 miles per
day. Taking into account cost, running ex-
penses and depreciation, which of the follow-
ing cars ( named) should be most suitable for
my purposes ?
1,2, 4, 5 and 3.
# * *
CJ.M. (Ravenshoe, N.Q.). — I travel over
poor-class roads and dirt bush tracks, and
require a vehicle to travel at good speed when
lightly laden but capable of carrying 12 cwt.
and three men when shifting camp. Which
of seven types submitted would be most suit-
able ?
Either 1 or 2 would suit your purpose,
although suspension in both instances would be
harsher than that of a passenger vehicle.
* * * *
E.T.E. (Binya, N.S.W.). — Is it possible to
construct some home-made device for detecting
knocks in engines ?
Yes, but the operator must have some ex-
perience of knocks and their origin to secure
satisfactory results. Take a piece of £in. or
3-16 in. iron rod, sharpen one end and flatten
the other. To the flat end attach a hard felt
pad. To use, press the pointed end on the
engine near where the knock is suspected and
place the felt pad against the ear. By moving
the pointed end to various locations one can
usually detect the offending unit.
* * * *
R. (Thallon, Q.). — My friends and I
look forward to your tests published in the
Steering Column. I would suggest when you
issue the table of comparisons you should indi-
cate those tests conducted in unfavorable
weather.
Thanks; suggestion will be adopted.
* * *
S. (Wonthaggi, Vic.). — Why does not the
generator on my ’36 model six-cylinder car keep
the battery fully charged ? Some months ago
a radio set was installed and the charging rate
was raised to 18 amps., but now, even when the
battery is nearly flat, the ammeter seldom
shows more than 10 even when driving at 45
m.p.h.
First examine the third brush in generator,
note whether in full advanced position and
that all brushes are making good contact with
commutator. If no improvement, points in
voltage regulator (on top of generator casing)
may be burned or dirty. If so, the resistance
caused will result in lower voltage output.
* * * *
E.G.B. (Boorowa, N.S.W.). — Some months
ago the brakes of my ’34 model car were re-
lined. Since then on long trips the offside
front brake drum is always hotter than those
on other wheels, and on occasions smoke
appears to come from the inside. When
jacked up all wheels spin freely. I under-
stand the system used on my car provides an
equal pressure on all wheels. Any suggestions ?
Hydraulic brakes such as are fitted to your
car should be fully compensated and give
equal shoe pressure all round. Symptoms indi-
cate some mechanical defect. Suggest testing
offending wheel drum for truth, and while dis-
mantled observe whether springs connecting
shoes are serviceable and intact. Should de-
fect then still persist advise careful inspection
of metal pipes connecting flexible tubing at
each wheel assembly. If the pipe line is either
bent or pressed flat sufficient oil will pass to
force shoes to the “on” position, but the re-
stricted return passage will cause shoes to
remain on for some time after pedal is re-
leased.
* * # *
C.P.C. (South Grafton, N.S.W.). — Is it pos-
sible to patch up a cracked battery container;
if so, what mixture to use ?
If the outer container alone is cracked,
molten pitch or bitumen may be used as a
seal. Should acid be showing around the frac-
ture, it would indicate also a fracture of the
inner cell in addition to casing, in which case
the job should be given to a battery service
station.
* * * *
S.W. (Portland, Vic.). — My 12 -h.p. four-
cylinder sports car, ’2l model, has been main-
tained in first-class mechanical condition, and
until recently could do better than 75 m.p.h. on
a suitable stretch of road. Now a violent
shaking occurs at about 50 m.p.h., and if I
attempt greater speed the instruments fall out
of the dash. Cause and cure ?
Propeller shaft of your car is fitted 'with
fabric universal joints, and it is almost certain
that these have been strained or badly worn,
causing the shaft to run out of truth. Line up
drive shaft and fit new fabrics front and rear,
when the vibration should disappear.
Motor Oddities.
“F.W.D.”: Motoring on Hampton
Plains (W.A.) I copped a flat tyre and
found my solution had dried up. Scrap-
ing the dried solution from the tube I
rolled it into a small ball, wet it with
petrol and placed it over the hole, plac-
ing a piece of patching over all. That
patch stood up till the tube died of old
age. On another occasion at Lake Eva,
near Southern Cross, I ran out of
patches ; so, soaking a piece of tubing in
petrol, I set it alight, and as soon as the
rubber started to melt I smothered the
flame. When cool I applied some more
petrol to the proposed patch, and, plac-
ing it over the puncture, I filled the tin
used in vulcanising patches with dyna-
mite,, put on some pressure with the vul-
canising clamp and set the dynamite
alight. I placed a scrap of paper be-
tween the tin and the patch to prevent
the patch sticking to the tin. This re-
pair also lasted for months.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome it's receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will And “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price l-'d. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/ per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars
any accredited
and rates apply to
advertising agency.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London— F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
The Long White Colud
Reducing Road Deaths
Maoriland, Victoria and N. S. Wales
are all trying to reduce the number of
load accidents. The Victorian police say
their new traffic code will cut high-
way fatalities and injuries by one-third.
Maoriland’s Transport Minister Semple
can beat that: he says Labor’s transport
legislation, introduced in September, has
already reduced the road-death average
by 90 p.c.
Mr. Semple’s department is being ad-
vised on road problems by a Safety First
Council representing nearly every section
of the travelling public. Magistrates are
already setting their teeth and sending
drunken drivers to gaol. Inspectors are
rigidly enforcing the new regulations and,
with the inevitable exceptions, the public
is co-operating.
For the first six months of the year
Maoriland traffic averaged 21 deaths a
month. Mr. Semple issued a .few whole-
some threats, and in July the figure
dropped to 19. In August it was 16 and
ir. September four. Luck might be with
Mr. Semple, but the figures are impres-
sive and highly creditable to him and his
Government.
Because his check organisation is still
young, Mr. Semple is confident that the
M.L. road toll can be kept down. Adult-
and child-safety propaganda is occupy-
ing his officers, and traffic laws are being
examined and overhauled. Dense traffic
in Sydney and Melbourne rush hours
presents particular problems; but' appar-
ently there is something to be learned
from Mr. Semple’s activities. And in this
matter Australian . traffic authorities
should not .be . as stupid as Australian
postal authorities have been over Maori-
land’s penny postage and cheap telephone
calls.
“Kiwit”: Wireless has proved its worth
in several Maoriland disasters, and it is
not surprising to find South Islanders
seeking a sending-and-receiving set for
the Waimakariri Gorge, where storm-time
observations can tell if the rising river
will flood the plains below. When regu-
lar communication with Hawke’s Bay
towns was shattered by earthquake dam-
age in 1931, amateurs and warships sup-
plied by radio most of the early infor-
mation that M.L. awaited. In the next
year, amateurs in different centres
formed voluntary emergency corps, and
when a ’plane crashed on Mt. Egmont
in 1934 the Taranaki operators kept
land parties and search ’planes in touch
with each other.
* * * *
“Xo”: To settlers in isolated South
Westland aviation means what it means
to goldminers up-country in New
Guinea. South Westland has no
main highway, but for two years
residents have had a daily air ser-
vice from Hokitika down the coast. J. C.
Mercer arid J. D. Hewett operate two
machines which call at 14 aerodromes
along the route. Mails, freight and pas-
sengers are carried. Eight appendicitis
cases have been flown from the area ser-
viced to northern hospitals—an air hour
from the most southern stop to Hoki-
tika, but days by horse and car. The
service is one of the. few successful un-
subsidised air-mail and parcel deliveries
in the world, and one of the few operat-
ing over mountains and glaciers. When
regular services link Nelson with Hoki-
tika, Mercer’s service will bring tourists
landing at Auckland within four hours
of the southern glaciers.
* * * *
“Mak”: The new radio deal for
Maoriland doesn’t look so new after all.
Rev. Scrimgeour becomes commercial
director on salary and commission. Pro-
fessor Shelley has had another tilt at
vaudeville, and promises national-station
listeners large chunks of political thought
along with slices of culture. Tired
“Why don't you marry my brother?"
“Your brother too mean. He only offer two pigs for me, and I'm sure
I'm worth three."
farmers and business people feel more
like entertainment than culture after
dinner; like the Australians, they pre-
fer their politicians within seeing and
throwing as well as hearing distance if
they have got to listen to them at all.
* =:= * *
“M.”: “There’s gold in them thar
hills” is a tiresome, parrot-cry, but M.L.
Minister of Mines Webb is backing Gov-
ernment projects in Reefton and South
Westland —with £5OOO. Forty men, in-
cluding geologists, geophysicists and
mining engineers, are to do six months’
prospecting. Old-timers combed the areas
pretty thoroughly, and more recently
subsidised unemployed have been through
the same hills. But reefs and lodes, pos-
sibly gold-bearing, have been located by
scientists, and Mr. Webb’s party will test
these by boring. When and if any pay-
able reef is unearthed, it will become the
property of the State. Maoriland is
hoping it will come fast and large and
rich.
* * # *
“Motu”: The Gippsland (Vic.) farmers
interested in eradicating ragwort (B.
14/10/’36) will envy Maorilanders about
to benefit from Minister of Agriculture
Martin’s £48,000 campaign against the
noxious weed. County councils and De-
partment of Agriculture officers will
supervise the work of 500 men equipped
with chlorate sprayers. M.L. farmers
have been agitating for some such large-
scale scheme ever since they found
chlorate solutions killed the weed where
flocks of sheep only checked its spread
temporarily.
* * * *
“Obo”: Stewart Island oysters have
been blamed by visiting Australian
Rugby Union'footballers for their record
of losses against Southland at Invercar-
gill. Syd Malcolm once said that Inver-
cargill tills the tourists with oysters and
beer, and next day runs them off their
lethargic feet. Auckland might soon be
in a position to work the same system ;
oyster culture in the Hauraki Gulf has
proved so successful that Kawau Island
beds, expected to take another three
years to reach market maturity, will be
ready for the Springboks next year.
❖ * :jc
“L.M.”: Reference to Maori military
tactics (B. 23/9/’36) recalls one instance
°f the early natives discovering incon-
sistencies in the conduct of the white
man and his adherence to the principles
of his own religious teachings. During
the land squabbles, Maoris who had re-
ceived a smattering of Christianity from
itinerant missionaries ceased fighting on
Sundays because they believed the white
man regarded it as a day of rest. The
whites seized the opportunity to storm
and capture a number of strongholds
while the Maoris were at worship. That
breach of fighting etiquette has never
been forgotten, and in Christchurch the
other day a Methodist Maori mission
worker attributed the suspicions of some
tribes to that old trick.
* ♦
“Korero”: Courts dealing with Maori
problems (B. 30/9/’36) certainly get
some curious jobs. According to a
recent “Gazette” notice, the Native Land
Court is empowered to “hear and deter-
mine, as between natives, any claim to
ownership or possession of a certain
framed portrait in oils of Rewi Mania-
poto.” It was painted by J. Gant about
1885. Only people acquainted with
Maoris will realise the work that faces
the Court if many descendants of Rewi
turn up to claim the original; inheri-
tances in any form carry snags that date
back to the days when land and food-
stuffs were owned by tribal communities.
As for old Rewi’s portrait, copies hang
in many M.L. farm kitchens.
* * * *
“J.M.”: Maorilanders would have
known more about Ratu Popi Cakobau,
the leading Fijian chief, who died re-
cently, if the cableman had added that
the surname was pronounced—and gen-
erally spelt—as Thakobau. The old boy
himself is said to have been educated in
M.L., and he was back there with the
Fiji cricketers who toured at the time
of the. Christchurch Exhibition. Other
Thakobaus followed him to M.L
schools. Wanganui Technical College
had a giant grandson as recently as 1928,
and Rugby Union footballers still re-
member him as a good forward and .re-
markably accurate place-kick. He was
at school with Dovi, now a qualified
doctor, who later represented Otago and
was this season a member of the team
that won the Poverty Bay championship
at Gisborne.
=1: * * *
“D.N.”: The toheroas, which make
the green soup, are thriving on Maoriland
beaches many miles from Auckland’s
Ninety-mile, where most of them are
still gathered for commercial purposes.
Foxton, on the coast between Wanganui
and Wellington, has a few toheroa
patches, and from there a coastal vessel
took some to Patea, further north; but
high winds made, that river bar impass-
able; so the tub headed back to Wan-
ganui, where it dumped the shellfish at
Castlecliff. A local resident buried them
in the tidal sands, and after two years
they are still increasing. The East Coast
beach at Ohope, on the Opotiki side of
Whakatane, also has lusty young
toheroas under its stretches of white
sand. So soup supplies shouldn’t run out
for some time yet!


~Jhis masterpiece is
the spirit he always serves.
7
! A
I I
'r*
2$
m
/ * 0
¥
m
m®
S>'s:
v
WE*
%
*
/,
rm m+
:.;-&NM
¥ -'* b;b!tft?
* .dfi!JB**I®* 1 ®*
7%J
i t. If f
v;>
W
vv.
K
a:
(IfCdUums
Scots CUbisky
»'9Mnc-
( r«**>•#«» »fl)
c
/ • ,
‘•lirjijfT
!Mu<
r
jUfl*
(B
K <
p 3» 5
JP
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
L
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
&
aO
A \^ e &**'<&*' *IP
i-<«0 . *\>
%
S e <*> ee ..••■' ~••■
*3*<?
:^ N
*<*
y s ■
O'
~ ... +&*%*
..••• „»« '°^VS> e '
• ••■ ~.l


%
(C
They certainly have a nice taste now
»**•
1
:>sS3
./:
yi
mm
/N
o^stewsp:
••'•: I
g#
r
§£ll
*s§ i I
is
.••••*
1. The first time I tried oysters
I thought, "H’m, there are
plenty of nicer things to eat
than these.”
jferf 2
‘
or
fter tasting them i
■ee times-
3. Well, no need to ask what my
T weakness is now—there isn’t
anything nicer than oysters!
and its just the same with
es
s
vr?:
m
m
it
■
m
4 vi
at
§
ig
IISiSI
«
®m§
The first glass of Wolfe’s
Schnapps tasted, frankly, a
little strange to the palate.
2, But I bought the sma
sized bottle and had a glass
each night at home.
3. Now Wolfe’s Schnapps is my
regular drink - because it’s
good for me because I
prefer the taste ,
WOLFES
farnm
FSCHEDAII
I>«opuct of noiump,
IdHutic A nvn««
P§pt
ggaasisxSli!:
BMMTIH.IO. Jj '
Because it is distilled in Holland with genuine
Italian Juniper Berries; because it is ab-
solutely pure, Wolfe’s Schnapps has a dis-
tinctively aromatic flavour. It is a flavour that
distinctly appeals to the educated palate and,
of course, there is no other beverage so to be
valued “for your health’s sake.”
/f
fi
.
.
7
■ ■
always keep a bottle in the
W.S. 90.48
