

lx
V
'hi
•••
SB
s5
IV
Security
TAP, Tap, Tap. , , .in the flickering light of a swaying
lantern his keen-eyed, weatherbeaten face provides
an unusual study. His slow, methodic inspection is
barely noticed by the passengers whose lives depend
thereon.
Night and day, in rain or sunshine, he taps each wheel
of every incoming train, a strange figure that is but part
of the vast system of Railway Inspection that spells
Security.
Hamiltons have inaugurated a system which provides
investors , with means of security and report on all
propositions, ensuring safeguard against loss.
Shares in ESTABLISHED companies of proved
dividend-earning capacity, hacked by adequate tangible
assets, form the basis of all offerings from Hamiltons
(Aust.) Limited. Free advice on all investments,
together with a copy of “Profits,” may be had on
application to: —
Hamilton* (Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
- AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. £250,000
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING. MARGARET STREET. SUBNET,
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520.1.
Commonwealth Building,
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box: 1017 N.
r
Chamber of Manufacturers
14 Pirie Street,
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box: 650 E.
Representatives
at Perth, W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
First Instalment of “The Papuan
Vol. 57.—N0. 2936.
Wednesday, May 20, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s Library Catalogue will be for-
warded Post Free with Full Terms and
Particulars on application to:
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
It
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HKH i; AND MAIL,
Please send, without 'bb ligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System o j Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney IJUU.ETIX.
Mg Name •
Mg Address
436
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year's
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows:
Entries for the second competition wiii dose on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
so published, in which the entrants will retain all property rights,
except world book rights, which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
ON, AND
OFF, STILTS.
To his high
astonishment, M.
Ambroise Vo 1-
lard, pleasantly
pug-faced picture-
dealer, one day
came upon a man on horseback waiting
outside a door on the second floor of a
block of artists’ studios in Paris. His
astonishment, as he admits in his en-
gaging memoirs. Recollections of a
Picture Dealer (Constable ; from Angus
and Robertson; 275. 6d.), was all the
greater because the painter who lived
there specialised in little birds.
It turned out, says M. Vollard, that
this painter had exhibited at the Salon a
picture of a lark, executed with such an
astounding degree of finish that it had
brought him a great many commissions.
Among his customers was an Argentine,
who asked if he could do a horse with
the same perfection.
“Why not?” replied the artist.
“And me upon it?” the Argentine
added, suggesting at the same time an
appointment for a sitting in the studio.
“At my place?” cried the artist in dis-
may. “What are you thinking of? I
live on the second floor!”
"Bueno !” said the Argentine. “In out-
country, horses go upstairs.”
The sequel to which agreeable discus-
sion impressed upon M. Vollard the “ad-
vantages of living on the ground floor,
to a painter of horses working from the
life.” It is natural that M. Vollard should
have been struck with this happy
thought quite apart from the inspiration
of it; for the ground floor is his own
spiritual home, and not a bad address,
either, for the writer of memoirs.
That might be borne in on anyone
who happens to read close to M. Vol-
lard’s book Miss G. B. Stern’s Monogram
(Chapman and Hall ; 18s. 6d.). Writing
from the ground floor, M. Vollard is
under no strain to hold his poise and
equilibrium. Born on the tropic isle of
La Reunion, he gravitated to Paris, in
time became a picture dealer, had the
courage to show, foster and insist on sell-
in the works of Manet, Cezanne,
Gauguin, Van Gogh. Renoir, Degas,
Picasso and many other of that lively
generation of artists. He knew them per-
sonally, talked with them. He knew the
old Zola, too, because Zola had been
Cezanne’s champion. He witnessed
Rodin slashing down a roomful of his
sculpture with a sword, the performance
punctuated with the bemused ejaculations
of a devotee, reiterating from time to
time, “ Rodein ! le grand Rodein !”
Having known these people, it is enough
for M. Vollard- to write of them, and
himself among them, without seeking
“pattern,” “design” and suchlike things
that seem desirable to autobiographers of
the order of Miss Stern. In her case the
insistence on such requirements is not
unnatural. She is a novelist, an uncom-
monly good one. She has the sense of
design in all her literary expression.
Hence her obsession with pattern in the
making of an autobiography. And those
who can enjoy design for its own sake
will doubtless enjoy Monogram. The
title is perfectly in accord with the con-
tents ; the perfection of a finely-worked
monogram. Finely worked it is, and in-
volved, in the same sense that a mono-
gram is involved. Seated in her room,
Miss Stern looks at some piece of bric-a-
brac, souvenir or other object there, and
from that point lets her thoughts lead
her, by association of ideas, hither and
thither, looping, twisting, curling in a
continuous line ; and when this has been
done from three points, there is the
monogram of her life. That is the idea.
Miss .Stern expresses the opinion that
“extroverts rarely write the best auto-
biographies.” The introvert, on the other
hand, “would probably produce a fine
fastidious piece of work.” Also, the
introvert’s “temperament will compel
him to criticise and eliminate....
will guard him from exuberance and
indecent revelation. But an extrovert, by
writing autobiography, would be suc-
cumbing to sweet temptation all the time ;
letting runaway horses run.” And that,
I think, completely establishes the
spiritual address of Miss Stern. “What
bird is that?” the astounded onlooker
might cry, seeing her go by. “Bless my
soul,” would say Life, looking up; “it
is Miss Stern on stilts.”
For it seems to me that these things
which Miss Stern considers the disquali-
fications in autobiographical writing are
the very flesh and bones and blood of
it. I do not adopt her “indecent” for
revelations, nor admit it. Miss Stern, for
all I know, might call M. Vollard’s
revelations indecent. To me they are as
pure life as anything painted by any
lively genius in M. Vollard’s gay gallery.
It is a matter of personal conventions.
And often it is a matter of something
more important than that: a matter of
whether we accept life or reject it and
live a formula and a fantasy. It seems
to me that this is what Miss Stern asks
me to do as a condition to reading and
enjoying her book. Then will she let me
see herself when young, herself a little
older with Noel Coward lighting on the
idea of “Cavalcade,” or with Sheriff in
a German theatre box watching a
presentation in German of “Journey’s
End.” Then will she let me share in
the high moments of tensely concentrated
drama that have imprinted themselves on
her mind in watching many plays, or
she will converse most brilliantly on Jane
Austen, All of which, accepting the terms
of her formula and thereby abdicating
life for fantasy, I shall enjoy very much ;
but as for feeling the actual presence of
Noel Coward or Sheriff, the author her-
self or anybody else —no. They are
intangible ideas convoluting in a pretty
patterning.
M. Vollard, reasonable fellow, does
not ask me to believe in ariy such ghosts.
On terms with life, he has only to over-
take, or be overtaken by, some flaunting
artist or other person in the street, and
both of them, and the street they are in,
and the life of it, effortlessly on his part
and mine, make a real presence. No
one could be less like an introvert than
he is. No introvert could set down, as
he does, without embarrassment, the un-
scrupulous tricks that he is so disingenu-
ously proud of having played on other-
dealers ; no introvert could so exuber-
antly hand himself over to the reader’s
mercy. He sees no need to cast about,
like Miss Stern, for a pattern to contain
himself. His life will be pattern enough
(he does not say so, but that is how it
works out), and so he will just recollect
things, much in the order in which they
happened. A straightforward, clear-cut
facing up to life on the level on which
it is lived. Of course, as it happens, it
is a lively and exuberant lot of life that
he mixed in, and that makes the reading
all the better, M. Vollard, too, has such
an authentic Gallic humor that it’s hard
to keep the hands still when you're read-
ing him, and that makes it better still.
A professor of aesthetics is buying a
picture:
The professor’s face grew suddenly pen-
sive. “What is that patch of blue among
ŗ
C. M.
Poets and
Morals
During the last
few months 1
have seen a num-
ber of under-
graduate and “in-
tellectualist” verse
booklets from Australia and Maoriland.
They have been a depressing study. The
verse has been uniformly bad, because
at its most atheistic, most communistic,
most Lawrencely sexual it is intended to
be morally uplifting. Evidently the more
youthful poets of both countries are fol-
lowing the younger English school, and
they are on the wrong track.
When poetry becomes simply a vehicle
for the expression of moral uplift, as it
did in much of Longfellow and Words-
worth, it becomes sickening. Preaching
is not art. And in England to-day, the
poetry of Day Lewis, Spender, Randall
Swingler and their brethren is nothing
more than the bleating of a lot of Sun-
day-school superintendents. This sort of
thing:
Comrades, my tongue can speak
no comfortable words,
calls to a forlorn hope
gives work and not rewards....
According to these gentlemen, the poet
is a miserable sinner, but his faith makes
him all grim about it; the capitalist is a
very miserable sinner, and it’s the dole-
ful brimstone for him; Karl Marx is
divine, and the rest of the people are
simply miserable. All this may be very
true, but that doesn’t make snivel-hymns
about it poetry.
Contemporary highbrow criticism,
however, insists that the poet must sing
hymns to be one of the elect. If a man
is “out of touch with contemporary
thought,” if he has not “bridged the tre-
mendous gulf that separates this century
from the last,” he is damned. This latter
feat, by the way, is attributed to W. B.
Yeats by Alida Monro, because Yeats
has followed the normal course of writ-
ing more philosophical poetry as. grow-
ing older, he has lost some of the fire
that made him write the finest love poetry
in the language.
This type of criticism, as essentially
moral in tone as is an official censorship
which bans books whose ideology differs
from that of the censor, goes side by
side with an even more detestable
Grundyism which criticises poetry in the
jargon of Freud. If, for example, a poet
can be called an “exhibitionist,” he is
immediately an outcast, not because ex-
hibitionism is necessarily bad art, but
because it is considered “bad form, in
the Etonish sense of the phrase. Ihe
whole terminology of psycho-analysis,
indeed, has completely lost its value as a
label of style, and has taken on a purely
moral significance. Earnest-minded
undergraduates are now so delicioush
horrified at the fact that D. H. Lawrence
was an exhibitionist suffering from the
Oedipus complex that they are quite in-
capable of judging whether or not his
poetry is good art. In Lawrences case,
certainly, they imitate him, but that is
partly because his sexual outspokenness
compensates for the moral stigma on him.
and mainly because he happened to be
such a bad poet that he is easy to copy.
Drab communist revivalism and the
moral censorship imposed by this psycho-
analytic method of criticism are cramping
the new' poetry into a narrow orthodoxy.
Good art is left out of the achievement
in favor of good modern morals and
hymns.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART
Can We Be
Sure About
Shaw?
In rebutting my
claim that the
critic of Shaw
must know more
than Shaw
“Kiri b” (R.P.
29/4/’36) uses the
analogy of a cabinetmaker who makes a
chair with one leg. Now “Kirib'’ knows
that a chair with one leg will not stand
up ; he knows that chairs are meant to
sit on, and he is therefore competent to
criticise a chair for its one-leggedness.
In other words, he knows more about
chairmaking than the maker of the chair.
So he has unwittingly proved my point
up to the hilt, at least in the matter of
chairs.
Now, there are very few people who
are able to stand on their own legs. They
have to lean against something else. What
they lean against usually is the current
religion, ethics and morality. In such
matters as patriotism, government, war.
the education of their children, their ideas
about foreign nations, law, medicine,
matrimony, the home, sex, science, art
and their duty to society they believe
what their mothers taught them. With-
out these beliefs they would be one-legged
men. Shaw has seen through all these
conceptions. In “Getting Married” he
transvalued the current conceptions about
marriage, divorce and the home; in
“Candida” he showed how the biological
urge to select the superior man to be her
mate conflicts with tradition in the case
of a woman desirous of doing the right
thing by society; in “Saint Joan” he
analysed the problem of religious belief:
in “The Doctor’s Dilemma” he exposed
the scientific quackery of his day, in
“Heartbreak House” he foretold what
comes out of war ; in “Captain Brass-
bound’s Conversion”—but the list is as
long as your arm; and in “Back to
Methuselah” he gave us a new ethic and
hope for futurity.
In other words, his impressive collec-
tion of plays show Shaw standing on his
own pair of legs, or so it seems to me;
and I for one have no objection to
“Kirib” criticising these plays if he can
show me that he criticises them in the
excellent way he criticised the chair. That
is to say, it is no use him asserting that
Shaw’s characters are automatons and the
plays don’t stand up unless he shows me
why, as he did in the case of the chair:
because an assertion does not prove any-
thing at all, and he may be, for all 1
know, judging the plays on some quite
arbitrary criterion of what a play should
do, and not as he criticised the chair.
“Kirib” holds two contrary beliefs con-
cerning genius. He says that there have
been as many geniuses who have been
well-schooled men as there have been
(Continued on page 4 .»


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
“The Senior Store”
“While I Live I’ll Grow'
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
Anthony Horderns’ are famous
throughout the land for giving genuine
value. This Warm Winter Wear for
Men is an instance of this in that it is
not only the newest and smartest of its
kind, but also the highest quality for
the prices. Anthony Horderns’ recom-
mend every garment to give complete
satisfaction to the end of its long wear.
Shop at “The Senior Store” for style,
quality and satisfaction.
Inexpensive, Warm Winter Wear for Men
m
I-Wtw
I- #'4 V
S.
m
B
r.
;
m
v
Ih
I :
HR
• 56
m
o
W'vt
*N4
sC®
n /M /.
I u&rkm
V-- •
«s
PiJ
- "•■ .
MR
,J
SR
■m
WM
• - ;
MM
Ira
r » '
ff’JJri.l
.■#
: ?H
MW I
>' <
>
yj
I . i
: . on
B I
m
m
m .
El
ran
n
l:
i M j
Li L-j i j
SMART AND COSY LUMBER JACKETS
WARM ALL WOOL CARDIGANS
ALL WOOL CARDIGAN ROLL-BACK
Smart, cosy and durable are these
Lumber Jackets. In Fancy Warm
Winter-weight All Wool. The turn-
down collar can be buttoned snugly
up to the neck if desired. New
patterns in Fawn, Grey and Brown
17'6
grounds. Sizes, chest, inches: 36 to 40
Prices, each 17/6
42, 44
18/6
Extra Warm-weight' All Wool
Cardigans. Well fitting, ribbed
knit. Self tones of Blue-Marl,
Fawn-Marl, Slate-Grey and
Navy. Sizes, 36in. to 42in.
chest. Price, each, 16/6.
r
44in. and 46in. chest. Price, each, 17/6.
Neat All Wool Cardigan with
roll-back collar, fastening up
to the neck. In Warm-weight
Wool, finely knitted. Mole
Grey, Dark Grey, Brown-
Heather, Fawn-Heather and
176
er
WARM DRESSY “KYNOCH” SCOTTISH SCARVES
''Kynoch” Scarves come from Scotland and will give protection against
the keenest winter wind. A range of splendid Checks and Overchecks
in Fawn, Brown, Blue, Grey or Marone. Prices, each, 7/6, 9/6, 12/6.
VB
FLEECY-LINED SERVICEABLE NAPPER CLOVES
For motoring and general winter wear, these are the gloves to buy.
One-dome fastening style in good serviceable Napper . . .they are fleecy-
lined inside. Dark Brown. Sizes, Bto 10. Price, pair . . 10/6
10'6
SEAMLESS KNIT COSY WOOLLEN GLOVES
Wool Gloves made to give adequate protection against frosty air and
wind. A comfortable one-dome fastening style in seamless knit. Heather
and Grey shades. Small, Medium and Outsizes. Price, pair 2/6
WELL-KNOWN AUSTRALIAN ‘AKUBRA” HATS
“Akubra” Hats are Australian made—be Empire-minded-—buy
Empire goods—Australian goods! Made from high-grade Fur
Felts, perfectly styled and fashioned to retain their shape and
smart appearance. Narrow or medium width brims. Light
Grey, Slate, Zinc, Steel, Fawn, Brown, Marine Blue tones.
Boomerang Quality. Price 19/6
High Quality. Price 25/-
Superfine Quality. Price 32/6
19/6
2'6
... t
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
m ....
m
I
•*6-
26
3/6 CASHMERE HALF-HOSE 2/6
A well-known guaranteed brand of Men’s Half
Hose considerably reduced! They are all Pure
Wool Cashmere and in a new range of checks
and stripes. Grey, Brown, Blue or Fawn tones.
Sizes, 10 to I linches. Price, pair . . . . 3/6
Special Price, pair 2/6
Fleecy-lined
UNDERWEAR
33
Wa r m Fleecy-lined
Underwear that wears
splendidly. Well-made
Shirts or Pants in sizes
34in. to 44in. chest or
waist. Cream shade,
mediumweight. Price,
per garment .... 3/3
Fawn shade, heavy-
weight. Price, per gar-
ment 4/9
u
H
D.P.S.


*
I 111
111
Mill
mu
Cairns thrills even the most hardened
ly describes a cruise aboard one of the
Wonderland.
of Winter the call to Tropical Queensland
wonders of the Barrier Reef and Cairns,
and Beauty.
D, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND,
iE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
MANOORA, ORMISTON, CANBERRA, KANIMBLA.
Howard Smith, Ltd., Mcllwraith McEacharn, Ltd., at all ports.
BY SEA TO CAIRNS
THE exhilaration of a trip to Cairns thrills even the most hardened
travellers. Halcyon days truly describes a cruise aboard one of the
Interstate liners to Australia’s Wonderland.
WHILST gripped in the mantle of Winter the call to Tropical Queensland
rings a clarion note. The wonders of the Barrier Reef and Cairns,
the home of Warmth, Color and Beauty.
VISIT . . . MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND,
BARRON FALLS AND THE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
Book your Passage by ORUNGAL, MANOORA, ORMISTON, CANBERRA,
■'/
A SUNSHINE CRUISE TO THE WARM north
Full particulars and pamphlets from A.U.S.N., Ltd., Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd., Howard Smith, Ltd., Mcllwraith McEacharn, Ltd., at all ports.
geniuses who have been unschooled.
The assumption is that it was the school-
ing which turned some of them into
geniuses. But then he says that genius
is an unfathomable mystery, the mystery
flower of a mystery. This is a belief in
the transcendental nature of genius—
great men are born, not made—and his
two conceptions don’t fit in. If geniuses
are born, not made, what is the use of
educating them? If the rest of the com-
munity are sows’ ears, what is the use
of educating them? Isn’t it a more logi-
cal assumption that the geniuses are the
products of good education and the so-
called sows’ ears the products of bad?
I carefully drew a distinction between the
kind of schooling that turns out the
learned mediocrity and the kind of
schooling that turns out a man like
Shaw: “Kirib” was careless enough to
take no notice of my argument. Let him
now show us how the “ordinary pro-
cesses of education” can turn out a dis-
tinguished man or admit that he becomes
a distinguished man in spite of them, and
because some other influence, some for-
tunate circumstance like meeting another
distinguished man, have moulded him.
F.S.
George
Moore’s
Mr. Hyde
In his Epitaph
on George Moore
(Heinemann ; ss.
net) Charles
Morgan explains
why it is another
and not he who
is to be. Moore’s biographer. Moore not
only expressly invited Mr. Morgan “to
study with him to be his biographer,”
but appointed him to the position in his
will.
The proposed biography was not to
be a “tombstone in two volumes,” but
“a true novel”—a story of his life, as
Mr. Morgan says, based “upon a novel-
ist’s complete knowledge and intuitive
understanding of his subject, and told
with that indifference to all but aesthetic
consequence by which a story-teller is
fortified.” But there were letters written
at one stage of Moore’s life, a knowledge
of which seemed necessary to the project,
and the holder of these refused Moore’s
request to make them available. Mr.
Morgan then sought to resign his task of
biographer, but Moore insisted, thinking
that a request in his will would unlock
the correspondence, and Mr. Morgan
continued securing and working up
material for the biography for several
years. But neither the intimation of the
will nor Mr, Morgan’s request on the
strength of it freed the correspondence
to Mr. Morgan, though apparently it has
been supplied to the other biographer.
So, faithful to Moore’s charge that he
should “write no biography rather than a
tentative or doubtful one,” Mr. Morgan
forfeited his several years of work and
concentrated some of their results into
the 55 pages of the Epitaph.
Taking his lead from Moore, who said
conclusively of certain of his books that,
if ever they were republished, they
“should be issued as the work of a dis-
ciple—Amico Moorini,” Mr. Morgan
makes a convenience of this bevowelled
other self, giving him to play the part
not of a disciple but of Hyde, both as to
the less pleasant manifestations of
Moore’s personal character and the least
worthy parts in Moore’s work. In his
life and his work Mr. Morgan sees Moore
fighting down this worthless one, survival
in his person even into his old age of
that immature Moore that Bernard Shaw
knew, who was “always telling stories
about himself and women,” in every one
of which “there was a room full of mir-
rors and chandeliers, and the story usu-
ally ended with some woman throwing a
lamp at George and driving him out of
the house.” “Everybody used to laugh
at George,” Mr, Shaw said. When the
aged Moore, an old friend having come
to visit him, cries out to his servant so
that this visitor herself could not but
hear, “No! No! She is old! She is
old! ” Mr. Morgan excuses with the
thought that, perhaps, Moore had been
“engaged that day in a more than usually
fierce battle with Amico Moorini.” Simi-
larly, when here and there in the great
writing of his later days Moore lapsed,
it was not a matter of Homer nodding,
but the never - wholly - successfully - re-
pressed Moorini throwing stones into the
pond. If we can accept such a thesis, it
certainly provides a convenient means of
getting over the awkward moments of
all heroes; and as for reading, it is
a godsend: blame Moorini, and read on.
But Mr. Morgan’s evaluation of Moore
is not as facile as all that. Very con-
vincingly he defends Moore against the
charge of “chill sensuality” and the
other charge of being “unspiritual”—“a
perilous word to fling at a great artist.”
He affirms that Moore “gave liberty as
well as discipline to the English novel” ;
the “continuous and deliberate calm” of
Moore’s mature work, which his detrac-
tors call “monotonous, frozen, dead,” is
to Mr. Morgan “a calm enforced,” in
every line of which he sees the “exercise
of a rigid discipline,” and: “Here,
plainly, at whatever cost to Moore him-
self, is something new in English litera-
ture that will have a lasting influence
precisely because it is not new in the
sense of being without roots. It will
have a future because it has a past.”
Moore “saw round him, and might still
see if he were alive, the English novel
struggling beneath a burden of literary
convention.” He had, when his mind
was matured, “the genius to perceive that
the modern English novel....had be-
come too far removed from its origin in
fables passed down by word of mouth.
A lesser man, making this discovery,
t
e
R.P.
S.H. Prior
Memorial
Prize
Last vear’s
competition for
the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize,
awarded annually
for Australian
works of litera-
ture, attracted more than 200 entries and
brought to light, among other good things,
Kylie Tennant’s Tib won, a novel of
major importance in Australian fiction.
This year’s competition covers a far
wider range. Writers of biography,
history, travel, plays, short stories and
essays stand an equal chance with the
novel-writer.
Intending competitors are reminded
that the closing date is definitely Satur-
day, June 6. Entries should now be for-
warded as soon as they are ready ; last
year several forwarded too late had to
be rejected.
All entries will be acknowledged in
The Bulletin shortly after the closing
date.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS
FIND TIME FOR THESE
Recollections of a Picture Dealer .. Ambroise Vollard.
Monogram , / G. B. Stern.
The Thinking Reed Rebecca West.
Impassioned Pygmies ' Keith Winter.
0F the books in the above list Miss
Stern’s autobiography is reviewed in
the article “On, and Off, Stilts.” It is a
rather mannered and somewhat self-con-
sciously written book, but the writing
is pleasing to read, and the experiences
chronicled of travel, theatrical and writ-
ing life are very interesting, apart from
the literary interest attaching to the
creator of the Rakonitz people: among
other things, Miss Stern describes her
aunt on whom that fine character the
Matriarch is based ; also she admits that
she never really liked the Matriarch.
Keith Winter’s novel Impassioned
Pygmies (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.), another
that is recommended here only with
qualifications, is worth reading for its
originality, at least. It has a striking and
very finely realised setting: a beautiful
island in the Mediterranean, to which the
dying E. L. Marius, a literary genius, has
retired, accompanied by five disciples,
each really interested in gathering
material for the biographies they will
severally write after his death. These
people are all excellently projected, as
are Marius’s young son Rollo and the
older, exiled son Saul, who, with a
famous writer of cynical plays and two
other important characters, also comes to
the island, to intensify a situation that is
already tense enough. One of Mr.
Winter’s people is a writer of “bad-
tempered” books; from the point of
view of entertainment his own novel can
hardly avoid the same description. Several
of the characters have no redeeming
qualities, and the best of them are
redeemed only by the slightest proportion
of anything admirable or likeable. They
are “hard” people, and there is some-
thing ruthlessly steely in the author’s
seeming dislike for them. But there is
no question that, for what they are, they
are finely done. Many of the tense
situations are superbly handled. The
book leaves its imprint on the mind ;
there is something vital and memorable
about it.
Ambroise Vollard’s Recollections of a
Picture Dealer (reviewed with Miss
Stern’s book in “On, and Off, Stilts”) is
an exceptionally good book of memoirs.
It is recommended out of hand, as is also
Rebecca West’s delightful novel The
Thinking Reed (Hutchinson ; from Angus
and Robertson ; Bs. 6d.). Miss West pro-
vides capital entertainment: a French
setting, moving from Paris to Monaco
and elsewhere; fine and interesting
characters, especially the women ; humor
and good humor. It is on a fairly big
scale, and so crowded with varied and
relative incident that it is, perhaps, better
here to leave it thus vaguely described
than to give more detail, since a detailed
account would have to be very long x o
avoid being misleading. The woman —a
half-French American of quick fascina-
tion —who holds the stage throughout is a
decidedly unusual character. It seems
very doubtful that any man could have
drawn her. She is an original; extraor-
e
A Different Woman: Muriel Hine
(Bodley Head ; 7s. 6d.). Romance of a
nice young woman married to an elderly
philanderer-drunkard and attracted to
an exceedingly gentlemanly botanist
friend of her hubby. Interesting enough,
and well written, but not so very
“different.”
The Seventh Company, Field En-
gineers A.I.F.: R. H. Chatto (Smiths
Newspapers). Record of this unit’s en-
gagements from formation to disband-
ment, with details of personnel, casualties,
honors, etc., and liberally embellished
with jocular sketches by Frank Dunne
and with photos. It is brightly written,
with plenty of humor leavening the
recital of troop movements.
The Local Government Handbook:
A. R. Bluett (Law Book Co., Sydney;
10s.). Simple, concise textbook which
explains the N.S.W. Local Government
Act and other Acts affecting municipal
and shire councils in N.S.W.
The Zoo You Knew: L. R. Bright-
well (Blackwell; 5s. net). London’s, from
foundation little over a century ago, the
account so engaging in its bright, con-
versational way as to make excellent
general entertainment reading. Divert-
ingly illustrated with line drawings by
the author. Not one “history” of in-
stitutions in a thousand is so good.
What Price Gloria!: Geoffrey Clayton
(Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). Tiptop light enter-
tainer, concerning a happily incredible
English peer who collects old china, his
son who writes cabaret songs, an Ameri-
can breakfast-food magnate who collects
old china, his niece whom he wants to
marry into the English nobility, a pair of
vases, one owned by each of the collec-
tors, etc. —a good deal of etc. Ripples
easily along, with a steady turn-up of
chuckles, largely provided by the peer’s
wrestlings with the American language.
Strolling Through England: W. S.
Percy (Collins ; 7s. 6d.). Our old friend
of “the boards,” with another of his
pleasant ramble books, getting out of
London past the gates of Lord’s as fast
as possible, to be happy with the rest of
England. His own fine pen-and-ink and
color drawings illustrate his account of
his journeying, on which he has reminders
of his old stamping grounds, as when he
notices how the “gum-tree becomes a
thing of beauty in the more temperate
climate of Devon, and the New Zealand
flax is here one of the principal garden
decorations.” A bright, cheery book.
From Death to Morning: Thomas
Wolfe (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Those who
enjoy Mr. Wolfe’s beautiful prose will
find some fine passages of it in this col-
lection. The contents are labelled short
stories, but there is hardly a short story
in it. Narrative sketches and character
sketches might best describe the semi-
fictional chapters, though most of them
are so personal that they might even be
described as essays. Under whatever
name, they are vital and alive. Even Mr.
Wolfe has done nothing better than the
negroes study that concludes “The Face
of the War.”
The Crystal Skull: Jack McLaren
(Philip Allan ; 3s. 6d.). Adventures of a
famous scientist, who is also an even
more accomplished though not so famous
burglar, in a little New. Guinea coastal
settlement. Most of the time he forgets
his anthropologising to do a bit of match-
making. If you want to read it buy it
for the schoolboy nephew ; he’ll like it.


ill
■
BK
fmxm
M fe-i.l ~ipi
h
mmsh -xsssz:*, sasssl
sms m
■
§m
'
’mm
m
mmmm
» ■** *
ZM
Pi
■i
p?f..
m
||KS;|
I I
■ *, ■ «K
HO
v ■epps
S .HH nh
i
The Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Incorporated 1895.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1893, the Australian Metropolitan, is one
of .the old-established Life Offices. It has 40 years of faithful service
to the public behind it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and
sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
As its liabilities are conservatively valued, its Funds are ample for all
purposes —but, even so, these Funds are backed by substantial Reserves,
so that its financial position is impregnable.
At the end of 1935 the Assets were made up as follows: —
Government and Municipal Securities
Loans on Mortgage
Freehold Properties
Loans on Policies
Cash and other Assets
5075
18.56
16.99
6.67
7.03
Assurance Funds at 31/12/33, £1,366,713.
DIRECTORS- DR. A. MURRAY WILL; W. A. H. ALLWORTH; D. F. STEWART; J. A. HENDERSON; F. J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. A. HENDERSON. GENERAL SECRETARY: FREEMAN J. EATON.
ACTUARY: W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
BRANCH OFFlCES.— Victoria: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland: METROPOLITAN BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia: 22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.


»
ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
j l - *. i
*. v <., >•'*,♦ ,' 5 i
HHHMn
W^W^«BWB
!
=• n
■
8
■
; -..:
■
I
II
mm
Tk
mm
t
r-:::-
' ■:
*P*
■
n
i
t*
R
■#*»
.■
m
: ■
-4BWR
»JRp
m
| ■;;;
i #« ♦j*
Aeria/ Vieu> o/ Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars,
/fffhtt c Mhe*cf / uiSie melloumeu mullmuj/uei


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2936.
May 20, 1936.
“A CHANGE OF WIND.”
"S.M. Herald’ has suddenly ratted on the League and is being reproached bitterly by clergymen, Communists and university professors.”
“Scab!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE SEX MILITANT.
In Sydney last week a lady told the Minister of
Justice in his office that if his Government persisted
in having the murderer Hickey hanged “we will rise
up in rebellion and see what we can do.” On the
same day her sisters of the Federation of Women
Voters, still championing the cause which the “S. M.
Herald” has abandoned and the country from which
Haile Silassie has removed his person and his gold
(£1,500,000, by all accounts), commanded the Lyons
Government to “do its utmost to re-establish the
authority of the League, and to take all means of
preventing the aggressor from reaping the fruits of
barbarities.” Each incident, in its way, indicates that
lovely woman has become conscious of the power
she gained when the suffrage was achieved by or
thrust upon her, and that the new wine has gone to
some shingled heads.
“All means of preventing the aggressor from
reaping the fruits of his barbarities” have been “taken”
(and the processes have been costly and risky), except
actual war. War against a country almost as populous
as the United Kingdom, organised for all forms of
strife (which the British Commonwealth is not) and
fighting for its life. War in which other countries
would necessarily be involved, and the end of which,
for Australia, counting human losses alone, might be
another 60,000 soldiers and seamen killed and another
170,000 wounded, in many cases incurably. Would
the Federation of Women Voters condemn its hus-
bands, sons and brothers to that ?
There are 75 Federal electorates, and in 35 the
women outnumber the men. At the general election
of September, 1934, the excess of female electors in
certain Victorian and N. S. Wales divisions was aston-
ishing—lo,29l in Kooyong, 9928 in Balaclava, 9453
in Fawkner, 8312 in Henty, 8027 in Warringah, 7622
in North Sydney and 7252 in Wentworth. In these
constituencies the women’s vote is such a power that
no politician would think of endangering his hold
on it by asking invidious questions or conveying
unpalatable information, such as the sober truth about
the slave-owning savages who “mutilate the wounded
in the ghastly Abyssinian fashion.”
In the United Kingdom, with females exceeding
males by two millions, women voters preponderate
almost everywhere. This fact has a great deal to do
with the startling change that has come over British
foreign policy, and hence with the checks and
humiliations which Britain has suffered since its
foreign policy was altered.
In Britain, and in Australia, it is mainly to women
that the League of Nations Union looks for support.
Much has been made of the ballot taken by the League
of Nations Union on the question of applying the
coercive articles of the Covenant in the situation then
developing. It certainly had a great influence on all
the British parties ; and the majority for applying the
coercive articles was chiefly composed of women.
It was to women also that the Archbishops of
Canterbury and York and other bellicose bishops
principally appealed at critical stages of the quarrel
with Italy, notably when Sir Samuel Hoare and M.
Laval tried to make a peace which would have saved
Abyssinia proper for the Abyssinians and perhaps
prevented the German march to the Rhine. To the
predominant sex likewise Viscount Cecil of Chelwood
addressed himself in London on May 9 when he said
“We must not only maintain but, if necessary, inten-
sify ‘sanctions’ ” ; and Lord Lytton when he said
“We are prepared to take military action, if neces-
sary.” Viscount Cecil is 72, and childless. Lord
Lytton is 60, and has one son and two daughters.
Of course, the general body of Conservative mem-
bers know better than these dangerous old fools.
They know better also than the “Labor” and “Liberal”
politicians who still clamor for military “sanctions”
while voting against every proposal for strengthening
the services. Brought up with a firm faith in the
old foreign policy, which consisted in Britain’s mind-
ing its own business and the business of its Empire,
save only when some unfriendly military Power was
in a position to threaten it from the Low Coun-
tries, these Conservative members have a lively
sense of the fact that, where the old foreign
policy succeeded gloriously, the new fad of
collective security has ingloriously failed at the
first test. They realise that collective insecurity must
be scrapped, and with it the new diplomacy, which
consists in politicians like Mr. Anthony Eden making
grandiose progresses, attended by troops of reporters,
from capital to capital, in their brief pauses undoing
the work of the old diplomacy, which was left to
men of the world skilled in the languages of, and with
heaps of friends in, the countries to which they were
accredited.
But these Conservative members falter because
their electorates are crowded with ladies who are
wholly under the influence of “the dear vicar” or
“the dear bishop.” Having no more political acumen
than poultry, the ladies can be easily moved to
demand intervention for the poor dear Abyssinians
or to make his electorate unhealthy for any Conser-
vative politician who looks facts in the face.
Writing nearly three weeks before Haile Silassie
bolted with his boxes of gold, a London contributor
to the Brisbane “Courier-Mail” discussed the perils
to which Britain has been exposed and the prestige
its rulers have fooled away “since we practically dis-
armed ourselves in an armed camp,” and “forthwith
proceeded to enact the difficult and highly perilous
role of moral dictator to the world.” He reserves
most of his blame for “fanatical Leaguers,” but adds:
Their emotionalism has been heightened, without
being at all rationalised, by the enfranchisement of a
huge mass of feminist feeling.
Plainly, the future of Australia and Maoriland
will be imperilled if British policy raises up an enemy
for them in the Red Sea ; but in the determination of
that policy their plain interests may conceivably carry
less weight than the prejudices of a parcel of silly
women in Puddleton-on-the-Ooze. It is a new and
unforeseen and very disturbing result of enrolling the
sex that seldom pays taxes and never bears arms.
We may yet see the women voting the men into a
war and the men refusing to fight.
“OFFENSIVELY AUSTRALIAN.”
The voice of E. J. Brady proclaiming himself “offen-
sively Australian” was heard at a Sydney lunch
recently, and writing men looked up from their cold
ham and lettuce in astonishment. Writing men did
not eat cold ham and lettuce on upper floors of
drapers’ shops when Brady was young. For them
the sawdusted floor, the thick steak and the beer-
pot, in dives where a man might crack the ceiling
with his voice and shout with a conviction that some-
times led to a black eye.
It may have been a rude age, but it was a great
one. It was an age when the political world was
bounded on the west by John Forrest, who took
Mundaring water to Kalgoorlie, and would have taken
it to the South Australian border had it been needed
there ; and on the east by Thomas Mcllwraith, who
stole New Guinea, growling defiance, from under-
neath the noses of the Germans. Men spoke forth-
right Australian. They expelled unwanted aliens in
defiance of Downing-street. They would have scorned
the “Yes, Mr. Baldwin,” attitude which people now
tolerate and the predominant coalition has meekly
accepted.
There was never a greater need for a rough and
determined school of Australians ready to dare big
projects than there is to-day. Sand sweeps over
stations which the older generation stocked with herds.
Floods erode riverbanks which pioneer Australians
cleared of timber, and from which they pushed out
the blackfellow. Drought ravages thousands of square
miles. For all the money that has been spent on
“development” in the interval, Australia carries only
7.000. more sheep than it did in 1890, only
4.000. more cattle, only a few more horses and
fewer pigs.
True, sheep produce more wool than in the
older day, but they carry more burdens in improve-
ment costs, in taxation, in interest and in land values.
And cities within 25 miles of the coast hold four-
sevenths of Australia’s 6,700,000 people. To those
four-sevenths “development” mainly means the rear-
ing of more and more administrative palaces, picture-
theatres and city bridges, the laying-down of more and
more sewers and cement footpaths and the digging-in
and tending of more acres of municipal salvias and
cannas.
The growth of these “facilities” accelerates as
that of inland Australia languishes, as the sand moves
eastward, as the timber vanishes, as the rivers silt or
scour, as the artesian water dries up, as noxious weeds
spread, as more overstocked and overcapitalised land
goes out of production and taxes rise under the hand
of an ever-increasing army of bureaucrats.
In this new age, though the human material is
as good as ever, the Australian outlook is less con-
fident than it was 40 or 50 years ago. The Common-
wealth is dependent on other countries for its main
fuel supplies. Its defence system has been reduced
to a skeleton. Its “national” Government shudder-
ingly rejects the idea of national service and boggles
even at adding £llO,OOO p.a. to the cost of the militia,
so that it may have a force of 35,000 men to guard
a continent of nearly 3,000,000 square miles. Down-
ing-street dictation has returned (witness the abject
removal of the cement duties) and provincialism
(notably in the form of transport-strangulation) is
rampant once more.
Australia needs leadership. It needs new Forrests,
Mcllwraiths and Symes; builders, and men who will
take up the cause of Union again. It needs to transfer
some of its sympathy for the Abyssinians to its own
inland people. It needs patriotic singers with ai
authentic Australian note, such as was struck in the
’eighties and ’nineties. It needs to recapture that
faith in the nation and its future which was character-
istic of an age when difficulty was a challenge and
soft living a shame.
It may not be necessary for us to be “offensively
Australian,” but it is essential that we should be
Australian through and through.
LET’S ALL GO TO THE CORONATION!
Melbourne City Council decided last week that “in
order that the city of Melbourne may be fittingly
represented” at the coronation the Lord Mayor should
be authorised to undertake the arduous task. There
was a casual reference to £2OOO for expenses. It
brought forth hurried assurances that no mention of
money was necessary as yet, that being a matter for
the finance committee. That it might also be a matter
for the ratepayers was not considered.
One alderman, in opposing the motion, submitted
that “it would bring the council down to the level of
State and Federal Parliaments, where professional
politicians are nothing but mendicants.”
To this the Lord Mayor objected' He said he
“would not like it to come as an official statement
from the council.”
The plain-spoken alderman obligingly agreed to
call politicians “gentlemen earning a living for them-
selves and their families.” Purists might cavil at the
use of the word “earning,” but the council let it pass.
Without going into the question whether Mel-
bourne should be officially represented at the coro-
nation, the decision raises some interesting points.
One is the undoubted loyalty to the throne of
Melbourne ratepayers, who will probably be paying
more per capita than any other body of his Majesty’s
subjects for representation at the ceremony.
Firstly, as Australians, they will be privileged to
pay their share towards the expenses of the Federal
delegation led by the Prime Minister. The probable
cost of this has not been discussed openly, but Joe’s
Jubilee Jaunt knocked the taxpayers back £17,700,
and he was only a novice at tripping then.
Secondly, as Victorians, they will be permitted
to foot about 50 p.c. of the bill for the State Govern-
ment party’s cigars and fares, while as Melburnians
they’ll have the opportunity of putting in towards the
Lord Mayor’s £2OOO plus.
Finally, of course, if they can afford it they’ll be
allowed to pay their own expenses and go themselves.
The bigger question raised is one of example.
Civic pride and civic fatuousness being what they are
it is not likely that Australian capital cities will fail
to follow Melbourne’s example in ensuring that they
are fittingly represented at the coronation. Not to
do so would argue themselves lacking in loyalty to
the throne or in a proper appreciation of their own
dignity. Sydney’s Civic Reform League has seen
the point immediately.
Six times £lOOO-plus equals £12,000 plus a lot
more.
But why should it end there? If Melbourne is
to be fittingly represented, why not Prahran, Bathurst
and Moonta? Heaven forbid that they should be
thought less loyal than Melbourne, while as for dignity
one mayor looks much the same as another.
There are 355 Prahrans, Bathursts and Moontas
in the Commonwealth, and 355 times £2OOO equals
£710,000 (mayors’ robes aren’t as expensive as those
of lord mayors, and mayors eat and drink cheaper
brands of caviare and champagne than their more
lordly brethren, so their exes, might be kept down to
£2OOO a head. Therefore the plus has been omitted).
For £710,000, then, all the municipalities would
be fittingly represented. But what of those bodies
variously styled shire councils, district councils and
road boards? There are 660.
Imagine the consternation in Westminster Abbey
when the Lord Chamberlain whispers hoarsely to the
Archbishop of Canterbury “There’s no one here from
Yackandandah (or Nunjikompita or Chinkapook).”
The whole proceedings might be held up, all
through a little lack of forethought on the part of a
few shire councillors. We mustn’t have that sort of
thing happening.
Very well, then, another calculation.
Six hundred and sixty at—wait a bit! Presidents
of shire councils have simpler tastes than mayors;
talkies are cheaper than grand-opera seats, and beer,
though better, doesn’t cost as much as Veuve Cliquot.
Shall we say £l5OO per head? We shall.
Then 660 times £l5OO equals £990,000, plus
£lO,OOO to cover lost tickets and insurance against
confidence tricksters. That makes it a round million.
It will thus be seen that for the comparatively
trifling sum of £1,710,000 every city, town, borough
and shire in the Commonwealth could be fittingly
represented. But a doubt arises whether the proposals
go far enough.
It is possible that some of the wards might not
be satisfied with having the Lord Mayor as their repre-
sentative, however fitting he might seem. They might
wish to send their own alderman along as well. The
same situation might arise in the cases of mayors
and shire presidents.
It is even possible (though, of course, almost un-
thinkable) that electors might consider the Prime
Minister insufficient evidence of their attachment to
the throne, and might want to send a representative
from each electorate, State as well as Federal.
Clearly, it would be wrong to spoil the ship of
Empire for the sake of a couple of thousand pounds’
worth of tar. Australia must be fittingly represented
at the coronation. What’s £2OOO per head to a
country with a public debt of £1,200,000,000?
Hang it all! Let’s oil go!


PLAIN ENGLISH.
One Way of Wasting a Million.
Contributions to the League of Nations have cost
the Commonwealth £677,973 in good Australian
money. , •
Annual payments have ranged from £23,994 m
1927-28 to £68,350 in 1920-21. Few people under-
stand the basis of League contributions, but the Prime
Minister’s version is that they vary from year to
year, according to League expenditure. Australia at
the moment is responsible for 27 units out of 931.
Its assessment for 1936 is 776,981.05 Swiss francs,
equivalent to £64,500 Australian at the present rate
of exchange.
To the cost of League membership must be added
the loss of Italian trade. Our exports to Italy fell
from £419,947 in the November-March period of
1934-35 to £68,937 in the same period of 1935-36.
The Prime Minister denies that the difference
represents the cost of “sanctions.”
Australian trade figures must be taken as a whole.
Any loss of Italian trade has been more than com-
pensated for in other [unspecified] directions. Total
exports in the November-March period were £57,386,336,
compared with £42,783,371 in the same period of last
year.
As everyone knows, the increased value of exports
has been due principally to better wool, wheat and butter
prices. Without counting the cost of maintaining the
two R.A.N. cruisers in the Mediterranean for many
months, practically on a war footing, or estimating
indirect losses in the British market (in the Australian
egg trade, for instance) because of British concessions
to “sanctionist” countries like Yugoslavia, the P.M.’s
own figures indicate that our export trade, “taken
as a whole,” would have been £300,000 greater in
those four months but for “sanctions.” His conten-
tion that there was no loss is childish, and an insult
to public intelligence.
Pouring It Down the Sink.
Accustomed as they are to fantastic expenditure on
royal commissions, Federal members were startled
when the Prime Minister informed them that a Mel-
bourne barrister —a very capable barrister admittedly
—had been paid £9lB 7s. 6d. in fees for assisting the
Commission on Banking. So obvious was the effect
that Treasurer Casey hastened to inform the House
when the question was raised on the supplementary
estimates debate that the services of counsel had been
dispensed with. The obvious query is why they were
ever engaged. If they are not required now they were
never required.
The chief duty of counsel assisting a royal com-
mission is to prepare questions to be put to witnesses.
The idea of paying a barrister 15 guineas a day in
Melbourne and 20 guineas a day when absent from
Melbourne (plus a “reading fee” of 100 guineas) to
ask questions which commissioners (there are six)
should be quite capable of asking themselves will
appear a grotesque extravagance to taxpayers, especi-
ally as the secretary of the commission is a senior
Treasury officer and the chairman is a Supreme Court
Justice.
During the 1934 election campaign the Prime
Minister became apprehensive about the strength of
the Douglas Credit vote in his own State. He pro-
mised an inquiry to satisfy unattached voters who
might be inclined to swing to Douglas Credit, which
in Tasmania is tantamount to turning Labor, That
is the genesis of the Banking Commission.
The Government has never had any real interest
in the inquiry, but could not evade its promise without
loss of prestige. It is admitted that the thing has cost
£4841 already; and the bill mounts every day, for
the commission politely listens to the speculations of
all manner of cranks. A similar farce is being staged
in Sydney, where another expensive milk inquiry, com-
plete with barrister, was ordered in the hope of
silencing malcontents in the U.A.P. In other words,
because Ministers get cold shivers, tens of thousands
are spent to no purpose. The patience and toleration
of the Australian taxpayer are extraordinary.
An Airport for Fisherman’s Bend.
The Dunstan Government was asked last week “to
reconsider its decision not to establish an airport at
Fisherman’s Bend,” Melbourne. After a meeting of
Cabinet, the accidental Premier intimated that there
was no likelihood of the decision being altered, there
being “still a large demand for industrial sites in
that area.” It is Crown land, and Dunstan’s motto
is “Sell the public estate”!
Flying men are all agreed that the Fisherman’s Bend
site is the best in Melbourne for an airport. It possesses
almost as many advantages as Essendon lacks. It
is handy to the city, the river and Port, Melbourne ;
it is flat, firm and sandy, and is not hemmed in by
tall buildings; it is approached by a wide concrete
road, and is adjacent to a railway station. For night
landings (which must soon be a regular feature of
commercial flying) it would probably offer less nerve-
strain than any other ground in the Commonwealth.
In short, its value to Melbourne and Victoria
would in a few years be something it would be almost
impossible to assess in money. But, of course, a
Government which has no metropolitan member
among its followers, and which is kept in office by
courtesy of the party that opposed it at the polls, can t
be expected to worry about what is going to happen
after it has lived its brief hour and disappeared into
obscurity.
The position is rather reminiscent of the old
melodramas in which the spendthrift heir used to
hock the ancestral acres, but in this case it won’t be
the ghosts of his fathers that will come back to haunt
Dunstan. His apparitions will be solid, corporeal
citizens, each possessing one vote.
Charles Rosenthal.
Having the numbers, the N. S. Wales Ministerial
parties can vote whom they please into the Leg.
Council seat rendered vacant by the death of E. E-
Collins. If their soldier-preference is not a sham, they
will appoint one of the four most eminent A.I.F.
men still with us —Charles Rosenthal,
Charles Rosenthal has had political experience
in the Assembly—he was member for Bathurst. He
served in the Great War from the first day to the
last, and was five times wounded. He commanded the
Second Division when it won the glorious battles of
Hamel, Villers-Bretonneux and Mont St. Quentin, and
returned with the K.C.B.—one of four given to Aus-
tralian soldiers —the C.M.G., the D.S.O. and the
French and Belgian Croix de Guerre ; returned also
an Officer of the Legion of Honor.
A citizen soldier for 12 years before the war,
he became one again after demobilisation. 'For nine
years he has commanded the Second Division of the
A.M.F., and he has been a lifelong worker for the
National Rifle Association. In civil life he has been
president of the Federal and N. S. Wales Institutes
of Architects, of the Australian Forest League and of
the Australian Museum.
For a decade the R.S.L. has picked Rosenthal
to lead the Anzac Day march in Sydney. If it were
left to the Diggers his election would be a certainty.
But there are not many Diggers in Macquarie-street,
and Digger sentiments are not greatly valued except
once every three years or so.
Still Sweating the Professional Man.
Not long ago the Commonwealth Government had
the nerve to advertise for a tobacco expert with a
science degree at £6 10s. a week, and for a biochemist
with a diploma in chemistry or a science degree at
£5 15s. a week.
Now the “Commonwealth Gazette” has invited
applications for an examiner of patents at £5 6s. 2d.
Applicants are required to have training and experi-
ence in natural philosophy and electrical engineering.
Those with experience in radio communication and
the design of thermionic and photo-electric devices
will get preference.
Applicants for two other vacancies at the same
salary must be experienced in industrial and organic
chemistry, and have a degree and give details of their
knowledge of French or German.
In the same “Gazette” the Government seeks a
postmaster for Yungaburra (Q’land) at £6, and a
postal clerk for Mildura (Vic.) at £6 9s. 3d,
The Commonwealth Government is the largest
employer in Australia of men with scientific and pro-
fessional qualifications. If it does not set a decent
standard of pay private employers are encouraged
to pay less than technical work is worth. Its adminis-
trative officers have been recruited almost entirely
from the clerical division. They, for the most part,
entered the service as junior clerks by an examina-
tion a step or two above State-school standard. They
have no reason for complaints; there are architects
at Canberra who receive lower pay than clerks with
no particular qualifications or ability.
The Board of Public Service Commissioners,
judging by the salaries paid and offered, seems to
consider a technical man worth less than a clerk.
The Government meekly acquiesces in a system which
heavily discounts brains and the self-sacrifice involved
in years of study to obtain specialised knowledge.
Young-age Pensions.
“C. 8.”: W. M. Hughes deserves credit for being the
first Commonwealth Minister to tell Australia that if
it does not fill its cradles it is doomed. But he has
not made a single constructive suggestion as to how
the necessary babies are to be attracted.
To restore Australia’s natural increase to any
useful figure requires at least 186,000 births annually,
75,000 more than were born in the last censal year.
As general mortality rates increase still more will be
needed. Only one population-group, about 900,000
Australian wives of child-bearing ages, can possibly
supply them. Thirty-five thousand fewer babies are
born now yearly than were produced 14 years ago
by a population of a million and more less. Even
then natural increase was on the downgrade.
The reason is purely economic—a limited class
of low average income cannot afford both unlimited
babies and the high cost of reasonably comfortable
living created by taxation.
In the average household a first baby involves
the surrender of the mother’s freedom at once, far
more work and far less leisure for years after. Apart
from risk of life and pain it means £25 or more in
medical and nursing attendance and domestic help,
and a substantial increase in living expenses there-
after. Later ones involve similar burdens, though
lessened in their effect by previous experience, A
pound a week for the first year for first children and
for the first six months for later ones is a very mod-
erate estimate, A Young-age Pension scheme on these
lines would cost £6,000,000 p.a. on a basis of 186,000
births yearly, perhaps a million less with good service
organisation and co-ordination.
Mr. Hughes should add another article to his
series telling Australia frankly, from the viewpoint of
an astute and experienced politician, what are the
practical political possibilities of a Young-age Pension
or Assisted Best Immigrant scheme, and particularly
where the money is to come from. Free supplies of
babies are no longer available in the Australian market.
Going to See a Man Hanged.
“El Verdugo’s” impressions:
As carried out in N. S. Wales, hanging is as impersonal
and unrevengeful as the crushing of a spider or the killing
of a scorpion.
The drop is let into the floor of a high iron gallery
built round the inside of a steel-cell block. All around are
steel cell doors. Above, a dim illumination filters through a
skylight. Walls and roof are grey; everything indeed is grey
save the trailing white outline of the rope and the drab,
whitish cement floor and a yellow wooden form for the
witnesses and a striped piec.e of windowblinding which hangs
in front of the drop. The place smells like a laundry.
Suddenly the silence is broken by the clang of an opened
iron door a few feet from the drop. A boom of voices
rumbles as if the words were uttered inside an iron tank.
Out of a door comes a hurried procession, the central
figure with its arms trussed to its sides, its feet held together
with short hobbles which allow it to walk with little steps.
In a second it is on the drop. It gives a swift downward
glance as the rope goes round its neck. A pillowslip is
pulled over its head.
There is a scurry of feverish activity round it. Men
spring away.
A hand moves. A blinding crash follows. It has all
happened so quickly that you have scarcely seen the victim’s
face. And then the rope is hanging still and taut, and
the red-and-white-striped blind moves in the draught, and
a doctor, a few officials and a couple of convicts come for
what remains of the man who has paid in full for his crime.
Hanging has always seemed to me, from first-hand
observation under a variety of conditions, to be a painless
death. The horroi; of it lies in its ignominy. And if anyone
does not believe that the death penalty is feared by the
average wrongdoer, he should take a walk round the gaol
on an execution morning and note the atmosphere.
Aluminium Has a Jubilee.
Fifty years ago the electrolytic process of making
aluminium was discovered almost simultaneously by
two young men, only 22: an American, Charles
Martin Hall, and a Frenchman, Paul Heroult.
They did not live to see the aluminium age;
both died in 1914, Before their day aluminium
was a precious metal, used only for jewellery
and worth £5 a troy ounce. Napoleon 111. gave
aluminium trinkets to his friends, and an aluminium
nugget was exhibited beside the Crown jewels at the
Paris Exhibition in 1855. When the U.S.A. Govern-
ment in 1884 made a 100-ounce cap of it for the
Washington monument, it was looked on as having
indulged in vulgar ostentation.
The monumental cap is still in use in a revolu-
tionised world which glitters with aluminium, as
different from the soft original as the world of to-day
is different from the world of the ’eighties. Aluminium
is made so tough that in its alloy forms it now replaces
steel in bridges, dredge buckets and gun-mountings.
It is the modern metal in radio sets, telephone wires
and the internals of motor engines; it is used for
boats and for currency tokens. Without it the modern
passenger aeroplane and the Zeppelin would be im-
possible.
Aluminium has banished black saucepan drud-
gery from millions of kitchens. There are aluminium
houses, roads, articles of furniture, window curtains
and scientific instruments. Aluminium is the most
universal and one of the cheapest of metals, and one
of the most workable. Its manufacturers vision
aluminium clothes and newspapers.
When that age arrives, the only thing needed to
make a perfect universe will be the aluminium man.
Now It’s the Aga Khan.
That saint in Islam the Aga Khan, who breeds such
excellent racehorses, has never been to Australia, but
he is nevertheless positive that “the vast spaces of
Australia and other countries” could “absorb the
surplus population of Japan, Germany, Italy and
India,” and should be reserved for that purpose. Par-
ticularly for the surplus population of India.
Why shouldn’t India accommodate its own
population? Its 320,000,000 people are mostly huddled
along rivers and canals. Away from the rivers there
are spaces with advantages for which Central Aus-
tralians who have seen them would give their socks.
They carry scarcely a soul to the square mile.
And in the monsoon areas canals yearly add to
the stretches on which population can be placed.
Australia, for its part, has no big, snow-fed rivers
from which large canals can be built, as they can in
India.
Next door to India is Persia, with 628,000 square
miles and only about nine million inhabitants. The
majority are packed into towns and cities; yet on the
Persian highlands water can be had for the digging
of a kdnat to tap the underground rivers which flow
everywhere. Much of the almost empty country
resembles that around the Monaro, and with judicious
nursing and pasture improvement could carry mil-
lions on an Asiatic standard.
The Aga Khan’s letter appeared in the “Times.”
He should have sent it to “Punch.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”: Scene; the
placid shores of the
Lower Hawkesbury.
Time: Wednesday
afternoon. Persons of
the drama: hardy
fishermen, lifesavers, police, launch-
owners, watermen and assorted blokes.
Some are leaping with rage and all
are cursing heartily. In one case the
imprecations almost shrivel the vegeta-
tion. And all because two brothers for
whom they have been searching for the
best part of three days, and who were
given up for dead (murdered most
foully), have turned up alive and well at
Broken Hill, 700 miles from the sea,
their supposed cemetery. Next day the
story was told by the younger of the
interesting pair, a bookmaker who fields
at “the dogs,”, to a Barrier reporter.
On the Saturday morning they hired a
new motor-boat to go fishing. While
thus engaged, the elder brother, over-
come by the thought that he had “bor-
rowed money from everybody” and could
“see no prospect of paying” if he wanted
to pay, which he didn’t, tried to destroy
himself by sinking the boat. The sink-
ing processes were slow, and were delayed
by a desultory dialogue. Finally it
occurred to the bookmaker that he had
the “bank” for “the dogs” in his pocket,
and that this could be used to finance a
leisurely land journey that might expel
the idea of self-destruction. So they
beached the now-damaged boat, made
their way to a station on the Newcastle
railway, and continued on to the Barrier
by a roundabout route. It wasn’t till
they had been recognised by a police
inspector that they decided to get in touch
with a sorrowing world. Apart from
private expenditure, the search must have
cost the Government hundreds of pounds,
but apparently nothing can be done
about it except by the owner of the
motor-boat. He has an obvious claim for
damages.
* * * *
“F.F.”: During community singing at
Leeton (N.S.W.) the conductor proposed
the popular number “Rain.” Immediately
there was a roar of protest, and “Rain”
was not sung that night. Rice harvesting
is in full swing at Leeton,
* * # *
“Adelaide”: Quite unique was a
recent slander case in Adelaide. “He
said,” an indignant lady affirmed, “ T did
not come here for business. I came here
for love.’ ” And she claimed £4O damages.
“It was a business argument,” was the
man’s reply, “and what I said was ‘What
do you think I came here for—for love?’
And she took it the wrong way.” His
counsel argued that either at cards or
tennis “love” means “nothing.” And the
Judge said: “Natural and ordinary mean-
ing.” Judgment for defendant.
$ * *
“Gay ’Nineties”: A Maoriland paper
tells its readers that Mother’s Day origi-
nated in America in 1914. I question it.
“Mothering Sunday” was an old custom
in England 40 years ago to my know-
ledge. It took place just before Easter,
and married sons and daughters gathered
from far and wide for a day with the old
folks. I still recall with zest one particu-
lar meet in a Midland colliery district.
Both parents had been twice married, and
their joint and separate progeny, some
dozen in all, rolled up for the festivities.
For a time all was harmony ; then one of
the offspring started a rabbit-coursing
argument. The Donnybrook that ensued
became ah epic in those parts. Practically
every adult went into action, and there
“A beautiful vegetable, beautiful! Would you lend it to us for our
Harvest Festival?"
“ Wot, an risk gettin' it pinched?”
were overflow fights in the garden. A
Grenadier Guardsman and a bluejacket
lent color and a professional touch to the
conflict, but the supreme moment came
—for us kids at all events—when the soli-
tary village John Hop went down for the
count and lost all further interest in the
conversazione. I’ve seen family brawls
in various parts of the world since, but
the best of them compared with that
miners’ Mother’s Day was no more than
a tea-party squabble.
*
“Alea”: Most people would regard
dominoes as unlikely to make angry
passions rise or to culminate in
violent assault. But you never know.
At a police-court case heard in Syd-
ney the other day it was elicited
that two. patrons of a cafe where
the game enjoys a considerable vogue
suddenly ceased play, and from high
words came to savage blows. One
domino addict actually had his oppo-
nent by the throat when the mana-
geress, evidently a lady of quick percep-
tiveness, adopted the method occasion-
ally found useful in stopping dogfights
—a well-directed bucket of cold water.
It would be interesting to know what
started the rumpus. Was one player
detected with a double-six up his sleeve?
“Mr. Ketch”: I regret that Norman
Lindsay (B. 6/5/’36) has forgotten how
to tie the hangman’s knot which 1
showed him years ago. The one in his
drawing would lose my colleague his job,
and, more regrettable still, would be
likely to lead to a nasty accident, a
broken leg or worse, when the principal
character landed on the hard floor below
the drop. Also, the rope is so loosely
laid that it could never operate with that
easy slide which, aided by a trifle of
grease, does the last and most important
bit of the job. The first details which I
impress on apprentices are that only the
best Europe rope should be used, well
stretched and wetted till all the lays are
worked thoroughly into place, and that
four turns must be taken over the double
bight before passing the whipped end
through and hauling taut. But, to Mr.
Lindsay’s credit, the rope is coiled the
right way on the operator’s arm.
* * * *
“Aunt Sal”; My young nephew
brought this home from school the other
day. It was April 23, and the English
teacher greeted her class with an expec-
tant “Now, children, who can tell me
what famous person was born to-day?”
There was no hesitation about the
answer. “Shirley Temple!” yelled the
delighted class.
sfc * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland’s Labor Gov-
ernment’s decision to broadcast Parlia-
mentary debates is already enlightening
listeners on the extensiveness of the Par-
liamentary vocabulary. “Ass,” “snake,”
“muckraker” are some of the mildest
terms that have come over the air. One
Minister said that the present Govefn-
ment, on assuming office, found it-
self in a similar position to a tenant
entering into possession of a house for-
merly occupied by “a slatternly, dirty
and vicious housekeeper.” N.S.W. Parlia-
mentarians will have to extend them-
selves.
♦♦• ♦ ♦
“Greenhide”: Haile Silassie’s flight
brings to an end the oldest monarchy
in the w 7 orld. Ethiopia was a more or
less flourishing kingdom in the days of
the early Egyptian dynasties. In a way
Mussolini’s claim to a “Roman victory”
is correct, as neither Caesar nor Mark
Antony ever completed his embryonic
plans to conquer the mountainous coun-
try above the Upper Nile. They had no
tractors, for one thing, and nothing in
the way of chemical war-weapons except
a stink-bomb borrowed from the
Greeks. Compared with the Ethiopian
dynasty, even though the chain of
descent has often been broken, notably
by Haile himself, the pride of the Habs-
burgs, Windsors, Bourbons and Hohen-
zollerns is a thing of yesterday. Even
the descendants of the Prophet are par-
venus in comparison.
* * * *
“Hellas”: Mrs. Newlywed, who only
lately arrived in our little provincial
town, ran out into the street to waylay
the greengrocer, whose approach had
been heralded by a series of long-drawn-
out cries of “Veg -e-bools !” “What days
do you call?” she asked. The vendor of
garden produce eyed her coldly.
“Madam, I don’t call —I only ’oilers,
he informed her. Mrs. N. tossed her
head and retired; necessity, however,
must have since overcome pride, for the
other day I noticed her with a basket in
the bi-weekly cluster of housewives
around the autocrat’s cart. The same
operator has been “ ’ollerin’ ” in our
streets for over 20 years. Other vendors
come and go, but he outlasts them all, so
evidently “ ’ollerin’ ” pays.
Sc * * * -
“S.T.S.”: Fog in Australia, is it (B.
15/4/’36)? Why, driving up to Mount
Lofty, which though 2200 ft. high is prac-
tically a suburb of Adelaide, one may
run into dense mist any winter morning
or afternoon, the first notice being the
meeting of downward cars with their
lights on. Plentiful white posts, with
black band, seem to have banished all
danger, twisty as the road is.
Sc Sc * *
“Gabbett”: An application for a
liquor license for the Hobart Working
Men’s Club was opposed recently by tem-
perance bodies, neighboring publicans
and the police, mostly, if not entirely, on
the ground that there were already sev-
eral licensed clubs in the city with simi-
lar objects, and that potential members
of the Working Men’s Club could easily
be absorbed into them. When asked to
name some of these institutions a wit-
ness mentioned the Hobart, Tasmanian
and Athenaeum clubs. The magistrate
inquired, with every appearance of seri-
ousness, how many waterside workers
belonged to the three clubs mentioned,
and whether navvies in working clothes
were freely admitted. No answer being
forthcoming, he granted the license.
“Yarragundy”: Has the true story of
how blinded Diggers obtained the in-
crease of their pension from £2 2s. to £4
per week ever ap-
peared in print?
Here it is. “Eyes”
Padre Thompson,
of the 18th Bat-
talion (he sol-
diered as a pri-
va t e), led the
dep u t a tion to
Prime Minister
Hughes. Next to
Thompson was a
burly sleeper-
cutter from
Dub b o whose
hearing and sense
of touch were re-
markably keen.
Held up by Billy’s
secretary, who de-
clared it was im-
possible to see the
deputation with-
out an appoint-
‘ment, the sleeper-
cutter whispered
to Thompson
“Lead me to
Billy’s door,” and
with a sweep of
his brawny arm
shoved the as-
tounded secretary
out of the way. Billy bounced up
with a roar at the unauthorised in-
trusion, but before he could get
going the visitor broke in: “We're
a deputation of blinded soldiers after
an increased pension, and if you don’t
believe me here’s the proof.” Removing
his glass optics he plonked them down on
the Ministerial table. Billy said nothing
more; to his credit the increase was
granted.
* ❖ ❖ sji
“Ras Beri”; Many air pilots treat light-
ning hazards with contempt. They insist
that it is not possible for an aircraft to
be struck by lightning, since it has no
contact with the ground. But I have
known times, even with no visible elec-
trical disturbance, when it was quite im-
possible to wind in the wireless trailing
aerial owing to sparks sizzling off it
whenever a hand was placed near. My
air-gunner-operator once had his hand
badly burned thereby. On the same day
another machine of the squadron made
a rather dazed landing on our ’drome,
and both occupants were found to be
suffering from severe concussion. Their
wireless aerial (copper) and porcelain
lead-in tube had simply ceased to exist,
and a gaping hole about two feet square
had been sheared clean out of aluminium
and fabric in the belly of the machine.
Every scrap of banding (copper strip con-
necting metal parts of the aeroplane) had
been melted away. Neither man ever
questioned the lightning hazard after
that.
“ONE OF THE SUPREME FACTS”
“A change of wind is one of the supreme facts
of daily life, especially in moments of crisis.”
— “S. M. Heraldexcusing itsielf for suddenly tu/isl-
ing on the Italo-Abyssinian question.
Some fellows turn their coats in times of
rumpus,
Crawfish or eat their words or jump Jim
Crow,
Recant, apostatise or box the compass
Or, in our crisp Australian term, “Yes-No.”
But there’s a stigma patently designed in
Hard words like these to leave a chap chag-
rined;
A meaning much less sinister you’ll find in
The phrase that stamps the cause for change
of mind in
A change of wind.
A change of wind! How oft, tossed hither
and thither,
They prayed for it who crossed in sail the
sea,
Oblivious of where it came or whither
’Twas like to go—as, in this instance, we.
From cloudless skies it sometimes started blow-
ing,
While skippers slapped their thighs and shell-
backs grinned,
And the good ship, with all her canvas showing,
Responded to, wherever she was going,
A change of wind.
How else may maid discern or man discover
The time has come affections to transfer
To some more eligible type
of lover,
Some likelier Him or
more alluring Her?
What matter bygone vows
and past professions
When either may (and
often does) rescind
And knock the bottom out
of old obsessions
As merely temporary in-
discretions —
A change of wind!
A change of wind! Ah,
whether things are
humming
Or none too good, ’twas
ever much the same,
However slow we were to
see it coming
We always answered to
it when it came.
It dominates this life of
ours supremely;
No need to cry “Peccavi
—I have sinned”
Ev’n when you modify your
views extremely.
The “Herald’s” plea is
surely far more
seemly—
A change of wind.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“D.W.N.”: In an eleventh-hour
attempt to force the addition to the Olym-
pic team of the lady hurdler whose case
was taken up in the House of Represen-
tatives, a time trial was arranged by Syd-
ney “Sun.” It says the young woman got
within one-tenth of a second of the
Olympic record ; and had she not stopped
to don an eyeshade with which to finish
she must have shattered it. The “Sun”
published photographs of “the start,” “the
centre, taking the hurdles,” and “the
finish,” and in “the finish” she is sporting
an eyeshade, of which there is no sign
in the other pictures.
* ❖ 'l' *
“Soldat”: “Bludangutz” is sadly behind
the times with his suggestion that
cyanides might be found deadly imple-
ments of warfare (B. 6/ 5/ ’36). Prussic
acid gas was experimented with by the
French on the Western Front in 1917,
and discarded as useless. The trials
showed that the minimum fatal concen-
tration was one part of prussic acid to
2000 parts of air, and this had to exist
for five minutes. As a gas, prussic acid
is slightly less dense than air ; hence it
diffuses rapidly and the toxic effect dis-
appears.
“Kwakprak”: Potassium cyanide? Ten
thousand tons would not go anywhere near
to killing all fish life in, say, Bass Strait,
let alone the ocean generally, which aver-
ages over two miles deep. Some of the
tellurium derivatives are infinitely more
poisonous than potassium cyanide. Still
the latter is a faster worker than “B.” sug-
gests. Doing a locum in a Vic. mining
town years ago, I stopped at a cyanid-
ing plant to ask the way from some of
the hands, who were having midday
scran. Turning to leave, 1 heard a
sudden flurry, and a big, hairy chap
pitched over, frothing at the mouth and
rolling his eyes. An emetic and artificial
respiration brought him round, but he
was fairly close up to it. A flake of
cyanide had been entangled in the thick
hair of his arm, above ordinary washing
level, and had tumbled off on to his
corned-beef sandwich. There were
several others there when I looked.
V : I :
“Balder”: It is all very well for learned
fudges to pooh-pooh the Biblical hell and
for bishops of advanced views to discredit
the Biblical heaven (B. 6/5/’36), but if
such ideas gain ground it is going to
make the going hard for missionaries.
Primitive races are not in the least likely
to abandon an old religion (or none at all)
for a new one unless there is a guarantee,
or at least a fair prospect, of some sub-
stantial advantages to be gained or penal-
ties to be evaded thereby. If it is
once admitted that there are no such
places as heaven and hell as convention-
ally featured I am puzzled to know what
substitutes will be offered to prospective
converts.
H* H* %
“G.L.G.”: One of the members of our
tennis club is very much opposed to the
wearing of slacks by women. Recently
his best girl disregarded his prejudice,
and their love affair came to an abrupt
end. Nevertheless he remembered the
lady on her birthday a month later, and
presented her with a huge briar pipe!
* * * *
“L’Oiseau”: Long-range visibility (B.
15/4/’36 and 29/4/’36)? The late Archie
Meston records that when he climbed the
Bellenden Ker Range in the ’eighties he
could descry the Palm Islands to the
south and the Cooktown coast to the
“What's that? Not as fat as your old Woman? Ah, but you should have seen her before she started
slimmin.”
north. In either direction the distance is
120 miles by Euclid’s straight line. Of
course, he struck a fine day shortly after
rain—all our Far North fine days are
shortly after rain—when the air was
washed clear of dust. On such a day an
acre of Red Natal grass in the Atherton
cemetery can be clearly seen from
Lamman’s Hill, 20 miles away on the
other side of the Tableland.
* * * *
“Miro”: Huge waves of unknown
origin are not unusual on the west coast
of Maoriland, especially in the North
Island. All experienced fishermen know
of them, and newcomers are always
warned to “keep an eye on the sea,” even
in the calmest weather. I once saw a man
fishing on the reef near Karekare, a
popular west-coast resort, abandon his
line, clutch two youngsters, near by, and
climb with his burden up the nearest
cliff. Even then the huge wave that he
had seen coming more than a mile away
broke over him as he clung to the scrub
and sheltered the children. The Maoris
knew these waves of old, and ascribed
them to the wrath of Tangaroa, the god
of the seas. Scientists don't seem to offer
a much clearer explanation.
“Is she conscious?”
“Yes, yes —everything will be all right”
“Well, go and ask her where she put the poker chips.”
“Col B.”: An odd copy of Australia’s
smallest daily, the “Torres Straits Pilot,”
recalls the tale —perhaps only one of Ben
Trovato’s, but told in all seriousness to
many a newcomer in days gone by—of
the birth of journalism on Thursday
Island. Not long after the transfer from
Somerset, it went, there arrived a tall
cadaverous man, with a particularly
buxom wife, a fount of assorted type,
frames, composing stone and other con-
stituents of a printing business, except
a press. Nevertheless, the town flared
next day with neatly-printed posters, an-
nouncing the foundation of a local organ
of public opinion. Public interest, ex-
cited to intense curiosity, led to ques-
tionings of the colored factotum who
alone was permitted the entree to the
machine-room. Suitably bribed, he re-
vealed that “White missus puttim sit-down
b’long her altogether too much puttim
along paper, makim plenty lilly fella
mark other side that fella paper.” Pub-
lication ceased eventually after the
strain of bringing out special editions on
account of a Russian war scare began to
tell on the lady’s health, and T.I. re-
mained without a newspaper until the
foundation of the “T. S. Pilot” by Alex.
Corran, now the island’s Mayor in per-
petuity.
* * ❖
“Bibliophile”; There are two copies of
Stevenson’s “Open Letter to Rev. Dr.
Hyde” (B. 13/5/’36) in the Mitchell
Library. The original appeared as a five-
column letter in the “Australian Star” on
May 24, 1890. The edition printed in
pamphlet form for private circulation bv
Maclardy, of the Ben Franklin Printing
Works, Sydney, ran to only 25 copies.
One has been sold at Sotheby’s for £5O.
One of the men who had the handling of
the Sydney edition has left it on record
that when the pamphlet was being sent
out from the works he discovered about
12 copies in excess of the number
ordered, and these were thrown into the
waste-paper basket. It may be noted
that the author was none too proud
of this effusion, which he admitted he
had written in anger. Stevenson himself
never saw Father Damien; all he
knew of him was by hearsay ; and, after
all, Hyde’s letter, however unkindly, was
meant to be private. It was addressed
to a brother-parson named Gage, and
somehow or other got into the “Sydney
Presbyterian.”
* * * *
“Nick”: After crossing the Haunted
Stream on the Bruthen-Omeo road (Vic.),
one passes through Hell’s Gate, and climbs
the winding section known as the Devil’s
Backbone, Just through Omeo, visible
from the top of the rise, is a sign adver-
tising Shell. To convince the traveller
that he is on the right track, a
tall gum neatly obscures the first letter of
the first word.
'! : v
“Spare Catullus”: An assassination
almost rivalling in importance that of
Serajevo has plunged Hungary into
wrathful gloom. The famous sparrow
newsvendor of Budapest has been slain
by commercial rivals, and the old lady
who was his partner in the firm is grief-
stricken. When she was absent, the
sparrow took charge of the stall, and it
was quite useless offering him a trouser
button instead of a coin for a paper.
Visitors from all over Europe made a
point of interviewing him, with gratifying
results to the business, results that led
directly to his end. The cables have
mourned his passing, and even the Lon-
don “Times” has not disdained to give
him a quarter-column sub-leader.
* * ❖ s£
” “Uco”: Mention of Big Bertha (B.
6/5/’36) reminds me of one item Hitler
hasn’t thought of in his efforts to restore
German prestige and self-respect. Every
city and town in Australia (and presum-
ably the same holds good for the rest of
the Empire) has its war trophy in the
shape of a German gun, ranging in size
from the huge death-dealers that disfigure
city parks and gardens down to the small
machine-gun that serves to remind the
two men and a dog of Bungabilla that we
won the war. Comparatively few of these
were captured in battle; the bulk of
them were taken over under the Ver-
sailles treaty when Germany was dis-
armed. Judging by the thoroughness
with which they have been distributed in
this country, there must have been
enough to supply every town, village and
hamlet in all the territories of the Allied
and Associated Powers, including the
Pork-and-beans. When Hitler wakes up
and demands ’em back there should be
a big revival in the German shipping in-
dustry.
BALLAD OF THE TOOTHBRUSH
MO.
Beards have I seen of ev’ry shape and size,
From ziffs of Vandyke cut to those that
raced,
Disdaining artifice and compromise.
From virile chin to ever-widening waist.
Where are they now? Deleted and effaced,
Gone where the whirling leaves of autumn go,
Those ornaments our grand-dads’ chivs that
graced!
Enter the season of the toothbrush mo.
Whiskers I’ve known their wearers used to
prize,
The spreading set they sometimes called full-
faced,
Bounded from west to east by ears and eyes,
Or those in which resemblance might be
traced
To mutton-chops on which their name was
based.
But where to find them now you’d hardly know.
They’re counted out, gone to the pack, dis-
placed.
Their lone successor is the toothbrush mo.
Young Lochinvar to-day the razor plies
Daily about a countenance uncased
With any form of hirsute enterprise.
No longer does his face-fur tickle chaste
Virginal cheeks that yearn to be embraced
Or grate unpleasantly on necks of snow.
Stay! v I was near forgetting in my haste
There’s no embargo on the toothbrush mo.
Prince, keep it primly pruned and sparsely
spaced,
One measured inch is all you need to show.
Cut rigidly to pattern, not to taste,
The stamp of fashion’s on the toothbrush mo.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


It. A'
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
—om
2«/„ r ir6
10/^9“
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
THE C
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENE R A T I
POLLITICAL POINTS
“The League Council has again post-
poned discussion of the Italo-Abyssinian
question”—till June 15 this time. “Chile
abstained from voting and Argentina and
Ecuador made reservations.” This means
that the South American countries are
abandoning “sanctions” (and Guatemala
is getting out of the League); but the
British Commonwealth of Nations is to
continue to be “the mug.”
“The Government does not admit that
‘sanctions’ are a complete failure,” said
the P.M. the other day; and he gave
characteristic “reasons.”
Italian exports to “sanctionist” coun-
tries are only about 6 p.c. of Italian
exports a year ago.
Though Australian exports to Italy for
five months of 1935-36 show a great loss,
the great loss has “apparently been more
than compensated for in other directions.”
But what was the object of “sanctions”?
To wreck trade with Italy or to prevent
the Italians gobbling up Abyssinia? This
isn’t the silly season, Joe!
Bertie Johnston has been at the
Senate to press for lower duties on
all sorts of things, chiefly agricul-
tural implements. Bertie knows little
about agricultural implements, but, as
a hotel landlord with about 12' pubs
in Westralia and more building, he knows
something about beer; and he would be
better occupied in trying to get lower
duties on that commodity. Most of his
constituents would benefit if he brought
it off ; and, since the war, the price of beer
has gone up far more in proportion than
the price of agricultural implements.
Speaking to a remnant of the Seamen’s
Union, which has readmitted Tom Walsh
as a member, Keenan, the general secre-
tary —who described himself to Attorney-
General Menzies as a “fairly active Com-
munist”—said “There are 200 Com-
munists holding official trade-union posi-
tions in Australia.” And every one a
“sanctionist,” no doubt.
Martin, the N-S.W. Minister for Justice,
has acknowledged that a Judge is about
to be sued for £llBl for Federal and
State income taxes alleged to be owing,
but professes ignorance of the name. That
will have to come out if the charges are
established, and another question will
have to be faced —whether a Judge who
can’t or won’t pay his taxes should be
allowed to remain on the Bench.
On Thursday the Lyons Government
brought in a bill appropriating £451,500
“to assist metalliferous mining and
forestry,” and £250,000 “for the encour-
agement of drilling for oil.” Neither is
its job. On the same day it took all sorts
of credit for having authorised the ex-
penditure of “nearly £40,000” on lighting
of aerodromes and preparation of emer-
gency landing-grounds. The difference
represents what it really thinks of the
respective claims of vote-catching expedi-
ents and national matters.
The Abyssinian representative turned
up at the League Council meeting last
week, whereupon the Italians walked out.
According to a lady returned from
Geneva, the dark gentleman is known
there as “the little black pearl of
Ethiopia.” Photographs of unmention-
able mutilations inflicted on Italian
wounded by savages who just missed
being “our gallant allies” are now to
be seen in Sydney. If the “little
black pearl” is anything like Haile
Silassie’s “Christian” soldiers it’s a pity
the oyster wasn't drenched with vinegar.
Notwithstanding pleas and tears and
ferocious political attacks, the N.S.W.
Government sent young Hickey to the
gallows for the murder of its mild old
Conciliation Commissioner, Henwood;
but the strain visibly told on Ministers,
Martin especially. It wasn’t eased by the
Prime Minister, who, replying to an im-
pertinent question asked in the House as
part of the political agitation, had the
execrable taste to say that he had “always
been opposed to capital punishment.”
Similarly, Joseph has always been opposed
to national service—at least from 1916
onwards —but the party he now embar-
rasses with “leadership” chose to over-
look that.
The Labor-socialists’ supremacy in the
new M.L. Parliament and their plans
for giving everything to everybody with-
out its costing anybody anything have
driven Reformers and Libs, to drop their
differences and unite in a new party, to
be called the “National party.” Aus-
tralian experience of parties thus labelled
is that they take the name in vain. Per-
haps M.L. will have better luck.
On the motion of McLachlan, the
P.M.G., the Senate has asked the House
to place Portland cement from Britain,
manufacturers of which pay 20 p.c. divi-
dends, on the free list. The debate was
THE "POLICY” OF THE LYONS GOVERNMENT.
preceded by a speech at Melbourne in
which the British High Commissioner
said, among other things:
Supposing the Parliament at Westminster
had decided to disregard the Ottawa agree-
ment. Would not the Australian Govern-
ment have been entitled to protest
vigorously?
Asked whether that sort of thing was in
order, Pearce replied that his Govern-
ment “took no exception to the remarks
of Sir Geoffrey Whiskard.” Perhaps
Dominion status is all moonshine, and
Australia has become a set of Crown
colonies again.
Donald Cameron is a fine fellow, bur
he lacks tact. Last week he reminded the
Government of its threat to restrict im-
ports from the U.S.A., a subject it wanted
to forget. Cameron is against restriction
on political grounds, since “American
goodwill should be courted.” American
friendship should certainly be preserved.
Still the fact remains that the balance of
trade with the U.S.A. is embarrass-
ingly against Australia; also the excuse
given at Washington that the Govern-
ment there could not redress it because
it believed in “multi-lateral agreements”
won’t hold water. It has just entered
into a two-sided trade agreement with
France, providing for tariff concessions
on wine and brandy.
Though a Maoriland conversion loan
has had a frosty reception on the London
market, the Labor Government has asked
Parliament to approve of a three-
years public-works programme, to cost
£17,500,000.
The basic pay for laborers —married or
single, European or Maori—is fixed at 16s.
per day for a' five-day week of 40 hours,
and there are to be improved accommoda-
tion and facilities.
Minister Nash’s main argument for the
introduction of guaranteed prices was
that the farmers were mostly broke. If
this is so, there will be a blackguard rush
of farmers and farm laborers for the 16s.
a day, with “recreational facilities.”
It is estimated that the S.A. Treasury
will benefit to the extent of nearly
£200,000 from betting and tote taxes this
year. Ghosts of bygone Treasurers
must be gnashing their spectral teeth in
envy.
Mr. “Foreign” Smith, returning from
a long and cheery jaunt at Queensland’s
expense, announces that he will offer a
vigorous defence of his Government’s
transport legislation. He refers to a time
limit on the running of motor-trucks —a
maximum of eight hours daily, and not
more than five hours continuously. Per-
haps it means that the Strangulation
Board will be empowered to create a
new crime, and to seize three’ trucks
instead of one.
Maoriland Labor is mailing gaily into a
Sargasso Sea of guaranteed prices to
farmers, beginning with butter. Accord-
ing to Nash, the Minister of Finance;
From Aug. 1, 1936, to July 31, 1937,
the price to be paid will be determined
after taking into consideration the price
received during eight to ten years to
July 31, 1935.
It is expected that butter producers will
be guaranteed Is. Id. a pound, though
Is. 3d. was mentioned last year by Labor
platform orators. The average realised
last year was Is. If no more is realised
under the guarantee system, Maoriland
will have a grand old bill to pay, and it
will lose the advantage of comparatively
low taxation. Still, it will probably lose
that advantage anyway, Labor being in
office for the first time.
James v. the Commonwealth is drag-
ging on in London, and the Privy Coun-
cil judgment may not be delivered for
months. Meanwhile, though Menzies has
exerted all his eloquence as a lawyer in
a cause in which, as a politician, he prob-
ably doesn’t believe, remarks dropped by
some of the Judges, and reports of the
telling argument put up by Sir Stafford
Cripps for Westralia and Tasmania, have
had such an effect on “orderly-marketing”
zealots that McEwen, M.H.R., has im-
plored Lyons to prepare for a referendum
in case the decision should be against his
Government.
Another W.A, redistribution plan has
been rejected on the motion of Curtin.
He, of course, is concerned for Fre-
mantle, but his ground of objection was
that more territory would be added
to Kalgoorlie. It is a difficulty which
can’t be overcome; but the House
is always obliging in these matters to a
protesting member. As designed when
the House had higher standards, the
Federal electoral law is one of the fairest
in the world. Politicians have made it
different.
Westralian Labor has put Hawke into
the Ministry, the stunning defeat in the
East Perth by-election having made it
impossible to keep Kenneally there any
longer. Hawke was in the S.A. Assembly
for three years. Going to W.A. he made
the important discovery that Northam,
held since 1905 by Jimmy Mitchell, twice
Premier, was really a Labor seat. He got
the nomination himself, ousted Mitchell
and increased his majority substantially
at the February election. As Collier
can’t go on for ever and nobody thinks
much of the amiable Willcock as a
leader, Hawke has no mean chance of
becoming Premier.
To the political literature of N. S.
Wales there has been added a tome en-
titled “Report of Select Committee on
Appointment of Officers to Pilot
Steamer ; 2s, 6d.” The document con-
tains 36,000 words and is concerned with
the question whether Polglase or Row-
lings should have been appointed second
mate of the Captain Cook. To save tax-
payers half a crown, it is here notified
that the select committee’s vote was for
Polglase.
Queenslanders grumble at unemployed-
relief taxation, but pay up under the im-
pression that they are keeping their
brothers from starving. They got a shock
when three-fourths of the persons bagged
in a raid on an s.p. joint in Brisbane
proved to be on relief. Although things
are supposed to have returned to normal,
unemployed-relief-tax revenue and ex-
penditure are increasing.
On an impending resignation:
Memories of the Marconi scandals are re-
called by the rumpus over the leakage of
British Budget secrets, which a committee
is investigating. One Alfred Bates —self-de-
scribed as “interested in companies owning
sporting newspapers and acting as advertising
and publicity experts, chiefly for bookmakers
and racecourses’’ —was one of those who in-
sured heavily against income-tax and tea-duty
increases, which duly arrived. Sir Maurice
Hankey, who is Secretary to the Cabinet, told
the tribunal that “any leakage of information
must have occurred through the Cabinet itself.
A sharebroker son of Jimmy Thomas, now
Minister for the Colonies, admitted that Bates
was a friend of the family, and that he, as
broker, had placed the gentleman’s insurance
gamble, and when the Budget announcements
were made had said “Goodness; Bates’s in-
surance has come off.” The elder Thomas,
while denying that he had made any dis-
closure to Bates or anyone else, admitted that,
a few days before the Chancellor revealed the
impending tax-increases to Cabinet, Bates had
completed the purchase of a house for him
(the Minister), advancing £15,000 on the security
of an unwritten autobiography for which
Bates had offered him £20,000. The affair
will hasten the necessary reconstruction of the
Cabinet.


# ye c-^uu
AWAsY TAt Y'R.ROOIVI A.N
THE <3»uj\D BOOVC .
AhVl MO have ve BREAKIMCj
The Sabbmh
LET US PLAY!
“A Bendigo Congregationalist invites young people to attend his church in tennis or hiking costumes. ‘Services/ he says, should be 'held at times to suit the convenience
of those who wish to play games.’”


i
lira
niiiiriip
n 3
11!
_
■ i ■—
JL
6
Rooms and Suites are now available in this new and
delightful section of the Hotel, which is set back from the street trontage, and thus the
maximum of sunshine and fresh air is secured.
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW—JUNE 17-20.
Early bookings are desirable, and our
regular patrons should not fail to confirm their reservations.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
TMustralia
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Duke of Connaught, who cele-
brated his 86th birthday last week, is the
last surviving son of Queen Victoria,
and the last surviving godson of the
Duke of Wellington. Thackeray wrote
a ballad on his birth, and in his
boyhood he knew relations who were
alive when George 111. came to the
throne. The handsome old man saw a
good deal of war service. He earned a
C.B. in command of a brigade of Guards
at Tel-el-Kebir in ’B2, and held divisional
commands in Britain and India until
1901, when he took over an army corps
for three years before becoming C.-in-C.
in the Mediterranean. At 57, he) retired
lo easier jobs—he was G.G, in Canada
and opened the first S. African Union
Parliament. His one connection with the
Antipodes is his colonelcy of the N.Z.
Rifle Brigade.
T. E. Field is general manager of
Elder, Smith and Co., Adelaide, a firm
with roots as deep as S. Australian history.
FIELD, of Elder, Smiths.
Elder, Smiths did much of the pioneer-
ing work of the centre —the original
Elder imported the first camels, and later
generations have been widely known for
their work in finance and national organi-
sation. Field is a man of strong charac-
ter, busy with a wide variety of interests
in keeping with the catholic enterprise of
his firm. His greatest assets are an
untiring industry and an unusual capacity
for detail,
A Digger, and a distinguished one,
A. A. Evans, captured the seat that
Shields lost at the Tas. Leg. Council
elections. Evans was at The Landing, and
was twice wounded in Gallipoli. In
France he was wounded three times and
gassed five times. An artilleryman, he
returned with the D.S.O, and the M.C.
and five mentions in dispatches ; he com-
manded the 10th Field Artillery Brigade
for a time. Evans is a Boer War veteran
also. Between wars he was an oarsman,
a harrier and a cyclist—he rode in the
Warrnambool-Melbourne race one year.
The late Viscount Allenby was a tower-
ing Inniskilling officer with a flair for
organisation and a penchant for picking
men. He recognised the talents of Chauvel
and secured Lawrence his real chance
after the ride to Akaba. He was
a friendly and approachable person, but
a stern disciplinarian to whom the war
was a bitter pill, since it took away the
life of his only son at a moment when
he himself was deep in the organising of
the 1917 Palestine campaign. He saw
service with the Inniskillings in Bechu-
analand in the early ’eighties, fought
through S’Africa, and had risen to be
Inspector of Cavalry when war broke out.
In 1917 he went from an army corps
command in France to straighten out the
muddle of the Egyptian command. He
finished with a peerage and one of the
five field-marshals’ batons given to war-
time generals—Haig, Robertson, Foch and
the King of the Belgians were the others.
Parliament gave him a substantial money
grant, and he spent five years after the
war in Kitchener’s old seat as High Com-
missioner in Egypt. Allenby held the deco-
rations of more countries than probably
any other British officer —14 foreign
nations honored him. He is succeeded
by a nephew in the 11th Hussars, son
of one of Beresford’s old captains who
was in the bombardment of Alexandria.
Chief Justice and Lieut.-Governor
James Blair, of Queensland, celebrated
his sixty-fifth birthday last week at
Charleville, where he was on circuit. He
is the most adventurous of living Aus-
tralian Judges, and he once rested from
the duties of an Attorney-General-
ship by setting forth in an open motor-
car of 1907 vintage to make the first
car journey through the rougher parts of
the western black-soil country.
“Idee”: William Joseph (“Bill”) Jor-
dan, off to London to succeed James Parr
as Maoriland’s High Commissioner, will
not be in strange territory in the Strand.
Before he came to M.L. Jordan served
a term in the London Metropolitan
Police and also in the London postal ser-
vice. Since then he has been soldier,
farmer, businessman and politician. He
was badly hit in France, and after “cease
fire” he took advantage of the army edu-
cation scheme. He has been in Parlia-
ment since 1922.
Eric J, Morgan, a
director of Mt. Mor-
gan, Ltd., has had
great faith in the
Queensland mine.
The present co. is
making low - grade
(3dwt. to 4dwt. ex-
traction) ore treat-
ment highly payable.
Morgan, educated at
Ballarat College, en-
listed in the 6th
Batt. and left Aus-
tralia at the age of
18. He lost his right
arm a year later, and
won’t have it that
the loss is a handi-
cap. He carries on
a sharebroking busi-
ness in Melbourne ;
Upper Watut, to be
tested by Bulolo, is
a popular stock in
his office. Besides
having driven a car
extensively in Aus-
tralia, the U.S.A.
and other coun-
tries, EJ. plays golf and tennis.
“El V.”: Anthony Eden has estab-
lished a fame of his own as the best-
dressed contemporary British politician.
Baldwin’s favorite costume is the black
coat and striped trousers peculiar to the
City. Neville Chamberlain seems to
have inherited his father’s clothes,
which ’ give the impression of being 100
small for him, and his collar is
of the pre-war single stockade variety.
Churchill’s clobber looks as if he crawled
into it and put his head out of the hole
in the top. Eden, for his part, is a true
Savile Row tailor’s model from his
immaculate black hat to his shining shoes,
and he sets off the ensemble, without a
photograph of which no woman’s paper
is complete in Britain, with an umbrella
rolled to unbelievable dimensions of slim-
ness. “Eden, you would have made his-
tory if you had turned up in the Book of
Genesis like that,” exclaimed A. P. Her-
bert as he contemplated the League’s
paragon dressed for a Sydney press func-
tion. “You would have made Joseph in
his coat look so darned untidy!”
A good tip for a future headship of
the Australian Navy is Charles Farquhar
Smith. A Taree (N.S.W.) boy, he was
in the battle of Heligoland in 1914, and
he was torpedoed in the Aboukir.
He saw the rest of his war ser-
vice in H.M.A.S. Sydney, and was
flag-captain successively to two Aus-
tralian cs.-in-c. before becoming Second
Naval Member of the Naval Board. A
few months ago Farquhar Smith went to
England in the Brisbane on exchange to
the R.A.N. He completed the senior
officers’ war course, and has now been
appointed to command H.M.S. Iron
Duke, Jellicoe’s old flagship, which has
become a gunnery training school.
A naval reminiscence from “0.T.”:
Vice-Admiral Alexander Ramsay—a son of
the Earl of Dalhousie and husband of Princess
Pat of Connaught—has been appointed to
command the West Indian Station R.N. A
tall, good-looking fellow who has spent all his
life in the navy, he was in Australia in com-
mand of a light cruiser with the Atlantic Fleet
in 1924, and showed himself a good, if re-
served, mixer. One night he was in a noted
Bohemian club in Melbourne. A civil servant
breezed in with a rough-and-ready grazier much
the worse for wear who, being introduced,
proceeded to put an arm round the shoulder
of royalty’s husband and sing the praises
the “Brsh navlofficersh —fine fellersh all.” A
shocked membership prepared an ungrappling
attack, but A.R. was quite master of the situ-
ation. “Don’t you think it would be better
to enjoy our —ah —communion of souls in
private?” said he. “What about lunch on the
ship with me to-morrow?” And, shaking
hands heartily with the bibulous one, he left
with his dignity intact.
Death-sentence men in Sydney’s Long
Bay prison have a kindly mentor in
“Another Mining MORGAN.”
George Murphy, who
has had a lifelong
connection with the
N.S.W. Prisons De-
partment' — George’s
father was in the
department before
him. But he had a
reputation of an-
other kind among
the Turks on Gal-
lipoli, where he
commanded the 18th
Battalion when only
32. He was in
charge of the rear-
guard at Plugge’s
Ridge and of Anzac
Beach during the
Evacuation. After-
wards he fought in
Sinai, France and
Belgium, and found
himself in Germany
during the early
days of the occupa-
tion. He came back
with seven mentions
in dispatches, a
D.S.O. and bar and a
C. and has been N, S. Wales sheriff
since 1925.
Baker, the new Opposition-leader in
Tasmania, was born in Liverpool, and is
a lawyer and a returned soldier. He
served with the 4th Field Ambulance of
the 14th Battalion and brought back a
D. Incidentally, there is no returned
soldier at the head of any Australian
Government; and there are seven
Governments.
Rev. C. E. Turnbull, new State
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church in
N. S. Wales, is a tall, grave, scholarly
cleric who has spent the better part or
his years in the vineyard outside his
native country. Born at Deniliquin
(N.S.W.) in 1880—his father was a Bank
The Rev. C.E. TURNBULL, N.S.W.
Presbyterian Moderator.
of N.S.W. official —he left school at 13,
continuing his studies under private
tutors. He entered the Rehoboth Mis-
sionary College in Melbourne under the
Rev. W. Y. Blackwell, and. went as a lay
missionary to India, where he stayed six
and a half years. Returning to Australia
in 1910, he completed his theological
studies at St. Andrew’s College, Sydney,
was ordained in 1913, and went back to
India as the first ordained Australian
Presbyterian minister there. He worked
in India for 18 years, except for a break
of three years when he visited Australia
for health reasons and was in charge cf
a parish which embraced Wentworth,
Euston, Balranald and Moulamein. Four
years ago he came home, and was called
to Moss Vale and later to the Church of
St. Andrew, Canberra, where he is at
present stationed.
“II Vecchio” meets a character:
When I met Jimmy Thomas —in the pre-
cincts of Westminster Hall, which William
Rufus built and which saw Charles I. con-
demned to death—he shifted a large stick
from his right to left, held out a paw which
looked as if it had done hard work, and said
something (through an odorous pipe) which
sounded like “Owarya?” From the front
Jimmy presents the appearance of an honest
owl, with a face full of pink-stubbed curves
and a moustache which looks as if it had been
rubbed on an ironbark log. Below that is an
ancient suit. His wisdom is expressed in a
voice which tells that it was born on the edge
of Wales and in language which is democratic
in accent and picturesque in expression.
Thomas has no vanity about his looks, nor
any secrets about his origin—he was an errand
boy at nine, an engine-greaser at 15, a driver
in his early youth and a Cabinet Minister be-
fore he was 50. While England roared with
indignation at the “bad taste” of Low’s cele-
brated caricature of him in evening dress a
few years ago, Jimmy merely chuckled. His
aitches don’t worry him, either, and he enjoys
as much as anybody the tales about them, the
classic among which is the story of his war-
time conversation with Robertson, who rose
from the ranks —“ ’Ow’s heverything?”
“Horful!”
Jimmy became secretary of the National
Railway Union, which was so large that when
it decided to reward his efforts it cashed in with
a gift of £lO,OOO. His greatest pride is that
he is an hon. D.C.L. of Oxford and LL.D.
of Cambridge. Though no shining success as
a Minister, he is, in some respects, one of the
ablest men in Britain, and popular with every-
body.


qp
K
I
95
0
m
f;
Is
i
as
*7
to
s
\
7
<r
G
f H E
M A N
“JV/ j/Vfg jw« a song oj warm sun and blue sea
And a palm-fringed tropical shore }
Where the nights are delights and the days are care-free;
heave gloom behind! Escape and explore!”
JUNE
JULY
AUG.
Melbourne, Jun. 1-22
Sydney, Jun. 4-17
( Melbourne, Jun. 29-Jul. 20 \
I Sydney, Jul. 2-Jul. 15 i
( Melbourne, Aug. 24-Sep. 14 J
I Sydney, Aug. 27-Sep. 9 )
| OTRANTO 4 RA B AUL
ORAMA* PAPUA
ORFORDf FIJI
* First Saloon only (From Melbourne, from 30 gns.; from Sydney, from 17 gns.),,
f First Saloon (From Melbourne, from 30 gns.; from Sydney, from 20 gns.); and
Tourist Class (From Melbourne, from 18 gns.; from Sydney, from 13 gns.)
Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd., incorporated in England,


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) - J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with, the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office; Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WIE CAL
CULUMN
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925. . 632,555 13 p.c. = 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
1926.. 652,621 14 „ „ 560,000 40,000 3,945,508
1927.. 654,060 14 „ „ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ „ 630,000 4,636,943
1930.. 615,084 13 „ „ 585,000 4,667,027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931. . 217,536 9 p.c. = 343,500* 4,626,063
1932.. 254,970 7 „ „ 236,250* 4,644,783
1933.. 258,508 7* „ ~253,125* 4,650,166
Inner reserves disclosed, £106,000.. 4,756,166
1934.. 265,087 9*t p.c.=331,313 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250.. 4,653,690
1935.. 273,857 7£ p.c.= 270,281 4,657,266
*After deducting tax.
tlncludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus.
This is the pioneer of the Anglo-Aus-
tralian banks, and a very solid concern
it is, too. In its 101 years’ trading it has
never failed to earn a profit, and only
twice (1847-48) has it failed to pay a
div.; that was because it made a cash
advance to the Bank of Australia, which
failed following Australia’s first big
financial crisis in the ’forties. From 1853
to 1892 divs. ranged from 9 p.c. to 20
p.c.; the rate dropped to 5 p.c. for the
three years to 1897 ; it climbed to 14 p.c.
10 years later, and the average for the
24 years to the close of accounts in 1930
was 14.9 p.c. Slump brought the figure
back to 7 p.c. in ’34. But earnings are
on the up-grade again, and the outlook
for the banks, which have been unable to
adjust costs as speedily as other traders,
is more promising than at any time dur-
ing the last half-dozen years, notwith-
standing that the present flood of im-
ports is tending to tighten credit.
Owing to the growth of imports and
the rise in the price of primary products,
turnover in the exchange market, where
the co. does a large business, increased
last year, and trade locally was better
also. A contraction of over £2,500,000 in
interest-bearing deposits, owing mainly to
the withdrawal of overseas money held
temporarily in Australia, was accom-
panied by a growth of £1,346,188 in ad-
vances. After allowing for contingencies,
gross earnings (£1,076,711) were up
£1634. Including the tax bill (£168,186,
down £5133), exes. (£802,854) were £7136
lighter. The net result was £8770 better
at a shade over 6 p.c. on capital as against
5.8, 5.7,‘5.6, 4.8, 13.6, 15, 15.8 and 16.3
p.c. back to 1927. On capital and re-
serves combined the profit was a shade
under 3 p.c.
The div. was lifted from p.c. to
7| p.c., the final being at the rate of 8
p.c. p.a., equal to 10 p.c. in Australian
currency. At £l2 3s. (£ll 4s. a year ago)
the £lO shares paid to £5 —the other £5
is a contingent liability, payable only in
the event of liquidation—return 4.1 p.c.
to Australian and Maoriland share-
holders on an 8 p.c. div. basis and with
exchange as it is.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Liabilities,
I <l9O 1034 1031
Notes . . . . £434,329 £119,384 £26,138
Bills, etc. . . 4,569,795 4,542,477 4,610,493
Deposits ~ 34,414,798 39,601,807 37,058,103
Assets.
Liquid assets. . 10,914,862 19,687,630 15,601,498
Bills, . etc. . . 3,362,670 2,420,692 2,476,286
Advances . . 34,314,960 31,045,284 32,391,472
Premises . . 278,373 503,252 530,962
The reduction of £93,246 in notes was be-
cause Maoriland’s Reserve Bank took
over the note issue there. When the
books closed, liquids, including bills re-
ceivable, were 43.3 p.c. of the liabilities
to the public, or 137 p.c. of the call lia-
bilities. Advances were 87.4 p.c. of
deposits as against 78.4 p.c. a year
earlier and 99.7 p.c. in 1929. The co,
was holding £4 11s. of the. public’s money
for every £1 of its own.
General Motors-HoLden’s, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
June, Loss. 6 p.c, Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 516,474 Nil Nil 543
1932.. 349,914 Nil Nil 350,457
Dec.,
1932*. 2,721 Nil Nil 353,178
Profit.
1933.. 134,161 Nil Nil 134,161 219,017
Reserves.
1934.. 402,333 67,392 f Nil 334,941 115,924
Unexplained reductions reserves, £4509.. 111,415
1935.. 673,057 84,240 t 20 p.c. = 193,160 507,072
* Six months. f Two years. t 2* years.
The present co. was formed as from
the middle of 1930 to merge the interests
of General Motors (Australia) Pty. (it set
up here in 1926 to assemble the chassis
units of its American parent) and
Holden’s, the highly-efficient motor-body-
builders of Adelaide. Though the two
old businesses, which together supplied
Australia with most of its motor-trans-
port requirements, had been prosperous,
the new co. was caught with heavy
stocks on a falling market; a jazzing
dollar and depreciation of the Australian
pound brought further trouble, and the
co.’s big assembly plants had to close
down for a time, while the bodyworks,
planned on a mass-production basis,
came almost to a standstill.
What a stunning blow slump dealt the
trade find the .remarkable recovery of the
industry since are, made plain by the
figures in the table. For the two and
a half years to the end of 1932 losses
totalled £869,109, leaving more than one-
third of the ord. capital (£965,800, mostly
held by the parent) unrepresented by
tangibles in the books. In addition, the
pref. div. had fallen £84,240 into arrears.
Over the last three years profits totalled
£1,209,551, making net profit for the 5y
years £340,442, an average of £61,898 p.a.
After making “adequate” allowance
for depreciation, bad debts, taxation and
other contingencies, last year’s net result,
to which all sections of the business con-
tributed, sprang £270,724, reaching
£673,057, or enough to pay a year’s pref.
div. and show 66.2 p.c. on ord. capital.
That leaves out of the reckoning an un-
explained reduction of £4509 in general
reserves. Actually the prefs. got 2\
years’ divs., cleaning their slate to date,
and the ords. were handed 20 p.c., their
first div. since the merger and the second
since 1926. The £193,160 that remained
lifted reserves to £507,072.
The co. handles over a dozen different
makes of cars, trucks and other commer-
cial vehicles whose chassis units aver-
age 22 p.c. of the Australian listed price,
and are imported from Great Britain,
Canada and the U.S.A. In 1934 the co.’s
employees totalled 5450; last year the
figure was 7421, the payroll added up to
£1,374,686, and approximately £1,750,000
was spent in the purchase of materials
locally.
The marked recovery of the business
is further reflected in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
June, ■■ Dec.,' Dec., > Dec.,
1931. 1933. 1934. 1935.
£ £ £ £
Raid capital 1,527,400 1,527,400 1,527,400 1,527,400
.S' u n and r y
creditors. 617,993 107,711 508,350 1,032,515
Premises .. 607,527 549,561 539,907 498,427
Plant .. 496,654 262,658 192,176 139,778
Stocks .. 779,724 409,325 1,330,098 2,406,752
Debtors .. 92,684 191.899 206,159 176,742
Cash, etc. 212,519 77,508 58,300 93,308
The net growth of £524.165 in liabilities
was spent in the purchase of materials
from affiliated and allied cos. totalling
£701,762, free of interest. On fixed assets
£93,878 more was written off than was
spent. Stocks, the most vulnerable point
in the co.’s armor, were up £1,075,654.
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,643,287 including
stocks) was £«vSi',r 7
During the current term the co. pro-
poses to spend about £500,000, mostly on
new administrative offices at Fisherman’s
Bend, Melbourne.
At 235. the fully-paid pound prefs.
return 5.2 p.c. They were issued in
exchange for Holden’s ords,, in the pro-
portion of nine for ten, at the time of
the merger, and carry a fixed cumulative
6 p.c., with priority as to capital. Last
year’s net earnings were equal to 20 times
their annual requirements, The cover
is 725. sd. in net tangibles. The ords.
are not listed.
Younghusbadd, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Rc-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 28,598 15 p.c. = 22,500 6,098 139,353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ „ 22,500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares .. 75,000 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 230,141
1929.. 52,141 15 „ „ 37,500 14,641 244,782
1930.. 29,064 12J „ „ 31,250 242.596
1931.. 1,181 74 „ ~ 18,750 225,027
1932.. ] 9,177 6 ~ ~ 15,000 4,177 229,201
1933.. 10,081 5 „ ~ 12,500 -226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 ~ „ 17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 ~ „ 15,000 225,911
1936. . 26,969 8 „ „ 20,000 6,969 232,880
The co. has been in the wool, grain,
produce and livestock business in Vic.
and southern N. S. Wales since 1889,
and it was a proprietary concern for
many years before that. For the dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1930,
divs. averaged a shade under 14 p.c.
Meanwhile, the business had expanded
considerably, and so had the risks. With
the collapse of prices, and other things,
the div. dropped to 5 p.c. in ’33 ; it has
since advanced by irregular steps to 8 p.c.
for the last term.
The spring in the latest figures is due
mainly to the rise in the price of wool,
combined with a heavy carry-over from
the previous season and further all-round
expansion of the business, to which the
new branches at Wagga and Griffiths
contributed. Including 10,276 bales from
the previous year, the co. put 94,719
bales (up 25,359 bales) under the hammer,
leaving a “very small” carry-forward.
For the 10 months to the end of April,
the Australian average was £l7 16s. 3d,
per bale as against £l2 Bs. 4d. for the
corresponding period of the previous
season. Gross earnings were £21,211
better:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 „
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76,838 98.4 „
1932.. 75,464 92,315 73,138 79.2 „
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 „
1934.. 79,286 95,323 76,031 79.6 „
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79,898 86.6 ~
1936.. 94,719 118,443 86,474 76.2 „■
Exes, took £6576 of the increase, leav-
ing the net result £14,635 stronger at
10.7 p.c. on capital, compared with 4.9,
7.7, 4, 7.6, 0.4, 11.6 and 20.8 p.c. back
to 1929, when the Australian clip aver-
aged over £2l per bale and margins
everywhere were a lot wider than they
are now. A couple of points were added
to the div., making it 8 p.c.
The market prices the pound shares
at 345. as against 325. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 4.7 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 38s.
7d. in net tangibles.
As for the current term, much of the
area in which the co. operates is experi-
encing a dry spell at the moment, and
lambing, has commenced. This and the
small carry-over suggest that the co. will
put fewer bales under the hammer. The
statistical position of the staple favors
maintenance of satisfactory prices, which
will also be partly governed by inter-
national trade and other developments.
Balance-sheet figures reflect further
expansion of the business:
‘ 1922. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £IOO,OOO £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 149,271 364,582 329,371 356,203
Premises and
plant .. 77,389 141,235 162,298 163,471
Book debts, / etc. 235,652 722,077 638,262 674,145
Investments,
cash, etc. . . 30,526 9,005 9,005 9,005
Merchandise . . 3,380 3,610 3,217 2,463
To make an extra £35,883 net of ad-
vances, etc., the co. added £26,832 to
the debt, of which £159,913 (up £18,324)
was coming to the bank. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£329,410) was £8297.
West’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re — Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1926.. 3.863 10 p.c. = 9,644 219 28,468
1927.. 16,112 12J„ „ 12,055 4057 32,525
1928.. 16,417 12* „ „ 12,055 4362 36,887
1929.. 17,929 12* „ „ 16,402 1527 38,414
1930.. 27,042 10 „ „ 24,017 3025 41,439
1931.. 7,047 2* „ „ 6,750 297 41,736
1932.. 3,606 Nil 3606 45,342
1933.. 3,867 1-1 p.c. 3,375 492 45,834
1934.. 3,904 11 „ „ 3,375 52,9 46,363
1935.. 3,680 2* „ .. 6,750 43,293
1936.. 3,980 l| „,. 4,050 43,223
* Excludes capital assets reserve, £37,888.
This is one of the holding cos. through
which the public is interested in the
tangled group of Union picture theatres,
etc. At the end of March the £270,009
of capital, so-called reserves and £ll6
coming to sundry creditors were all repre-
sented by shares in other cos., in at
£293,338 ; freehold, £35,893 ; debtors
and cash, £2561 ; Consols, £26,093. The
shareholdings were in the General Film
Cos. (in liq.), Greater Union Theatres,
Ltd., and Australasian Films (Holdings),
Ltd. No divs. were received, and it is
difficult to say when any are likely to be.
The year’s profit, which came from in-
terest and rents, was £7O short of the
amount the lj p.c. div. called for.
A clear view of the position is ob-
scured by a network of interlocking cos.
When Union Theatres went into liquida-
tion the four holding cos. in which the
public is interested formed another
group, in which they hold the same pro-
portionate interests, to take over the
assets. The various organisations in the
group are now linked in this way:
Gtr. J. D.
Williams, S'pencer’s, West’s, Amalgamated,
32.5 p.c. 26.7 p.c. 26.2 p.c. 14.6 p.c.
I 1 1 1
■ ■’••• ■
1 ,
Greater Australasian Filins
Union (Holdings)
I j
Theatres Other British Cinesound General
in Theatres, Empire Productions. Theatres
Capital etc. Films. Supplies.
Cities.
Greater Union has a paid capital of
£400,000. At June 30, 1934, goodwill
(£238,575) and preliminary exes. (£31,789)
totalled £270,364. Interests in other cos.
figured at £257,847 ; “Capitol” lease, Syd-
ney, £68,038; plant, £58,511 ; freeholds,
£81,744. Outside liabilities amounted to
£301,504, of which £245,342 was coming
to the bank, which holds a debenture
over the whole of the assets.
Early in 1935 the four holding cos.
agreed to an increase of £1,118,000 in
Greater Union’s capital, making it
£1,518,000, in order to bring the nominal
value of their holdings into line with
their original interests in Union Theatres
(in liq.); but, owing to legal and
other difficulties, the matter has been
deferred. The intention was to issue the
new shares to Greater Union (Holdings),
Ltd., which would then hand its own
paper to the four holding cos. One
effect of this would be to curb the power
of the shareholding public so far as effec-
tive control of the organisation is con-
cerned.
For the year to June 30, 1934, Greater
Union Group netted £6043 (1933, loss
£7245), and the aggregate net earnings
of the three operating cos. controlled by
Australasian Films (Holdings) was £BB2I
(£18,831 in 1933); total, £14,864, of
which West’s proportion would be £3894.
Earnings have improved since, but it is
difficult to say when and to what extent
divs. are likely to flow.
At 9s. West’s pound shares return 3.3
p.c, on a lj p.c. div. basis.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
1926.. 690.16,374 15 p.c. = 67,500 23,816 341,703
1927.. 133.021.16.374 15 „ „ 71,250 45,397 387,100
Assets written down, £112,500 .. 274,600
1928.. 100.901.16,374 15 p.c. = 75,000 9,527 284.127
Reserve adjustment, £5500 . . 278,627
1929.. 76,272 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,898 288.525
Reserve adjustment, £7500 .. .. 281,025
1930.. 61,359 16,374 8 p.c.= 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,500.. .. 260,510
Loss.
1931.. 20,806 16,374 , Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4,500 . . .. 218,830
1932.. 37.652 Nil Nil 181,178
Capital assets reserve, £16,800 .. 197,978
19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Feb.,
Capital assets reserve, £10,868 .. 189,455
19i>4.. 7,390 Nil Nil 182,065
Unexplained reductions, £2,885 . . 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1,792 . . 177,388
Profit. 54 p.c.
1935.. 2,642 15,123 Nil 164,907
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £lO 1 7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
* Includes £40,166 of arrears.
After the public became interested in
this cash drapery concern in 1909 it
made extraordinary progress. Lumped
together, the div. and bonus climbed
from 6 p.c. to 15 p.c. in 1923, and re-
mained steady until 1928. Trouble
began with reconstruction of the main
premises, which cost a lot more than
was expected, and the board went to its
bankers for most of the money, raising
the overdraft to £349,337 at March 15,


General Motors—Holden’s Limited
ANNUAL REPORT OF DIRECTORS FOR
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31st, 1935
To be presented at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be held in the Board
Room of the Company, City Road, South Melbourne, on May 22nd, 1936, at 12.30 p.m.
YOUR Directors are pleased to submit the Balance
Sheet for the year ended December 31st, 1935.
The year’s operations show a consolidated net
profit of £673,056, after making adequate allowance
for depreciation, bad debts, taxation and other
contingencies.
Each section of the Company’s operations showed
increased sales volume, improved operating efficiency,
and increased net profits. These results were made
possible by improved economic conditions, a vigorous
policy of machinery and equipment modernisation,
the outstanding quality of our products, and the ability
and application of our personnel, almost entirely
Australian.
Believing that increased facilities are needed to
cater efficiently for Australian transport needs and
that increased industrial activity is the surest method
of continuing and extending current economic condi-
tions, your Directors have planned to reinvest during
1936 a large proportion of our profits in New Build-
ings, Plant and Equipment, the total amount approxi-
mating £500,000. Of this amount £430,000 is being
spent in the establishment of central Administrative
headquarters for Australia, and extensive Factory and
Parts operations.
This new undertaking is being established at
Fisherman’s Bend, Melbourne, on fifty (50) acres of
land purchased from the Victorian Government. The
site is ideal for our purpose, and the various Govern-
ment departments concerned are co-operating whole-
heartedly in providing essential services. A commence-
ment has been made in the erection of a series of
buildings covering 500,000 sq. feet of floor space, the
first group of buildings being scheduled for com-
pletion by the end of July next. The high standard
of buildings planned and the modern equipment to
be installed will make this unit of our business one
of which we may be justifiably proud.
The balance of the expenditure is being made
throughout Australia in extending and adding new
equipment to our Body Building and Chassis Assembly
operations. This programme of modernisation was
commenced last year, when a £60,000 expenditure
was made at our Adelaide Body Plant, the result being
greatly increased capacity and operating efficiency,
with a considerably improved profit result.
The above figures are interesting in the light of
the results achieved by this Company in the past few
years, which are worthy of recapitulating: —
12 months ended June 30, 1931, Net Loss .. £516,473
12 „ „ „ 30, 1932, „ „ .. 349,913
6 „ „ Dec. 31, 1932, „ „ .. 2,721
12 „ „ „ 31, 1933, Net Profit .. 134,160
12 „ „ „ 31, 1934, „ „ 402,332
12 „ „ „ 31, 1935, „ „ 673,056
Net Profit for 5-J- years .. .. .. £340,441
Average per annum .. .. .. .. £61,898
Annual Charge on Preference Shares .. £33,696
Earned on Ordinary Shares, per annum .. £28,202
It is gratifying to note that the whole of the losses
incurred in the depression years have been recovered.
After paying all dividend arrears on preference shares
and providing an interim dividend on ordinary shares,
a surplus of £400,618 remains. Based on past experi-
ence, a conservative reserve policy has been estab-
lished, and, as a result, no difficulty is expected in
the future in paying preference dividends regularly on
their due dates. A dividend was paid on the ordinary
shares in December last, which represents the first
dividend received by the Ordinary Shareholders since
the merger of General Motors and Holdens in 1931,
and the second dividend paid on Ordinary Shares since
1926, when General Motors established its operations
in Australia.
It is a fact worthy of special mention that the
Company is operating on a minimum paid-up capital
of £1,527,000, subscribed on the basis of Preference
and Ordinary Shares, whilst the actual funds invested
in the various activities in Australia amount to
£2,736,234, excluding reserves accrued for depreciation
of Assets. This is made possible by the finance pro-
vided by General Motors Affiliated and Allied Com-
panies in the form of credit which at December 31st
amounted to £701,762 free of interest.
We are now marketing the following Cars and
Trucks: —
Chevrolet, Pontiac, Oldsmobile, Buick, Vaux-
hall, La Salle and Cadillac Passenger Cars.
Chevrolet, Chevrolet Maple Leaf, Bedford,
Oldsmobile and G.M.C. Trucks and other
Commercial Units.
The outstanding popularity of our Cars and
Trucks may be attributed to the combined efforts of
British, Australian, Canadian and American Manu-
facturers, all of which sources contribute to the build-
ing of our products. Australia manufactures and
supplies our Passenger and Commercial Bodies, Tyres,
Batteries, Spark Plugs, Springs, Bumpers, Shock
Absorbers, etc., while various chassis units, of a value
averaging 22% only of the Australian list price, are
secured from Great Britain, Canada and the United
States of America. This percentage reveals the extent
to which Australian industry- and organisation are
contributing to the manufacture of Australia’s trans-
portation units.
This fact must be borne in mind seriously when
considering the Motor Industry. Increased Car and
Truck sales are immediately reflected in greatly
increased employment in our automotive factories.
An extract from our statistics reveals:- —
Employees during 1935. numbered .. .. 7,421
Wages and Salaries paid in 1935 .. .. £1,374,686
Purchases of Australian-made material during
1935—approximately .. .. .. £1,750,000
Capital expenditure planned for 1936, of
which 90% will be spent in Australian
Building Material, Machinery and Equip-
ment, etc. .. .. .. .. .. £500,000
Add to these figures the expenditure in Service
Operations, in the manufacture and fitting of replace-
ment parts,'the activities of other Car Organisations,
and you have a picture of the extensive ramifications
of the industry and its benefit to Australia’s economy.
Complete confidence in 1936 is amply justified.
The price prospects for Australia’s primary products
are reassuring. Base metal prices have improved ;
gold, iron and steel production show considerable
increases. The investment market is sound, our State
and Federal Governments are operating on sound
lines, whilst Railway, Postal, Telephone and Tele-
graph revenues are buoyant.
We believe that industry—paramount instrumen-
tality in the creation of wealth and prosperity as it is
—is charged with the responsibility of forward and
vigorous thinking, aggressive action and capitalising,
at an accelerated rate, the resources of this country.
This outlook will ensure that we not only hold the
progress made to date, but that we will greatly extend
it, and we feel secure in our confidence that such an
outlook exists in Australia to-day.
For our part, we are going ahead with heavy
capital expenditures with the purpose of improving
our facilities; of achieving the more economical use
of labor and material, and so improving the quality
of and reducing the costs and prices of our products
and services.
Retiring Directors. — In accordance with the
Articles of Association of this Company, three direc-
tors retire, namely—Messrs. J. R. Holden, J. J. Welker
and V. L. Sunners, who, being eligible, offer themselves
for re-election.
E. W. HOLDEN, Chairman.
1931. Then slump brought keener com-
petition, smaller turnover, narrower
margins and trouble with stocks, and a
run of losses aggregating £85,199 was re-
corded for the four years to the close of
accounts in 1934. A year later arrears
of pref. divs. totalled £55,490. Mean-
while, changes on the board were fol-
lowed by reorganisation of methods, and
a small profit (£2642) showed up in 1935,
when adjustment of stock values spoiled
results. Partly because of this adjust-
ment, but mostly because of better trad-
ing, gross earnings for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts (£306,137)
sprang £73,858. Exes. (£251,796, includ-
ing interest on the overdraft) took
£22,159 of the increase, leaving the net
result £51,699 better at £54,341, or 6.6
p.c. on the £813,269 of share capital
inrpfQ anrl nrHc
(preis. and ords. combined).
The nrefc earrv n fiver! enmiilafive 6
me prers. carry a nxea cumulative o
p.c., reduced to 5 p.c. under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act. Arrears
of divs. were wiped out by a cash pay-
ment of £15,123 in 1935 and by the issue
of 40,367 fully-paid £1 ord. shares, for
which reserves were drawn upon; a
generous settlement. The road was thus
clear for resumption of payments to the
ords., who received 5 p.c. for the last
term.
The recovery surprised the market, and
the ords. advanced from 16s. 3d. to
21s. 6d. over the twelvemonth. The return
a t the higher figure is 4.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
fiiv. basis. The prefs. at 255. 3d. return
3.9 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution, or 4.7 p.c.
on the basis of a 6 p.c. div., which is
already within reach. The net tangible
cover is 695. Bd. prefs. and 255. ords.
The year’s brisker trading is further
reflected in this comparison of balance-
sbeet figures:
1920. 1932. 1935. 193 c.
Paid capital.. £722,902*772,902£772,902£818,289
Liabilities .. 27,181 390,05* 331,277 337,823
Property .. soe.ooo 731,386 721,632 723,352
Plant, etc. .. 20,805 163,320 1*3,712 145,427
sto ckk .. 494,611 399,9*3 351,398 362,370
Book debts .. 17,11* 36,716 57,718 79,961
Cash etc 92,sis 12,769 9,7*9 11,024
The growth of £40 ,367 in capital was on
accoun t of payment of pref. divs. already
referred to. Liabilities consist of the
overdraft (£279,587, down £10,699), trade
creditors (£51,236, up £17,244) and a
mortgage (unchanged at £7000). Stocks,
the most vulnerable point in the busi-
c 1 a m-> m iai ai/qc
ness, were up £10,972, and £22,143 was
added to debtbrs’ balances. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
Lcnssm ura <! £97 044
plus (tIO,DdZ) was
Search for Oil
_ T ~ . . „ r /-v!«
E. L. Walter, managing director Of Oil
Search, Ltd., writes: —
T „ n ,r c rnn-
fn B. 13/5/ 36 reference is made to Cun-
nmgham Craig and his statement that all n
oil belonged to one geological period, and tnen
occurred under uniform and highly specific
conditions.” It is amazing that The Bulletin,
which is so highly regarded and usually so
authoritative, should give prominence to such
misstatements.
Thp “World Petroleum” for February shows
Ihe World Petroleum o ?
graphically annual petroleuni production
1860 to 1934, 25,696,000,000 barrels. Less th 1
one-half, or 12,475,000,000 barrels, was won
in the geological period known as _ Tertiary
(youngest of the geological periods in which
flow oil is produced), while 8,925,000,000
barrels’ came from several periods of the
Palaeozoic, in which the oldest oil-bearing for-
mations are found. These facts demonstrate
that oil in commercial quantities is produced in
many geological periods, ranging from the oldest
Palaeozoic to latest Tertiary, at one place or
another in the world. The potential oil-bearing
fields of Australia are chiefly in Palaeozoic rock
areas, and are situated in Queensland, N. S.
Wales and Western Australia.
The 1929 boom to which you refer was with-
out sound basis, through not being preceded by
adequate geological investigations, without
which there can be no reasonable expectation
that the sites selected for drilling will prove
other than a disappointment. A certain promi-
nent geologist has expressed the opinion that
if oil is not found in commercial quantities
in Australia it will not be for the reason
that it does not exist, but rather because of
the discouraging attitude of the press. Reput-
able prospecting cos. do not indulge in “opti-
mism,” but carefully bear in mind that, while
the outlook is now more promising than ever,
the question as to whether oil exists can be de-
termined only by the drill. However favorable
the geology, drilling for oil must always be
attended by a considerable amount of risk;
but when geological conditions are sufficiently
favorable the risk is justifiable Oil explora-
tion is a duty and an obligation fully warranted
where it offers possible means of supplying
Australia’s great need for oil fuel.
Another letter on the subject:
There are three simple methods of producing
liquid fuel in the Commonwealth. These con-
sist of (1) the destructive distillation of shale,
(2) the destructive distillation of coal, prefer-
ably the high-grade Maitland quality, and (3)
the fermentation of vegetable matter for alco-
hol. Each of these methods can be operated
, JO>
( Wild Cat continued on page 10.)


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold. Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper. Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METAES. —Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METAES. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBEA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Said a Jubilee-gazer called Stamp,
‘‘ I perched for two days on that lamp.
If I’d only had near me
Schweppes Tonic to cheer me,
I should not have contracted the cramp.”
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
r
by small companies, syndicates or individuals
on comparatively small capital and with reason-
able Government protection from unfair com-
petition, and, after the initial stages, become
economic industries.
The finding of oil gushers within the Com-
monwealth is, according to most geologists,
a very remote possibility—certainly not a
probability.
From “Murmac”:
Cunningham Craig as an authority is a back
number. Nearly all the theories of location
and formation have been flouted by intrepid
searchers, with results that have paid hand-
somely.
Indeed, nearly all the earlier theories of gold
location have “gone west.” So the expression
“holes in the ground have a hypnotic effect
on Governments” may, after all, mean
that Governments are satisfied that the only
way to find oil is to bore for it on sites
determined by experienced geologists who have
the courage to disagree with the pronounce-
ments of the Cunningham Craig-Dorsey Hager
school.
Camp Bird, Ltd., the big London con-
cern with interests in various parts of
the world (Lake View and Star, W.A.,
among them), may have something new
in store for its Lake George, Captain’s
Flat (N.S.W.), property. Here work
ceased a few years ago because of
the fall in metal prices and the unwilling-
ness of the Government to proceed with
construction of the 25-mile railway from
Bungendore to the mine. Negotiations,
said chairman F. W. Baker at the annual
meeting in London, are in train with a
co. which has developed a process for
the manufacture of high-grade iron from
iron pyrites, as well as for the recovery
of the sulphiy content of the pyritic ore
by the same method. The primary sul-
phides at Captain’s Flat consist of an
intimate mixture of iron pyrites, galena
and zinc-blende, with a small admixture
of copper pyrites. If results of a test of
20 tons of Lake George ore shipped to
London are favorable, it is proposed to
instal a plant capable of treating 500
to 1000 tons a day. Based on a daily
throughput of 1000 tons of ore, an annual
production of 30,000 tons of pure iron
and 30,000 tons sulphur is spoken of.
In addition, there would be pickings from
treatment of zinc, lead and copper con-
centrates.
H: $ $
According to E. G. Theodore, definite
assessment of tonnage and values on the
Koroere and Cardigan leases, Tavua field,
Fiji, may be possible in a month or so.
Though a “very large” body of gold-
bearing ore has been opened up, values
are disappointing. It is expected that
200,000 tons of ore, averaging 4dwt., will
be proved on the Koroere. Mining and
milling costs are expected to run away
with from 2dwt. to 2|dwt. Values on
the Cardigan have fallen away below
100 ft. If ore available from the two
leases warrants installation of a 1000-
ton-a-week mill, Mr. Theodore is of
opinion that it will be possible to carry
on development out of the proceeds.
Otherwise outside money will have to
be sought, or there will have to be a
merging of interest's, to develop the
property at depth. An overseas group
has signified readiness to provide capital
for further development.
* * * *
The future of Upper Watut Gold Allu-
vials will largely depend upon the value
and volume of wash that lies beneath the
9ft.-thick false floor at a depth of 20ft.
At its own expense, Bulolo Gold Dredg-
ing will test the property to bedrock. If
results are right, Bulolo will take 400,000
ss. shares in Upper Watut at par, to-
gether with a seat on the board and a
10 years’ management contract. It will
also make available any surplus electric
power required at cost.
* * * *
Irowat Gold Alluvials, a Melbourne-
controlled concern, expects to commence
sluicing operations next month. The
property, at the junction of Iroa Creek
and the Upper Watut River, New
Guinea, contains more than 4,500,000 c.y.
of wash, of which 1,000,000 c.y. is ex-
pected to average 3s. 9d., with gold at £8
an ounce locally. Operators have been
recruited from the Briseis district, Tas.
*■* ♦ ♦
Following the statement of C. E,
Blackett, new manager of New Occi-
dental, that modifications and improve-
ments would result in gradual but sub-
stantial reductions in costs, bears were at
work last week-end, and, after an inactive
period early in the week, forward selling
quotes for the scrip closed at 9s. Proved
ore reserves (261,500 tons) average
B.4dwt., while most probable and prob-
able estimates raise the tonnage to
362,500. It is hoped to feed the treat-
ment plant to full capacity (7500 tons a
month) when development has sufficiently
advanced ; the main shaft is expected to
be adequate for present and future re-
quirements. Should increased capacity
be desired, skip haulage will be intro-
duced. Copper in occasional patches in
the ore-body will not present serious treat-
ment problems.
H*
The Federal Government has decided
to put up a battery at Tennant’s Creek,
Centralia, where lack of crushing facili-
ties has long caused hardship among
prospectors and retarded the development
of the field.
* * *
Melbourne Bitter Syndicate, after un-
successful probing near Swan Bitter,
Wiluna (W.A.), has now turned its atten-
tion to Centralia, and, subject to per-
mission from the Minister for the In-
terior, will float Golden Star to take over
the Little Wonder, Star Stranger and
Great Bear at Tennant’s Creek, Nominal
capital will be £32,500 in ss, shares, of
which 100,000 will be offered. The pro-
moter (Melbourne Bitter) takes 30,000
fully-paids.
* * * *
Because of the low values obtained,
Magorra Alluvial has suspended boring
operations on its property on the Mitta
Mitta River (Vic.), Four lines of bores,
totalling 32 holes, varying in depth from
27ft. to 90ft., disclosed about 20,000,000
c.y. of wash, worth between 2.54 and. and
5.84 and. a yard. Dredging costs were
figured at Bore values are to be
checked by shaft-sinking.
* * * *
Latest addition to the div. list of Vic.
gold-producers is Maude and Yellow
(Glen Wills), which has declared 6d, a
share, leaving a reserve of liquid assets
of approximately £SOOO to meet major
plant and development costs. Some
ounce stuff has been disclosed over a
width of three feet 85ft, below the
bottom level. The co. is now developing
a number of other “promising but lower-
grade” shoots. A diamond-drilling pro-
gramme is in hand, and installation of
ore bins and a rock-breaker is almost
complete,
* * *
Lancefield (W.A.) expects to have its
retreatment plant, capacity 600 tons per
day, in operation next month. There is
about a million tons of tailings that can
be treated at a profit. The co. paid its
first div. (Is. per share = £50,000) in
February. For the last half of 1935 a
working profit of £62,414 was reported ;
for the four months to the end of April
the working profit was £45,459, With com-
pletion of the retreatment plant, capital
expenditure can be expected to ease and
earnings to increase. Mill work has im-
proved, the ratio of concentration by
flotation being now 12 to 1, and the
mine is opening up nicely in the bottom
levels.
* * * *
Celebration Gold, Hampton Plains
(W.A.), which has spent £60,000 on bring-
ing the mine to production, estimates its
positive, probable and possible ore re-
serves at between 75,000 and 80,000 tons.
The new mill is said to be working satis-
factorily ; the first clean-up is due next
month. Working costs are put at 30s. a
ton. On the Golden Hope mine, in
which the co, has a one-third interest
(Aus. Mining Trust is the other party),
2500 tons of lOdwt. ore is available for
immediate stoning above No. 2 level,
while the north drive on the same level
has been extended in similar-grade ore
over the full width. An electric com-
pressor will be in operation in a week
or so.
*" * * *
Not ; long ago Lady Shenton was
billed as a goldmine with heaps of
30dwt. ore stacked on the surface and
in sight underground, and with a plant
which was the last word in extraction.
Three crushings, much below share-
holders’ expectations, have been an-
nounced, and now the market has re-
ceived word that the plant is far from
being perfect. A case of before and
after.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas, NX., now
in possession of White Hope, one of the
failures of the Westralian Hampton
Plains boom of 1920, is enamored of
its holding. Chairman Hamer speaks
enthusiastically of developments at the
200 ft. level, and declares that prospects
for the mine are promising. Still, heavy
selling of scrip has occurred. A Bulle-
tin man’s recollection of White Hope is
that some payable sulphide ore was ex-
posed in its workings during the boom,
but, since blanks were more plentiful
than shoots, the London co. then operat-
ing gave up. The decision of the board
to have a report on the mine by a quali-
fied geologist is a wise one. Cos. is well
off; cash in hand at the end of 1935
totalled £60,000.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Mines, which failed
to pick a winner at Yellowdine (W.A.),
has taken 12 months’ option over a 12-
acre lease at Gnarlbine, near Coolgardie.
There are three shafts on the property,
one being 300 ft. deep, and 18dwt. to 2oz.
values have been obtained. There is a
small battery. Terms are £SO deposit
and £2200 cash if the option is exercised.
* * * *
Empress has taken a 10 months’ work-
ing option from the Blue Bird over a
24-acre lease adjoining the Central
Norseman mine, at Norseman (W.A.).'
Terms are £SO cash and £1450 if and
when the option is exercised.
* * * ♦
Lomah (Rhodesia) Cos. is stabbing the
old Hannans Reward at the eastern end
of Hannans-street, Kalgoorlie (W.A.). So
far it has met with nothing worth blow-
ing about. Nevertheless, the right sort
of country rock has been proved at
depth, and prospects of piercing pay-
able ore are regarded as hopeful. The
first bore went down to a vertical depth
of nearly 1000 ft. ; another is being
drilled.
❖ ❖ # sfc
Kimberley and Pilbara, Westralia’s
oldest and most northern goldfields, are
being searched for auriferous lodes that
will pay under present conditions. One,
the Ruby Queen at Kimberley, is*being
inspected on behalf of London. J. H.
Bellasis, who flew from England, is
doing the job, and will later report on
some mines in Maoriland. Several Pil-
bara ventures have been looked at by
experts, but so far no deals have been
announced.
* * * *
Resurrection of the Cosmopolitan
(W.A.) is announced. A co. in which
Western Mining Corp. and Sugarloaf Tin
have taken most of the shares is being
formed with a capital of £37,000 to try
to give the show anew lease of life.
$ $ « *
Western Queen (W.A.) reports that its
new issue of "600,000 shares has been
underwritten, that arrangements have
been made to reopen the mine, and that
everything is progressing satisfactorily.
* * * *
Vlakfontein Cos., on the Rand, S.
Africa, claims to have sunk a shaft 422 ft.
in a month, beating by 2ft. the previous
record held by West Rand Consolidated.
A feature of the new record is that the
shaft is fully timbered for the whole dis-
tance. In 1900 a hole in the ground was
sunk 375 ft. on the incline by option
holders on the Gimlet South, at Ora
Banda, Westralia. This is still claimed
to be an Australian record.
et


0
urn
T’TM'VI
X jf m
ETHYL
Thousands have tested Atlantic Ethyl-
thousands have judged it A 1! Now you
test it!
This anti-knock fuel was created to develop
maximum “knockless” power in 1934/
1935/1936 motors —in fact, in all high
compression engines irrespective of their
vintage . . . that’s the job it does—and
that’s why we welcome tests! We offer
no empty selling claims > . . all we ask is
that you judge Atlantic Ethyl* on its
merits. Test Atlantic Ethyl . . . it’s Al.
*ln cars (other than those with high co m press ion
motors) built before 1934 , having comparatively low
compression ratios and no tendency to knock, use
Atlantic Petrol.
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD., incorporated in N.S.W.—A.E4-36.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Notaden”: I admit that shells are not
in my line, and that 1 was rather drowsy
when a conchologist
friend showed me some
of his treasures, but
some of them certainly
do have idea-housing
names. Preciosa Wentle-
trap, for example!
Surely the very personi-
fication of that kind of
old maid who, in small
towns, censors the
morals of her little
world from her parlor
window. Heavy Dosina
is her inevitable maid—
can’t you hear her lum-
bering up the passage
in reply to her mis-
tress’s bell? Bringing,
too, a Cup and Saucer
Limpet? The Triphoras
Family, parvenus who
made their money in a
wholesale tripe busi-
ness, and annoy Miss
Preciosa by inhabiting
her grandfather’s old house. And the
Hercules Club —a cosy little gathering
of retired professional strong men,
hoarsely interchanging anecdotes of
bygone days as the good beer slides
down their still-brawny necks; occa-
sionally flattening a pewter pint in their
fingers just to remind themselves that
they aren’t all in yet.
* # * *
“Vleppo”; In my S.Q. district there
is a big swamp choked with mosquitoes
that refuse to bite. I long wondered at
it until I read that mosquitoes need
a diet of protein to carry on business,
and that they prefer the vegetable kind,
easily obtainable from clover. That
commodity is abundant around the
swamp. The insects, bayonets in scab-
bards, are too busy getting their issue of
greens to bother about a succulent
human.
* * * *
“Sakit Prut”; Zaire Grey’s awe for
what he calls the “White Death” shark
is not shared by South Australian fisher-
men, who capture white-pointers for their
hides and liver oil. These unromantic
persons use a big hook, baited with a
lump of porpoise and fastened to the
mast butt by a |in. chain. Strips of bait
are thrown over to attract the victim.
When he arrives he is offered a bait on a
short line, by which it is jerked away as
he makes for it. A few disappointments
of the kind bring him close up to the
boat, when the main bait is lowered to
the surface on a trip-line. When he
makes sure that this one will not be
missed, the trip-line is used to jerk the
big hook into Iris jaw, and as he begins
his antics at the surface a couple of Mar-
tini bullets finish the job except for some
subsequent splashing. Seventeen feet
long and 15 feet girth is considered a
really large size in white-pointers there-
abouts. In Barrier waters Mr. Grey may
see one twice the size. He will be well
advised not to attempt its capture with
a rod.
“Spare Walton”: Victoria is getting
perturbed over the vanishing Murray cod.
Netting and set-line fishing have been
blamed, but both have been in vogue for
many years, and in any case there are
many sections of the Murray where the
professional fisherman out for a big
catch in short time never intrudes. The
real cause of if all is the English perch,
locally called the redfin. This insatiable
brute, worthless as food itself, has multi-
plied out of all knowledge, and as a
devourer of eggs and small cod is in a
class by itself. The rabbit, at least, is a
menace only to sheep pastures. The
perch promises to destroy supplies of one
of the finest fresh-water food fishes in the
world.
* * * *
“B. de V.”: “B’Kali’s” wasps that
filled the bowl of his neighbor’s pipe
with doped spiders and walled them in
during his siesta (B. 29/4/’36) picked an
easy mark. I will put up next week’s
housekeeping money to say that “B’Kali’s”
wasps can’t repeat the trick with one of
my husband’s briars. He bought it in Lon-
don during the war, and reckons it is
just about seasoned. I regret to say that
I am not. Dogs back suspiciously away
from it even when there’s no tobacco in
it. horses have been known to shy at its
“Now, Dave, Fm sure Fm prettier than this
Mabel you re always raving about?”
“Yes and no. Y'see, Mabels a Jersey cow !"
aroma, and I give all credence to the yarn
that he once killed a big centipede with
it. No wasps would need to stupefy their
spider victims if only they could get them
as far as my old man’s pipe ; but, with
several years of marital martyrdom to
nicotine behind me, I’m betting that the
wasps wouldn’t survive either.
“Spare Leech”: A patient came in.
Picking up my stetho., which had been
unemployed for some hours, I began to
sound his chest. The buzzing I heard
nearly made me faint, and visions of a
heart fearfully out of gear passed before
my mind’s eye. They were dispelled by
the patient, who gave me a violent push
and asked me what the hell I thought I
was doing. After apologies we investi-
gated the bell of the stetho. and found
the fresh mud formations of a wasp’s
nest. The wasp must have been in the
stetho. when it was pressed to the
patient’s chest and, becoming impatient
at finding its exit blocked, had stung
that unfortunate to the accompaniment
of indignant remarks in the wasp lan-
guage.
'H
“Nor’-west”; The backblocks see
some odd building material. Wattle and
daub, log and mud, stringybark, mud
bricks, bags, pass without notice. But I
have seen a hut built of burnt jam-tins
flattened out, and many of flattened-out
kerosene-tins ; another of kero.-tins filled
with dirt for bricks; and even one
with walls of beer bottles laid with mud,
inherited finally with much thanksgiving
by a bottle-oh. Shark Bay (W.A.)
offers something unique. There one takes
a saw to the beach and from immense
banks of tiny shells, cemented together
with age, cuts bricks a yard long by a
foot wide. Loose shell burns into the
best of lime, and there is no lack of sand.
Finished inside and out with a coat of
dazzling white mortar cement, made on
the spot, a shell-built house might do for
Titania.
ij: $ $ ik
“Beesknees”: Does anyone know how
a trapdoor spider shuts the door on its
nest? Noticing a bit of earth move just
in front of my foot, I suspected a trap-
door had just closed the lid on its trap.
Investigation revealed no thread of web
attached to the lid. Apparently the insect
works the contraption with either legs or
mouth. Which?
“Yah Khan”; I saw a well-grown red-
back spider fall into the web of an even
larger neighbor, and the outraged pro-
prietor arrived at the gallop. Both
adopted a fighting attitude about half
an inch apart and remained perfectly still
for some seconds. Then the householder
commenced rapid hind-leg action, and
quickly had the intruder completely
trussed up. Throughout the performance
the latter never moved a muscle. Was it
a form of hypnotism?
* * % *
■’ “Gryllus”: Last week I heard again in
the Macpherson Ranges (S.Q.) a resonant
“Woomp-poo! ” He sat aloft, in a golden
bar of sunlight falling through the tree-
tops, his green garb shining as he swelled
his brilliant purple waistcoat to send the
call ringing around the gully head. Some
may admire the bronzewing or the top-
knot, but to me the woompoo is the
best-looking of all his kind in the world.
The Australian region, indeed, has more
kinds of pigeons than has all the rest
of the world beside. They are becoming
rare, alas! many kinds of them ; the gun,
imported enemies and the destruction of
their breeding-places are killing out many
species. The small size of the pigeon’s
egg causes the chick to come into a hard
world in a very undeveloped condition
compared with most birds, and its re-
sultant dependency upon parental care
makes the continuance of the species par-
ticularly open to influences operating
during the nesting period.
4* H*
“Awani”: Recently Sergeant Davies,
of Boggabilla (N.S.W.), decided to dig
out a post at the police station, and, re-
calling the time that he had- cut his foot
with an axe, he put on thick working-
boots and leggings. When the post came
out of the ground, a death adder, 12
inches long, crawled out of the hole,
gripped the sole of the sergeant’s boot
and hung on tenaciously until an iron bar
settled its hash. Even after it was dead
its jaws had to be prised apart.
❖ 5jC # „ . #
“Herbert Dawson”: “A.-N.S.” (B.
29/4/’36) may be correct concerning the
driver, and even the wagon, of Lam-
bert’s picture, but I’ll eat my boots if he
is right about the horses. The first time
the picture came under my notice was
when a colored print of it was issued as
a Christmas supplement to the “Queens-
lander” —more than thirty years ago, if
my memory is not entirely wrong—and
that old white leader must have been
gathered to his equine fathers many a
year ago. If any of the team was sold
“a few years ago,” as “A.N.S.” contends,
the purchaser must have been a collector
of antiques.
“Friar Tuck”: “Oont” (B. 18/3/’36)
recalls the beautiful white camels of the
Sudan Camel Corps. The color really
is a cream, and they are highly prized and
very expensive. This riding camel <s
smaller and lighter in build than the big
pack animals. All baggage was carried
on lead camels, and most of the men had
a camel in tow. The orderlies who rode
the dispatch trip daily between Cairo
and Ismailia were allowed five hours to
do the 62 miles. The ordinary, camel
would have taken all day on the journey.
“Dick the Fossicker”: I have seen a
real racing camel in Australia. Old
AEsop, the ’Ghan camel teamster, known
to all who were on the W.A. goldfields in
the ’nineties, owned it. Long-legged, with
a snaky neck, a greyhound sort of body,
and a blue-grey coat, it could cover the
ground at an amazing rate, and looked
fine with its bead collar and beautiful
fringed-silk saddle-rug. AEsop always re-
fused to lend it, till a man he knew well
asked for the loan of it to reach
Coolgardie on urgent business. AEsop
thought for a moment, waved an offer of
money aside and said : “We wrestle. You
win, you take my camel, pay nothing.”
The other man threw off his coat with
a terse “You’re on!” and at it they went.
It was a grand go. AEsop was as strong
as a bull, but his opponent had worked
with Cousin Jack miners in S.A., and he
beat AEsop with a'flying toss, pinning him
before he could recover from the wallop.
AEsop handed him the reins without
another word.
* # * *
“Goalie”: I have always scoffed at
the idea of a cassowary killing a man with
its kick, but, since seeing a bird in action
at Bellenden station, Tully River (N.Q.),
I am ready to change my tune. When
quite young it used to run with some
turkeys, and in time became tame. Now
it has reached the half-way stage, and its
favorite sport is to race up to a tree
stump, throw itself suddenly on its back
and lash out with both legs at the stump.
The echo of the whack reverberates
round the homestead.
sj; sjc sfc 'l'
“Kerriki”: Funny how legends grow
up about bushmen’s eyesight. I was out
with grandpa and a few visitors riding
round the mountain paddock one morn-
ing, when a reddish bullock with a white
back showed up on a ridge about two
miles away. “One of that blasted old
Riley’s strays,” roared grandpa as he
whistled for a dog and reached for a
whip. A pressman with us refused to be-
lieve that grandpa’s seventy-year-old
eyes could pick out an earmark at that
distance, but closer inspection revealed
Riley’s earmark and brand, too. In a
blur of amazement, he wrote the incident
up in a Sydney paper, carefully pointing
out that, of the thousands of head in the
district, the old chap couldn’t have recog-
nised a single beast from sheer familiarity
at the distance. But we kept, and still
keep, Devons exclusively. Old Riley
was the only man in the district who
pinned his faith entirely to Herefords.
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Kelly seems to be com-
ing into his rights at long last, and
graziers are beginning to look more
kindly on the black devil. Undoubtedly
he does a lot of good as a cleaner-up of
carrion, doing a dozen men’s work in
removing the breeding-ground of fly. And
he is deadly on locusts. If Kelly would
only leave the woollies alone he would
probably be as sacrosanct as the king-
fisher and the ibis. Many ornithologists
now maintain that the crow is not the
chief culprit where lamb-killing is con-
cerned ; they blame cousin raven for
ninety per cent of the diabolical work.
* * # si:
“Ennbee”: Almost human are the
habits and tendencies of that queer deep-
water denizen the killer. At Eden
(Twofold Bay, N.S.W.) the Davidson
family of whalers fed and called killers
by name. Such cries as “Hookey,”
“Humpy” and “Old Tom” would invari-
ably bring to the whaleboat’s side one or
more of these incongruous allies of man.
Their migratory power is evidenced by the
fact that “Old Tom,” the last of the
Eden killers (definitely recognisable by a
peculiarly shaped dorsal fin) was seen at
Broome (n.-w. coast) by one of the
Davidson family some years previous to
its demise on the shores of Twofold Bay
in 1930. Even at Broome it obeyed the
usual call given by Mr. Davidson —to the
call of another it would never respond,
although for 50 years rivals in the
whaling trade tried all manner of ruses to
win killers over. Their loyalty and assis-
tance contributed largely to the family’s
success in Eden whaling.
THE SOUTH-BOUND PLANE.
The mulga spreads to reach the hills
That seem to meet the skies;
The long brown track winds past the ’mills
To where the homestead lies.
And, glinting in the morning sun,
Up in a cloudless sky,
As yet its journey but begun,
The mail ’plane passes by.
Up_ in the azure dome alone
The mail is on the wing;
I hear the drowsy monotone
The triple engines sing.
It shimmers overhead, and then
Drifts to the lower sky,
And oh! my heart is heavy when
The south-bound ’plane goes by.
Along the fences I must ride,
And I must tend the ’mills;
But oh! the mulga plain is wide
And changeless are the hills.
And I have yearnings now and then
For other scenes, so I
Am always discontented when
The south-bound ’plane goes by.
True, he who guides the south-bound ’plane
Above the land and sea
Is but a link in life’s long chain,
As station-hands like me.
I ride the boundary mile on mile,
He has his ’plane to fly;
But I am filled with yearning while
The south-bound ’plane goes by.
Yet ever, when I’ve fed my moke
And dog at fall of night,
And settled down to read and smoke
By lantern’s mellow light.
When warm winds sweep the mulga plain.
And white stars light the sky,
I quite forget the twinge of pain
1 feel when ’planes go by.
W.A.
JACK SORENSEN


“Fisher’s Ghost”: There was an odd
heil-egg in the yard. Believe it or not, a
turtle strayed up from the beach, sat down
cm that egg for three weeks and hatched it.
We were so intrigued with the unaccus-
tomed maternal action that we fed the
expectant mother every day, and put a
box over her every night to keep the dew
and the early-morning jackasses off.
When the egg hatched it was a bit of a
disappointment to find that the turtle
didn’t show any further maternal affec-
tion ; still there was enough material for
a crow in it, until a wandering naturalist
heard the story. He pointed out that the
turtle was a buck. It had taken the brute
three weeks to crawl over the egg!
« « . * ♦
“Hech, Sirs”: That par, about the bush
publicans who used to speed the parting
guest with a free drink (B. 29/4/’36)
reminds me that in Scotland there was
legal compulsion on the landlord to fare-
well his departing guest with the doch-an-
dorris. Certain formalities had to be
observed. The traveller had to down his
drink at the inn door, whether he was
mounted or on foot, and had to depart
immediately after. The old law still
stands, I believe, but, like many another
stout old Scottish observance, has been
laughed into desuetude by the sneering
Southron.
* * % *
“Alberto”: A pair of brawny miners
in the Swansea (N.S.W.) district knit all
their own socks. They look a bit odd at
the two-up school with a ball of
wool tucked under an arm and a pair
of needles clicking as they make their
bets.
* * * *
“Drover-twice”: On a droving trip
dpVvn the Georgina (N.Q.) scarcely a
day passed without our seeing at least
one wild cat. Near the Kalludyi-
warra waterhole, at the junction of the
Mulligan and Georgina rivers, the daily
average jumped to 10. Half-starved and
dependent only on their ability to catch
rabbits, and with dingoes on their tail
all the time, the cats seemed a clear case
for the S.P.C.A.
# * * *
“Cautious”: If “Poaler” (B; 18/3/’36>
wants to see scrub-fellers’ monuments
that are monuments he should visit West
and South Gippsland (Vic.). Forty years
ago the springboard experts there thought
nothing of cutting 25ft. above ground.
One in the Foster district made a stair-
case of springboards 150 ft. up a blue-
gum, just to show what could be done.
As for girth of trees, where some went
over 60ft. is it any wonder that a Fumina
selector housed his family in a hollow
stump, or that early settlers on the
Boolarra-Foster road roofed one with an
inside diameter of 26ft. and used it as a
church for congregations of 50? The
latter was burnt in the great fire of ’9B.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Taniwha”: Though the M.L. farmer
hasn’t to contend with dingoes, crows or
eagles in the lambing season, he has one
formidable pest to combat —the wild pig.
Taranaki is the province with the largest
grievance, one farm reporting the loss of
300 lambs in one season and over 100
in the next. The porkers live, and are
partially protected, in the big forest
reserves round Mt. Egmont and on
Crown lands, and after a hearty meal
of lamb the killers return to the shelter
of these reserves. One settler recently
shot 43 pigs in one week on his property,
and the Government is now being urged
to pay a bonus of Is. per tail. M.L. has
been singularly unfortunate with all its
importations, but at least deer, goats,
possums and wallabies keep to a vege-
tarian diet.
“Beesknees”; Have seen many eagle
measurements quoted, but think the one
caught in a rabbit-trap out Bourke
(N.S.W.) way recently will take some
beating. It measured 9ft. 10in. from
wing tip to wing tip. v
“Careless bloke, ain't 'e? One of these days 'ell be ’urtin someone !”
“Exes”: A gang of men were clearing
icrub alongside the railway at Wyche-
Koof (Vic.). At the end of the day they
mrnt off some rubbish in a hole made
?y a grubbed-out tree. The next day,
ong after the fire had gone out, one of
hem saw the grass smouldering in a
neighboring field of wheat, about fifty
from the tree hole. By the time he
ind his mates reached it it was in flames,
which they quickly extinguished. They
were puzzled as to the origin, until an old-
timer pointed to a tiny hole in the ground
from which smoke still issued. It was
one of the roots from the grubbed-out
tree which had taken nearly a day to
burn its full length.
“Look, boays, when I d'say a thing is, it iS, even if tedden.
“Amity”: Moreton Bay (Q.) made the
acquaintance of some queer fish when a
shoal of oyster-eating trevally was
netted. These fish are rarely caught
south of Capricorn. They are big fel-
lows, running to 501 b. and over, and a
shoal of them cruising over an oyster
bed leaves it looking like the Somme
battlefield when it has passed. The
oysters are picked up and passed to two
bony plates at the back of the mouth
which crush the shells. The oyster is
swallowed and the fragments of shell
rejected.
* * * *
“Pine River”: Birds as weather-pre-
dictors? (B. 18/3/’36). The abos. on
Bribie Island (Q.) take it as a sure sign
that squally sou’-easterly weather is on
the way whenever sea-hawks are seen
flying low over the beaches. A check-up
revealed to me the soundness of their
theory.
“Morobe”; “W.R.” (B. 8/4/’36) ob-
jects to Dinny’s waste of water in “The
Bridle Track,” and I object to “W.R.’s”
attempt to put Hardie right. On dry
slopes most men don’t wash at all and
give their dogs a drink out of the pint-
pot they use themselves. “The Bridle
Track” is refreshingly free from
“bloomers,”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Other bush super-
stitions which were better dead (B.
29/ 4/ ’36). That an eagle can carry off
a grown lamb or a child —it cannot lift
more than 121 b. at best. That two sticks
crossed over the billy make the tea-leaves
sink. That a fresh chew of tobacco is a
good first-aid dressing for a wound.
That bullocks or dogs can distinguish
swear words from any other kind of
vocal effort designed to encourage them
to work. That there are fortunes await-
ing claimants “in Chancery” or “the
courts,” if a bloke only knew how to get
at them. But I differ, on first-hand evi-
dence, from “Fisher’s” exoneration of
the Alsatian as a sheep-killer. Last year
a relative got two purebreds which, in
company with a dingo, had settled over
150 of his jumbucks. He had seen them
at it. The skins settled the question
finally for me—previously I’d had doubts.
“Mat’s Mate”: More bush beliefs due
for debunking:
1— The rain that comes after the cat
washes over both ears.
2 The hydatids in every rabbit.
3 Pigs that cut their own throats when
swimming.
4 The belar post that cannot be bored.
5 The flannel belt to prevent rheumatics.
6 Rain that follows rings round the
moon.
7 Ninety-four different cures for warts.
8— The quiet bloke who must be a
“Bullateen” writer.
9 The cove who knew Henry Lawson.
10— And the other who is related to
Ned Kelly.
* * * *
“Klipspringer”: Chamois, you say (B.
13/5/’36)? A herd introduced in the
Mt. Cook (M.L.) district forty years
ago has swelled into huge flocks,
which are becoming an even greater pest
in farming and pastoral areas than the
deer. Professional shooters are to be
turned loose on the chamois, but they
have a hurdle to top which does not
occur with the deer. The chamois
flocks post a sentinel when feeding or
camping, and, when the alarm is given,
vanish into thin air often before a chance
for a shot is given.
* * * *
“R.Q.”: Mick the drover and his cob-
ber had been drinking all the evening.
It was 11.30, and they were getting noisy.
The publican yearned for his bed.
Couldn’t they take some bottles some-
where and leave him in peace? They
could, but wouldn’t. Twelve o’clock and
their raucous bowlings were getting past
a joke. “If you blokes don’t get outa
here I’ll tellyphone the police,” Bung
roared. “But you ain’t got a telly-
phone,” said Mick's cobber. “Well,
just wait and see.” He retired to the
back, wound an ancient alarm clock and
let the bell go. Mick laughed. “The old
goat won’t be able to git on —I’ve cut
the wires.” The next day Mrs, Bung
found her clothes-line neatly cut.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat reckons “Gryllus”
is right about “the fur-hunter’s gun” not
being responsible for any diminution in
water-rat population (B. 22/4/’36).
“That bloke must’ve tried it,” said Mat.
“I’ve shot at ’em in the water with every-
thing from air-rifles to scatter guns, and
I can count all I got on two sets of fin-
gers. The bloke that can make a livin’
shootin’ them slick little cows ain’t' been
born!” He swears the rat can dive be-
tween the flash of the rifle and the arrival
of the bullet at the place where it was.
* * * *
“Beesknees”: I rode out to the camp
of the newchum who had a ringbarking
contract and asked him how he was get-
ting along. “Not too bad,” he told ms.
“I’m leaving the dead trees till last so
that they won’t gap the axe!”
;t; * *
“Bufo”: If “Zed” (B. 22/4/’36) will
turn up a copy of the “Australian
Museum Magazine” for January, he will
find on page 25 a drawing of that fear-
some creature the ant-lion, illustrating an
excellent article by Nancy B. Adams on
the animal itself. Ant-lions (we have
several kinds in Australia) are the larvae
of lace-flies, delicate, graceful, harmless
insects which haunt the dusk and night
without the faintest trace of their grim
and bloodthirsty past. One curious fea-
ture of most kinds of ant-lion is that they
can only run backwards, so that if a vic-
tim escapes from the landslides of the
trap-pit the lion has little chance of over-
taking it. But, as ant-lions can starve for
weeks without apparent inconvenience,
this drawback does not seem to worry
them.
BALLADE OF A HANDY BLOKE.
I know in pomes most people like a bloke
Who boasts ’imself the master of ’is fate,
A feller who pulls off some master-stroke,
A cove who’s white all through, an’ game
an’ straight
As that King Alfred who was called the
Great.
But just give me a burl, while I declare
My likin’ for the joker who can prate —
The bloke who’ll mag ’is way in anywhere.
Some Alicks look upon ’im as a joke,
But ’e’s the bird who’ll always crash a gate;
Ah’ when I ever ’appen to be broke
•fe’s just the sort I like to ’ave as mate.
You’ll never catch ’im with an empty plate,
An empty pocket, too, with ’im is rare;
The goin’s alwiz good, I’ll firmly state,
For blokes who’ll mag their way in anywhere.
Sometimes, I know, you feel you'd like to
choke
The cow, but, still an’ all, ’e pulls ’is weight,
An’, though it gets monotonous, ’is croak,
It’s when you get the urge to celebrate
An’ want old Bung to shove it on the slate,
Or if you’re on the track an’ ’ave to snare
A feed—well, for a pal I’ll nominate
The bloke who’ll mag ’is way in anywhere.
Envoi.
'E might be alwiz shovin’ in ’is spoke.
An’ sometimes gets ’is knock-backs, too, but,
spare
Me days! ’e’ll never lack a drink or smoke,
The bloke who’ll mag ’is way in anywhere.
, N.S.W.
S.W.K.


100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
XT>
v.tXi/ff’
■ ’ S
■
•- i,r"
K~3ff
• v 4„, •* "■ ;
iJCIjA-r. kiilt'. r1.353.Vj.,
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
A Half-million Gift.
“Malm-Raff”; I admit everything
“Murrawong” (B. 22/4/’36) says; but
when is the- woolgrower of Australia go-
ing to know his own business?
The trade tells us that we should give
up a further Is. per bale for publicity.
Consider what we are giving already.
The average weight of a pack is 1141 b.
This pack is presented to the buyer, and
its weight, IHlb., is deducted from
the weight of wool for which the
buyer pays. Don’t forget that packs are
weighed into store. The manufacturer
disposes of packs at an average of Is. to
Is. 4d. each, and, taking the average of
Is. on the current Australian wool-clip,
this is apparently an unearned gift of
approximately £132,750.
Further, when wool is sold, the buyer
receives a draft allowance of 11b. in every
1121 b. purchased. In calculating draft
allowance, the “in” weight is taken, and
this includes the weight of the pack.
Therefore, on the current season’s Aus-
tralian clip of 2,655,000 bales, the weight
of wool-packs given to buyers will be
30,532,5001 b., and draft allowance on this
weight of packs will be 121 tons 14cwt.
In other words, for the privilege of giving
away their wool-packs free of charge to
buyers, the woolgrowers of Australia are
also compelled to give that away. At an
average of Is. per pound, it represents
£13,600.
There is also the draft allowance of
11b. in ever 1121 b. of wool, which, in a
clip of 2,655,000 bales, averaging 3001 b.
per bale, represents 3174 tons 16cwt.,
and this, taken at Is. per pound, equals
£355,580.
The three “gifts” from grower to buyer
were this year worth £501,930. Why
doesn’t the trade donate an equal amount
for publicity? Then it would have
over £1,000,000 to play with.
Unsatisfactory Wool Packing.
“Murrawong” : Once more the cry has
arisen against improperly-packed wool,
this time from the Acting Commerce
Minister (Mr. Thorby), who is taking up
the matter with State Agricultural Depart-
ments and the Graziers’ Associations to
“educate” the woolgrower.
Mr. Thorby cites instances of rams’
fleeces, skirtings and bellies being dumped
in the middle of a bale of fleece wool.
The “topping” of bales is not unknown.
If a fruit-packer or -vendor tries it, he is
liable to prosecution. In the wool
business such irregularities and such
others as putting a boulder or a lump
of iron in a bale rebound eventually on
the perpetrators themselves.
The only education necessary, there-
fore, is to implant in the mind of the
man apt to play such tricks that honesty
is the best policy and that infringement
will surely hurt him where he will feel it
most.
Most cases occur in the smaller clips
—the “cockies’ lots” —got up in blissful
ignorance of all market requirements
and occasionally tinctured with the desire
to put one over on the buyer.
Those people should be made to realise
that their responsibility does not end with
the sale of the wool. They are liable for
the reputation —good or bad —of the wool
contained in every bale bearing their
brand. Let them once destroy the buyer’s
confidence in that brand and the few
shillings they may gain by deception one
year will cost them pounds for years to
come.
The sale contract printed on every wool
catalogue contains a clause to protect
buyers in the event of any lot not being
up to description and sample. If the
fault is not discovered by the sampler
after the sale, it will eventually be dis-
covered by the manufacturer, whose claim
will have to be met by the selling broker.
He, in turn, not being a philanthropist,
deducts it from the wool cheque,. If that
year’s cheque has been paid, next year’s
clip will have to carry it.
If Mr. Thorby distributed a leaflet con-
taining those facts, he could save himself
and taxpayers much time and expense.
“I used to be a hell ringer in the Old Dart!"
More About Entero-toxaemia.
“Corriedale”: I think “Lion” (B.
6/ 5/ ’36) is too dogmatic about the causes
and diagnosis of a disease that is con-
tinuing to baffle even our best men in
veterinary research. Not one of these
will admit he really knows how the
trouble starts.
The Welchii- type D bacterium I referred
to is the Cl. ovitoxicus, and, contrary to
“Lion’s” theory, this is known to be a
normal inhabitant of the bowel, along
with members of its three similar Clos-
tridii —types A, B and C. Some of
these are probably present in every par-
ticle of dust ingested by the sheep. (Type
D alone causes entero-toxaemia.)
Under the microscope, a bowel smear
of any sheep very rarely fails to reveal
some of these Welchii. To the eye, each
of the four types is exactly similar, and
a research officer cannot, therefore, verify
entero-toxaemia with the aid of the micro-
scope alone.
The technique of identification involves
preparing bowel filtrates from suspected
cases and inoculating these into small
animals for test. But this is too long
and big a process to be really valuable
as a diagnosis in the field.
Whilst in N.S.W. mostly fat sheep are
taken by the disease, this does not always
hold in Victoria or M.L., because all
types of animal on various pastures,
ranging from good to very medium, have
been lost.
Backing the theory of predisposing low
resistance is the experience of vet. A. L.
Rose in Riverina, who noted that lambs
from ewes that had been through a bad
winter were very prone to the disease.
The idea that it is due simply to protein
richness is riot sound, as few deaths occur
on lucerne —the most “proteiny” of feeds.
Nevertheless, growers would be well
advised to learn “Lion’s” post-mortem
diagnosis method, as it is very sound
and complete. It always pays to open a
dead sheep. With entero-toxaemia, how-
ever, it should be noted that changes are
not very noticeable until two or three
hours after death.
Wool-market Facts.
“Ghanam”: The latest bulletin of the
Imperial Economic Committee supports
the contention (B. 6/5/’36) that we can
sell all the wool we can grow without
spending money on overseas publicity.
Aggregate imports of this “threat-
ened” commodity into the nine lead-
ing consuming countries during January
—ltaly excluded —was 214,000,0001 b., or
14,000,0001 b. more than in the corre-
sponding period last year. The retained
imports of the U.K. were 22 p.c. above
those of last year. Prices of both
tops and yarns everywhere showed a
“hardening tendency.”
The Overseas Trade Department, in its
report on Yorkshire, whose agents
are urging Australian growers to do their
advertising for them, to “help save the
industry,” makes it clear that “there is
a keen demand for wool from all
sources.” This is the “outstanding feature
of the wool industry.”
A situation is developing which may
create a difficult problem later in the year.
It is evident that there is to be an un-
usually rapid disposal of the various clips,
and yet there is no sign of any correspond-
ing increase in supplies in the principal
consuming countries. There is a reduction
in the world wool supply —estimated at
about 5 p.c. of the previous season —and
there was a reduced carry-forward from
last season, but these considerations alone
do not account for the present wool posi-
tion.... new arrivals of raw material have
been steadily absorbed... .There has been
increase of machine activity in U.S.A.
This has made it necessary for that
country to import larger quantities of wool
than in recent years.
The department issues a warning that
wool has been definitely too dear, and
hints that when the home demand reaches
saturation point there may be changes
to “cheaper wool in the near future.”
But there is nothing to suggest the need
for a campaign at
growers’ expense to
save the industry from
the ravages of rayon.
And it is not as easy as
it used to be for
Europe to regulate
prices in the face of
Japanese and growing
U.S.A. competition.
Noogoora Dangers.
“W a r r amu 11 a”;
Noogoora is likely to
be a greater menace
than people give it
credit for.
From its first appear-
ance the burr has been
a nuisance in the fleece,
and we know it to be
useless as fodder; but
there is another aspect
that must be coped
with.
Since spraying was
first introduced, much
trouble has been ex-
perienced through
workmen developing an
irritating skin ailment.
I know of one man
who was in hospital
months without any
benefit. The trouble
has been blamed on the
spraying mixture, but
recent experiences
seem to prove this
wrong.
In our district (W.Q.),
with any number of
local men out of work,
it is difficult' to get
labor to pull burr, even at £4 18s.
a week. Many of those who take the
job on soon find themselves suffering
from irritation. Basil gloves are no pro-
tection. A station-hand pulled into the
camp of some burr-pullers and used a
mate's towel. At the moment, his face
has an eruption on it that is not pleasant
to look at. Similar cases are cropping
up daily. One station-owner cannot even
ride through Noogoora, from which he
contracts swellings all over the body.
Two trips to medical men on the coast
have not helped him. The only advice
given is to keep away from Noogoora.
It is not every individual that is
affected, but the problem will have to be
taken in hand before long.
{“Land” continued on page 24.)


NATIONAL MUTUAL
Life Association of Australasia, Ltd.
PRESENTS
SIXTY-SIX YEARS OF ACHIEVEMENT
1869 to 1935
Funds 1869 £6-0-10
Income for Year 1935 £5,233,822
Funds 1935 £39,161,123
- ' .
A romantic story of such solid and
continual progress that to-day The
National Mutual Life Association of
Australasia is one of the strongest
Mutual Life offices carrying on business
in the Empire.
IT is a purely Mutual Institution—
IT has absolutely NO shareholders—
The funds are owned entirely by its
policyholders, who alone share the
profits.
OFFICES:
N.S.W.: 330 George Street, Sydney. Victoria; 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australasia, Great Britain, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements.
Premium quotations for any class of Life Assurance furnished on application. A Special
Representative will call if requested.


è
ARE YOUR SHOES
COMFORTABLE?
TRY THIS
ORTHOPEDIC SHOE
FOR
GREATER COMFORT!
A SHOE that gives you comfort right from the start is well worth
while.
“Impossible,” you say, but—just try this Abbey Orthopedic Shoe,
and see for yourself. Made as near as possible to the shape of the
human foot, this shoe gives maximum comfort, from the day vou
first put it on. And it’s good-looking, too—masculine.
Made in Black and Brown, and stocked in full and half sizes, and
narrow, medium and wide fittings.
Prices: Black 37/6; Brown 39/6
Wo you use “Abbey” Polish? Order a tin with your next order for
a better shine. Also ask for our new Illustrated Catalogue. Post free.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY .”
LICK
bT?
H:
2
THEY
ALL
WANT
IT
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MM
pc
1
m
A
■■■
mm
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
iff
3JP
m
U
*
IB
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD ,
247 George St., S 9 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driver/
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN," Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, <•/ U FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
p.b> LICK
IS THE BEST
for ALL STOCK. It is manu-
factured on the formula of the
New South Wales Stock Depart-
ment, contains 50 p.c. Sterilized
Bonemeal, and is recommended
by ail Veterinary Officers,
Write for Free Pamphlets to —
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
52 King Street, Sydney.
100% Pure.
STERILIZED
BONEMEAL
é
Maternity Care.
“Rom Ney”: Lambing will soon be
general. Two things are important: (1)
Beat the crow to the cast ewe or lost
lamb in the morning and (2) care for the
ewe in travail, Kelly is up with the first
hint of dawn searching for cast ewes and
lost lambkins.
If a ewe is having serious difficulty in
delivery, turn her gently on her back,
stand with a foot each side 6f her, face
her tail, gently press the protruding
lamb’s head in towards the udder. Be
firm but gentle, keep the pressure even,
and the lamb should come away. This
trouble may be bad where small merino
ewes are lambing to Romney Marsh sires,
owing to the large heads of the lambs.
Where a breach birth is evident, get one
hindleg first, then the other, and exert
gentle pressure.
When dealing with a ewe that has
lambed successfully, but is cast, proceed
quietly. You should have no dog, and the
horse should be a quiet stager that will
stand some distance away with the reins
trailing. Prop the ewe against a stump
or log on the side on which she has not
been lying. Place the lamb near her head,
walk quietly away in front of her for
some distance. If you go behind, she’ll
struggle to watch you. Return later.
If she is still there then, stand her on
her feet and hold her up until she is able
to walk. If she is too weak to stand, have
her taken, with the lamb, near the home-
stead, where she can be guarded against
crows. Neglected and allowed to die,
she’s the price of her skin ; cared for and
pulled through, she may produce six
more iambs and half a dozen fleeces.
If a skittish ewe runs away from her
lamb don’t pick up the lamb and chase
her. Gather a little mob of ewes and
lambs, drive them slowly towards the
skittish one, absorb her into them, then
drive the lot quietly to the forsaken
youngster.
Quiet, unhurried methods are the best
in everything to do with stock.
Stallions in Victoria.
“Wundi”: Either Victoria is unusually
strict or there is a lot more disease and
general unsatisfactoriness about horses
in that State than there should be in a
fairly closely-settled area.
The annual report on stallion inspec-
tion shows that 319 out of 934 draught
stallions, 44 out of 171 light and 13 out
of 71 pony sires were rejected for regis-
tration—3l.9 p.c. of the total submitted.
Spavin, curb, nervy, ringbone, sidebone
and thoroughpin together accounted for
only \\ p.c. of the whole, but the un-
soundness figure was over 11 p.c., string-
halt rejected 9.4 p.c. and another 20.9 p.c,
went out for faults in conformation and
general standard.
The high percentage of unsoundness is
attributed by the department to the fact
that unsound mares are used with sound
stallions and that owners keep rejected
stallions for use on their own mares.
That 342 rejected stallions were
registered for use with owners’ own
mares, taken in conjunction with the
official comment, suggests that there is
a big flaw in the Act. Registration under
the provisions which allow this sort of
thing to go on merely drives horse evils
underground.
One shudders at the same time to think
what the result would be if all stud bulls
had to be submitted for examination on
a stallion basis.
Reseeding Pastures.
“Hortus”: It’s not enough just to sow
down paddocks with grasses, or even to
harrow and top-dress them afterwards.
After seven or eight years’ fairly con-
stant grazing, grasses tend to degenerate,
though some more than others. With
poor grazing and manuring, degeneration
sets in earlier still.
Rye seeds only when allowed to grow
fairly long. Rye, again, loses vigor un-
less allowed to reach a height of eight
or ten inches fairly often. Clover seems
to thrive on bare-ground grazing, even to
the point of seeding. The idea then, in
rye-clover mixture, is to keep a good, even
balance. If the grazier is not careful, the
clover must predominate to the detriment
of the rye.
Here it is that reseeding comes in. In-
stead of mowing the rank spring growth,
allow all plants to come to full maturity.
Perennial rye that has remained after
six years has proved its worth. It should
be a true-to-type and most useful strain.
So, allow rye to reseed at six years. The
scheme holds great possibilities. Falling
info the fine, rotting root and nitro-
humus mulch of an established pasture,
the seeds should germinate freely.
The clover is not affected very much.
Every species seems to develop pods, irre-
spective of the severity of grazing.
Cow-grass (red clover) alone requires
careful consideration. Its normal worth-
while period of life is three to four years.
This period can be extended almost in-
definitely, for the mere withholding of
sheep or mowing for a few days often
allows it to seed.
For top-dressing, one bag of super, to
the acre is quite enough. More could
be applied, but, especially with lucerne,
an over-lush growth is the result.
Hints for the Farm.
“X.T.”: A good scrub itch remedy for
animals is a handful each of lime and
sulphur in a kerosene-tin of water
brought nearly to boiling-point. Bottle
when cool.
As a lamb-marking disinfec-
tant, try eight parts boracic acid to one
part iodoform. A pinch on the wounds
is enough.
“Lona”: Never use a ram till six weeks
after shearing. Otherwise you may join
the army which puts up with a 50 p'.c.
drop.
“Pappamosca”; In winter weaning give
piglets dry pollard and water in separate
troughs. A wet pollard mash means wet,
cold pigs, filth and bad tempers all round.
“Ran”: Limewater used to soak super,
bags will combine with sulphuric acid in
(he bags to form harmless gypsum, which
can be removed by a scrub in clean water.
The bags can then be safely used for
general purposes.
“J.W.”: When pulling stumps with
team and chain or Spanish windlass, hook
the chain round the bottom of the stump
with the hook opposite the team or wind-
lass. Then pass over the top of the stump
—it increases leverage considerably.
“Zedo”: To make soldering paste flux
melt five parts olive oil and four parts
tallow together in a pot over a slow fire.
Then slowly mix in two and a half parts
powdered resin and hasten the boiling.
To the cooled mixture add one and a
quarter parts saturated solution of sal
ammoniac.
“Spinifex”: In getting a car through
bad sand the rules are: Let down tires
to half-balloon pressure. Change up for
the rush gently and early. Take a per-
fectly straight line. And don’t slow up
an inch till your wheels are on solid
ground. When digging out of a sand bog
dig well from the sides as well as under-
neath the tire before putting any support
down. See that your wheels are all in
line before you start,
“Kelpie”: The efficiency of crutching
for blowfly control has been well demon-
strated this season. One group of sheep
at Trangie (N.S.W.) during 10 days prior
to crutching, which was carried out on
March 13, showed “A” class sheep 20 p.c.
struck, “B” class 33 p.c. and “C” class
95 p.c. In the month following crutch-
ing, total strikes have amounted to only
2 p.c., which is low when the severity of
the season is considered.
“Beefo”: Sheep losses during the last
drought in Queensland were bad enough,
but little publicity was given to the losses
suffered by cattlemen. As an instance of
the toll of drought among cattle, take
Fort Constantine (n.-w. Q.); 20,000
before the pinch came, 3000 after the
drought broke. Wiped out twice pre-
viously during the past two decades, the
Fort has suffered more than most cattle
stations. Overstocked? No.
“Dead Finish”; Out on the Flinders
River (n.-w. Q.), wild pigs have become
such a nuisance that the Richmond Shire
Council decided to give a bonus of Is.
a snout for grunters shot in its district.
So far nearly 9000 have been paid for,
and the job is by no means finished.
Among these wild ones are many good
sorts of pigs, and if any market was
handy they might make a profitable side-
line for graziers.
“Ghanam”: Really good labor-saving
news for us horny-handed Antipodeans
has arrived from England, where the
man who has the contract for shearing
the sheep in the royal parks has been
trying a startling experiment. Pic-
turesque-looking gaffers used to barber
the flocks in the King’s demesnes at a
speed which would have made the
booby-ringer of a burr-country shed look
like a champion udarnik. The revo-
lution arrived, and in the place of the
gaffers the parks this year saw some
erections which would have made pre-war
Australian shearers weep with homesick-
ness. H.M.’s contractor has now decided
that, “on the whole,” machine-shearing
seems to be as efficient as hand-shearing.


SMOKE-OH!
The old adage “After the feast comes
the reckoning” proves that even in
ancient times they were cursed with after-
dinner speeches.
•F A *F *F
“ ‘As an example in economy to the rest of
my family, I have made my last suit of serge
last for five years,’ says a lecturer.”
A shining example.
•F *F *F *F
“Pots of face-cream have been found in the
tomb of an Egyptian princess who died thou-
sands of years ago.” —News Hem.
Evidently not vanishing cream.
*F *F *F *F
“In ancient lore, numbers had sex, odd
numbers being masculine and even feminine.”
— Oddity.
Well, man is still an odd number and
women get even with him.
Just run these trunks up to room 77.”
“ ‘Why are humorous writers mostly serious-
looking men?’ asks a correspondent.”
If he’d tried to make a living as a
humorous writer he’d know.
“Send p.n. for ss. and learn the truth about
yourself.”— Advt.
Don’t need to. Married.
•F *F *F *F
“Prisoners in the gaols are encouraged to
take regular athletic exercises.”— "Sun.”
Skipping, however, is discouraged.
•|«
Brainwaves are quite capable of land-
ing the unwary on the rocks.
*F *F *F *F
“Audiences appear to expect Irish melodies
as encores.” — “Sun.”
Asking for Moore.
“Does the lure of book-collecting attract
many in Australia?” — “Herald."
The lure of collecting from the books
does.
•F *F *F *F
“Mussolini says he wants to do the Abys-
sinians good.”
In the American sense of the term?
•F *F *F *F
“ ‘Winter colds are aggravated by dancing
and late hours,’ says a doctor.”
Whoopeeing cough.
*F *l* v *F
Look after the pennies and the
pounds will go to the income tax
authorities.
•F 4* *F 4*
“There will be an interesting article on buns,
including the story of their origin.”
— Woman’s paper.
Currant history.
ë
match has gone out and the head flies off
the 1008th and sticks to your chin, swear
off safety matches for ever.
Now resort to book-type matches of
impregnated paper, taking care to comply
with the warning printed on the book:
“Close Cover Before Striking Match.”
With practice the precaution of closing
the cover will become so natural that
you’ll forget to tear out the match first.
In time, this will so irritate you that
you’ll throw away all your unlighted
cigarettes and take to drink.
P. C.
•F *F 4* *F
“ ‘Men get much better treatment from
blondes than from brunettes,’ says a writer.”
Of course —they’re much fairer.
Proof Positive.
Old Mrs. Snagglejaw pointed to the
morning paper she held in her hand.
“Look, John!” she said excitedly to
her septuagenarian spouse, “here is the
write-up about our golden wedding. It
must have been that young reporter
fellow who was here yesterday. And,
oh! listen to what it says:
A half-century of marital bliss still finds
this charming old couple lovers in the real
old-fashioned sense. Their mutual affection
is as strong now as it was on that day,
long ago, when he led her, a blushing
bride, to the altar. It is their proud boast
that throughout their long life together
they have never had one single quarrel.
“Well, what do you know about that!”
said her husband. “It’s a funny thing,
I read the same thing a few weeks ago
about the Blumpkins when they had their
“Nice juicy apple, sir?"
“ I'm not interested, Eve.”
k
golden wedding. I remember think-
ing”—
“Nonsense!” his wife interrupted.
“Why, the whole neighborhood knows
that they fight like sat and dog. She’d
have divorced him long ago only the
old skinflint has his cash put away some-
where and she’d have a job getting
alimony,”
“Well, anyway, it said in the paper
they’d never had a row in 50 years of
married life. 1 saw it myself in the
‘Her’ ”
“I don’t believe it!” his wife snapped.
“They wouldn’t dare put such lies in.”
“Are you calling me a liar, Martha?”
“Well, it runs in your family, doesn’t
it? What about that precious brother of
yours who is always skiting about the
money he’s made, and him not worth a
cracker. And your sister going around
telling lies about”
“You leave my family out of it! And,
anyway, they’re a damn’ sight better than
any of your mangy, sponging herd.”
Mrs. Snagglejaw turned a bright purple
around the gills.
“You insulting brute!” she shrieked.
“Take that!” And with a resounding
smack she swiped her lord and lover
across the kisser with that part of the
paper containing the moving description
of their perfect, row-less life.
S. W. K.
*•<
Inseparables.
Dot and Dash.
Bill and Coo.
Cash and Carrie.
Pro and Con.
Ebb and Flo.
Ox.
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XV.—A Chilly City.
Ballarat is, without exception, the cold-
est city in the world—for its size. Mos-
cow’s frigidity may extend over a larger
area, and Reykjavik’s is probably concen-
trated with greater intensity in a smaller
compass. But, taking them square yard
by square yard, or even square inch by-
square inch, Ballarat wins hands down
(provided any of its citizens can be per-
suaded to keep their hands out of their
pockets long enough to put ’em down).
Ballarat people are tough ! When their
breath begins to freeze they slap each
other on the back and speak of “the
bracing atmosphere” ; when a couple of
fingers or an ear drops off from frost-
bite they shamefacedly invent tales of
circular-saw accidents lest they should be
thought to be losing their stamina, and
when an unwary tourist stays out after
dark and is found next morning frozen
stiff they speak in terms of amused pity
of “poor weaklings who can’t put up with
a few degrees of frost.”
There is a legend that Ballarat’s Sturt-
street statues are really the frozen mortal
remains of innocent visitors who stayed
out of doors on cold nights, but the city
records contain nothing to confirm the
rumor.
Many theories have been advanced to
account for the cold-resistance of the
Ballarat species of homo sapiens— and
every single one of them is wrong. The
real reason is that from an early age all
children are trained with a view to lift-
ing cups, plates, teapots or whatever
other items of crockery are awarded to
prize-winners at the Ballarat elocutionary
competitions.
The infant in his cradle, instead
of gurgling “Da-da-da-da,” mumbles
“Break! Break! Break!” Little girls who
should be chanting “Eeny-meeny-miney-
mo” are heard relating how they brought
the good news from Aix to Ghent, while
on almost every corner a small boy may
be come upon declaiming with a flourish
“and that’s how the favorite was beat.”
If you ask a crowd of young men to
show you the way to Eureka Stockade, a
score of voices will reply;
“Nay ! that I cannot tell, said he,
But ’twas a famous victory.”
And so on. Walking, working, eating,
sitting, sleeping, every man, woman and
child in Ballarat elocutes and elocutes.
As a result they are perpetually sur-
rounded by an aura of hot air which
effectively shields them from the cold.
But let them stop elocuting for a single
second and the aura breaks —then woe
betide the hapless non-elocutor.
On one tragic occasion during the com-
petitions of 189— the test piece set for
Class Al 9 (“Either sex, 15-17, free-style
elocute from a standing start”) was
Tennyson’s “Brook.”
By an oversight the umpteenth verse
was omitted from some of the copies
issued to competitors, so that when the
adjudicator pulled them up after the bit
about the 50 bridges and prompted them
with the next line, they floundered badly.
Aura after aura snapped, and 12 noses,
16 ears, one harelip and half a dozen
incipient moustaches parted company
with their owners for ever.
They call that night Black Friday in
Ballarat.
Jasby.
Vigilant Lover’s Petition.
You are so beautiful, so wondrous fair,
A subject that Raphael would have
prized ;
Matchless your eyes, superb your lips,
your hair ;
But, dear, have you been psycho-
analysed ?
Ah, you’re a dream of loveliness, my
sweet!
Your form the mode’s most stringent
rule observes.
But what about the arches of your feet ?
And has your backbone any war by
curves ?
You’ve grace and poise, your charm’s a
sheer delight;
But how’re your adenoids and tonsils,
pet ?
Is your digestion, your appendix right 7
Have you had whooping cough and
measles yet ?
I baulk at forking out for doctors’ bills;
But if from all the ills of flesh
you’re free,
If you’re not prone to fevers, faints or
chills,
1 plead with you to share my lot with
me.
P.O.M.C.
The Mild and Woolly West.
(BY JANE CRAY.)
[The author wishes to state that the charac-
ters 'in this story have no relation to any living
person. This is just as well; their relations
wouldn’t own ’em.]
Nestling in the long shadows of the
Boggabri canyons, the hamlet of Dingo
Bend was tense with dramatic
expectancy.
Old Dan Dinkum, the sheriff,
twitched nervously in his jack-
boots.
Saltbush Susie, rose of the
Paroo, tried to remember the
prayers she listened to at her
mother’s knee 60-odd years back.
A sinister smile settled on the
rough-hewn face of Dubbo
Dick, the Ridin’ Rattlesnake.
A sneer flitted across the
grizzled features of Cobar Charlie, the
Croonin’ Coyote.
Dingo Bend held its breath. The Ridin’
Rattlesnake and the Croonin’ Coyote!
Each hated the other with a hatred as
black as hell. This would be a fight to
a finish.
“Doggone me old carcuss!” yelled the
sheriff. “You boys aimin’ to start sum-
thin’?”
“Mebbe, sheriff, mebbe,” drawled
Dubbo Dick. “This yer hijacker, Cobar,
been Axin’ t’ do aplenty. Sure wanta
tote a steady hand an’ clear eye right
now.”
“Yuh kan’t”
Too late.
The crowd fell back. A deathly silence
hung over the scene. Then something
snapped.
ē
D. MCM.
Down to Tin Tax.
“For the first time in Federal taxation law,
a £5O deduction for a wife has been intro-
duced.”
Upon his knees in terms most passionate
He begged and prayed that she become
his mate.
More precious gem, he told her with a
sigh,
The untold wealth of Ind could never
buy ;
Her priceless worth for ever he w>ould
hold
In deeper reverence than crocks of gold.
And then she knocked him endways;
for she said
“The answer’s ‘yes’; but store this in
your head :
By legislator chaps who deal in votes,
I’m valued at a wretched fifty notes!”
D.McM.


New Serial Novel of Strange, Dramatic Adventure:—
The Papuan
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
lau^rpfcTeD
9y
Sucvf
Chapter I.
I.
JOYCE MANSON had difficulty in getting into
Papua. It was necessary to use a certain amount
of influence, and after her arrival in Sydney she
sought out a family connection, a Macquarie-street
specialist named Saunders. He was a man of many
friendships, but before she could persuade him to do
anything for her she had to break down prejudices.
“My dear Joyce,” he said, “you’re quite wrong
if you think I’m going to have any hand in sending a
girl like you out to New Guinea.”
“Why ‘a girl like me’?”
He was leaning back in one of those spring chairs
that allow a man to look judicious and dignified, and
she was able to look across his bald head at a palm
frond and a corner of the Mitchell Library, seen
through a window.
“I mean any girl, of course ; but if you press
me I’ll admit that I’d hate getting you out there even
more than other women. You’re not made for this
sort of thing, Joyce. How those people of yours ever
allowed you to go into medical "work I don’t know.”
“They didn’t have much to do with it.”
“I suppose not.” *
The specialist looked across at Joyce with a new
interest, as though, in noting and appreciating her
beauty, he had overlooked something else.
“You see,” explained Joyce, “I had a little money
of my own, and I had made up' my mind about doing
this work while I was still quite young. And, of
course, there was always Uncle.”
“Of course ! I might have known he would have
something to do with it. He was not the man to
persuade anybody to be normal.”
“Uncle was a man of vision,”
“1 don’t doubt it for one moment, my dear. But,
between ourselves, he was also a man of fixed ideas.”
“They were good ideas.”
Saunders put out his hands with an apologetic
gesture. He liked to see the indignant light in her
eyes, but he prided himself on an understanding
manner,'and now he spoke in his gentler and sooth-
ing voice.
“I’ve heard your uncle spoken of very highly,
although his ideas are generally a little beyond me.
I don’t hesitate to admit it. But I’m sorry to.see you
so determined to follow in his footsteps. Why must
you go into places like Papua? What can you, expect
to find there but a lot of damned unpleasant things?
Fuzzy-tops and their filthy diseases, no-class.white men,
heat and insects, and the frightful boredom of society
in places like Port Moresby? I tell you, my dear
Joyce, you’ll find no romance up there.”
“I’m inclined to think your ideas about Papua
have been taken from novels written by people who
have never been near the country. They’re sadly old-
fashioned. And you don’t really think I’m looking
for romance?”
He gave her a puzzled smile.
“I suppose not, really! But you’re a good-looking
young woman, if you think I’m old enough to be able
to mention it. You’ve got the grey eyes and the
features of a woman who likes to be found in places
where there are lots of men. And by men, let me
add, I mean civilised beings who know how to dress
and talk—not the grubby adventurers you're likely
*o meet up north.” /
“My face will change as 1 grow older,” said-'
Joyce rather crossly. “But I’m hot going'up there
to look at the men. I’m interested in tropical diseases,
Doctor Saunders, and I want to study them at- close
quarters.”
“I can assure you they’re not at all interesting
at close quarters—although, of course, they’re not in
my line.”
The specialist, who had a select and profitable-
clientele among nerve-ridden women, made a gesture
of disgust. -
“If you must go poking into such places and look-
ing at the diseased rabble, why not take a return ticket
to Port Moresby and stop over between steamers? I’m
sure you’d see all you could stand in that time.”
“It’s difficult to make you understand,” said
Joyce patiently. “I’ve one or two little theories 1
want to put into practice. I know I’m rather too close
to university days to be talking about theories, but I
really owe them to Uncle. He left his work
unfinished.”
“Your uncle again! He had a sort of fever for
investigation, and fevers are infectious. A pity!”
Its something I’ve been wanting to do ever since
I could think lor myself,” went on Joyce unheeding;
and 1 won’t settle down until I’ve done it.”
1 suppose you know that medical officers usually
go up there under a three-year contract?”
“That’s just about the time I’ll want for my
experiments.”
Three years! And how old are you now?”
“Twenty-five.”
“in three years you’ll be twenty-eight. Think
pf it three of a woman’s best years thrown away
m the wilderness!”
You re old-fashioned. Doctor Saunders,” said
Joyce with decision, “and I can see you’ve had too
many dealings with nervy women, fdo wish you
would try to realise that you’re talking to a doctor
and not to a young woman in search of a husband.
Of course, the next three years will be important, but
only for what I can get out of them. It’s not how
I’ll look that’s going to matter at the end of them ;
it’s what I’ll know.”
“Well,” said Saunders, “I expect you'll know a
good deal about insects and rain and boredom. But
if that s how you feel, 1 suppose 1 must'do what I
can for you. I’ll give you fair warning, though, and
you’ll be wise to take me seriously. That face and
figure of yours will get you into no end of trouble.
The women—poor, lonely souls!—will hate you ; and
the men will follow you around like dogs.”
“There may not be any women where I’m going,
and ! can handle the men. I’m big enough.”
“You can call yourself big if you like, although I
don’t Temember any poets who spoke of Artemis that
way. You’re tall, but you’re not heavy. The type of
man you’ll run up against in those jungle places will
appreciate a woman like you.”
“They’ll soon discover that I’m not to be trifled
with. And the fact that I’m a doctor will alarm most
of them. I’ve found, as a rule, that men don’t like
women doctors.”
. “My dear Joyce, can you blame them? The
average woman doctor may be intelligent, but she’s
not always beautiful; and any man would rather
smell face-powder than carbolic. I don’t want to
discourage you, but I know you’ll have a tough time
—if you ever get there. Fortunately, our people are
not in the habit of sending women into these places.”
* “They send doctors, and I’m one. What more
do they want?”
“Tough young manhood, my dear. We’ll have
to make you out a brilliant young person who pro-
mises to make memorable use of a little experience.
For the good of science! I’ll dose the powers with
platitudes. . Altogether,” he ended, with his most
charming smile, “I’ll do what I can.”
, 11.
S AUNDERS used his influence ; and, in spite of
•■his disapproval and grumbling, the thing did not
prove impossible. Joyce had interviews with
elderly men who looked either surprised or vague.
She was given information and advice, and, finally,
after a wait of some months, was sent out as medical
officer to a district on the Fly River in Papua.
Joyce wept . td : Rabaul for official visits, but her
memories of that time were never very clear or attrac-
tive ; and, in retrospect, she always began her
association with the country on the day she came
to the end of her journey. There were hours in a
whaleboat. She *sat in the stern behind a taciturn
Australian named Butts. He was not as tall as most
of,his race, and he had a round, wise face, with a
short nose and eyes that twinkled. He opened his
. mouth only to swear at the native oarsmen, and
then, in the following breath, to apologise to Joyce.
“Got to talk to them that way, miss,” he
explained. “They don't understand any language that
isn’t violent.” :
He was .unable, to give her the information she
wanted: Curious trees wpre standing out against the
high jungle walls, and.she saw bright birds and heard
others among unseen branches; but her companion
knew nothing of names. After mumbling embarrassed
monosyllables, he begged her to wait until she came
to the Clearing.
“Murdoch will tell you all about it,” he said.
“There's nothing in this country he hasn’t heard of.”
After that she watched the fuzzy-tops. Their
yellow heads were moving with the oars;' their dark
faces—with a gleam of soiled copper in the skin —
grinned towards her, and their bodies were damp with
and restless with the rhythms of muscle. The
jungle faced them secretively from either side, until at
last there was an opening in the green, and she could
see a jetty and beyond it a clearing.
She looked at the few buildings in this cleared
place, and saw that they were flimsy bungalows, stand-
ing on piles, with wide verandahs and roofs of palm-
thatch. A knot of natives waited on the jetty, and
beyond them was a white man, notably big. It was
he who gave orders when the boat bumped against
the timbers and the usual chattering rose upon the
moments of arrival;
Joyce stepped on to the jetty, and the white man
moved towards her.
“How do you do?” said Joyce. “I’m the new
doctor.”
He stared at her.
“My God!” he exclaimed. “They’ve sent us a
woman!”
Joyce had expected this, and was not disturbed.
She looked at him appraisingly. Undoubtedly he
was big. He was lightly-clothed in duck’ trousers and
jacket, and beneath the jacket was merely a cotton
singlet. He was clean-shaven, but his beard was a
stubborn growth, and she doubted if his cheeks and
chin would ever be free from the dark, impatient blue.
His hair was plentiful and rough, and it suited his
features, which were rugged.
“You sound as if I am a little more than you can
bear. Haven’t you been fortunate with your doctors?”
“Fortunate!” Disgust was in the word. “They
seem to think we’re here for an experiment. Look,
at that! ”
He removed a hand from his belt and waved
it at the clearing. She saw the narrow circle, the jungle
piled around, and, rising abruptly, an enormous scarred
shoulder of hillside.
“And look at that!”
He pointed to the river, rolling down towards
the Gulf of Papua. There was a narrow band of
sunlight along its centre, but no reflections in the
surface. She looked upstream and saw a bend and
a tangle of trees.
“You never know what’s coming round that bend
or out of that jungle. And over the river you’re in
Dutch country. Head-hunters are in there, and poison
swamps and fever country, and thousands of square
miles that have never felt a white man’s foot. I tell
you, miss, this is a man’s country, and it needs men
to look after it.”
“And, I suppose,” said Joyce, “you’re Mr.
Murdoch?”
“That’s the name. I’m Resident Commissioner,
although that doesn’t mean as much as it sounds.
I’m here to see that a bunch of natives go ahead and
clear some land they’ve leased, and that a few lone
white men are allowed to tap their rubber-trees in
peace and get their copra down to Port Moresby.”
He had a deep voice that rumbled up from a mas-
sive chest. Joyce looked him over again.
“Distended abdomen,” she thought. “Too much
whisky probably.”
It was a pity. If he were straightened up she
could see that he would be a magnificent fellow.
“How long have you been here?” she asked as
they walked up to her bungalow.
“Ten years. But I’ve been around New Guinea
and in the Islands ever since 1 was a youngster. And
that’s more than a year or two.”
She judged him to be about forty.
“What a pity you haven’t looked after yourself!”
she said impulsively.
He gave her a slow stare she came to know in
later months.
“You can’t be more than forty,” she went on,
“if you’re that. But you’re growing all over the place.
Look at this!” She resisted an impulse to prod his
abdomen. “Years of overeating and probably drink-
ing are in that tissue. You must be very strong.
How do you escape fever?”
He laughed tolerantly.
“You must excuse me, but you’ll laugh at your-
self one of these days when you remember what you're
saying to me now. You’ll learn that this is a different
sort of country.”
His voice seemed to thicken.
“You live for to-day, and perhaps for to-morrow;
but you’re a fool if you look any further. I’ve read
about some of your fancies in the papers that trickle
out here a month or so after they’ve been published ;
and I can tell you at once that this is no place for
nature cults and fancy ideas about diet. There’s
nothing very tender or sympathetic about Nature out
here, and the only time you get really close to her is
when they bury you. I'm "afraid .you’ve made a mis-
take in coming here, miss, and I’ll think none the
worse of you if you turn right round and go back.”
They stopped at steps leading to the verandah
of her bungalow.
“Do you really think I would go back?”
He had a way of holding his head to one side
while he rubbed his rough chin.
“Not really. In a way, I’m sorry, and in a way
I'm glad. There's something in the look of you, now
that I’ve seen you for five minutes, that warns me
you're the staying kind. I’m not sure what to think. It
will be bad for the district, 1 suppose; and it’ll cer-
tainly be bad for you. But about myself I’m not so
sure.” ,
He laughed slowly, and Joyce was nervous for
the first time.
“• don’t see that it concerns you.”
His laugh continued.
“You .only need to look around you. See this
clearing? It’s not so big when you come to look
it over There are six bungalows, and two of ’em
are empty. Three white people, one Chinaman and
a crowd of niggers. It stands to reason you'll see
plenty of me.” .
“This clearing isn’t all Papua.”
“Wrong again! It’s about all of Papua that you'll
sec. And let me tell you right now that you’re not
to go straying out of this clearing. When you go


to the native villages you’ll have to take Butts with
you. It isn’t safe to go alone.”
He watched her look skywards.
“Yes,” he nodded. “Rain. It’s starting, and
you’ll see plenty more. This lot may last for weeks.
That’s something else will make you glad to see me.
There’s nothing like rain to make you mad with your
own company.”
He continued to smile down at her, but she would
not let him see that there was nervousness beneath
her calmness.
“Well,” she said, “I’m here; and I should like
to remind you that I’m here to work. There’ll be
plenty to fill my time.”
“Yes,” he admitted ; “you’ll be kept busy. But
it won’t be pleasant work ; and I guess when you’ve
been looking at sick niggers all day you’ll be glad to
have a visit from me in the evening.”
She turned away from him without answering.
111.
JOYCE began to make discoveries. At first she
I allowed herself to think only of her work, believ-
J ing that if she ignored the background it would
iose its strangeness and danger. The scarred moun-
tain, the dark river and the jungle would affect her
no more than if they were the walls and windows
and grounds of a city hospital; she would learn
to walk along the narrow forest trails to distant settle-
ments as if they were mere shining corridors leading
from one ward to another, and as if the silent Butts —
showing her the way—were a starched and rustling
nurse.
But here all analogies broke down, and. after the
first heroic weeks she began to realise that some-
thing important—and perhaps terrible—was happen-
ing to her. In some way she had been betrayed, and,
although she would not yet face all the truth, she
began to have moments of fear. These were not the
moments of surprise and discovery rising naturally
from her new life. Undoubtedly there was a sharp-
ness of shock when she went into native quarters and
saw the blank, resigned faces and the hopeless accept-
ance of death ; there were heart-contractions when
dusk surprised her on a jungle path, and she learned
to be glad of Butts and his rifle. But beneath all this
was a deeper impulse of fear which rose from inmost
places and spread like a pervasive element along her
blood. She found that she was waiting to discover
the meaning of it.
Murdoch had a receiving set in his bungalow and
invited her to listen-in to Australian stations when-
ever she felt like it; but mostly she preferred to use
her portable gramophone. One evening she brought
the machine out to the verandah and played
Tschaikovsky’s Fifth Symphony. She put the gramo-
phone on a bamboo table and sat at the head of the
steps, her hands locked about her knees and her head
leaning against a verandah post. Soon after her
arrival she had taken pains to tutor Bimba, her house-
boy, in the art of the gramophone, and this left her
free to listen without interruptions. Bimba liked the
responsibility of his office, and waited on the discs
with the unctuous care of a high priest.
Joyce listened to the music and watched the sky
darken over the trees. As the fourth movement came
to an end Murdoch strolled over and leaned against
the verandah steps. He was looking more untidy
than usual, and his face had a blur of weariness.
“That’s good music,” he said. “But it doesn’t
belong here.”
“It belongs anywhere,” she replied rather shortly,
for the music was still trembling across the clearing,
the last trumpet-notes of defiance still echoing towards
the stars.
“We need something different in these parts,” he
insisted. “Listen! ”
He raised a bare arm.
“There you are! Above the croaking of the
swamp frogs and the chatter of those Kanakas! Hear
it?”
She stared down at his face, glistening in the dusk.
“I can’t hear anything—except the jungle.”
“And wouldn’t you call that a music?”
“No,” she said rather quickly. "It’s an under-
tone.”
“Maybe; but it grows louder as time goes on.
And that isn’t the music ! was thinking of. There
it is again. Gan’t you hear it?”
She sat forward and stared across to the river—
that dark vein from the heart of the mountains. It
was now full dusk, and Murdoch was a mere white
blur beneath her. Shafts of light came from two of
the other bungalows, and sometimes a native would
come out of the shadows and pause in the pale beams
before vanishing silently. The jungle seemed to creep
a little nearer, the sky to lean a little closer, the silence
to deepen. And then, from a distance incredibly
remote, she heard it.
“Drums!”
The sound was so faint that at first she could
have believed it to be the beat of her own blood.
But now, as she listened, it rose and died and rose
again, muttering along invisible hills.
“What does it mean?” she asked in a low voice.
“Native chatter. Might mean anything, from a
wedding to a killing. They’re head-hunters out there.
Don’t worry,” he added, “they’re a long way off.”
“I’m not worrying; but the thought is strange at
first. Out there —savages, spears, drums!”
She told Bimba to take the gramophone inside,
and Murdoch nodded approvingly.
“I thought it would take away your taste for the
other music.”
“Nothing can do that. I’ve simply had all I want
to-night. Are you coming inside?”
“No, thanks. It’s cooler out here. Why not stay
a little while longer?”
Bimba had lighted a lamp in the dining-room,
and in the beams that came out to the verandah
Joyce could see a swarm of insects. She turned away
distastefully. Murdoch was lighting a pipe, and the
strong fumes floated up around her head. In spite
of herself she sniffed willingly.
“And now,” said Murdoch, seating himself near
her on the verandah steps, “what sort of day have
you had?”
“Tiring and annoying ; but no worse than usual,
I suppose. I wish these natives could be taught to
recover from sickness. They simply lie down and
wait for . death. It’s'a heart-breaking job trying to
rouse them up."
“That’s because you’re up against something more
than bodily sickness. You’ll learn a little about sorcery
before you’re through. But it’s a man’s job—which
is what I’ve always said. You need strength and a
good vocabulary. It helps sometimes if you can go
among them and frighten them out of their wits. If
you strike an epidemic you must take Butts with you ;
he has a pretty taste in oaths. I wish I knew what
you’re really thinking about your job.”
The last words were spoken suddenly, and she
was glad he could not see her face clearly.
“Nothing is ever what we expect it to be.”
“That’s one way of saying you’ve been dis-
appointed. But I don’t wonder.”
“I can’t quite understand it,” she said slowly.
“It’s not as if 1 had had foolish and extravagant ideas.
Laboratories and dissection-tables teach you to be
practical, God knows! ”
“I wonder if they do. I’ve an idea a young girl
will keep her dreams through worse than laboratories.”
“I’m not a young girl, however, and I did think
my attitude was sane. You see, I had an uncle who
did some good work with tropical diseases, and I
thought that some day I might be able to carry on
where he left off. I learned a good deal from him,
and after he died I began to think I ought to come
to a place like this.”
Murdoch drew contentedly at his pipe.
“That sounds reasonable enough. But you must
have had some idea of what these places would be
like. Surely that uncle of yours had plenty to say
about the seamy side?”
“Plenty. But. I’ve noticed that the seamy side
has a queer way of becoming interesting when it’s
described to you at a distance.”
Murdoch nodded.
“I still think you’re a romantic at heart. But
you’re a doctor, 100, and the warmer feelings have
been repressed. They’ll surprise you one of these
days.”
“You’re in 100 big a hurry to make up your
mind about me. And I suppose it would satisfy you
to see me revealed as a fool of a woman who came
to the wrong place and then stayed on simply because
she was stubborn.”
Murdoch’s voice had a calmness which irritated
her. She. felt that his opinion of her had been fixed
at their moment of meeting. Everything that she said
or did henceforth would be accepted in
support of his own impressions.
“Anyway, it’s a sign of grace in you
that you can aamu you came to me
wrong place.”
“I haven’t admitted anything of the
kind. I’m simply trying to adjust my
ideas. You could help me by trying to
see things from my viewpoint. I was
ready for a good many things: for heat
and mosquitoes, insufficient staffs and
quarters, and misunderstanding or dis-
approval from officials. These things
were here, but there was something else
also. And that’s the puzzle. It’s the
environment, I had thought of it as
something always in the background,
like a glimpse of this clearing seen
through the open doors of my bungalow,
like an echo of those jungle drums, rarely
heard. But I’ve found that it’s close and
effluent; it overshadows my work, and
may even grow strong enough to destroy
its interest for me. I came here to do a
job, but I see now that I also came here
to become a part of this settlement: to
be absorbed into it —perhaps buried be-
neath it. That’s what frightens me.”
Her thoughts were too much for
stillness, and she began to walk along the
verandah. When she came back to the
steps she could see Murdoch's broad,
white back and a curl of smoke above
his head. Presently he knocked out his
pipe and rose.
“It’s about time you saw what was happening
to you,” he said, joining her, “and if you’re a wise
woman you’ll stuff pride into your instrument-case
and get out while you have a chance. You see, you
can’t bring just one part of you to these places.
You’ve got to bring everything.”
They paced the verandah together, and as they
came into the light which streamed through open
French windows he could see her face and admire
the clean lines of throat and neck. He thought, too —
and not for the first time—that a good deal of her
nature could be discovered from the way she held
herself: the bearing of a woman who would adven-
ture everything while her faith remained unshaken.
“I’m glad you’re facing these things at last,” he
went on. “I’ve wanted to advise you ; but you've
kept me talking in other directions. You’ve been
slippery—although that’s scarcely a word that fits
you.”
“Thanks for the afterthought! But it’s no use
talking,like that, Murdoch. I’m not going to quit.”
“ ‘Quit’ is a word invented by weaklings to justify
themselves. A fellow who knows his strength is able
to change his mind without worrying about the
opinions of other people.”
“I wish you wouldn’t misunderstand me so deliber-
ately. You know quite well I’m not thinking of other
people’s opinions. I’m thinking about my work.”
“Then you ought to be able to see that it’s time
to go. You won’t gain anything for your work down
here. I know what you expected, and we both know
that you’ve been disappointed. If you’re wise you’ll
get out.”
She stopped in her stride and turned to the veran-
dah-rail, putting her hands on it and looking across
the clearing to the massed shadows of the jungle.
Above them glittered a few stars, seen, as though
accidentally, through an opening.
“You can see the Weary Mountain to-night.
There’s a moon.”
He came to her side and looked towards a dim
shape rising from the forest.
“Why do you call it ‘Weary Mountain’?”
“Because it looks worn, as though from too much
battling with the clouds. There are scars on it.”
“No wonder. It’s been here a long time. Every-
thing in this country wears a scar sooner or later.”
She turned do look at him, although the moon-
light which gave bold outline to the mountain left
shadow upon his face.
“Why are you so anxious to be rid of me?”
He did not answer at once, and she hurried on,
rather nervously.
“Is it that you merely disapprove of a woman
doctor? Or do you dislike me personally?”
He leaned his elbows on the verandah-rail.
(i Continued on page 50.)
And then, from a distance, incredibly remote, she heard it. “Drums!”


THE VERY LATEST
IN SADDLES.
THE
No. 167
TOOMA
FOLEY
SADDLE
£l3/10/-
(MOUNTED)
This is a new
Tum b a
design and is
undoubtedly a
fine production.
It is made of best
quality Kip Leather,
and every stitch is
hand sewn.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order. Write for Saddlery Catalog
and 1 936 List of Horse and Cow Rugs.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Of a Midnight. Hunt:—
THE
WHIP
BY EMARY GURNEY
TITUS BROWN stood very still, trail-
ing the thong of the whip that had
just been presented to him, on be-
half of the hunt committee, by the new
master.
Above the uncompromising white of
his false teeth his thin lips mumbled
soundlessly, and his faded blue eyes,
which had stared, a moment before, so
keenly from his seamed and wrinkled
face, were somehow pitiful, defenceless
and childlike, and helplessly bewildered.
About him, the members of the hunt,
waiting for him to return thanks, shuffled
uneasily. In the little hall was a heavy
silence, broken only by the faint jingle
of spurs. The humid atmosphere was
redolent of coffe.e, of damp leather and
clothing and the acrid, clinging smell of
the sweat of horses.
Someone coughed uneasily, and the
silence grew deeper, heavier, more self-
conscious. The cough was repeated, and
the new master, red-faced, his bonhomie
undermined by an underlying sense of
guilt, spoke. His voice, unexpectedly
hoarse, pitched into the silence like so
many stones into a quiet pool.
He cleared his throat noisily, and tried
again.
“Perhaps you’d like someone —Pinner
or someone —to reply for you?”
Titus Brown’s wandering gaze became
suddenly fixed.' The dazed helplessness
of it passed slowly, and was replaced by
one of swift, shrewd enmity.
Yet it was some seconds before he
spoke. His keen gaze scanned the new
master’s lean, clean-cut face, which was
hard with the hardness of youth.
When he spoke, it was to the master
directly.
“I had understood that the matter of
my—resignation was to be reconsidered,
sir.”
“It was,” said Hadly smoothly. Under
(he tan, his face remained red-tinged.
“I’m sorry, Titus.”
• Titus Brown, very dignified in his
faded, sweaty pink coat, bowed a little.
His broad shoulders seemed, impercep-
tibly, to sag ; but no one noticed, as he
coiled the thong of the whip, how piti-
fully his thin hands trembled.
Behind him, down the length of the
hall, in the open doorway, a hound
whined plaintively.
Titus turned to look at it where it
hesitated, surrounded by its fellows.
Young Pinner, the whip, lounged
against the door-jamb, so absorbed in the
little drama that he had been uncon-
scious of the gradual encroachment of
the pack.
Titus Brown stared at him, his look
one of mingled belligerence and hostility.
“You’ll have my
boots!” he said,
and spoke to the
hounds by name.
“Ruby! Charmer!
Fancy! Here!
Pack up! Pack
up!”
In his old voice
was a note of
harsh authority,
and the hounds
surged forward
over the threshold,
whining eagerly,
padding up the
body of the hall,
jowls slavering,
sterns waving.
They pushed under the benches and
chairs, slithered under the trestled tables
that were loaded with a surfeit of food,
lurching and jostling carelessly against
muddied boots and spotless, swiftly-with-
drawn skirts.
They crowded expectantly round the
old huntsman, brown eyes lifted in wist-
ful adoration to the face they had loved
so long. Old Fancy squatted on her
haunches, scratching and slavering, and
whining a little, waiting his will.
Titus watched them broodingly, turned
slowly on his heel, lifting eyes as wist-
ful, but wholly unadoring, to pass in re-
view before him the faces of the hunt
members, who waited in a tense silence
that grew in unease.
Faces. Faces.
White, stupid faces, meaningless as
oval plaques. They stared at him palely
from the back drop of a dark curtain,
from which they gradually emerged. Old
faces that were as familiar to him as the
palm of his own Land. Young faces,
growing through vagueness to a famili-
arity that would become dear through
years of association.
Against one of the tables a young
hound reared up, snatching at a plate of
sandwiches. Instinctively, old Titus
flicked out the snaky thong of the new
whip. It snicked out, stiff but true, and
the hound yelped dolorously and
scrambled under the table.
Familiar sound, familiar gesture, lifted
up the dark drop curtain, and old Titus
saw clearly again ; began again to think
with clarity.
He coiled the whip slowly, speaking
slowly, and not lifting his eyes.
“Forty years,” said Titus Brown.
“After forty years, I couldn't believe you
really meant to sack me.”
The new master cleared his throat with
that unnerving noisiness.
“You’re putting it darned crudely,
Titus!”
“Am I?” Briefly the old huntsman
lifted his eyes to scan the fine-cut,
bronzed face of the new master. The
eyes were steady and kind, but ruthless
with the ruthlessness of youth. “We’re
all crude —under the veneer!” He lifted
the new whip and looked the new master
straightly into his steady eyes. “For the
ultimate irony, sir, I have to thank you! ”
HE turned on his heel and went down
the hall, with the hounds surging
round him, whining and yowling a little,
in anticipation of that which they thought
was to come.
Behind him in the hall someone
raised a cheer, but Titus went out,
climbed stiffly to horse, and led the
hounds away towards the kennels. Once
he was dimly aware of the clatter of the
hoofs of young Pinner’s horse, but,
wrapped in the depths of his misery, he
gave no sign. He let the reins lie on his
mount’s neck, and with bowed head rode
slowly towards the home that would so
soon cease to be his. Over the familiar
landscape, damp road and dark hedge-
row, rolling downs and deep green
valleys, the misty spring evening folded
the land towards the long day’s close.
Tailing hounds, young Pinner whistled
noiselessly through his teeth and
wondered dimly whether he, too, was
destined to serve the hunt through two
score years and more, and go out at last
in ignominy.
At the stables Titus stabled his own
horse, leaving Pinner to attend to hounds.
Already, thought the old man bitterly,
young Pinner had a proprietary air. He
would not be taking over until commence-
ment of next season, but already, or so
it seemed to Titus, the boy had a dif-
ferent air; not insolent exactly, but
somehow a little arrogant and conde-
scending.
Titus stabled and fed his own horse
and then went over to the house. He
slouched a little as he walked, and behind
him in the yard the hounds clamored
and fought, and young Pinner lifted his
lusty young voice in raucous reprimand.
Mrs. Brown, a round, faded woman,
waited in the doorway, her round, bleak
eyes staring a little with anxiety.
Wordless, Titus pushed past her, fling-
ing the whip on the table. She stared
from it to Titus, who fumbled angrily at
the knot of his stock.
She said jerkily: “Then it’s over”
She picked up the whip and fingered it,
and the tears spilled over and ran down
her face.
Titus swore, wrenching at the stock,
and she dropped the whip back on the
table and ran out of the room, gulping
noisily.
Titus never swore.
Left to himself, he dragged the stock
off, crumpling it, flinging it on the table
beside the whip. He stripped off the
faded pink coat that he would not wear
again . . . not ever again.
With the sorrowful insistence of drums,
the words beat against his brain. Never
again . . . never . . . never . . . again.
He folded the coat slowly and laid it
over the back of a chair ; picked up the
whip and ran the thong through his
fingers ; read and re-read the inscription
on the silver shield: “. ... presented to
Titus 8r0wn.... in recognition. .. .years
of faithful service.. .. ”
Unconsciously, he groaned aloud.
A whip—for a huntsman retired at
sixty-five!
He laughed.
The sound echoed round the kitchen
as though seeking a way of escape. A
ghostly sound, thin and old, without the
memory even of mirth, of youth.
“A coffin,” thought old Titus with
maudlin contempt, “and a plot in the
churchyard would at least have had their
use! ”
He flicked the thong of the whip out
and thought, with sick resentment, that
Diamond, the young hound that had
snatched at the sandwiches, would be the
only living thing that would ever know its
efficiency.
Drearily he hung the new whip over
the old pink coat and went outside in
his shirt sleeves.
Pinner was feeding hounds. His voice
dominated the evening, rising stridently
above the clamor of the hounds, and
disturbing the hush of the twilight with
a discordant note.
He greeted Titus with a shy grin and
diffidence in his hesitating congratula-
tions.
“ Twas a rousing cheer, sir! And a
damn' fine whip!”
Titus grunted. He had not heard the
cheer, and it was the very damned fine-
ness of the whip that had cut him to the
quick.
A toy hung on the wall would have
roused his slow contempt, but a man-
sized whip unused
He said with unaccustomed harshness;
“Get away to the stables! I’ll attend
to hounds!”
Pinner went, grinning his good-
humored, imperturbable grin, but to-night
it seemed to Titus that there was derision
in the whip's perpetual smile.
It was dark before he left the kennels.
In the stables was a silence that was
broken only by the occasional stamping
or snorting of a horse.
Pinner was already gone away up to
the house to get ready for the dinner and
dance that was to be held that night in
the hall. Pinner, in his pink coat, was
popular with the girls. Pinner, who had
a lusty youth and drank a little more
than was wise.
Titus opened a horse-box door and
peered inside. The light glinted faintly
on the dark eyeballs of Black Silk, who
was old, but could stay with hounds still.
Black Silk had a white blaze and a white
hind fetlock, and had never made a mis-
take in her life.
Titus pulled the lower door of the box
open and went into the box, which smell
pungently of horse, of sweat and the
ammonia that is released from trampled
manure and straw.
Black Silk greeted him with a low
whinny, and he spoke to her sharply,
slapping her flank.
“Stand over, you bitch!”
Black Silk squealed and grabbed the
edge of the manger in strong white teeth
that showed no flaw. She laid her ears
back, rolling up her eyes until the whites
showed, but standing firm while Titus
ran his hand over her neck and thighs
and the taut muscles of her belly. She
was lean and fine and hard —fit as a
thoroughbred in training.
Titus rubbed her blazed face and went
out without speaking. Beside the door
he stood long, staring blindly into the
dusky night. Never again, never again
would she show them the way. Old
Black Silk and himself . . . when hounds
went away crying. Leaden-limbed, he
turned towards the house.
PINNER was in the kitchen playing
with the new whip.
“God!” said Pinner, balancing it. “It’s
a beaut!”
He glanced at the older man, and there
was speculation in his look.
Titus knew just what the boy was
thinking: “Fancy giving a thing like
this to that superannuated old fool! ”
But all Pinner said was: “Pity they didn’t
think of it sooner!”
His voice was dryer than ever a young
voice should be. He laid the whip back
over the pink coat, and Titus picked them
both up.
As Titus turned towards the door his
wife came in, elusively pretty in a grey
silk frock that rustled faintly. There were
pearls in her ears and at her neck, giv-
ing her an illusion of youth. Her little
round face was flushed, her round eyes
were bright. There would be speeches
and champagne, and the young men who
were not so young would be fatuously
gallant, because the young girls would


tf
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment
INGOT
RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
obtainable: at all stores
A REGULAR INCOME
FROM
FIXED DEPOSITS
FIXED DEPOSITS have a special appeal for
conservative investors. The yield is
uniform, regular and certain.
The capital sum is returned intact at the
end of a specified period ... or may be
renewed for a further term.
Fixed Deposit rates paid by the Rural Bank
are as follows:
2 per cent per annum for 3 months.
22 " n " a M 6 ~
12
n 11 it t* n II
3. a a •• a a 24 „
Interest on Fixed Deposits is paid half-
yearly. The Bank also opens Cheque 4
accounts at all branches.
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY
Sydney Branch: 350 GEORGE ST (opp. Wynyard St.) (
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President) H. ROGERS P. KEARNS
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
May Issue Now on Sale.
MAORILAND’S FINANCIAL EXPERIMENTS
PROBLEM OF IMPORTS
INTEREST RATES
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/216 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States,
see only Pinner in his pink coat and
young men with flawless teeth and a
crudity that passed for wit.
Seeing her husband she paused with
a little uncertainty.
“Hurry, Titus,” she said; “we’ll be
late.”
Titus said “Huh?” and stared at her,
seeing not her, but the girl he had married
long since. He dropped the whip. Stoop-
ing to retrieve it he felt the blood suf-
fusing his face. He said thickly: “I’m
damned if I go! ” He stared at her again,
with a hostility that took no account of
her distress. Fools women were, decking
themselves out. “They sacked me!
Sacked me, d’you hear? And you expect
me to go to their damned dances!
Flatter ’em. You’re mad!”
She went white and said in a small,
frightened voice tha* angered him
further; “Oh, Titus! Not sacked I And
. . . we . . . you . . , you . . . you are
getting on,”
The pearls gleamed in her ears and
her round face was smooth, like a child’s.
Only in her hair were little flecks of grey,
and her hands were thin, but thick in the
joints.
Titus, too, went white. His grasp
tightened on the whip and he stood a
space quivering like a spent horse. His
wife. Even his wife
Only the consciousness of Pinner’s
curious youth gave him a measure of
self-control. He said with studied steadi-
ness: “Pinner can drive you,”
He went out, down the long passage
to the room that had been his for so long.
Standing in the doorway, fatigued beyond
belief, he was conscious of the silence he
had left behind ; of the swift look that
had passed between his wife, who was
fifty, and Pinner, who was not yet
twenty-five. Presently his wife came
down the passage and stood behind him.
She spoke jerkily, pleating the skirt of the
grey silk in fingers that trembled a little.
“Titus, they’ll be expecting you,”
Titus looked at her, and she lifted her
hands in a little, defensive, fluttering
gesture. He said with bitter irony; “You
will offer my apologies,” and pushed her
out and closed the door.
After a while he heard the car go down
the drive, and knew quite certainly that
his wife was in it. She loved lights and
gaiety and Pinner in his brave pink coat.
The hum of the car died out in the
distance and there was no sound any-
where, save once the faint whining of a
hound.
Titus sat down on the edge of the bed
nursing the old coat and the new whip,
and gave himself up to the bitterness of
remembering.
Slowly the night wore on, but still he
sat on with the coat and the whip on his
knees, trailing the floor.
Across the hall the clock chimed mid-
night. Titus shivered and stood up. The
whip and the coat cascaded to the floor.
Down at the kennels the hounds broke
into sudden clamor, and as suddenly were
still.
Titus picked up the coat and slipped it
on ; picked up the whip and went out
and down the passage.
His spurs trailed, and little flecks of
dried mud and sweat peeled off his boots
and starred the spotless floor.
On the kitchen table his supper was
spread, cold and comfortless, and the
kettle was cold on the hob.
Titus went over to the dresser and
turned the key in the cupboard ; took
out a bottle and a tumbler and poured
himself a stiff finger. He gulped the
fiery stuff neat, and followed it with
another; stood a while brooding, then
corked the bottle and went outside, mov-
ing quickly, but with a wavering uncer-
tainty that was not born of the whisky
he had just swallowed. In his old veins
the blood drummed swiftly, warmed by
it, but its heat could not reach his heart.
IN her box, Black Silk was sleeping.
* Titus called to her harshly, and she
lunged up, her eyes gleaming in the
clear, frosty light of the stars. Titus
threw the saddle on her, girthing her with
careful haste.
As he led her out the moon rose over
the hills.
Titus led her down to the kennels. The
clatter of her hoofs was loud on the con-
crete of the yard, and hounds woke
clamorously to the sound of it.
Titus flung the kennel gates wide, call-
ing to them. They surged towards the
gate and through it, in a pied, uncertain
wave, and milled about the horse, yabber-
ing with excitement.
Titus climbed stiffly to the saddle and
flicked the thong of the whip out, so that
it sang as it found old Fancy’s stern. She
yelped and went to heel, and a tew
seconds later they were out on the open
road.
Half a mile from the little hall, whose
windows still gleamed with yellow light,
he jumped Black Silk over the hedge
into a paddock and whipped hounds on.
Almost directly old Fancy gave tongue,
and in a heart’s beat the whole pack was
with her, and the night was a bedlam of
clamorus, bell-like crying.
Black Silk reefed her big head out and
took her fences flying, and old Titus
whooped her on; whooped the eager
hounds on, cracking his whip and shout-
ing in. a high, cracked voice that he did
not recognise as his own.
They circled, going out over the rpad
across someone’s garden and into the
field at the back of the hall, where, for
a second, hounds faulted.
Titus cursed them and whipped in the
stragglers with a cunning flick of the
wrist that snaked out a lash suddenly
grown supple.
Then Fancy had it again, and the pack
streamed away on a line that went right
under the hall windows on to the road.
Titus wound the horn and drove Black
Silk hard on their heels. His pink
shoulders passed the windows in a red-
dish blur. As he raced past the Open
door he caught a hazy gleam of count-
less white faces, heard the incoherent
clamoring of a hundred voices ; and then
they were lost behind in a memory more
vague than a dream. Hounds were run-
ning true and dead straight over Tamaki
DOwns, headed for the Manakau and the
sea.
In his ears was music, wind and the
crying of hounds and the snap of his
whip; strange music of the startled
shouts that had followed him with such
puny impotence.
He laughed and whooped hounds on.
“For’ard away! For’ard away there!”
But hounds and horse had no need of
urging. .
In the cold east was a faint flush of
light. Ahead was the grey gleam, through
twisted mangroves, of the ebbing sea.
Hounds went down through the
muddied, evil-smelling mangroves to the
water’s edge, and in place of their
triumphant music setup a dismal howling,
Titus Brown dismounted, leaving the
mare loose, and waded after them, but
already they were scattering. He wound
his horn, a thin note, feeble and eerie,
but the pied hounds did not heed. Gam-
bolling foolishly, they followed the ebb-
ing tide away along the shore.
Nerveless, the old huntsman watched
them go.
IT was Pinner and the new master who
found him there, a bowed old mao,
bloodless and broken, sitting on the
shores of the Manakau, in the cold light
of the morning.
Very gently the new master laid his
hand on the old huntsman’s shoulder, and
as he spoke the compassion of his face
escaped into his voice.
“Titus, old friend, come home.”
Titus did not move. He muttered;
“For this last irony ... I thank you.”
Gently the new master shook his
shoulder.
“Titus, the matter has been recon-
sidered. A man who can hunt hounds
as you hunted them last night has many
more years ahead of him. I . , . we”
Titus stood up then.
In his hands was the new whip, with
the brightness gone from it. The thong
was muddied and there was tarnish on
the silver shield.
“Eight miles dead straight!” he said,
and shivered. “Hounds never faulted
once ; and the mare, she never put a foot
wrong! Great hounds and a great
horse!”
“And a great huntsman!” said the new
master softly.
Titus did not heed him. He swept his
hand across his eyes and looked dazedly
from the new master to Pinner, who,
brave in his pink coat, stood sheepishly
in the background.
“Reconsidered!” said Titus slowly.
He laughed, and the sound went out
over the ebbing water, mirthless and
eerie. He beckoned Pinner with the
whip and thrust it into the abashed lad’s
hands. “It’s too good to rot on a wall!"
he said harshly. He put a shaking hand
on Pinner’s shoulder. “You’re a good
lad, Pinner! A bit reckless, but you”ll
get sense. You’ll not disgrace the whip."
He looked at the sea; looked with
steady, sunken eyes into the new master’:
face.
Then his eyes fell away and he began
to rhumble soundlessly.
Far away a hound lifted its throaty
coherence.
“Forty years!” said Titus Brown. “I’m
old! ” Into the morning hush his voice
dropped clearly, rock-steady and preg-
nant with bitterness. The yabbering
came nearer, and Titus lifted his head,
squaring his shoulders.
“Old, sir!” the liew master said. “For
this last irony, I thank you! ”


unshine Lruises
FIJI
7/,
'\V
f I
'
rAi' v - : '
s
&
c\V
dC
rN
M
7
PLEASURE CRUISES
Avoid the winter cold and, in addition
to a delightful sea voyage, see the Mekes
(Native Dancers), Fire Walkers, Native
Bazaar, Display of Hibiscus Blooms and
the Island Night's Entertainment at the
Grand Pacific Hotel.
R.M.S. STRATHNAVER
leaves Sydney June 26
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD
leaves Sydney August 7
FIRST SALOON AND TOURIST CLASS
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively,
free of exchange.
ALL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO LOCAL P & O AGENTS
THE BRIDLE TRACK
BY J.J. HARDIE
Chapter XXVII. —( Continued ).
ELAINE’S beseeching, tear-dimmed
eyes haunted him. The responsibility
was centring more and more on him
till he felt he could not escape. First, the
doctor’s bloodshot eyes saying plainly
what his professional lips refused to utter.
Then Atherton’s sunken pain-weary ones
imploring him for release. And now,
Elaine!
Things were getting overcomplicated.
IE they had only left him alone! The full
realisation now dawned on him that the
project had been lying latent in his mind
all along. He liked Atherton, admired
him for what he was and for the quiet
courage that struggled to make little of
his agony, to hide it from the world. It
was mainly this admiration for the man
fighting his last hopeless battle that had
decided Bill to do for him what he would
do in the name of humanity for any hope-
lessly suffering creature —what he would
ask to have done to himself under similar
circumstances.
Illegal it might be, but in his eyes the
mercy of it far outweighed any other
consideration. But it was one thing to
contemplate and take the responsibility
of the act oneself, then, with unburdened
conscience, to let it slip forgotten into
the shadows, of the past, and quite an-
other thing to have accomplices in what
he meant to do. Damn it, why hadn’t
they left him alone? The doctor with
his scarcely veiled innuendo. Elaine, un-
strung and overwrought with her own
feeling of helplessness in the face of the
increasing torture, appealing to him
openly, without a trace of subterfuge.
They made him feel guilty—a hired
assassin, a public executioner!
For the rest of his life there would be
two people, a chance meeting with either
of whom would awaken the hidden
knowledge in their minds. He would be
branded for ever as the man who put
Atherton out of pain, and, sooner or
later, in some unguarded moment, that
look would appear in their eyes.
Sleep by now was utterly impossible.
He rose from the disordered bed and
wandered out on to the verandah, whose
sombre shadows were so much in accord
with his thoughts.
The night air was soft and warm, and
the only sounds that intruded on the
velvet stillness were the cautious chirp-
ing of some nocturnal insect and the
plaintive, dreary call of a mopoke from
the oaks along the creek. Then the
querulous, yapping bark of a fox far
down in the open country tore a ragged
rent in the silence. Down at the kennels
a dog growled a sleepy reply, his chain
rattling as he scratched himself; then
quiet descended again.
Elaine was seated in a big armchair
beside the shaded table lamp. A book
lay open on her knees, but her eyes
looked far into space, and the road they
travelled was long and rough and beset
with many troubles. The brave mask she
showed to the world was laid aside. She
was alone with her thoughts, facing the
eventualities of a grim, cheerless future
and steeling herself for the impending
sorrow.
From the shadows beyond the door
Bill watched the troubled eyes, the
quivering mouth, with tenderness. He
yearned to step quietly in, draw the lonely
girl to him and bury his face in the rich
red gold of her hair. He wanted to hold
her tightly in his arms and tell her all the
thoughts that circled round the memory
of her, hidden away down within him.
A memory that had persisted since their
first Longreach meeting in spite of all his
attempts to efface it in the long interval.
Then his gaze shifted to the motionless
form on the bed beyond, and it seemed
as though a cool breeze blew steadily on
the mounting ardor of the moment, caus-
ing it to halt, then slowly to recede. No.
He would wait! He drew back to the
deeper shadows blending the house with
the night-shrouded garden, composing
himself, then shuffled softly on the boards
till he attracted her attention. bhe
looked up with a fleeting glance of leai,
a look that persisted even when he moved
quietly across to her side.
“I’m going on watch,” he whispered.
“Go and get some sleep! ” ,
She shook her head vehemently. I m
all right! You need it more than I do.
“I’ve had plenty!” he lied.
“You haven't! You had none last
night, and you’ve been smoking cigarettes
all this night. I heard you lighting
matches?” She rose and stretched her
cramped limbs. “Wait here, Bill, and 111
make a cup of tea.”
When she left he approached the bed
and peered cautiously at the patient. The
skin had covered that fine transparency
that had appeared so disquieting before,
and Bill turned away with a gloomy face.
Elaine was equally serious when he
joined her in the lamp-lit dining-room,
but both kept their fears to themselves.
He succeeded in convincing her that he
intended to stay up for the rest of the
night, and she reluctantly consented to
go. As she turned to leave her tired eyes
gave him a wan smile. “You’ll call me
if —if I’m wanted?”
Then at his reassuring nod she faced
him, standing quite still, and her eyes
searching his with an intensity that made
him wince, told him unmistakably of the
conflict of her thoughts since their last
meeting and of her acceptance of the un-
spoken pact. It may only have been
fancy on his part, but somehow, under-
lying the resignation and confidence in
their dark depths, the man thought he
saw a faint flutter of fear.
Then she broke the spell. “Thanks,
Lancelot!” she whispered softly, and as
she brushed his arm in passing her
fingertips settled on his bare wrist, press-
ing tightly into the flesh ; then she was
gone.
It was some time before Atherton
began to show signs of returning con-
sciousness. When his eyes did open
slowly they were clouded and expression-
less, and the minutes dragged slowly until
he recognised Bill. He signed for a
drink, and the younger man supported
the thin shoulders and held the glass to
the pallid lips, then laid him gently back.
He lay with eyes closed for a space, then
Bill turned to find them fixed beckon-
ingly on him, and moved closer. The
voice, at first a thin whisper, gained
strength as it continued.
Bill answered his queries about Elaine,
and tried to coax him not to waste his
strength in talking, but to no avail. The
old man went on musingly: “I’m not
afraid of death —rather the reverse —but
this dying is a painful business!”
After a pause, he looked up again with
a hesitant appeal in his eyes. “I don’t
suppose you believe in fortune-tellers and
all that sort of thing? I don’t either, but
something has just come back to me
lately. Funny the ideas we get lying
here!” The ghost of a smile flitted
apologetically across his features at the
impending confession.
“When I was young ... I had my for-
tune told ... by a gipsy. I forget most
of it . . . some of it did come true. She
said that my false pride wov’d send me
across the sea to a far country . . . and
that I would never return. That’s true
enough. But one other thing stuck in
my mind. She said that I would die at
the hand of my own son . . . and thank
him for it!”
Bill tried to moisten his dry lips with
a tongue that felt even drier, and made
a futile attempt to evade the piercing
eyes. “But you —I mean, have you a
son?”
The wasted head on the pillow moved
sadly from side to side ; then, after a
silence; “Only Elaine! I often wished
for a son. I could have been very proud
of a son . . . like you . . . Bill!”
He fell back exhausted on the pillow,
and a spasm of pain racked the
frail body and twisted his features. The
sunken eyes remained closed, oblivious
of the effect of his words on the man at
his side.
Bill sat petrified, every nerve and
muscle in his body tight and tingling
with the fierce mental strain. Through
his brain crowded the old arguments for
and against in a wild, confusing medley.
And through them all the later develop-
ments flashed like a shuttle weaving the
threads into a mystic pattern that slowly
took shape before his staring eyes on the
fateful fabric emerging from the loom.
Then he became conscious that the old
man’s eyes had opened again. They
were bright with pain, but all else was
subjugated to the anxious, searching
look that filled them. Their scrutiny was
inescapable ; it was as though he had


lauuiißioia
The ' remarkably keen
prices of every class
of commodity offered
at the Fair not only
afford greater profit
margins, but ensure
an increased annual
turnover.
Plan for a prosperous
fi n a n,c i a 1 year.
Choose your new
season's requirements
from the displays of
more than 8000
exhibitors from 25
countries.
COMMENCES AUGUST 30
Comprising General
Samples, Building,
Household and Industrial
Equipment Fair.
All information, including
Barter Arrangements, from: —
LARS G. BRUNDAHL. Com -
missioner in Australia for
the Leipzig- Trade Fair,
L. MESSEY, Technical
Adviser, Ohallis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box
No. 3127 P, Sydney.
’Phone: 84006.
C. N. KEPPEL, C/o Mareard
and Go., 360 Post Office
Place, G.P.O. Box 1658,
Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, S’henton
Park, West Australia.
-iZcaJuAta.
DEPOSITS.:.
Interest bearing deposits tor amounts ot £5 and
upwards, lodged for periods of three, six, twelve
or twenty-four months are accepted by all branches
of the Bank of New South Wales in Australia.
Interest can be withdrawn half-yearly on twelve
and twenty-four month deposits. If the depositor
has a cheque account at any branch of the Bank,
the interest on the deposit will be regularly credited
to this account it so desired.
Interest rates are as follows:
3% per annum tor 24 months
2|% „ „ „ 12 months
2 , 2 /o ii ii ii 6 months
2% „ „ „ 3 months
BANK DF NEW SOUTH WALES
Over 750 branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, the
Pacific Islands and London.
The Largest Circulations
In Queensland.
THE
COURIER-MAIL
The net average cir-
culation for October,
1 935, was 69,061 copies
daily. Here is by far
the largest circulation in the Queensland daily field and
the essential basis of any Queensland campaign.
THE
SUNDAY MAIL
Second only to “The
Courier-Mail” in cir-
culation, “The Sunday
Mail” enjoyed a net
circulation of 64,686 copies per issue for October, 1935.
Obviously it must be the second medium selected for any
Queensland campaign.
Enquire about the Combined Advertising Rates.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative; R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
withdrawn all that remained of his de-
pleted strength from the wasted limbs
and the soundlessly moving lips and
launched it in one last concentrated
appeal.
The younger man stared grimly back,
then the tension of his body slackened,
his head drooped in surrender, and he
nodded slowly and reassuringly into the
tired old eyes closing under the strain.
Then he rose with heavy deliberation
and turned toward the thin brown tube
and the shining plated box on the dress-
ing-table for the last time.
It was barely daylight when Elaine
entered noiselessly. She threw one quick
questioning glance from the still figure
on the white bed to the man sunk,
bowed and expressionless, in the depths
of the big chair, then with a stifled cry
she rushed forward and threw herself on
her knees beside the bed.
The man listened dully to the hys-
terical sobbing. His brain was numb
and a cold greyness was creeping over
him, enveloping his spirit further and
further in its icy fold. In one tragic
second he had glimpsed in her eyes the
look he had dreaded, and there was an
undertone to the wild, awful sobbing that
confirmed his deepest fears.
Slowly, dazedly, he rose to his feet
and passed out of the room —defeated.
Chapter XXVIH.
THE long, slanting rays of the early-
* morning sun flooded the wide front
verandah of Camelot. They bathed
the thick-set figure and broad shoulders
of Mac leaning against a verandah post
at the top of the wide flight of steps lead-
ing down to the garden, then, slipping
behind his back, threw a grotesquely
elongated caricature of him across the
boards and half-way up the wall. His
eyes, narrowed under the brim of his hat,
looked far out across the green paddocks
where the sheep grazed contentedly in
little scattered mobs interspersed with
white dots of lambs drifting after their
mothers or frisking around in the warm
sunshine.
Now and again his glance would stray
almost furtively to the right where the
road swung toward town, a grey ribbon
heading boldly for the creek and the
white gate beyond, then on to where the
still narrower, indistinct ribbon of the
Bridle Track branched to the north
toward the flat-topped rampart of the
range. And having ventured so far he
would suddenly snatch his attention back
to the scene directly in front with as
much of a frown as his impassive features
would admit, as though that sector from
the distant Bridle Track to the clean-
limbed brown mare, saddled and im-
patiently pawing the ground near the
front gate, held something forbidden on
which he would not even allow his
thoughts to dwell.
The musical ring of low-hung spurs
accompanying the footsteps approaching
from the side verandah left no doubt as
to the identity of their owner, but Mac
continued to gaze stonily out in front
of him even when Bill halted at his side.
He was dressed for the road —light khaki
moleskins, an open-necked white shirt,
and between his fingers the tapering fall
of the long black thong of the stock-
whip slung in a deep loop over one
shoulder.
He paused on the top step beside Mac,
and his expressionless eyes interested
themselves on something far out across
the landscape. The wide hat-brim
slouched over the injured side of his face,
and there was nothing in his casual tone
or in his features to indicate whether
he was starting out on a thousand-mile
trip or merely for a ride round the horse-
paddock.
“Seen anything of Elaine, Mac?”
The other detached himself diffidently
from the verandah post. “She went up
the road.”
“When is she leaving for Sydney?”
“Don’t know. Soon, I think.”
The two men descended the steps side
by side and walked slowly down the
grass-grown drive in silence, two com-
plete entities each hedged around by a
barrier of reserve. Mac opened the big
white gate, the two men passed through,
then turned awkwardly towards one an-
other, concealing the emotion of the
moment under an over-elaborate casual-
ness of manner.
“Well, so long, Bill!”
“So long, Mac, and the best of luck!”
“What sort of luck?” Mac’s voice
had a level, toneless quality.
“All sorts! You know what I mean. ’
The thick-set shoulders shrugged ever
so slightly as their owner turned aside to
scrutinise the distant horizon.
“I don’t think my luck was ever in
that way. What about yourself?”
The drooping corner of Bill s lip
tightened a shade. “Do you think I d
be heading back to Queensland if it
everything was right here? 1
“It’s you she likes.”
“I know she does. But she can t for-
get that I’m the man that killed her
father! That finishes me —and that s
why I'm going.” He held out his hand.
“So long, Mac!”
The other gripped it as he turned
toward him. For a fleeting second the
two men looked one another in the eyes,
each realising that this was the end of
the long partnership, the forking of the
tracks. Then the firm handclasp broke
and they swung apart. Mac, tight-lipped
and dogged, moved heavily back toward
the big gate, while Bill detached the reins
and slipped them deftly over the brown
mare’s shapely ears.
He swung quickly into the saddle, and
the mare stepped out along the road,
eager to make up the distance separating
her from the little cavalcade scrambling
up the steep, broken ascent of the Bridle
Track. The two splendid bays picked
their way delicately in the lead, one of
them carrying a pack-saddle surmounted
by two tightly-rolled swags. Behind them
rode Percy on the grey mare, stockwhip
swinging from his arm and a lightness
in his nomad’s heart to be on the track
again and heading for Queensland.
Elaine, in a simple grey frock, waited
at the white gate, one arm grateful of
the support of its top bar. She was
vaguely conscious of the distant laconic
farewell between the two men and of
other little unimportant details —the puffs
of dust under the mare’s eager feet, the
erect, questing carriage of the shapely
head —but her mind was a numb thing,
far too exhausted to realise the purport
of the fast-approaching hooves.
The weariness of her spirit lay dully
in her eyes, and even the strong-inherited
trait of showing a brave face in adversity
could not disguise it from the man
alighting softly in front of her. He drew
a sharp breath, savagely repressing the
unconquerable yearning to draw her to
him and comfort her.
“You won’t stay then, Bill?” Her
voice was low and toneless, and she
appeared not to see his hand outstretched
in farewell.
The man shook his head dumbly.
“I could take you on in the car to-
morrow. We could catch Percy”
Again the head shook slowly but
decidedly. “To-morrow would be worse
than to-day. Good-bye, Elaine.”
She surrendered her two limp hands
to his fierce, tight grip and lifted des-
perate, pleading eyes to his.
“Lancelot . . . you’ll come back?
Promise.”
He glanced hopelessly to right and left,
but the persistent, unswerving appeal
could not be evaded. He steeled himself
for a denial, but failed utterly ; then his
head drooped and he nodded slowly.
“Some day . . . Elaine!”
Then she was alone, listening to the
fast-fading beat of hooves, watching the
rapid, unhesitating ascent of the winding
Bridle Track. Where the path finally
disappeared and merged with the high
horizon, the horseman turned and looked
back. For one unforgettable moment
man and horse stood outlined upon the
crest —then the skyline was empty.
[The End.]
Silver Morning.
Silver the air
And all the cloudy trees
Building along the sky
A filmy frieze ! %
The grass is wet
And tremulous with silver threads that shake
Pellucid drops
Among the thrusting mushroom-tops.
The lake
Is lost in silver nothingness —
Wan, leaden, large,
Void of all life and form
Save at the cold grey marge
Where spectral rushes lean
Mirrored in silver glass and green.
Out on the fiats the little hollows hold
Pale silver brimming clear and cold.
The huddled farmhouse-roofs take shape
Through silver curling fold - on fold.
Each fence is swathed in silver floss.
Each pathway makes a silver stroke
Where the dim cattle go across
Rimmed in a silver smoke.
And hark !
Under the silver arc
Of sky the magpies sing !—
A song mysterious, remote.
Each long-drawn note
Seeming as though ’twere flung
From some high silver tower that hung
In quivering space —
A place
With airy battlements empearled,
Whose silver pinnacles enlace
Some lost enchanted world.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS


f ,{ ° iAl AtJ TOMOBn E
0F AVST RAiia CLVIi
CS£Wficile%
ecommuj
S
V
iMUUj
II
in
i:
in
2
ill
j&g&*
HI
«a.
ii
•x: ,
i
■
:
:
:
pin
$> \ < v: ; •: >
.
m ? •■
THIS \fAUXHALL DID
41.8 6 Ml LES
XWO <*&?>>
■MI
mm
%
tuni
PER GALLON O
man ce
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.G.: Very unappetising stuff C.S.: Too
obvious to be worth making a song about,
and it isn’t much of a song R.W.;
Thin as herb-beer... .T.F.: Laborious sonnets.
And one of them is a line short....
J.G.C.: Some feeling in it, but it’s slung
together very loosely... .N.L.: As a parody it s
a great deal too close to the original....
D.J.D.; Hardly a grin in it, much less a laugh.
T.H.Y.; You rhyme correctly enough.
Try to find something worth saying B.A.K. :
We’ve never noticed that pungent odor in
rabbits.. . .D.G.: Tolerable epigrams, but a
bit out of our line... .J.S.A.: Apt enough,
but it’s time to get away from this Italo-
Abyssinian business.. . .T.E.McC.; “If this is
not good enough for you, neither is your paper
good enough for me.” Right-0... .K.L.S.;
Over-sentimental, and could see the end coming.
... .D.K.: Too much stage-setting for a yarn
that is hardly worth telling... .J.J.; Golf yarn
landed in a bunker... .G.E.M.: Needs stronger
treatment... .W.S.; Demise of the fossicker
caused no tears at 252 George-street....
C.L.: Amusingly written, but it needs a plot.
. ...G.W.S.: Unconvincing and contradicts
itself... .D.S.M.: Pointless... .A.J.C.: “The
Breakdown” broke down early... .L.G.C.: We
grow weary of that brand of thwarted-suicide
story... .R.J.D.: Same to you L.C.; More
suited for a purely literary paper with a liking
for such quibbles W.J.; Boyish melodrama.
... .M.F.: Away-—and dream no more....
Bellerive: Concisely put:
J. F. ARCHIBALD.
Direct in lie’s duties,
As a critic severe',
Against young aspirants
Of far and near.
Writers wlio’d feared the
Finn editor’s name,
By lie’s guidance shone
’Neath the light of fame.
For Tub Bulletin in
Years of the past,
He fulfilled he’s duties
Till old and o’ereast!
... .G.W.; A hackneyed “view-mat.” story....
M.M.: Might pass if more vividly told
E. 0.5.: We doubt whether even fools part
from their money so easily... .J.S.W.: For
flappers only, and a poor one of its kind....
V. Reading it was merely a painful duty.
J.A.D.: You missed a fine chance of
making the art-show yarn into a capital tale.
R.D.A.: A commonplace effort....
W. You haven’t improved that old-
timer by the twist at the end J.W.: Un-
original K.T.: Apparently neighbors don’t
talk in that locality C.R.; All missed by
a wide margin... .K.McC.: Well done, but
plot not quite strong enough; a very slight
improvement would have done the trick
W.P.M.: That style, “The shades of night
began to fall,” is all wrong. Purple also pre-
dominates, and the dialogue is stilted....
J.F.H.: Yarn shows glimpses of good humor-
ous writing, but there’s nothing in the plot.
And double-space your lines —it’s easier to
read and alter if accepted C.A.R.; No space
for articles which are just quotations from a
b00k... ;A.H.L. (M.L.): Style satisfactory, but
story pointless; yes, attach your own stamp
for return Dickenza: We can’t tell you
how to learn to write —that’s your affair. And
we don’t reply to pars. Study The B. and
shoot your stuff in Blotto: Detective skit
not good enough.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: There is a huge gap between what you
probably intended and what you accomplished.
A.M.L.: Subject matter months behind
the time, and drawing hopeless K.J.D.:
Give us five years’ breathing space before
trying again... .M.C.F.: Why this passion for
lines one-eighth of an inch thick?... .L.P.:
Bristly linework and overworked jests... .G.C.:
Figures have enough missing parts to make
up a couple of extras... .R.G.; Draughtsman-
ship good, but you bungle a lot of minor
details H.H.: Try working on a larger
scale A.A.M.: ' Wretched drawing illustrat-
ing far-fetched pun came to an ignoble end.
W.V.; We admired the decorative signa-
ture H.P.: The foreman is an anatomical
monstrosity, and the hod-carrier defies de-
scription. j
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
“Labor Principles”
Changes have taken place in the edi-
torial section of the Victorian organ of
trade-unionism, the “Labor Call.” The
directors are Trades Hall officials and
Labor members. Last month they
appointed a Government school-teacher
to the editorship.
If the new editor is doing the job for
nothing he is fracturing the Labor prin-
ciple that all essential work must be
paid for. If he is being paid, he is
breaking the “one-man-one-job” rule. —
Bowyang (Vic.).
The Commonwealth Surplus
Obviously the Commonwealth is going
to have a surplus of something like four
millions. I suggest that it be applied in
three ways: (1) The first £1,500,000 in
partial reduction of accumulated deficits.
Saving in interest at even 3 p.c. would be
£123 a day. (2) The next £1,500,000 in
taxation reduction, as a start. (3) The
balance in additional provision for
defence.
Treat future surpluses the same way,
and let restoration of members’ salaries
wait until the unemployment problem
is nearer a solution. —L. I. C. A. (Q.).
Taxing Wool
The Commonwealth Government has
blindly determined to tax wool up to Is. a
bale to “combat the menace of artificial
fibres,” which has not prevented Aus-
tralian wool sales doubling in a decade.
The Government would be doing a lot
more good if it recognised that, because
of exports, Australia is no longer the only
country which can produce the highest
grades of merino, and if it helped
graziers to improve average qualities.
S. Africa last year produced the
equivalent of a fourth of the Australian
dip. It bought thousarids of Australian
sheep before the 1929 embargo on ex-
ports, including rams which cost up to
4000 guineas. The result is that the best
of the Afrikanders’ fleeces equal the best
Australian lines and their tops prices aie
often as high as the best Australian.
Union sheep figures have doubled iu 2.
years; Australian have increased only
20 p.c.—E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
“Bash Broken Hill Prop.!”
A par. (B. 29/4/’36) referring to state-
ments made by certain members of the
Labor party concerning the steelworks
at Newcastle would leave the impres-
sion that the Labor movement is hostile
to that great concern. Far from this
being true, it was a Labor Government
(McGowen’s) that made it possible for
the Broken Hill co. to establish its steel-
works at Newcastle.
We spent £30,000 in dredging the
river in front of its property, and
pumped several feet of spoil on to the
low-lying portions of its area. We re-
sumed and handed over to the co. an
old railway embankment that bisected
its property, gave it a 99 years’ lease of a
large area of Crown land adjoining, and
placed with it an order for 30,000 tons
of steel rails to give it a “kick-off.”
It is admitted by every intelligent
Labor man in Newcastle that, but
for the establishment of the steelworks
and other allied industries that have clus-
tered around it, grass would to-day be
growing in the streets of that city ■
Arthur Griffith (N.S.W.).
In the Territory
“Vic” (B. 25/3/’36) hits the nail on
the head when he says the N.T. Adminis-
tration is putting the cart before the bul-
lock in taking over Mataranka station
before deciding what to do with the
property—it has been purchased for
Binghi. Has he ever known the Adminis-
tration to do anything right?
This scribe lived in the Far North for
nearly 25 years, and he reckons that
South Australia did more for' the coun-
try than the Commonwealth has done.
In 1913 the station of which he was part-
owner was visited by a Government agri-
cultural expert. The G.A.I. stated that
all the high country there —it was covered
with stringybark, showing it to be poor
land —would in a few years be waving
fields of wheat and that the N.T. would
be one of the biggest wheat countries in
the world. So much for “experts.”—
Koolpinyah (Q.).
Checking High Speeds
Not all the by-laws and regulations in
the country will stop the reckless driver
from hitting high speeds—and almost
every modern car is capable of doing be-
tween 70 and 80 m.p.h, One big Sydney
service organisation handles a dozen
smashed cars a day, and an analysis dis-
closes that approximately 80 p.c. of all
collisions occur at speeds ranging from
45 to 70 m.p.h.
It is axiomatic that a driver hasn’t the
same control over a car doing 70 m.p.h.
that he would have over one doing half
that speed. His margin of safety is les-
sened, particularly when the necessity for
quick stopping arises. The fact that a
car is capable of high speeds is always a
temptation to the flash type of driver to
let it flat cut at every opportunity; and,
even though this type of driver repre-
sents only a small proportion, he is still
sufficiently numerous to cause scores of
smashes every week.
There is no earthly reason why any-
one, excepting the police, ambulance,
fire chiefs, and perhaps doctors, should
travel beyond 45 m.p.h. The remedy,
therefore, is perfectly simple. Prevent
their doing it, not by the stupid and
futile methods adopted in the past, but
by the alteration of Motor Traffic
Acts, to make it compulsory for the
motorist to instal a governor on his car,
limiting the speed to the desired maxi-
mum, such governor to be sealed by the
registration authorities and examined
when registrations are renewed so as to
see that the seal is unbroken.
The trouble of the modern high-
powered car is aggravated by the old
type of street corners, at which the
majority of accidents occur. Suitable for
the old horse-drawn traffic, they are now
badly out-of-date. Civic authorities
could help by concentrating on the
widely splayed corner.
It is time strong action was taken to
prevent the road hog in his high-powerc
projectile from making a bad population
position worse. — Bokio (N.S.W.).


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for I amines.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.1 a p.m.). Dinner from 5,30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 pan.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone. M-IbOI.
ē
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
• Bank-offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. , , -
The service is entirely free. . All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand. , . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
ê
(1) Any chance of a job in Q’land as a cane-
cutter or in any other capacity connected with
the sugar industry ? (2) Most likely locality .
(3) When does the season start, and how long
does it last ? (4) Is experience necessary /
(5) Rate of pay ? (6) Is it true that the industry
is practically run by Italians ? 1271.
(1) Canecutters are given first preference it
they were employed during the last season.
If there are insufficient applicants for cane-
cutting from those abovementioned, then others
who are members of the union are given second
preference. (2) The Tully area. (3) Usually
starts about the middle of June and runs to
the end of the year. (4) Yes. It would take
a person a full season before he could earn
a reasonable wage. (5) Most of the work is
done by contract, worked on a tonnage basis.
Competent cutters earn up to 30s. per day,
according to the density of the cane. Inex-
perienced cutters could not expect to earn
much more than 15s. per day. (6) No. The
proportion of Italians to Britishers is small.
* * =i= *
(1) What are the objects of the Fellowship
of Australian Writers ? (2) Who may become
members ? (3) Where aiid when are meetings
held ? (4) Annual subscription ? (5) Name
and address of secretary? —l4s3.
(1) (a) To foster and promote the growth
and development of letters and the drama; ( b )
to encourage the study of Australian literatuie,
(c) to render aid to Australian authors and
artists; and (and) to bring into association per-
sons interested in any capacity as amateurs
or otherwise in poetry, letters and the drama.
(2) Membership consists of full members, who
may be (a) journalists or authors, or (b) per-
sons who by delivery of lectures on literature
or the patronage of letters have advanced the
objects of the fellowship; and associate mem-
bers, who may be any persons interested in the
objects of the fellowship. (3) Meetings are
held on the third Wednesday of every month,
excepting January, in the Assembly Room,
Education Building, Bridge-street, Sydney. (4)
ss. (5) W. E. Fitz Henry, Box 3448 R, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
What is the varnish, and how applied, recom-
mended by Dr. Howarth, Medical Officer of
the City of London, as an effective method of
getting rid of rats that are difficult to trap
or poison ? —1476.
The substance used is strong lithographic
varnish. It should be warmed by heating the
container holding it in boiling water; when
warm, the varnish will run, and in this con-
dition it should be spread one-sixteenth to one-
eighth of an inch thick on fairly thick card-
board measuring about 15in. by 12in. A margin
of about an inch should be left clear all
round, and the bait placed in the centre of
the board. The traps should be placed near
where the rats run. The varnish will remain
effective for about four days. To renew, the
old varnish should be scraped off and fresh
applied.
* * * *
Number of murders in any recent year in
England, number of arrests made, number of
convictions and number of executions ? —I4BO.
In 1933 (most recent year for which figures
are available) there were known to the police
99 cases of murder of 110 persons aged over
one year. In 40 cases (involving 43 persons)
the murderer or suspect committed suicide.
In 58 cases (66 victims) 58 persons were
arrested. Committed suicide after arrest, 1;
committed suicide before trial, 1; certified in-
sane before trial, 1; discharged at Police Court,
1; insane on arraignment, 5; no bill, 2;
acquitted, 12; guilty but insane, 16; convicted
and sentenced to death, 19. Of the 19 persons
sentenced to death in 1933 there were executed
11, commuted to penal servitude for life 8.
* * * *
Annual consumption per head of population
in N.S.W. of tea and coffee ? From what
countries does N.S.W. import most of its tea
and coffee ? —1478.
The average annual consumption of tea is
about 71b. per head; of coffee the average is
less than 9oz. per head. During the three
years ended June, 1935, the Netherlands East
Indies supplied 64 p.c. of the total importations
of tea, 29 p.c. was imported from Ceylon,
4 p.c. from India and 2 p.c. from China. The
bulk of the coffee comes from the Netherlands
East Indies and India.
* % & *
(1) How many, and what proportion, of
members of the House of Representatives are
in the Ministry ? (2) What is the usual number
provided for in the Executive Council ? (3)
Are these two bodies identical ? —-1303.
(1) There are 75 members of the House of
Representatives, 11 of whom are members of
the Ministry. (2) Usually coincides with the
number of members of the Ministry, which
comprises not only members of the House of
Representatives but members of the Senate.
At present the Ministry numbers 14 (including
three members of the Senate). (3) Yes.
* * Hs
(1) Names of surviving members of the first
Federal House of Representatives.? (2) Of
surviving members of the first Senate ? —l4Bl.
Mr. Kenneth Binns,of the Commonwealth Par-
liamentary Library, furnishes the following lists:
(1) John Langdon Bonython, Francis Clarke,
James Cook, Joseph Cook, R. A. Crouch, J.
M. Fowler, George Fuller, Littleton Groom,
W. M. Hughes, Isaac Isaacs, J. W. Kirwan,
Samuel Mauger, James McCay, F. E. McLean,
King O’Malley, J. B. Ronald, Arthur Bruce
Smith, J. C. Watson, W. H. Wilks and Henry
Willis. (2) Robert Best, Cyril St. Clair
Cameron, J. S. Clemons, J. G. Drake, Thos.
Glassey, Albert Gould, William Guy Higgs,
J. H. Keating, David O’Keefe and George
Pearce.
* * * *
Possibility of immunising dogs against dis-
temper; also is there a serum curative prepara-
tion for distemper ? —1484.
Following the work of Laidlaw and Duncan
in England, it has now become possible to
immunise dogs effectively against distemper,
and necessary preparations for such immunisa-
tion may now be obtained in Australia from
the Commonwealth 1 Serum Laboratories, Park-
ville, Melbourne. Immunisation involves the
use of a vaccine containing the killed organ-
isms of distemper, which is followed by a
further inoculation with live organisms. In
addition to preventive inoculation, a curative
preparation, consisting of hyper-immune serum,
is also available. Any qualified vet. should
be able to supply the preparations for im-
munisation or treatment.
* * * *
Duties and privileges of the executor of a
will ? —1435.
The duties commence after death. Briefly,
they are to bury the deceased, collect particulars
of the estate, prove the will (probate), give
statutory notice to creditors to send in accounts,
collect all outstanding moneys, pay debts, pay
legacies (within 12 months), if any trusts for
life pay income as will directs, keep proper
books of account, file administration accounts
for 12 months. If any doubt arises, consult
a solicitor. If he is a creditor in the estate
it is the executor’s privilege to pay himself first,
and he may claim payment for his services.
Would sand taken from the works of an
old mine and containing arsenic, used in the
mixture of lime and mortar for brick work,
have a detrimental effect on the cement ?
1432.
Very probably. It may be that the sand
contains other injurious materials besides
arsenic. Simplest way to solve your problem
is to make up a cement-sand mixture with the
sand. If the concrete sets hard, it is not likely
that it will deteriorate later.
% V =i= *
Is it possible to get a record of the tides for
the whole Australian coast, with their time vari-
ation, for 12 months in advance ? If so, where
to apply ? —1439. •
It is not possible to get a record of the
tides for the whole Australian . coast. The
Admiralty Office, Melbourne, could probably
supply the tides for 12 months in advance for
Thursday Island, Port Hedland, Albany, Adel-
aide, Sydney, Newcastle and Brisbane (which
are standard ports), together with factors to
apply the times of the standard ports for
finding the time of high and low water at many
other localities.
(1) What are the duties of a squadron
medical officer attached to the Citizen Air
Force ? (2) Are such medical officers required
to fly, and can they qualify as pilots ? —1468.
(1) He is charged with medical matters con-
nected with the health of the officers and air-
men of the squadron, and this includes periodic
medical examinations, attendance on sick
parades,’ standard of rations, cleanliness and
other Air Force medical matters. (2) They are
required to fly as passengers, if their duties
demand it, but are not permitted to qualify
as pilots. .
English translation of this quatrain by
Schiller:
Auch aus entwolkter Hohe
Kann der ziindende Dormer schlagon.;
Darum in deiner frohlichen Tagen
Purchte des Ungliicks tiickische Nahe.
—1485.
“Even out of a cloudless sky the flaming
thunderbolt may strike; therefore in your days
of pleasure beware of the envious approach
of misfortune.”
A- * * *
I have been suffering from recurring ear
trouble for six years. It begins with an uncom-
fortable feeling of fullness in the ear, de-
veloping pain which is at its worst for two
nights, after which the trouble passes, leaving
dulness for some time. Period is 10 to 12
days, and trouble is accompanied by inflamma-
tion. It first occurred when I was working
in a mine. I suffer from nasal catarrh, but
the ear trouble does not always accompany a
cold. What can be done ? —1450.
It is probable that an infective process con-
tributes to pain when periodic congestion de-
velops. In such cases certain micro-organisms
from throat and tonsil sepsis sptead infection
through mediunj of the eustacian tube to the
ear canals. The medical term otitis is applied
to the resulting ear inflammation; it may be
dry, sero-catarrhal or suppurative. In your
case the catarrhal tendency is suggestive of
trouble that originates in this way. Inflamma-
tory conditions of the inner ear are common,
though somewhat indefinite in cause and
effect. Prompt treatment is necessary. The
resistance to infection must be strengthened
and the ear passages maintained in a healthy
condition during treatment, under medical
supervision.
* * * *
(1) What is Parkinson’s disease, and why is
it called by that name? (2) Is it fatal? (3)
If not fatal, what are its effects ? (4) Cause ?
(5) Is it common in Australia ? —1267.
(1) It is a nervous disorder (palsy) of un-
known pathology, named after the first writer
of a treatise about it. It is characterised by
tremors, progressive loss of power in the
affected muscles, moderate rigidity, with altera-
tions in the gait, and at times some mental
impairment. Otherwise known as paralysis
agitans, the disease is typical in its onset —
there is a tremor of the hands, and the thumb
and forefinger make a movement as in rolling
a pill. The face assumes a lack of expression
with elevated eyebrows, and manifests the
general immobility known as Parkinson’s mask.
Though improvement often results from early
treatment, complete recovery is very rare; it
is a disease of past middle life, when senile
conditions tend to develop and persist. (2)
and (3) The development does not necessarily
shorten life. Its course is indefinite, and nerve
disorders may be aggravated by its presence.
(4) Not known. (5) No.
ë


iff
■*Vr
r*
S'flS
/A
l\
es 3 Motor cars are
a bit out of date”
"It was an awful nuisance getting bulky
parcels and heavy loads in the back seat
of my sedan, which. I ruined, and dad s
dicky seat doesn't hold enough."
"I find this International Utility ideal. It
e
looks better than most cars I've ever
seen, and there's room for all the sundry loads
I carry from time to time. Give me a Utility
from now on—but it must be an International.
The Transport of the Future
■ V - - 'V „ ; • ‘.V. ; ■ • I *■ (.)
Specially designed for those who have need
of a beautiful motor-car which has the added
convenience of useful carrying capacity,
Internationals newest Utility fills a long-
felt want.
Its rugged endurance, strength and stamina
are true to International tradition, yet they
are deftly disguised in the sweeping lines and
graceful curves of the modern luxury car.
Arid International will stand up to hard
jsage and heavy loads that would spell
disaster to the ordinary motor-car utility.
Before purchasing a new car, judge your
i i i iz a
needs by modern standards. A utility will
give you greater service and convenience at
less cost.
Come for a trial run - note the remark-
able riding qualities due to International
double acting hydraulic shock absorbers -
the smooth flow of
power from the
famous International
engine the high-
class body work and
trimmings-and then
note the amazing low
price of this beautiful
all-purpose vehicle.
CHASSIS PRICES:
1 13" wheelbase
£267
£275
125
wheelbase
(Plus
td* \
>9-inch wheels, for ,extra
clearance, also available.
INTERNATIONAL
BRISBANE
HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA 1 )
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
INTERNATIONAL
UTILITIES
A MIXED GRILL.
“Larras Lee”: Mention of joyous mis-
prints (B. 6 / 5 / ’36) recalls that given to
the world by an English provincial news-
sheet: —
Sir Henry Blank is in hospital slowly
recovering from injuries received last week,
when he was thrown out of a saloon bar.
It was, of course, the last word that
caused the mischief.
* * * *
“Billy See”; There was at least one
big contingent of Hollanders wrecked on
the west coast of “the Great South
Land” in the eighteenth century (B.
22/4/’36). April 28, 1656, saw De Ver-
gulde Dreack on the reefs somewhere
between where Perth and Geraldton are
to-day. Seventy-nine of the crew got
ashore ; ten of them set out for Batavia
in a boat, and seven reached there.
Several search expeditions were sent out,
but no trace was ever discovered of the
69 who had been left at the scene of the
wreck, all reported at the time to have
been in good health. There is some evi-
dence that they marched north. The
absorption of a fair number of the casta-
ways into the native tribes would cer-
tainly leave traces still discernible at this
late date, such as anthropologists like
Mrs. Daisy Bates claim to have detected.
A southern lawyer writes: There is a
lot of truth in what “H.A.L.” says (B.
15/4/’36) about people in temporary
need rushing to ruinously exorbitant
moneylenders when cheap bankers are
available. Many a lime have 1 turned
away even mortgage suggestions (when
the need was only temporary) by disinf
terestedly recommending a secured over-
draft ; interest fixed and fair, no expenses.
and pay oft' any day you are able. Banks
take a lot of trouble when asking you
to deposit cash with them. Why don't
they advertise the other, or public-
benefactor, side of their business a bit?
Women, especially, seem never to have
heard of overdrafts —of the intentional
kind.
Sfc Sjc He
Leon Blum, who takes over the reins
as Premier of France, is the strangest
P.M. the west of Europe has seen since
Disraeli. A lankish, pallid form with
slightly stooped shoulders supports a long
sallow head decorated with a piercing
pair of eyes, an intellectual forehead and
a strong Semitic face, the powerful lines
of which are toned down by a moustache
which would have been classified by the
irreverent of a generation ago as “fish
and soup.” He gives the impression in
the Chamber of being always about to
shout, but he is soft-spoken, lucid and
histrionic only on occasion. Like a lot
of European socialists, he is overpower-
ingly rich. He has been a well-known
figure in France since the days of E>rey-
fus, whose cause he fought with vigor.
And, the only Jew who ever has led a
French Government, he would be due for
long leave on retirement if he were an
Australian civil servant.
$ $ « #
The Italians accused the heads of the
Anglican Church of working up much of
the feeling against them in England, and
imputed to the Archbishop of Canterbury
religious as well as political bias. Cer-
tainly his utterances have not improved
the relations of Canterbury and Rome.
Now the Anglican chiefs in N. S. Wales,
have offended other denominations by
withdrawing from the Council of
Churches on the ground that they find
membership “an increasing embarrass-
ment.” Perhaps it takes up too much of
the time of bishops who write newspaper
articles and make political speeches.


FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Gellibrand Handicap: Gay Pop ;
next, Phenomenon.
Bay View Handicap: Green-
horn ; next, Kitty O’Shea.
Beach Welter; Rebel Queen;
next, Britebeard.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Rockdale Mile: Nabob; next,
Fireman or Prowler.
Moorefield Handicap: Bombus;
next, Tapestry or Fireman.
Flying Welter: Architect; next,
Canegrass.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Fred Hoysted was pleased when he
won the Brunswick Steeple at Moonee
Valley with Ranclea, and proud as well as
pleased when he learned that Donaster,
another member of his team, had cap-
tured the King’s Cup in Adelaide. Hoy-
stead sent Donaster across under the care
of his 17-year-old son “Bon.” No doubt
when he reaches 21 “Bon” will uphold
family tradition by becoming a licensed
trainer. The name of Hoysted has been
known in that connection for more than
half a century.
Ranclea’s Valley victory was achieved
in really good style. He is in the G.N.
Steeple, which Hoysted won in 1931 with
Rakwool and in 1933 with Redditch. A
graduate from the hurdle ranks, Ranclea
has done plenty of schooling over fences
in private, but he does not impress as a
National candidate at this stage of his
career. Rangag, the sire of Ranclea, was
brought out from England by Dick
Wootton.
Of the 18 runners in the Brunswick
Steeple all but four are in the big race
at Flemington. Wanconner, the favorite,
blundered seriously at two obstacles and
lost much ground, yet battled on gamely.
Underwood, who pipped El Damaroyal
for second place by half a head, is by
Backwood, the sire of Woodlace. He
belongs to and is trained by F. J. Casa-
nella, an enthusiastic follower of the
hounds.
An apprentice rider narrowly escaped
being killed at the Valley. High Ideal,
his mount in the Sydenham Handicap,
stumbled in the straight on her way to
the post; the lad. Green, was unseated,
but his left foot became caught in the
stirrup. By good fortune Green retained
a short hold of the reins and kept hop-
ping about on one foot while he tried
to extricate the other. High Ideal, a
filly by Chivalrous, displayed surprising
docility in these exciting circumstances ;
and assistance reached Green before any
serious development occurred. Then
the filly finished second —at 50 to 1.
Great Feast (Great Star —Enough)
carried 9st. 21b, to a clear-cut victory in
the Sydenham Handicap. He had five
lengths to spare from High Ideal, who
was nearly a length in advance of H. R.
Telford’s filly, Ichnology. Backers of
Great Feast were amazed to obtain 10
to 1 about this first-rate youngster. Ex-
planation of the long odds is that Steve
Murphy and his patron, J. W. Heeney,
went for the win of their lives on Brian
(Heroic —Spearette), who shortened from
tens to 3 to 1. Brian, a brother to Maid
of Orleans, cost 1250 guineas as a year-
ling, and Heeney tried to get it back m
one lick. The colt had been highly tried
in private. Undoubtedly he has a lot
of speed, but after leading to the turn
he tired and faded right out. Maid of
Orleans, whom Steve Murphy also
trained, was little inferior to Hall Mark
as a youngster. She belonged to Alan
Lechtie, who sold her at a high figure
for shipment abroad.
The Wizard (Manfred Golden
Emblem) was the only outright favorite to
score at the Valley. He comfortably de-
feated the tiring pacemaker, Britebeard
(Heroic —Greytinge). Britebeard was
bought for 675gns. as a yearling, and big
things were expected of him by Clark
and Robinson. The colt now is held on
lease by Dick Bradfield, and since Brad-
field took control the good-looking chestr
nut has started twice for a win and a
second. He will do still better later on.
Turoa Webster, the M.L. jockey, had
a field day at Moonee Valley, taking the
juvenile event on Great Feast and the
Keera Welter on Sarokos. Strangely
enough each of these horses carried 9st.
21b. and started at 10 to 1. Webster has
to waste severely to ride under 9st. He
outgeneralled rivals in the Keera Welter
by making a sharp dash three furlongs
from home and swooping past the leaders,
who immediately began -to crowd each
other. Sarokos had shown no form for
a long period, but appears to be nearly
at his best again as a galloper. Possibly
he will resume hurdling before long.
Bill Tindall, rising to prominence once
more as a trainer, credited Andy Morrow
with the Nonga Handicap through the
agency of Nellie’s Tip. The stable played
up the major portion of its winnings on
Quasimodo in the Morang Handicap, but
this plunge went awry. Quasimodo (Bull-
head—Esmeralda) spent his strength in
shaking off Radiant Star, who gave an
excellent first-up display. When Kanun
challenged in the straight Quasimodo was
done, and Te Huon beat him for second
in the final stride. Kanuri scored by a
long neck. This Eastern Monarch geld-
ing is in wonderful fettle and looks like
developing into a Cup horse,
* * * *
Some Boy’s form in recent weeks did
not suggest victory for this Bathurst-
owned son of Cistercian —Cool Lady in
the Auburn Handicap at Rosehill. It was
a pretty good field, and he had failed in
inferior company. But he cleared right
away, and won by five lengths from
Moonray and Turbine, who made up a
lot of ground over the last furlong.
Moonray was favorite at threes; Some
Boy was one of three at 5 to 1. He ran
the “six” in Imin. 12isec„ half a second
outside the track record, held jointly by
Falstaff and Luita.
Shackleton and Speardale followed the
place-getters. Both can be improved.
Speardale is trained by Smart _ at
Menangle ; a good-looking son of Friars-
dale, bred by Otway Falkiner, he Showed
up prominently to the turn. Vista was
backed, but did not look at his best.
Medallist, now raced by Queensland pas-
toralist Schmidt, was supported at long
prices on the strength of fast trials at
Rosehill, He ran a poor race, and Dual
Ratio, after showing speed for half a
mile, tired to nothing. Rosehill is not
his course.
Fair Diana (3 to 1) should have won
the Rosehill Handicap. She was caught
in a pocket after turning for home, and
could not get out until the last half-
furlong ; meanwhile El Senorita (7 to 1),
who had made all the running, had
dashed away. She lasted long enough to
win by a neck. Oro, who was also un-
lucky in the straight, was two lengths
away. Jovial Son, now raced on lease by
Fred Williams, was fourth, followed by
Perron and Braeburn.
Curby came in for criticism on the
score of his riding of Fair Diana.
McCarten had suffered the same experi-
ence after his exhibition on Nabob in
the Trial Stakes. Last in the first fur-
long, Nabob went hell-for-leather on the
outside, and was clear at the five furlongs.
He continued leading to the turn, but
Dick Wootton’s colt The Freak (7 to 21,
a half-brother to Zulander, went past
him without an effort and won comfort-
ably from Contrast and Nabob—the latter,
tiring badly, just beat Mystic Spell for
third prize. Hunter White’s Rogerio has
developed into a nice-looking horse. He
chased Nabob, but tired, like the favorite.
Ezra Norton’s Limond filly Retrieved
(7 to 1) outclassed her opponents in
the Maiden Juvenile. Though drawn
wide, she was soon in front, and, gallop-
ing kindly for Matthews, a former pony
jockey, defeated Might Not and Lasting
nicely. The favorite, Punjab, struck
heaps of trouble, and nearly came down
at the “five” ; seemingly he is no good
in a big field.
First division of the Highweight was
looked upon as a match between
Canegrass, Pavarti and Babili, the
rest being at outside prices. Pavarti
(5 to 2) stole the race at the home turn,
getting a break on Canegrass, who failed
by a head to reach her. Babili was three
lengths off. In the second division
Rubens, carrying the colors of A.J.C.
committeeman Walter Brunton, un-
accountably eased in the betting from
fours to eights. Punters who went off
him regretted it, for he hopped out in
front and was never passed. Cognac and
Hope—who looked in need of the race —
were next to him.
% # *
A change to the country, however
brief, often agrees with horses trained in
Sydney. Prowler is the latest case in
point; taken to Tamworth for the local
Jockey Club’s annual meeting he won
the Tamworth Cup at 7to 1. With a
101 b. penalty in the Mornington Handi-
cap next day, he led all the way ; this
time he was favorite at 7to 4 on. The
Cup distance is seven furlongs, and that
of the other race nine furlongs. Prowler’s
times were Imin. 25sec. and Imin.
524-sec., each equalling the course record.
In Sydney Prowler was not regarded as
even a good miler. He is (or was) a
bleeder.
% * ♦
Horses owned by W. R. Kemball have
a knack of winning at long prices
whether he races or sells them. Eighteen
months ago Kemball sold Cape York
(Cape Horn —Princess Pat) to C. L.
Moorhouse, of Adelaide, and on Wednes-
day Moorhouse had the satisfaction of
seeing his 250-guinea purchase capture
the Adelaide Cup in his State’s cen-
tenary year. He was an outsider, as
much as 25 to 1 being laid, though the
fact of Percival having the mount caused
the odds to shorten to 16 to 1. The
going was pretty heavy, and it took
Cape York 2min. to cover the
distance —13 furlongs. He had little to
spare at the finish from the unlucky
Highardo, who was ridden by Voitre ;
Alfange, a 33-to-l chance, was third. One
of the rank failures was Burlesque, who
doesn’t seem to show his best form any-
where except Melbourne.
• •• •
The multitude of shop and field, book-
makers in Adelaide must have had a
skinner on the Goodwood Cup double.
Nobody has been discovered who backed
Agargil and Cape York for any amount
worth mentioning. There was ass,
doubles tote on the Cup and the Renown
Welter, which went to King Wolta (10
to 1); the Cape York-King Wolta divi-
dend was £42 Bs. 9d. and that on Cape
York-Broadacre (16 to 1 in the Renown
Welter and second) was £lB 9s.
Voitre had the uncommon experience
of being pursued into the jockeys’ room
by a man from the Taxation Depart-
ment after he had ridden his first winner
in Adelaide —Donaster in the St. Leger.
He took it philosophically, but it would
seem that S.A, takgatherers are bent on
rivalling their brethren of Brisbane, who
extracted 17s. lOd. or thereabouts from
the Grenadier Guards band. Voitre had
something more to pay after the Baker
Handicap on Adelaide Cup Day, which
Donaster won by a street from Princess
Harmony. Third was Windbag’s son
Beamish Boy, who has failed to live up
to his early promise.
Hall Mark was an even-money favorite
for the King’s Cup, but he ran
shockingly—got his tongue over the bit,
it transpired. In any case he could
scarcely have beaten Donaster (13 to
2) at a difference of 321 b. Over the last
part, with only Petit Fils and Cape York
also in the picture, the three-year-old
made the others look like commoners:
five lengths; neck; 2min. 31 sec. —a
South Australia record. Donaster is
owned by J. C. Macleod and C. F.
Taylor, of Melbourne. He is a chestnut
gelding by Great Star —Donna Marie.
He has now won four races in succes-
sion, his visit to Adelaide haying been
preceded by a success at Williamstown
on Easter Monday.
* * * *
Consistent High Speech (10 to 1) made
a great effort to land the Doomben New-
market for the Sheans, but in a great
finish was beaten a neck by High Benia,
with the heavily-backed Verdun a close
third. Then the Ring was all grins, for,
though it had High Benia at 33 to 1,
few of the clerks had to pencil wagers
on her. On the tote High Benia divi-
dends (for 10s.) were £37 13s, and £lB
17s. A four-year-old mare by Highfield
—Bambina, High Benia had been fairly
prominent in recent races, though in
indifferent company.
* * * *
Woodlace, winner of the V.R.C. Grand
National Steeple of 1934, has been
bought by C. B. Kellow, and will go into
the stable of Jack Holt at Mordialloc.
For years Holt has confined his attention
to gallopers, but he first came into
prominence as a trainer of jumpers, cap-
turing several cross-country events in
Melbourne for an uncle of Claude Grice,
the amateur rider. Later on Jack landed
an Australian Steeple with Kinlark, who
carried the colors of j. M. Niall.
* H= * *
In appointing C. T. Dignan an assis-
tant stipendiary steward the V.R.C. com-
mittee took Melbourne racegoers com-
pletely by surprise. Dignan is an ex-
cavalry officer unknown in the turf
world. However, he had experience in
charge of the officers’ riding school at
Sandhurst, England, and as officer in
command of constabulary in the British
West Indies. This should be helpful
when the hand of discipline is placed on
jockeys and trainers, the review of whose
conduct will be the particular function of
Dignan. It isn’t a pleasant job to-tackle,
but hundreds of persons throughout the
Commonwealth applied for it.
Footbrawl
It was generally expected that Mel-
bourne would beat Geelong on the
latter’s own ground on Saturday—a feat
it has not achieved since 1923. Expecta-
tions were not realised ; Geelong, playing
good, fast football, led throughout and
kicked 49 points to 4 in the final term:
14-18 to 4-8.
On the metropolitan ovals there were
no surprises, though Carlton, 16-11, met
with stouter opposition than was antici-
pated from Hawthorn, 14-13 ; and St.
Kilda, 18-11, just scrambled home by
virtue of straight kicking from Essendon,
16-19. Mohr notched eight goals for the
winners. Other results: South, 15-17,
beat Fifzroy, 9-13 ; Richmond, 13-14,
defeated North, 6-17; Collingwood,
25-14, overwhelmed Fitzroy, 12-12.
Veteran Coventry kicked eight goals for
Collingwood.
With three rounds played, Geelong,
Carlton, Collingwood and South are un-
defeated.
* * * *
Queensland Rugby Leaguers’ first meet-
ing of the season with N.S.W. was
disastrous for the visitors. N.S.W. won
30-13, and looked as if it could have in-
creased the difference; still, the spec-
tacle was good enough to hold a Sydney
Cricket Ground crowd of 36,000 to the
final bell. The Queenslanders’ defence
was excellent, but they had nothing over
for attack. N.S.W. had that bit extra,
and, getting more than a two-thirds’ share
of the ball from scrums, was moving in
attack nearly all the time. Hey, playing
out of his place at outside centre, killed
all doubts about his form. His defence,
nobbling.both Brown and Norman, was
as good even as Ridley’s attacking runs
for the winners. Ridley scored three of
the eight N.S.W. tries; one, when he cut
in and through the centre field to score
under the posts, was right out' of the bag.
But it was the home crowd’s forwards
that beat Queensland. They won in the
scrums, were too fast in the open and
contributed four tries —Pearce (2), Prigg
and Curran; Thicknesse, who worked
the N.S.W. pack brilliantly, added the
other. Brown’s kicking this year has
been dreadful, but he got one goal;
McKinnon, who played a fine centre
game, kicked the other two. Queens-
land’s wingers, Mahon and Roberts, each
scored tries ; Gilbert cut through a seem-
ingly hypnotised field to get the other
one, and kicked a couple of goals.
Even better to watch was the Prob-
ables-Possibles curtain-raiser between
Sydney’s next-best thirteens; a clean,
open, light-hearted game, ending in 18-
all, and in which Beaton gave such a
classy display as full-back for Possibles
that, he was promptly picked for the
State team to meet Queensland next
Saturday.
* * * *
University confounded prophets who
couldn’t see anything but Randwick for
Sydney’s Rugby Union premiership by
handsomely defeating the Greens, 24-14.
Though their hooker was off with two
broken ribs, the students’ forwards were
in everything, and in it more effectively
than the heavy Randwick pack. The
inside backs, too, played a spoiling game
splendidly, standing close up and rarely
allowing the ball to travel the length of
the ’Wick line. It leaves ’Varsity on top,
with Randwick next. North scraped
home from East, 9-8, though it could
manage only one fry to two. The scores
reflect the quality of the other matches:
Drummoyne 35—five tries and eight goals
(all Rankin’s)— Parramatta 13 ; Manly 23,
Gordon 8 ; West 26, St. George 6.
è


Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
// you think you’ve seen FAST ACTION —try the new
SAVAGE
SPORTER
Model 23
m
with a
AT YOUR
DEALER’S.
If he cannot supply you. write
our Exclusive Representative.
ASHER SAIITH, LTD.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
hammer-speed
of 2/1000 of a second!
New high-speed action! With this gun, a bead
on the game means a shot placed precisely in the
spot where the sights pointed. A faster, finer,
safer gun that hits where you aim. Four
calibres, including a .22, a .25-20, a .32-20 and a
.22 Hornet. The .32-20 is an ideal kangaroo
gun. Priced low —an exceptional value.
Use Savage Ammunition in Savage Hi-Power Rifles
Be a
MAN
Again
Are you letting- tbe world slip by you?
l>o you feel “out of things”? HOW-VEX
will bring back your natural pep and
HOW—VEX is a new, scientific treat-
ment for loss of energy. It is safe,
sure, guaranteed efficient.
Revitalise your whole system, renew
your youth and confidence. Write
for free particulars.
101 nee particulars.
HOW-VEX
will give you new life. Your money
refunded if dissatisfied.
Price, 10/6; extra quantity, 15/6.
At your chemist or storekeeper, or
direct from
THE HOWARD COMPANY,
BOX 4, 43 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
sparkle.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A likely-looking M.L. light-heavy-
weight named Luttrell is boxing in Syd-
ney. He has had the advantage of spar-
ring with Rosenbloom. Matched against
Les Brander at Leichhardt on Wed-
nesday, he rushed at his man from the
first bell and stopped Brander in four
rounds. But on the following night at
Newtown he essayed the same tactics
against Pat Appleton, a tough fellow
from Tasmania, who has had lots of ex-
perience. Appleton stopped him in two
rounds.
% % % %
“W.J.E.”: “Kelly’s Eye” is an old
“housie-housie” term, but it isn’t safe to
mention it in the hearing of a Sydney
Stadium boss of the post-war vintage. For
Leo Kelly, on whom the Stadium de-
pended so much, has eye trouble in so
acute a form that his bout with Rosen-
bloom has been postponed indefinitely.
Rosenbloom is now waiting for an oppo-
nent to arrive from America.
* * * *
“G.S.”: Add Pete Sarron to the list
of athletes of Syrian extraction. Sarron
visited Australia six or seven years ago
and whipped the ageing Grime and the
Maorilander Johnny Leckie and other
featherweights of the period. Though
a good tough fighter, he never gave the
impression of being a champion. A
champion, however, he now is, having
beaten Miller for the world title in Wash-
ington (the capital, not the State). Miller
has been hard pressed by featherweights
whotn the Australian Blandon has
beaten, and it is quite on the cards that
an Australian could bring the title to
these parts, as Billy Murphy did before
Griffo deprived him of it, if the fedders
were encouraged by promoters. But
Sydney Stadium, which has never yet
produced a champion—Darcy had to be
thrust on it —doesn’t care for them.
Footbrawl
“Fltzcray”: A joint committee of the
F.L. and the V.F.A. was set up to pro-
mote brotherly love. Scarcely a meeting
goes by without an argument, and at a
recent meeting a delegate heatedly
accused certain Association and League
clubs of having come to an ungentle-
manly agreement to steal players only
from each other. He moved a resolu-
tion that the League strongly disapprove
of this ; but the matter was forgotten in
the tumult that followed.
* =: * *
“Hotham”: A disconcerting cat has
been released by a delegate to the V.F.A.
The usual barge about stealing of players
by League clubs was in progress when
an intervener said that a League club had
offered his own particular show £4O for
the body of one of its best players. Some
carper pointed out that this was a com-
pound, comminuted fracture of the
League Coulter law, which forbids the
offering of bonuses for transfer of
players. The buyer airily explained that
there was no danger. His people would
not pass over the actual brass, but would
buy £4O worth of the Association club’s
membership tickets.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”; When Collingwood is hard
pressed at Victoria Park it draws fresh
inspiration from the sight of its tenth
premiership pennant. Four were won in
succession—l927-28-29-30—and the old
club has been runner-up nine times. Out
of 722 games played Collingwood has
won 493 and has scored 7005 goals. A
wonderful record in consistency over a
long term of years.
* * *
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L., while still
declining to send teams to other
States, has handed out some of its
profits to the little sisters. Queensland
gets £4OO, which is about £399 19s. Il|d.
more than it normally has in the treasury,
and N. S. Wales £IOO. At the meeting
which arrived at these decisions, a slight
sensation was caused by a delegate who
thought of suggesting that the League
pass the hat for the benefit of the
Association, which is in reduced circum-
stances, but, in view of what had passed
between the League and its elder
sister, changed his mind. What exactly
has happened to induce this crayfishing
no one seems to know.
* * * *
“Gate”: The English League foot-
ballers will play their first game in Syd-
ney against N.S.W. on May 30. There
is a feeling in the States which foster
the code, Queensland qnd N.S.W., that
the local men are in for a doing. You
never know in these matters ; but so far
the showings of players in N.S.W. have
been mediocre, and from Queensland
comes a chorus of despair from the most
ardent supporters of the code, some even
going so far as to wonder if more than
two or three northern players will go
into the so-called Australian side.
* * * »
“96-97”: Old Rugby hands in N.S.W.
will rejoice to hear of the meeting of
those once-famous Union centres Bathurst
and Orange in an inter-town clash,
Orange winning 31-19. Many of the
finest players who have worn N.S.W. and
“ Garn , 'e ’ asn't 'it y' yet!”
“Then y' better keep y'r eye on the ref., 'cause I'm coppin' it from
SOMEONE!”
Australian jerseys learned the game in the
western towns, which rivalled New Eng-
land and Newcastle until the League
gained a footing in the war years. The
amateur game is regaining its old
prestige in the west and elsewhere in
country N.S.W,
*.♦ * *
“Stand Off”: It is not often that track
athletes make an outstanding success
of Rugby. An exception seems to be
Frank O Brien, of Gordon, selected for
the R.U. team for Queensland. A
Sydney Grammar boy, he has won
Dunn Shield quarter-mile and hurdle
events, and the last N.S.W.' quar-
ter mile, as well as the State decathlon
and pentathlon titles for all-round pro-
ficiency in the track and field events.
Neither Carlton nor “Slip” Carr was a
world-beater in Rugby, to name only a
couple. About the only track champion
to do well as a footballer before O’Brien
was Nigel Barker.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The Australian
Davis Cuppers have arrived, “tired by
travelling,” at Philadelphia, where they
will play the U.S.A. at the end of the
month. They will have their H.Q. at the
Germanstown C.C, ground, while the
Yankees are at the other Philadelphia
cricket arena, the Merion ground. Ad-
vance sales of seats have been heavy.
* * * *
“St. Colombes”: France ousted Hol-
land by four matches to one in the Davis
Cup tie, but had by no means an easy
passage. Timmer downed Boussus in
the opening singles in straight sets. Des-
tremeau won both his singles, but
Timmer ran him to five sets, and in the
doubles Borotra and Bernard had to
yield a set to Timmer and Karstein.
On this showing France’s chance against
the Germans or the Czechs does not look
healthy.
**> * *
“Hotham”: There has been a rumpus
again at the Kooyong (Vic.) clubhouse
over the wearing of shorts in the lounge.
One indignant member protested so bit-
terly at the interruptions to his medita-
tions caused by legs of all sorts and sizes
being paraded before him that the com-
mittee has banned shorts from the club-
house altogether. Players may make a
hurried flight from it he court to the
dressing-rooms to change the offending
garments for others “more suited to the
dignity of the club,” as the committee
puts it.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: One of the Syd-
ney suburban tennis associations is con-
sidering a problem. A player broke his
glasses while serving and could not play
on without them. His opponents claimed
the set, but the player’s club insisted that
a postponement was a fair thing. The
rule on the subject says that play must
be continuous, and if a player cannot
proceed, even through accidental injury,
he must throw in the towel. Thus if a
player strain his eyes glaring at the
umpire—a quite ordinary thing even in
first-class tennis—he has to play on or
walk off.
: I ; -\' *
“Milton”; A Brisbane syndicate is
making six tout-en-cas courts at Perry
Park, and is putting up stands to seat
2000. Cost, over £5OOO. It is hoped
to get some of it back when Perry comes
to Brisbane.
* * * *
Arthur Pixley, dead in Sydney, will
always be remembered in Queensland as
one of the pioneers of serious tennis in
that State. He won many tennis cham-
pionships in the North, and was captain
of the first Queenlsand team to visit
N. S. Wales.
=!■ * * :|t
“Centre Court”: G. P. Hughes, the
English Davis Cupper, has been kicking
up a row because the L.T.A. has refused
to supply him with a professional mas-
seur during his trip to Paris for the
French championships. Hughes is suf-
fering from leg trouble, and feels that
he cannot depend on any mere amateur
to rub him down. The L.T.A. must be
a flinty-hearted lot. Nowadays the pam-
pered athlete has only to ask for an
entourage of medical specialists and
trained nurses and he gets them, especi-
ally if he is an American. Still, Paris is
full of masseurs and masseuses, and
Hughes should have no difficulty in get-
ting fitted if the injury recurs.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: Jim Perrier has drawn a
bye for the first round of the British
amateur championship, which begins at
St. Andrews on May 25, and so should
be able to get a useful glimpse of British
form in the round from the gallery. In
the second round he meets a notable
player, Francis. Francis is champion
of Surrey, and has been practising for the
past month in the South of France.
“Sunningdale”: Entries for the British
amateur golf championship number 268 ;
the record was 271 in 1930 —Bobby
Jones’s year. The championship dates
back to 1886, when Horace Hutchinson
won at St. Andrews —he repeated the
feat at Hoylake the following year. The
only Australian winner was Walter
Travis, a Victorian, in 1904, and he
played as an American.
* * * *
“Rats : “Punch-drunkenness” was
pleaded in England recently as a defence
to a charge of murder. Perhaps because
of this result of sensationalism, news-
papers are now booming “play daze,”
described as a mental blackout afflicting
players of games. Golfers are said to be
particular sufferers. Players who have
made fools of themselves by tearing up
their cards in a fit of temper—C. Whit-
combe lost his chance in the Southport
tourney by doing this —have now dis-
covered that play daze was the cause.
The affliction is extending to tennis-
players, and should prove a boon to
champions who drop their bundles when
collared.
% •!< ;J:
“Lytham” : A. H. Padgham was first in
the £l6OO Southport golf tourney which


SAIL into SUMMER DAYS
for the lands of
ETERNAL SUNSHINE
This Winter the June and
July sailings of the Oreat
White Yachts, Nieu w
Holland and Nieuw Zeeland,
call direct at Boeleleng
(Bali), after leaving Macas-
sar, in place of the usual
side-trip by local K.P.M.
steamer.
Special first-class return
fares from Sydney and
Brisbane, £67/10/- to Java
and £75 to Singapore l —no
Exchange—including call at
Bali at no extra fare.
Slightly higher from Adel-
aide and Melbourne.
John Sanderson & Co.. 3lel-
bourne; Elder, Smith & Co.,
Etd., Adelaide; Balgety &
Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
K.P.M.
GREAT
WHITE
YACHTS
é
ŕ
Royal Packet Navigation Co.
Paketvaart House, 255 iSeorge Street, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenn>
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove ever>
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
If any illustration in The Bulletin tak.es
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 54
HIGH-POWER RIFLES.
FURNISHED IN CALIBRES
.22 HORNET AND .220 SWIFT.
Bolt action with speed lock and five-shot magazine. Equipped
with Lyman gold bead ramp front sight and 48W rear sight.
PRICE, £l9/10/- (Freight Paid).
m
.22 1 HORNET' WSg'.W?
SUPE tW SP.EED.fi
46 Grain Staynless Hollow Point
Bullet. Super Speed
New .220 Cal. Swift Super-speed Staynless 40- PRICES, per 100 —
grain. Hollow-point Bullet. World’s fastest cart- .22 Hornet 19/0
ridge. Penetrates fin. steel at 14 feet. .220 Swift 42/6
• Freight Extra.
BAIOLISXICS.
CARTRIDGE.
.22 Hornet ..
.220 Swift ..
r
r
Trajectories in Inches
100 yards Height 200 Yards Height
at 50 Yards. at 100 Yards.
0.75 3.75
0.4 1.7
COWLES & DUNN,
’Phone: M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Comfortable and Safe
in any weather .. . .
TAKE the worry and danger out of winter
motoring by driving a Ford V-8. Rain or
shine, good road or bad, the V-8 provides snug
comfort with the maximum of safety and
security. These qualities match the luxurious
performance of its famous V-8 engine. The
exceptional comfort of the V-8 comes from the
exclusive Ford Centre-poise ride, large shock
absorbers and deep, restful upholstery. Safety
is assured by All-Steel closed bodies, Safety Glass
all round and super safety brakes of the time-
tested, sure-acting mechanical design. Driving
is effortless because of easy steering and finger-
tip gear changing. This brilliant Ford V-8 offers
fine car motoring at the most economical cost.
The beauty of its appearance and the richness
of its equipment and finish set a standard of
excellence that is equalled in every detail of
design. But why not drive the Ford V-8 and
let it speak for itself on the road? The Ford
dealer near you will gladly make arrange-
ments. Easy purchase terms may be arranged.
FOR 1936
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F78.24/V
ushers in the serious golf season in Eng-
land. Four of these rich prizes he has
now won off the reel, and he must be
sitting behind the money. At the same
time Padgham has not yet won a cham-
pionship, though he has tried hard
enough. Possibly the contemplation of
the paltry prizes for professionals tacked
on to the open championship and other
British title events causes him to suffer
from “play daze.”
* * * *
“Banzai”: H. Campbell, who managed
the Australian golfers in California, has
returned from Japan, which he took in
on his way home. He speaks highly of
lapanese golf, and says Japan is anxious
to finance an Australian team on a tour
of the Island Empire and also to send a
side to Australia. Campbell is still
eloquent on the subject of the neglect of
the Australians under his charge by the
American professional body, but the
episode might well be forgotten, with the
leflection that it was an unfortunate ex-
ception to a good American rule.
* * * *
“Fagin”: The suggestion that the inno-
cent youth of the N.S.W. schools should be
early exposed to the malign influences of
golf has been made by the N.S.W.P.G.A.,
and is to be considered by the Golf
Council. The idea, the P.G.A. states, is
to promote the game rather than the
financial interests of members, which
presumably means that these will
do the coaching free of charge. But what
is to come when the school gales
close behind the unfortunate youth and
he is waylaid by those acquainted with
his past? It is a moral that he will be
urged on to the primrose fairway until
he ends up as a “habitual.”
* * * *
“Windfall”: Mark Twain’s advice to
an agricultural correspondent not to
shake the tree while gathering pumpkins
might have been remembered by a player
at Gulargambone, N.S.W. He landed his
ball in the fork of a tree, and, shaking
the branch, dislodged it to play on for a
three. Someone interrupted the rejoicing
to show that under rule 15 the player had
incurred a penalty of two strokes for
shaking the tree.
“Deeside”: Britain is rejoicing over
the discovery of what may prove a new
golf champion in Christian de Water-
meyer, a South African who recently
gave a staggering display in the Oxford-
Cambridge match, winning for the Light
Blues by 10 and 9—an unholy margin.
Watermeyer went round the stiff course
in 68, equalling Compston’s course
record made in the 1930 open. With a
South African for a Rugby Union full-
back and an Australian about to lead
English cricketers against his country-
men, it looks a moral that Watermeyer
will play for England in the next Walker
Cup against America.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: When Sarazen hits
Sydney he is likely to find a heap of Aus-
tralian professionals ready to copper his
bet of £5O that he can beat any of them.
Holder, of N.S.W., was first in, and
several other N. S. Welshmen are to join
him. In Queensland, open-champion
Von Nida is thirsting for the American’s
dollars. Sarazen is to visit Brisbane in
August,
Miscellaneous
“B.N.C”: Worth noting that R. C .M.
Kimpton, the Melbourne Oxonian who
began the season with a couple of cen-
turies against Gloucester (B. 13/5/’36),
did well against the same county exactly
a year before. It was only his second
appearance for the ’Varsity, but he made
160 and 33 n.o.
# ■ * * *
“Trent Bridge”: Woolley has chosen
a world’s first eleven —J. R. Mason,
Hobbs, Trumper, Ranji, Johnny Tyldes-
ley, Macartney, F. R, Foster, Barnes,
Blythe, Oldfield and Larwood. Presum-
ably he has confined his selection to
comparatively modern players, otherwise
the omission of Grace and MacLaren,
to name only two Englishmen who over-
shadow the second-rate Mason as player
and skipper, is inexplicable. Larwood’s
inclusion will be questioned by many
who remember that two successes in
Australia and three failures in England
are the sum total of his achievement
against Australian players, and who re-
call the deeds of Lockwood and Richard-
son in both countries. Bradman is
omitted from the batsmen, as is Grimmett
from the bowlers. The side contains five
superlative batsmen, a medium all-
rounder in Mason and a sorry batting
tail.
* * * *
“(Tlprmla”- Arthur Rirharrknn of the
uieneig Arthur Kicnardson, ot me
gleaming giglamps, has returned to his
native Australia after some years in
Lancashire League cricket, where he
... 5
seems to have done well. Richardson
was a solid asset to the S. Aus. side for
years, scoring well over 2000 runs in
Sheffields and taking 74 wickets. In
Tests at home and abroad—he went to
England in 1926 — he scored 403, with a
‘highest of 100 and an average ot 31,
and took 12 wickets. One of his expen-
ences while overseas was a trip to the
West Indies as an umpire,
* *
From George Rees:
“Cottesloe” (B. 22/4/’36), in a reference to
the Perth bowling carnival, wrote: “By all
accounts Queensland has departed from moth-
eaten tradjtion and j s pa ymg travelling ex-
penses and entrance fees.” As a member of
the Queensland party and as hon. treasurer of
the Q-8.A., I can certify jjjat tn'rfnaid
the case. Every man who made the trip paia
h £ own travell itfg expenses to and from Perth,
an d also entrance fees for the various events,
We in Queensland, in common with our bowler
f
an amateur basis, and would be very sorry to
see it othewise.


A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
Pr%
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ,f If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith
Resident Secretary,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
POMONA PUMPS
HEAVY DUTY MINE
DEWATERING POMPS
FOR VERTICAL SHAFTS
Pomona Pumps
are used largely
for Water Supply
Pumping and all
industrial require-
ments.
Pomona Pumps
are installed in
many mines in
all States of
Australia. One
at Talbot, Vic-
toria, has been
running non-stop
since early in
1933.
Full particulars from the Sole Distributor:
F. N. BETHUNE,
122 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.I.
Telephone: C 9935.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
Whakatane Paper Mills
One concern that sold forestry bonds
on a large scale in Australia and Maori-
land has lost little time in going about its
business of putting shareholders and
bondholders on a common footing. It is
now getting to work in an attempt to
bring in returns for those who put money
into it —to test whether there is or isn't
a profitable future in pulping M.L. soft-
woods. If successful it will be one of
Maoriland’s biggest manufacturing con-
cerns, in which Commonwealth investors
will have a large interest.
Whakatane Paper Mills’ first mill unit
(at Port Whakatane, M.L.), to turn out
12,000 tons of cardboard and an extra
9000 tons of groundwood pulp a year,
is expected to cost £350,000. Later on
£lBO,OOO is to be spent on plant for pro-
ducing 15,000 tons of chemical pulp a
year. From its first unit the co. aims to
supply the N.Z. Paper Mills, Ltd., which
has been making Kraft paper and paper
bags in the Dominion for many years,
with its pulp requirements. At present
Maoriland imports wood pulp from
overseas.
The name was changed from Timber-
lands Woodpulp to Whakatane Paper
Mills following the conversion of the
greater number of bonds into shares in
1933. Out of about 35,000 bonds sold
only 1600 (in the A and B series)
remain unconverted. For each
bond 55 ord. shares were ex-
changed.
In the beginning the co. con-
tracted to plant and maintain pine-
seedling acres for from £2O an
acre to over £4O an acre accord-
ing to the state of growth of the
seedlings. It looked as though, when all
the co.’s obligations had been discharged,
it would have a capital profit of around
£750,000, being the amount charged for
planted acres over and above the actual
cost of land, maintenance, etc. It was
bound to lend £500,000 of this, on
security and at interest, to bondholders
for the purpose of erecting a mill. In-
stead, shareholders in the old co. handed
the lot over to bondholders (now share-
holders) without any strings attached,
except that the donors were given a
£244,444 (face value) share-interest in
the reconstructed co., as against between
£30,000 and £40,000 previously.
There are roughly 12,000 ord. share-
holders altogether, whose holdings aggre-
gate around £1,600,000. The co. may
issue up to 2,444,444 ords. in respect of
the 40,000 acres planted with Pinus
insignis to cover bond issues. It has
another 21,000-acre plantation less ad-
vanced, and 7000 acres of natural pine
forests. '
The geographical distribution of share-
holders is approximately as follows;
Shareholders.
Maoriland and Overseas .. 6,250
N. S. Wales 1,750
Westralia .. .. .. 1,750
S. Australia .. .. .. 850
Queensland .. .. .. 700
Victoria .. .. .. .. 700
Total (approx.) .. .. 12,000
The Commonwealth is thus interested to
the tune of approximately half the share-
register. The remarkable thing is the
extent to which Westralia responded to
the bond-selling campaign of other days.
At June 30, 1935, the co. had £259,174
of public securities, cash, deposits and
first mortgages. It attempted to raise
£400,000 in pref. shares last August, but,
as public response did not reach the
£200,000 minimum for allotment, the
prospectus was withdrawn. Existing
shareholders have since subscribed more
than £60,000, and there is over £200,000
unpaid on the old ords. Including this
uncalled capital, the co. considers its
funds ample for the first unit of the re-
vised mill construction programme—
which is somewhat less ambitious than
at first planned.
The concern is now at its most inter-
esting stage. It has a large capital to
pay divs. upon, but if the cash in hand
is sufficient (the directors say it is) to
see the mill now being erected to suc-
cessful production, the outlook for share-
holders should soon become more defi-
nite one way or the other.
Regarding the 1600 A and B series
bondholders who failed to convert into
shares, the co. has on more than one
occasion since the fusion of interests
given them a chance to come in on a simi-
lar footing. There is no sound reason
for their staying out.
There will be no allotment by Asso-
ciated Pulp and Paper (the new Tas.
paper co.) to the general public. The
“I see this is your thirteenth appearance before the Court.”
“Surely y'r 'Onor ain't gointer let shuperstition come between us ?”
issue will all be taken by Tasmanian resi-
dents who had priority privileges, and
by shareholders in the founder com-
panies. But “rights” may be bought on
Melbourne ’Change around par.
H* *i'
Broken Hill Prop. £1 shares were very
strong last week, rising 3s. (to 655.) in
two days. It is a remarkably robust
stock, with undoubted possibilities.
* * *
Cement cos. continue under a cloud so
far as investors are concerned. Austra-
lian Cement (Vic.) £1 shares, which have
been as high as 335. this year, sold at 28s.
last week. Scrip in the Kandos Co., the
N.S.W. arm to the control of Aust. Port-
land Cement Pty., sold down to 21s. 3d.
(16s. shares). Both cos. are paying 10
p.c., and yield 7.1 p.c. at present prices—
if dumpings of overseas cement allow 10
p.c. divs. to continue.
Associated Portland Cement (Eng.),
which paid 20 p.c. to ord. shareholders
(double the previous distribution) for the
year to Dec. 31 last, showed a profit of
£857,729 for the term, as against
£488,739 in 1934. British Portland
Cement Manufacturers, a smaller co.,
also paid 20 p.c. for 1935 (up 2\ p.c.)
on an enlarged capital. Associated £1
shares are worth about 87s. on London
’Change, and British Portland about 90s.
Yields are 4.6 p.c. and 4.4 p.c. respec-
tively. Investors consider that British
cement cos.’ higher div. rates are safer
than Australian cos.’ lower ones. They
are obviously right while Mr. Lyons con-
tinues his tariff “policy.” The elimina-
tion of the preferential duty on British
cement was designed to benefit English
cos., one of the “reciprocal” arrange-
ments of the Ottawa agreements.
The Canberra tariff attitude is directly
opposed to trade equilibrium. Imports
are being encouraged at a time when sur-
plus exports don’t cover overseas interest
charges and capital withdrawals. Bone-
headed spoutings and evasions are all the
satisfaction that can be got from Can-
berra.
* :|s j|« jjs
No mining sharemarket of recent years
has been so much commented on as that
for Fiji issues. Directors of Emperor and
Loloma three months ago criticised the
operations of those who reckoned shares
in their two cos. were too low, and who
sent the market for the first-named be-
low 10s. Later on Dr. Loftus Hills
advised “Fiji pessimists” that they might
have to eat their words at some future
date. Last week in Melbourne P. F.
Cody, chairman of Koroere, deprecated
the “circulation of malicious misstate-
ments about the mining industry by per-
sons whose only object is financial gain
to themselves.” But rumors and mis-
statements can be favorable as well as
unfavorable as regards a mine or mines.
If the sharemarket is prone to take a
pessimistic view of things now it is largely
because it has had a bellyful of the other
thing in the past.
* * * *
In B. 6/5/*36 it was mentioned that
Woolworths’ £1 shares were selling at £8
in Melbourne, and that the market was
obviously looking for more largesse—in
1934 a three-for-two ord. bonus distribu-
tion was made, and there hadl been a
previous capitalisation in 193 L 1 2
directors last week announced the mo.n
generous melon-cutting to date ; oid
capital is to be doubled by the issue of
421,969 bonus ords., one for one, making
£759,046 of gift scrip in an ord. register
total of £843,938. Revaluation of capi-
tal assets has provided most of the latest
distribution. The scrip has jumped to £9
10s. in Sydney, and sales were made in
M.L. last week at £lO.
Woolworths (W.A.), Ltd., a pup of the
Sydney co., is also capitalising £63,260
in a two-for-one gift issue. Assets have
been revalued here also.
* * * *
Tin, the metal which had a most
erratic market following outbreak of the
Italo-Abyssiniail war, was used by
world countries on a scale 21i
higher in the year to February, 1936, as
against the preceding similar period. The
United States, which has had a great re-
vival in car-manufacturing, used 45.1 p.c.
more (66,439 tons) ; the United King-
dom’s 22,113-ton consumption was up
5.9 p.c. Altogether, 145,492 tons of the
metal was absorbed during the period, as
against 119,750 tons in 1934-35. Present
London price is rather weak at £204
(stg.).
* * * *
Electrolytic copper remained over £4l
(stg.) a ton in London last week. It has
been very steady for a couple of months
now, and the future still looks promising.
The world restriction agreement has been
extended to July, 1938. Mt. Lyell shares
have weakened slightly, to about 245.
H- * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Central Nell Gwynne (Bendigo) was in
the mining spotlight most of the time. On
the turnover of some thousands of shares the
price lifted from 295. at the close of the
previous week to 335. on Wednesday, steady-
ing at that figure on Thursday. The
latest crushing averaged 15-jdwt. to the ton,
as against 13.8dwt. and 13.2dwt. on the two
previous occasions. The co. has an issued
capital of 47,000 10s. shares (40,000 are paid
to 9s. 9d.). A large ore-body of low grade
is known to exist. Recent developments have
produced much higher values than w'ere antici-
pated by the sharemarket. The question is
when the rich stuff is likely to give out. The
co. has a shilling div. to its credit, but not
much cash.
Australian Cement shares were actively
traded in at 28s. or thereabouts. The tariff
position has created - apprehension on one
hand and speculative interest on the other.
Yarra Falls shares were weaker, and should
be worth buying. A.K.M.’s distribution of its
holding has made more shares available for
sale.
Dunlop-Perdriau ords. changed hands in
large parcels at 16s. 6d.
Maude and Yellow Girl, working a sul-
phide lode at Glen Wills, 35 miles from Omeo,
declared its first div. (6d. a share). The
13s. 4d.-paid scrip, as high as 10s. 6d. in
March, sold at 9s. last week. After paying
the div. £5OOO will be in hand.
Cocks Eldorado, Wattle Gully, Gordon
Gold and Morning Star were bought in
small quantities at prices showing little change
on the average for the past two months.
Lady Shenton (W.A.) touched a record
low level of 4s. lOd. on Wednesday, recovering
a bit on Thursday. Early in January these
shares sold at 17s. 6d.
Lancefield (W.A.) and New Occidental
(N.S.W.) sold at 9s. and Bs. 6d. respectively.
The latter co. has not yet reached full pro-
duction following labor stoppages, etc. The
new manager predicts a substantial reduction
in working costs.
Younghusband, Ltd., disclosed net earnings
of £28,648, up £12,484 on the previous year’s
figure. The div. was lifted froTn 6 p.c. to
8 p.c. This is the best profit and dividend
since 1930. The co.’s turnover in the staple
was 94,719 bales, as against 58,795 in 1930
and 69,360 in 1935.
There was little demand for pastoral stocks,
despite Younghusband’s better showing. This
co.’s shares (at 345. 3d.) were only a little
higher than in May last year. Goldsbrough,
Mort shares have been higher this year than
last week’s 325.
Upper Sepik shares, which collapsed a
couple of months ago following adverse re-
ports from New Guinea, sold to 755.


"X,
-cr
si
m
K
ft
m
%
i
J
Jr
1
s?
I
r / ,
!Mr
y
/
You 'll always be on the winner
if you drink “Sheaf" Stout regularly!
TOOTH’S
IN BOTTLES HALF-BOTTLES AND BABY
BOTTLES


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Storm Over the Andes”
The “storm” is not meteorological, but
martial, for this aerial thriller has the
Bolivia-Paraguay dust-up over the Gran
Chaco as its background.
It all concerns Bob Kent (Jack Holt), a
winged soldier of fortune, who, accom-
panied by his faithful, sentimental and
reckless mechanic “Cracker” (Gene Lock-
hart), joins the Bolivian Air Force. His
C.O. is Major Tovar (Antonio Moreno),
and a friendship, born of mutual respect,
springs up between them. When a low-
flying enemy ace machine-guns their
’drome the gallant Robert drapes his
frame protectively over his superior and
Stormalong, attended by Helen Twelve-
trees, in “Thoroughbred,” at Sydney
Mayfair.
collects a leg wound. Convalescent,
Robert becomes enamored of Theresa
(Mona Barrie), whom he meets at a car-
nival. But the lady turns out to be the
wife of the Majah, who refuses to be-
lieve it was the mildest of flirtations. The
C. 0., out on a lone flight, is shot down,
but parachutes into the Gran Chaco
among crocs. Stricken to the heart,
Bahb, urged by his Great Love, recon-
noitres, spots the disabled ’plane, “bails
out” and effects a spectacular rescue. On
the way back he and the Major get in
among the enemy, steal a ’plane, bomb
an ammunition dump (which is done
very well) and flatten out for home, only
to have one of their own ’planes dog
them, thinking they are enemies. Bob
gets his issue in a machine-gun burst,
thus leaving husband and wife recon-
ciled, mourning a Very Gallant Gentle-
man Who Drew Them Closer Together.
Jack Holt is always more impressive
in a uniform than in mufti, and he has a
role that fits him down to the ground.
Australian Mona Barrie as the C.O.’s
wife gives a fine performance, as does
Antonio Moreno, making a comeback
after an interregnum in which his
Spanish accent, no bar in the silents, was
a handicap in talkies. Gene Lockhart’s
comic touches help this drama, which
moves fast. At Sydney Capitol.
“Snowed Under”
Uproarious nonsense is the keynote of
this film, and clever fooling keeps it at a
snappy 'tempo. Alan Tanner (George
Brent) has fallen down on the third act of
his new play, and the producer (Porter
Hall) enlists the aid of Alan’s ex-wife
Alice (Genevieve Tobin). At the snow-
bound Connecticut farmhouse where Alan
has gone to keep a cool head during his
mental travail, Alice arrives to assist with
the plot, and the resultant demonstrations
of affection make it seem that the divorce
was a mistake. But the luckless fellow’s
domestic machinery develops a few
knocks with the arrival of Daisy, ex-
wife No. 2 (Glenda Farrell), accompanied
by her lawyer (John Eldredge) and the
deputy-sheriff (Frank McHugh), to have
him arrested for failure to cough up ali-
mony. The harassed playwright’s matri-
monial mess is made more complicated
by the presence of Pat Quinn, a co-ed
with tickets on him. Alan decides that a
snow blizzard is preferable to a vocal one,
and beats it to a neighboring farmhouse,
where he sits up all night finishing the
play. Ex-wife Alice also devotes night
hours to the job, but when playwright
comes back next morning, piqued, he
criticises her effort, upon which she dongs
him with a poker. Contrite, she falls on
his neck, and, forgiveness duly forthcom-
ing, they are reconciled, apparently set
for remarriage and another divorce, the
sheriff having meanwhile fallen for
Daisy’s charms, while the lawyer takes
Pat off his hands. Of course, a merging
of their two third acts proves satisfactory.
George Brent has a congenial he-man’s
role allowing him to order women about.
Genevieve Tobin, round-eyed and pert,
has a good part, and Glenda Farrell as
the hard-boiled Daisy is in her element.
Frank McHugh seems to like getting
buried in snowdrifts, and Porter Hall
adds to the fun as a temperamental pro-
ducer. The laughs assay high in this
comedy. Also at Capitol.
“A Viennese Love Song”
This sort of thing, done for the 147th
lime, depends on a voice. Plot is a
neutralisation of the standard one. Tap-
dancer (Jean Muir) is married to a bari-
tone. Baritone is so poor that, in Vienna,
he puts on a Tibbett record in his bed- ,
room to make people think he has a
voice. He hasn’t a voice, but a theatri-
cal entrepreneur (Gene Gerrard) recog-
nises him as an answer to the young
widow’s prayer. In that role he succeeds,
but he has to sing so frequently in a
very commonplace quasi-croon that the
proceedings are boresome. His name
isn’t stated in the advertisements, and
whether he became reconciled to Miss
Frank Leighton in “Thoroughbred."
Muir or whether he lost her to Mr. Ger-
rard becomes a matter of indifference
long before the triangle displays its ordi-
nates. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Story of Louis Pasteur”
Pasteur (Paul Muni) is depicted as a
physician who got himself in bad odor
with the French equivalent of the B.M.A.
by insisting that a germ causes anthrax.
That it does is demonstrated by examples
of supermicrophotography which have
nothing to do with the subject but which,
if they had, would have made the detec-
tion of the villain so easy that it wouldn’t
have required a Pasteur to track him
down. But jealousy in academic circles
is no new phenomenon, and the opposi-
tion to a new idea here depicted is typical
Harold B. Meade in “Thoroughbred.”
enough. Nine hundred and ninety-nine
innovations prove to be either fallacies
or rediscoveries of an elemental fact,
but this stimulant of the agnostic atti-
tude can do no harm. Muni, previously
an actor of repute in roughneck parts,
does the scholarly savant well. He has a
dogged face, even when obscured in all
sorts of whiskers, and he is as good a
shrine for the fixed idea (after John
Barrymore and Fredric March) as
Hollywood could get out of a casting
•index. The other characters don’t matter.
At Sydney Lyceum.
“The Country Doctor”
This charming film is a mixture of fact
and imagination. As the story of the
Dionne quintuplets could not fill up an
hour and a half, fiction has been intro-
duced. Names are altered —the pro-
ducers evidently having the Rasputin
libel case in mind. Dr. Allan Defoe be-
comes Dr. Luke, and the Dionne quintette
become the Wyatt babies.
Introductory sequences deal with the
life of a country doctor (Jean Hersholt)
in a sparsely populated district of Nor-
thern Canada and his heroic efforts to
combat a diphtheria epidemic, assisted
by his faithful nurse (Dorothy Peterson).
In an effort to establish a hospital he
visits Montreal and beards in his den the
commercial lion whose trading co. owns
the village. He is unsuccessful, but gets
an opportunity to further twit the mag-
nate at a dinner attended by the Gover-
nor-General, who warmly approves the
medico’s appeal. When he gets back to
his village, he is ostracised at the behest
of the local manager, and when a “free”
doctor is appointed Dr. Luke is prepared
broken-heartedly to depart. It is then
that a villager begs him to officiate at a
birth, and the arrival of five little
strangers in one bunch follows in
dramatic circumstances.
From then on it’s all babies, with some
delightful shots of the famous infants
romping on the floor with the doctor.
It ends with the presentation by the
G.-G. of a decoration to the man who
made medical history.
It is doubtful if anyone more suitable
than Jean Hersholt for the part of the
lovable country doctor could have been
found. He acts the part to the life, a
performance paralleled by Dorothy Peter-
son as the calm, capable and somewhat
sarcastic nurse. Slim Summerville as a
postman-cwm-cop and Robert Barratt as
the undersized and apologetic father ot
multiples supply a leavening of humor.
Peculiarly, the uproarious merriment
attending the birth itself appears quite
natural. June Love and Michael Whalen
strengthen the cast, and Montague Love
is a pompous big man. Previewed at
Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
“Everybody’s Old Man”
Irvin S. Cobb, whose writings have
been known to the world for 30 years,
claims to be the ugliest man in the
U.S.A. The claim was supported by bis
friend Will Rogers, who saw screen pos-
sibilities in those lineaments, and got his
crony a small part as a river-steamboat
captain in one of last year’s talkies. Now
Mr. Cobb, who in his initial production
had nothing much to do save chew a big
cigar and look ferocious, has blossomed
forth as a star. “Everybody’s Old Man
is his film from title to fadeout; he is
never off the screen for more than a few
seconds. He walks through a congenial
role, that of a canned-food king, as
smoothly and effectively as George
Arliss represents notabilities of another
genre.
The story is neatly constructed. All
his business life pressed-food-manufac-
turer Franklin has fought his erstwhile
partner Sampson. Sampson dies, and
Franklin, with no more zest in life, goes
to Europe to bore himself with sightsee-
ing, leaving his efficient but conceited
nephew in charge of the business. Re-
turning, he finds the young man’s head
a little too big for his hat, and to teach
him a lesson secretly gets control of the
now-nearly-bankrupt Sampson concern
by being appointed trustee for Samp-
son’s son and daughter. Franklin first
effects a moral reformation of son and
daughter and then steers the business out
of its troubles and makes it such a thorn
in the side of his own concern that
nephew has to seek a truce. Rochelle
Hudson, as Sampson’s daughter, is intro-
duced for love interest —she eventually
pairs off with cocky nephew. Cobb stacks
the piece full of pawky humor with just
enough sentiment to leaven it, and there
are few dull moments. Alan Dinehart
as a rascally manager and Warren
Hymer as a taxi-driver are well cast.
At Sydney Regent.
“It Had to Happen”
George Raft is an Italian immigrant,
Enrico Raffia, who on arriving in America
John Longden in “Thoroughbred.”
earns a living digging drains for a muni-
cipality. He is a humble soul, easily
pushed aside. But one day his foreman
puts a red flag into his hand and tells
him to stop traffic. In the traffic is the
Mayor, in his limousine. Raffia stops the
Mayor, who is so pleased by this high-
handed action that he gives the alien a
job at City Hall. A few years later
Raffia is a powerful party boss. In the
story as originally planned his name
probably was Rafferty, but the casting
of Leo Carrillo as his bosom pal neces-
sitated a change of nationality. Anyway,.


BUSH BALLADRY
COMPETITION.
Results Next Week.
Entries for “The Bulletin’s” Bush
Balladry Competition closed on
Saturday last, May 1 6. The names
of the prize-winners will appear in
our next issue.
Personal and Missing Friends.
INFORMATION wanted of JERIMIAH
NOWLAN, son of late Robert and Letitia
Nowlan, of Tenterfield. Replies (to his advan-
tage) to RALPH TAYLOR, Solicitor, Tenter
field, N.S.W.
CHAPPLE. —WILL anyone knowing the where-
abouts of WILLIAM HAROLD CHAPPLE
believed to be somewhere in West Australia,
please communicate with THE EQUITY
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 472 Bourke Street
Melbourne? W. H. Chappie is a son 01
William and Eliza Helena Chappie, and was
born at North Carlton, Victoria. He left Vic-
toria about 1922, and is believed to have
settled in West Australia, following the occupa-
tion of a motor mechanic. He is believed to
be married, his wife’s name being Rose.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 456 of 1936.
IN RE JESSIE JEAN WALGERS (formerly
Jessie Jean White) of Wagga Wagga the
wife of Henry George Walgers formerly of
Wagga Wagga but lately of Black Rock
in the State of Victoria Clerk
And the said HENRY GEORGE WAL-
GERS.
TO HENRY GEORGE WALGERS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JESSIE JEAN
WALGERS has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion lor three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Seventh day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 14th day of May One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. FENN LUSHER (Lusher, Young and
Stellway), Solicitors for the Petitioner, Fitz-
maurice Street, Wagga Wagga: by their Agent,
C. THROSBY YOUNG, 26 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
'N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 696 of 1936.
BETWEEN ELLEN MARSHALL Petitioner
And JOHN MARSHALL Respondent.
TO JOHN MARSHALL.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN MAR-
SHALL has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixth day of August
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Sixth day of May, a.d, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 38 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 71 of 1936.
BETWEEN JOHN JOSEPH CLOUTT Peti-
tioner
And ANNIE PHYLLIS CLOUTT Re-
spondent.
TO ANNIE PHYLLIS CLOUTT.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOHN
JOSEPH CLOUTT has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitor, free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
H. R. HUNT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
9 Martin Place, Sydney.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
DIRECTORS:
,F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (VicoChairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant, Colin A. Sinclair,
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(i WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
IT DOESN T SEEM SO "FAR
OUT” SINCE WE INSTALLED
THE 'ARISTOCRAT'.
All Aristocrats, whether Dual-
wave or Broadcast,, are designed and
built by qualified radio engineers
and housed in elegant cabinets.
The wide range includes models
priced to suit all requirements.
“Well, anyhow, my dear, there's no need
to feel shut out from the world when our
Aristocrat brings us all the news and enter-
tainment from everywhere.”
“We are no farther away from civilisation
than our Aristocrat, although our city friends
call this the backblocks.”
You, too, can instal an Aristocrat —the
modern set without peer—for a surprisingly
moderate cost. Aristocrat is the receiver for
the country dweller particularly, because of
its utter dependability—its crystal-clear recep-
tion—its economical running cost.
ARISTOCRAT
V<4iJiio
Advertisement of Electrical Specialty Mfg. Co. y Ltdll Glebe Street, Glebe 3 SYDNEY.
he gets tremendous power through
scrupulous honesty, and eventually, hav-
ing defeated all attempts to prove that he
is a crook, induces a beauteous mil-
lionairess (Rosalind Russell) to divorce
her rascally husband (Alan Dinehart) and
become Mrs. Raffia. Raft as the hero is
as cool and forceful as ever, and shows
skill and pugnacity as a boxer. Subsidi-
ary parts are well filled by Arline Judge
and Leo Carrillo. Previewed at Fox
Thpatrette Svdnev
ineatretie,
C F* MTo-Lfc
some First iNllgniS
: ‘The Magic Flute,” sixth and last of
Mozart’s operas, had its first complete
performance in Sydney at the Con. Hall
on Saturday night. Like “Aida,” this
opera has the Egypt of the Pharaohs as
its setting, but there is nothing Egyptian
about the music, which is as unmistak-
ably European as it is unmistakably
Mozart. The noble, dignified choruses
made a great impression on the crowded
audience, and the orchestral backing was
sound. Weaknesses of the production lay
with the soloists, but notwithstanding
that most of them were a little over-
weighted they sang intelligently and gave
the spirit of the music, and duets by
Albert Miller and Lorna McKean and by
“Cloud Shadows, Kiewa Valley, Victoria,” by E. Buckmaster,
in Anthony Horderns’ Gallery, Sydney.
Alfred Urquhart and Betty Pocock were
deserving of the very hearty applause
they received.
d*
The Brahms concerto for violin and
cello has been given before in Sydney,
but it comes only at blue-moon intervals.
One night last week the new-fledged
N. S. 'Wales Symphony Orchestra co-
opted Tossy Spivakovsky and Edmund
Kurtz to play the leading fiddles, and the
result was a beautifully mellow reading
that brought out, in addition to Brahms’s
genius as a mixer of orchestral colors, his
mastery of melodic line. A memorable
performance. Tschaikovsky’s “Francesca
da Rimini” symphony let loose in the
Town Hall the awful winds that sweep
through Dante’s dreary hell. Dr. Bain-
ton conducted these two. Howard Carr
kept time for his own composition,
“Three Heroes,” which essays to epito-
mise in musical form the great moments
in the careers of O’Leary, V.C., Captain
Oates (of Antarctic fame) and Warne-
ford, V.C. O’Leary’s martial exploit
(orchestral imitation here of a strong
bombardment) and the sacrifice of
Oates amid unearthly solitudes (dirgelike
strains, pianissimo, working up to an
emotional crisis) are recognisable. Warne-
ford’s music isn’t so easy to follow.
Delius’s “Brigg Fair” and Wagner’s
“Entrance of the Gods to Valhalla” were
other items of a programme that won
hearty and sincere applause.
*l* »!- *l-
- mid-week performance of Ashley
Dukes’s “The Man with a Load of Mis-
chief” by the Independent Theatre at the
Sydney Savoy attracted a small but appre-
ciative audience. The play, a romantic
comedy of the eighteenth century, has
piquant situations and some amusing
lines. Scene of action is a wayside inn.
Clive Coppard played the nobleman with
the right note of hauteur and veiled in-
solence, making an excellent contrast to
John Alden’s portrayal of his valet, a
manly fellow with a bitter contempt for
his master. Mr. Alden produced the
play. The erstwhile actress and runaway
mistress of a prince was represented by
Joan Macnee, whose performance was
uneven. Her flirtatious maid was safe in
the hands of Patricia Klem, who modu-
lated smoothly from gaiety to tragedy.
Broad comedy relief was furnished by the
innkeeper (Roy Nettheim) and his wife
(Dorothy Whiteley).
Current Artbursts
A large and well-varied show of the
works of Ernest Buckmaster at Anthony
Horderns’ galleries, Sydney, well main-
tains the artist’s reputation. His style is
as direct and snappy as ever. In his
landscapes in particular he has been
accused of painting to a formula, but if
he does it is his own formula, and by using
it he portrays certain aspects of the
eastern Australian countryside not only
more pleasingly but more faithfully than
most of his contemporaries. Among the
pictures on view at Horderns’ are
evidences that the play of shade caused
by scattered clouds on an otherwise sun-
baked countryside are increasingly inter-
esting the painter, who on six of his
canvases records such impressions. Still-
lifes in which flowers, fruit, glass and
silver figure demonstrate Mr. Buck-
master’s mastery in this department. A
trio of interiors, somewhat in the
Bernard Hall manner, diversify the show,
and there are some happily-painted
coastal scenes and a portrait or two to
give further variety.
•J* *l* *l*
Blamire Young, who was as eminent
as an art critic as he was as an artist,
may have been able to analyse the in-
gredients of the charm that radiates from
his pictures, but to this commentator
they have always remained elusive. The
magic is there, but the brush strokes by
which it was created afford no sufficient
explanation of the
effect attained.
Young’s pictures, a
selection of which
(his last work) is on
view at the Gros-
venor Galleries, Syd-
ney, have an almost
illimitable capacity
of educing imagi-
nation. They pos-
sess something of
the quality of a vivid
dream, the exact
details of which
elude remembrance
though the dream
made a deep and
definite impression.
Possibly the para-
dox of Young’s
style, which may be
described as impres-
sionism in minia-
ture, has something
to do with the
results he achieved. Not everything,
for the painter mixed philosophy,
shrewd wit and a vast amount of ex-
perience, largely the fruit of curious ex-
periment, with his colors. As Lionel
Lindsay remarks in a foreword to the
catalogue of the current exhibition,
Blamire Young was a master of design.
He was also a master of the most deli-
cate uses of color—“In the Hills” and
“The Valley,” almost, but not quite,
monochromes, are examples of his genius
in this respect. Casting back to his days
with the Bickerstaffes he could produce
equally subtle effects in the brightest
hues, as in “The Argument” and “Vil-
lage Feast” (both of which go to the
N. S. Wales Gallery). His love for the pic-
( ur f^9 u , e m finds expression
111 Old Houses and Inner Harbor’
the ( a^er apparently a glimpse of Darling
Harbor looking from the Pyrmont
Bridge. In other small water-colors, such
a ? “The Workers” and “Poverty Flats,”
the impression is given of a composi-
tion by some bygone giant of the brush,
containing a world of rich detail. The
detail isn’t there, but the imagination
supplies it.
* * •
Small but good is Goodchild s
v^ a , te l l '• c ,° 01 sb P w P reece s Gallery in
Adelaide. The famous etcher makes
soura use of color, laying it on for the
part in sweeping masses, though he
bas occasionally a thinner manner which
a r °ws the under surface to show through,
1S P ef h a ps np st in foliage
sunsets. These latter are gleaned
a I l e % ran f e 7~ f Yj9 to . l
? a . r^o f (S.A.) and Anglesea (Vic.). Simi-
al}y jl® as . ei^t» a mecl both the now
ext,nc * Waterloo Bridge in London and the
now beautiful Adelaide Bridge at a half-
bmlt s J a § e 7 ! t wasn K t : Then he
jumps from Holland to a bit of Venice,
from rugged rock-pillars on the Victorian
coast to boatsheds at Mosman or the
mouth of the Yarra. It is a peaceful,
satisfying show, and all the better on a
revisit.


AT II
THE 1 1
mm* SYDNEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by all.
Yet. just around the
corner, within two
minutes' walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
TUE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK-SYDNEY
8W1361.
A
medicinal
preparation
—not a
confection
HUDSONS
"EUMENTHOI iw
JUJUBES
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 fin
BRAN DAL ER-S
m
m
0^
PENS
*
Every point
guaranteed
*do not experiment with imitations.
& BRANDADEE ic CO, ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Long stems of yellow iris, the pale
gold of chrysanthemum and the deep
blue in the kimono and the silver in the
obi of Japan’s Consular lady were color
reliefs at the late-afternoon crush given
by French Consul Suzor and Mrs. Suzor
last Saturday. This was a 5.30-to-7 affair,
and filled the rooms at Eastbourne, Dar-
ling Point, with clouds of people, every
second woman black-clad. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, however, arrived in a frock and
coat richly blue and silver, and Mrs. F.
J. Davy’s complexion glowed between a
soft woollen frock of mulberry tones and
a hat to match. All the Consuls and
their wives were there ; so were Sir Hugh
and Lady Poynter and the Chief Justice
Jordans (astrakhan trimmed her black
suit). Mrs. Ivy Moore, who now spends
much of her time on the wing, came to
earth for this party. Having breakfast
in Sydney and lunch in Melbourne is
becoming almost a habit with her. Play-
ousts, Lamerands, Wunderlichs, Brenacs
were among those who filled the many
rooms with animation and strolled on
to the long glassed-in verandahs to gaze
at the evening.
Woman did not look her loveliest at
Kyeemagh on Saturday. A cold wind
blew off Botany Bay, or on to it, and at
the end there was a scurry of rain. Mrs.
James Ashton was there to watch her
sons, who were the stalwarts of the Town
and Country team, as the Skenes were
of the Australian. With her was Mrs.
Geoffrey Ashton, blue-coated and
wrapped in silver fox. Most of the on-
lookers saw the game from their cars,
but some were bravely determined to be
alfresco. The Wallace Horsleys had
come from Gundagai. He played with
Town and Country, and went straight
home that same evening. Betty Wheat-
ley, a line umpire, wore smart riding kit.
Hundreds of first-nighters at Sydney
Con. heard Mozart’s “Magic Flute” and
were probably just as enthusiastic as the
Vienna audience 145 years ago. It seems
strange that this fascinating opera should
make its debut in Sydney only in this
year of grace. Hilda Mulligan, steeped
to the eyebrow in the traditions of opera
in the cities of Europe, no doubt was a
strong supporter of its inclusion on the
list of the Conservatorium school of
opera’s presentations. Roland Foster
and she put some hard work behind
Saturday’s performance, which was the
most artistic of the school’s offerings.
Guenda Bainton had arranged the scenic
effects—Nile greens, rose-reds and gold
made a sumptuous temple background
for high priests, slim maids of old Egypt,
princes, queens and the glossily be-
feathered birdman and -girl.
There was hardly breathing-space at
the Trocadero on the night the Olym-
pians were farewelled, and the Olympic
symbol—five interlocked circles, one for
each continent —bobbed up everywhere.
On the presidential table they arose sev-
eral feet high, flower-garlanded and
moored to the table by narrow ribbons
of green and gold. The star turn of the
night was the presentation of the blazers.
Backed by the green and gold lights of
the dais Mayoress Parker and E. A. But-
tenshaw stood, while the band paused
for breath, and up the length of the room
one by one the athletes came. The
Mayoress, sparkling with silver lame and
jet sequins, handed out the men’s and
Mr. Buttenshaw the girls’ green and gold.
Members of the police rowing team
were all for letting joy be unconfined,
and were festive in navy suits with little
mess jackets. Kitty Mackay trailed white
laces and wore a spray of creamy
flowers in her hair ; Pat Norton’s pale
sapphire-blue taffetas had dark sapphire
dots. Clarice Kennedy was another nice
girl, and she carried home a souvenir, as
did all members of the women’s com-
mittee that has been working to supple-
ment the funds for the glory-seekers.
Fanny Durack (that was), her head
covered with tiny curls, her frock black
velvet, displayed her unit of the com-
mittee’s gift—a shield of silver, with
appropriate wording, upon a shield of
Australian wood.
Happy and glorious was Miss Hilda
Marks’s frock of black-and-gold lame,
its waistline finished with three pastel-
toned roses. The Consul for Germany,
Dr. Asmis, held court at the official
table. Here also were Germany’s Vice-
Consul Hellenthal and his attractive wife,
whose frock combined two tones of
moss green. Gwen Buttenshaw was
lacquer red as to chiffon dress and velvet
cloak. James Taylor and the manager of
the Olympic team, H. Alderson, were
importants. Mrs. Alderson’s coat was
gold, her frock black chiffon. Tables
were decorated prettily or fantastically.
On one a bicycle pedalled to fame in the
Goulburn to Sydney road race, while
cows and horses stood at gaze. Olympic
cyclist Duncan Gray put another excite-
ment into the night. He announced his
engagement to Aileen Gilligan, of
Sutherland.
One of the portrait painters exhibiting
in the Women’s Industrial Arts Show is
Mrs. Vigeveno, wife of the Vice-Consul
for Holland. Lady Gowrie declared the
exhibition open last Monday, It’s a
Monte Luke photo, of Mrs. Vigeveno.
The sun clouded over last Thursday
afternoon, so Dora Wilson, over here
from Melbourne and painting street
scenes even more vividly than she does
in the southern capital, put up her colors,
and went along to the opening of the
Blamire Young show in the Grosvenor
Gallery. This was done by Lionel
Lindsay, who arrived five minutes after
schedule, full of haste and apologies.
Then he tossed off a good speech about
his old friend, noting with approval, as
did everybody there, that the Gallery had
bought two examples of Blamire’s work.
Syd Ure Smith was there, representing
the Society of Artists, and Howard
Hinton was busy buying a romantic bit
of the Inner Harbor as seen coming from
Pyrmont. This, of course, goes to Mr.
Hinton’s pet lamb, the Armidale College
gallery. Mrs. William Buckle and a sister
of artist Derwent Lees and Miss Eliza-
beth Grace were among the admirers of
the young man from Cambridge who got
his first impulse to paint when, fresh from
England, he went as teacher to a school
in the Blue Mountains. Adelaide artist
Heather Hamer brought her good-look-
ing English husband. They were the
guests of Dick Windeyer, K.C., during
their stay.
The frost that had given the flowers
on the Tamworth racecourse a rather
bleak look gave way to a burst of almost
summer weather for Cup Day. This
was one of the most successful meetings
that Tamworth has known, and residents
are proud of the £lOOO taken in gate-
money. Lots of Sydney visitors helped
to swell that total, and all seem to have
been struck by the beautiful surround-
ings of the course with its blue vistas
and poplar-trees. The cameramen had
a good day’s sport, and took pictures of
celebrities like the president of the club,
and Mrs. J. B. Cooper (the lady com-
plete with the gold cup won for her by
the dashing Prowler). A terra-cotta
angora suit softened with a froth of lacy
jabot clothed Mrs. Cooper in her hour
of triumph. Mrs. P. G. Smith, wife of
the Jockey Club’s president, tied the
ribbon about Prowler’s neck, doing her
good deed in a brown outfit.
Lots of festivities surrounded the
meeting. Perhaps the historic one was
the party at the Tamworth Club: for
the first time in 30 years woman crossed
its threshold. For the occasion the place
was jocund with masses of golden
flowers. The Mayor did his bit, and
held a civic reception for visiting sports-
men, who were later taken the rounds of
the Town Hall, The Race Club Ball
was held in the Town Hall, with 500
dancers and 300 lookers-on. The deco-
rations in the supper-room were a blaze
of autumn flowers and a thick sprinkling
of horseshoes. From the central light
was one of these luck-bringing symbols,
enormous in size, silver in color.
Three years ago Phyllis Shillito, of the
Technical College, established a course
of design. Last week four students sat
for their diploma. The tall English girl is
to be congratulated on her achievement.
Between her teaching duties Miss Shillito
works ambitious tapestries and embroid-
eries. She also paints. That untiring
buyer of good things Howard Hinton
has already secured some of her pictures.
Norma Parker, an M.A. of Perth Uni-
versity, is the new almoner at St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital. The clever Westralian
also holds a diploma in social service,
from the University of Washington and
a certificate from the Victorian Institute
of Almoners. This is a new opening for
women with altruism; already there
is one almoner attached to the Rachel
Forster Hospital, and the children’s hos-
pital at Camperdown has two.
Jeannette Rooney, niece of the Kate
Rooney who before she went away to
live in New York and London charmed
Sydney audiences with her voice, is carry-
ing on the tradition. Jeannette has a con-
tralto voice of unusual range and of rich
and fluent quality. With this she has
musicianship and a talent for acting.
When the last J.C.W. opera company was
here she went on and sang the part of
Suzuki in “Madam Butterfly” without
rehearsal with the orchestra. She was
made Suzuki-in-chief to the co., toured
Maoriland and sang the part of the faith-
ful Japanese maid 25 times. A com-
mittee of music-lovers is arranging a
series of concerts for the singer to enable
her to pursue her studies in Europe.
Fashion walks befurred at the Troca-
dero. Tea-drinkers will fill their eyes
with the luxury of sable and of silver
fox shoulder capes. Water-mole is a soft,
comforting fur guaranteed to add charm
to any chin, and Arctic fox gleams
proudly, sure of its popularity. Ever
since King Edward spoke up in favor
of the ostrich its plumes are more and
more to be seen. It seems that, dyed in
any shade to match or contrast with the
wearer’s frock, they will appear at every
night revel. Some lyrical specimens of
the plumy fan appear in this Anthony
Hordern display.
For about 60 or 70 miles along the
Hawkesbury, where for many there are
no religious services, the launching or
the Dorothy Wright by the members of
the Ladies’ Home Mission Union will
supply a spiritual need. The Mission
Union is celebrating its silver jubilee
by giving the Dorothy Wright to
the good work. Founded by the wife of
the late Archbishop Wright 25 years ago,
the Unioti is an amazingly flourishing
perennial for good. Bertram Wright
represented his mother at the meeting m
the Chapter House. Archbishop Mowll
and Archdeacon Alston, of Hastings
(Eng.), who has come to Australia for
the Broughton centenary celebrations,
were present.
Miss Sarah Hynes gave a party for
novelist Alison McDougall at the Forum
Club, and brought together a group of
Sydney’s literary and artistic. Alison,
just back on the morning train from
Queensland, where she has been visiting
a sister, wore a soft black woollen en-
semble with touches of white and hugged
a great sheaf of autumn flowers from her
hostess; Ruth Beale, looking well again
after her recent illness, was a guest.
Music of the French school was supplied
by Mrs. Clements.
The Greek Consul drove up in a
luxurious car to the Australian Hall the
night Grace Stafford presented the
“Eurnenides” of AEschylus. The audience
was larger than might have been ex-
pected, and one group made up of just-
returned-from-Londoners included Mrs.
Vernon Cole. Her frock was the deep
blue of the evening sky, and her cape
was kolinsky. With her was Mrs.
Metters, harpist in the Con. orchestra.
Lute Drummond, who sat with official-
dom, wore a Greek-line frock to suit the
occasion. Grace Stafford acted hostess in
the front of the house, wearing flowered
crepes in two tones of amethyst.
The Furies hid their natural good
looks behind masks of malevolence, only
emerging to take the bushels of flowers
that were their due. The translation was
Gilbert Murray’s, the production by
Diana Reeve, fresh from London. Diana
also led the chorus, in a robe blue as a
summer day, and later changed into black
velvet and gardenias over the ear for the
supper party at Hillier’s which rang
down the curtain. Evaline White, who
was the Pythian prophetess of the piece,
goes off to London at the end of the year.
Just one glad, sweet song was the
Undergrads.’ Ball at the Trocadero. There
was no rift within the lute. Uni. heads
coming in force and smiling benignly on
the young things they had made happy
by giving them back their procession.
Kevin Ellis, president, and Margaret
Walkom, vice-president, of the students’
representative council, received the offi-
cial guests, Margaret wearing Parma
violet taffetas and pinning silver leaves
in her hair. Chancellor of the Uni.
Mungo MacCallum and his lady came,
her frock of black-and-gold lame toning
in with the Mayoress’s mulberry chiffons.
Beatrice Wines, president of the Women’s
Union, was draped in violet chiffons. Jen-
nifer Maughan’s moires were blue, and
Dr. Constance D’Arcy lit up her dark
velvets with lily-of-the-valley. Every
phase of university life was represented.
Fifteen hundred dancers kept the band of
the Troc. busy.
Dora Wilson caused a bit of a stir in
Darlinghurst, although that would seem
impossible, by putting up her easel dur-
ing last week’s sun-splashed days. Arch-
bishops as well as artisans paused for a
look over her shoulder as she worked.
The Lane-Pooles continue to eat the
food of welcome. The Admiral and his
lady were the guests at a dinner party
given by the C. J. Popes at Tresco, Eliza-
beth Bay, when the diners were all of
the Navy. Mrs. Lane-Poole was also the
special guest of the Arts Club at its some-
what tardy Mother’s Day celebrations.
There were 36 mother members of the
club present, and they sat at a specially-
decorated table on which towered a
white iced cake from the president.


AT MYER’S
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
An exhibition of nearly 300 original “Bulletin” black-and-white
drawings is now open in the lounge of the Mural Hall.
Here is an exceptional opportunity to view a selection of the
splendid line and wash work of Norman Lindsay, Ted Scorfield,
Unk White, G. K. Townshend, Percy Lindsay, Syd Miller,
B. E. Minns, Oswald Pryor and other leading Australian artists.
All the drawings have been published in “The Bulletin,” and the
originals may be bought at Myer’s.
When at MYER’S, don’t forget to see “THE BULLETIN”
black-and-white exhibition.
RHEUMATOID
ARTHRITIS
Stop that pain. Howards Swedish
Remedy will dissolve those torturing
crystals that collect in the joints and
muscles. This famous old recipe—-
the discovery of an old Swedish lady
—will cleanse the blood stream, and
bring you freedom from the fiery
pains and stiffness. Just think, you
will once more be active, healthy,
fit. No matter how stubborn your
case, no matter how disappointed you
have been with other treatments —let
this old remedy work its marvellous
powers—quickly, surely, permanently.
Write for FREE particulars.
Price, 31/6 —one month’s generous
supply.
OUR GUARANTEE —we will refund
your money in full should you not
be satisfied.
From chemists and stores, or direct
from
THE HOWARD COMPANY,
BOX 4, 43 PARK STREET,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne
chatter
The Victoria League rose to the occa-
sion of Sir Geoffrey and Lady Whiskard’s
visit to Melbourne with an evening recep-
tion at No. 9. There was a fair sprinkling
of husbands, borne triumphantly by wives
who believe that lodge and the club get a
pretty good innings on other occasions.
Formal introductions took place in the
first reception-room. Small tables and
chairs were scattered around the ball-
room, but many people preferred to stand
about in groups throughout the evening.
There was music, wisely chosen, from
stringed instruments, not vocalists, so that
everybody could talk without being jerked
into enforced silence for musical apprecia-
tion just at the climax of the evening’s
best anecdote. At supper the toast of the
King was honored with no less loyalty
for being drunk in orange-juice. Sir
Geoffrey, who is British High Commis-
sioner, made a speech beside which the
address given by the little Leitch lady,
who is the League’s senior vice-president,
did not suffer a fraction. She spoke with
good delivery, clear reasoning and a keen
sense of humor.
The co-operation of Bulletin artists
and joke-makers has gone towards pro-
viding the exhibition now being held in
the foyer of Myer’s upstairs restaurant.
Ages and sexes have their preferences,
but everybody loves Miller’s animals.
Women seem to find most fun where hus-
bands are getting worsted, argumenta-
tively and physically. Men show more
appreciation of subtlety, and seldom fail
to chuckle over such incidents as Unk
White’s tepid youth overcome by the ex-
cesses of a milk bar. Frith’s golfing
battle-axes , (female), Souter’s feline
women and almost human cats and
Scorfield’s story of the goat who thrived
on nails, boots and dynamite, but gave
up the ghost when he gorged a flapper’s
first cake, all meet with general approval.
Norman Lindsay is, of course, repre-
sented, and so are Percy Lindsay and
Townshend and Oswald Pryor.
A couple of med. students liked Loch’s
conception of surgery wherein an angry
patient coming too soon out of chloro-
form finds his heart removed by a
doctor. Small boys show a preference for
Black Brother as Minns portrays him,
and cause a block in the traffic when
they discover Such’s tractor galloping
wildly over a paddock on racing motor-
spirit.
Norges Nationaldag is the day of the
year in Norway. There are feasting and
rejoicing for young and old, and the
school children of Oslo march through
the streets to the Palace, where the royal
family assemble on the balcony. In all
parts of the world on May 17, Norsemen
gather together in honor of the drawing-
up of their country’s Constitution in 1814
when Napoleon was galloping round
Europe. This year the Dag fell on Sun-
day, so it was on Saturday that the
Norwegians of Melbourne clinked glasses
to the brave old toast of “Skaal.” At
the dance at the Australia there were
Mr. and Mrs. Borhaven’s schoolgirl
daughters pinning Norwegian colors upon
the lapels of every guest. Just before
supper everybody joined in a marching
song round the room. Only then was
it possible to distinguish the Norwegians
present, for they are not all blonde.
Waving their banners they sang the words
with great spirit, while the Australians
wondered what it all meant and felt
extraordinarily bucked when they man-
aged to translate from verses on the
supper souvenirs “Dette land har Harald
berget.”
The Consul for Norway and Mrs.
Sverre Lie were present, Mrs. Lie in
white and palest buttercup chiffon. In
black was Mrs. Alstergren, so blonde of
hair, eyes and skin that she is always
taken for a Norwegian by birth as well
as marriage. Mr. and Mrs. Lief Due
were there with their youngest daughter
Pauline, whose ice-blue gown was elabo-
rated by simray pleatings. Mrs. Bor-
haven wore navy velvet, and Constance
Cherry was in black and accompanied
by brother Bob, “the uncrowned ski-
ing king of Buffalo.” Dargie Kaaten, in
black satin and red carnations, didn’t
look as if she had been working hard
all the afternoon helping to make the
party’s “smorbrod,” composed of savory
mixtures spread on single layers of sand-
wich bread. As a hot supper dish there
were fishballs, served with white sauce
and green peas.
Val and Yvonne Cohen must have
been born under a lucky star, for they
are leaving with their mother on Satur-
day in the Monterey for the U.S.A. and
even further afield. Only a few months
ago this family of three enjoyed a holi-
day to Java and Bali, and in four years
they have been twice to Europe and once
round the world. They are ideal travel-
ling companions, for they are all inter-
ested in art. The girls are taking their
painting kit and movie camera. Val says
she won’t come home until she has seen
Russia, so that means vises for three to
the U.S.S.R.
One of the week’s farewell parties to
Mrs. Frankel Cohen and her daughters
was a dinner at the Windsor, given by
Mr, and Mrs. Alexander Spiers. There
were posies for all the feminine guests;
Mrs, Cohen’s, of tiny buds and hyacinths,
melted into her misty chiffon frock. A
master craftsman of flowers created an
original seascape for the centre of the
table; a ship composed of green
hydrangea petals sailed over a sea of
autumn leaves, funnels being of pink
rosebuds from which came puffs of white
tulle smoke. Nautical dolls paced the
decks as captain and crew.
Here is a Broothorn portrait of Mrs.
Max Ragless, wife of the Adelaide artist
whose recent exhibition of pictures
evoked generous and unanimous praise
from critics. Mr. Ragless is entirely self-
taught. He wished to take lessons from
Hans Heysen, but that well-established
artist refuses pupils. Recently Ragless
reached a stage of despondency over his
work, and the fact that he did not throw
away his brushes in disgust is due to his
wife. It was her encouragement which
persuaded him to keep going, aim higher
than ever and finally to hold an exhibition
in Melbourne. By profession Ragless is
a vigneron whose stance is on South-
road. Visitors to Adelaide do not ex-
pect to find rows of grapevines so close
to the city, but the vineyard which is
the home-site of Mr. and Mrs. Ragless
and their baby son has belonged to the
family for 70 years.
That Australia should be seen first is
the belief of 25 M.L.C. girls who have
gone off to spend their May holidays on
explorations round Alice Springs. The
Methodist Church missioner at Alice
Springs visited, the college to thank the
girls who had worked for contributions
towards the fund for his mission ambu-
lance. “Come up and see us one of these
days at ‘the Alice,’ ” was his remark on
saying good-bye—thus the seed of the trip
was sown. The girls are well chaperoned
by teachers and two fully-qualified nurses
with complete first-aid kit. At “the
Alice” they will take part in a tennis
tournament, hold a concert and give the
church a treat by singing in the choir.
They will call at the Hermannsburg mis-
sion station, they will see Palm Valley,
meet the Arunta tribe of abos. and try
camel-riding. They will have to sleep
out some nights, and are forearmed with
blankets and sleeping bags.
Arthur Robinson and his lady are
once more preparing to say good-bye to
their daughter, Mrs. Huntly Griffith,
whose annual holiday in Melbourne is
drawing to a close. Mrs. Griffith, who
is tall and striking, and always the
wearer of interesting clothes, is married
to a Ceylon tea-planter. The first of her
round of farewell parties, given by her
mother at the Alexandra Club, was very
jolly and very warm, for we have seldom
experienced a milder autumn. The
hostess wore a black gown and coat col-
lared with silver fox, and a giddy little
white feather adorned her hat. Mrs.
Griffith also chose a white feather to
ornament the gamin beret which accom-
panied her deep-blue suit.
Afterwards, several of the guests, meet-
ing again at another party, cocktails given
by Mr. and Mrs. Robert Kiddle, found
that they had talked so much that they
had no voices left. The Robert Kiddles
and daughter Jule (son Geoffrey is at
Grammar) returned from Europe a few
months ago, and have decided for the
present to sample city life instead of
their country pastures up at Carabost,
Wagga, N.S.W. Wyalla, Monara-road,
Toorak, is a house with a history and a
fine home for entertaining a party. The
array of flowers which adorned it for
last week’s party was superb. Each of
the three large reception-rooms seemed
more like a formal garden than part of
the inside of a house. Garlands of
flowers and foliage swayed over each
fireplace and above each door. There
were baskets spilling over with chrysan-
themums and heavy-headed dahlias, the
40-Thieves jars held more prize blooms,
and clumps of smaller flowers nestled
down among the drinks and savories.
Looking very diminutive beside her large
husband Mrs. Kiddle wore black and
white and lily-of-the-valley. Jule (who
was christened Juliet) wore deep moon-
blue, with foaming parasol sleeves of
crinkly white ninon.
On Saturday, in the Kamo Maru, Mr.
and Mrs. G. A. Rees and their daughters
Nancy (whose photograph is by Broo-
thorn) and Pat will sail off to Japan.
Mr. and Mrs. Rees have already been
round the world, and the girls have seen
Ceylon, so the Orient will not be a com-
plete surprise to them. At Thursday
Island, going north, the travellers are
looking forward to making the best of
a brief two hours with Mrs. Donald
Darling (another of Mr. and Mrs. Rees’s
daughters), who is married to a medical
officer. Coming south they may break
their journey in the northern port of
tropical heat and pearl-fishing.
The general public is voicing its dis-
approval of departmental cutting of trees
along State highways. Nobody questions
that electric wires are dangerous in the
vicinity of branches, but because in the
past trees have been sacrificed for tele-
graph poles there is no justification for
the continuance of such a shortsighted
practice. Few property owners would
object to the shifting of the poles to
stances nearer to or within their fences.
They, too, take a pride in the beauties of
their districts. Failing the moving of
wires, the P.M.G.’s Department could
temper its present unpopularity by plant-
ing a tree for every one it destroys.
Within a few days two academic
fathers were requested to sanction the
marriages of their daughters. Margaret
Shann was the reason for Flying-Officer
Dallas Charlton seeking an interview
with Frank Shann, headmaster of Trinity
Grammar School, Kew. Professor Oxer,
of Ormond College, opened the door of
his professional lair to the Rev. Robert
Reid, of Castlemaine, who has success-
fully sought the heart and hand of
daughter Dorothy. This bride-to-be
trained as a nurse at Royal Melbourne
Hospital. The marriage will take place
in a few months’ time.
Young folk are coming of age at
great rate. Esme, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. R. Broadhurst, received her 21
years’ worth of good wishes with danc-
ing at Grosvenor. At No, 9 the O. J.
Lankasters’ daughter Elaine, wearing
ruffles and ruchings of stiffened net, pre-
sented her 100 guests with posies or
lucky wishbones tied with her old school
colors, the blue-and-white of Lauriston.
Another dance at No. 9 was given by
Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Stewart for their
daughter Joan, and at Tudor Court,
Caulfield, Jean Siverson reached the status
of full-fledged citizenship in a plumbago-
blue gown of sunray-pleated chiffon, with
which she carried a posy of blue hydran-
gea petals surmounted with autumn
leaves.
Janet Mitchell, daughter of Edward
Mitchell and his lady, of Melbourne, has
been appointed from among 400 appli-
cants to the position of Warden of
Ashburne Hall, the largest women’s
college at Manchester. Miss Mitchell is
a writer and a journalist who contributes
sketches and articles to English maga-
zines. In Melbourne some years ago she
did social-welfare work in connection
with the Y.W.C.A.; in Sydney she ran
the thrift service department of the Gov-
ernment Savings Bank, became a mem-
ber of the Sydney branch of the Institute
of International Affairs, and was chosen
to visit Shanghai with the Institute of
Pacific Relations delegation. When her
work was over in that international city
she travelled in the interior of China, and
had exciting experiences at the time when
Japan seized Manchuria and created
Manchukuo. From such local color and
first-hand information she wrote “Tem-
pest in Paradise,” One of her sisters is
successful-writer Mary Mitchell.
Years of money-raising drives have
acted like corrosion on the usual
channels for collecting funds for worthy
objects. Money still flows along, but
often sluggishly or only after a good deal
has seeped away in expenses. At the
Women’s College second appeal meeting
Mrs. M. M. Phillips made suggestions
that should prove useful. One scheme is
a series of lectures by distinguished (and
definitely not boring) people at the con-
clusion of which there would be a debate
by legal or other astute brains, with per-
haps men on one side and women on the
other. Debates, if the teams are well
chosen and the subject is of general in-
terest, can always be tipped as winners.
An example was the overcrowded Mel-
bourne Town Hall early in 1935 when
the subject of the verbal wrangle was
the book censorship.


Vs 3!
II
sferi-r
If
dual v/ave
* v ’***iivtJ
THE new "Dual Wave Fives" are de-
signed for World - wide reception.
Tests have proved that they give consist-
ent long distance reception on short
waves (as distinct from spasmodic results
under good conditions), and so bring to
reality that much-abused term —"World-
wide".
The exquisite quality of their reproduction
on short and broadcast waves still further
enhances the entertainment value of these
superb receivers to a degree rarely
attempted in commercial sets.
All "GENALEX" Models give you these new
and distinctive features:—
(1) The amazing new Metal-Gored Inter-
mediates, providing extreme selectivity.
(2) Full automatic Volume Control.
(3) Counter-balanced Station Selector.
(4) Full-vision clock face dial.
(5) Cabinet beauty.
SETS WITH THE BIG NAME BEHIND THEM
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
(Affiliated with the S.&C. of England)
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Perth, Hobart & Launceston
Sole Agents for Q'land: Norman Bell & Co. (Pty.) Ltd.
Authorised Dealers in all centres.
mm
FOR A.C. OPERATION
Model 8C.365. "Lachlan" Table
Model, £25/15/-.
Model 8C.365. "Glenelg" Console
Model, £29/15/-.
FOR A.C.-D.C. OPERATION
Model 8C.350. "Lachlan" Table Model,
£26/15/-.
Model 8C.350. "Glenelg" Console Model,
£3l/15/-.
FOR BATTERY OPERATION
Model 8C.310. "Glenelg" Console
Model, £35/10/-.
Write for Catalogue BC. 1260, which
contains details of the full
“CBNALEX” range.
BUILT
SOUNDEST ENGINEERING PRINCIPLES
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Embryo architects rallied a horde of
friends at the Embassy for the T Square
Ball. June Irvine and T. Badger’s adagio
number was followed by a student’s bur-
lesque with dummy partners. Zoe Bennett,
with autumn flowers nestling in her fair
curls and pinned on the corsage of her
beige laces, represented her sex on the
committee. Gold-fringed scarves fell from
the shoulders of Barbara Unbehaun’s
scarlet velvets, Bernice Murray’s self-spot
white taffetas were stiffly stitched on
basque and neckline, Helen Dobson lined
the wings of her persimmon satins with
moonlight blue, and Pat Saw ornamented
her white cloque crepes with diamente.
Sixteen debs., all white-plumaged with
gold ribbon-tied pink posies, spread their
wings at the Karrakatta Club May Ball.
After hovering a moment at the dais,
where stood president Mrs. D. D. Paton,
they fluttered off to join their partners in
a set of lancers. Mrs, Paton’s pink dahlia
bouquet nestled against reseda-green
moire; vice-president Mrs. W. H. Vin-
cent swung a claret-and-gold georgette
cape over black velvet, and her con-
frere, Mrs. F. G. Dempster, wove a web
of smoke-grey lace. Mrs. P. Sandiland,
in beige changeant taffeta, watched debu-
tante daughter Betty.
A thousand onlookers piled into St.
Andrew’s kirk and hundreds more waited
outside to catch a glimpse of the bride
when Renee Esler became Mrs. Gerald
McMorrow. Frocking was all blue and
silver. Renee’s French blue, silver-
striped lorraine, with its puff sleeves,
Peter Pan collar and fan train, was
covered with a blue tulle veil which fell
from a semi-circlet of silver leaves; her
sheaf of painted blue arum lilies and sil-
vered leaves caught the eye. Kath Esler
and Shirley Thomas covered their em-
bossed silver georgettes with hooded
ca JP® s which were tied under the chin
* 1 * 1 ! cords and swept on
at the back into trams.
with the advent of long . delayed
cold weather summer sporting accessories
have been put away with mothballs,
Pedestrians on suburban footpaths are
busy dodging top-spinners, “skippy”
fiends and “hoppy” players ; tennis rac-
quets have given way to hockey sticks,
golf clubs have replaced surf boards in
the backs of motor-cars, and the clicking
of knitting-needles accompanies most
feminine gatherings,
For her mar riage to Raymond Cruik-
shank at St- Andrew’s, Perth, Nell
Stewart’s happy choice fell on cloth-of-
gold. A Grecian drape swooped from
one shoulder down to the hem and up to
the waist, shining buttons fastened one
side of the gown and there appeared to
be two trains. Creamy tulle wafted
overhead with a mooring of orange-
blossom and buds. ’Maid Dorothy
Mosey was all classical in the cut of her
delustred crepes, with drapes and folds
which tapered off at the right moments,
Her large silver flower adornment was
a highlight.
Mrs. A. E. Joyner opened the C. of E.
Ladies’ Guild fete at Balwarra, the C.
Frosts’ enviable home in Glen Forrest.
The terraced gardens, groves of trees and
fragrant roses attracted a goodly crowd,
Stalls did a brisk trade, and Devon teas
were served on the verandah.
Dance programmes, shades of decades
ago, which were distributed at St.
George’s College Ball, fitted into the
stateliness of the surroundings. The ap-
proach by way of the spruce, floodlit
lawns, the handsome wood panelling in
the ballroom and the chapel hard by
were all in keeping. Chancellor Battye
and Mr. and Mrs. J. Reynolds sat on
the dais with the Rev. C. B. Law. Dr.
and Mrs. Hector Stewart were there, and
Biddy Doss, Pauline Farrar, Luita Pass-
more, Shirley Read, Joye Morrison,
Nancy Feinberg, Joan Nicholas and
Molly Wreford.
Latest recruits to the ranks of the be-
trothed are Mollie Taylor, of Pingelly,
and Dr. John Day, scion of the W. J.
Days, of Albany.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr, and Mrs. Dudley Turner gave a
dance at their home, North Adelaide,
for the debut of Barbara, younger daugh-
ter of the Frank Forwoods, Kathleen,
younger daughter of the Fred Bruces,
Betty, youngest daughter of Mrs. Clive
Milne, now resident in Sydney, and
Lesley, daughter of Mrs. F. W. Vasey,
Dancing was in a large marquee, and in
an adjoining one, where the supper was
served, Lorraine Lee roses and pink
candles in silver candelabra decorated.
The reception-rooms were arranged with
bowls of autumn flowers and foliage.
Mrs. Turner and the four buds received
in the billiard-room. The hostess chose
a toilette of black georgette patterned
with diamente in rings. Barbara was a
petite figure in white tulle, with tunic
bodice of white satin with insert bands
of tiny silver sequins, on diagonal lines,
and cape sleeves of frilled tulle, Kath-
leen wore a white self-spotted taffeta, the
skirt very flared, with stitched hem, the
bodice in a deep V at the back. Lesley
was in white taffeta patterned with a
crossbar of silver thread, the skirt flared
and the bodice made with an off-shoulder
effect. Each of these girls carried a posy
of white flowers set in tulle frill. Betty
chose a spray of pale-pink flowers
attached to her diamente purse in place
of a posy, matching the flowers she wore
in her hair. Her frock was of schooner-
blue taffeta with silver hair stripe cut on
diagonal lines.
There was a large gathering at Grange
Ormsby, Salisbury, the stud farm ot me
F. A. Tennants, who showed their year-
lings to racing visitors from other States.
Mrs. Tennant entertained at afternoon-
tea, as a number of women interested in
horses accompanied their husbands, the
hostess brought beautiful roses from her
garden to decorate the tables.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Forwood enter-
tained about 160 guests at their home,
Medindie. Lovely autumn flowers were
massed in the reception-rooms, where
Mrs. Forwood received gowned in leat-
brown georgette, with a corsage spray of
crimson roses. Her debutante daughter
Barbara chose a frock of navy blue.
Mr. and Mrs. Albyn Rankine gave a
cheery cocktail party at their charming
home, Millswood. The drawing-room
was massed with pink roses and dahlias
in the same shade. Mrs. Rankine was
gowned in black marocain, and sported
a spray of white gardenias.
Teetotalism was well represented at
the Town Hall when Lord Mayor Cain
and the Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan)
gave a morning reception to Canon
Hammond and delegates to the Austra-
lian Temperance Council. The party was
held in the room of the Lady Mayoress,
which was gay with roses. Mrs. Dun-
stan was gowned in black wool georg-
ette with cape sleeves and a diamenie
buckle at the waist. Her black felt hat
was trimmed with coque feathers, and
she wore a silver-fox fur.
TASMANIA.
The sun shone on the racing at Elwick,
but the last roses of summer in the way
of frocks and hats have joined their
lovely companions in limbo, and all the
women were in winter regalia. There
were plenty of fairly large hats, but these
were nearly all of felt and velvet. A
good deal of green was visible.
Mr. and Mrs. Wilfred Hutchens
launched their younger daughter Barbara
with a dance at the Continental. Decora-
tions were autumnal, and a great cluster
of balloons was lowered from the ceil-
ing during the evening. The hostess wore
beige lace, and the debutante sported
white tulle, the neckline edged with large
velvet flowers.
Mrs. Fuller was the woman behind the
big bridge party at the 86 Club, but Mrs.
A. Burn, Mrs. Brett, Joyce Foster and
Eileen Crow, W. E. Fuller and Linus
Donelly helped. Contract and auction
were both on tap, and the supper was
notable. The club entertained Repertory
members after the performance of
“London Wall.”
The Amateur Horticultural Soc. held
it's autumn show under adverse condi-
tions, owing to drought and high winds.
Nevertheless there were some beautiful
exhibits, and the new Cottage Section
brought forward many good entries. L.
G. Wickins carried off the prize for the
champion chrysanthemum.
Joyce, eldest daughter of the R.
Tabarts, Queenstown, and Strachan,
second son of the R. M. Murrays (Mr.
Murray is Mt. Lyell’s g.m.), kept a tryst
at the altar of St. Martin’s, Queenstown,
the bride wearing a lovely gown of heavy
magnolia satin. An Elizabethan effect
was given by a stiffened rolled collar.
The skirt was shirred in front, sleeves
were long and the tulle veil fell in masses
from a chaplet of orange-blossom. Three
’maids, Dome Tabart, Marjorie Andrews
and Margery Murray, followed in pale-
pink taffeta frocks, with coronets of pink
pearls and roses on their heads.
Dorothy Wyly, leaving 7ZL to take up
work at the head office in Melbourne,
was farewelled at a dinner at the High-
field, followed by a dance at the A. L.
McAulays’ home, Sandy Bay. The Phil
Waterworths started the ball rolling by
giving a sherry party at their flat before-
hand.
The Lyceum Club organised a musical
afternoon in honor of Mrs. Gaynor
Simson and Miss Macdonald, who have
been spending some time in the Speck.
Mrs. Simson is a composer. Alexander
Raff, whose singing has pleased audiences
here, was among the contributors to the
programme.
Eileen Joyce delighted her audiences
both at her recitals at the Town
Hall and over the air. The dainty little
artist is an appropriate product of the
Speck. The management of 7ZL, the
Lyceum Club, and the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress all gave parties in her
honor.
Margaret Buchanan, of Sydney, who
spent most of last summer in Hobart, and
Alan Knight, of Lindisfarne, announce
their engagement.


C
H
I
N
E
MADE IN (3
AUSTRALIA
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
loHrZOuvf*
Representatives; McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne-
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
T-H
ELECTRIC LAMPS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Still Further
Reduced in Price
Coiled - coil 1/P Single - coil 1/ O
from I tf from ■ • r
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC LTD.
Distributors for The British Thomson-Houston Co., Ltd., Eng.
ML 74
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House.
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
NORTH Of
TWEMTY-EIGHT
Woman in Battle
“X.T.”: Publicity is certainly one of
the advantages which the outback woman
now enjoys. Witness the double-column
headings which appeared over a
breathless tale in the Sydney “Sun” about
how an anthropologist miss intervened
in a deadly native foray at The Granites,
compelling the warriors to seek the
privacy of the bush to finish the shindy.
The casualty lists have not arrived, but
if the ancient tradition of Black Land
still rules the casualties will consist
mostly of sore throats, with a few bumps
in the cranial region.
In my youth I have seen my five-foot-
one mother intervene in a number of such
outbursts and do more damage in five
seconds with ammunition from the wood-
heap than half a yelling tribe had done
in a couple of hours. Old-time western
Queensland women, left alone on stations,
developed a technique in these things.
Old Mrs. Webber, of Kyabra (W.Q.),
favored walking into the midst of the
battle and handing the leading general
a kerosene-tin with a direction to
"fetchim water,” and, as even famous
warriors in that region had been taught
to fear John Webber more than all the
Eromangas ever born, the contest was
usually adjourned straightway. Another
lady—her grandsons these days are well
known in fashionable sporting circles,
and her granddaughters are more familiar
in Court dress than in the striped galatea
and mushroom hat which their highly-
educated grandma wore—kept a stock of
cowdung near the kitchen door with
which she was apt to dissolve a battle that
sounded like the German assault on
Verdun.
But my favorite has always been an
Irish dame. Skirts flapping round her
knees, elastic-sided boots sending up gouts
of dust, and a long-handled shovel held in
both hands like a hurley stick, she would
charge into the fray with a loud cry of
“Get aw’y wid ye, ye omadhauns!” and
whirl like a dervish at anything that came
her way. Presently there wasn’t a warrior
in sight who wasn’t in a tree or leaving
hastily for the horizon. But we never
saw inflated paragraphs about any of
these heroines in the press. It was all
in their day’s work.
“Narine”; I can never understand why
Queensland does not do something more
commercial than feed stock with the
kurrajong-tree. The inner bark stripped
from a living tree is one of Australia’s
best commercial fibres. It is tough,
strong, porous and light and easy to plait.
It makes a hat which is almost indestruc-
tible, and I have native rope made from
it which still seems to be unbreakable
after 20 years. For baskets and bags
there is nothing better. Somebody might
well put down a kurrajong forest or two
and try it out.
H* ❖ ❖ ❖
“M. Turlutu”: Discussion is raging
concerning a recent discovery at the Bris-
bane G.P.O. A former mail-van loading
dock is supported at its edges by two sub-
stantial girders. In the course of altera-
tions it was decided to cut them out with
an oxy-acetylene flame, which goes
through ordinary steel like a hot knife
through butter. The astonished operator
found that beyond a little melting on one
edge it was entirely unable to make any
impression on them. Cold chisels and
hacksaws were useless. One school of
thought holds that the girders are com-
posed of the same material as a poli-
tician’s cheek ; another, that they are of
identical nature, substance and quality
with the official outlook of the income-
tax department.
♦ * * *
“M.”: A lot of old Brisbane hands
lost a staunch friend in Arthur Pixley,
dead in Sydney at 75. A Clifton College
(England) man, he came to Queensland in
1883, joined a Townsville firm, set up
business on his own account in Brisbane,
and, when bought out by Dalgetys, joined
that firm. Every sort of commercial,
social and sporting activity had his help,
and for a long time he was president of
the Brisbane Merchants’ Association and
treasurer of the Chamber of Commerce.
He was a doubles tennis champion for
two years in the early ’nineties, and cap-
tained the pioneer tennis team to visit
N.S.W. in 1896. Latterly, he had been
living in retirement in Sydney.
* * *
“Dungeness”: T. H. Fitzgerald, still
living at Goondi (N.Q.), is the last sur-
"Ah, my friend, I too have a flock, a much larger flock than yours."
“How you bin get on alonga lambing season?"
vivor of the landing party which, under
his father’s leadership, on April 23,
1871, occupied 10,240 acres on the John-
stone River, and founded Geraldton
(N.Q.), now Innisfail. A month previ-
ously, the blacks had murdered 13 of the
survivors of the brig Maria, wrecked on
Bramble Reef on February 26—her
master, who had deserted his stranded
ship, and three of the crew were killed
at Tam o’ Shanter Point. Fitzgerald,
senior, started the Innisfail plantation,
and built a sugarmill in 1881. Closed
down later, after the Goondi mill
opened, some of its remains were stand-
ing 20 years ago. It often served as a
refuge from the high floods of the early
days. The Innisfail land is recorded as
having yielded 13 consecutive crops
without being replanted. Grim experi-
ences with treacherous savages, huge
floods and outsize crocodiles made an
epic of those early days of settlement.
* * =l= *
“M Turlutu”: Passengers from Bris-
bane to several stations on the North
Coast line are learning to follow up their
request to booking clerks for a ticket,
with “and mind your own business!”
Otherwise they are put through a cross-
examination in order to ascertain whether
they may not have the felonious intention
of reaching a coastal or mountain resort
without using one of Mr. Dash’s cele-
brated “co-ordinated” services. If they
admit, for example, that they prefer to
reach Buderim via Landsborough, in-
stead of via Palmwoods, which is nine
miles further by rail, half an hour longer
and 2s. dearer, they are told that they
mustn’t do it. Mr. Dash and his Stran-
gulation Board insist that they shall
travel only by the slower, more ex-
pensive and less comfortable way. Ex-
perience of “co-ordination” during holi-
day periods has led many to decide that
they will choose some place within walk-
ing distance next time.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
5
Great activity on the tea-party front
all the week. Justice and Mrs. W. F.
Webb bade about 40 guests to their home
at New Farm in honor of Mrs. J. R. S.
Lanz, who leaves by the Narkunda for
England, where she will join her medico
husband. Queensland will not see these
two again until 1937 is here.
Mrs. Lloyd Jones, from Sydney, and
Mrs. A. M. Daly, who is to make her
home in Killarney, were the inspiration
for the very cheery party given by Mrs.
T H. Goulding at her home at Annerley.
Bridge was played and afternoon-tea
served in bowers of chrysanthemums.
If Sheilah Logan, who soon will be
Mrs. Stanley Hancock, has to buy
handkerchiefs within the next decade, it
will not be the fault of Mrs. F. Z. Eager,
who gave a handkerchief-tea for her.
A crowd of guests showered the bride-
elect with handkerchiefs of every hue,
boxed, wrapped in cellophane, tied with
ribbon and parcelled in every way known
to human ingenuity. Mrs. Eager added a
bottle of rare perfume to her gift. There
were heavenly dark-red roses on the fable,
with puffings of green tulle half conceal-
ing the vases which held them. The
hostess wore black and white and an off-
the-face toque en suite. Miss Logan was
in navy blue trimmed with a lighter
shade.
It’s a good old custom, repeated annu-
ally, to entertain the wives of the minis-
ters and missionaries attending the Pres-
byterian Conference at afternoon-tea.
The Manse Club arranges the tea, and
the wife of the Queensland moderator,
Mrs. A. M. Martin (hon. president), and
Mrs. A. C. Kennedy (president) received
the guests. The Moderator-General, Dr.
G. R. Reid, and his wife were there,
and Mrs. John Flynn (wife of Flynn of
the Inland) also came along. Between the
tea-drinking there were songs and reci-
tations.
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Fairfax and son
Vince are visiting their property Kioma,
Goondiwindi.
The Queensland St. Vincent de Paul
Society has existed for 40 years, and only
now is launching its first appeal. Father
Copley wants to gather up £5OO before
the end of the year to provide the society
with its own premises. The society does
wonderful work among the sick and
needy, and all the help is honorary.
Mary Maguire is giving a ball at the
Belle Vue on June 11 to help
the fund along.
The Doomba —built for
the navy during the war —
soon will start her weekly
trips to the Barrier Reef. The
Spencer Gulf trips are ex-
tremely popular with tourists
visiting S.A., and these
Barrier trips should be
equally so. The Doomba
will leave on Saturday, visit
various islands—East Molle,
Palm and Dunk—and return
to Brisbane the following
night.
Mrs. Manwaring, who ar-
rived on the Ormonde to visit
the widow of her son, H.
Manwaring, at Clermont, is
a keen musician. Although
she brought up eight sons and
two daughters she never
neglected her talent, and is a
delightfully sympathetic
violinist. She thinks we in
Australia could raise fur-
bearing animals and create a
new national industry..
Forty-five years’ nursing
stands to the credit of Miss
Irene Webb, out on a holi-
day trip. She has been for
the last 18 years matron of
the fever hospital at Muswell
Hill, London.
There was a garden party at the Wil-
liam Powell home, and £4O was raised, to
the joy of Rev. H. M. Wheller, president
of the committee. The home is a refuge
for men who, having served their gaol
sentences and paid their debt to society,
are anxious to make a fresh start.
Bevies of fashionables swarmed into
the Moss Studio to watch Essil Longland
and Sandy Robertson demonstrate the
very newest dance steps, particularly the
“crush” dancing y/hich Ern and Nell
Moss brought back from London.
The latest engagement. Archie Nixon
Smith, son of Mrs. Nixon Smith and
brother of R. E. Nixon Smith, formerly
vice-mayor, has bought a ring for pretty
Yvonne Lochner, one of Brisbane’s best-
known amateur stage performers.


mm
iilliil
m
m
f-/
-J//
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “ BABY GRAND ” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
X.B.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Kiiyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mallard Radio Valves.
ANNOUNCING-
THE PALEC COMPLEAT MULTITESTER
A truly universal radio tester and fault tracer and one which the Engineer
and Experimenter can rely on.
Incorporates 22 ranges, and measures A.C.-D.C, Volts, Current, Resistance,
Capacity, Inductance, Impedance; Tests Electrolytic Condensers (direct
reading on Dial), also Insulation, etc.
AVAILABLE FROM ALL LEADING WHOLESALERS.
Write for full details and catalogue to
PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO.,
ASHFIELD, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the “Palec” range of Test Equipment, Cathode Ray Oscillograph and
Meters, etc.
& ■, *
,•
Price £l3/10/- (plus tax)
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
r
FOUR WEEKS TO GO-
Sydney’s 1936
Amateur Radio Exhibition
Organised by the N.S.W. Division, Wire-
less Institute of Australia. Open June 15
to 20, in Presbyterian Assembly Hall
(Lower Hall), Wynyard Square.
Not a cabinet display —but a scientific
demonstration of the latest ideas in
amateur and short-wave radio.
Inter-club and general amateur construc-
tional competitions, with valuable prizes
donated by prominent traders and manu-
facturers.
Competitions open to non-members at a
small entry fee.
Complete radiophone and telegraphy trans-
mitters in action. Experimental television
apparatus. Demonstrations of ultra-short-
wave working. Military display.
THE week and meeting place for all
interested in short-wave radio!
The exhibition will be open from 6 p.m.
to 10 p.m. on June 15, 16, 18 and 19;
from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. on the 17th,
and from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on the 20th.
Admission 6d. Children 3d.
Exhibition committee: —
H. F. Peterson, VK2HP
W. Ryan, VK2TI
W. M. Moore, VK2HZ
1). B. Knock, VK2NO
RADIO NEWS
RECORDING THE KING’S SPEECH.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
At the same time as King Edward VIII.
was making his first broadcast speech to
the Empire on March 1, he was also
making his first gramophone record since
he became King. The microphone in
Broadcasting House, London, was con-
nected by a special high-quality telephone
line to the gramophone co.’s studios.
Four sets of apparatus were used so that
the speech was recorded in duplicate, and
as soon as one set of discs was com-
pletely recorded another set was started.
The speech was thus recorded without a
break.
The King’s speech came over the tele-
phone line in the form of minute elec-
trical currents, and these were amplified
by a giant amplifier in the studios. Some
of the valves employed in this amplifier
stand more than a foot high. The ampli-
fied currents were then passed on to the
electrical recording instrument, and they
vibrated a sapphire point so that it cut
a wavy line in a circular disc of soft
material. The actual ingredients of the
discs are a closely-guarded secret, but it
is known that soap plays a large part in
their composition. For every minute the
King spoke his voice cut a track of over
a hundred yards in length on the discs.
As soon as the speech was concluded
the wax discs were placed in a specially
heated van and rushed to the factory.
Here a staff was ready to work throughout
the night in order to prepare records of
the speech which were to be submitted
to his Majesty in order that he might
give his approval of their issue.
B.B.C. Mobile Recording Unit.
The 8.8. C. mobile recording van is
playing an increasingly important part
in broadcasting events of topical interest
in both the home and Empire pro-
grammes. One of its principal uses is to
provide illustrations “in sound” for the
news bulletins, where there is almost
unlimited scope for its employment. It
has also proved its utility in ordinary
outside broadcasts of all kinds.
Another use of the mobile recording
unit is to accumulate “sound effects”
for plays, and for the presentation of
current activities. In recent weeks the
van has been to the Guildhall to record
the election of the Lord Mayor and to the
Post Office to enable listeners to hear
how Christmas mails are handled. The
van has also been into Billingsgate fish
market and recorded the sounds there.
It has even recorded the whistlings of
the milkman on his morning rounds.
The recording unit consists of a 2\-
ton four-wheeled chassis which is pro-
vided with an “advanced” control posi-
tion so as to leave the maximum pos-
sible amount of space for the recording
equipment. On this chassis is mounted
a box van provided with adjustable
windows on either side. At the rear is
a door for access to the van, and also a
small hinged flap to permit the entry
of microphone, telephone and head-
phone cables. Inside the van are arranged
two benches, one on each side of a
central gangway. Each bench carries a
microphone-switching and cue-switching
unit, a microphone amplifier unit with
frequency correction, meter and control
circuits and a recording power ampli-
Combination five-metre portable tele-
phony transmitter and receiver used by
VK2NO. The transmitter obtains plate
supply from a Carter 300-volt genemotor,
and uses 89’s in push-pull with 42 Class-
A modulator. The receiver uses a 955
“acorn” valve and 38 audio stage. Sixty
miles’ range has been covered with this
equipment.
fier. It also carries an amplifier
unit suitable for amplifying the out-
put of records played for test purposes
and also for “talk-back” circuits.
The microphones, four in number, are
of the moving-coil type. By means of
a suitable portable mixer it is possible
to use any number of these microphones
simultaneously, the mixer being arranged
with suitable potentiometers to enable
the operator to fade from one micro-
phone to another and to pass the result
to the recording apparatus via a connect-
ing cable, which may be 200 yards or
more in length. All cables are carried
in short lengths on suitable drums, which
are stored in a special compartment in
the front part of the van.
The crew of the mobile recording unit
usually consists of two engineers, who are
responsible for the erection of the micro-
phones and field telephone, etc., as well
as the actual operation of the amplifiers
and recording equipment. In the case
of a long continuous recording, however,
three engineers are necessary.
—Courtesy 8.8. C.
Amateur Chatter.
In the current number of “QST” is a
particularly interesting article by W6JN
on the rotatable beam array he has been
using on 10 metres for the last year.
Those who have concentrated on 10-
metre DX will have noted that the sig-
All that glitters in a piano-finish console
may NOT be the last word in radio. It
may be unassumingly concealed in a
rectangular box, as with this Halli-
crafters Super-Skyrider, a well-engineered
American example of a modern short-
wave receiver.
nals from this station have been parties
larly good in Australia. The design is
simple, but unfortunately calls for rather
a high supporting mast, 75ft. in all. The
interesting point from the writer’s angle
is the adaptability of such a system to the
next higher frequency band, five metres.
Briefly, the arrangement consists of a
vertical array, with three half-waves in
phase, obtained by the usual stub lines
and with reflectors spaced a quarter-
wave. A quarter-wave matching section
is placed at the lower end and fed from
a twisted-pair line. It will be obvious
that for five metres such an arrangement
calls for only a 30ft. mast. If the array
is suspended from a rope or “gallows
arm” it can be hung on a bridle and
rotated from the base quite easily. It
takes up a lot more room than the
Reinartz beam, but one imagines that it
would be more efficient.
After extensive tests for a year or
so of exclusive twisted-pair doublet
operation on 20, the writer decided to
try the single-wire-feed Hertz aerial with
link coupling suggested by Jones in
“Radio” for April. As good as the
doublet has been, this Hertz system
showed up astonishingly on American
’phone contacts, exhibiting a great increase
in signal strength. It is placed north-
south, and, having considerable end-fire
directivity, is particularly useful. Added
to this is the great advantage of being a
multi-band system. For operation on 40,
20 and 10 metres the antenna is 66ft,
long, with feeder tapped lift, off centre.
The feeder is tapped to a tank circuit
link coupled to and similar to the final
tank of the transmitter.
During the Anzac Tattoo at Sydney
Showground radio-telephony was em-
ployed by 2nd Division and Ist Cavalry
Division Signals to provide communica-
tion links from the control position and
the entrance gates. Despite the great
amount of electrical equipment around
the locality radio-inductive interference
was practically non-existent and an R 9
speech channel was provided without
interruption. The w.-t. set, No. 1, is
particularly useful for short distance r.-t.
links with a minimum of equipment, and
is extremely easy to operate. In the
hands of the average amateur such equip-
ment is capable of good medium distance
c.w. communication. It is merely a
matter of the intelligent use of regenera-
tion and R.F. tuning, and these functions
ŗ
VK2NO.
City Short-wave Diallings.
Evening reception has been indifferent.
Saving the Japanese JVM and the various
Javanese stations, there has been little
broadcast from overseas worth listening to
until after 10 p.m. Even the Javanese
stations have weakened to some extent,
PMN and YDB being subdued and PLP
on the faint side until 11 p.m., when it
comes out in relatively good strength and
is sometimes at that hour the best station
on the dial.
May Day celebrations, which on the
Continent are usually occasions of excite-
ment, were picked up faintly after 11
p.m. from a station on 24.5 m., pre-
sumably Radio Coloniale, though the
language was not French. This must have
been a relay from RNE, which was heard,
in great strength, giving exactly the same
transmission. The Russians are certainly
not behind the Germans or the Italians
in the art of public demonstration. Many
thousands of troops paraded past Lenin’s
tomb, with band after band playing un-
familiar march tunes in fine style, and
men and women cheering vociferously.
Guns were fired, and at intervals a sten-
torian voice roared orders in a strange
fashion, with a prolonged, falling note at
the end. Behind the indescribable din
one sensed the presence of a vast multi-
tude, and it was not surprising to read
next day in the cables that more than
1,000,000 citizens witnessed the spectacle,
over which 750 ’planes hovered.
Mention has been made (B. 13/5/’36)
of a new Russian station that has been
heard testing on 22.8 m. Still another has
been heard on about 28.2 m. It tests by
calling out repeatedly the names of
various Russian towns —Vladivostok,
Khabarovsk, Moskva (Moscow), etc. —
interspersed with the counting of 1 to 10
(in Russian) and an occasional song.
After a few months’ absence the
Manila station KAZ (9990 kc.) was heard
again on April 29 in a programme of
part singing.
Conditions have been so extraordinarily
good on the 20m, amateur band that one
wondered how long it would be before
’phone contact would be established
between the U.S.A. and Western Aus-
tralia —the Ultima Thule of DX from the
American point of view. VK6MW is the
only W.A. amateur who operates regu-


RADIOTRON
BATTERY SERIES
SAVE SIXPENCE EVERY WEEK
(AVERAGE USE)
The new battery-operated series of Radiotron Valves specially designed
for Australian conditions supply the two important features in radio receivers
for country use, i.e., improved performance and greater economy in operation.
When buying a battery-operated receiver see that it is equipped with the new
Australian-made Radiotrons. Their economical operation will make your
batteries last longer.
Radioiron
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), -LTD.,
-17 York Street, Sydney 167-16!) Queen Street. .Melbourne,
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company. Limited.
larly with ’phone on this band, and when,
on May 2, he was heard working
WSBEE, it seemed that a record had been
created. The American said: “Western
Visitors assembled during the official
opening of the A.W.A. radio beacon at
Mascot ( N.S.W. ).
Australia is just about as far away as it
is possible to get. As DX goes, you’re
‘tops,’ as the saying goes.” While
VK6MW replied: “To get any further
DX than VK6, you’d have to go a couple
of hundred miles out in the Indian
Ocean.” WSBEE was using 900'watts in
the final amplifier and could not under-
stand how VK6MW was able to put in
“such a nice signal” on 25 watts.
Actually, the liveliness of the 20m.
band is a source of embarrassment, for
at times, and on late Sunday afternoons
in particular, it is one mass of QRM.
One hears attractive DX calls, but it is
impossible to follow them up owing to
supervening stations roaring over them.
One suddenly hears, for instance, an
American girl with a deep, seductive
voice and a drawling inflection remark:
“I don’t say I’m a good girl” and
the rest is smothered by the unconscious
intrusion of VKSAI. Then one hears
the gentleman from Berkeley, Califor-
nia, whose elaborate studio was illus-
trated in B. 6/5/’36, saying: “Waal,
Antonio, I guess your English is better
than my Spanish,” and, on his going
over, one has just time to hear Antonio
calling from OA4R, Lima, Peru, when
he is overridden by half a dozen other
stations all calling at once. Again the
American girl comes on the scene. She
tells W4DGM that his is “a doggone
good station,” and proceeds to speak in
a gently satirical vein of some of the
VKs she has ’phoned down under —but
there is no hope of catching much of
what she says, and
one goes down the
dial a bit and hears
VK2NO resolutely
calling GSNI. This
certainly arouses
interest, for to
capture the Brit-
isher in the after-
noon is unusual, to
say the least. One
fails to locate him,
however, but hears
instead a call from
Costa Rica and an-
other from the
Canary Islands. It
is all very fascinat-
ing, but at the
same time baffling
and confusing.
Enthusiasm for
the short waves is
not always shared
by one’s family. I
heard a sad phrase
the other night: “My wife says she’s a
radio widow.”
P.R.W.
Latest in the Trade.
Something new has emerged from the
house of Amplion in the shape of the
latest permagnetic type dynamic speaker,
known as the 01 Star. Amplion speakers
have long been leaders in the develop-
ment of improvements, and recently the
Alni magnet was introduced, taking the
place of the old cumbersome steel magnet
for permag. speaker field design. The
application of this nickel-aluminium alloy
resulted in a great reduction in weight
and at the same time a greatly intensi-
fied magnetic field, for a magnet of this
alloy is much more powerful than one
of steel. The recently produced 01 model
with Alni magnet has been further im-
proved, and now appears as the 01 Star.
It will be seen that in appearance the
speaker is exactly similar to the familiar
D.C. excitation field, with circular
housing. Inside this housing, which
permits standardisation in manufacture,
is a circular Alni magnet. The cone
and centralisation fixing are of the well-
known Amplion design. Owing to in-
creased business demands, it has been
found necessary to extend considerably
the premises of the co., the address now
being Amplion (Australasia), Ltd., 66
Clarence-street, Sydney.
What’s What in Radio.
The first Australian wireless beacon for
aircraft has been established by Amalga-
mated Wireless at North Brighton, near
A.W.A. aural range radio beacon equipment at North
Brighton, near Mascot Aerodrome, Sydney.
Mascot, Sydney. Its purpose is to enable
aircraft to approach direct from a dis-
tance of up to about 200 miles irrespec-
tive of the weather prevailing. The
beacon is arranged to send out radio sig-
nals in four directions —towards Can-
berra, Newcastle and Dubbo, and across
the Tasman Sea. Aeroplanes travelling
towards Mascot aerodrome from any of
those directions simply follow the beam,
th*e pilot using an ordinary radio receiv-
ing instrument to keep him in touch. So
long as the pilot is flying straight up the
beam he receives the signals at equal
strength, and they blend into a continu-
ous dash. If he finds one signal stronger
than the other he knows, he has gone off
his course and must veer either to the
right or the left.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
(Manufacturers’ products considered worthy
of attention are tested and given an un-
biased revol t in this section .)
Tasma Ferro-coil Model 32S Dual-wave.
This Page has often drawn attention
to the importance of the special R.F.-
type of iron-core inductance, and has
urged that such coils should be investi-
gated and used in Australia without
unnecessary delay. The suggestion
aroused much comment in laboratories.
Some had the foresight to
realise the value of the develop-
ment, but others were content to
“wait until somebody else tried
it.” In a way, there was justifica-
tion for wavering on the part of
technicians, for they had read of
a setback experienced in Great
Britain owing to the marketing
of inferior goods.
In due course, the value of the
genuine material was realised, and
radio design benefited conse-
quently. The makers of Tasma
radio in Australia, with their
reputation for high quality, inves-
tigated the overseas market, and
secured from a European source
a highly efficient core, resulting in
the adoption of the Tasma trade
name “Ferro-coil.” Several months
of laboratory work were under-
taken in Sydney, and not until a
very high standard had been
reached did this co. commence
manufacturing the new series of
receivers. From the inception, the
demand for the new Tasma Ferro-
coil receivers has been so great that it
was only with difficulty that a receiver
was made available for test. Country
dealers are clamoring for them, and this
is not surprising.
The model 325 was selected, taken to
the testing location in Waverley (N.'S.W.)
and put through the mill. The most strik-
ing feature, in comparison with previous
receivers, was immediately noted in a
combination of exceptionally low noise
level on short waves and high degree of
selectivity over the broadcast range with-
out audible sacrifice of audio range. By
the uninformed, the broadcast perform-
ance in terms of selectivity would be
put down to the use of 175 kc. inter-
mediate frequency. But this is a super-
het using 470 kc.
Normally, the popular 460 kc. region
for dual-wavers results in some selec-
tivity loss on normal broadcast, but
not with the Tasma Ferro-coil 325. That
is where the special iron-core intermedi-
ates step in. Being unusually impressed
by the feature, the writer was permitted
to examine the I.F.T. curves in the Tasma
laboratory, and is in a position to state
that these approach the theoretical ideal,
a fine achievement for the engineers
responsible. These I.F.Ts. are air-
conditioned,” being dehydrated and care-
fully impregnated and sealed against
atmospheric moisture. The chassis is con-
structed in the thorough Tasma way, as
solid as a rock, and nothing left to chance.
This co. believes in making receivers to
withstand the ravages of misuse and time,
and spares no expense in so doing. The
public pays a reasonable price, and gets
the best possible. The specifications are
as follows:
Voltage— 2oo-260 volts, 40-60 cycles A.C.
Also supplied for other voltages and frequen-
cies on special order.
Valves. —6D6 R.F. amplifier, 6A7 frequency
changer, 6D6 I.F. amplifier at a frequency of
470 kc., 75 second detector, A.V.C. and first
audio, 42 power audio, 80 rectifier.
Circuit. —Superhet circuit of advanced design
using the 6A7 frequency changer, giving very
high sensitivity with low background noise, high
selectivity owing to the. use of Ferrocart I.F.Ts.,
new design coils, etc. Diode detection gives
perfection of tone, and A.V.C. eliminates fading
and gives constant volume from all stations
irrespective of field strength.
Power Supply. —An efficient power trans-
former, with electrostatic shield and having ex-
cellent regulation, is used and tested after
assembly at 3500 volts for breakdown.
Filter Circuit. —Three electrolytic condensers
and speaker field as a choke (resistance 1650
ohms) give excellent smoothing and entire free-
dom from hum.
Audio Circuit. —Resistance coupling, with
special tone-correction arrangement, giving
uniform response over the entire audio-fre-
quency range.
Controls. —Four are used, one for wave-
change, which also acts as local distance switch,
tuning, volume and tone control. The volume
control gives exceptionally smooth and noiseless
control, and the tone can be adjusted to give
the most pleasing reproduction to suit the
listener’s ear.
Impregnation. —All parts, such as coils,
chokes, transformers, etc., liable to be affected by
moisture have been vacuum-impregnated to en-
sure freedom from trouble in tropical climates.
Dial. —Large aero-type bandspread, render-
ing tuning of the receiver delightfully simple.
Positions of the broadcast stations and short-
wave bands, calibrated in metres, are clearly
marked on a floodlit scale.
Jacks. —Phonograph pickup jacks are pro-
vided. Owing to special design of the audio
system reproduction of phonograph records is
exceptionally fine.
Speaker. —Ten-inch dynamic, specially
matched to the output valve and giving super-
lative tone and volume.
Chassis. —Made of heavy-gauge steel, folded
and spot-welded by an exclusive process giving
great strength, cadmium-plated and with a
special hardened and lacquered dull-silver
finish.
Tasma
Ferro-coil
325
Dual-wave
Superhet.
Makers,
Thom and
Smith,
Ltd., 55-57
Dowling
Street,
Sydney.
Phone:
F2117.
Cabinet. —Model 325 is available in a sloping-
fronted cabinet of exclusive design and piano
finish, designed for the best acoustic results.
Aerial. —The aerial to be used will depend
upon the locality, and special terminals are
fitted for the use of a doublet.
Automatic Volume Control. —Gives automatic
regulation of sensitivity to secure practically
constant volume independent of the strength
of the station. This feature also practically
eliminates the bugbear of fading, and is of the
utmost importance to the country listener.
Guarantee. —The Model 325 is guaranteed by
the manufacturers for a period of 12 months
from the date of purchase, and is insured free
against fire and burglary if the card attached
to the speaker is filled in correctly as per in-
structions thereon. Valves are guaranteed for
90 days by their manufacturers.
It is unnecessary to enumerate all
the short-wave and broadcasting stations
logged during the test, and sufficient
to state that nobody could wish
for a better performance. The gain on
the short-wave side is so high that only
a small internal aerial is necessary, and
this is more than ample for all local and
distant broadcasting. Consequently the
Tasma 325 can go into the average flat
location, with its limited aerial facilities,
and give the utmost satisfaction. The
price for this excellent production is
£37 10s. in N.S.W. ; slightly higher in
other States.


ŗ
*SILVER
EDGE"
ffisuAcS&fr
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE HAYBESTOS CO.
2S
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd*; London 9 England >
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Via
The Steering Column
PRACTICAL HINTS ON TRAFFIC
DRIVING.
MAKING THE JOB EASIER AND SAFER FOR CITY
MOTORISTS.
BY FRED BERRY.
TTAVING secured a license to drive, and once on the open
road, motorists of average intelligence and possessed of
a reasonable road sense will find little to worry them; but in
the cities and congested areas there are pitfalls a-plenty for
the unwary, whatever their experience may be, and only by
exercising the utmost caution and alertness can these hazards
be consistently avoided.
Traffic driving is a specialised art de-
manding untold hours of practice and
intense mental concentration before pro-
ficiency is attained, or before the operator
can' be classed as a “safe risk.”
It is astonishing and regrettable there-
fore to note the number of drivers who
treat this decidedly serious subject with
levity. Professional supervision over hours
of practice undertaken to reduce a handi-
cap at golf is willingly paid for, and
more than one successful businessman is
content to make less profit by reason of
the time he spends in this pursuit. Yet
people who should set an example to
others are frequently guilty of taking a
car through traffic without first having
obtained at least an elementary know-
ledge of the machine’s performance.
Exact Judgment.
Obviously much of the success in traffic
driving depends upon one’s ability, either
inherent or acquired, to assess problems
involving. distance and speed with
promptness and exactitude, but it is im-
possible to fulfil these requirements, how-
ever skilful one may be, without first
knowing to a nicety such important per-
formance factors of the individual car
as acceleration and braking.
In offering motorists practical hints on
traffic driving the writer desires first to
stress the point that it is not possible to
lay down any inflexible code of rules to
be adopted at all times and in all places.
To illustrate this observation one merely
has to turn to the vexed question of
speed. Some years ago the maximum
speed capacity of average stock cars was
in the neighborhood of 60 m.p.h. In
holding this speed there were pro-
nounced engine vibration and mechani-
cal noise, passengers were rendered un-
comfortable owing to both the short-
comings of suspension systems and the
ill-kept highways, whilst the man at the
wheel was in perpetual fear of the neces-
sity for an emergency stop, realising the
limitations of the rear-wheel brakes then
commonly used. ,
To-day, generally speaking, where con-
f&vorable and the driver is
competent and the car i s i n good order,
“But why did you insist on lending the policeman a pencil to Write your
name ?”
“ It's one I bought with the car—the Writing fades in a minute or two.
60 m.p.h. is perfectly safe. This applies
to hundreds of miles of State highways
which, if not covered at from 50 to 60
m.p.h., would bore orife to tears with the
monotony of the trip.
There are, however, two specific cir-
cumstances wherein speed introduces an
element of danger. First, when a driver
fails to pay due regard to volume of
traffic on (or may reasonably be expected
to be on) the road at that particular time,
and, second, when a motorist takes over a
silent-running high-performance vehicle
after having been accustomed to one of
the older type, with the result that his
rate of travel is consistently underesti-
mated. Admittedly modern brakes are
intended to cope with such situations, but
unfortunately the man at the wheel
may be slow on the uptake, and so
runs headlong into a dangerous situa-
tion which demands a high degree of
skill, resource and experience if disaster
is to be avoided.
Mistakes in Passing.
Possibly the most common error in
traffic driving is that made by impatient
drivers who attempt to pass other cars,
particularly when this manoeuvre is
attempted on blind corners or at inter-
sections, for here the fundamental prin-
ciple of never driving beyond one’s vision
is grossly violated. Probably the driver
ahead may have been primarily at fault
by not keeping as near the left kerb as
possible, but even if this be so both are
at fault, and in congested traffic it is
never safe to assume that everybody is
going to stick to the rules.
It is, of course, necessary to pass other
vehicles at frequent intervals when driv-
ing in congested areas, but there is a cor-
rect way to execute this manoeuvre in
every conceivable set of circumstances.
Usually mishaps due to faulty passing
lay, on investigation, more or less blame
on both drivers. Overtaking is often
made more difficult and dangerous by
the tactics of the man one is attempting
to pass. After being content to potter
along at 25 m.p.h., this person, upon
observing another car about to pass, puts
his foot on the accelerator, and in so
doing completely upsets the calculations
of the overtaker, who, in turn, if obsti-
nate, carries on with the business to the
danger and discomfort of approaching
traffic. Apart from this aspect, in such
cases as described the drivers pay too
much attention to each other and too
little to the movements of other road-
users, and one needs little imagination to
see that the stage is being set f° r a
serious accident. The pedestrian walk-
ing from behind a parked vehicle ahead
or the car emerging from a cross street
is not observed until it is, perhaps, too
late to avoid a collision.
Using the Horn.
Whether it is a good policy to toot the
horn in passing is an open question, and
in practice depends entirely upon cir-
cumstances. Drivers who have cultivated
the excellent habit of “reading the road
as they proceed can usually decide
whether the man ahead is likely to alter
his course at or about the moment when
the cars should draw abreast. In such
cases the horn should
be blown, but in a well-
regulated traffic stream
it is often safer to pass
without warning.
An instance where
passing is rendered diffi-
cult is when, owing + o
some obstruction on
the left side of the
roadway, a driver is
forced to overtake a
tram on the offside.
Although this is a per-
fectly legitimate pro-
cedure, the motorist is
often confronted by a
vehicle approaching in
the opposite direction
whose driver, appar-
ently under the impres-
sion that he has an in-
disputable right to
exactly half the road,
displays great reluc-
tance to move over,
and so introduces a
hazard which should
never exist in properly-organised traffic
driving.
Side-road Specialists.
Side roads, particularly when not
guarded by traffic police, present a prob-
lem to city drivers. Until there are regu-
lations to force all vehicles to stop be-
fore entering the main highway, motor-
ists would be well advised to exercise
more than ordinary caution when
approaching these potentially dangerous
locations. At such places one frequently
observes some driver who has rushed up
to the danger spot and slammed on his
brakes to prevent collision with a vehicle
on his right, leaving his car projecting
well out on the main street. This care-
less and slovenly action, whilst for the
moment protecting his own machine
from damage, has caused confusion in
the main traffic stream. The driver on
his right, moving at a smart pace, has
been forced to swerve towards the middle
of the road, and in so doing has possibly
forced an overtaking car well out on
the wrong side and directly in the face
of oncoming traffic.
Situations such as this are alarmingly
frequent in city traffic, owing entirely to
slovenly driving habits, and the only cer-
tain way of avoiding them is for every
motorist to adopt the accepted railroad


ř
SION MS
w
iiiii
ililP:
m
NOW
CH
ROM
UM
LATE
PI
STON
Genuine
Dufor
Lapped
Piston
Pins
both
Chromium
plate
and
plain
steel
finish
complete
covering
range
over
Dufor
numbers
available
part
are
now
Insist
the
Genuine
Dufor
randed
product
DULY
HANSFORD
LTD
CARRINGTON
ICKVIUE
ROAD
MAR
★
Ml
'///
DUFOR
LAPPED PISTON PINS
practice—stop, look and listen before
entering a main road and leave nothing
to chance.
Parking a car in congested areas, while
seldom accompanied by risk, is possibly
one of the most difficult manoeuvres de-
manded of a motorist in traffic driving,
and one, incidentally, in which few are
highly proficient. This aspect of driving
is daily becoming more of a problem,
for with the rapid increase in motors on
the road and ever-increasing parking re-
strictions one is frequently hard pressed
to find a haven of refuge.
How to Park.
In cruising along a rank of cars parked
parallel to the kerb one’s first aim will
be to find sufficient room. In practice
it will be found that any space less than
one and a half car’s length is not worth
while attempting. Now for the correct
method of placing the car in position. To
attempt driving straight in such a small
space will merely result in the rear of
the car projecting well outside the park-
ing line and interfering with traffic,
while attempts at reversing and going
ahead will result only in leaving the
machine several feet from the kerb, being
‘‘booked” by the police, and perhaps
damaging cars front and behind. Cor-
rect method is to first drive a car’s length
past the opening, give the stop signal,
look behind and just before coming to
rest give the steering wheel full kerbside
lock. With gear in reverse and looking
back over near shoulder the rear of the
car will be observed to swing in rapidly
as soon as the clutch is engaged until it
is almost pointing to the kerb. Now
swing the wheel hard over on opposite
full lock, away from the kerb, and im-
mediately the rear will straighten up and
the front swing inwards towards the
kerb.
Having reversed as far as possible, go
ahead with wheel turned inwards, and the
car will be found tucked snugly into posi-
tion and parallel with the kerb. The
secret of success in this manoeuvre is to
make use of full steering lock on either
side, and the only way it can be done
successfully when using balloon tyres and
low-geared steering is to drive the car,
both ahead and reverse, as slowly as pos-
sible.
Reverse Slowly,
Twirling the steering wheel from one
lock to the other is a difficult and strenu-
ous task, and, furthermore, the practice is
undesirable, owing to the very high
stresses imposed upon the gear. Still, if the
car is moved very, very slowly the opera-
tion will be rendered comparatively easy.
There are two final points to observe
before leaving the car after parking. Give
the car in front and behind at least four
feet in which to get clear, and when
parked on a down grade, particularly
when using open types, turn front wheels
hard in towards the kerb, thus prevent-
ing the machine from moving should
some person interfere with the controls.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.R. (Gordonvale, N.Q.). —The last Model Ts
were, I believe, equipped with a type of
transmission band that had a detachable lug.
This allowed the band to be threaded round the
drum without removing the cover. (1) Can
these hands be used on models built earlier ?
(2) Which is the best equipment to use for
refacing valves, grinding or turning ?
(1) Yes, but in earlier models pedals must
be altered and cross shafts divided to accommo-
date wider bands. (2) Grinding tools.
$ * * *
E. (Vaucluse, N.S.W.). —I have a Conti-
nental engine, No. 14 U 4969, branded 3-14-26
on crankcase. Can you deduce year of manu-
facture, bore and stroke, etc. ?
Motor was made in 1926, but no . details
are available of models before 1931. Suggest
writing direct to Continental Automobile Co.,
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
F. (Woollahra, N.S.W.).— What is the
best way to clean a fabric car body ?
Special wax preparations are marketed for
this purpose, tinted appropriate colors. Good
quality linoleum polish makes an excellent sub-
stitute.
* * * *
S.D.C. (Lismore, N.S.W.) and others asking
for instruction books for cars before ’32 are
advised that inquiries have been made, so far
without result.
* # * *
W.R.D. (Botany, N.S.W.). —When running
along in my ’27 model four-cylinder car there
is a squeaky noise, arising apparently in the
clutch assembly. When clutch is depressed
squeaking stops. Cause and cure ?
Suggest first washing out with kerosene to
which about 10 p.c. oil is added, moving
clutch pedal continuously during process. If
that does not work, either the ball-bearing
thrust race has seized or requires replacement,
or there is a buckled plate or worn flutes on
the outside of the clutch discs. Another cause
may be that the large coil spring is dry and is
bearing against the clutch disc.
,* * * *
S.W. (Nyngan, N.S.W.). —Who in Sydney
looks after Citroen service, equipment and re-
placements ?
Write K. G. Miller, 171 Botany-street,
Waterloo.
* * * *
R.A.L. (Birdwood, S.A.). —Where can I gel
information about my 1927 model 15 -h.p. car
(named), and where can I get manual ?
g No Sydney representative. Suggest writing
direct to English makers.
J.R. (Cairns, N.Q.). —Can you give particu-
lars of auxiliary transmission used on ’26 model
car? Would advantage secured he worth ex-
pense involved ?
No. This gear has now been discontinued,
as cost of installation would be greater than
value of car at present.
Simple method of testing an
ignition coil is by disconnecting
central lead, inserting steel rod
as illustrated, spinning the motor,
and watching spark intensity.
Student (Unley, S.A.). —-(f) What advantages
has a voltage-controlled generator over the
third-brush type in performance and effi-
ciency ? (2) What objects are achieved by the
voltage regulator as regards charging rate with
and without lighting load ?
The voltage-controlled generator is also of
the third-brush type, but the brush is in later
types fixed, while the regulator consists of a
variable resistance coil mounted in conjunction
with generator relay which automatically cuts
in when line voltage increases and cuts out
when the voltage decreases. (2) Objects are
to maintain battery in consistently good state
of charge, keep lamps at or near full rated
c.p., prolong life of bulbs, prevent overcharg-
ing of battery, prolong life of generator and
minimise possibility of burned distributor
points.
■f * t- *
J.G. (Ballina, N.S.W.). : —The vacuum-
operated windscreen wiper on my car is now
very slow in motion of blade and will only
work on idle throttle. Is it possible to oil the
mechanism ?
Remove existing hose and examine carefully
lor cracks. Before replacing with new, piece,
connect about 6in. of the old hose to the
nipple, fit a tiny funnel in the end and pour
in a spoonful or two of sewing-machine oil.
At the same time turn wiper blade by hand to
extreme left and right positions to suck in oil.
ihis should lubricate (he inside assembly, and
if it does not cure the trouble the best policy
would be to purchase a new unit rather than
attempt reconditioning.
'o 'Jp.
A.W.L. (Warwick, Q.). —(1) Do you advise
using colloidal graphite in the sump oil of my
36 model tourer ? (2) Using upper-cylinder
lubricant ? (3) Are super grades of petrol worth
extra cost, and why ? (4) Does coloring matter
harm anything ? (5) What is the most economi-
cal speed at which to run the car ? (6) Small
stones fly from the rear wheels and, bouncing
off the bumper-bar, chip paint off the rear
panels. Any remedy ?
(1) and (2) Yes. (3) Yes, they give better
all-round performance in the high-compression
engines for which the fuel is specially blended.
(4) No. (5) 30 to 40 m.p.h. (6) Either weld a
light metal back on the bumper-bar, set at such
an angle to deflect stones back on to the road,
or fit heavy rubberised leather flaps inside the
mudguards at rear of wheels to prevent stones
striking bumper-bar.
“Mahogany”; He was driving a
Model T Ford, and with about ten miles
to go discovered that there was hardly
any oil left. Not to be outdone he
poured water in the sump. It floated the
oil, and he managed to get home.
* * * -SI:
“Dixit”: The mailman plying between
Birchip and Beulah (Vic.) uses a Model
A Ford, the performance of which must
border on a record. The car was still
going strong some months ago, when it
had travelled 108,000 miles without a
rebore.


THE AGE’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
• 233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office; 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
‘‘The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Every page is
a front page in
“The News”
ADELAIDE’S ONLT
EVENING NEWSPAPER
FT’S bought to read, when
there’s time to read
. . in South Australia’s
evening hours. Use it to
boost your sales . . . its
all been proved.
It gets into the
family circle ! !
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First Floor
Newsoaper Hotise. Collins street.
SYDNEY—P A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton street.
LONDON—F A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
National
Advertisers;
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £23,500 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pi-'e,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, ltd., Adelaide.
r
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North. _ / '
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson "Stl, Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
ŕ
ŗ
ř
r
“I’ll tell you what it is. I’ve been trying to tell
you ever since you came here. I don’t dislike you.
But you’re a woman, and in this part of the world —
to me, at any rate —that’s the unpardonable thing.”
“I see. You’re afraid of all that your precious
country will do to me!”
She laughed faintly.
“It’s the old story of male superiority! I suppose
shibboleths of that kind use the last of their strength
in the backward countries. But if a man can live in
Papua a woman can do the same. She’s the female
of the species, and should be able to go in the foot-
steps of the male.”
“You’re wrong again. My attitude is simply that
I don’t want you in this particular part of the country. -
I’ve nothing against you personally ; but you seem
unable to realise that when you come into this settle-
ment you cease to be just a doctor doing her job.
You’re also a woman —in your own words, the female
of the species. Can’t you see what it means?”
“I can’t see anything dangerous about it.”
“You will eventually, I think.”
He began to stuff tobacco into his pipe, and for
the first time she was able to feel his restlessness.
“You’re a woman,” he said suddenly, looking up
at her. “I’m a man. It also happens that you’re a
damned fine-looking woman, which makes it worse.
We’re isolated in a hole in the jungle. There’s no
other man you’re likely to see much of, except Butts,
and he doesn’t count. You must see what it means:
you and I—the male and female of the species.”
“I think I suspected that something like this was
lurking in your mind. You’ll have to get rid of it,
I’m afraid. There’s going to be no nonsense between
us, Murdoch,”
“That’s what I’m hoping,” he said, leaning
towards her along, the rail. “But I’ve seen enough
of the world to know that it’s not going to be as easy
as you choose to think it. ,I’m trying to make you
understand while there’s plenty of time. At present
we’re untouched and safe. But that proves nothing.
We can start off by hating each other, if you, like.
And as time goes on we’ll grow steadily towards each
other —impelled by something a good deal stronger
than ourselves.” ,
She moved away from him.
“Must you go on talking like this?”
“I’m afraid so. I happen to be in the mood,
and it’s time you heard the truth. How long have
you been here? A few weeks. And already you
know what life means in a place like this. You know
what your work will be, and you know how much
time you’ll have on your hands. What are you
going to do with the empty hours? How are you
going to control your thoughts as they go circling
this narrow clearing and you feel them beaten back
from that wall of trees and thrust inwards to your
mind? And what of the instincts—stronger than
thought—in that splendid body of yours? They’ve
got to move towards something in the end. And
that’s when you’ll begin to take notice of me.”
“You’re amusing to-night,” she said in a cool
voice. “You’ve been turning things over, I see ; and
it’s nice of you to show me the way your mind works.”
He settled back against the rail, staring down
at his pipe.
“You won’t get over the problem that way, Ive
told you the truth.”
“The truth according to Murdoch! I shouldn’t
be at all surprised if you spent your spare time think-
ing about women. But my own thoughts are different.
I have books and music and work. I certainly shan’t
move towards you.”
He grunted indignantly.
“You’re talking like a fool!. I’ve been through
this sort of thing before, and I know what I’m saying."
He moved a little nearer.
‘.‘You won’t save yourself by sitting on a pedestal.
And this is the last effort I’ll make to help you. Any-
thing that happens after this will be on your own
head.” • •
He changed his tone, trying to coax her.
“I know you think I’m a fool; and perhaps I
am. But I’m only trying to save you, I should be
thinking of myself. And I am, by God! I know what
will happen ; a lot of things grow up' between a- man
and a woman when they’re left together. You’ll creep
into my life. At the moment you don’t mean a snap
of the fingers to me ; within a year you might be
the meaning of life for me. And it wouldn’t work.
We’ve nothing in common —absolutely nothing. I
don’t want to be dragged into an affair that will
exhaust both of us and lead us nowhere. I can
talk, to you like this now; in another few weeks it
may be too late.”
In his urgency he had grasped her arm, and now
she tried to free herself. But he would not let her go.
“Yes,” he went on roughly, “I know you will
wriggle! And I also, because I have my own ideas
about my life ; and, so far, they’ve not included a
woman like yourself. Everybody wriggles out here.
Your Kanakas writhe like snakes when they get pains
in their bellies; but they have to see the sickness
through. The jungle moves and tabors when the hurri-
cane breaks over it; ..but it has to take all the fury
of the wind before there can be quietness again.
That’s Nature’s way. Listen, to me for the last time,
Doctor Manson! You know what I am —faintly.
. Do you Want'to have me in your life —fixed there' for
all time? There’s only one way to escape it. Get
out! ”
There was’silence between them, disturbed only
by their breathing. - • r
“I shall give you credit for being in earnest,”
said Joyce at last. “But this sort of thing is painful
to me. Will, you please’ go?”
She followed him to, the verandah-steps; and" as
she watched him go across the clearing she thought
she could hear a faint sound beating down upon her
from the jungle silence ; the throb of an alarm drum.
Or was it merely the angry beat of blood in her own
head? She did not know.
Chapter 11.
- ; • ‘ '• •.. -1.,
ALTHOUGH on correspondence, day the writing
of reports and letters was done in Murdoch’s
office, the whole settlement was made to share
something of the effort. Uneasiness entered the atmo-
sphere ; a slow and cumulative bustle left a back-
wash which reached even to the naked children pl a Y"
ing in the native village a couple of miles along the
trail. .
At an early hour Murdoch came to his office,
a lean and neglected building, with an empty notice-
board by the door and a police-boy, pacing the ver-
andah. He entered a room furnished with a table,
a few chairs and a cabinet of pigeonholes filled with
a great litter of papers. His hat went on to a peg
behind the door, and he sat on a chair tilted far enough
to allow his crossed feet to rest on the table.
Paper and pens had been placed in position by
his office-boy, a towering native with a head of hair
like a sponge and the eyes of a cannibal. This boy
had been told to prepare the office for the ordeals
of composition, and a general clean-up had been
ordered. The boy was obedient, and, although there
remained inches of dust on the cabinet, and the
ners of the room were infested with spiders and their
homes, the writing-table had been carefully cleaned.
It had the look of an oasis at the centre of a desert.
For a long tiine Murdoch sat in utter silence, his
arms folded and his eyes closed. His concentration
was shallow: a quietness into which he received all
the sounds of the clearing. He could hear Butts
talking in pidgin English, and remembered that Joyce
was going to the copra lease, a five-mile jungle walk.
Butts would .be going with her, of course. Lucky
devil!
He changed the position of his feet, moving
restlessly., After all, there was little enough to be
gained from escorting Joyce through the bush. Now
and then she would pull you up with a question, and
there might be a halt for a few minutes while you
explained about a tree or a bird—some bright little
fellow hopping about in his green house of many
roofs. But, for the most part, it meant a plodding
journey, until the track opened into a clearing or
showed palm-trees leaning against a sky that was
free from the usual tangle of branches.
A great deal of native chatter was coming from
outside, and! he supposed they had made a start
with the loading of the whaleboat which was to make
the trip to the coast. There was not much stuff to
go ashore this time. Ah Chan would be down on the
jetty, watching his precious packages—the wily image!
In a few days they would have newspapers and letters:
the outside world would break in upon them with
a rumor of half-forgotten things. .
Now and then Murdoch would think:
“I must make a start with those letters. Damn!’'
A lot of ideas were moving about in his head,
but they had nothing to do with his report. Things
were to be done in the settlement. and beyond it:
villages to be visited,, a Chinese storekeeper to be
examined forty miles up the river. - There was that
fellow Barker, too, the English surveyor who had
set out with.his party for Lake Boola, and had not
been seen or heard of since. Doubtless his head had
been smoked long before this' and was hanging in
the gloom of some inland chieftain’s hut; but some-
thing would have to be done about him.
And those natives were not making the most of
their land. They were getting lazy again, and there
would be a slump in their copra output if he didn’t
stir them up. That would mean a visit, sooner or
later, from somebody at Rabaul, which was the last
thing he wanted. He preferred to be left alone.
{To be continued next week.)


litis masterpiece is
if ihe spirit he always serves.
' r > ■
l I
4
r-^SV;
m
m
m
w=n
m
\\
¥
sS
r
JS
; ■/!
(DXoUuro’s
X Ci/A/sfyjs-..
(ITCalluin's
Scots (Übisk^
JS, 9M7&* —
( ruv»*«* ‘t»t) h* • *•• ■
£/<$
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD,, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
N
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
Ann rlss
(Subscribers living outside Australia ami Sew
Zealand should send JO, -.)
> v '<\
A'
S*
>**
r” * OV> 0 V> <£?’
►V ■■
S'*'
G&
l\' .
o' ..**
W^ s
<o^
•*■*
. *•*
0 $ '° \*SAx<*'


S®4C
S'*.
n
ns
a«-car.
7*
3*
>
&
>
>
V
A
X
>
s t
*5
ft*
X
A
X
•%
ta
\
\
4V
:•
<W
&&
*
*
Na
Ss>
FACIAL FUTURES
Many a good face has lost its reputation through
a razor. But, on the other hand, many a reputa-
tion has likewise been retrieved: praise be to a
Rolls Razor.
Rolls Razors have an innate regard for the human
face, treating it with such respect that other razors,
by comparison, would seem uncouth.
There Is No Need to Advertise
ROLLS RAZORS
They Advertise Themselves
The ONE HOLLOW - GROUND BLADE of the
Rolls Razor stropped and honed automatically in its own
compact case will last a lifetime AND SAVE FHE
COST OF THOUSANDS OF WAFER - BLADES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING STORES
ROLLS RAZOR
SELF CONTAINED ★ ★ ★ SELF HONING
SELF STROPPING ★ ★ SELF SUPPORTING
