

liiim
ft
a
i
wsm
c?
M
H
m
•'ll
■
SsßP 1
■:•v.
A
~v*:j
*■<£
m
mm&i
4
i
•, v *
iiififiii
&BSBSS , A',.; ' :>; / . -v. W^BH[
WWO$M' '■ #a|ggfPPgp Tr®
Bisi
.
PK
f
: ‘-T
§
■HP
jv
tsS&F 1
<B**®%**°.
.a
: H
■
s*
I*3
w.
Give a Kodak-—the happiest gift of
all! The moment a Kodak is out
of its wrappings it’s busy capturing
all the Christmas fun.
There’s a Kodak Gift to suit every purse.
a
fin
iHm
CU.U*
mi
K
:
WO
POPULAR BABY BROWNIE
A handsome little handful that would delight any
girl or boy. For eight pictures on £% I
No. V 127 Film, 2j x If inches. Price.. O/“
6.20/6.16 BOX BROWNIES
What more seasonable thought than one of
these smart modernistic Brownies. Still the
same low prices, but they’re better picture-
makers. Prices, 14/6, 17/6, 19/6, 24/-.
6.20 KODAK JUNIORS
Replace your veteran instrument with
one of these new style youngsters.
Here’s modern picture proficiency in a
Kodak that you’ll be proud to give and
proud to carry. Values are simply
amazing. You can secure a
fully-equipped model with
f/8.8 Anastigmat lens for
popular 2\ x inch
pictures for
47/6
KODAK
RETINA
Incorporates every
worth-while miniature
camera advance. Pro-
vides all the advantages
of work on 36 exp.
3 smm. film at low
cost. Has automatic
film winding, fast
f/3.5 lens, and Compur
Rapid shutter. Chro-
mium finish .... £l2
Regular finish, £lO/10/-
LOAD
WITH
KODAK
FILM
It MAKES the picture!
For better holiday pictures load with the new
double-coated films—Verichrome, Panatomic,
Super-sensitive Panchromatic.
9 f “lL^° d “ k . 9? alers and KODAK (Aust.), PTY., LTD.
Quay j Wellington ; 6’Si Colombo Street, Christchurch.
w
ŵ
The Bulletin
State Socialism in Queensland
VoL 57.—N0. 2962.
Wednesday, November 18, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, ivilhout obligation, your Sew Free
Hooklet, exyluiniuy how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Uullktis.
Mi) Name
Mj) Address
fcs.B. 130
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H K Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Rovalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to .the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
THESE
AUSTRALIAN
WRITERS
Con tra r y to
Denton Prout’s
lament (R.P.
21 /10/ ’36), Aus-
tralian novelists
are not lacking
in “literary” skill,
and they are certainly not “unfamiliar”
with their matter. Rather, I should say,
they suffer from overtraining in both
these essentials at the expense of other
essentials Of the craft.
A paraphrase will make a spring-
board: “What do they know of Australia
who only Australia know?” The quality
of ease, of competent, expressive famil-
iarity that Mr. Prout and his interlocutors
miss in the bulk of Australian fiction is
supplied only by what is known as focus,
whether of place or time.
As to place—if I want to write a book
about my family it’s no good my trying
to do it if I never leave the house or
get out of the sound of the family voices.
I am overtrained in oppressive familiarity,
know my matter only too well. So much
is tumbling over me all the time that I
can’t select, can’t tell what is illuminating
to a reader and what merely personally
interesting to me, can’t tell “good” from
“bad,” important from trivial—can’t
write, in fact. This situation, which
applies perforce to 90 per cent, of Aus-
tralian fiction-writers, is, I think, one
of the main causes of that “feeling of
strain, of shyness and unease in the
author” of which Mr. Prout complains.
The author must let the family grow
up and clear out, or he must temporarily
absent himself from the household, In
order to adjust the focus. This done, he
is looking at his family from the same
distance as a potential reader of The yarn
about them — i.e„ as an interested
stranger. Thus can the intimate famili-
arity work without overloading, in its
proper place in the pattern.
And we know that not 10 per cent, of
writers can get away to adjust their
focus. We are too far away from the
other civilisations.
As to the focus of time. There were
a good many centuries between the build-
ing of the pyramids and the throwing of
the first arch. We have the springing
stones of the arch in place ( Richard
Mahony, Green Memory, Return to
Coolami, Pageant, All That Swagger),
but in effect we still have our pyramids
to complete. Indeed, we are a year or
so short of one century and a half of
life, let alone cultural development.
In this teeming pyramid-job life is
congested, is a formless mass that must
be thinned and clarified by the focus of
time and tradition before we, in general,
can hope to get it on paper. At one
point in development American fiction
had the unease, the strain inseparable
from pyramid-blurred eyes. And the
Tolstoi cited by Mr. Prout has exactly
what is deplored by Mr. Prout: the
strain, the unease, the “grunt and sweat”
of pyramid - building. Resurrection,
Karenina, Kreutzer Sonata —these are
all immature and portentous works of
fiction, however far their sincerity drives
them into a reader’s mind.
Dickens had a thousand years of tra-
dition for his focus. Life was formalised,
thinned and quiet, its pattern balanced by
leisure, by creative scholarship, by long,
unhurried prosperity in which mind be-
came at least the equal of matter.
Dickens’s arch was thrown full-span for
him by Fielding, with another century
or so of further testing and retesting to
show him what to look for and what to
ẁ
HILARY LOFTING.
ẅ
Vanity Fair was very coldly received
when first published. The list could
be extended indefinitely.
Australia has sound writers, and their
work is increasing in popularity, and
should continue to do so. But defeatist
articles on the poverty of Australian
art and a genteel sighing for the
overseas brand of culchah won’t help
them.
ROGER CHRISTIE.
Other War
Words
The phrase
“going west,” to
signify the last
journey of all,
did not come to
the army through either Tennyson or
Wordsworth. It is related that in the
years before the war there was seen at
Aldershot, in the course .of manoeuvres,
the spectacle of a staff officer, full of eye-
glass, galloping up to a certain C.O. and
exclaiming in a high-pitched, fruity voice,
“Tell the General that I’ve gone west.”
And so it came to be a generic term in
the army for almost anything that had
taken the wrong turning. Further back,
perhaps, it is related to our sun-worship-
ping ancestors, who knew very well that
beyond the sunset was the land of dark-
ness and the shadow of death.
“Take me back to dear old Blighty.”
The word “blighty” was imported by
soldiers who served in India, where I
fancy the word vilayat (Hindustani)
means an outlandish place, a foreign
place, as England would be to Indians.
In patois it became bilati, and, after the
English soldiery had done their worst to
it, “blighty.”
Neither “Bosches” (Boches) nor
“Hun” has survived. Before the war
the French used Bosches in slang; it
may be a corruption of allobroge, mean-
ing an uncultivated sort of person.
Wilhelm 11. may have been responsible
for “Hun.” It was a playful expression
of his, used in a parting message to his
troops going to the Boxer rebellion, which
came home to roost with a vengeance.
The words the Emperor used in 1900
were:
Quarter wilt not be given. Whoever falls
into your hands is forfeit to you; just as a
thousand years ago the Huns under Attila
made a name for themselves which is still
mighty in tradition and story.
But, of course, Kipling wrote in his first
Great War poem:
For all we have and are,
For all our children’s fate,
Stand up and take the war:
The Hun is at the gate.
“Camouflage” still lives, and is simply a
French word transposed. The verb
canioufler and the noun camouflage are
derived from camouflet, used in pre-
vious wars to denote a particular
device in military mining. Clemenceau
launched the word “defeatist” when de-
scribing the machinations of 8010 Pasha,
which gave Lloyd George the word
“Boloism” (“look out for Boloism in all
its shapes and forms”). And “strafe”
came straight from Germany itself —
“Gott strafe England” —though “hate”
was used alternatively. “Old Contempt-
ibles” was another of the Kaiser’s play-
ful expressions which came home to
roost.
“Umpteen” came into vogue towards
the end of the war, and is connected
with the military signallers. But “gadget”
was not a war word, for it was used in
seafaring circles as far back as 1870.
“Conchies,” of course, we have no use
for now, but it was a fairly general term
of reproach when it was first coined to
cover conscientious objectors to military
service. “Cuthbert” signified the same
sort of propensity when not based on
grounds of conscience. “Cuthbert” took
refuge in his “funk-hole,” and to all these
people the “comb” was applied every
now and then, so as to extract them
from “funk-holes” into army service.
In the last phase of the war there were
“indispensables” who simply could not
be extracted from their “funk-holes,
even though a vigorous attempt was
made to have them “combed-out.”
The politicians familiarised us with
“militarism” —especially “Prussian mili-
tarism.” It is a word of French origin,
and was first attributed to Garibaldi, in
the particular sense in which Mr. Asquith
used it later. Both “pacifism” and “paci-
fist” are of war origin, as is “self-determi-
nation,” though that last word has a
metaphysical and theological background.
“Profiter” was the original form of
“profiteer.” Lloyd George employed
the term “profiteering” in a speech made
in 1917, using it in a new sense.
“He called me a German and other
filthy names,” pleaded an indignant de-
fendant at the Middlesex Police Court
in 1915. But that did not linger as term
of reproach as long as did “Dutch
courage,” “French leave” and “young
Turk,” which have been in our lan-
guage an uncommonly long time.
GERALD DILLON.
Censorship in
Ireland
Literary cen-
sorship in Eng-
land, as imposed
by the menace
of pro secution
for obscenity, is mild compared with
that applied in the Irish Free State under
(he Censorship of Publications Act, 1929.
The latest register of prohibited publi-
cations reads like a literary What’s What.
Everything by Marie Stopes, Margaret
Sanger, Norman Hairc and other writers
on sexual subjects is forbidden. Even
the academic austerity of Havelock Ellis
does not allow his Psychology of Sex to
get past. But I have seen some of these
books on the shelves of shops in Dublin.
They were bound with siring.
Dublin, like Canberra, dislikes the
lucubrations of Aldous Huxley. Any-
way, Brave New World, Antic Hay and
Point Counter Point are on the list. It
is not so easy to understand why Sin-
clair Lewis’s Ann Vickers and Elmer
Gantry do not get by. Richard Alding-
ton, somewhat' Huxleyish, may stand
aside ; but why they should object to
Maugham’s Cakes and Ale defeats me. I
feel the same about The Bulpington of
Bhp (Wells) and Anthony Adverse.
Norman Lindsay’s Redheap and The
Cautious Amorist, “Smiler” Hales’s
McGlusky the Mormon and Dale
Collins’s Mutiny of Madame Yes are
Australian contributions to the list.
There is national impartiality in the
bannings. That is shown by the pro-
hibited Irish books. Liam O’Flaherty is
blistered for The House of Gold and
The Puritan; Sean O’Faolain for Mid-
summer Night Madness, and Sean
O’Casey for Windfalls. I don’t blame
any censor for not stomaching “I Wanna
Woman” ; O'Casey says he wrote it to
get hate out of his heart after the
Abbey Theatre directors had turned
down one of his plays. Detailed descrip-
tion of pursuit and capture of a Piccadilly
tart seems an odd way for a man to
cleanse himself of resentment.
Both George Moore’s A Story-Teller’s
Holiday and Vicky Baum’s Grand Hotel
are barred ; and there are other prohi-
bited volumes—hundreds of them.
IAN DONNELLY.
Clinical Note
on a Disease
You ask your
best girl on a
Saturday whether
she feels like a
swim at Manly,
followed by a bite of food and a show,
and what does she say? Does she say
“Yes, pet”? I’ll bet you the Oxford
English Dictionary (large size) against a
{Continued on page 4.)


w
GLOVES would
bo appreciated
5
*
IN ART. SILK WITH FANCY CUFFS
Gloves like these make such dainty gifts, and their
smart style and fit are certain to'please'. Favlrn; Grey,
White, Navy or Black Art. Silk, with' a fancy cuff.
Price, pair i. . 5/11
5
WHITE FANCY MESH
If you want to delight her, these are the Gloves to
choose. They go with everything and wear splendidly.
Made of cool Mesh in White and Pastel tones.
Price, pair 5/11
-24 c
/
2
6
:
WITH CRINOLINE CUFFS
Special value! and these Gloves are perennial favourites
for all-occasion wear. A smart, smooth-fitting style,
in good quality Art. Silk. White. Price, pair .. 2/11
Special Price 2/6
s'-
ATTRACTIVE CROCHET GLOVES
Fashion’s latest! Crochet Gloves in Red, Sky, Melon
tone, Pink, Orchid, Green and White. A pair of these
will meet with instant approval. Price, pair ... 5/11
4
m
V
mm
Fine Mesh Gloves in White, Fawn or Navy.
Price, pair 4/11
These would be handy around the home
SMART CIGARETTE HOLDER
If he smokes you could not choose a more
pleasing gift. Cigarette Holder in Chromium
with Erinoid base. Price, each 12/6
3
toutslt
sc ov
63
CHROMIUM BOOK ENDS
1 he smart style and finish of these Book Ends
will please anybody. As illustrated, in
Chromium with Baize bottom. Price, 63/-.
With Norman arch 50/-
MOULDED NUT BOWL
Here's a gift that will be appreciated for
its usefulness, especially at Christmas time.
Chromium-plated Nut Crackers with Bowl
for shells.. Price 10/6
.:• ••• •"'
I4'n
CORONATION PICNIC BASKET
Christmas holidays make this a most appro-
priate gift. Picnic Basket with two handles is
well made and fitted with 2 two-cup flasks,
four handled cups and a sandwich tin.
Price, each 14/11
HANDKERCHIEFS are Ideal Gifts
m
k*-
V,
i 5?
WA
2'6
VI
SWISS OPAL CLOTH
HANDKERCHIEFS
Specially priced! Fine Swiss Opal
Cloth Handkerchiefs, with fancy
embroidered corners. All White, all
Coloured or White with Coloured
embroidery. Price, box 3/6
Special Price 2/6
EMBROIDERED WHITE
LINEN ’KERCHIEFS
A charming gift! Six Beautifully-
embroidered White Linen Handker-
chiefs, in smart oblong box, with
l-16in. hemstitched hems.
Price, box
8/11
INITIALLED “PYRAMID”
HANDKERCHIEFS
Initialled Handkerchiefs are pleasing
because they’re individual. Pyramid
Handkerchiefs in Rose, Green, Saxe,
with embroidered initial.
Price, each
10-kl.
ANTIQUE BROOCH
Brilliant Antique Brooches, set with
synthetic crystal stones. Emerald,
Rose, Sapphire or Amber for selec-
tion, in large round shapes.
Price, each
9/11
PEARL NECKLET
A Pearl Necklet for day or evening
wear will please. Beautiful Lustrous
Pearls, graduated and finished with
chromium and brilliant snap, 18in.
long. Price, each 10/6
# Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Art. Jewellery—New Ground Floor, Pin Street
height paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth
# Fancy Goods—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City and
Suburbs only.
USE THE
D. P. S.
Save last-minute rush
and inconvenience
by buying Christmas
Gifts now—with the
aid of our D.P.S.
A deposit of 4/- in
the £1 will suffice to
reserve them. Then
the balance may be
paid in regular
monthly instalments.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED. SYDNEY


of
«**
iff
i*
1°
‘°° ° +i& **
rt\«'
. *V je
«rt . ,«* f
**o
» e
a"
e
s*
Vt*
\> e
#<*
S* ▼
\>*
«cVN c
\vA v q < vi*° Q
-nW otVS
e<*
Vv
<vc
d>
A
\<*
<i®
Now is the time to change to
SUMMER MOBILOIL.
second-hand copy of Ella Wheeler Wil-
cox’s poems that she doesn’t. She says
“Definitely.” She’s infected ; she’s one
of millions of sufferers from the “defi-
nite” disease.
Tell me where this bane was bred, how
begot, how nourished. England is full
of it. “Absolutely” has slain its thou-
sands, but “definitely” and “definite”
have slain their tens of thousands. A
recent “Punch” showed a pretty miss
adoring a picture. She liked it because
of “its definite je ne sais quoi.”
Twenty-knot ships and the wireless
have brought the virus to Australia. Here
it flourishes in a variety of climatic con-
ditions. The English cricketers, arriving
at dry Perth, were “definitely a good
team.” Writers on cricket, be it said, like
“definites.” All except Neville Cardus.
He is uninfected. He has never yet put
a “definite” into one of his official bulls.
But up in semi-tropical and moist Bris-
bane a university professor has an-
nounced “definitely” that Queensland has
a “definite” need for a medical school.
We turn now to the “S.M.H.” of to-
day (4/11/’36). A gentleman in the
Correspondence Column opines “quite,
definitely” (p. 10) that we do not want
Russian conditions here. Then (p. 11)
an orchestral conductor tells a young
man from the “Herald” that a Miss Pizzi-
cato has “a definite flair for orchestra-
tion.” In a leader, I found a male and
female “definite” sporting together in the
lovely prose. Five inches away the
Broadcasting Corporation announced that
it had “not definitely engaged” a famous
soprano, and that it awaited “a definite
answer” about the return to Australia of
Dr. Malcolm Sargent. On page 15 of
the issue we learn that the Federal Gov-
ernment will sternly prosecute “definite”
lines of research into certain infectious
diseases.
Good! 1 like that. Let it invent a fly-
spray for the “definites.”
F.J. BRIDGES.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS .
MANY EXPLOITS
Sentenced to Adventure, by Serge
Zolo (Harrap ; Bs. 6d. net), is the story
of a young Russian’s experiences during
and after the revolution, interesting in
much that befel its author, and agree-
able reading because of the simple,
direct way in which it is written.
Zolo, the son of a general in the
Czar’s army, tells one anecdote of his
childhood that makes it seem remark-
able that the revolution was delayed so
long. He ran ahead of his father while
out walking with him one day and was
knocked down by an army supply wagon.
The driver did his best to avert the
accident, and as soon as it occurred
jumped down and helped the boy to his
feet.
Then my lather came up. The soldier
saluted. My father swore at him and
struck him with his riding-crop until his
face was striped with bloody welts. The
soldier stood at attention, saying nothing.
During the war —in which his father
was killed —Zolo was at a military
school, and his recollections throw some
interesting sidelights on the Russian
share of the campaign. After the revolu-
tion he escaped with his mother and
stepfather to Sweden, a 1000-mile jour-
ney from Petrograd. They started on
foot, but it soon became apparent that
his mother could not stand the fatigue,
so they killed a peasant and stole his
horses and sleigh.
He was a mild man, my stepfather, the
sort that cannot be moderate in violence.
He beat the peasant after he was dead.
From Sweden friends helped them to
England, where the boy went to school.
His stepfather could get nothing to do
there, and his mother kept the home
going by sewing, doing it in bed in the
cold weather to save fuel. England was
overrun with destitute White Russians
at the time.
Young Zolo escaped to Canada, and
through influence got a job in the Mon-
treal office of the Hudson Bay Com-
pany. He seems to have had a large idea
of the amount of consideration due to
a dispossessed Russian aristocrat, and,
trading on the influence that was behind
him, made things difficult for the petty
officials who were his bosses. It is worth
noting in his favor that his workmates
made him a presentation when he left
for a trading post in the north-west. He
arrived wearing spats and light shoes,
and had to run behind the sled to keep
his feet from freezing. Determined to
make good, he stayed some years. His
boss, Bartlett, a hard man who took a
delight in baiting him, sent him on a
1200-mile sleigh journey in the dead of
winter, and when the lad —he was only
18 —returned, elated with his success,
Bartlett just sniffed hard and said,
“Better have a bath.”
Still young, Zolo came out of the
north with 2000 dollars, “mostly earned
at poker,” and, after they were spent in
high living, joined the North-west
Mounted Police. He had the requisite
courage and endurance, but he had also
a streak of irresponsibility that came,
into play when those virtues were not
being called upon, and, after getting into
a couple of scrapes, he had to desert.
Followed some exciting experiences
smuggling Chinamen from Canada into
the United States and, later, dodging
Uncle Sam’s revenue cutters in a launch
carrying liquor along the Pacific Coast
Rum Row. Narrowly escaping a gaol
sentence for that, he set sail for Tahiti,
had some adventures with the brown
maidens there and then advanced on
the coast of China. It was at the time
when the Japanese were shelling the
Chinese outside the foreign settlement
at Shanghai. The representative of an
American news syndicate wanted to know
what was happening behind the Chinese
tines. Zolo got through and found out.
He received 400 dollars for his story and
launched himself in a career as news-
paperman, first in Vancouver and later in
eastern Canada. He tells some good
tales about it.
A curious feature, of his story is the
absence of evidence of moral considera-
tions. His mother scraped up £2O to
finance his arrival in Canada. He spent
it on a woman during the voyage. He
tells of this without comment, and so
with a score of other incidents, such as
robbing a church of its “collection”
money and a restaurant-keeper of right-
ful payment for food. More curiously
still, his apparent lack of scruple appears
as a virtue when exercised on behalf of
the go-getter press by which he was
later employed. He always got his
story. Perhaps the atmosphere of Russia
in 1917-18 was a poor school for the
sort of considerations with which most
people hamper themselves. Perhaps as
a waif of the revolution he reckoned he
was meeting the world on its own terms.
At any rate, it does not affect the interest
of his book. He has seen more than
most men, and he knows how to write.
* * * *
SIGRID UNDSET
In Kristin Lavransdatter, a story set in
Norway in the thirteenth century, Sigrid
Undset not only wrote one of the great
novels of all time, she also showed how
it was possible to write of the distant past
as naturally as if it were the present.
There is no dependence in Kristin Lav-
ransdatter on the fashion and custom of
the time to lend interest to the story ; no
distortion of values—as occurs in the work
of lesser historical novelists—by making
the reader more aware of the decor of
the period than the characters them-
selves would have been. That she knows
the customs of her period down to the
smallest detail is obvious on reflection ; it
makes more extraordinary the feat of
imaginative assimilation she performed
in order to come unhampered to her
story. It-enables her reader to breathe
the natural air of bygone days through-
out the three volumes that comprise the
book, and is equalled only by the majestic
structure of the story itself.
Her latest book, Gunnar’s Daughter
(Cassell; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d. ;
translated by Arthur G. Chater), a short
novel of the Viking days, is cut from
the same bolt of fine cloth. Its prose has
the same quiet dignity and beauty, its
people are presented with the same satis-
fying simplicity. Take this short para-
graph descriptive of the meeting of
Vigdis and Ljot the Icelander, soon after
his arrival in Gunnar’s house:
When the maiden handed him the horn
he dropped his cloak, and as he drank he
looked at her over -the brim of the vessel.
It seemed that she liked not his staring,
for she said not a word, but took the horn
which he gave her, turned away and went
to the raised bench, where she sat down.
It has the same bareness of statement
combined with fulness of suggestion that
is found in the prose of Holy Writ and
it is a sample of the texture of the entire
book.
The story is of Vigdis, who sacrificed
her life’s happiness to the idea of re-
venge, and of Ljot, who sacrificed his
to the forlorn memory of a love that
he himself polluted. It is a tragedy aris-
ing out of character; an act and its in-
escapable consequences. Vigdis could
have forgiven Ljot for disgracing himself
in a contest with his rival, Kaare of
Grefsin, had he taken steps to rehabili-
tate himself, but Ljot' hasn’t the com-
mand of himself. Forbidden her father’s
house he sends a messenger to entice her
into the woods, and there, after having
assured himself of her regard for him, he
forces her. The consequences, at a time
when consequences were not to be
hidden, and when an illegitimate brought
shame not only on a woman but on all
her kinsmen, put an impassable barrier
between the two. The author traces out
the result to Vigdis and hers, and the
result to Ljot and the woman who mar-
ries him in ignorance of Vigdis and who
bears him three, children before she dies.
The story necessarily has not the
close weave of Kristin Lavransdatter, in
which the chief protagonists dwell under
the same roof, but that is inherent in
the theme and is not due to a failing of
artistry on the writer’s part. It draws
together toward the close when Ulvar,
Vigdis’s son, voyaging, encounters his
father under another name. The father
makes his identity known by sending
Vigdis her cloak, which he has kept by
him. She has then to choose between re-
linquishing the idea of revenge on which
her thought has fed and sending Ulvar
in arms against the father to whom he
has become deeply attached. The situa-
tion is handled by the author with the
same economy and beauty of language
with which she tells of their early en-
counters and with the sure handling of
human values with which she deals with
all her situations. Her work reaffirms
the thought that the substance of life,
remains unaltered through the ages, only
the setting changes.
* * * *
RECOMMENDED
Fiction : Gunnar’s Daughter, Sigrid
Undset (Cassell); No Retreat, D. J. Hali
(Harrap); The Myrtle Tree, R. G. Good-
year (Boriswood); The Brothers Ash-
kenazi, I. J- Singer (Putnam); An Ordi-
nary Life, Karel Capek (Allen and
Unwin) ; Tare Harvest, Eleanor Peters
(Cape). General: Sentenced to Adven-
ture, Serge Zolo (Harrap); Rip Tide in
the South Seas, Willard Price (Heine-
mann); Stone Age Bushmen of To-day,
J. R. B. Love (Blackie); News from
Tartary, Peter Fleming (Cape); Captain
Cook, Gordon Campbell (Hodder and
Stoughton).
F. D.D.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
The Marriage of Nicholas
Nelle M. Scanlan (Robert Hale ; 7s. ■)■
Story of a middle-aged man’s love or a
young girl and his subsequent trouble
with his housekeeper-sister, who na
assisted him to succeed in life, and w o
had remained unmarried on the un _s r '
standing that he would do the same, l
book avoids the implied depths or 1 s
own subject matter and falls theietore
into the category of well-written, com-
petently managed light entertainment.
El Sombra: E. B. Mann (Wild West
Club; 7s. 6d.). Scene: Mexico. The
two heroes, an American ranch-owner
and a quixotic Mexican . bandit, both
split-second gun-shuckers, join forces to
bring a wealthy knife-throwing villain to
the plenteous dust. There’s only one girl,
with one man to lose, and romance and
furious action are blended m a spine-
tingler written a shade better than most
Westerns.
The Splendor Falls: Romilly Cavan
(Dent; 7s. 6d.). Set in an English
country house during a week-end party
and tells of the collapse of a giant ot
finance. A good yarn disfigured by pre-
tentious writing. Example: “Ross saw
backwards to his own boyself walking
by the sea at times when it intoxicated
with improbable perfumes.”
Big, Timber: William Hatfield (Angus
and Robertson ; 65.). Set chiefly in the
timber-milling districts of eastern Aus-
tralia, with a chapter or two overseas,
where some useful contrasts are gathered
in. International flavor heightened by a
woodchopping contest between a
Canadian and an Australian. The story
is a conventional poor-boy-rich-girl
romance which the author has made the
vehicle of a considerable knowledge of
the timber industry and of the lives of
trees. In this, his seventh book, he
appears as an evangelical aboriculturist.
There is room for him.
Daze, the Magician : Anthony Baerlein
(Barker and Co ; 7s. 6d.). Fantastic yarn
about a stage magician able to dupli-
cate himself at will. A few cheerful
murders thrown in for good measure.
Proceedings become boresome after a
while, though partly relieved by some
witty asides in the Denis Bradley manner.
GENERAL . . .
Brush Up Your Own Language: Guy
Pocock (Dent; 2s. 6d.). Addition to a
series of helpful little books designed as
aids in brushing up on various languages.
Entertainingly done, with fair stuff in it
and advice on clear thinking and such-
like sound enough, but sketchy on the
language side.
One Hundred Problems in Cypher:
Louis C. S. Mansfield (Maclehose ; 2s. 6d.
net). Follows the same author’s Solution
of Codes and Cyphers, but it is better
fun to tackle the problems set without
such expert guidance. It remains true
that no cypher can be devised so intricate
and difficult as to baffle attempts at solu-
tion, but some of the examples given in
this interesting little book are mighty
hard nuts to crack.
Shelley and Other Essays: George H.
Cowling (Melbourne University Press;
4s. 6d.). Biography of Shelley and three
essays—on Shakspearean comedy, Milton
and. Virgil. Quite good on the informa-
tive side and probably of value for class-
room purposes.
No Longer Poles Apart: Henry Baer-
lein (Longmans, Green ; 155.). A tale of
travel in Poland. Contains some good
matter, but is too style-conscious, with
attempts to give trifles a degree of inter-
est they don’t possess.


:
... ■
O r/.
X
..... tr>
■J ‘ -v/. -
r,
v" / V -U Z
n
r
mm
Jp
-2 ~-.Z}~
*
■y
*l, J«« <H
< -v" :-jv :
I ‘ 5 -' -■ :
-z 2 ■/. ' f 4
f. IXX. ,
r., x* *■■
LJ ■>- ~ r -
v '&S""'..
:;; •:
INTERNATIONAL LITERARY MASTERPIECES
f—flr CttkhbfmA- \
Gift jpt the. J
-whole Ifamilu! /
Rarely is it possible to obtain such a compact
and representative collection of the literature
of all nations. The student, the teacher, the
writer, the speaker . . . everyone, young or
old, will find endless instruction and enjoy-
ment in this home library of travel, romance
and adventure, of sea lore and folk tales,
of great essays and modern plays. Here
are brief outlines of the contents.
Great Stories of All
Nations
158 of the world's great stories, by 158
authors, representing 34 literatures of all
periods! None of these stories has appeared
in any collection of similar scope. The
British section includes John Galsworthy,
H. G. Wells, Arnold Bennett, Joseph
Conrad, Katherine Mansfield, George
Moore, Aldous Huxley, D. H. Lawrence.
Great Sea Stories of
All Nations
Mr. Tomlinson’s long foreword itself is a
literary gem. The volume shows, in his
words, “how the sea has moved the wonder
of men, and has troubled their minds with
surmises which went beyond the edge of
the earth.” Among the notable authors are
R. L. Stevenson, Joseph Conrad, H. G.
Wells, H. M. Tomlinson, Sir Ernest Shackle-
ton, Anatole France, Pierre Loti, Giovanni
Verga, V. B. Ibanez and Johan Bojer.
Folk Tales of All
Nations
Story tellers of ancient days, in camps and
rorest huts, on village greens and in grim*
reudal halls, told these dramatic, simple
tales. They graphically epitomised the life
of the times . . . wherever possible they are
here presented in the racy language of the
native raconteurs. Sixty-four races or
countries are represented.
Great Travel Stories
of All Nations
Nansen, Scott and Byrd, in the Arctic cold;
Lindberg and Bert Hinkler, flying alone
over the seas; Clavijo, making the golden
journey to Samarkand; Balboa, bearing his
ships across the mountains; Princess Cecilia,
of Sweden, with seasick passengers about
her, watching for the shores of Elizabethan
England as she sat upon the hatches singing
English psalms—all these we meet in Miss
D’Oy ley’s comprehensive volume.
Great Love Stories of
All Nations
The whole world of romance, caught in a
single volume! Tales of Aucassin and
Nicolette, of Launcelot and Guenevere . . .
all the most famous love stories in literature
are brought together. Among the modern
authors represented are Alice Meynell,
A. E. Coppard, E. M. Foster, Somerset
Maugham, Richard Hughes, W. B. Yeats
and Willa Cather,
Great English Short
Stories
Chosen as a typically English selection.
The editors, Lewis Melville and Reginald
Hargreaves, present 9 1 stories . . . the work
of 90 English authors, including Henry
James, Joseph Conrad, W. W. Jacobs, W.
J. Locke, W. Pett Ridge, H. G. Wells,
Arnold Bennett, John Galsworthy, W. B.
Maxwell, Ernest Bramah, “Saki,” G. K.
Chesterton, Rafael Sabatini, A. E. Coppard,
Lord Dunsany, R. H. Mottram, D. H.
Lawrence, Sheila Kaye-Smith, Aldous
Huxley.
Great Essays of All
Nations
The first attempt to illustrate the growth of
the essay by a comprehensive selection
drawn from the principal literatures of the
world. Many essays have been specially
translated for this volume, and several
experts have assisted the editor in dealing
with foreign works.
Great Modern English
Plays
Here’s the full text of the following nineteen
plays: Milestones (Arnold Bennett and
Edward Knoblock) ; Caste (T. W. Robert-
son) ; Trelawny of the “Wells” (Sir Arthur
Pinero) ; The Liars (Henry Arthur Jones) ;
Pygmalion and Galatea (Sir William S.
Gilbert) ; The Virgin Goddess (Rudolf
Besier); The Walls of Jericho (Alfred
Sutro) ; Strife (John Galsworthy) ; Hobson’s
Choice (Harold Brighouse) ; The Return of
the Prodigal (St. John Hankin) ; The New
Morality (Harold Chapin) ; The Circle (W.
Somerset Maugham) ; A Bill of Divorcement
(Clemence Dane) ; At Mrs. Beam’s (C. K.
Munro) ; The Man with a Load of Mischief
(Ashley Dukes); The White Chateau
(Reginald C. Berkley) ; The Likes of Her
(Charles McEvoy) ; The Young Idea (Noel
Coward); Outward Bound (Sutton Vane).
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME FOR
A FIRST PAYMENT OF
The books are carefully
packed to preserve the bind-
ing: from all risk of damage.
We guarantee receipt in per-
fect order.
L 5
£
A
This specially produced edition in handsome uniform binding of red and
gold is obtainable only from
AND ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Casflereagh Street, Sydney.
g— ■■■ii.mi —» ,tear off and POST „
ORDER FORM
! ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney .
| Please forward “International Literary Masterpieces,” 8 volumes. I enclose a deposit of
5/- and agree to make fifteen monthly payments of 10}- each, totalling £71151-. The cash
| price is £7.
■ NAME ] :
OCCUPATION
I ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
Delivery free in city and suburbs.
Elsewhere , freight is extra but will not exceed 51-.
I
I
i


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
• - . mm m i vm whhi**i %msm
' • -‘
Vk ISM
-.’"*® !®r* .■*■! ->- ;!s
-p>* war «. .W!»,. ; lBW.,^'.j*r
</ '%&,'s# J ,"?'"?'%&?' % -'y ■*
// )/'/' ' / ' &sss?s%/s&'' w%&- f ',< '/'-y' /v »& •> £ y ' £•■ v V. w ■>
> » e '<*s * +. Y' «*•*'
F «va »a ill* mm
' ' MM""' ?y$H&
wsMwis&M &*
i -&* ■% «»,, ““
, . ',.«« pm-p,
\ ip, **x -•* «*■* >«i
«»* -?fWt >w«9fO *s?'
asiililii^
l **sSßSsa3jTsP
iHHi
i
IPli
I
H
*
■
,
m
a
Hi
1 KM
ill mm
II
p
«®
—B " . ..,, ; .->'P3&"“
~-w*
r. 'f !
HI
ras
I. m IIIM
Si MS
1
-.
1
I
1
I
■ m
:■■■+'' .
BH i S
iPlii
Kigg
i
v " !^;vj*<
Hi
y
~ x :
Si
r
Wm
!■ SiK:
■ : ■'' : ': X :
" : P
.. .
,<<v.
H mm wjHWMMMMHHHk*.
■ ■■•■,■. ■
Interior View of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars.


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2962.
November 18, 1936.
BLAST OF THE TRUMPET AGAINST THE MONSTROUS REGIMENT OF
UNDESIRABLE WUMMEN.
Arriving in Scotland a stranger, Mary, Queen of Scots, was denounced by John Knox in what he called his “First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monstrous Regiment
of Women." The mantle of John Knox has fallen on Tummas Paterson, of Canberra.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zsaland: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
JOSEPH ALOYSIUS AND LOUIS
PHILIPPE.
The Lyons Government lost another Constitutional
case last week. Its Civil Aviation Department had
had a Sydney airman fined for having flown, “in
contravention of regulations made under the Air
Navigation Act, 1930, within the limits of the Com-
monwealth, namely Mascot aerodrome”—it had
already suspended his license for alleged breaches of
regulations. The airman appealed to the High Court
on the ground that Act and regulations exceeded the
powers of the Commonwealth Parliament. Their
Honors decided by 4 to 1 that, to the extent to which
Act and regulations were employed to control civil
aviation within N. S. Wales, they did exceed Parlia-
ment’s powers. Appeal allowed, with costs against
the Commonwealth.
In a supporting judgment, Justices Evatt and
McTiernan held that, while the Commonwealth
Parliament has no general control over civil aviation
within the Commonwealth, it has power to enter into
international agreements concerning civil aviation and
such other matters as regulation of labor conditions,
control of armaments and suppression of the traffic
in drugs ; and power to enforce those agreements,
even if State laws are nullified in the process, pro-
vided the consequent legislation and regulations are
in exact conformity with the agreements. This is
very interesting, but necessarily inconclusive. Mr.
Curtin is right in saying that “the authority of the
Parliament should not rest on international conven-
tions or foreign treaties.”
When the Constitution Alteration (Marketing)
Bill was debated the Labor-leader tried to get it
amplified, affirming in a motion that “a referendum
costing £lOO,OOO should have for its purpose such
alterations as would grant this Parliament wider and
more comprehensive powers.” The Prime Minister’s
reply was that “the Government will not accept the
amendment; and the honorable gentleman’s contri-
bution has not been helpful.”
The Government, having given very careful con-
sideration to the whole subject, has come to the con-
clusion that, if other important questions were submitted
to the people at the same time, it would help to bring
about, not only the defeat of these proposals, but also
the defeat of the one which the Government is sub-
mitting.
That was on October 22. On November 12 his
Attorney-General asked for leave to bring in another
Constitutional Alteration Bill, aimed at granting
Parliament “complete control of air navigation and
aircraft.” Again Mr. Curtin tried to get legislative
sanction for the seeking of other powers, specifying
“trade and commerce, industrial matters, broadcast-
ing and television.” Again he was defeated.
Apparently the gentleman who discovered on
October 22 that “orderly marketing” would be
endangered if “other important questions were sub-
mitted to the people” was even then turning over in
his mind an election “at the same time.” Not an
election of both Houses, for it was only on July 1,
1935, that the last lot of Senators elected took their
seats, but an election of the House of Represen-
tatives only. That would mean two Commonwealth
elections within 12 months or so, and two
separate polls in subsequent years, with great and un-
necessary expenditure of tax-money, political compli-
cations and disturbances of business. Returning to
Melbourne from Tasmania on November 5 the Prime
Minister pronounced “an election in February a possi-
bility.” Three days later, being about to leave for
Canberra, he said “There is every chance of an early
election.” Asked whether it might take place on
March 6, he replied “It will be most likely a week
earlier than that.”
But when Mr. Lyons reached Canberra he found
that a powerful no-election party had sprung up in
a night, as it were. Nearly all the Country-party
members had joined it, and roaring protests were
arriving from wheatgrowers’ organisations and the
like. Even ordinarily tame U.A.P. members had
grown mutinous, and the Government press, so
obsequious on all other occasions, had become critical.
The Prime Minister did not wait for anyone to shoot.
Down he came last Wednesday. There will be no
election.
The Government was then challenged by members
of its own party on the exclusion of Mrs. Freer. Its
blundering Paterson replied that he had “approved
of action to prevent Mrs. Freer from landing because
of information conveyed to the department that an
Australian military officer with a wife and child had
become entangled with Mrs. Freer in India —infor-
mation of such a nature as to indicate that Mrs. Freer
was a person of undesirable character.” Tackled again
on this amazing extension of his Government’s censor-
ship of art, letters, films and broadcast discussions to
love affairs, the Minister 1 for the Interior described Mrs.
Freer as “a heartless woman usurping a wife’s place,”
an “adventuress” who was deserving of no “sym-
pathy”: “sympathy should be reserved for the inno-
cent victims of this unfortunate domestic affair.” He
repeated the assertion that the woman was “of un-
desirable character.” How did he know? On the
strength of “information from India, the subject of
confidential communications of a precise nature, tire
source of which I do not feel I am at liberty to
disclose.”
This is sheltering behind the power and majesty
of Parliament to attack a woman —a friendless
creature, a stranger —without publishing a shred of
evidence. It never happened before in the history
of the Commonwealth, and the people will see it
never happens again.
France once had a king called Louis Philippe. He
had been a teacher and a Labor man (or Jacobin),
and he was most respectable. He was a devoted
family man, and he had Ministers as clever as Mr,
Menzies, as self-righteous as Mr. Paterson. Un-
fortunately he got into the settled habit of thinking
that because all was well with him and his friends all
must be well with the country. People clamored for
leadership and action. They got nothing from Louis
Philippe and his Ministry but complacency and stag-
nation. Says a historian of the period: -
Home politics were in a state of absolute sterility.
In an age of progress, no reforms of any sort were
placed upon the Statute Book A Government is
required to be dynamic, not static. This Government
continued on its path of doing nothing. It betrayed
no anxiety, secure in its Parliamentary majority. Its
one aim was to enlist the aid of England.
“France is bored,” said the wits. Then one day
France became angry, and the bewildered sovereign
left the bosom of his family and made fast time
towards the Channel coast, and thence to England.
There he arrived “disguised, his whiskers shaved off,
a sort of casquette on his head, a coarse overcoat
over his body, over his eyes immense goggles.” He
never came back.
King Joseph Aloysius could learn much from
the fate of King Louis Philippe if he were capable
of profiting by such examples, and if it were not
too late.
State Socialism in Queensland.
When the young Ryan and the young Theodore
reached office in Queensland 21 years ago they and
their comrades were all keen on State socialism. The
first step was to feed “the hungry.” Hence cattle
stations were bought—some of them, a witness before
a commission said, carried animals which looked like
“lemonade-bottles on four sticks” —and State butchers'
shops were established. And - there was a State fish
market, painted with an enamel which cost 28s. a
quart.
A State hotel, a State arsenic mine, a State gem
pool, State coalmines, State smelters and various other
shows designed to usher in the millennium came later.
Headstones and temperature charts are to be found
in the Auditor-General’s last report. At the end of
1935-36 £933,000 had been written off the debts on
State stations, but they still owe the Treasury
£893,000-odd, and those who bought stations still owe
£llO,OOO. The State fish market remains £43,000
in debt; the State cannery, £112,000. The State
butcheries are dead, but the debt on them, £31,000,
is not. The State produce agency lost £19,528 during
its career.
The State hotel was a success, Babinda being a
thirsty place. But in 1930 it was sold to O’Hagan
for £50,000 ; £7500 deposit, balance in 17 half-yearly
instalments of £2500. O’Hagan found that Babinda
was not thirsty enough to enable him to meet these
instalments, and they were at first reduced to £l5OO
per half-year, and then —in 1933 —to £2OOO p.a. On
the Hamilton cold stores, now leased for £5500 a
year, plus rates and taxes, accumulated losses are
£37,000. The stores owe the Treasury £306,000, on
which the rental represents a gross return of 1.8 p.c.
Asset value has been written down to £269,000.
The gem-pooling scheme was undertaken to help
the poor miners of Anakie and Sapphiretown. It has
become moribund ; there were no transactions last
year. The only sign of life is in the Treasury over-
draft —£42,421. There are “gems on hand the value
of which cannot be estimated with any degree of
accuracy”—in other words, nobody wants to buy
them. The State arsenic mine is also at a standstill;
but its deficit, £61,319, is busy accumulating interest.
Beside these figures, the loss of £6532 on the
Irvinebank State treatment works looks small —till it
is realised that no interest on £89,000 of capital
expenditure has been taken into account. The State
cokewofks were £1982 on the wrong side last year.
The Mt. Mulligan coalmine managed a profit of £529
after paying £1404 interest on £87,000 of loan money.
But the Styx mine made up for this by losing £4044
on a £41,000 outlay, and the Bowen mine went another
£1774 to the bad. The three mines owe the loan
accounts £256,000—£18,650 more than in 1935.
These losses are chickenfeed beside those of
Chillagoe. Every year current losses at Chillagoe
are adde'd to by writing-off bad debts years old—
£2568 worth last year. In seven years a clefici
of £288,000 has been piled up, and, according to tnv
Auditor-General, “the trust-account overdraft -wm
continue to increase, as it is evident that the enter-
prise is unable to reach a point where it will be
self-supporting.” ,
As the Chillagoe works are supposed to be Kepi
open to relieve unemployment —they are the only
smelters available to most northern mines —the A.-G.
thinks they might be subsidised from unemployed-
relief funds. Liabilities being £406,000, perhaps a
few tens of thousands in subsidies would scarcely be
noticed. Last year 50 p.c. of the price of the coppei
ore bought by the smelters —which pay £5O per ton
for copper when the ruling Australian price is undei
£50 —went to the Government Railway Department
in freight-rates.
But the Government Railway Department can t
help. Upwards of £62,ooo,ooo—half the Queensland
debt —is invested in Government railways, and last
year the department reported a loss of
The Auditor-General says it was really £1,543,700,
since £28,000,000 was “written off,” in the fashion
peculiar to Australian politicians, in 1931-32. For
six years prior to June 30, 1931, the lowest annua
loss on the railways was £1,536,800, the highest
£1,890,300.
Hush!
A CHARACTERISTIC of all dictatorships is a reluctance
or a fear to trust the governed people. The people
are taken into confidence only on such matters as
are unquestionably favorable to the rulers, or when
the public scents a nigger in the woodheap and clamor
becomes too insistent to be safely ignored.
Doubtless denial of shared confidence is an essen-
tial of straight dictatorships, such as Hitler's or
Mussolini’s. It is an extraordinary interpretation of
democratic rule, and a staggering bleeding of what-
ever value may be thought to reside in the popular
vote.
It is plainly government by dictatorship when
the Opposition cannot get a simple straight answer
to a simple straight question—to dozens of questions
—-on such a matter as the affair of Mrs. Freer. It
is laying dictatorship on with a shovel when informa-
tion is refused to members of the governing party
itself. And repeated vain efforts to pierce through
the screen of mystery, are anything but unique. In
the late flirtation with war in behalf of a fantastic
chatterhouse called the League of Nations, as in this
matter of Dumb, Dumb and Dumb v. Mrs. Freer, it
was utterly impossible for the people’s representatives
or the press to extract the truth. Replies to plain
questions regarding affairs that the people had a right
to be acquainted with were invariably evasive and
frequently misleading.
Mr. Lyons, pressed for a definition of the Govern-
ment’s war-flirtation policy, replied in a sentence which
epitomises furlongs of the similar evasions that cloak
the great principle of Hush. “It seems unwise,” he
said, “either to anticipate any breach or to announce
in advance the course of action to be followed by
the Commonwealth Government in contingencies the
nature and circumstances of which cannot at present
be foreseen.”
Not until three months later did it come out that
at the date that woolly utterance was made H.M.A.S.
Australia was already in the Mediterranean, and that
Australia itself, in the classic phrase, was pledged “up
to the hilt.”
About the same time Mr. Pearce, pressed for
a statement on this country’s position, shut the ques-
tioner up with “At present there is nothing to com-
municate to the Senate.” A month later Dr. Page
brazenly asserted that “the Australia was in the Medi-
terranean to protect our trade.”
A month later still the Prime Minister declared
that the vessel had been sent abroad in order that her
officers and men might have “the benefit of training
with a large fleet,” and was merely “remaining in
accordance with her programme.”
That sort of thing, as the slightest effort of
memory should inform anyone, characterised the
Government’s attitude towards the rest of the House
and the people at large throughout the seven or eight
months of that dunderheaded business.
A more recent example is in the evasiveness and
hush that prefaced the foolish trade breach with
Japan. Not until the damage was done and the
uproar of protest had become too loud to be safely
evaded any longer was anything like a plain state-
ment made. Even now niggling new lights flicker on
the position from day to day.
One other —and a most notorious —instance of this
general inability, reluctance or fear to trust the people
is at hand perpetually in the system of censorship.
This has recently become a popular chewing-bone;
it was repeatedly attacked in The Bulletin some years
ago, and nothing fresh is now being said about it.
One thing fresh that can be said with truth is that
the system is simply a natural adjunct of government
by dictator clique.
With this censorship there is not even the farcical
politeness of evasion. Here the spreading dictator
fashion is so fixed that flat denial is good enough.
Not only, under this system, are Australians denied
books that have unrestricted circulation in Britain;
they are refused even the names of the books so
denied. It is a safe estimate that Australians do not
know the titles of 10 per cent, of the books denied
them, and those they do know they know only by
hearsay.
To carry to a logical conclusion the dictatorial
paucity of trust and confidence in the people patent
in all this childish secrecy a Government should evade
the most pressing question of all —that of the polls
and go on sitting for ever.
SIGNALLER.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Language Test.
It would be interesting to know what survivors ot
the debate which ended in the dictation test being
put into the Immigration Act think of Mr. Paterson’s
interpretation. It was a great debate. Barton, Deakin.
Reid, Watson, Forrest, Higgins, Isaacs, Kingston,
Bruce Smith, Hughes and others took part in it. Said
B. R. Wise subsequently:
The original intention was to legislate for the
exclusion of colored aliens, but, in deference to the
wish of the Colonial Office, the indirect method of a
language test applicable to all races was substituted.
Barton introduced the bill in its original form.
It provided for a test of 50 words in English only.
He explained that the object was to get an equal
law applying to all persons without distinction of
race, color or origin, so as not to make it appear that
the bill was aimed at any specific race. Watson-
supported by Hughes— strove to have the test
restricted to Asiatics and Africans. The Government
would have none of it. Much of the objection to
the clause was based on the fact that it might exclude
French-Canadians and the like.
Eventually the Government accepted an amend-
ment —P. M. Glynn’s—providing for a test in any
European language. Isaac Isaacs summed up:—-
The provision has been fabricated—using the word
without any improper signification—solely to secure the
exclusion of the colored races. Its whole purpose and
intent is directed not against Europeans but against
, the colored races. The provision we are considering
will never be used against Europeans. ...
Neither Barton nor Deakin demurred to this state-
ment of the case. Deakin rejected the “supposition
that the [Customs] officer concerned or the Minister
is going to perform a fraud on the immigrant.”
Casey the Winner.
N. S. Wales Premier Stevens returned from abroad
with a portfolio of financial articles which were
published in a group of U*A.P. newspapers. The
style was diffuse and much of the matter plati-
tudinous, but the writer was fairly precise on one
point:—
In Australia in the last 12 months factors have
operated to curb both public and private investment.
It would be unfortunate if these factors or any false
belief that our finances are not soundly based were to
deter us from being prudently enterprising in using the
collective credit of the nation for a policy of develop-
ment akin to that which Britain and other countries
have found essential to their progress.
That appeared about a fortnight before the Loan
Council met to ask the Commonwealth Bank Board
how much could be borrowed for “works” and the
usual things. The board said £7,500,000 was the
market’s limit. Commonwealth Treasurer Casey
agreed. When State Premiers growled, as they always
do on these occasions, with Mr. Stevens leading the
growling, Mr. Casey said “You can’t get a quart out
of a pint-pot.” Then there was talk of curbing the
Bank Board’s powers, and Mr. Stevens’s growling
swelled into a bark: —•
The amount of money in the market, whether for
public purposes or for private purposes, is under the
control of the Commonwealth Bank. Thus the Com-
monwealth Bank decides the capacity of the “pot.”
He went on to attribute “timidity” to the bank
instead of “reasonable caution.”
“Mr. Stevens says I don’t understand the funda-
mental principles of finance,” Mr. Casey replied. “His
reference to the pint-pot suggests inflation in its
crudest form.” After Mr. Stevens had said something
about Mr. Casey’s attempt to tag him as a “gallon
man,” the exchanges passed from similes to Biblical
parables.
Mr. Casey is amply justified in supporting the
Commonwealth Bank directors, and is rightly sceptical
of Mr. Stevens’s expansive ideas on finance. “By
external borrowing, development of Australia could
be assured,” the returned wanderer asserts. The most
we could be sure of would be increased imports, less
Australian factory activity, a temporary premium on
unskilled labor while “works” were in hand, and then
—more insolvent railways, more department buildings,
more “Olympic, swimming pools,” more civil servants,
more diversion of tax-money to meet interest that
“works” never yield and desperate expedients designed
to make London funds suffice for London commit-
ments.
Teach Them to Fly.
While the Defence Department is having a struggle
to bring the A.M.F. up to strength, a Queensland
experience points the way to successful recruiting.
When an R.A.A.F. officer went to Brisbane to select
men for training as pilots, 400 fine physical specimens
turned up with a rush which could be duplicated
anywhere in Australia.
It will be a pity if any of this willing material is
rejected except on physical grounds. It would be
to Australia’s advantage to accept the services of
every physically-fit applicant with an engineering bent,
and even —thougjh Australia has not enough ’planes
to go round —give them all preliminary training in
flying, in navigation or in ground engineering.
A vocational course in engine and general ’plane
construction would provide a fine reserve of the most
useful type.
And two birds would be killed with one stone.
There is no type of training so likely to be of service
in civil life as a sound practical education in aerial
technique.
A Nasty Crossing.
“M.C.”: Within a matter of weeks two small seagoing
craft —one with two men. aboard, the other with six
have vanished into the blue between Australia and
Lord Howe Island.
Naturally, since these are times in which inter-
ference with the liberty of the subject is daily intensi-
fied, the suggestion is loudly put forth that adven-
turing in such small boats should be controlled. This
is a good press stunt, warranted to bring applauding
letters from Pro Bono Publicos with hardening arteries
and raise sobful echoes in suburbia.
That a man’s life is his own to adventure as he
thinks fit is an appalling suggestion to the confirmed
controllers. The attention of these is attracted only
by the adventurings that turn out tragically sen-
sational enough to be a few days’ wonder in the daily
headlines. Every week-end risks fully as dangerous
are taken in boats not half as good anywhere round
the Australian coast. They and their like help to
keep the fibre tough, and it will be a dull and
degenerate day when the armchair dictators have any
say over them.
Still, these two disappearances, and especially the
latest of them, make it clear enough that the voyage
to Lord Howe in a small boat is not a hazard to be
taken lightly. The party in the second adventure —
they had been missing 15 days on a three- or four-
day trip when this page went to press—had every-
thing in their favor. They had a fine boat, fit to
go round the world in ; they were well provisioned
and fuelled; the seas had been good ; and, above all,
their leader was a Lord Howe Islander, a Digger, one
who had made the crossing in small boats before and
knew the seas between Howe and the mainland as
a road.
In Old Madrid.
From a man who has been there:
Madrid is going through an experience unique for a city
of its size. Every European capital lias been taken by
an enemy at some time or other, but no city of a. million
people has hitherto been fought for under conditions ol
modern warfare. When Paris went through the Prussian
investment cannon-balls were still round and ramrods were
just going out of fashion.
As a city, Madrid is unique, anyhow. It is dumped
down on a high plateau almost in the exact centre of Spain.
The Sierra Guadarrama towers to the north, and to the west
is an Atlantic which is always reminding Spain that it exists.
The country suggests a bit of Australia round Crookwell
(N.S.W.) as Crookwell may look after a thousand years of bat-
tering by mankind, and the climate suggests Melbourne doing
its worst. It is nothing to go for a long walk in Madrid in a
nice bracing temperature below freezing-point before breakfast
and to toil home with the mercury bumping above the lOOdeg.
mark.
As Madrid is centrally placed in Spain, so is everything
in Madrid centred in the Puerta del Sol—a square aptly
named after the old Gate of the Sun. But in the Plaza Mayor
and the Calle de Alcala there are fine buildings. They have
a post office of which they are as proud as Sydney is of its
harbor bridge, and they have an underground railway which
runs under the Manzanares along the edges of the old town.
Officially Madrid is still a villa.
The Manzanares is called a river. It used to be an untidy
creek, its banks considerably battered by the age-long approach >
of asses and washerwomen. Now, hugging the sides of
the old squarish capital, it runs, its banks bound in with
stone, through a long strip of parklands which debouch into
other and larger parks and open spaces dotted with universities,
schools and bullrings. The Royal Palace looks out on the
Manzanares. Hard by is the Prado, one of the finest galleries
in Europe, full of Tintorettos, El Grecos, Goyas and the
works of Titian and Velasquez.
Several bridges cross the little stream —Puente de Toledo
and Puente de Segovia are about the best of them. Beyond
are new garden suburbs, of which Carabanchel, where most
of the fighting has been, is one.
On the whole, the defenders have all the advantages of the
siege. They also have the thick end of the stick in that the
besiegers are not only Spaniards but patriots steeped in the
broth of reverence for old Spain and its valuables. Destroy
the Prado, the Palacio Real, the Palacio Gobernacion, set on
fire the priceless library of the University, which holds 2,500,000
books and manuscripts covering all the glory of Spain through
the centuries —no, senor! The investing army wishes to keep
these treasures. Besides it commands most of the roads into
Madrid, and can afford to wait and starve it out without doing
what the Government forces did to the Alcazar.
Hence, after all, Madrid has not experienced the real
rigors and terrors of heavy gunfire. The only Chapeis which
are being born are in its garden suburbs around Carabanchel.
To wreck Madrid would be a measure of desperation.
The Wool Market.
Synchronously with the resumption of negotiations
for the settlement of the trade war with Japan, U.A.P.
newspapers have been going into ecstasies because
wool is up 10 p.c. to 20 p.c. above the prices
ruling at the opening of the season. It is partly an
effect of-the fortuitous and (for us) very fortunate
devaluation of the franc and the lira; but the truth
is that wool is always up in November except in very
abnormal seasons. Last year it rose from an average
of Bd. per pound for “greasy” in August and 12.2 d. per
pound in September to 14.2 d. in November.
What are more interesting are developments over-
seas. The October Bulletin of the British Overseas
Trade Department remarks:
Stocks of wool in Japan have swollen to an extent
indicated by stocks at the principal port houses. These
were 270,000 bales at the end of June, an increase of
, 100,000 bales compared with a year ago. These heavy
stocks have facilitated the boycott [of Australia wool),
but it is, of course, inconceivable that such a policy can
be continued indefinitely.
In England “machinery activity on the whole has
been well maintained,” though there is more unem-
ployment in worsted weaving at Bradford.
One puzzling factor at first glance is the dispro-
portionate rise in tops prices which has taken place.
Tops weakened on the first Australian sale. But in
October they began to rise, and last week they took
a jump in merino types, 64’s to 70’s and over, of from
Id. to l|d. per pound. This placed 70’s at 36d.,
against 32|d. in November last year, and yarns also
were dearer.
Some clue is provided by the Overseas Trade
Department Bulletin:
The Chinese tops market is proving a very useful
outlet, the export of tops to that country so far this year
being twice as large as in 1935 and four times as large
as in 1934.
Even allowing for a dwindling in yarn exports
to China, this is interesting.
Chinese woollen mills are largely financed by
Japanese, and were previously supplied with Japanese
tops and yarns.
Stinginess Doesn't Pay.
Victorian farmers are worried at the drift to other
States of agricultural science research officers. Settlers
in irrigation areas are perturbed at the number of
engineers leaving the State Rivers and Water Supply
Commission for other jobs. The State Electricity
Commission and the Country Roads Board have their
own casualty-lists, though each may be smaller in
proportion.
Poor salaries account for the emigration. In the
Electricity Commission a 1933 graduate started on
£3 10s. a week, and was still getting it when he left
a few months ago. A fully-qualified engineer was
paid £4 10s. a week after 2| years’ service. He
quitted the other day for a better position.
The Rivers and Water Supply Commission has
lost 32 engineers since 1911. According to the royal
commission, they went to other public authorities
whose senior engineers get twice the salaries paid by
the commission.
Department of Agriculture research officers —
highly specialised professional men who cannot be
replaced easily—have been departing for N. S. Wales
and Queensland. At present 17 agricultural science
graduates, 11 of whom are with the Vic. department,
are registered with the Melbourne University Appoint-
ments Board. As the Minister of Agriculture (Mr.
Hogan) has learned, they want jobs in other States.
Mr. Hogan, for his part, regards the drift
with complacency. “Instead of Victoria having to
go to other States for competent officers, we are
the training ground for Australia,” he told a depu-
tation last week. This will convince neither the
farmers nor the migrating officers.
By training agricultural scientists and engineers,
among others, Melbourne University, which gets a
Government grant of £40,500, is giving Victoria full
value for the money, and more. By neglecting to pay
fair salaries to such of these University graduates as it
employs, the Government —after having gone to the
additional expense of adding departmental training to
academic qualifications—is depriving the State of know-
ledge which it needs, and will need increasingly. And it
is in no way creditable to Victoria that its sons should
leave it for other parts because their mother State
will not pay them decent salaries.
Character of the Cow.
Drought has a considerable slice of Queensland in
its grip. That is not unusual in a State of such vast
extent; but, instead of sheep and beef-cattle dis-
tricts being unduly parched, dairying districts are now
suffering, and suffering severely. Dairy cattle in
considerable numbers are dying for lack of food and
water.
Into this atmosphere steps the paternal Govern-
ment with offers of loans free of interest. Dairy
companies are arranging the distribution of the gifts.
They are, of course, welcome, and may be necessary.
Yet there are things that might be said; that
perhaps should be said. The average Queensland
cow is not as good as she ought to be. Evidence of
this is given in the latest report of the Department
of Agriculture.
Queensland possesses more than 900,000 dairy
cattle, of which number about 740,000 would nor-
mally be “in milking.” Animals tested in 1935-36
from 402 herds totalled 14,422, but production returns
yielded by only 6413 cows were computed—under
1 p.c. of the total number of cows milked.
The comparatively few tests that were made gave
an average yield of 141 pounds of butter-fat —20 p.c.
less than the Australian average.
On the basis of a shilling a pound for butter-fat
the Queensland cow is worth £2 a year less than the
ordinary Australian cow.
A few of the cows tested showed quite respectable
returns. It follows that there were —and are —a con-
siderable number of very inferior character. Indeed,
over 19 p.c. of the animals in the herds of “progres-
sive” farmers —deemed progressive because they had
their herds tested —gave less than 100 pounds of
butter-fat during the year. In the absence of evidence
to the contrary, it may be assumed that the poor
cows ate as much as their betters.
The present drought ought to inspire not only
thoughts about conservation of fodder, but reflec-
tions on the character of the cow.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBL E'S INKS"
“Norbell”: There was a yarn current
during the war that two Diggers held
a pretended conversation, consisting en-
tirely of Australian place-names, for the
edification of a squad of admiring
Tommies. The following “dialogue” is
really a list of postal and railway towns
and townlets, mainly Victorian:
“Graham’s Til.”
“Doctor’s Flat! Boosey. Sulky.”
“Yea? Howlong?”
“Dropmore, Inky-Pinkie! Brimmin,
Watchem! ”
“Kilmany?”
“Mitre!”
“Gnarkeet, Blowhard! ”
“Wright, Mossiface! Bet Bet Dollar Kil-
more. Huon, Monegetta?”,
“Wbroo! Howe's Creek?”
“Bright, Wilby; Morwell, Mumblin.”
“Lah! Werribee?”
“Hospital, Creek.”
“Cowes!”
“Bena Merrijig!”
“Wal Wal! Smoko, Hay?”
“Yass!”
* * * *
“Fiona”: I had just arrived to take
charge of an outback M.L. school when
Renata appeared to invite me to a dance
the Maoris were giving in their own
hall. Tactfully I suggested that as a new-
comer. I would probably have a rather
thin time, as the youthful Maoris would
not want to dance with a stranger and
might stand somewhat in awq of the
school-teacher. Renata loftily waved my
objections aside. “I fix all fat,” he said
affably. “I tell tern I punch their prurry
noses tey no tance wit you. Ten they
tance wit anypody at all.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: In “Answers to Correspon-
dents” (B. 4/11/’36) “J.A.” is told (1)
that Cecil Rhodes was not down-and-
out in Sydney in 1870—or any other
time —and (2) that somebody has been
pulling his leg. Both statements are
correct, yet “J.A.” need not blush over
the error. When one of the world’s
most famous men prints a thumping lie,
with a straight face, posterity may be
well excused for believing it. This
Rhodes yarn is one of the brightest in
Mark Twain’s book about his visit to
Australia in 1896. Twain says that
Rhodes, then youthful and unknown,
captured in Sydney Harbor a shark
which had travelled so fast from Euro-
pean waters that a London paper inside
it was still readable. The Franco-
German War had just started, and the
young visitor, realising that wool would
be needed urgently, persuaded a Sydney
financier to back him, bought all the
wool in sight and cleared a fortune.
How old Mark would chuckle over a
generation, not knowing his wiles, aris-
ing 40 years later to lap up this amazing
invention as gospel.
jJj *1 ! *i* *f*
“Tuart”: The sixteenth and twentieth
centuries are quaintly mingled in the
affair of Mrs. Freer, perhaps with a bit
of Egypt b.c. thrown in. A flapper-
paper sent a member of its staff to see
the wife of the warrior concerned. Did
she impress the girl-reporter as a figure
of tragedy? Not a bit of it; the scribe’s
dominant impression was of her ‘'moder-
nity,” as “expressed in her modish frock-
ing, in the red lacquering of her finger-
nails and toenails” —the latter “visible in
house sandals” —“and in her moist,
scarlet-rouged lips.” Was it she who had
implored Canberra to exclude the Other
Person? Bless you, no! The idea of ask-
ing a silly old Government to interfere
in an affair of the heart! In Maoriland
about the same time the Other Person
was saying that the long and short of
the matter was that two persons had
fallen in love and it couldn’t be helped.
In other words, the ladies understood the
situation perfectly, and were quite pre-
pared to fight it out according to the
rules, one to win and no quarter for
the loser. But into this 1936 triangle
blunders Torn Paterson, born in Birm-
ingham, but spiritually one with John
Knox. Poor old Paterson, who “re-
ceived information from India that an
Australian military officer had become
entangled with a Mrs. Freer” —“a pairson
of undesirable character,” ye ken —and
who “approved of action being taken to
prevent Mrs. Freer from landing.” In his
own view, no end of a stern, unbending
moralist, though the whole community
is laughing at him when it isn’t sneering.
“Sorry, old dear, hut there doesn't seem to be a rabbit about the place."
“Lex”: The latest press furphy about
royal marriages is that the King may, if
he pleases, marry a commoner, and then
decide whether she shall be “queen or
consort.” Actually, there are no restric-
tions on the marriage of the reigning
monarch, save that the lady must not be
an R.C.; but the King’s bride automati-
cally becomes his consort, and hence his
queen-consort. “Queen” is purely a
courtesy title; the queen is merely the
queen-consort, and she is not Queen of
England. And when her husband’s life
comes to an end her job has ceased.
* * * *
“S.G.”: As a Victorian I had to grin
at the Sydney newspaper accounts of the
Blue Mountains bushfires. Two journals
seized the opportunity to canonise
Columbus, and one had “300 priests”
from the new saint’s college (St.
Columba’s really) fighting the flames.
The same authority painted a harrowing
picture of the inmates of a hospital
(which has water laid on everywhere
and is better equipped with patent
sprinklers and the like than most city
buildings) cowering in terror at the
approach of a blaze that was never
within half a mile of them. But the
first (and worst) day was “Black Thurs-
day.” Damage on “Black Thursday,” a
few shacks and a few hundred acres, of
bush “totally destroyed.” Victoria’s
Black Thursday (February 6, 1851) was,
according to the brief Year-Book note,
“a day of tremendous heat and destruc-
tive fires; a large tract of country was
devastated, a vast amount of property
was destroyed, numbers of sheep, cattle
and horses perished and several lives
were lost.” Worse happened in Gipps-
land and other parts of Victoria in
January and February, 1926:
The fires were the most disastrous in the
history of the State. Thirty-one lives were
lost and a large amount of property was
destroyed.
And at Erica on February 5, 1932:
During the bushfires that raged in many
districts that month, six men were over-
taken by flames and all perished.
After a week of sporadic burning round
Springwood and Glenbrook, the. only
lives lost were those of two pigs.
* * * *
"Ike Hollar”: A postscript was added
to my par. about a lighted cigarette butt
in a bird's nest causing a fire at St.
Mary’s presbytery, Sydney (B. 4/11/’36j,
when Sydney’s Unitarian Church was
burnt out. In the second case the butt
is supposed to have been thrown from
an upper window of an adjacent high
building. The church, built 58 years
ago, was an intellectual centre from its
inception; the hall in the basement was
a favorite resort for persons interested
in letters. The first incumbent was Syd-
ney Smith ; he resigned to join the Edu-
cation Department, and became head-
master at Penrith. Another was the Rev.
George Walters, whose play “Joseph of
Canaan” awakened controversies when
produced in London and Australia. Rev.
A. B. Worthington had a more chequered
career. The Rev. A. Rivett, father of a
distinguished family, was minister for a
term ; his zeal as a political publicist
caused him eventually to devote all his
efforts to journalism. In one way and
another all the Unitarian ministers have
been outstanding figures in Sydney lire.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Once more we are hear-
ing about a wonderful 8™ for aero
planes firing a shell of a little over a
pound. This variation of our old friend
the pom-pom has been bobbing up ever
since the war, and I am not sure it was
not tried while that fuss was in progress
—it was plentifully employed on the
ground as an anti-aircraft weapon any-
way. With a lot of first-hand expert-
cnee of pom-pom shells, I am inclined
to doubt whether the little missile would
do any harm to a ’plane save with a
rlirp‘f‘l hit nn some solid target like the
direct hit on some solid target ukc me
engine or the struts. It hardly seems
likely to have any effect on the fabric,
and to explode it in this case would
call for a dangerously sensitive fuse. What
T chmilH Uko to see tried is a weapon on
I should like to see tried is a weapon on
the line of the four-bore gun used by
professional wild-fowlers in England.
Mounted on a punt, these have an effec-
tive range of 100 yards or more with a
charge of two pounds of shot of any
size wanted A blast from one loaded
with swanshot would make the boldest
wim swansnot WOUIU maKc
pilot think about leaving tor home.
* * *
“S TS ” ‘ A shooting case of a too-
familiar kind has taken place in SA.
There were the usual father, amiable.
when not in liquor, but dangerous at the
moment to wife and family the usual
scared boy, just under 14, fetching a
gun ; and the usual body on the floor :
also, in due course, the usual verdict of
not guilty. The only fresh features were
a suggestion by the defending counsel
that the prosecution ought never to have
even been brought and a reference by
the Judge, even while reproving that sug-
gestion, to “the painful duty of those
responsible to prosecute this poor boy.
“Lifer”: Another little matter which
newspaper artists might study with ad-
vantage is the inside of a gaol. No cell
door (B. 11/11/’36) ever opens inwards.
Also, there would be no need for a
warder to enter a cell in order to dis-
cover an inmate trying to file his way
out, for there is a peephole in every
cell door for such purposes. Also, there
are no barred windows in any cell, ex-
cept above the door. And if a warder
does enter a cell, the prisoner must,
according to regulations, be found stand-
ing with his back to the wall just inside
the door; and he must assume that
position when he hears the door being
unlocked. And, of course, there are no
beds in gaol. Prisoners sleep in ham-
mocks.
* * * *
“Ichabod Crane”: The editor of the
N.S.W. “School Magazine” showed a
queer lack of tact in including Leigh
Hunt’s undistinguished sonnet “The
Grasshopper and the Cricket” in the
November issue. My school is in a
wheat district where grasshoppers arc
appearing in myriads, to the great
damage and dismay of farmers. Hunt
sings of the pests:
O sweet and tiny cousins
... .given to earth
To ring in thoughtful ears this natural song—
Indoors and out, summer and winter, Mirth.
If the kids took that home and recited
it to their parents there would be a
general agreement that the poet should
have had his brains brushed.
* * * *
From the Inky Way:
These broadcasters— beg pardon, “radio per-
sonalities” —make me envious. They have quite
taken the shine out of us newspapermen. Even
editors of Great Dailies are scarcely known
outside theft particular offices and small circles
of acquaintances, yet every announcer has his
”S 2I!S
of being a ce i e brity and of doing work of vast
national importance.
And the money these “radio personalities”
get! £>?&£&
was singing ragtime ditties rather dejectedly for
a sma n sa i ar y 5 now makes as much as any three
editors who are just editors. When I heard
him the other night he a Great Lover, a
J o Ssllm m SjKeaman and several other’
characters in the space of half an hpur or so.
Doing it all very well, let it be said, and I,
Jf. JS.SK
j iave at j engt h been recognised,
yet this enormous appreciation of worthies
who deal ephemerally in the spoken word con-
trasts oddly with the neglect of writers who
and thought f?r their own
generatjori; and moulded the destinies of ours
and of genera tions to come.
James Edmond, for instance. Edmond was
the one journalist of genius I have known, and
withal he was the most modest of men. He
& humoristj a historian, a writer of en-
chanting Stories and a maker of national poli-
c j es> A Twain, Greeley, Guedalla and Garvin
& Were
toa£ P her and shot tbe mass into Edmond’s
ska]l there wou id have been room for 20 more.
n. G. Wells was one of his admirers; I have
been told that Wells was once heard to marvel
Australia should possess the greatest jour-
nalist of the age .
When I saw Edmond for the last time, he
W as walking very slowly down George-street,
Sydney• l NobodyTS
him . n obody even looked at him.
’ advice t 0 “ ra dio personalities” is that
j b ey should gather the rosebuds and the razoos
while they may. The boom mightn’t last.
TO.
Forgive us, we pray you, dear madam,
For having the cheek to address •
From our hearts, which you don’t know from
Adam,
From our boots, which may interest you less,
These humble few' words, inter alia,
To beg that you ever remain
Within coo-ee, at least, of Australia,
Or come back again and again.
Dear madam (the “dear” is platonic),
Consider the things, thanks to you,
That, erstwhile triumphantly chronic,
Have vanished a while from our view:
The rumors of wars, and the thunder
Of actual fighting in Spain . . .
That we pray you to stay can you wonder,
Lest we get these again and again?
From “delicate French situations,”
And “Russians full-armed and alert”;
From “strained diplomatic relations,”
And brays of some ass in a shirt;
From Portuguese eager for fighting,
And “threats” from the Swiss and the Dane
We are spared at the moment of writing,
Thanks to you . . . but we’ll get ’em again !
Or turn from these sulphurous doings:
Behold what a back seat the “quins”
Occupy for their world-thrilling cooings
And the length of their tresses and shins!
As for “heroes” of Rugby and cricket,
They’re one with the “battles” of Zane ...
But, madam, we pray you to stick it,
Or we’U get ’em again and again!
In the rush to be “news” may you conquer
All Simpsons and Parkhills and such;
All Spooners and Langs may you stonker,
And Wotans send home on a crutch!
By such service already we say you
Have saved us unspeakable pain;
So hang around, madam, we pray you,
For we’ll need you again and again.
N.S.W.
SIZZLE.


“Tenth Tempest”: The R.A.N. is
moving with the times in the matter of
Christian names, the Georges, Alfs and
Bills of other days giving way to Guys,
Adrians and so on. Also, hyphenated
surnames are encountered on the lower
deck where 20 years ago they were prac-
tically unknown. Among baptismal
names with warlike associations there
are a few Kitcheners and Jellicoes, one
or two Horatio Nelsons and one Anzac.
The latter’s full appellation is Neville
Quinn Anzac Turk. He was born in
1916.
“Barangkali”: Sydney’s Sunday “Sun”
has reproduced half a dozen photos, of
scenes connected with the sinking of the
Emden. According to the caption, three
were of “German sailors in captivity.”
Actually a sentry standing guard over
the cablemen on Cocos was depicted in
one photo., and a sailor sitting behind a
machine-gun trained over the lagoon
jetty in another; the third showed the
landing party leaving the jetty in two
launches for the schooner Ayesha lying
out in the lagoon. I know 1 am right;
l have the negatives.
* * * *
“Freelance”: “Kellick” (B. 4/11/’36)
seems to know his ships, but I’m sur-
prised that he puts dockyard noises
before naval gunfire. For sheer noise,
a barrage from big guns cannot be
beaten; the whole ship’s company, from
captain down to the lowest matelot, is
deaf for minutes afterwards. Next worst
is the multiple machine-gun lately in-
stalled on the Canberra. Pneumatic,
drills are soothing compared with this
little toy.
* * * *
“Mak”: Those Federal officers who
are so interested in foreign languages
would have been welcome in one of
Melbourne’s suburban courts when an
Italian wife sought maintenance from
her husband. With a wealth of gesture,
she explained she had left him because
she found a letter he had received from
another woman. She added that she
couldn’t read English, so she had taken
it to an interpreter and had acted on
the strength of his version of the con-
tents. The husband denied unfaithful-
ness and declared the interpretation had
been faulty. The P.M. asked for the note.
He couldn’t make head or tail of the
“English” used in it. Case dismissed!
* * * *
“Wandana”: The first radio beacon
for shipping in Australia, to be estab-
lished at Cape Otway lighthouse, Vic-
toria, will broadcast a fixed signal, en-
abling vessels to use their own direc-
tion-finding apparatus to check bearings
with the Cape. By way of contrast is
the still-standing old beacon —or “great
tower,” as it was called—erected on
Raine Island, Barrier Reef. Built by
mixed convict and free labor over 90
years ago as a warning to shipping using
the dangerous Torres Strait passage, its
walls are of sft. thick coral, slabs of
which were hewn out of the reef and
compacted with lime made from shells.
The solid is 40ft. high, with a wooden
superstructure making total height 70ft.
The wood was secured from some of
the many wrecks in the vicinity, and an
iron tank lifted from the Martha Ridg-
way wreck was installed to catch rain-
water. The “great tower” is Australia’s
oldest beacon to remain standing. It
carried no light, of course.
* * * %
“Fergus”: A hundred men nabbed in
an Elsternwick (Vic.) billiard saloon
were indirectly responsible for a
Russell-street traffic jamb. Alleging that
the men were indulging in s.p. betting,
police rushed as many as they could
catch to the city watch-house; fortu-
nate ones had friends who went bail for
them, but 50 spent the night in the cells.
Unsuspecting wives reported their hus-
bands missing, and telephones, along with
"Nice thing, black'nin' a fellow's eye on his honeymoon."
"Sorry, darling—l must have been dreaming about Reggie .”
Js.P. and the watch-house staff, worked
overtime. City cops brought in other
citizens on wet - Saturday - afternoon
charges, and the indignation of these
gentry when they were chucked into cells
to wait their turn lent colorful variety
to a busy scene. Fresh from Adelaide
and its legalised s.p. shops, English
cricketers and visiting journalists must
have been nearly as amused at this inter-
state contradiction as by the “Sun-Pic-
torial’s” grave leader entitled “Night of
Anxiety.”
* * * *
“Koi Hai”: A Sydney “Morning
Herald” photograph of the 30th (N.S.W.
Scottish) Batt. fighting a bushfire at
Campbelltown throws some doubt on
the suitability of the kilt for this sort
of work. But not all the flame-beaters
are wearing it. One of them appears in
“ Inspector , have you seen a costume like this on the beach?”
“Cant say I have,"
“Then I’ll stay!"
tin-hat, singlet and abbreviated trunks —
a much better rigout in the circum-
stances. Nevertheless, he would be
orderly-roomed for his lapse in a regu-
lar Highland batt., where anything in the
form of scanties is strictly barred by
regulation as well as tradition.
“Dingbat”: As a student I was present
at a major operation. Immediately the
ether began to make itself felt, the
patient, a woman, who had smiled on the
surgeon in the friendliest way, abused
him vilely. He listened to the stream of
epithets without turning a hair, but I
heard him whisper to the anaesthetist
“That’s exactly what she thinks of me” ;
as the patient lay silent and still, he
added “But it’s nothing to what I think
of her.” He carried on; the operation
was successful and the patient recovered.
Nowadays, to outward seeming, they are
the best of friends.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Casual cooks make
their Christmas puddings on Christmas
day, but Tomkins’s wife belonged to
the months-ahead school; the culinary
marvel, after a preliminary boiling, was
encased in wrappings like an Egyptian
mummy and hung up for the flies to
roost on. Came the day, it would be
cut down, reboiled and served at the
family festival, and, being a meek man,
Tomkins for years ate the mummified
dough in silence. But the worm will
turn ; Tomkins arrived home exhilarated,
tore down the. sacred duff and, after a
disastrous attempt to kick it round the
kitchen, smote it violently with the axe
and heaved the fragments over the back
fence. Thereabout the dishonored
chunks lay for months, even the niggers’
dogs failing to do any good with them.
Then a geological party arrived, and
the heart of one student maid thrilled
with the triumph of discovery. (“Micro-
scopic sections of the newly-discovered
rock reveal a curious greyish structure
interspread with dark semi-transparent
lobes. * Chemical tests reveal carbona-
ceous matter with saccharine reactions.”)
“Hum,” remarked the professor. “Obvi-
ously a perfect specimen of pudding
stone.”
“Kali”: Thirty-odd years ago competi-
tion from bigger concerns caused a meat-
canning factory at Bourke (N.S.W.) to
close down. Last year one of the packers,
who had migrated to Perth, called while
on a motoring holiday at a shop at Cue
(W.A.) for provisions. Among these
were two tins of corned beef that bore
the brand of the old Bourke factory, and
though the contents were at least 30
years old the meat was as edible as the
day it was canned. Yet there are some
who say our tinned goods will not keep.
* * * *
“First Blue”: If clumsy phrases spoil
the prose of our pressmen (B. 4/11/’36),
what is one to say of the English em-
ployed by those who frame, our laws?
This week’s Vic. “Government Gazette”
contains the following definitions:
Horse shall include any draught animal
or beast of burden.
Driver shall mean the person in charge
of a vehicle or horse.
Motor-car shall include any conveyance
propelled by mechanical power and shall
include a motor-cycle.
Vehicle shall include any cycle and any
conveyance drawn or propelled by human,
animal or mechanical power.
If perambulators can be described as
vehicles, horse-riders as drivers and
motor-cycles as motor-cars, of what use
are dictionaries?
.* * * *
“Spare Corp”: “Morita’s” par. (B.
4/11/’36) reminds me of the day we
arrived at Morbecque and found a
strong smell of spirituous liquor in the
air. Investigation showed that an
officers’ mess of a back-up-the-line unit
had been abandoned on account of the
German push, and before departure the
stock had been smashed up lest it should
impair the efficiency of any soldiers who
might come on it. The smashed bottles
lay in a heap on the ground. We
couldn’t believe that the Tommies de-
tailed for the job wouldn’t have hidden
a few bottles for future reference, and
an adjacent pond suggested itself as an
ideal hiding-place. Every inch of the
banks and bottom of that pond was
prodded with long sticks resultlessly. 1
didn’t participate in the fishing, but, lying
on the straw in the barn which was our
billet, I felt something hard beneath me.
It turned out to be three bottles of the
best'. My section kept the secret (and
the bottles) to itself, while the others
wondered how we managed to get so
joyful on vin blanc.
* * * *
“Runa”: A man walking on Oreti
Beach (M.L.) picked up a grey-colored
pebble, but tossed it away. Finding a
similar pebble of smaller size, he became
curious and sent it to a geologist, who
identified it as a nugget of almost pure
platinum, value about £5O. In parts of
south M.L. platinum has been discovered,
usually in small flakes, and experts can’t
agree as to whether the nugget came from
a river deposit or was washed up from
the ocean bed.
jfc # # *
“Oran”: A telegram that made two
office staffs sit up and look doubtfully
at it was sent to Auckland (M.L.) by a
young woman after a voyage from One-
hunga to New Plymouth. It read,
“Terrible trip, fair forfoughten and dis-
jaskit.” New Plymouth, questioning the
unfamiliar words, was told they were
gude Scots, and advised to look them
up in “Webster.” Auckland also rushed
to verify them. It found they had much
the same meaning: fatigued, worn out,
“done in.” And as the young woman
had sailed in a storm over the Manukau
Bar and down the wild M.L. west coast,
she probably felt just like that.
* * * *
“N.8.W.”: An enormous cedar four-
poster which belonged to an old Tweed
River (N.S.W.) family had an extra-
ordinary history. Sent from England in
the very early days, it was shipped north
in a coastal boat which was wrecked
near the river mouth. The owner of
the bed patiently patrolled all neighbor-
ing beaches, and eventually collected
every piece. Put together it was as good
as ever. About three times too big for
prevailing taste in beds and a monstrous
piece of furniture for a bush home, the
curio was lately sold to an antique
dealer.
STUNG!
“Queensland politicians complain of the activity
ot mosquitoes at Parliament House.”
It wrings the heart, demands commiseration,
That such a fierce and aggravating foe
Should fall on framers of our legislation
When pondering the fateful “aye” or “no.”
They’ve problems quite enough to cause them
worry:
Elections and the pre-selection plot
From Job himself would wring an anguished
“plurry!”
And who will say, now mossies give them curry,
That martyrs they are not?
Picture the scene in sad imagination:
The Chamber, heavy with profound debate;
One member thunders with vociferation;
Others, with stert’rous breathing, meditate
(Or seem to); then is heard the sound of
slapping
On lug or dome as legislators narked —
Conscious again of the eternal yapping—
Deal deathblows to the Greys that caught them
napping,
And left them duly marked.
A politician’s life, it’s plain as I am,
Is, like the p’liceman’s, an unhappy one.
No doubt it’s much the same in Ur or Siam
As where the lovely Brisbane’s waters run.
Yet there are those who’ll ask, with low sus-
picion,
Does the mosquito live with power to slide
His long proboscis on its stinging mission
Into that indispensable provision,
A politician’s hide?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


w
10 for
t* *<
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
TIPPED CIGARETTE
THIS GENERATI
POLITICAL POINTS
The two Queensland by-elections are
horribly embarrassing the Holey Alliance.
That was one of the reasons why the
Prime Minister, making a meal of his
own words, decided (till he was over-
borne) to have a March election. The
Holey Alliance is giving Kennedy a
miss, but it must put up some sort of
show in Darling Downs. Though the
electorate has never been Labor, the
prospect is unpleasing.
A U.A.P. newspaper mentions that “the
Freer case is known among Ministers
as ‘Paterson’s curse.’” They got the
title from a Bulletin article (4/11/’36),
which, incidentally, was the first pub-
lished comment on the case. U.A.P.
newspapers didn’t come out with a word
of criticism until one discovered that
“members” were “receiving many pro-
tests from their constituents,” who are
also newspaper readers.
Stevens, the U.A.P. Premier, in a
memorandum tabled in the N.S.W. Par-
liament:—
Several thousand pfficers of the Indian
army are to be retired in the next five
years with substantial pension rights, and
they are exploring conditions of living in
Australia.
An interesting discovery. How about
engaging Mrs. Freer to assist the explora-
tions?
Lazzarini, M.L.A., and King, M.L.C.,
who have been expelled by Lang’s A.L.P.
executive, put up Grayndler, the old
A.W-U. secretary, for the late Jack
Higgins’s seat in the Leg. Council. The
Martin, M.L.C., who is secretary of
Lang’s organisation, nominated Yager,
who was one of Lang’s keenest critics in
1932 or thereabouts. Grayndler won,
and Lang’s A.L.P. executive has been
frothing at the mouth ever since.
No State has had more. Factories Acts
than Victoria-—during the last 40 years
nearly every Parliament has passed one
—yet in no State is sweating so rife.
“You can find it in shirt factories and
clothing factories,” said Prendergast, the
Father of the House; “in hotels, restau-
rants and boarding-house, too,” said Hol-
land, the member for Flemington. Par-
liament is passing another Act.
“A Senate election held separately,”
said “S. M. Herald” sapiently, “is always
unpopular with Senate candidates.”
“Always” would be right if there ever
had been a “Senate election held separ-
ately.”
Australia is still losing population by
excess of departures over arrivals. Dur-
ing the nine months to the end of Sep-
tember, the excess was 2165, this not-
withstanding considerably increased ex-
penditure on national travel associations,
Government tourist bureaux and the like.
But the steady infiltration of Italians
continues ; the record says “there was a
permanent gain ' by migration of 774
Italians during the nine months.”
Queensland Labor’s central executive,
though very slow in repudiating the re-
pudiation speech of a State Labor
member, was very prompt in select-
ing the party candidate for the Ken-
nedy seat and ordering Queensland mem-
bers to vote for the Constitutional
Alteration (Marketing) Bill, which the
party leader had very properly criticised
as inadequate. Now it has refused to
“endorse” six Brisbane city aldermen
who would have gone up for re-election
next year. Refusal of endorsement, of
course, means that, if the six decide to let
their constituents pass judgment on them,
Q.C.E. will declare them bogus. A revolt
against Brisbane bossism is overdue in
Queensland.
It is unusual nowadays for dissatisfied
electors to call a member to account at
a public meeting. This happened the
other night at Five Dock, which is in the
constituency (Martin) of McCall, M.H.R.
A U.A.P. newspaper had to admit' that
The meeting carried resolutions disapprov-
ing of the attitude of Mr. McCall on the
Japanese trade dispute and condemning his
attitude on the Portland cement issue.
Five Dock two years ago gave McCall
2777 votes, 415 more than it divided
among the Labor candidates —there were
three. Evidently it won’t happen again.
For the year to June 30 Westralia’s
goldmining profits tax yielded a whole
£77,131 —Australian, of course. Lake
View and Star’s net profit for the same
period amounted to £478,814 sterling.
The co. pays dividend duty as well, but
dividend duty paid by all W.A. cos. in
1935-36 yielded just £282,819 Australian.
Were the mine on the Rand instead of
the Golden Mile, the Government would
have grabbed nearly half the £478,144
sterling for South African uses, largely
relief of agriculture.
Gullett and the Japanese Consul-
General have been discussing the trade
“He’s coming up to take a breather, Boh. We’ll catch him yet.”
war again, and Melbourne “Age” warns
the Government that “with respect to the
essence of the policy” Australia “will
expect it to stand adamant.” Expecting
putty to be adamantine —it isn’t fair!
it is believed in the U.S.A. that the
Supreme Court is about to pronounce
more RooS evelt measures invalid, and
that if it does the re-elected President
w iil tackle it. The Constitution permits
Congress, “by a two-thirds vote in each
House,” to propose amendments; they
. ’ u u a . . T • t
have to be sub ™ lt(eb lo State Legisla-
res ° r conventions for ratification, and
three-fourths of either may ratify. No
Presi d en t has ever been in a better posi-
tlon to secure amendments than the
secon o Roosevelt is now.
During a Canberra equivalent of a
fishwives’ wrangle, a Labor M.H.R. men-
tioned that “once in each session, four
times a year, a member is entitled to
bring his wife to the capital at the public
expense,” and he, the gentleman speak-
ing, had “never abused the privilege.”
A U.A.P. worthy retorted that he didn’t
make a practice of “riding in luxurious
limousines to and from Queanbeyan each
day at the public expense,” nor had he
deadheaded it to Sydney in a Govern-
ment car to address a public meeting.
The only transport privilege granted to
British members is a return ticket to
London for actual sittings. And their
salary is £4OO p.a.
Great Thoughts from Canberra:
“The people are in a state of abysmal
and placid ignorance regarding the Consti-
tution,” said Mr. Menzies. “The average
Australian would vote ‘No’ to any proposed
constitutional amendment through sheer
ignorance and prejudice, to be found all
too frequently in newspapers.”
Menzies? Menzies? Oh, yes; he’s
Attorney-General in the Government
which has been told by the Privy Coun-
cil that its marketing legislation hasn’t a
constitutional leg to stand on, and by
the High Court that the power to con-
trol civil aviation which it has exercised
for years does not exist.
The. A.N.A. at its Federal conference
passed resolutions in favor of supreme
and unchallengeable powers being
granted to the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, and of Australians being eligible
for all Australian posts, from the Gov-
ernor-Generalship down. So far good ,
but in a thoughtless moment delegates
agreed that “support for the League of
Nations should be the fundamental prin-
ciple of Australian foreign policy.”
Blind adhesion to this “fundamental
principle” last year nearly involved Aus-
tralia in a foreign war in which there
would have been no possibility of gain
or glory for Australia or Britain or any
other country except Russia. And Russia
would have done no fighting.
Asked for at' least a halfpenny off the
dearest postage in the world (Maoriland
has penny postage), Parkhill asserted that
it would mean losing a million of
revenue. Much the same tale was told
when 1 p.c. was taken off sales tax.
There has been no slump in
receipts.
By way of denying rumors that it is
dissatisfied with Dunstan’s leadership, the
Vic. C.P. has placed it on record that
it “urges the Premier to accept the invi-
tation to visit England for the Corona-
tion and assures him of loyal sup-
port during his absence.” The resolu-
tion must have been read with gall and
wormwood in Macquarie-street, Sydney.
Stevens ruefully admits that he has had
no invitation to the Coronation, only “a
letter from the Under-Secretary for the
Dominions to the effect that if the Pre-
mier happened to be in London at the
time the Government would be happy to
see him.”
In the young Kipling’s day Anglo-
Indian ladies were unconventional, and
perhaps they haven’t changed much. Kip-
ling’s advice to Anglo-Indian gentlemen
is worth quoting, though it doesn’t seem
to have been, necessary:
If there be trouble to Herward, and a lie of the
blackest can clear,
Lie, while thy lips can move or a man is alive
to hear.
Tummas Paterson has other views.
Curtin has worked it out that since
Lyons became P.M. 12 Ministers have
made 18 overseas trips costing £50,000,
exclusive of salaries. And another
£lO,OOO, exclusive of salaries, has been
earmarked for the Coronation jaunt.
Hobart General Hospital is once more
a storm centre of Tasmanian State poli-
tics. A matron was retired because she
couldn’t hit' it with the superintendent,
Dr. Ratten, and Father O’Donnell was
appointed chairman of a new board. The
new board weathered the storm of an
inquiry into the matron’s case ; now it
is to be superseded by a commission or
something. Supporters of the old and
new boards are predicting that Pre-
mier Ogilvie will be superseded by the
electors.
A Sydney paper announces confidently
that a “rebel” warship has captured in
the Mediterranean a Soviet freighter
which “sailed from Baku for Hamburg
early in November.” Then she must
have sailed over the Caucasus and
several hundred miles of dry land from
the Caspian Sea.
N.S.W. Labor doesn’t give the electors
credit for much intelligence. It clings
to its curious belief that many of them
marking Senate ballot-papers vote alpha-
betically ; hence, of 21 ; candidates for
the party nomination, six are As, four
Bs, two Cs and two Ds. Actually, in
the. Senate there are more Gs (Gibson,
Grant and Guthrie), Hs (Hardy, Hayes
and Hays) and Ps (Payne, Pearce and
Plain) than As (Abbott and Arkins) or
Ds (Dein and Duncan-Hughes). Cer-
tainly there are four Bs (Badman, Brand,
■Tom Brennan and Brown) and five Cs
(Collett, Collings, Cooper, Cox and
Crawford); but then there are eight Ms
(two MacDonalds, two McLachlans,
McLeay, Marwick, Massy-Greene and
Millen). Both As are newcomers —
Abbott dates from 1934 and Arkins from
1935. On the other hand, Pearce has
been a Senator from the beginning, and
has always topped the poll.
The de’il among the bankers:
There were queer goings-on in the world of
banking-c-M/M-politics last week. First, the chair-
man of the Commonwealth Bank Board denied
to the Banking Commission that he had ever
approved of the “Wales” raising its fixed-deposit
rate when the board was trying (ineffectually)
to establish an open market for Treasury
bills—the g.m. of the “Wales” had informed
the commission that said approval was given
but was withdrawn when too late. Then the
Bank Board’s refusal to underwrite the
£10,000,000 loan demanded by the State
Premiers led to Stevens calling Casey a de-
flationist and Casey retorting that Stevens was
an inflationist. Presumably the chairman of the
Bank Board would have been in Casey’s corner
had they kept at it, and the “Wales” man
would have held the sponge and bucket for
Stevens.


SUFFICIENTLY REVOLUTIONARY.
“Our complaint against Communism is not that it is too revolutionary, but that it is not revolutionary enough.”— Speaker at a C. of E. meeting in Melbourne.


.
r
B3P
ŵ
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
mn
wMjiaZ'-iHa
Repiesentatives: McPHERSONS PTV. LTD.,
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane'
Melbourne
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to ’’The Bulletin’s” criticism (10/l/’34). Policv-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC Assurance
CO., I/TD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Ten-ace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire - , Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Fiji’s new Governor, Arthur Richards,
K.C.M.G., is a bright, cheery personality
who does not look his 51 years, and who
brings with him a handsome young
family, none of whom does much to add
to the white-man’s-grave reputation of
Gambia, West' Africa, where they had
lived for the past three years. The new
Governor has spent 28 years in the
tropics, mainly in Malaya, where he rose
from a cadetship to some of the high-
est posts in the service. He left the
F.M.S. to become Governor of British
North Borneo in 1930.
The fiery thatch of Charlie. Bean—
officially Charles Edwin Woodrow Bean,
M.A., 8.C.L., Litt.D. —has become
slightly frosted of late years, but his
ardor is as keen as ever. Charles, son
The A.I.F.’s Historian.
of the parsonage, was educated at one
of England’s most fruitful army-officer
recruiting grounds, Clifton College, and
Hereford College, Oxford. He was
called to the N.S.W. Bar, spent a term as
a Judge’s associate, joined the “S.M.H.”
in 1908 and represented it in London for
a year or two, wrote a couple of the
best books that have been done on the
Australian outback— The Dreadnought
on the Darling and On the Wool Track
—and was rescued from a leader-
writer’s life by his appointment as
official war correspondent. He left in
1914, saw every great action fought by
the A.I.F. and, 18 years after the end
of the scrap, is still sedulously writing
war history.
J. W. T. Forrest, a man with an in-
nate understanding of the child mind,
retired from the Sydney Children’s Court
Bench last week. He had been an S.M.
for 10 years, and had given many a mis-
guided or badly-controlled youngster the
chance of a decent start in life.
Quiet, much-liked Tom Bearup, who
was a figure in broadcasting as far back
as 1924, when he managed 3LO Mel-
bourne, has returned from eight months
of research work overseas. Like a lot
of other leading men in radio, he built
his career on a foundation of five years
as a ship’s wireless operator. He has
been Victorian manager of the A.B.C.
and its predecessor control bodies since
1929.
Old Palestine campaigners well remem-
ber George Rankin, who has just suc-
ceeded to the command of the 2nd
Cavalry Division, C.M.F. A busy fighter
and a tireless organised he commanded
the 4th A.L.H. 1916-18,, and when the
tumult was over came quietly home and
hung up his D.S.O. (and bar) on a farm
at Bamawm (Vic.). He had the sth
Cavalrv Brigade for five years before
1931.
Harry McGowan, who will be in Aus-
tralia early next year, is head of
Britain’s biggest single business combina-
tion. He hails from Glasgow, and was
managing director of Nobels Indus-
tries. Then one day he ' and Sir
Alfred Mond met casually on the Aqui-
tania in mid-ocean and agreed offhand
to form Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries, with a £65,000,000 capital, to
control Britain’s alkali, dyes, explosives
and some other products. On his way
here McGowan has had a look at
U.S.A., where he is a director of General
Motors—in fact, it would be difficult for
him to set foot on any civilised corner
of the earth in which his firm has no
interests.
Chief Inspector Duncan, of Scotland
Yard, who has been brought to Aus-
tralia to inquire into Victorian police
affairs, is a pleasant-faced, youngish
man with an orderly manner and a quiet,
deliberate air. In three guesses at his
profession few would think of police-
man. He is an elder of the kirk.
Vice-Admiral “Teddy” Evans, now
naval C.-in-C. at the Nore, is the first
man with Australian connections to be
elected to the coveted rectorship of St.
Andrews, which, with its scarlet gowns
and ancient air of ceremony, is one of
the most picturesque universities in
Europe. Many famous literary and public
men have held the rectorship, among
them J. M. Barrie, who wrote his essay
on “Courage” as an inaugural address.
J. R. Knapp is a tall, straight Ilia-
warran who looks more like a solicitor
than the first-class
dairyman he is.
For a generation
or so his lllawarra
herd of stud cows
has been one of
the best on the
N.S.W. South
Coast. And so it
should be —its
owner has been a
cow - breeder for
the best part o!
three score years
and ten, and has
some of the finest
country in the
Gerringong dis-
trict.
One of the first
steps in progress
following the
granting of condi-
tional freedom to
the Philippines has
been the formation
of a new Manila
racing club with
J. R. KNAPP, of the Illawarra.
a capital of £120,000. And, the club hav-
ing plenty of members with plenty of
money but no horses, the secretary,
S. Y. Day, has been sent to Australia to
pick up gallopers for division among
prospective owners. He has no order
for a job lot of bookies, but is investi-
gating the working of the tote.
There were few better known Sydney
Labor pioneers than “Charlie” Fox, who
has passed on at 73 ; he organised at
least a score of unions which are now
powerful. Charlie was frequently urged
to accept Labor selection, but firmly
declined to take the personal plunge
into politics. He served many terms as
president of the Sydney Labor Council.
Ted Grayndler, who to the vast annoy-
ance of Martin and Graves, of Lang’s
A.L.P., was voted into, the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council, is not Australian-born,
though nobody could be more Austra-
lian in speech and spirit. Montreal,
Canada, claims him as a son, and there
is French blood in him. A bushman in
youth and young manhood, he has been
an A.W.U. official for 41 of his 69 years
and has been general secretary' since
1912. Racing is his chief recreation, and
he is no mean hand at picking ’em.
Bryant and May will scarcely seem the
same firm now that J. M. Joshua has
retired after 27 years as managing
director. When Joshua took over the
Australian end of the business it was in
a comparatively small way ; to-day it
can stand up to any match industry in
the world for modern machinery, factory
conditions and staffing. He will not
completely cut adrift, however; he is to
remain chairman of the Melbourne com-
pany, of the Federal Match Co. (Sydney)
and the W.A. Match Co. His managerial
successor is A. R. Gordon, an accoun-
tant who joined the board last year.
“Moth”: Jack Buckeridge, quoted by
“M.” (B. 11/11/’36), is not Maoriland’s
first one-eyed pilot. Percy Coleman,
who was every small boy’s hero when
motor-cycle racing (grass track) was a
favorite sport 10 years ago, was one of
the first civilians to take to the air in
M.L. Whereas Buckeridge had a re-
spectable total of flying time when he
lost his eye in a crash at Waipiro Bay,
Coleman had only one eye when he
learned to fly. Theory is that with one
eye judgment of distance is not possible ;
yet after he lost his eye Buckeridge
visited every pageant and won landing
competitions galore.
Parker Moloney, appointed chairman
of the Victorian Dried Fruits Board, was
once Federal member for Hume and be-
fore that for Indi, and had a term as
Minister for Markets and Transport.
When Scullin attended the Imperial Con-
fere nee, Moloney
and Brennan were
bridesmaids at the
P.M.’s wedding to
overseas expe r i-
ence. Both gentle-
men behaved very
convenably:
“Brennan and
Moloney concur”
is a phrase that
deserves to live in
the history of de-
pression politics.
Moloney, sent to
England via
America, nego-
tiated on the way
a treaty whereby
Australian dried
fruits entered
Canada at a sub-
stantial preference,
as the result of
which exports of
fruits to the
Dominion in-
creased by 700
tons between the Year of Gloom 1931
and the Year of Hope 1936, and raisin
export has more than doubled. An un-
grateful electorate tipped the benefactor
out, and his name has scarcely been
heard publicly since, except for appear-
ing on Fijian mining directorates.
Fred Berry, The Bulletin’s motoring
writer, who met with a serious motor-
ing accident in Victoria a fortnight ago,
has been brought to Sydney by train, and
underwent two operations during the
week-end.
A. G. Barrett was born into the malt
business, his father being head of
Barrett Brothers, one of the best-known
firms in the trade. A.G., with a brother,
served in the. Flying Corps during the
Councillor A.G. BARRETT, Adelaide.
war, as a preliminary to settling down
to look after the family affairs in
Adelaide. He has given a great deal of
time to the concerns of Adelaide City,
of which he is a councillor.
“A. de G.” on the rise of a business:
The founder of Boots, the English “chain”
chemists, about whose extension to Australia
there is some fuss, was Jesse Boot, who began
with a shop in Nottingham, and from that
started a chain of stores to sell cheaply drugs
manufactured by a company he organised.
Later, fancy goods and stationery were added
to the offerings; then a large lending library,
with bookshops established in every important
town in the U.K. Jesse Boot, born in 1850,
died in 1931. In 1906 he was knighted, and
became a baronet in 1916. In 1929 he blos-
somed as Baron Trent. His son, born in 1889,
the present titleholder and head of the firm,
was in Australia a few months ago on a pros-
pecting expedition.
Justice Macfarlan, of Victoria, who
was seriously injured in a motor accident
on the Hume Highway recently, per-
fectly represents the popular idea of a
Judge —shortish in stature, urbane,
polished and with a jaw like a piece of
well-smoothed granite. Before he was
raised to the Victorian Supreme Court
Bench he was in the first flight of Mel-
bourne leading counsel. One of his big
cases was the libel action which T. J.
Ryan brought against the Hobart “Mer-
cury” after the 1919 riots. Macfarlan
led for Ryan; High Court Chief Justice
Latham was a junior on the other side.
Malcolm Shepherd, who will leave the
Secretaryship of the Defence Depart-
ment early next year after 46 years in
the public service, belongs to an old
lllawarra dairying family. A N.S.W.
postal official when he was taken over
by the Commonwealth in 1901, he be-
came' private secretary to the Prime
Minister three years later, and in 1911
head of the P.M.’s Department. He
handed over this job to Percy Deane in
1921, and for six years was official secre-
tary at Australia House. In 1927 he
took over the Defence Department job.
He will be succeeded by F. G. Shedden,
civil member of the Defence Council
and of the Munitions Supply Board.


m m
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITAL, London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thames,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas’s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession. The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferers.
World’s Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
Proves best for both Stomach and Intestines
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. H. MACLEAN -
of the Great ST. THOMAS' HOSPITAL, LONDON
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
AND ENJOY IT l
No More Digestive Pam
Prof. H. MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiological
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including “Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part of the
scientific work performed in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder Is
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most
effective ever devised as a remedy for
HARRISON-MACLEAN
Complete Remedy . .
Indigestion, Sour Stomach, Gastritis,
Dyspepsia, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Palpitation, Nausea, Acidity, Stomach
Ulceration, Intestinal Disorder, etc.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital 100%
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion, while it shields the bowels from attack,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed, a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress.
NO HARSH DRUGS-NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite returns.
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE . . .
If you suffer from menacing stomach disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief—-the most worth-while
benefit—you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Failsl You may be offered
something said to be "just as good”.
Be on your guard. See the full name
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this [if jVl])
“H.M.” device on the package. Take lylJgg/
no excuse accept no substitute.
Genuine Harrison • Maclean Stomach
Powder is sold only In White Pack-
ages with Black - and - Red Printing.
Every doctor, the World over recognise* the
pre-eminence of Prof. Maclean, in modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders, This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
strength and courage to millions is now avail-
able to YOU. in future, cat what you fancy!
Your Digestive Troubles are
over if you make sure you get
{IARRISOjy.
MACLEAN
*
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Rights are claimed to the
name Harrison-Maclean, but none what-
ever In connection with the name Maclean
There is nothing to equal HARRISON - MACLEAN
Stomach Powder for Digestive, Intestinal and Stomach
upset accompanied by Acid, Gas, “Burning Sensation,”
Fermentation, Distention or Nausea.
See the name HARRISON on the package for your protection.
If sufypUes of HARRISON-MACLEAN STOMACH POWDER not available locally, post order
(a ing 4d. postage) to Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House, Sydney.


How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
vour Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert K. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. <le L. Cndmore,
R. Copland Lethbridge (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. H. V. Douglass, Managi
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms. 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or. Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
(-—Dividends—■, Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 307,208 119,482 60,000 127,726 264,272
1927.. 338,879 134,902 60,000 143,927 408,199
1928.. 320,260 155,857 60,000 104,403 012,002
1929.. 366,201 160,406 60,000 139,805 652,457
Written off plant, £99,398 .. .. 553,009
1930. . 344,018 172,500 60,000 112,018 065,077
Written off plant, £20,146 .. .. 644,931
8* p.c.
1931. . 354,797 172,500 42,500 139,797 784,728
Written off plant, £67,900 .. .. 716,822
Transferred to suspense account, j
£40,000 1-100,747 817,569
1932. . 355,747 172,500 42,500 J
Written off plant, £205,042 v .. 612,527
To suspense account, £40,000 f
■ 133. . 374,917 172,500 42,500 f 119 - 917 ' 32 ’ 44 ' t
Written off plant, £22,731 . . . . 709,713
From suspense account, £41,737.. .. 751,450
10 p.c.
1934.. 355,469 172,500 50,000 132,969 884,419
Reserves capitalised, £125,000 .. .. 759,419
Suspense account transferred, £31,109 .. 790,528
Premiums on repayment deben. stock, £2145 788,383
Written off plant, £20,112 .. . . 768,271
1935.. 334,073 172,500 06,250 105,323 873,594
Underwriting, etc., exes., £2404 .. 871,190
Premium repayment debentures, £14,633 856,557
Written off plant, £20,108 .. .. 836,449
1936.. 352,929 172,500 62,500 117,929 954,378
* Includes provision for debenture sinking fund.
With Adelaide as the centre, this big pri-
vately owned and efficiently handled co.
supplies an area of 3314 square miles,
with an estimated population of 325,000
people, with electric light and power.
During the last term, the number of
consumers connected to the mains in-
creased by 3245, reaching 91,652. This
and the board’s policy of hiring cookers
and water heaters to consumers, along
with the recovery in industrial activity,
are reflected in an increase of 17 p.c. in
total kelvins sold (101.3 millions).
Further cuts, estimated at £43,000 p.a.,
were made in prices charged for current
at the beginning of January last, making
total reductions over the last couple of
years £131,000. Still, the spring in last
year’s gross earnings was £54,566,
mainly on account of power and heat-
ing:—
1922. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Gross revenue. £372,466 £787,729 £824,344 £878,910
Operating exes. * ■ ■
and taxes.. 215,924 355,309 407,329 456,19 S
Net revenue £156,542 £432,420 £417,015 £422,712
Of the increase of £48,869 in operating
costs, £13,805 represented the extra cost
of importing coal from England, follow-
ing the stoppage at Newcastle (N.S.W.),
and an extra £14,799 was spent on re-
pairs and renewals. After deducting de-
benture interest (£71,519) and allow-
ing for reserve adjustments, the net
profit was £18,856 better at £352,929.
That leaves out of the reckoning £20,108
charged to reserves on account of plant
scrapped, £14,633 premium, etc., on re-
payment of debentures and £2404 of
underwriting exes. After paying the pref.
divs. (£172,500) and 10 p.c. (£62,500) to
the ords., £117,929 remained. But no
specific allowance has been made for
depreciation, so neither the £352,929 of
profit nor the £954,378 of reserves shown
in the table is 100 p.c. genuine. Still,
there is nothing to suggest that divs.
are likely to be interfered with.
During the year, the co. redeemed
£49,064 of 5 p.c. debenture stock on its
London register at £lO5 p.c. (stg.), and
added £200,000 of 4 p.c. debenture stock
at par to its Adelaide register. Here is
a summary of the capital and debenture
accounts in the two centres:
Stock—(—-Debenture Stock—,
Adelaide. London. Adelaide. London.
Pref. 6 p.c. 158,608 91,392 5i p.c. C 18,200 911,674
„ 5„ A 250,000 6 „ D 250,000
„ 6*„B 249,950 50 4 „ E 200,000
„ 6*„ 0 692,042 307,958
P.Ord, 8 p.e. 742,859 7,141
Ords. .. 610,173 8,827
There was also a transfer of £40,024 of
capital stock from the London to the
Adelaide register. Capital and deben-
tures combined total £4.504,874. up
£150,771.
The year’s expenditure on capital ac-
count amounted to £309,595, raising the
net book value of the undertaking at
Aug. 31 to £5,350,297. Stores figured at
£121,564; debtors, £135,646; cash, etc.,
£132,091. There was £126,440 coming to
sundry creditors.
The market prices the capital stock to
yield around 44 p.c.
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 43,175 llj p.c. = 26,250 10,925 114.947
Unexplained additions, £43,964 .. 158,911
1927.. 53,539 13 J p.e. = 36,024 17,515 176,426
Unexplained additions, £63,578 .. 240,004
1928.. 66,298 13J p.c. = 48,953 17,345 257,349
Unexplained additions, £86,018 .. 343,367
1929.. 73,132 13J p.c. = 51,136 21,996 365,363
Unexplained additions, £81,432 .. 446,795
1930.. 65,239 13J p.c. = 55,929 9,310 456,105
Unexplained additions, £35,444 . . 491,549
1931.. 43,716 10 p.c. = 42,583 1,133 492,682
Written off investments, £25,000 .. 407,682
Unexplained additions, £32,482 . . 500,164
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c. = 42,583 480,360
Written off investments, £12,435 .. 467,925
Unexplained additions, £19,434 .. 487,359
1933.. 32,260 7.8 p.c. = 31,937 329 487,688
Unexplained additions, £34,779 . . 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 523,207
. Unexplained additions, £32,944 . . 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,683 13,137 509,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 08,517 12* p.c. = 49,081 18,836 617,031
Considering the semi-luxury nature of the
business (ice-cream is the principal line)
and its rapid expansion during the post-
war boom (paid capital shot up from
£150,000 in 1924 to £425,825 six years
later by par issues), this co. has put up a
very attractive performance, thanks to
the efficiency of the management and the
plant, the co.’s tight grip upon the trade
in N. S. Wales, the quality of its pro-
duct and the comfortable nature of its
finances.
Over the last 14 years divs. have aver-
aged 11.3 p.c., the lowest being 7.8 p.c. in
1933, when a shilling a share (£78,945)
was returned, reducing paid capital to
£397,446. At June 30 it had the support
and assistance of £617,031 of reserves,
which include an unspecified allowance
for depreciation and taxation. So the
two combined need turn in only a shade
under 5 p.c. to show p.c. on capital
alone.
During the last term, turnover con-
tinued to expand—there was more money
about —and the associated cos. sent along
a little more. The co. has £44,200 in-
vested in Peters-Arctic Delicacy (Q’land),
which lifted its div. (8.5 p.c.) two and a
half points, £lB,OOO in Peters Delicacy
(Vic.), which added 2 p.c. to its dis-
tribution (8 p.c.), and £20,000 in Peters
Delicacy (W.A.), which maintained its
div. at 8 p.c. The parent’s declared net
earnings sprang £12,797, reaching 17.2
p.c. on capital as against 14, 10.9, 7.8,
5.2, 10.2 and 9.8 p.c. back to 1930. A
threepenny bonus was added to the 18d.
div., making \2\ p.c. for the ye;ar. That’
was after £28,847 (£4097 less than for
the previous year) was dropped from
somewhere into the general, taxation and
depreciation reserve, etc.
Since there is nothing very disturbing
in the immediate outlook, it is not, sur-
prising that the market disregards the
board’s warning that “the bonus must
not be accepted as an indication of simi-
lar annual distributions in the future.”
At 465. 3d. (40s. 7d. a year ago and, 31s.
6d. 12 months before that) the fully-paid
14s. shares return 3.7 p.c. on a 12| p.c.
div. basis. The investor who looks for
4.5 p.c. on his money counts on a 15 p.c.
distribution. At 225. lOd. the contribs.,
paid to 4s. Bd., return 2.5 p.c. on a 12Jr
p.c. div. Including provision for depre-
ciation, etc., the net tangible cover is
51s. per pound of paid capital.
Finances are snug:
1924. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £425,835 £397,446 £397,446
Sundry creditors 75,086 15,295 29,522 37,271
Freeholds, etc. 137,855 247,208 245,645 246,740
Plant, etc. . . 83,262 463,592 485,495 495,516
Investments .. 4,313 155,755 152,926 152,537
Stock.. .. 7,238 13,057 19,495 20,504
Book debts '.. 3,694 22,300 14,274 10,285
Cash .. . . 12 53,191 99,772 154,548
When the books closed, cash alone (up
£54,776) more than three times covered
outside liabilities. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£148,066) was £44,047. The book value
of .fixed assets, which are reported in
first-class order, increased by £11,122.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
, Dividends \
, Pref. ,
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
79,466
3926*. 26,645 4616 12* p.c. =15,938 73,375
Added prelim, exes., £2227 .. •• 75,602
1927.. 40,216 6750 464 12* p.c. =21,250 63,850
Added prelim, exes., £9O .. .. 63,940
1928.. 41,140 7516 6985 12* p.c. =22,770 59,571
Establishment exes., £9466 . . . . 69,037
1929.. 33,272 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 72,765
Added establishment account, £lOBl .. 73,846
1930.. 26,298 9000 8000 5 p.c. = 10,000 74,548
1931.. 27,521 9000 8000 5 „ „ 10,000 74,127
Transferred contingency res., £1500.. 75,627
1932.. 26,945 7481 f 6650 5 p.c. = 10,000 72,813
1933.. 29,890 7275 f 6500 6* „ „ 13,000 69,698
Contingency reserve taken in, £6052.. 63,646
Unexplained addition, £13,019 .. 50,627
1934 .. 42.406 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 45,223
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 49,221
1935.. 42,761 9000 8000 10 p.c. a 20,000 43,460
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 47.4G0
Establishment a/c disajptpears, £10,537. . 36,923
Added goodwill, £16,287 .. .. 53,210
Capital reserve appears, £30,000 . . 23,210
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. « 25,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. .. 22,289
* Nine months. t Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act.
During the last half of the term the co.
bought at an unstated figure all the ords.
in Truth (N.Z.), Ltd., which has a paid
capital of £125,000 in 50,000 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 75,000 ords. In 1935 the
Maoriland co. netted £B7Bl (down
£1217) and paid 6 p.c. on its ord. capital,
which had a net tangible backing of a
shade over Bs. per fully-paid pound
share.. To finance the deal, the parent
issued 60,000 £1 A ords. at a premium
of 15s. each. That raised issued capital
to £460,000 in 100,000 first 9 p.c. cum.
prefs., a like number of second 8 per
cents., 200,000 ords. and 60.000 A ords.
Only 10s. per share of the capital and
a like amount of premium money had
been gathered on the A shares when
the books closed. The share premiums
(£30,000) were earmarked as a capital
reserve.
During the year the establishment
account (£10,537) disappeared, and
£16,287 was added to goodwill (now
£91,287), making the net growth in in-
tangibles £5750. The reason for these
movements is not stated .in the report.
Other balance-sheet figures compare
as follows:
1926. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Pref. capital.. £75,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord. capital.. 170,007 200,000 200,000 230,000
Mortgage . . 42,746 37,670 37,670
Other liabilities 14,320 41,191 69,914 20,811
Freeholds, etc. 41,567 168,845 232,007 174,398
Plant, etc. . . 85,367 176,397 151,758 151,462
Investments .. 7,500 1,603 96,050
Stocks .. 25,507 22,398 25,249 27,628
Debtors .. 35,527 54,485 49,907' 50,728
Cash, etc. .. 22,723 4,408 35,603 2,272
To add £94,447 to the book value of
investments (they obviously include
more than the N.Z. co.’s scrip), reduce
the amount coming to sundry creditors
by £49,103 and carry an extra £2379 of
stocks, cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£33,3.3.1 and the book value of free-
holds was reduced, by £57,609. Which
of its properties the co. sold and what
profit, if any, there was on the deal are
not disclosed in the published accounts.
Including investments and stock, the
growth in the more or less liquid surplus
(£148,197) was £113,419.
Advertising and circulation revenues
were well maintained, and the board
wrote net profit £2lBl better than
the previous year’s at £44,942, or enough
to pay the prefs. their full contract rates
and show 12.1 p.c. on the ord. and A
share capital combined, compared with
12.8, 12.7, 8, 6.4, 5.2, 4.6, 8.1, 15 and
19.4 p.c. back to 1927. The div., which
dropped from p.c. in 1927 to 5 p.c.
for the three years to the close of
accounts in 1932, was lifted from 10 p.c.
to 12 p.c.
Owing to the hardening of interest
rates, the market for the prefs. has eased
a little over the last 12 months. The
firsts at 295. 9d. and the seconds at 255.
3d. return 6 p.c. and 6.3 p.c. respectively.
The ords. at 395. 6d. and the As at
38s. yield 6.1 p.c. and 6.3 p.c. respec-
tively. After new issue, the net tan-
gible cover is £4 7s. 6d. firsts, £3 7s. 6d.
seconds and 18s. 3d. ord. and A shares.
Lincoln Mills (Australia)) Ltd.
, —Dividends —•,
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary, sei'ves. Reserves.
£££ * £ £
1926.. 19JS08t 18,000 1308 1,308
1927.. 36.041 36,000 41 „ J* 349
Ijoss. Deficit.
1928.. 1,611 262
Profit. Reserves.
1929.. 53,184 52,000 1184 »22
1930.. 39,943 40,000 8 “°
1931.. 35,607 J 36,000 „ 4 72
1932.. 38,668 36,000 2668 3,140
1933.. 57,496 52,000 5496 8,636
1934.. 50,472 36,000 B (iVlO C ' 7762 16,398
1935.. 47,615 36,000 6710 4905 21,303
1936.. 50,109 36,000 6710 7399 28,702
f Six months. X Includes £29,376 paid by sub-
sidiaries from reserves.
This holding co. has £480,527 of capital
to feed, of which £400,000 carries a cumu-
lative 9 p.c. The. pref. money was
gathered in 1922 to lighten the burden
of outside debt and finance expansion
of the business of the two operating cos.
—Lincoln Spinning Mills and Lincoln
Knitting Mills. Before they got into their
stride, a fire destroyed a lot of the plant.
To cover the loss and rub out £BO,OOO of
goodwill, etc., 16s. per share was lopped
off ord. capital in 1925, reducing it to
£80,527. For the next decade it was a
struggle to keep up payments to the prefs.
Meanwhile, allowances for depreciation,
etc., enabled plant to be brought iqore
up to date, and, with the passing of
slump, the ords. got into the picture for
the first time in 1934 with 8 1-3 p.c., and
the div. has remained steady since. The
parent took over distribution of the
operating cos.’ products in 1932.
The introductory table shows the posi-
tion as disclosed in the parent’s accounts.
The trading figures for the three cos.
combined compare as follows:
Gross Net Divs. Paid by
June, Profit. Exes. Profit. Subsidiaries.
1928.. £116,393 £81,109 £35,289 Nil
1929.. 135,341 81,032 54,309 £55,000
1930.. 131,037 85,054 45,983 40,500
1931.. 80,084 73,853 6,231 36,000
1932.. 103,621 66,167 37,454
1933.. 127,705 70,737 56,968
1934. . 115,693 66,021 49,672
1935.. 109,936 62,771 47,165
1936.. 116,265 67,406 48,859
After allowing £27,867 (up £926) for de-
preciation, the spring in last year’s gross
earnings was £6329. Including £1250 set
aside for taxation by the operating cos.,
exes, took £4635 of the increase, leaving
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
17.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against 14.4,
16.9 and 26 p.c. for the three preceding
terms.
The preponderance of pref. capital
gives the ords. a speculative interest. A
variation of only £BO5 in net earnings
affects the amount available for ord.
capital by 1 p.c., and a shrinkage of a
little over one-third in last year's net
result would leave no margin available
for the ords. at all. The market prices
them at 9s. 3d. as against 7s. 3d. a year
ago. The return at 9s. 3d. is 3.6 p.c.
on an 8 1-3 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at
295. return 6.2 p.c. Including reserves
in the operating cos., the net tangible
cover is 265. 3d. prefs. and 6s. 2d. ords.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the. finances:
3930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Outside lia-
bilities .. 197,242* 41,248 35,211 85,341
Freeholds .. 93,269 89,161 85,975 58.764
Plant .. 205,724 176,275 3 44,162 141,666
•Stocks .. 310,171 215,483 272,452 318,657
Book debts, etc. 138,850 99,279 92,277 106,326
* Includes an unspecified provision for taxation.
To carry an extra £46,205 of stocks and
add £13,849 to debtors’ balances, etc.,
the board went outside for an extra
£50,130 last year. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£339,442)
was £9924.
Fixed Trusts
A new form of collective investment,
the fixed or unit trust, has made its
appearance in Australia. Originally an
American product, designed partly to
overcome abuses associated with the
operations of some “management” trusts
at a time when Wall-street was highly
hysterical, the idea spread to Britain,
where the first unit trust co. was formed
in 1931 ; there are now about 56 such
cos. operating there, and the aggregate
amount invested in them is estimated at
between fifty and sixty million pounds.
A unit trust is created by a syndicate
or co., known as managers, buying and
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


iJ>M!
L ey fmt J
& «*•
'Spy. the ,
n Of Q t .
Tories k '
'«jo^£*
*** <n 8 cu,f.
,m r t?T
f w
fuf* r > ««*
r P ° rJ <*r
St in^«9
IPS 1 ]
j|*pg
*»* /or 1
ii
«vj
i -. " ''' ‘Hi , i,.
J
'*"'' tJtO p' '*** <,^ f
£>V 4
lh f< *&
TO > v , 5V Iki
r
>k V ' .. '
:; r. "■«** r ,
' f JV <\ >'
»fi<. 1( ' ( TO>\ N «J
. . <"-**& x , ' >l k'i
W
'*> «?:••=••’
' •' **» „/*'**/*<# !
■•••• • v


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
f A-
agSSsi-<*a
\\\\
JH ill • flv
1..
1
\ V \
m*
4k
A doctor wrote this
GOOD ADVICE
THIS doctor is a man of great experience; one of the best
known in the city in which he lives. This is in brief what
he said in a recent letter addressed to the General Manager
of the A.M.P.:—
“I have a suggestion to offer in regard to those very
interesting advertisements that you publish from time to
time. It is that you say a word to help those who are afraid
of a medical examination; who are afraid because they fear
that the doctor will discover something. My experience is
that THESE FEARS ARE OFTEN GROUNDLESS.
“One of the happiest—and most frequent—of a
doctor’s jobs is that of telling men and women that there
is nothing the matter with them; that, with reasonable care,
they can look forward to a long life; that their heart-troubles
or cancers are PURELY IMAGINARY. You should urge
men and women, to undergo periodical medical examination;
not only for the safety that is in it, but for the comfort that
is in it.”
That is sound advice. The man who becomes a member of the
A.M.P. does two things: (1) By the Society’s medical examination he
satisfies himself that he is in good health, and (2) he makes provision
for the future of his dependents, or himself; comforting provision out
of all proportion to the little he invests in it.
The A.M.P. Society was founded in 1849 purely to help its
members. It belongs to its members. It is the largest Mutual Life
office in the Empire. An average of one family in two in Australia
and New Zealand draws comfort from it.
If you are not a member, get in touch with the nearest A.M.P.
office and ask that an experienced adviser be sent to talk things over
with you. Write to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES!
mm
a
*
m
iliif? ' *
■ i as
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. A-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney. •
handing over to a custodian trustee a list
of chosen securities, which it publishes
and which it is given power to change
only under certain conditions specified in
the trust deed. The group of shares
bought forms a unit, which is divided
into sub-units for sale by the trust. The
selling price of sub-units is arrived at
by dividing the number of sub-units into
the aggregate price paid for the shares,
plus cost of making the purchases, plus
a specified loading charge and an amount
to make up the price to the nearest three-
pence.
The unit is credited with dividends, etc.,
received from shares held, and the whole
of the receipts are distributed propor-
tionally among holders of sub-units.
The holders also benefit from capital
accretions arising out of the issue
of bonus scrip, or from an issue
of new shares at a price below market
value, or by a rise in the market value
of the shares held by the unit. The co.
fixes the price of sub-units from day to
day, according to variations in the
market price of the shares in the unit.
It also undertakes to repurchase any of
its own sub-units offered to it for sale.
By invention of the sub-unit the fixed
trust has provided the small investor with
an opportunity of acquiring a stake in a
wide range of securities covering any
field that the trust chooses to select. He
knows exactly what securities his money
is invested in, and the trust deed imposes
a check upon the managers so far as
changes in the portfolio are concerned.
Thus far fixed trusts in Britain and
America have, for the most part, enjoyed
a rising market, and the sub-units have
been profitable investments. The testing
time will come with any burst of liquida-
tion, when the management is dealing
with a falling market. Certainly fixed
trusts are tending to become more un-
stuck in the matter of fixedness. Still,
they have no shock-absorbers in the form
of reserves; as divs., etc., are received
they are handed out. So both the
•return from sub-units and their market
value can be expected to fluctuate in
accordance with the market for the scrip
of which the unit is made up, and, when
the trust is wound up, there will be noth-
ing more than the market value of sub-
units coming to holders thereof.
The first Australian unit trust has been
formed in Sydney by Australian Fixed
Trusts Pty., Ltd. The directors are V. G.
Watson, Norman L. Cowper, John A. L.
Gunn and Palmer Kent. Manager, Hugh
Walton. The trustee for certificate-
holders is the Union Insurance Society
of Canton, a British co. established over
100 years ago. The unit consists of ordi-
nary shares in 20 well-established Aus-
tralian cos. covering a wide field of
trading activity. The number of sub-
units is 3000, worth at the moment about
21s. 6d. each. This includes a loading
of 74 p.c. to cover all service charges,
including the trustees’ fees and manage-
ment remuneration, etc. Based on divs.
paid during the last 12 months by cos.
whose scrip constitutes the unit, the
return at 21s. 6d. is £4 os. 4d. p.c., and
from bonus shares and sale of rights over
the same period 18s. 2d. p.c.; total, £4
18s. 6d. p.c. Last year’s high return
from bonus shares and the sale of rights,
however, is unlikely to be an annual
event.
Sub-units can be bought in multiples of
10, subject to an initial purchase of 20 sub-
units. The managers undertake to repur-
chase sub-units upon request at not more
than 3d. below the proportionate part of
the net price which could be realised by
sale of the underlying securities on the
Sydney Stock Exchange, and adjusted so
as to cover any cash then forming part of
the unit. The managers may request the
irustees to sell or reduce in amount any
security when, in the opinion of the
managers, this is considered desirable in
the interests of sub-unit holders. The life
of the trust is put at 15 years, but any
time during the last three sub-unit
holders may, by resolution, vary this pro-
vision.
Tin
The most spectacular rise in commo-
dity prices has been in the tin market,
where the London spot price of the
metal rocketed from £lB7 2s. 6d. in Sep-
tember to £244 12s. 6d. on Nov. 10.
Two days later the figure had dropped
to £232 55.; two days after that it was
up to £239 7s. 6d. The report that inter-
national control of production was to be
renewed for five years from the begin-
ning of 1937 was responsible for most of
the stiffening. Fluctuations in the price
suggest that bear covering has been one
factor in the situation; but it has not
been the most important. In some of
the producing centres, notably Bolivia,
Nigeria and Belgian Congo, production
has fallen behind the permitted quota.
Also, notwithstanding a heavy increase
in quotas from 45 p.c. in March, 1935,
to 90 p.c. in June, 1936, visible, supplies
of the metal have obstinately refused to
accumulate. Further, consumption has
increased more rapidly than was antici-
pated, especially in the U.S.A. Here the
tin-plate industry is operating at about
95 p.c. of capacity as against 52 p.c. a
year ago, and there has been a substan-
tial increase in the output of automo-
biles, too.
Although the International Control
Committee has now lifted the quota to
105 p.c. of standard (1929) production—
the increase is retrospective to Oct. 1 —
new dredges are not likely to be started
unless there is a reasonable prospect that
they will remain in operation. American
and other manufacturers are making
heavy purchases of tin in anticipation of
new year requirements. Speaking gener-
ally, merchants allowed their stocks of
the metal to fall to a low level, owing to
fear of a collapse of both the control
scheme and the price of tin.
How long production is likely to lag
behind quota allowances in Bolivia,
Nigeria and Belgian Congo it is difficult
to say. Exchange and other troubles,
arising largely out of the war with Para-
guay, affect the position in Bolivia, where
large natural deposits of the metal exist.
This suggests that, when it overcomes its
difficulties, Bolivia is likely to be an im-
portant factor on the supply side of the
problem. The position in the Congo is
attributed largely to the strike at Ant-
werp and consequent holding up of metal
at the place of production. As for con-
sumption, the expansion of industrial
activity in the U.S.A. and improvemen'
of trade conditions in Europe, follow-
ing recent currency adjustments, are ex-
pected to stimulate the demand for tin.
Subject to new influences, appearances
are that the present high price of the
metal is above what in the long run will
prove to be a fair average. Still,
with the metal fetching around £2OO in
London, most of the mines now in pro-
duction can operate at a profit, and the
recent lift in the quota should help to
reduce unit costs.
Herbert N. Burns, lately manager at
Edie Creek (N.G.), has taken charge at
Imperial-Warrior, Charters Towers
(N.Q.), for Golden Fleece (Cracow),
N.L. At the Warrior (main and pup)
there are three ore-bodies which can
be worked from the. main two-cham-
bered vertical shaft, reconditioned to
420 ft. The Imperial reef, from which
crushings have averaged 13dwt., has been
proved over three-quarters of a mile,
and ranges up to 6ft. in thickness.
* * * *
Backed by a private co. with £lO,OOO of
capital, the Jubilee mine, 70 miles north
of Rockhampton (Q.), has set its new
crushing plant in operation. The first 10
tons of oxidised ore returned 420 z. of
amalgam, estimated to contain 30oz. of
gold, while the concentrate is expected to
return 20oz. to the ton. Some 500 tens
of stone, estimated to average 3oz. or
more, awaits crushing. The reef has
been proved for nearly a mile, and three
shafts—No. 1 is down 109 ft., No. 2
100 ft. and No. 3 58ft. —have been sunk
on it.
* * * *
At Gold Exploration’s annual roll-up
in London last month, chairman and ex-
Dominions Secretary L. S. Amery said
the co. had a direct interest in Triton of
15 p.c., and, through its holdings in Gold
Mines of Aust., Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie and Western Gold Mines, an in-
direct interest of 12 p.c. The balance and
more important of the co.’s Westralian in-
vestments was represented by its holding
of approximately 95 p.c. of the capital of
Western Mining Corp. The major in-
terests of the. last-named concern are Cen-
tral Norseman and Cox’s Find —two
promising additions to the list of gold-
producers. Western Mining Corp., Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie and Triton have
together expended over £1,270,000
(Aust.) in testing, developing and equip-
ping goldmining properties in Westralia.
So far the State only had benefited, but
the chairman was confident that share-
holders would receive rewards commen-
surate with the risks run and the confi-
dence they had displayed. Triton has
commenced to pay divs.
* * * *
Accounts of Southern Cross Develop-
ment, one of De Bernales’s Westralian
group, show that £63,267 has so far been
advanced for the opening up of Fraser’s
old mines at Southern Cross. Here de-
velopment totals 2831 ft. and surface and
underground diamond-drilling 4600 ft.
Ore reserves are estimated at 60,858
tons, averaging s.3dwt. Co. expects to
commence treatment in about 12 months.
The board has under consideration a
scheme for raising £60,000 by a note
issue to finance operations to the pro-
ducing stage.
* * * *
London-controlled Youanmi, which
banks on turning the old Youanmi mine
(W.A.) to profitable account, has got the
first 5000-tons-a-month unit of it's treat-
ment plant running, and hopes to have
the second, of similar capacity, in opera-
tion very soon. The first is dealing with
oxidised ore, the second will handle sul-
phides. Lord Lee is chairman, and Paddy
Fitzgerald general manager.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hasset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attorneys, 433
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and'Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberiands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, S Bond Street, Sydney’. Ad\t.
* 4= * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, _ beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Mute
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 1/5 vlarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy. — Advt.


*
{*/
<0
*
$4/0
'O
So
BETTER BUY
CAVSTAX
?•»
they're blended better
#
V
J?
/ \r
"A
izj jA
\ tt
TIME FOR A
<y
APS T A N
VIRGINIA CIGARETTE : 10—6 d. : 20-1/- S’feT 1 ""
' tight 50 s.
Special Mild : Medium, or Full
4862-10-8


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mad Mullocker”: Lake Ballard, a
big salt lake just north of Menzies
(W.A.), has a drop of water in it once
in about five years. For the first two
years I rode its shores, which bounded
my paddocks, I saw no bird life. The
third year brought three inches of rain
one night, and about eight miles of lake
was under water. A fortnight later the
place swarmed with young snipe, day-
old-chick size, with many older birds
and ducks. The youngsters, in their
countless thousands, shortly afterwards
took off per boot, heading south. The
Mulga Limited line and the Kalgoorlie-
Leonora road showed many of their
pitiful little corpses. Travelling single
file, they heeded neither car, human nor
curious sheep-dogs. As suddenly as their
arrival, they disappeared, although still
quite small. Where did they go, why
did they head southward only, and
whence did they come? The birth of a
million snipe had been without known
precedent here, nor has it happened
since. This was in the winter of 1930.
Perhaps accumulations of eggs can
retain their fertility over years.
* * * *
“Tarzan”: Some of these Abo. tie-up
experts would need a pantechnicon to
carry all the gear they seem to need.
The job can be thoroughly done with a
piece of tie-wire or fishing line. Stand
the escape artist against a tree, place
wire against neck and around tree, twist
a couple of times, and he’s there to stay.
If he raises his hands to undo the twist
or knot, he’ll throttle himself.
% ❖ sic
“Groper”: The cottage was built of
12ft. saplings sunk 3ft. in the ground
and a foot apart, woven with pliant
sticks and spaces filled with a mortar
of home-burnt lime. The roof was of
saplings notched and pegged, thatched
with rushes from the swamp. The doors,
each of two wide leaves of hewn jarrah,
pivoted into sill and frame-head. Win-
dows the same. Floor was of sawn
blocks, chopped square and fitted.
Fences, pigsties and stables were all con-
structed on the sunk-slab principle—
hundreds of split slabs placed side by
side in a deep trench to form a palisade.
Where necessary, rafters and thatch wdre
laid on top. Not a nail or piece of iron
anywhere. The labor must have been
terrific. The place is just a Groperland
farm homestead of early last century,
now long abandoned. They were boys
of the bulldog breed all right, those early
British-Australians.
* % * *
“Western”: Speaking of baths in dry
places. In early Coolgardie a lordly min-
ing speculator nearly started a riot when
he indulged in a “tub,” water at the time
being so scarce that often money couldn’t
buy it. A bath much favored by Old
Camp barmaids and others was one
squirted out of an old-fashioned soda-
water siphon. Of course, a second person
was essential to work the siphon lever;
and also one didn’t waste the precious
fluid on the saturating of a bathing suit.
It was surprising how much bare human
pelt could be washed by a couple of
pints of soda-water.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Among the queer land-
marks that mail ’planes from Darwin
pick up are the white-ant Matterhorns —
a cluster of huge termite mounds in a
region where they are the chief feature
of the landscape—and the huge pile of
dead marines at Innamincka, said to be
the largest bottle-heap in Australia. This
gleaming beacon, glistening in the sun-
light, can be seen from miles away.
Though it is the. accumulation of many
years, travellers marvel at the vast
number of empties, for Innamincka con-
sists of half a dozen buildings and a
population of about a dozen, excluding
the blacks’ camp.
* * * *
“James W.”: An odd growth in
beards flourishes at Mackay (N.Q.). An
ancient pensioner owns it, and he’ll pro-
duce it for the edification of anyone will-
ing to shout a few. Encouraged by was-
sail or to win a bet, the old chap hoists
up the for’ard sections of what appears
to be an ordinary ziff of generous dimen-
sions, and shows a spot whereon grows
a plaited rope of hair a couple of inches
in diameter. This rope has never been
checked, and to-day it is nine feet long.
"We'll give em a few minutes here, Joe. It's a hikin' train, remember, an we was young ourselves once!"
When not in use as a show item, it is
kept rolled up in a bag slung round its
proud owner’s neck and stowed under
his shirt. The rest of the ziff forms an
effective screen for the lot, bulge and all.
* * *
“Kriz”: Kyokkoh, the No. 2 diver, was
on a poor patch of shell. The bag con-
tained only two pair of pearlshell for
four hours’ work. At the next “dip” he
came to the surface with a young turtle
in his hand. After the “tender” had
helped him out of the dress and he had
puffed a well-earned cigarette, Kyokkoh
cut off the head of the turtle, took a
fingerful of rice and went aft. Kneeling
on the deck, he placed the head in front
of him, put some rice in its mouth,
uttered a short prayer, bowed three times
and threw the head overboard. I gathered
it was supposed to bring him luck in his
next “take.” Next morning we got on
to a good patch, and on opening up a
pair of shell I fished out a 25-grain pearl,
a gem with just that flaw in it which cut
me off from Easy-street, even though I
was only on 10 per cent, commission. I
felt that Kyokkoh should have squan-
dered a couple more grains of rice.
* * * *
“0.E.W.”: The couple camped for the
holidays down by Clancy’s lucerne pad-
dock were animal-lovers, but not very
experienced in the ways of Nature in the
raw. The plaintive lowing of one of
Clancy’s cows over the river distressed
them. It was evident that the poor beast
needed help. Elaborate stalking for half
an hour brought the Samaritans within
arms’ length of distressed Strawberry,
“Why, the poor dear,” exclaimed the girl
with a woman’s quick intuition, “they’ve
forgotten to milk her. Run back and
get a billy, Arthur.” By the time Arthur
returned with the billy it was pitch-dark
and tempers were wearing thin. Then
the patient beast calved.
* * * *
“Borer”: The oldest dairy-farm in
Queensland Glindeman’s has been
supplying milk to the Brisbane public
continuously for more than 70
The property has never gone out of the
family since the land was first selected,
getting on for 80 years ago. The ances-
tral Pioneer of the clan—a rugged Teuton
-when he commenced his dairying, used
to carry kerosene-tins on a yoke, with
he milk supply from Mt. Gravatt to
the city, a good five miles. #
“M 8”: Dad Mac and Dick the Dasher
had taken on a Mallee (Vic.) farm. To
the storekeeper who grub-staked them old
Dick carried roseate tales of the fine crop
of wheat they had coming on. Dad
Mac seldom went to town. Everybody
had heard of that wondrous crop by har-
vest time, but none had seen it. One day
Dad turned up. “Ah, Mac, believe
you’ve got a great bit o’ crop out there! ”
greeted the storekeeper. “Yair,” said Dad
Mac thoughtfully. “Yair, it was a good
crop—till old Dick’s horse got loose the
other night and ate it! ”
* * ♦ *
“Paul C.”: Worse than the frog on
bee-eating is the toad, though many
people can’t distinguish between them,
A toad can’t hop, only walk about
clumsily. Also he has no teeth; a frog
has. He can’t swim as well as a frog,
and doesn’t care too much for water
once he leaves it after his tadpole days.
He is not smooth and slimy like a frog,
but has a rough, dry-looking appearance.
He can shed his skin like a snake, though
he doesn’t crawl out of it; the skin splits
at the back, and he pulls it over his
head, then rolls it into a pill and
swallows it. He is the friend of the gar-
dener, since he thrives on snails, slugs and
insects; but he is anathema to the apiar-
ist, for he will sit by a hive and gorge
himself on the honey-laden bees.
* * * *
“Nothung”: The facts about the birth
of the baby wallaby and all such mar-
supials are, of course, now generally ac-
cepted, and the old fallacy about forma-
tion on the teat has long since been
scouted. But in case there are still some
diehards left, let them accept the evi-
dence of B. J. McGuire, proprietor of
the Mackay (Q.) Zoo, J. Ashton, vet., and
two others, who actually saw the birth
of a wallaby and it's transference into
the pouch. The placing into the pouch
was done with the mother’s tongue, the
“hands” being used to keep open the
pouch. The fact that the young adhere
to the feat so strongly, their mouths
being connected to the skin eventually by
a membrane, gave rise to the fallacy.
* * * *
“Lay Brother”: “Pisces” makes a
queer bloomer when he says (B.
28/10/’36) that Queensland outbackers
with bore-water should “emulate the
monks of old and furnish their tables
with fish stews.” The “stews” beloved
of the old-time abbey-dwellers were not
dishes for the refectory table, but long
chains of ponds connected by a small
stream and full of fish for-the fast days,
The biggest layout of the kind writer
has seen is at Fountains Abbey in York-
shire, which even in its partly obliterated
condition looked capable of supplying
the needs of even that huge religious
foundation.
* * * *
“Moray”; Though effete N.S.W. may
be ade produce eels capable of
dragging full-grown ducks under water
(B 28/10/’36), some of the Gippsland
rivers hold specimens able to- give
a b i ack swan a good go for it. Many
of these eds run over 20 lb. and are
locall known as » congers ” though
fre sh-water dwellers. They are in the
books th ]o ng-finned or spotted eel
and are described as a tropical variety,
though Gippsland is well removed from
tbe tropics.
**. * *
Babbler : The best-informed man on
f ny s t atl °n is invariably the cook. The
homestead babbler knows a fair bit;
but tbe cam P greasy, though he seldom
s P es , any outsiders, can always tell posi-
lively how many sheep the station ;s
B°mg to shear, the number of bullocks
market, and the prices each will bring.
He , knows what is going on at the other
end of the run ; that the improvements
are U P to P ut ty ; when the manager will
get the sack ; when Jhe station will go
broke; what the season will be and the
losses the place will suffer. He is strong
on the social side, too ; can tell when
every baby is going to be born on every
station within a hundred miles, and
knows of every girl to whom'any Jackeroo
is hoisting his hat. Also, he’s extra strong
on divorces and probable suicides, and,
apart from local knowledge, is hot stuff
on every other subject, from Bradman’s
form to international politics. If a man
wants all the news without opening a
paper, he only has to mate up with a
station cook.
* * * *
“Kelly”: Touching on frequency of
appearance in the Abo. columns, the
humble ant is a moral cert, for top place.
Thirty-odd years ago, about the time the
snake-slime was running hot, I remember
a fellow took a bit of a census, and ants
led by a street and a half even then. The
crow may come a good second, beating
snakes by a feather ; but the ant is out
on his own.
* * * *
“Porter”: Can’t find a corn cob to
check up on “A. Punter’s” belief that the
grain rows are nearly always of even
number (B. 28/10/’36), but literature
seems to be against him. O. Henry, in
several of his stories, refers to a corn
cob with an even number of rows as
something to treasure as a rarity. In
“The Poet and the Peasant,” for instance,
the tailor measuring the rube Haylocks
for a suit “ran the tape line ecstatically
over the bulge in his inside pocket where
reposed a red nubbin of corn with an
even number of rows.” In another story
such a cob is displayed in the window of
a country store. O. Henry was a whale
for detail, so perhaps the cobs are dif-
ferent in Yankeeland.
COWS.
Wc bring the cows from the dew-drenched
flats
Ere the pallid moon-flowers close.
They trail, fog-dimmed, in a ghostly train —
Strawberry, Milkmaid, Rose,
Old Bess, Cockhorn and the rest of them —
As false dawn pales the sky,
And homing wood-duck on whistling wings
Swing wide to pass us by.
We slam the gate of the high-railed yards
As grey dawn rides the range,
And murky clouds on the waking east
To rosy splendors change.
We’re milking hard when the morning sun
Sweeps clear of steaming hills,
And dew on the crowfoot melts to mist,
And fragrance boxwood spills.
We let the last of them through the bail,
With the hot ruru riding high,
And, after poddies and pigs are fed,
At “brekker” we vainly try
To talk of something remote from cows
And the chance of getting rain,
Then fall to our other jobs till it’s time
To yard the cows again.
We bring the cows from the grassy flats
With sunshine still in the sky;
They shamble lazily to the yards,
And chew their cud and sigh.
We bail-up cows and we legrope cows,
And milk them till the night
Invades the hills and the barn-owls flit
Across the fading light.
The last cow milked and the last calf fed,
The moon lights empty bails,
And mopokes hoot round the silent yards
And perch upon the rails . . .
Wc have earned respite, you might think, but
when
They’ve cleared the supper things
Dad starts the radio so we’ll hear
The price that butter brings!
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


“Nailil”: When Hogan introduced the
measure on the rum bottle, Spinifex Sam
was his first customer. Just as Hogan
had pushed the carefully-measured nip
across two flies nosedived into the glass.
Hogan advanced apologetically, but
Spinifex glared malevolently at the glass,
and waved him back. All the resentment
engendered in Sam’s soul by heat, flies
and galvanised burr, and fed by the
measuring of the nip, was in his voice.
“ ’Sorright, Hogan,” he drawled, “they
won’t drown. They have their feet on
the bottom.”
* * * *
“M.L.W.”: The auctioneer mentioned
by “Billy Boil” (B. 28/10/’36) may or
may not have been clever. Quick sell-
ing depends more on the bidders than
on the man with the hammer. It is easy
to get through a big yardful when the
buyers know their top price and bid
steadily until they reach it, as instance
the Homebush (Sydney) stock sales.
When stock are not in demand and un-
willing bids have to be dragged from
reluctant buyers the business is slow and
as painful as the extraction of an aching
molar. :
“I wonder have they noticed her brassiere slipping?”
“Pack-bag”: Not all rabbits suffer
from the herd complex. In droughts at
Euston (N.S.W.), with bunny dying in
thousands, I have noticed there were
always some that would swim the wide
river to Victoria. During one flood some
got across the Murray when it was
miles wide, going from log to log. I’ve
also seen odd ones during a plague of
them climb the wire-netting fence like
monkeys to get into the garden. No ;
there was no pub for 13 miles. If it
wasn’t for ingenious cottontails of this
kind, the rabbit problem would have
been solved years ago.
* ' ' * * *
“Cuchulain”: “Awani’s” recent quote
of four shillings as a record for foxes
in Warialda is far short of the
mark. Queensland scalp-hunters got £1
apiece in 1920 and. up to ss. after that.
It used to be Mick Mclnerny’s proud
boast at Welltown (Goondiwindi) that
his dog Boomer made him the richer by
a tenner inside that number of minutes
when he caught a vixen and nine cubs
in a hollow log.
“Kriz”: The late
Tommy Clarke, one of
Broome’s (W.A.) pearl
kings, who spent over
50 years in the indus-
try, and when only a
boy was in charge of
several boats from
which naked native
divers worked out from
Cossack, told me some
years ago in Broome,
that the average depth
colored brother dived at
was four fathoms. Oc-
casionally one would
reach bottom at seven
fathoms, but that was
their limit. So I’d like
to see those old records
of eight or nine
fathoms mentioned by
“Cossack” in a recent
Bulletin. Occasion-
ally a gin (the women
were the best divers)
reached eight fathoms,
but the strain was so
great that it paid
pearlers to keep on
shell beds at four
fathoms, and not waste
time at greater depths.
It is on record that the
first catch of pearlshell raised out from
Cossack, after the natives had been
taught to “bob under,” was brought
from four fathoms, and by a gin.
4c * * *
“Errould”: Any ticket-o’-leave team-
ster guilty of broaching a barrel with the
tongue of a harness buckle and then
plugging with a telltale peg of wood
would have richly deserved the “fifty well
laid on” that would have been his almost
certain reward. Here’s the scientific way.
Select the softest stave (they vary), and
between it and the next insert a greased
table knife. There’s a passage there, and,
taking the bulge of the barrel and using
a little patience, the blade will work
through. The opening can then be ex-
tended up and down, the blade actually
pumping the liquor out. Pressed down
lengthwise it stops the flow until the
next broach. Withdraw it, and all traces
of the operation can be obliterated by
the pouring on of a little boiling water —
the infallible method of removing bruises
from any kind of wood,
* * * *
“D.H.L.”: “Answers to Correspon-
dents” asked “Does a thrush hiccup?”
It does. In the spring the song is un-
certain, and at times the bird seems
to lose all control, emitting a volley of
hysterical hiccups that are laughable..
Later in the year its song is more assured,
and the “hiccuping” vanishes.
* t- * *
“F.Y.7”: Whether a horse will buck
with a drunken rider (B. 28/10/’36) de-
"Cot fourpence on y', Dig?”
“ Cripes, d'yer think I'd be cornin' out if I had?"
pends on the horse, I should say. In
the sweet Arcadian days of Brisbane one
respected citizen used to get sozzled regu-
larly every afternoon at the Johnsonian
Club in Adelaide-street and embark on
an ancient white gee for the ride home to
a distant suburb. There was little traffic
in those days, and it was one of the sights
of Brisbane to which strangers were
always introduced to watch the old horse
take his boss home. As the. rider swayed
dangerously to one side or other, so neddy
sidestepped to keep underneath him. He
never once spilled the man in the saddle.
* * * *
“V.A.G.”: Perch and trout cannot be
blamed entirely for the vanishing cod in
southern N.S.W. streams and Burrinjuck.
A few years ago I saw hundreds of cod
floating belly-up in the dam and rivers,
apparently the victims of some disease.
Since then cod have never been seen
in the Molonglo or Queanbeyan rivers,
nor in Lake George, which was once
alive with them.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Those charcoal-liquid
oxygen bags which they use in Chile as
fracteur would be popular on the
Boulder belt, especially the shift after
pay day. Doing a turn one time with
an oxyacetylene welding outfit I was often
touched by some of the surface hands
for just a little whiff from the oxygen
cylinder. As a reviver on the morning
after, an inhalation of pure oxygen beats
any “hair of the dog” out of sight.. It
was a Scotch engineer that first brought
such usefulness to my notice.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: For years the local P.
and C. had vainly agitated to have the
old school painted. Economy was the
watchword ; “no” the answer. At the
beginning of June an army of workmen
descended on the place without warning,
renpvated the building at greater cost
than it could have been replaced for,
erected new fencing, put up a sulky-
shed, built the teacher a garage and
added two rooms to his residence against
his wish, and finally indented enormous
quantities of paint. An old resident
asked the foreman what was the strength
of it all. “No, it isn’t an election,” he
was assured, “but it’s getting near the
end of the financial year, and the
department is trying to spend its full
surplus in four weeks, so there’ll be no
cut in next year’s appropriation. Hence
the paint.” The resident surveyed the
gigantic pile of drums that dwarfed the
midget schoolhouse. “I see,” he said at
last; “they’re going to pour it on.”
* * * *
“Jan the Nurse”: The most surprising
product of the blacksmith’s art I’ve seen
was a wrought-iron rose, complete with
stem, buds and leaves, made by an old
chap at Wynnum (Q.). It would have
been quite pleasing in its natural state,
but he had stretched art a bit by coal-
ing it red and green with house paint.
It looked as real as any draper’s “art.
flower” at that.
* # * *
“Orca”: Regularly when the annual
breeding migration of humpback whales
passes up our east coast the Sydney press
revives one of its pet superstitions. The
migration is enlivened by attacks on the
big fellows by that tiger of the sea
the. grampus, or killer whale. The killer
puts up a spectacular show, but publicity
goes to thresher sharks, which would no
more dream of going for a whale than
they would of chasing Zane Grey. The
thresher is a proved fish-eater with a very
small mouth which could inflict no dam-
age on a large whale. It is popularly
supposed to leap out of the water and
wallop the whale with its long tail, but
even if it did the blow would be as
effectual as tapping a politician on the
head with a feather. How anyone could
mistake a shark of any kind for the burly
and magpie-marked killer is a mystery ;
yet one paper recently reporting a fight
off South Head gave vivid eyewitness
descriptions of the threshers leaping into
the air and the whale shuddering under
the impact of their spanking tails.
* * * *
“Gam'’: When it comes to starting
horses, a lot depends on what they’ve
been used to. Once when an old C. of E.
parson at Mt. Gambier (S.A.) set out to
visit a distant parishioner, the local lads,
knowing that most nags stuck up at a
certain difficult stretch of sandy road, hid
behind some near-by bushes to hear how
the rev. gentleman would orate. The
pair of ponies stopped suddenly, as ex-
pected, but the onlookers were staggered
when the vicar stood up, brandished his
whip and shouted: “Proceed, you
brutes, proceed!” and the ponies imme-
diately ploughed the buggy through in
fine style.
* * * *
Judging by the manner in
which the Italians have prospered in
North Queensland they should make a
success of the colonisation of Abyssinia.
Italians I know who arrived 10 or 15
years ago to “cutfa da cane an’ maka
da big money” are now comfortably
settled on sugar farms, free of debt. Hard
workers and frugal livers, they believe
in large families. It is no unusual sight
to see “la mamma” herself in the field,
vigorously wielding a hoe in the tropical
sun.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: Water-rats are con-
stantly found by fishermen on the
Murray River (N.S.W.) drowned in drum
nets into which they have gone to eat
trapped fish. Cod can’t be kept alive in
crates if there’s one of these rodents
camped in the neighborhood. Many a
time from an overhanging bough I’ve
watched a rat swim about in a billabong
with the grace and agility of a seal as
he chased small fish among the rope
weeds. Sometimes he varied operations
with a little mining in the bank after
crabs, his favored food.
CLASSIFYING BUNNY.
“After a careful review, it has been decided that
rabbits and hares, chilled for export, will henceforth
be classified by the Federal Government as meat.
Hitherto they have been grouped with fruit and
similar commodities.” —Canberra item.
They set him up on the table-top—one rabbit,
small and brown;
They rolled him over upon his side, and turned
him upside down.
And his little heart beat fast with fear, but his
soft eyes brimmed with hope,
For one of them had a reading-glass, and
another a microscope.
In solemn conclave the experts met, to put him
in his class ;
And one of them said, “He isn’t wheat, nor
sugar, nor Johnson-grass.”
“He might be a grapefruit,” one remarked.
Another declared, “He’s cheese!”
“It is obvious, sirs,” another demurred, “a
rabbit is none of these.”
“Well, he might be osmiridium, then.” But one
said, “Gentlemen,
It’s a rabbit that’s under discussion now —it
isnT a fountain-pen.”
“Well, he might be timber,” suggested one, but
that guess went amiss.
“I’ve never built a rabbit-fence,” growled an-
other, “of such stuff as this!”
They argued long and they argued late, till
their strength began to droop:
“Well, it’s plain that he Isn’t beche-de-mer nor
Barrier turtle-soup;
And he isn’t eggs nor ambergris, and he isn’t
‘Peaches, Canned’;
And he’s got to be classified to-day, or his
export might be banned.”
Then a brainwave came from outer space,
and a member sprang to his feet:
“I’ve got the answer at last, good sirs—the
poor little chap is meat /”
QUEENSLAND.
L. O'NEIL.


HITS
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
t „
m
.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
"LYSAGHT'S”
WIRE, WIRE N ETTING, ETC.
SPECIFY
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
About the Drought.
“J.W.”: Westralian pastoral areas and
parts of the wheatbelt are having the
worst time. But Central Australia is
going through an all-too-common travail,
and the N.T. is suffering from one of
the worst dry periods in a long history.
Rockhampton (C.Q.), a few miles from
the coast, linked to the west, north and
south by railway, and on a big river,
has been virtually without green vege-
tables (which are not plentiful in
Sydney, either ; last week the papers had
to refer to “hot weather and the high
prices of most fruit and vegetables”).
Even in N.S.W. districts like the Clar-
ence-Richmond and the Hunter-Manning,
the drought has struck heavily. At Single-
ton, as rich a pastoral district as any in
Australia,
Pastuies arc in a very poor state and are
deteriorating further. Handfeeding is being
practised extensively. Any continuance of
droughty conditions will be a severe blow
to stockowners.
Around Camden-Picton (N.S.W.) the
very cradle of the Australian stock in-
dustry, with plenty of shelter timber,
lagoons, creeks and the bountiful Nepean
River running wide and deep only a few
miles away, “pastures are poor and are
still going off.” Though the district is
served by railways and roads which bring
it within 30 miles of the Sydney produce
markets and within about the same dis-
tance of the rich agricultural flats of the
Hawkesbury,
Unless rain falls, stock mortality is likely
to be heavy. Owners would truck stock
away, but are unable to secure suitable
agistment country.
Farmers stock their own land to glory
in good seasons and stock somebody
else’s which cannot bear the pressure
when drought appears.
Will Australians never learn the value
of sinking money in the stabilising of
creeks, in turning gullies into tree-shaded
water-holders, and in providing dams,
putting away silage and sowing drought-
resisting pastures against the coming of
dry seasons?
Queensland Agricultural Department
this year has had to complain of “a
serious decrease in all classes of stock,
due to climatic adversity.” Stock figures
stood respectively at January 1, 1935
and 1936, as follows:
1935. 1936. Decrease.
Horses .. 448,604 430,399 18,205
Cattle .. 6,052,641 5,974,299 78,342
Sheep .. 20,574,182 17,806,188 2,767,994
How much fodder conservation would
the saving of all that' stock have paid
for?
Trapping Blowflies.
“Sheepo”: As “Gurra Gurra” says,
the flytrap has been proved valuable in
reducing strike (B. 14/10/’36), but
hitherto the fault with most traps has
been their failure to destroy blowflies
of the primary group, though secondary
flies have been caught in millions.
Recently a new flytrap has come on
the market, the inventor claiming that
if will snare primary as well as all
other flies. It contains an oily mixture,
the odor of which is apparently attrac-
tive to the primary species. An added
virtue is that all flies caught are turned
into liquid by some agent in the oil
mixture. The trap does not need clean-
ing out, as the overflow, caused through
the caught flies being dissolved, is allowed
to run off. Nor is charging necessary in
times when flies are abnormal.
An important aspect of trapping is
that flies travel. Therefore trapping will
be of little value unless traps are placed
in all paddocks.
Truck-frame for Lambs.
“Win”: I have just seen a two-ton
motor-truck with a frame attached for
carrying 170 301 b. lambs. Many may
find it just what they require.
The gate at the back of the truck,
instead of opening in the usual way to
allow the chute to be placed in position,
was hinged at the bottom, and opened
“It’s all right, lad—Well git y'
down!”
down to act as a chute. If the
gate were not long enough to reach
the ground another could be made
of the same size, or shorter, and hinged
to the top of the first. This second gate
would hang from the top when not in
use, but when the first was opened back
it could be opened out like the blade
of a pocket-knife.
With such a frame it is not necessary
to carry a cumbersome extra chute for
unloading the top deck, part of the top
floor being on hinges and dropping down
to form a chute to the lower deck. This
stairway can be so contrived that the
lambs, when started, continue their jour-
ney to the ground.
Each deck needs to be high enough to
take a large sheep comfortably.
Even Lamb Drops.
“Corriedale”: The first essential in en-
suring evenness in fat lambs is good
breeding. Any two different breeds of
sheep mated the first time will, if pure,
produce straight lines without much
variation. A Dorset ram with merino
ewes, for instance, will give a crossbred
line of even progeny, which can be
marketed as such or the ewe portion used
as dams for a three-quarter-bred lamb
drop. Under some conditions a Romney
or B. Leicester ram may be even more
useful. '
Variation of type will follow if a
Dorset ram is mated with the Dorset-
merino cross ewes, and that applies to
all other breeds.
Apart from even type, matings must
produce lambs exactly when the pasture
is right. Many err in using too few
rams. Better 4 p.c. and a compact drop
than 2 p.c. and a straggling one.
Flushing the ewes with plenty of grain
feed just before joining also pays, though
they should not be mud-fat at mating,
Yarding at night for the first week after
joining is also sound practice.
Consignments of lambs are wanted in
truckloads or half truckloads. Best
method when a number of good pasture
paddocks are available is to allow the
ewes to lamb in one, and when one truck-
load or more of lambs are dropped re-
move the unlambed portion of the mob
to a fresh paddock and repeat the pro-
cess. The result is a few small mobs of
ewes, each with lambs one age and size
and in flocks of even truck multiples
which will grow together and so permit
trucking of each lot to take place in
orderly sequence.
This scheme is far better than a free-
for-all-tussle among lambs for food in
one big mob. Also, it enables the owner
to think in truckloads when marketing.
Footrot:.
“Stump Jump”: Although research has
not yet produced a cure for footrot much
more effective treatments than formerly
have been discovered.
Cause of the trouble has not been
positively sheeted home to W. I. B.
Beveridge’s “organism X,” though it
appears probable
that it deserves
the blame. It is
now known that
it is impossible to
infect any large
propo rti o n of
sheep by simply
plastering necrotic
footroot material
on healthy feet.
.If, however, the
feet have been
scarified, scalded
or irritated by
skin parasites, the
necrotic material,
collected from the hooves of bad cases,
has an 80 p.c. chance of causing the
trouble.
On the other hand, pure cultures of
either “organism X” or B. necrophorus
fail to produce the disease when rubbed
into similarly treated feet. B. necro-
phorus is an organism like “X,” and is
always found in infected feet. It' is
the bacillus that does most of the actual
“rotting.” “Organism X” is a spirochsete,
a type of germ hard to “culture” without
loss of potency.
Skin irritation, as a forerunner of in-
fection, must not be overlooked. Tight
wads of grass between the hooves and
moist, new-type pastures in humid con-
ditions are prolific causes of sweating
and. scalding, and this paves the way for
the entry of both “organism X” and
necrophorus. Thistles can have a similar
effect. Irritation set up by the larvae of
Strongyloides papillosis, one of the com-
monest of sheep parasites and till re-
cently looked on as almost harmless, is,
however, believed to be the main portal
for the germs.
Treatment? Continue the usual paring
and dressings for lame sheep, but in
spring, as soon as the grass dies, have
a clean up of the flock ; pare all sus-
pected feet back and put every animal
through the copper sulphate or arsenic
footbath.
An inspection of feet a month later,
followed by another footbath, will not
go amiss in small flocks that suffer
heavily.
The view is held that the causal organ-
isms are carried over in a dormant state
by chronic feet cases each summer, until
the following new growth of grass in
the autumn. At this stage, the carriers
feet commence to be vigorously attacked
again, after the dormant summer period,
and germs are spread around the pas-
tures to infect other animals.
Year-round Shearing.
“Murrawong”: A number of N.S.W.
stations have for years shorn between
March and July, when they have the
pick of available labor. There is room
for others to follow.
An advantage of autumn shearing is
that the wool gets a chance to grow be-
fore the dustiest period of the year, and
sheep do not start off with dust right
down to the skin.
Something should be done to spread
the N.S.W. shearing more evenly over the
year. September is the month when there
are most complaints about badly-pre-
pared clips; there is not enough skilled
labor to go round, and inexperienced
men are called in to fill the gaps. Some
individual graziers are tackling the prob-
lem, but it calls for action by wool organ-
isations.
Of course, the seasonal effect of winter
shearing on the sheep has to be con-
sidered, though it is just as cold or colder
in the bulk-shearing seasons in some dis-
tricts as it is earlier in the year.
After-calving Paralysis.
“Cocky’s Offsider”: If, a week or two
after calving, a cow goes down and stays
there, with no sign of milk fever, the
chances are that she has after-calving
paralysis. Milk her, put a rug over her
and straw the ground well. If possible
she should be got into a shed.
Hindquarters and spine should be well
rubbed with liniment.
Then try this mixture: loz. tincture
nux vomica, 1 drachm liquid ammonia,
2oz. water. Make lOoz. and mix about
4oz. with a quart of water for a dose.
Give two doses a day, sitting the cow
up when dosing to prevent the drench
getting into the windpipe and lungs.
The patient should be regularly
milked.
Limb Stiffness in Cattle.
“Seenitall”: “Walliew’s” description
of the symptoms of “three days’ sick-
ness” (B. 28/10/’36) also fits other
troubles in cattle.
I recently noticed that one cow showed
slight stiffness in the hindquarters and
legs while being driven. Two days later
. she. was looking very ill, was so stiff that
she could scarcely walk, had ceased to
chew the cud and was dry around the
nose. Her 3gal. milk supply had dropped
(Continued on page 24.)


The WORLD'S GREATEST BRIDGE
7Mn
■'Wl
MS
fflf** - * fsjtj t
5d5
w \
m
fov'.T
ri'AA
«js»awj
; y•- r J£
r
/i
r-rl*
• -V.’' •*•"'
MO
«
*
m^v\
i*&rs\
C *4\D
jS
r
& •••
iffe*' m
.cm,
jr?
tf'i
k
f Yf:i
y/a
2ft
f
:S-<
?f i£*W
a .*s**»
i*
a
$1
A 7 •iV.\<c.
?s
'M «#».f ¥-f‘.
t, «
* rif
X.'e&V-rGKtoA $ y-
»'M^l
y-\ "i ’■
:.*.* I
v. ■
V 4 '■■ ,;
£-22-fcMA.:
rf-
i >.r<:
PMnmskdHSb
*&&
«
#*'
4 ts
C-VAr*^
ẃ
'
r.
n
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS ca-s.a, LTD
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


TheG° l f' S
friend •
THINK well before buying your Golf
Shoes. Think of all the hard
wear they must stand up to, of the
comfort they must impart to their
wearer, of t'he grip they must maintain
at all times.
This Abbey Golf Shoe has all of these
virtues, and can be relied on from the
first day until the last.
To keep your Golf Shoes waterproof and
supple, you should use Dale’s English
Dubbin. Price, 2/6 per tin.
M
PRICE,
30/-
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
W.A. 53.
THEY ALL WANT IT. .
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in
the whole of the area
of Greater Brisbane.
“The Telegraph”
carries the largest
share of local display
and classified adver-
tisements.
The man on the spot
knows relative values.
To follow his example is
often wise.
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
FRED BERRY S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, *3/ O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
20th Century Miracle.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS
R.D.L. LEVER
EVERLASTING WATCH
Unbreakable Shockproof
Non-magnetic and Accurate.
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS
Against Constructional Faults, and
Oiled Free Every Twelve Months.
Built to Stand a Knock or Fall.
m
12
11
10
2
R.D.L
LEVER
9
8
4
7
5
POST
FREE
USED BY 60,000 PEOPLE.
R. Dixon Long, Designer and Director of the
World-famous R.D.L. Wonder Watches, so
successfully used and recommended by 60,000
people during the past 11 years, now offers you
this marvellous Everlasting Watch as the acme
of Perfection in a dependable timepiece.
BEWARE OE IMITATIONS.
R.D.L. Watches, designed by an Aus-
tralian, were first introduced in 1925 and
are still supreme.
Recoiniuended for Farmers, Tram, Rail,
Police and Businessmen.
The R.D.L. LEVER is everlasting because it is
built of standardised interchangeable parts. As
one part wears, so it can be replaced at a very
low cost, making the life of the watch indefinite,
everlasting. It is also shockproof (virtually
unbreakable), having special shock absorbing
features introduced into the expert construction
of the movement.
Pocket Size, Plain Dial 17/6
Pocket Size, Luminous Dial 207-
Lady’s Service Wristlet Size 20/-
Gent.’s Large Service Wristlet .... 20/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (small round
nickel case), Luminous 25/-
Gent.’g Dress Wristlet (nickel
cushion shape case), Luminous .. 30/-
Gent.’s Dress Wristlet (9ct. gold-
filled cushion case), Luminous .. 457-
Lady's Gold-filled and Solid Gold
Dress Wristlets (jewelled)—
45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Obtainable only from
R.D.L. WONDER WATCHES,
Est. 1917. R. Dixon Long, Director,
Fourth Floor, Cromwell Buildings,
366 V Bourke St., Melb., C.l, Vic.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
5 E S
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., Kinn St., Sydney
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF vour Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OF TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO..
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
to nil, the udder having become com-
pletely dry.
I gave her the best all-round drench
1 know:
lib. Epsom salts.
Boz. treacle or molasses.
2oz. ginger.
2oz. bicarbonate soda.
2 pints hot water.
(Add 25 p.c. to quantities for big animals.)
Dissolve the treacle in a pint of the
hot water and do the same with the
salts. Mix these two together and
slowly add the ginger, stirring well all
the time. Then add the bicarb, soda. By
the time the dissolving and mixing are
completed the drench should have be-
come slightly warmer than blood heat.
Give warm at once per long-necked
beer-bottle. Be careful not to choke the
cow by holding its head up too long at
one time or pouring too fast.
This drench fixed my cow within five
hours. She was suffering from a stop-
page between the third and fourth
stomachs, a common trouble with some
beasts ; it can arise from eating clovers,
green grasses, dry hay or chaff. If un-
treated, a cow will die of it.
The same medicine is equally effective
for a cow suffering from grass tetany,
another complaint with like symptoms.
In this case the animal would need to
be removed from the infected paddock.
Should the first drench not act, give
another in 12 hours, also a copious
enema.
Saving the Desert.
“El V.”: J. C. Warren, member of a
family that has been connected with
northern S. Australia since the ’sixties,
had a good many practical things to say
about sand erosion at a recent Primary
Producers’ conference, when he moved a
resolution urging action by the State and
Commonwealth Governments to save the
Lake Eyre Basin from becoming com-
plete desert.
According to Warren, when leases fell
due in 1888 dummy buyers replaced
existing holders, and rents were forced
up 600 p.c. to 800 p.c. This led to over-
stocking, and through that and the rabbit
thousands of miles of reasonably good
cattle country were turned into wind-
swept sand desert. The sand has gradu-
ally choked up the channels of the
Cooper and the Diamantina, so that their
floodwaters no longer reach Lake Eyre
but sink into porous sand flats.
An old scheme was to let the sea in
from Spencer’s Gulf, but topographical
survey does not suggest that the job
would be economically possible. And
even if it were possible at a reasonable
cost there is no guarantee that it would
change the climate. The Warren scheme
is to dam the Burdekin in its higher
reaches and divert the waters to the head-
waters of the Thomson, sending them
down to the Cooper. Warren also sug-
gests diverting western Queensland river
waters to Lake Frome and Lake Torrens
arid thence via Lakes Calabonna, Blanche
and Gregory to Lake Eyre.
The scheme, which is worth an official
survey, becomes all the more important
with the gradual cessation of bore-water
flow ; it is estimated that in 1971 there
will be scarcely a single bore producing
water in the west of Queensland. In that
event, unless something is meanwhile
done, much of the best sheep land west
of Longreach will follow the Eyre dis-
trict into the desert.
Any big water scheme would cost a
good many million pounds ; but so have
the big concrete-gutter schemes of the
cities, and electric-railway schemes of
Sydney suburbs have already eaten up
£35,000,000, and will absorb a few mil-
lions more in the next few years. A 20-
year plan to replace bore water in W.Q.
and reclaim the S.A. border lands would
be cheaper in the end than the loss of
the sheep and cattle industries in those
regions.
Inventing a Cane Harvester.
“Poopoonbah”: In view of the
general mechanical efficiency that has
been achieved in the sugar industry, it
is surprising that cane-harvesting is still
carried out by hand labor as it was
when the industry began.
Here are the essentials of an ideal
harvester: It must be powerful, but not
so heavy that it packs the ground to the
detriment of the ratoon crop. It must
cut the stalk an inch under the ground
and top it at the last ripe joint (the bug-
bear of the inventor). It must be adapt-
able to all conditions, including crops
that have been flattened by wind and
flood, and it must free the stalks of all
trash, and stack them in bundles. Lastly,
it must not emit sparks.
It sounds a stiff proposition, but in-
ventors have solved apparently tougher
problems.
Hints for the Farm.
“M. 0.”: For the tomato mite (Phyllo-
coptis sp.) try a liberal dosing of sul-
phur dust. This is giving good results
in Central Queensland.
“Lam”: Be careful when grazing
stunted oats, particularly after a very
dry winter. Many stock losses occur in
this way. They are. due not to poison-
ing, but to impaction, which can be
avoided by allowing the cattle only a
short initial graze, subsequently length-
ening their period in the paddock.
“Stump Jump”: Some tractors after
much use can be made to steer better if
strips of steel are bent and riveted into
the space between the two half-rims of
the front wheels. A false centre rim can
be put on in, this way lin. above the
worn level. Scrapheap harvester beaters
make good strips for the job, which is
worth doing even if only one wheel is
“rimmed.”
“Gumblegubbin”: A simple trap for
cockroaches: Mix three or four tea-
spoons of honey or treacle in half a
basin of water, stand the basin on the
floor at night and lean a few thin bent
sticks against it, so that the bent ends
project over the edge of the. basin. The
smell of the liquid attracts the cock-
roaches, which climb up the sticks, and
on reaching the ends tumble into the
basin.
“A.N.S.”: Instead of using metal
weights, three-quarter-fill the tractor
pneumatic tyres with water, then inflate
with air to the normal pressure. This
improves the drawbar pull and gives
smoother running over rough ground. It
is a good plan to get expert advice as to
the exact quantity of water required for
your tyres; too much may lead to tube
or tyre trouble.
“Cooee Bird”: Chaffed stems of un-
fruited bananas, particularly sugar
bananas, make good sheep and cattle
feed in times of scarcity. The trees
should be lopped each day as required,
and all dead and unduly fibrous matter,
such as sloughing stem leaves, should
be removed before the stems are put
through the chaff-cutter. Cattle, as a
rule, take to finely-chaffed stems
readily, and most horses need no coax-
ing to eat sugar-banana stalks, though
they may turn up their noses at other
varieties. Banana-tree chaff will even
fatten cattle.
“Mareeba”: While tobacco seedlings
are small and their root system is tenu-
ous they should never be allowed to dry
out. To be on the safe side water three
times a day during the first month;
after that, once a day should be enough.
If there is a stoppage of growth at any
stage, add ioz. soda nitrate to every
four gallons of water.
“X.C.”: During the year Atherton
(N.Q.) Producers’ Association, with the
backing of the Queensland Agricultural
Department, has distributed 300 ewes
and 10 British type rams among mem-
bers to see how the animals stand the
high scrub country of the north. Rain
fell on 117 days of the year—47.94in.
The result, so far, has been satisfactory,
the animals doing well in wool and
fleshing.


SMOKE-OH!
“She cleared out, leaving me with a three-
months-old baby.”— Husband in divorce.
Gave him the heir, so to speak.
4* 4* -I- v
We’re Not So Smart.
“The actual idea of waving the hair went
back to the ancient Egyptians.”
—■ ‘S. M. Herald.”
Since we’ve discovered that the ancient
Egyptians used permanent waves and lip-
stick, we’re beginning to think
that a lot of our alleged
modernity is only second-
hand.
Who knows? Perhaps the
ancient Gyppo, twirling the
dials of his all-wave “Pyra-
mid” set and grinding his
teeth over the ballyhoo with
which vendors of cosmetics
were torturing the ether, sud-
denly pricked his ears at the
following:
“Calling all stations! Call-
ing all stations along the
Nile! Will anyone knowing
the . whereabouts of Mark
Antony please communicate
with Mrs. Mark Antony,
Gladiator - avenue, Rome?
Mrs. Mark Antony cannot
understand her husband’s
long silence and is afraid that
something is amiss.”
“Too right!” Mr. Too-
tanked-amen would chuckle
into his thick black beard.
“If she only knew, the affairs
of that bird are always amiss
—h’m, a Miss Cleopatra!”
Perhaps at another period when the
news-reels were featuring the visit of
Sheba to Solomon, Mrs. Hanky-Panky-
amen whispered into the ear of her
dear, dear friend, “Positively disgusting
the way she embraced that old rake,
don’t you think?”
“You’re telling me! That dame’s the
one reason why the sands of the desert
never grow cold.”
D. McM.
“The taxpayers are being shamefully milked.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
They are liable to give whey under
such a drain.
4* 4* -b ►!«
“Economics finally define one’s politics. I
find periodical adjustments a rule of experi-
ence.” — Joynton Smith.
The vulgar term for them is “twists.”
*s*
“Just come along in your ordinary working
attire.” — Bridge club invitation.
It is understood that quite a furore was
caused by the artist’s model who accepted.
4- * * *
“Prisoners in N.S.W. gaols are allowed
tobacco.” — “Sunday Sun.” '
This provides prison life’s most popu-
lar drawback.
4* 4* »b -I*
Trained Humor.
“Classes have been started to train German
soldiers in the humor which helped the British
soldiers to grin under war hardships. Bairns-
father’s jokes, with elaborate explanations, are
being employed.”
Herr Professor Painindernek, who
showed his Teutonic thoroughness in his
14-volume opus The British Mother-in-
law Joke, explaining in the last three
volumes why it is a joke, was taking the
humor class.
“Gomrades,” he said, “our illusdration
for do-day vill a ferry goot schoke pe.
Der next dree lectures vill devoted pe to
its eggsbosition. Der soldier is pefore
der medical officer, who vill zay: ‘lf you
vos in der civil life vould you gome do
me a silly gomplaint lige dis mitt?’
Do vich der soldier he say: ‘Nein ; I
vould for a doctor send!’ At dot you
laff. You der schoke see. —hein! Vait!
Vait dill I eggsplain vy eet ees a schoke.
And alvays remember dot after you laff
you cry ‘Heil Hitler!’ You musdt show
dot your sense of humor does nodt pre-
vent you from being loyal to der Fiihrer.”
Two hours later the herr professor
asked the class of earnest, set-faced
students if anyone followed the, joke.
Private Bohndohm alone raised his hand.
“Ja, mein Herr,” he said, “die schoke
iss dot der soldier shodt vould pe for
insubordination, hein? Heil Hitler! ”
H. M.
4* •I* 4* 4*
“Thonsands througed Luna Park.”
—“Sun News-Pictorial.”
And a gid toome wez hadd byorl.
•b *b *b *b
“Filling” Music.
“Because he believes that it calms the nerves
of patients, a Hollywood dentist plays Bing
Crosby records while filling teeth.”
“Now, jest a minute, Mr. Schertzout,
while I get the ol’ gramophone started
up. There —now we’re oke. Open a
lil’ wider, please. H’m. Guess I better
fix up that ol’ bicuspid. Probably hurt
a lil’ —hey, wait a minute, Mr. Schert-
“Is this tram going to Mosman?”
“Yes.”
“But it's got ‘Cremorne' on the side”
“Yes, but We're not goin' sideways.”
zout! I ain’t started yet! Whoa! Well,
kin ya beat that! He scrammed right
outa here! Musta bin plumb scared,
orright ! Funny thing, that’s the thoid
guy that’s cleared out on me this
mornin’! Must be noives, I guess.
“Nex’ patient, please. Hiya, buddy,
what kin Ido fer you, huh? Fillin’?
Jus’ set yerself in that chair while I put
on another reccud, pardner. Okay, now
let’s get started . . .
“Phew! Well, that’s done! How’s it
feel, huh? Swell! An’ howdja like the
music? Ya thought it wuz swell?
Swell! I’m mighty glad there’s one guy
in this goldarned burg that sure likes
good croonin’. That’ll be three dollars
seventy-five, Mr. —er, what was the
name? Huh? Gosh —I didn’t recker-
nise ya, Mr. Crosby!”
Gee.
“Sydney County Council is considering a
scheme of colored street-crossings for pedes-
trians.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Sky-blue picked out with golden harps
would be appropriate.
The Horticulturist.
Prone on the sofa, weary and nause-
ated after the night before, he did not
feel at all like doing' the gardening. In
fact, the very thought of physical effort
was repulsive to him. But he had pro-
mised his wife that he would do it, and
he knew that if he didn’t carry it out an
eternal nagging—and this morning it
would be a refinement of torture—would
be his.
Damn the flowers! he thought. Still,
he’d better get the agony over.
Then rising painfully from the sofa he
filled a saucepan with water and poured
it over the window-box in front of his
King’s Cross flat.
T. W. N.
'!* -Tr *b *l-
- is very little advantage in being
born with a silver spoon in the mouth.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Except, of course, that a man born that
way doesn’t have to stir himself.
4* *l* v *l*
“When her husband was drinking it was diffi-
cult to get him to eat anything.”— “Sun.”
Some Little-known Facts About
Japan.
I. —General Knowledge.
Japan is a long, narrow stretch of toy
and armament factories interspersed
with rice and bamboo fields and Olympic
standard swimming pools. It is bounded
on the north by earthquakes, on the
south by tidal waves and typhoons, on
the east by volcanoes and on the west
by the Chinese menace.
Earthquakes are so consistent that
when subterranean rumbles cease and
roofs stop rattling the population be-
comes alarmed.
Earthquake-dodging is Japan’s great-
est primary industry, and the efficiency
developed is astonishing. It is closely
followed by naval and military reviews,
wrestling, cherry - blossom admiring,
mountain-climbing and Banzai-shouting.
Intensive cultivation is carried out on
every available square inch of soil, and
Japanese scientists are bending all their
energies to the task of making cultiva-
tion even more intense. Professor Imshi
has been conducting experiments for
20 years in an endeavor to cross the
mushroom with the rice plant, whereby
he hopes to get 169 crops a year instead
of two as at present. So far his efforts
have borne no fruit—nor grain.
His famous co-worker, Professor
Boko Toko, the botanist, ex-
pects to make rice not only the
staple food but the national
beverage as well by grafting it
on to the hop vine, the resultant rice
vine yielding, it is expected, more grain
as well.
The average peasant farm is approxi-
mately 20 square yards in area. On the
swampy ground is grown rice, and on
the higher ground wheat, barley, radish
and egg-plants. The property is sur-
rounded by dwarf mulberry-trees for the
silkworms.
Owing to lack of space the various
ground crops are planted, not in rota-
tion according to season, as are those
of Western nations, but one on top of
the other. Thus after the winter ice has
melted the ground is dug up to a great
depth. At about 3ft. the radish is planted.
Six inches nearer the surface the sweet-
potato is put in; at 2ft. the seed of the
mangel-wurzel is sown; at 18in. the egg-
plant, and so on up to within four inches
of the surface. Thus the deeper-rooted,
stronger-growing plants push the ones
above them surfaceward, ensuring
quicker crops
Like the Chinese, the Japanese sleep
standing up ; but, whereas the former are
compelled to do so because of popula-
tion density, the latter slumber vertically
for economic reasons —it means so much
more space for cultivation.
Even the flat-dweller assists the nation
agriculturally by nourishing with the
dregs of the night-before’s glasses, not
the futile aspidistra, as do Occidental flat-
dwelling horticulturists, but the minia-
ture mulberry-tree. This pot-plant won
the prize offered by the “Itchi Itchi
Shinbone,” one of Japan’s biggest dailies,
and was evolved by Professor In Globo,
who claimed that', on an average, \\ silk-
worms per tree could graze during a 24-
hour working day, with time off for
meals. But the tremendous wastage en-
tailed by cutting silkworms in halves
brought forth strong condemnation of
this type of tree, and the professor, after
penning a grateful appreciation of his
detractors, committed hara-kiri. This
roused the nation, and ever since
hara-kiri has been the national sport.
S. W. K.
Colorful.
The moon wny yellow, purple was the
night,
And I was absolutely in the pink;
Her frock was lavender, her throat as
white
A nd fragrant as the jessamine; I think.
Her hair was gold, her cupkl lips were
red,
Her eyes were jade, and luminous as
dew.
So, on the morrow, friends, we twain
were wed.
And now my mood (when it’s not
black) is blue!
P.O.M.C.
Love’s Anaesthesia.
Brown shuddered and rustled the Sun-
day paper uneasily. The radio was emit-
ting that awful hill-billy “music” again.
He looked across to where Ethel’s young
man leaned back in his chair with a rapt
expression. “Well,” he thought, “there
must be something wrong with a man
who can enjoy this stuff.”
The canned torment blared on, and
Brown half rose with the intention of
switching to another station. He paused.
He’d been warned not to offend this un-
musical moron. Writhing, he sank back
into his seat and yielded himself at once
an accessory and a victim of the Order
of the Rat-trap.
The nasal whine of the crooner
changed to an even more excruciating
yodel, and the paper tore as Brown’s
hands clenched in an orgasm of suffer-
ing. Then with a few parting twangs
the noise ceased and peace reigned again
in Emoh Ruo.
Brown cleared his throat. With a wan
smile and carefully-assumed carelessness,
he said: “Pretty live numbers, these hill-
billy records, eh?”
The young man looked up with a start
and blushed. “Oh —er —hill-billy, was
it? I’m afraid I wasn’t listening. I—
er —I was thinking of something else.”
And his blush deepened.
C.G. SALIS.
History of a Hair.
“A human hair has an average life of two
years.”— “Popular Science.”
When I first pushed my way through
my mistress’s scalp, I was just an inno-
cent, weak, little ginger hair. Life was
full of wonder and hope. But my
149,999 companions, mostly older than
I, warned me that life would be hard.
They were right. I was scarcely a
week old when we were dyed a plati-
num-blonde color. Then the others were
squeezed between a pair of hot tongs,
which left a semi-permanent kink in
them. Fortunately, being young and
rather short, I missed that ordeal.
w
A. HAIR.
He spent in alcoholidays
His strength—he took no bite;
When he was tight in other ways
He lost his appetite.
H.M.


Another Fine Australian Novel:-
I SOLD
MY HORSES
BY ERIC LOWE
My grandfather died, and I never knew how ;
He left me six horses to drive in the plough
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
! sold my horses, and / bought a little cow,
But when I went to milk her 1 didn’t know how.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
I sold my cow, and I bought a little cat;
The wicked little thing on the mantelpiece she sat.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh.
/ sold my cat, and I bought a little mouse ;
Its tail caught fire and it burnt down the house.
With a wing, wing, waddle, oh,
Jack sing saddle, oh,
Dashing with a paddle, oh,
Down in the brook.
Chapter XXI.
{Continued.)
feVyajSfgaj ITH shearing close at hand, Robin could
m m \ allow himself only a few days in the
f §jt f| 5 city. When he was not with Myrna he
L s P ent what time he could with Boyd
Freeman. He introduced him to Petrov’s
underground cafe, and together they
went to visit Brand Stewart in hospital.
Brand was recovering from an operation. He was
quite cheerful and full of plans for a trip to the
Northern Territory ; he would be back, he said, in
time for Robin’s wedding. He professed to believe
that the operation had been entirely successful, but
the haunted, anxious look that had been on his face
when he first came off the ship from India was still
there, and Robin was not convinced.
THE night before he left for home Robin had dinner
with Boyd Freeman and John Morgan. John was
in Light Horse uniform, and had come straight from
camp. He was very proud of the second star on his
shoulder, and had brought down the half squadron
from Clune which he had succeeded in forming. Their
table at the restaurant was cut off from another part
of the room by a thin wooden partition, and half-
way through the meal Robin became aware of a
vaguely familiar voice on the other side.
“Oh, Nan, let’s have another bottle or some-
thing!”
A girl’s voice shaking with laughter replied: “No,
we certainly won’t. If you have any more to drink
we’ll be turned out.”
“Then I’ll eat macaroni! Hi! You! Sir Arthur!
Come here.”
A waiter’s obsequious voice broke in: “Yes, sir,
what can I do for you?”
“What’s the length of the macaroni the Count
of Monte Cristo’s eating over there?”
“Spaghetti, sir. I really couldn’t say what
length.”
“Would it be seven inches or something?”
“About that, sir.”
“Then bring me some —and make it not less than
eight inches.”
“It’s Barney Case!” said John Morgan. “He’s
been in camp with me. A full-blown captain. Brought
a squadron down from the Northern Rivers. Let’s
go round and see what he’s got.”
Robin had not seen Barney since the schooldays.
He looked very big in his uniform, and rose un-
steadily, but grinning happily, to welcome them.
Beside him sat a pretty girl, flushed with laughter,
whose head was as red as Barney’s. He introduced
her unblushingly.
“This is my mother. You will please note the
family likeness. We’re celebrating mother’s golden
wedding. Father would have been here, too, but he
doesn’t get out till to-morrow.”
“Don’t be a fool, Barney!” the girl laughed.
“Well,” he said, “since you insist. I’ll tell ’em
the truth —and they won’t believe that either. Her
name is Nancy Mcßride, and we’re not married, but
would be only for —what did old Mac call it, Nan?
—consanguinity or something—who says I’m drunk
now? Nan and I are horribly consanguine. Her
mother is my mother’s twin sister, and she married
my mother’s first cousin, which is her first cousin,
and that makes us about half-cousins twice improved,
and our children would be their own aunts or some-
thing—what are we going to drink?”
The waiter came back with a brimming dish of
spaghetti, and Barney introduced him, too.
“This,” he said,-with a magnificent gesture that
swept a vase of flowers off the table, “is Sir Arthur
Pedestrian, a very famous man and a great prose-
writer ; you must know his work, 1 it’s in the papers
every day, signed A. Pedestrian. He’s got a set on
motor-cars.”
Dinner over, Barney insisted that they should all
go to a play. In the theatre he promptly went to
sleep, and Robin found himself sitting beside the red-
headed girl. He discovered that she really was
Barney’s cousin.
“I have been wanting to meet you,” she told him.
“I’ve heard so much about you from both Barney and
Myrna Holt. Myrna has been my friend for many
years, and she has promised that I shall be one of
her bridesmaids. I saw her for a minute this after-
noon, and she told me that you would be at a loose
end to-night. Rather mean, I call it, when you have
only two or three days in town.”
Robin laughed. “It was an engagement of long
standing. I could have gone, too, but we would not
have seen, much of each other, and I wanted to have
dinner with Boyd and John.”
Nancy Mcßride, it seemed, was a country girl,
and she and Robin found much in common. They
saw very little of the play. When the lights went on
after the final act Barney was still sleeping soundly.
Nancy shook his shoulder.
“Wake up, Barney,” she said. “Breakfast-time!”
, “Leave me alone,” he muttered. “Damn break-
fast —let’s have it in bed.” .
OOYD and Robin set out from Malwa with eleven
horses and a wagon, carrying the trees and shrubs
they were to plant, and loading up on the way with
building material for the new house and rocksalt for
the stock on Lammas. They picked up their load at
Croy, now the railway terminus and midway between
Malwa and Lammas. Five years earlier Croy had
been nothing but a wayside shanty, a slygrog shop
run by a lady known to her customers as Mother
Damn-Your-Eyes.
The new railway station, with its yards and goods-
shed, now occupied the site of the shanty, and Old
Mother Damn-Your-Eyes, who had been paid a fabu-
lous price for her slabs and bark, had opened the
first hotel in the town, a weatherboard structure in
the single-sided main street, which ran parallel to the
railway-line. While loading the wagon Robin learned
that a new two-storeyed brick hotel was about to be
built, and that the owner was Bella Milsom.
How much, he thought, had happened in the last
few years. All the change seemed to have taken place
while he was away at school, suddenly ; for he had
come back to a district altered in appearance, altered
in atmosphere, more populous. He wondered if the
change had really come more gradually than he real-
ised, for he had been seven years at Macquarie, and
many of the longer holidays had been spent away
from home. Had changes come in his grandfather’s
day and his father’s early manhood? They must
have done so ; but surely more slowly, nothing so
drastic —roads and coaches and fences, of course, and
the blacks dying out, and the wild dogs and the kan-
garoos getting scarcer.
As a very small boy he remembered going with
his father to wait at a water-hole in the moonlight
to shoot dingoes. That was when they first started
to run sheep in the limestone country. Malwa was
virtually a cattle-station then, with only a special
flock that his grandfather had bred, more as an
experiment than anything else. Now Malwa ran far
more sheep than cattle. And the wild dogs were
gone, though it seemed only yesterday that he had
seen a pure-blooded dingo tear one of the station
dogs to pieces just outside the garden gate. Other
animals, too, were dying out. Only in the wild country
around Bald Head were kangaroos to be found. Pigs
had disappeared completely, and so had the hares,
their place being taken by the far more destructive
rabbits.
It was strange, almost terrifying, the way the
rabbits had come. In the beginning there had been
odd ones, seen at long intervals and eagerly sought
after by Robin and his school friends at holiday-time.
Then they became more plentiful, and the hares, which
all the organised drives had never succeeded in exter-
minating, started to disappear. The last time he had
seen them in any number was during a hot summer
six years before, when they were crowded in the shade
of every green tree, and so weak and exhausted that
you could knock them over with a stick. Finally; the
year he left school, the rabbits had come. Overnight
they seemed to have taken possession of the country-
side. They were there in countless thousands, all
moving, coming in from the west in wave after wave
of bobbing backs and insolent white tails. Big rabbits
and small rabbits, young and old, greys and blacks
and whites and piebalds. Donald, jong-sighted as
ever, had early netted in Schreiber’s wheatfield, and
as.each new block was cleared and fenced it, too, was
protected. , Now he had decided to enclose the whole
of Malwa, and on the return trip Robin was to pick
up at the railhead five tons of netting, the first of a
huge consignment.
The balance of the netting and all further supplies
would be delivered at the railway siding on Malwa.
When the line was first surveyed, Donald, as a matter
of policy, had waived all claim to compensation for
any of his land. As the railway ran from end to
end of the property, this was a considerable conces-
sion, and the Government, in recognition, was build-
ing a siding at a spot that would be convenient to
Donald. They had suggested calling it Stewartville.
but this Donald would not have, and in the end it
became Malwa Si'ding.
The netting of the boundary would be only the
commencement of the war against the rabbits. When
Malwa was enclosed the real work would begin—the
extermination of the creatures already on the property.
There was only one way to do this, Donald said —dig
out the burrows, burn up all the hollow logs and trees,
working systematically, section by section, with a pack
of dogs following on behind, so that nothing would
break back to start breeding again in the land
already clean.
But if the rabbits had caused incalculable harm
to farmers and pastoralists, they had also been the
means of establishing a new industry. All over the
country men were making livings catching rabbits.
At first they had been trapped only for their skins,
but with the coming of the railway and quick trans-
port a freezing-works had been built at Croy, and
The People in the Story.
Donald Stewart, owner of the sta-
tion properties, Malwa and Lammas, and
a breeder of fine cattle.
His wife, Mary Stewart, who is tired
of the loneliness and hard work of
country life and is anxious that he should
sell Malwa and transfer to Sydney, and
their son Robin.
Brand Stewart, Donald’s younger
brother, an excellent horseman, but a
wanderer, and, in Mary’s estimation, a
ne’er-do-well.
Myrna Holt, a girl seven years older
than Robin, whom he meets while at
school in Sydney and determines to
marry.
Boyd Freeman and John Morgan,
schoolboy friends of Robin.
Robin’s sister Nora ; horses; small
farmers; the men on Malwa, and Robin's
schoolmates.
Robin comes back from school and
takes over the stock management on
Malwa. His parents oppose his marriage
to Myrna, and Robin drifts into an affair
with the wife of a German share-
farmer. Donald tells Robin that if he
marries Myrna he can never own Malwa,
but will be set up on Lammas. Robin
goes to Sydney to announce the engage-
ment.


the trappers were bringing in carcasses by the thou-
sand to be frozen and transported to the city and
overseas. It was Donald Stewart who had started this
venture, and, as might have been expected, all the
larger station-owners were shareholders in the freezing
company. For a few years their dividends were
enormous.
ROBIN spoke to his nearside leader, and with a
rattle of chains the big wagon cleared the station
yard and drew down the long street of the town. He
liked driving a wagon, and had been taught to handle
a team by Chris Bennett, who had drawn wool from
Malwa ever since Robin could remember. Chris was
one of the old school of teamsters for whom a ringing
tugchain and a “talking” wheel made music enough.
He was very scornful of the small plough-horse teams
which were now everywhere on the roads carrying
wheat and chaff and superphosphates. He was equally
contemptuous of their owners.
“Damned lorrydrivers!” he would say. “That’s
all they are. With sidelines on their leaders to make
them ‘woa’ and ‘gee.’ They’ll be using four-in-hand
reins next!”
Well, Robin, at least, could control his team by
voice alone, and, rather proud of the fact, he climbed
on to the moving wagon beside Boyd Freeman. “If
ever I were forced to kick off from scratch and earn
my own living,” he said, “I believe I’d do it carrying,
with a wagon and horses.”
Boyd pointed to the motor-cars standing along
the street. “Then you’d better start now,” he said.
“If you wait much longer it’ll be too late. In a few
years’ time the big teams will be gone ; all the haulage
will be done by motor-lorries.”
“There’ll still be outback, where the roads are
bad.” Robin protested. “And the black-soil plains ;
no motor vehicle could draw heavy loads across
them.”
“In time there’ll be no outback. Why, this was
never-never country a few years ago. And the black-
soil plains will be crossed by macadamised roads and
concrete, and the motor vehicles will become more
reliable and more powerful. It’s no use, Vol, you
can’t live in a romantic dream for ever. You remem-
ber, ‘Already goes forth the warning that ye of the
past must die.’ You’re of the present, not the past.
Don’t let yourself slip back into it.”
“What do you want me to do?” Robin asked
testily. “Grow wheat and potatoes, and buy and sell
stock instead of breeding them? I see there’s already
a stock agent in Croy, and saleyards being built.”
“You probably will; you’ll be forced to, unless
you move further out. But I wasn’t thinking of that.
What do you hope to do with your life? What will
the land do for you? The most you can expect, if
you keep abreast of the times, is to improve your
holding, to absorb a tiny fraction more labor —if you
keep abreast of the times. At present you seem more
inclined to sit down and mourn for the days that
are dead.”
“You’re surely not suggesting that I should leave
the land?”
“Yes.”
“I never expected to hear that from you. Why,
apart from any other reason for my staying, it’s wnat
I’ve been brought up to, trained for.”
“There are hundreds of other men who could
do it just as well; men without your brains and with-
out your money.”
“And what am I to do with my brains and my
money—just allowing for the moment that I have
both. Go into commerce, I suppose. Gamble on the
Stock Exchange ; sell haberdashery; import motor-
cars.”
“No. It doesn’t take intellect to do any of these
things. You could, if you wished, do something for
other people: work for better conditions of living,
better government.”
“Politics! Hell! You're not really serious.”
“Yes, I’m serious enough; but I don’t mean
politics exactly. Not national politics, anyway. Pro-
gress is cosmic, and when I speak of working for other
people I mean for the world, not for Australians.”
“I don’t think you know what you do mean.
Am I not bettering conditions by my work on the
land? It's creative work. Didn’t my people do some-
thing for the world when they made Malwa out of
a wilderness?”
“Your people, yes ; but not you. Your father was
necessary to the times he lived in. He has done a
fine work, a very great work. But those days are
over. Even your right to areas of land the size of
Malwa does not exist now. That land should be
possessed by many people, not by one. And the need
has passed for men of brains and courage to fight
Nature, and bring it to a state where weaker men
can manage it.”
“Oh, shut up,” Robin laughed. “You're talking
rank heresy, and I don't believe you mean half what
you say. Don’t break out like that again. I don’t
like it.”
“I didn’t expect you would.”
Chapter XXII .
AS the weather was fine Boyd and
Robin slept in the open. Had it
rained they could have found
shelter in the Lammas woolshed ;
but since this was unnecessary they spread
their blankets each night on the floor of the big
wagon and curled up contentedly, listening to
the horses munching corn in the bag-feeder between
the shafts and the spring chorus of frogs which
boomed up to them from Lammas Creek.
Lying thus on the night before their return to
Malwa, Boyd said “I can understand why you want
to stay in the country, Vol. If I were here for long
I wouldn’t want to go back to the world —I don’t
now. There is lotus growing here.”
“No, not lotus! The lotus-eaters dreamed away
their days, weary of life, listless and without ambition.
You’ve got a wrong idea of what the land means to
me. It doesn’t sap my energy—it invigorates me.”
“Physically, perhaps. Maybe I’m wrong, though,
about it being a lotus land—it would be for me ; but
for you it’s more of a playground. But you’re grown
up now, and you won’t admit it. We are actually
at the beginning of our own lives, you and I; all that
went before belonged to other people, people who
protected us and fed us and taught us.”
Boyd turned on his side, his cheek propped up
on his hand. “I heard a sermon once,” he said. “I
was very young at the time, but I remember almost
every word of it. It was preached by my father in
the Macquarie chapel, and was not the sermon he
had intended to give. You knew, of course, that my
father was a clergyman. That was how I managed
to go to Macquarie. Being a clergyman’s son, I got
special concessions, and was lucky enough to win a
bursary as well.
“My father was invited to preach to the boys at
the time of King Edward’s accession—that was in
1901, before we went to Melbourne. I was twelve
then, and sat with Mother in the headmaster’s pew,
never dreaming that one day I should be wearing the
school uniform in this same chapel. We knew what
father would speak about, for he always wrote his
sermons out beforehand and read them to Mother
and me. I was bewildered when he started, and I
heard mother give a gasp of astonishment. He took
as his text words of David’s about a ruler of men:
“And he shall be as the light of the morning
when the sun riseth, even a morning without
clouds.”
“He told mother afterwards that when he had given
out his text and looked down at the boys, the sermon
he had prepared was forgotten ; he thought no more
of the soul of a king, but saw only the spirit of Youth
standing at the dawn of day, happy and exultant. His
sermon was an amazing thing ; not a sermon at all
but a song at sunrise of the morning of life —a morn-
ing without clouds.”
BOYD was sitting up now, his elbows on his knees,
® his body bent forward and the blanket falling
from his shoulders.
“Youth, I suppose, should always be like that;
but the day goes on. It is going on for you and me,
Vol, and there are plenty of clouds about if you’d
only look. Their shadows don’t bother you, because
you happen to be in the sunshine still. If you wish
you’ll probably be able to dodge the shadows for a
long while, perhaps all the day long ; but you’ll have
to shut your eyes to the unhappiness of those who
are already there; let them shiver and mope! Is
that what you want to do? If they are too ignorant
or too burdened or too lame to come out into the
sunlight, is it any concern of yours?”
“You really are an exasperating idiot,” Robin
said. “What do you want me to do? What are you
going to do yourself?”
“I don’t know exactly; writing, I expect,, and
lecturing. At present I’m only training. But you have
just as much ability as I, and infinitely better oppor-
tunities of using it. You have money, but I have
none.”
“Give all to the poor! Is that what you mean?”
“Don’t be a fool! Of course, I don’t. Because
you have money you will never have to worry about
existing ; but with me it is different. Before I can
do the work I want to do I have to find myself food
and clothing and a place to live. That means that
a great deal of my energy must be used on my own
account.”
“That’s all right,” Robin broke in impatiently ;
“but I still don’t see what you’re driving at. What
are we supposed to do? What are you going to write?
To whom are you going to lecture? Do you want
to set about righting all the wrongs of the world?”
“No, that would be ridiculous. I want to carry
a torch into dark corners. People only stay in dark-
ness because they do not know that the glory of light
exists; and they are deliberately kept in ignorance
to further the pleasure of a few.”
“What do you mean by dark corners? Where
are they?”
“I can tell you some of them. Religion, Prudery,
War, Capitalism.”
Robin laughed. “To which of these would you
like me to carry the torch?”
“You could take your pick, and there are plenty
more besides. Capitalism would be a good one to
start with, especially as you belong to the capitalistic
class.”
“Do you want me to go round organising strikes
and stirring up laborers against employers?”
“No, not at all. That is merely organisation of
class warfare. A strike is one of the evil effects of
Capitalism. A general hold-up of industrial progress
is about the only weapon available to the workers,
and occasionally can be very effective ; but it’s not
nearly such a powerful weapon as the workers them-
selves are led to believe. All strikes must fail in the
end, for Capital can always hold out longer than
Labor. The only good thing they do is to make more
people realise that industrial conditions need readjust-
ment. Selfishness, egoism, is the heaviest brake on
the wheel of progress. The majority, though they
profess national interest, are concerned only with their
individual comfort. Class sympathy might become
universal, and could even be the means of giving all
nations a common cause ; that is, there might be a
world-wide barricade, with Labor on one side and
Capital on the other—two widely divergent interests
that would overrule all national differences. But
before this can happen I think sincere efforts will be
made to get at the root of the trouble.”
ROBIN smiled to himself as he saw Boyd’s arm
swing out in a well-known gesture ; what an old
preacher he was, and yet there was some weight
behind his preaching.
“The trouble,” Boyd was saying, “seems to me
to be that money has acquired a false value, and so
has placed in the hands of the few who control it an
almost unlimited power. Power like this is wrong;
it is anti-progressive, and so cannot last indefinitely,
for in spite of all human endeavor the Great Scheme
of Things goes on. Life, which emerged from the
mud, is being slowly moulded into something great
and splendid.
“Progress seems slow to most of us, but the time
has been long enough to show amazing growth, and
this with very little help from human effort —mostly
in spite of it.
“It seems to me that all our efforts against pro-
gress eventually will be brought to nothing ; we will
be overwhelmed, blotted out and forgotten. If we
stand aside and do nothing it doesn’t really matter,
except that we are wasting our moment of life. But
if we help the forward movement, no matter how
insignificant our push may be, it is not futile, and we
have the immeasurable satisfaction of knowing that
we are working parts of the great scheme.
“You can be one of three things—a grain of sand
in the path of the wheel of progress, a part of the
forward impulse, or a nonentity. The great bulk of
people is made up of nonentities. They are those who
are lacking in something; it may be brains, it may
be ambition, it may be guts. If you become one of
them it can only be that you lack enterprise, that you
refuse to look about you, that you are afraid of
adventurous thought, that you deliberately sacrifice
ambition to comfort.”
ROBIN moved restlessly under his blanket.
“First,” he said, “you’ll have to persuade me
that there is a Great Scheme, and then that I’m not
helping progress far more by sticking to my job
here than by attempting something that I know nothing
about. If I told you what the land meant to me—
emotionally, I mean —it would only strengthen your
impression that it is simply a pleasure garden. It
is infinitely more than that, and I’m not going to
discuss it. But you questioned my right of ownership.
Well, get this into your mad head —I have an indis-
putably greater right to this land, or to any land, than
other men, simply because I was born to it and love
it and understand it. I am in sympathy with the spirit
of it. This point is not even debatable. Whether
material inheritance is ethically right or wrong may
be open to argument, and in any such argument you
would probably get the better of me ; but that wouldn’t
prove you right, so we won’t start it.
“You talk about a Great Scheme of Things.
What is it? How did it start? Who started it? God? ’
“Yes, if you like.”


“What do you mean by ‘if you like’?'’
“Well, it depends how you think of God.”
“I don’t know that I think of him at all now.
If I did I suppose it would be as a being who created
heaven and earth, and hands out rewards and punish-
ment. That is what we were taught; you probably
had a great deal more of it than I.”
“From the time I was old enough to think for
myself,” Boyd said, “religion has only filled me with
a feeling of annoyance ; it is so utterly unreasonable.
“And yet your father was a clergyman!”
“Yes, but he lacked the ability to differentiate
between truth and half-truth. With all his intellect
he had no intellectual judgment, and I believe that
where religion was concerned he allowed himself to
be swayed by his emotions.
“That there is a Scheme ; that there is an intellect
behind the Scheme, with a definite purpose, I must
believe. You can call that intellect God if you like
so long as the associations surrounding the name don’t
lead you to give it a recognisable personality. That
must be far beyond any human imagining.”
Robin said moodily: “I suppose it’s better to
have some belief than none at all ; I had quite lost
faith in religion as I saw it once at school, and lately
I hadn’t thought about it much—there didn’t seem
any need. Now you’ve awakened all sorts of feelings.
I’ll be glad when you go to England. When do you
expect to leave?”
“If everything goes as I hope, and I win my
scholarship, we’ll be sailing Mother and I— in
February.”
Chapter XXIII .
IN the late spring of 1912 Robin and
Myrna were married. It had been,
Robin thought, an uncomfortable
function, but probably all weddings
were like that. They were married at
night, and after the wedding breakfast had set out
by car for Lake Macquarie, where they were to spend
part of their honeymoon in a cottage lent them by
Myrna’s aunt. The car had broken down, they had
lost their way, the driver had lost his temper and
so had Robin, and they had arrived at their desti-
nation late on the following morning hungry, tired
and irritable.
For Robin the whole of the preceding day had
been a succession of irritations. He had reached
Sydney in the early morning with his father and
mother and Nora, the train arriving between live and
six; it was too late when they got to their hotel
to go to bed, and too early for breakfast, so Robin
must mope in his room for a couple of hours. Then
there was a whole long day to fill in. He had not
been allowed to see Myrna, which he thought was an
altogether stupid arrangement, and had wandered dis-
consolately about the city with John Morgan, who
was to be his best man. By seven o’clock, the time
fixed for the ceremony, Robin’s patience, never an
outstanding virtue, was strained to breaking-point, and
he came to the church with a face like a thundercloud.
The service was hateful to him in every way. He
could find no beauty in it, and after the wedding
breakfast, when he was changing his clothes for the
motor trip, he had remarked ruefully to John
Morgan:
“Next time I get married it will be at a registry
office.. This sort of thing is too grim for me.”
“There won’t be no next time for you, me lad,”
John told him with a grin. “You’re well and truly
shackled for life. Let’s have another bottle of cham-
pagne and forget it.”
But all the champagne in the world could not
have made him forget the cold hostility of his mother’s
greeting to Myrna, nor the attitude of unbending dis-
approval that Mary Stewart had assumed throughout
that ghastly breakfast. It would have been better,
Robin thought, if she had kept away from the wedding
altogether, as she had threatened to do. It had been
hard for him, and must have been bitterly galling
to Myrna.
Months before Mary had made it impossible for
Myrna to visit Malwa. When Robin had begged his
mother to send an invitation to her future daughter-
in-law she had written:
“ . . . My husband and I have agreed that,
since opposition is no longer possible, you
should be given an opportunity to visit Robin
in his own home. 1 am writing this letter at
his request.”
Myrna had replica in a fury:
* ... I have no intention of paying a visit
to your home, since you show me so clearly
that I would be barely tolerated there”
Myrna would understand now that Robin’s
mother at least would never alter in her disapproval
of his marriage.
Only when he said good-bye to her before leaving
in the motor-car Mary had seemed for a moment
to relent. She held him close, and her eyes were full
of tears.
“Be good to her, Robin,” she said, “and gentle.
Marriage can be very terrible for a woman.”
Leaning into the car she kissed Myrna impul-
sively.
THEY stayed for a fortnight at Lake Macquarie,
■ and the days passed all too quickly. In after years
neither of them could have told just how those days
were spent. They swam a little, but the water was
still rather too cold. They pretended to fish. They
went for walks, lost track of time and forgot their
meals. It was different when they came back to
Sydney, where they stayed a week before going to
the new home at Lammas. Robin had never liked
the city ; he felt uncomfortable there, out of place,
hating the noise and the bustle. He fretted to be home
again, at work on the property that was now his
own, and he complained that Myrna was dragging
him around to exhibit him to her friends and relations
when their time could have been more happily spent
in excursions away from tramlines and cabs and
hotels.
Against his will he was taken one night to see a
moving picture. The figures on the screen seemed
unreal, and the flickering lights and shadows worried
his eyes. He had taken little notice of the picture,
and was hoping that it would soon be over when
suddenly his interest was aroused. Topical views were
being shown —a military camp, and in the right-hand
corner of the screen a blazed-faced horse’s head kept
thrusting itself into the picture. Robin sat up, grasping
Myrna by the arm.
“Look!” he said. “I’ll swear I know that horse.
I wish he’d come forward a little and let me get a
look at him. I believe he’s a horse I sold in Clune
two years ago. I don’t know who bought him, but
he was too big for a polo pony.”
The camera changed angle, sweeping around to
the right, and came full on to a regiment of Light
Horse ; and there, as clear as life, with the sun shining
on its shoulder and throwing into prominence the
D.S. brand, was the horse which Robin had bred, and
the rider was John Morgan. Further down the line,
on a magnificent charger, sat Barney Case, his hat
with its black cock's feathers tilted at an insolent angle
and his face split in a wide grin.
“meres something in these damned moving pic*
tures, after all.” Robin spoke excitedly. “When we
get home I’m going to form that troop. There will
be plenty of men available now. What a wonderful,
charger old Whalebone would make if I could get
him from Mother ; she never rides him now. He’s
fourteen years old but still fit.”
Before leaving Sydney they paid one visit to
Macquarie, and, seeing the chapel again, Robin felt
sorry that he had not agreed to Mrs. Bolte’s sugges-
tion that he and Myrna should be married there.
Mrs. Bolte had offered to give the wedding breakfast
for Myrna in the headmaster’s private house, but the
thought that Dr. Bolte would officiate at the service
had been too much for Robin, and they had decided
that the wedding should be held in Sydney.
IT seemed that the whole township of Croy had
assembled to welcome them, or more likely, Robin
said, out of curiosity. Donald and Nora, in the new
Malwa car, met them at the railway station and
carried them home to Lammas. Nora had been there
for over a week preparing the house for Myrna,
hanging curtains, placing furniture, polishing and
scrubbing.
“There’s not much water left,” she told Robin
ruefully. “Father was very annoyed when he found
how much I’d used. If it doesn’t rain soon you’ll have
to draw water for the house, and I’d go steady on
baths for a while. But really it had to be done ; the
workmen had left it in a shocking mess. We’ve
unpacked all the wedding presents. The library shelves
are just what you wanted, Robin ; I’ve put your books
on them, but they’re empty-looking yet. Mother has
given you the Crown Player from the ballroom instead
of the Bechstein, and there are a whole heap of new
rolls. I’ve been playing them over this morning.”
She turned to Myrna.
“Robin can’t play a note, but he loves music. If
you ever want him to do anything, play to him —not
the rolls, he can manage them himself.”
Donald, sitting in the front seat beside the chauf-
feur, turned round. “You will have Ted Cluff for
a man, Robin,” he said. “He’s very handy, and wanted
to come to you, so I let him go. He brought your
polo ponies over yesterday and the brown Romany
mare you asked for, and Whalebone—your mother
thought you might like him—he’s in great condition
and would be splendid for Myrna to ride.”
“I’ve got to learn first,” Myrna laughed. “I’ve
never been on a horse in my life.”
“Oh, Robin!” Nora broke in. “Bob Hare says
if you want a pair of buggy horses he has some to
sell. I’ve seen them, and they’re perfectly matched —
blacks, by Swagman ; they’re only half-broken, but
they’re a lovely pair. Do buy them. Bob calls them
Sundowner and Tramp ; if he sells them he’s going
to buy a single-seater car and teach me to drive.
Father won’t let me touch this gas-wagon, and he
won’t drive it himself.”
“I’m quite content to be driven,” said Donald,
“but not by Nora. If Bob Hare likes to risk his neck
that’s his affair. Those horses are good buying, Robin,
and you will need them. I’ve left the old four-in-hand
leaders for you, but it’s time they were pensioned off,
and you can’t afford a car yet. I’ve left the stock in
the best way I could, but you may want to move them
about to suit your own plans. There are a couple of
hundred prime wethers in the river paddock, and at
least one truckload of bullocks fit for Homebush.
You’d better get them away while the market is good.
That will be your first return. Your account is in
order in the bank in Croy, and Mr. Kingswood wants
to see you first chance you get of going to town. I
think that’s all. We’ll be over again in a day or two
to see how you’re getting along.”
Nora broke in excitedly. “Oh, Robin! I nearly
forgot—father’s had another baby! ” She laughed at
Myrna’s amazed face. “We call them father’s babies
because they’re born in his farming Arcadia the
share-farmers’ wives.”
Robin chuckled. “How many does that make?”
he asked. “Three?”
“Yes. Two boys and a girl. Clare Schreiber was
the first, last March, then Mrs. Freelander with a girl,
and now Bridget Kelly with another boy. Paddy
Kelly got roaring drunk on the strength of it and had
a desperate fight with one of the Martins, and now
he’s afraid the Martins will set fire to his crop. Oh,
they’re a handful, those share-farmers.”
Chapter XXIV •
"P\ M YRNA loved her new home. The
fcU house, fronting north, stood on
JLvM top of a little hill, looking out
between two timbered ridges to
the level river land. At the foot of the
hill Lammas Creek swept in a glittering curve, running
westward, to disappear through the rocky gates of a
narrow gorge behind the western ridge. The garden
looked dry and the plants were drooping, but the trees
and shrubs which Robin had planted seemed well
established and the roses were already starting to
climb the verandah-posts.
The house itself was a pure delight. She knew
that Robin’s mother had been responsible for the
furnishing, but was quite unprepared for the tasteful
comfort and quiet beauty that she found. The huge
fuel range in the kitchen rather astonished her, but the
store-room took her breath away, and she called
Robin. “My goodness! Will you look at this? Bags
and bags of flour and sugar, whole sides of bacon,
cases of soaps and jams! What am I going to do
with it all?”
“There’s six months’ supply there,” Robin told
her. “Remember, there’s no grocer’s shop just around
the corner where you can run any time you wish for
six-penn’orth of this and that. You’ll find there’s not
a bit too much to last the six months. There are four
of us here now. There will be rations for the man in
the boundary-rider’s hut on the river, there’ll be
scores of extra people and extra meals both in the
house and in the kitchen.”
“Oh, dear! I feel as if I’d never be able to cope
with it all. It’s on too big, too lavish a scale.”
“But it’s small” Robin laughed. “There are
only ourselves, practically. At Malwa, apart from
the family there are five household servants and the
stable-boy. Then there are rations for the gardener
and the station hands, and all the share-farmers draw
their supplies from the station store-room. At shear-
ing-time many of the selectors’ wives have to feed
the shearers and the shed hands in their own kitchens.
You won’t have to do that, of course, but it means
the ordering of extra supplies to be kept in the store-
room.”
“It’s not the number of people,” Myrna said;
“it’s the bulk of all these things. The thought that all
this flour, all this sugar, all this jam, all this tinned
food, has to be eaten. I feel that I never want to see
food again.”
“Rubbish! You’ve just had dinner, that’s why.”
“It isn’t why. It's not only the store-room—it’s


the other place, too, which Janet took me so proudly
to see. She called it “the meat-’ouse.” The flies
were all around it as thick as they could be, and
inside was the whole naked carcase of a sheep hanging
on a hook and a great, bloody junk of meat dripping
on a bench. Robin darling, we can’t possibly eat a
whole sheep! What am Ito do with it?”
“Not all at once, silly. Did you think you'd
have to roast a whole sheep? It will be cut up for
you as you want it, by me or by Ted Cluff —by me,
probably.”
“But it won’t keep in this weather! ”
“It will keep for three days, easily. That’s what
the meat-house is for; it’s built to keep cool and let
in plenty of air and keep the flies out. A lot of it
will be salted, of course. Wait till you see a whole
bullock hanging there.”
“I hope I never do.”
“But you will. We can’t live on mutton always,
and at shearing-time, and at times when I’ve a lot of
men working, it’s more economical to kill a beast.”
“A beast! Is that what you call a bullock?”
“I expect it does sound strange to you. There’s
another saying that you will have to get used to.
Meat to the country people always means beef —
nothing else. Mutton is mutton, and pork is pork,
but beef is always just—meat.”
She put her hand on his shoulder and rubbed
her cheek against his white cotton shirt.
“I’m afraid there’s a lot I’ll have to get used to.
Don’t get impatient with me, Robin. Remember this
is all so different to me. Now take me out to see the
land itself —our land.”
“Wait till I get the buggy ready and I’ll drive you
all over it. To-morrow I’ll teach you to ride.”
Chapter
following two years were to be
I for Robin the happiest he had
JL ever known, the happiest he was
ever to know. He started in to
work with a will. There was so much to
be done—fences to repair, new gates to hang, river
crossings to make stock-proof. After the orderly
security of Malwa he found Lammas sadly neglected
and fretted at the restraint he must exercise before he
would be in a position to effect all the improvements
he thought necessary. He suddenly discovered that
it was not now a matter of needing a thing and imme-
diately buying from a purse whose resources he had
never troubled to fathom. Donald had left a bank
account sufficient to carry him through for a year with-
out going into debt, but an account which made no
allowances for any extra expenditure. His first sale
of fat stock had given him enough money to put in
train work which he considered essential, but so far
as he could see there would be no further returns
until he sold his wool clip.
On his first visit to Croy he had called on the
bank manager. Mr. Kingswood had greeted him
effusively.
“You have a nice little property, Mr. Stewart,”
he said, “though I haven’t seen it yet. What are you
going to do with it? I expect you’ll be growing
wheat.”
“No,” Robin told him, “I don’t think so. I
intend to breed and fatten as we did on Malwa.”
“Ye-es.” Mr. Kingswood's inflection gave the
word a quality of doubt. “I would have thought the
place was rather small for that. Wouldn’t you make
more money farming, and buying and selling stock?”
“Well,” Robin said, “I don’t intend to sell any
of the stock there at present; they’re all Malwa-bred,
and I’d never buy anything like them anywhere out-
side.”
“Are you fully stocked-up?”
“No. Lammas is all first-class grazing country,
and the river land will stand very heavy stocking, but
I cannot buy unless 1 sell first.”
“That could be arranged easily. What value do
you put on the property?”
“Twenty-five thousand.”
“Your father says thirty thousand, and he should
be an excellent judge of land values in this district.
In any case, it gives you a big margin.”
“I don’t want to mortgage the place.”
“There would be no need for that, unless you
wanted a big parcel of money. Your deeds are with
me, and if you wanted anything up to, say, a thousand
—temporarily—l would just ask you to break the seals
on your freehold deeds. Of course if the loan were
to become permanent we would want signed docu-
ments. Your father asked me not to let you over-
draw, but I agreed with reservations. The property
belongs to you, and you should not be hampered.”
“I don’t want to borrow money at present.”
“Very well. I just want you to know that we are
here to look after you. Don’t be frightened to draw
a cheque if there is anything you want to buy, and
if you feel like doing something big come and see
me.
“What do you say to a spot? I’m as dry as a
wooden god. We’ll go to the new pub; I don’t
patronise Mother Damn-Your-Eves, though she is a
depositor. When we get back Mrs. Kingswood will
have a cup of tea ready.”
AT the hotel Robin renewed acquaintance with
Bella and Tom Milsom. Bella told him she had
sold the hotel in Sydney and was doing well here.
She was very pleased to see him and insisted on taking
him and Mr. Kingswood into the private parlor, where
she opened a bottle of champagne to celebrate Robin’s
marriage. She asked after old Watch, but when Robin
offered to bring him in she refused.
“He’s yours now,” she said. “I’m giving him to
you this time —for a wedding present.” She laughed
heartily. “You can trust him with the kids ; he’ll look
after them as well as he looks after cattle, and you
need never be frightened of snakes while he’s with
them. But there’s one thing: can you sell me a horse
or lend me one? I haven’t been in a saddle for ages,
and I’m getting fat.”
“Yes,” Robin told her, “I have a brown mare
that I’ll send in. I don’t want to sell her, but you can
use her as long as you like. I brought her from
Malwa for my wife, but she doesn’t care for riding.
The mare is old, but very sure-footed and a fine hack.”
“A Romany?”
“Yes.”
“Then she’s sure to be good. We’re having a
show here in March; I’ll get her ready for that.”
Robin also met McNamara, the stock-and-station
agent, to whom he took rather a liking. He was a
small man, brisk and assertive. “My yards will be
opening again next month,” he told Robin. “What
about letting us have something for the first sale?”
“I might. A few fats —would they be any good
to you?”
“Of course. We’ve got two butchers going here
now, and the Clune buyers will be operating. You’ll
get a better price here than you would by sending
them to Homebush, and no trouble with trucks.”
IT was through McNamara that Robin made his
first stock deal. In June, when he was clearing
timber from the paddock in front of the house, the
agent drove up to him.
“Mr. Stewart,” he said, “I can put you in the
way of making a nice little swag quickly. There’s a
mixed mob of sheep coming down your way; they’ll
be passing your river paddocks this afternoon. About
two thousand in the lot. I’ve got the offer of them
at ten bob, and they’re dirt cheap.”
“I couldn’t handle them,” Robin said. “For one
thing, I couldn’t raise a thousand pounds; and two
thousand sheep would overstock me.”
“You only need to hold them for three days.
I’m having a sale on Friday. If you brought them
in to that and drafted them up into even-looking lots
—not too big—you’d make a very considerable profit
—might almost double your money.”
It was very tempting. Robin knew that
McNamara was a good judge of stock values. He
knew, too, that if he wished he could buy the sheep.
They were close to his paddocks, and three days on
the river herbage would freshen them up wonderfully
for the sale. McNamara had several times tried to
persuade him to buy stock, and though he had
always refused he had once or twice been sorely
tempted to take the gamble. The present opportunity
might not occur again for years.”
“Very well,” he said, “I’ll have a look at them.
But I’ll have to ring up Kingswood first. You’d better
come up to the house and have lunch. We can inspect
immediately afterwards.”
Robin bought the sheep, and in three days he
sold them. His profit on the transaction was £5OO.
He was very elated, and, meeting his father at polo
practice on the following Saturday, he told him about
the deal.
“Be careful,” Donald admonished him. “Don’t
get carried away by this success. Stock-dealing is
straight-out gambling. You gamble on the market,
you gamble on the weather. You buy strange stock
and may introduce disease and pests on to your
property. Stick to breeding, Robin, and be content
to move ahead steadily.”
Robin at this time had no intention of doing
anything else, though he did not believe there was
half as much risk in dealing as Donald had suggested.
There could be, of course. Tremendous risks were
taken by men who bought on bills ; bought in drought,
gambling on a break in the season ; bought in advance,
hoping to sell before the time came to take delivery.
Such men made fortunes in a day and went bankrupt
overnight. But with a property like Lammas, close
to a ready market, sane buying and selling seemed
likely to bring in a far greater return than breeding
on the small scale possible on such a limited area.
Robin was surprised to find how his views were
changing. A year ago he had looked on the dealer
as a creature beneath contempt, a huckster, a parasite ;
but the bustle and excitement of the saleyards had
stirred his blood. There was action here, a keen
battle of wits. Judgment was needed, knowledge of
stock, knowledge of local conditions. And this
knowledge he had to a greater extent than any of the
men he had seen buying and selling at the Croy yard.
What stopped him from taking a hand in the game
was appreciation of his own well-bred stock. These
he would not sell, and unless he did he would have
no room for other operations. He was quite content.
The mere making of money was of little moment to
him, and if he contemplated dealing it was the thrill
of achievement that lured him rather than the thought
of quick profit.
After the first sale McNamara was a constant
visitor to Lammas, but Robin was not to be drawn.
“It’s no use,” he told the agent. “I will give you
small lots of culls and fats from time to time, and I
may buy a few bullocks or store sheep in limited
numbers if I have grass to spare, but that’s all.”
McNamara laughed. “Well,” he said, “I’m
always glad to see you at the yards, Robin, whether
you buy or not. Many of the locals swear by your
valuations, and if you’re away they’re afraid to bid.”
Robin noticed that McNamara had taken to
addressing him by his Christian name. He didn’t
really mind, but this easy familiarity was the one thing
he found to dislike about the agent. Some time before,
after having lunch at Lammas, McNamara had
remarked casually “I see the missus is well on the
way. Are you hoping for a boy or do you want to
prove you’re a man first?”
Robin was at a loss how to answer. It was
insufferable hide, and his blood boiled, but he realised
that McNamara had made what to him was a most
natural comment and would have been amazed and
indignant had Robin taken him to task. Robin made
no reply at all, hoping the agent would take his silence
as a snub, which he apparently did, for he made no
further reference to the coming event; but when the
baby, a girl, was born he presented it with an elaborate
silver rattle, much to Robin’s amusement and Myrna’s
annoyance.
WITH his wife and his home and his work Robin
was supremely happy—so content that he failed
to notice that Myrna was not equally pleased with
her lot. If he had thought about it at all he would
have been sure that she was enjoying life as he was,
with a like interest and enthusiasm for all the happen-
ings about Lammas.
But Myrna was not altogether happy. It was a
strange new world to which she had come a life
entirely different from anything she had experienced.
Robin seemed to take it for granted that she would fit
into station life as readily as Nora would have fitted
in, and was inclined to be impatient when she showed
ignorance and bewilderment.
In the beginning he had wanted her to come with
him everywhere, and since most of his work was done
on horseback this meant that she must learn to ride.
Her first essay in this direction had been disastrous.
While they were in Sydney Robin had bought her the
best saddle and bridle he could find, and on her arrival
at Lammas had given her the brown mare Gipsy.
The mare no doubt was quiet enough according to
Robin’s standards, in that she had no vice, was a
perfect hack, and easy to hold ; but she was free and
full of life, and Myrna was terrified from the first
moment she was on her back. Everything went well
enough until they turned for home, and Whalebone,
which Robin was riding, started to plunge and rear.
Gipsy evidently thought the time had come for other
pace than the sedate walk to which she had been
restrained all the morning. She broke immediately
into a long, loping canter, and, dropping the reins,
Myrna grabbed wildly at the pommel of the saddle.
Robin caught at the flying reins, but as his horse was
on its hind legs he had little chance of reaching them.
Gipsy was well into her stride by the time Robin
had Whalebone on its feet, and was flying up the hill
ahead of him. There was no hope of stopping her,
and if he tried to overtake her and lift Myrna out
of the saddle he knew that the galloping hooves
behind would only urge the mare to a greater pace.
He could only pray that Myrna would hold on until
Gipsy reached the gate a quarter of a mile ahead ;
but the mare swerved sharply to avoid a rabbit-
burrow, and Robin saw Myrna fly out of the saddle
and hit the ground with a sickening thud. “Thank
God,” he thought, “her foot came clear of the stirrup.”
Myrna was not badly hurt, but the shock had
upset her a great deal. She was furious, too, with
Robin’s attitude towards the incident. She would
have been quite prepared, after a rest, to mount the
mare again, but Robin would have none of it. He,
too, had had a considerable shock, and, as usual, he
gave way to anger as a reaction.
Barely waiting to pick Myrna up, he stormed at
her “Why on earth did you let her head go?"
“Oh, Robin! I couldn’t help it.”
“Of course you could. The first thing I told you
was to keep a steady strain on the reins. She’s easy
to hold. But you must go and drop everything.”
“I won’t do it again.”
“No, you won’t ” he said grimly. “I’m not going
to take that risk again. She’d be looking for it next
time. You’d never be safe.”
“Perhaps if 1 had something quieter—and smaller
—one of your polo ponies.”
Robin snorted. “You’d have a hell of a good time
on one of them! Nothing could be quieter than
Gipsy. If you like I’ll look around for a sleepy old
creature about thirteen hands that you can crawl all
over and will never be able to kick out of a walk ;
but it’s no use —you’ll never ride!”


The tears she had been holding back burst from
Myrna in a wild flood. “Keep your wretched horses!
she shrieked at him. “I’ll never get on one again
as long as I live! ”
Instantly he was contrite, ashamed of himself
and ready to make any amends. But the damage was
done, and never again while they lived at Lammas
would Myrna attempt to ride. She knew that he had
spoken in the heat of his reaction at seeing her fall,
and for this she forgave him ; but she knew, too, that
the first seed of dissatisfaction had been sown in his
mind. He had jumped to the conclusion that she
was too old to learn, that she would never ride with
him ; and, deeming it useless, he would make no effort
to help or persuade her. This in future would be a
part of his life which she could not share. She
believed that in a little while he would be relieved
that he did not have her tagging after him wherever
he rode.
jyiYRNA’S first visitors, apart from Robin’s own
■ T | people, had been the Brains, and after them the
Hares from Mount Henry. She liked both families
and was especially drawn towards Peter Brain, a bluff
old countryman who talked of nothing but cattle and
sheep and crops. She was surprised to learn that he
was a University graduate. Having returned these
calls she found herself left alone. It was midsummer
now, and all the station people seemed to have gone
to the seaside or for a holiday somewhere. The
Stewarts were away, and she and Robin would drive
over to Malwa occasionally to gather fruit and, since
they were very short of house-water at Lammas, to
have their washing done by the Malwa laundress.
A little before Christmas Mr. Kingswood and his
wife paid them a visit. When they were gone Myrna
said to Robin “I don’t like that man. He seemed
all the time to be calculating the value of everything
we have, even the house and furniture, and he asked
questions about the land and the stock as though the
place was under a heavy mortgage to the bank.”
“Well, it’s not,” Robin laughed. “He’s a good
sort, really. I expect it’s every bank manager’s busi-
ness to get to know his client’s worth. I find him
very easy to get on with, and I like his wife.”
“His wife! A common little creature without
two thoughts worth having in her head. She’s a
gossip, too. She told me everything about everybody
in Croy, and did not hesitate to discuss her husband’s
clients. I know just who have overdrafts and who
can’t get overdrafts extended —at least I heard their
names ; you would probably know who they were.”
JANET MASON, Myrna’s general, was something
entirely new in the way of a servant. She was
efficient and a willing worker, but quite lacking in
the respect that Myrna considered was due from a
maid to a mistress. It was little use giving her orders,
Myrna found ; if the orders disagreed with Janet’s
own ideas of the fitness of things she would simply
ignore them.
“Seven shirts!” she snorted. “That’s over the
odds.”
“The master likes a clean one every morning,”
Myrna told her.
“The master! You mean your old man? Look
’ere, missus, don’t you let ’im put it over you like
that. If ’e \yas my old man I’d soon knock that
foolishness out of ’im.”
Rather than have any trouble Myrna had washed
the shirts herself and said nothing to Robin, but she
was almost thankful when the water shortage forced
them to take their washing to Malwa.
IN January the weather became hotter —108 and 110
degrees in the shade day after day, and the nights
breathless and stifling. Myrna felt depressed, without
energy, ineffably weary. But the heat only seemed
to inspire Robin with greater vigor. His immense
virility amazed and disgusted her. At this period
she grew almost to hate him.
When she knew that her baby was coming she
made it an excuse to escape him, barely hoping that
he would agree ; but in this she was mistaken. It
was, he said, probably the right thing to do. He
would sleep in future in his dressing-room.
She longed to go away, but hesitated to ask,
knowing that Robin himself was so happy and
contented. At last, when she felt she could stand it
no longer, he had himself insisted that she should go
for a trip to Sydney. The days had become unbear-
able ; only after sundown, dressed in the lightest of
clothes, was she able to get a little relief, sitting on
the eastern verandah. Coming here one evening she
had looked across at the stockyard and had been
confronted with a scene which revolted and shocked
her to the very depths of her being. Hanging to a
limb of the wild apple-tree which shaded the stock-
yard she saw the dead body of a bullock. Its skin
had been stripped, its entrails were hanging out, and
Robin, his face turned towards her and a butcher’s
knife between his teeth, had his arms buried to the
shoulder inside the carcass.
It was Janet who came running to tell Robin.
“Something's ’appened to the missus,” she said.
“You’d better go up and look after ’er. Me and Ted’ll
finish this up.”
He had driven her to the train next day and she
had stayed in Sydney for a month.
|U|YRNA, quite recovered, came back to a new
■ v l Lammas. The paddocks were green, young lambs
bucked and raced across the road in front of the
eager horses, the autumn roses were in bloom, the
air was warm and soft. As they approached the house
old Watch came out to meet them, and she could see
Janet and Ted Cluff standing at the back gate, their
faces creased in welcoming smiles, ready to help with
the luggage and the horses. This, she thought, was
the homecoming as it should be the real home-
coming.
ROBIN had brought his polo ponies in, had clipped
them, and was preparing for the coming season.
At no time did Myrna like him so much as when he
was handling horses. He seemed so confident, so
sure, so graceful and strong. The men, she knew,
admired his horsemanship, and from all over the
district horses were brought to him to break and
quieten. He never refused, and though at times he
swore that they were a nuisance she knew that he
loved nothing better than a tussle with a horse that
other men had failed to manage.
The polo season she enjoyed thoroughly, though
towards the end of it she was too conscious of her
figure to attend the practices and could not go with
Robin to the Clune gymkhana.
McNamara, the agent, she did not like, and felt
annoyed when she had to give him lunch at Lammas.
“Why,” she asked Robin, “do you let him call
you by your Christian name?”
“Oh, it doesn’t matter.”
“But you needn’t call him Fred.”
“He’d be hurt if I didn’t.”
Over Robin’s first stock deal she had been very
apprehensive, begging him not to borrow money.
“I’m older than you,” she told him. “I don’t
trust that Mr. Kingswood ; nor McNamara either,
for that matter.”
“Rubbish! It’s a splendid chance. I can’t lose.”
“Won’t you ask your father first?”
“No. Why should I?”
“You won’t listen to anyone’s advice,” she said.
But at this he became annoyed.
“Look here,” he said, “you’re my wife—not my
mother. I know what I’m doing.”
The baby was born at Lammas. At first Myrna
had been annoyed with Robin’s extravagance, when
he told her that he would arrange with Dr. Morgan
to come to her from Clune.
“But, Robin,” she said, “I’ll have Nurse ; and
there’s a doctor in Croy.”
“I can afford it,” he said, adding with a grin “And
he never sends anyone a bill. The other chap might
be all right, but Dr. Morgan is more than that. Out-
side his profession he’s one of the finest men I know.”
THE baby was born in October, and Myrna was very
thankful that Robin had insisted on bringing
Dr. Morgan. When she was walking about again one
of the first people to offer her congratulations was
Robin’s old boundary-rider, Dave Seabrook. He
caused Myrna some embarrassment.
“Waal, missus,” he said, “you’ve got a man for a
husband, anyhow.”
Chapter XXVI,
4i*l? «r? will take the four-in-hand
MjM to celebrate the occasion,”
said Robin. “Uncle Brand
can drive you and Margaret
and I’ll ride. Since it is to be a ‘polo’
wedding I won’t have to change when we reach
Malwa. All the club are to be dressed in breeches
and top-boots. I don’t know what Bob is going to
do, but I heard a rumor that the other players were
to form an arch of polo-sticks, or some such rot. In
any case it should be a more cheerful function than
ours!”
“Four-in-hand!” Myrna gasped. “What four are
you going to use?”
“The two youngsters I’ve been breaking, and
Sundowner and Tramp. I brought the leading harness
from Malwa yesterday. The two colts are very free
and will make splendid leaders. You’ll look like
royalty arriving—outrider and all.”
“And Brand Stewart to drive! Is it safe, Robin—
with Baby?”
“Of course it is. He drives better than I do, and
I’ll be there to open all the gates. We’ll go the back
way and avoid Croy. You’ve never been that drive.
You’ll love it. The kurrajong-trees when we come to
the Malwa paddocks make it look quite like a park ,
they’ve all been lopped and the dead timber burnt off.
“But supposing We’ll be driving back in the
night, you said. Supposing your uncle” She left
the rest unsaid.
“Don’t worry about that,” Robin laughed. “He
won’t. But in any case he’ll be staying at Malwa, and
I’ll drive you back. I’ll leave the two colts at Malwa ;
my horse will run home behind the buggy.”
BRAND STEWART had been at Lammas a month.
Robin was overjoyed when he turned up one after-
noon, having walked from Croy.
“But why didn’t you ring?” Robin asked him.
“I would have driven in for you.”
“I didn’t want to give you the trouble,” Brand
said, and added with a wink “The walk was good
for me.”
He looked very well, Robin thought, but thinner
than he remembered him in the old days, and a little
bent. He had been in the Territory and North
Queensland, and felt better, he told them, than he had
for years. He was absolutely without money, but that
did not worry him. He had had enough to bring him
to Croy by train and had gone straight to Bella
Milsom’s pub, where he knew he would get what he
wanted to eat and drink. He refused to accept any-
thing from Robin, saying that he would take what
he needed from Donald later on ; but, hearing that
Nora was to be married, he consented to send to
vSydney for a new suit and allowed Robin to pay for
it.
After a few days at Lammas, riding around with
Robin, he looked better than ever, and even his
shoulders seemed to lose their droop. In moleskins
and grey flannel, with a silk handkerchief knotted
carelessly around his throat, Myrna thought she had
never seen such a fine-looking man. He was very like
Robin, but taller when he stood up straight, and his
eyes were deeper-set and a lighter, more vivid blue.
Very quickly Myrna came under the spell of his
personality. She found him charming, witty, and
thoughtful of her, with a tolerance and breadth of
understanding that she had never met before. Robin
worshipped him, she knew, but though he had often
told her of his uncle he had made no mention of his
failing, and she was distressed when, having gone one
day with messages for her to Croy, Brand had returned
so hopelessly drunk that Robin had practically to lift
him out of the buggy and carry him into the house.
How he managed to bring the spirited horses home
without mishap she was at a loss to understand.
“It’s only his legs that go,” Robin told her.
“But the gates!”
“He’s driven through them,” Robin said grimly.
“Look at the buggy, and the cut on Tramp’s chest.
And I’ll have to get them up again before dark.”
Calling to Ted Cluff, he threw an axe into the
trap and set out to repair what damage was done.
In the morning Brand was his own humorous self
again, quite unrepentant, and teasing Myrna unmerci-
fully when she tried to reason with him. But in spite
of his lapse she loved him and was sorry when she
knew he was to leave them.
NORA was marrying Bob Hare, and the service was
to be held in the Malwa ballroom. This would
be the first time Myrna had seen her mother-in-law
since the wedding in Sydney. Though Myrna had
made many visits to Malwa Mary Stewart had not
been there, as she had been staying in India with
Kathleen and had returned only a week ago for Nora’s
wedding. Myrna was rather apprehensive of this
meeting with Mary and spoke of her fears to Brand
as they drove.
“Don’t worry,” he told her. “She’ll be all right
in her own home, especially when she sees the baby.
It’s the first grandchild, you know. Kathleen has no
children.”
He spoke severely to the near-side leader, which
was pretending to be afraid of the rabbits which
scuttled across the track in front of them.
“I like Robin’s idea of breaking-in his harness-
horses without winkers ; they can see what's happen-
ing all around them and never get really scared like
a half-blind horse.” He grinned at Myrna. “You
know, I believe that’s mostly what the trouble is with
Mary. She was trained with winkers on, not allowed
to see things. When she married Donald I expect
the winkers got rubbed off, and she has been all on
edge and wanting to bolt ever since.”
“I don’t think you’re altogether right about
Robin’s mother,” Myrna said. “Whatever she is, she's
not scared.”
“N-o,” Brand admitted. “But she must have had
a hell of a shock when the winkers came off.”
“Perhaps she did,” Myrna said. “So did I. Most
of us are trained with winkers, you know —to use your
own simile, though I don’t quite know what you
mean.”
“You evidently don’t, for you and Robin’s mother
had very different upbringings. Mary came to mar-
riage as a young girl, entirely ignorant of life. She
had never been allowed to think for herself, even see
for herself ; that is what I mean. And the reaction
when she did look about her was exactly the same as
the reaction of a young horse that had suddenly had
the winkers pulled off ; everything was strange and
disquieting.”
“Well, so it was with me.”
“Probably, but in a different way. Mary didn t
know life at all, but with you it was merely a new
country which you did not understand. Did it look


dangerous and ugly? It’s not, really. It’s very
beautiful and safe.”
“I’m finding that out; but I don’t believe Mary
Stewart ever has.”
“No,” Brand said ; “and that’s strange, for she
was born in the country. But it’s not the rawness
that she minds —it’s the loneliness, the lack of social
interest.”
“It’s what you call the rawness which troubles
me. The brutal things which Robin does —killing
and mutilating. He came home once with his bare
arms and his face covered in blood, blood in his eyes,
blood caked on his lips—oh, it was horrible! But he
just doesn’t seem to mind. I believe he enjoys it.”
“Don’t think that. No decent man enjoys hurting
animals, especially little helpless creatures like lambs.
It’s just one of the things that have to be done and
forgotten. There are many such things; some
infinitely worse. If we couldn’t forget them most of
us couldn’t bear to live.”
The long whip snaked out, cracking like a pistol-
shot over the backs of the leaders.
“Sit tight,” Brand said, “and don’t be afraid of
the kiddie ; you’ll be perfectly safe. I’m going to
bring them into the drive at the gallop... Up, Sun-
downer! Up, Tramp! Hoorooh!”
He let out a wild yell—a preconcerted signal, it
seemed to Myrna, for Robin dashed past them and
raced ahead through the Malwa gate.
D OBIN and Myrna drove home alone through the
warm starlit night. Brand Stewart was staying
at Malwa but had promised to come to them again,
if only for a few days, before he left the district.
Robin had hoped that he could persuade his uncle to
live with them always, but the wanderlust seemed as
strong as ever.
“It’s more than wanderlust,” Myrna said. “He’s
trying to escape from something. He gives me the
impression of looking back over his shoulder all the
time. What is it, Robin? Do you know?”
“Probably sickness,” Robin said. “You know
he’d been operated on for cancer. He’s very appre-
hensive of the trouble coming again.”
“Yes ; that could be the explanation, but I don’t
believe it is—not altogether. It’s something else ;
something more subtly menacing.” She snuggled
closer to Robin. “Oh, dear, what a funny day! I’ve
never had such a time. My sides are aching still. I
tried to keep a straight face, but in the end I gave it
up and just laughed. I’m sure your mother thought
I was drinking too much champagne. But she was
very nice to me, very nice indeed, and loved Baby.
She wants to give her all sorts of things. Clothes and
toys and a cot. What a good thing we haven’t
ordered one yet. And Robin, what a glorious voice!
You never told me she could sing like that.”
“I probably did. We all love her voice, but it’s
not nearly so good as it used to be, although it was
true enough to-day. It’s pathetic, really. She knows
it’s failing, and can seldom be persuaded to sing at
all. What did you think of the parson?”
“Which one?” Myrna giggled. “There were three
of them, and they were all priceless.”
“The Church of England one who officiated. The
other two were Presbyterians. They were only part
of the audience—came to see that a good Scots lassie
didn’t have anything put over her by an English
priest.”
“I know. The one with the bald head was just
in front of Brand Stewart and me ; and Brand kept
dropping grains of rice on his head and down his
neck. He stood it till nearly the end of the service,
and just when Mr. Taylor was saying ‘O God of
Abraham, God of Isaac, God of Jacob, bless these
Thy servants and sow the seed of eternal life in their
hearts’ he turned round and fairly bellowed you
heard him ; everyone in the room must have —‘Ye
chuckle-headed loon! Dinna strew they seeds on
me!’
“I sat next to old Mr. Brain at the breakfast.
He’s a darling. He told me he was having a mournful
time —which he wasn’t. Nora had made him promise
that he wouldn’t mention sheep or cattle or horses
or crops all that day, and he said it rather cramped
his style. However, he kept his promise ; but once,
apropos of nothing at all, he shouted to your father
There’s good money in pigs, Donald! We’re starting
to breed them on Burnt Plains.’ Then Mr. Macpher-
son made that awful speech, broad Glasgow accent
and all, and old Peter Brain kept up a running com-
mentary. And then he and Uncle Brand started
chaffing each other. They were both very mellow.
And I was nearly hysterical. Oh, dear! Really, I’ve
had a lovely day.”
She hugged Robin’s arm. “Why couldn’t our
wedding have been like that?”
Robin’s arm tightened on her hand.
“Never mind,” he said. “Would you like to
drive for a while and give me the baby?”
“No, not at night. I don’t know how on earth
you see ; it’s just a wall of darkness to me.”
“It’s not a very dark night, and we’re on a main
road.”
“But you can see on any road, or no road at all.
The men say you’ve got eyes like a cat.”
“That’s a myth,” Robin told her. “I can’t see
any better than the ordinary man with good, average
sight; but the horses can, and when I’m driving at
night my eyes are in my hands. I can feel what they
can see. If you just hung on to the reins and pulled
them about you’d be up a tree in no time.”
Chapter XXVII ,
r
LOOKING back in after-years Robin
could find no reasonable argument
against the buying of Naranbah.
As a business proposition it had
everything to recommend it. Even his
father, who knew the property and had gone with
him to inspect it, had been most enthusiastic about
the deal. The fact that Robin himself had been
influenced more by the size and character of the
place had no bearing on the final result.
It was Mr. Kingswood who had first told him
about it.
“There,” he said, “is a property that would suit
you down to the ground. It’s for sale for twenty
thousand, and if you made a cash offer you would
probably get it for a great deal less. Mumford is a
client of ours. He is pretty comfortably off, and
after sixty years of the land he wants to give it up
and come to live in town. I have all the particulars
at the bank, or you could get them from McNamarra ;
the sale would be made through him. Roughly,
Naranbah is seventy-five thousand acres, mostly
leased land. The area is exact, but I can’t remember
how the leases go. I think there are about five
thousand acres of secured land —freehold, C.P. and
C.L. —and none of the leases has less than ten years
to run. You could make a fortune out of it by that
time. There is a good homestead, shearing-shed, out-
buildings—everything you want. It is stocked with
fifteen thousand sheep. They are included in the
purchase price, as also are his horses almost two
hundred head, I believe, and two stallions, though I
understand they’re not much good.”
“They’re not,” Robin said. “They’re bred from
brumbies and are practically running wild themselves.
I’ve heard of Jim Mumford’s horses ever since I can
remember. One of the stallions he bred from a
brumby mare he was fond of, and the other must be
nearly as old as Mumford himself.”
“The horses needn’t worry you ; you could get
rid of them if you wished. But the price is little more
than the value of the sheep.”
“It’s a good deal more than that at twenty
thousand. What about finance? How could I
arrange that?”
“The bank would advance twenty thousand if it
were necessary ; but, strictly between ourselves, I’m
practically certain you could get it for fifteen
thousand. We would, of course, want a mortgage
over Lammas as well as the property you buy, but
no stock mortgage would be necessary, and that would
leave you free to deal if you felt like it.”
“That’s what I would do if I bought. I’d move
my own stock to Naranbah and build up a good flock
there. Mumford’s sheep I would sell by degrees,
using some of them to start my dealing from Lam-
mas.”
THE longer Robin thought about the proposition the
more it appealed to him. He would have liked
to talk matters over with Myrna, but decided not to
do so yet. She had not enough knowledge of country
conditions to be able to form any opinion of the
merits of the deal, and he believed that her feelings
would be entirely governed by her innate dread of
borrowing money, especially as the money would have
to come through Mr. Kingswood. This inordinate
fear of debt was a constant source of annoyance to
Robin. He classed it as moral cowardice, emanating
from a mind narrowed by a constant struggle against
poverty. Couldn’t she realise now, he thought, that
poverty had no longer any place in her life?
He resented, too, her attitude towards his youth,
implying as it did that he was too young to come to
important decisions on his own account and should
defer in everything to the opinions of others of more
mature years, including, of course, herself —but not
Kingswood and not McNamarra.
Here again she was unreasonable. She could
bring forward no logical argument against his good
opinion of these two men; hers was merely an
intuitive distrust, and, as such, to Robin, quite worth-
less. At first he had come to her with all his small
problems, not seeking advice, which in matters of
stock and land management she was quite incapable
of giving, but so that she might share with him all
his hopes and interests. He found that she was only
too ready to take advantage of his confidences,
to warn him against extravagance and youthful
ambition. After a while he ceased to discuss his
business with her, merely telling her, when it was
over, that he had done this or that. He discovered,
however, that this course was even worse than the
first, for she accused him more hotly of recklessness
and obstinacy, suggesting that he was afraid to tell
her of his intentions because he knew that they were
unsound. So gradually he drifted into the habit of
going his own way and telling her nothing at all.
He had not yet come to the point where he endeavored
to hide things from her, but from silence to deliberate
deception was only a short step.
Robin asked his father’s opinion about buying
Naranbah. Fifteen or twenty thousand pounds
seemed a great deal of money to borrow, and he
fully realised that other reasons besides the fact that
it looked like a good stroke of business were urging
him to complete the deal. He had been through
Naranbah once only, years ago, but for him it had
always been a place of romance and mystery. It
was here, at the Tamborine Spring, that Grandfather
Milsom had shot Basil Hill. It was here that the last
of the wild horses roamed. It was wild, rough
country, all mountains and valleys, joining unoccupied
land which was even wilder and climbed away to the
north over rockbound gorges and mountain-crests to
the spire-like peaks of the great Wonga Range. It
was a land of mountain streams and never-failing
springs, hard to work, hard to muster, but, to the
man who understood it, good, sound sheep-country.
Donald was surprised when he heard that Mum-
ford wanted to sell.
“Are his leases running out?” he asked.
“No,” Robin said. “I made certain of that.
None of them expires under ten years.”
“Oh, well,” Donald said, “I expect he’s had
enough of it. He’s lived there all his life, and he
must be an old man now. It sounds very good buying.
There’s some excellent country on it; thousands of
acres of basalt, with the kurrajongs as thick as hairs
on a cat’s back. Jim Mumford has made a lot of
money out of it; I think the secret is to keep it
lightly stocked and not to attempt any big improve-
ments. If you do buy, don’t be tempted to run more
sheep than he is carrying at present, and make sure
the boundary fence is in order. It’s dog-netted all
round, and there are still plenty of dogs in the ranges
outside. I don’t think you can go wrong if you can
get it for fifteen thousand, but I’d like to come with
you to inspect. The old man is as cunning as a dingo.”
WITH his father’s opinion to back him, Robin
spoke openly of his intention of buying, and if
Myrna had any misgivings she kept them to herself.
Brand Stewart, who was staying with them again for
a few days, was very enthusiastic. He knew Naranbah
well, and grew reminiscent.
“The homestead was held up twice by bush-
rangers,” he said, “but never by Morton’s gang. They
say that old Mumford, the present man’s father, was
hand-in-glove with them. There’s a brumby-yard on
the Tucka-Bil Ridge, which runs through the centre
of the property, where I’ve run horses many a time.
I was there the day they yarded the black mare which
was the mother of that cow-hocked stallion old Jim
uses. She was a three-year-old then, and a lovely-
looking creature. Jim Mumford roped her straight
away and saddled her and rode her. She crushed
his leg badly against a post, but he was as tough as
ironbark himself. He said he would call her after his
wife—and so he did, for when he got home he found
that his wife had run away with the overseer.”
“Oh, yes, he was married, all right; for four
years ; and in all that four years no one outside the
station hands ever saw his wife. Old Jim had a
jealous kink. He became obsessed with the idea that
if she had the opportunity she would be unfaithful to
him, so he took steps to prevent the opportunity
occurring. He had iron bars fastened across every
window, and whenever he went out on the run he
would lock her in the house. But Fred Buck, the
overseer, smashed in the door with an axe, and they
cleared off together. They tried to fire the house, but
it’s built of wattle-and-dab and ironbark the
verandah-posts are two feet square —and it wouldn’t
burn.
“Old Jim went quite off his head for a while.
He made effigies of his wife and Buck, and he hung
them by their necks to a huge gum-tree in front of
the house. Every evening he used to sit on the
verandah and pump lead into them from a forty-four
rifle. Eventually he shot them clean in half, but I
believe the heads and shoulders are still hanging to
the tree.
“The biggest kurrajong-trees I’ve ever seen are
on Naranbah. Thre is one on the bank of Tucka-Bil
Creek which has never been lopped. No one is game
to climb it. It’s a tremendous tree, and the creek-bank
just there is a hundred feet high.”
ROBIN and Donald inspected Naranbah together.
Donald insisted on a very thorough looking-over,
and when finally Mumford accepted Robin’s offer of
£15,000 both father and son considered it an excep-
tional bargain. Robin was delighted with the country.
Here was an outlet for all the emotions that were
being curbed and stifled in the ever-growing circum-
spection of his life at Lammas. He would modernise
Lammas now without regret, cultivate and bargain,
submit to the demands of a new age, knowing that
when he wished he could escape to more primitive
surroundings.
The delivery occupied a full week, and during
that time Robin had the opportunity of learning to
know the property. Each day a new mob of sheep
would be mustered and counted through from one
paddock to another. Robin helped a little with the
mustering, but so long as he was on hand to take
the count the rest of the time was his own. and he


spent most of it poking into the least accessible
corners and acquiring a thorough knowledge of the
lay of the land.
In the evenings he would sit and listen to Jim
Mumford’s stories of the early days. The old man
delighted to boast of his youthful exploits.
“Ach!” he said when Robin expressed surprise
that he should speak so openly of acts that should
have brought him a lifetime in prison. “That was
long ago, long ago. They all knew about it then, and
did nothing.” He added with a grin “Now they
wouldn’t believe. They say ‘lt’s only old Jim talkin’
through his hat.’ But the old hands knew they
knew.
“Who else could have lifted Cranmer out of a
locked stable and left a piebald screw in his place?
Ho, ho, ho! I always gave summat in return for
what I took. I held him here for three years—three
years—and then I turned him loose in the ranges and
took the reward for findin’ him. Ho, ho, ho! They
call my horses brumbies: they’re all Cranmer stock,
and their mothers were blood mares. The Hoor was
out of a Romany mare a Romany mare, young
Stewart!” He smiled slyly. “Would ye have it agin
me now that the mother ran wild in your grandfather’s
day?”
Another evening he said to Robin “Ye asked me
about the cattle. I’m taking them with me to the
farm near Croy. There’s not many now, and I’m
keepin’ them”—he grinned—“for old times’ sake ...
The Mooney brothers had a pedigree bull and a herd
of stud cows, but a bull’s hard to deal with —awkward,
stubborn creatures they be to move about; and
wherever you plant them they kick up such a bellowin’
shindy you can hear them for miles. Mundowie joins
Naranbah, and the two Mooneys lived there with
their sister to housekeep—a fine, strappin’ creature
she was. But they thought more of their cows than
their sister, bein’ meanly disposed, and they wouldn’t
have any of their stud stock milked, for that it might
stunt the growth of the calf. Twas a scandal, I told
them, that a fine girl like that should have no milk
lor her tea, and I brought over one of my best cows,
havin’ weaned the calf. But they was meanly disposed,
meanly disposed. Never a sight did she get of the
bull, though the lass did her best for me, bein’ grateful
for the milk. But one day, ridin’ by, I seen the bull
with one of the stud cows. Nine months I waited,
keepin’ friendly and neighborlike, with an eye on the
beast. When her time was near due rain came, and
I reckoned she’d drop it that night. She did. Ho,
ho, ho! I reckon she was more surprised than the
two brothers, for she never heard it bleat. I reckon
she just thought calvin’ was a bad dream, a belly-ache
and nothin’ to show for it. Ho, ho, ho! He was a
grand sire. And they say my cattle are scrubbers!”
ROBIN kept on the stockmen who had worked for
Mumford. But though they were capable men
and knew the country none of them, he thought, had
enough intelligence to take the position of manager.
He tried very hard to persuade Brand Stewart to
manage for him, but his uncle refused.
“If you need a man in two years’ time,” he said,
“I’ll take the job ; but not now. I’ve work of my own
to do, and a promise to keep.”
Donald was very insistent that Robin should
engage Milton Allsop, who had been working manager
on Lammas before Robin’s marriage and had since
worked at Malwa as overseer. Donald had a very
high opinion of Allsop, an opinion which Robin did
not share. He admitted the man’s ability but thought
him sly and possibly untrustworthy. However, since
he could think of no one else to fill the position, he
accepted Donald’s suggestion, and Allsop was duly
installed at Naranbah.
Immediately Robin started to move his stock.
Four thousand sheep were brought from Naranbah to
Lammas, and were replaced with his own well-bred
flock. This done, he started to deal. It was a time
of rising prices, and money was plentiful. His buying
and selling succeeded beyond all expectations, and he
became a well-known figure at McNamarra’s yards.
So insistent were the demands for his presence at
other saleyards, and to inspect distant mobs of sheep
and cattle, that he found horses and buggy far too
slow and very soon bought a motor-car.
Myrna and he had wonderful days together now,
motoring to polo practices and matches, driving all
over the country, seeing new places and new people.
With the success that was coming, and the
deference she saw accorded to Robin by agents and
owners alike, she no longer questioned the soundness
of his judgment. Only at times she would shudder
at the thought of the huge mortgage that was hanging
over their heads, and, since Naranbah was responsible
for this, she had from the beginning taken a dislike
to the place. This dislike grew to an unreasonable
hatred. It was too wild, too savage a spot. She spent
one night in the house with the iron-barred windows,
and had since refused to accompany Robin on his
periodical visits.
Because he did not like to leave Myrna for long,
and because his dealing activities absorbed a great part
of his time, Robin in the first months after the pur-
chase did not see nearly so much of Naranbah as he
could have wished. This made him uneasy, for he
could not bring himself to trust Allsop completely.
However, when he did spare time to stay for a day
or two on the property everything seemed to be
running smoothly. The men were contented and the
stock were in splendid condition.
\A/ ITH money coming in so readily Robin decided
** to start farming on Lammas. He was practically
driven to this decision by the rabbits. He could not
afford to wire-net the boundary and make a clean
sweep of the whole property, so thought he would net
and clear section by. section, working with share-
farmers as his father had done on Malwa. Mr.
Kingswood heartily approved of the scheme. There
was no need, he told Robin, for any immediate reduc-
tion of the overdraft, and any such improvements as
he suggested would increase the value of Lammas
and so give better security to the bank.
Robin considered the question of getting Carl
Schreiber as his first farmer. It was, he admitted,
rather a rash step to take, though Carl was un-
doubtedly the best farmer in the district. However,
temptation was taken from him, for he learnt that
Schreiber had left Malwa and bought a small farm
of his own a few miles from Croy.
Chapter XXVIII .
McNAMARRA’S saleyards were
crowded; filled with stock to
their full capacity, and hurdle
pens had been quickly run up to
accommodate the overflow. All the morn-
ing the main street of Croy had been humming with
activity, motor-cars rushing up and down, horsemen
riding singly and in pairs, drovers’ outfits under the
shade of every tree. The two hotels were doing a
roaring trade, and from earliest dawn mobs of sheep
and cattle had been drawing into the yards from
every direction. It was the biggest sale that had ever
been held in Croy; an important sale, too, for Robin.
He had yarded three thousand sheep, and, since he
had bought well, was looking forward to a profitable
day.
McNamarra started selling at eleven o’clock, but
it was after lunch before he came to the first of
Robin’s sheep. The morning sales had not been
up to expectation ; there seemed to be no life in the
bidding, and many pens had failed to reach the reserve
placed on them and had been withdrawn from sale.
Robin was at a loss ; he could not understand the
tone of the market. There seemed to be an under-
current of uncertainty, and this was strange, for the
season was favorable, the stock looked well, and all
the big dealers had come in for the sale. He spoke
to McNamarra about it as they walked over to the
first pen of Lammas sheep, but the agent was not
perturbed.
“The market’s all right,” he said. “The smaller
buyers are hanging back, waiting for the big men to
give them a lead, and the early pens were no use
to the big men. They’ll bid now, and I’ll go back
to those first pens at the end of the sale.”
He banged on the rail with the short cane he
carried.
“Come along!” he cried. “We’re starting on
Mr. Robin Stewart’s sheep. The first yard is a mob of
six hundred five-year-old ewes in lamb to Malwa rams.
Mr. Stewart guarantees their ages, and there’s not a
broken mouth amongst them. You know Mr. Stewart’s
methods ; he is always prepared to take the market
price. There is no reserve on these sheep. Come
on now! Who’ll give me a start? Fifteen bob?
Fourteen bob? Thank you, Mr. Hird. I’m offered
fourteen shillings; I’m offered fourteen shillings —
and sixpence—fifteen shillings—fifteen shillings—
fifteen a half —fifteen a half—sixteen bob —and six-
pence? No? Very well, I’ll take a penny. Sixteen-
one —sixteen-one —sixteen-two —sixteen-three —sixteen-
four —sixteen-five —sixteen a half —sixteen a half?
Any advance on sixteen a half? Going—going —going
at sixteen a half! Sold to Mr. Robert Hird.”
A good sale, Robin thought; McNamarra was
right. Hird was one of the big operators. The market
would liven up now. But the next sale was disappoint-
ing, the pen bringing very little more than Robin had
paid for them. The third pen sold reasonably well,
but from then on the market definitely dropped, and
though Robin made a profit it was only half what he
had expected. McNamarra, too, looked worried.
Hennessey, the biggest buyer in the west, had not
opened his mouth throughout the sale, and McNa-
marra, trying hard to get an opening bid, called out
to him:
“What’s the matter, Mr. Hennessey? We haven’t
heard anything from you yet. What’s wrong with
this lot?”
“Nothing,” was the laconic reply. “But there’s
a war on.”
Inquiries came from all over the yards.
“What, again?”—“Who?”—“ls that right?”
—“When did you hear?”
“Germany and Russia are at it now, and France
running up with her coat half off,” Hennessey said.
“I got a wire at lunch-time.”
Someone called out “That won’t worry us!”
and Hennessey shouted his reply, “Too bloody right
it will —with Andy Fisher skiting about the last man
and the last shilling!”
ROBIN walked slowly away from the yards. He
was to pick Myrna up at the hotel where he had
left her during the sale, and they were to set out
immediately for Clune. The polo carnival and gym-
khana were to start next day, and already his ponies
had gone in ; they should be there by now, safely
bedded down and resting.
He was thinking deeply as he walked into the
town. His first belief was that Hennessey was a scare-
monger, or probably he was overloaded with stock,
did not want to buy, and gave the European situation
as an excuse. A poor excuse, surely. How could war
in Europe affect stock prices in Australia? And yet
the uncertain feeling of the market could be traced
to no other source. War had been in the air for
weeks. In the beginning Robin had taken very little
interest in the rumors. He vaguely grasped the fact
that some Archduke had been murdered, and that the
Powers in Central Europe seemed to be squabbling
about it. Then, suddenly, he heard there was war —
Austria, Serbia, Russia, and now, if Hennessy’s infor-
mation was correct, Germany and France. But how
could any war so far away affect Australia? It wasn’t
even an English war. But England might be drawn
into it, and if so it might well have some influence
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.


on Australian affairs. And, if it affected Australia,
would it affect Robin Stewart, the individual? That
brought up the question: if England fought, would
Australia fight? It seemed certain that in the event
of war involving England, the colonies would send
troops, as they had done to South Africa, and in that
case what would Lieutenant Stewart, the Light Horse-
man, do?
For nearly two years now he had been in charge
of the Croy troop, and after the last camp had been
gazetted a first lieutenant. What would his duty be
in the event of such a war?
It was not a problem demanding immediate atten-
tion, and the situation would probably never arise.
But somehow he had an uneasy, underlying feeling
that it would ; not because of Hennessey’s remarks,
but because for years two other men had been insistent
that war was inevitable —Doctor Morgan and Boyd
Freeman: two men whose opinions he valued very
highly, and two such different types. Dr. Morgan
was an old army surgeon and a militarist to his finger-
tips, but Robin was not at all sure just what were
Boyd s convictions. He had heard him denounce war
in no uncertain terms as wasteful and barbaric, but
he had also been preaching preparedness, and railing
against the smug complacency of English statesmen
who were blind to the growing menace of German
imperialism.
Germany was the menace, about that Boyd had
been most emphatic. But now, with France on one
side and Russia on the other, she would surely be
fully occupied, and any threatened danger to England
would be minimised. No! The more he thought of
it the less likely it seemed that Australia would be
involved in war.
Boyd Freeman’s last letter had been from Switzer-
land, where he was spending a short vacation. He
had sent out a small book of photographic views which
he had made himself for Margaret, who was his
god-daughter. One photograph was of himself, and
Robin was surprised to find how small he looked.
Robin’s chief memory of Boyd Freeman was as a
boy at school, taller and more athletic than himself.
Since the schooldays they had seen very little of each
other, though they had kept up an intimate corre-
spondence. At Lammas Robin had been aware that
Boyd no longer outstripped him physically, but it was
not until he saw the photograph, taken after a two-
years’ absence in England, that he realised he was
now a much bigger man than Boyd.
Boyd had been bitterly resentful of Robin’s
purchase of Naranbah.
“If l did not know you so well,” he had
written, “I would believe that you were cursed
with land-hunger, an insatiable appetite for
more and more land, which must be fed at any
cost. It is the ultimate result of an uncurbed
possessive instinct, and is not confined to indi-
viduals. It is this urge which has given England
the tremendous power she holds in the world
to-day. Whether the power is for good or evil
I am not prepared to say; probably because I
am British, 1 believe that it has been for good.
But if the possessive urge was ever a useful and
desirable attribute it is certainly not so now.
The very nature of the instinct engenders a
belief in a mythical superiority which can be
handed down from father to son; not only a
right to take, but a right to hold. The right to
take may have once existed —I have never been
sure of this —but the right to hold can only be
admissible so long as the holder proves himself
worthy, and is not a right which can be passed
on from generation to generation. I am speak-
ing of land, but the same applies in a lesser
degree to all possessions. I am convinced
beyond all doubt that no individual has the
right to own land; it is not even a national
right. The earth belongs to the people of the
world collectively.
“But, whatever might be said against land-
greed, it is at least a robust vice, and so is more
tolerable than the feeling which, I believe, has
prompted you to extend your possessions. What
did you want? Ask yourself the question, and
if the answer is not ‘a playground’ I’m very
much surprised. What makes it worse is that
you evidently intend to make this playground
the centre of your activities, where you may
fritter away what should be a useful life in
pursuit of childish pleasures and in aimless
dreams. I could almost wish that some up-
heaval should uproot you and shock you into
opening your eyes. There is work to do in the
world and damned few people capable of
doing it.”
•THERE was, thought Robin, no one who could
* make you feel so uncomfortable as Boyd Freeman
could. It was his uncanny knack of probing into your
mind and discovering impulses which you had tucked
away and kept hidden even from yourself. In the
beginning it had been “always so damned interested
in yourself”—such a very accurate summing up of
the schoolboy Stewart’s attitude towards life, and so
certainly and fearlessly given, not caring whether the
hearer hated him for it or not.
Boyd had always been the same ; utterly indif-
ferent to the good or bad opinions of others. There
was something unfathomed, unattainable in Boyd’s
character. Was it this, Robin wondered, which had
drawn him to Boyd? Love! There could be no other
word to describe the passionate emotion which Boyd
inspired. It was a passion so intense, so complete, that
at times it became physical—a longing to see him, to
touch him. But a love different from any love of
women —less selfish, deeper, more enduring.
It was disturbing that Boyd should hold such
absurd revolutionary theories. Yet were they really
so absurd, just because they were opposed to every-
thing which Robin had been brought up to believe?
Brought up to believe! Trained to believe! That
was where the difference lay between them. Robin
had been trained from earliest infancy in a faith which
was the faith of his father and the faith of his teachers,
and he had accepted their creed without question.
But Boyd had trained himself not to believe but to
think, and his reason had forced him to forsake the
easy highway of conservative belief and wander in
strange, forbidden country.
Together, while at school, they had discovered
O’Shaugnessey’s Ode. It was Robin who had been
enraptured by the cadence of the words, but for Boyd
there rang a higher, unearthly music which left the
senses behind and bore the spirit upwards to the
“Vision Amazing.”
“We dwell, with our dreaming and singing
a little apart from ye."
Boyd was one who dwelt apart, and it seemed
that he was urging Robin to come to him. “Afar
with the dawning.” You couldn’t get there just in
one stride, and if you could, if you were mentally,
spiritually capable of reaching that faraway goal, what
would you have to leave behind? So many comfort-
able, ordered things. The land, certainly. Might you
not also have to leave Myrna and Margaret?
Robin shrugged his shoulders and quickened his
step. Boyd Freeman was unattached and without
material responsibilities ; let him pioneer if he wished
—he was better fitted for it.
Chapter XXIX.
AS soon as play started Robin knew
that Smoke was having one of his
bad days. He hoped it would be
possible to ride him out of it, but
it was unfortunate that the pony, having
played so well right through the carnival, should
choose the all-important final for a display of sulks.
Robin had bought Smoke the previous year as a
trained pony. He had watched the grey play, and
had come to the conclusion that it was a remarkably
good pony, fast and clever, but out of sympathy with
its rider. It was only after he became the owner that
he discovered that the big grey was as temperamental
as a prima donna. Patience and careful handling had
made a great difference to Smoke, but he was still
liable for no apparent reason to turn sulky.
Malwa A had played through the competition
without a defeat, and on this last day of the carnival
they were meeting Mumbledene, a team of Queensland
players, who from the beginning had been looked
upon as the probable winners of the Clune Cup. The
match commenced at ten o’clock in the morning, the
afternoon was to be devoted to races and mounted
sports, and at night the polo ball would be held.
Robin had brought in four ponies, but one of
them had been hurt in an early game, and he was
left now with three—Smoke, The Witch and a blue
roan which he called Tim. They were certainly his
three best ponies, provided Smoke did his share, but
if he turned obstinate Robin had nothing to substitute,
and the game would be too fast for two ponies to
play throughout. Ted Cluff, whom Robin had brought
in to look after his horses, gave him the first warning
that all was not right with the grey.
“He’s cranky this morning,” he said. “Snapping
at the others, and wouldn’t eat. There’s a bandy-
legged bloke on a bandy-legged horse that’ll make you
ride to-day, boss. How the horse ever got past the
measure-stick beats me —he’s fifteen hands if he’s an
inch. That’s him riding out now.”
The Mumbledene No. 4 was going on to the
ground and Robin took stock of him. The pony he
rode was all Ted Cluff had said of it. It was high
and heavy, and its pigeon-toed feet gave it a bandy-
legged appearance; it looked awkward, but Robin
knew it was one of the cleverest ponies at the meeting
He turned to Ted Cluff.
“Take the saddle off The Witch,” he said. “I’ll
ride Smoke. He’s the heaviest pony I’ve got, and
we’ll need all our weight against that bandy-legged
affair. Give me Tim next, and keep The Witch for
the third and last chukkas.”
The opening chukka was disastrous for Malwa.
Smoke simply would not gallop, and Simpson, the
Mumbledene back, did practically whatever he wished.
He got to his back-hand returns without the least
trouble, made openings for his team, and went up into
the game as though the Malwa No. 1 didn’t exist. The
score at the end of the chukka was three goals to nil
in favor of Mumbledene, and it looked like a run-
away victory. As they rode off the ground, Bob Hare
rode up to Robin.
“Suffering cats!” he said. “If you can’t hold
Simpson we’re sunk. It’s that damned grey of yours.
If he were mine I’d belt the tripe out of him.”
“It wouldn’t do any good. He’d only get worse.”
“Can’t you get another pony for next half? Peter
Mclntyre and I only have three each, and Hughie’s
spare is no good. You could have one of dad’s, but
his ponies are too light for you. What about Gillie
Brain’s black mare? She’s solid and she’s fast, and
she’s used to playing No. I—not1 —not that that means
much with Gillie playing her.”
“I’ll ask him,” Robin said. “But I don’t think
he’ll lend her —especially to me.”
Gillson would not lend his mare.
“If you can’t manage your own horse,” he told
Robin spitefully, “you wouldn’t be able to manage
mine.”
Robin, annoyed, determined to look no further
for a pony but to play Smoke again when his turn
came.
In the second chukka Bob Hare heaved a sigh
of relief. Simpson was held this time, and well held.
Tim played splendidly, but it took every effort of
the gallant little roan to check its weightier opponent;
for Tim was the smallest of Robin’s string, and the
Mumbledene back favored weight in his mounts. But
with Simpson checked the Mumbledene players were
not overpowering, and in the last few minutes Peter
Mclntyre scored for Malwa.
The third chukka was a triumph for Malwa.
They played like a team inspired, and with Robin on
The Witch Simpson was not only checked but left
floundering. The red mare, even with Robin’s eleven
and a half stone to carry, had the heels of everything
on the ground. She turned and swerved as lightly
and as gracefully as a ballet dancer, and again and
again Robin left the way clear for his backs. Twice
?eter Mclntyre came through with a brilliant run, to
find Simpson pushed away to the side and nothing
but green turf between his flying pony and the goal.
His first effort resulted in a clearly-hit goal, but on
the second run the head of his stick flew to pieces
at the last hit, and the ball, swinging to the right like
a sliced golf drive, missed the goalpost by inches and
sped over the line for a behind.
Malwa now were playing all over their opponents,
and Bob Hare was coming up into the game when-
ever he could. The Mumbledene players were forcing
the ball to the sidelines and keeping the game as
cramped as possible.
They were over on the boundary now ; at least,
four of them were. Bob Hare and the Mumbledene
No. 1 were back a little, waiting for a chance hit
which might bring the ball into the open. On the
opposite side Simpson, too, was waiting, with Robin
away from him a little and nearer the centre, the red
mare light and vital as a dancing flame. Bob saw the
swing of Hugh Mclntyre’s stick, heard the crisp smack
as it met the ball, and was racing down the centre
of the ground before the amazed Mumbledene No. 1
could turn his horse. The Witch, too, had seen the
ball fly, and without waiting for the pressure of
Robin’s urging knee she had pirouetted around with
haunches quivering for the quick, powerful drive
which would launch her in one stride into full gallop.
Bob Hare met the ball with the full face of his
stick and it sped down the field ; and with the crack
of the hit The Witch had made her leap, and they
were away, with the other players left far behind and
nothing but the goal ahead. There was plenty of
time, only a straight, short hit was needed, and Robin
made no mistake. Half-time and the score standing
at three all.
■ N the fourth chukka, the first of the second half,
1 Smoke played a different game. He appeared to have
got over most of his sulks, but Robin was not quite
sure of him. Although he rode off well and turned
promptly, he still seemed disinclined to gallop. The
game had slowed down a little from the hectic play
of the third chukka, but everyone was looking for an
opening, and Robin knew that if Simpson were given
the least latitude the game would change in an instant.


He was a splendid player, full of dash and enterprise,
and a terrific hitter.
The chukka was almost over, and Robin was
congratulating himself that Smoke had come through,
if not brilliantly, at least without doing harm, when
suddenly exciting things began to happen. The two
Mclntyres, pressing hard, had forced the ball down
dangerously close to the Mumbledene line, and Simp-
son, eluding Robin and riding desperately, just man-
aged to save a goal. His back-hand shot was cleanly
hit and well angled, but the pace he was going carried
him through the goalposts before he could turn. He
had hit the ball well away to the left on a wide angle
to the Mclntyres’ attack ; but Bob Hare was on to
it and sent it flying back to the centre. Now was
Robin's chance ; he could meet the ball in front of
the goalposts, and he drove his heels into Smoke’s
flanks.
Simpson had turned and was coming out from
the goal with whip and spurs working hard. The
ball, driven from an angle would reach a spot on a
direct line between Simpson and Robin, with the
Malwa player closer to it. He should reach it seconds
before Simpson, and the Mumbledene back must
turn away to avoid a crash. At this critical moment
Smoke refused to stretch out in a gallop. Robin
could not drive him along ; he moved like an over-
fed draughthorse. At the rate they were going it
seemed certain now that they would reach the ball
simultaneously. Unless one of them pulled off a bad
smash was inevitable. Within less than a dozen yards
to go, Smoke’s pace slackened still more, and Robin
knew there was now no question about it —Simpson
would reach the ball well ahead of him. Disappointed
and furious, he wrenched the grey’s head around and
turned to the left. But just as he turned he saw
Simpson’s hand move on the reins, and the blazed
face of the bandy-legged horse lean over ever so
slightly in the first movement of a swing away.
It was only the happening of an instant, and in
a flash the horse was straightened again, but Robin
knew that, had he kept Smoke running on,-Simpson,
not knowing that the grey was rebelling, would have
pulled away and left the goal open for an easy shot.
Robin heard the crack of Simpson’s drive, and
in a moment the Mumbledene back was through the
opposition and, closely supported by his men, was
racing straight for the Malwa line. The flags waved
for a goal, motor-horns tooted, and the chukka was
over.
As they changed horses Robin heard Gillson
Brain say in an intentionally loud voice to Peter
Mclntyre “Did you see Robin? Was there ever a
more glaring example of squibbing?”
He felt like taking Brain by the throat and
shaking him till his eyes bulged, but what made it
worse was Peter’s reply:
“Oh, go to hell,” he said. “You wouldn’t have
held on, anyhow—and I’m damned if I’d have risked
a smash like that.”
It was generously spoken, but it showed Robin
that they all thought that he had deliberately shirked
a fall. He wanted to stand up and shout that it was
Smoke that had squibbed, and not himself; but
that, he thought, would only make matters worse.
Better to say nothing at all.
I N the fifth chukka each team scored a goal, and they
came to the final period with Mumbledene one
goal ahead and playing with all the confidence of
certain victory. The game was played out at a furious
pace. Up and down the ground they raced until The
Witch was white with lathered sweat and the dust
rose in clouds, and the men cursed and elbowed and
crossed and took amazing risks and got away with
them ; and the umpire was hoarse with shouting and
the crowd on the boundary mad with excitement and
wild hope.
Then out of the ruck Peter Mclntyre burst with
the ball in his possession. Down the ground he raced,
while Robin, riding furiously, tried to bustle Simpson
out of the way. He heard behind him the thud of
Mclntyre’s pony’s hooves and then the smack of the
striking stick ; and then, high over his head, he saw
the soaring ball going straight as an arrow for the
goal. It was a tremendous hit, but the distance looked
to be too great. Far ahead of them the ball fell,
bounced high, bounced again, lost pace quickly and
trickled slowly, slowly through the goal.
The end of the sixth chukka and the score five
ail. This meant that they would have to go on playing
until one side scored a final goal.
When they were changing horses Bob Hare came
up to Robin. “Are you going to ride that blasted
grey again?” he said. “Can’t you get another pony
anywhere? It’s the last round; take The Witch
again.”
“No,” Robin said. “She had a terrible gruelling
last chukka, and I wouldn’t ruin her for all the cups
in the world. Tim’s far too light for that great
charger of Simpson's, but if you like I’ll play him
as number three and let Hughie go up to my position.”
“That’s no good,” Bob told him. “It would dis-
organise all our combination. I suppose you’ll have
to play him, but if he doesn’t gallop this time I’ll
shoot him, if I have to buy him first.”
Robin laughed. “If he won’t play this time I’ll
give him away; but I think he will, and if he does
Simpson’s going to get a surprise.”
7% ND Smoke did gallop. Perhaps he sensed Robin’s
purpose to spare him no punishment this
time, or perhaps the excitement of watching the game
from the stalls had stirred his blood, as it often does
stir up a sluggish horse; but, whatever the cause, he
came now to play the game of his life. The game
was as fast now as the previous chukka had been, and
went with varying fortune until a powerful back-
hander from Hughie Mclntyre caught the field turned
the wrong way and made a splendid opening. Robin
turned, Peter turned, and, coming fast, drove the ball
along past Simpson, who was still swinging around.
It was an ideal opportunity for Robin, who meant to
take it, but as Smoke bounded forward he heard
Gillson Brain’s clear voice yelling from the sideline:
“Never mind the ball! Leave it to Peter! Take your
man!”
A consuming rage surged over Robin. “The
skunk!” he muttered, and, riding forward, he made
a desperate swipe at the ball, and missed. He heard
Simpson chuckle, and then the crack of his back-
hand return.
Mad with temper, Robin wrenched Smoke round.
The ball was travelling now towards the Malwa goal,
with the Mumbledene team in perfect combination
tearing after it. He saw Bob Hare turn and gallop
desperately to protect the goal, and with set jaw he
started to ride as he had never ridden before. He
was lifting Smoke along at an astonishing pace, pass-
ing man after man. If the grey had shirked in the
early stages it had left him fresher now than any of
the ponies. So well was he going that Robin decided
to take a reckless chance. He was nearing the lead
now, and the only men in front of him were Bob and
the Mumbledene No. 1, racing neck and neck, with
the Mumbledene player slowly drawing away and the
bouncing white ball thirty yards ahead of them all.
Robin knew he could reach it first; he was over-
hauling the others at a great pace. If he rode straight
on it meant" a back-hand stroke when he reached the
ball, but if he had enough pace to swing wide and
come in at an angle so far ahead that he could not be
penalised for a foul he might, in crossing the flight
of the ball, be able to take it with him; and then —
well, they’d have to ride to catch him.
He swung out to the right, and for the first time
that day Smoke felt the sting of the whip. The big
grey responded with a burst of speed which Robin
had never hoped for. “He’s faster than The Witch,”
he thought. “We’ll do it! We’ll do it!” He almost
shouted in exultation as he swerved in to the running
ball. Squarely he struck it, picking it from under
the very nose of the Mumbledene player and driving
it away towards the sideline. If it was a bad cross
he didn’t know, and was too worked-up to care. There
was no whistle, anyhow, so, cross or not, the umpire
had missed it.
He was galloping along the boundary now, back
towards the Mumbledene line. The spectators were
beside themselves with excitement, yelling and shout-
ing and sounding horns, but though he was racing
within touching distance of them not one sound did
he hear. His whole mind was focussed on that white
bouncing ball ahead. Nearing the top of the ground
he must turn in towards the goal. He glanced to the
left and saw the other seven players strung out up the
centre of the field, and in front of them all, sending
his chestnut along at a furious pace, was Peter Mcln-
tyre. Robin turned with a pressure of the reins on
Smoke’s neck, and hit as he turned. Fair and true
the ball sped inwards and towards the goal, and this
time Robin yelled. His work was done ; it was up
to Mclntyre now. He held his breath as Peter came
up to the ball and, smacking it fairly, sent it flying
between the posts.
Malwa had won the Clune Cup.
•n S the players rode off the field Simpson, the
** Mumbledene captain, pointed to a line of dust
approaching along the road from Clune.
“Someone’s making the pace,” he said. “Well,
they’re too late; they’ve missed the greatest game I’ve
ever played in. I don’t know what it was like to watch,
but it was hell with the lid off to play.”
The line of dust had reached the gate leading
from the road to the ground, and a big red car swung
through the opening and came racing across the field.
“Something’s up,” Bob Hare said. “Let’s ride
over and find out.”
They gathered around the car as it drew to a
standstill. A man sitting beside the driver jumped
on to the seat and waved a piece of paper.
“England has declared war on Germany!” he
shouted. “The ultimatum expired at midnight. That
would be ten o’clock this morning here.”
Chapter XXX,
IT was like a thunderstorm, Robin
thought; you took very little notice
of the rumblings and the rising clouds,
but rode on, your mind occupied with
other things, until the first heavy drops splashed on
your face, and suddenly you were in the midst of it.
There had been wild excitement in Clune at the
close of the polo carnival; laughter and cheering
crowds, and people you had never met before talking
to you as though they had known you all their lives.
The strange part of it was that, though the excitement
had been caused by the thought of war and death,
the dominant feelings were gladness and pleasurable
anticipation. A few of the older folk appeared
anxious and uncertain, but the younger set, men and
girls of Robin’s generation, were possessed by a mad
joy. Robin felt it himself, but with him there was
an underlying sense of responsibility, a warning that
his life was no longer his own but was joined by
cords which he could not carelessly break to the lives
of others.
When bugles sounded a call to arms he had
wanted to rush off and enlist with John Morgan and
the Mclntyres and all the youth of the district. John
Morgan, in command of the Clune squadron of
militia, had called a meeting of his officers and men
in the drill-hall, and Robin had driven in to attend
with mixed feelings. He had agreed with Myrna
that enlistment for him was not practicable at present,
but he had deliberately refrained from telling her any-
thing about the gathering of the squadron at the
drill-hall, letting her imagine that he was going to
Clune on matters of stock business. He knew that
he had no right to enlist, but did not want to be
hampered with promises in case his courage failed
him at the last moment and in the face of public
sentiment he should be afraid to stand out.
Unexpected support came to him from Dr.
Morgan, and even from John. They both agreed that
with a wife and a young daughter dependent on him
he would be very wrong to join an expeditionary force.
To Dr. Morgan Robin confided what was an even
bigger stumbling-block: the bank mortgage of
£15,000 and the responsibility of Naranbah. Had
these been non-existent he knew that he would easily
have persuaded himself that Myrna and Margaret
would be safe at Lammas and that it would have been
his duty to enlist.
There was a full roll-call, and, confronting his
own men, Robin felt that he must tell them exactly
what his position was. This he did, as reasonably as
he could.
John Morgan made a fiery appeal that amounted
to a demand for general enlistment. They were not
chocolate soldiers, he told them, but had joined the
militia for only one purpose—to fight! Now that
purpose could be realised, the “glorious” opportunity
had come, and he knew there would be no hanging
back ; they would volunteer to a man. He had a
letter, which he would read them, from Captain
Case, who was hoping to see them all in camp.
Robin’s speech was unusually restrained. Having
outlined his own position, he reminded the men that
they had joined the militia to defend their homeland,
and it was not incumbent on them to volunteer for
service overseas. However, it was almost certain
that the best possible way to defend Australia now
was by helping England to defeat her enemies abroad,
and it seemed the duty of everyone who could go
to enlist at once. There were, of course, men similarly
placed to himself, and these men, no matter how their
inclinations swayed them, had an overruling duty to
their wives and families.
He felt a hypocrite, knowing that in different cir-
cumstances he would have supported John Morgan to
the limit and would probably have thought no excuse
justifiable for a man wearing the uniform.
BACK at the Morgan home, Robin was moody and
irritable, snapping John’s head off one moment and
the next apologising for letting him down. Sunny -
tempered, carefree John bore no resentment.
“Most of the beggars will come,” he said. “Of
course some of them are like you and really can’t get
away. But there’ll be tons more. The Mclntyres
have already enlisted and will be coming down with
me ; so will Fred Hare —and Gillie Brain, I expect,
though he hasn’t said anything about it yet. All I'm
worried about is that we’ll get over there too late. It
can’t last more than a month or so, and God knows
how long we’ll be kept waiting here. Come into my
room; I want to show you something.”
On John’s bed Robin saw a sheathed cavalry
sword and a black automatic pistol. Reverently John
drew the bright new blade from its scabbard, holding


Send This Book to
Your Friends Overseas
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
As you go through the pages of "Zoo People,” you will
appreciate the selected studies, many of which are full-page
size and are unique in their fascinating appeal.
Your Overseas friends will enjoy the full-page studies of those
Australians, the Kangaroo and the fascinating Koala—the
Koala picture alone is worth the price asked for this unique
collection of animal studies.
We commend this book to you as a work that reflects, in a
striking manner, and one hitherto unattempted, the beauty,
strength and quiet philosophy of many of the “Zoo People.”
Only great patience and the nerve and ability to obtain “close
up” photographs of these interesting ‘‘folk” made this possible.
PRICE 1/6 (Postage 2d. Extra)
Obtainable only from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney; and at Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.) and
London.
Here’s HOT WATER ECONOMY
48 GALLLONS
For ONE PENNY
(Based on Sydney Price of Coke.)
The equivalent of two hot plunge baths
or three to four hot showers.
“Bills
Don’t
Worry
Me.”
m
w
X
British
WHITE
ROSE
DOMESTIC
BOILER
(Plain or Rustless)
1 s
Write
for
particu-
lars.
This boiler burns coke, coal or (in coalless
areas) charcoal, and is four to five times
cheaper for upkeep.
Easy to manage—pays for itself thousands
in use throughout Australia and the Empire.
Open daily, 8 a.m. Late Shopping Friday,
“Hot
Water
AH
the
Time.’
- mx
W
/ * i
tu~-
Building Centre, STRAND ARCADE.
9 p.m. Visit our exhibit—Strand
JOHN DANKS & Son Pty. Ltd
324-330 Pin ST., SYDNEY. ’PHONE, M 6505.
391-403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE. ’Phone CB3BO.
it nonchalantly but with unpractised hand, in the
position of charge.
“You turn your hand so,” he said, “with the
thumb on this little roughened hollow. That allows
for a back movement of the arm and takes away the
jar from the wrist when you thrust at a man. If you
kept a stiff arm and your fingers up you’d break your
wrist. Think of the terrific force behind your point
when you’re on a galloping horse. It’s all thrust now,
and a straight sword. The old curved cut-and-thrust
blade has been discarded. They say a man with this
sword has more reach than a man with a lance.”
He re-sheathed the sword. “Somehow, I like the pistol
best. I’ll probably use it more; I feel at home with
it—isn’t it a beauty? I don’t know what the rules
are, but I do know I’ve got more reach with this
than the blokes with either swords or lances.”
Robin smiled.
“But the Light Horse are mounted infantry,” he
said. “Are the men going to swing their rifles like
waddies when you go charging with a sword?”
“A lot you know. Mounted infantry can be used
as cavalry, and there’s a rumor Oh, hell, Vol, I
wish you were coming with us!”
“So do I,” Robin blurted out; “but it’s no use
wishing—l can’t. Are you taking your own horses?”
“Yes.”
“Then will you take Whalebone? I want to give
him to you. He’s pretty old, but he’s as- fit as a
fiddle and you know he’s the best charger that ever
comes to camp —better than Barney’s Peter.”
“I’d love to have him! But do you really mean
it?”
“Yes, I do. If I can’t rjde him myself I’d like you
to. Anyhow, if you’re on him they’ll never catch
you! ”
n OBIN trucked Whalebone in a special horse-box.
Steve Dent, one of the Croy troopers, was going into
camp and would look after the horse on the way.
There were a number of other volunteers on the train ;
they were highly excited, and shouted and waved to
the crowd on the platform as the engine gave three
blasts and drew out with laborious puffings.
Robin had ridden to Croy that morning leading
Whalebone, and had intended returning to Lammas
after the train left. But he had now no wish to go
home. He wanted to be alone, away from sounds
and people. His horse was in Bella Milsom’s stable,
and, walking across to the hotel, he connected with
Lammas by telephone and told Myrna that he was
going to Naranbah and would probably be away for
a couple of days. He arrived at the homestead late
that night.
Next day he rode out in the sunny spring morn-
ing to the highest point of Tucka-Bil Ridge, where
he had an uninterrupted view of the whole country-
side. South and west the rolling downlands merged
into plain, and in the north he could see the trachite
spires of the Wonga Range.
After a while he dismounted and sat on a rock.
He was thinking “Events are always linking up. An
effect immediately becomes a cause.”
Life, when he was very young, had seemed a
strange, chancy sort of thing, with people mixed up
higgledy-piggledy like caraway-seeds in a cake. If
two seeds came in contact it was the merest accident.
There seemed to be no order, no set design, no pur-
pose. The world was a pleasant, happy-go-lucky
place where you could do much as you liked; make
plans and carry them out, if they were not opposed
by your elders. Probably, when you grew up, you
would be able to carry out bigger plans, do just what
you wished, and no one would stop you...
Then had come an afternoon when he had realised
cause and effect for the first time. He had been able
to trace back a chain of events, each being the direct
result of the one which preceded it. Robin remem-
bered that afternoon clearly, and the last episode in
that series of happenings—the imagined movement in
the gully ; George Pollock and the other man running ;
his father behind a tree ; the trooper galloping down
the road ; and then suddenly the uncanny feeling that
he had seen it all before. Once or twice before that,
and three times since, that extraordinary experience
had come to him. He had spoken only to three people
about it —to Brand Stewart, to Boyd, and to Dr.
Morgan.
Brand’s suggested explanation had been weird.
“There is a theory,” he had said, “that all happen-
ings have occurred before, and will occur again an
infinite number of times. It is, I believe, mathemati-
cally indisputable. Identical causes have identical
effects, and, since time is infinite, all causes and effects
must recur at what to us are immeasurable periods.
If you can believe that time is static, then you are
remembering not only what occurred before, but
what will occur again and again in what we call the
future.”
Boyd had suggested minor epilepsy, but Dr.
Morgan had laughed at the diagnosis.
“No,” he said, “I don’t think so. Your whole
history would discount the theory of epilepsy. The
stock from which you come is too sound. It is per-
haps a slight brain-storm of some kind, but there is
not the slightest need to worry about it.”
Dr. Morgan had probably been nearest the truth,
but Brand’s theory was fascinating—“identical causes
have identical effects, and all causes and effects recur.”
If this were true it would be theoretically possible to
trace life to its source and to its end, and infinity was
a circle, where the last effect became the first cause —
so that there was no beginning and no end. You
could start anywhere you liked in the circle ; it didn’t
matter which way you went, you’d come back at last
to where you started.
Robin laughed aloud. He was getting well
tangled up. The one significant fact was that all
events did link up with one another. Causes produced
effects, and you were yourself governed by this law.
If you wanted to alter anything at all, then you would
have to go right back to the original first cause. It
was an impossible thought. The inevitableness of
everything became terrifying. And yet there seemed
no escape. His own life, as he looked back, was a
proof of it. Circumstances had forced him into
unexpected ways circumstances, always circum-
stances ; the little, unheeded causes which surrounded
you suddenly became powerful, blocked you here or
pushed you forward there. And yet his life, if it
had been a little different from what as a boy he had
imagined it would be, had really been a very happy
one. There had been a few bitter moments, especially
at school, but they had been transitory, and more
than compensated for by the extremely happy ones.
His childhood had been almost free from irksome
restraint. Freedom and security—he had had both ;
far more, he realised now, than most children. If the
course of his life had been inevitable the Fates had
at least been generous up till now. What lay ahead
was hidden, impossible even to conjecture. He had
the feeling that he was now standing at a turning-
point f he had reached the end of a smooth, straight
road. It seemed to be the turning-point for many
others besides himself—for John Morgan, for Barney
Case, for all the other young men who were going
overseas.
He wondered what Boyd would do. Boyd had
anticipated war, but this trouble seemed to have come
so suddenly. He did not believe that even Boyd
would be prepared for it. Whether he joined the
army or not, it must mean an upsetting of all his
plans. But almost certainly he would be in the fighting
line. They were all going, and Robin was left. He
shivered, and, looking up, was surprised to find that
the sky was overcast and the sun hidden. Glancing
at his watch, he saw that it was much later than he
had imagined.
He swung on to his horse and rode slowly home.
It was nearly midday. He knew, too, quite certainly
now, that the morning of his life was over.
{To be continued next week.)


DEAF
TkAtfriUHbtdk
ẅ
and PROVE that the
VIBRAPHONE
DEFEATS DEAFNESS
Write for Booklet&details of
130-DAY TRIAL OFFER
A perfectly safe hearing aid.
Non-electrical —Practically
invisible—No wires—No
■ batteries —No head-bands
The Smallest
Eif ective
Hearing - Aid
in the world.
B. NATHAN
37 Austral Buildings,
115 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
FOR SHORT STORIES
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition;
January 3/, 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Directors:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
A Study of Temperament
JACK-KNIFE JOE
BY F. RKODES TARMER
HE walked into Red Top one evening
just after sundown, a small man,
dressed in ragged, threadbare
clothes. Although he carried a swag, he
walked jauntily.
I watched him tread his way between
the scattered, derelict houses of Red Top.
At one time Red Top was a big mining
centre ; now, however, although the most
northerly railway terminus in Queens-
land, it is of no importance except as a
base for a few diggings and cattle runs.
1 wondered how far the little man
had walked. His boots literally flapped
as he approached us. He came to a
halt in front of the pub and with a
sigh of relief slipped a meagre, ragged
swag off his shoulder.
The publican gave him a nod.
“Good day,” he said. “Come far?”
“Middling,” replied the little man as
he seated himself casually on the edge
of the verandah. “I’ve walked from
Darwin.”
The group of us gaped our surprise.
“Darwin!” exclaimed the publican.
“Darwin’s a thousand mile!”
“Don’t I know it!”
“You walked all the way?”
“Every inch! ”
“Guess you’re dry,” suggested a tin-
scratcher.
“I am that! ”
“Come and ’ave a wet?”
“Got no money,” replied the little man
apologetically. “Not a penny.”
“Don’t matter. A bloke that’s walked
from Darwin”
We all filed into the bar. The publican
insisted on shouting the first round.
There was something fetching about the
little man. He was so very small; he
had tiny hands and feet and big soft
brown eyes that sometimes melted and
sometimes looked cheeky. The big men
jostling in the bar, miners, prospectors,
tin-scratchers, stockmen, were interested
and sympathetic ; they felt sorry for him
in the way of big men. They bought
him drinks. The little man became more
and more garrulous. He said his name
was Parkman.
“Not Joe Parkman!” interjected a
stockman. “Jack-knife Joe! ”
“That’s me!” replied the little man,
his eyes kindling. “Known all over the
Northern Territory. I’m makin’ for
Brisbane, see! I’ll catch a train from
here. Be in Brisbane in no time!” He
leaned against the bar with a swagger.
“I got a letter back in Darwin. A
lawyer’s letter. Said! my uncle was dead.
Owned breweries, did my uncle. The
lawyer said I’d hear something to my
advantage”
The publican gave a long whistle.
“Leavin’ you money, hey?”
“Guess so!” rejoined Jack-knife in his
soft, perky voice. “Fancy a bloke bein’
let loose in his own breweries!”
“I’d ha’ bought
an aeroplane,” said
a round-eyed stock-
man.
“N o money,”
replied Jack-knife.
“You could ha’
borrowed some!”
“I was in debt
as it was.”
“So you rolled your swag and hit
out?”
“That’s it,” agreed Jack-knife. “Made
for the nearest railhead. Now I’m as
good as in Brisbane.”
*tyOU got that letter?” asked the
I publican. “I might know”
The little man, moistening his lips,
looked down at his derelict boots.
“To tell the truth,” he muttered, “I
lost it!”
“Lost it!”
“Yeah. I got speared. It happened
back in the mountains, see!” Raising
his eyes he went on quickly: “I was
leanin’ over a waterhole. And all at
once I felt a stab in the back like fire.
It was a flint spear. It went in here.”
Jack-knife slipped down his flannel and
showed us a puckered, angry scar behind
his left shoulder. “I pulled it out,” he
went on; “then I fainted. I fainted off
and on for days. Things was stolen . . .
or lost. So I ain’t got the letter any
more.”
There was an awkward pause.
“It’s‘the truth,” he added. “So help
me! ”
A cattleman nodded.
“I heard of ’im weeks back,” he
ejaculated, “makin’ this way.”
But seeds of suspicion had been sown.
“How’ll you buy a ticket if you’ve got
no money?” asked the tin-scratcher
gruffly.
Jack-knife, darting quick, fluttering
glances at the faces of the men, licked
his small, soft lips.
“I never thought o’ that!” he ex-
claimed. “Honest, I never! I kep’
thinkin’: Once I make Red Top I’ll be
jake. I’ll catch a train. I never so much
as give a thought to a ticket.”
He looked so crestfallen that we were
ashamed of our suspicions. The tin-
scratcher shouted another round.
“Of course I could earn the money!”
burst out Jack-knife, after a long swig.
“I could earn it quick enough! ”
“How?”
“By me trade.”
“What’s that?”
“Scissors-sharpener! ”
The crowd bellowed with laughter.
The little man went scarlet.
“It ain’t on’y scissors,” he burst out
angrily. “I’ll sharp anything from razors
to ploughshares!”
Changeable as children, the men seized
on his suggestion with the greatest en-
thusiasm, vying with one another to
suggest clients. They became more and
more hilarious. At midnight, when I
left them, they were still at it. They
were playing ring-a-ring-a-roses with
Jack-knife in the middle. He wasn’t sure
whether to be pleased or insulted.
NJEXT day no one saw much of Jack-
I knife; he was too sick. But the
day after that he was out and about
with a swagger, looking for work. Every-
one was sympathetic; almost everyone
had something to sharpen; and inside
two weeks Jack-knife had his fare to
Brisbane.
Beaming with delight, in boots several
sizes too big for him, he strutted up
and down in front of the pub. As soon
as a crowd collected he marched inside.
“Come on, boys!” he cried, waving
his arm. “Drinks on me!”
He ordered a round. Then he ordered
another.
The publican flatly refused to serve
him.
“Cripes, you need that money for
Brisbane!” he expostulated.
“Brisbane!” snorted Jack-knife. “Any-
one c’n get to Brisbane from here. Ain’t
. I walked a thousand mile?”
“But you need a railway ticket.”
“Ain’t I got one —all but?” shrilled
Jack-knife, slapping his pocket. “If you
won’t give me drink I’ll go somewheres
else, and be damned to you!”
With a toss of his head he strode from
the pub, accompanied by a little knot of
thirsty sympathisers.
The publican stared after him, shaking
his head wryly.
“Some blokes,” he observed with re-
markable reticence, “ain’t got a head for
money.”
A few days later I returned to Red
Top to truck a mob of young steers.
The first person I met was Jack-knife,
red-eyed, furtive and dejected.
“What about Brisbane!” I cried in
astonishment.
jacK-Kmte snuffled nis boots in tne
dust.
“Terrible hard place to get to, Bris-
bane!” he muttered.
"P HIS time the little man found it
1 not so easy to earn his fare. But
by grinding and sharpening his way
through the neighboring mine workings
and cattle runs, in six weeks he had the
amount he needed.
He returned to Red Top. But &gain
he drank every penny of his fare.
“I told you so!” said the publican
grimly, next time I dropped in. “It’s
temperament. Money’s the same as
poison to him. He’ll never get to Bris-
bane!”
But Jack-knife, throwing out his thin
chest, once more set off.
“I c’n get to Brisbane if I want!” he
assured me with tears in his eyes.
“Wild horses won’t stop me next time! ”
“Why in hell don’t you walk!” I ex-
claimed, exasperated. “Brisbane’s only
another few hundred mile.”
“Walk!” rejoined Jack-knife, dashing
the tears from his eyes. “With a rail-
way handy!”
Jack-knife tramped out of town and
disappeared for two months. In fact,
we all thought he had gone for good.
Then one evening he turned up in rags
but as confident as ever.
He waved a bundle of notes.
“It’s me fare,” he cried. “Brisbane's
in me pocket this time!”
A few of us put our heads together
and made sure he would get to Bris-
bane. We arranged with the sergeant of
police to have Jack-knife arrested and
put in the lockup overnight. I expected
the little man to kick up a fuss, but as
soon as the policeman touched his
shoulder Jack-knife went as quietly as
a lamb. He meekly handed over his
money to the sergeant.
“Be careful o’ that,” was all he said.
“It’s me fare to Brisbane!”
We left him looking through the bars
so pathetically with his big soulful brown
eyes that we scarcely had the heart to
go through with it,
but we quieted our
consciences by slip-
ping him a few
bottles of beer.
Next morning
quite a crowd turned,
up at the gaol. One
couldn’t help liking
the little man. Down
we streamed to the
station to catch the
eleven o’clock train
to Brisbane. We haa
to pass three pubs
en route, but Jack-
knife was still quiet.
He looked as miser-
able. as a bandicoot.
I felt a little un-
easy as we crowded
on to the platform.
Things were going
too darned well.
A guard came
fussing up.
“Youse blokes for
the Brisbane train?”
“It’s due, isn't
it?”
“Due in three
hours!” retorted the
guard. “There’s a
washaway up the
line.”
Jack-knife straightened. “Hooray!”
he shouted. “Time for a drink! ”
“No, you don’t!” I said, grabbing his
collar.
“I got a perfect right to have a drink,”
exclaimed Jack-knife, wriggling free.
“I’ll on’y have a couple.”
“You’ll spend all your money again!”
I yelled. “What about Brisbane?”
“Brisbane!” scoffed Jack-knife. “Here
I am on the railway station, ain’t I?”
He appealed to his cronies.
“Sure that’s right!” “You take no
notice of ’im!” “He’ll ’ave yer in the
lockup again if you ain’t careful.”


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
_ _ _ N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
E. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(i WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
\
Vv
m 9i
•» It
r.
»: m in
Hi lint
IYSAGHTS
Galvanized Iron
That is just one of the pleasant
surprises that accompany the use of
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron. Besides
being the cheapest and most efficient
form of roofing and walling, in all
weather it is convenient and comfort-
able. It cools immediately the sun
leaves it, in contrast to other roofing
and walling materials which will
often retain the heat for hours after
sunset—in heavy rains nothing is as
satisfactory as Lysaght's Galvanized
Iron, which ensures a perfectly water-
proof roof.
ORB
You can trust all
brands of Lysaght's
Galvanized Iron
to the uttermost. They
are all manufactured
at the Newcastle
works of John
Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd.
from only the finest
raw materials - the
production is backed
by nearly 80 years'
experience. All
brands are of a
quality which cannot
be bettered in the
world to-day.
JOHN LYSAGHT CAust) LTD
Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane . . Adelaide . . Perth
; i"! :
•.. **—^ —flXirl
sjf I jR f |
■‘JrCj'jr.-.-.-A-jC vvl-lvi
I*
■is®
i
$
is
; • .'
•; ; : : ;;i:i | l '. , :i! l , :!:J ?»* »;:;•*•/.
.^:::-f^.\y:^r^V:Vf4;-:-^
s;;j : ,: : .:i: 5 :
If ■ ’
'*>"•
vr\
V w
«f
£>-ippriisi
sss
HW"
. ;-V S2l fT.
£ : |Mf
(IftoUwu
vjs?
HB
828
*yU flame is
(1? c GaUum’s
U/jhisAy Js-
tiiimiiiiimmimuiiiHiiiiiiiiiimiiiigmiiiuiuuuiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiissii
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantk
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobari
Jack-knife turned jauntily towards me.
“Come along,” he said. “Have a
drink.”
“Damn you!” I said. “I’m through!”
I was so blind angry I got on my horse
and galloped out of town.
IT was almost a month before I re-
i turned to Red Top. I went straight
to see the publican.
“Jack-knife still here?” I asked.
“Of course! What did I tell you!”
“Raising his fare again?”
“No. He’s given that up. He’s
living just outside the town. On the
side of a hill.”
“Is he mad?”
“Oh, no! He’s got a sheet of corru-
gated-iron. If it rains he pulls it over
him. There’s bags of empty houses in
Red Top. But he won’t look at ’em.
‘No,’ he says, ‘Red Top’s blocked me
getting to Brisbane; I’ll have nothing
more to do with the damned place! ’ ”
“Why doesn’t he walk ?” I exclaimed.
The publican gave a shrug.
“Dunno!” he replied. “I reckon he
thought no further than Red Top. So
here he stops. He’s so sore with the
place he won’t leave it. If you was to
put a ticket into his hand he wouldn’t
go now. And perhaps he’s right. Who
knows? He’s happier the way he is,
livin’ on the side of that outcrop with
birds singin’ and the sun wakin’ him
of a mornin’, than drinkin’ himself to
death in Brisbane.”
He filled my glass and pushed it to-
wards me.
“People know what’s best for ’em,”
he added.
Our Friend the Ratcatcher:—
THE REMEDY
BY C.C.B.
ALL public men
’ave to put up
with be.i n’
joked at, and a rat-
catcher ain’t no ex-
ception. There was
one chap, Bill
Barkum, wot used
to lead me a dog’s
life with ’is stupid
jokes. He only ’ad
two ’obbies—one was Beer, the other was
Me ; and they took up so much of ’is
time that he couldn’t do no work, ’is
poor missus ’avin’ to do enough to keep
the kids in food and Bill in drink.
A disgrace to the town, he was. He
spent most of ’is time in the bar of the
Shelterin’ Palm, and when J’d look in
there, either in my professional capacity
or on my way ’ome, he’d make silly jokes
about my profession and call me the Pied
Piper or the Big-game ’Unter or some
such name, and then look around the
bar, grinnin’. Usually he’d get plenty of
grins back, Bill bein’ six-foot-one and
broad to match.
Often I’d find other things than rats
in my traps, too. Once after I’d dragged
one of my traps from under Carter’s
Hygienic Cafe, quiverin’ with excitement
at wot I thought was a record catch, I
iound a great black cat in it, or rather
wot ’ad been a cat, say, a fortnight
before.
That was only one of Bill Barkum’s
dirty drunken tricks ; and at last when
my youngest, Jimmy, ’ad ’is Noah’s Ark
pinched and I kept findin’ ridiculous
animals, hippopotamuses, giraffes and
camels and the like stuck in me traps I
thought the time ’ad come for me to put
Bill Barkum in ’is place.
I DROPS into the Shelterin’ Palm one
night and I finds Bill there as usual,
and as usual he starts to talk silly.
“ ’Ullo, Raggles,” he ses. “ ’Ome from
the ’unt? ’Ow are they bitin’? Tell us
about the big one wot got away.”
“I’m worried, Bill,” I ses, very grave.
T got a’ idea someone's been interferin’
with my traps.”
“Terrible!” ses Bill, shakin’ ’is ’ead.
“Somethin’ ought to be done about it.”
“I only wish I knew who it was,” I
ses. “I’d know wot to do about it.”
“Ho, indeed!” ses Bill, givin’ me a
nasty look. “And wot would you do,
might I be so bold as to ask?”
“I’d do the best I could for the poor,
unfortunate feller,” I ses sadly. “I only
ope the worst don’t ’appen to ’im, who-
ever he is.”
“Wot are you talkin’ about?” ses Bill,
starin’.
“Wotever ’appens to ’im,” I ses, “I
can’t be blamed for it.”
“Wot can ’appen to ’im?” ses Bill.
“Just wo.t you might expect, Bill,” I
ses. “Wot anyone might expect.”
“Look ’ere,” ses Bill, settin’ down ’is
pint very deliberate and glarin’. “Tell
us wot you’re drivin’ at.”
I takes a little tobacco-tin from my
pocket.
“This tin,” I ses very quiet, “contains
Death! ”
“Mad!” gasps Bill, movin’ back quick.
“Stark, starin’ mad!”
“Noj” I ses sadly. “Unfortunately I
ain’t mad. This tin contains the same
death that the poor bloke wot mucked-
about with my traps will die of.”
“Wot?” ses Bill, goin’ as white as a
sheet. “Wot’s that you’re sayin’?”
“Of course,” I goes on, “it don’t worry
me personal, me bein’ wot you might
call immune from plague, but the poor
bloke” . . .
“Plague!” howls Bill. “Plague!”
"Yes, Bill,” I ses. “There’s plague
fleas in this tin, and they come from
where I found a trap wot ’ad been inter-
fered with this mornin’. I’ll just show
you the difference between plague fleas
and”
“Not ’ere you won’t,” ses McNeil the
publican.
“Plague!” moans
Bill. “And it was
me wot touched
that trap, Raggles.
Me!”
“Don’t say that,
Bill,” I ses. “It’s
nothin’ to joke
about.”
“I do say it,”
ses Bill, ’arf cryin’.
“I ain’t jokin’. I swear it. It was me,
Raggles.”
1 steps up to Bill and looks into ’is
eyes.
“1 believe you now, Bill,” I ses. “The
plague’s beginnin’ to show in your eyes.
’Ave you got any lumps under your
arms?”
Like a flash Bill tore off ’is coat and
threw it on the floor and started pokin’
under ’is arms.
“I —1 think I can feel a little one,” he
ses in a tremblin’ voice.
“You’re lucky there’s only one,” I ses.
“And it’s just as well for you I’ve got a
cure at ’ome.”
“You’ll cure me, Raggles?” he ses.
“You’ll really cure me?”
“I’ll be terrible surprised if I don’t,”
I ses. “I’ll spend a week’s wages on
flowers for you if my cure fails. I can’t
say fairer than that, can I?”
Bill followed me out of the bar like a
lamb, leavin’ ’is pot ’arf full on the
counter. He would ’ave left ’is coat, too,
only McNeil passed it out to ’im on a
broom-’andle.
1 felt sorry for Bill’s poor missus when
I told ’er wot ’ad ’appened. She stood
there wringin’ her poor skinny ’ands and
wantin’ to know wot more troubles
she’d ’ave to bear.
“Don’t you worry, Mrs. Barkum,” I
ses. “Just keep ’im in bed for ten days
and give ’im ’is medicine regular three
times a day. This sickness will be the
makin’ of ’im, if he gets over it.”
A ND it was. He was a changed man
when he got up. It was ’is pal, Joe
Russel, wot first noticed the change
when he took Bill into the Shelterin’
Palm and shouted ’im a drink. Bill
took one sip then spat it out, and said
he never wanted to touch a drop of that
filthy stuff as long as he lived. It took
the publican ten minutes to get poor Joe
out of ’is faint.
Bill stuck to ’is word ; and as he’d
given up both ’is ’obbies he took a steady
job to fill in ’is time and he’s been in
it ever since. The change in ’im was the
talk of the town for weeks; no one
could understand it, and I didn’t say
nothin’. You see, if my missus got to
know I'd been givin’ Bill “Teetolo,” guar-
anteed to cure the cravin’ for booze in
ten days, she might ’ave got ideas into
her ’ead. The stuff don’t taste in tea
and—well, you never know with
wimmen.
On the Queensland Range.
Is it the soul of light, which cannot flag?
As we roll by them in the downward train
The sunstruck mountain-tops give back again
The flood of noon, and over crest and jag
And summit, blazing point—where dead trees
drag
Their stone-white limbs, blackened with fire-
stain —
The spirals of the heat haze twist and wane.
Peaks in a sea of radiance, crag on crag!
But otherwhere about the range hilltops
Hide in a forest, and, below, a way
Winds where blown gum leaves rot in soggy
creeks
That laze throu’gh lucerne flowers, till the crops
Of maize it finds, and climbs past these all day
To seek through upward scrubs the topmost
peaks.
QUEENSLtND.
JAMES PICOT.


llljKl;:;.-. :33S|rar*-'% /r
r ILM is
linked with these conditions
Make sure you use the
special film-removing tooth
paste which removes film
effectively and safely .
The way to remove film safely
COMMON sense says that dangerous
film should be removed and kept
away regularly. But how ? Many
dentifrices may claim to remove film.
But are they safe ? To millions of
people, Pepsodent is known as the
special film-removing tooth paste.
The simple reason for Pepsodent’s
efficiency is the use of a revolutionary
new cleansing and polishing agent. This
material is unexcelled in film-removing
power. No other leading dentifrice
contains it and it is so safe that in im-
partial tests Pepsodent has been proved
the least abrasive . . . therefore softest
—of 15 leading tooth pastes and 6
tooth powders.
So, if you really want naturally white
teeth and greater freedom from common
mouth disorders, take the first step now.
Start removing ugly, dangerous film
daily with Pepsodent Tooth Paste.
Along with daily brushing, eat foods
your dentist would advise to promote
strong, healthy teeth. And be sure to
see your dentist regularly twice a year.
feiH
the B „,ns.
SAVE MONEY!
Buy Pepsodent in the new 10%
larger tubes at the old prices.
You can’t afford to take chances
on cheap “bargain” brands now
that it costs no more to insist on
the special film-removing Tooth
Paste.
PEPSODENT
the Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 1/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL n.«»
“Bad Luck Hung on Our Wheels from the
Start That Trip":-
THE HOODOO TOUR
BY CON DREW
YOU birds would be too young to
remember Thumper Rogers. He got
the name of Thumper because, he
carried a thump in either hand that
would knock you thirty feet away from
your necktie if one landed on you prop-
erly. He tapped a nigger on the wish-
bone in a free-for-all one day at Pyr-
mont, and the darkie got as groggy as
a nine-days-old calf. In addition to
his punchin’ abilities he was clever for
a heavyweight, and could take punish-
ment like a stevedore.
1 had Thumper with me on that hoo-
doo stunt in 1912 when I toured southern
Queensland with a boxin’ show. Bad
luck hung on our wheels from the start.
At Toowoomba two of my best welters
got the ’flu, and I had to leave them be-
hind. At Warwick the rain came on,
and we were bottled up there for two
weeks waitin’ for the creeks to go down.
Eventually we moved on to Stanthorpe,
but old Doctor Gloom was waitin’ for
us there. On the night we opened up a
spark from one of the flare lamps set
fire to the tent, and the whole caboose
went up in smoke. I had barely suffi-
cient money to send six of the boys back
to Brisbane, and Thumper and me was
left on our own.
Five days later
we found ourselves
in a bit of a town-
ship not far from
the New South
Wales border, and
we put up at one
of the hotels. We
were all but broke
to the world, but
we kept-that infor-
mation to ourselves.
After tea that night we were siftin’
in the billiard-room when I seen a
little cockeyed gent, lookin’ hard at
Thumper. He was talkin’ to the pro-
prietor of the pub, and every now and
then they’d have a squint at me. After
a bit Cockeye ambles over to us.
“Ain’t you Thumper Rogers?” he says
to Thumper.
“You’ve guessed it first crack,” says
Thumper. “That’s me.”
“I thought it was you,” said Cockeye.
“I saw you fight a bloke at the Sydney
Stadium when I was down there last
Easter. The landlord would like a
word with you boys if you could spare
a minute or two. He’s waitin’ for you
in the sittin’-room.”
A NYTHING sounded O.K. to us just
then, so we followed Cockeye along
a passage and into the sittin’-room. The
publican was squattin’ at a table near
the window, and he told us to help our-
selves to a chair.
“I’ve sent for you boys,” says he,
“because I’ve got a proposition to put
to you.”
“Spill it to Mr. Silver here,” says
Thumper. “He’s the manager.”
“Good,” says the publican. “There’s
a young boxer named Curtis in the town
that’s a sort of protege of mine. He's
a good, clean-livin’ boy, and gives
promise of turnin’ into a pretty fair
fighter. Of course, he ain’t had much
ring experience yet, but he’s a real fast
learner.”
“What weight is ( this bird Curtis?” I
asks.
“Twelve stone ten or thereabouts,”
says the publican. “If we could arrange
it I’d like to match him with Thumper.”
“Ain’t there no other way of havin’
him executed?” says I. “If he ain’t had
much ring experience he’d be climbin’
the Golden Stairs two minutes after
enterin’ the ring with Thumper.”
“Not if you’ll agree to my proposi-
tion,” the publican come back.
“Let her rip,” says I. “We’re both
listenin’ hard.”
“What I want you to do,” says the
publican, “is to sign Thumper up with
Curtis for a ten-round bout at the local
hall. He’s a great favorite here, and a
big crowd would roll up to see the go.
There would be no need to treat my lad
too rough. I’m anxious to get him a
match in Brisbane, and if he put up a
fairly good showing with Thumper it
would help a lot.”
“I see,” says I. “You want us to
carry him along for ten rounds?”
“Exactly,” says the publican, “but your
man would win on points of course.”
“It sounds all right from his angle,”
says I, “but there don’t seem to be a
fortune in it for us.”
“If you’d let' him stay the full jour-
ney,” says the publican, “it would be
worth twenty quid to you.”
“Cripes. Twenty quid ain’t much,”
Thumper breaks in. “There’s my repu-
tation to be considered.”
“All right,” says the publican, “I’ll
make it twenty-five. A fiver down and
the rest after the fight.”
All at once a brainwave struck me.
“There’ll be bettin’ goin’ on at the ring-
side, I suppose?” says I.
“Plenty of it. There’s two local
bookies in the town and they always
attend the fights.”
“Right,” says I. “We’ll take a fiver
now and you can put the twenty quid
on Curtis for us.”
“On Curtis ?”
“Yes; but see that you don’t take the
cream of the odds for yourself.”
“I’m not a bettin’ man,” replies the
publican, “and I don’t want to appear
in the matter at all.” He jerks his thumb
at Cockeye, who was standin’ by sayin’
nothin’. “My bookkeeper here will fix
up the match and attend to other pre-
liminary details.” With that he slips me
a fiver and off we float.
“That means that I’ve got to take all
and give nothin’ for ten rounds,” says
Thumper when we get outside.
“Not ten,” says I. “Only three or
four. You can take the knock in the
fifth round if you get tired of it.”
“I get you,” says Thumper, and that
was that.
NEXT day Cockeye lumbered Curtis
along to us and we signed up to
fight at the local hall in ten days’ time.
Curtis was a husky-lookin’ gent., but he
hadn’t been long enough in the game to
acquire the earmarks of a scrapper.
There, was a slight difference of opinion
regardin’ the distribution of the spoils.
Finally it was arranged that Thumper,
bein’ the draw card, should take sixty
per cent, of the gate and Curtis forty.
When the news about the fight got'
around it caused quite a stir in the town.
Thumper and Curtis started trainin’ next
day, and every afternoon the populace
rolled up to see them at work. Thumper
did his trainin’ in a shed at the back of
our pub, and Curtis trained at the hall.
Two days before the affray the publi-
can sent for me and Thump and told us
that he was startin’ off that afternoon
for Brisbane on urgent business. “I
won’t be back in time for the fight,” says
he, “but I’ll see that the money is put on
Curtis for you.”
I’d seen a good deal of the publican
by then, and I knew that he’d deal
straight with us. “All right,” I says.
“Tell the bloke you get to do the com-
mission not to bet until after the third
round.”
“I’ll see to that,” he replies, and off
he goes to see about packin’ his traps.
By this time everyone had got to know
that Thump was the dinkum Thumper
Rogers, so on the night of the scrap the
hall was packed. I figured that there
was fifty quid in the house, and it turned
out afterwards that I was pretty near
right. Curtis was first in the ring. He
looked mighty well in his fightin’ togs
and seemed fairly confident. Of course,
he didn’t know that it was fixed for him
to win.
After a bit I lobbed in the ring with
Thump, and the crowd gave him a fairly
good hand. We’d arranged between our-
selves that Thump was to make the pace
a cracker for the first two or three rounds
so as to make the Curtis market good.
The ringside hyenas was betlin’ two agen
him at the time. We reckoned on makin
them hoist the odds to three to one.
WHEN everythin’ was ready and the
ref. gave the signal for the boys to
commence hostilities, Thumper went
straight in and made the pace pretty hot.
He pulled his punches, of course, but he
made it look as if he was doin’ wonder-
ful work. Curtis was worried, but he
stuck to his guns. Now and then he
sent in a solid punch, but Thump either
ducked underneath it or caught it on
his glove.
Thumper kept the good work goin’
through the first two rounds and made
the pace a trifle hotter in the third. By
the end of the round the bettin’ had
drifted to 3 to 1 agen Curtis. The hyenas
were barkin’ it loud enough to be heard
in the ring. We’d fixed it that Thump
was to take a flop in the. fourth round,
but to make sure that whoever was doin’
the commission could get our money on
before the deluge he clowned through
another round. When the fifth round
started I sent him in to do his act.
Youse birds who have only seen
gigolos struttin’ around in the pictures
don’t know what real actin’ is. You
ought to have been at the ringside watch-
in’ Thumper perform that night. Mind
you, Curtis was still strong enough to
send over a solid wallop, but he looked
to have about as much chance of win-
ning as that Abyssinian gent, has of get-
tin’ back his throne. So when Thumper
tore in at Curtis like a ragin’ tornado
the crowd thought that Curtis’s number
was up.
And, by cripes, it looked like it. Stab-
bin’ a left to Curtis’s nose, Thumper fol-
lowed it up with a devastatin’ right hook
which missed the jaw by a fraction of an
inch. He let go another almost imme-
diate, and Curtis backed agen the ropes.
The crowd yelled to him to smother up,
but he appeared to be confused, and
Thumper rocked him with a right and
left to the head. Two more wallops to
the head and it looked any odds on
Thumper knockin’ Curtis cold.
It wasn’t though. Thumper was appar-
ently preparin’ to send over the k.o. when
for a fraction of a second he left his
jaw uncovered. Curtis had a punch in
motion, one of them wild, blind swings,
and it landed fair on Thumper’s jaw. It
seemed to shake him from head to heels.-
His arms dropped to his sides and the
pupils of his eyes shot upwards until only
the whites were showin’. Curtis saw the
chance of a lifetime and took it. He
sent in another punch to the jaw and
Thumper flopped to the floor.
It was a wonderful exhibition of tragic
actin’. There was Thumper, stretched
out on the floor as stiff as a frozen snake
and the crowd goin’ wild with excite-
ment.
When the referee had duly counted
Thumper out I smoked him away to the
dressin’-room. No one had taken any
interest in us; they was all intent on
congratulatin’ Curtis. They’d got value
for their money anyhow, so everyone
was pleased.
DOWN in the dressin’-room Thump
and me shook hands. “Not too bad,"
says I. “Three to one to twenty quid is
sixty frogskins. It’s the Big Smoke for
us to-morrer, boy. We’ll catch the rattler
for Brisbane.”
Just then the door was pushed open
and in walks the publican’s son. He
was a wild, good-for-nothin’ young feller
who thought himself one of the knuts
of the town. He was always gettin’ into
scrapes, and the publican had to come
to the rescue. We’d seen a good deal of
him durin’ our stay in the town and
didn’t think too much of him.
“Hullo,” says I. “What’s up with you?
You look as if you’d been on a jag.”
“So would you look crook if you were
in as much trouble as I am,” says he.
“What’s up?” I laughed. “Have you
been failin’ out with your best girl?”
“Worse than that,” says he. “The old
man gave me twenty quid to put on
Curtis for him. When I seen how well
Thumper was goin’ I put the lot on him.
Don’t you say nothin’ to the old man
when youse see him, though. I’ll have
to break it to him gently.”


SHOWS YOU
the INK
And HOLDS more of it!
'T'HIS pen, shows you at any time whether
A the ink is running low—just by looking at
the crystal-clear ‘ observation window.’ See
this great improvement for yourself at any good
Stationers or Jewellers.
Prices —The VISOFIL (* Big-fill ’) Swan, 32/6.
Ladies’ Size, without clip, 27/6. LEVERLESS (‘ Quick-
fill ') Swan from 21/-. Other Swans from IS/-.
Blackbirds from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6.
All in black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE VISOFIL
Swan Pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE SWAM’ INK
A.1.6X
EUROPE
via
1
LAKE LOUISE
in i war/ v]
CANADA’S
ROCKIES
At Banff and Lake Louise in
the heart of Canada’s majestic
Rockies you may hike ... ride
the Circle Trails . . . golf . ..
swim in warm sheltered
pools . . . and enjoy the many
social attractions at their
palatial hotels. Get literature
and details from
Any Tourist Booking Agency
or
GoMoJlbMGluifac
World’s Greatest Travel System 10.6.7
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
D
by
UNION
LINE
tort
oiJat ///«
OUILO.
CRUISE No. 1.
Around South Island of New Zealand
calling at Milford and seven other fam-
ous New Zealand Sounds, Stewart
Island, Dunedin, Port Chalmers, Lyttel-
ton and Picton.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney ... 2nd December, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney ... 16th December, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
CRUISE No. 2.
LORD HOWE ISLAND
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney . . .
Saturday, ■ January 2nd, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney . . .
Wednesday, January 6th, 7 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from £5.
Full
particular •
from —•
CRUISE No. 3.
Around South Island of New Zealand,
covering same Itinerary as Cruise No. I.
R.M.S. "MAUNGANUI"
Leaves Sydney Sat., Jan. 16th, 5 p.m.
Returns Sydney, Sat., Jan. 30th, 8 a.m.
First Class only. Fares from 20 Guineas.
Early
bookings
recommended
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. Ltd.
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7671. Or Any Tourist Agent
Stray Thoughts on String and the Like:—
WRAPPERS
WRAPPING
AND WRAPPAGE
BY LES ROBINSON
SPIDERS have a natural aptitude for
wrapping things. Oft have I shud-
dered, sharing as I do a shack with
them, at the celerity with which they
wrap up their victims before carrying
them into the dining-room or hanging
them up in the pantry. In nightmares,
too, I have only just escaped in time from
enormous and ravenous ones which were
trying to make a very neat parcel of me.
Lots of human beings seem equally
• r .
L p ? T p fa ;
p at outnumbei the dutters at it
appaiently, one of whom is me.
Once upon a time I had a job as a
parcel-wrapper. The sofas, mattresses,
palliasses, dressing-tables, chiffoniers,
wardrobes, chests of drawers, etc., which
I thrust into huge paper bags or wrapped
in brown paper and ingeniously, as I
thought, bound with string so often in-
furiated carters, porters, stevedores and
the consignees by becoming undone be-
tore the correct or convenient, moment
for them to do so had arrived that I
soon found myself lying under a tree in
my favorite park, putting on flesh and
reading “Positions Vacant’’ again
+u . . , '
Many things by the way, have dawned
on me under that same tree. Once the
dawn itself, followed a little later by a
park-ranger ; but, trying to look like a
confirmed early-nser out and about for
no earthly reason, except' to wander aim-
lessly, instead of like a confirmed grass-
, ugh he was on horseback.
D UT to return to the attack—and,
than any other nuisance we are
plagued by, this craze for wrapping
things in silver, brown, oiled, tarred,
tissue, grease and news paper, canvas,
hessian or cellophane, and then tying
them up with string, most assuredly de-
serves one—l suppose it was that job
which first sowed in me the seeds of
hatred towards all forms of parcel-
making
TT ... . . - T J t
Until it left me I used to dream at
night that 1 was trying to wrap up
gasometers, haystacks, sandhills and
grandstands, to peak and dpuble under
whilst doing so the ends of the brown
paper correctly. (You hold them in
position with your chin, and the rest of
the parcel with your stomach, until,
adroitly passing the string round the
diameter and circumference, you draw ff
taut. But before you can do that you
have first to find the string and then
with accurate judgment, or, in other
..... , . • ’ . ’ “
words without inconvenient wastage,
cut it.) Those dreams were either string-
fess ones, or the string in them not nearly
long enough and rotten. So, of course,
the parcels, especially the sandhill ones,
despite my frantic efforts, would burst
asunder and the contents fall upon and
overwhelm me.
Nearly everything I buy or that is
given to me has a large and superfluous
amount of string wound round it. The
parcel-wrappers who prepare my pur-
chases for transit don’t seem able to
guess within several furlongs the
“o°V b ?h n a d i n ft r r, , T t d - H S,rinS maJ
h h t ?l a used t 0 be > or .per-
haps they aren t urged to eliminate
wastage as often as I was when em-
ployed in that capacity.
They can, however, nearly all do one
thing I, somehow or other—having no
latent talent for it, I suppose—was never
able to accomplish satisfactorily, and
that is snap, after tying the parcel up,
the string with a jerk. They don’t I
notice, cut their fingers as I used ’to
when, spurning scissors, I strove, with
even greater nonchalance and a much
larger flourish than theirs, to perform
an S i?no^nious P fS™ anCe USUa “ y bei " 8
g ous failure.
Axrrx 1 . .
ND the knots they tie! Two or
three simple ones would not ade-
quately express perhaps the knotter’s
individuality. If one knows a few com-
plicated knots one
should work them
off on the cus-
tomer. For all you
or I know the
knotter may be a
complex person
and unable to ex-
press himself by
means of the knot
simple that unties
easily and causes
no swearing. For-
getting this until
too late —that is to
say, until you have
pruned all your fingernails, haven’t a
knife handy, are pressed for time, and
must get at the contents of the parcel—
you use your teeth.
If would almost seem as though the
tier had put all the hardness of a hard
life into those knots; all the tautness of
tight circumstances ; the “quiet despera-
tion” of the caged and repressed ; that
he was either intentionally or unknow-
ingly frustrative, perhaps because him-
self frustrated. The same tier —the one
who isn’t nursing vocational or other
grievances or seething with ennui, who
doesn’t regard the customer as a dis-
turber of introspection and reverie—
whose life, like mine, is just a plain
blank, must always be attending to some-
one else, or pretending to, when I come
in.
Instead of simplifying, weakening or
demolishing a knot, the string I pull is
almost invariably the one that more
than any other complicates and
strengthens it. That is why I always keep
a razor-blade where I know, or think I
know, I can lay my hand on it, in case,
having arrived home without any
matches, I’m compelled to take my boots
off in the dark ; though I’m willing to bet
that next time I do come home without
a box the night will be moonless, there
won’t be a living soul about, my elec-
tric torch will have gone phut and the
razor-blade won’t be there.
\\J RAPP AGE varies in accordance
V V w ith the quality of the goods it sur-
rounds. The worse the article or articles,
the more string, rope, tape, cellophane,
tinsel, cardboard, tinted free literature,
shavings, straw, sawdust, seals, sealing-
wax and rubber bands have to be bur-
rowed through, torn off, stacked in the
grate nicely or shovelled away before
one can get at it or them. If this is a
patience test —and will anybody who
hasn’t' oceans of time to spare and no-
thing to do except fritter it away tell me
I’m under a stupendous misapprehension?
—the manufacturers who decided that' we
(the public) needed one might or might
not be interested to learn that some of
us (me, for instance) fail continuously,
fulminating and fuming, to pass it.
THE kind of people who strew their
1 used gramophone needles about also
chuck the string off their parcels down
anywhere, which is a very pernicious and
aggravating habit indeed. Not so much
a nuisance perhaps to feet-watchers,
ground-scanners, that quite large number
of born searchers and finders who coun-
terbalance and also inherit the posses-
sions, trifling ones for the most part, of
the even more numerous losers in our
midst, as to persons whose gaze is less
antlike and whose attention is not con-
centrated perpetually upon their imme-
diate surroundings.
What, if we except orange-peel and
banana-skin, has had more lurid lan-
guage lavished upon it, sotto voce or, by
the less stoical, to a stentorian and blood-
curdling extent, than discarded string,
especially that which is looped and with
the knots still tied, just as it was ripped
off a parcel? When one end of the loop
is, as so often happens, round a root or
something, the other automatically be-
comes a man-snare, your first intima-
tion of this being that, your foot catch-
ing in it, you come down wallop. It is
possible, you may also discover—usually
in the dark—when one, of these loops has
been flung by the inconsiderate into a
tree or attached, for some obscure
reason, to a branch and left to dangle
down therefrom, to be almost garrotted
or hanged.
IF you are a constant and inveterate
1 shopper and your all-the-year-round
abode is one room, not by any means
spacious, you are likely—despite incessant
bonfires, always supposing you have a
backyard or a roof at your disposal in
or on which to make them, but much
more rapidly and often if you haven’t—to
be impeded, exasperated, have your
dreams alarmingly invaded, your peace
of mind and supposed sanity, if any,
slowly but surely shattered, to suffer
the loss as well, despite exhausting and
ceaseless rummaging and searching, of
most things you frequently need, and,
finally, to be utterly overwhelmed by
what might be termed parcellage,
Its encroachment begins in a gradual
way that is never quite as much so as
you may be prone to suppose. In other
words, it is deceptive and insidious.
rvrsoe,:™ „ • • ,
Cieepmg and gaming upon you, unob-
trusively perhaps at first, but in reality
with dire and most inconvenient speed,
the rising tide of newspaper, brown,
tissue, grease and the tarred kind, cello-
phane, tinsel, cardboard, hessian, wad-
ding, straw, string, tape, rope, sawdust,
etc., becomes knee-deep at last, then, de-
feating your frenzied efforts not to let it
reach a mark you have previously
made on the wall, you find one night
that the bed, your last and only refuge,
unless you don t mind spending the
nocturnal hours on the windowsill, the
washstand or the wardrobe, is being in-
vaded -
This, of course, is the last straw,
Hastily cramming into a suitcase the few
belongings you can still find, you vacate
the apartment and take another, the
emptiest available, giving, if questioned,
an untruthful but plausible reason
(it may take some thinking out) why pieces
of tape and string are trailing behind
you ; for the gummed price-tickets and
labels adhering to your clothing, the
sawdust in your eyebrows, pockets, hair
and boots, round the nm and in the
?“* o£ S' o " hat ' and “ “tenuatton of
the other pack i ng an °
wrappage you have about you here and
th & * *
‘ „ , , . ,
A well-known mathematician (myself)
has estimated, by the way, that it would
take 28,160,000 yards of string to reach
from here to England. By not throwing
mine away I now have several sackfuls.
I only need another hundred yards or so
—which, in fact, I expect to acquire next
shopping day—in order to have the total
required for experimental purposes, and
I can assure you it will give a thrill,
proportionate to that of an astronomer
or a wireless enthusiast upon establishing
contact with Mars, to stand on South
Head, holding one end of a ball or coil
of string the other end of which is tied
to the back of a steamer that itself has
just become tied with more string (the
super kind termed rope or hawser) to a
wharf at Southhampton, Tilbury, Land’s
End, Plymouth or Hull.


Moio6 faa
ft
0 0
:
4gf
m
?m-
You know your own haulage
job—you know the type and
capacity of truck it calls for
—that identical truck you
will find for a certainty in
the comprehensive Inter-
national line. International
trucks include utilities and
light delivery vans; sturdy,
powerful work-a-day trucks
from I ton to 5 tons; and a
range of big six-wheelers for
the heaviest, roughest haul-
age undertakings.
BUT CHILD’S PLAY FOR AN
INTERNATIONAL
Pulling heavy loads up steep inclines—emerging fully
laden from gravel pits—speedily delivering great loads
of stone, bricks, steel—these are he-man tasks for real
trucks—trucks specially designed and engineered for
heavy work—INTERNATIONALS.
Don't send a boy on a man's errand—no car engine can
do the work of an International truck engine and stand
up to the strain. Every International is a sound, practical
truck job through and through.
A GENUINE TRUCK INVESTMENT
International trucks are designed to give real truck ser-
vice, and they prove their quality under all conditions.
Internationals are built by truck engineers to pull heavy
loads, swiftly, safely, economically, and to keep on doing
it year after year. You'll be proud to own an Inter-
national. But why talk about it? International truck per-
formance is the best evidence you can get of sound truck
investment. And that is what we want to give you—
an exacting "on the job" performance. Drop in and talk
it over or write for a free illustrated catalogue on any
model—there's absolutely no obligation.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA r. 1478
w
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.E.R.: Jilted sheik who revenged himself
by writing limericks about his successor failed
to get by. .. .A.A.R.: “Are these few verses
on horseracing worth printing?” Anything
but.... Anon: “Every Other Man in Office” is
quite the woodenest verse we’ve sampled for
many a long day M.W.F.: Humor, if any,
es too subtle to be discernible... .R.F.W.: No
use... .S.P.: Bagdad caliphs are right out of
our line... .H.G.H.: Some promise in them,
but not enough merit J.F.L.: Stumbled, and
fe11... .E.G.P.: An oft-described incident thinly
retold... .C.G.S.: Nothing in U....G.W.:
Needs more sensitive handling... .T.W.E. :
Couldn’t get warmed up over your night in
the cooler A.R.C.: Flapperish W.L.:
You don’t give convincing evidence of knowing
much about Sydney police and crooks....
D.H.E.; Finished on the wrong side of the
fence... .E.G.P.: P00r... .C.P.L.: Two readers
checkmated your chess yarn.... R.H.: Crime
stories sentenced to the stake... .R.G.: The
only thing it didn’t make yawn was the pay-
box... .R.8.F.: Fine weather always brings
that ancient out of its hiding-place T.H.L.;
An idea, but treatment not strong enough....
D O.B.: You’ve a long climb ahead of you.
H B G.: Like a python—long, tortuous
and no sting in it J.T.: Stowaway sketch
... , „
too mild E.T.F : Dialogue good, and
glimpses of humor, but none of the three yarns
has enough body to get by A.L.-P.; The
“savc-my-chc-ild” style went out with horse-
trams and red-flannel undies C.M.: Dia-
loguc stilted, plot a little vague and tenses
mixed.... T.L.M.: That snorer only raised a
faint grin... .C.D.; Was that supposed to have
been a bad dream?... .S.W. (Eng.); Burlesque
on abolition of Lords would merely bore our
readers... .R.F.8.: Sketch doesn’t get there,
but you’re on the right lines M.M.: Not
quite strong enough to prise the lid off the cash-
box.... J.McA.: Too close to an O. Henry
yarn G.T.W.: Rounded off well enough, but
plot is hung on a slender thread M.G.;
Atmosphere right, but nothing in the yarn....
C.S.: Lacks polish and story is trite....
Pcakaze: Mateship one the best, though not
good enough for publication... .A.F.8.: Too
melodramatic... .L.D.J.: . Insufficient humor in
the bush racing tale 1.M.: You’ve done
better than that, and with stronger subjects,
, ...R.W.: Doesn’t seem to get anywhere, and
t j ie influential citizen is a totally unconvincing
character... .C.J.R.: Neatly enough done, but
suc j x re canting goes dead a day after the event.
L.M.: We read it under laughing gas and it
stiff raised a lugubrious shudder R.R.: Read
the best literature until you’re about 92 and
then start writing in earnest C.J.R.: “The
Killer” might stand a chance elsewhere—it
didn’t miss by much... .8.M.: No ; a
pity you didn’t work a stronger plot into that
finely-described bushfire... .Roamer: Not
enough m the post-sphttmg yarn G.H.8.:
Dog B yam mov £ s too slow j y . other bctter ,
though not enough so to get in... .T.W.N.:
Hard to disguise that girl beyond the first page.
R.G.H.; Dialogue towards end becomes
far too melodramatic R.H.L.: They’re a
queer pair of lovers, those brothers.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.G.: Clumsy drawing illustrating an anaemic
pun... .C.D.L.: Impossible to tell from the
cartoon whether you are for or against the
proposal S.H.: A barber would charge you
extra to shave the whiskers off that gag
N.T.: Took five minutes to unpack your
masterpiece; five seconds to reject it P.A.:
Footsore gag, plus a sketch that is no joy to
the eye E.M.G.: No urge to exchange a
cheque for that... .L.H.: The artist hasn’t
graduated from the kindergarten yet
A.D.K.: You’ll do better if you use a broader
nib and paper with a smoother surface....
L.F.: Pictorial shot at the Censor missed its
mark E.R.C.: Not bad enough for brick-
bats, yet not good enough for bouquets
J.L.: That Dave-and-city-cousin jest has had its
day T.M.: Not wanting picture of one-
legged man trying to mount a three-legged mule.
. ...C.N.: We would prefer to see your 101st.
... .P.T.: Like old times to see that boiled-
mutton-and-blowfly jest again R.L.J.:
Minns put that one into circulation 40 years
ago... .A.G.W.: Could do better ourselves
with a trowel dipped in tar C.K.: Where
do kangaroo-dogs grow that shape?... .IT.D.:
Drunk in nightshirt now snoring peacefully on
top of the reject pile.... J.D.: Always pre-
pared to consider inter-State caricatures. Get
our local office to swear as to likenesses
R.8.H.: Fair attempt for a beginner; attend
life classes F.T.: Chap playing barrel-
organ ordered to try another pitch A.E.L.:
An ancient malapropism attached to a down-
at-heels drawing P.J.J.: Since you forgot to
send the letterpress we were denied the pleasure
of hearing what the lubra had to say to the
parson on the push-bike... .G.M.S.: Can de-
tect faint signs of improvement; make lines
smoother L.G.: Wash drawings too muddy;
humor stale... .E.R.8.: The parachutist ended
in the basket.
A MIXED GRILL.
“E.E.”: Miles Franklin in All That
Swagger makes use of the word street,
more properly sthrell. Though nearly
obsolete now, the word was common
enough 30 or 40 years ago. The mascu-
line, streelavollya, meaning a waster or
useless young man, was frequently used
by my Irish grandmother, though I have
never heard anyone else use it or seen
it in print.
* :je * ■ *
“Beck”: It would be interesting to
know how much of that land taken up on
pastoral lease by Westralian politicians
(B. 4/11 /’36) was ever stocked, or utilised
in any way. Little, I suspect, if any. I
recall a map that was in a Perth depart-
mental office some 15 years ago. It was
at the period when there were glowing
hopes of finding oil in the State, and a
number of downy birds seized the oppor-
tunity of acquiring, for a trifling fee,
“prospecting licenses” which gave them
the sole right of searching for the elu-
sive fluid over tracts of country running
into millions of acres. Practically the
whole of the State had been “pegged
out” on this artless system. A pressman
had an “option” over an area about the
size of the British Isles. I don’t suppose
he ever got anything out of it.
* * * *
“3.0”: Sharks will take to anything
that gleams in the water. I saw a school
of salmon rounded up near the north
breakwater, Swansea heads (N.S.W.). My
mate was jagging for the salmon, and
lost his sinker. A new horseshoe, found
on the adjacent road, was tied on. At
the first flash of the metal a shark turned
and took it. .Somewhere on the coast, a
killer is carrying a little extra weight.
* * =i= *
“Oxmead”: Our quaint immigration
laws must be bewildering to foreigners
who ever hear about them. New arrivals
from Italy, assuming that there is nothing
else against them, are never debarred
from landing for ignorance of English.
Anyhow, I never heard of such a case,
though mine managers and shift bosses
on the Golden Mile used to admit that
the employment of men who, while good
miners, were unable to comprehend
orders rapidly had obvious elements of
danger in it. Yet only the other day an
Englishwoman was blocked from enter-
ing this country because she failed to
pass a test in Italian!
* .1= * *
Writing on naval aspects of the war,
Hector Bywater, one of Britain’s leading
authorities, has resurrected a name which
most Australians had almost forgotten
—that of Captain W. H. C. Thring.
Thring, as Director of the Common-
wealth Naval War Staff, did some of the
first war-time R.A.N. organising. He was
largely responsible for the job of getting
over the first A.I.F. convoy, which car-
ried the largest single force ever trans-
ported any distance over sea in one piece.
He now lives in retirement in Norfolk,
where he carries on a private war of his
own against the local game, declaring an
armistice now and then to indulge his
passion for cricket.
* * * *
“B’kali”: Captain Cook and his men
did not despise the flesh of the kan-
garoo. In his journal the navigator de-
scribes the flesh as being delicious and
most excellent meat. Cook must have
envisioned Australia as a potential sup-
plier of meat to the British market,
for he went on to say that the. flesh of
the ’roo would certainly command a
ready sale in England if ever it proved
possible to transport the flesh and land
it in good condition.
* * * *
“Cuchulain”: The most deceptive
creature in weight for its size is the
pelican. It looks a good thickness
through the clumsy wings, and the beak
looks solid enough too, yet few would
correctly guess the right weight of about
41b. for a really large chap. (An Aus-
tralorp or Black Orpington matron tips
the scales from to 61b.) Peli. s
large beak weighs next to nothing.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: An odd spectacle is pro-
vided by the Binghi youngsters, clad in
lava-lava only, making flights with model
aeroplanes at St. Paul’s settlement on
Moa Island (Torres Strait), where a re-
sourceful missionary has initiated his
dusky charges into the mysteries of lift
and drag per medium of models offered
through The Bully’s sister journal. St.
Paul’s is the settlement where the self-
chosen expatriates from the old Kanaka
importing days are now concentrated.
They have evolved a fine type by inter-
marriage with the Torres Strait natives,
and are self-supporting.


ESS
TRAI
SI
CK
Comfort
St>eed
Moth
e
s
V hort Story
r Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthldssly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, (Srimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Dapartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
ŵ
Some details concerning Charles Tompson,
Jun., an early Australian poet? —3665.
Author of Wild Notes from the Lyre of a
Native Minstrel, which, issued in 1826, was
the first volume of verse by a native-born Aus-
tralian to be published in his own country.
Born in 1806, Tompson subsequently entered
the Government service, became Clerk of the
Legislative Assembly of N.S.W., and died
1883. Beyond this book of immature verse,
nothing of his work appears to have been
preserved.
*** ■ *
What are the lines, similar to Laurence
Binyon’s “They shall not grow old, as we that
are left grow old,” which include the words
“or custom stale her infinite variety”? —3ss9.
The line quoted is from Shakspeare’s “Antony
and Cleopatra”:—
. Age cannot wither her, nor. custom stale
Her infinite variety; other women cloy
The appetites they feed, hut she makes hungry
Where most she satisfies.
Do not know of any words resembling the
phrase being included in verses having the
same application as Binyon’s.
H* -*K :!'• *
What is the value of John Galsworthy’s
literary work, and where does it stand compara-
tively ? —3379.
It is generally agreed by contemporary critics
that Galsworthy placed on record and inter-
preted the life and habits of thought of the
upper middle classes of the late-Victorian period
in an unsurpassed manner. His work is
notable for humanitarianism, fastidiousness as
regards construction and style and a certain
amount of psychological insight. In such plays
as “The Silver Box,” “Strife” and “Justice”
he dealt searchingly with present-day social
problems and conflicts. His chief fault as a
playwright is a tendency to sentimentality.
Soames Forsyte, the embodiment of the vices
and virtues of his*era, county and class, is re-
garded as Galsworthy’s greatest characterisation.
* * . * *
Is it correct for the composers of long
modern musical compositions, with no set
divisions, to call them “sonatas” ? —3700.
Cannot be condemned as incorrect, since
“sonata” in the first instance was merely the
term employed to differentiate a purely instru-
mental composition from one with a vocal part
or parts. The earliest-known sonatas, those of
Turini, circa 1624, are in canon form, one
movement, in fugue and imitation. The
sonatas of J. S. Bach, Handel and Porpora
are dance suites; Scarlatti’s in some instances
are a short development of one theme. Beet-
hoven gave to the sonata what his contem-
poraries considered was its highest and final
form, but his most notable successors have re-
fused to be bound by his or any conventions.
# * * *
Meaning of (1) sol-fa, (2) solfeggio, and (3)
solmisation ? —3674.
(1) Properly “sol-fa” is a verb. To “sol-fa”
is to sing a musical passage giving to the notes
the syllables “do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si,” com-
monly known as Guido’s scale. The “tonic
sol-fa” notation is the same thing, “do” being
always the keynote. (2) A musical exercise
for the voice, using the “sol-fa” notation. (3)
The art of illustrating the construction of the
musical scale by allotting to the sounds syllables
which exemplify their relative proportions and
their functions as individual members of the
system. The “sol-fa’ ? notation is an example
of this art.
* * * *
Are the high, soft notes as sung by Richard
Crooks and Richard Tauber falsetto? —3565.
In the case of Crooks, definitely no. Some
of Tauber’s effects, particularly in film re-
cordings, lay him under suspicion, but he is
entitled to the benefit of the' doubt.
* * * *
Particulars of Harrow School, including
county where situated, names of houses, name
of headmaster from 1919 to 1922, and words
of school song? —3629.
Harrow School, at Harrow-on-the-Hill,
Middlesex, England, was founded by John
Lyon, a yeoman, under charter from Queen
Elizabeth in 1571. » The attendance is limited
to about 600 boys, and there have been many
famous names among its pupils, including
Byron, Palmerston, Peel and Galsworthy. There
are 11 boarding-houses (known as “Large”
houses), of which the names at present are:
The Headmaster’s (in charge of a house-master),
and (in charge of assistant masters) Newlands,
West Acre, The Park, The Grove, Moretons,
Elmfield, Druries, The Knoll, Rendall’s and
Bradby’s. There is, in addition, a waiting house
(Hillside) for boys entered for a “Large” house,
also several “Small” houses, these at present
being The Foss, Grove Hill and Garlands. The
headmaster 1919-22 was the Rev. Lionel G. B. J.
Ford, M.A. The school anthem, “Forty Years
On,” by Edward E. Bowen, is too long to
quote; it is printed in collections of Harrow
school songs, and is also to be found in full
in The Home Book of Verse, edited by Steven-
son ; and the first and last stanzas are quoted
in Horace Annesley Vachell’s novel of life at
Harrow School, The Hill. The opening lines
run:—-
Forty years on, when, afar and asunder,
Parted are those who are singing to-day.
* * * *
(1) Where are wholesale supplies for poker-
work, and barbola-work obtainable in N. S.
Wales? (2) Where can instruction in artificial-
flower-making be obtained, and supplies of
material? (3) Is picture-framing practicable for
a woman, and, if so, where in Sydney can the
trade be learned and material obtained? —3671.
(1) City Art Framing Cos., 522 Kent-street;
Craffia, Her Majesty’s Arcade, Pitt-street; S. A.
Parker, Ltd., 330 George-street; Oswald-Scaly
and Cos., 263 Clarence-street —all Sydney. (2)
Know of no one who will give lessons in
flower-making. You may be able to obtain
textbooks from the Country Reference Section,
Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney. Modern
Home Crafts contains a section on flower-
making. Supplies of material are obtainable
from Bradford, Potter and Cos., 88 Liverpool-
street, and Wood Fibre Flowers, 491 Pitt-
street, Sydney. (3) Picture-framing is not very
remunerative, but it is quite easy and suitable
for a woman. You would need a mitre-box
for cutting the framing at correct angles, a
glass-cutter and a few other tools. Supplies
are obtainable from the firms listed in reply to
first query.
* * * *
How can 1 prepare colors for wood blocks
to secure an effect like Japanese prints? —36Bs.
Make a thick paste with rice flour, divide
small quantities in separate containers and mix
with each a quantity of dry color finely ground
with pestle and mortar. For black, take a
little stick ink and dissolve in a small quantity
of distilled water. Pour off the water without
shaking the ink up and mix a little of the resi-
due with the prepared paste. Water-colors may
be used in place of dry color, but they are
not so vivid in tone. Dyed paste is sometimes
used, but is of doubtful permanency.
* * -f *
Details of the one-act-play tournament con-
ducted by Bryant’s Playhouse, Sydney? —3652.
The prize is £5 ss. Each play entered will
be submitted to a committee, which will select
plays suitable for production. These will be
performed at Bryant’s Playhouse, at a date to
be decided later, and from them the final
choice will be made. All plays must be original,
unpublished and not performed on the pro-
fessional stage; they must be one-acters, type-
written and securely bound. The author’s nom
de plume only must appear on the script, name,
address and pen-name being enclosed in a
sealed envelope sent in with each entry. Entry
fee is ss. per play. Entries close with Miss
Beryl Bryant, Bryant’s Playhouse, St. Peter’s-
lane, Darlinghurst, Sydney, on December 15
next.
* * * *
(1) Address of Prof. A. Einstein ? (2) Address
of Dr. Max Planck ? (3) Bearings of the two
magnetic poles? (4) Are the two magnetic
poles diametrically opposite ? —3477.
(1) 2 Library Place, Princeton, N.J., and Col-
lege de France, Paris. (2) Wangenheimstr. 21,
Grunewald, Berlin. (3) The north magnetic pole
is at present situated in lat. 71deg. N., long.
96deg. W., or 19deg. south of the north geo-
graphical pole. The south magnetic pole is
situated in lat. 73deg. S., long. 158 deg. E., or
17deg. north of the south geographical pole.
(4) No.
* * * *
(1) What amount of unemployment relief is
payable to a man with wife and two children
( both under 12) living in Sydney? (2) Are
there any other grants available, such as child
endowment ? —3392.
(1) Food relief to the value of 19s. 9d. per
week, provided income into the family for the
preceding 14 days did not exceed £2 4s. 2d.
(2) Family endowment at the rate of ss. per
week, provided income for the 12 months pre-
ceding date of lodgment of the claim did not
exceed the basic wage. Applicant for family
endowment must have resided in the State for
a continuous period of two years at the date
of lodgment of a claim.
* * * *
Why is it that sleep in the hours just before
midnight is more beneficial than that obtained
later in the night? —3s2l.
There is no proof that sleep is more beneficial
at one time than at another. Every human
being requires a given allowance of sleep in
order to remqjn alive, but the amount varies
with the individual. It may be taken at any
time round the clock. There is nothing in the
atmosphere of night conducive to sleep, though
the darkness and quiet are conducive to rest.
* * * *
What health-giving properties are there in
watercress and mineral salts ? —3376.
Watercress has been credited with medicinal
properties for centuries. Thought to be valu-
able in treatment of ulcers and some forms
of anaemia, and for promoting growth. Con-
tains valuable vitamins of the A, B and C
groups, together with salts of potash and iron
and a considerable amount of iodine. A
heaped saucerful of cress contains about as
much carbohydrate as a piece of loaf-sugar
and a little over seven grains of protein. Has
been considered to exercise a retarding effect
upon the growth of experimental cancer.
Mineral salts are vital to the body, the reason
being as yet unsettled. Use of table salt is a
direct result of man’s need for these substances,
and salts containing iron, calcium, iodine and
phosphorus are essential to life. The variety of
foods comprising a well-balanced meal (which
should include milk and vegetables) contains
sufficient mineral salts to satisfy bodily needs.
* * *
My gerberas, which previously flowered well,
are very ragged this spring, and blooms are
small. What can be done to improve them ?
3298.
Gerbera clumps should be divided every
second year and the vigorous side-growths re-
planted. Give the soil a heavy dressing of
rotted cow manure and build up the beds above
the surrounding lawn or path. Small flowers
are always produced by worn-out plants.
When the young plants are well established give
weekly dressings of liquid manure.
* * * *
In a load of cow manure I brought to my
garden a lot of slaters. How can I get rid of
them ? —3351.
If you have fowls, tip the manure into their
yard and let them clean up the pest; otherwise
make baits with a mixture of lib. bran, one
tablespoonful of calcium arsenate, 2oz. sugar
and sufficient water to make a mash, and place
them in infested parts at niaht. Naphthaline
powder sprinkled about is a deterrent.
Brief Answers.
J.E.: (1) Dandruff is not necessarily incur-
able, but persistent treatment is essential.
Shampoo head three or four times weekly (soft
soap 2 parts, rectified spirit 1 part). Wash
away all shampoo and thoroughly dry scalp.
Then rub in this lotion: Salicylic acid 10 parts,
castor oil 6 parts, spirits of rosemary 50 parts.
Sterilise brushes and combs and always sham-
poo the head after a visit to the barber. Im-
provement depends on severity of infection and
upon the amount of destruction which has
occurred in the hair follicles. (2) You don’t
say what sort of valuation you have in mind.
There are books on the principles of land
valuation. (3) . List posted M.A.H.: Con-
dition is glossitis or inflammation of the tongue,
and is probably due to some co-existent septic
condition in the throat or to the irritation pro-
duced by unsatisfactory dentures. Have these
matters attended to, avoid hot fluids, condi-
ments and too much tobacco, and gargle three
times daily with chlorate of potash (lOgr. to
the ounce of water)... .J.R.: Buerger’s disease
is a slow degeneration of the coats of the
arteries (most commonly those of the legs),
followed by massive clotting with areas of
gangrene in the part. Effective treatment can
be obtained only in a well-equipped hospital,
where postural treatment, special operative
measures and several newly-introduced drugs
are now obtainable. Excessive use of alcohol
is injurious.. . .D.McK.: Condition probably is
due to chronic arthritis in large joint of the
great toe, which frequently follows long-stand-
ing malposition of the foot due to flattening or
weakening of the arches. 111-fitting footwear
is contributory. In some cases properly-fitted
shoes with arch supports are of great benefit,
but repeated inflammatory attacks of arthritis,
especially if associated with a bunion, can be
remedied only by operation... .R.G.N.: (1)
Common Diseases of the Male Urethra, Frank
Kidd (Angus and Robertson, 3s. 6d.; second-
hand) ; Diagnosis and Treatment of Venereal
Diseases, Lee (Angus and Robertson, 305.). (2)
Ideal Marriage, Van der Velde (Angus and
Robertson, 31s. 6d.) L.D.: One of those
matters on which one individual’s opinion is as
good as another’s H.G.L.: He had no
connection with the firm mentioned W.C.:
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney J.M.:. Write A. C. Campe and Cos.,
Sydney-arcade, George-street, or J. H. Smyth,
Ltd., 121 a Castlereagh-street—both -Sydney....
C.P.S.: Write Miss D. Wilkinson, president,
Association of Headmistresses, C. of E.
Grammar School for Girls, Forbes-street,
Darlinghurst, Sydney H. 8.: If letters to
both are sent care of us they will be forwarded.
. ...G.8.D.: No W.G.: Curtis Brown, 6
Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London....
C. : The late Dean Talbot’s estate was
sworn for probate at £1712. In a will of a
few lines he left all .to his wife and appointed
her sole executrix H.D.: Write Dymock’s
Book Arcade, 424 George-street, Sydney....
H.8.F.: (1) No. (2) Only the suit... .J.S.:
Suggest you use lib. of sulphuric acid diluted
with 101 b. of water. This will dissolve the
zinc and leave the bullion. Although it is ex-
pensive to forward material from The Granites
;t may pay you better to send the small lots
of slimes to the electrolytic works at Port
Kembla for treatment and purchase... .S.G.:
Get in touch with shipping cos M.A.H.:
;i) The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act pro-
vides that a pensioner’s income, including all
pension, must not exceed £Bl 18s. p.a. In
the case of husband and wife the income of
each is deemed to be possessed by both in equal
shares. (2) Any increase in the war pension
of both husband and wife would have to be
taken into account when assessing the rate of
old-age pension payable. (3) Claims for old-age
pensions should be made on the prescribed
orms, obtainable at any post office, and should
be lodged with the Registrar of Pensions at the
learest courthouse M.F.: The Tingira, for-
nerly the Sobraon, was built 1866, and sailed
oetween England and Australia until 1891, when
she became a reformatory ship, later being used
is a training ship for the R.A.N. Some years
igo she was scrapped, and now lies a hulk
n Berry’s Bay, Sydney Harbor E.S.: Write
Dept, of Road Transport and Tramways, Phillip
House, 119 Phillip-street, Sydney... .J.8.C.:
Sfes, in the ’eighties camels were used in place
of horses in one of Cobb and Co.’s coaches
running from Wilcannia to Mount Browne.... •
D. : (1) No, provided he secures a clearance
:rom the Income Tax Department. (2) Cannot
recommend any particular line. (3) From
General Registry Office, Somerset House,
London; cost, ss. 3d. (4) No W.E.8.: See
The Ilford Selo Book, obtainable from Har-
rington’s, Ltd., George-street, Sydney, 3s. 6d.
A.L.: Joseph Gordon, after spending some
time in Australia, returned to Scotland and in
1861 produced a volume of verse, Botany Bay
and Other Poems, published in London by
Arthur Hall, Virtue and Cos. The Emigrant
Barque, a mixture of prose and verse, was pub-
lished in 1871 by Maclachlan and Stewart....
T.M.W.: New South Wales is approximately
three-and-a-half times the area of Vic., and
Q’land is two-and-one-sixth times the area of
N. S. Wales. Figures are: Q’land 670,500
sq. m., N. S. Wales 310,372 sq. m., Vic. 87,884
sq. m P. 8.: Nulungery is a N.S.W. abo.
place-name meaning “native doctor” S.T.L.: _
Pacific Islands Year-Book, published by Pacific
Publications, Ltd., Union House, 247 George-
street, Sydney R.M.C.: The Australian
Authors and Artists’ Handbook, 1937, will be
published by Richard Geraint, Box 2455 MM,
G.P.0., Sydney, early next month; price 3s.
DJ.L.: (1) An agonising neuralgia affect-
ing a cranial nerve. (2) Yes. (3) Yes, in all
severe and long-standing cases. (4) Yes.
Address forwarded. (5) Yes, many times, and
with gratifying results H.A.8.: Tasmanian
Government Tourist Bureau, Murray and Mac-
quarie streets, Hobart, will supply informa-
tion on request E.S.: Write Dept, of Labor
and Industry, Sydney P. 8.: Obtainable
from Hastings, Deering, Ltd., Wattle-street,
Ultimo (Many others mailed.)


-
S'* rWpiV.jT V
■
«»»
1
//y^
A A. /V Travel in America offers the
A'A most to see, in the shortest
time, with the least effort and greatest satis-
faction! Convenient schedules of great mod-
ern railways permit you to start when you
please, their vast web of interlacing systems
will take you anywhere, their speed and su-
perlative appointments assure a prompt and
safe arrival.
Cross the continent, 3000 miles, in 75 hours.
No matter what your route through the
crisp air of the towering Rockies or the be-
nign warmth of the Southwestern desert —
your train-weather is kept always the same
jiv clean, conditioned air. You’ll delight in
the comfort of Pullman sleeping cars, the
sociability of club and observation cars, and
in the justly celebrated meals. You’ll find
many persuasions to take advantage of the
liberal stopover privileges en route, includ-
ing unusually low fares and travel costs.
Hollywood, dramatic center of the film indus-
try and key to the great Pacific playground.
Stupendous scenery in the many National
Parks. Picturesque Salt Lake City. Vivid,
ever-changing Grand Canyon. The “wide
open spaces” of Texas and Oklahoma where
Indians once roamed, real cowboys still do.
And the swift succession of contrasts through
the Middle West and East.
This is the trail of modern romance that
starts with the 18-day South Sea voyage to
California, sailed by swift and luxurious
Matson-Oceanic liners, the “Mariposa” and
the “Monterey”, with calls at New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii. This is also the
short, direct,most completely enjoyable way
to reach Old England—the land-and-sea
thoroughfare whose advantages are legion.
The economy, the ease with ivhich plans may be
altered, and the wide range of choice permitted you,
in routes across America, and in ships across the
Atlantic fully explained in our illustrated booklet,
“England Across America.” Free upon request.
i!io line Oceanic Line
(Incorporated in U.S. A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
V
Conklin
endura
PENS and PENCILS
Color Combinations ol
unique artistic character m
the modern modes. Smooth,
easy-writing quality- Day
by day dependability. All
future requirements pro
vided by the famous
CONKLIN ENDURA
unconditional and perpetual
service guarantee.
A pen for any time ... a
pen for all time.
Imperishable beauty, un-
ending utility. The Gift of
exquisite propriety, Conklm
Endura Pen and Pencil
Sets are available in beauti-
ful Presentation cases,
affording ultra-modern dis-
tinction and style to t
Set which is bestowed as
a Gift.
Gent.’s Large Size Pens,
Four Different Colours,
40/- each.
Gent.’s Regular Size
Pens, Eight Colours,
30/- each.
Lady’s Size with Chate-
laine Ring, Six Colours,
30/- each.
Pencils to match the
above in all colours,
25/- each.
Complete Sets in Pre-
sentation Case, 55/-
and 65/-.
Fioin all Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Mrs. Freer and Her Friend
f u
The inequity of the Canberra Govern-
ntent s action ,n not allowing Mrs Freer
to land cannot be fully realised until one
considers the position of the man with
whom her name was linked by a member
speaking in the House of Representatives,
He is a professional soldier. White, of
course. But if he had been .a black
man in the service of Demerara
nothing could have been done to ex-
elude him if the new aristocracy had
wished to do so. “Members of the
King’s regular land and sea forces” are
exempt from the operation of the Immigra-
tion Restriction Act.—E. H. M. (Vic.).
An Appreciation
“Amathea” makes the three-star mark
with me. Author and illustrator por-
trayed the very life and spirit of the
mob. Greatly 1 enjoyed the brief run
outback with them. No love interest?
Take the joy and pride of the mares in
their first-born, and of the man in his
Lamo nd's stories of bird and
and |e are rea] Aus .
■ bl T sh folk lore. And now we
ic f he joneerin g
n ivr n in )
days All That Swag get. O. M. G. (Q.).
Aspects of “Trade-Diversion”
. .... r - .
This trade-diversion stunt is farcical,
American lines are prohibited, but
responding articles can be obtained by
license from countries that buy only a
fraction of what the U.S.A. bought from
Australia. Industries which relied on
importing essential parts from the U.S.A.
cannot even get replies from Canberra
to requests for consideration. Who on
earth would have thought in 1917 that
it would be impossible in 1936 to im-
port standard lines from the U.S.A. and
possible to get them from Germany?
A friend in close touch with Washing-
ton informs me that Canberra handled
the negotiations in such a way that the
Americans could do nothing. Your
Government’s idea,” he says, “was that
we must take the tariff off wool and look
sharp about it.” American manufac-
turers have been most friendly to Aus-
tralian. They have never hesitated to
give technical advice and help even
where no financial interest was likely to
accrue.
One cannot imagine a stupider way ot
handling the lapanese situation, the
motor-car position or “trade-diversion’
than has been adopted by the U.A.P.
Government. —O. K. (S.A.).
The S.P. Man
He came to our small town three years
ago without the price of a meal. He
found a “backer,” and to-day he owns
a house and a shop complete with a bil-
liard table, a pool outfit and a “ball-and-
socket” machine, and employs runners.
The craze for betting is such that it is
hard to get young men to take bush work
because Wednesday’s races must be fol-
lowed up, and of course Saturday morn-
ing’s return to town is a struggle to get
there before the first race. They hang
round the wireless at the pubs. Most of
the women bet, and the s.p. mrm has no
age limit; he will take wagers from school
children as readily as from adults. Small
boys put in their pennies and threepences
to make up enough for a two-shilling
plunge ; in many instances their clothing
is sadly in need of repair. No influence
has ever had so pernicious an effect on
the town. The policeman seems power-
less, although on one occasion the s.p.
man was fined two pounds. — Barwon
(N.S.W.).
The Ways of the Customs
The ways of the Customs towards bee-
keepers are fearful and wonderful. When
it comes to exporting honey, labels and
tins must comply with heaps of regula-
tions, and the honey has to be uniform
—whether uniformly bad or uniformly
good doesn't seem to matter.
So, too, with diseases. There is a
disease in Europe known as acarine or
mite disease. Tt' swept away 90 p.c. of the
bees in Britain some 25 years ago, and
is the beekeeper’s greatest menace to-day.
It can be carried by queen bees.
Our Customs takes marvellous pre-
cautions. If a queen is imported into
Australia —and this is a regular trade—a
Government official in the country of
origin must certify that no acarine
disease is present within 20 miles of the
exporting apiary. Just about 400 square
miles must be guaranteed free of a
disease which can be diagnosed only by
microscopic dissection.
If would seem that the importing fol-
lies of the past carry no lesson or warn-
ing to us.— Orn (Tas.).
No Countrymen Need Apply
General Rosenthal, with two of his
staff, visited Griffith (N.S.W.) and ad-
dressed a public meeting on the subject
of national defence. Afterwards a
number of enthusiastic young men and
others —not so young —handed in their
names; within a fortnight there were
recruits enough for a company of militia.
Nothing more was heard until a Grif-
fith resident visiting Sydney called at
Victoria Barracks to ask the reason for
the delay. He was told that sufficient
recruits were forthcoming from coastal
centres and that inland volunteers would
be passed over until the Government
decided on a further increase in strength
—if ever. .
It seems a crazy policy. Why can t
arrangements be made for countiy
volunteers to be trained in the use ol
arms and in the technique of military
tactics? We in our. district don’t care
whether uniforms are available or not,
nor whether parades are paid for oi
not; all we want is a chance to partici-
pate in national training.— V. E. A. G.
(N.S.W.).


ẃ
ẅ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne punters suffered heavy re-
verses over the Cups this spring. Bring-
ing the series to a painful conclusion
Amalia (10 to 1) captured the Williams-
town Cup, in which Queen of Song and
Gay Lover, who were accorded prefer-
ence over the mare from South Aus-
tralia, failed to gain a place.
The Williamstown Cup was roughly
run —not through foul riding, but be-
cause absence of pace in the first half-
mile caused horses behind the leaders
to pack up and get in the way of each
other. A notable sufferer was Queen of
Song, who ineffectually struggled to
move forward on the rails. In despera-
tion. Jennings took her to the outside a
few furlongs from home, but by that
time the race was practically over. The
M.L. mare did well to finish sixth.
Amalia (Amalfi-Alvola) deserves high
credit for going to the front at the half-
mile and maintaining control thereafter.
She led into the straight by three lengths
from Bustard, who momentarily looked
like overhauling her, but was defeated
by three parts of a length. Luck being
equal, this Page’s choice might have van-
quished Amalia. With four furlongs to
go he was third-last.
Twelve months ago Bustard finished
third to Garrio and Panto in the Wil-
liamstown Cup. On the same course last
autumn he created a sensation by land-
ing the Williamstown Stakes, in which
Sylvandale was second. Making due
allowance for Sylvandale having con-
ceded him 211 b., that was an excellent
performance, and there ought to be a
good race in store for Bustard. He is
certainly the best galloper yet owned by
J. S. Feehan, of the V.R.C. committee.
J. S. Feehan is chiefly known to fame
on the turf as having won the Grand
National Steeple in two successive years
with Mountain God. This fine sports-
man has completely lost the sight of one
eye and is almost blind in the other.
Thoroughbreds formerly owned by
Ned Moss are distinguishing themselves
at the stud. Veilmond is the sire of
Lochlee, the outstanding juvenile of the
current season. Sion (by Valais), who
is at the Segenhoe stud of A. E. Cooper,
the new owner of Talking, was repre-
sented in the Williamstown Cup by
Prince Sion, who finished very strongly
and was a creditable third. Prince Sion
is trained by Cousens, who owned
Malurys before that colt ran second to
Salitros in the A.J.C. Derby of 1920.
Warlaby (Devonshire-Mercian Queen),
who is trained on the course, did best
of the long-priced candidates in the Wil-
liamstown Cup. Well in the picture
throughout the closing stages, he was
narrowly deprived of third money. This
six-year-old stallion has reached the top
of his form and soon may be seen on
the winning list.
Mares have been far from fortunate
in the Williamstown Cup. There was a
gap of 13 years between the successes
of Wynette and Amalia. Both mares
hailed from Adelaide, but Wynette re-
ceived her racing education in Mel-
bourne. The triumphs of Wynette in-
cluded a Caulfield Cup and an Adelaide
Cup. She must be classed as of higher
calibre than Amalia, but the latter car-
ried off the Australian Cup last autumn
and had to handle 81b. more than
Wynette in the Williamstown Cup.
South Australian triumphs at Wil-
liamstown did not end with the Cup. At
the close of the afternoon Alinura (King
of Mirlh-Menura) won the Ozone High-
weight, and, incidentally, enabled G. W.
Badman to make a big killing in the ring.
Badman bets boldly, and recently played
havoc in the Victorian ring with Aurie’s
Star, who won several races in succes-
sion. He sent that galloper back to Adel-
aide and brought Alinura over. The
1934 Oaks winner was supposed to be a
rod in pickle for the Consolation Stakes
at Caulfield next Saturday. However
Badman went for a plunge at the seaside
course. It duly came off, but Alinura
had to accomplish the well-nigh impos-
sible. Three furlongs from home in a
seven furlongs’ journey, there were only
two horses behind her.
Bill Tindall ran first and second in the
juvenile event with Madero (Drake-Miss
Milligan) and Nightguard (The Night
Patrol-Cyden). These colts belong to
H. H. Harding and A. Morrow respec-
tively, and each started at 10 to 1.
Favorite for the race was St. Constant,
about whom only 6 to 4 could be ob-
tained at barrier-rise. St. Constant was
runner-up in the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate
and is owned by A. E. Cooper, who paid
such a phenomenal price for Talking.
After leading into the straight St. Con-
stant tired and finished only a moderate
third, Madero stalling off a challenge
from his stable-mate by the narrowest
of margins.
Andy Morrow may not have lost a
great deal over Nightguard, but he “put
in” heavily on Sculpin in the race won
by Alinura. From 9 to 2 Sculpin, a
handsome son of Bullhead (imp.),
shortened to threes, displacing Evening
Mist from favoritism. He found seven
furlongs rather too long a journey, as,
after outpacing Alerta, he was collared
by Evening Mist at the straight entrance
and immediately compounded. Evening
Mist appeared to have the race in her
keeping until Alinura unwound a pheno-
menal burst of speed and beat her on
the post by half a head.
Fulham, hero of the 1935 Grand
National Hurdle, staged a belated re-
covery of form by inflicting a last-stride
defeat on Martext in the Cup Hurdle.
He shared favoritism with Culydon and
Dakwood at 9 to 2. Calydon jumped
the first obstacle awkwardly and fell at
the next. Dakwood came home well in
third place ; Whiteport also put in a
good finishing effort. These are com-
paratively green jumpers and will im-
prove.
Backers of Sarno (6 to 4) in the
Steeplechase had the mortification of
seeing him pulled up after negotiating
the second-last fence, when joined by
Cheerful David (6 to 1), who easily
accounted for the Maorilander, Cheerful
Kid and Windarra. The saddle on
Sarno slipped.
James Scobie is far from being as
successful a trainer as he was in years
gone by; but the master of Pytchley
Lodge came to light in the Altona Trial
with his own horse, Fine Feathers
(Rosewing-Pretty Marge), who easily
accounted for Agathocles and Royalty.
The event was for apprentice riders. The
boy on Steel Spear (favorite at 7 to 4)
did not handle his mount to advantage.
Steel Spear was a disappointing fourth.
He is capable of better things.
Two more casualties among the
jockeys! W. Cook, rider of St. Constant,
was suspended for a month for causing
interference with Dazzling Star, Night-
guard and Only One shortly after round-
ing the first turn in the Rawdon Stakes.
H. Morris, rider of Parodier, was also
suspended for a month, interference with
Benedic in the Ozone Highweight, being
his offence.
* * * *
Because she had repeatedly shown her
liking for Rosehill, where she is trained,
little El Senorita was well supported for
the-November Handicap on Saturday. It
was 9 to 2 at the close of operations,
but better odds were laid. Darby Munro
hopped the mare out from the start.
Leading all the way, she won easily from
Limoux, who came hdme. well. Curator
was backed again,, and he had the run
of the race. He got through on the rails
at the turn, but put no heart into his
work, and just held off Measure for third
place. Sally was troubled by her Bst.
lib., and was the first horse beaten. St.
Globe, and Royal Promise were promi-
nent all the way. Volwood was last
throughout.
Backers of El Senorita chose to dis-
regard an indifferent performance on her
part at Ascot on the Wednesday. Not so
the stewards ;an inquiry was opened on
the course.
Distinguished, nominated for three
races, was reserved for a division of the
Clyde Handicap. He is owned by
Queensland pastoralist N. G. Elliott,
and his showing demonstrated that in
this Maoriland-bred gelding the Queens-
lander has a good horse. Distinguished
was backed from sevens to 7to 2, and
young Max Papworth, son of Talking’s
trainer, rode a perfect race on him. The
nag was fractious at the barrier and
missed the jump slightly. His speed
soon took him to the front, and half a
mile from home he cleared out. Black
Laughter made the finish fairly interest-
ing, but was beaten by a length. Royal
Bird was a poor third; the favorite,
Hope, was next. Hope needs more time
and a longer journey.
The second division proved a soft
snap for Phaedius (7 to 4). The way
was made easier for him by Bonny
Royal, Trick and Cynical cutting at one
another. Cynical was the first to drop
out. Bonny Royal took charge at' the
furlong pole, and there looked a likely
winner ;• however, Phaedius came. fast
under the whip and won easily by half
a length. Trick was third. Cynical’s
pace surprised. He looks so well that
he should soon re-enter the winning list.
Backers were well on the mark in
both divisions of the Two-year-old
Stakes. In the fillies’ division, Pierrette
(2 to 1 on), who had won at Warwick
Farm, was never off the bit; Ethnic and
Rhoda Fleming followed her at intervals.
She is owned by a Dubbo breeder, R. C.
Brown, and is trained by George Price,
who is ill in hospital. The division for
colts and geldings provided ah exciting
finish. Ted Bartle made good use of
Brazandt’s pace. It'was just as well, as
Troy and Correct were travelling faster
at the finish. Tom Cobley was running
on in fourth place.
Riposte (6 to 1), from M.L., finished
too stoutly for The Blizzard and Pat-
wood in the first division of the Novice.
He is a gopd type of gelding by Rapier,
and is worth following over a bit of dis-
tance. The second division went to.the
plain-looking Sheila March (5 to 1); she
won, running away, from Caliban, who
showed sufficient pace to keep him in
the limelight for this class of race.
Buzzalong (5 to 1), who had shown
fair form since coming from Brisbane,
made hacks of his opponents in the
Rydalmere Mile. It was a striking per-
formance, as the three-year-old was cut
out at the start and had to fight his way
through a cavalcade of horses between
the six- and five-furlongs posts. He took
charge as soon as heads were turned for
home, and went on to beat Golden
Chance and Gold Digger easily. Un
Brave, another Queenslander, dropped
back over the last three furlongs, and
evidently is feeling the strain of all the
racing he is getting. Autoland and
Djojka (fourth) were among the beaten
lot.
Speckers looking for Villiers possi-
bilities summed up Distinguished and
Buzzalong as the best seen at Rosehill.
Among Summer Cup candidates El
Senorita stood out. She it was who ran
second to Young Crusader in the AJ.C.
Winter Stakes, run over the same dis-
tance. She finished pretty well, and was
giving the chestnut 71b.
**- * *
One thing, about-these sires standing
in Queensland —they all get stayers.
Lominga, who won the Queensland Cup
on Saturday, is by Rivoli-Margaret
Morris. A better-known son of Rivoli
in Rivalli (since a success in India) was
second in a Queensland Cup (to Soft
Step) and first in a Brisbane Cup.
Colosseum, runner-up to Lominga, is by
Pantheon-Bachelor Maid; the third
horse, Spearlensis, is by Spearfelt-
Polensis.
Colosseum and Spearlensis were 50-
to-1 shots. Lominga went out at 12 to 1,
Auto Buz being favorite at threes. He
never flattered his supporters, but met
with some interference, though it is now
patent that, with everything in his favor,
lie could not have given a stone and a
beating to Lominga. That horse was
ẁ


INTERNATIONAL CRICKET
ENGLAND v. AN AUSTRALIAN XI
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, NOV. 20, 21, 23, 24.
w
Play Commences 12 Noon.
AN AUSTRALIAN XI: D. G. Bradman (Capt.),
C. L. Badcock, W. A. Brown, A. G. Chipperfield,
H. Ebeling, J. Fingleton, S. J. McCabe, R. Robinson,
A. J. Ryan, D, Tallon, M. G. Waite, A. Marks
(12th man).
ŵ
Outer Ground—Adults, l/8£ plus tax, 1/9; Children, 9d.
Grandstand—Adults, 3/3£ plus 2gd. tax, 3/6; Children, 1/6.
IT. HEYDON, Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association, 254 a George Street,,. Sydney.
Under the Whip
Picking ’Em
I.
[At the beginning of 1936 The Bulletin
persuaded an old contributor who had done its
tipping for it in other years and been signally
successful—among the long-priced winners he
gave were Piastoon for the Sydney Cup and
Jacko for the Doncaster, each 100 to 3 on the
day, though better prices were got —to take it
up again. He had given up racing for another
recreation.
Since he returned to his old pastime (for him
it is nothing more) he has chosen the winners
of the Challenge Stakes (14 to 1), the New-
market (backed on the course from 8 to 1 to
9 to 2), the Australian Cup (9 to 2), the Epsom
(33 to 1, and 50 to 1 was laid), and the Metro-
politan (14 to 1 on the day; 25 to 1 when
selected), among others. Of horses picked for
places in the Newmarket and the Epsom (two
for each race), one was third in Melbourne at
33 to 1, and one third in Sydney at Bto 1 ; and
he got two placed horses (one was 10 to 1,
the other 20 to 1) in the Sydney Cup.
The paper has now arranged with the veteran
to write a few short articles for the information
of punters. In one he will mention how he
came to pick Capris and Young Crusader.]
First, a few don’ts.
Don’t run away with the idea that you
will make money at punting. If you
follow it year in and year out, you will
lose. If this were not so, there would be
no bookmakers, and tote tickets wouldn’t
be worth buying.
We all of us waste, money in various
ways. There is no more harm in bet-
ting than in buying lollies or joy-riding
or going to the pictures, provided you
don’t risk more than you can afford to
lose. The single man who does that
habitually is a fool; the family man
who does it is a cad into the bargain.
Don’t believe all the rubbish you read
about racing-club committeemen, em-
ployees, owners, trainers and jockeys
being crooks.
From Perth round to Brisbane and
across the Strait to Launceston and down
to Hobart, no crook can be elected to
the committee of a representative club.
Such positions are keenly sought after,
and only straightgoers can get them.
Nor can any man who is not above
suspicion be named secretary at Flem-
ington, Randwick, Caulfield or any other
representative racecourse, or appointed
stipendiary steward, starter, handicapper
or judge. Such officials are. only human,
and they, make mistakes. Taking them
by and large, they are as honest as the
sun.
The great majority of owners are like-
wise straight, and they race for the fun
of the thing. And the trainers they em-
ploy are, as a rule, decent, clean-living
men. They have to be, or they wouldn’t
be employed.
In Australia the generality of owners
are. pastoralists and city business- and
professional men in good standing. They
are not the sort to pay 3000 or 4000
guineas for a bunch of yearlings and
hand them over to a man they can’t
trust.
Among the trainers there are, of
course, “battlers” who “go looking for
punters,” and from time to time jockeys
are rubbed out for taking long and strong
pulls while the stewards are looking.
Because many of the jockeys are boys,
and some are not intelligent, the stan-
dard of behavior is not so high among
them as it is among trainers. Even so,
when a Lewis, a Pike or a Duncan gets
to the top of the tree, and remains there
or thereabouts for many years, you can
be sure that it is because of his character
as well as his ability in the saddle.
No matter what professional tipsters
and racing reporters of the muckraking
breed tell you, it is rare for a horse to
be systematically pulled “to get a price.”
When it does happen, the probabilities
are that so many bookmakers and
punters have divined what has been
going on that when the animal is ‘“ready
to go off” the “shrewd” party has to
take something like 6 to 4 for its money.
Don’t believe professional tipsters who
tell you they are in the confidence of
prominent trainers or jockeys. They
never are, and nine times out of ten their
other claims or insinuations are equally
preposterous. They are in their useless
business because looking for “mugs”,
who will pay fancy prices for tips is
far easier than backing horses at their
own risk. If they could make money
backing horses, they wouldn’t be selling
tips to “clients” who cramp the odds in
the market in which they themselves
operate, according to their gaudy stories.
The soundest turf maxim is “Horses
for courses.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The excellence of some of the little
Australian fighters has been demon-
strated so often that at last boxing man-
agements have got to hear of it. It' is now
proposed to bring out a couple of Ameri-
can champions, Sarron and Young Mon-
tana. They are willing enough, and for
once they don’t open their mouths too
wide—the pair ask less for half a dozen
matches altogether than Ross required
for one—but they don’t want to risk
their titles. This sort of thing has be-
come a habit with U.S. champions.
Though understandable, it is unsatis-
factory.
Clarke and Miller will meet Sarron
and the other champion if they come and
if weight is no obstacle. Clarke is in
retirement for the time being, nursing an
injured hand. Miller is fighting every
week or so. In his last three bouts he
stopped Roach twice and Sharpe, the
last-named at Melbourne on Friday ; and
in each case it took him only a few
rounds.
* * * *
Leo Kelly’s manager has announced
that he is taking the black to Maoriland
for four matches, and then to the
U.S.A. After a sojourn there he intends
bringing his mealticket back to Aus-
tralia. His troubles about Paterson and
the Immigration Restriction Act!
* * * *
At the end of the Louis-Baer fight
pictures, seen in Australia last year,
Braddock made an appearance and spoke
a piece. He said, referring to Louis,
“I’ve seen his weakness and I’ll knahck
him out.” He is to have the opportunity
in New York next January, having ar-
ranged to box the negro 12 rounds for
£75,000 and a percentage. There is to
be no decision if both are on their feet
at the end of the twelfth ; Louis is to
get the heavyweight title only if he
“knaheks” Braddock out. It took Brad-
dock all his time to beat Baer, who on
his showing against Louis would be
“Hit ’er up, boys —We don't
Want t' miss this one!”
“pie” for any good Australian front-bar
fighter ; but the chances are that Baer
was too scared that night to do himself
justice.
Ins and Outs
Wind, rain and hail took a hand with
the England-Victoria match in Mel-
bourne, and a day’s play was lost before
ai draw resulted. The Melbourne wicket
played up in the early stages of each day
as usual, arid the Victorians followed the
English example by losing the opening
batsmen cheaply (3-27). Then left-
hander Lee and 21-year-old Gregory got
together and did. not part until Lee went
for a grandly-played knock of 160, the
score being 289. Gregory (128), helped
by Barnett, Plant and Ebeling, brought
the total to 384, 40 ahead of England.
In their second try the Englishmen lost
Fagg, Worthington and Hardstaff for 36.
The bespectacled Frederick (2-10) and
Ebeling (1-4) were to blame. The local
slip fielding was again shocking.
An unusual feature of the match, and
one the Britons probably found irritating
at times, was the number of left-handers
among the Victorians. Lee, Barnett,
Plant and McCormick gave the English
fieldsmen a lot of extra hiking.
Gregory is a Wesley College boy who
went to St. Kilda through the Colts. He
made first splash as a bowler against
Holmes’s Maryleboners, and averaged 36
with the bat for Victoria in the Shef-
fields last season. He is a sound player
of the Ponsford type.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian team to
meet England in Sydney this week has
roused mixed feelings both among the
locals and the visitors. The Board of
Control justifies the lack of bowlers by
claiming their form is known and that
it’s our batsmen who need watching. The
Britons are said to be wroth and talking
of picnic matches. Certainly few will
take the game seriously, and the selec-
tion gives little hope of new blood for
the first Test.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The success of slow-bowler
Frederick against the Englishmen at
Melbourne confirms the suspicion evoked
by Ward’s triumphal trot in Adelaide
that the visitors for the most part are
shy of slow bowling. Both Ward- and
Frederick probably owe much of their
success to the fact that they were new to
the batsmen —an important matter, since
no two bowlers in the world are exactly
alike in flight, action and other factors.
Frederick, of course, has come in for
the usual criticism. A particularly
fatuous one is that he throws the ball so
high in the air that fast-footed batsmen
can easily get to the pitch. This is ex-
cellent theory, but doesn’t work out in
practice. Colin Blythe used to toss the
ball so high that waiting for it to come
down was a nightmare to batsmen. The
same critic wonders at Frederick’s
success since he doesn’t bowl a bosie
of any sort —just straightforward leg
breaks. Here again his exploitation of a
forgotten art which bowlers like Harry
Trott and Armstrong employed with such
success may have helped him to get
wickets. Bowlers have been ruined by
the bosie obsession.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: It having been rumored
that N.S.W. cricket addicts are frothing
at the mouth to book reserved seats for
the second Test match, which starts on
December 18, the opening date for the
box-office at the association’s office in
George-street has been advanced from
December 12 to November 27. A wise
move. If the tourists make no better
showing in the second Sydney match and
the. first Test at Brisbane than they have
done to date, the rush for reservations
may not be so keen.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Our cricketing girls are
to receive the accolade of a Marylebone
reception when they reach England next
the Gentlemen-Players match at
Lord’s on July 14 being the occasion.
Interesting to note that one of the
matches played will be against Surrey at
historic Mitcham, where they grow the
lavender. I don’t know whether any
reward is being considered, but on a
famous occasion of a match between
“female players” a hundred years ago a
new shift was presented to the best bats-
female —the word “woman” or “lady”
was not in fashion in such circumstances
then. I am credibly informed that shifts
are not worn to-day, but no doubt satis-
factory substitutes could be found if
necessary.
The Nineteenth Hole
Von Nida beat W. Mackenzie 9 up
and 8 in the N.S.W. pro. championship
final, and became the first Queenslander
since E. A. Gill won the 1906 Australian
amateur to bag any of the major titles in
the southern States. Spence took the
Queenslander to the 34th in the semi-
final, but against Mackenzie, he was
never in doubt. The Bananalanders now
can’t see any reason why Brisbane
shouldn’t be included in the ring for
staging the Australian championships.
Von Nida’s golf has improved out of
sight in the few months he’s been tour-
ing the south. Last year he won the
Queensland open against Ferrier, W.
Bolger and M. L. Kelly, and this year
in the same event he had Waterson,
M. J. Ryan and Spence against him.
Then he beat' Sarazen in a challenge
match, and cleaned up the lion’s share
of the prize-money for the Tasmanian
autumn tourney.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: With Perry gone Eng-
land can kiss the Davis Cup good-bye.
Austin is the only other English player
with any pretence to class. Australia
should now have a decent chance for
next year’s Cup. Encouraging in this
respect is Tilden’s forecast that America
and Germany will fight for the right to
challenge the holders. Bill is the world’s
worst tennis tipster.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Having been the
principal agent in enlisting Perry in the
professional tennis ranks and having got
him safely booked, Tilden cheerfully
forecasts that Vines, Nusslein and other
professionals in the circus will “murder
him.” It recalls the change in attitude
of the recruiting sergeant after the rookie
has taken the shilling. In January Perry
begins touring the U.S.A. and Canada,
ending a programme of 40 matches by
the first week in May. Other tourists
will be Lott, Vines, Stoeffen, Tilden and
Hunter.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: In an interview
Perry has given us a glimpse of how the
amateur tennis-player with no apparent
means can live expensively on world
tours and do nothing else but play tennis.
Perry’s dad started him off with backing
for a year. The youth was a success
from the start, and “from that day on-
wards the English L.T.A. was mainly
responsible for the cost of my travel,’
whatever that may mean. No doubt the
L.T.A. paid expenses. Where the very
considerable amount of pocket-money
required for such tours came from is
not stated.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: There’s an impression
that Tilden’s circus may visit Australia
next year. Letters received on this side
from Vines discuss the prospects, and
one asks particulars of the income tax
players will have to pay while in this
country. But. Perry’s entrance to the
professional ranks may upset all plans


SADDLERY GIFTS
FOR THE KIDDIES
w
f No. 142,
THE
“BURRADOO”
SADDLE
(or BOY or GIBE,
£6/4/6
(MOUNTED)
Has pigskin seat
and pads, short
panel with wide
leather points
, down sides.
N.S. IV, Freight Paid for Cash
with Order.
No. 420—PONY BRIDLE, sewn-in ring
bit, double N.P. buckles, 8/0. Post, 1/-.
No. <S—BOY’S STOCKWHIP—PIaited
handle, sft. thong, 10/6, Post, 9d.
See Our 100-page Saddlery Catalog before,
deriding on your gifts.
WALTHERt, STEVENSON ltd
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
jhz new UTLaAk tnake4
POWDER EASY TO USE
\)
S J,
O/Y
JUST
PRESS WITH THE
FINGER &■ THUMB
Dentists know that
POWDER cleans teeth
better than anything.
CALVERT’S Tooth
Powder comes to you
■in an Airflow Flask, a
new kind of package
which is ever so much
easier to use than
ordinary tins or tubes.
F. 0. Calvert & Co.. Ltd., Eng.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC Jj
tooth poivdot
119 YEARS OF
STABLE BANKING POLICY
Thirty-nine years before responsible government was
introduced into the colony of New South Wales and
twenty-five years before even limited representation in
public affairs was obtained by the people, the Bank of
New South Wales was established.
Through all the constitutional and administrative changes
of the past 119 years this Bank has steadily progressed,
adapting its services to the ever changing economic needs
of the community.
The Bank’s stable and progressive policy over this long
period has safeguarded its depositors, supported its
borrowers in good and bad times and has been a vital
factor in tlie maintenance of financial stability in periods
of economic stress.
'm/
C STAB LIIHCD 1 • I 7
is the letter he lllij
i 111
/'///
c
0*
Thilllilihe gilt he reeiMIII
P 1
A’^S
•::.;:3
No. 55 NICKEL SET. —In Highly polished nickelled case lined with velvet.
The set comprises a selt-stropping "Valet" razor, three "Valet" blades «« /
and a strop of good quality in hinged container. Price I* ■
OTHER SETS FROM 4/6 to 65/- • OF ALL DEALERS • BRITISH MADE
ever/ MAN NEEDS A "VALET." The "Valet" Auto Strop, the
original self-stropping razor, is still the simplest and best. Stropped
in 10 seconds. Cleaned in 10 seconds. Nothing to take to pieces.
Nothing to unscrew. A perfect edge for every shave and weeks of
perfect shaving from every blade.
VALET
Auto'Stffop
Safety Razor
Managing Agents jor Australia:
PHJPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
4
There will be a tremendous lot of money
to see him and Vines perform next
season, far more than any Australian
tour would realise.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Yet another attempt is
to be made to end the long war between
the N.S.W. tennis-players on grass and
hard courts. The contention of the grass-
fed lot has been that the others have
contributed only a nominal annual affilia-
tion fee to the cost of running the game
and get all the representation they de-
serve. The new scheme increases the
Council of the State L.T.A. to 38, and
the hardcourters will have 12 representa-
lives instead of six as heretofore. Also
they will have to pay an estimated con-
tribufion of over £2OO a year towards
costs. These and other suggestions have
to be confirmed by each side, but there
are signs that both are anxious for
peace.
Miscellaneous
“Jachris”; Sydney Rugby League is
about to lose its greatest drawcard and
the Australian League team its captain.
Dave Brown is to leave on December 1
to join Warrington. Terms are £lOOO
down, £6 a game (win, lose or draw) and
a £3-per-week job at the least.
“Stand Off”: So pointed was the
criticism of its indifferent attitude
towards professionalism last season that
the N.S.W. Rugby Union has been
moved to appoint a committee of three
for a term of three years to deal with
the trouble. The body starts with a
handicap, since all three members must
be unanimous on a decision,
* * * *
“Hooker”: Arrangements for the tour
0 £ Springboks next season have been
tica „ completed . xhe tourists are
„ * T _ , C4 _
due in Melbourne on June 7, and after
a. match in Sydney on July 17 will go
on to M.L. Back in Sydney by October
3 the Afrikanders will start on their
homeward journey on October 5. The
detailed programme in this country has
to be approved by Victoria and Queens-
land. The visitors will agree to only two
Tests, but a match against an Australian
XV may be rung in. On the dates the
’Boks will spend about six weeks in
Australia,
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Divvying up the season’s
takings the V.F.L. is handing £283 to
Queensland and £232 to N.S.W. by way
of helping the game along in those Rugby
strongholds. Canberra gets £5O. Con-
tributions of the kind will never get Aus-
tralian Rules any forwarder in the Rugby
States. The Australian Council should
concentrate all its efforts on helping the
States concerned to enclosed grounds of
their own. Until that is done the game
will be like baseball and hockey, held
up by having to play on what are practi-
cally half-enclosed paddocks,
* * * *
“Rover”: Every State in Australia
gives annually a medal for the best and
fairest player, or something like that, and
where there is more than one football
organisation there is more than one
medal. The Australian Council is to
add to the. list with a memorial decora-
tion in honor of the late Eric Tassie, a
notable South Australian worker for the
national code. This is to go to the best,
etc., player at the triennial inter-State
“carnivals,” the job of picking the pea
out of 108 players being wished, of
course, on to the umpires, to whom most
of the men will be utter strangers.
:!; ;|i *
.' „ _ ’ ,
Spike : Sydney City Council has re-
solved to build a sports ground at
Moore Park on the east side of Dacey-
avenue and facing Anzac-parade. Plans
show a 440 yards oval track with a 200
yards straight, while shot-putting, jump-
ing and javelin areas will also be pro-
vided, with a special hurdle track. In
the middle of the ground will be a foot-
ball and cricket area. It is to be hoped
the council makes a better fist of this
show than of the municipal golf links
in the. same park. With everything in
its favor this course has been for years
a monumental example of what Bumble
can do in the way of mismanagement,
t * * * . . *
‘Blade Sight”: The British National
Rifle Association has agreed to the Aus-
tralian rifle team at Bisley next year
using the Lithgow heavy barrel favored
b Y all Australian riflemen. Our men
w iA t bus n °t be compelled to use the
lighter and whippier English barrel,
though they must be content to accept
* he smaller bull’s-eyes in use at Bisley.
ttr>l * „ A ntr'ic\
Blade . : Sl !” on , Frascr «?• j / * l/ J 6)
comes of rowing stock H.s dad, also
Stmon, was a member of the Sydney R.C.
? rew ‘J 13 ', * e , Henley Grand Chat-
lenge in 1912; before that he had won
the Victorian pair-oar championship and
was a m ember of the Melbourne Uni.
crew which won the Henley-on-Yarra
q.C. in 1910. In addition to young
Simon, Fairbairn, of Geelong, Gosse, of
Adelaide, and Baker, of Westralia, arc
in the Light Blue trial eights.


You cant overlook
ŵ
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
An investment in 20 of the strongest and soundest companies in the
Commonwealth.
YIELD: £4/18/6 (Based on a price of 21s. 6d. per Sub-unit
n / anc l the Income received during the past
Per Cent. year.)
Custodian Trustees for Investors:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Union Building, Bond-street, Sydney.
A British Company—Established 1835—Assets exceed £6,330,000 Sterling.
°} 1 may obtain a Free Descriptive Booklet and Sub-unit Certificates through
any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange; the Custodian Trustees; or
direct from the Managers:
Australian JFixed Crusts
9TCU
’Plione: 85294. 8-14 Bond Street, Sydney. Box 4028VV, G.P.0., Sydney.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
November Issue Now on Sale.
FIXED TRUSTS
TUNG OIL
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
SEARCH FOR PETROLEUM
THE METAL MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
A Diversion of Funds
Remembering the banking axiom that
every advance creates a deposit, and that
whenever cash is paid out by a teller
someone quickly deposits it again with
the same or some other bank, a person
may be excused for wondering how it is
that trading-bank deposits are now get-
ting out of comfortable ratio to advances
made. It is more than an interesting
problem ; it is decidedly a vital one, gov-
erning as it does to a large extent the
future cost of overdraft accommodation.
Actual notes issued by the Common-
wealth have remained unchanged at
£47,038,000 over the past 12 months. At
Sept. 28 last the public held £28,650,000
of those, the banks the rest. Compared
with a year earlier the public held
roughly £1,000,000 more, the banks that
sum less.
It is not in the distribution of the note
issue that credit has become so much
tighter, though idle till money certainly
isn’t as obvious as it was a few years
back. Notes take but small part in the
flow of bank and commercial transac-
tions.
What is responsible to a far greater
extent is a shifting of credit balances
from trading banks to savings banks.
With public loan outlay going on at the
rate of about £18,000,000 a year, coupled
with the revival in private employment,
people who use savings banks as a re-
pository for their unspent earnings are
an increasing force. Savings-bank credit
balances are now a recor'd, and this
money is not available for trade pur-
poses to the extent that trading banks’
funds are. Generally speaking, it is tied
up in loans to Governments and in
mortgages on broad acres and suburban
homes—money that turns over slowly.
Large long-term loans on fixed assets
have the effect of making money tight.
Assistance towards buying securities on
the Stock Exchanges also has an effect.
Over the two years to the end of
June last savings-bank deposits rose
£14,320,000. Deposits with cheque-pay-
ing banks fell by about £500,000 in that
time, while the same institutions were
called upon to find £29,000,000 in addi-
tional advances to customers.
Another very influential factor in the
supply of bank credit has been the
money shifted from Australia to London
over the past few years. Millions have
gone this way—in trade balances failing
to meet interest costs, transfers of
profits and tourists’ expenses—and mil-
lions more may go this year. It repre-
sents both buying power and lending
power leaving the country.
Speculation on a large scale (in land,
buildings, shares, etc.) and extensive
public borrowing are nearly always fol-
lowed by dear money. Both these influ-
ences, as previously suggested, are with
us now, and a lift in overdraft' rates is
threatened in latest banking averages.
The cause hasn’t been inflation in the
cost of living (as yet), though that has
risen slightly. Chief factors responsible
can be summed up fairly accurately as
a diversion of funds to more or less fixed
capital investments and a spendthrift
overseas trade attitude.
An inevitable slackening in share prices
occurred towards the end of last week.
Some such check to market optimism was
bound to come, and the interest ques-
tion, dealt with at length here lately,
has proved one of the chief influences.
Broken Hill Prop, showed unsteadiness
for the first time in many months —
speculative buying had pushed the price
up—and registered a drop of about 7s.
in a few days, with a recovery later.
Australian Glass came back several shil-
lings, while Henry Jones, Drug Houses,
Howard Smith, Australian Cement and
other key stocks weakened. Steamship
issues (except for Adelaide, which has
had a fair rise in the past six weeks)
were generally stronger, and banks
showed signs of steadying at firmer
rates. Gordon and Gotch ords. rose,
and Yarra Falls was steady.
* * £ #
Mount Lyell’s profit of £187,291, which
compares with £65,912 for 1934-35, was
equal to 12 p.c. on capital, and is closely
in keeping with estimates made on this
page during the currency of the finan-
cial year (to Sept. 30). A 10 p.c. div.
is being paid in respect of the term, and
this also was anticipated. It has been the
best year for shareholders since 1930,
when 18| p.c. was paid. The £1 shares
are being keenly dealt in around 365.
The permissible production under the
copper output restriction scheme is now
“I will say this for me ’ usband —’e costs me very little t ’ keep!”
105 p.c. of the basic quota. As yet' no
effect is visible in world prices—electro-
lytic has kept very firm around £49
sterling. Mount Lyell’s copper is mostly
consumed in the Commonwealth, and
present rate of output has never been
exceeded in the mine’s lifetime. The in-
crease in permissible world production is
of little present advantage to Lyell, but
African cos. should benefit.
* * * *
Output of pig-iron by the Broken Hill
Prop, steelworks for the four weeks to
Oct. 25 was 52,550 tons, and ingot steel
produced amounted to 55,101 tons. In
the first 20 weeks of the co.’s present
financial year 258,842 tons of pig-iron
(as against 201,798 tons in the same part
of last term) was turned out, up 57,044
tons (28 p.c.). Steel output has been
270,885 tons, up 37,139 tons (15.9 p.c.).
After lifting to over 88s. a few days
earlier, quotations for the £1 shares
came back to around 81s. 6d. last week.
Saturday morning’s price was 84s.
* * * *
After a spectacular rise to above the
dizzy figure of this time last year, tin
slumped suddenly last week upon the
announcement of a lift in permitted pro-
duction to 105 p.c. of the quota. Malayan
tin shares, which had responded to
Siam’s entry to the tin pool and higher
prices for the metal, weakened slightly
on dealings much lower in volume than
earlier in the week. The metal was
quoted at £236 a ton in London on Thurs-
day, as against £245 on Tuesday. World
consumption during the year which ended
on August 31 was 18.6 p.c. above that
of the previous 12 months.
* * * *
Gold has steadied at over £7 2s. ster-
ling per fine ounce in London, which is
the figure producers of the metal had
become accustomed to before the flight
of French money to London forced the
price (in terms of English currency) down
to around £6 16s. It seems to be the
aim of controllers of the Exchange
Equalisation Fund to keep the metal
around the present figure.
* * * *
Kandos Cement 16s. shares held their
own last week, standing at 235. 3d. on
Friday, as against 28s. for Australian
Cement £1 scrip. Each co. has 1,000,000
shares in an operating co., and frequently
the sharemarket does not put a rational
value on Kandos shares when compared
with the Vic. holding co. Last week
they were almost in line.
# * * *
The lift in the Bank of N. S. Wales
div. rate (from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c. p.a.) was
first followed by a substantia] rise in the
market price of most bank shares, then
came a sharp reaction. At £35 ss.
’Wales scrip returns a bit' over 3.4 p.c.
on its new div. basis. The 6 p.c. was
probably fully earned, but general policy
has been against much increase in dis-
tributions to bank shareholders.
* * * *
Sir Harry McGowan, chairman of Im-
perial Chemical Industries, is to arrive
in Sydney on January 9. It is to be virtu-
ally a visit from headquarters to the co.’s
affiliates in Australia and Maoriland.
Oil from coal hasn’t been officially men-
tioned on the programme, but N.S.W.
Premier Stevens brought McGowan’s
name into some hydrogenation sugges-
tions at Maitland a few weeks back. It
should be interesting to know whether
Sir Harry is still enthusiastic about
hydrogenation. 1.C.1.’s Billingham plant
has been in operation over a year now.
* * * *
Copra is the latest commodity to take
a leap in price. South Seas sun-dried is
up to £l5 2s. 6d. in London, the best
quote for years, while Rabaul hot-air
dried is around £l6 ss. Morris Hed-
strom ords. have remained steady around
265. 9d.—an interim declared the other
day was at the unchanged rate of 5 p.c.—
but this is a co. that should derive
marked benefit if firmness for the South
Seas staple product continues. Car-
penters, in the Solomons and New
Guinea, will also welcome the rise, as
should Burns Philp (South Sea). The
statistical position of copra is now good,
but up to the present the price has been
forced down overseas.
* * * *
Waldas Shoes shares, which went to
over 40s. following N. B. Rydge’s ap-
pointment to the board, have come back
to 355. in spite of Maoriland support.
It is a concern likely to make handsome
profits, but, until earning power as a
public co. is further demonstrated, the
market’s behavior may be erratic.
* * * *
Shares in Washington H. Soul, the
N.S.W. chain-store chemist organisation,
slumped from 82s. to around 71s. fol-
lowing Boots’s proposed entry to the
State, but recovered to 755. later. There
was talk that Boots might link up with
this concern. It doesn’t seem likely. For
some time Souls have been dispensing
on an ingredient-cost basis.
* * * *
North Kalgurli in October treated
11,687 tons with a mean head value of
7.66dwt. for a return worth £34,476
(Aust.). The month’s results are better
than the average, and support for the
scrip has strengthened to about 20s. It
is still well below the 245. reached early
this year when interesting developments
in regard to new ore discoveries were
reported.
* * * *
While few people seem to want Pre-
mier Aberhart’s Alberta securities at
any price, an issue of Canadian Govern-
ment bonds has gone over at £3 2s. 2d.
per cent. That compares more than fav-
orably with Australia’s next offer, to be
at £3 19s. sd. per cent. The. Dominion
certainly has an abundance of money for
investment just now, but two years ago
in Australia demand for our Consols
was also keen, yet it was this'class of
security that led the way in the general
lift in interest’ rates now apparent.
* * * *
In the first four months of the current
season (to Oct. 31) 715,094 bales of
wool were sold in all Australian centres,
including sales of carry-over. In the cor-
responding part of 1935-36 762,026 bales
were disposed of. The average price for
wool sold this season to date has been
13.6 d.; for the whole of last year it
was 14.2 d.
* * :Ji *
Central Nell Gwynne, star performer
of the Bendigo field, put through 270
tons for an average return of B.7dwt. last
week. Grade of ore has been up and
down, but the mine’s followers take a
favorable view of developments be-
tween 820 ft. and 870 ft., and the div.
record has been good. At 545. market
valuation of the show is £126,900.
* * * ■*
In Melbourne last week:
Cascade Brewery (Tas.) shares, a few years
back in disfavor with the market, sold at 425.
Ballarat, the newly-listed concern, was in de-
mand around 545. Carlton scrip weakened to
625. 6d., and should have been worth buying at
that figure. Castlemaine-Perkins scrip changed
hands at 255. 9d.
Wheat was in quiet demand, with a price of
about ss. a bushel.


ẁ
I!)O—ALL-ROUND SPORTS KNIFE. Good
Finish, 4in. Metal Haft. Contains Spear Blade,
Pen Blade, Screwdriver and Bottle Opener
combined, Tin Opener, Corkscrew, Leather
Spike, with Shackle, 14/6 each.
C2I—FOLDING SHAVING OUTFIT, made of
fine Leather. Size when folded, 8} x 54 x 2}
inches. Containing W. Jno. Baker brand
Ilazor, Shaving Brush, Shaving Soap and Con-
Ininer, Tooth Brush and Container, Hair
Brush, Comb and Mirror, 50/- complete.
I ROWER SCISSORS,
< hits and holds the
liover; Gin.; nickel-
plated, 13/6 each.
!)«I—HAND-MADE LEATHER SEWING
CASE, 9 x 6 s 3 inches, containing finest
quality fittings, Steel Crochet Needle, Tape
Threader, Stiletto, 2 Bodkins, Embroidery
Scissors, Pearl Handle Crochet Needle, 4
Knitting Needles, Thimble, 4 Reels Silk, 2
Packets of Needles, 39/6 each.
■>v?£
77—W. JNO. BAKER FINEST QUALITY AND FINISH
EXTRA FUEL HOLLOW GROUND RAZOR, with black
handle. An excellent blade without the extra finish of No. 33.
ijin. wide 9/0
Sin. wide 9/0
jfin. wide 10/0
fin. wide 11/C
lin. wide 12/6
POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
W. Jno. BAKER Ltd
3 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY.
BSSS
iiM-
TOa^;::>:
m>.
■m
WSSiSti
ma*
THE Y-8 ENGINE .
The Keynote of Ford Quality and Value
THE V-8 engine expresses the outstanding
quality and value of the Ford V-8 car. It
is the same type of engine as is used to power
the world’s finest cars —the latest Rolls Royce,
Lincoln, Pierce Arrow, Cadillac, Cord, Packard,
Hispano-Suiza. Engines of V design have also
been selected for the greatest automotive
achievements on land, on water, and in the air.
Sir Malcolm Campbell’s "Bluebird,” Gar
Wood’s "Miss America,” the Schneider Trophy
ẃ
Seaplanes, the Graf Zeppelin, all have V-type
engines. For 3 million owners throughout the
world, the Ford V-8 engine has revolutionised
previous ideas of power and performance with
economy. Service records prove it the most
economical Ford engine ever built. And in
addition the Ford V-8 Car gives you: Safety
Glass All Round; All Steel Closed Bodies; Ford
Philco Car Radio (optional at extra cost);
Super Safety Mechanical Brakes; Centre-Poise
Riding Comfort. Try the Ford V-8 on the road
—your nearest dealer will gladly place a car
at your disposal. Easy purchase terms arranged.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTT. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN
VICTORIA)
F125.24V
There was a firming in Consols
towards the end of last week, but quota-
tions over a period of 22 days show
practically an all-round weakening. As
interest has been accruing over, the
period, the best gauge of the drift is to
be found in the yields. Principal issues
compare as follows:
October 21. November 13.
Price. Yield, Price. Yield,
p.c. p.c.
3 p.c. 1938 .. £99/5/- 3.71
3 p.c. 1944 .. 93/10/- 3.92
3 p.c. 1948 .. 90/10/- 3.94 £9O/15/-3.98
3|p.c. 1949 .. 93/12/6 3.93 93/12/6 3.97
3-1 p.c. 1949 .. 98/15/- 3.99 99/-/- 4.01
3-1 p.c. 1951 .. 98/12/6 3.95 98/12/6 3.98
3+p.c. 1948 .. 94/17/6 3.75 94/12/6 3.82
3* p.c. 1942 .. 101/7/6 3.69 101/5/- 3.75
3i p.c. 1947 .. 100/-/- 3.89 100/7/6 3.87
4 p.c. 1938 .. JO2/3/9 3.45 101/17/6 3.72
4 p.c. 1941 .. 102/5/- 3.81 102/12/6 3.80
4 p.c. 1944 .. 101/2/6 3.79 101/10/- 3.77
4 p.c. 1947 .. 101/ 15/- 3.82 101/12/6 3.86
4 p.c. 1950 .. 102/2/6 3.85 102/-/- 3.88
4 p.c. 1951-53 102/-/- 3.90 101/10/- 3.94
4 p.c. 1951-55 102/7/6 3.92 101/12/6 3.98
4 p.c. 1951-57 102/2/6 3.95 102/-/- 3.98
4 p.c. 1951-59 100/15/- 3.94 100/8/9 3.98
4 p.c. 1951-61 100/17/6 3.95 100/17/6 3.98
The return from mortgages is definitely
rising, and it may be taken for granted
that as soon as the next Commonwealth
loan is out of the way there will be a
further increase in the yield from Con-
sols. Such has been the experience over
the past two years.
* * * *
There has been a lot of talk lately
about Australian interest rates, now on
the rise, being out of harmony with
conditions overseas. The position in
Britain, U.S.A. and Canada is quoted,
as if to suggest that the whole thing is
just a matter of policy. If present bank-
ing practice is acknowledged as sound
it is more than' a matter of policy; it
boils down to a question of supply of
and demand for funds. There are
people, however, who seem to favor
a radical change in banking and credit
control, their idea being that the supply
of credit should be boosted up to meet
the demand at low interest rates. It is
an utterly fallacious idea, with its
roots in inflation. A deliberately-made
boom could be of no lasting benefit.
# * * *
A conference of wine-grape growers,
wine-makers and department officials is
to be held in Canberra next month, the
object being to discuss possibilities of
stabilising prices in the industry. More
liberal sale conditions for Australian vin-
tages (by amendment of licensing laws)
will also be sought, especially in respect
of the obtaining of wines in restaurants.
There is an increasing demand for wines
in this country, and it is a development
to be encouraged, especially as regards
light beverage wines, of which some ex-
cellent bottlings are obtainable. South
Australia and N. S. Wales are princi-
pally interested on the growing side, but
most other States also come into the
picture.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam shares came back to
325. last week, after going to the
10-year record price of 335. 6d. About
six weeks ago they were mentioned here
as a snap at 275. There were rumors
that shareholders might be asked to
contribute to the funds of the new air-
ways merger, and the revived interest' in
coal cos. also had an effect. These
attractions were actually of less import-
ance than the fact that the co. has an ex-
cellent line of passenger and cargo
vessels, splendid finances and well-
demonstrated earning power. Adelaide
has a large interest in some of the best
Maitland collieries, given a low valua-
tion in the published accounts. When
speculative support fades, there are
chances that the scrip may be picked
up at 30s. or thereabouts. The div.
looks like being 7 p.c. this year.
& # 5k
United Provisions ord. scrip dropped to
below 10s. following the annual meet-
ing. This, with Broomfields, has been
one of the big market disappointments
of the year among “cheap” stocks--
remarks in B. 21 /10/’36 on the danger
of dabbling in shares just because
of their low price fit these cases
pretty well. United Provisions’ future
is bound up with the future of
the bacon trade; if this can be
regulated there may be good profits later
on. At present conditions are chaotic.
Broomfields is a hardware and ship-
chandlery concern—a type of business
that calls for very careful handling.
* * * *
Shareholders in the North and South
Broken Hill cos. agreed to the split-up
into ss. denominations last week. A
confirmatory meeting is to be held on
November 30, after which the new scrip
will be issued. Following a slight weak-
ening from the high quotations of the
previous week, Barrier scrip firmed again
towards the week-end. The metals were
again rising in London.


f
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Anthony Adverse”
The vogue, of the double-length film,
which ended, in the days of the silents,
with the spectacular productions of D. W.
Griffiths, appears to be returning. After
“The Great Ziegfeld” comes a picturisa-
tion of Anthony Adverse, the people
and dramatic bones of which, as repre-
sented in the film, have a very familiar
aspect.
The Spanish marquis (Claude Rains)
who left his wife’s illegitimate child at a
convent after having killed her lover in
a duel stalked through many a three-
decker when Queen Victoria was young.
The unfaithful young wife’s benevolent
old Scottish father (Edmund Gwenn) who
adopts his daughter’s child ; the. tragic,
ill-starred Anthony (Fredric March); the
priests, planters, slaves and Italian folk
—including the prima donna (Olivia de
Havilland) whom Anthony married, only
to lose her to Napoleon—are characters
of well-defined and conventionalised type.
It says much for the skill of the principal
players that they are able to hold interest
through a number of episodes not one
of which, after the first, seems at all
essential to the development of a plot.
As a matter of fact there isn’t a plot,
there isn’t a climax and there isn’t a
denouement. One doesn’t look for such
things in a modern novel, but one does
look for them on stage or screen. Their
lack can be compensated for only by
an exceptionally powerful interplay of
characters, and in this case most of the
characters are as stylised as their clothes.
An exception must be made in favor of
Akim Tamiroff, who plays Mexican roles
to the life and has not been seen to better
advantage than on this occasion. At
Sydney State.
“Song of Freedom”
Merely a picturesque setting for Paul
Robeson’s rich voice and pleasant per-
sonality. Discovered working as a
laborer in London’s dockland (the film is
British), the singer is transferred to opera.
Fredric March in “Anthony Adverse,”
at Sydney State.
He is the only living descendant of the
hereditary rulers of an African island
kingdom ; his only evidence to that effect
is an old silver medal and memory of
part of a “Song of Freedom.” At last he
finds his people, and after many diffi
culties with the tribal witch doctor is
accepted as their king. The later
sequences, full of almost-nude Africans,
tom-tom drumming and devil-dancing, are
reminiscent of “Sanders of the River”
and “Emperor Jones.” The music Robe-
son sings is not distinguished —film
theme-songs are usually tripey—but that
doesn’t much matter; the voice is the
thing, and the audience gets plenty of it.
Robeson possesses vocal organs as
unique in their way as those of Caruso —
in addition to the Italian tenor’s advan-
tages in the way of unusual palate for-
mation, the negro can form his lips
Edmund Gwenn in “Anthony Adverse”
into a. sound-horn —and he has a good
stage presence, dignity and humor. He
dominates every scene in which he ap-
pears, and his singing is always spon-
taneous and natural in the circumstances.
There is one convention, borrowed from
the stage, that'obtrudes itself unnecessarily
in this sort of music-drama —the provi-
sion of a full orchestral accompaniment
though the singer may be shifting wool-
bales on the wharf, carolling to his wife
in a slum tenement or declaiming a tradi-
tional chant to a mob of savages on an
island thousands of miles from civilisa-
tion, Robeson, at any rate, does not
need such bolstering. At Sydney Regent.
“Seven Sinners”
A British Gaumont thriller with
Edmund Lowe in the lead and Con-
stance Cummings as assistant wise-
cracker. Opens promisingly with a
murder during the Mardi Gras carnival
at Nice, and develops into a welter of
railway smashes, all cunningly engi-
neered by the arch-criminal, who turns
out to be a person nobody would sus-
pect. Lowe is a breezy American sleuth
whose methods of detection include bur-
glary, theft and the mutilation of public
property. Mildly entertaining. At Syd-
ney Regent.
“Three on the Trail”
All the old familiar West is here:
hairy pants, two-gun men who whirl
and fire from the hip in a split second,
arroyos, canyons, paint ponies, mesquite
and the rest of Clarence Mulford’s box
of tricks. Once it is seen in the first
hundred feet of celluloid that the suave
owner of the pisen-water-and-gamblin’
hell laughs silently out of the side of his
face and moves his ears as his jaws
champ on an unlighted cigar, the end is
as clear as a day for which rain in,
tipped by the Weather Bureau. Bung,
of course, directs a gang of rustlers.
Hopalong Cassidy and Johnny Nelson
aim to scotch his schemes, but they are
kidnapped by the bad men. But what’s
a kidnapping to Hopalong and co.?
They just walk out of it, rouse the
righteous citizenry and after a pitched
battle around the pub the villains are
strung up to the nearest tree.
William Boyd is a real tough hombre
as Hopalong, but consistently forgets
Cassidy’s limp. At Sydney Civic.
“Border Flight”
The tribulations of the U.S. coast-
guard service come under the spotlight
in this action drama. A band of well-
organised fur smugglers in fast boats
defies the unarmed aerial guardsmen.
Not until a ’plane is brought down by
the smugglers’ fire does Washington
wake up and hand out a long-overdue
issue of machine guns. Then the fun
starts. One of the pilots, a 100 p.c.
egotist, is kicked out of the service fol-
lowing a brainless stunt and joins the
smugglers. Hero (John Howard), the
ace pilot, follows him and lands on
smugglers’ island. Smugglers bring up
their naval artillery. Climax is a spec-
tacular ramming of the illegal craft by
a ’plane piloted by the renegade airman,
who turns dog on his smuggling asso-
ciates in a burst of repentance, after
gracefully acknowledging to the girl of
the piece (Frances Farmer) that his rival,
the highly virtuous and tenacious young
man, is her true soul-mate.
John Howard handles a studio joy-
stick with an air and generally looks the
part; Frances Farmer has little to do ;
Samuel Hinds has a nice fatherly role,
and Roscoe Karns adds a bit of humor.
At Sydney Civic.
“Our Relations”
Herein Laurel and Hardy are well-
behaved suburbanites, each of whom has
a double, a twin brother. Resemblance
stops at appearance.; the second pair
are sailors addicted to getting into
trouble, especially with ladies who
patronise beer gardens. Beginning with
some mild clowning by the respectable
suburbanites, it isn’t long before the
paths of the two pairs of brothers cross,
and the complications keep the audi-
ence guessing to the end. A pair of
dominating wives, a pair of hard-boiled
vamps, a pair of crooks, a drunk and
sundry other untamed characters add to
the mix-up. At Sydney St. James.
“Yellowstone”
Setting is Yellowstone National Park,
hero a ranger (Henry Hunter). To the
Park guest-house comes one Foster
(Ralph Morgan) to join his dahrter
(Judith Barrett) whom he hasn’t seen for
eighteen years. He’s been in Orstraylia
running a walking-stick farm or some-
Luis Alberni in “Anthony Adverse.”
thing— at least so he tells his li’l girl.
Fact is the old reprobate has been in
clink. He buried the swag under a
geyser and has come back to collect.
But his former associates track him
down and he is bumped off. Suspish
falls on a manly young ranger, from
whom even the girl recoils in horror.
But does he let that worry him? Not
he! A saddled horse and a moonless
night and he is on the track of the real
killer, and there are fierce doings in a
secret cave beneath a waterfall.
Murderer may be picked by selecting
the least likely character.
An ordinary melodrama, but it has its
moments. Henry Hunter is satisfactorily
cast as the manly young ranger, and
Claude Rains in “Anthony Adverse.”
Judith Barrett acts competently and
looks charming. Ralph Morgan and
Alan Hale have a good time with roles
to their liking. At Sydney Capitol.
“Mummy’s Boys”
Wheeler and Woolsey continue merrily
to debunk front-page guff and poke fun
at the weavers of screen “horror” plots.
In their latest effort they play with the
curses imposed on Egyptologists who
desecrate the tombs of the Pharaohs.
The pair turn from ditch-digging in
New York to join an expedition to
Egypt as tomb excavators. Wheeler, of
course, goes all woozy on the daughter
of the expedition’s leader ; Woolsey, cigar
in mouth, bluffs his way through all
sorts of trouble. There are murders,
mysterious Gyppos, elusive mummies and
melees at frequent intervals. Final
sequence is a whirl of slapstick in the
tomb of King Pharatime, in the course
of which W. and W. unmask the. villain.
One of them is suitably rewarded and
lives happily ever after; the other gets
the girl.
The comedians, who have been liber-
ally supplied with wisecracks, are moder-
ately funny. Moroni Olsen responds
easily to the demands made on his ver-
satility. Barbara Pepper isn’t so hot.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Forget Me Not”
Nothing matters in this film but the
glorious voice of Beniamino Gigli,
claimed to be Caruso’s successor as King
of Tenors. As far as can be judged from
the film, Beniamino seems to fall short
of the great Enrico’s richness of tone
and virile artistry, but the margin is
slight.
Gigli, with no exaggerated mannerisms
and an easy stage presence, attacks his
notes with precision and glides from the
chest to the head register with the
greatest of ease. One of the best parts
of the film is a sequence, all too short,
in which the audience is taken on an
operatic Cook’s tour, glimpses being given
of the tenor in various roles in sundry
famous opera houses.
The story is slight and saccharine. One
gathers that the tenor has a wife (his
second) who apparently finds it difficult
to decide whether she’ll stick to her capa-
cious husband or dash off with a nautical,
goofy-eyed boy-friend. Loyalty and love
for her small stepson (played by a de-


BRANDAIJER'rS
ftss
m
a
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRAHDAUEB * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. EX3
" George says .. WE CAN RUN A VAUXHAIL
ON ONLY A 808 A WEEK MORE FOR PETROL
THAN A 4 CYLINDER MIDGET CAR. ” _
Bert
JUbJa
JL
LIGHT SIX
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD.
"AIR CHIEF-
CAR RADIO
The 1937 ‘Air Chief car radio
designed for Vauxhall includes a
special remote control for fitting to
base of instrument panel. A new
6-valve set with tone equal to the
best home radio and increased
distance reception. Ask for a
demonstration.
Y 22008
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
lightfully natural four-year-old) win the
day, and all is well.
Joan Gardner is at home in the wifely
—or unwifely—role, and Ivan Brandt,
Jeanne Stewart and Hugh Wakefield lend
support. Previewed at Film House,
Sydney.
“Pride of the Marines”
Mostly intended, it' would seem, as re-
cruiting propaganda for Uncle Sam’s sol-
dier-sailors, the co-operation of the War
Department being essential to the filming
of scenes in which a battalion of marines
is on parade.
The yarn is about an orphan boy (Billy
Burrud), adopted by four non-coms,
headed by a “first sergeant” (Charles
Bickford). The youngster is rigged out in
marine kit and given a semi-official
status as mascot'. But his upbringing in
this environment does not commend itself
to Florence Rice, who not only un-
feelingly turns down the rugged Bick-
ford, but proposes to adopt his foster-
son. After about 70 minutes this course
of action commends itself also to the
“first sergeant,” who fails to appear at a
boxing match at which he is to represent
the marines against the navy. He has’
gone to foreign parts to gain a new naval
base for his country. The sentiments,
domestic, patriotic and otherwise, ex-
pressed by all hands are highly com-
mendable, and there are a grain or two
of humor to leaven the not-very-interest-
ing proceedings. Previewed at Film
House, Sydney.
“Road to Glory”
This road, like the paths mentioned by
Thomas Gray, leads but to the grave for
two of the principal characters. 'lt is a
full-flavored war-time melodrama, and,
of course, as in all the best examples, the
French and not the British Army harbors
the heroes. This enables officers to de-
liver stirring harangues to the troops,
spiced with references to Napoleon.
The two war-heroes who love the same
girl are Captain Moran (Warner Baxter)
and Lieutenant Done.t (Fredric March).
Monique, with rosebud mouth and luxu-
riant bobbed hair (June Lang), is a nurse,
but (possibly because white doesn’t suit
her) she does her angelic ministrations in
Juliettish black velvet. Agony is piled
on by the arrival of Capt. Moran’s
ancient papa (Lionel Barrymore), who
has joined up as a poilu, bringing with
him the battered old bugle with which
he sounded the cavalry charge at Sedan.
As Monique, who first favored the cap-
tain, later falls madly in love with the
lieutenant, it becomes necessary to abol-
ish the senior officer. He is first blinded
in action, and then, guided by his parent,
directs by telephone from a listening post
in the centre of an enemy stronghold a
barrage on same stronghold. Just before
the guns get the range the old man blows
his bugle.
The battle scenes are, if not the most
realistic, the most dramatic that have
been put on the screen, and the excellent
acting of March, Baxter and Barrymore
makes the improbable proceedings seem
almost feasible. Gregory Ratoff as a
sergeant provides what humor is going.
Miss Lang, who makes her debut as a
star in this film, is not of a type that is
liahle to win sympathy, and would seem
to be better suited by a less lugubrious
part. Previewed at Fox Theatrette,
Sydney.
“In the Soup”
Ralph Lynn working hard at being a
silly ass. There are some good efforts
in facial contortion when Ralph, a bar-
rister for many years, though he has
never previously had a brief, gets info
the wrong court on his first case and
imports into a breach-of-promise trial
evidence prepared to defend a car thief.
During a complicated flat mix-up Ralph
cooks a nightmare meal, banging the
pastry lustily, browning the duck with a
hot electric iron and heating up the
soup with the same misused implement.
His wife (Judy Gunn) puts a bottle of
sleeping draught into the awful soup,
and everybody drifts off into uncon-
sciousness, in compromising positions.
Various divorces are threatened before
the tangle sorts itself out. At Melbourne
Athenreum.
‘‘Man Who Could Make Miracles”
Fantastic happenings conjured up by
the imagination of H. G. Wells lose
half their effectiveness when presented
by trick photography; in such pictorial
form they produce an impression of un-
reality and impossibility. Still, the film
under review has been well handled.
Roland Young is soundly cast as
Fotheringay, the meek draper’s assistant
chosen for the experiment of entrust-
ing a human being with limitless powers
of miracle-working. Overawed at first,
Fotheringay gradually asserts himself,
and in this metamorphosis his interpreter
is most effective. Early the film is in-
clined to drag, but after Fotheringay de-
termines to speed up the reconstruction
of the world the pace quickens to the
climax where, drunk with the authority
he wields, the ex-counterjumper orders
the earth to cease rotating, with disas-
trous results. It having thus been estab-
lished that Man is unfitted to exercise
supreme power, two shadowy figures in
the heavens say to a third, against a
background of stars, “I told you so,” a
satisfaction even the Olympians appa-
rently can’t resist.
There is some good character acting
by Ralph Richardson and Ernest
Thesiger. Joan Gardner has only small
scope for her talents. Previewed at Film
House Theatrette.
Some First Nights
The “Pirates of Penzance” boarded
Sydney Royal’s stage on Saturday.
Brightly produced, the piece went over
in sparkling style, with choruses uncom-
monly snappy.
Ivan Menzies jazzed up the vocal
pace of the “Modern Major-General”
for every recall, and at 400 w.p.m. his
enunciation was still distinguishable.
Beyond this song his scope was limited,
and his comedy had to bow to Bernard
Manning as the pirate king, Clifford
Cowley as his lieutenant, and Richard
Watson as the sergeant of police, all of
whom used resonant voices well and did
their bright bits brightly. Godfrey Stir-
ling sang Frederic pleasantly, Evelyn
Hall was in splendid voice as the maid-
of-all-work, and Helen Langton rose to
the occasion in “Poor Wandering One.”
That uproarious titbit “Trial by Jury”
was the curtain-raiser, with Clifford Cow-
ley as the learned Judge who’s not above
clouting his associate and getting fresh
with the b.-of-p. plaintiff.
4* .j. *j. 4*
Sydney Phil., backed by the A.B.C.
orchestra and singers from the Apollo
Club, essayed Coleridge-Taylor’s “Hia-
watha” at the Town Hall on Thursday
night, Howard Carr conducting. The
formance was more successful orches-
trally than vocally. The choral passages
could have been improved by further re-
hearsal. Thea Phillips as Minnehaha
was the most successful of the soloists.
»!♦ -I- v
S.A.’s centenary play, running for a
week at Adelaide Tivoli, was “Colonel
Light, the Founder,” which won the
“Advertiser” £lOO prize for Max Afford.
It concerns the closing years of the
soldier, artist and surveyor, who was
about 50 when he planted Adelaide on
its present site in face of heavy opposi-
tion. Afford starts by making the pioneer
ladies condemn Light’s wife (a duke’s
daughter) for not coming with him to
this “barbarous” land, and thus his inno-
cent love for a Puritan maiden on the
spot loses no sympathy. Two opening
scenes work up to the play’s great
moment. Admiral Hindmarsh, as Gov-
ernor, orders Light to abandon the Adel-
aide site and fix the capital at the Murray
mouth. He firmly refuses. Hindmarsh
reverts to quarter-deck manners (and lan-
guage), and orders the surveyor under
arrest. At that moment comes a runner
from Encounter Bay with news that
Judge Jeffcott, sent to report upon it, has
been drowned. “And this is your safe
and commodious harbor!” says Light,
tearing the plan of it in pieces as the
curtain falls. The rest, too, is history,
and so, though skilfully embroidered,
necessarily sad. Light’s second-in-com-
mand (destined to become one of S.A.’s
biggest men, and father of the still bigger
C. C. Kingston) goes to England for
help, but comes back with a commis-
sion to supersede Light, whose consump-
tion develops till he dies while the girl
is singing to him.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre, entrusted
with the staging of this history-drama,
was fortunate in having the tall-and-
gaunt David Dawson as hero, Llandaff
Mathews as Finniss, his faithful friend,
and Iris Hart as the girl. The rest
merely came and (went: Frank Johnston —
who also bore the burden of production
—as the bullying Hindmarsh, Jack Ham
as chief among the opponents, Betty
Diamond as a butterfly girl of the period
and others were all sound. Artistic
effects were by Drs. McLaughlin and
Campbell, Sando was business manager,
Riley secretary. The “Advertiser”
financed the whole thing for charities.
4* •ir
Hobart Repertory Soc., unable to get
the Theatre Royal for its last play of the
1936 season, managed very well at the
Town Hall, where Gertrude Jennings’s
“Family Affairs” was brightly handled
by a well-cast company. Mrs. Olive
Burn, Miss Ayton and Prof. McAulay
gave good character bits.


w
ŵ
. o minutes
011 Y L fceatt oi
from tne ace
eCllV >mesßPxe*
and quietus
vailS 'n,r situated
XcleaUY paT V:
‘“""an ”^ ated
in
position-
uoXt\*
s
•v
a
iiiiuwz
THE WALKING DOLL
Five Inches High
Cries but can be silenced
Price l/9. posted
Carefully packed
This is a toy every little girl would
like to possess. No spring to go out
of order. Nicely dressed. Supply
limited. Obtainable only from
UNION MFG & AGENCY CO.
.299 Elizabeth Street .Melbourne, C.l .
Est. 1818.
THE GENUINE DANISH
HEERING’S
CHERRY
BRANDY
THE LIQUEUR FOR
THE DISCRIMINATING PALATE.
When you call for Cherry
Brandy, see that you get
Heering’s.
Supplied by all Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Stores in Bottles and 1 Bottles.
If any difficulty in obtaining supplies, please
refer to tlie Sole Australian Agents,
SWIFT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
On a day last week the two minutes’
silence, like a silver arrow, pierced the
clamor of the city, stilling it. Reverent
thousands gathered in Martin-place,
where were the red flash of' poppies, the
flowers piled about the Cenotaph. Sol-
dier, sailor and flier lined up in their
motionless detachments. Further back,
the snowy snoods of the Junior Red
Crossers. With the notes of “O God,
Our Help in Ages Past,” the tense
silence was dissipated. Out blew the
trumpets. With a roar the traffic leaped
upon time. The sigh of old memories
could no longer be heard.
All the week the flowers on the Ceno-
taph have bloomed in fresh loveliness.
Each day new wreaths have been laid on
the memorial. A wreath of poppies and
laurel was sent by Lady Murray Ander-
son. The red of poppies was a dominant
note among the flower offerings. Here
and there was beauty wrought in pale
pink and pale blue blooms, or the dig-
nity of white lilies. The cross appeared
again and again.
A sheep-shearing demonstration was
one of the attractions of the fete at
Elwatan, the Robert Dixsons’. manorial
holding on Castle Hill. Pork that had
been pig a few hours before was one of
the lures at the produce stall. This had
been entirely stocked from the model
farm, and rapidly sold out. The flowers
in the walled garden were magnificent.
Petunias that made you think of Kath-
erine Mansfield’s story rioted; so did
tubs and urns of orchids on the porch,
where the sweets stall stood. Mrs. Robert
Dixson, almost speechless with laryngitis,
bade the president, Mrs. Bertie Kelly, and
the official group welcome, and then
retired indoors. Hundreds of people
came to this affair, which was in aid of
the Crown-street Women’s Hospital.
The secretaries were Mrs. Harold Bott
and May Mitchell, and they had cleverly
arranged for a fleet of cars to carry the
visitors to and from the fair.
From every suburb mother and the
girls trekked out to the Cricket Ground
on Friday, and on Saturday they did
likewise, the men of the family with
them. Fine weather and interesting
cricket, a cool nip in Friday’s breeze,
and appetising basket lunches turned the
stands into permanent waves of smiles.
There was applause for Stan McCabe,
for Robinson, for Hammond and for
C. J. Barnett. A great hand, too, for
bowler Harold Mudge on the Saturday,
when the gallery totalled 24,211. Among
the keen were the Governor-General
and Lady Gowrie, who were present on
both days. On Friday the vice-regals
were entertained at tea by Sydney Smith,
president of the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion, and his wife. With the v.-rs. were
Lord Dillon and General Anderson.
Clothes were mostly what the fashion
papers describe as “spectator sports”—
in other words, linens, washing silks,
under light woollen coats or suits of light
wool. Navy and brown were favored
colors. One of the nattiest was Mrs. Mar-
garet Fielding Jones, just back from the
U.S.A. and England, her linen frock
patterned in blue and white, her straw
hat and gloves hyacinth blue. Mary
Hordern and Anne Gordon were there.
Mrs. Colin Galbraith’s suit combined
navy and grey. Women cricketers Mrs.
Ranald Peden and Nell Rawlins took
an eyeful on Friday. At eight the last-
named went tripping off to Maoriland.
Captain Gerald Lassen, a family party
of McGilvrays, Zoe and Mabel Cam-
phin, and Mrs. F. S. Boyce were a few
of the well-knowns.
The girl in the flat opposite went to
the Con. to see what she persists in call-
ing “The Battered Bride.” She complains
that she would have liked to see things
a bit more battered in the polka, which
was taken in too genteel a manner for
Czechoslovakian temperament. Other-
wise this “Bartered Bride” of Smetana’s
was well produced. Hilda Mulligan had
trained her forces well, and if only for
the restraint in her actors and actorines
deserves a mention. The Consul for
Czechoslovakia, Dr. and Mrs. Bainton
and daughter Guenda (who designed the
stage sets), the Bertie Kellys (her white
chiffon frock had graceful shoulder
drapes), J. J. Mulligan, concert manager
Jack Griffiths, Winifred Moore (the
Queensland writing woman) and a whole
company from the North were among
last week’s applauders. There were
several Queenslanders in the cast.
This is Beryl Rouch, whose domain is
a large room, brilliant with polished
woodwork, on the first floor of the Bank
of New South Wales. Beryl is assistant
to the bank’s economics adviser, and the
markets of the world hold few secrets
from her. On her recent visit to Japan
she was fascinated not only by trade re-
lations and banking affairs but by the
theatre. The No dancers, with their
tradition, their stylised and symbolic
actions, made a particular appeal.
Lachlan Beaton and his mother’s life-
long friend Ruby Adams arrived by the
Strathnaver after attending to the last
sad rites over the ashes that were once
the smiling, friendly and witty Eleanor
Beaton. Mrs. Beaton was a sister of
John and Will Dailey, and her death fol-
lowed by less than a year that of
her brother John. After their nine years’
absence in Paris they find the changes
more marked in Melbourne than in Syd-
ney. Lachlan (Gag), who speaks French
as well as he speaks English, was for
some years on the Paris staff of the
“Daily Mail.” Press address of both
is the Metropole.
To-day (Wednesday) at three o’clock
the wife of Premier Stevens will unveil a
portrait of Mrs. Eleanor MacKinnon
in the U.A.P. headquarters, National
House, Angel-place. A committee
formed under the presidency of Miss
Sarah Hynes is responsible for this act
of recognition.
Mrs. Alec Tweedie arrived by the
Strathnaver, and the first thing she did
was to motor out to see the koala bears.
She had heard much of them, but was
disappointed to find that in the scheme
of nature the koala toiled not, neither did
he spin. His capacity for sleeping 20
hours at a stretch seemed to one used to
restless nights an almost miraculous
achievement. Out at Koala Park the
’roos and wallabies were induced to
approach quite close to the visitor. A
lovely red ’roo stood on his hind legs
and amazed her by the distance he
stretched into the atmosphere.
Last Friday night the doors of Eliza-
beth Bay House were thrown wide, and
through them stepped numerous and
glorious generals, colonels and majors.
These were accompanied by Mrs. Gen-
erals, Colonels and Majors, gleaming in
satin, ruffling in lace, flashing diamonds
and diamente, upholding the dignity of
the uniforms and decorations sported by
their soldiers. This ball, a gem set in a
socially sombre week, was given by the
commandant and officers of the 2nd Dis-
trict Base. It was not held for a special
cause, nor was it a reception. It was
just a party in the interests of general
gaiety.
Brigadier and Mrs. Hardie received the
guests just inside the reception-room on
the right of the entrance. Mrs. Hardie’s
frock was a handsome affair of black
lace made with a flowing skirt and starry
with brilliants at the neckline. Soon the
drawing-room was crowded, and the
mess staff showed the agility of the
cobra in coiling and uncoiling them-
selves about the groups of guests. The
R.A.A. band began by being martial,
but, when sure of a full house, flowed
into its masterpiece, “The Blue Danube.”
By the time that melted away every-
body’s feet clamored for the ballroom
floor. Then the orchestra got into action.
From the lacquered flax leaves in the
hall the flora was as brilliant as the mili-
tary fauna. Hippeastrums, November
lilies and delphiniums were the garden
equivalent of three cheers for the red,
white and blue. On the supper tables,
green, dimpled, bubbly bowls held cap-
tive the gold of nasturtiums. The centre-
piece was a model gun on its carriage,
cast in silver, a replica of the gun on
South Head.
Crystal fleurs-de-lis were embroidered
on Mrs. R. W. Walsh’s ivory crepes. She
lit up her colonel’s decorations with a
pair of high-voltage diamond earrings.
The wife of Major Pat Manley had her
hibiscus-red chiffons knife-pleated ; her
furs were white Arctic fox. Mrs. Keith
Morris had the square neckline of her
grey lace frock outlined in a deep blue
and misty blue flower border. Major
Boyle was there with his dark-haired
wife. Her principal ornament was a mil-
lionaire-size orchid pinned on her mauve
and silver frock. Major-General Jess,
Mayor Howie, Mayoress Parkes, the
Colonel Lorenzo couple and the Consul-
General for the Netherlands and Mrs.
Elink Schuurman (her black satin frock
had a flowered train) were among the
dancers.
This is the latest photograph of good-
looking Joyce Beazley, who is paying a
flying visit to her people before return-
ing to England and matrimony. All her
old schoolfellows of Doone days have
rallied around, and Joyce is banked high
with invitations. Dayne photograph.
There’s not a station home in N.S.W.
.where the name of Fitz-James Searight
is not known and linked to some act of
kindness or consideration. As well as
attending to his own pastoral interests,
he acted in an advisory way for some of
the largest holdings in the State. Lately
he had given up his own properties at
Cooma and was living quietly (by
doctor’s orders) at his Neutral Bay home.
He died on Friday morning after an ill-
ness of a few hours, and, although no
notice appeared in the papers, flowers fit
for an emperor’s catafalque arrived from
every direction.
Roses and larkspur bloomed seduc-
tively and blushed prettily on the
Lyceum Club tables last Friday to wel-
come Mrs. Alec Tweedie and Rosemary
Benjamin. Mrs. Tweedie, very hand-
some in black and white, had a dash
of turquoise in her hat, and showed
with delight her passport—probably the
most visa’d one carried by any woman
in the world. The visitor, who sat be-
tween Mrs. A. G. Thomas and poetess
Mary Gilmore, made no set speech, but
talked gaily to all within range. In
place of a speech she had handed Mrs.
A. G. Thomas her color summary of
the lands she has known. Mrs. Clement
Chapman, who sat opposite her, pro-
vided a color feast, with frock of
lobelia-blue twinkling with silver star
buttons. Rosemary Benjamin’s silver
fox must have, lived in clover, so plump
and glossy was his pelt. Rosemary’s
upturned black hat had a serrated edge.
Mrs. Ivy Moore, who, incidentally, is
to be one of the passengers when the
new airliner Loongana makes its first
flight to Tasmania, has just received a
copy of the latest book by her friend
Mrs. Dussap. The wife of Sydney s
former French Consul has called her
book Ourselves and Some Others on a
Cruise, and the story starts in Mar-
seilles and makes its final bow in Syd-
ney with the wedding of the heroine.
A wanderer down near the Haymarket
was astonished the other morning to find
hundreds of children lining the ap-
proaches to Anthony Horderns’. They
were awaiting the arrival of Santa Claus.
What a roar of applause went up when
he dashed along to the portals! It is
estimated that his white, rakish-looking
car is at least 1000 reindeer power. He
had come in a great hurry, and because
of the bushfires he brought a snowstorm
from Iceland with him. You pass through
a cavern crusted with ice and snow and
rimed with frost, and half-way through
you are caught in a whirl of snowflakes
whipped round and round in the swift
winds from the North Pole. It’s great
fun, and after that you find Santa Claus
among his latest and brightest toys.
The wife of Count Patti, one of the
conductors who are to lead the A.B.C.
orchestra next year, is a former Sydney
girl, Joan Allen. Joan studied with
Dinh Gilly in Paris and in London, and
even in her student days her French was
impeccable. She has lately had grand-
opera successes in Turin in such parts
as Lucia. G. O. Allen, who captains the
English Test team, is a cousin.
Sydney still remembers the Eustace
Holroydes and their hospitality, which,
now that they live in London, is still
extended to Australians. Many, includ-
ing the Stanley Bruces, were at the wed-
ding of Norah Holroyde to Roger Leigh-
Wood, only son of Sir James and Lady
Leigh-Wood, of London. The bride’s
frock was a Molyneux inspiration in
ivory satin. Her wreath was of white
lilies and real orange-blossom, grown in
father’s hothouse at Hindhead. Sisters
Sheila and Margaret, and Anne Kennedy
’maided in coral velvet frocks. In the
procession were six small girls, their grey
frocks lively with coral embroideries,
their hair wreathed in coral velvet.
Joan Hammond continues to have suc-
cess. The latest news by air mail to
her mother is that she has been engaged
to do opera broadcasts in Vienna.
The Edmond Meyers’ party to Mrs.
Meyer’s niece Irma was a birthday sur-
prise. Irma, who had been sent out to
dinner, arrived home to find the tables
in the reception-rooms decked with
baskets of flowers and other greetings.
Among these were a sapphire set, a
manicure set and a palely-pink dressing
jacket in a beribboned cellophane box.
The last was from the mother of Jimmy
Melrose. A seductive supper, set about
with silver horseshoes and champagne,
and dancing for the young till three in
the morning were on the programme.
The Edmond Meyers have recently
moved into the house that was for-
merly the Consular Hellenthals’. It is
on Bellevue Hill and has three large re-
ception-rooms that open into one .an-
other and make it ideal for parties.
On their way to Java by the Marella
are the Phillip William Boveys. The
pair, who were made man and wife two
days before they sailed, intend to stay
for some months in Java. Mrs. Bovey
before her marriage was May Brougham,
of Annandale. Her ’groom’s home
address was Ashfield. The vows were
blessed by Padre C. V. Abram (the
’groom’s brother-in-law) at St. John’s,
Ashfield. The wedding dress was of mag-
nolia satin, the coronet of silver
lame plaited with satin. Bridesmaid Mae
Bradley wore apricot taffeta.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1654 of 1936.
BETWEEN NORMAN CARL EAGLES Peti-
tioner
And PHYLLIS MARJORIE MIRRIAM
EAGLES formerly Phyllis Marjorie Mir-
riam Derwin Respondent.
TO PHYLLIS MARJORIE MIRRIAM
EAGLES late of Number 6 Balfour Street
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said NORMAN
CARL EAGLES has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fourth day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A certified copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 9th day of November, 1936.
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. N. HENDERSON & TAYLOR, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, Woodstock Chambers, 88
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1400 of 1936.
BETWEEN DOROTHY MILDRED MARS-
DEN Petitioner
And ALLAN KEITH MARSDEN Re-
spondent.
TO ALLAN KEITH MARSDEN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
MILDRED MARSDEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fourth day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of November, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1816 of 1936.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH McDONALD Peti-
tioner
And THOMAS VICTOR McDONALD
Respondent.
TO THOMAS VICTOR McDONALD.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
McDONALD has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the fourth day of February
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Sixth day of November, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
No. 4853.
In Divorce.
TO WALTER THOMAS FISHER ROGERS,
formerly of Sydney, Australia, Salesman.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARY
ISABEL ROGERS has filed a petition for
divorce against you in this Court on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards and
that unless you enter an appearance and file
an answer in the said Court at Wellington
within 40 days of the appearance of this adver-
tisement the said petition will be heard and
determined in your absence. A copy of the
citation and petition will be supplied to you
on your applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at Wellington.
DATED at Wellington this 6th day of
November, 1936.
C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing adver-
tisement.
GEORGE CECIL KENT is the solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at
the offices of MESSIEURS KENT & WEBB,
Solicitors, 109. Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote yov
price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
A tremendously successful treasure-
hunt party was organised by Nina
Robertson, who picked up the idea in
the U.S.A. Mrs. George Patterson’s
home was headquarters. Carloads of
people were given orders to search for:
One full bottle of beer made anywhere
but in Victoria ; one tram transfer ticket,
punched; one straw hat; signature of
a waiter at a city pub ; one corset bone ;
1929 silver coin; something soft and
pink; group photograph of all occu-
pants of each car. The hard nut was
the 1929 silver coin. Quantities of cigar-
ettes were bought for change, tills were
ransacked (with permission), the Public
Schools Club turned over £8 worth of
silver, all to no avail, for Miss Robert-
son didn’t know when she picked a date
at random that no Australian silver coins
were minted in 1929. Mervyn Rouse,
whose hobby is collecting coins, man-
aged to produce an English florin of the
required date, making his hunting cob-
bers eligible for the prize of all beer
collected and a toll of 3d. each from
everybody else. Among the seekers were
the Mervyn Rouse, Guy Pleasance, Lind-
say Plant, Charles Alsop and Clive Ross
Fenner couples, Geoff Docker, Max
Glover and the young Nodrums, Eric
and Doodie.
Children’s Week, actually from Thurs-
day till Saturday, took place in the
Lower Town Hall. It was an outcome
of a conference convened by the Citi-
zens’ Education Fellowship and the Vic.
Council for Mental Hygiene, its object
being to bring before the general public
what has been done and what is still
undone regarding child welfare. The
idea was a worthy one, but the exhibits
were disappointing. Children taking part
in displays of dancing, physical culture
and eurhythmies were cramped for lack
of space, and the lectures on the pro-
gramme were all right for adults but
heavy going for youngsters.
The most attractive things in the show
were in the international section, which
included foreign books and posters and
Russian dolls. One book which small
fingers never tired of handling showed
the marionettes of the Petrouchka
Theatre in Moscow. Petrouchka, the
famous doll which has lived in Russian
nursery rhymes for centuries, was, under
the Tsarist regime, an untidy rascal. The
U.S.S.R. has combed the puppet’s hair,
washed its face and cleaned it up gener-
ally. Whether Russian children of to-
day are as devoted to the spick-and-span
toy as their grandparents were to the
ragamuffin is another matter.
An early-afternoon rehearsal made the
International Club’s reception for the
Russian Ballet a hurried affair. It' was
successful nevertheless, owing to the sug-
gestion from Mrs. Herbert Brookes that
the presentation procession should be cut
out and guests introduced separately. As
names were called each dancer stood on
a chair (no flying leaps this time) and
everybody knew who was who. Kir-
sova, wearing her hair in a long, fair
bob, with a little red scarf and a Tyrolean
hat, showed partiality for ginger bis-
cuits and proved herself a fluent lin-
guist. Blinova, like most of the foreign
members of the co., wears her hair long,
and had it curled up in a net on the
nape of her neck. She nibbled cherry
cakes and drank black tea. Raievska,
who possesses layers of long ringlets, is
a vivacious young woman who seems
nervous when she opens a conversation
and almost fluent at the end of it. She
made a great hit with an unintended
parting shot' to an Australian who had
been trying out a few phrases of school-
girl French: “My English it is very bad,
but much better than your French.”
Though punctuality has never been a
leading virtue in Russia, for the Russian
Ballet now with us the clock is a severe
taskmaster. Dancers missing rehearsals
have to pay fines, and lesser fines are
levied for late arrivals. Very different
from the glamor of the performance is
the stage during a rehearsal. The curtain
is down and a piano supplies the only
music. A mouse’s-eye view through piles
of scenery last week showed Leon Woizi-
kowsky directing things in a red pullover
and marking time with “pompom pom
tiddle-om pompom,” Jean Hoyer assist-
ing in impeccable street clothes and the
dancers in practice dress, long black
woollen tights, little tunics or shorts and
sometimes jumpers to keep their shoulders
warm.
All the girls wore bandeaux round
their heads, and some of the men also,
only where the ballerinas used ribbon
the men made calico bandages do for
keeping their hair out of their eyes.
Dancers not taking part in the excerpts
being rehearsed sat about on the floor
or on packing-case or other backstage
oddments. Others practised singly or in
pairs. Kirsova did bending and stretch-
ing exercises at the “barre,” in this case
the piano, which she found convenient
to hang on to. At no time in the morn-
ing was anyone noticed using his or her
“points.” Most dancers find that their
“points” can take care of themselves and
with only a few minutes’ exercise a day
will be reliable for the evening perform-
ance.
Herewith Betty, daughter of the Her-
bert Journeaux pair, who has recently
become engaged to Jim, son of the
Robert Moffats. of Brighton. Miss
Journeaux has a well-filled social en-
gagement book, and she’s good at sport,
having developed a straight eye, a sound
“follow-through” and good lungs for run-
ning during her school days at St.
Catherine’s. Jack Cato made the por-
trait.
Last week many highly-qualified
double-certificated nurses were back
among the worries of exams., being can-
didates at the end of the four months’
course for the Plunket Infant Welfare
certificates. Some papers and practical
tests were set at the Tweddle Hospital.
Among candidates for some of the exams,
were “Primrose” nurses (known in M.L.
as “Karitane”), girls who are not trained
nurses but have had a year’s experience
at infant health work and who, on receiv-
ing their certificates, are considered com-
petent to look after healthy babies or
babies who have been ill and no longer
require medical attention.
Among the most experienced of the
candidates sitting for their third certifi-
cate was Miss Nita D’ray, matron of
the Warburton Sanitarium, Miss D’ray
trained in general nursing at the Hydro,
Wahroonga (N.S.W.), and took her
second certificate in Auckland, which,
although she was born in Sydney, she
regards as her home town ; she was edu-
cated there, and her people have been
living there for many years. Returning
to Wahroonga as chief assistant she be-
came matron a couple of years later.
Before taking up her present job at War-
burton she had two and a half years’
post-graduate study in America, where
she gave particular attention to massage
and dietetics. Her present post entails
a good deal of interesting work in the
Sanitarium’s laboratory. Miss DTay, like
all her staff and her patients, never takes
meat, tea or condiments.
Pictured here by Broothorn is Mrs.
Hugh McCubbin, whose first solo show
was opened by John Longstaff on
Monday at Miss Mac Lean’s Gallery. It’s
an all-portrait show, and as most of
the subjects are children this speaks
volumes for the patience of the artist.
She says that the first 10 minutes of a
child’s first sitting are most important;
but to many young folk 10 minutes is an
impossible time to refrain from fidgets
and wriggles. Most of Mrs. McCubbin’s
portraits of boys are done in black and
white, but colored chalks or pastels have
been introduced into several of the girl
sketches.
People in search of original Christmas
gifts are walking through the green
beauty of Fitzroy Gardens en route for
144 Gipps-street, East Melbourne, where
Madge Freeman has transformed an old
stable into a cheery studio. Miss Free-
man and Elma (to friends, Dina) Roach
are holding an exhibition of craftwork in
French paste and enamel. They do this
work beautifully. Among exhibits are
brooches, clips, buttons, buckles and
other personality ornaments, embossed
boxes, perfume bottles decorated with
paints and enamel, and inlaid woodwork,
notably bookends. Miniature pictures,
wherein the paints are seen through trans-
lucent glaze, are among the small things ;
the largest are decorative wall-pieces,
panel pictures of inlaid woodwork.
Miss Roach, who was born in Mel-
bourne and studied at the Gallery, re-
turned home recently after eight years
of almost continuous travel, with occa-
sional settlings down for the serious
study of painting. In Paris she was a
pupil of Milich. She and Miss Freeman
went to Spain and Corsica together. On
her way home Miss Roach broke her
journey to visit India, where she stayed
in Coimbatore and Mysore and saw a lot
of her friend Mrs. A. H. Mackie, who
was Australian artist Lilian Pentland.
Mrs. Mackie still paints a great deal, and
wins most of the gold and silver medals
offered by art societies in India every
year. Her guest, though she had the best
of intentions, never opened a paintbox
there; she found her holiday too enjoy-
able for serious work.
Among trippers to the Coronation next
year will be Norwegian Consul and
Mrs. Sverre Lie. After the Christmas
holidays their two elder sons will go to
boarding school and Rolf, plus his nurse,
will be installed with Mrs. Lie’s parents,
Phil and Mrs. Jacobs, who are looking
forward to having a baby in their home
once again with more relish than they
had for one part of their own holiday last
year—their journey by ’plane over New
Guinea mountains to visit their daugh-
ter, Mrs. Capie-Thomson, who lives near
Wau. The Consular couple have sold
their home in Hawthorn and are getting
ready to spend the summer at Mount
Martha, where their house is built in
Norwegian style with thatched roof,
peasant-woven rugs and curtains and
bunks in the children’s room built' one
above the other as on board ship.
Postcards from Vienna (time-marked
“before breakfast”) come from Ariel
Seeligson, who on the date of writing had
been six weeks in what she considers the
most beautiful city in the world. Miss
Seeligson, who took her degree of Mus.
Bac. in Melbourne, is a pianist with a
particular aptitude for modern music.
She left Australia early in the year to
study in London. In Vienna she is deep
in an orgy of concerts and opera, gazing
at buildings and paintings, making new
friends, and working so hard git her own
branch of art that she has to get' up with
the lark to attend to her correspondence.
Valerie Purves on her trip abroad had
the bad luck to become ill, and a sojourn
in a nursing home did not result in com-
plete cure. Mrs. Purves had her pass-
port in order and was on the point of
packing her suitcases to go abroad and
take her daughter under her wing when
news came that the patient was on
the point of leaving for home under the
care of a nurse.
Moira Madden, whose last stage ap-
pearance was as a snappy Mademoiselle
in “Joanna,” is to be seen on the screen,
for before Charles Chauvel sailed for
the U.S.A. she signed a contract to ap-
pear in Australian films, and if she does
well will be given a chance in Holly-
wood by Universal Films. Circumstances
might arise in which her thick, dark
fringe will have to be allowed to grow,
but its owner hopes not. She is rather
attached to the distinctive coiffure prop
which she has clung to for several years.
The engagement was announced last
week of Dorothy, only daughter of the
F. J. Foxes, of Ritz Mansions, St. Kilda,
and Ken, son of the late Herbert Lei-
cester, of Wellington, M.L., and Mrs.
Leicester,. Melbourne. Miss Fox, who is
tall, slim and very fair, recently returned
from a holiday tour with her parents to
Java and Singapore and across the
Pacific to America. She and her fiance
met for the first time at the marriage of
Winifred Wales, daughter of our Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, to Lem
Callaway. Their second meeting was at
the christening of the Callaway baby.
The marriage will take place in about a
year’s time.


f
i
\
7
%
Plan Now for Xmas
Gay .. . colourful .. . thrilling .. . spectacular! .. . it’s South
Australia’s 100th birthday party—and what a party! A merry
medley of carefree carnival, stirring pageants, thrilling
sporting events, ’n everything—join in the fun of
Australia’s Greatest Carnival
Dec. 18th to Dec. 31st, 1936
There’s something for you—something for everybody . . Air-races . .
interstate car rally . . big cricket and tennis . . automobile Grand Prix ..
Port Cup race meetings . . motorcycle T.T. races . . Scouts’ Corroboree
. . yachting and rowing regattas . . Nino Borsari in the Cycling Derby . .
and Pageants on Land,Sea and Air
#
m
BOOK
1
BARGAIN RAIL FARES
NOW
i
/
CENTENARY
a
December 17th—Sydney to Adelaide and return.
£8 (First) £6 (Second).
December 18th—Melbourne to Adelaide and return.
£4 (First) £3 (Second).
Above fares are available on dates mentioned only, but holiday
excursion fares to Adelaide may be had from all capitals from
December Ist, 1936, to January Ist, 1937.
FOR FURTHER- DETAILS ask the South Aust. representative at the
Victorian or IN'.S’.W. Government Tourist Bureaux in Melbourne or
Sydney, or write to G. R. Lamprell, S.A. Publicity Officer, c/o
Victorian Government Tourist Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Victor H. Ryan, State Organising Director, S.A. Centenary, Box 664 G,
G.P.0., Adelaide.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ALLEN, FREDERICK ROBERT, age 49 (ex-
A.1.F.), assistant Major Hewitt, of Lever Bros.,
Solomon Islands, 1909, bom Cricklewood,
London, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
will hear something to his advantage. Com-
municate WOOD & ARMSTRONG, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.
INFORMATION WANTED concerning the
nresent whereabouts of the children or descen-
dants of the children of WILLIAM WHITE,
who formerly resided at No. 12 Lochend Close,
Canongate, Edinburgh, Scotland, and who emi-
grated to Australia many years ago. Will any
nerson having information regarding the above
communicate with WILLIAM SHARP, Char-
tered Accountant, 243 West George Street,
Glasgow, Scotland?
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Perth Hospital funds looked a bit
plumper after the dance held on the
Kanimbla. Indirect lighting suffused
rainbow glows over the dancers on B
deck, where floral waterproof break-
winds added their touch of color to the
flowers massed here and there. June
Irvine, radiating pleated eau-de-nil geor-
gettes, gave an exhibition tango with her
partner, and 6PR’s Uncle Peter sang
some ditties. Mrs. S. T. Edwards,
wife of Mcllwraith, McEachern’s Perth
manager, flanked the coatee of her stiff-
ened black nets with voluminous floral
ninon sleeves, and Mrs. Eric Mcllwraith
swished a train of gold lame. Mrs.
Norman Temperley's black lacquer
chiffons were in the presidential chair,
.Secretary Mrs. Percy Howard wrought a
silver design on her pastel-green crepes,
orange organdie frills tumbled about on
Pat Sanderson's turquoise-blue taffetas
and Gloria Grant’s brown and beige
miniature-check georgettes were trimmed
with darker-brown French kilting.
Edith, younger daughter of the F. W.
Barrymores, became Mrs. Hubert Lin-
coln-Lacy at St. Mary’s, South Perth,
Her ivory taffetas, dotted with satin coin
spots and shirred about the low V-neck,
swept in shimmering undulations to the
top of the long train. Overhead swirled
a length of filmy tulle, caught with a
mooring of tiny orange-blossom buds,
The. one attendant, Pauline Phillips, lined
her delphinium-blue delustred satin
with larkspur-pink georgette, carried a
sheaf of delphiniums and larkspurs on
her arm and braided her hair with a
wreath of similar blooms.
The glow from myriads of colored
lights illumined the skyline above Perth
Golf Club for the members’ dance. Sit-
ting-out and supper marquees were
erected on the lawns and a huge log
(ire burned merrily in the dance-room,
for the night was cold. Mrs, C. L. Biles
carried out official duties with brown
and gold flowers pinned to her gold
moire taffetas; Mrs. Vernon Fyfe’s
frilled black velvets were embossed with
blue and silver, and Mrs. Donald Smith
mingled copper-browns and blues in her
silk cloque. Mrs. Stan Brearley slipped
a diamente-decked white lace cape over
black satin, tubes of gold were wound
into motifs on Mrs. Ron Oldham’s gold-
spot pink taffetas and taffeta bands were
ruched on to Peter Smith’s pink-and-
silver crepes.
Bunting and signalling ‘flags were
draped about the Japanese whaling ship
Nisshin Maru when Captain Kantaro
Okamonto entertained a host of people
aboard. There was an inspection of the
vessel, then a demonstration of the use
of the harpoon guns, in which eight
small chasers, after cruising around the
mother ship, smashed a floating box
target to pieces. Tea served on trestle,
tables ornamented with dwarf trees and
an address by the captain on the fleet’s
activities wound up proceedings.
Uni. women gathered at the Karra-
katta Club in honor of Dr. Dorothy
Carroll, just back from England, and
Mrs. Southey, a member of the Vic.
branch of the I.F.U.W. President Molly
Kingston, trim and slim in a brown
tweed suit from which peeped a brown-
and-white-checked silk blouse, sat at the
head of the tea-table with the doctor’s
scarlet-belted navy-and-white suit on one
side and Mrs. Southey’s navy bolero
ensemble on the other.
A continuous stream of invited guests
filed into Susan Watkins’s studio during
her one-day exhibition of camera por-
traits. The young photographer, who
was associated with Dorothy Wilding, of
Old Bond-street, London, for many
years, has acquired the dual art of doing
good work and displaying it to advan-
tage. Her large, airy studio, with its
creamy walls and woodwork and soft
green furnishings, admirably set off the
many exhibits.
After a round of parties, at which she
has been the. honored guest, Kath Loner-
gan set sail for Singapore and marriage
to Len Hughes. The day before leaving
she returned hospitality with an o.s. tea
party at the June Elizabeth, where she
made her adieus in crisp rose-pink linen
topped by a white felt sports hat.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Visiting newspaper delegates were
welcomed by the Lord Mayor in the re-
ception-room at the Town Hall. Keith
Murdoch was at the reception, but his
lady stayed at the home of the J. F.
Downers, Stirling, resting after the trip.
The wives and daughters of delegates
were motored up to Langdon Bony-
thon’s picturesque old country home,
Carminow, at Mount Lofty, where the.
Parsons lady did the honors. In the
evening the whole conference attended
the Tivoli and witnessed the performance
of “Colonel Light—The Founder.”
On the following afternoon the dele-
gates’ womenfolk were driven to Mori-
alta, where they enjoyed afternoon-tea
in the kiosk at the foot of the. waterfalls.
Afterwards they were motored to the
Lloyd Dumas’ home for a cocktail
party, which their menfolk also attended.
In the evening the women of the party
were motored up to the Country Club at
Mount Osmond.
Mrs. Sidney Ayers, gowned in black
georgette, was hostess at a cocktail party
at Eringa, the home of her mother, the
Kidman lady, who is away in Colombo.
The lounge, drawing-room and smoking-
room were all decorated with bowls of
mixed flowers.
The Roman Catholic Congress lun-
cheon at the South Australian was a
most imposing spectacle, as all the
bishops wore scarlet and purple robes
and scarlet mitres.
Joan, daughter of the Sidney Reids,
gave a dance in honor of Sydney guests
Mrs. Clarence Edwards, Joan Edwards
and Kathleen McCathie. About 60
younger folk were invited. Mrs. Reid
looked well in orchid mauve chiffon,
spotted with silver. Joan’s frock of pale
green and gold brocade, was cut on
princess lines. Esme Reid chose a red
taffeta with gold coin-spots. Mrs. C.
Edwards (Sydney) was smartly gowned
in a heavy white silk crepe, and her
daughter Joan wore a pretty floral chiffon
with a coat effect. Miss McCathie. was
frocked in black lace fitting to the figure.
Jewish women have arrived for their
National Council. Mrs. J. Romison, the
oldest member of the Union of Jewish
Women in Dunedin (M.L.), where, she
has lived for 48 years, is accompanied
by her two daughters, Mrs. J. B. Moss
and Mrs. E. Friedlander. They have
travelled by ’plane, ship and motor. Mrs.
Moss is enjoying the sunshine, as it was
snowing in Dunedin when they left.
Geulah Hartstein, the only representative
from Perth, was recently in Palestine,
where she spent three years teaching
English at a school at Patah Tikvah,
near Jaffa. Lord Mayor Cain and his
daughter, the Lady Mayoress, enter-
tained the delegates at morning-tea.
Adelaide Walker entertained about 20
guests at the Wentworth tea-rooms as a
farewell party for her sister, Mrs. P.
John Aird, of Orange, N. S. Wales, who
has been in Adelaide on a three weeks
visit.
Prof. Winifred Cull is returned to
Adelaide after visiting Melbourne, Syd-
ney, Brisbane and M.L., and was the
guest of Dr. Helen Mayo until she left
for Perth to join the London-bound
Orion. His Ex. and Lady Dugan had
her to Government House for lunch.
The engagement has been announced
of Ursula Margaret, elder daughter of
the Bishop of Adelaide and Mrs. Nutter
Thomas, to the Rev. W. C. S. Johnson,
of Colonel Light Gardens. The Bishop’s
younger girl is the wife of a bishop.
TASMANIA.
Bad weather rather spoilt the racijfg
at Mowbray, Launceston, a charity
meeting in aid of the new War Veterans’
Home. Coats, furs and tailored suits
were on, and the season seemed to have
swung back to the middle of winter.
Some of the furs were very nice, though,
and the higher-crowned hats were be-
coming to some of their wearers. Tul-
loch Scott, vice-chairman of the T.T.C.,
did the honors.
The Royal Australian College of Sur-
geons held its corroboree in Tasmania
this year. The president, Dr. R. B.
Wade, accompanied by Dr. F. A.
Maguire, arrived by air, and stayed at
G.H., which led off the social proceed-
ings with a dinner party. Dr. and Mrs.
Frank Fay gave a cocktail party next
day, Dr. Brettingham Moore lunched the
visiting delegates at the Tasmanian Club,
and there were many other parties in
their honor.
The merriest affair was the cocktail
party given at Hadley’s by two bachelor
hosts, Dr. Bruce Hamilton and Dr. B.
Hiller. About 300 guests rolled up, the
flowers used in decoration were superb,
and the day was warm enough for the
women to sport smart and summery
dresses.
The Queen Mary Club celebrated its
birthday with a bridge party. Among
the players were Lady Clark and her
guest Mrs. Stewart Baker, Lady Clark
in georgette of soft blue, with a little
coat. Mrs. Giblin (president of the club)
chose floral navy and white. Mrs.
P. W. H. Clarke (Quorn) and Mrs. Alan
Cameron (Mona Vale) were among coun-
try members present.
The engagement of Peggy Gurney
and Dr. B. Hiller has produced a crop
of parties. Mrs. Gilrney hostessed a
cocktail gathering at Hadley’s in honor
of her new daughter-in-law, Mrs. Derek
Gurney, and for Peggy also. Hubert
Lewis’s dinner party at Hadley’s was
solely in the newly-engaged pair’s honor,
and there are various other shivoos in
the offing.
Major and Mrs. C. R. L. Adams are
flitting, under orders, to N. S. Wales in
the near future. They said their good-
byes at a cheery cocktail party at their
home.
Mrs. Petrie Hay (Dolly Counsel that
was) is once more in Hobart renewing
old friendships. She has been living in
Scotland and in London for many years.
The Barclay twins, with sister Effie,
are off for a trip to Africa, going on to
England afterwards. Mrs. Alex. Mc-
Gregor lunched them at a big party at
the Queen Mary Club.


QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d,
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St
’Phone: BWI2IB
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
Ex-TASMANIANS
Keep in
STATE.
touch with YOUR HOME
. . It is wonderfully depicted in
The Examiner Annual
Order a Copy Now!
From your Newsagent.
1/6
Australian Representatives:
Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.
LEIPZIG
F
IR
Comprising General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, Photo-
graphic, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
The fact that approximately 200,000 buyers
from the five continents travel to Leipzig
twice yearly for their trading requirements
proves the world-wide importance of this
huge market.
Everything new, novel and useful, the products of
8,000 manufacturers from 25 countries, is displayed
at prices that permit very satisfactory resale profits.
You cannot afford to overlook Leipzig in your
merchandising plans.
COMMENCES FEB. 28, 1937.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) available from LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Com-
missioner in Australia for the Trade Fair;
L. MESSEY, Technical Adviser, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney.
C. N. ICEPPEL, - Temple < Court, -422 Collins Street,
G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
11. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shcnton. Park, West Australia.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: The list of professions of
old boys who have found their ways into
that pleasant Moreton Bay haunt of the
aged, Dunwich, stirs reflections on the
evenness with which Fortune distributes
her blows. There are one advertising agent,
one journalist', one bullocky, one steeple-
jack, one dentist, one caretaker, one
drover, one woolbroker, one printer, one
musician, one publican, one woolclasser
and one mining engineer. There are
two interpreters, but a country full of
Customs officers and policemen who can
sling round hunks of Gaelic and Italian
and whatnot must be extra-heavily popu-
lated with interpreters!
* * * *
“Goode Island”: Thursday Island hos-
pital statistics suggest that Binghi must
be free from cancer. One of our local
coloreds died of appendicitis last year,
and another of meningitis. Also, one re-
covered from a “disease”—the hospital
so describes it —called “sharkbite.” But
the nearest things to sarcoma or carci-
noma on the list of ailments are three
non-fatal simple tumors. “Senility” still
seems to be easily the most mortal afflic-
tion of Black Brother; it accounted for
24 p.c. of those who died in 1935. Inci-
dentally, whatever other abos. are dying
out the Torres Strait Islanders are not.
Their birth-rate last year was 35.5 per
1000 and their death-rate only 11.9 per
1000. And Cherbourg Government
Settlement licks our record for births ;
with 901 total population it bred 53
youngsters last year.
“Kaloa”: Latest official report on
Queensland abos. puts their total at only
12,070, males exceeding females by about
1700. Nearly half the number are in super-
vised camps; only 2300 are nomadic,
and of these 477 are children. There are
542:> half-castes, including 2618 females
of all ages ; 2419 of the 5425 are children.
Only 34 abos. were charged with offences
against the law during the year covered
by the report, and their “crimes” were
mainly minor—24 drunks, two for creat-
ing a disturbance, two for assault and
one for resisting arrest. There remained
one charge of murder, two of rape and
two of stealing. Any white community
of 12,000 would not need to be ashamed
of the record of one offence to 355 of
population. Q’land’s general tally for the
same period, exclusive of licensing,
motor and industrial offences, was one
crime or misdemeanor to every 194 of
population.
* * * *
“Handcuff Bill”: One thing I like
about Bananaland is the considerate
way it treats us fellers. When I get set
back a quid or seven days in Sydney for
stepping on a John Hop’s flat feet, I
gotter fork out' a full quid or do me
seven. But up here, blime, under the
new Justices Act Amendment, they’ll
serve you with a shandy. Have I gotter
do me full stretch here an’ miss next
Satterdee’s races, if I don’t want to
part with a whole quid which they land
me on a Monday morning? Not on
your jemmy. All I gotter do is to
say to the Beak: “I’ll take 14 bobs’
worth in lodging and six bob in cash.”
And that lets me out in time for the
gees after a nice, well-fed rest in one of
the best clinks in Australia.
“Mitchell Grass”: The late Tom
Brodie, of Nive Downs, put up a record
for Q’land station managers; he held
the reins on his station for more than
45 years. Managers topping the 30’s
are more or less common —Hamilton of
Portland, Sealy of Barcaldine, Fraser of
Bowen, Gildea of Burenda and others.
A famous Q’land station, Mt. Cornish,
which once covered more country than
any other in the State, with boundaries
which embraced the whole of the water-
sheds of the Barcoo and Thompson and
touched the Diamantina and Flinders,
also put up a record in managements.
During its whole existence until it was
resumed and cut up into duck farms, it
had only two managers—E. R. Edkins
and C. V. Seaton. On other stations
managers have had sudden shifts.
Barkly Downs once had half a dozen or
more in about five years, but that is
not a patch on Avon Downs (Barkly
Tablelands), which once had 19 managers
in 21 years (or 21 in 19. I forget which).
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Just as well that many old-
time New Guinea hands have become
“pigeon-he-walk-about-on-top” that is
to say, angels—otherwise they would
“C’mon, you wasters —keep 'er rollin'!"
assuredly have suffered terribly on learn-
ing of one of the latest of Mandated
ordinances. It is no longer legal to swear
at a New Guinea coon! How anybody
can speak pidgin and not swear is some-
thing no old hand could understand.
Words that were germane to, but not
necessary to, the language of the A.I.F.
are coin-current in remote plantation
drawing-rooms. How is the local house-
wife to discuss broken crockery if she
cannot refer to the pieces as beggar-up
finish? And the old-time “boy” is as
conservative in language as in every-
thing. He will continue to use mighty
swear words, such as soldiers and
pioneers have uttered since the year one,
from Flanders to the Poles. But the flab-
bergasted planter must pretend that he
was brought up in a girls’ school in
Geneva.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Queensland has lately
acquired some new university professors,
and already they are combining with
experts in the south to save us from our-
selves. Dr. H. K. Lee, who was born
hereabouts and should know, says that
life is just as nerve-racking in the
northern capital as it is in Sydney and
Melbourne. With the continual clangor
of our rising bridge, and other Govern-
ment buildings and the excitement pro-
vided by the Golden Brisket it seems to
me more so. Dr. A. H. Martin, of Syd-
ney, who is consulted by dailies on matters
concerning the mind, supports Dr. Lee.
He. has discovered that the great heat
is one of the causes of the exactingness
of a Brisbane existence and “economic
stress” —we have the highest basic wage
and the lowest cost of living and least
unemployment in the Commonwealth,
according to our politicians—is “no re-
specter of persons or localities.” The
doctor suggests the establishment' of
“worry clinics” as a means of checking
incipient insanity. As a suitable location,
what about the vestibule of the Taxation
Office or next to that temple whose motto
is “Follow Lucky Joe”?
4* *i* *!* 'i*
“Gain”: One of the curses of the
tropics is the tropical ulcer. Not a nice
disease, it rages in all countries between
35 north and 10 south, though New
Guinea has more than a fair share ; it
is nothing for 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. of a
plantation staff to be off with it. Investi-
gating in Manus, W. J. Clements has
ascertained that the natives there
divide into taro eaters and sago
eaters, and that the latter almost
monopolise the infection ;
lack of certain vitamins,
it seems, is the cause. /
Also, infection is largely transmitted
through gentlemen with infected gums
failing to miss their fellow-men when
they expectorate.
* * * *
“Bitter Springs”: A. M. Blain, the
N.T. M.P., is holding his Territory
dinner in Sydney on November 27 at
Usher’s. Leading food providers of the
southern capitals have been invited,
along with the presidents of such bodies
as the Manufacturers’ Association. The
food, which will include barramundi,
turtle soup, buffalo tongues and fruit,
will, together with the floral decorations,
be brought from Darwin packed in dry
ice. The Federated Wine and Spirit
Merchants’ Associations are co-operating
to serve Australian wines. The feast
may be repeated in London and Paris
during Coronation year as an advertise-
ment for the North.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The weather at the Queensland Cup
meeting was distressingly hot, but there
was compensation in the display of
“shimmery” gowns it brought out. White
was the order of the day, and there was
a sprinkling of “tiger-shooters,” worn
with white linen modes. The. absence of
the Governor and his lady was unusual;
both are keen on the sport. The Gov-
ernor, however, was performing the open-
ing ceremony at the. annual fete at Mont-
rose to aid crippled children, and doing
his bit also to help along the Bush
Children’s Health Scheme.
Dr. J. O. Walsh flew from Grafton to
take his newly-engaged fiancee, Molly
McPherson, to the Derby. Her white
romaine frock featured the. newest puffed
sleeves, two bodice pockets, one reveal-
ing a flap of red and blue, and a picture
hat of white. The wedding bells wili
ring in April.
Now that Court mourning is over, the
Governor and Lady Wilson are enter-
taining freely. Gertrude Drayton, from
London, has been their guest. Lady
Wilson is president of the Victoria
League in Queensland, and Miss Dray-
ton has been general secretary of the
League in London for the past 20 years.
Miss Drayton has been feted lavishly, the
most important affair a garden party at
Government House in her honor.
The Arts and Crafts Society, now a
quarter of a century old, had its section
of the Queen-street A.M.P. building gay
with flowers for the opening of its exhibi-
, .
tion. Lady Wilson did the job nicely in
black and white with black straw hat.
The Lady Mayoress came along in a
frock of black crepe de Chine, pin-
spotted in white, and hat of black pol-
ished straw partly turned up.
St. John’s Church of England was
chosen for the wedding of one of our
prettiest society girls, when Joan Har-
court Perry was. married to Henry Hunter
White. The bridegroom belongs to Tal-
bragar (N.S.W.) and is the youngest son
of the Hunter Whites, St. Brigid’s,
Double Bay, Sydney. The bride is a
daughter of the Arthur H. Perrys, Nar-
bethong, Ascot; the family is now in its
fourth generation here,
Novel decorations in the form of an
ice-cream radio set, floodlit, and a color
scheme in wedding cakes—one of blue
was decorated with miniature gold
cricket bats, out of compliment to the
bridegroom, who is well-known in sport-
ing circles—were features at the recep-
tion following the wedding of Thelma
Brunckhurst and Arthur Crammond. The
Rev. P. W. Pearson tied the knot at the
Ann-street Presbyterian kirk.


m
SShN '■
1 :
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “BABY GRAND” All -wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send jor Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
X.S.YV. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
IVlullard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
G'nr. Wharf & Queen Sts., Brisbane.
V!
I
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.AV.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. AH tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
JPJEIiTAGRID SIX,
±'o/7/ 6.
n
s. W,
#6l
1 ©
Ms®
i* i?!v
( i - -S f
’. \t§®sP?s£s
<•>
> :r #'
•,r ..: f
PALEC”VALVETESTER
A.C. PORTABLE TYPE:
Test s all standard valves. English and
Octode types. Subjects each element of A
HOT valve to a micro leak
test. Portable type,
as illustrated
£ll/10/-
£l3/10/-
Counter type
D.C. BATTERY MODEL
Tests all D C. Valves, requiring only to be
connected to a 6-volt accumulator. Has
element short test. Three ranges of volts,
0-3.5, 7 and 70 volts, for battery check-
ing; also external resistance range, 0-
250,000 ohms.
Complete with lid
£l2/10/
All Prices Subject to Tax.
Write for descriptive catalogue.
Available at leading wholesalers,
Paton Electrical Instrument Co.,
90 Victoria Street, Ashfield.
THE HOME WORKSHOP
INCORPORATING
RADIO NEWS
WORKSHOP CONSIDERATIONS.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
Time generally has considerable bear-
ing upon any job contemplated by the
home handyman, who from necessity
must do his work at odd moments,
Therefore it is well to have the workshop
organised so that any job can be picked
up and left off with a minimum of in-
convenience. Everything should be
placed in its relative position, with tools
handy to the bench.
One example of a combined home and radio workshop.
Light is important. Windows should
be so arranged that the glass goes well
up and most light comes from above the
bench.
The bench should be placed near a
window to give the best of natural light-
ing. To save space,' it can be placed
against the wall in which a window is
set, but in such a way that it can be
moved out to allow a job to be tackled
from both sides.
Since much work is done at night the
best of artificial lighting is required. A
central point over the bench and another
convenient for a wandering lead will be
found sufficient for most purposes. The
writer has found when working at night
that a green eyeshade considerably re-
duces strain.
Standard-sized doors are usually the
rule of sheds, but when building a new
workshop it is wise to have door space
large enough for the exit of big work.
The best position for tools is just be-
hind the bench, where they can be taken
up merely by turning round. An upright
tool-shelf is most suitable, as the tools
arc available immediately the drawers
are opened ; but arrangements of shelves.
leather bands, hooks and so on will
quickly be devised by the home builder
to meet individual requirements,
Many workshops have concrete doors ;
these should be avoided if possible, since
with such floors tools get damaged when
they fall from the bench. With a con-
crete floor a good plan is to cover with
malthoid right around the bench, or put
down a wooden cover.
The accessibility of screws, bolts and
nails is almost as important as the posi-
tion of tool-shelves. Provision is often
made for holding these in a drawer of
the bench. The writer prefers to keep
the bench free of drawers, which often
become an obstruction. Shelves adjacent
lo the tool-shelf are convenient for such
accessories. A movable tray holding
nails, etc., is handy; one that can be
carried round when a job is to be done
away from the workshop. The tray
should be provided with a cover in sec-
tions in order to avoid rust.
The stock of screws and nails should
always be kept up, and it is wise to
have a standard in sizes and gauges.
Always have at hand a packet of each
of the following sizes of screws: |in.'
5, lin. 6, Hin. 8, lfin. 9,2 in. 10, 2|in.
10 and 3in. 10. A few larger screws up
to 4in., which can be bought by the
dozen, are very useful at times. Screws
that are not in packets should be kept
well covered or wrapped in grease paper
to avoid rust.
Small brads and smaller screws are
not always conveniently left in packets
in which they are purchased, so arrange
a supply of tins, which for a neat job
should be of the same size and shape.
Label each so that, when something is
wanted, there is no necessity to search
for the right tin. ft is a good plan to
build a tray divided into compartments
for nails, screws and other small odd-
ments.
A good position for paint, brushes,
etc., is at the end away from the door ;
shelving can be erected with sufficient
room to carry all supplies. It is inadvis-
able to have half-empty paint tins. If a
large tin has been only half-used, empty
the contents into a smaller tin. With
only a small air space above the paint,
deterioration will be slower.
When filling fresh tins, press the lid
down as tight as possible ; the paint will
then run into and fill the air cracks.
Paint a patch of color on the outside to
indicate the contents; and indicate the
maker and the number on the color-card,
so that there will be no confusion when
renewing the supplies.
Stock, also, bottles containing methy-
lated spirit, raw and boiled linseed oil,
turpentine and kerosene.
Another arrangement of tins should
hold items such as resin, beeswax, glue,
whiting and such dried colors as burnt
sienna, yellow ochre and burnt umber
for - matching.
In all workshops
there is usually a
multifarious collec-
tion of articles
which defy at-
tempts at system-
atic arrangement.
It is advisable not
to have wide
boards for shelv-
ing, lest such small
items become hid-
den behind larger ones. Six-inch floor-
ing boards are about right for shelves.
A problem in most workshops is the
disposal of odd lengths of timber and
ladders ; the latter might be hung along
walls. With a gabled roof, it is com-
paratively simple to store timber in the
tie beams ; but the ideal method is to
have an outside covered rack into which
A handy form of rack for storing small
tools.
long lengths of timber can be placed.
Short lengths can find space in a corner
of the shed.
D.N.L.
Radio Workshop Wrinkles.
V/hen stripping windings off burnt-out
power transformers it is often worth
while to go right down to the core and
salvage the original former. If the
primary is of no use and time is short,
the unwanted wire may be quickly re-
moved by running a hacksaw across the
windings a few times and pulling away
the cut layers.
Methylated spirit used for removing
the odd pieces of broken glass from valve
bases and loosening the cement becomes
discolored, but is quite good for further
dissolving jobs, and should be replaced
in a bottle, excluding large sediment.
When valve bases are being removed
it is better to drill out the pins than to
sweat them out, since the drilling leaves
slight traces of solder round, the tips.
When the bases are to be used for plugs
or coils, solder “takes” readily owing to
the traces of original solder left behind.
An old clock mechanism can, at a
pinch, be harnessed to the job of rev.
counting when winding chokes and trans-
formers on a lathe not fitted with such
a device. It will usually be found that
a short length of brass or other rod will
suffice to connect the minute-hand shaft
with the chuck or chuck-gear. With the
mainspring and regulator gear removed,
the hands will revolve freely. It only
remains to mount the clock-case in such
a way as to prevent it from moving
while the lathe is in operation and the
makeshift rev.-counter is in service. If
a mechanism can be secured in which the
drive may be taken to a secondhand, the
usefulness of the counter will be in-
creased, since the total capacity of the
dial (one revolution of the hour-hand)
ẁ
R.H.A.
Tap Wrench.
A cheap and effective wrench for
small taps can be made from a £im nut
and two yin. bolts of suitable length. Ihe
nut is drilled through the centre to re-
move the thread and then drilled through
two opposite sides with a 13-64ths drill.
These holes are tapped Whitworth.
One of the two bolts has the head
removed and also part of the thread,
enough of which is maintained to screw
the bolt through the side of the nut.
The other bolt has the head cut
down to a square, and has enough
thread to allow adjustment for various
sized taps.
J.B.T.
Seen at Olympia, 1936.
At Radiolympia, public attention is held
by genuine advancements in the internal
design of receivers and associated com-
ponents. John and Jean Public are not
content to gaze wide-eyed at a tombstone
array of polished cabinets.
Generally speaking, chassis design in
England differs from Australian methods.
There is great variety. A notable case
is the EKCO AC97 receiver, designed
along rack and panel lines. The receiver
chassis is in an upper deck above the
power-supply unit, which is thus kept
well clear of R.F. circuits.
As usual, the portable receiver had a
good run at Radiolympia, and that raises


w
ŵ
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
For Local or Overseas programmes there is a
Radiotron to suit every requirement. Built to the highest
standards their world-wide reputation for better perform-
ance and longer life is your guarantee of satisfaction.
RADIQTRONS
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
the question why in this country of sun-
loving people portables are not more
popular. Probably trade production ideas
are mainly responsible.
Modern portables would almost
certainly find a ready market in Aus-
tralia. The requisite is lightweight, com-
pact, efficient and inexpensive job.
Television receivers were naturally a
source of great interest at the London
show, and models were shown by Pye,
Halcyon, G.E.C., Philips, H.M.V. and
Ferranti. In distinct contrast to all the
others was the EKCO-Scophony receiver,
which uses no cathode-ray tube. The
picture size is 16in. by 12in., and the
H.T. supply is only a few hundred volts
against 1000 volts or so needed for the
C.R. receivers. Mirror drums of remark-
ably small dimension are used for scan-
ning, and the light source is an ordinary
75-watt lamp modulated by a special
cell. The latter is a light valve consist-
ing of a quartz crystal in contact with
liquid. The name “Scophony” is greatly
in prominence in British television affairs,
the transmission system under this name
being reported by reliable correspondents
to be far in advance of others.
New components for radio were shown
by the thousand, and makers of all kinds
of attractive short-wave accessories took
stand space, Throughout the history of
radio development in Britain, the parts
business for the home constructor has
been well looked after, and because the
material is on hand and prices are
reasonable home construction thrives.
There can be no question but that
Radiolympia gets bigger and better each
year.
D.B.K.
High Power for Ultra-highs.
An example of the indirect outcome
of amateur experiments is this “grown
up” long-lines transmitter for ultra-high
frequencies. “Electronics” (U.S.A.) de-
scribes this 40 kilowatt 60 megacycle
transmitter, and observes that the engi-
neers have turned plumbers. The trans-
mitter achieves stability equal to crystal
control by the use of temperature com-
pensated concentric lines. It uses con-
ventional water-cooled tubes, of which
five are visible.
Amateur-radio Chatter.
Following is an extract from “QST’s”
current issue:
Read and take warning! The amateur
operator license of W. H. Schuck, Los
Angeles, California,'was suspended by the
F.C.C. for the period 15/9/’36 to and in-
cluding 30/1/’3B, because he “transmitted
profane language by radio, maliciously in-
terfered with police radio communication,
failed to maintain a log of operation,
operated an amateur radio station on an
unauthorised frequency and permitted the
operation of the station by an unlicensed
operator.”
With general listeners combing ama-
teur bands per d.-w. receivers, the first
reason alone would be ample warrant
for the sentence. In Australia both the
department and assisting vigilance men
are keeping ears full open for similar
abuses.
VK2NO.
New Empire Stations.
The race for world supremacy in short-
wave transmission started by Germany
is getting keener. The 8.8. C. announces
that it intends to erect four new short-
wave stations so as to have world-wide
coverage for the Empire programmes.
These stations will be of high power,
and it is anticipated that the cost will be
nearly £lOO,OOO per station. Recently
Empire listeners have been complaining
about the terrific power of the German
and Russian transmitters which put out
propaganda programmes with great per-
sistency. New 8.8. C. stations with
beamed aerials should give unrivalled
service for almost 24 hours a day.
Radio Comment.
“Ganwi”: The first British “running
commentary” by television was de-
livered at the initial television demon-
strations from Alexandra Palace, London,
by Cecil Lewis, well known to early-day
2LO listeners as “Uncle Caractacus.”
Lewis, who was an R.F.C. pilot during
1914-18, recently wrote a book condemn-
ing war, Sagittarius Rising.
a: a= -r *
“Damocles”: Four hundred and fifty-
eight pounds in one day was the total
of fines imposed by a magistrate in
Broken Hill (N.S.W.), following a radio
inspector’s nosing-out of unlicensed radio
receivers in the district, and 85 more
cases are to be heard. Reminds me of
an experience in north-west N.S.W.,
where I was part-owner of a small B
station some
years ago. Letters
from the district
in answer to an
a n n o u n cement
numbered over
1000. I asked
the local post-
master how many
licenses had been
issued through
his office. The
number was
under 200!
* *
“Veekay”: Two
men set out in
a motor skiff
from Lord Howe
Island for Syd-
ney, and were
heard of no
more. Another
party left Sydney
in a launch for Lord Howe Island. After
some days friends became anxious and
the R.A.A.F. and Navy were approached
to do “all within their power” to
find the missing seafarers. A lot of
anxiety and expense could be saved if
people undertaking such trips were com-
pelled to equip themselves with the
“flea-power” battery-operated portable
transmitters with which amateurs are
able to communicate with almost any
part of the world.
* * =:• *
Radio licenses for the Commonwealth
on 30/9/’36 totalled 860,829. Experi-
menters numbered 1602.
“Ganwi”: An idea for the deaf. A
British concern has marketed an arm-
chair in which the deaf can hear. To
outward appearances it is just an ordi-
nary cosy chair, but its microphone
qualities can be enjoyed by anyone sit-
ting down quite naturally and leaning
back.
* * * *
“P.R.W.”: A recent mail brought me
a letter from a German amateur in his
own language. I grubbed through glos-
saries to discover its meaning. Then a
timely visitor came to my assistance,
Phrase by phrase we rendered the Ger-
man into English. Only the last line
remained. It read “VY73.” “That,”
said my friend, “is evidently the callsign
of his station.” “They are ham abbre-
viations,” I explained. “ ‘VY’ means
‘very,’ ‘73’ ‘best regards.’ ” “How in-
teresting! Are there any others?” “Oh,
yes, lots. For example, there is ‘BB.’
That signifies a more advanced state of
feeling. ‘Love and kisses.’ ” “Dear me,
and what does ‘99’ stand for?” “It
doesn’t go any further than ‘BB,’ ” I said
firmly.
What’s What in Radio.
The British Government has an-
nounced that direct advertising and spon-
sored programmes in radio broadcasting
and television will be forbidden for 10
years to come. But Governments seldom
last that long.
Russia is not neglecting television. A
lOkw. ultra-short-wave transmitter is in
process of erection in Moscow, and a
Russian factory is stated to have
assembled 2000 television receivers in
anticipation of a regular service in 1937.
From many parts of the world, Amal-
gamated Wireless (A’asia), Ltd., receives
reports of the efficiency of the VK2ME
short-wave broadcasting service. A
letter from a tea garden in Halgranoya,
Ceylon, 5000 feet above sea level, con-
veys congratulations from H. C. Paleison
on the clarity and strength of VK2ME’s
programme recently. Reception was so
good that the listener expected to find
he had been listening to Java instead of
Australia. “You came in with extra-
ordinary strength, very clear and quite
free of any background,” he wrote.
* * * *
Latest idea in French railways is head-
phones attached to seats so that pas ;
sengers can listen to a commentator who,
from a special compartment in the front
portion of the train, points out passing
objects of interest.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
The price of the Tasma model 310
battery dual-wave superhet (B.
28/10/’36) in the Coronation series of
cabinet is £3l 155., not £25 15s. as stated.
sk ❖
Graph paper is a useful commodity
for those with occasion to make fre-
quency or selectivity curves, and the
A.W.A. Valve Co. has made available
to Bulletin readers pads of six-cycle log
paper. The usefulness of these, will be
apparent on examination. Tliey are
obtainable from A.W.A. Valve Co.,
York-street, Sydney, free. Country appli-
cants should include 3d. postage,
xhe f actory b ’ eing erected by the Ever-
Ready Co (Australia), manufacturers of
dry cells and batteries, at Rosebery,
Sydney, will comprise three floors giving
a total of 80,000 sq. ft. of floor space.
Provision is being made for the addition
of a fourth floor when required. The
cost of building and equipment will ex-
ceed £50,000, a striking testimony to the
co.’s confidence in the continued growth
of the dry-battery industry. The new
building has been designed with a view
to adding a further wing, which, together
with the additional floor, will give a
140 per cent, increase on the initial floor
space of 80,000 sq. ft. The radio B
battery section of the factory output is
growing more rapidly perhaps than any
other, the erection of more and more
country broadcast stations having en-
larged the field of prospective set owners
to a tremendous degree and led to an
unparalleled demand for B batteries. In
planning the new factory, special con-
sideration has been given to the health
and comfort of the 400-odd employees,
for whom, among many other conveni-
ences, hot and cold showers will be'
available, and a fully equipped hospital
in charge of a qualified nursing sister.
A large restaurant on the second floor
with seating accommodation for 300 will
have a congenial outlook on to a city
park. Research laboratories will include
a special test room with conditioned air,
and equipped with every facility to en-
sure the production of dry batteries n
Australia at least the equal of any
similar product anywhere in the world.
Radio Question Box.
Address of manufacturers of Radiokes parts?
—495.
Radiokes, Ltd., Tracy House, Cleveland-
street, Redfern, N.S.W.
* :!c *
(1) Have been engaged as a radio technician
for 15 years. How do 1 go about becoming
a member of the Institute of Radio Engineers
(Aust.)? (2) What recognition would M.I.R.E.
(Aust.) receive overseas? —496.
0) Write to the secretary, I.R.E. (Aust.),
Lisgar House, Carrington-street. Sydney, for
details. (2) Quite on a par with the overseas
institutions.
(1) Name of book enabling a layman to grasp
clearly the principles of wireless? (2) Any
courses of training at reasonable cost ? —497.
(1) The Book of Practical Radio, by Scott-
Taggart (Angus and Robertson, Sydney). (2)
Try Australian Radio College, Broadway, or
Australian School of Radio Engineering, Wemb-
ley House, Railway-square—both Sydney.
* * * *
(1) I have a one-valve Reinartz, using a
PMIHL, with 45 volts on the plate. Local
station 4CA comes in well day or night, and
I receive 4QG, 4BK or 4BH at good strength
at night. Would 90 volts increase volume ?
(2) Would a series aerial condenser help? —493.
(1) Possibly, but it may be worth while to try
other valves. (2) Depends on the length and
efficiency of the aerial.


Be.
W£
B<>
M
Be
£
A Gauge is
useless unless accurate
- worse ; ifls misleading
ẃ
Accurate recording is the duty of a tyre gauge.
There is one gauge you can always depend on—
the KISMET. Behind its manufacture is 40
years’ experience in pneumatic engineering. It
is made by craftsmen in Sheffield, England, and
every gauge is subjected to five major tests
during production to ensure accuracy.
Handsomely finished and clearly numbered in
individual lib. units on wide, flat surfaces.
Complete in neat leather wallet.
lest your lyres with a
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & RROS., LTD.,
Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
!E
JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware Street, Melbourne, C.l.
«SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE (/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RA Y3ESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
The Steering Column.
Road-signs in Maoriland.
“Ray d’Ater”: Bradley, K.C., president
of the R.A.C.A., recently returned from
Maoriland much impressed with M.L.’s
signposts for motorists. There one sees
this sort of thing on signposts: “Five-
mile test for speedometers.” The five
succeeding miles are duly marked, and
at the end of the fifth another sign inti-
mates: “Speedometer test concluded.”
Another type of sign foreign to most
Australians is the “Local Restriction.”
These signs, bearing the name of the dis-
trict automobile club, provide for various
speeds, according to local opinion. When
the “local restriction” ceases to operate
a further notice acquaints the motorist
of the fact.
Several years ago, when undergoing a
driving test in New Plymouth, I received
a solemn warning from the traffic inspec-
tor —not a policeman, be it noted —that
the speed limit in the town was 15 m.p.h.,
but in the country 25 was permitted!
The Maoriland driver’s license is nearly
foolproof. On the printed form, 3|in. by
sin. (supplied in a pasteboard folder), age,
height, coloring, etc., of the licensee are
ignored. Instead it bears the licensee’s
name, address and occupation, together
with his signature signed before the issu-
ing inspector.
Repair Shop Notes.
It is often difficult to see timing marks
on a flywheel when checking ignition
timing with a light. While, the engine is
running, put a chalk mark on the timing
mark and paint the flywheel with lamp-
black for two or three inches on either
side of the mark.
* * * *
As some 1936 cars have no pro-
vision for the use of a starting handle, if
it is desired to turn the engine slowly
to check valve timing or spark timing,
put the car into top gear and roll it.
Another method is to drop the flywheel
housing lower-half and turn the flywheel
by hand.
Shielding Ignition.
The illustration shows the method
adopted by a car radio enthusiast in
U.S.A. to minimise ignition interference
from spark plugs, without fitting sup-
pressor resistors. It may appear in-
convenient, but only on rare occasions
is access to plugs for changing or clean-
ing needed. Such shielding cans could
be made of spun aluminium with a tight-
fitting cap. Removal of the latter will
permit easy access to the plug with a
box-spanner, provided there is ample
clearance between the plug and the in-
side of the can.
Car Radio Noises.
According to Chrysler’s radio experts,
in some cases where the interior of a car
is upholstered and trimmed with leather
or artificial leather there is more radio-
inductive interference from the ignition
system than when cloth upholstery is
used. The reason is that static electricity
can be generated by the friction of the
occupants’ clothing on the leather. Such
interference will be most noticeable dur-
ing dry, cool weather. To eliminate, com-
pletely screen the aerial lead-in for almost
the entire length—from a point about
3in. from where it leaves the agrial
proper. A low-capacity shielded con-
ductor should be used ; one of a type in
which the inner wire is spaced from the
external sheathing by several layers of
wax-impregnated cotton braid.
When Taking the Family.
According to a writer in “Practical
Motorist,” when children have, to be
taken on long journeys, it is best to reserve
the front passengers’ seat for the youngest
member of the family, as the motion of
the car is less pronounced there than in
Car seat for a child. This can be quickly
fitted and folded up when not wanted.
the rear. This is particularly so in cars
where the rear seating is directly over
the back axle, in which case a good plan,
if space permits, is to fix a child’s seat
immediately behind the front seats and
forward of the rear seats, so that the
child sits between the
knees of the rear pas-
sengers, in a central
position.
If such seats are not
obtainable in Australia
any handyman should
be able to make them.
They can be made of
wood, though alu-
minium sheet and angle
lengths would be better.
Things to guard against:
are sharp edges that a
child might get hurt
on, or places where
fingers can be trapped.
Tops of sides and sup-
ports should have a padded covering of
imitation leather or similar material.
Straps can be fitted so that a small child
can be securely kept in position.
Platinum-point Plug.
The makers of K.L.G. sparking plugs
have produced a new type of plug hav-
ing a platinum-pointed central electrode.
Though platinum is a very precious metal,
the plug is not much dearer than the ordi-
nary types. Being practically immune
to heat and corrosion, the point will
not wear away in service, so that any
change in gap setting will be due to the
wearing of the earth electrode. It is
stated that a lower voltage is required
for a given width of gap with the
platinum point. In consequence with
a normal gap the strain on the high-
tension circuit is lessened, or, for the
same amount of strain, a wider gap can
be employed to obtain increased fuel
economy and smoother running at low
speeds.
The Round-Australia Contest.
“Zedo”: Reports appearing in Queens-
land papers suggest misunderstandings
about the round-Australia motor contest,
which is to be held in May-June, 1938.
The route taken by a private party and
accepted by the press as the route is not
the official one. The northern course
approved by the executive at its last
meeting goes via Rockhampton, Towns-
ville, Cloncurry, Mt. Isa, Newcastle
Waters; thence to Darwin along the
O.T. line, back to Katherine ; thence to
Wyndham; thence by the Hall Creek
route to the coast; thence to Meeka-
tharra and from there back to the coast
at Geraldton. It is on the cards that
both Townsville and Rockhampton will
be official starting points.
The Value of Safety Lanes.
Although most drivers can determine
when brakes, headlights or other vital
units of the car have become totally in-
efficient, there is an increasing number
of the newer school of motorists who
through lack of experience fail to ob-
serve a steady falling off from normal
performance, the result being that in an
emergency the vehicle is involved in a
more or less serious accident.
In cities particularly, inexperience is
no valid excuse for operating a car which
is unsafe in any respect, as safety lanes
are available where, for the expenditure
of a few shillings, every performance
feature and adjustment can be accurately
checked and reported upon.
As an illustration of the number of
defective vehicles which are in use to-day
an examination of 4675 cars during one
week in St. Louis (U.S.A.) revealed the
disturbing fact that 60 per cent, required
some immediate and necessary adjust-
ment if the machines were to be classified
as safe.
Defective brakes were detected on 40
p.c., 29 p.c. had badly-adjusted head-
lights, 22 p.c. suffered from improper
wheel alignment and 9 p.c. had faulty
horns, tail-lights and rear-vision mirrois.
No car examined was more than thiee
years old.
Petrol Economy Rules.
These rules have been issued for the
guidance of Pontiac owners, but they
are generally applicable: Accelerate
gently, steadily. Tramping on the accel-
erator pumps more mixture into the
cylinders than can be used. Staying in
second gear until high speed is attained
may easily double the fuel used in get-
ting under way. Always try to coast to
a gradual stop. Rushing up to a stop-
To prevent the choking of a
petrol pipe from the tank, re-
move the cut-off and elbow con-
nection from the bottom of the
tank. With a 5-16 in. drill make
a hole Yin. deep in the top of
the connection, and solder therein
a piece of copper tubing. Cut
off the tubing with a length
about. ¼in. projecting. Sediment
will collect around this and will
not pass into the pipe-line.
In the overhauling of old-type
engines mistakes in connecting
ignition wires may be avoided by
filing slots corresponding to cylin-
der numbers on brass terminals.
light and then jambing on the brakes
costs petrol money. Keep tyres prop-
erly inflated. Under-inflation means
extra work for the engine and more
petrol. Letting the engine idle for long
periods hastens the return to the pump
for another fill. Faulty spark-plugs may
waste as much as 10 p.c. of the petrol.
Have them tested occasionally. Keep
the car properly lubricated at all times.
This applies also to crankcase lubrica-
tion. An overheated engine uses more
petrol. For constant engine temperature


fhampions clear the way For.
ir' ECONOMICAL MOTORING/
iMI
iii
[HAHPIC
Good sparking plugs, in good condition,
are the vital link between good fuel and
good engine performance. Champion
Sparking Plugs give intense sparks that
explode the full charge instantly.
No wasted fuel. For greatest
economy install new Champions
once every year.
IK
FUEL
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
AN EMPIRE PRODUCT •
MADE IN WINDSOR. CANADA
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
<357-// wa4 horn
936 -jeej {‘(demanded
■/
OIL
„fso| o VURf
'^SWNH
NEPTUNE OIL CO.LIMITED
ALL STATES
—lt is VEEDOL
world's finest Motor
and costs no more.
the
Oil,
V 26
keep the radiator filled to the proper
level. Have the engine tuned up at least
every 5000 miles.
Motor Oddities.
“Eureka”: Twelve miles from town
and without any sump oil, a South Coast
(N.S.W.) farmer, by draining sundry
bottles, made up about half a gallon,
sufficient to see the trip out. The emer-
gency oil was a mixture of castor, olive,
goanna and linseed. No damage was
done to the engine.
V V
“Bogaduck”: I came across a curious
relic of the days of the model T Fords.
Near the western Vic. homestead is
a small hill, with the garage on the top,
a steep track leading down to the road.
The present owner explained: “My old
dad was an impatient sort of chap, and
he hated going through that business of
jacking up one of the back wheels and
straining your internals to get the old
Ford started on a cold morning, so he
had the garage built up there. When he
came home he would back the car up
the slope into the shed and then chock
the wheels; when he wanted to drive
off again he would kick the chock away,
jump into the driving seat and put the
pedal into neutral, and the old Lizzie
would freewheel down the hill. As soon
as she was going fast enough he would
take his foot off the pedal, there would
be a few coughs, a bang or two and then
the engine would come to life.”
* * * *
“Road Slugger”: Dad filling Lizzie’s
front tyre with swollen wheat (B.
16/9/’36) showed resource all right, but
wheat isn’t always available. Fifty miles
from the nearest tyre depot one of baby’s
front tubes gave up the ghost. Filled
cover with stinkweed from a railway cut-
ting ; it being the only herbage available
at that midnight hour. Ten miles further
on, the stinkweed having crushed flat,
we filled the cavity with swordgrass.
again the only filler to be had. That
carried us to a new tube. But the 10,000
lacerations from the swordgrass, together
with the rubbery sap and dirt from the
stinkweed, put my hands out of action
for a fortnight.
* * * *
'Liz”: What tough jobs those old-time
Fords were! Here in Kempsey (N.S.W.)
a. 1916 model went smoothly along as an
exhibit in the town’s recent centenary
procession. Any Friday—the town’s big
day of the week —many cockies drive in
from distant selections in Fords almost
equally ancient, and “wouldn’t swap ’em
for a Rolls.” Chaps who go fishing in
places the roads, or even bush tracks,
don’t go to mostly do it by aged Ford,
not only because wear and tear are heavy
but because they know the old-timer will
get them there —and back. If the new
Fords, which have become so tony in
appearance, have anything like the same
stuff under their polish they must be
great cars.
Auto Comment.
In Scarborough, England, the cor-
poration controls eight parking centres,
placed conveniently for the gardens on
north and south shores, the railway
station, main drive, open-air theatre, etc.
Charge is 6d. per day per car. With the
ticket one can move from one car park
to another without further charge.
* ❖ *
“Trail-it”: Caravans are increasingly
popular in U.S.A. The Pierce-Arrow
organisation has turned its activities to
catering for this class of travel.
* * # *
'‘Scrap’’: Three lads were sentenced
to gaol for stealing five gallons of oil,
a sledge-hammer and a car rug. Their
plea was that, having an old car, they
wished to start up in business as car-
wreckers !
Germany continues efforts to make
herself independent of outside sources
of petrol. The latest move is a reliability
trial for motor trucks operated on pro-
“ Don't care if yours IS air-conditioned; y' cant touch mine for comfort.”
ducer gas. The 16,000 miles route will
include some hilly country, with grades
up to 1-5. The daily travel during the
trial will range from 200 to 230 miles.
Use of stock engines or of power plants
of special design is optional, but the
contest is limited to locally-built vehicles
of 3j-4 ton capacity and 6-6 f ton
capacity, and capable of hauling trailers
of similar payload capacities. Only solid
fuels produced in specified German coal
districts may be used. The prizes, total-
ling £10,400 (£5OOO first prize), are the
largest ever offered by any nation to
further the development of motor trucks.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
w
from bottom to axle. If spring retains correct
camber it will be necessary to have front-end
alignment checked on special machine.
R.M. (Nanango, Q.). —Could a 2\-h.p. farm
engine be run on suction gas, and would there
be a saving in fuel cost ?
Yes to both questions, but in such a small
unit the cost of construction and conversion
would be too great to warrant changing from
standard equipment.
* * *
P.P. (Brisbane, Q.).—Has the ’36 Ford P'B
an oil filter as standard equipment ? If so,
where is it? How could a cartridge-type ex-
ternal filter be fitted?
Gauze filter is incorporated outside the gear
pump but inside the pump housing. , External
filter would entail drilling block and consider-
able fitting to be certain of even pressure.
t * * * *
T.N. (Bathurst, N.S.W.). —I have lately taken
delivery of a ’36 model six-cylinder sedan,
mileage now 5400. Mechanically the car is
satisfactory, but, though I have tried without
success to trace it, there must be a leak in the
electrical system, because on opening the door
to leave the car I invariably , get an uncom-
fortable shock, accompanied by a distinct click
similar to a spark from magneto. Any sugges-
tions ?
Not a defect in electrical equipment, but a
discharge of static electricity generated in the
all-steel body by friction of tyres on the road.
Body acts as condenser, tyres act as insulators,
and when the passenger steps to the ground and
touches metalwork the static charge rushes to
earth. The result is distinctly uncomfortable;
in heavy discharge quite painful. Only remedy
is to attach a chain or stiff steel wire to chassis,
the free end making contact with the road.
* * * jfc
P.W. (Ermington, N.S.W.).— My ’26 model
six-cylinder car at 71,000 miles uses a great
deal of oil. Bearings require taking up, and
there is considerable piston slap. I propose to
overhaul the engine. Do you think new rings
would cure the oil trouble ?
No. Almost certainly the cylinder bores have
worn out of round, and rings under such con-
ditions cannot rectify the trouble. Only safe
plan is to rebore and fit new pistons and rings
or reline and use original pistons. Unless you
are a skilled mechanic the bearing job had
better be entrusted to a garage.
Hs # * *
J.P. (Ormeau, Q.). —1 have a ’29 model six-
cylinder sedan and have broken two rear axles,
both fractures being outside the bearing about
six inches from the end. I often start the
car on an incline and drop into low gear, skid-
ding the wheels. I also do most of my driving
over rough roads. Why do the axles break?
Engaging the clutch on a dead engine in
bottom gear imposes great stresses on all trans-
mission details, axles and diff. assembly. You
should start the engine in top gear. Sudden
application of brakes when driving over rough
roads is also liable to fracture some detail of
the transmission line.
* .I* * * *
NJ.E. (Wagga, N.S.W.). —I recently bought
a pair of used, two-tone electric horns, but on
fitting them to front of car the volume is very
poor and tone different. Mounted on another
car they worked perfectly. Battery on my car
is fully charged. Any suggestions ?
Wiring of your car is almost certainly of
single-wire type, with common earth, and the
trouble appears to be due to poor earth. Make
certain of clean metal-to-metal contact and also
that the horns are mounted on some part not
insulated from the frame. Poor earth also
accounts for variation in tone, as the vibrating
unit is not receiving the required voltage.
* * * ■' " *
A. (Cairns, Q.).—Each time the valve cover
is lifted on my ’2B model six-cylinder car the
overhead valve gear, springs, etc., appear to be
thickly coated with rust, and drops of water
show through the film of oil in many places.
Any way to prevent this recurring ?
If several fin. holes are drilled in the valve
cover to promote circulation of air you will
prevent condensation and consequent formation
of rust, but in a car of this age you will find
the remedy scarcely worth while, as a consider-
able volume of smoke will escape from the
holes when motor is hot.
:Jc , :]c
B. (Toorak, Vic.). —How is R.A.C. horse-
power calculated in different types of cars, and
how does it compare with the actual power de-
livered at the road wheels?
To calculate R.A.C. horse-power, square bore
in inches, multiply by number of cylinders and
divide by 2.5. If millimetres are used the figure
will be 1613 instead of 2.5. R.A.C. honse-
power has no relation whatever to brake-horse-
power.


Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House. Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAtt”
Adelaide's Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne— Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger Warwick Building, Hamilton street
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Long White Cloud
Seventy-four Years Ago
There is nothing new in Mr. Savage's
promise to the Maoris that his Govern-
ment will promote the interests of the
natives as devotedly as those of the white
people. One. of the first Maoriland poli-
ticians to plead for the natives did so 74
years ago when land-grabbing was
breeding Maori hostility ; he was James
Edward Fitzgerald, Canterbury’s first
superintendent.
Fitzgerald’s speech on equal rights for
Maoris and Europeans is one of the
gems of Maoriland’s Parliamentary
oratory. This is part of his appeal:
I have stood beside a lonely mound in
which lies buried the last remnant of a
tribe that fell —men, women and children
—before the tomahawks of their ancient
foes; and I sometimes shudder to think
that my son, too, may stand before a
similar monument, the work of our hands,
and blush with the ignominy of feeling
that, after all, the memorial of a Christian
lawgiver is but copied from that of the
cannibal and savage. 1 appeal to-night to
the House to inaugurate a policy of
courageous and munificent justice.... 1 ven-
ture to predict that, among the traditions
of that great nation which will one day rule
these islands, and the foundations of which
we are now laying, the most cherished and
the most honored will be that wise, bold
and generous policy which gave the Magna
Carta of their liberties to the Maori
people.
In 1936, when Christchurch is seeking a
site for the Fitzgerald statue, it is re-
freshing to find that Mr.
Savage intends carrying a 74-
year-old job a step further.
“Xo”: Adam Hamilton, who
has succeeded George Forbes
as leader of the Maoriland
Opposition, was seven years at
Dunedin’s Knox College study-
ing for the Presbyterian minis-
try. Then he joined his brother
as a grain-and-seed merchant
in Winton, Southland. Now
chairman of directors of the
Southland Farmers’ Co-op., he
eventually entered another sort
of Ministry—as the old Coali-
tion Government’s Postmaster-
General and Minister for Labor and In-
ternal Affairs. When Coates went to
England in 1935 to talk meat, Hamil-
ton became. acting-Minister for Finance
and Customs. He shouldered the blame
for the radio-jambing incident out of
which Labor made much capital last
election, but he never has much to say.
Southland’s hard-headed farmers swear
by him.
* * * *
“Mak”: From March to November,
Mr. Savage’s Maoriland “revolution” (B.
2/9/ , 36) hatched 58 public Acts. The
Ministry is now giving its “exclusive
personal attention to the administration
of the laws that have been passed.” After
the five-week breather in midwinter,
Labor hurried 31 more measures on the
Statute Book. Much of the legislation
has been “amending,” but most of it has
been important—sufficiently so for
London's Labor "Daily Herald” to radio-
telephone Finance Minister Nash in mid-
Atlantic and splash his observations. The
Government’s taxation policy and its
plans for spending £13,000,000 of State
money were the main features of Labor’s
last sitting.
* * * *
“R.A.Z.”: In Maoriland Labor's Coal
Mines Amendment Bill provision is made
for mine officials to search men below
surface for matches. In the past miners
were searched only on entering and leav-
ing the pits, but Minister of Mines Webb
and several of his Cabinet colleagues
evidently remember that matches still
found their way below when they were
hewers of coal. The same bill provides
for the Government establishment and
maintenance of central rescue stations in
coalmining areas ; for this, mineowners
can be levied at the rate of up to Id. a
ton of marketable coal. They should part
up cheerfully enough.
*** * i
“Beetle B.”: Greatness has its incon-
veniences, but, in public anyway. Gov-
ernors to-day observe with care the forms
"Wouldn't it be marvellous', Lulu, to see romantic places like Colling Wood
and Woolloomooloo ?”
and ceremonies connected with their
office. It was not always so in Maori-
land. A Governor who liked his tot
once visited Queenstown. He was taken
on a Sunday to the picturesque village
of Arrowtown, and at his Excellency s
request the first halting place was the
pub. Standing'outside it was the village
policeman. The position was explained
to the vice-regal guest, who replied that
it was “a confounded nuisance,” as he
was “demned thirsty.” Then inspiration
came to Queenstown’s Mayor. He told
the constable the Governor was paying
an official visit and it would never do
for the representative of the law to re-
ceive the august visitor in plain clothes.
“I’ll keep his Excellency here while you
hurry home and change,” said the Mayor.
When the constable returned there were
smiles on the faces of the Governor and
Mayor, and Bung was wondering whether
he. would be safe in advertising his pub
as being under vice-regal patronage.
“M.”: Recent Maoriland letters carry
a new postage stamp, which depicts a
small girl inside a lifebelt on which is
inscribed “Safeguard Health.” Proceeds
from their sale send undernourished chil-
dren to summer health camps. The
£lO,OOO aimed at last year was exceeded
by nearly £2OOO, and about 3000 children
went through the 10 camps. Of 614
children at one holiday resort, the aver-
age weight increased by more than 51b.
—and the kids had the time of their
young lives. The same post office whose
adoption of penny postage, is just a pain
to Australia’s Parkhill is mainly respon-
sible for organising the campaign.
* # * *
“F.”: Professor James Shelley, Maori-
land’s Director of National Broadcasting,
is not likely to be so frank after more
experience of political bosses. Labor,
by its Industrial Efficiency Bill, dts. advo-
cacy of Standards Institute principles and
its general income-levelling legislation,
has made standardisation one of its ends.
Before the Society for Imperial Culture,
Prof. Shelley, replying to a speaker who
mentioned the “effect of broadcasting on
the standardisation of outlook,” rapped
out: “Standardisation is the result of
ignorance, not of knowledge.” Which
is tough on Mr. Savage and his pals.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Aucklanders still attend ser-
vice in a church with earlier historical
links than those of Wellington s ancient
pub (B. 11/11/ ’36). The foundation
stone of old St. Paul’s was laid by Gov-
ernor Hobson in July, 1841. Communion
vessels still used were presented by Queen
Victoria through Bishop Selwyn ; on the
walls are tablets erected to Governor
Hobson, officers and men who fell in
the Maori wars, and to pioneers of
Auckland and province. Ancient stones
now incorporated in the chancel entrance
wall were given by the Dean and Chap-
ter of Westminster Abbey, Canterbury
Cathedral, York Minster and St. Paul s,
.London. A few days ago the church’s
permanent chancel was dedicated by
Archbishop Averill.
9jC Jj! $ *
“Motu”: Acclimatisation societies
fight marauders other than shags and
eels for the lives of trout fry liberated in
Maoriland rivers (B. 11/11/”36). One
South Island society is agitating for the
instruction of school children in the pre-
servation of aquatic life. It was stirred
into this counter-publicity move after
attention was drawn to an impromptu
speech made in class by a lad skilled in
an ancient art —he told his keenly-inter-
ested mates just how to “tickle” trout!
% #
“Korero”: One of the few Maori poli-
ticians to display verbal interest in general
measures was the late Maui Pomare. But,
as Minister of Health, he confined him-
self almost entirely to debates touching
his own department. The Maori has an
agile mind capable of grasping the
national significance of most proposals.
His outlook and 'private interests nearly
always differ from those of the European
members, and his analytical criticism
would be appreciated by the public.
Apirana Ngata, formerly Minister of
Native Affairs under Coates and Forbes,
and now of the Opposition, is one of
Maoriland’s most fluent politicians, as
well as an influential native leader —yet
he seldom joins in debates other than on
Maori problems. Mr. Savage has ex-
tended his hand to the native, people ; if
he could persuade native members to
speak as freely on general bills as Euro-
pean members do on matters of native
administration, he would do much to
remove the near-contempt in which
many intelligent Maoris hold the white
politician and his works.
* * *
“Taniwha”: Buried treasure? Long
ago a Maorilander served a sentehce
for embezzlement, after failing to
account for any of the missing cash.
None of the residents in a new suburban
street associated him with the shabby
old man who, saying he wished to collect
the stone from their volcanic sections,
offered to dig their gardens, with the
rocks alone for payment. Six house-
holders accepted the offer readily, as
volcanic stone works upwards and is the
bane of gardeners, and watched with
interest his probing the sections for rocks
with a gum-digger’s spear. He was not
able to finish his task, as under doctors
orders he had to take a rest, but he
worked three gardens thoroughly. After
his disappearance, the rumor circulated
that he was the ex-prisoner, who, having
rediscovered his buried wealth, had gone
to some unnamed part to enjoy it. Then
three women arose and roundly abused
their husbands for being too lazy to dig
the stone out of the garden plot them-
selves.


c.
V-
u
ffi/
/
LUCKY GIRL
She has vivid, snapping eyes. Her hair glistens with life.
Her skm is smooth and firm. Her clear complexion is not the
kind that comes from cosmetics. Her figure is supple and robust.
She has a pleasant, vital personality. Men admire her —and so
dd women.
A lucky girl, you say. Not exactly. Just a normal healthy
girl. The kind of person nature meant every girl of her age to
be. And yet, in a way, she is lucky.
Her Mother Knew What To Do
Most girls (and young men, too) pass through a time when
their faces are pimply and their complexions poor. They lack
energy and interest. The danger is that their complexions may
be permanently marked or that they may contract serious
constitutional ailments.
The best thing to do at such a time, as this girl’s mother
knew, is to keep the digestion and elimination functioning as
perfectly as possible. And for that purpose Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are excellent. They are laxative—gently and surely
eliminating waste matter from the bowels. They stimulate the
digestive organs, increasing the flow of digestive secretions.
They help to tone up” and cleanse the digestive tract.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are purely vegetable, and
contain no minerals or habit-forming drugs. They make you
feel brighter.
Dr.MORSES
PILLS
A\ADE IN AUSTRALIA
For Simple. Constipation and Attendant Ills
i
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until dry.
The cleansing and cooling actions of
this preparation will enhance the
comfort which powder provides.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or will be sent
post paid upon receipt of postal
notes or stamps by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and
leading stores or direct from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney. N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ẁ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
X
k O -v e
e^e^V^ce 0
y\P ' ~
'
V*^
.\N %V
\><
, r 0 >
P 4
o° 0
<5-
o< *>&?<s*
■* . o«


Did You Read THIS in the “SUN”?
"Australia has at last made a film with a strong pathetic appeal .... All
the Australian birds and animals in 'Orphan of the Wilderness' have
character . . . . Chut has extraordinary individuality; he is a real person,
a national possession given to the screen. Overseas audiences are going
to laugh and cry with Chut, to find fascination in the life story of this
peculiarly Australian creature. They are going to admire, too, the infinite
patience and the ability with which Mr. Ken Hall has made grand enter-
tainment out of a subject which presented almost unsurmountable diffi-
culties."—"Sun," 5/J7/'36.
r
yy--':W:'
yy-yM--
m*
mm
0
fesfl
SSgS&«-
*•*s§{*»* *
m
M
Pi
i
/S v
m
' w<:
■■■
CINESOUND
Brings a New Thrill
The Screen /
Soon/
Ask your theatre manager when he's going to screen "Orphan of the
Wilderness"—"the best picture Australia has made"—to quote further
from the "Sun."
