

MINING AND MILLING EQUIPMENT
TO HANDLE AND TREAT ALL CLASSES OF ORE
#K
f ' .* , »
*
* *
■
mm
L
t ■ ■
mm
-Jl t" ,
■
;' ;-t ; ;:-
"»*** C. sa >!
Wm
5 :%•*
■
j y
m
111111111
I
s. !■
I i
%'} u
: •' ~
■
P»1
.' ' '
I S
L ; ,
i
■
li ■ *
■
>«s*iiisip
I ; l
A typical plant in Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, to treat
12,000 tons per month of auriferous sulphide ore, designed
and constructed by us for Great Boulder Proprietary
Gold Mines Limited.
THE PRINCIPAL MINING ENGINEERING
CONTRACTORS IN AUSTRALASIA:
Charles Ruwolt Proprietary Limited
AND WORKS?- RICHMOND, VICTORIA
Cables and Telegrams: Ruwolt, Melbourne.
Codes; Bentley; Broomhall.
The Bulletin
These Crippling Taxes
VoL 57.—N0. 2947.
Wednesday, August 5, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD..
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
a} | [l} j 1 i
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
- - CUT HERE AND MAID - - -
Please send, ivithout obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write ior Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Same
My Address
S.B. 136 • •
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services, to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
}{ k Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible toi
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, ivy/,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates wall be paid on sales of woiks
published in book form, in which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be control...
b> ’ An mm fide Australia.! resident or any person bom in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be tu
original w'ork of the entrants, and previously unpublished, eithu
wSly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and *5 *^al e T tnvetope
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which wS not be opened until the judges have made their decision
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other n ?
the contest The trustees, whose address is a- ueorge sireti.
Sydney? reserve the right to withhold the Prize it no work.submitted
■J j n jhe opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. It this should
occur in any year. .the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
ON SHAW’S
BIRTHDAY
George Bernard
Shaw has celebra-
ted his eightieth
birthday. Already,
he has declared,
he has made his last speech ; soon he may
write his last play. But whatever more
lie may do to attract and fix public
attention it will possess small significance.
And it should not be confused with the
vigorous climb to public notice made by
another Mr. Bernard Shaw forty years
ago.
Yet a doubt arises; was it so vigorous?
In a lamentably outspoken book Frank
Harris has come near to establishing that
the reputation of Mr. Shaw was the work
of others, that after nine years of failure
in London (during five of them he
earned exactly £5 15s. 6d.) he was pushed
into the post of book reviewer for the
“Pall Mall Gazette’’ by William Archer,
found the post of art critic to the
“World” by Archer, shoved on to T. P.
O’Connor, of the “Star,” by Massing-
ham and then on to the "World” as
music . critic—by Archer again. Even
his plays were produced in response to
some external shove. "The Philanderer”
was written for I. T. Grein, who was un-
able to cast it; “Mrs. Warren’s Profes-
sion” was written because Mrs. Sidney
Webb, disgusted with the women of the
other play, urged him to do something
about a modern working woman instead ;
“Candida” and “The Man of Destiny”
were written for the people who were to
play them and with their preferences in
mind; so on down the list from “Caesar
and Cleopatra,” a job for Forbes-
Robertson, to “Pygmalion,” manufac-
tured for Mrs. Patrick Campbell.
These plays have been argued about
for years: two of England’s most famous
critics, A. B. Walkley and William
Archer, considered Shaw no playwright;
but there is no doubt of the entertain-
ment value of many of the pieces. Only
a snob of the intellect could fail to be
amused, years ago, by “Arms and the
Man” or “Captain Brassbound’s Con-
version.” The plays are compact of
shrewd, dramatic devices and old tricks.
Shaw knows of what George Jean Nathan
has called “the guffaw-sesame of the
cuss-word,” of the repeated mispronunci-
ation of a difficult name as in Szcze-
panowska in “Misalliance,” of the
irrelevant employment of exaggerated,
precise language in a low-brow situation,
of the mimicry of one character by
another, of the poltoon who struts like
a hero. He understands, too, the value
of allowing the audience to see things
not commonly represented on the stage
of his youth ; the burning of the library
at Alexandria is an example. He was
early in the field with bedroom farce.
In a last resort he is not above calling
out the marines fas in “Brassbound”)
like any hack movie writer.
Let us not underrate his work, then, in
the cause of entertainment. But Mr.
Bernard Shaw was more than this. In
his own eyes and in the opinions of
many who took his prefaces seriously he
was a man fighting for the right to em-
ploy new themes, as in “Widowers’
Houses” and “Mrs. Warren’s Profession,”
and suffering censorship. He was the
self-appointed apostle of Ibsen in Eng-
land, an odd and, to that devoted
Ibsenite William Archer, an infuriating
fact, since Ibsen was a consummate
craftsman and Shaw, even in his “Saint
Joan,” allowed his plays to become en-
gulfed in cataracts of talk. Nevertheless
his mind had this much akin with that
of Ibsen: both were in revolt. In the
glory of Ibsenism and in the skilful em-
ployment of publicity he climbed to
supreme notice. He achieved fame and
influence in the most comical way.
Although be was not a Socialist (recall
his salute to Mussolini and his latter-day
attacks on democracy), as a Fabian he
declared that Social Democracy meant
the universal extension of the franchise
as a first step ; though he was recognised
by officialdom as giving valuable aid
during the war, be created the illusion
that he opposed it; though all his ideas
arc derivative, he has won a reputation
for originality ; and though he has never
assailed Shakspeare for anything save the
voluptuousness of his verse and the
(demonstrable) fact that he is not modern,
he is universally credited with having set
himself up above the man of Avon.
How has all this been achieved? Once
more the answer is plain. It has been
done by volubility, provocativeness, wit,
impudence, ballyhoo. Shaw’s early ex-
perience showed him that he was not a
speaker. He bad to train himself in the
role, and his technique ’ has remained
that of the man who has been through
the rough and tumble of training in the
marketplace, who is intellectually shell-
backed and can strike back as hard as
he is hit. His ability in develop-
ment of a theme, his virtuosity, are ex-
treme. Ultimately, of course, he has run
out of things to say, though he has con-
tinued to talk at great length, true to
“the psychical Babel that is Shaw."’ And
so he has taken refuge in the paradox,
the deliberate alignment of himself
against the popular view. This has had
sad results, as anyone who witnessed his
film interview on the subject of German
rearmament will remember. And ulti-
mately he has come to be a man who
painfully parodies himself and uses his
position as the doyen of English letters
as an excuse for maintaining the tradi-
tion of the tricksy elf.
For the truth is that Mr. Shaw to-day
is dead. He has died, as others before
him, from too much success. Attaching
himself to the cart-tail of the Ibsenite
revolt, aligning himself with the enemies
of laissez-faire, he campaigned in a
world which has passed. He fought for
the right of the drama to treat of sub-
jects that were held taboo. The right
has long been won, and has been used,
by O’Neill, by Bourdet, even by Gals-
worthy, to exploit themes which Shaw
has been too tender to touch. Even in
his own early plays he was always arriv-
ing at a compromise, as Trench com-
promises in “Widowers’ Houses.’ To-
day feminism no longer makes a stir, the
door which Nora Helmer slammed no
longer echoes through Europe. It is
acknowledged that unrestricted wealth is
not in the interest of the State. No one
disputes that there may be unpleasant
consequences from social diseases. Thus
to-day the least interesting aspect of the
Shavian drama is its moral teaching.
Mr. Shaw, recognising this, has
attempted to create a new drama, work-
ing within the field he has set himself
and keeping in touch with realities. But
the task" has proved too great ; and
since he is not in any sense an imagi-
native writer his later plays have tended
to become floods of words, mere dialectic
supported only by. the ancient cunning.
So Mr. Shaw has come to be a mere
echo of the irrepressible, irritating,
admired figure of thirty years ago. But
he has achieved the sure way to distinc-
tion of living a long lime ; he has
answered all his critics by reading their
obituary notices. And he is honored for
that other, earlier and more interesting
but fundamentally not more important
self who was not a prophet, though he
would like to think it, not a philosopher
since he has not managed to formulate
any body of knowledge, not even a play-
wright, though he extracted great sums
from people who did not know it, but
who once said of himself that he “would
never have any real influence'’ and who
is the most extraordinary survival of our
time.
Quentin Pope.
More M.L.
Literature
Maoriland, as
Quentin Pope says
fR.P. 8/7/’36),
lacks distinctive
literature. But
since 1933, as Mr. Pope fails to remark,
the first stirrings of a lusty individualism
have been nurtured by the verse of
Douglas A. Stewart and the fiction of
John Guthrie, members of a younger
and more imaginative school than that
on which Mr. Pope must base his
criticism.
Bulletin readers know Stewart.
Maorilanders were intrigued but left a
little doubtful by Guthrie’s first novel,
The Little Country. Its gentle but tell-
ing gibes wounded 100 many illusions
for them to clasp it openly to their con-
servative bosoms. They will praise more
fervently his second novel, So They
Began, which A. D. Wylie, an expatriate
Maorilander, enjoyed on the Red Page a
week ago.
“The timidity of the Maorilander and
the dominance of English tradition” are
Quentin Pope’s reasons for M.L.’s lack
of distinctive literature. But there is
no timidity, apart from a slight altera-
tion of place names, in either of
Guthrie’s novels; in-both of them he
makes good-humored banter of over-
sentimental tendencies towards “dear old
England,” which, “across the gap of
ocean and years, had become so per-
sonal to members of the circle that they
saw it in their dreams as a sweet old
lady just like one of themselves.”
Sweet old ladies like Guthrie’s Mrs.
Digwood exist in most M.L. towns, and
from them radiate the tendrils of Mr.
Pope’s English tradition. Tradition has
its value—but many of these sweet old
ladies with their minds on the past forget
to salt it wiUi the wisdom of such virile
countrymen as Seddon. John Guthrie
and Quentin Pope believe tradition with-
out that salt to be poor fare for a coun-
try not yet 100 years old.
The Mrs. Digwoods will frown at
Guthrie’s Eliot Essenden, founder of
Paradise Bay, for setting out for the
Little Country, “not to found a Greater
Empire Overseas, scarcely with the in-
tention of building a future for posterity,
but chiefly for the immediate purpose of
satisfying his stomach. He felt hun-
gry.” As Guthrie puts it, “who shall say
that, on the whole, hunger was not the
chief cause of all the later emigration?
Hunger for food, for independence, for
free land, for high places, for adventure,
for rapid riches?” Then a whiff of the
delightful humor that abounds in So
They Began: “In the face of this, it was
almost poetic justice that Essenden
should have gone out as assistant cook.”
There is enough humor, red blood and
strong drink in this yarn to satisfy the
Quentin. Popes that M.L. literature,
already beyond the tourist handbook
stage, will develop its own individuality.
So They Began has none of the bleak
winds of Thomas Wolfe or William
Faulkner, because the whole character
of the country differs from the America
of their writings ; nor has it the desperate
notes of Brian Penton, for M.L.’s cli-
mate is less demanding than the extremes
of Australia. There is something of a
robust Penton and an absorbing
Hergesheimer—but always it is Guthrie
in texture and M.L. in spirit and setting.
LACHIE MCDONALD.
Cliches
lan M ud i e
(R.P. 22/7/’36)
points out that
some phrases I used suffered from defects
similar to the phrases I had criticised.
Mr. Mudie says “redundancy in speech
or writing is needless,” and hence then,
was no necessity for the word “needless
in ray criticism. The fact is, however,
that redundancy in speech ox writing is
not always needless. Redundancy means
the use of more words than are neces-
sary to express one’s meaning, but there
are times when it is useful to use more
words than are strictly essential —for the
sake of emphasis, and for many other
reasons. The whole genius of the Bible,
as literature, is established on the prin-
ciple of using multiplicity of expressions
to signify one notable thing. So there
can be needless redundancy.
Jargon means confused, .unintelligible
language, and, however strange it may
appear to Mr. Mudie, there can be such
a thing as “pure jargon,” if wc under-
stand that pure, in this instance, means
unmixed with anything that is not con-
fused and unintelligible. This would
mean undiluted jargon. Similarly there
can be such a thing as impure jargon. The
phrase “from their very nature” may have
been somewhat, dulled by repetition, but
it is far from being meaningless. “Gen-
teel” is undoubtedly becoming weakened
by usage, and this is, of course, because
there is so much spurious gentility about.
Consequently, when one rises a word of
this sort it is better to qualify it with
another expression which will emphasise
the meaning. In this regard “sickly" K
particularly appropriate, fo~ the normal
reaction to genteel behavior is to induce
a disposition towards stomach-sickness,
and sickly also conjures up a vision oi
the type of person who is congenitally
genteel. They are pale and anaemic in
their attitude towards life.
Mr. Mudie says that “nauseating may
be defined as causing to reject food, or to
vomit.” I would urge Mr. Mudie to con-
sult some standard dictionary. In the
figurative sense, nausea means extreme
disgust or loathing. And a thing may
be perfectly nauseating. One can be-
come nauseated without vomiting, so the
expression is not confined to reject! re
food. One can not only feel perfectly
nauseated but one can be perfectly
nauseated, and one is perfectly nauseated
when confronted with the perfect
nauseant. "Moreover, to be nauseated
does not imply completeness. Given an
endless series of nauseants one could pas?
from one condition of being nauseate
to another almost ad infinitum.
Mr. Mudie has seme objection to the
phrase “serious literature.” Archbishop
Trench, one of the instigators of the
Oxford Dictionary, had none. He use'
it. He uses it deliberately . The word
literature, in this sense, means literal;
productions as a collective body, and we
must distinguish between those which
evoke serious consideration and those
which do not. And, lastly, the phrase
“stone-dead” is still pregnant, and par-
ticularly in the connection in which :
was used. Some words and phrases die.
but arc called back again into existence
later, for there are degrees of death, even
when wc consider the phenomenon of
death biologically. So what better tha•
“stone-dead” to imply a condition of
mortality which will never change
"Stone-dead” means as dead as a stone
{Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN A DVERTISING” — AIways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
‘The Senior Store” &&&>. ”While I Live Til Grow'
ANTHONY-HORDERNS
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night>
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
No. 4 “PLANET Jr.” HILL & DRILL SEEDER
AND CULTIVATOR
A. Hill and Drill Seeder and Single-
wheel Hoe combined. For the home or
the small market gardener it is indis-
pensable. It plants practically every vegetable seed. The index
that regulates the seed output is accurate; the hopper holds
quarts. Cultivating attachments: Large garden plough, three steel
cultivator teeth, one pair 6in. hoes, one leaf-lifter. Complete, £5/7/6
£,^7G
HILL AND DRILL
SEEDER
CULTIVATOR
Think of the hours you spend on the farm from early morn
till late at night. You can save time, money and labor with
efficient farming implements. And for over a century Anthony
Horderns’ have been headquarters of the man on the land.
You cannot afford to take chances with uncertain, unreliable
implements. Buy yours at Anthony Horderns’ and you buy in
confidence.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS IN
N.S.W. for “PLANET Jr.” FARM
IMPLEMENTS FOR HAND
AND HORSE
Right—
No. 11 “PLANET Jr.” DOUBLE AND SINGLE WHEEL
No. 11 Double or Single-wheel Hoe, for the home
or market gardener. The 6in. and 4-|in. hoes are
the best weed-killers known; the cultivator teeth
give thorough cultivation; ploughs are used for open-
ing and closing furrows, hilling up plants, etc. As
with the Double-wheel Hoe, the gardener can
straddle the row until the plants are 20 inches high,
cultivating both sides at one time. Equipment: Pair
of 6in. hoes, pair of hoes, four steel cultivator
teeth, pair of ploughs, two 3-tooth and two 3-tooth
rakes, pair of leaf-lifters. Price £4/5/-
HOE
£4
/
5
D
&
m
No. 12 “PLANET Jr.’’DOUBLE AND SINGLE WHEEL
No. 12 is the most popular Wheel Hoe we make.
Similar to No. 11, except hoes and rakes are
not included. Any of the extra attachments can be
added at any time. The hoes, cultivator teeth and
ploughs are always useful. As a Double-wheel Hoe, the No. 12
straddles the row until plants are 20in. high, cultivating both
sides at once. Where rows are close, two rows can be hoed at
one time—the row that is straddled and one side of each of the
adjoining rows. Price 77/6
HOE
6
Freight Not Paid
on these Goods .
No. 25 “PLANET Jr.”
HILL AND DRILL
SEEDER AND
CULTIVATOR
£6/2/6
No. 25 Hill and Drill
Seeder, Double and
Single-wheel Hoe Com-
bined. The No. 25 plants
all vegetable seeds like the
No. 4, but includes the
Double- as well as the
Single-wheel Hoe, enabling
the gardener to straddle the
rows until the plants are 20
inches high, cultivating
both sides at one time.
Equipment includes a pair
of garden ploughs, four
steel cultivating teeth, one
pair 6in. hoes and leaf-
lifter. Price .... £6/2/6
No. 17 “PLANET Jr.” SINGLE WHEEL HOES
s<,-
52/6
The No. 17 Single-
wheel Hoe, identical
with the No. 1 6, except
the equipment does not
include rakes and leaf
lifter. Hoes, Cultivator
Teeth and Plough are
the finest of their kind
made.' For small plants
the Hoes work both
sides of the row . . by-
mounting the wheel arm (necessary bolt and ferrules supplied as extra) ;
and can be used between the rows when the plants get larger.
The Cultivator Teeth are adjustable in pitch and can be set to do shallow
or deep cultivation; or/and for marking out rows.
The Plough will do good work in hilling plants, opening and closing
furrows, etc. 52/6
No. 8 “PLANET Jr. ’ HORSE HOE AND
CULTIVATOR
No. 8, Horse Hoe and
Cultivator Combined. The
“Planet Jr.” No. 8 Horse
Hoe and Cultivator is one
of the most valuable time
and labor saving tools
available for the use of
the farmer. Has a steel
£5 ; 12/6
t
wheel that, does not clog; a frame that is longer and higher than
others; steel standards that are so attached as to both brace the
cultivator and withstand strain; levers that operate quickly and easily;
a depth regulator. Equipment includes four 3xB inches cultivator
steels, one 4xB inches cultivator steel, two 6in. hillers, one 7in.
shovel, all especially hardened; will give long service. Price, £3/12/6.
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, similar to No. 8, without depth
gauge. Price £5/2/6
# Agricultural-Fourth Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.


Indeed there is almost an onomatopoeic
ring about it. It is a beautiful expres-
sion. Long may it endure!
GERALD DILLON.
VIVE LA CLICHE
I view with alarm the proposal of
some Red Pagans to put a ban on cliches.
Perish the thought! Cliches, are the
stock-in-trade, the lifesavers of the
hurried journalist. How could a great
newspaper be produced without them?
If the purists have their way, are we
not to be allowed to write of “a repre-
sentative gathering” or “a pretty wedding,”
or tb mention that “the presents were
numerous and costly,” or to report that
the chairman “eulogised the many good
qualities of the guest of honor” and that
the guest “made a suitable response” after
he had been presented with something or
other “suitably inscribed”?.
Is a gloom no longer to be “cast over
a town” when a prominent citizen
“passes”? And cannot we still say
that the victim “sustained serious in-
juries,” that “medical aid was sum-
moned,” that the doctor “pronounced life
extinct,” that, “the police were notified”
and P.C. 49 “proceeded. to the spot,”
and that, later, the police were “combing
(or scouring) the district,” “hot on the
trail of a suspect” and “hopeful of an
early arrest”?
Surely, with all respect to leisured
critics, a body may still be allowed to
fall with the well-known “dull, sickening
thud,” or “one more unfortunate find a
watery grave.”
If a big fire attended with loss of life
is not “ a veritable holocaust,” what is
it? And is it not a fact that “the devour-
ing element converted the interior of the
building into an inferno” and “completely
gutted it”?
Then there is the reaction of the
average reader to be considered. Does
he groan and gnash his teeth when he
comes across a cliche in his newspaper?
He does not. He greets it as an old,
familiar friend, hallowed by tradition.
P.R. THOMPSON.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
DUBLISHING Australian plays in book
1 form is becoming a habit: The
Emancipist, by Major-General John
Macquarie Antill and Rose Antill-de
Warren, is the second in a matter of
weeks. Still the habit has not been rash
enough to prevent this book being a
first of its kind: “the first Aus-
tralian historical play to be published
in book form.” Other Australian his-
torical plays have, of course, been
written, and even performed : “Governor
Bligh,” by Doris Egerton Jones, done
by Alan Wilkie at the old Grand Opera
House, Sydney, touched the same period
as “The Emancipist” does. Bligh is only
a reference-character in the later play,
but a very different representation from
the warm-hearted old blusterer that
Wilkie made out of the other piece. Here
the representation—in reference —is the
more familiar one of the tyrant, his best
claim to good opinion that he did well
with Nelson at Copenhagen. Conjured
up in the background of the play, he
personifies that tyranny revolt against
which is the play’s theme ; the revolt, in
turn, personified at large by Macquarie
and in particular by William Redfern,
whose story—the play’s narrative—is
briefly this:
At 19, assistant-surgeon on H.M.S.
Standard, then lying in the Thames, Red-
fern told Captain Hawkins what he
thought of the food the men were get-
ting, adding that those who had, on other
ships, revolted against it had his sym-
pathy. Court-martialled for expressing
sympathy with mutineers, he was sen-
tenced to death. This was commuted to
penal servitude for life, but, after four
years in Dartmoor, he was transported
at his own request. That is the first phase
of the play. The action is brisk, with
plenty of color in the scenes, set on deck
and in the captain’s cabin. The gaol
scene, in which Redfern and his mother
are brought together, is melodramatic in
dialogue and appeal. The action then
moves to Sydney, where Redfern, mem-
ber of a chain gang, revealed his skill
as surgeon when a girl was thrown from
a horse. On the strength of that and
other evidence of his skill, he was de-
tailed to act as a surgeon on Norfolk
Island, was eventually pardoned and re-
turned to Sydney. Macquarie’s friendli-
ness for such emancipists as he, helped
him to become Australia’s first medical
graduate and doctor at what is now
called Sydney Hospital, where at this
present time, as is mentioned in the
play’s Foreword, “the male author,
grand-nephew of The Emancipist,’ is a
patient, while a great-great-grand-nephew
is a resident surgeon.”
The Norfolk Island portion is the
play’s second phase, and possibly its best.
The dialogue here is tight, characters
clear and definite, and the dramatic
points read as if they could be made ex-
tremely effective on stage. Well done, it
would make a strong impression—some-
thing clear-cut and separate, like a really
good one-acler —and two incidents
in it—first, when the Rev. Fulton sug-
gests the question as to whether he, too,
has been pardoned, and Foveaux shakes
his head ; and, second, the whole break-
ing of the pardon news to Redfern—are
as telling dramatic points as any one of
our dramatists has made. This scene,
too, has a neat touch of humor.
Subsequently the entire tone of the
play lightens, and humor is spread out
rather broadly, per the conventional
perky servant, chiefly. This closing
phase is set chiefly in and about Macr
quarie’s Government House in a garden-
party atmosphere, giving the prospective
producer opportunity for a picture gal-
lery of costuming, and making him wish,
perhaps, for stage big enough to hold
all the possibilities of this part of the
play, as the robust characterisation of
Macquarie will make actors itch to act
him. It is a pretty finish, rather unex-
pectedly so, this large splash of colorful
romance spreading out with success and
love in the moonlight as compensation
for the upright Redfern after his direful
beginning. The play is especially rich in
material for a spectacular period film. If
it is done as a film—and it probably will
be—Redfern’s horsewhipping of the
scurrilous Howe, of the Sydney
“Gazette,” is sure to be presented, a
scene to make journalists thank heaven
that the horse has had his day.
* * * *
SEVERAL special qualifications back
the writing of V. Sackville-West’s
Saint Joan of A rc, combining to make it
one of the nicest pieces of biography in
a year or two. Not the least is an excel-
lent quality of wit, mention of which
should indicate that hers is not the
romantic or sentimental approach to the
subject. Her wit is a quality of
thought: it enables her to cut sharply
through all the conflicting evidence there
-is about Sf. Joan ; demolish the neat find-
ings of biographers more interested in
their theories than in their biography ;
dissolve the jelly of sentimentality, and
get at something that looks like the
humah sentiment of the matter. It en-
ables her, too, to regard the maid Joan
in the right time and place: a barbar-
ous time and an uncouth place, but as
alive with human element as any other.
Miss Sackville-West’s purpose, or at any
rate her achievement, is, above all, a
representation of Joan as human. In
this another of her special qualifications
plays a strong part: that is, she is a
woman studying a woman as a woman —
an aspect of biography as yet scarcely
touched, but which seems certain to be-
come tremendously important in the next
few years. Milton Waldman, about a
year ago, depicted, in a splendid, robust
narrative, an admirable heroic Joan ; but,
though he realised a character finely and
strongly, his Joan hardly measures up
in pure human quality beside this sym-
pathetically drawn Joan of Miss Sack-
ville-West’s painstaking and equally well-
actioned narrative.
Another of Miss Sackville-West’s
special qualifications is that, like Joan, the
peasant-girl of Domremy, she herself has
lived close to the soil. She has long
since expressed what she felt there in a
large outburst of poetry: she here brings
that feeling to help in an understanding
both of Joan’s character and Joan’s
actions and words. She depicts no
pretty shepherdess, but a peasant girl, of
sturdy build, strong physique, unique
personality and tremendous courage and
will-force: nevertheless, a peasant girl,
her character to be analysed accordingly.
As for Joan’s Voices, Miss Sackville-
West admits to sharing with her “fellow
mortals the ancient superstition which
no scientific explanation can destroy, but
which no scientific explanation has as
yet been able to account for; the
belief in what we call the supernatural.”
She does not qualify this ; she empha-
sises it: “I believe in it so profoundly
as to quarrel with the expressions
super-natural or extra-natural. For me
there is only one comprehensive, stupen-
dous unity of which we apprehend but
the smallest segment.” Somewhere in that
undefined region she leaves the Voices,
but not without setting forth, for the
reader to take a choice among, the sun-
dry explanations that various hands,
from the religious to the cynical, have
advanced. For the rest, Miss Sackville-
West’s other characterisations are care-
fully done, and the whole remarkable
story is paraded before a background of
woods and water, mediaeval castles,
moats and prisons, warfare that has a
picnic quality, though at close quarters
bloody enough for most tastes, and then
the trials, and the terrific outcome.
Miss Sackville-West has one other
qualification—a knowledge of French
and of the French.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Evasion: Dora Barford (Harrap;
7s. 6d.). An escapee from Devil’s Island
is the central figure ; his story is told
three times. Kidnapping of a million-
aire’s grandchild fills up the rest of it.
Long arms of coincidence are more
numerous than those of an octopus.
When Cobb and Co. Was King: Will
Lawson (Angus and Robertson; 65.).
Lawson has made a real character out of
Buster White—a sort of Australian
Rarey with horses. The color of the
coaching days is laid on in a way that
bespeaks close study and affection for
the subject, and the long duel between
White and the bushranger Starlight keeps
interest bright.
The Grey Man : S. R. Crockett (Philip
Allan2s. 6d.). Cheap reprint of a
historical novel that had a vogue in its
time and is still worth reading.
Leave Us the Glory: Frederick
Howard (Michael Joseph ; 7s. 6d.). Fancy
being great-grandson of Bonaparte, heir
to a Riverina squattage, with an
allowance of £lOOO a year from an ador-
ing mamma, and so forceful that you
revolutionise the style of every paper that
employs you. Northcliffe, or someone like
that, offers you £2OO a week, and when
you coyly hesitate flings you a cheque
for £5OO and a steamer ticket for furrin
parts with an invitation to take three
months’ holiday on full pay to think the
offer over. Well-written ; some characters
are alive.
EVERYMAN’S . . .
Everyman’s Library (Dent; 2s. 6d.).
Bright as young colts in the present
appearance, the plunge into contemno-
rary or copyright works making much
good reading cheaply available. Recent
additions: Selected Essays: Havelock
Ellis (16 self-selections); Our Village:
Mary Russell Mitford; A Shepherd’s
Life: W. H. Hudson ; History of Ger-
many : Hermann Pinnow (capital out-
line) ; Tales of Detection (19 good ones,
with introduction by Dorothy Sayers,
who reservedly praises Conan Doyle—
and omits him!).
GENERAL . . .
Kimono: Kenichi Kawakatsu (Maru-
zen Co., Ltd., Tokio ; from Angus and
Robertson; Is. 6d.). Addition to the
beautifully done little booklets put out
by the Japanese Tourist Industry Board.
Pleasantly written in description of the
kimono in Japanese life, and lavishly
illustrated in pretty color prints and
photos. Excellent.
Change of Life in Men and Women :
Marie C. Slopes (Putnam; 6s. net). In
this new work Dr. Slopes explains and
advises in her customarily clear voice on
a matter that worries many, but is seldom
mentioned in respect to men.
From Saddle and Fireside: R. S.
Summerhays (Country Life; 10s. 6d.
net.). The publishers have by now turned
out a library of these books on and about
horses as pleasurably used in England.
Interesting, with good pencil drawings by
Maurice Tullock of horse in various
action, including clinking bits of polo.
PLAYS . . -
The Emancipist: Major-General John
Macquarie Antill and Rose Antill-de
Warren (Angus and Robertson ; 3s. 6d.).
Interesting full-dress period piece of the
Macquarie era. See Satchel.
BIOGRAPHY . . .
Frederick the Great: F. J. P. Veale
(Hamish Hamilton ; Bs. 6d.). Written,
like much biography of these days, as if
the author was a J.P. faced with the job
of passing retrospective sentence on
former delinquents. Nevertheless, well
done ; about fifty-fifty biography and his-
tory: lively and easy to read.
Saint Joan of Arc: V. Sackville-West
(Cobden-Sanderson; 10s. net). Fresh,
human, finely done. See Satchel.
MSS. Authors* Names Wanted.
Names and addresses of the authors
of the following competitors in the S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize are wanted: No.
37, “The Coward,” by “Thespis Two” ;
No. 58, “Endless,” by “Wanderer” ; No.
90, .“The Heart of the World,” by
“Lleyah” ; No. 186, “Shining Furrow,”
by “Sagittarius”; No. 200, “Sunshine
Valley,” by “Outback.”
Various Verse
Orchestra.
Bluebird and thrush on rainy evenings
Marry their hosts of strings,
Play on melodious multitudes of keys
With long and effortless ease,
Till walls of foliage, ironbark and lime
Seem to do naught through time
But be their sounding board; and chandeliers
Which the grave chestnut rears.
And elms, elaborate-panelled in green-gilt,
Seem to no purpose built
Except to grace the symphony-saloon
Of .fiddle, flute, bassoon;
Their twenty thousand music-masters lean
From galleries between
The last of blossom and the first of cloud
And make earth cry aloud
With rapture over and over, hold air bound
A listening slave of sound,
And quicken the quick pulsations of the light
To catch their notes in flight,
While here and there, whirled on melodious
gales.
Flicker the black coat-tails.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN STRONG.
“No More War.”
Our master had a neighbor, not unkind,
In fact a better, if to change inclined,
A man could hardly find.
But in one way he worried our poor wits,
For he was subject to recurring fits
Which shook him all to bits;
And what was worse the thing was catching,
too,
Fatal to any Christian, Turk or Jew,
So what were we to do?
Well, we got round his servants on the sly,
And we explained with subtle reasons why
The fellow ought to die.
At first they said theirs was a life of ease;
To harm so good a master would not please
Their little consciences.
“For any boss,” we said, “we had no use.”
This fever would provide a good excuse
To send him to the deuce.
So new and stronger arguments we found,
And in the end success our efforts crowned,
We brought the blighters round.
Thus all agreed, each Jack and Jane and John,
A lovely plan to work we hit upon
Next time the fit came on.
But just when we had smirched our very souls,
Bribing and nosing underground like moles,
And spent no end in doles,
And they were waiting round their master’s
bed
To pop the poison in his medicine’s stead,
Or hide it in his bread,
And we were all prepared to do the same—
The fever left for good his mortal frame;
Now wasn’t that a shame?
MAORILAND.
A.W.
From “Our Earth."
[This, is a: small part of the spring- canto in
Mackenzie’s long poem which has been mentioned
on the Red Page as “Seasons,” but has been
retitled and will be published in book form later this
year.]
Into the spring I read all love most beautiful.
The children of my childhood run down orchard
ways
Red with the wet warmth of the bleeding
amorous clay,
Beneath a mist of green new buds ungummed
upon
The woven boughs that sift the sunlight through
their flowers,
Whose petals blow to-night, and when the
moon has set
Are down, pale underfoot, mixed with the dewy
soil.
The plough has entered in the dark womb of
the field
Where winter’s fallow grass, from June beyond
September
Grown in the wind and rain, now dies in the
fat furrow.
Children at play intoxicated with new growth
Still raise the echoes flying like plovers in
those valleys
Where corn to-morrow and to-morrow’s morrow
sown
Broods like a mighty thought in fluid darkness
there,
Whispered by past rain. The sun is in the sky;
Morning, noon, afternoon and the chill evening
Stir with compassionate hands its pale buried
host.
Unceasingly the sower flings his arms across
In the plough’s wake; the grain in curving rain
falls down;
After the harrow passes, sleeps the soil again
By sun, and moon, and nights dark with spring
cloud,
Dreaming the long dreams of consummation
done
In pride and eagerness towards a joyous
purpose.
The last petals of the windy orchard slopes
Under blue skies do fall again this season; •
Farther afield now those laughing children play
Where streams have gorged their banks among
the ancient trees ■ "
And fall again, and calm, silver between the
shadows,
With mystic green light plumbing the clear
depths.
Where now once more the fish move shyly, head
and head
Facing upstream for ever, facing the far sources
From which their water flows towards the spring
seas
That echo inland from their tortured shores, by
night,
When the dark Earth is silent, and the curlews
grieve.
And cold dews come up as though the moon
had called them
To set upon new leaves and shine like gems
within
The sunken places where a thousand spiders
weave
To catch in webs of silk the jewelled feet of
dawn.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


nnmUfr#WISTDRK
THE WHOLE
EVENTFUL DRAMA
OF THE WORLD
AND MANKIND
A VIVID,
GRIPPING NARRATIVE
“All thinking men and women should possess H.
G. Wells’s 'Outline of History’; there has never
been another history book like it for sheer learning,
vivid narrative and challenging deduction.”
—The "Daily Mail” (London).
“The work is literature, and it is great literature—
just as Gibbon’s majestic and ironic ’Decline and
Fair is, in another vein, great literature. The
‘Outline of History’ will stand, I am convinced,
as one of the indispensable books, one of the wise
and heartening books, which the care of enlightened
men will not soon let die.”
“New York Evening Post.”
“He has succeeded in producing a book which is
quite as readable as the average novel, thanks to
the author’s flowing style and unusual powers of
visualisation.” “Saturday Review” (London). '
Over 1,000,000 Copies Sold!
BY H. DWELLS, ACOMPLETE2-VOLUME EDITION
From the family group of barbarian man to organised clans
and tribes . . . from tribes to city states and thence to
nationhood . . . “The Outline of History” gives a detailed
account of the first civilisations. Egypt and its god-kings,
Judaea, Greece and India, the rise and collapse of Rome,
Christianity and Islam, the Mongol empires of the
great caravan routes and the new empires of the sea
ways . . . all possess an enthralling history which is here
told in narrative form that grips attention. This edition of
Wells’s “Outline” brings us right up to the post-war world.
It even throws a light on coming developments, so logically
does the author work out the trends of scientific discovery,
of political policies and racial animosities. Wells, in other
words, equips you better to cope with the changed and ever-
changing conditions of modern life.
The historical section is rich in concise biography of the
world’s most famous men and women. Learn about
Caesar . . . Nero, who fiddled while Rome burned . . .
Attila the Hun, “leaving the conquered nothing but their
eyes to weep with” . . . Alexander the Great . . . Charle-
magne . . . Napoleon . . . Wellington . . . Nelson . . . about
hundreds of others as well. Epoch-making discoveries and
inventions . . . great events, like the Lusitania sinking, which
mark turning points in history ... all are described. “The
Outline of History” is vast in scope. Nothing like it has
been attempted before.
DELIVERED '
TO YOUR HOME Mf-
FOR A FIRST
PAYMENT OF
LINE
u
; II
>P
jINE
VEULS % :S._
•Saasagsg &LLS
'*S~'
f
Each volume measures 11 x 8J x ll
inches, and is bound in dark brown,
leather-grained rexine, with embossed
border and monogram and gold title.
The two books contain 768 pages,
comprehensive index, over 700 illus-
trations and 24 plates in full colour.
A Great Novelist’s Greatest Story
From the pinnacle of one hundred million years Wells shows the whole eventful drama
of the world . . . and man. It is a complete and vivid history, based on scientific
discovery ... a story which gives a fascinating, new understanding of the world about
you. “The Outline of History” opens the door to a richer enjoyment of life. It’s a
revelation of the ways of Nature . . . and the motives and activities of man.
f
Rain almost incessant swept the world millions of years ago. Violent volcanic
upheavals constantly changed its form. And so it is that the tracks of reptilian monsters
made ages before the coming of man .. . the skeletons of floundering dinosaurs,
bogged, perhaps, in the mud of a marsh or trapped helplessly in treacherous quick-
sands . . . have been preserved beneath incalculable masses of rock and sediment,
later to be upthrust and revealed. It is of such amazing relics that “the record of
the rocks” is comprised. And it is a graphic reading of this enthralling record that Wells
offers in “The Outline of History.” It has enabled him to reconstruct the ancient world
... to describe the appearance and development of life before man . ... in some
instances to chronicle the everyday activities and dramatic adventures of prehistoric
creatures, both animal and human. On one page, for example, we are shown the 16-
inch footprints of a huge dinosaur, as it walked across a spot in Arizona millions of
years ago. Each step measures 3 feet 3 inches, and the tracks look as if made yesterday.
In another chapter, the life of primeval man is described and illustrated. We are
shown the mammoths and mastodons, the musk oxen and other animals, which he
hunted and fought. We are even told what he ate at the “squatting place.” And,
this section of Wells’s great work, for all its interest, is but an introduction . . . the
background against which he recreates the whole history of the world.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
ORDER FORM.
I ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please forward “The Outline of History,” 2 volumes. I enclose a first payment of 2/6 and
1 undertake to pay eleven further monthly instalments of 5/-, in all £2/17/6. The price for cash
within 30 days is £2/12/6.
NAME
OCCUPATION .
(ADDRESS
(BUSINESS ADDRESS
Delivery free in city and suburbs. Elsewhere freight is extra, but will not exceed 3/6.
“Bulletin” 5/8/’36.


ţ


The Bulletin
Vol. 57. —No. 2947.
August 5, 1936.
VISITORS FROM THE DARK AGES.
Master, if it is still thy design to attack what thou art pleased to call a giant, would it not be better to find a way round?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 8797 J.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London; T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 .months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inler-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
OUR ANNUAL BUSTERS.
Filling in forms is a task increasingly imposed
on Australians, and this last week they have
been filling in income-tax forms. It would not
be so bad if they had one body of taxgatherers to
satisfy, but there are seven. If a man working in
N. S, Wales draws a bit of income from another State,
say Queensland, he has to send one return of income
to the State department at Sydney, another to the
State department at Brisbane and a third to the
Federal department at Melbourne, and each may
demand original papers or receipts. And there are,
of course, hundreds of business houses which have
to send returns to all seven departments. In some
cases it means wholly-unproductive staff expenditure
or the employment of taxation agents whose work is
also, economically considered, a dead loss.
A catalogue of the annual blisters and perennial
conundrums that Australians have to put up with:
COMMONWEALTH.
Exemption of £250, vanishing at £750.
Personal earnings: If taxable income does not exceed
£6900, rate of tax per pound of t.i. is eighty-five hundredths
of t.i. divided by 160, plus 3d.; if t.i. exceeds £6900, eighty-
five hundredths of £6900 divided by 160, plus 3d.; on excess
over £6900, 6s. 4jd. p.p.
Property income; If t.i. does not exceed £5OO, rate of
tax per pound of t.i. is 3d., plus t.i. divided by 100 pence;
if t.i. does not exceed £l5OO, rate of tax per pound is a penny,
plus t.i. multiplied by 14 divided by 1000 pence; if t.i. does
not exceed £3700, rate of tax per pound up to that figure
is 4|d., plus t.i. multiplied by 23 divided by 2000 pence; if
£3700 is exceeded, r.o.t. per pound to £3700 is 4!d., plus
3700 multiplied by 23 divided by 2000 pence; on the excess
over £3700, 7s. 6d. in the £.
Special tax on property income: 5 p.c. of net income,
less ( a ) £250, (6) consolidated loan interest and (c) dividends
not subject to super tax.
Companies: Is. in the £ of taxable income; dividends
assessable in the hands of shareholders.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Exemption, £250, vanishing at £2250.
Personal earnings: Where t.i. does not exceed £7OOO,
tax per pound is eighty-five hundredths of t.i. divided by
250, plus 7d. Where t.i. exceeds £7OOO, 29.75 pence per
pound on £7OOO and 4s. 3d. p.p. on excess.
Property: Where t.i. does not exceed £5500, rate p.p.
is eighty-five hundredths of t.i. multiplied by 3 divided by
500, plus 9d. Where it exceeds £5500, 35.7 d. p.p. on £5500
and 4s. 3d. p.p. on balance.
Companies: Is. 9d. p.p. where t.i. does not exceed
£5OO, rising to 2s. 6d. p.p. on £4500 and upwards.
Special income and wages tax (alleged to be for unem-
ployed-relief): Sixpence to 4s. per week on wages ranging
from £2 Is. to £6; in other cases to lOd. in the £ on
persons and lOd. on companies.
VICTORIA.
General deduction of £2Ol, disappearing at £550.
Personal earnings: Sixpence p.p. on £2Ol to £500; where
t.i. exceeds £5OO, 7d. p.p. on first £5OO, Bd. on next, 9d.
on next, lOd. at £l5OO of t.i. and over; all plus 1\ p.c.
Property rates are double personal-exertion rates, and
property income of £BOl and upwards carries additional
taxes of 10 p.c. (£BOl to £1000) to 25 p.c. (£5OOl upwards).
Companies, Is. 10.575 d. in the pound on all except mutual
life-assurance cos.; they pay Is. in the pound on life-assurance
business.
Relief tax; 10s. per £lOO on £52 to £lO4, rising to
£5 16s. 6d. per £lOO on £3OOO and £5 18s. 6d. per £lOO on
anything over £3000; all less 15 px.
QUEENSLAND.
Exemption of £l5O, vanishing at £B5O.
Personal earnings: Where t.i. does not exceed £BOOO,
6d. p.p., “plus as many times six thousandths of a penny as
there are pounds in the t.i.” Where t.i. exceeds £BOOO, 4s. 6d.
p.p. on the first £BOOO and ss. p.p. after.
Property and absentee rates: Where t.i. does not
exceed £3OOO, 12d. p.p., “plus as many times four thousandths
of a penny as there are pounds in the t.i.” Where t.i. exceeds
£3OOO but not £BOOO, rate p.p. is 6d., “plus as many times
six thousandths of a penny as there are pounds in the t.i.”;
where t.i. exceeds £BOOO, 4s. 6d. to ss. p.p., as on personal
earnings.
Companies: In the case of ordinary cos., if total Queens-
land profits do not exceed 6 p.c., Is. 9d. p.p.; if profits
exceed 6 p.c., 2s. p.p., rising to ss. 3d. p.p. on profits exceeding
19 p.c. “Public-utility and monopoly cos,” Is. 9d. p.p. to
4s. 3d. p.p. (on profits exceeding 16 p.c.). Banks, 4s. p.p.;
fire and other insurance cos., 3s. 3d. p.p.; mutual-life cos.,
2s. 4d. p.p.; proprietary life-assurance concerns, 2s. 4d. to
3s. 3d. p.p.; all plus 20 p.c. super tax except on mutual-life
cos. and a few others.
Relief tax: Weekly, 2d. p.p. (£7B to £lO4 p.a.) to lid.
p.p. (exceeding £499); annual, lid. p.p. (£104) to IHd. p.p.
(£5OO and upwards). Companies, same as individuals.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Exemption: £lOO, less £1 for every £9 additional (£2OO for
a widow maintaining one or more children).
Personal earnings: Where t.i. does not exceed £lOOO,
Is. 6d. p.p., plus “two thousandths of a penny” for
every pound. Where t.i. exceeds £lOOO but not £7OOO, Is. Bd.
p.p., plus six thousandths of a penny for every pound.
On £7OOl and upwards, 4s. Bd. p.p. On unmarried adults,
not returned soldiers, army nurses or widowers with children,
2s. 3d. p.p. up to £1000; rising to ss. 3d. p.p. in excess of
£7OOO.
Property; On unmarried adult persons as aforesaid, 2s.
Bd. p.p. to £1000; 2s. Bd. p.p., plus six thousandths of a
penny p.p., £lOOl to £7000; ss. Bd. p.p. over £7OOO. On
the married, 2s. 3d., 2s. 3d. plus six thousandths of a penny
and ss. 3d. p.p. respectively.
Companies: Two shillings in the pound.
WESTRALIA.
Exemption for single persons of £lOO, less £2 for each
additional pound: tor the married, £2OO, less £2 for each
additional pound.
Personal earnings: Twopence in the pound up to £lOO,
increasing by .007 of a penny per pound to 45., which is
reached at £6673, all with deduction of 20 p.c., making
maximum tax 3s. 2.4 d. p.p.
Property: Same as personal-exertion rates.
Companies: A flat rate of Is. 3d. in the pound, phis
15 p.c. super tax. Life-assurance cos. pay it only on income
from interest and investments, and are exempt from super tax;
other insurance cos. pay 2 p.c. of gross premium income,
less reinsurances, plus 15 p.c. s.t. Goldmining cos. pay Is. 4d.
in the pound additional to dividend duty.
Emergency tax: Weekly, 4d. £1 10s. to £1 19s. lid.;
4d. to 9d. p.p. £2 to £8 and upwards. Annual, £7B to under
£lO4, 17s. 4d.; 4d. to 9d. p.p. £lO4 to £416 and over.
Companies subject to assessment under Dividend Duties Act
pay up to 9d. in the pound of profits.
Hospitals tax: I+d. in the pound of income (exemption,
salary or wages up to £52); companies pay Ud. on “profits
assessed under Dividend Duties Act.”
TASMANIA.
Exemption: £125 for unmarried persons;,£2ol for married
and for widowers and widows with one child or more.
Personal earnings: Up to £7600, threepence and three
eight-hundredths of a penny on one pound of t.i., and three
eight-hundredths of a penny on every additional pound. Over
£7600, ss. p.p.
Property: Up to £546, 3d. p.p., plus t.i. divided by
181.07 pence; 11.713 d. on £546; 12.768 d. on £600; 14.672 d.
on £700; 16.512 d. on £800; rising to 33.6 d. on £2OOO, 4s. sd.
on. £4OOO, 4s. 9|fi. on £5OOO and ss. on £6500 and upwards.
Lottery prizes, 4s. 3d. p.p.
Companies: Is. 6d. in the £, and dividends are added
to shareholders’ income “for aggregation purposes.”
Special income tax: £52 to £312 of wages or annual
income, 4d. p.p.; to £520, 4d. p.p. on £312 and sd. p.p. on
excess; to £l5OO, same as preceding rates to £520, 9d. p.p.
on excess; above £l5OO, same as preceding rates and Is. p.p.
on excess.
In the case of State imposts, exemptions apply only to
“ordinary” income taxes.
Together State and Federal imposts often exceed
what many British taxpayers with corresponding
incomes have to bear, high as their tax is. This was
mentioned at a businessmen’s dinner in England after
Mr. Stevens had recommended N. S. Wales as a field
for the establishment of branch factories and the like.
Mr. Stevens was astonished. His capacity for astonish-
ment seems unlimited ; he was equally astonished in
1930 when informed that the Bavin Government, in
which he was Treasurer, had introduced a clause* in
its Unemployed-relief Tax Act legalising taxation of
income from other States, income taxed by those
States and by the Commonwealth. This unjust and
unneighborly and still doubtfully constitutional tax
was, of course, to have been only “temporary.”
It was soon heavily increased, and, though a
large part of the proceeds is used for other
than unemployed-relief purposes, has been made per-
manent as far as a provincial Parliament can make
anything of the sort permanent. Indeed, in the Income
Tax (Management) Bill, which, it is alleged, was
designed to make the State income-tax law uniform
with the income-tax laws of the Commonwealth and
the other States, the “principle” of taxing earnings
from other parts of the Commonwealth and the world
has been extended to “ordinary” income tax.
This is by no means the only respect in which
the “uniformity” of which so much has been heard
is a fake. The N. S. Wales measure was introduced
so late in the financial year that even though the
Assembly passed whole sections of it with little or
no debate —the regular practice of Lower Houses
when dealing with taxation laws —it could not be
shoved through till the forms demanding particulars
of 1935-36 income were out. The result is that deduc-
tions to which taxpayers are now entitled do not
figure on the forms, and are thus unlikely to be
claimed by most of those who would otherwise benefit.
The only thing the Assembly seems to have been
keen on was to grant Assemblymen a special tax-
exemption of £2OO. It was done at dead of night with-
out debate. The only “uniformity” worth considering
is of the kind that would reduce the number of income
taxes from 14 to one and the number of taxation
departments from seven to one. And it is no imprac-
ticable reform ; actually, it has been rendered easier
by the striking fact that over a term of years “ordi-
nary” income-tax yields in the six States have been
less than total education expenditure. In 1933-34
the “ordinary” State income taxes returned £8,771,798
and State expenditure on education amounted to
£9,321,662. Transfer income taxation and education
control to the Commonwealth, and land taxation to
the States, and, while unemployment remains exces-
sive, let all six State Governments have grants-in-
aid instead of three—but only to the extent that may
be necessary —and the reform could be accomplished
in a twelvemonth. But accomplished it never will be
until the public forces it on the politicians, in the
process making it unhealthy for any of their number
or anyone aspiring to be of their number to resist it.
The Defence of Australia.
The savage civil war in Spain, which is being waged
with nervous Great Powers looking on, is another
warning to the Dominions, if any were needed, that
the world is in a highly explosive condition and that
they must look to their defences. How do Australia’s
stand?
Item 1 is a navy, very efficient for its size, but
no stronger than that of a second-class South Ameri-
can republic. It would be serviceable in the Pacific
only in strategic conjunction with the Royal Navy
if the Royal Navy happened to be in the Pacific and
based on Singapore. The late concentration of British
(and Australian) warships in the Mediterranean indi-
cates that such a chance is remote.
Item 2 is an air force with obsolete machines and
a strength much less than that of Portugal. It is
dependent on Britain for supplies of up-to-date fighters
and bombers, and Britain has its own air force to
look after. The R.A.F. is being built up to a strength
equal to that of some of its neighbors, taken sepa-
rately. but it is a long way off even that.
Item 3 is an army of 27,000 volunteers, spread
over Australia from Cairns to Perth. Perhaps 10,000
are efficient, and there is equipment for quite one-tenth
of that number. If trouble came could the British
Army come over and help it? Possibly—anything is
possible in this world. But, to a large extent, British
regular forces are tied up in various places in Asia
Minor and north-east Africa. It is on record that
the French General Staff learned with dismay that
all the help Britain could give France on land in
the event of another Continental war would amount to
just one-third of that given in August, 1914.
For 12 years Government after Government has
been informed by the chiefs of the three Australian
services in annual reports that the forces necessary
for the defence of Australia were down below bed-
rock. The present Government is talking a lot and
doing a little, but not nearly enough. Representative
of parties which supported the universal-training sys-
tem suspended by Scullin Labor (Scullin Labor
believed that membership of the League of Nations
was sufficient defence), it refuses to reintroduce it,
giving the craven excuse that a Labor Government
would suspend it again.
The voluntary system of militia training never
has been and never can be of any use. There is no
turnover to build up any reserve, neither has modern
equipment been provided to train any more than
infinitesimal numbers. Under universal training,
though never in full operation, there was a quota
going out each year into a definite reserve.
The Minister of Defence stated on May 11 that
the army organisation “provided for” seven divisions.
What is the use of telling people such things? If
we had seven divisions we would have 120,000 first-
line troops, and with reinforcements, base troops and
so forth, 400,000 soldiers altogether. As it is, we
possess 27,000 volunteers and no reserve.
Had universal training been continued, even in
its modified form, there would be a full nucleus of
seven divisions, with fairly modern equipment. And
quotas of time-expired trainees could be called up as
required, without fuss or confusion and without up-
setting industry.
People who shirk responsibilities assure us that
“the Australian is a born soldier.” He has qualities
which enable him to respond to training quickly and
efficiently, but there must be someone to train him
and something to train him with and time to train
him in. And time is the most uncertain of factors.
Australia must have trained men and equipment
sufficient to take care of any invader, and, consistently
with its resources, to send help to any other member
of the British Commonwealth of Nations that may be
attacked. All the services need strengthening, and
that without delay ; but the army is in the worst case.
The Government must realise that the voluntary sys-
tem is inefficient and useless. The situation demands
a modern force based on the grand democratic prin-
ciple of universal service. Every day the necessary
decision is deferred is a day perilously wasted.
Good-bye to Restriction.
It is a poor year for the gloomy people who see world
salvation in restricting production. Estimated wheat
output for 1936, including carry-over, is 5,274,000,000
bushels, which is 15,000,000 bushels short of the
amount consumed in the past year. Meat consump-
tion is on the upgrade—supplies are not.
Mr. Stevens, visiting Glasgow, was “satisfied that
the Scottish market can take considerably more meat
than it is doing,” and “surprised to learn that some
traders are unable to get all the supplies they want.”
All Britain is in the same position in respect of Aus-
tralian beef: we did not fill the meagre quota last
year ; we could not fill the same quota this year. But
half a dozen new ships have been brought into the
Australian chilled-carriage trade against the future.
The butter men, if they meet English prejudices,
need not draw in their horns. And there are other
prospects of big Australian business on the skyline.
The boom in British shipbuilding shows what
the future prospects of overseas trade are expected
to be. Apart from big passenger ships like the Queen
Mary, and her sister-craft which is to be proceeded
with, cargo steamers are being laid down literally in
half-dozens. The Blue Star line—controlled by
Vesteys—has been building ships as fast as the yards
can turn them out. Ellermans have placed an order
for six new vessels —two turbined 10,600-ton liners
for the South African trade ; two big cargo ships for
the Indian trade ; two more for the Mediterranean.
Altogether, nearly 800,000 tons of new British ship-
ping is on the stocks or about to go on the stocks.
It is a situation of which Australia should be able
to take advantage with a little foresight and with
willingness to give overseas buyers the class of goods
they want rather than the class Australian marketers
think they should have.
And important trade avenues are opening up.
Oil fuels, for instance. British interests control about
14,000,000 metric tons p.a. of crude-petroleum pro-
duction. World production is nearly 200,000,000 tons ;
not 3,000,000 tons is produced in the British
Empire. At a conference in Detroit (U.S.A.) last month,
F. F. Kishline, a leading motor engineer, pointed out
the fast dwindling of well fuels and the need for the
development of others. Off 600,000 acres of sweet
potatoes, Australia could produce at least its own
alcohol motor fuel, and that on a basis of 660 gallons
to the acre ; the Standards Association, in a report
issued ten years ago, declared that on the best land
1200 gallons to the acre could be got.
Alcohol can be made in factories no more expen-
sive to erect than butter factories. Maize, sugarcane,
sweet potatoes, potatoes and other vegetables yield
it, together with such products and by-products as
acetone and glycerine, which are needed in munition-
making. All the machinery for alcohol-production
could be made in Australia. Benzol is produced, and
far greater quantities could be turned out. But Com-
monwealth and State Governments have their eyes
glued to oil-from-coal production, which would
involve the investment of many millions sterling in
machinery abroad.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two Nations.
“There are two nations: the rich and the poor.” To
the wisest and wittiest of modern Jewish statesmen,
whose novels are too little read, that was the condition
of England about the middle of last century. It is
no longer true of England, nor perhaps of any other
country that took part in the Great War.
But where a Marxian party establishes itself
menacingly, there seems an irresistible tendency for
the people of the country infested to separate into two
nations —of Reds and Whites, or Communists and
Fascists, though neither description may exactly apply
to many of those forced to take sides. There ensues
a struggle for the mastery which results in the people
becoming all one thing or all the other. Reunification
is accomplished by methods utterly ruthless, the
weaker “nation” being wiped out, in the spirit or
in the flesh.
This happened in Russia, Hungary, Italy and
Germany, and it is happening now in Spain. To be
just to the Fascists and the Nazis, their victories
were accomplished with little bloodshed, and in their
fashion they have established order and summoned up
a patriotism which has its splendid side. But the
Spaniards are engaged in a civil war as ferocious as
the Russian.
Are English-speaking peoples fated to undergo
similar calamities? Must they be condemned to
choose between one form of dictatorship or another?
No ; not if they value the liberties won for them by
their fathers and remember that democracy involves
the acceptance of duties as well as the enjoyment
of rights. The first of these duties is to defend it
against its foes, internal as well as external. And its
most dangerous internal foes, and those who evoke
the fiercest passions, are those who, while claiming
themselves to be democrats, would forcibly substitute
an alien system which can be achieved only by means
of civil war.
Tax 'Em, Boys!
Westralian newspapers report Lord Gowrie as
expressing glowing opinions of the wealth of the
sea-food contained in their northern waters, and
wondering why it is not commercially exploited by-
Australians. Japanese are not inactive; at no great
distance from the North Westralian coast they are
catching all the edible varieties there found and
delivering huge quantities on the Singapore market.
Mr. Zane Grey, returned to Sydney from the
Barrier Reef, where in the intervals of making a talk-
ing picture he angled for groper, tunny and mackerel,
is even more enthusiastic than the Governor-General.
“Australia,” he told a reporter, “has the greatest
fishing coast in the world. It can be fished all the
year round because the warm currents attract tropical
varieties.” Notwithstanding bad weather, he had
caught “21,0001 b. of fish” during his brief stay in
Australian waters, including the long-fin tuna, the
taking of which could be developed into “a great
industry.”
Something may be allowed for the desire of
sojourners to say things that will please. All the same,
these reports confirm impressions formed by Austra-
lians who have fished in northern waters, among them
R.A.N. men familiar with roadsteads and inlets from
Port Hedland to Port Curtis. But the development of
neglected fisheries is discouraged by Australian
Governments with their pyramid of taxes and their
armies of taxgatherers.
While our American novelist was talking to the
reporter, the N. S. Wales Full Court was reserving
judgment in a case in which the N. S. Wales Com-
missioner of Taxation sued a trawling concern for
£lOB9, deducted from employees’ wages for N. S.
Wales unemployed-relief tax and paid into a trust
account, because liability is disputed. Although
Sydney is their home port, the trawlers fish in other
than N. S. Wales waters, “chiefly off the coasts of
M.L. and Victoria,” and cruises last from nine to
25 days.
The £lOB9 represents tax on earnings and basket
money for one financial year. The amount of the
tax for other years has also been paid into the trust
account, and if the verdict is for the department it
will get the lot. The fishermen are already liable for
Commonwealth tax, and under the new N. S. Wales
income-tax law, designed “to secure uniformity,”
they may be hit for two N. S. Wales taxes as well
if their litigation fails.
“S. M. Herald” published its report of this taxa-
tion case right underneath that of the examination in
bankruptcy of a former manager of a softgoods house,
whose estate was “sequestrated on the petition of the
Commissioner of Taxation”: liabilities, £703; taxes
owed, £173. Probably accident; possibly design;
certainly appropriate.
Promises and Performance.
During the last Commonwealth election campaign, the
cardinal U.A.P. pamphlet set out in parallel columns
“What Lyons Has Done” and “What Lyons Will Do.”
The hero himself was quoted as shouting “I can
look you square in the face and say that we have
done all that we said we would do.”
Some of the things Mr. Lyons took credit for
were “conversion of deficits into surpluses and reduc-
tion of State deficits”; the raising in Australia of
£38,000,000 to relieve unemployment “mainly through
State public works” ; reduction of interest rates and
increase of the national income by £60,000,000 —
though he had handsomely admitted at an R.A.S.
lunch in Sydney a few months before that in this the
wool industry had assisted. He stressed also revision of
the tariff “in the interests of efficiency ; removal of
most prohibitions and primary duties, and British
preference.”
Among the promises given (“We now say what
we will do if you give us the power to do it”) were, in
capital letters, “the giving of special attention to the
employment opportunities and general activities of
youth” ; protection of all efficient home industries ;
enlarging of the market for our exports by reciprocal
trade treaties with Empire and foreign countries;
revival of the Inter-State Commission ; making the
defence establishment adequate to the needs of
national security and safeguarding of the people’s
savings from socialisation.
The P.M. may be going to do some of these
things, but when? After two years most of them
remain in the air, and some of the Government’s
actions are in direct conflict with the promises. There
is no Inter-State Commission, no adequate defence
establishment nor any effective trade treaty. Trade
with Italy was stifled by “sanctions”; trade with
Japan by the Whiskard-Gullett tariff.
On this subject Mr. Lyons has shown the greatest
change of front since he took office. In his first policy
speech as U.A.P. leader, he said he stood for inquiry
by the Tariff Board as a preliminary to all tariff
action:
We do not believe it possible to remove tariff-
making from Parliament, but we strongly favor the
fullest possible investigation by a non-political tribunal
before duties are altered.
That was in 1931. In 1936 —well, any woolgrower
can complete the story.
Negotiating with Belgium.
If the negotiations for a trade treaty with Belgium
go amiss the wrath of the land men concerned will
fall heavily upon the Lyons Government.
The situation began to get difficult in 1934.
Belgium was then almost the only export market for
S.A. barley and Westralian frozen meat, as well as
being one of the important purchasers of Australian
wool—it took in six years wool valued at £1,241,000,
£2,326,000, £1,951,000, £2,812,000, £5,493,000 and
£4,684,000, all sterling figures. Our imports from
Belgium had averaged a little more than £575,000
a year.
Declaring that the Australian Government had
imposed a virtual embargo on the entry of Belgian
glass, Belgium began to kick. In 1934 restrictions on
Australian frozen meat were imposed, and an embargo
on Australian cereals was threatened.
In November, 1934, a temporary treaty was
negotiated, and it has been in force ever since. Under
this Belgium was permitted to sell about £lB,OOO
worth of sheet glass in Australia based on a con-
sumption of 7,500,000 square feet, with a specified
larger share of the Australian market when consump-
tion exceeded that figure.
The Belgians formally denounced this treaty
about two months ago, and the Government set to
work feverishly to arrange something in its place. In
1934-35 Belgium bought Australian goods worth
£6,080,000, while our purchases from Belgium were
only £477,000. Attempts by a harassed Minister
to make a satisfactory trade treaty in those circum-
stances must command sympathy, even from the most
reluctant sources.
Growers and Consumers.
Dear Bulletin, —The wheat situation has undergone
a dramatic change. The present price at Australian
ports is just on 4s. 9d. a bushel. The home-consump-
tion price proposed under the compulsory-marketing
scheme drawn up at Canberra on October 1 was
4s. 9d. a bushel. But the idea was that the 4s. 9d.
would be paid for wheat used in Australia for human
consumption only—about 32,000,000 bushels in a total
harvest of 140,000,000 bushels. On the basis of
October prices, the wheat sold overseas would have
brought only 3s. Bd., giving an average of 3s. lid.
According to politicians, a home-consumption
scheme is still essential because there is no guarantee
that prices will not fall again, and in times of low prices
world parity for wheat consumed in the home market
is not a reasonable price. What these gentlemen want
is to make the Australian public carry the entire loss
on wheat sold overseas when prices are low, even
though Australians consume only one-fourth of the
harvest.
Wheatgrowers have received about £12,000,000
by direct grant from the Commonwealth Treasury to
tide them over the depression. Unless a miracle
happens, they will receive for their new crop at least
6d. a bushel more than they expected when the sug-
gested home-consumption price was fixed at 4s. 9d.
They are also to get a large proportion of the
£12,000,000 to be applied to reduction of farmers’
debts. In the circumstances, bread-users will be apt
to regard “orderly marketing” as merely a device for
making the local consumer carry all the risks of
fluctuations in world prices.
Surely it is a fair thing for the industry itself
to carry these risks. If it takes all the fat it should
be prepared to accept the lean. One way to give
the consumers, fair play would be for wheatgrowers
through their organisations to pay into a trust fund
the difference between their October estimate of a
fair price and actual price for new season’s wheat.
Thus there would be established a fund large enough
to maintain a home-consumption price of 4s. 9d. if
the price in the world market sagged. It would be
time enough to call on the local consumer when the
fund became exhausted.—Yours etc., Four-pound
Loaf.
Forestry and Employment.
“Australian Forestry,” the journal of the recently-
formed Institute of Foresters, is concerned at a report
that the Commonwealth Government intends reducing
by half its unemployed-relief grant to the States for
forest work. It certifies that this money has been
well spent, and that the operations made possible by
it have helped to bridge the gap in the treatment of
Australian forests which has resulted from a century
of exploitation without reforestation.
The foresters’ publication fears that without Com-
monwealth help most of the States will find it neces-
sary to disband the organisation built up. Instead of
cutting supplies by 50 p.c., Canberra, it argues, should
be increasing them, as, “apart from the national im-
portance of the forest asset which is being created,”
men and lads from the cities are all the better, physi-
cally and mentally, for doing useful work in healthy
surroundings. This assuredly cannot be said of pick-
and-shovel jobs in seedy suburbs.
Allied to the question of forestry employment
is the question of higher forestry education. The
institute is appalled at the suggestion that the Com-
monwealth Government may be forced to close its
forestry school, and suggests that “all Governments
should unite to establish forestry education on a satis-
factory basis.” The Bulletin’s idea is that all
branches of education now misdirected by six provin-
cial Governments should be placed under Common-
wealth control. By all means let youths be trained in
forestry, but State Governments which have neglected
technical education so scandalously are never likely to
do the job as well as a national authority taking the
national view.
The Sydney They Won't See,
By the time Sydney’s hundred-and-fiftieth birthday
arrives the casual visitor to the place during the cele-
brations will have difficulty in finding more than a
few stones standing anywhere to indicate what the
original British settlement in Australia was like during
the tremendously, important first 50 years of its exist-
ence. There is now nothing whatever to show what it
was like in the first half-dozen years.
Even the name of its precarious site during the
starvation days of its infancy, when Phillip’s courage
and steadfastness alone preserved the young colony
from destruction, has been lost in the ridiculous
“Circular Quay”—a circle that is really an oblong.
There is nothing at all beside Port Jackson, save one
or two very old gum-trees in the Botanic Gardens,
that Phillip might have looked upon.
With the exception of the ancient Commissariat
Stores standing by the south-west corner of the Cove
and the beginnings of Fort Phillip on Observatory
Hill, nothing has been left of Sydney before Mac-
quarie’s reign began, 22 years after the foundation
of the colony. And the many buildings that Macquarie
caused to be erected in Sydney are now so few! The
Rum Hospital—two wings of it preserved in Parliament
House and the late Royal Mint—the Convict Bar-
racks, St. James’s Church, the Supreme Court and
the old building in George-street behind the Com-
missariat Stores formerly occupied by the Taxation
Department are all that remain of the town as Mac-
quarie left it in 1822. And each of these, with pos-
sibly the exception of Green way’s church in King-
street, is threatened .with destruction.
And Sydney permitted Fort Macquarie to be
replaced by a tramshed, and the old Scots Church by
an ecclesiastical building externally resembling a
picture-show!
Someone said long ago that Australians were lack-
ing in all spirit of reverence. No one believes that
this is quite true, but he would be a bold being
who set out to prove it wasn’t by a consideration of
what Sydney has done, and is prepared to do in
the almost immediate future, to its architectural relics
of the past.
If all the old buildings are likely to go it might
at least be possible to preserve some memories of
the birth of the Australian nation by abolishing certain
place-names arbitrarily bestowed upon localities long
after their christening by the people who first knew
them. “Circular Quay,” for instance, could very well
revert to “Sydney Cove,” and “Mosman’s Bay”—the
correct spelling is “Mossman” —to “Great Sirius
Cove,” so-called because H.M.S. Sirius was careened
there for her first overhaul in Australian waters.
A Change of Mind.
The Australian transport question, put in a nutshell
by an Australian transport expert after extensive study
of transport conditions in the U.S.A.:
Farmers declare that these lines [road motor-
truck services] enable them to considerably reduce their
expenses.... Good roads may be as costly to construct
as light railroads These latter cannot, however, be
built up to every farmer’s door, and even if they
could, there are other costs to be considered: stations,
sidings, rolling stock, staff, etc The country-road
motor would be a tremendous help to the farmer,
because by giving him a chance to market his products
promptly, and without inconvenience to him, it would
encourage him to produce more /... Many of our branch
lines do not pay even working expenses.... This would
not occur with roads, certainly not to the same extent.
The author is J. W. Davidson in his annual
report as Queensland Commissioner of Railways—for
1919. In that report Mr. Davidson also stresses the
enormous —indeed, unreplaceable—value of road-
motor services in time of war, and describes how the
railways failed entirely to handle the supply and muni-
tions business in America in war-time.
Now Mr. Davidson is chairman of the Transport
Strangulation Board!


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Fiona”: Our Darlinghurst landlady
has faith in her permanent tenants and
leaves our shilling-in-the-slot gas-meters
unlocked, so that we shall never go gas-
less for want of change. Times being
better than usual with her she decided
last week to go to the races, and sent
the small maid round the meters to col-
lect a few shillings to put on something
good. Gladys returned minus cash, but
with a handful of hurriedly written
IOUs. The explanation was that the
tenants had gone to the races themselves.
=i : * $
“C.H.R.”: A Brisbane bookseller is in
a self-appointed class of one. Under-
neath his signboard are the letters M.M.,
RTD., T.G. They stand for “Master
Mariner. Retired, Thank God.”
*i»
“Pardon Me”: The side-saddle may
have become a rarity in this country, but
it is far from being so in the English
hunting field. The Princess Royal still
hunts in one, as do many other women,
not by any means aged. Girls are still
brought up to ride side-saddle; and, in
spite of all that may be said to the con-
trary, it is a far more graceful way of
riding for women than the modern
astride pose.
❖ % *
“Yours etc.”: Even the two-up schools
have entries on the credit side. The
ringkeeper at the one I occasionally
patronise made an announcement before
the first spin: “Well, boys, you all know
old George died during the week.
The missus and kids aren’t too well off,
so what about a few bob?” They came in
readily enough. Twice during the pro-
gress of the game the appeal was re-
newed, the last collection being the best.
“The big winners came to light pretty
good,” was the way the ringkeeper put it.
* * * *
“Wooden Nutmeg”; Truth and fiction
run hand in hand these days. About a
week after The Bulletin printed a joke
about a xylophonist having a go at the
skeleton ribs of a prehistoric monster,
“Popular Science,” in the U.S.A., came
out with a photograph of a museum
official w'ho has constructed a very tuneful
xylophone from the ribs of fossil rhino-
ceroses. This guy, as well up in music as
in fossilology, swears that the older the
bone is the mellower is the tone.
* * * *
“Ahoy”; Another peril for those who
go down to the sea in ships was stressed
when Captain Erikson, of the Herzogin
Cecilie, was found in the hold overcome
by gas fumes from the fermenting wheat.
Wheat is one of the most dangerous of
cargoes. It looks good, it is clean, the
handling and stowing present little trouble
—but a loose mass of thousands of tons
under hatches is full of menace. A rent
in a hatch tarpaulin, a stoved-in cover, a
smashed deck-ventilator or a leak in the
skin of the ship will allow water to
reach the cargo, and when that happens
a freighter is doomed. Water and wheat
don’t mix well—add the heat of the holds
and you have a deadly explosive. The
wet grain starts swelling until no power
will hold it. The gas blows the hatch-
covers sky-high ; swelling grain has often
ripped ships asunder.
* * * *
“Groper”: The Victorian Govern-
ment is to get a man from Scotland
Yard to reorganise its police force. It
recalls that the founder of Scotland
Yard served his apprenticeship in the
handling of criminals as the first
Comptroller-General of Convicts in
W.A. Arriving as Captain Henderson
with the first batch of convicts on the
Scindian in 1850, he held the job for 13
years, building Fremantle Gaol and by
humane administration saving the con-
vict system from the horrors associated
with it in N.S.W. and Tasmania. Recalled
to England in 1863, he in ’69 started on
Scotland Yard, then located in White-
hall. He found only 15 detectives and
appointed another 185, creating the C.I.D.
Organising the uniformed force, he
raised pay for the ranks one shilling per
week, planned a system of beats and
“fixed points,” replaced rattles with
whistles and instituted many other re-
"Yes , yes, its Amalgamated Beef Trust speaking .”
forms. But the Trafalgar Square riots
of 1886 saw the end of Henderson's term
as Commissioner of Metropolitan Police.
The newspapers clamored for a scape-
goat, and Henderson was forced to resign.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Complaints about
the indifferent quality of prison literature
don’t apply to the “House on the Hill”
at Fremantle. The institution has a
library containing fiction —Edgar Wallace,
in spite of his predilection for police
inspectors, is still much sought after —as
well as books of travel, classics and even
Communist works. Prisoners serving
sentences of over six months may
study a catalogue and “order” the books
they want. Another thing that agreeably
surprises a stranger is the extent of trad-
ing that goes on with tobacco as a base.
A “jockey”—a matchboxful—is worth an
allowance of sugar—ten ounces—a box of
matches or a tinder-box. This last, an
ingenious device, consists of a steel button,
with two small holes in the centre, a bit
of tape, a small box packed with ashes of
burnt rag and a piece of flint. A survival,
it is said, from the old convict days.
“Yarragundry”: The most sudden con-
version of Aussie soldiers in bulk I struck
was when the Light Horse were resting
near Solomon’s Pools in Palestine. The
R.C. padre. Father Mullins (now a very
sick man in Sydney’s Lewisham Hospital),
arranged a divisional mass for the Anzac
Division at the Church of the Nativity,
Bethlehem, a place all ranks wished to
visit. Orders reached B and C squadrons
of the 6th Regiment first, and they turned
Catholic on the spot. When they reached
A, to which I belonged, we were duty
squadron for the following day and the
wholesale conversions in B and C pre-
vented any of our R.Cs. getting away.
Being a genuine one I got paraded to
my squadron 0.C., Major Cross, who
grinned and said: “1 know you attend
your service at times, so I’ll let you go.
But don’t join the parade or I’ll have an
R.C. riot in the squadron. Take your
horse and travel as a spare unit.” Which
I did.
* * * *
“Toboso”: The civil war or revolu-
tion (or whatever you like to call it) in
Spain has disclosed that there are singu-
larly few of Don Quixote’s compatriots
in this country to be interested in it, one
way or the other. The total tally, it is
computed, is less than 500, most of whom
are mixed up with other Latins on the
Queensland canefields. They have no
clubs, like the Italians and Greeks, to
assert their nationality, and a newspaper
reporter detailed to get a disinterested
Spanish opinion on current Spanish
affairs would probably have a hard job
to find a Spaniard. I can only recall
meeting one in 40 years ; he taught the
fiddle and the guitar in a Westralian gold-
fields township. Still, 1 suppose you
might strike others in the cities. The late
Senator Kingsmill once told me that
many years ago when a company had
been formed to promote the cultivation
of the cork-tree in Westralia, for which
parts of the State seemed to be eminently
suited, it was decided to import a few
Spaniards, as experts, to give the hoped-
for industry a good start. The immi-
grants, both male and female, duly
arrived, but they wouldn’t stay where
they were wanted. The monotony of
bush life was too much for them, and
with their defection the cork-tree enter-
prise faded out. Where did they go? I
asked the Senator. To the Perth fish-
and-chips shops, he thought.
“S.G.”: Forms of government change
in Spain, but the ferocious character of
Spanish warfare never changes. It is
reported that women and girls are fight-
ing for the Reddish Pink Government.
Their great-great-grandmothers fought
against Napoleon, particularly at Zara-
gossa, which has been undergoing an-
other siege. It was the scene of two
sieges in the wars against the French.
Both were terrible, but the first was per-
haps the worst. My historian says:
The old Moorish walls were manned by
crowds of determined men whose wives
and daughters looked on, nay, mingled
boldly in their defence. The French were
held at bay week after week. They at
length gained possession of the convent of
Santa Engracia. Their general, Lefebre
Desnouettes, sent a summons: “Head-
quarters, Santa Engracia. Capitulation.”
He received for answer: “Headquarters,
Zaragossa. War to the knife.”
And war to the knife it was. It is strange
that a people capable of such energy
and such heroism should have fallen so
low among the nations at the head of
which Spain once stood; but that is
another story.
“Gee”: It always puzzles me why car-
toonists, when depicting schoolroom
scenes, include an old-fashioned black-
board-on-easel. Surely the artists must
be aware that all modern schools have
a long, partitioned blackboard affixed to
one wall. The only excuse I can think
of for the inclusion of such anachronisms
is that the small board is more convenient
for pictorial composition.
“Morita”: When a pair of gipsies
quietly slid into our office a few years
back, reeking of cheap scent and swathed
in gaudy dresses, they showed a profit
not from a queer spell but from sleight-
of-hand. Our cashier was balancing up
petty cash, and a pile of silver was in
front of him. Across his table he found
fault with the women —mother and
daughter they seemed to be—for intrud-
ing into his sanctum. He swore that all
the time he had one eye on them and the
other on his cash (not, as we expected,
both of them on the daughter), and that
their waving hands
and the money
never connected.
After bundling
them out he
counted his cash
again to find he
was five bob light.
He streaked, down
to the door in time
to see the pair dis-
appearing in a car.
“No good; you
couldn’t prove any-
thing if you did
catch them,” some-
one told him.
“Don’t I know it,”
was the wild re-
sponse ; “but they
can have another
dollar of my cash
if they’ll only teach
me how they did
it.”
t]t *
“Caballer”:
Newspaper
bloomers? In a
final picture of a
Robinson Crusoe
“strip” the “Argus”
(25/7/’36) presents
that worthy gazing
over the bulwarks of his ship in the
Thames “after living a life full of adven-
ture and variety for 72 years.” The date
is given as 1705 and in the foreground is
Tower Bridge with its spans raised. The
bridge wasn’t in existence until 1894.
* ❖ * *
“Jobber”: Touching occupations re-
garded as dangerous by insurance com-
panies (B. 15/7/’36): I was quite pre-
pared for a poultice when I enlisted ; but
the A.M.P. let me off. Both the society
and J had two narrow squeaks, and I
shudder to think what would have hap-
pened to the funds had I taken the full
count.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; A Parkside (S.A.) man has
been gaoled for being found in church
—“without lawful excuse.” Detected
behind a normally locked door, in a
room near the altar, he said he was shel-
tering from the rain, and “had a look
round.” But as he possessed a pair of
pincers which had been missed by the
cleaner, also two locks and a piece of
wire, the Court thought it worth six
weeks.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Among pleasant war-time
memories I include the little sheilahs
who acted as conductors on the English
buses. While I was a patient in Hare-
field, I was travelling to the city from
Paddington when one of them came
round with a gentle “fez, pliz.” I thought
the request was directed to me, but it
proved to be meant for the civvie along-
side. The girl told me, in a gentle voice,
that an Aussie in hospital blues could
ride free on her bus. In less than
five minutes she came back and most
apologetically whispered: “I’m sorry,
Digger, but I’ll have to ask you for a
fare ; there’s an inspector on this corner
and he’s a real nark.”
COULD THE DEAD RETURN.
“We lost our best men at the war, men who would
have become our leaders. If the dead could return
there would be no more war.” —Prime Minister
Baldwin.
Could the dead return, no more would the
sabre rattle
Or the war-drums blare the summons wild
and stern
That sends the legions forth, like driven cattle,
To the waste and woe, the horror and hell of
battle,
Could the dead return.
Could the dead return from their far-flung
resting-places
Where the poppies glow or the desert sand-
storms burn,
There would never echo again through earth’s
wide spaces
The clatter and clang of arms in the clash of
races,
Could the dead return.
Could the dead return! Ah, it is these would
train us
The butcher gods of the outworn creeds to
spurn.
To hold the guilt of war of all crimes most
heinous,
To close for ever and ever the Gates of Janus,
Could the dead return.
Could the dead return to the paths the living
tread on,
From the leaders lost a lesson the world
might learn
That never again should the battle-flames rise
red on
The stricken plains of another Armageddon,
Could the dead return!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mako”: Maoriland is chuckling over
the experience of a Ministerial party that
ordered dinner for 6 p.m. at an up-
counfry hotel and did not arrive to eat it
until several hours later. The dinner was
excellent, and the trippers were greatly
pleased until the account was presented.
It included a staggering charge for over-
time. The landlord explained, courte-
ously but firmly, that the excess was due
to the legislation of the new Labor
Government.
* * * *
“Emrus”: Film anachronisms, is it? I
saw the other night a screen version of
Jack London’s The Call of the Wild,
the scene being represented at the outset
as “The .Yukon, 1900.” The set was per-
fect, complete with frilled ballet r girls of
considerable avoirdupois, dark-mous-
tached gamblers with sleek hair and side-
levers, and rough-and-ready miners of
varying fortunes. But the ballet was per-
forming and the gambling conducted to
the strains of “It Ain’t Gonna Rain No
Mo’ ” —a song of the 1922 vintage.
* * * *
“L.W.”: Warrant-Officer Reid may be
quite capable of riding a horse 12,000
miles in 300 consecutive days (B.
22/7/ ’36), but there simply isn’t a horse
that could survive such consistent work
in the conditions indicated. I’ll go
“Mug Rider” one better; l am prepared
to take on Reid’s schedule on foot and
not only outstay the horse but, if a
route can be planned to make regular
“All right, missus; eight o'clock t'-night it is. Informal dress, I presoom ?”
40-mile stages possible, to carry it right
through—provided someone can be
found fool enough to finance the venture
and pay my first-class passage back. A
12,000-mile race between a horse and a
man should intrigue the flapper press.
* *
“Jigger”: “Becks’s” liquid glue which
rolled off the lorry and almost fly-
papered the driver to the roadway (B.
10/6/’36), had a recent parallel in Bal-
main (N.S.W.). A lorry loaded with large
barrels of soap lye or glycerine was being
driven towards a steep hill when two of
the barrels rolled off. One overtook the
lorry, but the driver skilfully manoeuvred
his vehicle in front of it and shepherded
it into the gutter. The other burst
when it hit the road, and the contents
spread everywhere. Trams were unable
to pass the spot, even when sand had been
applied to the rails; vehicular traffic
generally was held up until the fire bri-
gade had methodically hosed the thor-
oughfare. The only persons who ap-
peared to enjoy thoroughly the happening
were the hordes of small boys who took
full advantage of the impromptu slip-
pery dip.
* * *
“Hub”: “Coif” writes of “the cus-
tomary year and a day which insurance
companies include in their contracts to
minimise suicide risks” (B. 22/7/’36).
This may be correct as far as overseas
assurance companies are concerned, but
Australia has in this, as in numerous
other matters, made marked advances in
curtailing the liberty of the person. Here
it is usually 13 months (and this was one
of the clauses suggested in the proposed
Commonwealth Insurance Act a few
years ago), the reason being that at the
end of a year the second annual pre-
mium falls due, and there is usually a
month’s grace to pay it. At the end of
the 13 months the policy, unless the pre-
mium is paid, will lapse, and most would-
be suicides can’t or won’t afford the time
or the money to wait.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: So far none of the com-
mentators upon war-souvenir explosions
has suggested the most likely cause
of all, the formation of picrates. These
are little blisters formed on the varnished
interior surface of bombs or shells by
chemical action over a long period of
time. These picrates become highly
sensitive to heat and touch, a slight tap,
sometimes even the heat from the hands,
being enough to detonate them. For
this reason high-explosive shells are
dumped after 15 years.
t- * *
“Elacy”: “Corporal Wanst” suggests (B.
1/7/’36) that the decision to put the rank
and file of the R.A.A.F. into slacks and
open-neck tunics will not be welcomed.
As one with nearly nine years’ service in
the R.A.A.F., and with memories of long-
winded ceremonial parades in choker-
neck tunics, breeches and leggings, I differ.
Even from the financial viewpoint the
troops will be better off. The service
white shirt costs 3s. 6d.; and slacks at
less than £1 compare favorably with
breeches at nearly 30s. Moreover, starched
linen collars worn inside a high-necked
tunic are the last word in discomfort. The
present uniform is less popular than
it might be as a going-out dress because
breeches and leggings necessitate the
wearing of heavy boots. Most of the
troops reckon that if it were not for the
barely discernible wings on shoulder-ends
the public might mistake them for a
new sort of bus-conductor or fireman.
* * * *
“R.8.C.”: I have a volume with tell-taie
photographs of the lungs of workers in
various dusty industries ; the coalminer’s
lungs are shown as almost black, much
darker than a steel-grinder’s, though the
effects may not be so deadly. These
trades may not be the worst, however;
the lungs of a goldminer, upon chemical
analysis, showed 24.4 per cent, of their
total weight to be pure silica, inhaled
during rock-drilling. Dust also exacts its
deadly toll from stonemasons, sawmill-
hands and workers among silk, felt and
lead.
“ You'll have to get a job now, Franky. We cant live on love an kisses .”
After reading an old man’s memoirs:
Lloyd George seems to have lost his grip on
foreign politics (B. 29/7/ ’36), but his Great
War reminiscences show no sign of failing
powers. It would be hard to go all the way
with him in his attacks on Haig’s strategy,
but the case he made out against the Passchen-
daele campaign was simply tremendous. In one
of the new chapters which Sydney “Sun” is pub-
lishing, he elucidated a mystery that baffled
me for years. Why didn’t the French make
Clemenceau their President instead of an
obscure old gentleman—l forget his name —
who wound up his career by falling out of a
train? Lloyd George explains that it was be-
cause the Tiger refused to attend a victory
service in the Strasburg Cathedral after the
liberation; his pointed absence infuriated every
French and Alsace-Lorraine Catholic and cost
him the Presidency. Of course Clemenceau
was anti-clericalist all his life, and even a devout
Catholic who was no politician became to him
Vennemi. Lloyd George mentions that the
implacable ancient hated Foch and Foch hated
him.
¥ * $ ¥
“Curragh”; I nominate the Melbourne
cable-tram gripman’s job as one of the
coldest in Australia these winter months.
Scantily protected by the roof of the
open-sided dummy, huddled in service
overcoats which possess almost incredible
water-absorbing qualities, gripmen face
the bitterest of weather standing in a
cramped space which makes all warmth-
creating movement impossible. Whenever
heavy rains are accompanied by wind,
which they mostly are in Melbourne, they
are drenched to the skin ; on frosty nights
numbed hands and frozen feet intensify
their discomfort. Yet many old grip-
men can boast of over forty years’ ser-
vice without having missed a day through
ill-health ; most of these hardy veterans
regard with disfavor the new form of
electric traction.
* * * *
“Mish Bish”: One of the commercial
broadcasting stations devotes some part of
its Sunday programme to an exposition,
by a Sydney adherent, of the interesting
theory that the British are part of the
Ten Lost Tribes of Jewry, and conse-
quently that full justification for the
British Empire may be found in the
Bible. This strange belief is all that en-
dures of the memory of a gentle, lov-
able creature named Richard Brothers,
an ex-naval lieutenant. Brothers became
convinced of the wickedness of martial
life and refused to draw his half-pay,
thus creating for himself endless diffi-
culties which were probably the cause of
his losing his reason. In 1794 he pre-
dicted the millennium and the restoration
of the Jews to Palestine, with himself as
their prince—to take place in 1795. His
teachings attracted some attention at the
time, but no part of his doctrine survives
to-day except the British-Israelite fallacy.
$ 'l*
“Hamer”: A deal of appreciation was
expressed in our suburb for a kindly old
man who wandered around feeding
pigeons. The dear old chap, ladies told
me, had the birds so tamed that they
would pick grains off his very toes,
There was a showdown the other morn-
ing when an early-rising woman saw the
man who had come to be regarded as a
modern St. Francis of Assisi with a huge
wire-trap, into which he had enticed
about a dozen of the fliers. She held the
trapper in heated argument while her
daughter ’phoned for the police. The
veteran went off with his haul, however;
the police held that, unless the woman
claimed the pigeons as her own, or could
say whose birds they were, no charge
could be laid. For myself, I don’t blame
the bird-trapper for finding a method of
doing without the old-age pension—or
augmenting it. But faith in kindly actions
has slumped in our district.
i[» * *
“Spokeshave”: A voice like that of the
angel Gabriel has been sounding lately
over Melbourne. It can be heard from
Moonee Ponds to Surrey Hills, and has
interrupted the proceedings in courts as
far apart as the Third Civil, where
Justice Lowe felt constrained to send out
an usher to put a stop to the disturbance,
to institutions in the outer suburbs.
When the voice roared through the pre-
cincts of the court at Prahran the P.M.
sent an orderly to put a stop to it. “It’s
an advertising aeroplane, your worship,”
replied the official on returning. Learned
Judges are now studying the codes to
see if they have any jurisdiction over
interrupters who frequent the empyrean,
but there is much doubt on the. subject.
Judges have power to stop noises on
ground works near their premises or in
the precincts of the court buildings, but
nobody envisaged this present air age.
“Diggaire”: Watching a football
match the other day my memory went
back 20 years to a performance staged
in very different conditions. In a hop-over
at Contalmaison, an English battalion
went over with four footballs, passing
them to one another through the barrage
of death, and on through wire entangle-
ments into the lines of Fritz. After the
dugouts had been mopped up with
bombs and bayonet a search was made
for the footballs. Only two were re-
covered, and these may be found in an
English museum.
* * * *
“G.S.L.”: How well some of those
old tradesmen worked! I was born 69
years ago ; when I was two years old my
father, in quest of a cot for me and fail-
ing to find a suitable one, mentioned
the matter to Jack Leigh, an Adelaide
blacksmith. “Call back in two days’
time,” was his response, “and I’ll give
you a job that’ll outlast anything you
could buy ready-made. I’ve got some
Lowmoor iron here that works like
butter under the hammer.” The cot was
waiting when dad called. It remains in the
family; 30 children have used it; my
youngest grandchild sleeps in it to-night.
Judged purely as an example of wrought-
iron work, it is nothing ornate, but every
blacksmith or engineer who examines it
says: “This is what I call a good job.
It was never dressed up with a file, or
even swaged, yet you’d need a lens to
find the welds.”
A BATH A WEEK.
“Dr, Barry, contrasting modern conditions with
those of the ‘good old days,’ recalled that when
Queen Victoria came to the throne she startled
Court circles by proclaiming her intention of having
a bath once a week.”
Ye youths and maids who once or twice a day
Immerse your glowing frames in H2O,
D'you ever pause to think the shower-bath’s
spray
Was quite unknown a century ago?
Even a weekly sluice, from top to toe,
With water from a bucket or a can
Was counted something more than coniine il
font
When Queen Victoria’s golden reign began.
’Twas she who broke the ice, as one might say,
And set a precedent for high and low.
Developing a hygienic trait
The Stuarts and the Georges couldn’t show.
Her maids-of-honor felt it as a blow.
A bath a week! Such luxury outran
The wildest dreams it had been theirs to
know
When Queen Victoria’s gracious reign began.
Ye water-nymphs and knuts who love to stray
Where frolic billows toss you to and fro,
Ye oldsters, too, who hum a roundelay
Where (hot or cold) the pleasant bath-taps
flow,
Pity your hapless ancestors! Heigh-ho!
A bath a week, for woman or for man.
Was reckoned swank and braggadocio
When Queen Victoria’s golden reign began.
First of her line she pioneered .the way
A hundred years ago—how brief a span
To bring such whirling changes with it, eh?
A bath a week seemed a newfangled lay
When Queen Victoria’s diamond reign began!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


2(wr6
10 for 9 (
J. 854
They*re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
1
m
THIS GENERA!
POLITICAL POINTS
Melbourne “Argus” has discovered
that the “ground has been cleared for
Australia and Japan to explore the possi-
bilities of a trade agreement,” and hopes
they will “succeed in doing so without
prejudice to the paramount interests of
Great Britain.” So Australia is second.
The judgment in James v. the Com-
monwealth has encouraged the Riverina
“hauliers” to challenge the cancellation
of their licenses by the Melbourne Gov-
ernment. They are being cheered on by
Sydney’s Commercial Motor-Vehicle Pro-
prietors, who may test the N.S.W. trans-
port-strangulation law and regulations on
their own account.
Features of the inter-State Labor con-
ference at Adelaide were the sudden de-
parture of Curtin for Perth, the decision
that Garden’s appeal against his expul-
sion was not in order, that worthy’s with-
drawal to a State-executive-banned meet-
ing of union bosses at Sydney (there he
likened Lang, formerly “greater than
Lenin, - ” to Hitler) and Norman Makin’s
election as president of the Federal
organisation—he had tied with Fallon
(Q.), and his name was drawn out of a
hat. Before long Makin will be wishing
that Fallon’s bit of paper had been
pulled out.
Copy of a Melbourne clubman’s cable-
gram to a London friend:
I hope you will prevent Eden inducing
the League to apply sanctions against
Spanish onions, because it will only mean
a further slump in British tripe.
An A.I.F. man, too ; but he is “abso-
lutely fed up with the foreign policy”
of which Mr. Eden was the leading
exponent.
Curtin recently declared for redistribu-
tion of the national income by means
of taxes, and Prime Minister Savage is
an enthusiast in the same cause. He
says it will remove the anomaly of some
people having £5OOO a year and others
30s. a week. M’yes, but if you drive out
or dry up the energies of those who make
thousands a year you may end by having
everybody on 30s. a week or less —prob-
ably less.
Just when Canberra was persuading
itself that there was no longer any need
to worry about the trade war, since the
Japanese, as young Mr. Lawson put it,
had “come to heel,” this shattering news
arrived from Tokio:
The Minister of Commerce told Cabinet
that, while he had no objection to the re-
sumption of discussions with Australia, he
would not grant licenses for imports of
Australian wool. There was plenty in
stock, more was coming from other
quarters, and there would, he hoped, be
satisfactory substitutes in a year or two.
Recovering a trifle, and being always
willing to believe what it wants to be-
lieve, Canberra said the gentleman was
bluffing. Perhaps he is, but it is just as
likely that he is in dead earnest. Can-
berra Ministers never have to reckon
with nasty suggestions that they should
disembowel themselves.
At the inter-State Labor conference
there was much talk of a referendum
asking for power to alter the Constitution
any way Parliament might wish, even to
the extent of scrapping the Federal sys-
tem. Speaker after speaker opposed it
because they said “it would give power
to oppose conscription.” Why this furious
opposition to conscription, which was
Federal Labor policy when Federal
Labor was a power? Its opponents them-
selves impose a form of conscription in
the shape of compulsory unionism. They
even force poor devils of unemployed to
buy 255. A.W.U. tickets before they will
let them earn their bread on Government
works. Part of the 255. goes to support
a party which conscripts conceivably
dislike, another part towards the main-
tenance of newspapers which many of
them never read.
The Macquarie-street Administration
still harbors the notion that all the un-
employed can be profitably “absorbed”
on sewerage works ; and whether or not
the works will pay is held not to matter
a dump. Spooner announced with im-
mense pride that since July 1 1334 men
(many, no doubt, clerks, craftsmen and
shop assistaxits) had been added to the
list of full-time employees on sewerage
works, and that within the next few
months the sewerage workers would num-
ber 15,115, an addition of 8634 to the
total employed on July 1, About the same
time Greater Brisbane’s Council an-
nounced the financial results of its sewer-
age department for the 1935-36 year.
Income was £162,739, expenditure
£419,238.
Menzies and Manning, who argued the
Privy Council case for their defeated
Governments, returned last week, their
heads, as it were, bloody but unbowed.
AN ELDER STATESMAN HAS A TRADE-WAR NIGHTMARE.
Menzies indeed fried to show that his
expedition was not a total loss-
The new meat arrangement will mean
a 14 p.c. increase to Australian exporters.
Australia’s action in relation to Japanese
industry created a very favorable impres-
Slon in Britajn and was a helpful fa F ctor
in the negotiations,
Fourteen per cent, of annual value of
meat exports to Britain is about £240,000.
To secure £240,000 the Government to
which Menzies belongs has risked a
trade worth £l6,ooo,ooo—and if new-
wool prices slump the beneficiary country
will save a lot more than £240,000.
Mr. Stevens in London last week
arranged the renewal of a £2,000,000 loan
at 4 p.c., issue price £99, for the Sydney
County Council. It was oversubscribed
by £30,000,000. No wonder. A Com-
monwealth conversion loan of approxi-
mately 20 years’ currency was put on the
London market by Mr. Bruce in January
at an effective rate of £3 6s. per cent.
A five-seven-year loan he arranged at
£2 18s. 6d. per cent. Bruce’s loans have
represented a big-saving in interest. Syd-
ney ratepayers won’t benefit;much from
Stevens’s work ; the greater part of the
old loan carried 4| p.c.
At Curtin’s instance, the inter-State
Labor conference gave its sanction to “a
monetary and banking policy” designed,
the leader said, “to give the party a grip
on private control of credit, which has
been so detrimental to the people.”
One clause provides for
Financing by the Commonwealth Bank at
the actual cost of issuance and service of
public works, at not less than award rates,
to aid national development.
Another for
Loans, to be issued at nominal interest,
to promote closer settlement and to effect
complete adjustment of farm mortgages.
That ought to catch a lot of votes, com-
rade!
Maorilanders are awaiting uneasily
details of their Labor Government’s
taxation programme. They know income
tax will go up, but would like to have
the particulars so that they may start to
save more. At present tax on personal
earnings begins at 7d. in the £ and rises
to 4s. 6d. At least, that is what the Act
says, but 30 p.c, of tax payable has been
added ; also 4d. in the £ on income in
excess of £5OO and Bd. in the £ for unem-
ployed-relief. Even so, Australians have
ca, ! se to envy tbeir kinsmen.
The familiar scramble for the U.A.P.
nomination is going on in Vaucluse.
Even if Lang Labor contested it, which
is unlikely, a hundred U.A.P. candidates
could stand for Vaucluse without en-
dangering the seat; but the chances are
that a few hundred persons will decide
the matter for 20,000 electors, as was the
case in Gordon. It seems a good oppor-
tunity for a bright young man to come
out as an open-go candidate. Pre-selee-
tion nas been associated with a conspicu-
ous decline in the quality of the represen-
tion for which Australians pay so
heavily, and people are increasingly
aware of it.
Back from England, where the quality
and packing of Tasmanian apples gave
him a pain, Claude James, M.H.A., told
a welcoming body of Launceston busi-
nessmen that “in many parts of the U.K.
tramways are a thing of the past.”
They are substituting buses and trolley-
buses, and either pulling up the rails or
covering them with bitumen.
The returned wanderer was plainly sur-
prised at the chuckles this information
extracted. He was soon enlightened.
Launceston Council, which controls the
local tramways, had just decided on three
costly extensions.
Every day makes it clearer that the
Empire is well out of the “sanctions”
mess. While the folly was at its height
the British Foreign Minister promised
Turkey, Greece and Yugoslavia that it
would back one and all if Italy attacked
them. Italy has now assured these coun-
tries that it never had the slightest in-
tention of attacking any of them ; so Mr.
Eden has informed them, in the jargon
of the new diplomacy, that “there is now
no further need for the continuance of
unilateral assurances.”
Sydney’s County Council has paid a
bill for £25, presented by its chairman,
S. A. Lloyd, M.L.A., for expenses of a
journey to Melbourne. The gentleman
has a Government railway and tramway
pass. He preferred to go by C.C. car. It
seems that such excursions can be
authorised by the general manager. In
other words, the chairman with the free
pass may, with the g.-m.’s permission,
borrow the council’s car and chauffeur in
the exercise of a vulgar privilege, or the
vulgar exercise of a privilege, whichever
expression may be preferred.
It was an unfortunate day for the
Sydney Government when Mr. Button-
hook, the Minister of Lands, made his
fatuous admission that, though a large
and capable staff of surveyors is em-
ployed, not one closer-settlement block
had been “made available” in a whole
year. Groups of C.P. and country U.A.P.
members are now insisting on the Gov-
ernment’s struggling out of this do-
nothing attitude. Some have been heard
to mutter that if it doesn’t they will get
another Government.
The Banking Commission has been
visiting Sydney again for the fifth or
sixth time. Venturing to appear as a
witness, a Douglas Credit gentleman was
asked to explain the A + B theorem. He
confessed that he couldn’t, but, tender-
ing some unsolicited advice conveyed in
a cablegram from the major, he sug-
gested that the commission should put its
conundrum to that worthy. If it did,
the reply would certainly be “Oh, I’ve
dealt with that in my books” —Douglas's
invariable answer when cornered in
Australia.
A letter from Daniel Levy, the N.S.W.
Speaker, indicates that he felt very lonely
in London until he went to the House of
Commons and heard one member refer
to another as “a dirty little swine.” Then
he felt comforted ; it reminded him so
much of home.
In six years to the end of 1935 N. S.
Wales lost 4723 persons by excess of
emigration over immigration. N.S.W.
figures for the first six months of 1936
are not available, but figures for the
Commonwealth show a loss of 104
persons by migration, though “perma-
nent” arrivals of Italians and Greeks ex-
ceeded “permanent” departures of these
aliens by 633 and 214 respectively. With
almost everything in our favor we ought
to be gaining instead of losing people
of British stock. It must be the taxation
that’s doing it.


PECK OF TROUBLE WITH A TORCH.
The lighted Olympic torch, which was to have been carried from Athens to Berlin, went out on the journey.”


If you average 8 starts a day,
THE NOBBIER OF PETROL YOU SAVE
on each start with u u u u
SHELL
would buy you 2 NEW TYRES A YEAR
ITS ENERGY CONTENT SAVES
YOU M
PERSONAL ITEMS
Frank Gavan Duffy, dead in Mel-
bourne at 84, came of a remarkable
family. His father, Charles, the lieutenant
of Daniel O’Connell a century ago, stood
four trials for treason as a result of his
activities in the Young Ireland move-
ment ; he went out of the dock into the
Commons. After two years he migrated
to Victoria in 1856 ; within a few months
he was in the Victorian Assembly, and in
1872 he became Premier. His visit to the
old land in the mid-’seventies was a sort
of triumphal progress; he eventually re-
tired to the South of France. Frank
Gavan Duffy was born in Dublin in the
turbulent days of the treason trials. He
went to Stonyhurst, before becoming a
brilliant law graduate of Melbourne Uni-
versity. He was called to the Bar in
1874, when his father was still Premier,
and became a K.C. at 38, specialising in
contract and personal-property law. He
joined the High Court Bench in 1913,
and was chosen C.J, on Isaac Isaacs’s
retirement to the G.-G.-ship in 1931, re-
signing in September last year. His eldest
brother held several Victorian portfolios,
and another brother was clerk to the
Senate. A son is a Judge of the Vic.
Supreme Court.
Said Sidney Williams once; “When I
get tired, I intend to sit down and go out
like the Chinaman.” He was found dead
in his Sydney office last week. It was
difficult to imagine Sidney tired even at
84. His stocky frame radiated energy to
the last, just as it did in the palmy days
of Rockhampton and Mt. Morgan, when
central-western Queensland was opening
up and his windmills and fireploughs
were beginning to be seen on every sta-
tion. A few years ago he moved his
headquarters to Sydney.
R. M. Chirnside belongs to a family
known to everybody in Victoria. He
came back from the war with a splendid
record, took up the family profession of
CHIRNSIDE, of the Jerseys.
farming and in recent years has developed
a herd of 6001 b. cows which it would
be difficult to surpass anywhere in the
world.
Forty years old, in poor health and
with a family to keep, Maurice Herring,
a Victorian barrister, drifted to a fruit-
farm fifty miles north of Brisbane in the
later war years. It wasn’t long before
he was back in harness, making a place
for himself with the Queensland Trustees,
A Queensland Trustee.
whose manager he became on the retire-
ment of P. A. Blundell. Slightly red-
headed and firm-jawed and cool-minded,
he soon proved himself just the man for
the job. He was chairman of directors
of the Brisbane “Courier” Co. when it
went over to the Murdoch interests, and
he now sits on the “Courier-Mail” and
several other boards.
Born in 1829 in Cambridgeshire,
Lazarus Potter said his farewells at Bor-
dertown (S.A.), He turned up in the
colony when it was only a couple of
years old. Until two years ago he was
active and read without glasses, and he
leaves five generations of S.A. descen-
dants, His wife died in 1884.
The Westralian Government has put
Dr. Cyril Bryan on its Public Library
and Art Gallery Board. The West has
few more versatile citizens. Son of an
old Imperial soldier, Bryan was early in
the A.1.F., but, invalided after Gallipoli,
was back in time to stand for the Senate
in 1917. Labor had no chance that year,
but Bryan polled easily the best of its
W.A. Senate candidates. After the war
he went abroad, qualified as a doctor (he
had been a clerk in 1914), practised in
Dublin and in London, wrote books and
lectured in London University before his
native State saw him again.
Jack Higgins’s sudden death was a
shock to a multitude of friends, of whom
the Prime Minister was one of the closest.
An energetic fellow, with plenty of tact
and courage, Higgins did more than any
other man, except perhaps Keith Mur-
doch, to put J. A. Lyons where he is.
Connected with Labor journalism for
many years, Higgins towards the end
was managing editor of the “Construc-
tional Review” and secretary of the
moderate Labor party in the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council. He was one of John
Storey’s nominations to the Council in
1921, Tasmania claimed him as a son ;
he was only 51.
James Fraser was one of several
notable men whom Australia lost last
week. He was tall, severe, well-built,
the complete engineer; but underneath
his stern exterior was a wealth of native
kindliness, Braidwood (N.S.W.) born,
Fraser passed from Sydney Grammar
School to the Engineering Department
of the N. S. Wales Railways in 1881. He
became Chief Commissioner in 1917,
and carried on his shoulders all the
harassing burdens which were born of
the big strike that year. He retired in
1929, but the Lang Government brought
him back to active service for a year as
a member of the Transport Co-ordination
Board.
“S. M. Herald’s” tall associate-editor,
Lance Fallaw, is to leave the old paper
at the end of the year. Fallaw, a
Durham University man, has done a
good deal of knocking about the jour-
nalistic world, moving from the New-
castle-on-Tyne “Chronicle” to the Natal
“Advertiser,” then to the Charters
Towers “Telegraph,” the Cairns “Post”
and the Geelong “Advertiser.” He is
the only man on “Granny’s” staff since
Tom Heney who has tried his hand on
any scale at verse, of which he has pub-
lished three volumes. Recently he real-
ised the ambition of every good journal-
ist—to be left a lot of money and never
to see a political crisis again.
Vice-Admiral Hyde becomes the first
full admiral on R.A.N. lists, but
there are Australians holding the rank
in the Royal Navy. The two Gaunt
brothers, both knights, sons of Judge
Gaunt, of Victoria, Melbourne Grammar
boys and brothers of Mary Gaunt, are
admirals on the retired list. Ernest, now
71, was rear-admiral commanding the
first battle squadron at Jutland, and Guy,
who saw much desultory fighting in his
younger days, was naval attache at
Washington during the war, sandwiching
in a lot of active service.
Anybody who wants to know about
Knight George Wilson, of Auckland,
need not turn to Who’s Who. The
English volume records:
Wilson, Sir George Henry, Kt., cr.
1934, b. Bradford, England, 1869.
Address: 3 Upland-road, Remuera, Auck-
land, N.Z.
The Maoriland Who’s Who is silent
on the subject. Whitaker’s Directory
of Titles has squeezed out the information
that he is married, but to whom it
doesn’t know, so it marks his matrimony
with a long dash. For many years Wilson
A Modest Maoriland Knight.
was one of Maoriland’s best-known
shipping men. He is a director of the
N.Z. Insurance Co. His knighthood
came to him for a lifetime of unremit-
ting charitable work.
A. D. Young bulks largely in the life
of Adelaide, and Coventry has caught
him in a characteristically eager attitude.
He is president of the Adelaide Stock
MR. PRESIDENT—AdeIaide Stock
Exchange.
Exchange, a director of the S.A. State
Bank, Deputy-Grand Master of the S.A.
Masonic Grand Lodge and at one time
was chief of the Caledonian Society.
The new president of the A.L.P. is
Norman Makin, who was Speaker of the
Reps, during the Scullin regime. He
hailed originally from Petersham
(N.S.W.), and was a pattern-maker be-
fore he found his way into politics via
the presidency of the S. Australian
A.L.P., which he resigned upon election
to the Federal Parliament for Hind-
marsh in 1919. He was 30 then.
As this issue goes to press, “Bull”
Antill lies seriously ill. Big, laconically
bluff to private and general alike, “Bull”
was the ideal Australian officer. His
grandfather came out as a major
in the 73rd—second battalion of the
Black Watch —with Macquarie, whose
closest friend and aide-de-camp he
was. “Bull” followed the Macquarie
tradition. Macquarie was his second
name, as it had been that of his
father, and he lives on the ancestral
estate named Jarvisfield after the “good,
amiable girl” whom Macquarie married
and lost in Bombay, and situate outside
Picton (N.S.W.), which Macquarie and
the original Antill named after Sir
Thomas Picton, who, wounded at Quatre
Bras, went to his death at Waterloo,
The present Antill made his name in
S’Africa, where he commanded the Ist
N.S.W. contingent. In 1914, though
a lieut.-colonel and “very senior for
the position,” he insisted on leaving
as brigade major to the 3rd Light Horse.
Already a C. 8., he came off Gallipoli,
having controlled the last phases of the
evacuation, with four mentions in dis-
patches and a C.M.G. He was in
the fray again at Katia and Romani,
and commanded the 2nd Infantry
Brigade in France for two years.
Afterwards, he held several military jobs
in Australia, including that of comman-
dant in S. Australia. He retired from
the permanent C.M.F. in 1924 as a major-
general. Till a little while ago, Antill was
a familiar and welcome figure in The
Bulletin office. The late John Dailey
was his friend, and “Jimmy” Johnson,
who guards the entrance to the editorial
department, had served in his hard-
fighting brigade.


•yistOCV^
rtOOO^S^,
l£ tist sb**
beaUt &Cb^
LOg ulsbcd
Sl’ bas » stl \ in deed
: r^°S^ £
% f BO» e C n\d^abe
sS£**sr£. took
Gainsborough Shape.
As beauty should
go beautifully —
>o Beauty should be
in beauty. It is
unthinkable that Milady’s
guests should take tea in cups
less than perfect in elegance
of form and substance. The
nameof Shelley (hidden under
every piece) promises no less.
English Bone China, fashion-
ed by hereditary craftsmen in
Shelley’s service, can yield
no more —and this is the envy
of potters the world over! ,
S*i2f
She % S Jfe > 3nC
of _ 7 . ° r Kers -7c
« . * D QfA
ŧ
t
ţ
At the
Children’s Table
UN for the Children is
Mabel Lucie Attwell’s
gift to the Shelley tableware.
Here a milk-jug that pretends
to be an elf, there a sugar-
basin that might be one of
Peter Pan’s mushrooms—a
laugh in every plate and the
cunningest skill in fashion-
ing ware that little spoons
and forks may pick their
food up easily.
CHINA.
s* ■
9 00 BOD
m
m
'm
' c y > -
X
Fashion in China
varying in
J' Chinaware as in all
else, are constant in this
that a tea-cup and its saucer
must be exquisitely light.
English Bone China alone
has this perfection. One
of this season’s mostfashion-
able 'designs is illustrated.
To say that every piece
Bears the name of Shelley x
is to say that it is English
Bone China of the best.
Write for Beautiful Illustrated Catalogue and name of nearest Distributor, enclosing 3d. in stamps to
cover cost of packing and posting to—
T. W. HEATH & CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. BOX 1389 J. SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1.886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 3.30 p.m. (Sunday, 3.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR”
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Oamperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends; Written Ke-
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Premiums on new shares, £204,917.. I 1 nfifi 141
1926.. 319,707 15 p.c. =119,359 20,000 j * ’
Premiums on new shares, £233,328.. 1,299,469
1927.. 341,711 15 p.c. =149,726 25,000 1,381,760
Premiums on new shares, £254,338.. 1,636,098
1928.. 355,019 15 p.c. =185,937 30,000 1,690,486
Premiums on new shares, £250,212.. 1,940,698
1929.. 391,624 15 p.c. =223,438 30,000 1,994,190
Premiums on new shares, £237,149.. 2,231,339
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1931.. 308,450 llj p.c.=220,569 20,000 2,315,336
1932. . 199,670 5 p.c. =IOO,OOO 10,000 2,320,312
1933.. 213,634 5 ~,, 100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 „ ~100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936.. 234,481 5.8„ ~116,667 25,000 2,348,929
*Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
It was a better year than the one on
whose heels it trod. Locally unemploy-
ment continued to decrease, expanding
trade turnovers increased the demand for
bank accommodation, interest rates
strengthened a little, and so did capital
values generally. The volume of external
trade (imports and exports combined,
which constitute the exchange market for
the banks) increased, too, owing partly
to better prices for exports and partly to
growth of imports. Still, the value of
external trade was roughly only 70 p.c.
of what it was in 1929-30. Furthermore,
the growth of imports continued to sap
London funds. This and the cash posi-
tion of the trading banks have slowed
down credit expansion.
The C.B.A.’s gross earnings, which
came down by annual steps from the
peak figure of £1,157,784 in 1930 to
£879,998 in 1934, were £27,915 better last'
year at £944,447. That was after the
board had set aside whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation and all
other contingencies. Exes. (£709,966)
took £21,892 of the increase, leaving the
net result £6023 better at £234,481. This
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 7.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against
7.1, 6.2, 6.4, 5.7, 11.4 and 16.9 p.c. back
to 1930. The div. was kept at 5.8 p.c.
It needs to be remembered, however, that
since 1920 shareholders have subscribed
£3,808,682, one half capital and the other
half premiums, which were added to re-
serves. Divs., therefore, are worth no
more than half the declared rate on all
but £95,659 of the £2,000,000 of ord.
capital. The prefs. (£2,117,350, entitled
to 4 p.c., cumulative to 3 p.c., a reminder
of the ’nineties) shared in the new issues,
which were in the nature of bonuses to
shareholders, because of the premium at
which the ords. stood in the market.
The year’s brisker trade activities are
further reflected in a net growth of
£111,149 in advances, which was accom-
panied by an expansion of £940,013 in
free deposits and of £73,119 in those
bearing interest:
Liabilities.
1929. 1935. 1936.
Notes .. .. £244,027 £19,780 £l4 981
Bills, etc. . . 1,717,110 1,194,945 1,306,628
Free deposits.. 10,182,121 10,043,103 11,583,116
Fixed deposits 13,998,925 14,207,431 14,280,550
Assets.
Liquid assets. . 8,933,551 9,367,792 10,370,658
Advances .. 22,260,876 22,100,325 22,211,474
Promises .. 904,300 1,164,315 1,178,436
The drop in the note issue was on
account of Maoriland business, which
may be a little further affected by Gov-
ernment marketing of dairy produce. Of
the £1,002,866 added to liquids, £685,000
was on account of Commonwealth
Treasury bills (£2,440,000), £133,647 Gov-
ernment securities, etc. (£2,761,469), and
£208,031 bills receivable, etc., in London
(£1,450,114). The public could see 38.1
p.c. of its money in liquids. Advances
were 85.8 p.c. of total deposits, of which
55.2 p.c. was interest-bearing ; the cor-
responding ratios for 1929 were 92 p.c.
and 57.8 p.c. respectively.
At 18s. lOd. the ords., fully paid to
10s., return 3 p.c. on a 5.8 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 4 p.c. on his
money counts on a p.c. distribution,
which appears to be within reach, pro-
vided repercussions from the Govern-
ment’s tariff action against Japan don’t
do too much damage. At £9 (£9 16s. a
year ago) the £lO-paid prefs. return 4.4
p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
6,563
J 926.. 17,166 8 p.c. = 9,503 7,663 14,226
Unexplained addition to reserves, £592.. 14,818
Special bonus of 2s. per share, £12,678.. 2,140
To depreciation reserve, £665.. .. 1,475
1927.. 12,385 8 p.c. = 9,909 2,476 3,951
1928.. 28,919 8„ „ 12,874 16,045 19,996
1929.. 20,985 8 „ 15,216 5,769 25,765
1930.. 17,889 8 „ „ 16,496 1.393 27,158
1931.. 18,577 8 „ „ 16,998 1,579 28,737
1932.. 19,649 7„ „ 15,603 4,046 32,783
1933.. 16,898 6„ „ 13,864 3,034 35,817
1934.. 21,598 6„ „ 14,381 7,217 43,034
Staff fund. £1500.. .. .. 41,534
1935.. 23,314 5J p.c. = 14,766 8,548 50,082
Staff fund, £IOOO.. .. .. .. 49,082
1936.. 17,819 p.c. = 15,300 2,519 51,601
Staff fund, £SOO .. .. .. .. 51,101
.Shareholders who are also clients have
fared better than the dividend column in
the table suggests. The div. is limited to
7 p.c. until at least 20 p.c. of the com-
mission charges are rebated to con-
signors. During the boom, when a run
of 8 p.c. divs, was paid, rebates rose to
40 p.c. of the wool commissions, 30 p.c.
fat stock and 20 p.c. produce. Owing
to contraction of turnover, etc., no re-
bates were made in 1932, but they were
renewed in the following term, and for
the last four years have continued at
the rate of 25 p.c. for wool and fat
stock and 20 p.c, for store stock, pro-
duce and property. The amount in-
volved is not mentioned.
During the last term wool averaged
13.93 and. per pound in Brisbane as against
10.38 and. and 15.51 and. for the two preced-
ing seasons. But the quantity received
(100,041 bales) was 12,451 bales lighter,
owing to a smaller clip, and only 98,278
bales (down 37,971 bales) were put under
the hammer—at the close of accounts in
1934 there was a carry-over of 29,804
bales; 1935, 5004 bales; 1936, 6248
bales. Also, 6150 fewer cattle (28,479)
and 40,214 fewer sheep and lambs
(82,881) were auctioned. So, .although
more produce was handled, there was a
contraction of £218,277 in the value of
turnover in all departments combined:
Wool Sold, Annual
Bales. Turnover. Movement.
1927.. 66,559 £2,292,936
1928.. 75,045 2,803,130 + £510,194
1929.. 85,896 2,714,334 88,796
1930.. 80,736 2,021,939 692 395
1931.. 116,111 1,907,366 114,573
1932.. 122,557 1,741,789 165,577
1933.. 118,084 1,801,726 + 59 937
1934.. 82,556 2,841,731 + 1,040,005
1935.. 136,249 2,757,074 84,657
1936.. 98,278 2,538,797 218,277
After allowing for rebates, the net result
was £5495 lighter at 6.4 p.c. on average
capital, compared with 8.7, 9, 7.3, 8.8,
8.7 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1930. The div.
was kept at 5\ p.c., and if is doubtful
whether anything better need be looked
for during the current term.
The year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£121,989) was
£13,906:
1926. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £114,659 £211,147 £272,407 £281,360
Liabilities**.. 165,124 222,593 522,402 421,972
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 113,625 111,937 199,721 198 806
Plant, etc. .. 9,908 11,281 31,328 31+59
Advances . . 180,013 353,389 528,906 543,432
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 1,086 787 101,579 529
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
The contraction in liabilities and cash
was on account of advance payments by
woolbuyers (£75,228, down £167,709).
An extra £8953 of capital was gathered,
and advances increased by £14,526.
At the moment, the seasonal outlook
is satisfactory, and a bigger clip is ex-
pected, but prices are down. Much
depends upon the extent to which Japan
supports the market.
The scrip, covered by 235. 9d. in net
tangibles, is not listed.
Carroll Musgrove Theatres, Ltd. (Syd.)
Written Re-
June, Profit. , Dividendsf ■, Off. serves.
£ Pref. Ord. £ £ £
1926.. 39,831* 17* p.c. 30 p.e. = 20,000 8250 69
1927. . 17,821 12* „ 16f „ ~13,333 4000 557
1928.. 20,830 12* „ 16s ~,, 13,333 3000 5,054
1929.. 15,548 12* „ 16s „ ~13,333 4000 3,269
1930.. 19,096 12* „ 16f „ ~13,333 4000 5,032
1931.. 9,242 2* „ Nil „„ 2,000 2750 9,524
1932.. 11,188 8* „ 8* „„ 8,313 2500 9,899
1933.. 6,345 5 „ Nil „ „ 4,000 2500 9,744
1934.. 10,982 7J „ 7J „ „ 7,750 2500 10,476
1935.. 9,781 7} „ 7} „ „ 7,750 2500 10,007
1936.. 7,491 6 „ Nil „ „ 4,800 1750 10,948
* Includes £24,619 surplus on sale of Victoria Arcade,
t Allowing for 22* p.c. cut on both classes of scrip
since October, 1931.
From a financial point of view, there is
a sharp contrast between the perform-
ances of this co. and those of the still
overcapitalised Union group. Formed in
1920 to build the Prince Edward
Theatre, Sydney, the co. gathered
£IOO,OOO of share capital for the purpose.
There are 80,000 pref. and 20,000 ord.
shares. The prefs. carry a non-cumu-
lative 10 p.c., with priority as to capital.
After an all-round 10 p.c. has been paid,
any remaining surplus, whether distri-
buted or not, belongs 60 p.c. to the prefs.
and 40 p.c. to the ords. There was no
goodwill to weigh down the earning
power of capital, and preliminary exes.,
long since wiped out of the accounts,
were moderate.
Before the boom burst, the prefs. and
ords. enjoyed a run of \l\ p.c. and 16 2-3
p.c. divs. respectively. Also, the co. got
out of its property investment, the Vic-
toria Arcade, with a profit of £24,619,
and lowered the mortgage from £161,793
to £60,000-odd, thus lightening the bur-
den of interest. Then slump interfered
with takings, admission charges were re-
duced, the taxgatherer took a bigger bite,
and, for the three years to the close of
accounts in ’33, the prefs. averaged 5.2
p.c. and the ords. 2.7 p.c. With the im-
provement in conditions generally and a
little relief from taxation, an all-round
7| p.c. was distributed for the next two
years.
Broadcasting is now making itself felt
as a competitor in the entertainment field.
Because of this, competition from
other theatres, and an outlay of £2250 on
renovations, last year’s net earnings were
£2290 lighter at 7.4 p.c. on capital as
against 9.7, 10.9, 6.3, 11.1, 9.2 and 19
p.c. back to 1930. The pref. div. was
lowered to 6 p.c., and the ords. were
passed by.
The theatre has been reconditioned, the
equipment is reported in excellent condi-
tion, and no major outlay in these direc-
tions is expected for some years.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the prefs. at 20s. 6d. as against 235.
a year ago. At the lower figure the return
is 5.3 p.c: on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:
1925. 1928. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £99,971 £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Mortgages .. 161,793 60,350 58,253 57,261
Sundry creditors 8,839 610 716 653
Property, equip-
ment, etc.'.. 262,142 174,584 192,806 192,231
Debtors / . . 1,969 436 533 396
Cash, etc. .-. 4,977 14,577 11,290 10,724
The floating debt is well covered, and the
mortgagee enjoys a wide margin of
security.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
, To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 11,008 10 p.e. = 11,000 8 34,135
1927.. 11.876 10 „ ~11,000 876 35.011
1928.. 10,094 10 „ ~ 11,000 34 105
1929.. 10,016 10 ~ „ 11,000 33,121
1930.. 10,005 8„ „ 8,800 1,205 34,326
Written off, £25,000 .. .. 9,326
1931.. 5,017 5 p.c. = 5,500 8,843
1932.. 615 Nil 615 9,458
1933.. 901 Nil 961 10,419
Capital returned, £44,000.
1934.. 6,202 7 p.c, = 4,620 1,582 12,001
1935.. 5,233 7* „ „ 4,950 283 12,284
Assets written up, £71,000 .. 83,284
1936.. 11,560 10 „ „ 6,600 4,960 88,244
Of the co.’s holding of 101,000 shares
(16s. face value) in Kandos Cement,
100,000 have been written up in the
books to their market value, 225. each,
equals £IIO,OO0 —the other 1000 remain
in the books at cost, £BOO. The surplus
on revaluation was £71,000, which has
been credited to a tax-free capital re-
serve account. Of this, £66,000 is to be
used in a one-for-one gift-scrip issue,
making paid capital £132,000 in 220,000
f.-p. 12s. shares. Then five Kandos
shares are to be handed out for every
11 shares held in G. and S. Taking
Kandos scrip at its market value (225.),
this is equivalent to a return of 10s. per
12s. share in G. and S., or 20s. per
share, on capital as it stood before the
gift just referred to. It will reduce paid
capital to £22,000 in 2s. shares, which
are to be consolidated into pound shares.
Thus, since 1918, when paid capital was
£165,000, shareholders will have re-
ceived £176,000 of bonus scrip and have
had £319,000 of capital returned. Also,
those who hold shares bought at 9s. 6d.,
or thereabouts, four years ago have
nothing to complain about. It was
mainly the sale of old freeholds at a
handsome profit years ago, when the co.
pulled out of the timber trade, and its
holding in Kandos that have enabled
it to issue so much bonus scrip and re-
turn so much capital.
The revaluation of Kandos shares was
almost wholly responsible for the year’s
growth of £74,969 in net assets:
. , 1933. 1935. 1936.
nant, etc £35,000 £29,825 £35,025
Stocks .. .. .. 3,998 686 1,124
Book debts, shares in
other cos., cash, etc. 85,359 63,115 126,763
, , . £124,357 £93,626 £162,912*
Sundry creditors .. 3,939 10,392 4,709
* •’ ••£120,418 £83,234 £158,203
100,000 Kandos shares were written up to 225.
each; surplus, £71,000.
The distribution of Kandos scrip will
reduce the book value of net assets to
£48,204 (£2 3s. 9d. per pound of paid
capital), mainly in fixed assets, worth
what they can earn. There is nothing to
worry about in the liquid position.
The co.’s chief earning asset is now its
tile works, etc., which have never con-
tributed much in the way of profits to
the pool. Last year’s £11,560 of profit
(up £6327) appears to have come almost
entirely from the holding in Kandos,
which paid p. c . in Aug., 1935, and
an interim at the rate of 10 p.c. in
Feb. last.
The market prices G. and S. 125.-paids
at 245. 3d. Allowing for the bonus issue
and return of capital, the net cost is
approximately 2s. per share, or par value.
Intercolonial Investment and Land (Syd.)
„ , n „ , To Re- Re-
oct., 1 ront. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1"26. , 41,356 94 p.c. = 29,803 11,553 173,944
1®27.. 42,317 10 „ „ 31,372 10,945 184,889
1928.. 45,058 10 „ „ 31,372 13,686 198,575
3729 • • 45,946 10 „ „ 31,372 14,574 213,149
1930.. 43,006 10 ~ „ 31,372 11,634 224,783
To realty depreciation reserve, £35,000.. 189,783
1931.. 23,798 64 p.c. = 20,392 3,406 193,189
1932.. 21,080 5 „ „ 15,686 5,394 198,583
1933.. 12,843 5„ „ 13,526 197,900
1934.. 13,358 5„ „ 13,094 264 198,164
1935.. 13,783 5 „ „ 13,094 689 198,853
1936.. 16,628 6 „ „ 15,713 915 199,768
Like most other businesses, the buying
and subdividing of suburban properties
and the financing of home-building can be
highly profitable on a rising market. On a
falling one it is full of pitfalls, one of
the chief of which is borrowing on short-
term to lend on long-term. While this
co. —it has been in the business for over
half a century—gathered a fine harvest
during the boom, it managed, so far as
was within its power, to avoid the worst
of the pitfalls during the slump. That
was partly because its borrowings were
small and it held a good amount of liquids,
partly because of care in selection of
risks, and partly because the co. had
strengthened its shock-absorbers—its inner
reserves. During the decade to the close
of accounts in 1920 it scattered £247,266
of bonus scrip, raising paid capital to
£313,724. For the next decade divs.
averaged 9 p.c., with wide margins. Then
slump, extra taxation, reduction of in-
terest and rents and moratorium legisla-
tion altered the outlook, and 4s. per
share on the fully-paids and Is. 6d. on
the contribs. were returned to share-
holders, reducing paid capital to £261,874
in fully-paid 16s. shares. The div.
dropped to 5 p.c., and remained there for
the four years to the close of accounts
in 1935.
During the last term gross earnings
(£35,625) sprang £2416. Exes. (£18,997)
were £429 lighter, leaving the net result
£2845 better at 6.3 p.c. on capital as
against 5.2, 5.1, 4.9, 6.7, 7.5, 13.7 and
14.9 p.c. back to 1929. A point was added
to the div., making it 6 p.c. The market
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


I I.
vj. n
■ ' '
n
*r«a j*
The Fisk Radiola has been recognised as Australia’s finest broadcast
receiver since the commencement of broadcasting in this country.
More people have chosen a Fisk Radiola than any other make of
receiver, and are enjoying that higher standard of reception and
enduring satisfaction which only a Radiola can give.
Make your choice from the comprehensive range of more than
twenty modern receivers covering all city and country requirements.
Prices are from 15 guineas to 55 guineas.
m
%
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BY
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.


NOBEC
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEC
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS ;
PERTH. IV.A.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, OLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited,
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: 3. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAU'TOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
ť
THE WOO’S TOUGHEST
AND MOST DURABLE , INING
METAL FOR BEARINGS.
Stocks in all States.
Write for “The Hoyt Book.”
HOYTS METALS (AUST.),
49 Hardware Street, Melbourne.
Gent. 6601.
prices the 165.-paid shares at 20s. 6d., at
which figure the return is 4.7 p.c. on a 6
p.c, div. basis. The cover is 28s, 2d. in
net tangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
Property Cash
and and In-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1915. . £49,324 £224,499 £57,947 £6,863
J 920. . 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1925.. 18,428 405,333 81,379 44,271
1929.. 21,984 480,369 67,412 45,411
1930.. 17,216 460,723 84,440 52,796
1931.. 15,178 428,543 93,558 81,252
1932.. 10,907 385,432 113,675 97,699
1933.. 5,336 332,046 140,997 60,028
1934.. 4,395 287,539 157,431 85,578
1935.. 2,765 244,745 ■ 171,639 113,174
1936.. 653 210,384 191,006 129,402
Last year advances were reduced by
£34,361, while properties and premises
increased by £19,367 and cash and in-
vestments were strengthened by £16,228.
Official valuations for rating purposes are
said to exceed book values, and provision
for contingencies is claimed to be ade-
quate. The smallness of the debt and the
size of the cash holding make it plain
that the co. is in a position to take care
of a much larger volume of business
than the board deems prudent to accept.
Austral New Zealand Mining, Ltd.
This offshoot of Austral Malay Tin
has been formed to take over from the
parent about 7f miles of auriferous river
fiats on the Clutha, from where the gorge
ends above Cromwell, Otago (M.L.).
Nominal capital is £605,000 in 600,000
£1 ords. and 100,000 Is. deferreds. Of
the ords. 205,000 are offered. The pur-
chase price is 5000 f.-p. ords. plus
£37,375, actual expenditure on purchas-
ing the property and testing it. The de-
ferreds are to be issued only to the
parent, which has taken and paid for
35,000 of them. They rank equally with
the ords, on a share basis for voting
power and participation in profits, being
deferred only as regards return of capital,
except for the purposes of sale or recon-
struction.
Only about 2\ miles of ground (360
acres) at the southern end of the property
has been tested. There are indications
that payable ground may continue up-
stream to the northern limit of the hold-
ing. The 360 acres just mentioned has
been thoroughly close-bored and valued
by Dr. W. Penseler and Mr. D. Brig-
stocke. It is reckoned to contain over
28,000,000 c.y., averaging 3gr. gold, 939
parts pure. With an 85 p.c. recovery, and
gold at £6 an ounce in London, the
ground is worth about 9d. a yard in
Maoriland currency at the present rate
of exchange. An electrically-driven
bucket dredge, capacity 3 \ million c.y.
p.a., is to be installed. All-in costs are
not expected to exceed 2.8 and. a yard.
Nearly all the gold is contained in about
18 inches of wash, which rests on an un-
dulating blue-clay-and-schist bottom.
Above are gravels, apparently free of
clay and large boulders and buried
timber, and a barren overburden of soil.
From the 28,000,000 c.y. of ground
already tested, and after allowing for all
running costs, amortisation of capital and
Maoriland income and other taxes, in-
cluding the Government’s export tax of
12s. 6d. an ounce on gold, F. V. Stanley
and C. Nardin figure that the following
results can be shown on an issued capital
of 245,000 shares:
, M.L. Currency
Stg. Price Annual Net Rate
of Gold. Profit.* Amount Available.! per Share.
•» «•>»• i',t
C 57,292 49,820 4/-
6 35,854 31,180 2/6
4 14,417 12,530 1/-
* After providing for depreciation and amortisa-
tion. f After deducting taxation.
It is expected that the area in question
will provide at least 100,000,000 c.y..
averaging 3gr., and a lot more payable
dirt is known to exist upstream.
Tin
For the 12 months of 1935 the average
spot price of standard tin in London was
£225 14s. For January, 1936, the figure
was £209 18s. There was a fairly steady
recession until June, when bottom was
touched at £176 10s.; last week-end the
figure had recovered to £lB5 10s., with
the forward price at £lB2 2s. 6d., which
suggests that the market is doubtful
about the future.
The two factors mainly responsible
for the recession were an increase
in visible supplies of the metal and
doubt about satisfactory renewal of the
international restriction agreement, which
runs out at the end of this year. Fol-
lowing lifts in the international quota
from 45 p.c. in March, ’35, to 90 p.c.
of standard (1929) production in
December, output began to run ahead
of consumption. The future of the in-
dustry depends largely upon maintenance
of international control, the underlying
aim of which is to keep prices within
payable limits for producers. With the
metal fetching from £IBO to £2OO a ton
in London it is reckoned that most of
the mines now in production can con-
tinue to operate at a profit. Siam, whose
attitude caused doubts about renewal of
the existing international scheme, has
now agreed in principle to maintenance
of restriction. Siam’s present quota is
10,000 tons p.a.; the Government has
asked that the figure be lifted to 16,000
tons p.a. From present developed areas
it is doubtful whether that country can
produce more than 15,000 tons annually;
a higher figure aims at the development
of new areas.
Although the Mt. Morgan Cos. does
not appear to have found anything very
promising in the Mt. Cassidy show,
Rockhampton (Q.), held under option, a
party at Mt. Chalmers has opened up
an ore-body giving encouraging dish
prospects. On the Torilla three shafts
have been sunk—No. 1 to 103 ft. on a
12in. reef, No. 2 to 85ft. on a 32in, reef
and No. 3 to 52ft. on a 24in. reef; 300
tons of ore is ready for crushing. The
co. running the Hidden Star sold over
£5500 worth of gold in the last 12
months; the latest crushing of 240 tons
returned 630 z. 9dwt., with 220 z. 13dwt.
from the sands. The shaft is down 162 ft,
Extra plant has been installed, and the
mill is to run three shifts continuously.
* * * ♦
The Warwick (Q.) district, where a
650 z. nugget was picked up by a
shepherd at Darky’s Flat in 1863, has
never received more attention than it
is getting to-day. Thane’s Creek looks
the most promising area. There
Eldorado recently got 81 fine oz. gold
from 80 tons. Water has come in, but
new pumping plant is being installed, and
the shaft (down 150 ft.) is to be sunk
another 100 ft., where some 2oz. ore is
expected. The Leyburn, Palgrave and
Omoral fields are also being prospected,
and crushings from the Big Hill at Talgai
have averaged 2oz. Anew 15in. reef has
been located on the Clifton-road.
* * * *
After being idle for 30 years the gold-
bismuth show at Biggenden (Q.), first
worked in 1890, was taken up by anew
co. 18 months ago. During the last six
of them 16,5721 b. of bismuth, valued
at £3314, and 790 z. of gold, worth £6OO,
have been recovered. Promising bismuth-
gold ore is also being obtained from the
Lone Hand at Marrabah, Cloncurry dis-
trict; 53 tons treated at the Venus bat-
tery, Charters Towers, returned 250 z.
fine gold and £6O worth of bismuth,
* * * *
Two cos. are now producing mercury
in the Kilkivan (Q.) district, where mer-
curial ore was first discovered in 1872.
Queensland Quicksilver Cos., which has
spent a tidy sum on plant, has completed
two tunnels, aggregate length 140 ft. The
last 3771 b. of concentrates yielded 2261 b,
of mercury, worth £56. Cirson Cinnabar
Mines, at Cinnabar, six miles from Kil-
kivan, has its main shaft down 46ft., and
44} tons of lode and alluvial from the
drives yielded 7411 b. of mercury, valued
at £lB5.
*** ‘ *
At Longford Creek, 30 miles south-
west of Bowen (N.Q.), four reefs are
being worked. The Golden Gusher is
down 50ft. on a 4ft. formation, from
which 37 tons have returned 770 z. gold
and 48oz. silver, A picked parcel from
the Anniversary averaged 3oz. Crush-
ings from the other two reefs have aver-
aged between loz. and 2oz. per ton.
Gold was first discovered in the locality
50-odd years ago, but the place has never
been thoroughly tested.
* * * *
T. R. Victor has gone to Mt. Fire-
brace’s property at Granya (Vic.) to
sample the top and bottom adits and
decide upon treatment methods. Tunnel-
ling has disclosed three reefs. The first
is over 800 ft. long, 3ft. to sft. wide, with
over 10ft. of ore now showing in the face;
second, 170 ft. long and 3ft. wide, open-
ing out to 10ft. in one place; third, 3ft.
wide. If values are right, additional
share-money may be sought. The origi-
nal £IO,OOO (in f.-p. £1 shares) put up
by the public has mostly been spent on
development. The ore is complex, but
most of it can be got out by tunnelling.
* . * . * *
The “outstanding possibilities” of its
northern area at Pitfield Plains (Vic.)
and the probable low cost of testing have
prompted New Glenfine to increase
capital from £25,000 to £50,000 by rais-
ing the nominal value of the scrip from
10s, to £l. The wash channel was reck-
oned to be If miles long by f-mile wide,
with extraction possible. over a 1400 ft.
face. Mining so far, however, has proved
only isolated patches of payable gold-
bearing wash.
* * * *
New Liffey Syndicate, formed in June
of last year to work an auriferous deposit
near Harrietville (Vic.), has struck two
payable shoots. At the north end a
reef lOin. to 2ft. wide has been exposed
for 40ft., and 250 ft. of backs is spoken
of. Assays are high, and the formation
alongside is expected to be payable. In
the south end a 3ft. reef has been driven
on for 40ft, A Government loan of £3OO
has been raised to instal a 150-tons-a-
--month battery.
* * * *
Negotiations with the contractors have
resulted in Cocks Eldorado (Vic.) secur-
ing anew bucket-band for its dredge at
a net cost of £1740 to the co. The new
band will be fitted with 120 manganese-
steel buckets, the last of which is to be
delivered 14 weeks hence. Assembly is
expected to take not more than another
week.
* * * *
Stafford Gold, which is not meeting
with the results expected, suspended
dredging operations on Aug. 1, and W.
Lane, of Cocks Eldorado (Vic.), will
presently make a thorough overhaul of
the property and plant. The co. was
formed in Melbourne early in ’34 to treat
12,500,000 c.y, of dirt, bored to average
12.41 and., at Stafford, about eight miles
from Hokitika (M.L.). The dredge began
in Oct,, ’34, and outlay on repairs and
maintenance since has been heavy. A 6d.
div, was paid in May, ’35, For the year
to the end of Jan, last the co. netted
£4071 (= 5.9 and. per share) from 466,150
c.y., averaging 8.9 and. . In June and July
recoveries averaged I.6gr. and I.4gr.
respectively. The co. owns two other
areas, one of 6,800,000-odd c.y,, esti-
mated to be worth a shilling a yard, and
another containing over 14,500,000 c.y.,
expected to average 6d.
* * * *
Rumors were heard in the byways of
the market last week that Yellowdine Gold
Envelopment's No. 15 bore at Yellow-
dine (W.A.) had intersected a large body
of ore, carrying good values, at a vertical
depth of about 250 ft. If this is true, ore
reserves will be considerably augmented.
In February last C. K. Hills estimated
that there was 118,187 tons of 26.7dwt.
ore waiting to be mined above the 100 ft.
level.. Of the 733,000 £1 shares issued by
the co., 663,450 are held by Yellowdine
Investments, whose capital is owned by
Commonwealth Mining and Finance,
Anglo-Australian Gold Development,
Gold Fields Australian Development and
Gt. Boulder Mining and Finance.
* * * *
Marvel Loch, which is to amalga-
mate with Great Victoria United, is to
increase its capital from £IOO,OOO to
£200,000 by creating a million 2s. shares.
Delay in the installation of plant and its
early unsatisfactory working, coupled
with the small tonnage put through, en-
tailed unforeseen expenses. At the Great
Victoria, Burbridge (W.A.), pitting and
testing have proved 300,000 tons of
“profitable” ore and laterite. If the
merger goes through, it is proposed (at a
cost of over £22,000) to lift the capacity
of Marvel Loch’s plant to between 5000
tons and 7000 tons monthly, with an ulti-
mate objective of 10,000 tons, and thus
enable it to treat ore from both mines.
Plant-alteration expenditure will be borne
by the Victoria Cos., which has approx.
£43,500 in hand. In the period March 9
to May 31, Marvel Loch treated »458
tons for gold worth £7252. Milling costs
were 235. 9d. a ton, operations re-
sulting in a loss of £2526. At the later
date, liquids figured for £9796, while
creditors were owed £27,293. There is
also a debenture debt of £45,000.
* * * *
The 174,000 10s. (stg.) shares offered
by Gold Fields Aust. Development were
put out to finance further development
and exploratory work, and to enable the
co. to exercise its option over the Kin-
tore (W.A.) leases. On the co.’s Moon-
light property the 4093 tons treated to
the end of May contained, on an aver-
age, gold worth 28s. (stg.) and 1.62
p.c. antimony. Recovery by flotation
was 85.4 p.c. Full production (7500 tons
monthly) is expected this month. Options
have also been taken over two Mt.
Magnet leases, where drilling is under
way.
* * * *
For the 12 months to the end of March
last shareholders in South Kalgurli
(W.A.) will receive divs. totalling 70 p.c.
(the same as for the previous term), mak-
ing an aggregate of £600,000, plus half
their capital back, in the last 16 years.
Profits have contracted a little in the past
two years owing to exhaustion of the
rich shoot between the 1600 ft. and
1700 ft, levels. Ore reserves are estimated
at roughly 200,000 tons, averaging
sfdwt., and there is 70,000 tons of prob-
able reserves of the same grade.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. intends boring
to a vertical depth of 7000 ft. at the Fin-
gall (W.A.), and is importing a special
diamond drill from Africa for the pur-
pose. Gt. Fingall was nothing to blow
about to a depth of 400 ft. ; then it opened
out into one of the biggest quartz mines
Australia has ever seen. Millions of
pounds’ worth of gold was taken out;
it was owing to the falling-off of values
at depth, dearer supplies, higher labor
cost, etc., that the old co. put up the
shutters.
* * * *
On advice from Victor Edquist, the
Imperial Cos., working the Idaho and
Aberdare blocks at the southern end of
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile ; (W.A.), has
decided not to instal a treatment plant
at present. Development of the Aber-
dare at greater depth is to be undertaken
with a view to increasing ore reserves.
The co. has something over £23,000 in
hand.
* * * *
London interests have taken an option
over the old Ruby group, some 18 miles
from Hall’s Creek (W.A.), J. H. Belases,
who has had mining experience in
Rhodesia, inspected the leases, which
have not been worked since the begin-
ning of this century.
* * * * .
Darlot (W.A.) Gold has foundered
after being launched on the tide of a
boom. Holders of the 3500 contribs.
expect to receive about Bs. a share.
ţ


BALANCE SHEET of
The Commercial Bank of Australia
at 3Qth JUNE. 1936
Including London Office at 30th May, 1936; Darwin (Northern Territory); New Zealand, Currie (King Island), Bowen, Cairns, Home Hill, Ingham,
Townsville (Queensland) Branches at 15th Jane, 1936.
Limited
Mackay, Proserpine, and
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
211,735 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per share.. £2,117,350 0 0
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per share.. 2,000,000 0 0
4,211,735
Reserve Fund .. . . ..
Exchange Adjustment Reserve
Profit and Loss. Account
Notes in Circulation
Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including Reserves
Government Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
Balances due to other Banks
Contingent Liabilities, as per Contra
£4,117,350 0 0
. . 2,000.000 0 0
250.000 0 0
237.943 7 11
£6,575,293 7 11
14,980 5 0
for Contingencies .. 1,291,292 5 2
s
. . £101,026 9 11
86,582 13 0
.. 11.482.089 17 6
.. 14.193,967 3 9
25,863.666 4 2
15,336 3 9
898.338 9 3
£34,658,906 15 3
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Notes and Cash at Bankers .. . . ... . . .. £3,437,657 4 7
Money at Call and Short Notice in London 125,000 0 0
British War Loan Stock .. ~ .. .. .. .. 201,191 14 6
Short-dated Commonwealth Treasury Bills .. . . . . 2,440,000 0 0
Australian and New Zealand Government, Municipal and
other Public Stocks, and Funds, and other Debentures,
less provision for Contingencies .. .. .. ... 2,560,277 8 10
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remittances and
Drafts in transit .. .. .. .. 1,450,113 8 3
Notes and Bills of other Banks .. .. .. .. 131,038 7 8
Balances due from other Banks .. .. .. •^.. 9,201 15 1
Stamps .. .. .. .. .. .. 16,178 4 8
£10,370,658 3 7
Bills Discounted, and other Advances, less provision for Bad or Doubtful
Debts .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 22,211,474 2 5
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises .. .. .. .. .. ... 1,178,436 0 0
Liabilities of Customers and others in respect of Contingent Liabilities,
as per Contra .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 898,338 9 3
£34,658,906 15 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries and' Allowances—Head Office, and's29 Branches and Agencies.. £578,029 12 8
Rent and other Charges .. ' . ‘ - .. . . . . .. ... • 131,93? 0 9
Net Profit for the year .. .. 234,480 12 7
£944.447 6 0
To Reduce Bank Premises .. ... .. .. £25,000 0 0
„ Interim Dividend at 4 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares, paid
February, 1936 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 42,347 0 0
„ Interim Dividend at 5 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares, paid
February, 1936 .. .. .. .. .. .. 50,000 0 0
„ Balance .. .. .. .. 207,943: 711
£325,290 7 D
By Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Rebate on Bills Current, and after making a transfer to Reserve for
Contingencies, out of which account provision has been made for bad
: and doubtful debts, fluctuations in investments and other contingencies,
and after making provision for Income, Land and other Taxes .. .. £944,447 6 0
£944,447 6 0
By Balance from last year .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £90,809 15 4
„ Net Profit for the year .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 234,480 12 7
By Balance ..
£325,290 7 11
£207,943 711
I, Percy Frederick Graham Gordon, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund, the Exchange Adjustment
Reserve, and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Statement and Balance Sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in every
particular.
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: John Langley Webb, Shipowner, Melbourne; Robert Chancellor
Meares, Solicitor, Melbourne; Achalen Woolliscroft Palfreyman, Manufacturer, Melbourne; William Howell Swanton, Merchant, Melbourne; Arthur Sydney Baillieu, Investor, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a
false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 21st day of July, One Thousand nine hundred and thirty-six.
Before me —J. J. C. Crowe, P. F. G. GORDON.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and Affidavits under the '‘Evidence Act 1928.”
We, Achalen Woolliscroft Palfreyman and William Howell Swanton, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion
the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 21st day of July, 1936. On behalf of the Board
A. W. PALFREYMAN
W. H. SWANTON.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Too Many Parliaments
The town clerk of Geelong has dis-
covered that, while Britain with a popu-
lation of 45,000,000 has 615 politicians
and 20 Cabinet Ministers, Australia, with
6,700,000 people, has 616 politicians and
73 Ministers. He urged the reduction of
the number of members of Parliament
and of Cabinet Ministers.
Both aims would be achieved by a re-
duction in the number of Parliaments. —
Findy (Vic.).
Anzac Day in Victoria
One of the old “hard-seeds” of our
unit was being buried. Cobbers from all
walks of civvy life did the last-parade
with him, and at the finish trooped slowly
back to their cars. They hesitated for
once to celebrate, as is customary after
any such reunion, until ; the closest
friend of the dead man broke the silence
with “If he were with us now, what
would be his wish?” That settled it;
there was no hypocrisy in moving off
to a near-by tavern, where golden memo-
ries of a friendship that death had
broken were recalled. Whatever the Vic-
torian authorities may think, and how-
ever some of our well-meaning public
may view it, this typifies the Digger’s
attitude towards Anzac Day.—A. W. L.
(N.S.W.).
Closer Settlement
N.S.W. Deputy-Premier Bruxner is to
visit Dubbo, where he will investigate
the Cole scheme of closer settlement.
The idea is to enforce share-farming on
portions of large holdings in recognised
mixed-farming districts. Properties of
3000 to 4000 acres are to engage one
share-farmer; 4000 to 5000 acres, two
share-farmers; 5000 to 7000 acres, one
to every 500 acres over 5000.
This plan is said to be “the most logi-
cal yet evolved to solve the closer-settle-
ment problem.” I doubt it. It does
not differ greatly from a scheme outlined
by me, but in my scheme excess land was
to be leased. I was speaking from ex-
perience. ■>
I was, and still am, doing well on
leased country. Share-farmers in the
same district are going out of business.
—Sambo/ (N.S.W.).
r■ i '
Canada’s Trade War
Canada had a trade war with Japan. A
Trade Bulletin issued by Dr. Page’s De-
partment of Commerce (December, 1935)
set out the .- whole of the issues and
detailed the Japanese measures. It was
showp that in the August-October, 1935,
qqarter-Canadian wheat exports to Japan
fell from 856,000 bushels to 63,336
bushels'and flour from 69,625 barrels to
15,000 barrels. Wheat exports in October
were nil. Mr. Lyons and his friends did
not feel bound To stand by Canada in
its adversity, as they say they are stand-
ing by Britain. —-E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
The Lasseter Myth
“The Last of Lasseter’s Lost Reef”
(B. 15/7/’36)? I doubt it: these time-
honored legends of far-away, hidden
wealth are due for periodic revival. If
the company that undertakes to “assure”
my life could really do it for another,
say, twenty-five years, I would like to
wager odds that within that period we
shall see at least one more well-financed
expedition set out in search of that
nebulous store of gold.
Probably every old mining country
and all the old goldfields have their local
version of the story of the amazingly
rich discovery found and left under des-
perate conditions, and the plan of the
locality passed on with dying breath to
someone else. Read Mark Twain’s
“Roughing It,” and note how the same
idea was current in California in the
“roaring ’fifties.” Then the mountain
miners were all on edge to follow one
Whiteman, a prospector, reputed to
possess the locality plan of a Golconda
passed on to him by the last of three
brothers, the discoverers, all killed by
Indians in their struggle back to civilisa-
tion. Whiteman never got there. He
probably would not have in any case, but
he always found himself being trailed by
all the other gold-seekers of the region,
and. so led them a useless excursion
among the mountains and bided his own
time, which never came.
Another well-worn plausible story is
that of the rich leader found by a work-
ing miner in the ’seventies at, say, Bendi-
go. He covered it up—for future exploi-
tation for his own benefit—only to be
thwarted by the collapse or flooding and
abandonment of the mine. Now at the
age of eighty-odd he will for a considera-
tion undertake to show the trusting
capitalist just where it is. I speak a little
feelingly about this, having sunk some
funds in the re-opening on these terms of
an ancient dud in Victoria. The pro-
moter (credulous, but quite honest) is
now the high priest of a weird religious
cult, which looks presumably for treasure
in the skies. I hope he has more luck
than in his Victorian search. — Bill O’C,
(S.A.).
N.S.W. Hospital Nurses
N.S.W. hospital nurses got a State in-
dustrial award last month. Appeals have
been lodged by the hospitals, public and
private, and the salaries and overtime
clauses have been suspended.
As for working hours, a 52-hour week
is to be the basis. In some hospitals
nurses go on duty an hour or more
before the appointed time in order to
get the necessary work finished. Thus, if
the appointed time is 6 a.m., the nurse
rises about 4.30 a.m., and from that
hour she is constantly on her feet till she
comes off duty, 12 or more hours later—
often very much later. We are supposed
to have a full half-hour for meals, and
a specified time during the day—
usually 40 minutes —to change uniforms
and tidy and dust our bedrooms. We
only have this time if we can be spared
from the wards, and in our personal ex-
perience this is seldom. We never have
more than 20 minutes for a meal, and
often less.
Theatre nurses often work more than
70 hours per week. And a nurse has to
attend lectures and study in her time off
duty. Is it fair to expect girls to work
these hours when men have their 44-
hour week, and seek even less? States
like Westralia and Queensland can grant
shorter hours to their nurses; why is it
impossible for N. S. Wales?
The award specifies a commencing
wage for trainees of £1 17s. 6d. a week.
Most of the nurses are, the authorities
claim,, “straight from school.” But the
minimum age is 19 ; the set time for
training in the larger hospitals is four
years and in the smaller ones five years.
This has meant that until a nurse turned
23 or 24 she could not help her family,
nor support herself without denying her-
self necessaries. A girl has been expected
to live, dress herself and pay fares, pro-
vide herself with copies of lectures, text-
books and the necessary articles of uni-
form, for in many cases as little as
1 Is. 6d. a week. Therefore her parents
were forced to continue to support her
until she was well into her twenties. This
excluded thousands of girls from enter-
ing a profession which calls for the best,
healthiest and strongest the country can
offer.
It is to the people that we appeal
in our campaign for shorter hours ; and
we look also towards the churches for
their support; towards the doctors, too.-
Two Trainees (N.S.W.).
Fame
Some boys belonging to Perth’s Junior
Legacy Club were divided into groups
called Monash, Chauvel and Hobbs. A
visitor asked them why they were thus
named. There was no response from the
Monash group. One lad said Chauvel
was the name of a famous battle in the
Great War. Another youth thought it
was the name of a great racehorse.
At the end of the Great War a teacher
in a N.S.W. country school asked the
children to name Australia’s greatest
general. One boy put up his hand,
“Billy Hughes, teacher,” he said. “Why
was he the greatest general, Claude?”
asked the teacher. “Because he retreated
from West Sydney and took Bendigo,”
Claude replied ; “then he retreated from
Bendigo and took North Sydney, which
he still holds.” — Tommo (W.A.).


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Organ and Crunch, part-
ners in a two-stand shearing plant, were
doing the small men down south. As a
shearer Organ was a good mechanic,
while Crunch was a gun. One farmer,
appalled at the stream of verbal vitriol
with which Organ struggled through his
sheep, protested: “Look at your mate —
he goes along quietly ; a good shearer
doesn’t need to swear.” Organ straight-
ened up, wiped the sweat out of his eyes,
and regarded the farmer in blank amaze-
ment. “Of course he blanky well
doesn’t!” he gasped, astonished that so
obvious a thing should need comment.
* * * *
“Centre”; On my N.S.W. place flood-
waters brought down a spray of prickly-
pear, and lodged it on the top of a semi-
rotten 6ft. high ironbark stump. Now
the stump is quite invisible, being hidden
under a thick growth of the pest.
About two years ago I hung a brace of
pear-leaves across the top of the fence
wire, and they’re still green and full of
sap. The pest is certainly tough.
* * * :Je
“Butcher Bill”; The first sale of
possum-skins in Queensland since the
declaration of the open season took place
a fortnight later, when 140,000 skins were
sold. No such number could have been
collected, dried and shipped within the
time, and the claim of those opposing
the license to slaughter that killers have
been on the job since an open season
was mooted three months ago has been
justified. And unquestionably skins
were poached from N.S.W. and stored
until a chance of disposing of them with-
out risk arose. In spite of alleged pro-
tection a huge trade in illicit possum
skins goes on in Victoria and N.S.W.
* * * *
“James K.”; Shade of the Master!
Came upon an old swagman entrenched
by his fire in the scrub of a Melb. bay-
side suburb, reading a bulky volume of
The Forsyte Saga. “Yes,” he said, “I’ve
’ad this book for 20 years an’ read it
through 50 times, an’ I reckon it’s the
greatest book ever written.” He re-
counted old Jolyon Forsyte’s beautiful
death, in the sun, with the birds singing
and his dog at his feet. “Maybe that’s
ow I’m going t’ go,” he said, staring
into the fire. That was two months ago,
and I smiled inwardly at the improba-
bility of his fancy. But he knew more
than I. A policeman found him dead
the other day on a park seat, in the sun-
light, with some stray cur staring up into
his face,
* * * *
“J.C.” (London); I don’t quite see
why anyone should want to fry to
acclimatise the alpaca in Australia. Its
principal virtue is its wool, and even if it
could be induced to breed in Australia
the climate would modify its wool pro-
duction. Anyway, it won’t thrive and
breed below an altitude of 6000 ft., and is
fastidious about its food (alpine grasses
and mosses). Moreover, as a beast of
burden it’s a dud, sharing with the
llama the habit of lying down on the job
if the load is over 1001 b. And it is
difficult to obtain. Those South Ameri-
can countries where it thrives closely
control the export of the animals, much
as they did that of cinchona bark seeds,
but with better success. Peru in 1933 re-
fused to grant an export license for some
animals for the London Zoo on the
ground that their ultimate destination
was north-western India, where un-
doubtedly they would thrive.
* * * *
“Joe Hicks”: Vanishing Murray cod?
1 have been angling for that beautiful
fish for many years on the Murrum-
bidgee and at Burrinjuck, and the blame
can be laid on the perch and trout.
I have caught trout weighing 61b. to 81b.,
and inside them have been 300 to 400
very small cod, on which the speckles
were just visible. Twelve or fifteen
years ago a catch of 30 or 40 cod at the
Tuck was considered a good day’s sport,
but importations have ruined the game.
“Monnie”: Sometimes the cod does
turn on his tormentors, and in winter-
time at that. With bacon for bait I was
fishing the Cotter River (N.S.W.) during
a heavy frost, and landed a one-pounder
which had evidently just swallowed a
small perch. With no bacon left I used
the perch for bait. After a luckless hour
I “set” the line and went fox-shooting.
Coming back later in the day I found my
line downstream, and hauled in a 37-
pound cod.
"I'll really have to stop now , sir —I’m getting a blister on my band.”
“Hoot Awa”; As I may have to go
“back to the Army again” one of these
days I would like to ask “Mac Sporran”
(B. 22/7/’36) how his Highland hero got
away with his kilted outfit when he took
his discharge from the service. It is
possible that he deserted, but he could
have got it no other way. On discharge
every soldier and n.c.o, of the old Im-
perial service had to account for every
item of his kit before going out of the
barrack gate, and the value of anything
missing was deducted from his de-
ferred pay. Even if he “bought out,” as
was not uncommon, he could not touch
a rag of his old outfit,
* *
“K.C.”: The rainbow bird is not as
black as he is painted, with due con-
sideration for “Plankton’s” statements
(B. 15/7/’36). “Heresone” is much nearer
the mark. These birds undoubtedly eat
some bees, but research has shown that
their food consists in the main of large
beelike flies, wasps, and the varied native
bees. Occasionally rainbow birds will
establish themselves near an apiary and
become a nuisance, but you mustn’t con-
demn the whole race.
“Adamac”: Rainbow birds deserve
their reputation as bee-eaters, but they
are not alone in iniquity. Butcher-birds
—both black-and-white and grey varieties
—take heavy toll of bees that come to
drink at water-troughs. Too cute to risk
a sting, the bird snaps up the insect and
drops it like a hot potato, then retrieves
it and stows it in his crop. Still, wasps
are included in b.-b.’s diet. One cold
day a colony of paper wasps took refuge
on the wall behind my open front door.
A grey butcher-bird followed them in
and dined sumptuously on the huddled
swarm.
*jc s|J ❖ *
“Emel”; The seeds looked a little queer,
but we went on cutting up the melon.
Next morning we added quinces, and 1
boiled the jam until it “jellied” beauti-
fully. It looked so attractive that I tasted
—and tasted again to make sure I hadn't
dreamed the first. The flavor was inde-
scribably vile. Both melon and quinces
had been given to us, but we put 101 b.
of good white sugar in that jam, only to
bury it. We all get stung sometimes,
but that’ll be the last time I’m caught
with a paddymelon cross.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: They were a careless crowd
in Queensland 50 years ago. I have been
re-reading an old report of the loss
of 25,500 sheep which were on the roads.
The first mob, numbering 15,000, was
“last heard of” somewhere in the Burnett
country in southern Queensland. The
other lot of 10,500 vanished in the wilds
of the Diamantina. The chronicler adds:
“The owners have anxiously made tele-
graphic inquiries from all stations
through which they were to pass, but
without success.”
# $ * *
“Groper”: It’s the little things that
count in the bush. Up on the Manilya
River, Ashburton district (W.A.), Choom
had wasted nearly the entire match
supply trying to get a fire going
after a tropical downpour when
Bandy loe butted in. Leading the way
to a big hollow tree which had stood
lee side to the recent storm, Joe indi-
cated the beautifully dry collection of
leaves and twigs which had gathered
in the hollow during the passage of years.
“Light your fire in there. Stand your
wet sticks up on end. You can shift
the fire out afterwards once you get it
properly going.”
» * * *
“Boonee”: “Homin’ pigeons?” queried
Sam. “The ones I bred were homers!
A fellow from the city wanted to buy
some, but I told him it’d be no use ’im
takin’ ’em because they’d on’y keep
cornin’ back. But he pestered me so
much I sold him a settin’ of ’alf a dozen
eggs. ‘But at your own risk! ’> I told
’im. About three weeks later I was
sittin’ on the verandah in the sun when
I heard all the pigeons kickin’ up a
helluva din. It was them ’alf-dozen
chicks back. They wasn’t even feathered,
and the skin was wore right off their
feet!”
=i : * *
“Meeka”: The camel is mostly known
for its speed, but for pulling qualities
the big draught type is little inferior to
the bullock. When I was weighbridge
clerk on a Murchison (W.A.) goldmine,
I saw one pull a load of boiler firewood
the gross weight of which was 4 tons
17cwt. 2qr. Anyone beat that?
M V
“Louden”: The crow is certainly per-
sistent. On a Riverina (N.S.W.) property
I watched a fowl pecking at a piece of
mutton-fat. Suddenly a crow swooped
from a near-by tree, “lifted” the
fat and flew to a post beneath a limb of
a dead tree. Immediately, what appeared
to be a piece of the limb dropped. With
a raucous “Ah!” Kelly quickly turned a
back somersault, thereby saving himself
possible injury. Two seconds later, voci-
ferous and excited, he was pursuing his
meal, now clutched firmly in the talon
of a hawk. Round and round the trees
within a radius of a hundred yards the
hawk sped ; a moment later two magpies
joined in the chase, rising above and dart-
ing viciously at the enemy. Presently the
hawk, hard-pressed, jettisoned its cargo,
whereupon the crow dropped out of the
chase, descended, and, having recovered
the fat, streaked for the horizon.
* * *
“Stan”: When recently passing through
the Casino (N.S.W.) district by train I
noticed large tracts of freshly ringbarked
timber on both sides of the line. The
newchum Englishman in our compart-
ment was frankly puzzled at the sight.
“Why are all those trees only half cut
down?” he asked at last. “Timber strike,”
explained the grave-faced wag at my
elbow. “The cutters were called out in
the middle of their shift.”
* * * *
“Koax”: The giant toads imported
from Hawaii to scoff the cane-beetles in
N.Q. have developed an unexpected use-
fulness. Since their arrival cockroach-
infested houses have been cleared, and
anyone who has known the N.Q. cock-
roach at his best will appreciate what a
relief to householders that will be. Also
the lady toads at Meringa experimental
station are doing what they
have never been known to do
before in captivity—laying
eggs in wholesale fashion.
Breeding goes on all right
when the toads are liberated,
but this new departure will
help the distribution of the
beasts, the eggs being sent to
toadless districts in place of
the adult animals, with the
result that the toad popula-
tion develops much more quickly. In
addition to these activities the liberated
toads are working overtime in the cane,
and it is expected that in a year or two
the beetles will begin to feel the strain.
* * H* *
“Stinger”: Whitehaven Harbor, that
inlet of blinding white sand on the other
side of Whitsunday Island (N.Q.), is the
place for soldier crabs and for the sting-
arees which feed on them. The ’ray’s
technique is simple yet effective. He
locates by some means best known to
himself a nest of crabs buried in the
sand. He then edges off a bit and flips
the tip of his “wings,” sending eddies of
sand swirling in the water. Before the
disturbed crabs have a chance to dig in
again the ’ray wheels on them. After
he has passed, the bed of that sand is as
clean as a plate.
* * * *
. “0.P.”: My friend Charley Chan in-
formed me, per medium of the wireless,
that the “thief greases the wheel of his
barrow.” The remark reminded me of a
fisherman 1 knew who, when angling in
closed waters, carefully muffled his oars,
quite oblivious of the fact that the grunt
with which he always brought his oars
back was nightly recognised by a very
lenient fishing inspector!
# # ♦ *
“Tid’apa”: “Errol's” British R.O. that
teased a cobra with a stick (B. 24/6/’36)
was either a wizard or a fool. I have
spent a few years where those vicious
wrigglers abound, and have never heard
of anyone being so foolish as to take
liberties with one of the hooded brutes.
The cobra strikes like lightning, and is
one of the few snakes that will attack
without provocation, and he is relent-
less in pursuit. If the Selangor D.O.
ever stages another such contest my
money will be on the wriggler.
PLOUGHING.
Eddie the tractor sings a song,
Ploughing the paddocks the whole day long;
Sings a song with a soft refrain,
Made to the rhythm of springtime rain;
Sings a song of a summer morn,
Dewdrops gilding the green of the corn;
Croons a rune of the noonday heat,
And wind that ruffles the rolling wheat.
The starlings flock to the fresh-turned sod,
And the quiet peewees give thanks to God.
The wheels go forward, my thoughts go back
To another tractor, another track,
When I drove a tank through the miles of mud
Over in France, in the days of blood.
Springtime, summertime, early and late,
We ploughed and harrowed the fields of hate.
The furrows were black and the dew was red
When we reaped our harvest of German dead.
And the small birds fled, and their soft wings
hid
From man and the horror of things he did.
I drove through masses of squealing men
(There were no starlings to follow me then).
As Eddie the tractor crushes a clod,
I beat them and battered them, trampled and
trod.
And ever the engine sang its song
Of women sobbing the whole night long.
But there are things that a man must do
When the boundary breaks and the foe beats
through;
And 1 was only a child of chance
When I drove my tank through the fields of
France.
Starlings, be welcome to what you find,
And peewees, follow me close behind,
Where Eddie the tireless tractor goes
Steadily, purring along the rows.
For I know, when 1 see your soft wings gleam,
This is the substance and that is the dream.
And I ask no more of the gods than this —
Good earth that wakes to the sun’s warm kiss,
A long straight furrow, fresh-turned and brown ,
And the birds to follow me up and down.
QUEENSLAND.
L.M.D. O’NEIL.


“E.W.”: Young Bill was describing
the motor-lorry smash to the visiting
parson. “We had three ton on her, and
going round the bend near the bridge
she started to sway, and dad couldn’t
hold her. She went right over the bank
and smashed everything ; you never saw
such a mess. Dad and me was right
under the lot, and we only got a bit of
skin knocked off and a few bruises.” “A
marvellous escape,” the padre agreed ; “I
hope you knew the right thing to do
after you had been saved from death like
that.” “Too right,” said young Bill;
“dad got two lottery tickets as soon as
we got to town, and called ’em the ‘Two
Lucky Devils’ syndicate.”
* * * *
“Boodgee”: I’ll back a bull’s neck as
the toughest thing in gristle. A crash like
a tree falling announced that our outsize
Jersey bull had slipped tail first down the
well, fourteen feet deep, with ten feet
of water in it. With a rope round his
horns, we tied him to a post, to stop him
from drowning while we went for the
tractor. Having no block and tackle we
decided to skull-drag him over the side.
The first pull nearly brought him out,
but the rope broke, and back he went
again. Next time we were more suc-
cessful ; got him on to dry ground, where
he stood like a lamb while the ropes were
taken off. All the pulling Was on his
horns. ■
* * * *
“Teleco”: Adelaide has recently been
having demonstrations of the strength
stored away in somt of the apparently
weak things of nature. Twice in a month
the corporation has had to repair foot-
paths in King William-street where the
humble mushroom has pushed , its way
through three or four inches of asphalt.
In the suburbs, soursop has been playing
ducks and drakes with the bitumen
roads. In other parts of the city where
storm channels have been built rushes
are pushing the concrete blocks out of
place.
* * * %
“Western”; W.A. fishing circles are
considerably exercised over the feeding
habits of the shag or cormorant, numer-
ous net fishermen alleging that the bird
is a menace to their
livelihood since it
takes heavy toll of
edible fish. Natur-
alists reply that the
bird is really a
blessing since it
dines largely on
trashy fish which in
turn seek an epi-
curean diet on the
spawn of other
good marketable
species. Whether
the shag, four
species of which
exist along the
south-west coast,
really exercises such
discrimination is
doubtful; probably
all fish is fish to it,
the ones easiest
caught getting the
preference. Any-
way, a scientific in-
vestigation is to be
made with a view
to settling the ques-
tion. There is one
point, however,
which I personally
doubt the vast
quantity of fish,
double its own
weight, alleged to be eaten by the shag
per diem. The gull is always on the wing,
apparently never satisfied. But my beach-
comber view of the shag is that its favor-
ite occupation is contemplating the land-
or seascape.
* * * *
“Tauwarra”: The first Merrie Eng-
land (B. 24/6/’36) was indeed the Ark
of the Gavamani in the early days of
B.N.G. I once “signed-on” a tame canni-
bal from the n.-e. coast who ascribed
his reformation solely to the magic eyes
that were the hawsepipes of the M.E. He
put it this way: “S’pose I humbug ’long
Gavamani, kill’m man, steal’m somet’ing
— anything —taubada, all right, I go run
’way ’long bush. No matter, taubada,
God He see me, He go talk ’long Gava-
mani, Mellie Englan’ he come. No
matter I stop ’long bush, taubada, Mellie
Englan’ he see me, I get sikkis munce.”
“You Were right, Pansy—there WAS an escape of gas .”
“M.L.C.”: “Modern” ideas can never
have appealed to the tuatara, since he has
remained the same queer little beastie for
millions of years, probably since the
Permian era. For that very reason he
must not be allowed to fade out now.
Named tuatara by the Maoris on
account of his spiny back, he is known
to scientists as the Sphenodon, and is the
sole survivor of an ancient order of rep-
tile which gave rise to the tortoises and
lizards. Beneath the skin on his fore-
head he carries the insignia of his ancient
lineage —the rudiments of a third eye
which once functioned. Possibly his
frugal habits of diet were originally im-
posed on him by the scarcity of quarry
in those lean and distant days.
* * * *
“No. 1”: We drove the packhorses
up to the top-river hut just as the moon
rose, and lost no time in unsaddling and
“Hey, one of y'r singlets Was found in the soup!”
“Aw, don't bother about it. It Was wore out, anyway !”
turning in after the sixty-mile ride. We
didn’t sleep well, despite tiredness,
and a notice on the door, inscribed in
charcoal, solved half the mystery. It
read: “Jimmy Barr, dingo hunter,
camped here for the night. Sorry about
the padlock.” Jimmy was a half-caste
wanderer whom few ever met in the
flesh. One who had met him, however,
rode in a few minutes later, and the rest
was easy. Jimmy had been travelling
with fifteen dogs, and had changed bunks
with them in the middle of the night,
just to be fair all round. It didn’t work
out so equitably. The dogs had my bunk
first, and most of the fleas were too satis-
fied with a feed of dog to bother moving
over. They just munched Jimmy until
dawn. I was the next course.
“Leirum”: Torres Strait islanders on
Mer use the identical method of casting
nets employed by the Biblical fishermen
of Galilee. Around the outer edge of
an expanse of net weights are attached.
The whole is bunched up and carried
in the hand until the shoal of fish is
sighted, and then with Binghi’s unerring
cast it is thrown into the midst of the
swarm. Thereupon the diverging of the
weights forms a prison round the fish as
large as the outer circumference of the
net to which the weights are attached.
* * * *
“Neil”: For some of the rarest of
marine shells the Long Beach at Eden
(N.S.W.) stands high in the ranking of
concholpgists. Scientists claim that cer-
tain currents strike only this portion of
the coast, resulting in the deposit of
many types unobtainable in other parts,
here or abroad.
“Fisher’s Ghost”: Grandfather was
down the other day, and I naturally in-
quired about rabbits and sat back for
the blast. Last time I was up country,
wily old milkers used to go and hide
among the cottontails at cow-time. “Do
you know the price of rabbit-skins?” de-
manded the old chap, with a solemn note
in his voice. I guessed somewhere near
the present inflated mark. “Well, damn
it!” he roared. “There’s two thousand
acres on the top-river country without
a rabbit on them. Blasted disease or
something has knocked ’em all out. All
I can do with that land is fatten stock
on it. It makes a man sick! ” So that’s
how farmers go broke.
* * * *
“Kriz”; Two Jap divers working from
the lugger Sre Pas Saer off Broome came
upon a helmet and corselet and a pair
of diving-boots in 18 fathoms of water.
By means of signs they
decided that one should
take the boots to the
surface whilst the other
took the helmet and
corselet. The first diver
duly delivered the
boots, but the second
man came to the sur-
face in a hurry, and
when they unscrewed
his helmet he was a
pitiful sight. When
half-way up he had
looked through the
glass of the helmet and
met a stare from
human eyes. He
dropped the corpse and
made for the surface.
Two bottles of sake
were immediately
poured over the side as
an offering to the de-
parted’s spirit. Through
coming up too quickly,
the second diver de-
veloped the deadly
paralysis. He refused
to be “staged,” a pro-
cess which might take
12 hours or so below.
so they made for Broome and carried
him over a mile of mud to the Govern-
ment hospital, where he was artificially
“staged” in the decompressor chamber.
He recovered.
❖ * * *
“K’bundah”; What do redback spiders
eat? Anyone who grows a crop of
pumpkins will know. Turn the cocky’s
staple food over when it’s ripe and
you’ll find their chief diet —crickets.
These chaps don’t have to be hunted ;
they go under the pumpkin to feed and
get caught in Redback’s web. I have seen
three crickets under one pumpkin. But
can anyone tell me where Redback comes
from in the first place? When our crop
was planted (Wingham, N.S.W.) there
wasn’t one within a mile. When carting
pumpkins to the barn lately there were
thousands of the poison-dealers.
* * * *
“Timothy Tywire”: Riding over the
well-grassed paddocks the other day I was
accompanied by a couple of kite hawks
that kept swooping down in front of me.
They were catching the grasshoppers I
disturbed, and as they rose from every
swoop they were picking at a ’hopper in
their claws. They escort travelling mobs
of sheep at the same game ; and when
a grassfire is c:r they are there in scores
to feast on the fleeing ’hoppers.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: In the tropical somnolence
of the after-lunch spell I was throwing
scraps to a large wood lizard, which is
very common in the Torres Strait islands.
Snapping up a morsel, the lizard leaped
back, and in his scramble to safety must
have roused a death adder. The wriggler
seemed to come from nowhere to clasp
the lizard for one brief instant in his
jaws, and then relapsed into his quondam
drowsiness. I expected the lizard to make
for the scrub, but after a few convulsive
wriggles, he stiffened and lay still. The
only visible marks on the carcass were
two slightly disturbed areas of scales on
the belly and back, and the flesh did not
appear to have been punctured.
$ $ * *
“Bimbo”: Tearaway Tom roared past
my place in his old buckboard bound
for the local cheese factory to deliver his
solitary can of milk. He turned in the
factory gate on two wheels, turned
around quickly and backed into the stage
with a flourish. He jumped out, dashed
round to lift the can on to the stage,
only to find it missing. Yes, he’d left it
home in the dairy.
* * * *
“Lively”: Brer Rabbit doesn’t thud
the ground.with either his head or his
legs. He is too darned lazy to care a
tinker’s curse what becomes of the rest
of the community as long as his own
skin is safe. It is Miss Cottontail that
does the thudding to warn her offspring
of the approach of the cocky with his
cattle-dog and peagun. This she can do
in full flight with the said dog in tow
or in a sitting posture.
THE OUTBACK SPELL.
To the ring of hoofs on the hard, grey road
The team goes by with its towering load;
With a creak of axle and crack of whip
It lumbers off with a record clip.
There are scents from the earth after summer
rain, .
Sunlight glinting on seas of gram.
Tall grass bending to sun-warmed breeze,
A round moon etching the homestead trees.
Oh, it’s good to go back to the days we
thoughts were long and our friend-
ships true, .
And the song in our hearts had a lilting ring
For joy in the tasks that each day would bring.
Flame-tongues sample the greenback log,
Firelight flickers on man and dog;
The lids are lifted from Memory’s chests
And laughter rings for the retold jests . . .
Yes, the “outback spell” is a potent one,
Which might be due to a touch of sun,
For where is the Bush that has one defect
When its praises are sounded in retrospect?
VICTORIA.
C.M. RICHARDSON.


m
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY £- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
Lpm.„Uv S .:
McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne,. Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
ON
BANK
IHE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LlidlTEO
Established 1872.
HEAD OfFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Dove, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
VVitli offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank°offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
3
m - ■
888888 a
i
PETTY'S at SYDNEY
People stay at Petty's when they visit Sydney.
You, too, would like Petty's for its quiet com-
fort, the perfect service, excellent cuisine and
moderate tariff. Room and Breakfast from 11/6.
Inclusive, 18/-. Wire or write for reservations.
PETTYS
HOTEL
EDWARD YOUNGS,
Manager.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOOTH AUSTRU.U
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
.. £1,250,000
1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. - • • >
Reserve Fund ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office; 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Prafts and Letters of Credit Issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. AH usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
A New Woolpack.
“Murrawong”: Information received
regarding an improved S’African wool-
pack emphasises the need for wider dis-
semination of wool-research results. The
new invention is claimed to be dust- and
moisture-proof, and also proof against
stencil-ink staining the wool contents.
It is claimed that the pack may be
used several times, but it has been
evolved primarily to combat the com-
plaints of wool manufacturers re loss by-
jute ravellings finding their way into
wool fabrics.
The inventor has solved this by coat-
ing the interior surface of the pack with
a binding liquid which consolidates
frayed edges and seams, and dries to
form a protective inner bale skin.
Ordinary jute is used in construction,
the only difference being that, instead of
one long strip forming two sides and
bottom and two short strips the remain-
ing sides, the S’African bale uses two
long strips crossed to form a double
bottom, with sewing up the sides only.
The double bottom is stuck together with
liquid dressing.
The apparent advantages of the new
over the old jute pack are that the new
is moisture-proof. It should solve the
problem of jute ravellings becoming in-
corporated with the wool, but the other
claims are debatable. The possibility of
wool being damaged by outside dust is
remote. In almost every case, the wool
is already in the fleece before being
shorn, and the present pack can be
heavily branded without the wool being
affected.
It is also possible to use the ordinary
jute pack several times —this has been
done for years by repackers and by sta-
tions which have their wool processed at
a local scour. There is a big trade for
second-hand packs, which are used for
various purposes other than wool. The
“improved” pack would be at no greater
advantage than the present one —it would
still be a second-hand pack, defaced by
brands, and would not be worth re-
importing from overseas.
As a result of manufacturers’ com-
plaints, many new types of packs have
been evolved in Australia to solve the
jute-fibre trouble. We have had paper
packs reinforced with wire-netting and
packs of woollen fabric ; the latter were
too costly and stretched too much to be
practicable. Several woolgrowers ex-
perimented with paper envelopes, lining
the interior of the bale, and seme years
ago a process similar to the S’African
was successfully experimented with ; but
when it came to the point there was
nothing but failure.
If manufacturers really desire a new
pack, they should state through the
Woolbuyers’ Associations what extra
allowance they are prepared to pay for
wool contained in a jute-free container.
Then our men with ideas will have some-
thing to work on, instead of laboring for
years to produce an article that everyone
wants but no one is prepared to pay for
—till it has proved itself.
Black Disease.
“Demeter”: Destroy water snails, an
organic essential in black disease, and
you are safe.
Black disease is caused by a bacterium
(Clostridium cedematiens) and is distinct
from liver-fluke infestation. The dam-
aged tissue caused by the latter, however,
provides a good medium for the growth
and spread of the causal organism of
black disease.
Vaccination has achieved success, but
is costly and effective only against the
black disease, whereas anti-snail meas-
ures combat both troubles.
Draining of marshy areas which can-
not be dealt with with bluestone is
also required.
In one case reported to the N.S.W.
.Stock Branch, the owner of a 640-acre
block was advised to treat his land with
2cwt. bluestone p.a. at a total cost of
£4, which has cut his previous annual
losses of 100 to 200 sheep to nil. There
was no drenching or further control.
In another case, an owner reported a
saving of over 300 sheep p.a. at a cost of
less than £25 p.a.
“Hope it don't rain and spoil the dance to-night."
Lamb-marking.
“Pannikin”: One gathers that most of
the recent M.O.L. writers have marked
lambs only in more or less small flocks.
“Winfield” (B. 22/7/’36) advises graz-
ing the ewes whilst the lambs are being
marked. I wonder how many ewes would
be bellowing round the yard fence in-
stead of grazing?
To my mind —I have marked thou-
sands of lambs under varying conditions
of season and drop —two things are
essential.
Firstly, absolute cleanliness; secondly,
sound commonsense.
On the “absolute cleanliness” count,
whether you mark 100 or 2000 lambs in
the day, the holding rail and yard rails
and posts in the immediate vicinity of
the marker should be well washed with a
strong phenol solution. A small tin of
the solution should also be tacked on
to the rail handy to the marker, so that
knives and earpliers can be dipped fre-
quently.
Keep the oilstone clean, and don't rub
your knives on your boot.
On some holdings, fresh breaks are
erected in the paddock for each marking,
but the same old hurdles are used for
the catching pen.
Earmark first and then castrate and
tail. No amount of pinching the tail
will stop the flow of blood from a lively,
healthy lamb. See that the catcher
drops the lamb squarely on his four
feet into the yard with the ewes.
The man who puts the marked lamb
into the open paddock and hopes that it
will hang around till the ewes are let
out is a super-optimist.
Some bring the ewes and lambs into
the yard and mark at once. In winter,
this method has a lot to recommend it,
for, though the lambs may bleed a little
more, they mother readily, as the ewe is
not hungry and seeks her lamb at once.
When feed is lush, a little blood loss
is often beneficial to a lamb.
Other graziers again stick to the yard-
ing-overnight idea, and when this is
done the ewes naturally want to feed as
soon as they are let out of the yard. Put
a good man with them to keep them
from spreading too much, and keep
them feeding back on to the waiting
lambs.
When the ewes are filled, there will be
no trouble in mothering. But don’t let
them loose till they are mothered, or
morning will find a few agitated ewes—
and a few very sorry lambs—back at the
yards.
There is no reason for dressing in the
wintertime. For the April-May mark-
ing, on most big properties, dressing isn’t
one ' . , ,
Provided the knives are sharp an
clean, three or four days will see mark-
ing wounds almost healed.
For summer marking, paint on a good
dressing with a new 2in. paintbrush.
Of course, there are years when the
best dressing won’t keep the blowflies
at bay.
r j • \x/
Found m Woolpacks.
“Bungaree”: Requests to Japan to sub-
stantiate complaints of dishonest wool-
packing have resulted in the receipt of a
number of photographs of articles found
in bales of Australian wool. These in-
elude almost every movable thing that
may be found in a shearing shed —
stencils, bale hooks and skewers, combs
and cutters, spurs, sheep’s horns and
bones, leather belts, cigarette cartons and
paper containers, playing cards, knives,
tobacco tins, stones, a knitted sweater
and boxes of wax and safety matches.
Regarded as proofs of their complaints
about badly-packed wool, the Japanese
photographs fall short of the mark.
When it is known that these few
articles pictured are from 29,000 bales,
the wonder is that there is not more
rubbish to show. The writer has en-
countered a larger and much more
assorted collection in less than a tenth
of that number of bales in a repacking
store.
In any case, the reasons for complaint
remain obscure, as the combined weight
of the articles would not amount to the
draft allowance on one average auction
lot, and their specific gravities would
separate them from the wool in the
scouring bowls. They could, therefore,
do no harm to combing machinery.
Apparently, the Japanese definition of
“false packing” is not the same as ours.
We understand it to be the mixing of
inferior wools with fleeces that comply
with the description on the bale, and in
this category may also be included
badly-classed wools.
If Japanese or other buyers want to
put an end to badly- or falsely-packed
wools let them pay full market value
for well-classed clips and discriminate
against doubtful lots. If it becomes
necessary to buy obviously mixed lines,
they should make the margin in price
apparent to everyone, particularly the
grower. If they discover flagrantly dis-
honest packing in bales opened in their
factories they should claim for a refund
and blacklist the offending brand. Pub-
lic notice of such a policy by the Wool-
buyers’ Association would do a tremen-
dous amount of good.
It costs under l-16d. per lb. to have
wool competently classed in the shed. It
costs 4d. to fd. per lb. to have
it handled by a repacker in his
store. But if a grower were
convinced that he was drop-
ping even id. per lb. because his
wool was not properly classed
and free from rubbish there
would be fewer complaints from
overseas.
It is useless to prohibit smok-
ing in the shed —anyway, men
work better without restrictions
on their liberty—but they
should certainly be told not to throw
matches, empty matchboxes and other
smoker’s jetsam anywhere around the
board or woolroom. Shearers have a
chute or a pen for their dead matches,
and many sheds nail fruit tins to the wail
as ash and match trays. A timely word
to the rep. will also go a long way in keep-
ing the floor near the press free from
broken food, etc., at smoke-oh. Keep a
few rubbish drums handy.
Bloat in Dairy Cows.
“Longfallow”: “Lion” (B. 8/7/’36) is
on a different wicket with his fatteners
from the dairyman. He can leave his
stock on the lucerne all the time, but the
cowman has to take ’em off at least
twice daily, and few of us have water in
our lucerne paddocks.
It’s a tricky, anxious business, cow-
feeding off green lucerne, and only worth
while, in my opinion, when there is no
other good feed to be had.
I have adopted “Lion’s” idea of letting
the last crop remain in the field uncut
and feeding it off when brown from frost,
and this is a winner every time.
I turn my cows on to a grass-patch at
each end of my lucerne fields. They
graze slowly across this to the lucerne.
{Continued on page 24.)


“I’ve got it”
“What? Quartz!”
“No! Pints”
“O.K. SHEAF!
n
ill
■■ •
Si-i
Sis
:■ SS : ' :
iK
MS
sli
M MM
Mil
mm
m
Mm
■■■'■ i
Ml
MS
sms?
P>'S
li
MM M
. S
r s
IN BOTTLES HALF BOTTLES AND BABY
BOTTLES


FASHIONABLE
DESIGN
'“PHIS smart new Derby Tie
Shoe is most comfortable
to wear, and the design is just a
little ahead of the ordinary.
It features a soft Kid upper
with Suede inserts. And it’s
moderately priced, too!
Stocked in full and half sizes.
PRICES:
BLACK KID - - 357-
BROWN KID - - 35/-
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST
CATALOGUE—POST FREE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: *'ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY”
W.A.S. 2
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SCHUTE
BCELtCSb
ft
SC
Sh
mi
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is . h„d of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
coundess delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to "England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
- if!
=3f
=* l
■at
I
Ik-
m
EBx
3e
m
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
TRAIN SICKNESS
Mothersills
SEASICK REMEDY
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
across this on to the grass at the other
end, and often lie down for a bit and then
reverse the process.
The quality of the soil has a lot to do
with bloat. On my previous farm we
had rich chocolate loam, and the cows
blew up on the smallest excuse.
I let the lucerne reach full flower, then
turned the cows in and fed the crop right
off. This was a success twice, and the
third time I lost five cows on one morn-
ing. My present farm is sandy scrub and,
in spite of the fact that I have had to
feed the cows on lucerne most of the
time, I have lost only one in seven years.
But the only infallible method of pre-
vention is to fit Strawberry with a safety
valve.
Swedes as Cow Feed.
“Cocky’s Offsider”: Swedes grow in
almost any soil and need little attention,
as described by “R.X.8.” (B. 8/7/’36),
but I cannot approve the use of green
tops for milking cows. We tried them,
and found the cream was almost im-
mediately tainted. As fattening for dry
cows there isn’t anything much better.
The swedes themselves (use “purple
tops”) should be washed, and the leaves
cut off and given to “drys.” Chop the
“neeps” up into small pieces which
should be as square as possible to avoid
choking.
A handy cutter for swedes may be
made with an old chaffcutter blade fitted
with a handle like a butcher’s cleaver
and used on a flat, boarded surface. A
sharp, square-bottomed spade also makes
a good chopper. Using this, it is
best to tip the swedes into a wooden box.
Only put enough in to cover the bottom,
as when they are deeper many are apt
to remain uncut.
Feed swedes in the bail—half a kero-
sene-tin night and morning.
“Longfallow”: “R.X.8.” (B. 8/7/’36)
would find it a good dodge to fertilise
his swedes liberally with a complete
fertiliser. No crop needs it more than
swedes, and he will find that instead of
being the size of a teacup when he wants
to pull them they will be twice or three
times the size and much sweeter.
Nothing responds better to good treat-
ment than root crops.
Sub. Clover an Annual?
“C. 8.”; “Stump Jump” states that sub.
clover doesn’t stick to the habits of a
true annual (B. 22/7/’36). The reason
why his clover, after being apparently
dead, shot away the following March,
following good rain, was that it had been
sown too late. As the plants hadn’t time
to produce seed in the first season it lay
dormant. Had he observed more closely
he would have noticed that a lot of
plants did die.
Its seeding habit is the main reason
why sub. clover —early, mid-season or late
—is such a boon in most climates. There
are so many types in each strain that the
one most suitable to the district will
eventually predominate.
Early sub. clover will germinate before
any of the native clovers or trefoils and
stand up to very dry weather.
I have seen it germinate in January,
but all the seed doesn’t grow, and there
is aways enough dormant in the ground
for emergencies provided it is given a
fair chance.
S.c. doesn’t require “nursing,” but it
likes super, and will give a good return,
besides charging land with nitrogen and
helping to rejuvenate it.
Farm Quarantine.
“Silky Bag”: Considering the average
lack of precaution against the spreading
of infection on farms we manage to get
off very cheaply from stock diseases.
Still, there is a big annual loss through
needless contagions.
A contagious abortion case which
actually aborts is almost certain to infect
others. And it certainly is tempting
Providence to let an animal with a
broken, suppurating mastitis udder loose
with the herd.
Strangles and mange or itch, particu-
larly on horses, need isolation. Sheep,
also, do not escape from the need for
quarantine, as witness the ravages of
black-disease and footrot. Pigs are veri-
table hotbeds at epidemic time—they
readily spread swine plague, swine fever
and necrotic enteritis.
No one can tell at a glance whether an
animal has a contagious disease when it
becomes sick. A cow may have anthrax
or pleuro-pneumonia or Johne’s disease.
Hence, the first precaution in all sickness
should be immediate isolation pending
diagnosis.
The quarantine paddock need not be
permanent. Two or three months is
usually enough for the pasture to clean
up thoroughly. What is wanted is some
free, handy plot on which suspected stock
can be immediately confined for a
reasonable time. The main essentials are
lack of access by other stock, precautions
so that drainage from the quarantine
does not taint other pastures, and plenty
of feed.
Ergot and Abortion*
“Agamemnon”: There is a widely-held
belief that paspalum ergot causes abor-
tion in cattle.
In all tested cases it has been shown
that the cows, which presumably were
ergot victims, were affected with con-
tagious abortion and that the ergot had
nothing to do with the disease.
It is possible that rye and other cereal
ergot may cause abortion, but this species
is quite distinct from paspalum ergot,
which is restricted to the paspalum species
—including such grasses as water couch.
In the “honeydew” stage, when the
seeds are covered with sticky juice, the
fungus is harmless, although the eating
of much mature ergot may do serious
damage.
In early ergot-poisoning stages, scour-
ing is marked. Nervous symptoms fol-
low —muscular twitchings, muscles failing
to work with the brain, and staggering
gait.
Cases usually recover fairly rapidly.
The normal laxatives, in solid doses, help.
Hints for the Farm.
“X.N.”: The right files make a big
difference to farm work. The most
useful are a “bastard” for rough work
and a “mill saw” for sharpening cutters,
saws, etc. Keep files clean, fit each with
a handle with an eye in the tail so that
it can be hung up. Never keep files in
a box in which they can rub together.
And never let oil near them.
“Zamia”; Fewer farm tools would be
lost if more scarlet paint were used. The
hammer- and the chisel-handles and parts
of most other small tools provide a place
on which to lay a little scarlet, which can
be easily seen at a distance.
“L.M.”: The best clarifiers for dam
water are alum and chloride of iron.
Both should be dissolved and sprayed
over the dam surface. One pound of
iron chloride will clear 3000 gallons in
24 hours ; alum is slower.
“Lam”; To treat brittle hooves try
this: Heat £lb. resin in lard. Then
stir well in loz. pulverised verdigris.
When the mixture is nearly cool, add 2oz.
turpentine. Apply with a brush.
“Zedo”: To get rid of couch grass,
winter-plough Sin. deep. In spring, when
new shoots show, broadcast some heavy
cropper such as oats or dun peas suit-
able to the soil. Let this crop go to
the wilting stage and burn off. When it
is consumed by flame, plough and
scarify again. Another ploughing the
following winter should settle the nuis-
ance if there is a good frost.
“Emma”: The best emergency treat-
ment for red-backed spider bite is to
scarify the wound and rub in Condy’s
crystals. But take no risk —the bite is a
doctor’s job.
“S.T.S.”: The veteran Charles Martin,
who was in Adelaide from 1931 to 1933
as successor to Brailsford Robertson at
the S.A. Animal Nutrition laboratory,
has been worrying, in his so-called re-
tirement at Cambridge, about the Aus-
tralian rabbit problem, and thinks he
has found a cure in a, disease from S.
America. It seems to spread rapidly
among rabbits, and (so far) to be harm-
less to everything else. He is sending
on his interim results to the C.S.I.R.
“G.S.”: Who says Australia can’t grow
good tobacco-leaf? Westralian manufac-
turer Michelides, now in London, de-
clares, on the authority of the High Com-
missioner for Southern Rhodesia, that
bright-leaf tobacco grown at Manjimup
(W.A.) is worth 6d. per pound more
than Southern Rhodesian leaf. And an
English firm said it was prepared to buy
a million pounds weight of correspond-
ing leaf from Manjimup.
“Trevdee”; In Southern Victoria lamb-
raisers are being worried by foxes. One
sheepowner swears by the use of Stock-
holm tar to keep the raiders at bay—he
gives his new-born lambs a dab of it on
the rump and head.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is the correct amount of strychnine
to each fox bait ? (2) Does it take longer to
kill in meat than in butter ? How far will
a fox go after taking bait? (3) Should crystal
strychnine be powdered ? —2314.
(1) One-quarter of a grain will kill a fox.
Preferably one grain should be used. (2) The
strychnine takes a little longer to kill in meat.
The time depends on the dose and the amount
of food in the digestive tract. It is usually
about 10 minutes before symptoms show. (3)
It is better to powder the crystal*.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Beit, Philliu ani Yom* Streets, Sydney
m
in
mil
m
i
in
iiii
i
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
If all the impersonators of Gracie
Fields, Mae West and Greta Garbo were
laid end to end, it would be a dashed
good idea!
4 4 4* 4
“ ‘My advice to a young man is—keep away
from all dangerous women,’ says a lecturer.”
But it isn’t to be expected that he
could achieve such utter isolation.
4* 4* 4* 4
“ T could write for hours on the modern
woman’s dress, but that wouldn’t more than
half cover the subject,’ says a fashion designer.”
Exactly!
4 4 4 4
“Falling hair is a curse.” — Beauty article.
Particularly when it falls off the typist
on your coat, and the wife sees it!
"I’m uneasy about that artist. He's just chopped up his easel to cook
some vegetables he's been painting!"
“ ‘Arc working hours too long?’ asks a
writer.”
Certainly not. It’s the number of them
that’s too great!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Clothes Lost in Laundry.”— Melh. “Herald.”
What of that? Didn't King John lose
his Crown jewels in the Wash?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Linder the circumstances the farmer can
only do his beast.” — “D.T.”
Well, if that isn’t a cow!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This trouble with constituents is the poli-
ticians’ own fault. They have made their bed
and they must lie on it.”— “D.T.”
But politicians can lie anywhere.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘What books get the most thumb-marked?’
asks a correspondent.”
The fingerprint volumes of Scotland
Yard, we believe.
4* 4* 4* 4-
“Married life begins in a slightly misty light
of silvery beauty.” —Novel extract.
A sort of honeymoon-light.
4 4* 4*4
“ ‘Most faces need occasional decoration and
repair,’ says a beauty specialist.”
Some of them seem to have the
painters in always.
Seeing the Football Match.
It was a great game, from what I
heard of it. You see, I asked Bloggs to
have a drink, and told him I was going
to the big match, and he said: “!
think I’ll go with you. Have another."
And a little later Blanks said, “By Jove,
I’ll go with you chaps! What about one
with me?”
We discussed the prospects of the
teams; and anyway Bloggs wanted to
find out what won the second race i
then we said —all of us in turn —“Well,
we’d better be getting along. What about
one more before we go?”
We arrived in time to join in the cheer
for that great bit of work which nearly
got South a goal. We knew all about it
because the man in front, who had his
information from others further down
who heard it first-hand from the people
who blocked their view, put us wise
Once, by craning my neck, I actually
saw two figures dash by in the 4in. space
between two hats.
“That’s great!” said Bloggs. “Let’s
get a drink.”
When we returned the interval had
arrived; so we went back again, and
then suddenly the match was over, and
the men in the bar said they were closing
up.
Before I got home I bought a paper;
so I was able to tell the wife all about it
when I got home. I said I wouldn’t
miss the next match for a fortune.
My enthusiasm unfortunately has in-
fected her, and she is now inquiring as
to what a woman ought to wear at the
football.
H. M.
4 4* 4** 4*
The Feminist.
He slammed dow;n his empty pint,
making the barmaid jump.
“Yes,” he said, “the emancipation of
women is the most progressive step that
the civilised world has made. But it’s
not finished yet. They must have equal
pay. They deserve it, they earn it, so
why shouldn’t they have it?”
Here he was interrupted by a small
boy who had wandered into the bar and
now began pulling at his coat.
“Daddy!” said the child. “Tea’s ready
and mummy’s come home from work.”
T. W.N.
•I* -I* 4* 4
“According to a doctor, there is medicinal
value in pepper.”
It certainly stimulates one’s tishoos.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Out of Season.
“But why do you wish to resign?” the
directors asked the manager of the big
city store. “Your spring sale was the
most successful in the history of our
firm.”
“Ah, that’s just the trouble,” moaned
the manager. “When I first took over we
used to have our spring sales in the
middle of winter. Each year we had to
make it a bit earlier to beat our rivals.
We went back right past Easter and
Christmas, until this year it is worse than
ever. I feel that I have failed, gentlemen.
Whoever heard of a spring sale taking
place in the spring?”
S, Esq.
Anticipation.
She was beautiful, he thought, as he
herded the sheep in towards the race.
Blessed with the sweetest of tempers, she
was always eager to do what he asked.
She would never fail him, like that other
one had. She would be wonderful com-
pany, too, for years to come. He thrilled
at the thought of seeing her again. Next
Saturday probably when the station car
went in for stores. Four days! But it
would seem an eternity. Again he pic-
tured her in his mind, small but beauti-
“Gold? O' course there be gold! Whoy, even the rabbits assay abooti
a weight to the carcass!"
fully proportioned, with appealing brown
eyes, perfect teeth and her wonderful
chestnut hair.
Yes, he would certainly buy the mare
next Saturday.
J. L. T.
Driving the Green.
(With apologies to Tennyson.)
Head down and follow through.
And one sweet shot for me;
And may there be no topping of the hall
When I drive off the tee.
One true-aimed, lusty smack
(As in my dreams I’ve seen)
And, sailing down the fairway, rests the
ball
Upon the verdant green.
Finn grip, no upward 100k —
Now let me do my stuff;
And may there be no nasty slice or hook
To land me in the rough.
And I’ll be satisfied
If, ere life’s sands are run,
My ravished ears once catch my caddie’s
cry :
‘‘A bloomin’ hole in one!”
OTRANTO.
Strange!
“The men concerned, both boxers, had met
to discuss a light which it proved impossible
to arrange. An argument led to blows.”
— “Sun.”
How strangely matters oft turn out!
These men both seemed a bout to
crave.
And yet they had a bout about
A bout they found they could not have.
H.M.
This Singing Business.
I read only the other day where her
audience gave an opera singer 14 cur-
tains.
Just what an audience would do. They
didn’t stop to think that she was prob-
ably living at a hotel or in a furnished
flat, and doubtless the color scheme was
ignored altogether. Of course, she could
give them away to her poor relations
and thereby earn their undying enmity,
but it’s odds on that she hocked them
at Uncle’s and had a champagne bath
with the proceeds. No doubt the singer
would have preferred a bob-in fund as
a tangible expression of their apprecia-
tion.
You may not be aware that I was
once a singer of repute. 1 had an extra-
ordinary voice—at least, that’s what my
fellow-boarders used to say, and it was
their opinion that influenced me to take
up singing as a career.
They could always tell what sort of
bath I was taking. If it was a hot one
Td sing, and if a hotter one I’d sing
out. I never took a cold bath—it would
have congealed my larynx. I always
drank hot beer for the same reason.
I was a lyric basso with a range of
about five and a half octaves —I used
the odd half for the half-voice.
Having no pacemaker, I was never
“pushed” beyond that. My B below
the double stave made Paul Robeson
sound like a boy soprano by comparison,
while I took a G in alt that used to
have the audience’s arms muscle-bound
with the strain of clutching their chairs.
Usually, however, I varied between the
two, though on one occasion, rendering
one of my own compositions, 1 sang
right past the bottom key on to the
wooden upright ; the critics next morning
referred to the peculiar timbre of my
voice.
A voice of such tremendous range,
however, has its disadvantages. I was
compelled to carry my own specially-
built piano, with 10 extra notes to port
and starboard, wherever I went. Also,
the enormous vibration set up by my
magnificent vocal organ used to crack all
the windows, and the bills for this kept
me poor. My accompanist invariably
wore rubber plugs in his ears.
Once I joined an opera co. touring the
country districts. It was all right at first,
but when the manager, Solly Mc-
Squeezer, heard of my great range he
started giving me dual roles, and later
I took bass, baritone and tenor parts.
I didn’t even mind doing contralto and
mezzo roles as well, though 1 could never
get into the way of pulling scanties on
over my armor.
Singing the quartet from “Rigoletto” 1
caused a furore. But the manager over-
reached himself. He sacked most of the
co., and I was almost the whole cast. But
1 was rapidly becoming a nervous wreck,
and in my private life I was starting to
talk like a dance-band leader. Then,
again, the terrific reverberation set up in
my cranium by the clashing of my vari-
ous voices was causing me constantly to
burst my eardrums. I particularly noticed
it whenever I sang the sextet from
“Lucia di Lammermoor” on my own.
Fearing eventual impairment to my
hearing, I gave my career up and took on
a job as broadcasting announcer. Now
I can drone on in a monotone without
fearing the slightest ill-effects.
S.W.K.
She leads men on, then leaves them in
the dark.
“A brazen hussy!" you'll perhaps remark.
But one thing that you really ought to
know —
She's just an usher at a picture show !
D.


STATION ABO. SKETCHES.
CHUNUMA
BY MARY
& ELIZABETH DURACK
V.
Eggs.
iif\ N that nother station where I bin before,”
I I Gwennie said wistfully, “where I bin learn
all my good langwige, where I bin learn’m
sing like’m crumaphone, an’ where they bin all day
reckon me smart kid properly, gibbit me lolly an’
cake an’ fruit.”
Chunuma listened patiently throughout this reci-
tal, it being the usual preliminary to any of Gwennie’s
bright suggestions. He nodded with a slightly bored
expression.
“Well,” Gwennie continued, even more wistfully,
“sometimes they bin gibbit me egg, too!”
Chunuma looked somewhat surprised.
“True pfeller?” he
asked, for eggs were
such a precious com-
modity that the thought
of a white person actually
bestowing eggs on a black
piccaninny was difficult to
conceive.
“True pfeller prop-
erly!” Gwennie said em-
phatically. “Gripes, some-
times me get hungry
b’longta egg!” She as-
sumed a deeply spiritual
expression and
rubbed her tummy
meditatively.
“M e, too!”
Chunuma said, not
to be outdone.
“Me, too!” echoed Dingyerri very shyly from
the background. Gwennie brightened a little at the
sympathetic response.
“Well,” she said, “what about where we go find’m
egg to-night b’longta missus ; we take’m some pfeller,
reckon chooky-chooky bin habbit holiday to-day?”
Chunuma shook his head with reminiscent sad-
ness.
“No good,” he said; “me bin try’m that way
before. Missus got too much savvy. Tm reckon next
time me pinch’m egg ’im hunt’m me longa bush!”
Gwennie was silent for a while, deep in thought.
A slow smile commenced at last to spread itself across
her features.
“Me savvy,” she said at last. “Me got a good
hidea. You two pfeller come longa river now! By-
an’-bye me tell’m you.”
Greatly intrigued by Gwennie’s air of mystery,
Chunuma and Dingyerri followed her to the river.
She led them to where the grey rocks were half-
embedded in coarse sand, out of which pandanus
grew in thick, dark clusters.
“Me an’ you look out croco-
dile egg now,” she said.
Chunuma’s face fell.
“Crocodile egg not bad tucker,”
he said. “On’y no more prop’ly
good tucker like’m chooky-chooky
egg!”
Gwennie bestowed upon him a
superior little smile.
“You an me no more eat’m crocodile egg,” she
said. “Me gofm more better way. You wait!”
Reassured, Chunuma and Dingyerri set zestfully
about the task of discovering the nests which the
mother crocodiles had so artfully endeavored to
conceal.
They came upon one at last, between the pro-
tecting roots of the pandanus, over which the sand
had been loosely but carefully scraped. Gwennie
gathered the eggs into a billycan which she presented
to Dingyerri to carry home.
There was no one about when they reached the
house. Innocently Gwennie wandered over in the
direction of the barn, climbed the ladder, and, beckon-
ing to her two followers, disappeared through the
little door to the hayloft. When they were all
assembled she pointed an insinuating finger to a
comfortable hollow in the middle of a stack of hay,
occupied by the placid form of a sitting hen. The
bird eyed them speculatively, her head on one side,
gave one inquiring wobble of her cone, blinked and
returned once more to profoundest immobility.
“ Tm sit down longa big mob egg, where Gypsie
bin put’m yesterday,” Gwennie whispered. “Me an’
you sneak up quiet pfeller now, take away qhooky-
chooky egg, leav’m sit down longa crocodile egg.”
Chunuma gulped.
“All right now,” he said cautiously. “Only what
about by-an’-bye when chooky-chooky fetch’m out
crocodile?”
Gwennie made a scornful sound in her throat.
“Silly pfeller! ” she said. “S’pose’m hen sit down
longa egg ’im fetch’m out chicken. S’pose’m croco-
dile sit down longa egg, ’im fetch’m out crocodile! ”
Chunuma’s face cleared a little. He was nothing
if not amenable to reason. Only Dingyerri remained
reluctant.
“Crocodile bin make’m,” she said stubbornly.
“ Tm jump up crocodile! ”
Gwennie regarded her disdainfully.
“You got no savvy,” she said. “You never bin
try’m. Longa that nother station where I bin before
—where they bin reckon me smart kid properly—
well, I bin try’m there. Properly true pfeller. Me
no more tell’ra you lie!”
Chunuma looked impressed, though Dingyerri
still appeared to have her .doubts.
“Now, Dingyerri,” Gwennie continued in her
most authoritative tone. “You sneak up longa that
old woman, take’m away nother egg first time, then
put’m back crocodile egg, quiet pfeller!”
Dingyerri took the billycan obediently enough.
It was second nature with her to be domineered, but
there was reluctance in every curve of her little figure
as she approached the hen cautiously on hands and
knees. Quietly she slipped her slim brown hand
under the warm feathers of the fowl, grasped two
eggs and softly withdrew them.
The hen clucked and ruffled her feathers.
Dingyerri withdrew two more eggs. The neck
feathers of the bird stiffened slightly. She stretched
out her head with an expression of questioning and
reproving dignity. By the time four more eggs had
been subtracted from her hoard she decided the matter
had gone beyond a joke. She administered one quick
peck to the disturbing hand, which was so promptly
and nervously withdrawn as to startle the bird from
all semblance of calm. She gave an excited flap of
her wings, a loud and protesting shriek, and, rising
from her nest, made a voluble and indignant retreat.
Dingyerri cast a nervous glance over her shoulder.
Gwennie was regarding her with a baleful eye.
“Myall!” she whispered sibilantly, and herself
approaching the nest took out the remaining eggs,
quickly replacing the corresponding number of the
slightly larger, more elongated variety, and placed
them carefully in the billycan.
“Chooky-chooky come back d’rectly!” she
said. Still clucking irritably, but with less
vehemence, the hen returned, walked three times
round her nest, surveying the eggs, at first a
little dubiously, but settled herself down upon
them at last with a final cluck.
“You go down first time, Chunuma!”
Gwennie directed. “Then s’pose’m you don’t see
nobody around, Dingyerri come down fetch’m billy-
can. Then you two pfeller cut round longa camp.
Me follow’m you.”
Having thus insured herself against all personal
risk, Gwennie heaved a deep sigh of satisfaction'.
IT couldn’t have happened at a more inconvenient
time; just when everybody was about and well
within earshot of the barn, with a pierc-
ing and startled volume of sound the
hen rose from her nest. To the experi-
enced ear her outcry held the familiar
note of real terror.
“Chinake longa chooky-chooky! ”
Gypsie shrieked as she raced past the
house in the direction of the barn.
“Chinake longa chooky-chooky where
’im bin sit down longa hegg! Chinake!
Chinake! ”
The excited runners in her wake
took up the cry. Gwennie and Chun-
uma, to whom the disturbance held no
connection as yet, with an escapade that
was over and forgotten days ago, raced
along, well to the fore. Only Dingyerri,
with one apprehensive glance towards
the barn, had fled in the opposite direc-
tion.
From the nest in the comfortable
hollow of the straw two very small but
already ferocious reptiles, one not yet
fully emerged from its shell, snapped at
the amazed gathering that surrounded
them. An outraged cackling from above
rose in loud reminder of the frustrated
mother who had hatched out, instead of
the fluffy, downy offspring of her antici-
pation, a pair of horny, wriggling mon-
sters that snapped instinctively at the
feathers whose warmth had given them
life.
Chunuma glanced once at the baby
crocodiles and turned to run, but
Gwennie grasped him firmly by the arm.
“No more run away! ” she whispered under cover
of the general excitement.
When the inevitable question arose, Gwennie was
ready for it.
“Must be Dingyerri,” she said. “I bin see’m
run away when chooky-chooky sing out.”
Everyone looked around. Certainly Dingyerri
was the only one of the community not present.
Accusation descended forthwith upon her head.
“Might be chooky-chooky bin make it mistake
himself,” Chunuma suggested on a sudden impulse of
remorse. “Might be I bin put’m there meself.” This
last, murmured as an afterthought, went all unheard,
except by Gwennie, who administered a sharp pinch
to bring him to his senses.
Chunuma’s sense of chivalry, never one of his
more marked characteristics, had been appeased. He
held a not unwilling peace.
VI.
“Sing Like’m Crumaphone.”
GWENNIE, having once established herself on the
station staff, was not the least backward in
claiming her rights.
“Boss,” she said, having
cornered the manager one
morning, “mosquito all-day
bite’m me.”
The manager went on
abstractedly reading his
paper.
“Same ’ere,” he said
abstractedly.
Gwennie paused.
“Can’t chleep! ” she
said.
“Well, get under some-
body’s net,” the manager
suggested.
“No room,” Gwennie
said sadly. “Only s’pos’m
me got’m my Town net”
“’Str u t h! ” exclaimed
the boss, throwing down his
paper. “You’re worse than
a blanky pack o’ mosquitoes
yerself! ”
He rose, entered the storeroom and presented the
diminutive nuisance with a net.
Gwennie beamed.
“Me want’m blanket and camp-sheet and towel,”
she said promptly.
She was given a rug and a piece of calico for a
camp-sheet.
“Now git ter blazes!” said the manager
“What* about towel?” Gwennie reminded him,
standing her ground.
“I said git ter blazes!” said the boss.
Gwennie shot
out her bottom lip
and retired, almost
staggering under her
load. It wouldn’t
have done, she
reasoned, to look
too pleased,
although, i n
truth, she
was extremely
satisfied with
herself. There was nothing like asking for things. The
white man couldn’t do anything more terrible than
refuse ; then, again, he just might be soft enough.
GWENNIE displayed her spoils proudly before the
wondering eyes of Chunuma and Dingyerri. It had
been for a long time Chunuma’s ambition to become
the possessor of a mosquito-net of his own. If he
got it he would probably give it away to someone else
for a broken boomerang or an old hat or some such


treasure—that was after the first night or two when
the novelty had worn off —but just now there was
nothin** he wanted so much in the world. As Gwennie
displayed her prize he felt the first stirrings of envy
in his young breast. Gwennie got everything now —
or, at least, first pick of everything. He was only
second fiddle. .
When anyone came they called Gwennie up and
aot her to sing like a “crumaphone,” and if
The visitors had anything to give, Gwennie
always got it.
Chunuma hadn’t
given much
thought' to the
subject before,
but n o.w that
Gwennie had pro-
duc e d a mos-
quito-net and a
new camp-sheet
and blanket all together it was too much. Chunuma was
sure that if only he could learn to sing like a “cruma-
phone,” too, he would carry more weight. He remem-
bered hearing someone say that young Peter had
known some white-man songs when he was a boy.
Perhaps Peter could help him now.
That warrior was busy chipping out a stone
spear-head when Chunuma approached him with his
request.
“Peter,” he said, “what about you learn’m me
white-man song?”
Peter grinned.
“Me forget now, young pfeller,” he said and
went on chipping at his spear.
Chunuma seated himself at his feet and watched
him reflectively for a while. He sighed.
“Gwennie savvy plenty white-man song,” he said.
“Too much ’im all-day get’m lolly. Me don’t get
nussing.”
“All right,” he agreed. “Me learn’m you little
bit.”
He sat very still for a space with an expression
of deepest concentration on his face, delving back
into the past for the fragments of rhyme he had
learned in his piccaninny days when he had ridden
about on the front of the boss’s saddle.
“Hey, diddle, diddle,” he said at last, slowly and
a little uncertainly. There was a long pause. He
clasped his brow in his hand; he twisted his ear;
he repeated the phrase again and again.
Chunuma regarded him the while, his mouth
parted in anxious anticipation.
Mundee sauntered by, paused and giggled.
“Shut up!” said Peter shortly. “Me shust tryin’
to remember . . . ‘Hey, diddle, diddle.’ ” He snapped
his fingers suddenly with a gesture of relief. “ ‘De
cat and de fiddle!’” he said. “Dat’s got it!”
“Soon learn’m dat one,”
Chunuma said delightedly.
“’lm only piccaninny!”
“Not finish yet,” Peter
said, plunging back again
into the past. “Hey, diddle,
diddle, de cat and de fiddle’ ”
... He looked appealingly
at Mundee, who had become
interested in the subject him-
self. “You bin learn’m dis
one, too, long time,” he said.
“What happen now?”
“Somethin’ about the
cow, ain’t it?” Mundee con-
tributed tentatively.
Peter nodded.
“Dat’s got it!” he said.
“De cow run away wid de
spoon! ”
At this all three,
extremely pleased with them-
selves, laughed hilariously.
“Properly funny one dat,” Mundee informed his
son. “You wanna learn’m that now, Chunuma, like
me an’ Peter. You say’m slow pfeller ‘Hey, diddle,
diddle, de cat and de fiddle’ ”
This being the first time in his life that Chunuma
had ever seriously tried to learn anything by heart,
he found the process rather difficult. After some time,
however, under the patient and enthusiastic guidance
of his two tutors he had his little piece word-perfect
—as far as it went. Every now and again he would
chuckle happily at the thought of the impression he
was going to make when he delivered himself of his
recital at the house. It was ever so much funnier
than any of Gwennie’s songs, and if he repeated it
three or four times over, quickly, it was just about
as long.
. “ ‘Hey, diddle, diddle, de cat and de fiddle, de
cow run away wid de spoon! ’ ” he said finally, rising
to proceed without further delay to the house.
It was at this triumphant moment that Gwennie
herself appeared. She paused to listen,_her little face
puckered into a critical frown.
“Garn! Dat’s not right,” she said. “Tm go likea
dis, ‘Hey, diddle, diddle, de cat an’ de fiddle, de cow
run away wid de spoon; de little dog laugh to see
such fun and de dish jump ober de moon!’”
Mundee slapped his knee delightedly.
“Dat’s right!” he said. “Peter, me an’ you bin
little bit mix-up.”
Peter laughed, too. Chunuma summoned rather
a sickly smile, though he couldn’t see that it was
really funny. Dingyerri was standing near by, taking
it all very seriously. She didn’t see the joke, either.
Dingyerri hadn’t much “savvy,” but she didn’t over-
shadow a fellow in any way. It came to Chunuma
suddenly that Dingyerri was a good sort of a mate
to have.
VII.
The South Country.
SEATED astride the low limb of a paper-bark,
swinging her legs to the time of her tune, Gwennie
was entertaining a Sunday-afternoon gathering on
the river.
Prominent in her audience were the two old
rivals, Ulysses and Boxer.
Boxer had arrived the day before from his soli-
tary prospecting venture. He had been riding bare-
back, having given his saddle and one of his packs
to a white man he had met carrying his swag along
the track. Now he was going to wait on the river
until somehow he acquired another saddle.
Things came to a fellow if he sat down and
waited long enough, and made it a matter of com-
mon knowledge in just what direction his need lay.
He did not mind waiting on the river in the least.
The station supplied all the tucker he wanted and he
had company there. Now that he felt old age creep-
ing on, Boxer, who had always scorned the com-
panionship of his own countrymen, was developing a
decided leaning towards them. Sometimes at night
he would even pull his swag a little nearer the general
camp, under pretext of finding a better bed, so that
lying awake he could hear the chanting and the dron-
ing bamboo and the rhythmic stamping of feet. “Bally
blackpfellers,” he would mutter under his beard.
“Man can’t sleep for the noise! ”
“He was my man, but he done me wrong,”
Gwennie chanted in fair imitation of the record from
which she had acquired the masterpiece. ,
“Not bad, eh?” said Ulysses, motioning to the
juvenile performer with the stem of his pipe.
Boxer sniffed. He was of the old school.
“More better up at the house learnin’ to do a
bit a useful work,” he said. “I got -no time for dem
spoilt gins.”
Gwennie glanced at him over one impudent
shoulder and put out her tongue.
“I dunno,” Ulysses said reflectively.
“She’ll be all right by-an’-bye. She’s a
smart kid. You know, down south, longa
big town, they’d haVe ’er singin’ in the
picher-show.”
Boxer grunted.
“You know,” said Ulysses, having given himself
the lead on to his favorite topic of conversation ;
“Good thing for a man go down to the city some-
time, see what’s goin’ on.” Ulysses prided himself
on being a much-travelled person and could talk con-
descendingly about wheatgrowing and “nice little
properties” in the south.
Boxer shook his head.
“Settled you, ole man, when boss bin take you
south that time.”
“No fear!” said Ulysses, a trifle hotly. “I done
more work since then than you ever done in your
life. I like to see what goin’ on. You know I bin
wanna go fight longa war, too, only king bin send’m
letter reckon ’im too far.”
“Dunno how you git on in de war, ole man,”
Boxer chuckled. “You bin jump pretty high when
Gwennie let that cracker off.”
“Dat’s de nother matter,” said Ulysses loftily.
Everyone laughed except Chunuma,
who, seated cross-legged at Ulysses’s
feet, was deep in thought.
“Ole man,” he said at last. “Black-
pfeller longa south country gotta same
one corroboree?”
Ulysses laughed.
“Young pfeller,” he said, “down south country
man can walk from here to Hall’s Creek and he don’t
see no blackpfeller! ”
Chunuma was alert with interest.
“Wild one blackpfeller, eh?” he asked. “Myall
pfeller all day plant longa bush?”
“Blackpfeller nothing,” Ulysses explained. “Look
here, Chunuma, south country like dis.” He pointed
to the trunk of a tree from which the bark had been
newly peeled, revealing a busy, moving mass of white-
ants hurrying hither and thither along the numerous
creviced pathways they had bored into the wood.
“Blackpfeller stranger down there. Where ’im go
walk about longa street everybody turn round have
a good look, like they never seen nobody gotta black
skin before. Dat’s de white-man’s country where dey
make all de lolly and grow all de good fruit!”
“Me like’m go longa south country,” Chunuma
said.
“M e, to o,”
said Gwen n i e,
“where ’im put’m
me longa picher-
show, gibbit plenty
lolly.”
Ulysses
laughed indul-
gently.
“A 11 right,
then,” he said
teasingly. “You
two pfeller wanna go! Boat dere longa town now.
S’pos’m you start now, you walk all night, all de next
day hard pfeller, you get dere sundown —then night-
time come you can sneak longa boat —go down longa
south country.”
At this even Boxer was moved to mirth.
“Yes,” he said. “Plenty white man bin tellin’
me how they stow away longa boat like that —they
reckon *im easy!”
GWENNIE and Chunuma had the forethought
before setting out to steal half a loaf of bread
and a little tea and sugar. They went off after dinner,
just as if they were going out to spear a lizard instead
of on a journey into a strange, new world —a white-man’s
country, the source of everything that was wonderful
and good to eat. When they wanted anything all that
would be necessary would be for Gwennie to sing
and Chunuma to smile his most ingratiating smile.
They told Dingyerri she had better stop behind
because “three pfeller” was “too much mob.” She
stood rather forlornly watching Gwennie and Chun-
uma go off hand in hand.
The first mile or so was a merry one. When
they got to the big bottle-tree on the road, where
there was a good, deep shade, they sat down for a
spell and finished the bread they had brought with
them.
There was no water for a few miles along the
track; so they put a few smooth pebbles in their
mouths as a precaution against thirst, but that wasn’t
very effective.
When it was still a good deal nearer to home
than to the first waterhole ahead, Chunuma tentatively
suggested that they go back and get a drink and
then start out again. Gwennie surveyed him with
great scorn.'
“All right,” she said. “S’pos’m you knock up
for water, me go on meself. Me no want’m mate
s’pos’m too much baby! ”
Chunuma straightened himself and strode deter-
minedly on.
“Me no more baby!” he said with dignity. “Me
man! ”
The next mile was
negotiated more slowly
and in comparative
silence. Chunuma cast an
occasional sidelong glance
at his companion, who,
evincing no particular
signs of weakening, gazed
straight ahead with wide,
dreamy eyes, as though
foreseeing the countless
delights that lay in store
for her.
Chunuma, who had
less imagination, was find-
ing it difficult to rise above
the now acute discomfort
of a thirsty present. Sud-
denly he paused.
“Listen, Gwennie,” he
said.
Gwennie stopped.
“Truck!” she an-
nounced. “I bin hear’m
long time.”
In a few minutes the cumbersome vehicle bear-
ing a load of goods from the ship in port came into
view. At sight of the two small figures, familiar to
all within a radius of a few hundred miles, the driver
pulled up.
“Hop on, Gwennie and Jeff!” he invited cheerily.
“You can have a lift home!”
Chunuma glanced hopefully at his companion.
Gwennie looked up at the white man very seri-
ously and shook her head.
“No more this time,” she said. “Too much me
and Jeff’ry go longa town.’'
The driver laughed. “That’s bad luck,” he said ;
“I had a case of apples on the back for you.”
All visions of the fabulous supplies of good things
awaiting them far away vanished suddenly before this
immediate, if more limited, prospect. In a moment
both children were on to the back of the truck, root-
ing about among the various packing-cases.
“Hang on there!” called the driver, starting up
his engine.
The truck moved along.
Gwennie had located the apples, and she and
Chunuma sat munching merrily on top of the load,
shrieking with delight at every bump.
By the time they reached home the original pur-
pose of their journey had become rather misty and
far away. Neither of them ever referred to it again.
It is doubtful if they even remembered.
VIII.
Alec.
ALEC’S very con-
venient form of
madness, which
attacked him at in-
tervals (usually cor-
responding with occa-
sions on which his
services were likely to
be called upon for
a little extra work),
had come upon him
once again. It
seemed impossible
for him to work for
more than a month
at a stretch without
indulging in at least
one outbreak of a
maniacal nature.
Even as his completely disillusioned spouse had
predicted when the manager consented to give him
another chance in the stock camp, he returned to the
station not long after his departure with the musterers
and again bore his wife away, perforce, to the river.
Joondree, having become by this time, fairly
practised in the art of dealing with the eccentricities
{Continued on page 50.)


Will you see their
happiness with Pride?
Picture a family re-union in
days of the future . . the happy
atmosphere of success . . your
children grown up . . fulfil-
ment of your hopes. Education
and the finer things of life
which financial stability makes
possible, can be secured by
Insurance with this Company.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L T .°
Head Office—37l >373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED
1834
Service to its customers, and the public generally,
has been the paramount consideration of the Bank
for over a century,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
ASSETS EXCEED £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING AND EXCHANGE
BUSINESS EXPEDITIOUSLY TRANSACTED.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
tutftoti fSTtni#
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Skinny Hazlitt, Herbalist
Dr WAN & CO
BY A.C. HEADLEY.
UI T’S a stone-cold moral,” said Skinny
Hazlitt, staring down at me from
the end of the bed. “I know a
feller”
“Yeah,” said I, rubbing the sleep out
of my eyes, “you always know fellers,
and most of ’em do their living at the
expense of the Government. You can’t
expect me to believe they’re innocent
every time.”
Skinny’s Adam’s apple gave a lurching
kind of jump over his collar.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “this is diff’rent.
It’s honest an’ there’s real money in it.”
I grinned at him.
“Remember the last time you tried an
honest living?”
I was hitting at the time when Skinny
had bought a pup that he had an idea
was a Punch and Judy show. I saw him
wriggle when I mentioned it.
“Honest, Scut,” he said, “it ain’t
nothin’ like that. This is a business
opportunity. Regular hours an’ all. Not
even a Dean Winge could say nothin’
against it. Listen, Scut, ain’t you never
wanted to do nothin’ upright an’ honest?
Not ever in your life?”
“There haven’t been opportunities
since I met you,” said I. “What is it, any-
way—this sudden lurch to the straight
and narrow? Next thing you’ll be tellin’
me’you’re taking medicine to cure the
craving for liquor.”
“Orright,” said Skinny, looking like
a dog that had just licked the poison off
a juicy steak, “go on, ’ave your little joke.
Nothin’ ain’t sacred to you. Don’t you
ever want to git married to some nice
girl, an’ settle down an’ he happy?”
I looked at Skinny with my heart just
about slipping down to my stomach. He
was prattling on, like little Lord Fauntle-
roy, about firesides and babies and
warm slippers. I felt one of those sud-
den sicknesses coming over me.
“Listen,” I said as he reached the
point about gardening as a week-end
recreation, “who’s the girl?”
It was Skinny’s turn to look surprised.
He gave me a look as though he was
trying to make up his mind whether I
was quite right in the skull.
“What girl?” he yelped, looking around
the room.
“The girl you’re going to marry,” I
said, trying to keep my voice from jump-
ing through the roof. “I hope it ain’t
nothing less than an heiress.”
“You been dreamin’,” said Skinny ; “I
ain’t said nothin’ about no girl.”
“What about the babies and the fire-
sides and the slippers? I ain’t well up in
these things, but I thought you had to
have a girl for at least one of the three.”
“I was just illustratin’,” Skinny ex-
plained.
He must have taken my sigh of relief
as a signal that everything was clear
for him to go ahead with the subject of
an honest living. He leapt straight at it.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “I’ll give it to
you in a nutshell. You gotter admit it,
there ain’t a better game in the world
for coining ready money than bein’ a
Chinese herbalist. It’s just like bein' a
publican to people who drink medicine,
except that you make ten times as much
profit out of medicine. It’s a wonder
more people ain’t thought of it. You
don't need hardly no capital neither. A
bit of a shop, a few sprigs of parsley, a
bit of mint and a couple of weeds and
no one can tell the difference, an’ they
can’t read what’s on the bottles because
it’s writ in Chinese. I can write the labels
meself.”
“1 didn’t know you could speak
Chinese,” said I.
“1 didn’t say I could,” said Skinny.
“No one can. All you do is stick the
blunt end of a pen in the ink an’ make
a lot of scratches.”
“Don’t think I’m a knocker,” said I,
“but ’way back in the days when the Sal-
vation Army girls used to give me a pat
on the head and a text I used to think
that a Russian dancer had to be
Russian, and a German tenor had to be
German. But maybe that rule doesn’t
stand in the herbalist industry.”
“It’s orright,” said Skinny condescend-
ingly ; “1 got a Chinaman. An’ just the
man for us. He speaks English as good
as me. An’ that’s not all. He knows all
about human character.”
“If he knows so much about human
nature,” said I, “why didn’t he run the
other way when he saw you?”
Skinny looked at me resentfully.
«A LL right,” I said, “what’s it going
to cost US?”
“Roughly,” said Skinny, “about a
tenner each to start. There’s the shop
rent to be paid, an’ advertising, an’ a Jot
of other little things. We split fifty-fifty
on the profits. The Chow’ll be satisfied
with a couple of quid a week to hand
out advice an’ medicine bottles.”
There are a lot of things I’ll never be
able to understand. One of them is how
Skinny always manages to wheedle the
money out of me for his experiments.
He does, though, and that’s all there is
to it.
The same afternoon he came back and
brought a visitor, A Crime Club novelist
would introduce him as a Chinese gentle-
man, and then go ahead to prove that
the second half of the description was
a lie. When I saw Charlie Wan I didn’t
need any proof. He was a squat cove
with a mouthful of gold teeth sticking
out ready to bite.
To cut the details, in about two weeks
the whole thing was fixed up. The shop
was rented, and Skinny had given full
play to his knowledge of the Chinese
language by scratching labels on empty
brandy bottles. • My time had been filled
up writing testimonials in weak ink on
ancient paper. The cures I wrote about
were a surprise even to my own imagina-
tion. All Charlie Wan did was dodder
about the place dressed up like Dr. Fu
Manchu.
It was a fairly substantial kind of shop.
There were three rooms. Off the street
was the waiting-room, next to that Dr,
Wan’s consulting-room, and behind that
Skinny had a bed put in another room
and used it as his home.
We had the consulting-room done up
to look like Skinny’s idea of an opium
den. The walls were all hung around
with old carpets to give an Oriental
atmosphere. And in the centre of the
room we had one of those fancy mos-
quito killers taking over the job of
Eastern incense.
What amazed me most about the whole
thing was its success. Before we quite
knew where we were people began
getting impatient through having to wait
so long for a consultation.
I’ll give Skinny credit. He did all the
spadework. He took to visiting prayer
meetings at the local churches, and stay-
ing on for a few quiet words. You’d
think he’d been disease-ridden all his life
to hear him talk to old ladies of the
number of times Dr. Wan had saved his
life when all was despaired of. In next to
no time we had to get in a fresh supply of
mint and parsley. But what was queerer
than all that was the fact that satisfied
clients began sending in testimonials. The
honest life was beginning to look pretty
good to me.
Skinny was right up in the air about
it. He was so pleased that he was talk-
ing about turning the whole thing into
a chain-store organisation.
THEN came the first fly in the tangle-
foot. Charlie wanted a rise. I, per-
sonally, saw nothing against it. The way
things were going it sounded reasonable
enough. But to hear Skinny go on you’d
have thought that Wan had asked for the
best half of the British Empire.
“Listen,” he said, while the poor Chink
stood in front of him doing a grovel,
“you git two quid a week for doin’ prac-
tically nothin’. You oughter be ashamed
of yourself, arstin’ for a rise. Ain’t
Chinese labor the cheapest in the world,
an’ 'ere you are kickin’ up a row when
you git enough to make you a millionaire
in your own country. Ain’t you got no
national pride?”
Charlie’s grin still stayed put.
“0.K.,” he said ; “no rise, no work.”
That was the end of Skinny’s opposi-
tion. It isn’t the easiest job in the world
to run a Chinese herbalist business with-
out a Chinaman. Even Skinny could see
that.
“Orright,” he growled ; “startin’ from
nex’ Thursday you git an extra half
dollar a week.”
Charlie grinned broader than ever.
“Make it a quid,” he said, “an’ it’s a
deal.”
After he’d spoken his mind for a few
minutes, Skinny made it a deal.
You’d have thought that would have
been the end of it But what must Mr,
Wan do the next week but pop up with
the same set of questions. Of course,
there was nothing else for it, so we had
to come across with another pound a
week. Not that we couldn’t afford it.
It was easy enough because we were
taking over twenty quid a week from
grateful clients. Since we’d started we
must have taken the best part of two
hundred quid. Skinny had it all socked
away in the back room.
Don’t think that all Skinny and I had
to do was sit back and collect the cash
as it rolled in. Lots of times we’d sit
in the waiting-room trying to look like
important clients with strange diseases.
Skinny’s best was an imitation of St.
Vitus’s dance. He’d go into the inner room
like a jumping-jack and after about ten
minutes he’d stride out with cure written
all over him. The old ladies sitting
around would knock off talking about
their operations just to look at him.
Wan was the only trouble. His big
idea after the second rise was that he
wanted to be a partner. Skinny said
a lot of other things before he said he’d
consider it.
He considered it all right. He went out
looking for Chinamen. There were
plenty of Chinamen, only they were the
wrong kind. They either didn’t under-
stand what he was talking about or they
threatened to call a policeman. The way
things were it looked as though Wan was
going to make himself a partner after
all.
He did.
TTEN came the thing that queered the
whole play. You could have knocked
both of us over with a ping-pong ball.
It came right out of the sky. One morn-
ing Skinny and I were sitting in the wait-
ing-room when in comes a large gentle-
man and plops himself down beside
Skinny. He takes his turn with the rest
and comes out of the consulting-room
with a bottle of medicine in each hand
and a grin all over his face.
As it happened, Skinny and I were in
the waiting-room when he came back
next morning. This time he seemed to
be in a hurry. He didn’t wait his turn,
but pushed his way straight through the
door.
In about half a jiffy the door flew open
again and out came the big feller, push-
ing Charlie Wan in front of him. In one
hand he had two bottles of medicine.
As soon as Charlie spied us he stuck
out his finger.
“There they are, mister,” he said.
“Hey,” said the big feller. “You two
—come in here.”
There didn’t seem to be much else to
do, so Skinny and I stepped into the con-
sulting-room. The big feller looked at
us with his eyes half shut.
“This Chink tells me you own this
joint. He says he works for you.”
There are times when Skinny can put
the aristocracy right under the mush-
room.
“My dear sir,” he said, with a haughty
look.
It was beautiful.
It made the big feller throw a tough
look at Charlie Wan, who seemed to be
a couple of shades more yellow than
usual.
“I ought to know better than to take
any notice of him,” he said. “I’m sorry
1 troubled you gentlemen.”
“That’s them, I tell you,” yells Charlie,
trying to make a fight of it. “I’ve been
workin’ free munce for ’em. They fix
up the med’cine an’ everything, con-
stable.”
Skinny tried to look as though it came
to him as a big surprise that the large
gentleman was a policeman.
“Oh,” he said, “you are a police
officer.”
“Yep,” said the copper.
Skinny rubbed his chin.
“You must excuse me, officer, if I seem
inquisitive. I take it that you have taken
exception to some of Dr. Wan’s profes-
sional practices. As a patient of the
doctor, I demand to be instructed on
this point.”
“Doctor my eye,” said the copper. “He
ain’t no more doctor than fly. This
stuff”—-he held up the two bottles —“is
only dried mint an’ sars’parilla. It’s been


SHOWS YOU
the INK
And HOLDS more of it!
'T'HIS pen shows you at any time whether
A the ink is running low —just by looking at
the crystal-clear ‘ observation window.’ See
this great improvement for yourself at any good
Stationers or Jewellers.
Prices .—The VISOFIL {'Big-fill') Swan, 32/6.
Ladies' Size, without clip, 27/6. LEVERLESS (‘ Quick-
fill ') Swan from 21/-. Other Swans from IS/-.
Blackbirds from 10/-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6.
All in black or colours.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd., 6 Primrose
Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Swan Pen
THE VISOFIL
MADE IN ENGLAND
ALWAYS USE SWAM' INK
ť
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
S 5
'SS?
sg
i
2g£3
3*
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
OTH PASTE , „. r
SMOKi STAINS
A SAFE WM
Special stain-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is not contained in any other
leading dentifrice. Make the simple test that surprises smokers. Thousands
find dull, ugly teeth become naturally white and sparkling.
If you smoke, you’ve probably noticed stains on your teeth, or an ugly yellow
smudge. Now there is a way to keep the faintest smoke trace from showing on
your teeth. This way is Pepsodent, the special film-removing tooth paste.
No matter what dentifrice you now use, switch to Pepsodent to-day and make
the smokers’ test. See how Pepsodent immediately "takes hold” to make teeth
cleaner, whiter, more attractive. Let your mirror prove that they glisten with
natural whiteness many smokers think impossible to attain.
It Works in a More Effective Way
In Pepsodent is a special ingredient designed especially to remove the film on
teeth. It is this film, not the teeth themselves, that smoke discolors. Therefore,
this film must be removed if you want to escape that unnatural yellow color.
It is film your dentist tells you to remove in fighting tooth decay and other dental
troubles.
This remarkable film-removing ingredient in Pepsodent is contained in no other
leading dentifrice. Not only does it bring out the natural whiteness of your
teeth, but it also polishes enamel to the highest brilliance. In addition, this
"Special Film-Removing tooth paste” has another major distinction: it is the
softest . . . and therefore the safest ... of 15 leading
tooth pastes and 6 tooth powders as shown by
scientific tests.
Try Pepsodent to-day. Not until you do can you
know how beautifully white your teeth are.
PEPSODENT
The Special Film>Removing Tooth Paste
THIS SPECIAL Ti
KEMOVES
IN NEW LARGER TUBES
MORE PEPSODENT
-SAME PRICE
New processes have cut
costs and we are passing
the saving on to you.
The identical time-proved
Pcpsodent is ready for you,
in the new larger tubes at
no increase in price.
N 1 363
analysed. Selling it at six bob a bottle,
too. He must’ve been makin’ a fortune.”
“It’s —it’s outrageous,” said Skinny.
“To think that individuals of this calibre
are allowed to prey on a Christian com-
munity.”
“It’s them, I tell you,” yelped Charlie
at the top of his voice.
“You shut up,” said the copper; and
then, with a sudden thought, “Where do
you keep all the cash?”
For the first time I saw Skinny falter.
But it was only a moment, and there
he was palming himself off as the arch-
bishop’s brother. I thought of the back
room. There was over two hundred quid
tucked away in there by now. 1 threw the
Chink a pleading kind of look. He could
have easily stalled the copper by handing
over just the takings for the day. Don’t
ever talk to me about an honest China-
man again.
I saw the dirty glint creep into the
Chow’s eyes. He threw a sneery look
ar Skinny, and then pointed to the door
of the back room.
“It’s all in there,” he said.
He even showed the copper where it
was. The way that feller broke open
the drawer was a crime. I could have
cried when 1 saw him shovelling it into
his pockets. I was too scared to look at
Skinny, but I could imagine the way he’d
be feeling. That done, the copper fished
out his notebook.
“I’d like the names of you two gentle-
men,” he said, “as material witnesses.”
I looked at Skinny. He was standing
there looking like a statue of all the
kings of England rolled into one.
“I’ll gladly enter the witness stand,” he
said, “to give evidence against this mis-
creant.” He held up his hands. “To
think of all the money I’ve wasted.”
“Your name, sir,” said the copper.
“Richard Benger,” said Skinny, “and
this”—waving towards me —“is my very
dear friend, Mr. A. Charles Blanford.”
For good measure he threw in a couple
of crook addresses.
“Thank you, sir,” said the copper.
“Now you’d better go while I close up
the place and take this bird along with
me. You’ll be notified in due course
about the trial.”
Skinny and I groped our way out into
the street. We were so sorry about the
cash that we couldn’t even feel glad that
we hadn’t been arrested.
YOU’D have thought that was the end
of it—Charlie Wan going to gaol and
our money with him. It just goes to
show that you can never tell when life
is going to hand you a clump on the
jaw.
We were in a pub in George-street
about a month later. There were three
of us —Skinny, i Rusty Nailon and I.
Rusty was diving his eyes around the
bar, trying to find someone he could
bite for a drink when we were gone.
Suddenly he dug his finger into Skinny’s
ribs.
“I wouldn’t marry a Chinese girl for
all the beer in the brewery,” he said.
“No one arst you to,” said Skinny.
Rusty took no notice.
“You see that feller there,” he said,
nodding across the bar ; “he married a
Chinaman.”
“Chinawoman,” I corrected.
“Look,” said Skinny, nearly knocking
me over with his fist.
I followed the direction of his eyes
and gave a start. Lolling against the
counter on the other side was our friend
the plainclothes copper. I was for making
a dive for the nearest exit, but Skinny
held me back. He turned to Rusty.
“I seen that cove before,” he said ; “I
thought he was a copper.”
“ ’Oo,” said Rusty, “ ’im? You can’t
be right in the ’ead. ’E ain’t done no
work for ten years. ’E sponges on the
fam’ly. An’, can you beat it, the Wans
still think Vs somethink to write ’ome
about.”
“The whos,” yelled Skinny.
“The Wans.” Rusty looked puzzled.
“You know ’em?”
“Charlie Wan?” said Skinny.
“Yeah,” said Rusty; “you know
Charlie? That’s ’is brother-in-law.”
THE barmaid was drifting by. Skinny
leaned over the counter.
“Double-header,” he ordered briefly.
“Make it two,” said I.
“Make it three,” said Rusty.
Brief Sketch of the Men Who Fly the Mails:-
MAIL FLIGHT.
BY KEITH ELLIS.
JACK INNES smiled to himself as he
threw away the butt of his cigarette
and climbed into the cockpit of the
aeroplane. There was no one to see him
off. The station people were far too
busy devouring their mail to worry about
the pilot who brought it. If they thought
about it at all they supposed that he was
paid for it and was only carrying out his
job. It was not their business to worry
about “drift,” “low clouds” or engine
trouble; and though they were very
grateful for the mail ’plane they took it
all as a matter of course.
Jack slowly opened the throttle. The
’plane lifted its tail, ran gracefully across
the aerodrome and rose swiftly into the
air. As he circled round to gain height
he could see the natives peering from be-
hind trees and antbeds. They had no
mail to keep them occupied, and they
never missed an opportunity of watching
his arrival or departure.
He leaned from the cockpit and
dropped a couple of sticks of tobacco
attached to a tiny linen parachute, then
he kicked on the rudder and the ’plane
shot away to the north, climbing as it
flew.
At 6000 feet he eased the joystick
forward until the ’plane was flying level.
It was a perfect day. A few fleecy
clouds floated in the tropic sky, and as
yet there were very few bumps. Soon
the dark green of the island gave way to
the bright blue of the open sea, and little
cat’s-paws made delicate trimmings of
white which relieved the monotony of
the everlasting blue.
It was 100 miles to Caledon Bay.
There was little fear of engine trouble,
but Jack always felt relieved when he
was within gliding distance of a beach
or emergency landing ground. Half an
hour passed and he muttered to himself:
“We’re half-way now. If the engine fails
we go on —as far as we can glide,
anyhow! ”
It was a treat to be in the air. There
was no fear of bad weather, and he
settled back comfortably in his cushions
prepared for an easy trip. Then, as he
moved his head to glance back at the
tail unit, he was startled to see something
moving inside the fuselage. Something
green and red that
scuttled out of
sight as he watched.
Jack moved for-
ward as far as the
safety belt would
allow, twisted
round in his seat
and carefully
scanned as much of
the inside of the fuselage as he could see.
There was nothing there. And yet he was
quite certain that he had seen something
move. Conscious of a whistling note
from the flying wires he suddenly realised
that the ’plane was diving steeply. In-
stantly he eased back the joystick until
the ’plane was level again, and glanced
behind.
This time he saw the thing move again.
It was creeping towards him. But it was
in the shadow and he could not be sure
what it was. Fascinated, he watched until
the ’plane again claimed his attention,
and he had to turn to the front in order
to check his course.
Jack felt a cold shiver run down his
spine. This thing that crept behind him
as he flew was something new to him,
something horrible and affrighting. Once
again he leaned forward in his seat and
twisted in the safety belt. Then he gave
a startled jump, for the thing was only a
few inches from his head ... a huge
centipede that ran down the back of the
seat where he could neither see nor
reach it. Glancing round the cockpit for
a weapon, he picked up his log book, and
anxiously watched for the insect to
reappear. Several minutes passed and
nothing happened.
IT was not that a bite would prove
fatal; it might or it might not, he did
not know. But the agony of torture
lay in the fact that he was strapped to his
seat, with only one hand free from the
controls. To make matters worse the hot
air was becoming bumpy, and it was
impossible for him to look behind for
more than a few seconds at a time.
, Something moved on his neck, and
with a stifled cry Jack let go the stick
and snatched at his throat with both
hands ... it was only the chin strap of
his helmet.
He tried to pull himself together. It
would never do to lose his nerve now.
There still remained 30 miles of sea to
cross before he could possibly find a
landing place, and it was impossible to
search for the centipede while he was
flying. The only thing to do was to
steel his nerves and determine not to look
round. Suppose he looked round once
every five minutes ... or. perhaps every


made by
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
IHE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
m 3 . i i
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
Something New!
A CRUISE ROUND SOUTH ISLAND
NEW ZEALAND
Calling at ...
MILFORD, AND OTHER FAMOUS SOUNDS.
STEWART ISLAND, DUNEDIN, LYTTELTON
AND PICTON.
“These New Zealand Sounds are
grander than the Fjords of Norway
R.M.S. MAUNGANUI
FIRST CLASS ONLY
Fares from 20 Guineas.
Leaves Sydney December 2
Returns Sydney December 16
14 DAYS' GLORIOUS CRUISING
Apply
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
247 GEORGE STREET. SVDN E V. TELEPHONE: B 7671
OR AT ANY TOURIST AGENCY
three minutes would be better. He stared
at the clock on the dashboard, but the
hands did not appear to move. It must
have stopped . . . no, it was still going,
but the hands were crawling. Half a
minute . . . three-quarters . . . one
minute . . . oh, God! how the seconds
dragged!
An eddy of wind from the slipstream
found its way into the cockpit. He
could feel it stirring the left leg of his
flying suit. He knew it was wind ... he
mustn’t look; it wasn’t three minutes
yet, Two minutes . . . two and a half . . .
two and three-quarters ... he leaned
forward quietly and picked up the log
book —just in case. Something scuttled
across the book and ran over his bare
hand. With a cry of terror Jack dropped
the book and shook his hand violently
over the side of the cockpit.
The centipede disappeared, but he did
not see it drop. Perhaps it had fallen in-
side the cockpit again. Perhaps it had run
up his sleeve between coat and flying
suit. Beginning at the shoulder he
squeezed every inch of the arm down to
the wrist. There was nothing there.
Another three minutes passed and he
turned and carefully examined the sides
and floor of the cockpit and as much of
the interior of the back part of the fuse-
lage as he could see. There was no sign
of the centipede.
Then out of the corner of his eye he
saw it clinging to the top port longeron.
Slowly and carefully he raised the log
book and brought it down with all the
force at his command. The book was
torn and a buckle appeared in the
three-ply covering of the cockpit—but
the insect dropped to the floor and
crawled under the seat. He could
not see it, nor could he move from
the seat, to which he was secured by the
safety belt. Even if he untied the belt
he could not stand up without removing
his feet from the rudder bar and allow-
ing the ’plane to get out of control.
Every moment he expected to feel a
sharp sting of pain. If he had to be
bitten it would be better to get it over.
Slowly the minutes dragged by. Another
10 or 15 miles and he could land and
conduct a systematic search. He was
beginning to feel happier.
Suddenly he felt the eddy of wind
again. He looked quickly down and saw
the centipede crawling along the right leg
of his flying suit. He drew his leg up
sharply and hit wildly at it with the
battered log book. In his excitement he
jerked back the joystick and pressed on
the left rudder-bar. The nose of the
’plane rose steeply. For a few seconds
its momentum Was sufficient to maintain
flying speed. Then it stalled gently and
the rudder threw it into a spin.
He managed to knock the insect on to
the floor. Then the ’plane demanded all
his attention.
He snatched off the throttle, eased the
joystick forward and kicked on the
opposite rudder. As the ’plane stopped
spinning he centralised the controls, then
eased back the stick. There was little
room to spare. It seemed to Jack that
the wheels skimmed the water as the
’plane zoomed out of a steep dive.
Momentarily he forgot the centipede as
he fought to gain height.
FIVE minutes later Jack sighted the
’drome; he throttled down, turned
into the wind and landed. A man
standing at the edge of the aerodrome
hurried forward as he climbed painfully
from the cockpit and greeted him with
the inevitable question: “Got the mails?”
“Yes, Joe,” replied Jack. “It’s 0.K.,”
and he lifted the bag from the front
cockpit and threw it on to the ground.
Joe picked Up the bag and a long green-
and-red centipede dropped from the
folds. With hardly a glance he crushed
it with his heel and went on opening the
bag.
Suddenly, as if conscious of neglect,
Joe said without looking up: “Slip along
to the house. Jack ; the lubra will get you
a feed and drink o’ tea, I have a lot
of important mail to see to. I’m glad
you were on time.”
Jack did not reply. He looked at the
remains of the green-and-red insect,
then he opened the battered log book
and Wrote: “10.30 a.m.—Landed Caledon
Bay. Mail on time.”
A Story of Unreasoning Hatred:—
HATE!
BY E. MARY GURNEY.
Lawrence fernie had one of
those inexpressibly kind faces that
draw all things. Tall and thin, he
was square-jawed, with nothing soft
about his kindliness. His blue eyes held
a steady penetration that could be dis-
concerting. The tenderness of his mouth
was tinged with sternness, and his
“sideboards,” ludicrous in other men,
added somehow to his unconscious dig-
nity.
Encountering him in mufti you felt
that he was a retired military or naval
man. Seeing him in his red tailcoat,
sitting his good horse with a jaunty
ease, you measured him the master.
Lawrence Fernie had whipped the
Manaroa Hunt for twenty-odd years—
and was huntsman at last.
To-night he stood beside the kennels
door, with the yabbering hounds behind
him, and hesitated to go across to the
house, where Mrs. Skelton would have
his dinner hot for him.
This stepping into Skelton’s boots was
a sorrowful thing. Skelton had died, as
he wished to die, over a fence with his
boots on, and the pack going away in
full cry. Fernie had been the first to
reach him, and got well cursed for his
pains.
“Keep with ’em!” old Skelton had
gasped. “Keep—with—’em.” And said
nothing more.
So they buried the old man with his
boots on, and gave Lawrence Fernie his
home and his job.
Fernie was a bachelor, and Skelton’s
widow had begged to stay on at the
kennels and housekeep for him ; so they
made “young” Skelton whip, and he
was to live there, too.
Thought of that, as much as a natural
delicacy, made * Fernie linger there, by
the gate to the hounds’ yard.
“Young” Skelton was not like his
father, genial and hot-tempered and com-
panionable, but a hard-faced man, verg-
ing on middle age, selfish and com-
placent. There was about him, to Law-
rence Fernie at least, something repel-
lent, In his handling of animals he had
no sympathy. Horses watched him con-
tinually, as though they knew that, once
his enmity was roused, he would stop
at nothing. Hounds avoided him, snarl-
ing instead of yelping when he used the
lash. There was calculation in his hard,
handsome face. He smiled always, and
too much ; with his teeth, never with his
eyes. The thin, straight line of his lips
had the effect of a perpetual sneer.
Thought of him sprawling in the fire-
glow made Fernie reluctant to go in
out of the icy sweetness of the night. He
would have his boots off, Fernie thought,
and the legs of his breeches unlaced.
His thin legs, like sticks, would be rest-
ing on the kerb, and his body would be
at ease in his father’s chair. The tails
of the new pink coat that he had worn
to carry his father home would be
spread ostentatiously over the chair’s
arms.
And “young” Skelton would be think-
ing how well the new coat fitted him,
and what a dashing figure he would
cut ; and coveting Fernie’s boots . . .
Fernie turned, speaking to hounds
softly and by name: “Charmer!
Diamond! Fairy! ”
At the sound of his voice they forgot
their petty bickerings, and crowded
against the netting of their enclosure,
dabbing at him with muddy paws and
eager, slavering tongues. He put his
hands out to them, finding comfort in
their unquestioning adoration, and then
went down past the boxes, where the
horses munched comfortably at their
evening meal.
First Flight, old Skelton’s favorite,
called to him with a friendly nickering,
and he paused to stroke the broad blaze
on the horse’s forehead. Stroking it, he
frowned faintly, because on this, his
first night on duty, “young” Skelton had
neglected to close the upper doors of the
boxes.
Methodically he went along the line of
them, closing them softly, speaking softly
to each occupant; pausing again beside
First Flight’s door, wondering whether
“young” Skelton would sell. The horse
was aged and not
up to “young”
Skelton’s weight;
but Skelton was
not the kind to let
sentiment have any
effect on him. It
occurred to Fernie
that, if the other
got an inkling that
he had an affec-
tion for the old
horse, the price would soar beyond
reason.
SIGHING a little, Fernie went out of
the yard.
Always he had thought that someday
he would wear old Skelton’s boots, but
time and an increasing affection for the
old huntsman had dimmed the keenness
of his ambition. Now there was no one
with whom he might share the good
things of life —good hunting and good
jokes, good food and a good fire, and
the long, good silences that are born of
true friendship.
Mrs. Skelton met him inside the door.
It occurred to Fernie that her husband’s
death had wrought no change in her.
Her big, unwieldy body was just as erect,
her small face as unworn.
Dimly Fernie wondered why old Skel-
ton had married her. He had had no
time for meanness in a horse or a dog.
It repelled and angered him ; yet he had
married a mean woman, who had given
him a mean and furtive son . . .
She answered his greeting with a tight-
ening of her thin lips. “You’re late;
so I gave Charles his dinner. There was
no reason why he should wait.”
Charlie Skelton, his dinner finished,
• sat squarely in front of the fire, read-
ing the evening paper. He didn’t look
up as Fernie came in, but Mrs. Skelton
darted a swift glance from one to the
other, and spoke with a sharp bitterness
to her son.
“Charles! Move round and give Mr.
Fernie his paper! He’s master here
now! ”
“Eh?” demanded Skelton. He looked
up with wilful stupidity, and then re-
luctantly handed over the paper. “I’d
forgotten,” he lied sullenly, and moved
his chair the fraction of an inch.
Fernie sat silent for a time and then
decided it was best to assert himself
early. “By the way,” he said, “you
forgot to close the boxes.”
“Sorry,” muttered Skelton. His voice
had a studied carelessness, and Fernie,
glancing over the headlines of the paper,
knew with a sudden, overwhelming cer-
tainty that it had been done deliberately.
Reflecting on it, he missed the calcu-
lating cunning of Skelton’s next observa-
tion.
“Of course, we’ll work together, same
as you and the old man did.”
“Of course.” After an appreciable
pause, something prompted Fernie to
add, “At least, I hope so.”
Skelton spoke again in that soft, crafty
tone that seemed to Fernie to hold an
obscure threat. “The old man didn’t have
to; but sometimes he’d feed up and
attend to hounds”
“It was his life,” said Fernie.
Skelton drew strongly on his pipe and
stared into the fire.
“I hope we’ll make as good a team,”
he said, but there was sarcasm rather
than warmth behind his words.
Mrs. Skelton came in soundlessly
with pudding for Fernie and dry toast
for herself. Fernie wondered again
why Skelton had married her. That
small head above the gross body gave
her a vulturish look ; a look she had im-
parted to her son. The narrow forehead
and chin, the thin, hooked nose. Old
Skelton had been a “square” man, both
in the literal and figurative sense. In the
son not a trace of him remained.
Sprawled still across the fire he shot
a hooded, calculating look at his mother.
“Crisp thinks you should go away for
a spell, mother. He thinks that your self-
control is—unseemly.”
Mrs. Skelton buttered her toast spar-
ingly, “Old people always want younger
people to act as they imagine they would
themselves . . . Lacking self-control, you
lack everything. And what would you
and Mr. Fernie do?”
“Bach,” said her son briefly, answer-
ing for them both.
A little silence enveloped them.
Out of it Fernie spoke. “I agree with
Mr. Crisp, Mrs. Skelton. And I think
that Mrs. Ford from up the road could
be induced to come in daily.”
Surprisingly, Mrs. Skelton burst into
tears and ran from the room,
A WEEK later Mrs. Skelton went
south, and hunting started again.
Mrs. Ford came in from eight until five,


At your
pleased
request we shall .be
to forward folder
No. 61.
FOLLOW THE
SUNSHINE
t o
JAVA
%
This land of countless attrac-
tions awaits you ancient
temples—beautiful scenery—
native customs - colourful
bazaars—the land where East
meets West, Your luxury
liner visits many interesting
ports of call along a smooth
water route. Life on board is
pleasant. Spacious decks,
restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking
picture equipment—each day
is pleasure-filled
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
PLUM aMOR-’CI'ARD
'■# 'ermaiammMe:mA,'-
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each iazor.
THE PECM BAZOK GUARD, for fin., Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CKAIG ft AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
' 7-day seta (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All port free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
keot in order for two
rears free of charge.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
"The Macleod Gallery ”
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
and the wheels went round with a pleas-
ing smoothness.
They had good sport, and Charlie
Skelton proved himself as good a whip
as he was rider; and that was no small
praise. The hunt committee congratu-
lated itself on it's perspicacity, and only
Fernie had any adverse comment to
offer; hinting that Skelton was too heavy
for his father’s horses, especially for
First Flight, who was growing old.
“Sell him and let me mount you,”
urged Fernie, “I’m expected to, you
know.”
“I know.” Skelton mocked him
openly. “You’d like the old horse. Make
me an offer.”
But Fernie, for all his kindness, was
nobody's fool. Ffe bought a good young
horse and ordered the other to sell, “I
know my job if you don’t, and you’ll
have to sell or quit. I want the boxes.”
Skelton sold the mare, but made no
attempt to dispose of First Flight, though
he rode it frequently under pretence of
doing so.
Fernie let a month go by before refer-
ring again to the matter. Then he told
the other bluntly:
“I don’t want to have to refer it to the
committee, Skelton, but before the end of
the season you’ll only be fifty per cent,
efficient, and you know it. D’you under-
stand?”
“You can’t beat me down!” blustered
Skelton. “None of you can. They all
know you’re forcing me to sell.”
That day First Flight hit a post and
rails and came down.
Fernie reined round at sound of the
crash and saw Skelton’s face as, unhurt,
he scrambled to his feet. And hoped
others had not. And hoped they had, for
it was the face of a maniac—a devil, and
Fernie was suddenly sickeningly afraid.
But, miraculously, Skelton controlled
himself. Fie even laughed as he ran
practised hands over the trembling horse’s
legs before remounting. Watching him,
Mrs. Skelton’s words on the night they
buried her husband, leaped to Fernie’s
mind —“Lacking self-control you lack
everything.” Grudgingly, he paid the
other a silent tribute.
Not until they were finishing dinner
did Fernie refer to the incident.
Then he said in his slow, pleasant
voice: “What will you take for the old
horse?”
Skelton replied with a violence that
momentarily shocked Fernie out of his
calm. “Fle’s not for sale!”
Fernie looked up then, carefully guard-
ing his sudden inexplicable apprehension.
“My dear chap, aren’t you being rather
absurd?”
Skelton sat rigid, his jaw thrust out at
an ugly angle.
“I go my way. What I have, I hold
. . . and what I want, I take”
His sullen voice took on a falling note
and he finished almost to himself, knocked
his pipe out on the hearth and left the
room.
Left to himself, a rising tide of alarm
that was painfully akin to panic seized
on Fernie. He thought: “The man’s not
sane! He’s —dangerous!” And knew
that, in thought, he hated Charlie Skel-
ton as a man may hate a cruel and mur-
derous beast.
For some time he waited up listening
for Skelton’s return, but an hour before
midnight he went to bed, falling at last
into a sleep that was as uneasy as his
waking had been.
SOME time in the small hours he woke
suddenly, with a terrible sound in his
ears; the long-drawn anguished scream
of a horse. He sat up, his spine crawl-
ing.
Outside, the night, bathed in brilliant
moonlight, was wrapped in a calm yet
waiting hush. Unconsciously Lawrence
Fernie relaxed, finding himself wet with
nervous sweat; and the stillness was rent
again by that anguished, half-human
scream.
From the kennels the hounds lifted a
sudden crying, an awful babble of sound
that had no relation to their hunting cry.
Fernie jerked out of bed, caught his
whip, the only immediate weapon to his
hand, from its hook, and ran out of
the room. The linoleum of the floors
was icy to his feet, but he did not feel
it any more than he felt the bruising of
the gravel in the backyard or the bitter
harshness of the concrete of the stable
yard.
In First Flight’s box there was a glim-
mering of light, and, running towards it,
Fernie prayed inarticulately and blas-
phemously. The box doors were wide
open, and Fernie pulled up on the lintel.
In the dim light of a stable lantern he
saw First Flight lying on his side, kicking
feebly. Over him Skelton stooped, grasp-
ing a knife that ran blood.
Fernie half-sobbed, “You devil! You
devil!” and lunged forward, the whip
raised to strike.
Skelton whirled round, snarling, a
sound inarticulate and incredibly bestial,
and Fernie brought the whip down on the
hand that grasped the streaming knife.
It spun away, an arc of pale light in the
dimness, and then Skelton screamed
wickedly and hurled himself on Fernie.
Skelton was thickset, with the muscular
strength of a bullock. Now he was
strong with the strength of his brutish
rage. Opposed to it, Fernie’s supple
wiriness was as whipcord opposed to iron
bands. Locked hand to hand they
strove, and Skelton babbled:
. “You waited a long time, didn’t you,
for my father’s boots? Almost as long
as I’ve waited myself ; but I’m not going
to wait longer!”
Fernie felt his strength ebbing; knew
that it was only a matter of seconds now
and prayed dumbly for the horses ; felt
his wrist snap like a rotten swig. Then
something crashed against his temple, and
pain went out.
Skelton stood over him, breathing
deeply. In the pallid light his eyes still
glared, but over the madness of his rage
a cloud was gathering, vast and shadowy,
yet tangible. The shadow of a great
fear. Furtively he glanced about him.
staring from the dead horse to the uncon-
scious man; and craftiness displaced his
look of insensate violence.
He thought, cunningly: “I’ll leave him
here and they’ll think he did it and got
kicked —killed”
From the darkness that smelt pungently
of warm, familiar things, horses and hay
and manure, a little voice mocked him.
“Fingerprints! Besides, they know
he’d never hurt a dumb thing! Not
anything!”
In the next box Fernie's mare began
to snort, gently at first, but on a note of
rising panic that infected the man ; and
hounds began to bay again ; a devils’
chorus that broke again and again on
a shrill hunting note that made the
night shudder.
Taut in the loose box, Skelton began
to sweat with an unreasoning terror.
Blood! he thought. Everywhere, blood!
All over the loose box, all over him-
self, all over Fernie, who twitched on
his bright-hued bed of straw.
His breath hissing between his teeth,
Skelton stooped and dragged Fernie’s
limp body outside. He dragged it across
the yard and through the gate and up
against the gate of the hounds’ enclosure.
By the morning, he thought exultantly,
they would have wiped out every trace.
They crowded to the gate, redoubling
their clamor ; fell suddenly silent, wait-
ing in utter motionlessness as Skelton
fumbled at the catch.
Fernie moved, but Skelton, his fingers
fumbling at the gate, did not notice.
Soundlessly the hounds converged on
the gate. Watching Skelton, they
whined without sound.
Skelton threw the gate wide and ran
down the yard, away from the stables,
towards the open country.
'THE hounds came out through the
* gateway, not in a wild surge, with
deadly clamor, but sedately, silently, and
with a curious hesitancy. Unnaturally,
they shied away from the bloody body,
circling it and approaching it with
puzzled caution; and presently Charmer
reached out a tentative muzzle, sniffing;
crouched suddenly on Fernie’s breast,
and lifted her muzzle to the stars, and
the night was rent as a veil is rent by
the unison of the pack’s mourning. A
long-drawn cry of unutterable bitterness
and sorrow, of aching bereavement and
dread. It pierced the mist through
which Fernie was struggling back towards
the light. He whispered in a voice that
had no sound, yet hounds heard.
“Charmer! Fairy! Diamond!”
In whining ecstasy they crowded to
him—all but Diamond, who moved, un-
easy muzzle to the earth, on the circle’s
outer edge. His stern was down between
his legs, yet he was questing, questing.
And suddenly he had it.
His stern and his muzzle went up, and
once again the night quivered to the
wild hound baying. The pack took it
up in a clamor of terrible exultation.
Waiting in the darkness beside an open
gate, Skelton heard it and shuddered;
yet they were almost upon him before
he realised that it was himself they
hunted. Through the sweet grass
and the clover, with the dew spilling on
his feet, he ran on and on and upward
through the night.
Behind them Fernie clawed himself up
against the gateway and sent after them
a whispering cry that was terrible in its
impotence.
“Ah —leave it! Leave it!”
But, for once, hounds did not hear
his voice.
Token of Spring.
“The python is awaking at the Zoo.”
—Annual spring item in news.
By miscellaneous signs we know
That spring is on the way:
The shops are filled with flowery hats;
The garden slopes are gay
With hyacinths and daffodils
And violets nodding blue;
The little birds don brighter tints
Their chirping mates to woo;
And the python is awaking at the Zoo.
Serene behind his walls of glass
He lies in scaly coils.
Unheeding of the outside world,
He neither spins nor toils,
But leads a life of glorious ease
With naught at all to do,
And little recks of all the strife
That hampers me and you —
The python, who’s awaking at the Zoo.
The python, he is nine feet long
A nd elegantly slim.
Starvation diet months on end
No hardship is to him.
He keeps his figure’s suppleness
By fasting winter through.
But when he feels the urge of spring
And doves begin to coo,
The python starts awaking at the Zoo.
The keeper wears an anxious frown
And speaks of mice and rats,
Of succulent and agile frogs
And new-laid eggs and bats;
He knows he has a boarder now
Whose wants he must review,
And promptly writes a menu out
To fill him up anew —
The python, fust awaking at the Zoo.
The python never oversleeps;
.He needs no rousing bell,
No noisy, shattering alarm
His slumber to dispel.
He knows that spring has sprung as
springs
The bounding kangaroo.
That lambs are frisking in the fields
And calves begin to moo —
The python, who’s awaking at the Zoo.
So heed ye, merry little mice,
And learn to stay at home;
Ye croaking frogs in reedy ponds,
Beware now where you roam ;
The flies that dart where waters lap
So calm and cool and blue,
The crumbs that drop on friendly floors.
May nothing mean to you —
For the python is awaking at the Zoo.
N.S.W.
MING.


NEERS
r,
t
W
X
m
-Sil
%
W
m.
GETTING the wool to market was one
of the big problems which our
pioneer growers had to face. I rom outback stations to
market or rail head, the journey led mostly through
miles of rough bush tracks, or black soil plains which a
few points of rain instantly converted into a clinging
sticky morass impassable to ordinary traffic. Dry creeks
swiftly became swollen—torrents with steep greasy banks
that invited disaster. ,
It was here, then, that the steady weighty drag of the
bullock team afforded the best solution of the problem.
Patient and plodding, great spans of bullocks hauled
almost unbelievable loads of wool for market overseas.
Urged on by the whip and word of the bullocky they
patiently handled the big, swinging, swaying loads
through dust and mud and flood, helping in their own
way to build up the nation s prosperity. ...
In these days isolated homesteads demanded a primitive
means of transport which in turn developed a type ot
bushman who later became known as a bullocky,
renowned for his skill with both whip and tongue.
It was such a type of hard-bitten pioneer, one Harry
Schneider, who drove into Narrabn Australia s biggest
known bullock-drawn load of wool—l 7 tons 4 cwt. ol
the nation’s wealth—a triumph for man and beast.
It is the same power, strength, and reputation tor taithtul
service that has established Ever Ready Batteries as the
pioneers of perfect radio reception throughout Australia.
Even in the most outlying districts the world-famous
Ever Ready Batteries reach you sealed in factory fresh-
ness and guaranteed to contain maximum electrical
energy.
LET EVER READY KNOW
1/ you have in your possession outstanding facts or data
concerning bullock droving we would be glad to receive
the information for inclusion in a further Ever Ready
Pioneer ” Series.
EADY
VER
RCHES & TORCH REFILLS
BATTERIES =
RADIO
Manufactured by The Ever Ready Co. (Australia) Ltd., Sydney and London
F F- 2A. —— ——l——— ———l— mm
Australia's Leading Financial Journal .
August Issue Now on Sale.
THE TARIFF AND THE CONSTITUTION
A Market Review
AUSTRALIA’S PRODUCTION PROSPECTS
OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRIALS
MINES —MONEY —MARKETS
PRICE 21-PER COPY. OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Runa”: Maoriland, due for a cen-
tury celebration in 1940, is already
making preparations. One of the first
decisions is that the Dominionites shall
not be asked to struggle with the varied
pronunciations of “centenary.” The an-
niversary is already firmly named “The
Centennial.”
* * * *
“N.”: Not only tradesmen invent
words to make their callings sound more
imposing. The Westralian Government
has just let a contract for the construction
of an up-to-date leprosarium at Derby.
Why “leprosarium”? There is no such
word in the dictionaries, the nearest
being the French “ leproserie .” Why not
“lazar-house” or “lazaret”?
* * * *
“Yarragundry”: I have to blame Uncle
Sam for my first war wound. The
Yankee ammunition with which we were
equipped proved so defective that, after
tests had been made with it behind the
lines, millions of rounds were recalled
and destroyed. Before this happened I
was sent to Zeitoun Imperial School of
Instruction on a machine-gun course.
During my firing test a faulty cartridge
exploded in the breech of the gun, smash-
ing off a piece which ricochetted into my
foot. Result: ten weeks in bed and a
similar period “Temporary Base.” How-
ever, the wound gives me no trouble
nowadays. A car smashed the leg four
years ago, and a quack removed it above
the knee.
* * * *
“Coker”: Speaking of William Dam-
pier, “pirate and hydrographer,” and the
special interest his name should possess
for Westralians (B. 22/7/’36), it is worth
noting that the Historical Society of that
State is projecting a memorial to him at
Broome. It is a little late in the day,
but the site is well chosen, for the pearl-
ing port is comparatively handy to where
Dampier is believed to have first set
foot in Australia 248 years ago.
Although there is no doubt where the
navigator was born, his latest biographer
(Clennell Wilkinson) remarks that “no
one knows where he was buried.”
Such records as exist chronicle that he
died in London in 1715. But there is a
tradition of a tombstone, or a memorial
tablet, with his name on it at a church
in Bristol, so he may have got back to
his own West Country before his death —
or aftpr it
* „ * * f
Vano : The executors ot Emma
Blanch Brougham, of Sydney, have taken
steps to secure letters of administration
so that a sum of £3OOO may be drawn
from the estate of Charles Dickens,
. r a f
I^ooTsdVX°Dick e e„resfa?e b
the London “Daily Mail” for the rights
of The Life of Our Lord, which
Charles Dickens wrote for his children,
but which was not published until a
few years ago. The £3OOO is claimed to
be the share ot Edward Bulwer Dickens,
the youngest son of the novelist, who died
al Moree (N.S.W.) in 1902. He left a
modest estate to his widow, who died in
1914, and who in turn left a share of
anything that might come to her from
her late husband s estate to the present
claimant
*‘* * *
“Ess” • An interesting relic of earlv
.. ® ~ .
Labor days m Australia was discovered
recently under a mullock dump at Frazer’s
mine, Southern Cross (W.A.). It was a
copy of the “Australian Workman,”
dated November 25, 1893, “official organ
of the Trades and Labor Council and the
Labor Electoral League of N.S.W.” The
highlight of the issue is an interview with
Billy Hughes, “the well-known Socialist
lecturer.” On another page W. A. Hoi-
man gives the final lecture of a series on
economics. In those days no one could
have foreseen that each of the interesting
pair was destined to lead an anti-Labor
Government. And Jack Lang was only
a boy!
“Card’s Own”: Let’s go fishing at
San Diego, Cal., U.S.A. Stepping into a
£ ast motor cru j se r, we are whisked in
a £ ew m j ni jtes to the* barges anchored
a m ji e or so from the shore. A barge is a
specially-designed craft on which anglers
find themselves over schools of hungry
fish, with which they can pass time amid
-raundings catei .o—
and convenience. Elaborate ttys-
terns enable theater ng on deck of thou-
sands of silverstde- racehorse sard.rtea.
Jo bring Ash around and keep hem m
bKmg mood the waters are chummy
« II J handfuls of live sardines. UPP"
decks await with steamer chairs tor re-
taxation, a dining-room thehungry,
staterooms foi those desi g
their stay Or we go on a D.esel-d, iven
palace out to the banks, on c p y
consisting of motion-picture stars, three-
tors ’ bankers. Breakfast awaits in spotless
galleys. Places are drawn for, the most
desired bein 8 the stern - At every h ? ur
the captain calls “Change.” Stern anglers
moye starboard Port to ste rn. And
starboar d to port. The angler casts as
f ar ou t as possible, using the lightest of
tackle and a live sardine as bait. Pie gets
a strike. Instantjy a member ol the crew
is at his side and proceeds to peisonally
conduct” him out of the press ot eager
fishermen. Over this man s r . od ’ undei
that, until the straining angler is brought
to a specially reserved clear space where
he can proceed to play his fish. Comes
the staccato cry of Gaff ! Did they do
anything better in Imperial Rome?
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will he returned unless stamps accompany.
AM • Don’t know whether the horse could
buckjump, but your Muse can... .E.S.; The
skinner turned a cold eye on “The Boastful
Bos’n” TWP ' “Failing publication, would
vou be'kind enough to criticise the poem.”
rwfwere in a captLs mG od we should
begin by pointing out that “trochee” doesn’t
rhyme with “OK,” and that the attempt to
rnyme wnn u , ‘‘lucrative”—scan-
harness up sedative and lucrative scan
njng each as a trochee-gives us a pain in the
neck W T.P.: Laborious verse, and your
trick of leaving out the definite article when-
ever it will suit the metre is an added annoy-
ance. .T.R.: One hundred and four lines of
undiluted doggerel... .C.M.; There is no limit
of length for a poem provided it is one.
Neither your withdrawn nor your revised
effusion comes into such a category... .S.W.P.:
Came close, but it’s short on plot R.G.W.:
Opal-seeker’deserted by his mate prepares to
kill him. No! D.W.McI.: Don’t like any
of them! “The Fiction Factory” the best, but
much too long S.P.: It’s been done better
a dozen times before... .C.H.F.; There’s an
idea in it, but you mulled the handling....
C.H.W.: N0....R.J.5.; Cut, it might suit
Smoke-oh F.AJ.: Dialogue is sound, but
the forced, melodramatic ending knocked the
story c01d.... J.G.: There was a tale there,
but you’ve strained too much after effect by
having the detective tell of the case and then
snap the bracelets on one of his audience....
W.J.H.: Well told, but delayed-vengeance
theme is unconvincing Bungle: Old Pledger
well drawn, but another’s gland stimulation
would scarcely prey on his mind to that extent,
W.N.: A sketch like that has to be packed
tight with humor; yours just falls short
E.M.H.: Nicely done, but the thread is rather
t hi n r.b. (M.L.).: If you can apply that
style to a stronger plot your “steadily-mounting
pile of rejected MSS.” will cease mounting
CVQ : Agree with sentiments expressed, but
it is difficult to fit in anywhere... .8.5.: Not
enough in it H.R.: You’d never get an
anremic effort like that accepted anywhere—
read it yourself again L.R.: Not nearly as
good as your last effort... .K.E.8.: “The
Masterpiece” failed to live up to its title....
5.8. R.: Doesn't quite get there... .K.R.C.:
Neither hits the mark S.H.C.: Glimpses of
good humor, but the vehicle squeaks too much.
. ...J.G.; Might have a hope elsewhere about
Anzac Day... .C.M. (Vic.).: “Scrap Iron” has
gone to the heap.... A.G.J.: Flower piece
went close G.P.8.; Spring poem made the
office bright, flaming up.... Mugs: Chief de-
feet is that it’s just a verse made up without
_ T n . iw
jJW real feeling.. -OIG goes fo
both yours, t 00.... Don Q.. Haidly, but
has an idea... .S.M.E.: Spring? Whack!,
R.M.K.; Too Housmamsh... .G. 8.: Passable
as description, but it’s lacking as a poem....
P I R - :
When moonlight falls on hill and lake
I feel the ache, I feel the ache,
Only twice? ... .G.P.: You’re having a late
autumn; most of them are bursting out all over
with spring E.M.H.: Verses written in hope
of “cluttering up your valuable paper” doing
their best for the P.M.G.’s inestimable ser-
vices T.G.: Sporting folk should joy to hear
that Cuddle won by “working her rudder”....
A.D.; Worth trying in another market....
H.W.: “The Present Day Outlook” in four
quatrains declined.
•
T q ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
5.8.: Slickness of line offset by poor
draughtsmanship and gags that should be on
the retired list A.W.: Puzzled as to the
presence of the porpoise in the lady’s boudoir.
G.K.L.: The eyebrows are not badly
drawn ; the rest is dreadful F.M.J.: A few
years under a stern art master is what you
need L.T.: Sketches by no means faultless,
but you should see print shortly... .H.H.D.:
Cannot solve the riddle of the oversize Olympic-
games cartoon G.P.: That cow’s grand-
mother was milked by train passengers away
back in the ’eighties L.D.: Snappy enough
jests, but the illustrations fail to do them jus-
tice P.D.: Figures look like discards from
the Stone Age..,.G.M.: A frenzied array of
lines, and a wheeze without a grin in it.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid contusion in tiling and search, every inquiry
Bust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Wanted, lady companion-help, 25 to 40, lor
comfortable country home. Must be good
cook. £1 per week wages. No objection to
child of seven or under. —2371.
Lady, M.L., varied exp. as buyer in mantle
department of retail stores in Australia and
M.L., requires similar position in Australia.
Must move to warmer climate for health
reasons. —2425.
N.S.W. farmer offers all eggs from fowls,
vegetables in garden, cow to milk, pony to ride
to mother and daughter or two friends who
will look after his house, a few miles from
Lake Macquarie, and mind cats, dog, poultry,
etc., for a few months. —3430.
Man (32), gardener and car driver, six years
in one job, wants employment; Melbourne
preferred.—2439.
Boring-plant driller, Q., wants work, any-
where, preferably on sub-artesian plant. Cap-
able. Refs—24l6.
Engineer's fitter (36), single, five years’ electri-
cal, two years’ clerical and two years’ glove-
manufacturing exp., wants position anywhere.
Refs.—24ol.
To buy second-hand violin music suitable to
amateur player.—2379.
To buy book containing illustrations by
Eugene Burnand of types of Allied soldiers
during the Great War. —2381.
Words of poem containing the lines:
Limbs that are limp with the languor of laziness,
A palate that longs for the gurgle of beer.
—2377.
To exchange German dictionary for English
dictionary, encyclopaedia or anything useful.
—2419.
Information Sought.
Where can I obtain the words and music
of a number of chanties featured in a talkie
several years ago ? —1340.
Try Fifty Sailors’ Songs and Chanties
(Boosey and Co.), 45., Sea Chanties (Allan
and Co.) and Seven Seas Chanty Book
(Boosey).
* * * *
What are the records of English Rugby
League teams in Australasia 3—2400.
Points.
Won. Lost. Drawn. For. Against.
1910 ..13 4 1 527 294
1914 .. 14 4 0 434 196
1920 ..21 4 0 738 328
1924 ..21 6 0 738 375
1928 ..18 6 1 582 318
1932 23 2 1 782 259
1936* ..14 3 0 401 191
* To the end of the matches in Australia.
* * * *
I am training a boy-on-horse for a show.
What are the points the judge looks for in
boy-rider candidates 3 —2306.
The horse should have good manners, easy
gait and a pleasant appearance; the saddlery
should be good and correct, not quite new, but
well cared for and polished; the boy should
thoroughly understand his horse and be used
to his saddle and bridle. A good seat is essen-
tial, also good, light hands; stirrups must be
the right length for a graceful appearance, but
short enough to give full control. Clothing
should be neat and correct, suitable to the type
worn in your State; the rider and horse should
be well groomed and smart. Boy must be
familiar with all the actions required by the
judge, good, sharp trotting action, easy canter,
and horse and rider should take jumps clearly
and cleanly. Horse must be gracefully obedient
to all his rider’s wishes. The boy should attend
a show as a spectator and notice how the prizes
are won; judges will always explain points.
Hi sji Jfc ❖
Biographical particulars relating to Queen
Emma, of New Pommern. Also any books
throwing light on her career, in English, French
or German 3—2296.
Little has been written, apart from the
account given in Parkinson’s Dreissig Jahre
and Zoller’s work on German New Guinea.
“Queen” Emma was born at Samoa, the
daughter of an American Consul at Apia who
had married a Samoan woman. The second
child of the union, Emma was sent to San
Francisco to be educated, and shortly after
her return married a British trader named For-
sayth, but the marriage proved unhappy, and
she eloped with a Maorilander named Parrel.
Fitting out a schooner, the couple went first
to the Duke of York Islands, trading with the
natives, and later to New Britain, where they
started the German New Guinea Development
Co., in which the Kaiser was a shareholder,
and which proved enormously successful. After
Parrel’s death Emma married a German ex-
officer named Kolbe, and in 1912 sold her
interests to a Hamburg syndicate for £175,000,
and thereafter lived in Berlin. In August,
1914, she and her husband died within a few
hours of each other, at Monte Carlo. Her
remains were cremated and interred in New
Guinea.
* * * *
Information regarding the proposal to estab-
lish a Pan-Pacific league of nations? —2133.
It was recently suggested that a “Regional
Conference of Control in the Pacific” should
be held in Sydney during the 1938 celebrations,
with a view to the establishment of a minor
league of nations composed of countries
having territorial interests in the Pacific.
* * * *
(1) What is a ‘‘Great Public School” 3 (2)
Is Sydney High School one 3 If so, why, when
the other high schools are not? —2316.
(1) In N.S.W. the term “Great Public School”
is popularly applied to the eight schools which
are members of the Great Public Schools’
Amateur Athletic Association. This body con-
trols inter-school competitions in football,
cricket, rowing, athletics, rifle shooting and
debating. The schools are Grammar, High,
King’s, Newington, Scots’, Shore, St. Ignatius
and St. Joseph’s. (2) Sydney High School
has been a member of the G.P.S.A.A.A. since
1906 and participates in all the activities con-
trolled by the association. These competitions
were conducted for many years before other
large metropolitan high schools were founded
in 1912. For the last 30 years no further admis-
sions to the association have been made.
£' # # #
Particulars regarding Gardiner’s gang of
bushrangers ? Did Gardiner escape, and how ?
—2326.
The gang had its origin in 1861. Frank
Gardiner, alias Francis Clarke, a butcher at Bur-
rangong (N.S.W.), on hearing that a warrant was
out for his arrest on a charge of dealing in stolen
cattle, took to the mountains and organised the
group of bushrangers. Their most notorious
exploit was the holding up and robbing of
the gold escort from the Lachlan diggings at
Eugowra on June 15, 1862, when they succeeded
in carrying off 55000 z. of gold and banknotes
to the value of £7500. A few weeks later some
members of the gang were arrested, having been
betrayed. Daniel Charters (the informer) and
McGuire were acquitted. McGuire was later con-
victed of aiding and abetting and sentenced to a
term of imprisonment. Alick Fordyce and John
Bow were sentenced to death, later commuted
to imprisonment for life, and Henry Manns
was hanged. Of other members of the gang
later accounted for, Vane was sentenced to 15
years’ imprisonment, Peisley and Dunn were
hanged, Mount, the “old man” (his companions
were mostly mere youths), got 10 years, Burke
and O’Meally were shot by civilians, and Lowry,
Ben Hall and Gilbert by police. Gardiner
himself decided to turn over a new leaf, and,
escaping over the border into Queensland, con-
ducted a store. He was unearthed by the police
and sentenced to 32 years’ imprisonment, later
being released, as a result of a strong public
agitation, on condition that he left the country.
❖ ❖ *
(1) Names of members of the Federal
Cabinet ? (2) Which members saw service in
the Great War ? (3) When did the Latham
Goodwill Mission visit Japan, and what did
it cost ? —2225.
(1) J. A. Lyons (Prime Minister), Dr. Earle
Page, R. G. Menzies, Archdale Parkhill, W. M.
Hughes, T. Paterson, A. J. McLachlan, T. W.
White, R. G. Casey, Henry S. Gullett, T. C.
Brennan, H. V. C. Ttiorby and J. A. J. Hunter.
(2) Messrs. Page, White, Casey and Gullett.
(3) The Mission arrived in Japan on May 9,
departing on May 21, 1934. Total cost of
Mission, which visited other countries, was
£5038.
* * * *
An association sent out typewritten circulars
at the foot of which was written “Copies
scarce; please make public.” These were not
accepted for post in unsealed envelopes stamped
one penny. Was rejection in order ? —2307.
Circulars in typewriting or carbon copy of
typewriting are not eligible for transmission by
post as printed matter and must be prepaid at
letter rate. The fact that circulars were type-
written was probably the reason for the sur-
charge, though even if they had been printed
the written remarks at the foot would render
them ineligible for transmission as second-class
mail matter.
H* H' H*
(1) Any method of proving an Iraq carpet
to be genuine ? (2) A pproximate retail value
of an Iraq carpet size 12 ft. x 9ft. ? (3) Any
information as to the manufacture and import
into Australia ? —2304.
(1) Proof of genuineness is, a matter for
expert determination; best test is the slight
irregularity in the design and weaving that
occurs in the hand-woven fabrics. There are
several standard works dealing with the nature
of the knots used, the variation in materials,
camel’s hair, silk, etc., used in different centres,
and the dyes used. Old carpets always have
natural colors from vegetable dyes, while the
modern ones nearly all have colors derived
from aniline dyes. (2) Value depends on the
number of knots to the inch, artistic quality,
locality and period, and varies from a few
shillings per square foot to fancy figures in
the case of historical pieces. (3) Such carpets
are subject to the usual duties, but if the
Customs authorities are satisfied that they are
over 100 years old they come in free of duty
but subject to primage or sales tax.
H* # %
Particulars of the hairless horse Caoutchouc,
and what became of him ? —2448.
The horse was bred by John Lettice, of
Bunnan, N.S.W., and, according to contempor-
ary accounts, was normal until aged about
seven years, when he shed his hair. Caoutchouc
was exhibited in New Plymouth (N.Z.) in 1873,
his then owners being Oat and Witchell. The
horse was eventually sold to P. T. Barnum for
£l5OO, and was exhibited in Barnum’s Circus in
the U.S.A. The animal was burned to death
when his stable caught fire in Virginia. He
was well proportioned and about 15 hands
high, with a skin like that of a young elephant.
* * * *
How to distinguish diamonds from false
stones 3—2440.
(a) Wipe the stone carefully, trace a line on
it with an aluminium pencil and then rub it
briskly with a moistened cloth. If the line
remains the stone is false. (6) A file will not
cut a genuine diamond, but readily attacks
imitations, (c) A piece of thin glass on which
the edge of a diamond is drawn will cut with-
out much pressure. (<0 I f immersed in a glass
of water a diamond will show its facets clearly,
whereas a false stone loses all sharpness and
the facets are almost indistinguishable.
* * * *
Any particulars available of the last survivors
of the Crimea War? —2433.
The last survivor of the 670 men of the Light
Dragoons who charged the Russian guns was
Tp. Sgt.-Major E. Hughes, who died on May
18, 1927. Sir Fitzroy Maclean, who is still
living, missed the charge through being ill at
the time. He served at the landing in Crimea
and the ensuing battle of the Alma, and was
wounded during the campaign. He was 101
years of age last May. The last known survivor
of Inkerman died in 1933. The first man to
enter the fortress of Sebastopol, Captain J. E.
Hunter, R.N., died in October, 1932. The
last of the gunners in the Crimea, Lt.-Col.
J. Pauson, who served at Balaclava and Sebas-
topol, volunteered for service in 1914, and was
posted as Q.M. at the Auxiliary Horse Depot
in Woolwich.
* * *
How and when did playing cards originate ?
—2361.
Their origin is obscure, but they are believed
to have come from Asia. Chinese records
state that they were invented in the reign of
Seun-ho, a.d. 1129, for the amusement of his
concubines, and there is a tradition that they
existed in India from time immemorial, hav-
ing been invented by the Brahmins. Very
ancient specimens, round in form, are preserved
in museums. There is evidence that they existed
in England in the middle of the 13th century,
though they did not come into general use until
the end of the 14th century. There is a possi-
bility that they came from Arabia, and one
theory is that they were introduced into Spain
by the Moors, and spread rapidly.
% * $
(1) What is the logarithm of a number? (2)
Who invented logarithms? (3) Their uses? —
2457.
(I) It is the power, in most cases fractional,
to which it is necessary to raise a fixed number,
called the base, to produce the given number.
Thus, if the base is 10, the log. of 1000 is three,
for 10 multiplied by itself three times equals
1000. The log. of 316.2 (10 squared multiplied
by the square root of 10) is 2%. There are two
systems of logarithms in general use; the
common, in which the base is 10, and the
Naperian or Hyperbolic, in which the base is
2.718281828. (2) John Napier (1550-1617),
Laird of Merchiston. His invention was pub-
lished in 1614. (3) Multiplication of numbers
can be performed by addition of their loga-
rithms; division, by their subtraction; involu-
tion, by their multiplication; and evolution, by
their division.
* * * *
Information wanted regarding Kerguelen
Island ? Is it inhabited? Any animal or
vegetable life ? Any information concerning
wolf like dogs said to be living there ? —2342.
It is situated in the southern Indian Ocean,
about 2000 miles s.e. of Madagascar, about 85
miles in length and 79 miles wide. Highest
point, Mount Ross, 6200 ft., is snowcapped,
and the interior is largely covered with an ice-
sheet and its glaciers; long fiords penetrating
far inland form excellent harbors, and there are
many surrounding small islands. Discovered
by the Breton explorer Kerguelen-Tremarec in
1772, the island was annexed by France in
1893. The climate is raw and unfavorable to
permanent vegetation, but, the rainfall being
exceptionally heavy, a rank vegetation exists
on the lower levels, the unique Kerguelen
land cabbage, formerly much valued by
mariners as an anti-scorbutic, predominating.
Several species of ranunculi are also present.
With the exception of sea-elephants and sea-
leopards there is apparently no indigenous
animal life on the island, but it abounds in
rabbits and small mice, which have been intro-
duced. Penguins and many other sea birds are
found in great numbers, as well as a teal
peculiar to the island. Formerly much fre-
quented by whalers and sealers, the island, now
uninhabited, has been visited by scientific parties
for the purpose of viewing the transit of
Venus. Its commercial exploitation has been
handed over by the French Government to a
private co.
* * * *
Treatment for an irritating skin itch which
occurs after meals on the hands, arms and
legs ? —2356.
Symptoms indicate a form of hives. Curtail
heating foods, and eat more cereals and green
vegetables. Exercise moderately in the open air
daily, and indulge in a tepid soda bath at
night. When the rash develops dab freely with
equal parts liquid witch-hazel and calamine
lotion. Internally, take two tablespoons of
limewater in a little milk thrice daily. If
trouble persists, substitute calcium lactate for
the limewater (two five-grain tablets for a dose).
* * * *
Cause and treatment of carbuncles and pre-
scription for tonic ? —2354.
A carbuncle may be regarded as an extensive
and dangerous form of boil; but pre-
liminary tests are essential. As with boils,
local, treatment in the early stages consists in
iodine applications, with tepid boracic foments
later for relief of tension. Under medical
supervision either vaccine treatment or excision
may be resorted to if trouble persists. Pre-
scribed blood tonics usually contain iron and
arsenic as the active ingredients. Constitutional
treatment is important.
* * * *
Cause of styes coming every few weeks on
the eyes of a girl of 16 ? —2372.
The stye originates in an infective process
of the lid pore; removal of the lash is usually
advised as a preliminary measure. If the
eyes are weak, bathe daily with tepid boracic
solution. Avoid artificial light where pos-
sible. Although the stye itself is due to germ
infection, debility in any form predisposes to
the condition. For local treatment, golden eye
ointment is a useful remedy, the preparation
being smeared along the lid margins daily.
Absolute cleanliness is essential. On no
account should the stye be evacuated bjy
squeezing. If anaemic, give an iron tonic as
chemical food. Meanwhile, look to the diet,
and include fresh fruit and green leaf-vegetables
freely with meals.
* * * *
How, when and where did Calvin Coolidge
die .’—2415.
He died suddenly, of coronary thrombosis,
on January 5, 1933, at his home, Northampton,
Mass.
* * * *
Cause of black specks before the eyes seen
by a lady of 60, and remedy ? —2235.
Symptom points to sluggish liver; stomach
faults demand attention if present. Indulge m
moderate outdoor exercise daily, sip a glass of
hot water each morning on rising, and take
sulphate of soda (Glauber’s salt) twice or thrice
weekly as an aperient. Diet simply, and avoid
excess of fats and indigestible foods. Used in
a glass eye-bath, tepid boracic solution makes
a soothing wash when the eyes are tired. There
is usually a tendency to debility and nerve weak-
ness in such cases.
* * * *
What white is used in the coloring of photo-
graphs, and by what means is the finish
applied ? —2374.
“Chinese white” or “process white” is
used.. The finish is a waterproof varnish made
of ordinary celluloid duco, applied with an
air-brush;
Brief Answers.
A.V.8.: Since answering you (B. 1 /7/*36)
information is to hand that maize-germ oil is
manufactured by Maize Products, Ltd., Foots-
cray, Vic., and retailed under the registered
trade-name of “Nutro Oil,” obtainable from
all retail grocers in pint bottles and 4-gal. tins.
. ...A.C.W.: With attention to health and a
suitable diet the condition should remedy itself.
The usual routine combines outdoor exercise
(tennis, walking, etc.) with local massage, but
avoid extremes in any form. Bathe the area
with tepid water at night; after drying, apply
an oily tissue cream with gentle rotary pres-
sure. In the morning bathe as before, then
massage for a few minutes without employing
the cream. Meanwhile, keep to a nourishing
diet, with milk, eggs, cereals and fatty foods as
weight permits. The cream formula is: Cacao
butter 2 drachms, spermaceti 3 drachms, lano-
line 4 drachms, almond oil l£oz., simple tinc-
ture of benzoin 20 minims, oil of roses 10 drops.
L.R.: Cannot trace advt. Although lini-
ments and mechanical appliances, belts, etc.,
serve a purpose in certain cases, the initial
fault demands surgical treatment for correc-
tion. Anodyne liniment is the old-time remedy
for pain; used with support, some temporary
relief is obtained. Neither constitutes a cure in
itself... .P.V. : There is no simple chemical for
removal of nicotine stains. Mix equal propor-
tions liquid ammonia and peroxide with pumice
powder to form a paste. Apply to finger
with a cloth pad, rubbing gently until nicotine
is removed D.M.: (1) In pronounced dis-
figurement, plastic surgery may be resorted to
for correction of nose deformities. Much
depends upon cause and duration. (2) Period
of treatment is indefinite. (3) Hospital atten-
tion may be arranged at nominal cost....
A.E.Y.:. Write Dymock’s Book Arcade, 424
George-street, Sydney R. 5..: Cypress pine
is used extensively in N.S.W. country districts
for building scantlings, including joists, studs,
rafters, bearers, etc. Provided proper precau-
tions are taken against white-ants by using stump
caps and by ensuring that the house is built high
enough to allow for periodical inspection of
foundations, hardwood joists and bearers
should be quite satisfactory A.M.R.:
Photograph was one of many thousands issued
at the time. It has no value X.Y.Z.:
Information is not readily available. Write to
each of the institutes mentioned F.A.: May
be possible to secure copies by writing to the
artists direct. Letters addressed care of this
office will find them W.8.L.: Cinesound
Productions, Ebley-street, Waverley; National
Productions, Nilson-street, Pagewood; Master-
craft Film Corp., 67 York-street, City; and
Expeditionary Films, 12 O’Connell-street, City
—all Sydney J.H..:; On the information
supplied it is not possible to state what award
applies in the circumstances; any one of a
number of awards may be applicable. Advise
whether the business is mainly of a retail or
wholesale nature, the general nature of the
trade, and whether you are employed for the
greater part of your time during the week as
a salesman or a clerk C.D.R.: If you write
to the Registrar, the Dental Board, 33 Queen-
street, Brisbane, you will obtain advice as to
what is required of applicants for examination
under the provisions of the Dental Acts
Amendment Act of 1935......J.C.C.: Jan
Kiepura was born in Poland, and is about 34.
His name is pronounced Van Kepur-a
J.L.8.: There is a chapter on hammock-
making in Knotting' and Splicing Ropes and
Cordage; Dymock’s, Sydney, 2s. 3d
C. (1) Drawing is a wash and crayon.
(2) Size of original is by lOin R.C.:
A list of open seasons in respect of any pro-
tected animals may be obtained at any time on
application to the Chief Secretary’s Department,
Sydney R.MJ.r (1) C. McLennan and Son,
124 Bathurst-strect, Sydney. (2) Circumference
of thigh at crutch; circumference of leg 4in.
above and 4in. below knee; height from crutch
to ground, from crutch to knee, from knee to
ground, and whether right or left leg. The
boot to be worn with caliper must also be for-
warded. (3) £7 75..... .R.H.H.: If you measure
very carefully you will find that the angles
along the diagonal do not quite coincide. A
narrow gap is left along the diagonal, the area
of which is one sq. in H.J.: The 1937
edition of The Australian Authors and Artists’
Handbook will be published by Richard
Geraint, Box 2455 MM, G.P.0., Sydney.....
D. Get in touch with the American
Consul-General, Sydney D.K.R..: (1)
Address of Pioneers’ Club is 169 Phillip-
street, Sydney. (2) There are deposits of iron
ore in commercial quantities at Breadalbane,
Cadia, Carcoar, Goulburn, Tallawang, Man-
durama, Queanbeyan and Wingello, chief of
these being Cadia, Carcoar and Tallawang
C.V.S.: Collector value of a George 111. penny,
1797, in good condition is sixpence. There is
no market at present for this coin in Sydney.
F.S.: The method of such calculations
falls under the rule of permutations, not com-
binations. If there are five dogs in a race
the number of ways in which three places can
be filled is 5 x 4 x 3; if there are 10 dogs,
10 x 9 x 8; if 40, 40 x 39 x 38. If there are
three races, each with 20 starters, there are
20 x 19 x 18 (6840) ways in which the three
places can be filled in each. The number of
tickets that would have to be printed to pro-
vide for every possible permutation in the
“treble” would be 6840 x 6839 x 6838
(320,488,760,880)....W.H.8.: The U.S.A., like
many other countries, could lead a self-con-
tained existence if it chose to. But it hasn’t
chosen to; it has lent a great deal of money to
other nations, and if it ceased importing would
have very small prospects of any sort of repay-
ment... .T.L.G.: Gesell’s “Free Money” plan
is based on a belief that the imperishable char-
acter of money is opposed to natural laws.
Therefore he proposes that the State should
issue all currency, and that such currency
(paper only) should depreciate in value one-
tenth of one per cent, per week. Stamps must
be added to bring currency up to face value.
Any of the big booksellers could obtain for
you Gesell’s National Economic Order. Cannot
trace the other books you mention L. 0.:
(1) A subscriber resigning from the S.A.
Superannuation Fund receives the total amount
of his contributions, less the ss. per annum
administration expenses. (2) The refund is not
subject to any financial emergency cut....
H. 8.: Excommunication in the Church of
England means the exclusion of an offending
member from the rites and privileges of the
church, principally the sacraments, and may be
either temporary or permanent, partial or total.
L.S.: The Royal Canadian Mounted
Police (otherwise “Mounties”) is a force main-
tained by the Dominion of Canada for service
in the Arctic, the Yukon and north-west ter-
ritories, and also in the national parks and
Indian reservations.... (Many others mailed.)


o-
&
sP
1*
Costs less to buy
a The Willys 77' has been carefully designed and sturdily
built to satisfy the demand for speedy, low cost, depend-
able motoring.
Costing less to buy, less for petrol and oil. less for incidental
expenses, yet giving up to 30 miles of trouble-free motoring
to the gallon, the Willys 77' is the ideal car for those who
want to spend less for motoring yet who demand a car that
will stand up to bad roads and hard driving under any
conditions.
less to run... less to own
The Willys '77' is smart in appearance, roomy and comfortable
and above all the most dependable car in the low-price
economy field.
Overland Sydney Ltd.
173 - 175 Elizabeth Street. Sydney
Telephone M 2011 -- 6 Lines
i
m
m
i
m
the supercharged six
li
THE SUPERCHARGED SIX
THE CAVALIER
THE CRUSADER
# Model 110 R. Supercharged 6-
cylinder Graham with All-Steel Body
of supreme beauty and comfort —bringing
the magic of supercharged performance
within reach of thousands of motorists
who cannot afford an expensive car.
A Model 90 The Graham Cavalier
™ with luxurious All-Steel Body, vita-
lised power and extraordinary economy,
brings sparkling performance and flaw-
less style.
A Model 80— A new leader in the low
™ price field ... The Graham Crusader.
The Graham Crusader has distinctive
styling, unusually smart interior finish
and appointments, and exceptional oper-
ating smoothness and economy.
• • • •
Engineered for sturdy dependable service
under all types of road conditions, each
of these powerful Graham models has a
very special appeal to the country
notorist.
i
■■
:
■ ■’ ■
Win.i
wt
I m
THE CAVALIER
■
E R
S A D
T H E
C R U
GARRATT’S LTD.
148-150 CASTLEREAGH ST.
SYDNEY ’PHONE M2Oll
(6 Lines)


FOR CAULFIELD.
Arkaringa Hurdle: Brilliant Son ;
next, Full Charge.
Balaclava Stakes: Alaric; next,
Gay Circle.
Australian Steeple: Santa Casa ;
next, El Damaroyal.
St. Aubin Welter: Rondeletia;
next, The Monarch.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Three-year-old Handicap: Mala ;
next, Otto.
Parramatta Mile: Toriwa; next,
Rogerio,
Flying Handicap: Moaenza;
next, Pavarti.
August Handicap: Dulcedo;
next, Grand Warbler.
Wentworthville Stakes; Cane-
grass ; next Bull Ant.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Pooley Bridge equalled the 1902
achievement of Colonel Shilinski by win-
ning the Australian Hurdle with 12st.
51b. Many spectators, in their enthusi-
asm over the performance of Bert Foul-
sham’s candidate, pronounced him the
greatest hurdler that has raced at Caul-
field. That may be saying too much
when one remembers that the list of Aus-
tralian Hurdle winners includes Tim
Swiveller (who lost the Caulfield Cup a
year later on protest), Marmont (an Aus-
tralian Cup winner), Realm (who went
on to capture the Australian Cup and
Sydney Cup), and those versatile jumpers
Roisel and Mosstrooper.
The writer will not admit that Pooley
Bridge is greater than Colonel Shilinski.
Colonel Shilinski was beaten by Rawdon
in the G.N. Hurdle, but the protest for
interference at the last flight of battens
ought to have been upheld. Albert
Miller, who owned Rawdon, grasped with
both hands the opportunity of buying
Colonel Shilinski when the wonderful
chestnut was sent into the auction ring
by Alec Taylor in a fit of despair. How
the son of Zalinski won the Doutta Galla
Hurdle, the Australian Hurdle and the
Australian Steeple for his new owner is
a matter of history.
However, none will deny that Pooley
Bridge has contributed a bright page to
the annals of Victorian jumping. He has
had 11 victories, capturing at his last
four starts the Port Phillip Hurdle at
Williamstown, the G.N. Hurdle and
Doutta Galla at Flemington and the
V.A.T.C. Australian Hurdle. As in the
Grand National, he finished splendidly
at Caulfield.
In the National Brilliant Son had
pulled up to a walk long before the post
was reached. Disgusted with this display,
the owner, Harry Boan, of Perth, sent
him up for sale without a shilling reserve.
Boan was in the members’ stand on
Saturday and must have been astounded
when his castoff, after threatening to
repeat his Flemington misbehavior,
dashed from the rear of the field at the
half-mile to gain control as he faced for
home.
Pooley Bridge alone seemed to have a
chance of catching the leader. Making
a prodigious bound over the final ob-
stacle, the favorite (he went out at twos)
bore down on Brilliant Son (6 to 1) and
vanquished him, easing up on the post,
by half a length. Full Charge (7 to 2)
tired badly, and was six lengths farther
off. Les Healey, boyishly delighted over
his riding triumph, came back to scale
bareheaded, waving acknowledgment to
admirers on the Flat, much after the
fashion of Bob Lewis when he piloted
Trivalve to victory in the Melbourne Cup
of 1927. There were only seven runners.
Pooley Bridge is owned by C. Dawson
and Bert Foulsham. Dawson, who holds
the military rank of captain, is a Flinders-
lane warehouseman. He takes a keen
interest in horsebreeding and has bought
Ornamentation, the sire of Pooley
Bridge, for service at his stud in the
country. He bought Talkative when in
foal to Ornamentation, and Pooley
Bridge is the progeny. The gelding, just
turned six years old, is to be withdrawn
from hurdling and will be raced here-
after on the flat.
The last-moment withdrawal of Cape
Race robbed the Australian Hurdle of a
lot of interest. On Saturday morning he
was found to be suffering from colic.
Another unfortunate circumstance was
that N. Brace, fulfilling instructions,
attempted to ride a waiting race on the
Sydneysider, Fickle Wallace, who re-
sented such restraint and knocked up.
Archie Crofts, M.L.C., won nothing
apart from the stake over Valiant Chiefs
success in the Moondah Plate. His
trainer, F. W. Hoysted, considered that
Valiant Chief was in need of a race, and
Crofts’s only wager was £7 to £2 about
Heros, the favorite. Class told; and
Valiant Chief (14 to 1), not overexerted
by Keith Voitre, reached the judge half
a neck in advance of Aureus (6 to 1),
with Heros a moderate third.
Crofts is now sanguine of his cham-
pion pulling off the weight-for-age
Underwood Stakes at Williamstown on
August 22. Valiant Chief has developed
into a very handsome four-year-old, and
may be the best representative of Heroic
on the turf this season, although a
middle distance is the length of his tether.
Fearless Imp, one of the few greys
by Heroic, pulled up lame after cleverly
annexing the second division of the
Crimea Trial. At fours, he was next in
demand to Marauder, who disappointed
bookmaker-owner Wallace Mitchell. The
first division was won from end to end
by Diaphane (8 to 1), owned and trained
by L. J. McCann, whose father, the late
Jack McCann, prepared Harvest King
for an Australian Cup victory.
Flat patrons hooted Alaric (7 to 1)
after he landed the Malakoff Stakes,
with Dusky Native and Yultewirra, each
12 to 1, in the minor places. There was
a counter-demonstration from the lawn
enclosure. Sol Green bred Alaric, whose
sire, Gothic, had a too-brief stud career.
Green’s horses, formerly in the stable of
Lou Robertson, are now trained by D. J.
Price at Caulfield.
The Mornington Welter was a gift for
the 4-to-l favorite, Rondeletia. Punters
profited even more notably over Xmas
Gift (5 to 2) in the Steeplechasers’ Flat.
Can Xmas Gift jump as capably as he
gallops? In the Australian Steeple next
Saturday he will receive 151 b. from the
Grand National winner, Santa Casa.
Latter is favorite, with Cold Spring—as
yet an unknown quantity over fences —
next in demand. Strobus, another novice
’chaser, has many admirers, while the
unlucky El Damaroyal commands a
strong following.
* * * *
It’s a long time since Sydney race-
goers witnessed such a display of pluck
as was given by Otto in the Three-year-
old Handicap at Canterbury Park. Otto
is a son of Magpie and Black Vera. The
racebook described him as brown, but
he is as black as the ace of spades.
Ridden by W. Cook, and co-favorite
with Water Waggon at 5 to 2, Otto was
'almost knocked over by another colt
when the barrier went up. Nevertheless,
Cook pulled him together, drove him
along steadily, took advantage of an
opening in the straight and then tackled
the leaders. The cheering was great
when Otto’s number went up; he had
beaten The Caliph by half a neck, with
Connottar Lad a head away and Water
Waggon close up,
Otto cost 210 guineas as a yearling.
He is owned by the Sydney sportsman
who figures in the books as “E. Macgill.”
His dam was imported ; she did not race
here or in England. Black Harris, a
half-brother to Otto, won races at
Menangle, and another relative, Volau-
vent, by Windbag, has scored up to a
mile and three-quarters in the West.
Otto may never be a champion, but he
is as game as they make them.
Jack King furnished a surprise in the
Flying Handicap with Canegrass. He
had been working the big chestnut on his
farm at Rooty Hill, but naturally he did
not broadcast the news to punters, who
said to themselves “Canegrass hasn’t
raced for some time,” Moaenza, looking
in need of the race, made the pace a
cracker. Canegrass took charge in the
last furlong, and won with his head on
his chest. Shean rode him well, and the
price shortened from tens to fives.
Goorka was a fair third, followed by
Pavarti, Questionnaire and the favorite,
Lavage. Lavage was never-in it. She
made a half-hearted dash at the turn,
but quickly faded out, ’ > / :
Former jockey Owen Cullum showed
good judgment in running Gipsy Chief in
the Canterbury Handicap. His horse
was favorite, with Rustler, at threes.
While Rustler had a shocking run —he
was on the outside all the way —Gipsy
Chief sneaked through on the rails at
the Leger, getting the verdict by half a
head, Foudroyant being a neck away.
Both Rustler and Foudroyant should
have beaten Gipsy Chief. It was a capi-
tal finish ; Perron was a close fourth, and
Chrystal Tin, who had made the pace
with Repere, was a meritorious fifth.
Orient Orb (2 to 1) was expertly
handled by McCarten in the Highweight
Handicap. Previously he had been taken
to the front in most of his races and
been left without a run. Here he was
nursed until the last furlong was entered
upon ; then McCarten steered him to a
half-neck victory over the pacemaker,
Double Dutch, Atucas being third.
Toriwa, from the bush, surprised by run-
ning fourth. New Tip, Concilio and
Bonnie Rion disappointed their backers.
Vaalmore (6 to 1), from Orange,
ridden by the country jockey Paton, won
the Campsie Handicap after a close finish
with Sir Joe and Sarsign. The favorite,
Palady, was squeezed out at the start;
he finished fourth and was possibly a
good thing beaten. Brushwood and Lady
Baeda, a heavily-backed pair, never got
into a winning position. Vaalmore is a
good type of five-year-old mare by
Friarsdale, one of the sires on Otway
Falkiner’s station.
* * * *
“Agar”: The number of punters who
lose their “collect” tote tickets must be
considerable, judging by the frequency
with which slightly-damaged tickets are
presented at companies’ offices for late
payment. At Moonee Valley a horde of
small boys invades the course after the
last race and pounces upon the litter of
tickets strewn about each enclosure.
Judging by the keenness exhibited by
these young treasure-seekers there must
be profit in it, and the beauty of it is that
it is all profit—dividends without stakes.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Racing is not overdone in
S.A. Lapthorne, the huntmaster, stands
alone as a winning owner for last year
with a stable of four, ten wins and stakes
£3792; the next is £1460. Only seven
owners won as much as £lOOO, E. E.
Jolley and his wife both being among
them —joint owners, they would have
come second. Bastian, with 36 wins,
stands out among the jockeys, even
although away a good deal in other
States; Bromley was second, with 19
wins.
{Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Saturday’s V.F.L. matches left “the
four” unchanged, but Melbourne’s posi-
tion is now threatened. Fitzroy, last
on the list with only one win out of 12
games played, seemed to have only the
remotest of chances against the Mel-
bourne men, but it beat them 13-13 to
12- And in previous matches Mel-
bourne had defeated South Melbourne
and Richmond! Melbourne did not field
its best team, but it was positive it could
take a chance with poor old ’Roy.
■’Carlton had an easy win, 17-16
to 8-11, over Essendon, and is now only
four points behind Melbourne, with a
better percentage. Collingwood, ahead
on percentages, remains on top, thanks
to a 14-12 to 11-14 victory over Rich-
mond ; but the Tigers are still third.
Second is “Sowth,” which, though its
kicking for goal was poor—only 14 of
33 scoring shots earned full points—was
too good for St. Kilda ; 14-19 to 13-11.
That dispels the Saints’ premiership
hopes, if any remained.
Among the lesser lights Geelong
(17-20) outkicked North Melbourne
(12-8), and Hawthorn’s good shooting
gave it the ascendancy over Footscray;
13- to 8-21.
* * * *
“Smith-street”: The Collingwood-
Richmond match was played on the
Richmond cricket ground. Collingwood
delegates objected to playing there, but
the doubts of other V.F.L. delegates were
removed by Justice Macfarlan’s refusal
of an interlocutory injunction to restrain
the Richmond cricket club from charging
fees, pending the hearing of a motion for
an injunction to restrain it from main-
taining a fence, locking gates and refus-
ing the public admittance except upon
payment of specified charges. At the
hearing in the Practice Court, counsel
for the club read an affidavit denying
that serious public disturbances had oc-
curred through persons trying to enter
the gates without payment.
The only disturbances had occurred
when persons hired for the purpose by
Melbourne Carnivals, Limited, or John
Wren or Richard Lean, two of the princi-
pal persons interested therein, had en-
deavored to assert such a right.
Costs were given against the “relator,”
Councillor Murphy, of Richmond. The
position is that the Richmond C.G. may
go on charging for admission to football
matches until a test case is decided.
* * * *
University, beaten 31-17 by Randwick,
has now been deposed from second place
on the Sydney Rugby Union list. The
Green forwards in the first half gave
their backs a 2-1 share of the ball, and,
though beaten for possession in the
second-half scrums, were more success-
ful than the Students in rucks and the
open. The centres, Potter and Conlan,
gave their best display of the season and,
with Richards, made most of the open-
ings. ’Wick scored seven tries to ’Var-
sity’s two, most of the Students’ points
being contributed by Nicholas— no rare
achievement for this lad. St. George
surprised- by leading West 11-5 at the
end of the first half. Ryan, the St. George
centre, cut through weak defence to make
a couple of tries. After the spell it was
another story; West tightened up its
tackling and the backs threw the ball
about: West 19 to 11 ; five tries to two.
Drummoyne had a tougher fight against
Parramatta. Tackling on both sides was
solid and the ball rarely travelled far.
A couple of tries to Drummoyne early
was the only score in the first half, and
the Reds didn’t add to it in the second.
A converted try by the ’Malta winger
just before the finish made it 6-5. East,
much better now than earlier in the
season, easily accounted for North, 17-3
(four tries to none), and Manly’s five tries
were too good for Gordon, 19-8.
Randwick, West, Drummoyne and East
look like being “the four,” though Uni.,
North and Manly are still possibles.
* * * *
“C.A.”: There has been a noticeable
slump in Sydney Rugby League attend-
ance since the Englishmen won the rubber.
At the Cricket Ground on Saturday the
crowd numbered only 5317, including a
thousand or so ground members, whose
annual fees don’t help the League to the
extent of a stiver. Yet unbeaten Eastern
Suburbs was playing, and East has a
very fine side, including Thicknesse and
Beaton, who made their reputations
in Rugby Union. Brown, the cham-
pion Easterner, also played Union
Rugby at school. In helping to over-
whelm St. George, 23-5, Brown had a
right-hand bone broken, and will be out
of action for three weeks. A pity, for no
better fellow ever put on a jersey, and,
like Horder in the past, and Bunton, the
Victorian, he would have distinguished
himself in any code.
{Continued on next page.)
After very impressive opening cere-
monies the Berlin Games got under way
on Sunday. The first record to go was
broken by the American negro Jesse
Owens, who ran a quarter-final of the
100 metres in 10 l-ssec. The first final
decided, the women’s javelin throw, went
to a German, Tilly Fleischer, with a
world’s record throw of 148 ft. 4Jin. The
Australians didn’t fare well. Backhouse
won his heat of the 800 metres, but his
time, Imin. 57 7-10 sec., was the slowest
of the day. Metcalfe qualified for the
final of the high jump, but was outed at
6ft. 3in. The U.S.A. took the three
first places, Johnson being the winner
with 6ft. Bin., an Olympic record only
Hin, below the world’s. Wrestling,
the Australian welterweight O’Hara was
beaten by the German Paar, and Gar-
rard, the lightweight, by an Italian,
Romagnoli. Neither, however, was
eliminated.
* ** *
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. cricket heads
have decided that the benefit match for
Bardsley and Jack Gregory shall be
played at S.C.G., from October 9-13 in-
clusive, probably taking the form of
Australia v. The Rest. The game should
provide an exceptional trial for candi-
dates for the matches against the English-
men, and it is to be hoped that a sane
method of selection will be adopted.
* *
“Susie Swattit”: Maoriland is sending
over an associate team to lift the Tas-
man Cup at Adelaide on September 3.
Mrs. Godby is again coming as non-
playing captain, and the team includes
Mrs. Fullerton-Smith and Misses Flem-
ing, McLean, Horwell and Oliver Kay.


Under the Whip
Gone are the days when it would have
been safe to lay 20-to-l on that first place
on the sires’ list would go to an impor-
tation. For the fourth successive year
Heroic has been on top. Although the
winnings of his progeny did not equal
the 1933-34 record, which was £32,850,
they earned between £26,000 and £27,000
for their owners. And the great chestnut
son of Valais—Chersonese has many
years of good service ahead of him, if he
keeps right. He is just entering on his
fourteenth year.
* * * t-
During the 1935-36 racing season,
Skidmore was the leading Melbourne
jockey with 53 wins, and F. W. Hoysted
the leading trainer, with 29 wins. In
Sydney, Knox led the jockeys with 95
wins and three dead-heats, and King
headed the trainers’ list with wins.
With so much down-the-line racing, Syd-
ney trainers and jockeys get more oppor-
tunities than their congeners in Mel-
bourne.
•I* $
A court case has led to the withdrawal
of Palfresco from all his spring engage-
ments. The Caulfield Cup winner is
owned by Mrs. Garland, and leased to
Sam Kent. The lady moved for an in-
junction to restrain Kent from going on
with Palfresco’s preparation on the
ground that the colt had a dicky off fore-
leg, which might go altogether unless he
was rested for a season. The case was
settled on the basis of delivery of the
animal to the owner in a satisfactory
condition and his withdrawal from rac-
ing until November 20 at the earliest.
4c 4c 4c 4c
The Q.T.C. has a rule that no Brisbane
club under its direction “shall race for a
lesser amount than £lOOO in stakes on
a Saturday,” It is high time that the A.J.C.
introduced a similar regulation, only,
considering Sydney’s vastly greater popu-
lation, the minimum should be at least
£l5OO. At Ascot on July 25 the company
which controls that superfluous course
put up £l2OO os. sd. for eight races.
The same day at Moonee Valley £2525
was distributed for six races. The
smallest prize at the Valley was worth
£lOO more than the highest at Ascot.
4C Hf 4: 4c
“K.W.S.”: Registration of bookmakers
and betting shops has given the Ade-
laide Government a new source of
revenue, but it has greatly lessened the
flow from an older channel of income.
In 1926-27 £1,619,519 passed through the
totalisators on S.A. racecourses; during
the year which closed on July 31 the total
fell to £271,000, and the Government’s
share suffered accordingly. There was
no corresponding slump in racecourse
attendances, but these have suffered since
shops were legalised. If people must
back horses, it is better for them to do it
on racecourses. Where there is at least
some flavor of sport, than in shops, per-
haps filling up with beer while waiting
for the racing broadcasts. It was thought
by some of the clubs that the centenary
business would give an impetus to
totalisator takings. Nothing of the kind
happened.
Victoria is witnessing no decline in
totalisator betting. On all metropolitan
courses last season receipts went up, the
increase being £161,742 to £2,214,395.
V.R.C. figures rose from £603,321 to
£645,670, V.A.T.C. from £504,016 to
£564,338 and Moonee Valley from
£449,986 to £468,745. Sydney badly
needs a Caulfield or a Moonee Valley.
Owners and trainers would cheerfully
part with all the ex-pony concerns if
they could get a counterpart of either
Melbourne club.
4= 4= 4: 4c
Cuddle is back in Sydney and has been
put in work for the spring meetings.
Her owner, Murphy, is still convinced
that she is a stayer, and aspires to win
the Melbourne Cup with her (she has
9st. 21b.), but it will probably be wiser
to concentrate on the Epsom and on
weight-for-age races up to a mile and a
quarter or thereabouts. Cuddle may be
capable of winning two-mile cups in
Maoriland, where handicap form is far
from being as it was. She is never likely
to do it in Australia making all her own
running, as she prefers to do. Breaking
up a field in a mile race—a feat Cuddle
accomplished in the Doncaster—is very
different from doing it opposed to the
best stayers in the Commonwealth.
“0.E,”: James Brennan was the
founder of night trotting in Perth, and
when his association constructed and
equipped an expensive new course the
thing was named Brennan Park. Brennan
has always had critics, but not until the
Duke of Gloucester visited Westralia did
they go to the length of taking the
founder’s name away from the trotting
course and changing the label to Glouces-
ter Park, the Duke amiably agreeing. He
has learnt since that many trotting people
objected to the change, and has notified
through Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell that unless
it is the united wish of association mem-
bers that Gloucester Park should remain
the title his sanction will be withdrawn.
As unanimity cannot be arrived at, the
old name will have to be reverted to or
a new one got. James Brennan is now
a veteran, and recent years have scarcely
been kind to him. It will be a paltry
business if the association permanently
deprives him of a distinction which he
fairly earned by many years of unrequited
work.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Braddock and Schmeling are to meet
for the championship at New York at
the end of next month. Braddock
gained the title by outpointing Baer.
Baer beat the German some years ago.
He was doubtless better then than when
he gave his dreadful exhibition against
Louis; so it doesn’t follow that Brad-
dock will whip the man who was whipped
by Baer. He will probably be favorite
all the same. Both men are in the
thirties.
* * * *
Jarvis, Maoriland’s best lightweight,
turned the tables on Hughie Mehegan in
their return bout at Leichhardt. A pain-
ful memory of Jarvis’s powerful right
kept the Australian very quiet for a few
rounds. When he abandoned caution he
did quite as well as the other lad, at
times a bit better ; but Jarvis’s early lead
was not altogether wiped out, and the
decision went his way. Hobbs, who may
turn out a better man than either, licked
Walker in a six-round tussle, having the
other fellow down several times. Except
“Go easy with that towel. You nearly ’it me then !”
on rare occasions Sydney people who
like bash show little interest in Ameri-
can boxers monotonously matched at the
Rushcutter Bay Stadium. Leichhardt has
no complaints.
Footbrawl
“Applecross”: The standard of football
in Westralia is high this year. In Perth
recently a team composed of members
of Perth and Fremantle clubs inflicted a
dreadful drubbing on S.A.’s best 18 (all
Adelaide men, of course): 15.22 to 8.18.
A return match saw the visitors win by
a point: 9.21 to 11.8. Don Marinko, a
Westralian follower, was adjudged the
finest player in the first match, and
Webber, a South Australian half-back, in
the second ; each received a trophy from
the other side’s League. All very nice and
friendly. Incidentally, 20,000 people
witnessed the first game. Perth and Ade-
laide people prefer inter-State matches to
club matches; in Melbourne the popular
taste is just the reverse.
While the S.A, Leaguers were visiting
Perth, the Westralian Association had a
team in Adelaide. It licked the S.A.
Association lads in the two matches
played—9.ls to 8.18 and 22.14 to 14.17.
* l * * *
Eric Tassie, dead following an opera-
tion in Adelaide, was until recently
president of the Australian National
Football Council, and was also president
of the S.A. body for six years.
One of the best football administrators
produced by his State, he was a familiar
figure in the football world of Victoria,
S.A. and Westralia, and many friends
regret him.
* * * *
“Yonker”; Queensland’s Australian-
rules footballers are to give the Adelaide
tourney a miss, being dubious about
expenses. N.S.W. has chosen 24 players
to make the trip. The Queensland team
had been chosen also ; instead, it will
go to Canberra for a game on the 15th.
* * * *
“Jachris”: To the N.S.W. Rugby
Union “the formation of an Australian
Board of Control is not opportune.” So
saying, the council threw out the pro-
posal that control of matters affecting all
the Union States should be assigned to a
body having representatives of Victoria,
Queensland and perhaps S.A. and the
West. Ma likes to look after these things
herself. But the Board of Control will
have to come, and the sooner the N.S.W.
heads realise it the better for the game,
* * * *
“Stand Off”: One can see as much
dirty play in Union games nowadays as
in League (B. 22/7/’36). A report in a
Sydney daily of a mid-week Union game
between Police and Field Cadre says
the referee should have sent off men
from both sides, adding that, though
play in this competition has been “ex-
ceptionally rough” this season, not a man
has been sent off. The attention of the
N.S.W.R.U. has been called to the further
statement that League players figured on
each side.
* * * *
League Rugby form seems pretty poor
in M.L. this year. When only a few hours
off the boat the Englishmen beat the
best that Auckland could put into the
field, and on their fifth day in the North
Island they obliterated a Wellington 13—
48 to 8. And the M.L. League has been
wanting to send a side to Australia!
Ins and Outs
The English cricket selectors have
leisurely methods all their own. Two or
three weeks ago they began by picking
seven men (including the captain) for the
Australian trip ; last week they added four.
This leaves five places to fill, and the
county cricket season has still nearly a
month to go. Of the 11 already picked,
Yorkshire supplies Leyland and Verity;
Middlesex, Allen and Robins; Derby-
shire, Copson and Worthington. Ham-
mond (Gloucester), Hardstaff (Notts),
Fishlock (Surrey), Duckworth (Lanca-
shire) and Fagg (Kent) are the others.
The two Middlesex men are the only
amateurs.
Of the first seven, six are well enough
known on this side; the seventh (Fish-
lock) is one of Surrey’s youngest bats-
men and the best of them, on this season’s
form. Of the second four, Duckworth’s
inclusion was pretty certain, and was
probably delayed only because of the
doubt about Ames, a far superior bats-
man, being available —he has been out
of health of late. Fagg is a surprise. He
is an opening batsman for Kent, how-
ever, and has been a prolific scorer; also
it seems he is a possible wicketkeeper in
an emergency. Copson, a fast-to-medium
bowler, and Worthington, an all-rounder,
seem to owe something to their county’s
high-up position, after long years in the
desert, on the list. County results go for
a deal in England, and both have helped
to bring Derby into the limelight, after
50 years of obscurity.
There is no really fast bowler picked
as yet, and England will hardly send a
team without one. The choice will prob-
ably lie between Gover (Surrey) and
Fames (Essex). As opening batsmen
Wyatt and Sutcliffe are still in the run-
ning, old dependables, yet neither in-
spiring on this season’s record. The most
striking omission so far is that of Gimb-
lett, the young Somerset batsman, whose
free-hitting methods made English critics
sit up and take notice a year ago.
India made a draw of the game with
England after being 368 behind on the
first innings. Allen declared with eight
down for 571 (Hammond 167, Hardstaff
94, Worthington 87, Robins 76 and Verity
66 n. 0.). The Indians found the English
bowling easy in their second try. Mer-
chant (114) and Mustaq Ali (112) opened,
and Ramaswami (60), Nayudu and Amar
Singh carried the score to five for 390 at
stumps. Of the regular bowlers, Robins
took 3 for 103 and Verity 1 for 66. The
other wicket went to Hammond for 19.
* * . * *
The N.S.W.C.A. gloomily reports a
debit balance of £3460 for the year to
lune 30. In the previous twelvemonth
there was a surplus of £577, but there
would have been another massive loss
but for the association’s share of the
profits on the Australians’ tour of Eng-
land. Except when Aussies are playing
in England or Englishmen in Australia,
cricket rarely shows favorable accounts.
In Sydney people won’t go to club
matches, and they care very little for
inter-State games except when Bradman is
about. Bradman won’t last for ever, and
if the game is not livened up before he
ceases to be a draw it may not live as a
gate-money proposition. The world
moves too fast for people to bother
watching 22 able-bodied young men
potter about on a cricket field for three
or four days.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”; Dates for the Austra-
lian cricket girls’ visit to England next
year have been decided upon. Matches
don’t begin till June 1. Originally the
girls were to arrive on May 31, but
changes in boat schedules due to the
coronation have altered things, and now
the English association says it can put
them up from May 3. The suggestion
has been made that they show in Hol-
land before the English games com-
mence. It only remains for the Austra-
lian heads to say “Yes.”
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne C.C. has struck
trouble over its proposal to increase
membership by 1000. A special meeting
turned the proposition down, but the
club has returned to the charge with a
circular explaining the circumstances.
When the Government granted an addi-
tional slice of the park to enlarge the
ground the M.C.C. guaranteed to make
accommodation for 100,000. To honor
this Will cost £lOO,OOO, and £70,000 is
about the club’s limit. The additional
members would provide the money
needed, and to avoid overcrowding it was
proposed to issue only one lady’s ticket
to members instead of two. It is this
reduction that has caused the opposition.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland golfers are
in a swither of excitement. There looks
to be a chance of the long-sought-for
national championships being held in
Brisbane next year. N.S.W., which
would be holding the 1937 meeting in
Sydney, is understood to be willing to
waive its right, provided it can get the
title meeting for the 1938 celebrations,
and Bananaland sees here a fine chance
of having the show staged north of ’2B.
The matter is to be discussed at the
A.G.U. meeting in September.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Sarazen is due to arrive
in Sydney with Helen Hicks on August
22, They are going to Queensland, back
to Sydney, to South Aus. for the cen-
tenary carnival in September, and then on
a tour of the other States. Perrier will be
back a few weeks earlier, and there is
angling for a foursomes match, Sarazen
and Helen against Perrier and some Syd-
ney lady—possibly at The Lakes on
August 26.
* * * *
“Nobbier”; Sydney is to have a Senior
Golfers’ Society, the intention being to
provide “interest and entertainment for
golfers of 55 and upwards, and of all
degrees of proficiency.” I’d advise those
concerned to keep the last part of the
objective in mind. Golf itself will pro-
vide no community of interest; there’s
no other pastime in which the difference
between the game the mugs play and
that played by the fairly competent is so
noticeable. My notion is that the S.G.S.
will have to function chiefly at the nine-
teenth, And there’s really no need of a
society to help anybody to find entertain-
ment there.
* * % *
“Divot Digger”: Australia’s old friend
Michael Scott, who was our amateur and
open champion 30 years ago, was beaten
in the final of the French open by a
player with the fine old Frankish name
of Mick Coulihan, previously winner of
the French amateur. Scott is still ranked
one of the soundest players in Britain.
* * * *
Victorian golf courses, from the first
hole to the nineteenth, greens, fairways


rOUNTLESS tests check each progressive step in the making’
L» of Philips Valves.. .nothing escapes the vigilant eye and
cold calculation of man or machine.
Thus has the reputation of Philips Valves been built and main-
tained ... KEEPING RADIO UP-TO-DATE ... offering the best
valve equipment that .money can buy.
A.C., A.C./D.C. or Battery ... no matter what type of set you buy
insist on Philips Metal Clad Valves.
PHILI
METAL CLAD VALVES
6R-6>
REDUCE Your
WAISTLINE
No Exercises-No Diets-No Drugs
Fat causes that waistline bulge; fat infiltrated
muscles, leading to weakened, degenerated
abdominal sagging, maybe causing morbid and
dangerous changes in the position of your vital
organs displacements, disturbing their functions.
The Governa Corrective Belt is light, comfortable
and effective. By its constructive support and
gentle, changing massage action, waistline bulge
is eliminated with every move you make. It not
only reduces a bulging waistline, but also tends
to restore the abdominal wall to normal strength
and condition: thus, it not only safeguards the
organs of the viscera against further harm, but
improves your general health and well-being by
restoring their normal function.
FREE
*5
TRY THE GOVERNA BELT FOR
7 DAYS AT
OUR EXPENSE
We want you to TRY THE
GOVERNA BELT FOR SEVEN
DAYS AT OUR EXPENSE! It
will greatly improve your appear-
ance ; it acts as an abdominal sup-
port, it will ease muscular strain
and make you appear inches slimmer
AT ONCE! In seven short days
your waistline will be 3 inches
smaller THREE INCHES OF
BULGE AND STRAIN GONE—
OR NO COST! Get the results
you desire. Send the 7-Day Trial
Offer Coupon AT ONCE!
7-DAY TRIAL
OFFER COUPON
GO VERNA BELT COMPANY,
252-6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Without obligation send me your illustrated
folder describing the Governa Corrective
Health Belt, also full details of your
7-DAY FREE TRIAL OFFER. I enclose
2d. in stamps for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
US.
NEURITIS
BANISHED
Business Man
tells Amazing
Story of Health
Regained . . . .
"Neuritis made my life a misery. Aches
and pains stabbed and wracked every
limb . . . my friend said I looked more
dead than alive—and, believe me, he
was right. He suggested I seek expert
advice—l'm glad I did. The things I
"The colon, clogged with fermenting
food waste, is a breeding ground for
bacteria. These germs get into the
blood stream—play havoc with the en-
tire body . . . they attack delicate
nerve-endings—causing neuritis."
The only way to end the trouble was
testinal muscles. I was advised to take
COLOSEPTIC. It quickly put me on my
feet. Now I feel like a two-year-old."
Coloseptic banishes neuritis because it
removes the basic cause which is Self
Poisoning (or Autoxima) brought about
by a clogged colon. Clear this putre-
fying waste and agonising neuritis
vanishes. Experts agree Coloseptic is
the sure, safe way, because it also tones
up the kidneys, the respiratory system,
and the pores of the skin. These are
the other organs which eliminate poisons
from the body.
End neuritis with Coloseptic. At all
chemists. If unobtainable locally, write
to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O'Connell
Street, Sydney. Clip coupon for sample
and intimate booklet on Autoxima—
post to-day.
Coloseptic
Please send me FREE booh on Autoxima ,
Also send my demonstration jar of
COLOSEPTIC 9 for which / enclose 1/•
in penny stamps.
learnt amazed me,"
to clean the colon and stimulate the in-
FREE BOOK
CLIP OUT
Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
and lounge-rooms, are attractively de-
scribed and pictured in Golf Courses of
Victoria, published by Melbourne “Sun-
Pic.” More, towards the back of the
book they’re gathered together and put
down alphabetically, with distances from
Melbourne and from the nearest railway
station and hotel, types of greens and
fees. A capital shillingsworth.
Racquet and Bawl
The Davis Cup remains in Britain.
Austin’s defeat of Crawford in the open-
ing singles gave the British team an ad-
vantage which the Australians could not
wrest from it. Yet they did pretty well.
With Quist Crawford beat Hughes and
Tuckey in the doubles: 6-4, 2-6, 7-5,
10-8 ; and Quist went on to vanquish
Austin: 6-4, 3-6, 7-5, 6-3. But in the
final tussle Crawford proved no match
for Perry. One report says he played as
well as ever —“his tennis would have
beaten any other player but Perry”—but
the scores (6-2, 6-3, 6-3) do not suggest it.
Crawford is the most in-and-out cham-
pion we’ve had. Not exactly sound in
wind, he has an increasing tendency to
put on weight. Quist did everything ex-
pected of him —he beat Allison and
Austin and gave Von Cramm and Perry
hard matches, and in doubles was the
more consistent of the Australian pair.
McGrath came to light against Germany.
A team built up round these two, with
Gilchrist, Bromwich, Huxley and Lindo
to draw on, should stand a good chance
in a couple of years. A rest from the
big stuff would benefit Quist and
McGrath —certainly McGrath.
England looks like holding the Cup so
long as Perry and Austin remain at the
top of their form. Perry always comes
to light when needed ; and Austin is a
trustworthy second string. Germany will
need to find support for Von Cramm,
and America has only Budge, a likely
Wimbledon champion soon. France has
fallen from its high estate.
* * * *
“T.S.”: Perry was footfaulted while
playing Quist. It is recorded that he
looked appealingly from the linesman to
the umpire, but that official was inexor-
able. In the doubles “Quist, after having
been faulted the second time on his first
service, asked the umpire what he was
doing wrong.” Only in lawn tennis is this
sort of thing allowed. In the Queensland-
N.S.W. Rugby League match at Brisbane
a Sydney player was sent off the field
for growling at the referee’s decision—
he was a policeman, too. The latitude
allowed to tennis players is a result of
the newspaper idolatry which gives
young men —who, perhaps, can’t be ex-
pected to know better, since tennis
absorbs time which might be given to
improving minds and manners —inflated
notions of their own importance.
* * *
“Pella”: The A.L.T.A. has gravely
approved of a tennis tourney for women
on Davis Cup lines, and is to circularise
all the nations connected with the Inter-
national L.T.A. concerning the proposal
before sending it on to that body for
discussion. It has even offered to donate
the cup. Wonders will never cease!
“Centre Court”: The English L.T.A.’s
chairman Prebble scoffs at the proposal
for a female Davis Cup tourney, and
doubts if the public would support the
show, since “there is less interest taken
in the women than in the men.” That
is quite true. In the days when Suzanne
Lenglen’s abbreviated skirts drew thou-
sands of male patrons, baldheaded and
otherwise, to Wimbledon feminine tennis
provoked intense interest. The shorts
craze, with its disturbing revelations, is
killing all that.
* * * *
Tilden and Vines are talking of com-
ing to Australia without a guarantee. A
published comment was construed to
mean that Norman Brookes is against
the proposed tour, because he doesn’t
think much of Vines’s sportsmanship.
This is not like Norman, and when taken
to task he explained that he had been
misunderstood: “Vines is one of the finest
sportsmen I have met. I was thinking
of his lack of appeal to the gallery as
compared with Borotra and his slow
movements about the court.” But surely
the former champion does not expect all
tennis players to be matinee idols. The
impression Vines left on other observers
was that of a very manly young fellow
with a humorous way of growling at
himself when he made a bad shot in
singles or unintentionally let a partner
down. Certainly he was never known to
glare at a linesman or address a ball boy
in the manner of a sultan to a slave.
Vines and Tilden would be very welcome
visitors. The young people coming on
in tennis could learn a lot from both.
# * * *
“Grad.”: America is losing two of its
tennis evergreens. Allison says that he
has given up the game, Helen Wills-
Moody that she has made positively her
last “final appearance” in competition
tennis. The lady has had a good spin,
She won the Wimbledon singles seven
times since 1927, the last time in 1935,
after she had been out for over a year
with an injury.
#
Miscellaneous
“F.M.”: A couple of months ago the
flapper press was demanding that a bevy
0 f lasses who photograph well should
be added to the Olympic team as origi-
nally picked, and to a large extent it got
its way. This last week some of the
papers that went into fits of hysteria have
been preparing a deluded public for the
defeat of certain of their protegees.
Darkly insinuating that training methods
have been lax, they suggest that a magic
improvement will be needed to admit of
most of the members of the team, includ-
ing young women recently boomed, hav-
ing even a 100-to-l chance.
* * * *
“Mari-ja”; The “Olympic torch” was
to have been borne aflame from Athens
to Berlin by relays of runners, but some-
thing went wrong. The first of the
torches was lit in Athens by the heat
of the sun’s rays beating through glass,
and the first runner had to carry it a few
miles and light another fellow’s torch
with the flame, and so on. Somewhere
in Yugoslavia a runner noticed that his
torch was flickering. He commandeered
a car to try to get to the next torch in
time. He was too late, and the sacred
flame had to be rekindled with a
“safety.”


ŧ
The
“Bonser”
Stockwhip
Made of hand-plaited Kangaroo Hide, 8-
strand, Bft. long. The handle is 8-plait
and steel-lined to give strength. A fine
stockwhip for hard work.
Price 217-
Boy’s Size, 6ft. . . 18/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
MU
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22 /••Jgjjj
HOTEL
BUSINESS,ROBBERY ETC.
A Reckoning in 1938
On December 15, 1938, not much more
than two years off, the Commonwealth
will have to convert nearly £80,000,000
of internal loans. And within six years
of that event another £170,000,000 will
need to be redeemed.
On such loans as the Commonwealth
and State Governments describe as public
debt the annual interest cost to this
country at present is over £50,000,000 —in
the currency with which Australians pay
taxation. The average rate within the
Commonwealth is £3 12s. 7d. per cent.
In London, despite recent favorable con-
versions, when exchange is added the
average cost is close to 5 p.c. In New
York it is higher still.
At present it is difficult to find a short-
dated loan giving a yield of less than
£3 15s. per cent, or a long-dated issue
showing much under 4 p.c. Consequently
most issues carrying less than 4 p.c. are
at a discount. The loan put on the
market in June is already below the issue
price of £9B 10s. All issues put out
during the past three-years are now below
the issue price.
One thing is perfectly clear from
developments over the past year or two ;
money, especially when it is required by
Governments, is going to cost more. It
is not merely a matter of interest returns,
either, that influences the investor ; busi-
ness and finance generally are so disgusted
with Parliamentary administration that a
feeling exists that by supporting Govern-
ment loans bureaucracies are assisted in
growing more powerful and interfering.
Our already colossal interest bill (over
£1 per head per annum) is based, as
has been mentioned, on an average cost
within Australia of £3 12s. 7d. per cent.
The investment market wouldn’t convert
it at the moment at much less than £4
per cent. The extra cost to the Common-
wealth and States for a complete conver-
sion at 4 p.c. on the £670,000,000 of Aus-
tralian-domiciled debt (most of which
falls due before 1951) would be around
£2,600,000 a year. That in itself
would represent 4 p.c. on £65,000,000
of extra borrowed money. Thus, rising
interest rates represent a heavy penalty
on the taxpayer through the badly-
administered public finances. Present
Governments, of course, are not entirely
blameable, but they are doing their share
towards making the future even more
difficult than the past.
The last loan, now at a discount,
offered £3 17s. sd. per cent., including
redemption. The underwriters were left
with a swag of it. The next loan will have
to carry a higher yield. It is hard even to
guess where this rising tendency is going
to stop. Certainly little or nothing has
been done by Governments to check it.
They are never satisfied with what they
do get, even on present-scale borrowing
operations—about £20,000,000 a year.
When a man or a country needs credit
most, often credit has disappeared. Poli-
ticians will not waken to the danger in
present borrowing, spending and vote-
catching until the danger becomes an un-
pleasant fact. With growth in our popu-
lation right out of step with the speed of
debt (and interest-cost) increment, and in-
comes generally still nowhere near the
levels of 1929, we are in no shape to face
an impaired credit position coinciding
with large loan-conversion operations
during the next 10 years. And 10 years
isn’t far to look ahead in matters of
public finance. It would pay us well to
look 20 years into the future.
Broken Hill Prop.’s £850,360 profit for
the year ended May 31 was up £179,918
on the showing for 1934-35. Provision
for depreciation, set aside before the
profit was struck, amounted to £615,052,
an increase of £73,103. The year’s out-
put at Newcastle was up approximately
20 p.c.; despite cuts in prices of the
principal products early in 1935, the
latest net profit is 27 p.c. higher. On
present paid capital (£4,484,635) —and
only part of the new money was in the
co.’s hands during the term —the result
is equal to a shade under 19 p.c. On
capital as it will stand when all the new
money is in, earnings were enough to
pay over 16 p.c. Most of the new capital
is at present developing avenues of profit
not yet bringing anything into the
accounts. When Aust. Iron and Steel,
the tinplate works, etc., start showing
something for B.H.P. shareholders, the
outlook should be better still.
“What about me and you gain to the Caves this Week-end, Joe?"
As far back as October, 1935, in-
vestors in general were advised on this
page to review their holdings of pref.
shares, and to those with second prefs. in
David Jones’ (Sydney) in particular a
change-over to the same co.’s ords. was
suggested. The second prefs, were then at
30s, 6d., the ords. at 40s. 6d. The prefs.
are still at 30s. 6d. Last week the ords.
sold at 51s. for a while, then steadied at
495. 9d. Those who acted on the sug-
gestion have made a tidy profit.
* * * *
Dalgety’s tobacco-leaf auctions in Bris-
bane last week represented the biggest
offering to date —185 tons. Demand was
good, and top price of 48d. per pound
was paid for a consignment from Bowen.
* * * *
John McGrath, Ltd., the Sydney motor
concern which is interested in Australian
Drop Forgings, Ltd., and the Paget Mfg.
Co., Ltd., is to instal a body-building
plant. Car-selling operations are to be
extended to Queensland. This co. de-
veloped the Chev. car agency in N. S.
Wales, and while the franchise existed it
proved a bonanza. From 1925 to 1929
40 p.c. divs. were paid, and one bonus
share for two was handed out. Trading
has been more difficult since, but lately
there has been improvement. The div.,
which dropped to 6 p.c. in the slump, is
up to 10 p.c. It is a snug business.
* * * *
The lift in the div. of Intercolonial In-
vestment, Land and Building (Sydney)—
an interim of 2\ p.c. and final of 3>\ p.c.
made 6 p.c, for the year —has at last
arrived ; it was long anticipated. The
market is much stronger at 20s. 6d. for
the 16s. shares. The assets, if sold, should
bring substantially more than the share
market appraisement, but the 5 p.c. div.
paid during 1932-35 didn’t encourage
bids much above 18s., except on occasions
when there were false alarms about in-
creased divs.
Other cos. which declared increased
divs. last week were Johns and Waygodd
(Melb.) with a 164 p.c. distribution, as
against 124 p.c.; Silverton Tramway, 2s.
(Is. 6d.); Peters Arctic (Q.), 7 p.c. (6 p.c.);
Lisgar Investment and Building 1 (Sydney),
6 p.c. (5 p.c.); Carreras, 20 p.c. (124
p.c.); and J. C. Ludowici, interim 34 p.c.
(as against 24 p.c. for the same period of
1934-35, and' 5 p.c. for the full year).
* * * *
The probability of a lift in Carlton
Brewery’s div. (124 p*c. was suggested)
has been mentioned on this page more
than once in the past four months. In-
terim just declared is at the rate of 12
p.c. p.a. (as against 10 p.c. last term). The
market, showing signs of uncertainty as
div.-time drew nigh, rose from 575. 6d.
to 60s. on Friday. The yield is just over
4 p.c., allowing for the accrued div.
* He * * jj
The merits of Berlci, Ltd., as a well-
ribbed manufacturing concern need no
further elaboration here. Plant stands
in the books at £10,052 in a capital of
£190,056. The ord. div. increase came
along last week —10 p.c. now, as against
8 p.c. in the preceding four years. No-
thing lower than 74 p.c. was paid during
the slump. The market rose 4s. in about
a week —to 40s.
Justice Napier, of the Banking Com-
mission (while questioning the N.S.W.
secretary of the Douglas Credit Associa-
tion) :
We have had Major Douglas’s books
and have read them. We are now trying
to find out what some of the statements
in those books mean.
Many people who have tackled Douglas,
personally or through his books, will be
in sympathy with the Judge.
%
Stuart F. Doyle, K. W. Asprey, John
Goulston, N. B. Rydge, A. M. Davey
and R. G. Gregory are the new board of
Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co.
Doyle and Rydge will represent Greater
J.D.W. on the boards of the operating
concerns. The market. for picture scrip
continues lifeless.
•i” "i* *l’
J. G. Hummeling, of Sydney, has pub-
lished a book on business conduct,
finance and law. He has called it The
Progressive Retailer (12s. 6d.); it is
meant to be a popular handbook for shop-
keepers generally. There are instructive
chapters on choosing and buying a busi-
ness, management, of stock, selling, ad-
vertising, book-keeping, etc. The presen-
tation of the matter could perhaps be
improved upon, but it is all useful and
to the point,
* * * *
Copper (£42 a ton for electrolytic) and
lead (£l6 15s. spot) continued firm in
London last week. Spelter at a shade
above £l4 also improved. Mt. Lyell
shares kept above 275. There was little
movement in Barrier stocks.
* * * *
In B. 6/5/’36 it was questioned
whether ; the strong Maoriland support
for G. J. Coles ords. was justified. M.L.
investors are keen on a flutter now and
then, and, because Woolworths (a pet
stock across the Tasman) has been so
lavish with bonus scrip lately, attention
became directed towards Coles. But
the Coles co., though a very sound con-
cern, is likely to be less spectacular than
Wooiworths. Bonus issues since the
public became interested have been small.
The shares, which ran up to 86s. in a
burst of speculative buying a little while
ago, are now back to 765. 9d.
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper shares
(7s. 6d. paid) were a little firmer last
week. Support is likely to wax and
wane until the undertaking proves itself.
It has a good chance, and the directors
are confident.
* * * *
It is likely that the world’s wheat yield
this year will fall short of last year’s by
500.000. bushels. The output is fore-
cast from Chicago at 4,639,000,000
bushels, and there is a carry-over of
615.000. bushels, making a total of
5.274.000. bushels available. Last
year’s usage was 5,289,000,000 bushels.
U.S.A., in particular, has been hard hit'
by drought, and may even have to import
wheat to eke out supplies.
* * * *
The sharemarket last week appeared
to consider it had overreached itself in
the case of Central Nell Gwynne (Ben-
digo). The scrip dropped to 255., after
previous sales at 395., then came back
to 28s. 6d. on Friday. Low recoveries
have lately been experienced. Official
explanation is that development ore is
going into the mill. It is an unproved
show which has had some rich patches
to date. There is a large ore-body.
* * * *
Kandos Cement, the N.S.W. part of
the control of Australian Portland
Cement Pty., maintained its div. rate at
10 p.c. for the year to June 30. A cargo
of overseas Portland cement went down
off the Westralian coast the other day ;
but up to June 30 the new duties had
hardly time to affect earnings. After
Dec. 1 British cement comes in free of
duty. Kandos’s 10 p.c. (two large British
cos. are paying 20 p.c.) is regarded
dubiously by the market, which buys the
scrip on a 7.2 px. yield basis.
* * * *
The £1 shares in Howards, Ltd., Bris-
bane, are well worth the 325. bid on the
northern Stock Exchange. The div. rate
is 8 p.c., though last year nearly 17 p.c.
could have been paid out of earnings.
Instead of anything extra being handed to
shareholders, £3OOO was sent to tax re-
serve and £BOOO to t.-p. contingency re-
serve. Net tangibles amount to 445. per
share, largely in investments and free-
holds.
* * * *
“Bencher”: Millars’ Timber Co., West-
ralia, has declared a div. (the first for
nine years’ trading) of 5 p.c. This is on
a capital reduced from £1,750,000 to
£1,100,000, a lot of debts on pref. shares,
etc., having also been jettisoned. The
net profit from which the div. will come
was £92,466. Millars’ has branches,
depots and agencies throughout the
world, as well as subsidiary cos. (in
Maoriland and S’Africa). The Collier
Government assisted the Westralian
timber industry during the depression
years in order to hold a remnant of its
foreign trade, and there has been a
heartening revival during the past 18
months. But Millars’ profit represents
the work of the whole of the organisa-
tion, abroad as well as at home.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Wheat firmed to 4s. 10d., another record.
Cox Bros, ords., up to 60s. the previous
week, relapsed slightly—to 575. 6d.
Mr. Lyell shares sold at 275.
Henry Jones shares'at 435. 6d. were bought
in anticipation of an increased div.
G. J. Coles ords. slipped back to 765.
North Kalgurli shares firmed to 20s. 3d.
Mr. Morgans were weaker at 14s. 6d.
Emperors were lower. Lady Shentons were
the shakiest yet; the market for Lancefields
was keen. Central Nell Gwynne slumped to
255. at one stage, recovering to 28s. 6d. There
was little doing in Mammoths; this co.’s bat-
tery at Tennant Creek started during the week.


AIRMAIL
mmm
mmm
m
9m
mm
J. Kelso Murchison Will Banish Your Baldt ess—Oß NO COST!
impmb - m ivHflSfAO w
AHaAODSIDMaHTW^^
t Distribution of 1000 TRIAL
TREATMENTS This Mo
USE COUPON BELOW
Stupendous Success of
Marvellous New Treatment
“Hair Growing Like WHdfiro ,f
“You asked me to report in one month on your treatment for the
hair. The month isn’t quite up yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait
that long. I could have told you, after one application, that your
treatment would certainly grow hair. I have used a lot of different
‘restorers’ in my time, but yours is the only one that I ever used
that I have had any faith in. You said it would cure dandruff in
one week. Well, I can beat that easily, as it cured my dandruff in
one night. It has completely changed the color of my hair. It
has turned it from dry, dead, straw-looking color back to its original
shade of brown, and now, after about three weeks’ use, I have
a lot of new hair growing all over my head. It’s growing like
wildfire. I might mention that 1 never gave your treatment a
very fair go, either.” E. J. REYNOLDS, M., N.S.W.
Test it yourself—NOW!
NOW, you can test it yourself—try this famous treatment in your own home—
under any condition you like, and if it doesn’t grow new hair, rid you of
dandruff or any other hair trouble you suffer from within 30 days, it COSTS
YOU NOTHING I—not1 —not a penny. But you must hurry ; this offer may never be
repeated ; it places you under no obligation; all you have to do is to post that
coupon NOW!
GREAT DISTRIBUTION OF HAIR TREATMENTS!
What 1 Discovered About Hair
IT does not matter if your hair is falling out, if you are fast
1 going bald —or what you have tried! I know you have not
used the RIGHT method! My own hair fell out in handfuls
until I fast began to go bald. I tried, everything; but now I
have a thick, lustrous growth of hair- —thanks to the important
discovery that—
Hair “Seeds”still live inbald heads
I HAVE proved, as in actual cases quoted opposite, that the
hair “seeds” frequently remain alive in bald heads for a
number of years. In the greater majority of such cases, new
hair can b. grown, provided that the real causes of the trouble
are know,, and the com et scientific treatment applied. Hundreds
of men and women from all over Australasia have grown new
hair this wonderful new way. Just read the letters opposite
received from these grateful people—surely this is proof enough.
Ttnics Will Never Grow Hair
' I 'HEY never have—because it is impossible! There is one
underlying principle that stimulates New Hair Growth—that
principle is involved in the new Kelso Murchison Treatment! It’s
a new way—entirely different and successful. It approaches
baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new angle. With it
you can stop your hair troubles overnight.
Don’t waste more time and money on worth-
less “tonics” and “hair restorers,” but accept
my great offer ami watch your hair Get
this special offer coupon in the post to-day!
It Does Not Matter
IT doe(s.not matter how long-standing your hair
* or scaTff trouble may be; it does not matter
what you have .vied—J. Kelso Murchison is
prepared to PROVE to you beyond ail doubt,
ai... without your risking one penny, tha; YOU
CAN DEFINITELY GROW NEW HAlR—if you
send the attached coupon NOV/!
t
J. Kelso Murchison Laboratory 94
Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney.
Name
Addrets
5/8/*36
READ THIS CONVINCING PROOF FROM
GRATEFUL MEN AND WOMEN!
mm
Proves Other Testimonials
—by His Own Results.
“I have carried out your instruc-
tions and have had wonderful
results. Before having anything to
do with your course myself, I was
very dubious about the results
other people have achieved. But
now I know all those letters to be
true by my own experience. My
dandruff is gone, and my hair has
regained its sheen, and oh! how
wonderful it is to have a dean
scalp and not to be afraid to take
off one’s hat for fear of showing
thick dandruff.”
M. HARDWICK. S., N.Z.
The ageing effect of balcT-
ness upon one’s appear-
ance could not be more
strikingly depicted than
in this picture, which
shows the same individual
with a new growth ot
hair. He looks at least
20 years younger.
Was Bald for 16 Years—
Hair Now Growing.
“Hair has started to grow over
the bald parts, which have been
bald for 16 years.”
G. L. HORTON, 0., S.A.
&&W %. - \
A luxuriant growth of lovely hair,
vibrant with the charm of health,
may now be obtained if you post
the coupon below now!
Hair Coming Rapidly.
“I wish to thark you for your wonderful
method for hait. I started with your
method on the Ist of December, and on
-ne 3rd my hair had almost stopped
falling out, and now the new hair is
coming rapidly.”
—S. A. MCDONALD, T„ N.S.W.
Hair Has Im-
proved Wonder-
fully.
“After following your
course of natural hair
growing for 30 days,
my hair has improved
wonderfully. I have
not only noticed it, but
others ask me what I
have been doing to
my hair.”
S. KEARNEY, G.
m
A strong, healthy head
of hair is perhaps your
greatest social asset.
You, too, can grow
new hair.
Improved Wonderfully!
“Having used your hair course, I must say that I have
had good results. It has often been remarked to n.e
as to what I have been putting on my hair, as it has
improved wonderfully. There is no doubt it has
improved greatly; my hair always had a dry look, but
now it is soft and has a good gloss, and has become
much thicker.”
—J. W. OARLON, U., N.S'.W.
Bald Patches Growing Hair.
“Before I started to use your hair treatment my hair
was falling out that much that I thought I would be
bald in a short time. Thanks to your wonderful treat-
ment, the bald patches on my scalp are growing hair
very rapidly, and I would recommend your hair treat-
ment as tha best in the world. It has cured my
dandruff and my tiair is 100 per cent; better.”
—W. A. PEARSON, P., N.S.W.
Never Thought Hair
Would Grow Again.
“My hair is growing very nicely
on top of my head, and is also
starting in front. I had thought
that my hair would never grow
again, but you have proved this
to be a fallacy. I never realised
how badly I must have suffered
from dandruff, but now, thanks
to you, all signs of it have dis-
appeared.’’
—L. ROBERTS. N., N.S.W.
Well Satisfied!
“I am well satisfied with the
course. I can see new hair grow-
ing on the bald patches.”
—R. SPRY, Y., S.A.
Recommends Course to
Anybody.
“I 'bought I must v.rite a few
lines to you abjut my hair. I
can safely say now that my hair
has stopped falling out, and will
certainly recommend your course
to anybody in need of same, as I
think it is cheap at the price.”
N. BARTHOLOMAEUS, M., S.A.
Very Pleased with Results!
"I have been following your hair
culture for a little over a month,
and am very pleased with the
rr mlts.”
—J. P. KEEN. G., Iv.S.W.
Wonderful Results!
“I have been using your hair
treatment for one month, with
wonderful results. My hair is no
longer thin and scraggy. It has
stopped filling out, and all the
dandruff has disappeared, also the
itchy scalp. Where it used to
be short and thin it has grown
much longer and thicker. My
hair seems as though it has new
life in it, thanks to you. I
think your course wonderful and
so easy to do.”
Miss M. DAUMANN, M., N.S.W.
J. KELSO MURCHISON LABORATORY, 94 Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
30 Days AMAZING TRIAL Offer!


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE. DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Tudor Rose”
It opens with a deathbed scene —Henry
VIII. (Frank Cellier) casting a shrewd eye
over his principal courtiers and summing
up the character of each: Thomas Sey-
mour, “wit without judgment” ; Edward
Seymour, “hypocritical fox” ; Warwick,
“no conscience and no fear.” The dying
king names the order of his successors —
Edward, Mary, Elizabeth, Jane Grey—
and dies launching a curse on whoever
may seek to thwart his wishes. The rest
is a tragic record. Thomas and then
Edward Seymour go to the block ; sickly
little King Edward dies alone in a vast
bed; poor little Jane Grey, tool of in-
triguers, follows her young husband
through the Traitor’s Gate and watches
Franchot Tone in “The King Steps Out,”
coming to Sydney Regent.
the pigeons on the battlements as she
waits for her doom.
The cast is a strong one. Sir Cedric
Hardwicke is Warwick —rather heavy
and stagey, but still a credible and force-
ful figure; Felix Aylmer is equally
impressive as Edward Seymour and
Leslie Perrins as Thomas Seymour.
Sybil Thorndyke makes a lot of a small
part as an old nurse ; Gwen Ffrangqon-
Davies gives a human side to “Bloody.
Mary” and Nova Pilbearri and John Mills
win sympathy as Lady Jane Grey and
young Lord Dudley, Settings, as in the
case of Windsor and the Tower, are often
the actual thing. Costuming is exact to
a buckle or a button, and all the charac-
ters wear Tudor garb as if they lived in
it. At Sydney Embassy.
“Pot Luck”
The comedies written by Ben Travers
to meet the demand for frequent screen
appearances of Tom Walls, Ralph Lynn
and Robertson Hare have now been re-
duced to a formula. Latest application
of that formula, “Pot Luck,” makes Mr.
Walls a retired detective-inspector, Mr.
Lynn the asinine manager of a curio
shop and Mr. Hare an eccentric country
gentleman. A search for a stolen vase
involves these three characters in the
usual sequence of well-standardised farce
situations. The one departure from pre-
cedent is to invest Mr. Walls with an
Irish name and a brogue. The brogue
is not a success. Fair entertainment for
folk who haven’t seen the other two
dozen Travers farce comedies. Also at
the Embassy.
“Murder by an Aristocrat”
This ingeniously-devised thriller, done
on the multiplicity-of-suspects recipe, is
well cast.
The black-sheep scion of a proud and
aristocratic family blackmails the rest of
the clan, but before he can collect 25
grand a mysterious revolver accident
wounds him. Doctor and nurse arrive,
the latter to stay at the house during the
black sheep’s convalescence. One of the
members of the household has homicidal
intentions, and next time there is no mis-
take. Divers clues and some shrewd
deductions by the nurse lead at last to
the criminal. The denouement is not
wholly effective, as the average filmgoer
will have picked the murderer with
several hundred feet of film to spare.
Nevertheless, the sequences are logical,
and the plot has no very obvious flaws.
Lyle Talbot makes a capable doctor,
and Marguerite Churchill is a highly-
etficient nurse to the life. William David-
son is the blackmailer. Virginia Brissac,
as the dignified head of the house, gives
an impressive performance, and John
Eldredge, Claire Dodd and Joseph
Crehan assist a smooth production. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Two in Revolt”
Here is a film for lovers of horses and
dogs. It concerns a friendship between
an Alsatian hound, Lightning, and a
thoroughbred horse, Warrior, both mag-
nificent specimens. They were born on
the same day. Growing up together they
evolved a game wherein the pup barked
and ran, the colt joyously following.
Later, the ranch-owper (Moroni Olsen),
considering the dog too near the wolf
strain, drove it off to the hills, where it
reverted to type, heading a pack of wild
dogs. When the colt reached horsehood
and became a valuable racer, it was stolen
by track gamblers. Its trainer (John Ar-
ledge) and the owner’s daughter Gloria
(Louise Latimer), assisted by the dog, who
renewed the old friendship, recovered it.
Then follows preparation for Warrior’s
turf ddbut, with the dog (the ranch-
owner now reconciled) its faithful and
inseparable companion. In the great
race, when Warrior is being boxed in on
the rails by the rival stable’s jockeys, the
dog dashes to the winning-post, barking
like mad. Up go the equine ears at the
old bark-and-fun game, and Warrior
scampers home on the bit. Orange-blos-
soms for trainer and daughter follow.
John Arledge makes a manly-looking
young trainer, tom between a stop-watch
and romantic tendencies, and Louise
Herman Bing in “The King Steps Out.”
Latimer is a charming out-of-doors girl.
Moroni Olsen gives stout support in a
heavy-father role. Also at the Capitol.
“Florida Special”
A belated attempt to emulate the suc-
cess of the Shanghai and Rome Express
films. This one falls short of those,
though the comedy, owing to Jack Oakie,
is stronger.
The whole of the action, as in the
films imitated, takes place on the train.
There are an eccentric millionaire (Claude
Gillingwater) who is taking a fortune
with him —it is uncut gems this time ;
his dull-looking secretary, in league with
one set of villains (a rival crook is
thrown in for good measure); a police
captain (J. Farrell McDonald) who is
having a busman’s holiday; a comic
pressman (Jack Oakie) who pairs up
with a society playboy JKent Taylor) ;
playboy’s quondam fiancee (Frances
Drake), niece of the eccentric one ; and
Walter Connolly in “The King Steps
Out”
the train hostess (Sally Filers), who grabs
the gay lad from the dollared niece.
Honesty pits itself again gangdom, and
wins hands down, the latter losing hands
up. Romance is catered for, and snappy
wisecracks flow from the corner of Jack
Oakie’s mouth like oil from an Okla-
homa gusher.
Slickly done, with a sound cast, and
no drag in the action. Only the story is
ansemic. Going the rounds.
“Mr. Cohen Takes a Walk’
One of the finest pieces of work which
have come from a British studio. Old
Mr. Cohen has - been successful in busi-
ness ; his Empire Store runs itself. He
has implicit faith in his family. To him
it is inconceivable that his son Jack
should love a Gentile girl with a little
Jewish Julie waiting for him. Very
politely he interviews the Gentile girl’s
father. There is an estrangement, but
Mr. Cohen’s interference doesn’t bring
happiness. In disgust the old man goes
off on the tramp along the lovely lanes
of rural England. But his sons make a
slip, there is a strike at the stores and
back comes the old gentleman.
Some scenes stand out for their per-
fection of detail—Cohen and Levi sitting
on the couch after Mrs. Cohen’s death ;
Cohen and a young vagrant caught
apparently stealing food by a clergyman.
Paul Graetz’s acting as Cohen is without
a flaw. He is Cohen. At Melbourne
Comedy.
“Fame”
A Sydney Howard comedy. Sydney
works in a general store, imagines he is
a Henry Irving and bursts into blank
verse on the slightest provocation. Hav-
ing got the sack he plays billiards and
ruins the table. Given a movie job be-
cause he has the right kind of face for
Oliver Cromwell he is farewelled by the
mayor and brass band of his North
Country village. In town at dinner, he
eats so much that his waistcoat buttons
burst one by one. Then comes a touch
of pathos: poor Sydney bullied in a big
hotel because an impostor has stolen his
name and clothes. He gets his chance
as screen actor, but is another failure.
Again the sack. Fade-out with mother
as the now rather elderly boy’s only
friend. At Melbourne Majestic.
“The Prisoner of Shark Island”
There seems to be some sort of his-
torical basis for this grim melodrama.
When John Wilkes Booth escaped from
Ford’s Theatre in Baltimore after assas-
sinating President Lincoln, he carried
with him a broken leg, the result of his
leap from box to stage. In the course
of his flight he called at the house of a
country medico, Samuel Mudd, who set
the injured limb. Mudd was included
among the alleged conspirators tried by
court-martial, and, although the evidence
against him was flimsy, was condemned
to imprisonment for life in the Dry
Tortugas, where the gaol was surrounded
by a shark-infested moat.
Mudd tried to escape, but was recap-
tured. Then an outbreak of yellow fever
swept the mosquito-infested prison. The
prison doctor went down with fever ; the
master of a ship bringing medical sup-
plies and provisions refused to come into
port, fearing infection. Mudd’s services
were requisitioned; he conquered the
epidemic, quelled a mutiny of black
troops, and by firing on the supply ship
forced it to come into harbor. For his
services he was granted a free pardon.
Good film material here, and the most
has been made of it. Warner Baxter as
Dr. Mudd, Gloria Stewart as his wife,
Claude Gillingwater as his father-in-law
(a fire-eating Kentucky colonel) interpret
their roles in spirited fashion, and the
rest of the cast is also well-chosen. The
scenes of the court-martial and the subse-
quent execution of some of the conspira-
tors are done with convincing grimness
and the prison setting is extraordinarily
effective. Previewed at the Fox
Theatrette, Sydney.
“Private Number”
This is the old one about the million-
aire’s heir who secretly married the
slavey. The poor girl was cast out of
his mother’s home on a snowy night
because of approaching maternity, and
was lied about and conspired against by
his family, which desired an annulment,
but, of course, it all came right in the
end. Robert Taylor as the young gentle-
man and Loretta Young as the 17-year-
old working goil make love at length,
but they don’t matter so much as Basil
Sir Cedric Hardwicke in “Laburnum
Grove,” at Sydney Mayfair.
Rathbone, who as a particularly evil and
unpleasant butler provides all the inter-
esting features of the plot. Patsy Kelly
and Jane Darnwell in comedy roles give
the proceedings a salting of humor.
Taylor rises to the summit of his drama-
tic powers in a court scene, and Miss
Young’s ability to make her eyes brighter
with tears has plenty of scope for exer-
cise. Previewed at Fox Theatretle,
Sydney.
“Educating Father”
Another glimpse into the affairs of the
Jones household, which commenced a
screen career in “Every Saturday Night.
Dad (Jed Prouty), Mumma (June Carl-
son), eldest son Jack (Kenneth Howell)


TWO TEMPERS
FOR TWO REASONS
_
\o
N
V
I
pi%,
v , v/
\
Two definite advan-
tages are achieved
by Gillette's new elec-
trical tempering pro-
cess which puts two
tempers into one
blade. Firstly, the super-hard steel
at the sides takes a much keener
edge. Secondly, the softer steel at
the ends allows the blade to bend snugly to
the razor. That is why every Blue Gillette gives
you cleaner, closer, smoother shaves and more
shaves per blade.
PACKET OF FIVE, 2 7 -
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
HARDER STEEL
HERE THAN
EVER BEFORE-
TAKES A MUCH
KEENER EDGE
and eldest daughter (Shirley Deane) are
again to the fore, not forgetting grandma
and the younger son and daughter.
Jack wants to be an aviator; Dad wants
him to go into the parental drug-store.
When Jack’s prowess with the joystick
extricates Dad from business disaster the
old chap capitulates. A crazy flapper
who smuggles herself into a dual-control
’plane and puts it through astonishing
evolutions provides some of the comedy.
Previewed at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
“Captain January”
A sob-symposium to exploit Shirley
Temple. The youngster is an orphan
adopted by a kindly old lighthouse-
keeper (Guy Kibbee), and is, apparently,
the mainspring of the fishing village
where she lives. Whenever she walks
down the street old shellbacks gather in
hordes to applaud her singing and step-
dancing, performances of which she gives
on every outdoors appearance. A female
truant inspector takes a deep dislike to
the child and, when poor old Captain
January loses his lighthouse job, has the
youngster arrested by a brutal sheriff,
preparatory to consignment to a reforma-
tory. But old Captain Andrews, inspector
of lighthouses (Slim Summerville), un-
earths the little girl’s millionaire uncle,
who engages Captain January as master
of his palatial yacht. Not very suitable
for presentation to adults, but it has one
gorgeous comedy interlude—a perform-
ance of the sextet from “Lucia” by
Shirley, Guy Kibbee and Slim Summer-
ville —which atones for much. Pre-
viewed at Sydney Plaza.
Some First Nights
“Waltzes from Vienna,” which made its
reappearance at Sydney Royal on Satur-
day, is musically stronger than most of its
kin, owing to liberal borrowings from
the younger Johann Strauss, and gives
scope for good singing (of which in the
revival the most is made), spectacular
ballets, colorful dressing and effective
staging. But the librettists, kind to
singers and dancers, have starved the
comedians.
The cast is strong. Strella Wilson acts
with spirit and sings gloriously as the
Countess Olga, patroness of the young
composer. Marie Bremner invests the
role of Theresa with wistful charm, and
her songs are delivered in fine style. As
the younger Strauss, John Fraser has little
to do but look dreamy and contribute a
song or two. Arthur Clarke uses his fine
baritone with judgment, and Lois Green
makes an all-too-brief appearance as a
bride. Character roles are safe in the
hands of Frank Bradley, Harold Meade
and Reginald Newson. Charles Heslop’s
activity is centred in a desire to evolve
pyrotechnical perfection, and he has to
depend on gesture for his laughs. Cecil
Kellaway is more fortunate in his part,
and makes the most of it. The diminu-
tive Leslie Donaghey is an aggressive old
man.
The ballet is particularly good, the
military quadrille being a model of pre-
cision. Cornelia Lodders, the ballerina,
shakes very agile toes. Staging is lavish,
and Frederick Blackman can cut another
notch on his tally of first-class produc-
tions. Andrew MacCunn conducts in his
usual competent style.
The A.B.C.’s latest musical importa-
tions,- Fraulein Rethberg and Signor
Pinza, made their Sydney debut at a
Town Hall concert, some portion of
which was broadcast. Judging by the
applause (as broadcast), the visitors re-
ceived the vociferous welcome always
accorded by Sydney to performers in the
city’s principal temple of music. Fraulein
Rethberg, who was heard in songs by
Schubert and Hugo Wolf, and in the
Brahms “Wiegenlied,” has a strong, clear
soprano voice, better in its upper than
in its middle register, and sings with
vivacity and expression. Signor Pinza,
a low-range baritone rather than a
basso-profundo, produces his notes
with the lusty relish that makes
Italian singing unique. He set the
ether vibrating melodiously with the
“Fiocca La Neve” of Cimara, and showed
a strong dramatic sense in Mephisfo-
pheles’ serenade from Gounod’s “Faust”
and the seldom-heard aria “II Lacerato
Spirito” from Verdi’s “Simone Bocca-
negra.” The hot spot or purple patch
of the evening was a florid duet from
“The Force of Destiny,” in which the
singers let themselves go and demon-
strated Verdi’s mastery of the art of
opera. Their voices blend admirably,
and it may be suggested that broadcast
listeners, who probably don’t get the best
flavor of either singer in the solo offer-
ings, will appreciate a bigger slice of
operatic duet fare. It is a pity that this
field, so far as basso and soprano or
baritone and soprano are concerned, is
so constricted.
4* 4* 4*
The second Rethberg-Pinza broadcast
was confined to the short songs in the
first half of a Town Hall programme,
such attractions as the duet from “Don
Giovanni” being reserved for the delec-
tation of ticket-holders. The question
arises as to whether the A.B.C. is in busi-
ness as a box-office entrepreneur or as a
purveyor of radio entertainment.
4 i 4* 4* 4 1
The problem in Walter Hacketfs mys-
tery play “Other Men’s Wives” is not to
unmask the culprit but to save newly-
wed Angela Worthing and friend-of-the-
family Anthony Peel, thrown together in
a lonesome wayside chateau, from
the scandal publicity would bring when
a corpse is unearthed. The difficulty is
overcome by the distressed Angela chang-
ing places with the hostel’s maidservant,
ostensibly a jewel thief, but actually on
the track of some missing sparklers. In-
terest thereafter centres in the unsuccess-
ful activities of a dude detective and the
flutterings of anguish-stricken Mrs. Worth-
ing in the background. Humor is stilted,
and the lines are dull, but the Indepen-
dents made the best of it at Sydney Savoy.
Patricia Cole was capital as flirtatious
Angela, John Alden arched his eyebrows
in the best style as the ditched detective
and Mimi Spaull (producer also) con-
ducted her sleuthing with efficiency.
4- 4* 4* 4*
Scott Alexander’s Sydney Kursaal
season of “Romeo and Juliet” was
refreshing for its attention to detail; the
many handsome scenes were changed with
commendable alacrity, and an under-
current of appropriate music imparted
emphasis to the dramatic efforts of a fine
cast. Phyllis Cavanough brought grace-
ful deportment and a flexible voice to
the role of Juliet, and Ron Folkard
Romeo’d worthily, if a trifle melodrama-
tically. Wilson Irving doubled devil-may-
care Mercutio and an emaciated apothe-
cary with success, Treasure Richardson
made a tantalising nurse, and Henry
Messent (Friar), Arch Hull (Peter) and
Raymond Irons (Benvolio) did well. Mid-
week performances are being undertaken
by an all-feminine cast, with Helen Perry
and Phyllis McLean in the respective
name-parts and Grace Armstrong a
sprightly Tybalt.
Current Artbursts
The 1936 show of the Royal Art
Society of N. S. Wales, at the Education
Department’s Gallery, Sydney, is richer
in pictures with a claim to distinction
than any Sydney show of the kind in
the last decade. The two painters in the
oils section who strike the eye most
forcibly are Hanke and Albert Sherman.
Hanke’s “La Ghana,” though his
Spaniards look very Australian, is a
forceful piece of figure composition,
and dominates the room. Other worth-
while offerings by this painter are “Red
and White” (a portrait), a head of Trixie
Tange, and some glimpses in the Hanke
semi-posterish manner of Sydney streets
and woodland scenes. Sherman shows
a big array of fruit and flower pieces,
all effective; “Peonies” goes to the
N.S.W. Gallery. Lister-Lister is repre-
sented by canvases large and small, all
genially transcribing “Sunny New South
Wales.” John Salvana, whose painting
grows more effective each year, has
caught the eye of the Gallery trustees
with “Golden Sunshine.” Erik Langker
invades both the oil and water-color sec-
tions with colorful and striking land-
scapes. Howard Barron persists in main-
taining that Australian sunlight is white
—it is, but it doesn’t look right when
painted that way. Portraitists J. S.
Watkins and Joseph Wolinski show
work up to their usual sound standard.
Mary Edwards’s “Javanese in Blue” will
go to give the Gallery an Oriental spice.
Alan D. Baker’s best offering is a self-
portrait ; his technique is steadily im-
proving. Charles Bryant makes a gay
spectacle of the R.Y.S. clubhouse at
Cowes, and Alfred Coffey demonstrates
that Ceylon is a happy hunting-ground
for the landscapist. And Harry Wann’s
work scores a bull’s-eye with “Morning
Light, Musgrave-street,” and an outer
with “The Fig, Bradley’s Head.” H.
Nevill-Smith’s landscapes can, as usual,
be identified the length of the gallery
away—they are so very deliberately
gaudy.
In the water-color section there is
some work in Tam Garrett’s unique
style, well up to his best form, and G. K.
Townshend has some blandly-painted
landscapes to his credit. A. E. Norton,
in “Their First Home,” makes a snappy
sonnet out of gum-trees; G. Lyall
Trindall shows some graceful heads and
figure studies, and C. Bostock revives
the charm of the colored pen-drawing.
In etchings Syd Long is the principal
exhibitor, his fine work flanked by
Douglas Pratt’s exquisite pencil drawings.
Porcelain figures by Loma Latour (“The
Egotist” goes to the Gallery), and some
delicate cameos cut by Raimondo
Rajola round off an interesting show.
+ 4* 4 1
Several of Arthur Streeton’s pictures
on exhibition last year are again being
shown at Melbourne Athenseum. Some
of these were painted in the first decade
of the century and bear the hall-mark of
exceptional talent. The name Streeton
had then made for himself has not been
dimmed by the years, and he shows little
sign of losing the brilliance which distin-
guished his earlier labors. As a land-
scape painter his fame is world wide. He
handles color with great skill, and the
scenes he reproduces on his canvases are
presented forcefully, without manner-
isms. “Old Corn Mill, Corfe,” is among
his finest exhibits, and “The Blue Pond,
Corfe,” painted about the same time, is
a delightful study, particularly interesting
for its play with color and design. The
Australian landscapes are semi-impres-
sionistic, and the handling of lights,
clouds and mists is clever. Still-life
pieces occupy half the wall space,
among them being many flower paintings
and groupings of fruit, particularly
grapes. “Brighter Melbourne,” done in
crazy style, is a satire on the extremists
in modern art. It is Streeton’s little joke,
and is being taken in the right spirit.
*l* 4* v »J*
Shows at the Society of Arts gallery in
Adelaide are by Douglas Pratt and Gil-
bert Roach. Pratt’s etchings are sound,
and his pencil-drawings are remarkable,
generally with a firm foreground and
backgrounds delicately shaded. Adelaide
Art Gallery has bought an etching, and a
citizeness presented one of the drawings.
Roach’s paintings, while lacking the
bright tones that S.A. sunshine ordinarily
imposes, are attractive in their way.
Still, the etchings, of public buildings,
etc., are at present the best work shown.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.


The Richardson ('bain Hotel
m
m.
m
■
H 1
r-ili
‘ f
m
til?
M.S
H
■ 51
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day;
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from. , 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
Take
your Doctor's
advice—
He recom-
mends them
HUDSONS
"EUMENTHOL" it
JUJUBES
Sold by all
chemists
and stores
6d. & 1/6 tin
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.; F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sir Hugh Poynfer stood beside a deco-
rative bowl of oranges, apples and pears
(probably symbolic of the fruits of
achievement) when he opened the fifty-
seventh show of the Royal Art Society
last Saturday. The Royal Art is a popu-
lar old institution whose friends are
legion. They crowded into the Educa-
tion Galleries till by three o’clock only a
Goliath could have forged ahead to the
picture line. Sir Hugh spoke of the
spaciousness and color and variety of
Australian scenery, the character for the
portrait painter in the features of the
aborigine, the hard-bitten aspect and far-
seeing eye of the squatter, the beauty of
Australian girlhood and the romance in
Australian history for the genre or his-
torical painter. Like Jimmy MacDonald,
of the National Gallery, Sir Hugh is a
barracker for a distinctly Australian
school of painting.
Lady Poynter, a plucked-from-the-
garden camellia flat on the brim of her
black hat, supported her husband.
Jocelyn Poynter, in a suit of marine blue,
was in the struggle to see Art. Latvia’s
Consul Norman McLeod was there with
his dark-haired wife. Her frock was of
angora checked in deep blue and ivory.
Her hat was the smartest present. It
was of dark-blue felt, its fitting crown
deep at the back, its straight brim shad-
ing the forehead only. Miles Franklin,
winner of the 1936 Prior Memorial Novel
Prize, walked with Eva O’Sullivan.
Mrs. Norman Lowe was mostly dark
eyes above a cocoon of black velvet and
furs. T. S. Gurr and daughter Nancy
were there in person as well as in their
Wolinski portraits. Charles Bryant
helped to do the honors, and was almost
submerged with compliments on his
spirited “Cowes Regatta.”
Tall Erik Langker squired his small
wife, who was all in forget-me-not blue ;
organist Alice Bryant and Dr. Mary
Booth (her portrait, too, is on the wall)
walked the room. Neville Smith, F.
Coffey and Lister-Lister held court.
Ailsa, Helen and Brenda, the three
daughters of the late D. H. Souter, were
there. Good-looking Loma Latour, the
clever modeller whose “Egoist” has been
bought by the Gallery, was among the
gazed-on. Mary Edwards, now painting
Fiji, was present in the spirit of her flame-
trees. The J. S. Watkinses and the Jimmy
Jacksons, Mrs. McMillan and Mrs. J. J.
Rouse were a few of the many. Molly
Flaxman, of Woy Woy (she’s an ex-
hibitor), Mrs. B. E. Minns and the medi-
cal Leavers, Betty Balfe, Pamela Laidley
Dowling and Eleanor Owen, of Wollon-
gong, were among the art-tasters.
Vienna in the waltz era, when the
whole of Austria lived at three-four
time and its royalties were on a pin-
nacle as glittering but as slippery as any
of the Matterhorn, was brought to the
Royal on Saturday night. Listening to
those two Australians Marie Bremner,
in her spreading, flower-garlanded pink
skirts, and Strella Wilson, all orders and
diamonds, ermine and blue velvet, you
wondered why any theatrical manage-
ments bother to import musical-comedy
singers from Europe, Asia, Africa or
America. The house was very ornately
dressed. Mrs. Sep Levy flashed Tyrian
reds. The F. J. Davys arrived in time
for the last act. They had been to the
Rethberg-Pinza concert, Mrs. Harald
Bowden’s chrysanthemum-brown lace
frock toned in with the peach-blossom
tones of daughter Joyce’s satins. Helen
Hughes wore spreading black taffetas.
Long ago “Hop,” of The Bulletin,
made a vivid sketch of a sturdy young
Australian who afterwards appeared
again and again in his cartoons as “The
Little Boy at Manly.” In time the
little boy grew up, and became one of
the partners in the law firm of Laurence
and Laurence. Three or four years ago
his son Brian, a second edition of the
little boy at Manly, had a grounding in
The Bulletin office ; then he took up
broadcasting work. Last week the bright-
faced Brian died in his sleep. A sad
homecoming for his parents, who are
away touring in Japan.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite has
booked a seat in one of the front rows
to watch Ezio Pinza sing. She says it’s
as invigorating as a game of squash to
see a famous male singer with waist
intact. The handsome Ezio, besides hav-
ing a figure that makes his tailor proud,
has also fine eyes. Elisabeth Rethberg
possesses charm, blonde coloring and the
comfortable contours of the prima
donna. Her arms and hands are beauti-
ful. She showed these from the elbow
down at her first party in Sydney, when
she wore little puffed sleeves to her tunic
of blurred black and white. This had a
Medici collar and a flared basque. Her
long skirt was of dull black crepe.
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones arrived with
a great cluster of primroses for her
Elisabeth’s greeting. Her ground-length
frock was of peacock-green cloth, her hat
a fine halo of black ostrich fronds, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly’s sleek black satins ran to
de luxe white Arctic foxes around the
shoulder line. Commissioner Cleary’s
wife attained distinction with dewy
violets and silver fox; daughter Betty,
of the cherry-smooth skin, and niece Jean
Sweetapple were with her. Pianist Ray-
mond Lambert brought his wife, whose
black frock had a white collar narrow
as a Quaker’s bands. Importants were
Mayoress Parkes, the American Consul-
General Pierrepoint Moffats and Italy’s
Consul-General and his wife.
Mrs. Host, wife of Denmark’s Consul-
General, is one of the Consular ladies
interested in the International Ball. This
promises to put quite a curl into the end
of the dancing season. The committee
working for it is numerous and very
social. Photo, from May Moore.
Those untiring workers for kinder-
gartens the Julius lady, Mrs. J. L. Ruth-
ven, Mrs. David Cohen, Mrs. Robert
Dixson and Mrs. E, Playfair have hit
upon an original idea for raising money.
It is an Olde English Faire, and it will
be one of the attractions of Kindergarten
Week. The Town Hall will be turned
into a bustling street where there will be
a wishing well, a village pump and even
stocks to cool off any lawbreakers. The
really lovely bit will be the village green
with formal flower-beds flanked by old
wrought urns. There are to be a little
market, an Olde Curiosity Shoppe,
Noah’s Ark and, of course, the never-to-
be-forgotten Nell Gwynn. Book August
20 and 21.
Hospitality was lavish at the Masonic
Club in Castlereagh-street last week.
And there was something in it, too, for
the florists. Violets and lavender and
mauve-shaded stocks, not to mention car-
nations and daffodils (these came from
Melbourne), were bunched and banked
and garlanded. Along the window ledges
were window boxes of Iceland poppies.
The good woodwork of the ballroom
flowed smooth, polished and unbroken
by color to the orchestra dais. Here a
bank of orange Iceland poppies blazed.
Furthermore, as a sort of fragrant
memory, each woman guest went home
with a bottle of eau-de-Cologne. Presi-
dent H. L. Askey and Mrs. Askey re-
ceived. Her satin frock was patterned in
fuchsia tones, and lily-of-the-valley was
pinned in her long black velvet coat.
From being secretary and vice-presi-
dent of the Red Cross Headquarters
Younger Set, Mollie Rolleston last week
was elected president. The presidency is
for 12 months. Raymond Sawyer photo-
graph.
For St. John’s College within the Uni-
versity £50,000 is needed to round off its
Gothic outlines. Over 500 dancers
brought enthusiasm and jocund raiment
to the Trocadero last Thursday as the
first contribution to the grand total. The
red-brown of chrysanthemums was in the
lace frock worn by president Mrs. Walter
Burfitt. With Dr. Burfitt she entertained
a great tableful of guests. In compliment
to the Rector of St. John’s (Dr. J. Thomp-
son) the flower decorations were in the
green and gold of the college colors —
daffodils and mignonette.
Mrs. Burfitt brought her sons and
daughter Barbara, in whose frock silver
and cerise made striking combination.
Tall Kath Perrottet swung shoulder
drapes lined with turquoise on her gold
lame. Another wearer of gold was Lyle
Mason. Her girdle was blue, her shoulder
wrap of deep bands of white Arctic fox.
From Orange came Eleanore Dalton, the
skirt of her wine velvet slit in the new
way. Her flowers were red roses. Miss
Kate Egan was handsome in two tones
of blue; her train was one of the long-
est' in the room. One of the night’s
prettiest outfits was the blue-and-white
organza of Beatrice McGirr. Mrs. Greg
McGirr hostessed a large party of young
things, among them pretty Peggy Coronel,
who sported pink chrysanthemums on her
blue crepe. Dr. Constance D’Arcy came
to this party ; so did Judge McTiernan
and Archie Ranken from Newcastle —
one of the earliest students of St. John’s.
The Musical Association has developed
a social committee. The afternoon recep-
tion to Elisabeth Rethberg and Ezio
Pinza went the smoother for the minis-
trations of some of its members, Mrs.
Harold Bott, Mrs. Hope Gibson and
Anne Mills. It would have been pleasant
to see the hostesses for the afternoon
at the official table, but when their tasks
were o’er they slipped to unobtrusive
places among the multitude. The asso-
ciation’s male voices did the speech-
making, president Faunce Allman and
Roland Foster among them. Bertie
Kelly, too, made a speech; if music can
be said to have a patron in this city
of independence, his name is Bertie
Kelly. Cerulean was the blue of Mrs.
Kelly’s caped suit.
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones’s furs were
sable. The Clearys, of the A.8.C., were
among the cake-nibblers at the top table,
decked with pink sweet-peas and heady
with daphne. But how do these Con-
tinentals think of it? Elisabeth Reth-
berg, a picturesque figure in deep-lilac
taffeta whose high Medici collar seemed
constructed to keep the draught from
her ears, made a pretty gesture when she
ended her rather halting speech of
thanks. She took her presentation posy
of pink roses and violets and placed it
for a moment above her heart. Her
small hat was of lilac straw, and burst
into a posy of lighter-toned flowers
above the right eye.
Overheard at the Rethberg-Pinza re-
ception: “But why are you reducing?”
And the reply from one of Sydney’s
wittiest women: “So that I can sit on
the Town Hall chairs.”
A small daughter of the regiment in
the midst of her night prayers was
heard interpolating a line, “Angels hover
round my head, and the signallers guard
me.” Some idea of the military eye kept
on the waterways and highways was
gained by the table decorations at the
Royal Australian Engineers and Signal
Officers’ Ball at the Wentworth last
Friday. Models of bridges and wireless
stations proved interesting exhibits to be
examined and explained. Colonel
Rupert Smith was the night’s host, and
in his party were the Major Boyle couple,
Captain Keith Morris and Mrs. Morris
and Captain and Mrs. P. J. Manley.
Mrs. Boyle’s frock was of lake-blue
satin ; starry with diamente were Mrs.
Manley’s blue crepes. Mrs. Morris
swirled filmy black lace. Mrs. J. Bul-
lough, also in this group, mingled white
satin and lily of the valley.
A wide-eyed visitor to Sydiiey is
Robin Taylor, who arrived and will de-
part in the Nardana. Robin comes from
Vienna, where his father is in the Con-
sular service. How many languages the
young man now speaks would be hard
to say. At four he prattled in English,
German and Czech. His parents were
then at the Consulate in Prague. Robin,
now about seventeen, was met at the
wharf by the Norman McLeods, who
have not seen him since his very early
days in Prague. With them he spent
the week-end up the mountains.
Mrs. J. B. Monckton, of Manly, whose
novel The Shuttle of Life was published
by Hutchinson a few years ago, is off
to Vancouver in the Aorangi on August
13. Thence on to meet son Hilary and
his family, who have been travelling
abroad since February. The former, a
Sydney woolbuyer, was so much im-
pressed by the beauty of Barcelona (be-
fore the fighting began) that he wrote
home to mother about it. France, Eng-
land, Holland, Spain and the U.S.A. were
included in the Hilary Moncktons’ tour,
with a trip from Boston to the West
Indies as a purely pleasure jaunt. In
Cairo youthful Jean Monckton was
thrilled to hear the camel she rode on a
serious visit to “Tut’s” tomb addressed
as “Yankee Doodle.”
Maorilanders in Sydney murmured a
salutation to the great silver-and-black
wreath of laurels on the Cenotaph last
week. It was one of the tributes of
Enzedders in Sydney to Dr. J. S. Purdy,
who, like themselves, had links across
the Tasman. Dr. Purdy was a soldier,
and the wreaths that shed fragrance
on his passing were later laid upon the
Cenotaph.
An immense and gaudily-illuminated
crown guided the guests to Elizabeth Bay
House last Thursday. There were more
than 300 of them, and the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital will benefit by their
revelry. As usual in Elizabeth Bay
House the flower decorations were
admirable —the whole of the old home
was drenched with the fragrance of
stocks, sweet-peas and violets, many of
them from Elwatan, the home of the
Robert Dixsons at Castle Hill. The
Robert Dixsons, the Bertie Kellys, the
Charlie Lloyd Jones couple and the
David Cohens were among those who
gave dinner-parties before the ball. The
Waley lady, who has worked untiringly
for the hospital for many years, received
the guests. The glitter of her black
sequin dress ran into a long train. A
black-and-white ostrich feather cape was
added.
The deeps and shallows of Mrs. Harold
Bott’s diamond-and-opal pendant and ring
caught the light. Mrs. Robert Dixson’s
sapphire-blue crepes had a matching coat
with silver lapels. Orchids were a de
luxe finish. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s pink
brocaded coat was collared with sable.
Two attractive girls were Clara Butter
and Pauline Spencer Parsons. Clara’s
frock of black velvet wore an old-world
lace fichu. Hospital’s secretary May
Mitchell contrasted green and gold. Mrs.
A. J. Gibson’s deep-blue frock had its
overdress of organza appliqued in
chiffon flowers.
A letter by airmail from Mrs. B. Ber-
nard tells of a round of the French and
Russian ballets in London, which she and
all the critics agree are about perfection.
She and daughter- Joan are touring
through Germany while waiting to hear
the results of the Oxford entrance exam.
If successful Joan will take up her studies
there in October.


m
OVJOH
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Pree.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union.
ţ
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM EDWARD MILLER, who was last
heard of in 1922 at The Branch, Stroud, via
Vooral (or Booral), New South Wales, where
he was employed as a farm manager, but who
came from Cropwell Butler, Leicestershire,
England, or, if the said William Edward Miller
were married, the whereabouts of his wife
and/or children, is asked to communicate with
MESSRS. CARLILE, McLEAN, SCANNELL
& WOOD, Solicitors, Queen Street, Hastings,
Hawke’s Bay, New Zealand.
WILLIAM FITZGERALD.
WILL the abovenamed, who left Drury, Auck-
land district (New Zealand), about 1879, and
who was last heard of in Westport, (New
Zealand) in the early ’eighties, or anyone who
knows of his present whereabouts, please com-
municate with the executors of the will of
the late James Fitzgerald, THE GUARDIAN
TRUST & EXECUTORS COMPANY OF
N.Z., LTD., P.O. Box 27, Auckland, N.Z.
LYONEL CHARLES CUMBERLAND, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, communicate
with T. J. PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King
Street, Sydney, and he will hear something to
his advantage.
GRETA MURTH WAlTE.—Anyone knowing
her whereabouts kindly write to her widowed
mother; stepfather dead. Address; MRS.
BRIGGS, Finsthwaite, Ulverston, England.
Melbourne
Chatter
The braziers which were installed
a few weeks ago at Caulfield were
magnets of attraction in the nippy air of
Saturday. Glowing with coal and coke
and sending out enough heat to cook
an ox, they were installed at intervals in
the birdcage and on the lawns and ter-
races around the tote. It was not a par-
ticularly well-dressed meeting ; a raggle-
taggle, end-of-the-season feeling snooped
about on tweeds, coats and hats. Even
early primroses and an intoxicated bow
or two couldn’t produce exhilaration.
Mrs. H. S. K. Ward’s spray of daphne
was the only deviation from her all-purplei
ensemble. Mrs. Richard Crooks wore black
and a little primped and pulled velvet
hat. Her daughter’s suit was blue and
grey. Mrs. Ormond Randall wore a
Cossack cap with her navy coat, and
Mrs. Percy Lemon belonged to the all-
black brigade. Long ears of a perky bow
giddied up the navy hat which Mrs.
Lylton Stephens wore with her grey suit.
Mrs. Harry Scott chose ink-blue, and
Doreen Buchan looked an attractive
young sportswoman in her stone-grey
nubbly suit, worn with navy blouse and
shoes. Two girls in black coats with
violets tucked into fur-trimmed collars
were Bonnie Neil, who wore a small
page-boy hat, and Lizette Creber, who
had a white bunny tippet as part of her
black crepe frock.
Mrs. Troedel, who did some lucky
punting early in the day, closed her book
before the big hurdle race. Her son
Theo and his bride (Yvonne Sleight that
was) are leaving England for home at
the end of August. They have had a
marvellous ten months’ honeymoon.
From New York during the winter they
went on ski-ing excursions by snow-trains
on which one may hire skis and other
snow sports paraphernalia. America also
runs bicycle trains with bikes aboard,
your own or for hire, which are un-
loaded with the passengers when a coun-
try destination has been reached. The
young Troedel couple enjoyed themselves
immensely on a Hudson River trippers’
excursion. It was an all-day jaunt amidst
beautiful scenery. In the moonlight on
the way home the band played for every-
body to dance—cheek-to-cheek, for the
“Top Hat” style is all the rage through
the U.S.A.
The Swiss Club Ball celebrates the
Swiss National Day, the first of which
was August 1, 1291, when three cantons
joined forces to form a rudimentary con-
federation. This year’s ball at Earl’s
Court was such a large, merry party that
extra supper tables had to be arranged
in what are usually the great open spaces
around the stairs. Enthusiasts in good
voice couldn’t wait till after the consump-
tion of garlic sausage but burst into song
with the first course of supper. Club
president M. Banzigar had great diffi-
culty in making his speech heard. The
Acting-Consul for Switzerland, M. Emil
Bisang, did better, for the singers had by
then discovered that they were hungry.
“Little Doctor” Maloney did best of all.
He, who usually eschews anything as
bourgeois as a dinner suit, honored the
occasion with tails, a white tie and green
buttons in his waistcoat. His speech was
a burst of politics with the word “democ-
racy” hurled like a clap of thunder
into every second sentence.
After supper bottles with anything left
in them were picked up and carried back
to the cabaret tables upstairs, and a
couple of dozen lads mounted the bal-
cony to sing to an empty room songs of
their mountain republic. They must have
had very tired throats on Sunday morn-
ing. Noticed among the guests were
several Consuls and their better-halves,
Hans Stalaeli in Bernese peasant coat
and cap, Garnet Curwen and Keith
Allen, Peggy Mackay in topaz taffeta
and Bonnie Lloyd in Marina-blue crepe.
Wearing the small hat and mesh veil
is Mrs. L. Due, organiser of the three-
day fete to be held in December for the
Union clubrooms. Mrs. W, E. Agar
is president of the committee, and she
and Mrs. Due as part of their duties are
undertaking to be present at the initial
meetings of all 30 groups taking part in
the effort. Even though the climax of
the big financial drive is four months
distant, hundreds of people have been
caught in the noose as helpers, and are
running small parties to ensure a flying
financial start for stalls, pageant, tennis
tournament, etc. The cause is a deserv-
ing one, for the healthy and in-
telligent do not benefit very often
from welfare collections. The staff of
our seat of learning will also share in
the advantages the Union rooms will pro-
vide for students. Mrs. Due, whose por-
trait is by Broothorn, has three daugh-
ters all embarking upon careers ; Neenoo
is a nurse, Blanche is a Holyman Airways
hostess, and Pauline is studying music
at the Conservatorium.
Though crooners send a rush of blood
to the heads of the highbrows, who turn
a disdainful ear from jazz, there is for
the more lowly-minded an irresistible
charm abut a really good jazz band. In
spite of the wet night the Town Hall
was satisfactorily filled for the first con-
cert by Howard Jacobs and his dance
band. Gladys Moncrieff, who took four
encores and received loads of flowers,
wore black velvet, the cape attachment
a-dangle with ermine tails. A black-and-
scarlet arrangement of draperies made a
background for the band, and each of its
members had an individual light for his
black-and-scarlet music rest. In the dark
hall a spotlight from the back gallery
was not distracting to the audience, and
provided enough light for the reading of
programme annotations.
The band fans were a notable contrast
to the usual Town Hall concert audience,
which sits in severe silence and often
dour gloom. The dance audience smiled
and looked happy, and the players were
positively jolly and showed definite
appreciation of one another’s efforts. No
one could see the Rhythm Boys start off
with what sounded like “Wah ta ta
tiddle” without being infected by their
sense of comedy. Jacobs gets good
melody from his saxophones, Cecil
Norman is an adaptable pianist and
arranger of music, and the band’s pilfer-
ings from the classics are, in the eyes of
jazz, not mutilations but “versions.”
Arthur Streeton’s “Brighter Mel-
bourne,” catalogued as to size but not
to price, is a laughable skit on modern
art. Lots of people who went to the
exhibition would like to live with
“Brighter Melbourne,” for a time at least.
Streeton explains' his idea with notes
printed in paint on the canvas. “Air-
port” is plainly labelled: a hole in the
middle of the street. A Sovietish axe is
wielded by a tree-cutting society. “Civic
Square” is hung up somewhere in the
sky. A safety zone is filled with people
having road accidents; a crude butter-
cup blooms in the corner.
Last week when Mrs. A. Fletcher mar-
ried Noel Thomson, of Adelaide, the
witnesses were the only other people in
the church. Afterwards a small luncheon
for intimate friends took place without
speeches at the Occidental. On the
previous day a larger cocktail party was
given by Mrs. Fletcher’s close friends,
Mr. and Mrs. A. Keegan, at their home
in Tintern-avenue. Mr. Thomson used
to play golf on a 2 mark at Manly, but
since leaving N. S. Wales his game hasn’t
been quite so brilliant; he is manager
of the Commercial Bank of Adelaide.
Mrs, Thomson also plays golf, and she
and her husband are both keen about
dancing and contract bridge.
Elizabeth, younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Harry Allen, and Bruce,
younger son of Mr, and Mrs. Walter
Carnegie, were a very youthful couple
(the bride 19, the ’groom 21) when they
stood last week in front of the altar at
Toorak kirk. Five ’maids and two small
page boys were part of the all-white bridal
group, one little lad, Roderick Carnegie,
being the nephew of both bride and
’groom.
Mrs. Oswald Gibson has completed a
third labor of love for the Animal Wel-
fare League. Her first dolls’ house and
market garden raised between them over
£lOO, her Japanese gardens over £4O; and
with her latest dolls’ house she hopes to
gather £2OO. It is on show at 6d, per
peep (children 3d.) at her home in Tin-
tern-avenue, and later will be given floor
space in one of our big city stores. The
miniature house has seven rooms and a
large hall, and is surrounded by a garden
containing a swimming pool and a lily
pond. Mrs. Gibson found that papering
of the walls, putting up the picture rails
and preparing glass panels for the all-
glass bathroom were most trying to her
patience. The bedroom design calls for
dimity and spindle-legged furniture ; the
dining-room is very grand, furnished
with real antiques, 40 years old! But
the suite of “oak” (actually paper over
very thin wood) was originally out of
proportion, so Mrs. Gibson had to make
each piece smaller. From the piano she
cleverly constructed two chairs and a
table.
Her ingenuity is displayed in hun-
dreds of tiny articles. The chandelier in
the Oriental room was once a small salt
cellar; a pineapple ready to be served
as dessert was a berry found in a garden
at Honolulu ; the balloons decorating the
nursery for the children’s party started
off in life as tiny hat ornaments. All the
carpets in the house are hand-hooked,
several of them made on board ship
when Mrs. Gibson went to America
earlier in the year. A young Canadian
interested in the Australian passenger’s
industry and her dolls’ house plans
promised to send her something from
Winnipeg, and he kept his promise. The
gift was a quaint woolly animal which
makes a captivating toy for the dolls’
children.
Herewith a Jack Cato portrait of Mrs.
Cedric Battle, who has recently become
engaged to M. Jean Studer, secretary to
the Swiss Consulate. A daughter of the
late J. H. Thornton, well known in the
Western District, and of Mrs. Thorn-
ton, of Toorak, Mrs. Battle is interested
in French drama and literature, and is
an enthusiastic member of the Cercle
Chantecler, The Cercle started life a
little over a year ago in a series of
friendly meetings among French-speaking
people. M. Studer is one of its founders
and its play-producer-in-chief.
Bad weather caused a prickle of worry
to the International Club, for a few
minutes before eight on the evening of
the reception for the new Commissioner
for Malta and Mrs. H. C. Curmi there
was only a handful of people present.
But late arrivals came in a batch, and
the room was comfortably filled when
the speeches commenced.
For once the predominating feminine
element was challenged, for there was
a number of men among special guests.
Judge Foster, who received “many
happy returns” on his easily-carried 50
years, introduced Captain and Mrs.
Curmi. Tall, slim Mrs. Foster wore
midnight-blue crepe, Mrs. Curmi warmed
her black satin with a grey squirrel coat
and Mrs. F. J. Corder allied a white
ermine cape to a floral frock. Retiring
Commissioner F. J. Corder seconded the
vote of welcome and spoke of the inter-
national friendship the club has fostered.
Captain Curmi admitted that he found
difficulty in limiting his speech to 15
minutes, for to him Malta is an inex-
haustible subject. His brief summary
touched on St. Paul’s getting wrecked
thereabouts, on the island’s occupation
by the Knights of St, John (“a league of
nations which worked” from Judge
Foster), on Turkish invasions, Napoleon’s
annexation, British protection and rule
and Malta’s last war memorial —a hos-
pital for children which commemorates
not only Maltese dead but the Allied
troops who died in the island, among
them 180 Australians and 80 Maori-
landers.
In aid of the Women’s College Prof.
Giblin forsook the gloomy science for
Icelandic sagas, and his beloved
Bohemian clothes (flowing red tie, lapel-
less coat and cowpuncher hat) for con-
ventional dinner apparel. His lecture
was delivered sitting down, and his quiet
voice and simple handling of his subject
put him on easy terms with his audi-
ence. The lecture, which was the last but
one of the series, was delivered in the
atmosphere of the old china, furniture
and books collected by Harrison Moore,
whose widow was present and saw that
everybody fitted comfortably into her
lounge. Present also were Mrs. Giblin,
Mrs. Ernest Scott and Mrs. Weatherly,
director of the Homecraft Hostel. Like
Prof. Giblin she hails from across Bass
Strait; she was Tasmania’s first woman
graduate.
Val Frankel Cohen, who, with her
mother and sister Yvonne, arrived in
England about three weeks ago, wrote
some letters to Australia on the train
bound from Los Angeles to the Grand
Canyon in Arizona. Even the air-con-
ditioned car was uncomfortable, for the
temperature outside was 120 deg. Val,
describing fashions in and around Los
Angeles, is critical about midsummer
deshabille. Women wander round the
streets in shorts. One vision who didn’t
seem to cause more than a momentary
flicker of surprise wore a hat, a play-
suit, sandals and stockings separated from
the brief little pants by suspenders, and
an expanse of bare leg.
As bare branches burst forth into pink-
and-white clouds of blossom spring
clothes creep into the mind of every
woman, and linen threads are taking the
place of wools on Mrs. W. A. Hannah’s
looms. Mrs. Hannah’s knitting machines,
intricate mechanisms Bft. long and
worked by hand levers, were brought by
her from Scotland eight years ago. They
are Swedish patents, and as the instruc-
tion books were printed in Swedish she
had some difficult problems to solve when
things went wrong with the works. By a
stroke of luck she discovered an old Swede
who was able to overhaul the machines,
which are always troublesome during
heat-waves, for they are particularly sen-
sitive to weather conditions. These
Swedish looms knit any kind of stitch.
Many of Mrs. Hannah’s inventions are
results of mistakes in the pattern. Oper-
ating the machine is trying work, for con-
centration and incessant counting are
necessary, but the results are worth
while. The jumpers are delightful acces-
sories, and the suits made in a double
weave stand up to hard wear. All goods,
woollens and linens, are shrunk before
being sewn up.


REDUCED FARES
and a higher standard by
ORIENT LINE
with the
New Tourist “B”
FARES
FROM
£36
XCHA H G E
ill
it
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD.
in
ORONSAY
OTRAN TO
ORA M A
INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
The New
CottUifc
QUICK FILL PENS
will modernise your
writing equipment.
Unusual beauty of line, non-
breakable materials in new ultra-
modern colour combinations
make these pens an object of art
as well as a utility.
They are a sackless pen with a
Push-Pull piston and with trans-
parent lines running the length
of the barrel which do not
sacrifice the ink visibility.
The Ink capacity is 50 per cent,
greater than the same size pen
equipped with a rubber sac.
Available In three colours--
Grey Pearl, Green Pearl and
Red Pearl.
Pens 22/6, Pencils to Match
17/6.
Complete Sets, 40/-.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
From all Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA
The absence of uniforms made the
Naval and Military Club Ball less pictori-
ally gay than usual, but balloons, flags
and bunting provided worthy color notes,
Major and Mrs. Athol Hobbs extended
welcoming hands, hers emerging from a
fluffy creation of curd-white chiffon.
Commander J. C. McFarlane escorted his
lady, whose gold-thread black-silk nets
were sashed with black velvet and gold
lame. Jewelled belts were well to the
fore ; Mrs. E. F. Martin’s was clasped
round bronze-green matelasse, Mrs. W.
Unmack’s glittered on soft black ninon
and Grace Stapledon’s stressed the classic
lines of her lilac georgettes. Violet
swathes at the waistline had their follow-
ing • Mrs. P. White draped hers around
black silk net, and Mrs. A. R. Baxter
Cox combined scarlet with the violet
tying her floral crepes.
Exquisite ivory Brussels lace fell from
two bands of silver on the bride’s head
to the tip of her train when Mary Sholl
Church became Mrs. Afric Tanner at
St. Luke’s, Cottesloe. Across the throat
of her silver tinsel-striped ripple crepe
was a spray of orange-blossom, the
sleeves were tight-fitting and the long
train swooped from the silver girdle at
her waist. ’Maids Marjorie Church and
Enid Tanner wore severely-cut French
blue crepe, with long square trains and
stitched wimples ending in a point at the
back. Little Stephen Parker, in a frilled
white satin David Copperfield suit, scat-
tered rose petals as the couple returned
from the altar.
of
w”h“red pk.urel CO o£ S fflm Tr!
SrL in wtfs«p o e?ded U o«rte S ar S a„°d
u nf Sc liehts wire dis-
“as tinf butterlfe? aXbWs.
There were talkie shorts between the
dances. Patron S. W. Perry was there
next Mrs. Perry’s violet-sprayed lilac
ninons; Ann Perry wore eau-de-nil
chiffon velvet; Mrs. Thornton Chivers
finished her white satin with a sequin
belt, Pat Hannah fixed gold roses to the
neck of her slinky flame marselle, and
Mrs. Lee Wallace inserted sunray pleat-
mgs m her black chiffons,
The Hunt Club races attracted one of
the largest crowds yet seen at Belmont
Park, but punters found the winners of
the amateur riders races difficult to pick,
Ideal weather brought to light some
colorful ensembles, though most ot me
feminine supporters brought Ff wraps,
Mrs. J. Monteith arrived from Melbourne
in time to accompany her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. J. Robinson ; the S. J. McCib-
bons had daughters Molly and Rita in
tow ; George Gwynne rode his own and
fiancee Sheila Hayes’s horses ; Hunt
Club representative J. P. Durack was
there with Mrs. Durack, and frorn the
realms of Parliament came Senator E. a.
Johnston, Norbert Keenan, Alex. Clydes-
dale and G. J. Lambert,
The Uni. Refectory housed two
separate plays within a week. First the
French Club put on Racines Athah ,
doing the fiveactswithout a pause Jean
Randall produced and Dr. Margaret
Clarke filled the name role. The m
dental music for the chorus, compos
by June Epstein and Trixie Shelpherd,
was sung, unaccompanied Fy a group
of singers headed by Zoe Lenegan The
next playwas the Dram Socs presenta-
tion of Night Must Fall, with the mur
derer played by Rex Ennis, a member o
the debating team which leaves to wage
wordy warfare with mter-State Umver
sity teams.
There was a goodly rally at Govern-
ment House ballroom for the dance in
patients a,"the'lSTlos"l£-
MXA. SXck satta
fen'
with gold lame, and Matron Lynn was
in PrLian-blue georgette Dawn-pink
net floated over Edna Chftons
mg satin, and Shirley Thomas decked
gold spot turquoise taffeta with beige fur.
Mrs. C. Y. O’Connor, widow of the
engineer of Mundarmg Weir, was guest
of honor at a party in celebration ot her
87th birthday. The hostess was her
daughter, Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere, whose
own daughter Muriel’s reseda-green out-
fit was next her mother’s navy-wool
georgette ensemble when welcoming the
guests. Tea was poured in the billiard-
room, where Mrs. O’Connor, with a deli-
cate cream lace scarf over her black
velvets, cut the red-candled birthday
cake.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Pioneer Ship and Kindergarten Prin-
cess functions are still going strong. The
Princesses specialise in bridge parties, the
Ships in dances. At Australia Hall Mrs.
F. W. Porter organised a masque ball
for Miss Adelaide Cudmore, whose fore-
bears arrived in Australia by the John
Dennison ; Mrs. Porter comes of a Cud-
more family.
Three hundred tickets were sold. Mrs.
Porter wore a Spanish costume: a pale-
blue, beautifully embroidered silk shawl
draped over a short full skirt, a large
black hat with a red rose above and
beneath the brim and red shoes,
Adelaide Cudmore represented a
charming rose-pink bonbon carried out
in taffeta, veiled in gold cellophane stand-
ing out in a huge ruche round the cor-
sage. Joan Cudmore was a pioneer lady
in green satin with flowing skirt, a fichu,
mittens and a white wig. Mrs. R. M.
Cudmore was gowned in powder-blue silk
lace moulded to the figure, with slight
train. The Bonython lady wore a strik-
ing costume as Polly Perkins, with a
cream silk (very full) skirt flowered in
tiny design worn over a crinoline, a tight-
fitting rose-pink satin jacket and a pork-
pie hat with a little feather. She car-
ried a basket of peppermint pink-and-
white sticks.
The Gunners’ Ball is always a cheery
affair. Officers of the 13th Field Brigade
and their commander, Lieut.-Col. Lloyd,
were responsible for the warlike decora-
tions carried out in Union Jacks, lances,
sabres, swords and scarlet poinsettias.
Guests were received by the C.O. and
his wife, who had given a dinner party at
the South Australian ; Mrs. Lloyd looked
well in a silver-grey georgette on flowing
lines with wing sleeves and a Renaissance
sash with long ends in pale green and
red soft silk. Mrs. Martyn chose sage-
green satin beaute fitting to the figure,
with short puffed sleeves and cape effect;
a coronet of green leaves worn in the
hair was most becoming. Mrs. Symonds
was in black lace, and her daughter wore
white chiffon flowered in pale blue and
a short marmot fur coat. The men were
all in the striking uniform of black and
scarlet, the short jacket and red waistcoat
being rather trying for those who can
no longer see their feet.
Mrs. Gilbert Lawrence is leaving for
England by the Largs Bay on a visit to
her son, Dr. Bruce Lawrence, and her
parents, whom she has not seen for many
years.
To celebrate Belgium’s Independence
Day, the Acting-Consul, Major N. P.
Owen, and his charming wife entertained
at a cocktail party at the South Aus-
tralian. The room was draped with Bel-
gian flags, and the colors were carried out
also in the decorations. Golden wattle,
daffodils and scarlet flowers were massed
on the window ledges and on the mantel-
piece. Mrs, Owen wore a smart black
wool, faintly striped tailored suit, with
collar of Persian lamb ; a spray of golden
pansies was pinned on her coat, and her
toque was of black velvet.
The one Belgian woman in Adelaide,
Mrs. Shuttleworth, was at the party. She
was presented with a bouquet of red
roses and red and yellow carnations tied
with the Belgian colors. Among the
guests were Mrs. R. L. Butler, who wore
a black boucle coat with high collar, a
black tam beret and handsome fox furs;
the Bonython lady, in a black wool
swagger suit with Teseda blouse and a
small black velvet toque, and the Bnice
lady, in a black ensemble, with a silver
fox fur; her small black hat was worn
with an eyeveil. Mrs. Shuttleworth chose
a rust-red frock with a velor hat to
match, and a short marmot fur coat with
a spray of white hyacinths.
Mrs. S. J. Laidlaw’s only daughter,
Jean Hayward, was married in Bristol,
England, at St. Puckle’s—the bride-
groom’s father is the vicar—on July 25
to Edward Sunderland Lewis. Two days
later she rang up her mother at mother’s
flat in North Adelaide from Dorset,
where she was on her honeymoon.
Special music is being locally written
for the Women’s Pageant part (at the
end of September) of S.A.’s centennial.
Harold Davies supplies a chorale; John
Horner a march, with S.A.’s own
“Song of Australia” as main theme;
Brewster Jones, with T. D. Campbell
an overture with strong aboriginal
flavor ; and Miriam Hyde an “Adelaide’
overture, besides a lot of the chorus
details.
TASMANIA.
The New Norfolk Mental Home staff
ran a Nursery Rhyme Ball at the City
Hall, and made a healthy profit. The
object was to provide comforts for the
patients. The official party included the
Premier and Mrs. Ogilvie, Hobart’s
Mayor and Mayoress, Drs. Carruthers
and James, Matron Morey and Sister
Davey. An enormous black shoe on
the stage opened at 9.15 and released
the old woman and her numerous
progeny, and other nursery rhymes were
illustrated with equal effect. There were
about 500 dancers on the floor and
nearly as many onlookers in the gallery.
The Lyceum Club gave a party in
honor of Mrs. Stourton and her lately-
acquired 0.8. E. Lady Clark was present,
and a good crowd of members and
guests. The guest of honor was the re-
cipient of a veritable pile of bouquets.
The P. S. Shadforths’ younger hopeful,
Tim, is off to try his wings in Sydney.
His family farewelled him with a dinner
and dance, guests being chiefly drawn
from his own contemporaries. The
table decorations were in his old school
colors.
Coi. and Mrs. Juele entertained Signor
and Signora Marotta at a party at Had-
ley’s during the guests’ Tasmanian broad-
casting engagement, Mrs. Juele managed
to gather a few guests who spoke Italian
in this far-from-polyglot community.
Mrs. Hall (Eng.) returned to Hobart
for a few weeks after being in the north,
and was entertained by many old friends,
among others by Mrs. G. H. Butler,
whose sherry-party at her own home
was a cheery event.
Col. and Mrs. J. E. C. Lord sped their
young departing guest, Ivor Hill, of Fiji,
with a very cheery small dance at their
home, Derwentwater, Sandy Bay. The
guest of honor turned host next day at
a cocktail-party at Hadley’s.
Dr. Ida Birchall (Launceston) sends
news of yet more successes in her medi-
cal career in England. She has just
been made a member of the College of
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. She was on
the resident medical staff of the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney before
going abroad.
The Speck’s Rhodes scholar for 1936
is R. W. Gandy, native of Derby. His
home town engineered a reception for
him at the local Town Hall before his
leaving for Oxford, and presented him
with a travelling rug and a wallet of
notes.
News comes of the death of Lady
Barron, widow of a well-liked former
Governor of the Speck. Lady Barron
was popular in Hobart, and many Tas-
manians renewed friendship with her on
visits to England.
Clanville Bishop’s newly - formed
Chamber Music Society drew a good
audience to its first performance at the
Town Hall. Lady Clark, the Lord
Mayor and the Lady Mayoress graced
the occasion. Funds went to the St.
John Ambulance Brigade.


BY PUBLIC AUCTION.
“BAYVIEW,” CLAYFIELD, BRISBANE.
22nd AUGUST NEXT.
The beautiful residence of Mr. and Mrs. T. G.
Lahey, with approximately H acres, including
tennis court and beautiful gardens. Glorious
panoramic views. For full particulars apply
G. T. BENNETT & CO.,
Auctioneers, Brisbane.
HEMQR^, thEASF
Pass Examinations. Speak without notes.
Grip business facts, lodge ritual, etc., etc.
Booklet free. Write;
Rev, WM. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield, S.E.B, Vic.
The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
ť
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7 i hours.
London & North Eastern Hallway
EOK LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHJLP & CO., LTD.,
Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Stay at this
MODERN HOTEL
Rooms from 4/- to 16/-!
ŧ
lii heart of Melbourne.
All modern luxuries.
Unrivalled catering.
Popular “Room Only”
tariff: Singles, 4/- to 7/6;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
Write to dept. 814 for
free illustrated folder.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST MON-LICENSED HOTEL
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Queensland’s New University
“E.V.”: Plans for the new Queensland
University have been approved by an
advisory committee —J. D. Story, an ori-
ginal senator, A. B. Leven, Chief Gov-
ernment Architect, J. J. C. Bradfield, Pro-
fessor Melbourne and T. L. Jones, a
hospital representative.
The scheme centres in a large building
facing a sea of concrete, in the middle of
which there is a circle of turf. A path
leads to the main entrance, above which
there is a Great Hall. A cynic says the
G.H. looks like a Constantinople church
of the early-Christian period, and is
wedged between two wings which seem
to be nearly related to the Queensland
(Italian Renaissance) Executive Building
until they turn into gable-roofed con-
structions running back at right-angles to
taper off into cloisters. Around the main
building various erections like glorified
State schools, flat-faced, red-roofed and
undistinguished, are scattered over several
acres.
For all that, the scheme has a certain
harmony and completeness. It should
bring blushes to the cheeks of the Syd-
ney University authorities, who have
allowed Neo-Michigan styles to mush-
room up round a noble nucleus of local
stone and stained glass.
“X.T.”; The new president of the
Queensland Federation of Chambers of
Commerce is George Groom, a son of
the late Harry Groom, M.L.C., and a
grandson of W. H. Groom, one-time
Speaker of the Queensland Assembly
and first Darling Downs M.H.R. He
is in the third Queensland generation of
newspapermen. For a time, he was on
the family paper, the Toowoomba
“Chronicle,” then went to the Brisbane
“Daily Mail,” then to Melbourne to
become Keith Murdoch’s secretary.
Finally, he settled down in Innisfail
(N.Q.), which is about the richest town
for its size in Australia. In between
running most things in Innisfail he man-
ages and edits the “Johnstone River
Advocate,” to which sound little paper
business he has recently added the Ather-
ton “Tableland Examiner.”
* * * *
“Bris.”: A unique feature of the late
“Daily Standard” was that for 14 months
in 1932-33 it carried on without an editor
and for most of the time without a
manager. The editorial work was shared
by members of the staff, and no diffi-
culties arose. During that period the
"Standard” had to fight and win a
general election —at least it was given
some of the credit for the win.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: A young Chinaman took
some of his brown brothers fishing near
Madang (N.G.). During the expedition,
one boy went missing. His luluai was told
by the party that he had been taken by a
shark. Four months afterwards, a new
story came to light; it was alleged that the
Chinaman threw dynamite into the water,
killing a native, and that the party had
conspired, at the instigation of the China-
man, to sink the body in deep water and
concoct a lie. The kong kong was
charged with manslaughter. Each of
four native witnesses retailed a precise
yarn about the killing with dynamite,
and how the boy’s body was lashed to a
stone and sunk. But each, under cross-
examination, admitted that this tale—told
in two courts —was a fabrication, the work
of the father of the missing man, who had
first dreamt it and then, with the help
of police boys, frightened the witnesses
into learning the details by heart and re-
peating them on oath. Judge Wanliss
dismissed the case —he said there was not
the slightest suspicion of wrongdoing on
the part of the Chinaman.
* * * $
“X.T.”: Forgan Smith’s new harbor at
Mackay seems to have a curse on it.
Differences with the contractor have re-
sulted in the Harbor Board cancelling
the contract, leaving 270 workers in the
air. The future of the job has yet to be
decided.
“Torby”: The ancient and inextin-
guishable Archibald Watson, for 35 years
Anatomy Professor at Adelaide Univer-
sity and now one of the best-known char-
acters of the North, has made a stir by
advocating the marriage of half-castes
with whites, who, he says, will breed out
“Good morning, sir. Can I interest you in a burglary insurance policy ?”
all signs of the abo. in three generations.
He declares that it is a “diabolical policy”
to put half-castes into blacks’ camps, and
that at Cowal Creek abo. station, on Cape
York Peninsula, he found a fine type of
half-breed girl, 15 years old, forced to
live with 40 abo. youngsters whom he
and a visiting dentist saw with festering
mouths and affected with all the signs
of scurvy. There is something to be said
in support of Archibald. The NT. has
half-caste girls who, in physique, beauty
and mental qualifications, are the equal
of whites, and so indistinguishable from
them that the unaccustomed visitor
gets a shock when he sees them
on the woodheaps. Many old Terri-
torians have a black strain and seem
none the worse for it. But the professor
nas a long way to go before he can over-
come natural prejudices. And, as the
Queensland Aboriginal Protector, J. W.
Bleakley, points out, segregation is not
easy where the mother is an abo. living
with abos.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The State and Municipal Orchestra,
now combined with the A.B.C. Orches-
tra, was heard last week in the first con-
cert under the new regime. And who
says the A.B.C. has no sense of humor
when one of the chief items in the even-
ing’s programme was “In Memoriam”?
Jean Bell, daughter of the J. D. Bells,
looked pretty in her trained gown of
magnolia satin when she murmured her
“I wills” to Arthur Rankin Ralston.
Betty Bell, in white with sparkling dia-
mente clasps on the shoulders, was the
only bridesmaid, and Bob Ralston was
best man. At the reception at the bride’s
home Mrs. J. D. Bell received the guests,
wearing a cape of black ring-velvet with
her black lace frock Mrs. Ralston wore
a black-and-silver gown and carried red
roses.
Mrs. Lionel de Morpurgo, who was
Feo Beith, a Toowoomba girl, is visiting
Queensland and is notable for her smart
frocking. Westbrook House, once a show
home on the Downs, was Mrs. de Mor-
purgo’s home when she was a girl. It
was sold to the late T. J. Ryan, and
while empty was gutted by vandals. They
tore the lead from the roofs, dragged
down the cedar mantelpieces and doors
and burned them to boil swagmen’s
billies.
Large papers on routes, dress, etc., in
connection with the visit of the Gover-
nor-General and Lady Gowrie have been
issued. The dress instructions are amus-
ing. Coats and hats are mentioned, and
any departure from the prescribed gar-
ments evidently will be severely punished.
But nether garments are not referred to,
so apparently officials may wear bow-
yangs, kilts, shorts, longs or parrots’
feathers or lap-laps, as fancy takes them.
Joyce Armstrong, daughter of E. K.
and Mrs. Armstrong—her father was the
elder brother of the family once known
as “the Armstrong Eleven,” all mighty
cricketers —and her mother gave a tea
party at Rowe’s to a bunch of our
younger-setters. Joyce wore cherry color,
and her mother chose navy-blue relieved
with white.
Elizabeth Edwards, a last year’s deb.,
also gave a party at Rowe’s for several
girls of her own year and others who
will come out during Show Week, The
younglings played bridge, ' and Betty
McCrae carried off the prize.
Mrs. Nathan Levine, wife of Brisbane’s
gifted Rabbi, who is leaving Brisbane, is
tied up in numerous farewell functions
which prevent her from getting on with
her packing.
The University dental students held
their annual dance in Finney’s audi-
torium, and at midnight put on a bur-
lesque deb. presentation. Prof., and Mrs.
Helmore, official host and hostess for the
night, entered joyously into the spirit of
the thing, and Mrs. Helmore acted as
“matron-of-honor” for eight husky
“debs.” in stout Mother Hubbards.
The engineering students held their at-
home in the Engineering Building and
entertained the brave and fair with
modern magic in the lab. On top of
the building large wheels, outlined with
electric lights, gyrated unceasingly. Prof.
R. W. H. and Mrs. Hawken received the
guests. Green and pink streamers and
a myriad of colored balloons formed the
decorations.
The first annual combined hockey ball
was a cheery affair. Office-bearers had
their parties in various alcoves and the
proceeds went to international and inter-
state funds for the Brisbane Hockey
Association. Mrs. J, G. Scott and Miss
L. Rusky were the hostesses.
The Musical Society of the Students’
Union of the Uni. flew rather high when
they presented Milton’s “Masque of
Comus” at the Princess Theatre, but the
performance was excellent. Greek coun-
try dancers, nymphs and shepherds in
charming costumes jostled one another
on the stage. Groups of pupils from
several secondary schools swelled the
audience.
The Governor of S, Australia and
Lady Dugan have been visiting this
State, and our Ex-
cellencies gave a
luncheon party for
them at the Pacific
Hotel, Southport.
Marjorie Wilson and
her guest, Margaret
Ranken, of New-
castle, were in the
party.
Mrs. T. C. Ren-
toul, whose husband
is director of the
Federal Inland Mis-
sion, was welcomed
to Brisbane by a
group of Methodist
workers headed by
Mrs. A. Wagner,
president of the
Women’s Auxiliary
of the Methodist
Home Missions,
who met her on the
station and after-
war d s entertained
her at afternoon-tea
in the palm lounge
of the Canberra
Hotel.
The Debutantes’
Ball arranged by
the Rockhampton
Younger Set of the
C.W.A, received a great fillip through
the presence of the G.-G. and Lady
Gowrie, to whom the 15 debs, were pre-
sented. Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Evans,
Mayor and Mayoress of Rockhampton,
accompanied the vice-regal party, and
Mrs. D. E. A. Buchanan, president of
the central division of the C.W.A., and
Mrs. R. M. Hearn, president of the Rock-
hampton branch, received them. Miss E.
W. Archer was matron-of-honor. Girl
Guides and Boy Scouts formed a guard
of honor for the G.-G. and his lady.
Fifty hostesses combined in the fare-
well morning-tea at Finney’s in honor of
Mrs. A. D. B. Rowley, who is leaving
Brisbane for Sydney. Green pottery-
bowls of Iceland poppies set in puffings
of primrose and green tulle decked the
tables, and the guest of honor received
a bouquet of pink clove carnations and
a writing-case bearing her initials in
silver.


THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve 44 BABY GRAND ” All-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Mallard Radio Valves.
ZaSf/
Battery “International’
7-valve Dual-wave,
£l3/17/6.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/—, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/—. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves.
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/ ,
42 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Crip
Holders,' 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOVAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
“THE COMPANION
PORTABLE”
Complete kit of first-quality
parts £5/15/-
Ready-made, including Royalty
Plate £7 10-
WE CAN SUPPLY KITS OF
PARTS OR READY-MADE
SETS FOR ANY CIRCUIT.
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
D. G. McINTYRE,
5 AND 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
RADIO NEWS
THE COMPANION PORTABLE.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
THE popularity of the Little Twin receiver (described
B. 29/l/’36) was proof that many readers are interested
in small headphone receivers. In a search for extreme battery
economy, the small portable described here was developed.
The two valves consume less filament power than one type 19,
and, owing to unusual design, two nine-volt C batteries provide
all the necessary plate voltage for broadcast and short-wave
operation.
In these days of elaborate up-to-the-
minute receivers with iron-cored circuits
and super-efficient valves, the man with
an interest in the very small kind of
receiver is apt to be overlooked. There
is something very satisfying about a
simple little receiver of the regenerative
type and a pair of headphones, particu-
larly if the receiver is of a truly portable
nature. To be fully portable, and not
merely transportable, it must be self-
Fig. 1.— Th e circuit. No fixed resistors or condensers, and only 18 volts of B battery!
contained. In other words, the whole
outfit, including batteries, must fit into a
compact carrying case and be on the light
side. Such a design necessitates the use
of particularly small B batteries. Dry-cell
operation of filaments presents no diffi-
culty, owing to the modest demands of
the two-volt .06-ampere type of triode
valve.
But even with a B battery made up
from the smallest pocket-lamp cells, the
average voltage needed is anything from
45 to 135 volts, and the writer felt that
it would be much more convenient if a
fraction of this voltage could be em-
ployed satisfactorily. This cannot be
done with the usual circuit arrangements
of the regenerative detector and audio
amplifier, but it can be achieved by
delving into the past and employing prin-
ciples now generally forgotten.
Whilst considering the design of a
headphone portable the writer consulted
some old constructional data, and was
reminded of the once-popular tetrode or
double-grid valve with its application as
space-charge audio amplifier. A valve
of this type in widespread use around
1926 was the Philips Al4l. It was pos-
sible to build a two-valve receiver using
this type and secure regeneration in the
detector and ample headphone volume
with as low as 4j volts on the plates.
The plate requirements were almost nil.
This valve came before the advent of the
.06 filament. In the search for a suitable
valve for duplication of tetrode action,
the type 49 Radiotron filled the bill. This
is a two-volt battery valve designed for
Class-B audio use (two valves). Fila-
ment current is .12 ampere. By revers-
ing screen and control grids the
desired result can be obtained. But .12
ampere is not .06, and so an alternative
detector was considered. By using a
type 30 as a plain oscillator, oscillation
can be secured (at low frequencies) with
only nine volts on the plate. By attention
to coils and general layout oscillation
can be obtained at high frequencies with
18 volts on the plate. Here, then, in the
30 and 49 valves was a possibility. A
receiver was strung together experimen-
Fig. 2. —The complete
receiver.
tally, and worked perfectly on short
waves and broadcast, ideally filling the
predetermined requirements.
The Circuit.
Fig. 1 shows the circuit arrangement
of the receiver. It will be noted that it
contains no fixed condensers or resistors.
If a two-volt accumulator is used for
filaments, the rheostat can be omitted.
This is included only to drop the volt-
Parts for the Companion Portable.
Chassis to suit individual needs.
One ,00016mfd. Formo variable condenser.
One .00035mfd. Formo variable condenser.
Two vernier dials.
One Isolantite or Ceramic four-pin socket
(coil mount).
One four-pin valve socket.
One five-pin socket.
One toggle switch.
One 5-1 audio transformer.
One 10-ohm rheostat.
One pair 2000-ohm headphones.
One headphone jack and plug.
One three-plate midget variable condenser.
Three Ifin. short-wave four-pin coil formers.
One three-section R.F. choke.
Wiring flex.
Terminals.
Two Ever-Ready C cells.
Two Ever-Ready nine-volt C batteries.
One ’3O valve.
One ’49 valve.
24, 26, 28 and 32 copper wire, as specified
in text.
age from three volts obtained from two
Ever-Ready C cells (H volts) in series.
The rheostat, once set, is fixed in posi-
tion where a voltmeter across the valve
filament terminals shows two volts.
Alternatively a five-ohm fixed resistor will
do. The detector is
the usual regenera-
tive arrangement
with “throttle”
condenser for oscil-
lation control, but
minus grid leak or
condenser. Audio
transformer coup-
ling is used to the
49, and, if this is
a high-ratio trans-
former, so much
the better. The 49
is connected as for
a pentode audio
stage, but with con-
trol and screen
grids reversed.
Coil and Condenser
Details.
To cover the
short waves a reas-
onably small tuning capacity is necessary,
and a Formo .00016mfd. type (Price’s
Radio, Sydney) is used. By suitable coil
design the broadcast range of 200 to 500
metres can be taken in. The regeneration
condenser is a .00035mfd. type. Owing to
the low plate voltage on the detector it
is necessary to use a higher ratio of
plate coil than usual, and in each case
this coil is almost equal to the particu-
lar grid coil in inductive value. Because
of undoubted gain in efficiency the coils
for the broadcast range are made up in
spiderweb form. The full particulars are
shown in Fig. 4. By means of a bracket
this assembly is fixed to an old four-
pin valve base, to plug into a four-pin
socket. The short-wave coils are on
formers with the following wind-
ings :
Range, LI, L 2, Wire,
Metres. Turns. Turns. D.S.C.
18-35 .. 6 6 24
30-60 .. 12 12 24
50-100 .. 24 24 26
General Details.
The chassis may be made up very
compactly to suit individual ideas. The
method of construction followed by the
writer can be seen in the illustrations.
Two small vernier dials are used for
Fig. 3. —The chassis removed from the
case.
tuning and oscillation control. The
rheostat for limiting the filament volt-
age is fitted at the rear of the small
chassis, out of the way. No details are
given for the size of the chassis or the
wooden carrying case, as not everybody
may wish to include space for the two
C cells. Much smaller li-volt cells
than these could be used, and thereby
the overall size of the receiver could be
considerably reduced. The C cells are
to be preferred where the receiver is to
be used for lengthy periods. The two
nine-volt C batteries for the 18-volt plate
supply are the standard W9S kind, and
fit snugly into a small space.
Operation.
A two- or three-plate midget variable
condenser is included in series with the
aerial for short-wave work, but this is
shorted out for broadcast reception. For
short waves, it should be needless to state
that the better the aerial the better the
results, but for broadcast reception quite
a short elevated wire will do. With an
inside aerial about 15 feet long, the Syd-
ney stations can be tuned in at clear
headphone volume at a Waverley loca-
tion. With a good outside aerial, Ameri-
can amateurs have been listened to dur-
ing the afternoons on 20 metres. Volume
is not exceptional, of course, and the
more sensitive the headphones the better
the results ; 8000-ohm ’phones would be
ideal, but are not obtainable in Australia.
The receiver should not be used with-
out an earth connection, otherwise tuning
Fig. 4. —Broadcast coil details for .00014 / 6infd. tuning
condenser.
may be troublesome owing to body
capacity. The detector goes into oscil-
lation so smoothly and quietly that it is
often difficult to ascertain the oscilla-
tion point. Tapping the aerial lead from
the aerial condenser to detector grid will


Next Week!
THE “SIMPLIFIED
MONEYSAVER
BATTERY SUPERHET.’
A Fine Radiokes Kit-set for the
Constructor.
NJ
PALEC
TESTING EQUIPMENT
Dependable, Profitable
MULTITESTER—ANALYSER-SELECTOR—VALVE TESTER—ALL-WAVE
OSCILLATOR—VACUUM-TUBE VOLTMETER.
The above instruments constitute a most complete outfit for the service man or radio
laboratory. All units the same size: 7iin. x 82m., panels 6in. deep. Available singly
or in black leatherette-covered cases of two or three Units, as illustrated.
ţ
(A) MULTITESTER, D.C., A.C. volts.
Current, resistance, capacity,
inductance, impedance, electro-
lytic condenser capacity and
leakage. Power supply built in.
22 ranges. Price ... £l3/10/-
(B) ANALYSER-SELECTOR. For
current, voltage, resistance
ANALYSIS from any valve socket.
Price £2/19/6
(C) VALVE TESTER. Tests all
American, English and Dutch
tubes, including all latest types.
Tests for MICRO-LEAKS on
HEATED VALVE. Easy reading
valve test chart. Price, £ll/5/-,
CD) ALL-WAVE OSCILLATOR. I.F.
to highest R.F. by 5* bands of
fundamentals. Precision Dial
with vernier scale. Attenuates
to microvolts by new graduated
capacity attenuator. Battery-operated. Perfectly shielded. Price ' £ll/10/-
(E) VACUUM-TUBE VOLTMETER. Reads 50c.s. to high R.F., also D.O. on multi range
direct-reading dial. Metal measuring tube on 3ft. flexible lead. No grid leads—no pick-up.
Power supply built in. Most advanced design available anywhere. Price £ll/10/-
All Prices Are Subject to Sales Tax.
Combinations: A and B, £l6/10/-; A, B and C, £26/10/-; A, B and D, £36/10/-
All Plus Sales Tax.
Write for catalogue descriptive of full range,,
including Palec Cathode Ray Oscillograph.
THE PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO.
90 VICTORIA STREET, ASHFIELD, SYDNEY. Telephone: UA1960.
Distributors; —Sydney: Bloch and Gerber, Fox and MacGillicuddy, Lawrence and Hanson.
Melbourne: A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd.
New Zealand: The Electric Lamp House, Ltd., Wellington.
show a double click when the valve is
oscillating. On the broadcast range
almost as good reception can be obtained
with only a single nine-volt C battery for
plate voltage, but the full 18 volts is
needed for oscillation on short waves.
A simple method of shorting the
aerial condenser, other than by a switch,
is to bend the tip of a rotor or stator
plate so that when at full capacity the
condenser shorts itself out. The
economy of this little receiver will be
apparent, and as for construction—what
could be simpler? Reasonably good
long-distance broadcast reception can be
expected out in open country —hence the
value of portability—and for amateur
field days a receiver of this nature is
invaluable.
D.B.K.
All Round the Dial.
“Vext”: The designers of broadcast-
ing studios usually take pains to ensure
the soundproofness of these apartments,
and when last I visited 2BL the insula-
tion seemed to be in good order. But
of recent weeks morning sessions from
that quarter have been punctuated with
and partly obliterated by vigorous and
determined hammering, palpably distress-
ing to the entertainers who have to com-
pete with this hubbub. If structural
alterations are in progress the A.B.C. is
surely wealthy enough to have the
hammering done outside broadcasting
hours.
* * * *
The A.B.C. has completed negotiations
for Vladimir Horowitz, Russian pianist,
to visit Australia in May, 1937, follow-
ing what is claimed to have been a
phenomenally successful series of recitals
in London.
What’s What in Radio.
A new method of fighting Neon tubes
by means of micro-waves is reported
from Tokio. Dr. H. Nagaoka, a well-
known scientist, is responsible. Micro-
waves having a wave-length of 20 centi-
metres are employed, and neither trans-
formers nor conductors to the tubes are
needed for illumination. On aeroplanes
the tubes can be illuminated by radiation
from the ground, and will serve as a
guiding device at aerodromes. Neon
signs in streets may also be lighted with-
out wires by this means.
jfc ;|i $ :}c
Dr. D. F. Martyn and Dr. O. O.
Pulley, on behalf of the Radio Research
Board of the C.5.1.R., have been in-
vestigating conditions in the iono-
sphere, the zone between the heights
of 60 miles and 150 miles above the
surface of the ground. They deduce
that temperatures in these regions
reach values of the order of lOOOdeg.
centigrade, found in both summer and
wmter, and that considerable cooling ot
the upper atmosphere takes place during
the night. The gases present in these
high regions are extremely rarefied, and,
following changes in temperature,
changes in their ionisation occur. It is
owing to their ionised state that they
have such an important effect on radio
waves. It is also found that ozone is
present in much greater concentration
than it is on the surface of the earth, and
that it exerts a very strong influence on
lomsation. Below the upper zone of -high
temperatures a cold layer occurs at a
height of about 50 miles or so above the
surface of the earth, and in this region
noctilucent clouds, which are believed to
consist of ice crystals, occur. Below this
level the temperature of the atmosphere
gets warmer again at a height of 40
miles; at a lower level still it falls to
the low temperatures experienced in
balloon ascents into the stratosphere.
,
c ~
During the maiden voyage o the
Queen Mary, the programmes tncluded
descriptions of the ship from all parts,
including the engine-room, the bridge
and the crow’s nest. In the main lounge
the ship’s band, conducted specially for
the occasion by Henry Hall, was heard
by listeners throughout the world. Celeb-
rities introduced to listeners during the
voyage included Sir Edgar Britten, cap-
tain of the liner, the American Ambas-
sador and Sir Percy Bates, chairman of
the Cunard-White Star Line. The suc-
cess of the broadcasts was ensured by
the co-operation of the British Post
Office, which picked up the signals from
the Queen Mary at its Baldock station.
“Sach”: The inter-State finer Manoora
left Darling Harbor on a recent evening
at 8 o’clock, but on her way to Sydney
Heads stopped and anchored in Chowder
Bay. The signalmaster at South Head
was asked to signal her by lamp and get
the reason, but a fog came up and the
lamp could not be seen. In England
many years ago a similar event revolu-
tionised signalling. Semaphore was then
used. The Peninsular War was in pro-
gress, and a message was received, “Lord
Wellington defeated (interrupted by fog)
the French.” From then on a system
that would work through fog was sought.
The outcome was the Morse telegraph
code.
“D.8.K.”: Such incidents as the
Manoora being out of communication in
Sydney Harbor because fog prevented
visual signalling should not be tolerated
in these times. Ultra-short waves oper-
ate irrespective of fog, thunderstorms or
any other elemental, interference. Small
battery-operated “transceivers” can be
used to supply perfectly reliable voice
communication between non-visible posi-
tions.
* * * *
“Outuget”: Australia isn't the only
British country where radio is included
in the tariff prohibition; Uncle Sam
seems to be catching it from all quarters.
The U.K. has had a big influx of radio
goods from U.S.A. ; one has only to
study the advertisements of radio publi-
cations to see this. Now the British
Radio Manufacturers’ Association has
appointed a strong committee “to take
whatever action may be necessary to re-
strict the importation of radio apparatus.”
The committee is preparing an applica-
tion to the Board of Trade for the im-
position of a prohibitive duty on im-
ported radio goods.
$
Latest P.M.G. license figures for the
Commonwealth place the total at
825,136. Experimental licenses have
reached 1523.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
(. Manufacturer’s products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Airzone Model 750 Battery Dual-wave
Superhet.
The name Airzone stands high in the
history of the Australian radio industry,
and when considering battery type re-
ceivers one recalls that Airzone have
always paid particular attention to this
important side of radio. There have
been more problems attached to the
battery-powered receiver than those de-
signed for use from A.C. power supply.
The advancement in battery receivers in
the last few years has been remarkable,
and lately manufacturers have excelled
in making the utmost of new valves and
ideas, with the result that the country
listener has a goodly choice of receivers
which play no second fiddle in per-
formance to any A.C. model.
One such battery receiver is the new
Airzone model 750, a seven-valve dual-
waver. One is inclined to scoff at people
who assert that an A.C. powered re-
ceiver cannot possibly be so quiet and
smooth in action as a good battery set,
but Airzone 750 gives such an outstand-
ingly noise-free performance that the con-
tention for once in a way is more than
supported.
The illustration shows the appearance
of this receiver. It will be seen that the
panel containing the slide-rule, edge-lit
type dial is conveniently placed at an
angle which is not too acute for observa-
tion from a sitting position. The cabinet
is particularly attractive, being wide and
not too high. It is solidly built and
piano-finished. Five control knobs are
placed on the cabinet front, the centre
one being the dial control, which is a
combination quick- and slow-motion
arrangement. This feature is invaluable
on the short waves, for the slow-motion
action is really slow and obviates any
tendency to swish quickly over a distant
station, as is often the case with ordinary
dials.
The circuit comprises a series of two-
volt directly-heated valves, these being IC4
R.F. amplifier, IC6 frequency changer,
two lC4’s as I.F. amplifiers, 185 detector
with A.V.C., 30 driver and 19 Class-B
audio output. Plate voltage necessary is
three 45-volt blocks of the “superdyne”
type, giving 135 volts total. A two-volt
accumulator and a nine-volt C battery
take care of filament and grid bias
supplies.
The use of the IC4 type R.F. pentode
is noteworthy, this type of valve being
introduced last year by A.W.A. Valve
Cos. as an improved successor to the 34.
The drain from this valve combination
is under one ampere from the two-volt
accumulator, so that there is no ground
for complaint of too frequent trips to the
charging station. Standing B current
with the Class-B system is around 10
milliamperes. A voltage-switching sys-
tem, included in the wave-change switch,
effects adjustment of the receiver to the
differing sensitivity requirements of the
short-wave and broadcast bands.
Included with the receiver is a com-
prehensive instruction booklet, and the
various battery leads are plainly tagged
and color-coded for identification. The
four controls, other than that of the
Airzone 750 dual-wave battery seven
superhet. Uses two-volt valves and 135-
volt B battery. Broadcast and short-wave
coverage.
tuning, comprise a dial lamp switch,
wave-change and pick-up switching (this
cuts out the R.F. circuits and reduces the
standing current to 3ma.), battery switch
and volume combined, and a tone con-
trol. The loudspeaker is an Sin. dust-
proof permag. dynamic and gives excel-
lent reproduction with the Class-B audio
system.
As with all dual-wavers made in Aus-
tralia, the tuning range for short waves
is 18 to 50 metres, and the broadcast
from 200 to 550 metres. As the wave-
change switch is moved the upper or
lower section of the dial is illuminated
(with the dial lamp switched on) accord-
ing to the waveband, and the scale is well
defined, with the Australian broadcast and
important overseas short-wave stations
clearly indicated.
The receiver was tested over a period
of several days and nights with good
and deliberately poor aerial and earth
systems. Even under the worst condi-
tions the very low background noise was
particularly striking, and any station
with any semblance of a reasonable
signal field could be listened to and en-
joyed. Country readers can rest assured
that Airzone model 750 is a receiver
which can be taken anywhere, including
the Northern Territory or Papua, and can
be expected to give exceptionally good
results with a minimum of service atten-
tion. The listed price is £39 18s., and "the
makers are Airzone (1931), Ltd., 16
Australia-street, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The Q. and A. Column.
Can you suggest a remedy for the elimination
of background noise experienced with a Band-
master five-valve set. The noise takes the
form of a “frying” sound and is apparent
throughout all broadcast wave-lengths. It is
thought to originate in a transformer station
100 yards distant. Satisfactory performance
of the set has been obtained in other parts of
the town. Provision of an efficient outdoor
aerial and earth has had no appreciable effect
in diminishing the noise, which is so offensive
as to make listening unpleasant. —4s3.
There is a simple method of determining
which way the noise is reaching the set. Re-
move the aerial from the aerial terminal. If
the noise still persists, it is entering the receiver-
through the power supply. If it ceases, the
aerial is picking up the noise. If the power-
cables are carrying the interference along, the
possible remedy is the inclusion of a “line
filter” between the power point and the set.
This is often quite effective. See B. 8/7/’36
For article on this problem. If the noise is
via the aerial, a noise-reducing aerial might
help. The kind with twisted pair feeder line
is most effective, and such aerial kits are now
obtainable almost anywhere.
; I* n- *
I am using the Wide-World Two receiver,
and under favorable conditions have had this
set driving a Blue Spot speaker at good en-
tertainment strength. This is not all-the-year
performance, and another stage is now desired
to ensure constant use of speaker. I had in
mind a tuned R.F. stage ahead of the detector,
leaving the lb as the output tube, driving an
M-type Amplion speaker. Would this arrange-
ment be suitable ? —455.
If the receiver has been giving speaker re-
ception at any time, the inconsistency is merely
due to the fact of weak signals at other times.
However, a stage of tuned R.F. will certainly
improve results considerably. A 6D6 will be
suitable, capacity coupled to the detector. See
the article on the Martin A.C. Three (B.
27/3/’35) for the method of coupling. A
pentode such as the 38 would be better than
the 76 as output, and this would operate an
Amplion 01-type speaker nicely.
Being interested in the description of the
Astor 77 receiver in B. 17/6/’36, I would like
to know if the vibrator principle could be
applied to my existing receiver, which is a
seven-valve superhet with two-volt valves. (1)
Is it possible to obtain a vibrator of similar
performance? If so, where? (2) Which is
more suitable, vibrator or genemotor ? —456.
(1) It may be possible to purchase suitable
vibrators through Eclipse Radio or Radio
Corporation of Australia, Melbourne. (2) Both
are quite efficient. If a home-lighting plant
is on hand, genemotors can be obtained to
suit the supply voltage. In such circumstances
possibly the genemotor is more applicable.
On the other hand, the vibratory supply is
eminently suitable for your receiver, but if the
filaments are now wired in parallel from a two-
volt accumulator, it would be necessary to re-
arrange the filament circuits for an initial six-
volt input, as vibrators require this voltage
for efficient operation.


«SILVER
EDGE 9 *
tfauAcbhi/
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC,
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers.
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,” Q/Q POST
252 George St, Sydney, O/ O FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
The Steering Column.
TRACING TROUBLES.
HOW TO LOCATE AND REMEDY ENGINE DEFECTS.
BY FRED BERRY.
the last two years a great many motorists in Australia
and Maoriland have sought advice from “The Bulletin” in
respect to mechanical problems with which they have been con-
fronted, and a perusal of the “Trouble Lamp” column, in which
queries are briefly answered, shows clearly that, had some simple
and concise system of trouble-tracing been available, any owner-
driver possessed of normal powers of deduction would have
been able to identify and most probably rectify the disorder.
Obviously, to cover every potential trouble a car may be
heir to would involve much space and great detail. In this
article the means of speedily locating the more general defects
are given.
Some motorists, fortunately for them-
selves, whilst not skilled mechanics, are
possessed of the happy knack of quickly
sensing any departure from normal in
the functioning of almost all the mechan-
isms of the car. Others will continue
driving until the car stops or a pro-
nounced clatter gives audible evidence of
serious mechanical fault. In the former
case, and to the majority of motorists,
trouble-tracing hints should be of great
importance.
Dealing first with cases in which the
motor fails to start, turn the ignition
switch off and on several times to ensure
good contact. If the engine does not
then respond after spinning with the
starter for 10 or 20 revolutions, proceed
in a systematic manner to locate the fault
rather than risk running the battery flat
in the possible hope of getting the engine
to .fire. Check fuel supply, spark at plug
points, ignition switch contact, condition
of the high-tension wire from the ignition
coil to the distributor, and the wire from
the coil to the ignition switch. Examine
the fuel line for blockages or air locks.
Inspect the automatic fuel pump, empty
the bowl and look for traces of water;
then, having replaced the glass bowl
below the pump, spin the engine for
several seconds and note whether the
mechanical pump is delivering its quota
of petrol. Examine the distributor and
check the condition and gap of the
breaker points. Should the motor still
refuse to fire, coil and condenser should
be tested (special equipment required) or
spares substituted.
Systematic Check.
Unless previous intermittent trouble
has given some definite line upon which
to work, it is advisable to carry out the
tests enumerated in their correct
sequence, as given, as one can hope to
locate the fault only by a process of
elimination.
Assuming the car has recently been
driven and the motor then refuses to start,
one must visualise that, if fuel reaches
the carburettor, valves function correctly
and are gastight, and spark jumps across
plug points in proper sequence, the engine
should “fire” when rotated by the starter
or crankhandle.
So, in searching for the cause of stop-
pages much time and labor will be saved
if the following methods are adopted:
Make certain first that the starter turns
the engine, otherwise the battery is “flat”
or starting gear jambed. In either case
the remedy is obvious. Then, in regard
to fuel supply, disregard the gauge read-
ing, make sure that a reasonable quan-
tity of petrol is in the tank, and check
the float chamber of the carburettor.
Next come the spark plugs. Use a box
spanner, take out two or three and after
reconnecting wires place plugs on
cylinder head, making sure that only the
“I said ‘Reverse,' not 'Accelerate !”
“All right, keep your wool on —I’ll reverse!"
metal casing and not the terminal makes
contact with the metal. Have someone
press the starter or turn the crank handle
and observe the spark at plug points. A
“fat” spark should start the motor, but,
if there is no spark or a weak one, one
must examine the ignition switch and
make certain all contacts are clean. Next
examine all wires from coil to distri-
butor and thence to the plugs. Cracked
or perished wires should be renewed.
Make certain that none of these wires
rests upon hot metal, for in such cases
the rubber insulation will melt and cause
a short circuit. Examine the distributor
head and see that all plug leads as well
as the central H.T. lead from the coil are
firmly pressed into their respective
sockets. To make doubly sure, take each
out in turn, and after cleaning with glass
paper spread the brass thimble at the
ends to ensure perfect contact.
Ignition Defects.
Should the motor still refuse to start
lift the cover from the distributor and
see that the points on the contact-breaker
are clean ; that they open and close as
the motor is turned by the starting
handle, and, further, that when they do
fully open the gap is as specified in the
instruction book (usually 12 to 15 thou.).
A final check of the ignition system will
be to see that wire and contacts between
coil and ignition switch are in good
order, that battery terminals and earth
tp chassis are clean and tight, and that
Water or condensed moisture has not been
responsible for the hold-up.
Checking Fuel System.
Turning attention now to the carburet-
tor fuel lines and pump, motorists should
realise that seldom, if ever, do faults here
develop suddenly. The carburettor itself
is a particularly reliable instrument, but
gradual wear of the throttle spindle may
slowly weaken the idling mixture and in
time produce idling or starting troubles.
The needle valve in the float chamber
may gradually wear a shoulder on its
seating and little by little allow the fuel
level to rise, so increasing consumption
but seldom causing inconvenience. Simi-
lar conditions and symptoms arise when
a metal float becomes punctured or the
cork float becomes saturated.
Consequently, in case of starting fail-
ure, one should rather suspect water or
foreign matter than mechanical defects in
the carburettor, for water plus dirt in the
fuel line can be responsible for some
elusive troubles.
Usually failure to start by reason of
carburettor trouble will be due to defects
in pump filters or pipe lines.
Normally, when the pipe line is discon-
nected from the float chamber and the
motor is turned by starter or crank, a
pulsating, full-bore stream of petrol
should be delivered, any less volume in-
dicating either an obstruction or a defect
in the mechanical pump.
In such cases, should “free air” be
available, try first to clear the line by
air pressure from the carburettor end
(take off cap of rear tank).
If effective and a free flow is obtained,
one should not be content unless the
offending material is completely removed.
In extreme cases it may be desirable to
dismantle the petrol tank, open up and
clean thoroughly. Where bubbles of air
are observed emerging from the fuel pipe
a vapor lock is indicated.. In searching
for the cause follow the petrol pipes
from carburettor to rear tank and
note where they lie close to any hot por-
tion of the engine or exhaust system. If
at these places the pipes cannot con-
veniently be pulled away from the source
of heat, the only course will be to wrap
with asbestos cord and tape over.
Filters and Pump.
With pipe lines clear and delivery of
fuel still weak, either filters or mechani-
cal pump must be suspected. Clearing
filters is a simple process, but so far as
the mechanical pump is concerned one
would be well advised to refrain from
experimental tinkering and call in an
expert mechanic.
During these tests it is almost certain
that at some stage in the proceedings the
defect will be located and rectified, but
in the unlikely contingency of the motor
not responding one may with certainty
assume that either some mechanical de-
tail, perhaps a valve spring or timing gear,
has either broken or slipped or that the
operator, unfamiliar with this particular
car, has not set the controls on the dash
in the correct manner to effect a start.
Particularly does this apply to any car
not fitted with automatic choke, or
throttle and choke interconnected, for in
such cases, even though ignition and in-
duction systems are in perfect order and
adjustment, it is possible to run the bat-
tery “flat” in starting up from cold unless
the controls are in a position to suit the
characteristics of the individual motor.
Whenever the engine fails to fire regu-
larly after starting it may be necessary
to pursue the sequence of trouble-trac-
ing already enumerated, but in such cases
further complications may intrude. For
instance, a motor may readily start from
cold even though one or more valves are
not seating properly, idling jet is im-
properly adjusted, spark plugs faulty, and
there are air leaks in the induction sys-
tem, or even with incorrect valve timing
due to jumping of chain drive ; but, even
though we may start the engine, the
motor will not give a normal perform-
ance when driven on the road.
Full-power Tests.
As an illustration, plugs may show a
spark at the points when taken from the
motor and rested on the cylinder head.
Such spark, while of sufficient value to
turn the motor in starting, may fail alto-
gether when the throttle is opened fully,
the reason being that, while the spark
will bridge points at atmospheric pres-
sure, it may not, owing to some inherent
fault, function properly when subject to
high pressures within the combustion
chamber.
So whenever an engine starts readily
but misses at speed it is advisable to have
the plugs examined in a machine designed
expressly to permit observation of spark
behavior under working conditions
and frequency of spark compatible with,
say, 40 m.p.h. on the road.
Although it is not generally known,
spark plugs grow old after long periods
of use and, while mechanically sound,
tend to produce a spark of steadily
weaker intensity than when new. Most
common causes of misfiring at speed will,
however, be found to arise from cracked
insulation or from internal shorting within
the plug body owing to the accumula-
tion of carbon. Some types of plugs
can be taken down for cleaning, but one
would be well advised, immediately a
plug is found defective, to buy a spare
and throw the faulty one in the dustbin.
Low-speed Misfiring.
Misfiring at low engine speeds and
erratic idling are almost invariably due
to air leaks in the induction system or


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
Ch/S£L
Whenever flanges, as illus-
trated, are dismantled a chisel
mark should be made across both
halves so that holes and bolts
will register on reassembly.
I
m
y',-'
i
•a /■
//.-
:
VEEDOL
■MOTOR OIL
9*or*>
F takes you hours—sometimes weeks, after
numerous visits by car salesmen, for you to
decide on your £250, £5OO, £lOOO or £2OOO car
Yet you take any Oil offered for its lubrication
Be logical. Think over the Oil question, and
when you do you will be another VEEDOL user
There are millions of VEEDOL users throughout
the world today and remember VEEDOL, the
world’s finest Motor Oil, costs no more than
other Oils.
NEPTUNE OIL CO. LIMITED.
ALL ST AT E S
incorrect adjustment of the idling jet of
the carburettor. As an illustration, a
car after having run many thousand miles
without bother will begin to misfire at
low engine speeds, and over a period
of months the trouble, slight at first,
steadily becomes more pronounced. In
such cases either the throttle spindle in
the carburettor or valve stems and guides
have worn to such an extent as to allow
sufficient air to enter the induction sys-
tem to upset the petrol-air ratio neces-
sary for perfect idling.
Another illustration of excess air caus-
ing trouble is when, after an overhaul,
the engine may pull well on full throttle
but will not idle. In such cases the leak
can readily be detected by squirting
engine oil round all joints in the induc-
tion system with the engine running
slowly, the suction of the engine tending
to break the oil film at seat of trouble
and reveal the defective gasket or pack-
ing.
Defective Valve Gear.
Defective valves or valve gear may
also cause erratic running. Should a
valve stem be warped or binding in the
guide the motor may start easily and run
regularly at slow speeds, but will invari-
ably misfire at higher revolutions. Simi-
lar symptoms will be observed in cases
where valve head is not seating perfectly
in the cylinder block or where the clear-
ances between valve stem and tappets
are not according to specification. In
the latter case close adjustment between
stem and tappet may not be detected
until the car is driven hard for some
considerable distance, when, owing to ex-
pansion of metal, the valve will “ride” on
the tappet, break the gastight seal in the
closed position, cause misfiring and in
some instances cause fire in the car-
burettor.
Correct valve timing is essential if full
power is desired, and, although engines
fitted with a train of gears or a short
chain in the timing case seldom get out of
adjustment, the same cannot be said of
those in which a long, silent chain is
used between crankshaft and camshaft.
Such chains are provided with means of
adjustment for length to take up slack-
ness due to stretching, but few motorists
attend to this detail. As a consequence a
stretched chain will sometimes jump a
tooth on the sprocket, so altering the tim-
ing of valves.
In such instances drivers who find the
car, after pulling normally for long
periods, suddenly lose power and re-
quiring the use of intermediate gears for
even modest grades may be sure that the
trouble is due to a slipped timing chain,
and the best course is to cruise slowly to
the nearest garage, have the timing case
opened, the valve timing adjusted and, to
make sure of no future trouble, a new
chain fitted.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.McR. (Kettering, Tas.). —On the addition of
a small cube of camphor to four gallons petrol
my car appears to give a much better perform-
ance than with petrol not so treated. Has the
camphor any detrimental effect on valve seats
or other parts of the engine ?
Use of camphor in fuel is not desirable, as
when fuel evaporates a harmful deposit is left
on metal surfaces.
# * * *
P.S.E. (Unley Park, S.A.).—(l) To what
safe limit can the compression ratio of a ’35
Ford VS be raised by copperising or planing
cylinder heads ? (2) Any other adjustments
possible to ensure best results ? (3) Approxi-
mate cost ? (4) Is the addition of acetone or
camphor any advantage to fuel ?
(1) Present ratio (6.3 to 1) is as high as
desirable with standard fuels, though it is pos-
sible to get 8 to 1 by methods suggested. In
such case it would be imperative to use a
racing (doped) fuel of some description. (2)
Higher back-axle ratio, lightening reciprocating
parts, polishing intake parts and combustion
chamber, and adjustment of ignition point and
carburettor are essential if maximum speed is
the objective. (3) Between £lO and £5O, de-
pending on amount of labor involved. (4)
Not desirable. It is better to use special
racing fuels designed for high compression
racing engines.
* ,1-. * *
. n ~ , at •
A.Q. (Gatton, Q.). (1) I intend buying a
car to make daily runs of about 45 miles on
a bitumen road, first consideration being
economy, then reasonable comfort. Are light
cars giving high petrol mileages difficult to
keep on the road ? (2) In what order of prefer-
ence would you place the cars named? (3)
Are the adverse tariff conditions operating
against cars from the U.S.A. likely to cause
a drop in English prices , and when ?
(1) No. Any of the light cars you mention
steers perfectly. (2) C, A, B. (3) So far
there is little indication of such a trend in
pnces ‘
f T /T * t 0 * r .
F.A.A.T. (Lyndhurst Siding, S.A.).— ls it
possible to charge a battery from the flywheel
ignition of a T Ford ? I have recently fitted
a magneto.
Not without rewinding the field coils of the
nywheel assembly. Best plan would be to buy
a cheap generator and drive from the engine,
R.F.E. (Charlton, Vic.). —(1) Would the car
named stand up to a sustained cruising speed
of 55 to 60 m.p.h. on good roads ? (2) Driving
at this speed, which of the three cars listed
would be most satisfactory, having regard to
economy and cheap maintenance ?
(1) No. In such circumstances the car
would be continuously driven at almost maxi-
mum speed on full throttle. (2) Advise car
of greatest horse-power.
•’!= * ••!: :1c
J.H. (Garden Island, N.S.W.). —(1) Instruc-
tion book says 32 1 b. pressure for tyres of my
KB, but drivers with long experience advise
30 lb. Which is correct? (2) The original tyres
are fitted, but a patch on near side front tread
shows distinct signs of wear. Cause? (3)
Would you recommend having tyre retreaded
or is a new tyre needed ? (4) Do the manu-
facturers of Castrol make an oil suitable for
the 1934 F 8 Ford; if so, what grade ?
(1) Under normal running conditions 301 b.
is ample pressure. Fully loaded sedan may
require 321 b. to ensure maximum safety and
passenger comfort. (2) Wear may be due to
out-of-round brake drum, unbalanced wheel,
bent steering arm or faulty alignment of front
wheels. (3) If casing is sound and canvas
not showing, a good quality retread should be
satisfactory, but first have cause of wear de-
termined and rectified. (4) Yes, XL.
* * * *
A.D. (Brighton, Vic.). —Where might I
obtain an instruction book for VX Vauxhall
’32-’33 model ?
Write Cheney Motors, Melbourne.
* * * *
E.S.N. (Goulburn, N.S.W.). —(1) I propose
to have the head of my ’2B six-cylinder car
planed and aluminium sprayed. What advan-
tages can I expect by doing this, and how
much should be taken off ? (2) Any sugges-
tions for improving power and petrol consump-
tion of this model at 24,000 miles and in good
mechanical condition ?
(1) Advise plating head, but to raise the
compression ratio by planing block or head is
too risky an experiment with an engine of
this age. (2) See there are no airleaks in
valve guides or induction system, that plugs
are in good order and ignition timing correct.
Check cylinders and pistons for wear and rings
for life, fit and spring. Check wheels for
track and alignment of transmission; also see
that brakes do not bind in any position. Hot-
ting up the motor beyond standard output
will at this stage be almost certain to cause
some serious mechanical defect.
* * *
C.C.B. (Echuca, Vic.).—(l) I am interested
in a light car ( named ). Is there anything funda-
mentally wrong with this particular oiling
system ? (2) Could I expect 50,000 miles with
out expensive overhaul ?
(1) The full pressure lubricating system on
this car is quite in keeping with modern en-
gineering practice, and appears to be satisfac-
tory. (2) Depends upon how hard the car is
driven and the care with which it is serviced.
The New Supercharged Racing
Austin.
For more than 10 years Austin, par-
ticularly through the Baby Seven, has
done much to raise the prestige of the
light car. Until recently the racing
Austins have been engined with side-by-
THE MIGHTY ATOM.
Illustrating the engine and gearbox of the new o.h.v. twin
camshaft Austin engine, which develops 116 b.h.p., with a
piston displacement of 744c.c.
side valve motors, similar in external
appearance at least to the conventional
tourer so popular with the public.
Last year, however, these remarkable
little cars were rather harshly treated
by overseas handicappers in open
events, their performance being so well
known that only when driven to the
limit could they win major prizes.
This engine design has been modified
and the engine is now of the overhead-
valve type with twin camshafts —prob-
ably one of the most efficient power
plants ever bolted into a chassis.
Bench tests reveal a power output of
116 b.h.p. at 7600 r.p.m., and the com-
plete car is claimed to weigh less than
lOcwt. The tiny motor has a piston dis-
placement of but 744c.c., much smaller
than that of most twin-cylinder motor-
cycles in regular use; and the designers
claim to have devised connecting rods,
valve gear and other parts to be in bal-
ance and stand up to an engine speed
of 12,000 r.p.m. The sporting public is
now anxiously awaiting practical demon-
stration of the merits of this remarkable
small car. ,
Motor Oddities.
“Rusty”: In the wet winter of 1931,
while hopelessly bogged outside Swan
Hill (Vic.), I saw a model T Ford with
driver stop in the mud 300 yards away.
Looking up from my digging a few
minutes later I was astonished to see the
driver walking in front of his car and
hauling it out of the bog with a piece of
wire. The superman was Roy Irvine, the
local Ford man, and when he pulled up
to help me out he laughed when I mar-
velled at his terrific strength. He had
passed the wire through the radiator, over
the engine, through the footboard and
fastened it to the clutch lever. As he
hauled on the wire with the engine run-
ning the clutch was
engaged and the
combined strength
of car and man
shifted the car
from the hole.
*!»
“ Kawnpawrk ”:
Touching “A. Sid-
ley’s” query (B.
8/ 7 / ’36) about
road corrugations
in Vic., presum-
ably they are the
same kind we stock
in N.S.W. If so,
the cause is the
same foundation
of road not good
enough for weight
of traffic. Stand,
say, two wheels
carrying a ton on
soft ground. They
compress the
ground immediately under them down-
ward and partially outward, the out-
ward compression rising slightly both
at back and front of wheels. Now draw
the wheels forward. They ride the
slightly-compressed ground till they
reach the normal (soft) ground, then
slightly sink again, and so on. This goes
on until the hills and hollows become
somewhat definite, whence they are helped
to perfection by wheels bumping out of
one hollow into the next. The cure is a
well-packed, dry foundation for the
road.


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you do not consider
the money involved as a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful position has been
gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
IF YOU ARE
SELLING GOODS
IN
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
you should know that the
Net Audited Circulation
"THE MAIL”
(South Australia’s largest Week-end
paper)
at MARCH 31, 1936,
was
63,874
copies per issue.
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News, Ltd., North Terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike, First Floor,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Buildings, Haipilton Street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill, E.C.4.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers;
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, XAd., Adelaide.
®hc
tIUtUt
Women’s
Supplement
•The Examiner” publishes every Wednesday a Sup-
plement for Women containing all the social news
and specialised features concerning the woman and
the home. It is the woman’s own newspaper, and
rivals Australia’s best. It not only reaches the home, but
stays there. You can reach the women of Northern Tas-
mania only by advertising in “The Examiner’s” Women’s
Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston,
i M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
1 D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
We’re IN THE MIDDLE
.. .and Like It!
6AM’s unique position
gives it State-wide cover-
age. And our new power
of 1000 watts means a
million opportunities for
the advertiser.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
of her would-be partner, repeated her performance
of the last occasion, and returned to the protection of
the house.
Alec, however, had had time to warn her that if
she escaped from him again he was coming in with
all his bush friends and they were going to get her
wherever she might be hiding. Alec was desperate,
and when Alec was desperate All-about loyally be-
lieved he was very brave. He was likely, they said, to
do anything—walk right up into the house and kill
anybody.
It was a situation in which all secretly revelled,
except the unfortunate Joondree, and even she was
not, perhaps, entirely averse to being the centre of
so much dramatic interest. She had been permitted
once again to sleep at the house, but her “two-pfeller
missus” had been quite firm that Gwennie and Georgie
were not included in the invitation. It was Joondree
Alec was after—not the children ; and Gwennie, with
her alarmist propensities, and little Georgie, with his
inclination to whimper, put rather too great a strain
on their hospitality. .
CHUNUMA came upon Alec lying stretched out in
the shade of a large boab-tree on the other side
of the river from the camp. He started up as Chun-
uma approached and grasped the spear at his side,
but when he saw who it was he put down the weapon
and laughed.
“Good-day, young pfeller,” he said.
“Wassa matter you?”
Chunuma grinned in his most friendly
and disarming fashion and seated himself
upon the ground.
“Me jus’ gonna tell’m you,” he began,
“no good where you go up longa house
find’m Joondree to-night.”
A brooding, sullen expression overspread
Alec’s features.
Chunuma shook his head.
“No good,” he said. “I bin see’m missus
put dat many cartridge”—he held up his ten
fingers and opened his eyes very wide —“longa
dat big one gun. Missus plenty savvy fire’m
gun all right. Tm sulky pfeller properly
longa you!”
Alec’s face assumed a dogged, half-
furtive look.
“I want my lubra,” he said. “When I find’m
agen I gonna put’m spear longa her heart. You look
‘ere where she bin crack’m me longa head last night! ”
He bent forward and parted his wild locks to display
a lump the size of an egg on the back of his skull.
Chunuma’s face registered profoundest sympathy
and understanding.
“Poor pfeller, Alec,” he said feelingly. “My word
me chorry longa you!”
Alec accepted even so juvenile an attempt at sym-
pathy with deep satisfaction.
Chunuma leant forward as though struck with
a sudden bright idea.
“Alec!” he said confidentially. “What about you
sneak in to-night, steal’m Gwennie and little Georgie
when Joondree leave’m longa camp!”
Alec scowled,
“Me no want’m piccaninny,” he said disgustedly.
“Me only want’m my lubra.”,
Chunuma grinned knowingly. He looked at that
moment extraordinarily like Bungyee, his maternal
grandfather. Perhaps it was an inheritance of that
worthy’s shrewd wit that inspired his grandson now.
“S’pose’m you steal’m piccaninny,” he said, “then
Joondree come ’imself. Tm get chorry b’longta
Gwennie an’ little Georgie—then ’im follow’m you
b’longta fetch’m back.”
Sudden light broken upon Alec’s heavy features.
He hit the ground hard with his open palm.
“Dat’s got it, young pfeller Chunuma,” he said.
“Joondree follow’m her piccaninny all right—then me
catch’m her, put’m spear longa her heart!”
He illustrated the action with a lunge of the
spear that had been lying at his side, and gave a little
anticipatory chuckle.
Chunuma rose hastily. He didn’t altogether trust
Alec when he got a spear in his hand. One never
knew at what moment he might go mad and forget
what he was doing.
“Me gotta go back now,” he said politely.
WHEN next morning Joondree descended from the
house to the camp her piccaninnies had dis-
appeared. Alec had come into the camp at night and
calmly marched them off.
He left word
to say he was go-
ing to the bush
camp near the
station where he
had “worked” be-
fore until the mad-
ness had come
upon him and
forced him to run
away. That was
so that when Joon-
dree, presumably
frantic with grief
and anxiety at the
loss of her picca-
ninnies, set out to follow them she would know where
to go.
Joondree’s distress at their disappearance, how-
ever, was tempered somewhat with the excitement
occasioned by the return of the musterers.
They rode in with a
merry jingling, dismounted
and unsaddled packs and
horses at the yard.
It was the cue for all the
lubras to assume an outward
semblance of coyness. Even
Gypsie fluttered a little over
her dishes and endeavored to
infuse a more beguiling note
into her harsh-toned remon-
strances.
When Peter came round
the corner of the hill to the
camp, he found Joondree sit-
ting in the shade of her
humpy, weeping abandonedly.
“Alec bin steal’m my
piccaninny,” she said. “Now
me got to follow’m up. Me
can’t leave’m my baby longa
bush!”
“Y o u don’t wanna
follow’m up,” Chunuma
broke in from the back-
ground where he had stood
listening to the discussion.
“Alec only play’m trick
longa you. I bin hear’m talk
when you come longa his camp ’im gonna put’m
spear longa you.”
Joondree looked up at Peter with large, pathetic
eyes and sobbed.
Peter picked up a piece of stick and broke it
savagely into small fragments.
“Well, you can’t follow’m up,” he said at last,
very decidedly. “Young Gwennie look after’mself
all right. My oath he do! Betcha Gwennie go longa
that nother station where they bin all day gibbit ’im
lolly and fruit and learn’m sing like’m crumaphone!”
Joondree nodded through her tears.
“Gwennie all right,” she
said. “On’y Georgie—’im
baby yet.”
“Plenty lubra longa that nother camp look after’m
all right,” Peter protested.
“I s’pose’m,” Joondree agreed, her sobs becoming
less violent.
“You gotta stop here,” Peter continued master-
fully. “You my lubra now.”
The sudden brightening of Joondree’s face had
the effect of almost immediately drying her tears. She
dropped her eyes and twisted her shoulders and
giggled.
Joondree’s protestations of maternal anxiety
weakened rapidly until it almost seemed she had for-
gotten that Gwennie and little Georgie existed at all.
Chunuma yawned.
“Well, dat’s de good job!” he said. “Come on,
Dingyerri! Me an’ you gonna spear’m porcupine
to-day!”


FALSE TEETH ARE A GREAT
INVENTION, BUT KEEP YOUR
OWN AS LONG AS YOU CAN
m
m
lH
■■■ m
m .
I.?*
False teeth often follow Pyorrhea, which comes to
four people out of five past the age of 40.
-.V-
-■ e
■ - rtf?*!
S 3 '
sue
Small Tube, 2/-
Extra-large Tube, 3/-
Who knows how serious
PYORRHEA
may become!
hardly a person whose mouth at some time in life isn’t
* threatened with Pyorrhea, dread disease of the gums, which comes to
four people out of five past the age of forty.
But only those unhappy men and women who needlessly wear false
teeth to-day are in a position fully to appreciate how serious this infection
can become when permitted to go unchecked.
For, as it progresses, it softens the gums, spreads poison throughout
the body, loosens teeth in their sockets, until your very health demands
their extraction.
Don’t wait for the symptoms that may lead to the loss of your teeth.
Start at once using Forhans.
A dentist’s dentifrice for scientific
care of teeth.
Pyorrhea cannot be cured by Forhan s or any other toothpaste.
Science blames it on many causes, including diet, physical condition,
crooked teeth and tartar.
Everyone who values his teeth should see his Dentist at least twice a
year. Modern dentistry can do a lot to prevent needless trouble in your
mouth. In your home, however, your teeth are your own responsibility.
It is up to you to give them the finest care possible.
Forhan’s is the formula of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S., who for years
specialised in the treatment of Pyorrhea. It is unique in that it contains
the benefits of an ethical preparation which he developed, and which is
used by thousands of Dentists in the treatment of this dread disease.
Don’t u)ait for trouble
Remember—-Pyorrhea may lurk in your mouth for years before
beginning its real work of havoc. Start using Forhan’s to-day. Even if
your teeth are sound and your gums are firm, do all you can to keep them
that way.
False teeth are a great invention, but you want to keep your own as
long as you can. Do not wait for trouble Before you start using Forhan’s.
• A ustrulitsian Agents ;
THE SHELDON DRUG C 0... LTD.. 131 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Forhan’s
for the gums
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME'
ADDRESS
(.Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
O
&■
&
&
G 6
&
&
&
<O.
**
«©*
&
&
X> Ac^ c \v
*> <3**
v* v
V
*«
V %
e
4
9®
<P
av' 6
nV 5
•’*' Vo<
.>*' ~••*'’ 4 i 0


HOME/
z
f jmmm
%
n <
•■ • -
0
0«* ■
■. ;
■ I ffiyftj
• •£ «®r:
. T
1./.;
.‘XvK*
m
".o •~J7
■*.V t&xKfl
a*,-.
’ I #
ro.
J£
iv'»
;€w«
*>«
’>m
*
T'*,
*••*•. *
W/
mm
/
CiS.
x
X
/
T
fJ
K
*
'
/S
!?*
"■v
X.
m
x
<*;
r,
r.»:t;<as
♦
* *?.- sh ° d i^r«s u, c °^'
ghten VO- home
trie Lamp B '* . _ ..« \c
i
• e-Vi’SlS?,
3»
to
dor CoUed Co' t than ordi
>er cent, more hg* t<> 50 pe ,
it Suhon oheoP.-Cfe
•Xn^* Mrt in
[, more
s . witnuw«»
; nt comomptiom
for
for the new cannot
r a
