

-=
«C
5
*-£sr
**P
<**>-
UH5
%
*cr
9
t
?■»<
T-v
*S
5«
s9
■«*
■
-sa
greg-i*
4 «r
P
—s>
*
m
W
»*-*•
£&•
■C
*>>
flfc
flR
SERVICE
IN the fierce glare of a relentless sun.... a blister-
ing heat that seems to sap the very life-giving
energy. . . .he works, a gaunt, sunburnt figure
. . . .the Overland Telegraph linesman.
In the hands of this man —one of a tireless, keen-
eyed band—is the responsibility of keeping open
one of Australia’s vital communication links. He
renders the community an invaluable SERVICE.
Just as surely the House of Hamilton’s is rendering
a public service. . . .a service which is operating day
in, day out, a vital link in the financial system of
Australasia.
Shares in ESTABLISHED Companies of proved
dividend-earning capacity, backed by adequate
tangible assets, form the basis of all offerings from
Hamiltons (Australasia), Limited.
Data covering such service, together with the
monthly circular "PROFITS,’ is available free on
application to
Hamilton* (Australasia) llllliKcl
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .... £250.000
HEAD OFFICE; KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SfDNET,
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box: 3752 S.S.)
Metropolitan Building.
89-91 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
G.P.O. Box: 520 L
Comraonweal Ih Builuint
Queen Street.
BRISBANE.
G.P.O. Box; 1017 N.
e
■
Chamber ot Manufacturers Bldg.,
14 Piric Street.
ADELAIDE.
G.P.O. Box; 650 F.
Representatives
at Perth. W.A.,
Auckland and
Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Prior Memorial Prize—23o Entries
Vol. 57.—N0. 2940.
Wednesday, June 17, 1936.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1936
is now ready and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
aim
Ziij.vQ'wtA.fl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HKRB AM) MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explain inn
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin, i
My Name ..
My Address ..... ... .-...... .....
feVB. 436
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
CONDITIONS FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL COMPETITION,
CLOSING JUNE 6, 1937.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every-
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that only novels will be eligible for
the third year’s competition for this annual Literary Prize.
The Prize will be awarded for the novel that is considered
the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries for the third competition will close on June 6, 1937,
and results will be announced approximately within two months
thereafter. The trustees, who will supply all relevant information
to intending competitors on application, will publish the successful
work in book form, and in serial form any they may deem worthy.
If published as a serial the winner will be paid for at serial
rates in addition to the prize-money. Any others used as serials
will also be paid for at serial rates.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works
published in book form, in. which the entrants will retain all
property rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled
by the trustees. , •
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form.' Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL
PRIZE
This year's en-
tries for the S. H.
Prior Memorial
Prize total more
than the first
year’s. About 230
MSS. are lodged
in the office of the secretary, W. E. Fitz
Henry. A rough inspection of this huge
stack of writing indicates that there are
about 135 novels, 60 plays and 35 mis-
cellaneous works, embracing short stories,
essays and biographies. Chiefly to
enable authors to sec that their entries
are safely lodged, a list of titles and
pen-names will be published, probably
next week.
Three judges have been appointed by
the trustees, and they will be assisted by
Miss Doris Fitton, of the Independent
Theatre, advising on the plays. The
judges are T. D. Mutch, Stewart Howard
and Cecil Mann. As in last year’s judg-
ing, no MS. will be eliminated on one
reader’s opinion. Every MS. will have
the benefit of a check examination,
In addition to naming the winner, the
judges will also report on MSS. consid-
ered suitable for publication. Any
chosen as serials will be paid for at serial-
rates by arrangement with the authors.
The winner, if suitable for a serial, will
be bought fbr that purpose, apart from
receiving the prize award. These condi-
tions apply also to the third year’s com-
petition, full details of which will be
found at the foot of this page. As stated
there, the third year’s competition, clos-
ing on June 6 next, will be restricted to
novels.
The trustees are now completely satis-
fied that the Prize is serving one purpose
for which it was instituted—giving direct
practical encouragement to Australian
writers, and with it a good impetus to
Australian literature.
A Week’s
Reading
The bantering
manner, of John
Moore’s Over-
ture, Beginners!
misled me into
reading the lot of it, which is twice as
much as I should have read. It begins
exceptionally attractively. Its first
chapter is a delightful depiction of out-
of-doors England, with a cheerful idiot
of an old general fishing impossibly for
a trout under a bridge. His daughter
Judy is a pleasantly natural young lady
with a dewy sort of innocence that few
novelists seem lucky enough ever to en-
counter, and enough good looks to safis-
fyingly decorate the landscape. The poet
inhabiting the cottage on the general’s
estate is authentic. Most poets I have
met are, generalised, very much as he is,
which, isn’t what they are made out to
be by most light romanticists. For a
light romanticist is all Mr. Moore turns
out to be. He does not link up this poet
and lass, which would be too obvious,
but he makes equally insignificant use
of them. In doing so he draws a con-
fused picture of an annual theatrical fes-
tival, his other characters members of a
troupe of Shakspearean players whose
visit to the place changes the lives of
one or two, the lass’s most biologically.
Mr. Moore does it all very brightly, but
that does not disguise its emptiness.
To the Mountain, by Bradford Smith,
is a Book Guild choice, and has a very
laudatory introduction by William
Plomcr. it is certainly greatly superior
to most “choices” that I have lately read,
and very many, 1 have no doubt, will
support every happy word that Mr.
Plomer has to say of it. I found it a
sensitive depiction of a country I have
never seen, Japan, but so much like the
picture in other reading as to give the
impression that it must have truth. It
is a more remarkable performance than
another recent pretty tale of Japan, The
Wooden Pillow, in that its author puts the
stamp of an authentic beauty on what,
without that stamp so impressed on it,
would have been inescapably sordid. Mr.
Smith has the sort of artistic refinement
of excellent talent which can depict
people literally starving in a hovel, make
them visible, stir the strongest compas-
sion for them, and the picture yet hold
a purity unsurpassed by any land-
scape of wholly pleasant objects. The
story centres about a girl the white-slave
price for whom is her hovel-family’s tem-
porary ransom out of starvation; her
life in the place she is bought for; her
rescue from that by a Japanese military
officer who has embraced Christianity ;
with plot complications when the son
of the man who had earlier been her
paying lover falls in love with her. To
me it seemed to drag rather towards the
end, with the conclusion indicated so far
in advance that the reaching of it be-
came tedious. Also, the action of the
story definitely sags about midway, where
the author is under the necessity of de-
picting Communist activities to make his
depiction of present Japanese life more
complete and authentic. Still, I would
recommend it to anyone I know as a
sincere and beautiful novel.
Clear Waters, by Owen Rutter, is an
improvement on the only other two of
his half-dozen books that I have read.
It is an anthropologist’s portrayal of an
interesting section of native life which
he has evidently personally studied, that
of a jungle-dwelling tribe of Borneo
head-hunters. To get the pure native
woodnote wild and undefiled, Mr. Rutter
casts back prior to the intrusion of the
whites in those parts: they are just mak-
ing their presence felt where the novel
ends. The native life is depicted as the
surround to a fictional biography of one
of the tribe, whose story is related from
childhood to chieftainship. The fictional
method enables the author to project the
natives as Jiving characters, clearly seen
individuals in a yarn that holds interest
quite independent of its anthropology,
which itself, being curious, quaint, fan-
tastic, outlandish, with a blend of the
whimsical, is interesting for its own sake.
To what extent the anthropology is
authentic I have no idea, but, as with
Mr. Smith’s picture of Japanese life, the
novel gave me the feeling (hat if ever
I had read native life rightly depicted it
was here.
Tyrolean June, by Australian Nina
Murdoch, is graceful travel, writing. The
author is not of the women who affect
to like, and probably do like, roughing it
dangerously and crudely in wild places.
Having previously wandered in Spain, she
now spends a month in the Tyrol. Her
whole outlook, together with her numor
and her manner of writing of what she
sees —and of what she has read, for she
blends history, folklore and legend pret-
tily into her picture—has an exquisite
femininity about it. Her book is the con-
versation of a woman of delicate person-
ality, sensitive to visual loveliness.
None of this four is likely to tempt
anyone to call it a work of high literary
quality, considered as a complete per-
formance. To the Mountain approaches
nearest, having some size in canvas and
significance of theme ; Clear Waters is
a smaller structure, but admirably sin-
cere ; Tyrolean June is pretty, pleasant
light (ravel reading. As ephemera they
arc good.
C. M.
On Cliches
Calling on him
several times in
London, I found
W. W. Jacobs (he’s still alive and hates
to be thought dead) a good tale-teller in
conversation, full of stories about famous
literary men. 1 suggested to him that he
should write his reminiscences.
“That does not appeal to me at all,”
he replied. “Jerome K. Jerome wrote
inaccurately about me when he set down
his memories, and I certainly have no
wish to follow him in writing inaccu-
rately about other people.” j.
He made a suggestion to me.
“You know, Donnelly, you could do
a good thing by writing an article on
cliches. There is far too much snobbish
opposition to them. In anting you will
often find yourself using phrases that
others have used before you. ‘Shark-
infested water,’ for example, describes
what is in mind better than other words
could. Experience shows that some
phrases give an exact description of cer-
tain things. As far as I can see there
is no valid reason for avoiding them.”
Although 1 would not care to, nor can
I, make a full-dress defence of the cliche,
I do feel (hat remorseless pursuit of
novelty often has ugly and disconcerting
results, and it may be that contempt for
the set phrase which conveys the in-
tended idea to a reader’s mind is rooted
in snobbery.
Recently 1 read this in a review in the
“New Statesman and Nation”: “The
style is pedestrian, at times exasperating.
From one paragraph the following
cliches, which should appear in no
biography, are extracted: ‘Fever-ridden
swamp,’ ‘sorely taxed strength,’ ‘indel-
ible impression,’ ‘trying ordeal,’ ‘infinite
pains,’ ‘rude savages,’ ‘endeavoring to
awaken his sympathy.’ ”
To have them all in a single paragraph
is certainly overloading, but, taken singly,
are some of them, really so bad? Is
there a better alternative for “fever-
ridden swamp”? Hemingway, Tomlin-
son and others could create the required
picture in a paragraph ; they could tell
of the steam, stench and general un-
wholesomeness of the swamp, but you
would be watching them juggling magi-
cally with words : the idea of a tropical
swamp would not be better conveyed to
the reader than in the solitary phrase.
Again, what is a better alternative for
“indelible impression” if something has
really made an indelible impression on
the mind?
In disputes of this kind reference to
Fowler’s Modern English Usage is inevit-
able. Fowler, however, does not help
me much, for his section on “hackneyed
phrases” contains only the nastiest ex-
amples. Where snobbery intrudes, I
think, is that some of the tabooed expres-
sions could come unquestioned into nor-
mal conversation, and I don’t see why
people should climb on stilts because
they happen to be writing. Fowler has
“take in each other’s washing” on the
black list. In conversation that would
give perfect expression to an idea, and
might it not do so in writing? _ 1 must,
of course, agree with Fowler that a
writer, finding the oft-used phrase flow-
ing easily into mind, should regard it as
a danger signal; but lam not basing my
case on the flabby extremes quoted by
Fowler. The snob would object to “a
shot in the dark,” “half-seas over” and
many others. There are new phrases so
fresh to-day that they give novel infor-
mality and vigor to writing. Some arc
so apposite that they may grow classical
enough to be the cliches of the future,
and, surely, it should not be argued that
frequent usage deadens words. Words
are not like a child's toys—played with
for a week and then thrown dented and
useless into a corner.
John Brophy, in an excellent book on
“English Prose,” says:
To write “he clenched his fists” scarcely
produces any spurt of interest. If it were
desired to give dramatic conspicuousness to
this particular action, it would be better to
write “his knuckles shone white # through
the skin,” or some such sentence in which
the order of the words is not fixed and
by which an image is evoked.
Perhaps Brophy is right, but many
readers should feel that “he clenched his
fists” is enough. The simple sentence
tells all that need be known.
In a poem published recently in Eng-
land Louis Macneice wrote:—r
With all this clamor for progress,
This hammering out; of new phases and
gadgets, new trinkets and phrases,'
I prefer the automatic, the reflex, the
cliche of velvet.
1 know Jacobs (lovable Tory in all
things) would spit on that as poetry, but
he might feel that there’s the man who
pleaded decently for the cliche before its
condemnation.
IAN DONNELLY.
The Boswell
Papers
Boswell died in
London on
January 19, 1795;
and now, more
than 140 years
after his death, the Edinburgh Court of
Sessions is being asked to appoint a factor
to the estate of this same Janies Bosweli
of Auchinleck, ’so that the ownership
of an extensive collection of Boswell
papers may be determined. And, of
course, these papers are worth money.
There are collateral Boswells still in
Fife, but there are no Boswells at Auchin-
leck. The most direct descendant of
Johnson’s biographer is the present Lord
Talbot de Malahide, though he descends,
of course, in the female line, and prob-
ably it is (his James Boswell Talbot, the
sixth Baron of Malahide, who will finally
establish himself as the right and proper
owner to this mass of recently uncovered
Boswel liana.
Boswell surely has had his revenge, for
the truth is that his memory was pre-
served through successive generations of
his family in much the same way as the
memory of an unusually black sheep.
Bosweli was no hero to his own family.
It was not only that he had made him-
self a sort of doormat for Johnson to
walk over, but he had a habit of un-
dressing himself in print (a literary ex-
hibitionist complex) which could be very
trying—and doubtless terrifying to his
own kin, in view of the fact that further
disclosures might crop up from almost
any side. .
No man ever wooed immortality more
assiduously than Boswell. He started his
literary career with An Ode to Tragedy,
published in 1761 (he was then 17). This
was put out as being written by “A
Gentleman of Scotland,” and was dedi-
cated to himself! It was sold at 6d. per
copy. Then, in 1763, came Letters Between
the Honorable Andrew Ershine and James
Boswell, Esquire, which, however inter-
esting they may be now, brought no
fame to James Boswell in 1763. But he
did achieve a burst of notoriety with the
account of his Corsican journey, pub-
lished in 1768, for this, at least, earned
for him the sobriquet of “Corsican Bos-
well.” The Tour in the Hebrides brought
him further into the literary limelight;
but in 1791, when his two quartos of
the Life of Johnson made their appear-
ance, they fell somewhat flat. It was
not only an expensive work, but it was
(i Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES
“The Senior Store” "While I Live I’ll Grow'
Anthony Horderns’
HALF YEARLY GENUINE
m
i
FOR
■..... i
si ■■ si lia
AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH
.
“JUMBUK” (Regd. Trade Name)
Trade Mark.
Reed
è
w
e
BUY FLEECY “JUMBUK” UNDERWEAR FOR BOYS!
No. 220 — “Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Light weight. Sizes, inches: 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, Short Sleeves 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/-
Sale Price, less 6d. per garment
No. 330—“Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Underwear. Winter
Sale Price, less 6d. per garment
No. 15—“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half Sleeves.
Sale Price, less 6d. per garment.
O Boys' Mercery—Ground Floor, Pitt Street, or First Floor, George Street.
Girls' Underclothing — No. 2 Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all Seaports
in the Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
Anthony Hordern & Sons
'Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Ltd.,
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Mill
Hill
Ml
m
Li 11
Mi
BY SEA TO CAIRNS
THE exhilaration of a trip to Cairns thrills even the most hardened
travellers. Halcyon days truly describes a cruise aboard one of the
Interstate liners to Australia’s Wonderland.
WHILST gripped in the mantle of Winter the call to Tropical Queensland
rings a clarion note. The wonders of the Barrier Reef and Cairns,
the home of Warmth, Color and Beauty.
VISIT , . . MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND,
BARRON FALLS AND THE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
Book your Passage by ORUNGAL, MANOORA, ORMISTON, CANBERRA, KANIMBLA.
A SUNSHINE CRUISE TO THE WARM NORTH
Advertisement
Full particulars and pamphlets from A.U.S.N., Ltd., Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd., Howard Smith, Ltd., Mcllwraith McEacharn, Ltd., at all ports.
/\ ■ a
original and outspoken. Horace Wal-
pole read it. He said it was “the story
of a mountebank and his zany.”
Yet it performed a complete miracle,
for it endowed Johnson with immor-
tality. No one reads Johnson’s works
to-day. His dictionary is forgotten. But
he lives in the reflected light of Bos-
well. And Boswell had some sort of
flicker on the edge of his vision that this
was going to be his passport to immor-
tality, for he preserved almost every
letter he ever received, and kept a copy
of almost every letter he had ever
written. And when he was dying he be-
queathed all his papers to three of his
friends—for the benefit of his younger
children. These friends were the Rev.
William Temple, Sir William Forbes and
Malone.
Temple had no lime to attend to this
trusteeship, as he was bowed beneath the
weight of family cares. But Forbes and
Malone decided to waif until James Bos-
well (the biographer’s second son) came
of age in 1799 before deciding what to
do with the papers. It was as well, per-
haps, they did not consult Alexander, the
eldest son, for he would have surely
recommended their destruction. He was
the successor to the Auchinleck laird-
ship, and regarded his father’s literary
and social escapades as being highly dis-
creditable. Indeed he had Reynolds’s
portrait of Johnson removed from the
drawing-room at Auchinleck and accom-
modated in an inaccessible part of the
house. James was a studious person
who might have done something with
the Auchinleck papers, but he didp’t. He
died in 1822 without anything being
done, and by that time Malone and
Forbes were also dead. The papers then
passed to James (3), who was the eldest
son of Alexander. This James married
the daughter of a local baronet, and of
this union there were but two daughters.
The Auchinleck entail was then broken,
the property was alienated, and these
Boswell papers passed into the posses-
sion of the two daughters. One, Harriet,
married the fifth Lord Talbot de Mala-
hide (she died in F 898), and the other,
Julia, became Mrs. George Mounsey.
And up to her death in 1906 Mrs.
George Mounsey carefully guarded the
Boswell papers—at Malahide Castle. She
was determined to prevent her great-
grandfather from doing any more dis-
robing in public.
But in 1850 the Temple letters were
discovered in Boulogne. An Indian
Army major named Stone was purchas-
ing some household goods when he ob-
served they were being wrapped up in
letters signed by James Boswell. Further
inquiry disclosed that these letters were
scrap paper supplied by an itinerant
dealer, who —miraculously—had the rest
of them intact. These Boswell-Temple
letters are now in the Pierpont Morgan
collection, but three editions of them
have been printed in an abridged form,
the truth being that many of Boswell’s
phrases were considered unfit for polite
ears, as in these letters he almost com-,
pletely disrobed. In 1928 (Mrs. George
Mounsey being dead) the Boswell papers
at Malahide Castle were printed for
private circulation ; and now, in a Scot-
tish country house, a further haul has
been made by Professor Abbott, and
this includes, among much else, the other
half of the Boswell-Temple correspon-
dence. A Boswell diary has also come
to light, and over a hundred letters from
Dr. Johnson.
Boswell died a disappointed man.
With increasing years he had shown
himself increasingly and more plainly
w
GERALD DILLON.
Banning or
Prosecuting?
Some who re-
sent Australia’s
crude book cen-
sorship are all
for adopting Eng-
land’s system. When you think quick
of a system which has banned
Brave New World (every literary Eng-
lish parson quotes it), Farewell to Arms
(because, according to malicious rumor,
Italy would have resented it if
this book was circulated in Aus-
tralia), Dubliners (because its author
wrote Ulysses) and a dozen or two other
books that have general circulation in
England, it seems that any change would
be for the better. But E. M. Forster
includes in his recent collection of
essays, Abinger Harvest, an address
he gave before an international gathering
of authors in Paris last year, in which he
described a case “in which the law had
been used to crush a book, a novel of
much literary merit.” As an item for
chewing by those who want the English
“freedom” it is worth giving fully:
The book in question is Boy, by James
Hanley. Boy was published nearly four
years ago, and went into no less than
four editions before it attracted the wrath
of the authorities. It had been discussed,
praised, blamed and generally accepted as
a serious and painful piece of work, whose
moral, if it had one, was definitely on the
side of chastity and of virtue. Its contem-
porary backing was considerable —for in-
stance, I have seen quoted a testimony
from the late Colonel Lawrence, whom
respectable society is at present canonis-
ing. One assumed that Boy had, so to
speak, passed into our literary heritage,
where it would remain for posterity to con-
sider and finally to assess. Then, like a
bolt from the blue, the publishers were
summoned by the Lancashire police, be-
cause they had “published an obscene
libel.”
1 Why Lancashire, when it had been pub-
lished in London? Why in 1934, when
it had been published in 1930? The
answer to these questions is only to be
found in the mysteries of the English law.
The publishers were advised to plead
guilty, for technical reasons; they did so,
and at the Manchester Assizes they were
heavily fined to the extent of £4OO. The
author, I am glad to say, has not been
attacked in the matter. But his publishers,
a small and very decent firm who only
handle reputable work, have nearly been
ruined. Nor is that all. Although they
have withdrawn Boy from circulation they
are advised that they are still liable legally
to be summoned in respect of every copy
which had been sold before withdrawal.
That is to say, they might be fined another
£4OO in Cheshire, another £4OO in Devon-
shire, and so on, and this might go on
for years and years. I am not telling you
a fairy tale out of Swift or Voltaire.
I am telling you what can happen in Eng-
land, the home of free speech. What can
happen when the law is put into action
unwarrantably.
Boy is the sort of case where protests are
useful —not as regards the past, which they
cannot remedy, but as regards the future.
Public opinion still counts, and if public
opinion declares that the case ought never
to have been brought and that the fine was
excessive, the authorities concerned are
likely to be more cautious. We have had,
of course, ridiculous cases in the past—
the suppression of The Well of Loneliness,
and of the original, edition of D. H. Law-
rence’s Rainbow, and the solemn burning
of Ulysses in the Folkestone Custom
House. But none of them have been so
fantastic as Boy, which asserts the right
of Authority to prosecute after any lapse
of time and at the initiative of any police-
man in any provincial town. The pub-
lishers have been selected for punishment
this time. Next time it will be the author,
unless authors make their voices heard.
That is a bit of the English system in
action. It is bad enough in its effect
there, where there is a big body of
strength to oppose it. In Australia the
effects of such a system in active opera-
tion would be disastrous.
A SATCHEL OF BOOKS.
Advertisement
Various Verse
To Be Cut in Stone.
This lady carried a moon within her breast.
And the white dreaming holiness of waters
Sighed in towards her out of all metis hearts.
When she grew old, her hands and hair were
moonlight, . ,
And, like her undying sister of the sky.
Through cloud and wind she shone the ten-
SilveJfnT’with beauty the dark tide of the
Therefore, when the moon rises, remembci her.
Maoriland.
DOUGLAS A. STEWARL.
Rain on the Land.
There is no sun in the fields,
Only the wind and the ram;
And the land is wide and bare
And empty of grain.
It is far away to the east,
And far is the west to the eye,
And only the clouds know the end
Where the mists lie.
Hour after hour the clouds
Move up and away to the west.
They are uneasy with their weight
And have no rest.
They overwhelm the dumb earth —
She is mute in expectation,
And thinks of her winter pains
And a new creation.
Past the rain and away down,
Down to the-low, dull hills.
Is the shadow that covers all, ■
Covers and chills.
All the sound we hear
Is the thick note of the rain
Nothing comes in with the air
But the wind again.
Wide,is the sky and the land;
All is sadness to see,
Till the cries of a sudden bird
Shed ecstasy.
The land is not lonely now;
The air is sweet with rain;
Everything in the land
Is good again.
S.A.
TAN L. AUHL.
Obliteration.
At yesternoon he died, but none have found.
Or sought, the spot where he lies on the
ground.
No flattering epitaph of farcial lies
Will e'er rise up to tell or eulogise
His labors, or exalt his doubtful fame.
No cenotaph shall bear his futile name.
A shining sand-drift o’er his still remains
The monument which at Time’s hands he gains.
He died but hours ago, still none may tell
Aught of him to the world—so rests he well.
VICTORIA.
JOHN WILSON.
Night.
I watched the pale moon slowly slip,
Inch by inch, till gone;
Shrink like a friend’s face on a ship,
Die like a song.
And what was left was emptiness,
And a wind sighing,
The magic and the wistfulness
Of a bird’s flying.
The negro Night lay woman-still
And fixed her eyes on me,
Casting her ancient secret will
On man and tree.
1 felt her supple black hands reach
And fingertip my eyes;
Her nakedness clung like a leech
About my thighs.
She smothered me with soft, wide lips;
She held me with her stare:
My limbs, grew numb beneath her hips;
I breathed her hair.
Cold mists rose ghostly from her breath;
Her hands were clammy-dead;
She sighed; it had the lisp of death;
She raised her head.
She rose, and tiptoed secret back
With a finger on her mouth;
She left a shadow in her track
For lovers’ drouth.
Thin leaves stood up and felt the sun,
An earthy, moulding tang
Unbent, a trembling cobweb hung,
And a bird sang.
QUEENSLAND.
B. VREPONI.


"/OURE TERRIBiy
NERVY TONIGHT NAN.
COME AND SIT THIS
OUT AND SMOKE AN
ARDATH WITH ME*
//
I FEEL MUCH BETTER
NOW TOM,MV NERVES
ARE MARVELLOUSLY CALM.
NO DOUBT ABOUT ARDATHS
THEY DO SOOTHE ONE'S NERVES*
A
m
-
11 w
88g»
mmm
■ :V I
il
■
- :
Mr
m #
X
‘Soothing to your Nerves Kind to your Throat
10 - 9d.; 20-1/6
Also Flat Pocket 50's, Tins of
100 and Round Airtight 50's.
de - luxe
CIGARETTES
688 C-6-6


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
HRHM
v^n
m
nw*
m
■ jiiyp! i fiiiii I am
I W
Si I J
■
: I
■
i i i •. • s i i
4M Ui^ol
, - ' H I I
.* ** l SHI I
mmmkm
Hi
I
u
■
* I
mm
m
I
- ■■
■
mm
■
m
■
11
V s * 1
■
ME
/
■
■
m
i
s 1
H
mm
r
■■•■• -; :
W
■
■
■
■
M
I
■ ::
■
liiii
mm
mm
■m
■
■
m
gm
:
mm
mm.
mm
I
.
&o**2
■
■
H
= ■
a
H
.
■
mm
m
Bi
H
■I
SSSB
ii
■I
o
m
m
mm
'wk
M
■
WmmMm.
m
m
WBm
/ ■
■
■
■
- ■ ■ . ■
m
■
wm
m
Further Interior View of One of the Numerous Storage Cellars.
une


The Bulletin
Vol. 57.—N0. 2340.
June 17, 1936.
STALKED.
“Haile Silassic was entertained at a Wimbledon garden party given by representatives of 32 women’s organisations.”
“Lion of Judah, I’m Mrs. Leo Hunter!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings. 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
V, ksi ralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
N'i'vv Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lamblon
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Ss.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
AUSTRALIA ALSO RAN.
I he Lyons Government objects to criticism of the
Whiskard-Gullett tariff —so much so that the Prime
Minister has commanded the critics to be silent. In
a Great Daily’s version, he “appealed to interested
parties to keep out of the ring.” Everything about
the Whiskard-Gullett tariff is extraordinary—the cir-
cumstances in which it was introduced, the irrespon-
sibleness of the Minister (“without portfolio”) who
introduced it, the withholding of the thing from
members till they were packing their bags for the
winter flight from Canberra, and the deliberate re-
lusal to offer any explanation to the industries affected
—but this “you-shut-up” attitude is the most extra-
ordinary of all.
Nevertheless Great Dailies were as swiftly respon-
sive to the Prime Minister’s “appeal” as if it had been
addressed to them. Protests against the Whiskard-
Gullett tariff began to disappear from their news and
correspondence columns, being dismissed in a few
lines or left out altogether. Remarks on the with-
drawal of Japanese buyers from wool sales suddenly
ceased. As in the case of “sanctions,” now admitted
by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer to have
been a fiasco which it would be “midsummer mad-
ness” to prolong. Great Dailies were all “following
Britain,” and they were not going “to let the Whig
dogs get the better of it,” or even in some cases to
let the Whig dogs bark.
While our Glorious Press was thus showing that
it can conceal facts as well as adorn and invent them
(witness “the fierce Danakils,” and “the most terri-
fying Gofas,” and “the creeping Fanno hunters,” who
were to have made such short work of Italians
reduced to combing Great War battlefields for
bombs and cartridges), Winchcombe Carsons came
out with a report on the probable effect of the
Whiskard-Gullett tariff on sales and prices of wool.
In ordinary circumstances, the reports of these wool-
brokers are sought after, being held to be of interest
to everyone in the wool trade; but for this particu-
lar report there was no demand, perhaps because the
writer was held to have broken the law as laid down
by the Prime Minister —“keep out of the ring.” All
the same it is very much to the point.
In contempt of all experience, recent and remote,
of how modern industrial nations can get along in
an emergency without “necessary” commodities, this
Government of city lawyers, professional politicians
and amateur cow-farmers has been airily assuring the
woolgrowers that the Japanese must buy their wool.
Winchcombe Carsons dryly remark that this was
said of the Germans and the Italians (“many were
of the opinion that the German and Italian mills
could not function without bulky supplies of the
Australian clip”), and has been proved wrong.
German imports of wool were 347,000,0001 b. in 1933,
316.000. in 1934 and 272,000,0001 b. in 1935;
imports of greasy wool from Australia were
125.000. in 1933 and 27,000,0001 b. in 1935. By
way of contrast, Germany imported 41,000,0001 b. from
Argentina in 1933 and 58,000,0001 b. in 1935; from
S. Africa 53,000,0001 b. in 1933 and 69,000,0001 b. in 1935.
Germany eked out its imports with substitutes,
and Italy is making substitutes, too. And Winch-
combe Carsons proceed;
Wool prices would have been higher during the
past two seasons if Germany had been able to buy
with greater freedom. No cause exists to anticipate that
reduced Japanese purchases will not have ill-effects on
prices.
For one thing, greater British buying of lines
hitherto preferred by the Japanese is very unlikely.
Japanese competition is chiefly centred on the faultier
top-making types, which are not bought extensively by
the English trade.
So,
The new tariff has certainly produced a problem for
the wool industry. If prices for wool remain on reduced
levels, the whole Australian nation will feel the curtail-
ment in income.
A day or two after this summary was issued, a report
came from Tokio that Sir Frederick Leith Ross, who
is “economic adviser” (or something) to the British
Government, had “discussed the new Australian
duties with the Japanese Foreign Minister.” Very
kind of the gentleman, no doubt, but he has received
no commission from the Australian Parliament to
discuss Australia’s business with any Foreign Min-
ister ; and Mr. Malcolm MacDonald has been saying
that “the sovereignty now belonging to the Dominions
is complete and final.” Nor is there anything to show
that he was authorised to speak for the Lyons Gov-
ernment, though in matters concerning Australia
interfering British officials and politicians may take the
consent of the Lyons Government for granted. Be this
as it may, the “economic adviser” to the British Gov-
ernment replied that “the duties were justifiable, and
necessary for the protection iff British trade.” For the
protection of British trade! Then where does Aus-
tralian trade come in? Nowhere, of course, thpugh
the tariff is ostensibly the production of an alleged
Australian Government; Eclipse (British trade) is first
and Australian trade out of the race.
The British Government, for its part, is doing no
worrying about Australian trade, much less accepting
great hazards on its behalf. Dr. Page, who was to
have completed his business in the U.K. in a fort-
night, has been there for several months, and is still
trying to arrange for the Old Man to buy a bit more
butter and beef, having a butter-and-beef complex.
“No agreement has been reached,” it was announced
last Thursday, “and the outcome of the discussions
with the British Government cannot be viewed as opti-
mistically as was the case on Dr. Page’s arrival.”
Meanwhile that great “sanctionist” newspaper the
“News-Chronicle” delightedly reports that Britain is
buying vast quantities of Russian wheat. “Sanctions”
destroyed our wheat trade with Italy, which was worth
£1,707,500 sterling to us in 1930-31 and £1,312,600
sterling in 1931-32. Now, as well as endangering the
wool market, in which Japanese purchases of “greasy”
for nine months of 1935-36 amounted to £12,324,836
Australian, the authors of the duties which are “neces-
sary for the protection of British trade” are risking
the total loss of our wheat and flour trade with Japan
and Manchukuo.
Mr. Gullett airily implied that this trade was of
no consequence—“our exports to Japan, apart from
wool, are very small indeed.” The Quarterly Sum-
mary of Australian Statistics issued last week states
(page 42) that total exports of Australian wheat for
1934-35 amounted to 34,821,601 centals, valued at
£8,633,481 Australian, and that Japan took 8,128,052
centals. For nine months of 1935-36 wheat exports
amounted to 35,661,447 centals, of which Japan took
5,671,475 centals, valued at £1,642,747 Australian.
Flour exports for 1934-35 totalled 10,464,650 centals,
valued at £3,391,754 Australian; Manchukuo’s pur-
chases amounted to 2,674,853 centals. For nine
months of 1935-36 flour exports totalled 9,264,219
centals, valued at £3,373,134 Australian; Manchukuo
took 791,882 centals, valued at £283,664 Australian.
Political history is a record of the follies of rulers,
but there is no known parallel to a Government's
gambling with the national trade and finance, and the
friendship of powerful countries with which it is
necessary to be on good terms, in the hope of gaining
a relatively trifling advantage, not for its own country
but for another.
THE FORGOTTEN NORTH.
When the Australian Institute of Tropical Medicine
began work at Townsville 26 years ago, the problem
of the settlement of Tropical Australia by a healthy
white working population was a hotly-debated sub-
ject. Stripped of politics and prejudices, it was a
matter for accurate scientific observation of the effects,
if any, of a tropical climate upon a white race which
did all its own work, and which therefore was not
exposed to the risks of bodily infection and moral
degeneration which devolve inevitably from co-exist-
ence of a colored race —in a condition of social
inferiority but of intimate domestic and industrial
contact. Tropical Australia was, and is, the only
part of the world where such conditions exist on a
large scale.
War intervened to delay and limit a job of work
which might well have given to civilised mankind a
new outlook on world development and its own wel-
fare therein. But enough was done to enable the
Australasian Medical Congress to consider this special
matter at Brisbane in 1921, and to declare that the
“problem” of white settlement in the Australian tropics
was a problem no longer, but merely a matter of
intelligent public health administration. Two hundred
thousand healthy white North Queenslanders, largely
tropic-born (some, of the third tropic generation), and
an observed actuarial expectation of life better than
the Australian average provided the answer.
It was too definite an answer. Governments lost
interest. White Tropical Australia was healthy—why
worry further? There followed a few years of spas-
modic investigations. The institute was removed to
Sydney, where it became a School of Public Health
and Tropical Hygiene; in effect, an appendage of
the Sydney University. There it has done useful
work in training Sydney students and Australian
graduates in more or less Australian aspects of public
health. But as a helper in and watcher over the
development of Tropical Australia it is dead.
Two years ago the Queensland Labor Govern-
ment vociferated brave intentions towards tropic-
health investigation. It engaged Australia’s best tropi-
cal-health man, and put him under close control by
clerks and politicians. Now comes a new Professor
of Physiology to the Queensland University threaten-
ing to carry out further investigations. He, too. will
be controlled similarly. The political and clerkly out-
look is that such watchdogs should not be allowed to
disturb the electoral slumbers by barking about things
that may never happen. If anything should break
in, or out, they can be let loose against it. Mean-
while, they are best kept shut up.
The systematic health supervision urged by the
1921 Medical Congress has never been forthcoming.
Risks from epidemic and endemic disease indi-
cated by that congress as the inevitable consequence
of neglect still exist, and are accentuated by every
acceleration of transport. The unique field for studies
of world value upon conditions of metabolism,
genetics, nutrition and a dozen other aspects of the
bodily mechanism of tropic-born whites dissociated
from a colored population is neglected. The four
Commonwealth Health Laboratories can do no more
than touch the fringe of such matters, even if routine
work should permit them to attempt it. Occasional
flying visits by State or Commonwealth experts are
useless. Even the Commonwealth Nutrition Com-
mittee appears to have overlooked the existence of
Tropical Australia as a field for investigation.
The 1921 congress uttered a grave public warn-
ing that health neglect in the tropics might readily
involve all other parts of the continent in epidemic
or industrial disaster or both. That warning is still
unheeded. A properly-equipped health-investigation
centre, located in North Queensland and worked
under a sincerely co-operative system between State
and Commonwealth, should be established without
delay.
THE NAVAL COLLEGE.
It is somewhere about five years since the Royal
Australian Naval College was transferred from Jervis
Bay to the Flinders Naval Depot at Western Port,
Victoria. About the same time —with the depression
as an excuse for both changes —the Royal Australian
Military College was shifted from Duntroon, Can-
berra, to Victoria Barracks, Sydney.
Now the Military College is to be moved back to
Duntroon. Why shouldn’t the Naval College go back
to Jervis Bay?
For many years Jervis Bay has been a drill-ground
for ships of the Royal Navy and the RAN. Every
now and again the emptiness of its wide area is
relieved by the long, grey shapes of cruisers and slim
destroyers, and between the squadron and the landing-
place at Huskisson a traffic of launches and cutters
enlivens the lonely aspect most characteristic of the
big inlet. Gunnery and all manner of naval exercises
are carried out —night firing, torpedo “shoots,” mine-
laying and -sweeping make up a periodical programme
of hard work with little relaxation in it. Off Point
Perpendicular sometimes, in the night, passing coastal
steamships are edified by sundry realistic aspects of
naval warfare —the sweeping glare of searchlights and
the heavy, sudden concussion of gunfire.
But the outstanding feature of the bay was the
college at Captain’s Point, on the south shore, a few
miles from the entrance. It was established there in
1913, having been temporarily located at Osborne
House, Geelong, until the college buildings should
have been finished. Seldom has a better job been
done than the establishment in which the first locally-
trained R.A.N. officers began their naval education.
Even a casual visitor to Captain’s Point without
any particular notions regarding naval affairs could
hardly fail to be impressed by the thoroughness and
excellence with which the coming officers of Aus-
tralia’s little navy were educated in the groundwork
of the complicated professional knowledge necessary
to their future seafaring. When he went ashore at
Captain’s Point it was immediately borne in upon
him in a score of ways that he was not looking upon
a magnificently organised boarding-school for boys
so much as setting foot upon a ship’s deck. Every-
thing had to be done “navy fashion,” and the fashion
of the navy is essentially thoroughness.
The Naval College as it exists at “F.N.D.” is
no doubt as efficient now as it was at Jervis Bay, but
there can be no comparison between its present situa-
tion and the one it used to enjoy. The position it
occupied at the bay was an ideal one —healthy, beauti-
ful and eminently convenient for every aspect of naval
training. And it was an institution that stood by itself
—not a corner of a naval barracks or depot of which,
as at Western Port, it forms only a minor part.
Everything in it had to do with the education of
youths who were to become naval officers, and it
had no other function than to turn them into such.
Practically, the college, as it existed at Jervis
Bay, was a warship at sea, where the commander
ruled as he does afloat and the captain exercised
the same sort of supervision and almightiness as the
captain of a man-o’-war.
During the 17 years of its existence it turned out
a succession of young gunroom officers who have
seldom failed to make good in all the arduous condi-
tions of the gunroom and wardroom life of seagoing
ships as midshipmen, sub-lieutenants, lieutenants and
commanders. The professional records of Jervis
Bay are very high ones, and the individual attain-
ments of officers of the R.A.N. who received their,
earliest lessons at Captain’s Point stand comparison
with those of any officer of the Big Navy.
When the college was transferred to its present
situation the grounds and buildings for some time
remained unoccupied, save for a few naval ratings
acting as caretakers. Then it was turned into what
it is now—a sort of week-end seaside resort. The
captain's house has become a boarding-house, the
wardroom block is a hotel, and the cottages occupied
by members of the administrative and instructional
staff as residences are let for longer or shorter periods
to holiday-makers. It is one of the pleasantest places
imaginable for anyone to make holiday in—but that
was not what it was built for.
For the present number of cadets undergoing
training for the navy it is, of course, far too large :
but it is difficult to see why both the Naval College
and the Military College should not share it between
them. It stands on Federal territory, is no more diffi-
cult of access than Duntroon, and is quite as healthy.
Side by side, the two colleges might help one another
in more ways than one, not the least of which mutual
assistance would lie in the fostering of a better under-
standing between two services the ultimate aim ot
which —the defence of Australia —is identical.
J. H. M. A.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Legalised Swindling.
Reading between the lines of the stuff that London
correspondents write. Premier Stevens has made no
headway with his self-imposed task of securing capital
and branch businesses for N. S. Wales. He had the
misfortune to reach Britain when the appeal in Payne
v. the Commissioner of Taxation was coming before
the Privy Council, the point at issue being whether,
for Federal tax purposes, exchange may be added to
taxable income nominally received by an Australian
resident from Britain but never actually transmitted.
Appellant had no regard for Mr, Stevens’s feelings.
The wandering Premier went to a Chamber of
Commerce dinner, and held forth on the advantages
to be derived from making investments in N. S. Wales.
He was astonished when the chairman politely replied
that, while N. S. Wales was doubtless a wonderful
country, taxation there was higher than it was in
Britain, which means that it is practically the highest
in the world.
This pre-eminence will be perpetuated if the Income
Tax Management Bill is passed in the form in which
it has been chucked into Parliament, Alleged to have
been designed to secure “uniformity,” it gives a little
relief here and there ; but it preserves and extends
the area of deformities which should have been hacked
out of Australian taxation laws long ago. It renders
N. S. Wales taxpayers liable to tax on dividends
earned beyond N. S. Wales, on portions of dividends
paid out of interest on Australian Consols (this interest
is constitutionally exempt from State tax) and on
general income derived from other States and taxed
in those States and by the Commonwealth. To this
Clive Teece, K.C., is a witness:
The bill, for the first time in ordinary income-tax
legislation, introduces the vicious principle of taxing
income derived from a source outside the State. That
vicious principle was introduced for the purpose of the
unemployment-relief tax in 1930 by the Bavin Govern-
ment. Clause 18 of the bill provides that the assess-
able income of a taxpayer shall include —where a
taxpayer is a resident —the gross income derived
directly or indirectly from all sources whether in or
out of this State.
For a State to tax income from another State-or
country, income already taxed in that State or country
—and taxed several times, as a rule —may appear
smart to provincial politicians, but it is simply legal-
ised swindling. And apparently this legalised swind-
ling is to be increased in N. S. Wales.
The Income Tax Management Bill contains 304
clauses spread over 150 pages. It was introduced on
lune 3, and after a parody on a second-reading debate
it is being hurried through committee. But then all
Australian income-tax legislation is passed that
same way.
Two Versions.
“For every £3 we spend in the British market,”
Mr. Gullett blithers, “the U.K. spends £5 in Aus-
tralia.” In the “ ‘Times’ Trade and Engineering” for
May “the measure of Australia’s contribution to the
material well-being of Great Britain in the post-war
period” is stated thus:
In fhe 15 years 1920-34 Australia’s pur-
chases of goods produced or manufac-
tured in G.B. totalled £693,300,000
In the same period the value of Australian
products purchased by and retained in
G.B. amounted to 680,700,000
Thus the visible trade balance in G.B.’s
favor was 12,600,000
In interest on Government loans Australia
paid to British investors during the 15
years 328,300,000
Add estimated figures to G.B. for shipping
and insurance services, interest on other
investments, etc 60,000,000
This brings the balance in G.B.’s favor
up to 400,900,000
It occupies a full page of a “British Empire”
section, and was probably supplied by Australia
House. But the “ ‘Times’ Trade and Engineering”
publishes the thing as its own.
Goble, Hughes and Parkhill.
Air-Commodore Goble, after war service in British
forces, returned to Australia —he is a Victorian —in
1921. By 1935 he had risen to the dizzy height of
second on an air-defence staff controlling three rough
aerodromes, 40-odd machines, mostly six or seven
years old, and a personnel of about 900.
In 1935 his Government became conscious of
the existence of the Salmond scheme, conceived six ,
years before to give Australia an aerial armada of
about 200 machines. It decided to carry out this
gigantic plan inside three years, and it has
acquired some Hawkers, which are being used as
fighters and bombers. Other prodigies of speed
capable of reaching 190 m.p.h. are on order —the
latest British machines ordered do over 300 m.p.h.
Presumably as part of the plan, Air-Commodore
Goble was sent to England for -further experience.
After looking him over and turning up his war record,
the R.A.F. command put him in charge of Abingdon
headquarters, which defends North London and the
vital munitions and machinery centres of the Mid-
lands. It has 14 squadrons of bombers—2s6 at full
strength, with auxiliaries; giant machines, for the
most part. Half a dozen could mop up the equivalent
of the R.A.A.F.
Such a command is an experience which no other
Australian officer has enjoyed. When Air-Commo-
dore Goble comes back to Australia again all that
will be needed to make him as useful to his native
country as he is to Britain is 256 modern bombing
and fighting aeroplanes.
Meanwhile a regrettable dispute has arisen
between two members of the Government which is
revolutionising our air defences. A ’plane carrying
Mr. W. M. Hughes (Health and Repat.) from Sydney
to Brisbane lost its way in a storm, and the position
became serious with night falling and fuel giving
out. Hearing the roar, the people of Beaudesert (Q.)
resourcefully lit up a paddock with the headlights
of a hundred cars, and the lives of pilot and pas-
sengers (there were two)- were saved.
But, in descending, the ’plane struck a wire
fence, and the Minister had his collarbone broken.
When he was feeling something like his old self, he
demanded to know why the blithering blazes it should
be left to car-drivers to light up a paddock when
there was supposed to be a modern aerodrome at
Archerfield. Mr. Parkhill (Defence) was hurt, and
said this:
Provision of night-flying and -landing facilities
and direction-finding apparatus would not have pre-
vented the accident, as it is understood the machine
was not equipped with wireless.
But after the R.A.A.F. ’plane was lost for eight
days (April 14-22) in North Australia, it was “under-
stood” that all ’planes going long journeys were to
be “equipped with wireless.”
Fishermen’s Luck.
In January, 1935, the Commonwealth Government
informed the States that it was considering the ques-
tion of providing funds to assist the fishing industry
substantially, and particularly to permit exploitation
of valuable grounds, now little used on account of
absence of available shelter havens for fishing craft.
It was suggested that the States should appoint com-
mittees to frame the requirements of each State. The
States naturally accepted—another Federal grant is
always acceptable.
The fishing industries took new heart, and did
their best to help this apparent miracle to fruition.
Quite a few fishermen went in for new boats, engines
or gear, believing, in their simple way, that they were
really about to receive some assistance to counter-
balance the eternal grabbings for licenses, petrol tax,
registration, duty on imported engines and gear and
the rest which had hitherto formed the only evidence
that Governments were aware of their existence.
Seventeen months passed without result, and the
Australian Fishermen’s League wrote Mr. Lyons asking
why the scheme was making no progress despite the
millions of “surplus.” A Canberra secretary replied
that the fishing-haven scheme was off, but that £BO,OOO
was being provided for a five-year programme of
fisheries investigation and research. He added politely
that any unemployed fishermen might get a share of
an annual £lOO,OOO to be divided among the States
for interest and sinking-fund commitments on
approved public works. In other words, the Lyons
Government had dropped the fishing industry back
into the soup, and had no intention of fishing it out.
South Africa has simultaneously provided £73,000
for harbor and boat-landing works, specially designed
for the fishing industries, and brought these indus-
tries under the direct control of the Union’s Depart-
ment of Commerce and Industries. A scheme has
been worked out on the practical basis of better boats
and gear outside, and better access to safety and
the inshore side of the industry. Only thus, says South
Africa, can fish be made an ordinary food item in the
national diet, and only thus can the national fisheries
be established on their proper footing as a primary
industry of first-rate national importance.
Both of these factors operate with equal force
in Australia. There is a third one in which the Com-
monwealth Government should be vitally interested —
that a well-organised sea-fishing industry provides the
finest of all recruiting grounds for navy and merchant
service alike.
Our Rude Forefathers’ Way.
Our forefathers had rough ways of dealing with bad
boys.
It is just on 50 years since The Bulletin wrote
of the Mt. Rennie case;
Nine human dingoes have been found guilty of
glutting their foul appetites on one miserable little girl.
And to the “human dingoes” the Judge said:
I warn you to prepare for death. No hope of
mercy can I extend to you. Be sure no weakness of
the Executive, no maudlin feeling of pity, will save
you from the death you, so richly deserve.
In spite of the jury’s recommendation to mercy and in
spite of protest meetings, four of the nine were hanged.
It couldn’t happen nowadays, and it shouldn’t have
happened then, but it is a question whether we have
gained by going to the other extreme.
In the last few months N. S. Wales has been the
scene of two abominable affairs not distantly resembling
the Mt. Rennie case. In each, intimacy was admitted,
the defence being that the girl, against whom no
previous misconduct was proved—a doctor who
examined one testified to her chastity—was a consent-
ing party; in effect (since imbecility or intoxication
was not suggested), a monster of depravity. One set
of young beasts were found guilty on the minor count
of indecent assault and “bound over”; the other,
acquitted at a second trial after a first conviction had
been quashed, were lionised outside the courthouse,
and some got their pictures in a newspaper.
Rude our forefathers may have been, but their
rough ways were effectual. There was no repetition
of the Mt. Rennie villainy in that generation, and
larrikinism was literally flogged out of existence. After
a decade of “yoomanitarianism,” larrlkinism has
started up again in Sydney; hoodlums hunt in packs,
flash pistols, and in a recent case kicked a man to
death in the street. And when a ferocious young
ruffian breaks a water-bottle over the head of a
sleepy old man in a railway carriage, or shoots a
garage hand in cold blood for the few shillings in his
till, the cry is raised that he is more sinned against
than sinning, being the victim of a brutal social
order.
“Open the Parks!”
Those worthy people who utter indignant protests
whenever there is a suggestion of putting down a new
tennis court or bowling green on park lands, raising
cries of “Hands Off the Parks!” and “Protect the
People’s Heritage!” must be watching with approval
the effort of a group of Melbourne liberators to estab-
lish the right of free entry to the Richmond cricket
ground, which during the winter months is the head-
quarters of the Richmond football club.
A few Saturdays ago police assistance was called
to prevent one of the liberators gaining free admis-
sion to a football match. He laid a charge of tech-
nical assault against the police. The idea was to
ventilate the question in the courts and test the club’s
authority to charge for admission. The case was
dismissed without discussion of the major question.
At the next match a fairly large party of men
invited the use of force to keep them out in order
to give them an excuse to take the thing to court.
Club officials made no resistance, and a score or so
got in without paying.
There the matter stands, but the Richmond cricket
club, together with other bodies controlling ovals on
park property, is considering its position. It has had
permissive occupancy since 1855 —more than 30 years
before legislation prohibiting charges was passed —
so it has a strong argument for “custom and usage"
against free entry.
Approximately 100,000 people willingly pay for
admission to Melbourne football grounds every
Saturday, not for the privilege of being on park-
land property —during the rest of the week and
outside the football season most of them never
visit the park lands —but to see football. And the
football is provided primarily by the football clubs
and secondarily by the cricket clubs, which are respon-
sible for upkeep of the grounds, provision of stands
and mounds and other improvements, none of which
cost ratepayers or taxpayers a penny.
The silliest thing about the gate-crashing is its
futility, since the moral right to charge is so evident
that if it be proved technically illegal it would be
incumbent upon the Government speedily to pass
legislation making it legal. This has been done else-
where, and also in Melbourne, notably in the case,
of the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
Growing Sand.
The future of the vast arid regions of Australia is
involved in the proposal to send scientists to the
Caucasus, the Trans-Caspian and other dry sheep-
carrying regions to search for new plants capable of
resisting drought.
The natural pasture plants of arid and semi-arid
Australia developed drought-resisting qualities by
natural selection through countless ages when the
only grazing was done by a few kangaroos and the
like. The advent of the sheep and the rabbit created
demands upon them which they are now unable to
meet. Natural vegetation is diminishing rapidly, and
unless replaced by new plants or restored by culti-
vation great areas of Australia will become drifting
deserts.
A C.S.I.R. report tells the story. Overstocking,
drought and the unceasing depredations of rabbits
have destroyed indigenous pasture plants to an alarm-
ing degree. The disappearance of the plants has
caused denudation. The newly-exposed surface be-
comes blown about as sand, or, if solid earth, loses
fertility. In either case the answer is desolation and
more drought.
In the outer parts of S.A. the evil is at its worst.
There, the C.S.I.R. experts estimate, between three-
fourths and nine-tenths of the saltbush-bluebush
country has suffered denudation, followed by erosion
and drift. If the high salt content were not repugnant
to rabbits qot a plant of these valuable species would
remain.
The outlook for mulga scrub country is even
worse. Rabbits are destroying mulga rapidly, and
with mulga many other tree and shrub species.
Regeneration by seed has almost ceased. A long-
range policy of light stocking with rotational spelling
of paddocks offers some hope, but this policy is prac-
ticable only on large properties. Many of the present
holdings, large as they are considered to be by ill-
informed politicians, are in reality far too small.
Because of the low capital value of these lands
—rarely more than 2s. an acre —wholesale ploughing
and seeding are uneconomic.
The problem is a botanical one essentially, the
experts say, and the chances of success depend upon
re-establishment of a plant cover on the denuded areas
and on the drifting sand. In addition to wanton
destruction of forests, game, fisheries and other
natural resources, fondly declared by fatuous poli-
ticians to be “unlimited,” Australia has been living
on its capital supply of native pasture plants, and
these are disappearing or losing vigor where they
are not being exterminated. Unless some solution
can be found, only sand will grow over millions of
acres which once produced the best wool in the world.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Captain Pintle”: One of the many
remarkable features of the Queen Mary
consists of a multiplicity of mirrors in
the living accommodation. I suspect a
deep knowledge of feminine psychology
on the part of the de-
signers. Once I had two
women passengers thrust
into a hitherto peaceful
and friendly cargo ship,
and they made hell of it.
Seeking for the cause cf
discontent, it appeared
that there wasn’t a mirror
on board in which they
could see themselves full-
length. God knows, they
weren’t much to see, full-
length or otherwise, but
after I’d bought a couple
of second - hand shop
mirrors at the next port
and had the carpenter fix
them up, they became rela-
tively angelic for the rest
of the voyage. Between
ourselves, there is one in
our kitchen, and it seems to reconcile the
missus a lot to the worries of house-
work.
* * *
“Uco”: Gilbert’s “In the reign of
James the Second it was generally
reckoned,” etc., was recalled by a con-
viction at Mildura (Vic.) when two
plumbers were fined under a Sabbath-
observance statute of 1677 on a charge
that they “did do worldly work of their
ordinary calling on the Lord’s Day.” In
other words, they were working on the
roof of a house on a Sunday, whereas
the statute permits only “work of neces-
sity or charity” to be so performed. It
is easy to imagine circumstances in which
plumbing could be a work of both neces-
sity and charity, but no such plea was
entered. Joke artists will be grieved to
learn also that the plumbers didn’t
advance the excuse that they had for-
gotten it was Sunday. Perhaps they in-
tended to do so but forgot.
* * * =l=
“Morehead”: Women may win more
prizes in literary competitions than men,
but they supply a much larger proportion
of slovenly manuscripts. I have helped
with the judging in four competitions, and
I have found that the main feature of
entries from women is their disorderli-
ness. They will write—often illegibly—
when they have been told to type. They
will use the most amazingly unsuitable
sizes and shapes of paper, sometimes so
brightly tinted that it gives the reader
a headache. They will forget to number
the sheets or to number them correctly—
and occasionally they forget to send
whole chapters. And whaf a mess they
make of binding their literary creations!
Finally, they are apt to address their
entries wrongly or send them insuffi-
ciently stamped. Still, in my experience
the women who win the prizes send in
manuscripts that are models in appear-
ance and presentation.
“8.8. J.”: There was one amusing in-
terlude at the Brophy inquiry in Mel-
bourne. Counsel was examining a woman
witness. “Then Superintendent Brophy
was fired on by a desperado?” he asked.
“Oh, no!” the lady said. “Who fired
then?” “A bandit,” the witness ex-
plained, with the air of one who realises
that the grandest conquests are those
of knowledge over ignorance.
* * * *
“M.H.”: When John L. Sullivan was
returning from England to America in
his heyday of fame a transatlantic
skipper threatened to put him in irons
unless he restrained his alcoholic exuber-
ances ; and John L. quietened down.
Australian coasting steamers don’t carry
leg-irons, so when two violently in-
ebriated third-class passengers boarded
the Katoomba at Fremantle, and pro-
ceeded to make nuisances of themselves,
the captain and the first officer shoved
them into the ship’s hospital. The loca-
tion appears to have been a mistake, for
the mad-drunk couple tore everything to
pieces therein, doing damage estimated at
£75. The skipper radioed Albany,
and police were on the quay when
the vessel arrived. Her departure was
deferred for three hours until the dis-
“ There's a lot of sharks about."
"Yes; and don go too near the edge. They're not 'alf as 'angry as I am."
turbers of law and order had been dealt
with by the local magistrates. Fifteen
months apiece. Still, had leg-irons been
available, the business would have cost
the company much less.
* * * *
“Rev. Dogsbody”: It was after the
special service at St. James’s, Sydney,
during the Bishop Broughton centenary
celebrations. Several small boys were
waylaying visiting ecclesiastics with
autograph books. Said one; “How
many did you get, Bill? I got 11.” Bill:
“Oh, I on’y got four. And,” he added
ruefully, “one o’ the bishops pinched
me pencil.”
i-|; sj;
“Findy”: At a stock sale in Bairns-
dale (Vic.) the auctioneer couldn’t get a
bid for a thin and sickly calf. He offered
to sell it “for a song.” A man promptly
weighed in with “Hey! Diddle, Diddle! ”
and got the calf. The auctioneer would
have been in an awkward position had
someone raised the bid to, say, “Three
Blind Mice” and he was faced with the
problem of deciding which was the
higher bid. It could probably be proved
mathematically that “Two Little Girls
in Blue” was definitely a higher bid than
“Mother Machree,” and (the whole
being greater than its part) “Build a
Little Home” would certainly bring down
the hammer over a bid of “We’ll Have a
Blue Room” ; but who could judge be-
tween “Sweet Little Buttercup” and
“Only a Rose”? Still, if Malcolm Mc-
Eacharn opened up with “Drinking” and
Galli Curci followed with “Lo! Here
the Gentle Lark!” there’s no doubt as
to which would be the higher bid.
“Notaden”: Two eminent aviators
have announced that they have no use
for women air pilots—Gatty, indeed, has
gone so far as to say that they are out-
comes of an inferiority complex in re-
spect of grace and feminine charm. Yet
records from many flying schools show
that women are as responsive to flying
instruction as are men, and that in re-
spect of average balance-sense and accu-
rate control-response their reactions are
superior to the male average, although a
split second slower. As the achievements
of Maoriland’s little Jean Batten show,
physical strength is not needed in the
business to any extent above the range
of an average healthy young woman. As
for endurance of physical stress, whilst
retaining cerebral balance, woman is
built by nature for that job.
iji ♦ ❖ *
“Tuart”: Hoping for the best, but
fearing the worst, I went to see
“Thoroughbred.” Such of the incoherent
story as I was able to follow was
absurd, and the production repeats the
20-years-old fault of copying Hollywood
features which Hollywood itself has dis-
carded—the gang that tries to prevent
the four-footed hero winning the horse-
race, and the horse that moves from last
to first in a few strides. The best thing
in the film was the buckjumping, in
which a bright Australian girl doubles
for Helen Twelvetrees. That lady’s work
doesn’t justify her importation, though
it is perhaps unfair to judge her on the
stuff she has to put over. Why don’t
these Australian producers try a musical
play? Australian-made for preference,
though this is not altogether necessary ;
a tuneful old comic opera like “Paul
Jones,” given some modern touches, would
do. Hollywood does very well at the box
office with musical plays. In these, the
dancing is invariably good ; but Austra-
lian ballerinas dance as well and Aus-
tralian chorus girls could sing the heads
off their American sisters. Gladys Mon-
crieff has a better voice than Grace
Moore; yet we know what a success
Grace Moore has made singing hack-
neyed Italian ditties linked together by a
just-so-so story. Give Gladys a part
worthy of her, a chorus and ballet up to
the best J.C.W. traditions, a comic opera
or musical comedy with a passable
“book” and music that will appeal to
people bound to grow tired of crooning
and hideous things like “The Music
Goes Round and Round,” and Austra-
lians may make a film that will get a foot-
ing in foreign markets. This, “Thorough-
breds” can never do.
* * * *
“Verri”: My friend Binks, hearing a
noise in his washhouse and suspecting a
rat, went forth with a stout stick and
bashed the first moving object he saw in
the dimness. It happened to be the black
cat from next door, also on a rat hunt.
“Darkly, by dead of night,” he buried
the animal in the back garden, and next
day perfidiously joined in the general
hunt for the missing one. He also subbed
the ad. for the “Missing Pets” column of
the local paper, and hinted darkly that
the terrier up the street had none too
good a reputation. The affair blew over.
A week later the bereft cat-owner had
visitors and asked if she might introduce
them to Binks’s prize tomatoes. In they
came, plus an inquisitive hound, and
even while Binks was reciting the virtues
of the defunct feline the tyke thrust him-
self into the picture with the dug-up
corpse. When it was all over nobody was
speaking to Binks except Mrs. Binks.
She spoke lengthily and unpleasantly.
“Dominic”: Is there any occupation
without its particular industrial malady?
Miners, masons and rockchoppers are
“dusted” ; the baker complains of flour on
the lungs and the lumper of coak But it
remained for my barber to spring a
“newy” on me. “Where’s your old part-
ner?” I inquired, dropping into the chair
after an absence of several months.
“Dead! Died of galloping consump-
tion.” The hairdresser, he assured me,
worked in an atmosphere of fine floating
particles of hair which, inhaled into the
lungs, were quite as unassimilable as any
rock dust. “Have a look round and you
won't see many grey-haired barbers.”
“Heine” remembers;
A visit to Seppeltsfield (S.A.) at vintage-time
brought back memories of far-off days when
100 to 120 men had their three meals a day
in the big dining-room at ■ the old homestead
as guests of dear old Benno Seppelt and his
good wife. Each man had his bottle of wine
a day; that and the work in healthy surround-
ings gave him an appetite like a horse’s. It
took a bit of thinking out to feed that crowd.
They killed five sheep a day, and a bullock
now and then; and a score of pigs were cut
up for ham and bacon. Half a dozen cows
in milk enabled the Seppelts to churn their
own butter. They baked their own bread, grew'
their own vegetables, made jam by the ton
and pickles galore. And ail from 1000 acres
of grazing land. Nowadays the whole 1000
acres is under vines.
* * * *
“Pitman”: "Phil Anthus” (B. 27/5/’36)
is guilty of a technical error when he
suggests that the
newspaper reporter
who made “Olym-
pus” into “lamp-
post” was deceived
by his shorthand
notes. The outline
for "Olympus” be-
gins with a down-
ward “I,” and that
of “lamp-post” with
the upward conso-
nant. The most de-
lightful mistranscrip-
tion I can recall was
made by a typist re-
mitting a cheque for
her employer, an
Adelaide lawyer,
who had dictated
that it was on ac-
count of “San
Remo” (a local subdivision of land). The
recipient was informed that it was for
“sand removed.”
* * *
“Dhrimin Dhu”: “Becks’s” school-
teacher (B. 3/6/’36) must have been
sister to the one I met in Sydney. She
was just off on a cruise to Lord Howe
Island. “And one of the things I must
remember to bring back,” quoth she, “is
a set of stamps. My brother is such a
keen collector.”
* * * *
“Uco”; The Ferret had a long career
after she was taken off the Albany run
(B. 3/6/’36), and traded in Spencer Gulf
(S.A.) for many years. She finally ran
aground in a fog at Reef Head, near
Althorpe Island lighthouse, in 1921, and
became a total wreck. That neighbor-
hood is a real ships’ graveyard. In a
photograph of the Ferret taken shortly
after she was wrecked the remains of
two other vessels can be seen quite close
by- .
*•: ;J; s*c
“Bibliophile” —a last word on the
Stevenson-Hyde controversy:
(1) Hyde was culpable only in that he
assumed there was truth in a rumor about
Father Damien then in common currency in
the Pacific. Even Damien’s own ecclesiastical
superiors made inquiries. Hyde’s letter was in-
tended for no other eyes than those of the
recipient. • •
(2) When Stevenson went to Molokai m
1890, he talked to Brother Joseph (Ira Dutton).
1 have also been to Molokai, and have also
spoken to Brother Joseph (he lived until March
26, 1931). Dutton was the only man who had
ever been able to work amicably with Damien.
Dutton had no illusions about Damien, but he
was convinced that he had never broken his
vow of celibacy. He could have told Stevenson
no more than that. , .
(3) Since Hyde was an American citizen on
American soil it was but natural he should
reply to Stevenson through the American press.
I doubt if the Sydney paper in which the
original Hyde letter was published would have
printed another Hyde letter. Hyde had, doubt-
less, no very kind regard for it for printing
his first letter, and he would have had little
chance of repeating his charges in the British
press, because R.L.S. was British.
MATERIA NON MEDICA.
“Although he gave details of suitable attire for
men and children in the tropics, Ur. A. H. Baldwin
hesitated to prescribe suitable feminine apparel
because of the capriciousness of the sex.”
The learned doctor has no hesitation
In mentioning the clothes that may be worn—
Combining safety with abbreviation —
By men and children up near Capricorn.
He’ll settle all such points with prompt atten-
tion ;
But when it comes to garments that are meet
For womankind up North, he’s naught to
mention.
The subject is beyond his comprehension;
It has him beat.
The many maladies that man is heir to,
Particularly in the tropic zone,
Tie’ll recognise and be prepared to swear to;
He’s made the study of their clothes his own.
But, far as he’s concerned, the pros and antis
Of what a maid or matron wears may be
Left to the wise in underskirts and panties:
On “slips” and step-ins, brassieres and scanties,
He’s all at sea!
Well, doc., perhaps it’s not within the compass
Of one who ponders on the out-breathed
“ah”
To let himself be led into a rumpus
And mixed up in the blather and the blah
Attendant on that controversial matter,
The garb of Gertie and the frock of Flo.
You’re wise; for all your arguments they’d
shatter,
And drown you in a raging flood of chatter —
You’d have no show!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Findy”: 1 see the King has been wear-
ing a straw-decker. Just my luck! About
14 years ago Adelaide had a wave of
them, and towards the end of the summer
I bought a beauty and put it away for
next season. When birds sang and lambs
began to frisk I watched anxiously for the
appearance of the first boater —but, alas!
in vain! The following summer I again
scanned the streets hopefully, and the
next and the next, but straw-hats seemed
to be definitely off. Still I treasured my
prize and waited. At length came a
summer when Adelaide became topee-
conscious, then topee-minded and finally
topee-mad. I succumbed and bought a
“tiger-shooter” ; then, unable to bear the
silent reproaches of the unworn boater,
I gave it away to a college boy. And
now, as sure as eggs, straws will be “in”
again next summer!
* * * *
“Becks”: Speaking in defence of a
man charged with carrying on an offen-
sive trade, to wit, a piggery, within what
might be called the prohibited degrees
of proximity, a Melbourne solicitor
argued that his client was not a mere
pork-breeder, but “an artist in pig-pro-
duction.” The artistic temperament ex-
presses itself in many strange mediums,
but this is surely a new one. The magis-
trate apparently had no soul for art, and
the budding genius of the Pre-Porcine
school was fined for a breach of the
Health Act.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Those bounding Hobart trams
(B. 3/6/’36) have doqe their share in
building up the hardy pioneer. There is
a tale of a Tassie who went prospecting
in Westralia, and made a strike. A
rival party was on his tracks, and to ex-
pedite registration of the claim he en-
gaged an Afghan camelier and his nobbly
beasts to take him the 200 miles at
top clip. The Afghan swathed his middle
in bandages ; the Tassie knew nothing
of such protectives. Three days later
they reached their destination, the camels
spent, the Afghan nearly dead, the tyro
“Listen, big boy, when I count three well BOTH unmask .”
fresh as paint and enjoying the ride.
“Pooh!” he replied to admirers of his
superhuman physical endurance, “that’s
nothing. I was conductor on the Sandy
Bay trams in ’Obut for five years, and
this camel-riding is only cradle-rocking
stuff compared with that!”
“Breeks”: The use of plus-fours (B.
3/6/’36) diminished because all sorts
of people followed the lead of the
golfers and began to sport them. The
result has been that in Britain, where
the atrocities were born, few golfers
would nowadays care to be seen in them.
“ Luvums, couldn't you call a man ‘ Bubbles' sometimes, instead of
'Podgy-Wodgy'?"
When they first invaded golf the ama-
teurs affected them, and the professionals
played in slacks. No one ever saw one
of the old-time professionals wearing
plus-fours. Harry Vardon was the first
of the paid players to don them, and
immediately the amateurs began to
return to slacks. Now the things are only
worn in their native land by persons of
the sort “Bainkleider” says he saw wear-
ing them in Sydney.
!'■' si: lie *
“Ready Always”: Most bush folk can
arrest bleeding (B. 3/6/’36), Doubtless
“M. 8.” has often left a warm bed to
dash miles to a capillary haemorrhage,
when an elevation of the part and a slight
pressure have stopped an oozing of
hours. But teeth sockets can be annoy-
ing, especially in “bleeders.” Pressure
will control any haemorrhage, provided it
can be applied. The self-reliant bush-
man packs flour, pepper, anything at
hand, into a wound, and binds tightly—
an effective plan, but messy. Nature’s
dressing, the blood-clot, should never be
disturbed by first-aiders, amateur or
otherwise.
“Hamer”: The typographical error that
gave me most delight was supplied by
the “S. M. Herald” many years ago. It
was only a single letter that went wrong.
An old gentleman, well known on the
waterfront and unable to desert it in his
tottering days, fell into the water at
Man-o’-War Steps. Three days later his
passing was announced in these words:
“Captain died yesterday in Sydney
Hospital from shick, following his immer-
sion in the water.”
* * * *
“ ’Scray”: Prickly-pear is no new
thing in Melbourne, though certain
suburban gardeners there may think so
(B. 10/6/’36). - In the gorge of the Mari-
byrnong River, a few miles north of
Sunshine, prickly-pear flourished pro-
fusely ; at least it did when I helped
the Vic. Railway Commissioners to
throw a railway bridge over said gorge
10 years ago. Possibly plants bought
as Arizonian or Mexican came from the
old Saltwater’s banks.
* * * *
“Selma”: These flappers don’t lack
pluck. One, aged 17, recovering from an
attack of tonsilitis, was left at home
while the family went to Sydney. She
was reading in bed when she heard a
slight sound in an ad-
joining upstairs room.
Creeping out, the girl
beheld a burglar going
through a drawer ; she
soundlessly slipped her
hand round the door,
took out the key, in-
serted it on the out-
side and shut and
locked the door. Then
from a balcony she
tried to attract the
attention of a passing
taxi, but being unable
to do more than
whisper she could not
hail it. A private car
also missed her sig-
nals. Whep a pedes-
trian noticed her and
paused it was too late ;
Sikes had climbed out
the window, slid
down a water-pipe and disappeared. The
girl, quite unperturbed, went back to bed
and her book.
* * * if
“Laetitia”: The Maoriland method of
discouraging metho. addicts (B. 6/5/’36)
recalls U.S.A. experiments with crude
alcohol in Volstead’s time. A metallic
content was added which was known
to have the certain effect of in-
ducing permanent blindness. This was
expressly intended to deter would-be
drinkers from their debauch, but the
bootleggers, with the aid of analytical
chemists, derived a profitable income by
extracting the deadly metal content and
selling the residue. As ever, the shoddy
workman and the unscrupulously avari-
cious dealer crept in, and sometimes the
job was not done properly. The result
was that the many consumers were
blinded.
“Gosport”: “D.B.K.’s” aviators (B.
6/5/’36) were luckier than two poor fel-
lows whom I remember on the Somme
in 1916. They were the crew of one of a
series of kite balloons conveniently
spaced for a murderous onslaught by a
Taube which came from the blue. The
crews took to their parachutes; the
last two had just vacated their
late quarters before the actual burst of
Jerry’s guns when a treacherous wind
took them right back beneath the blazing
envelope. The • burning silken frag-
ments wrecked their ’chutes, and they
crashed to death in the mud below. I’ll
swear that the gesture of the Jerry who
dipped his wings was meant to convey
an expression of regret for the hard luck.
“D.8.K.”; “Jobber’s” pilot (B.
10/6/’36) could hardly have been “hurt-
ling earthwards” very quickly if he could
walk down the stairs and into the street
from the house into which he had
crashed. Seems more like a flat-spin
effect; in any case, a ’plane hitting a
house or any other object at even slow
speed often sounds worse than it is. The
sound of impact is amplified by the
drumlike effect of the wings. Yet the
incredible has often happened thus. At
Mudros in T 8 a Canadian named Stocks
spun almost vertically from several thou-
sand feet in a Sopwith 1 j-strutter straight
into Mother Earth. The impact was loud
and the devastation very complete. Hor-
rified, we ran across to the crumpled
tangle, expecting fire to appear at any
second. But we found the pilot scarcely
hurt except for a gash across the cheek.
By some freak the wreckage had
cushioned his body, and he was embraced
and enmeshed in steel bracing wires and
debris like an insect in a spider’s thread.
* * * *
“Falconer”; Touching the origin of
the bagpipes (B. 13/5/’36), their music
was heard when the ancestors of both
the Irish and the Scots were painted bar-
barians. The Emperor Nero was an
accomplished player. An ancient Grecian
carving depicting the mythical Apollo
with a bagpipe slung across his back
proves that the instrument was used
thousands of years ago. As it's droning
tone suggests, it is of Eastern origin and
was probably introduced into Western
Europe and the British Isles by Cru-
saders returning from the Holy Land.
The bagpipes are still used in parts of
India, Persia and China.
•1= -I: ,-!! *
“R.H.P.”; Stealing a tram (B. 27/5/’36)
is mere petty pilfering compared with a
larceny I recall in France shortly after
the Armistice. Illicit trade in military
equipment was brisk, and everything was
“flogged,” from jack-knives to mules.
Finally some enterprising spirits evolved
the bright idea of commandeering a coal
train. Driving it well away from the
military zone, they proceeded to sell the
cargo by the cart-load to the surrounding
inhabitants. They were busy on the last
truck when the military police appeared,
which settled their chances of an early
return to Aussie.
s i: Sji
“Friday Island” beats his joss:
Townshend earned my appreciation as a com-
petent artist when in 1921 he illustrated a
naval yarn for me. Since then I have watched
his hand gaining in cunning, but he is slipping
in naval atmosphere.
His seaman (B. 3/6/’36) would not be wear-
ing a cap in the cabin or office of the rear-
admiral or any other officer. Conversely, an
officer does not discourteously wear his cap
when in the mess of ratings at their meals.
I remember a moan from ratings once when
two military air lieutenants (it was in 1917)
went into the seamen’s mess at dinner-time
wearing their caps to inspect their Air Force
rankers whom we were carrying as passengers.
Also, King’s Regs, forbid the use of modern
naval uniform as fancy-dress. And I don’t
like the cocked-hat rig of the lieutenant
in charge of the “request man.”
i i' 5|- :J;
“L. 1.8.”: Cannot admit I was unfair
in my criticism of Royston (B.
10/6/’36). No one could doubt his
courage; and he was a splendid regi-
mental commander. My criticism was
of Royston as a brigadier-general,
whose job in action is to be at
some definite location behind his three
regiments. A brig, who goes gal-
loping about the firing line, leaving
his command and H.Q. unable to find
him, is like a regimental commander who
insists on drilling his own awkward
squads. At Romani Royston not only
invaded and harangued his own firing
line, where exceedingly capable regimen-
tal officers were in control, but actually
did the same with the First Brigade—his
own was the Second —to the annoyance
and disgust of those whose job it was to
run that brigade. He was conspicuous
in the same way in other actions. Per-
sonally, no more deservedly popular man
ever stepped.
THE MISSING TINT.
When through the city streets I pass
On fun or business bent,
1 gaze around me with a sense
Of well-being and content;
There are so many splendid things to see
The days are all one long delight to me.
But when the sunset fades away
And shades begin to fall,
1 lose that satisfaction fast —
Things aren’t the same at all;
Among the city signs that flash and flare
I look in vain for one that is not there.
The lights from every corner glow,
From every street and lane,
In red and blue and gold and green.
They sink and flare again;
Tis then I ask and ask with grief condign,
“Why isn’t there a purple neon sign?’’
1 much admire a blaze of red,
I lose my heart to blue,
Both pink and orange give me thrills,
Green is a glorious hue.
But I will not my seeking soul resign
Until I meet a purple neon sign.
Oh, city streets are strewn with charms,
1 love them all by day,
They’re always glamorous by night
With colorful array—
But, oh, the joy if somebody should get
A neon sign of mauve or violet!
N.S.W.
TROY.


20/orl'6
10 for 9 d
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . .
and for your throat*
sake smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.)
Advertisement
CORK
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
Alarmed at the protests the Whiskard-
Gullett tariff has aroused, the Prime
Minister, who is back in Tasmania again
(he must spend a third of his time there
when he isn’t abroad), has “issued an
appeal to interested parties to keep out
of the ring.” So there is a ring, and it’s
a fight that is on. Australia never asked
to be in it,
Mr. Lyons says he is not a dictator.
Sounds like the beginning of the school-
boy’s essay: “The cow isn’t carnivorous.”
Since “Labor unity” was accomplished,
Lang’s A.L.P. executive has expelled
Garden, M.H.R., and Trautwein, M.L.C.,
and it looks like expelling a lot more of
its no-longer-faithful subjects. Of course,
each set of combatants is accusing the
other of being false to the sacred “unity”
spirit.
Easy Commonwealth money being so
abundant, members of the S.A. Parlia-
ment are from July 1 to have their
salaries restored to the pre-depression
level of £4OO p.a. Premier Butler’s pay
will jump from £l2OO to £l5OO, and other
Ministers, who have been struggling along
on £lOOO, will receive £1250. The Rail-
ways Commissioner and other public offi-
cials will also benefit. The drop of
nearly 23 p.c. in S.A.’s basic wage since
1929 is explained to the wage-earner as
“an adjustment of price-levels”—cost of
living has changed, and his “real” wages
are still the same. Real wages don't
come into the question where politicians
are concerned.
Japanese are still refusing to buy at
the wool sales, although Lyons, Thorby
and co. insist that they will have to. At
Adelaide on Thursday just on 4000 bales
had to be withdrawn; and, compared
with the last Adelaide sale in February,
prices were down 5 p.c. to 15 p.c. But
Great Dailies are not making a fuss
about it; wool sales have become back-
page stuff.
Australia’s old friend “Hail Columbia”
Hoover, the most unpopular man in
America three or four years ago, was
the hero of the Republican convention,
though not a Presidential candidate. He
was cheered for 15 minutes before he
spoke and for half an hour afterwards.
He described the New Deal as “a muddle
of the spoils system, emotional econo-
mics and reckless adventure,” and de-
nounced “the gospel of class-hatred
preached from the White House” as
“human poison far deadlier than fear.”
The Republicans nominated Landon,
who is Governor of Kansas, and was un-
known outside that State till William
Randolph Hearst, who used to be a
Democrat, took him up.
Declaring that they were innocent of
the Budget-leakage business, Thomas and
Butt have applied for the Chiltem Hun-
dreds, which means that the House of
Commons will know them no more.
There was talk of a prosecution, but
Baldwin pointed out that the unfortunate
friends had not been charged with, much
less found guilty of, “a criminal act.”
It seems to have been a case (Australia
has known others) of mixing too much
whisky and racing with politics.
It is characteristic of the Lyons Gov-
ernment that Tom White, the Customs
Minister, should leave his post in the
middle of the tariff crisis to wander off
to North Australia and New Guinea to
“investigate” shell-poaching. The in-
vestigator is a stranger to the North. He
could not address a native pearler in
trade Malay or pidgin English, and he
doesn’t know a gold lip from an octopus.
Any £5OO a year customs officer who has
been at Broome or “Thursday” would be
worth ten of him on the job.
N.S.W. Premier Stevens unwittingly
provided the one gleam of humor that
has lightened the gloom of the tariff
controversy —a contribution to an Aus-
tralian supplement issued by an Osaka
newspaper:
Mr. Stevens sent a goodwill message “on
the occasion of the conclusion of the first
international trade treaty.”
Anticipating the bus can be as absurd as
missing it.
When the Beasley group denounced
Garden and signed a declaration to the
effect that its minute book had been
“stolen” from Rosevear’s locker, Lang’s
newspaper announced that Lazzarini’s
signature would have been added if he
hadn’t been in hospital. Meantime the
other Lazzarini, the State member, had
“The Australian and Maoriland delegates to Russia' delighted the Muscovites by
approving of Stakhanovism.”
“Comrades, a grand new notion from Moscow—speeding-up!”
uttered one of his feeble protests against
the Lang dictatorship, going all of a-
tremble ; so the situation has interesting
possibilities of brother being—most un-
willingly—against brother. The Mac-
quarie-street Lazzarini was shot out of
Lang’s first Ministry.
This letter came from Melbourne,
though it is signed “G. S. Carruthers,
Parliament House, Hobart”:
Your paragraph, May 27, page 12, col.
four, re my evidence to the banking com-
mission does not convey a true impression
and may be damaging if anyone regards
your paper of a sort as anything more
than an attempt at a joke and a success
in vulgarity. As a personal explanation,
kindly reprint my letter in the Hobart
“Mercury” of April 28 ult. re this matter.
The Bulletin will see Mr. Carruthers in
Alberta first.
The Japanese must now regard the
sending of a “goodwill mission” and a
trade representative to their capital as
very poor jokes. It is recalled that before
appointing the trade representative Can-
berra inquired whether they had any ob-
jection to him—he had been employed
on diplomatic work or something.
representation at Tokio and other places
is likely to cost £20,000 this year. Money
thrown away.
Thorby, Dr. Page's deputy in the
doubtfully necessary Commerce Depart-
ment, is member for Calare (N.S.W.).
The seat is shaky, and he makes it
shakier every time he opens his mouth
about the Whiskard-Gullett tariff. One
of the absurd things he has said is that
his Government and Downing-street
were “planning 100 years ahead” ; an-
other that “the [tariff] decision was
arrived at after the closest co-operation
with the Parliaments of Britain and the
Dominions.” Thorby’s Government has
not even consulted its own Parliament.
The bottom having fallen out of
“social credit” in Alberta, Douglasites,
from the Major down, are repudiating
Premier Have-a-heart at a great rate. One
leader of the cocksure brotherhood is im-
proving the occasion by “slinging off” £t
Alberta, saying that everyone knew it
was impossible to establish “social
credit” in a one-horse province with the
powers of “a glorified shire council.”
Strange that the Major, who knows
everything, should have accepted a job
as “economic adviser” to the “glorified
shire council” and collected £lOOO for it.
War interest fell due on June 15. Uncle
sent a polite letter saying he would be
charmed to receive something on ac-
count. The reply, equally polite, was to
the effect that it couldn’t be done, though
the Old Man would be “delighted to re-
open negotiations whenever circum-
stances are such as to warrant the hope
that a satisfactory result might be
reached.” Finland is Uncle’s only war
debtor that pays its interest regularly,
and the Finns’ annual cheque would
scarcely suffice to keep the members of
the Washington Cabinet in chicken and
chablis for a twelvemonth.
Malcolm MacDonald, who succeeded
Jimmy Thomas as Dominions Secretary,
to the Empire press conference:
The sovereignty now belonging to the
Dominions is complete and final.
A silly assertion, in view of the Dominion
Governments’ sheeplike support for
“sanctions” and of the “Australian
tariff which a British official in Tokio
has hailed as “necessary for the protec-
tion of British trade.” A dangerous asser-
tion, considering that De Valera has
abolished the Free State Senate and is
universally believed to be meditating the
proclamation of a Republican Constitu-
tion. Still, Malcolm MacDonald is a
very nice young man.
Deputy-Premier Bruxner in a philo-
sophic mood at Leadville (N.S.W.):
The art of government is to take money
from ope of your pockets without your
knowing.
It is also the art of the pickpocket.
We put it in your other pocket and then
let you know very clearly that you have it.
It is a wonder Bruxner doesn’t write
poetry. He has one of the qualifications
—a soaring imagination.
The latest edition of the official Queens-
land A .B.C. of Statistics gives a list of
49 chief events of the State’s history.
One line records that Leichhardt reached
the Carpentaria Gulf in 1834 —a remark-
able feat, since he did not arrive in Aus-
tralia till seven years later. And the chief
event of 1927 was “small flow of oil at
Roma.” The date when politicians began
to go abroad at the public expense is
not mentioned.
“Iggy” Boyle, the Westralian C.P.
man, read Gullett’s statement, telegraphed
from the effete Eastern States, that
Japan’s purchases of Australian goods
other than wool were not worth mention-
ing. He smartly replied that Gullett
ought to make a point of reading his
own Government’s trade bulletins, and
quoted from the bulletin issued fr,om
Page-Thorby’s department in October:
There was a great increase in quantity
and value of wheat exported. China and
Japan proved two of Australia’s best cus-
tomers, taking between them 38 p.c. of
total exports. Flour exports also rose con-
siderably, and here Eastern countries are
by far Australia’s best customers.
Yes, Gullett should really make a point
of reading his Government’s statistics.
Morton, M.L.A., giving evidence be-
fore the N.S.W. Milk Commission of In-
quiry—the second in three years, and it
looks like going on to the end of the
present year —“admitted” that the Milk
Board had “made a success of its busi-
ness.” For whom? Certainly not the
Sydney consumer, who is paying the
siege-price of 7d.»a quart.
According to Keenan, the “fairly
active Communist” who led the strike
that left hundreds of honest seamen on
the beach, the craze for taking cases to
the Privy Council has reached the
A.C.T.U.
The A.C.T.U. has promised to collect
sufficient for a Privy Council appeal on
the constitutionality of the employment
bureaux.
Yet the Victorians on the A.C.T.U. are
demanding “full sovereign powers for
the Commonwealth Parliament,” and (he
South Australians “that the High Court
be the final arbiter on Commonwealth
law.”
From Molongloside;
Having budgeted for a surplus of £17,000,
Casey will find himself about £3,300,000 to the
good when the financial year closes. Revenue
estimates were hopelessly astray; for example,
customs and excise receipts for 11 months were
£1,000,000 more than the estimate for 12
months. Total receipts for the 11 months were
£73,166,000, up £4,333,000; expenditure was
£69,019,000, up £1,486,000. The accumulated
Federal surplus will exceed £10,000,000. Only
£21.1,000 of this money has been used for
reducing the deficit of £17,000,000 accumulated
during the depression.


ANOTHER UNION ABOUT TO CLOSE ITS BOOKS.
“The Bullfighters’ Union has drawn the Mexican Government’s attention to the distressing surplus of bullfighters in Spain, where unemployed Mexicans are trudging from
town to town looking for work.”


Tm.
*
V
&
Pli
Jw
]\]im
BLi
111
%
SV*
k
V.
Rooms and Suites are now available in this new and
delightful section of the Hotel, which is set back from the street trontage, and thus the
maximum of sunshine and fresh air is secured. “The Australia now assumes pride of
place as the finest hotel South of the Line.
Other Martin-place Features include the modern and delightful air-conditioned
NEW WINTER GARDEN,
NEW BANQUET HALL,
NEW BEVERY,
NEW BAR.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraote!, Sydney.”
TMustralia
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The N.S.W. Government is bringing
Cecil Gostelow, Government Actuary and
Friendly Societies Registrar in Maoriland,
back to Sydney to fill the newly-created
£llOO-a-year Government Actuary job.
He is a N.S.W. native, a Fellow of the
British Institute of Actuaries and worked
in Australia until 1921. Bruxner says it
won’t mean the creation of another Gov-
ernment department, but Gostelow will
be a miracle if it doesn’t.
Rear-Admiral Lane Poole, now in
command of the Australian Navy, is
one of the two commanders of H.M.S.
Hood, the world’s biggest warship, to
serve in the R.A.N. —the other was Cap-
The Admiral.
tain Goolden. He is a clean-cut, typical
naval man, and before the Jervis Bay
Naval College was slaughtered he was
in charge there. He has had a catholic
naval experience, is a firm disciplinarian
of the velvet-glove type and gets on well
with Australians. C. E. Lane Poole, his
brother, is Commonwealth Inspector-
General of Forests.
Adelaide will have Australia’s youngest
rabbi in Rubin Zacks —he is only 27.
Thoroughly English, and M.A. of Lon-
don, he has studied under Buchler,
Hirsch and Adler, and is competent to
fill the long-vacant tutorship in Hebrew
at Adelaide University,
C. E. Barnes, of Canning Downs (S.Q.),
gets about in his own Gipsy Moth as his
own pilot. Recently he flew from Warwick
to Charters Towers (N.Q.) in a day,
parked Gipsy and travelled 180 miles
north-west to Lucky Creek next day.
There he cleared a landing-ground, re-
turned to the Towers, flew the ’plane out
and settled in comfortably for a spell
of investigation of the old alluvial dig-
gings in the neighborhood.
Adelaide has lost Archdeacon Bussell,
who was 81, Mark Twain would have
envied him the job he had in his prime.
From 1894 to 1912 he patrolled the
Murray, from the mouth up to Ren-
mark, in the steam-launch Etona, fitted
up as a floating church.
Lt.-Col. W. B. Stewart, whose death,
at 64, is reported from Malta, was a
Rugby and rowing blue at Oxford and
a member of famous Leander. He had
seen war service dating from the South
African rumpus. Australia will remem-
ber him as a sort of travelling represen-
tative of the Stewart clan and the Stewart
Society, in the organisation and encour-
agement of which he had travelled prac-
tically all over the civilised world.
A. C. Sandow, Mayor of Hay (N.S.W.).
has been appointed Director of Rural
Development to Victoria’s State Elec-
tricity Commission. Educated at the
Hay War Memorial High School,
Sandow passed to the School of Engi-
neering at Sydney University, taking his
B.E. (honors) in 1927. After a term
with Sydney’s municipal electricity de-
partment, he went to Hay as manager
for G. M. Richards and Co. He has
proved an able administrator of muni-
cipal affairs, and is a fine speaker.
Farmers at Hillston (N.S.W.) com-
plained at a public meeting that the Syd-
ney Government wasn’t giving ’em a
fair go. The oldest man there made the
most effective speech: “Victorian
farmers get better treatment,” he said,
“because their Government is in Mel-
bourne, while ours is scattered all over
the world on holidays.” He was Tom
Raggatfi a pioneer of Monia Gap, in the
forgotten country; and Tom Raggatt
is 86.
“Too tactful and too polite for a poli-
tician” was Opposition-leader Tunne-
cliffe’s odd epitaph on John Bowser, who
was given a State funeral in Wangaratta
(Vic.) last week. Polite he certainly was,
and tactful also, but these qualities did
not prevent his serving as the local mem-
ber for 35 years (1894-1929), or becom-
ing Bent’s Minister of Education (1908-
09), Premier (for four months, 1917-18),
Lawson’s Chief Secretary (1918-19) and
Speaker (1924-27). And he led the
Country party for a time. Still, Bowser
had more affection for his editorial chair
in the Wangaratta “Chronicle” office
than for any seat of the mighty. A
Londoner for three years and a Vic-
torian for 76, he was associated with
country journalism for the greater part
of his long life.
One of the com-
petitions The Bul-
letin is not going
to foster is a guess-
ing contest to de-
cide the identity
of the large and
genial figure with
which Frith out-
does Holbein on
this page. You
can’t help knowing
Alec Grant. When
he goes anywhere
he is a feature of
the landscape, or,
rather, he makes
the rest of the
landscape look as
if it hadn’t any
features. For he is
about the size War-
wi c k Armstrong
would be if . War-
wick hadn’t been a
cricketer, and he
has a smile which
makes the sun
appear as if a
cloud had gone
across it, and his
friends are so multitudinous as to make
it look sometimes as if he were leading
the 10 tribes into Canaan. But he doesn’t
deal in milk and honey—only the Scot-
tish equivalent.
Hats off to W. B. Weaber, of the Kim-
berleys (North Westralia), for sheer
dogged pluck. A cattleman, with no
knowledge of mining, he was totally
blinded in a mustering accident. Hear-
ing of the Tennant’s Creek gold strikes,
he sold out his stock in 1932, and, with
his wife and family, made for the Creek
in a two-ton truck across some of Aus-
tralia’s loneliest country. On arrival it
looked as if the show was a dud, but he
picked up a one-eyed mate. Jack Noble,
an experienced prospector, formed a
party, pushed out towards Hatch’s Creek,
and struck gold at the very place where,
25 years before, prospectors used to
spell their camels. First crushing yielded
3150 z. from 254 tons,, and offers of
£50,000 for the mine have already been
turned down.
During the conscription business in
1916, Westralian State Labor split into
two almost equal parts, one led by
Scaddan, who had just ceased to be
Premier and is now dead, and the other
by the present Premier, Phil Collier. Of
the conscription Laborites only James
Cornell is still in action. When Nat. Labor
ceased to be, Cornell refused to go back
to his old comrades, although a welcome
was waiting. He has been re-elected for
his South Province seat every time there
was a contest; last month he substan-
tially increased his 1930 majority—no
mean achievement, for with the revival
of mining the Labor vote is much
stronger than it was in 1930.
Gilbert Chesterton, dead at 62, cut a
figure in the English literature of this
century, though whether his work will
outlast him for long may be doubted. He
was too prolific for one thing, too pon-
tifical for another. He would advance out-
rageous paradoxes gravely, or with seem-
ing gravity, when it suited his argument;
he had this much in common with G. B.
Shaw that one never knew whether either
was quite serious. The most telling cari-
cature of Chesterton that ever appeared
represented a man standing on his head
and viewing his surroundings from that
upside-down angle. Perhaps his best
work —certainly his most popular with
the average reader —was that in the
lighter vein ; some of his infrequent verse
was so admirable in its point and phras-
ing that one could only wish he had
given us more of it.
Died at Deniliquin (N.S.W.) Hospital,
Bob McColl, one of Riverina’s best
known woolclassers, and in younger days
Dewars —Melbourne Edition.
a boxer and a rifle-
shot. Bob used to
listen with a quiet
grin to versions of
the “escape” of
Dan Kelly and
Steve Hart from the
. Glenrowan pub.
He was a trooper
under Sergeant
Kennedy (shot in
the Wombat
Ranges), and was
one of the police
escort that took the
captured leader of
the gang to Mel-
bourne after the
Glenrowan fight.
J. C. Morphett,
dead in Adelaide
at 92, was the son
of a man who
arrived before the
province was even
proclaimed, and
assisted Light in
laying out the capi-
tal. The father
married a daugh-
ter of Hurtle
Fisher, the first “Resident Commis-
sioner,” and succeeded Fisher both
as Speaker and as President of the Leg.
Council. J.C. himself, born at the
family estate opposite Morphettville race-
course, and finished at Oxford, entered
Parliament House in 1873, and stayed
there for 47 years as librarian, Clerk
of the Assembly, and finally Clerk of
Parliaments and the recognised authority
on procedure. His son George is M.L.A.
now.
Venn Sunners, depicted here by
Dubois, is Director of Sales in Melbourne
for General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd. He
VENN SUNNERS.
is a hard-bitten six-foot Bananalander
who saw service as an officer during the
war.
A. H. S. Lucas, dead at 83, was onfi of
the best-known educationists in the Com-
monwealth. Born in Stratford-on-Avon,
he graduated in arts at Balliol College,
Oxford, which has given Australia many
scholars, and in science at London Uni-
versity. Lucas came to Melbourne 53
years ago as senior maths, and science
master at Wesley, and became a tutor
in Queen’s College, Melbourne Univer-
sity, In 1893 he was appointed head of
Newington College, transferring to Syd-
ney Grammar in 1920. Three years later
he retired, and for a couple of years was
mathematical professor at the Tas. Uni-
versity. In science he was versatile, and
he spoke and wrote seven languages.
W. A. Leitch, who stepped down from
Union Bank’s general manager’s chair
recently, had been with the Union ever
since it took over the Bank of S.A. in
1892. After managing several Austra-
lian branches he became Maoriland
manager, then chief inspector, as a pre-
lude to his appointment as g.m. in 1928.
“Kwakprak”: A needle-prick in a
finger during an operation at St. Bart.'s
has brought a famous London surgeon,
the Maoriland-born Dr. H. P. Nelson, to
the brink of death. It is one of our many
and serious trade risks; I can recall five
friends who have died as a result of in-
fections contracted in professional work.
Two were needle-prick septicaemia, Dr.
Nelson’s malady.
“Zedo’s” farewell to a padre:
He was Father Philip Corrigan, a parish
priest of the old school. Born in 1857, and
ordained in 1879, he came to Queensland
in the latter year to teach in a Christian
Brothers’ school. I saw him for the first time
when I was a very small boy, dressed in turkey-
red (so that if 1 strayed too far I would be
easy to discover against the grey of the bush).
It was at Charleville, and Father Corrigan was
then a fine-looking man, very upright in the
saddle. He christened me Scarlet Jim. Next
time we met was in a sugar town where he
gently refereed an all-the-evening argument
about the quality of horses and the vagaries of
politicians. Our final meeting was during one
of those sudden bursts of mob hysteria which
marked the conscription campaigns. I landed
in a place where there was pandemonium, of
which the presiding geniuses were two police-
men with batons. And in the centre of the
fray was Father Corrigan, gentle, serene and
saying “The poor fellas! Now, don’t hit ’em.
They’ll go quietly, they will. They mane no
harm.” In his many bush parishes he left
buildings as his monuments and affectionate
memories among Queenslanders of all creeds.
“Och, an’ it’s an archbishop ye ought to be,”
said one grateful lady parishioner. “Faith, I’d
sooner be an archangel,” said Father Corrigan.


M IWM «.
ft-:-;*!?
sssssa
AW
m
i
§2#
/
r
B
t!
TYRES
*
x\
BE SURE-
Sit “CHECKSKIDS
On winds the open road. You relax—but should you? Not
if your tyres are worn smooth of grip! They may play a nasty
trick ... a wet patch ... a loosening of the road-surface
~ , and they skid! Those old, worn covers are no friends of
yours. Discard them! Then ... do more than just buy new
tyres ... let Barnet Glass Checkskids give you the surest grip
on motoring safety ever known.
No other tyre has a grip like a Checkskid ... a tenacious
grip which fastens on to the road and defies skid or slip.
And it is a longer-lasting grip. The Barnet Glass tread is deeper
cut and broader —there’s more of it . . . more rubber ... to
give thousands of extra miles. Extra miles which will save
you money! The nearest Barnet Glass dealer will fit Checkskids
to your wheels in a few minutes.
The New
“Check skid”
with
MORE RUBBER
DEEPER CUT
BBOADER
TREAD.
New Tyres call for New BARNET QLASS “Moulded” TUBES
M74.FP.35.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, (>/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.in.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phono. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
Tliis Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Boolclel, sent free, on request
Directors;
0. E. FRIEND F..N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS RUCK LAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) .1 11. S. ANGUS
J. W.. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
«N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxtou, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq. C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. IIAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Eivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions cowring Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 16,049 544 15 p.c.-- 6,548 8957 25,042
Reserves capitalised, £1209.. .. 23,833
Share premiums, £4935 .. .. 28,768
Specific reserves disclosed, £4471 .. 24,297
Pref. Ord.
1928.. 21,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,439 9,668 33,965
Share premiums, £5407 .. .. 39,372
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52,446
Share premiums, £14,033 .. .. 66,479
1930.. 30,600 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 16.754 13,846 80,325
Share premiums, £7199 . . . . 87,524
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,210 2,559 90,083
Share premiums, £2234 .. .. 92,317
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. .. 101,432
1933.. 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 16,556 2,711 104,143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ „ 19,465 331 104,474
1935. . 21,807 8 ~ 10 ~ 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 ~ 121,. ~22,270 3,270 110,080
From the beginning the co. has con-
centrated on a high-class trade, though it
has branched out into several lines and
price grades. Hosiery it was almost ex-
clusively at the start 14 years ago ; a year
or two back lingerie became part of the
output. The business spreads to Maori-
land, where an interest in one of the
leading mills was bought in 1932.
Great improvement has been made by
Australian textile mills in their products
of recent years. Prestige’s management
has successfully concentrated on the
problem of quality and costs, to the ad-
vantage of the public and the benefit of
the co.’s turnover.
Principal period of expansion was be-
tween 1925 and 1933, during which time
paid capital mounted from £33,181 to
£215,259. Plant was largely added to
during this stage —mainly one of high
prices. This and the fact that increased
competition exists and is threatened by
the installation of new plant on the part
of other Australian hosiery mills have
prompted a conservative financial policy.
Fixed assets have been liberally written
down these past two years before arriv-
ing at net profits.
Last term trading profit, income from
subsidiaries, etc., totalled £137,446, up
£8073. Administrative exes., etc., ran
off with £4340 more at £111,906. Net
profit (£25,540) was thus up £3732, and
equal to 15.5 p.c. on ord. capital, after
handing the prefs. their 8 p.c., as against
12, 10.2, 12.4, 13, 12.3 and 37.7 p.c. back
to 1930. The div. was lifted to 12j p.c.
—share premiums and the capital jetti-
soned in the post-war slump reduce the
yield to old holders.
Last year’s liberal provision for depre-
ciation shows up in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures;
1925. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £33,181 £215,259 £215,259 £215,259
Debentures . . 9,503 -
Overdraft . . 7,460 2,709 33,189 2,871
Sundry creditors 3,948 69,152 26,637 46,206
Freehold . . 15,120 75.815 79,494 75,467
Plant, etc. .. 15,059 115,870 101,757 80,13.3
Shares in other cos 52,546 72,546 72,546
Stocks . . 10,646 125,043 120,232 105,512
Rook debts, etc. 9,669 24,875 25,000 47,995
Cash, etc. .. 6,679 14,573 903 16,111
Last term £21,624 (= 21.2 p.c. on 1935
book values) more was written off than
was spent on plant. Freeholds show a
reduction of £4027. .Shares in other cos.
(at cost) remain at £72,546; stocks
(£105,512) disclose a drop of £14,720 —
a healthy sign—while book debts moved
up £22,989, indicating to some extent the
growth in turnover. The outside debt
was reduced £10,749, and improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£120.541,
excluding shares) was £34,226.
Net tangible cover (book values) is
19s. lOd. for the 10s. ords., £3 3s. for
the prefs. At 21s. cum div., the ords.
yield 6.2 p.c. on the increased div. basis ;
the nrefs. at 275. 9d. return a shade under
5.8 p.c.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Cos.
M.irch, Surplus. Dividends, Reserves. Reserves.*
£££ a ’
3920.. 15,811. 7 p.c. = 0295 9,516 50,096
18,145 7 „ ~ 6312 11,833 61,929
1928.. 21,271 7 „ ~ 6452 14,819 76,748
11(29.. 17,264 7 „ ~ 6522 19,742 87,490
1930.. 13,996 7 „ „ 6568 7,428 94,918
1931.. 12,642 7„ ~ 656 S 6,074 100,992
Loss.
1932.. 3,909 7„ „ 6568 90,515
Profit.
1933.. 14,031 7., „ 6568 7,463 97,978
1934.. 12,469 7 ~ ~ 6568 5,901 103,879
1935.. 16,057 7 .. ~ 6568 9,489 113,368
1936.. 18,822 7 .. ~ 6575 12,247 125,615
•Includes resolve for unexpired risks.
This J5-ycar-old fire, marine and acci-
dent office has rapidly worked itself into
a strong position. Shareholders are in a
good thing, and policy-holders are well
protected also. The stage is set for some-
thing better than 7 p.c. to the former
whenever the board feels so disposed.
At the close of last accounts reserves
stood at £31,690 in excess of paid capital
—that means shareholders’ funds need
net only 3 p.c. in order to pay a 7 p.c.
div. Actually, thanks to the policy of
accumulating reserves in the past, interest
and rents brought in £9158 last term (up
£214), or a shade under 9.8 p.c. on capi-
tal. Thus the whole of the underwriting
surplus, and more, was left to swell the
investment holding and returns there-
from. Underwriting itself has been
more profitable lately. The business is
spreading; new foreign agencies were
opened at Karachi and Saigon last term,
and special efforts are being made to
attract new business within the Com-
monwealth and in Asia. Already results
are showing up:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922. . £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0 p.c. 39.7 p.c.
1924.. 68,442 33,296 20,172 56.9 , 34.5 „
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 , 34.7 ~
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61.4 30.7 ~
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 , 32.3 ~
1931.. 138,729 82,066 55,261 59.1 „ 39.8 „
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 „
1933.. 104.137 58,637 40,041 66.3 „ 38.4
1934.. 105,781 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 ~
1935.. 130,221 71,367 51,741 54.8 , 39.7 , '
1936.. 145,922 82,382 53,876 56.4 „ 36.9 „
Larger business was written, and a bigger
proportion of the risks retained; net
premium income thus stepped up £15,701.
Losses were £11,015 higher, and ran off
with an extra 1.6 p.c. of the premium
income. Exes., up £2135, were 2.8 p.c.
lighter. Net growth in the underwriting
surplus (£9664) was £2551, making the
net return from all sources 20 p.c. on
capital, as against 17.1, 13.2, 14.9, a Joss,
13.4, 14.9 and 18.4 p.c. back to 1929.
The loss was due principally to London
marine business. The co. is out of it
now.
Unless the co. borrows to lend at a
better rate of interest, the size of the
item “sundry creditors and provision for
contingencies, £54,765,” suggests that
there may be inner strength in the item.
Claims and reinsurances unpaid, £31,140,
is the other liability in the accounts,
which show protection for policy-holders
as follows;
1922. 1929. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. £75,000 £93,175 £93,825 £93,925
Sundry creditors.. 8,028 99,072 81,112 85,906
Public securities. . 40,260 121,675 153,632 178,952
Fixed deposits . . 31,500 27,000 20,320 14,000
Cash, etc 13,209 13,872 22,308 18,682
Rook debts, etc... 7,098 49,671 24,572 26,346
Freeholds . . . . —■ 74,041 74,041 74,041
There were net tangibles equal to slightly
more than 150 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums when the books closed, and that
is keeping within the bounds of sound
underwriting. The funds were in a
readily-realisable form also.
The 10s. shares, unlisted, are quoted
around 255. in the vestibule of Sydney
Change. The return at that figure is
2.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and better
than that seems indicated.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Ro-
M;ir., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 10,982 2* p.c. = 9,240 1,736 43,325
Added to reserves .. .. 11,205 54,530
1927.. 19,657 5 p.c. = 18,491 1,166 55,696
1928.. 29,158 71 „ ~ 27,736 1,422 57,118
Plant written down £183,305 —7s. 9d.
struck off each share; balance
( £40,000) taken from reserves.
Returned in cash, 2s. 3d. per share. . 17,118
1929.. 22,615 10 p.c. = 18,491 4,124 21,242
1930.. 9,720 5 „ „ 9.246 474 21,716
Loss.
1931.. 589 Nil 21,127
6s. Bd. per share returned in cash or investments.
1932.. 4,108 Nil 10,959
Profit.
1933.. 390 Nil 17,355
Loss.
1934.. 11.720 Nil 5,035
Profit.
1935.. 49 Nil 5,084
19.36.. 2,053 Nil 2,053 7,737
Most interesting question at the moment
is the realisable value of the big Clyde
workshops (which cost the co. over
£260,000), now standing in the books at
£61,724, after deducting £4978 sales of
plant, etc., and £12,724 worth transferred
to the Waterloo factory last term.
The co. came to grief when it ex-
panded in order to manufacture heavy
electrical machinery for Government and
semi-Government bodies; the promised
support, either by the way of tariffs or
patronage, didn’t materialise. In 1928
£183,305, equal to approximately half the
capital, was written off plant. Dividends
from the small-electrical and lift-making
and -supervising sections of the business
cut out with the onset of slump in 1930.
Shareholders since have had 6s. Bd. re-
turned to them in cash (or shares in
Stanway, Ltd., at their option); but no-
thing else out of the business.
The £123,273 of paid capital is now
in 184.910 shares of 13s. 4d. each. The
market appraises these at 6s. Bd., thus
discounting reserves (£7737 in the books)
entirely and other book values by about
50 p.c.
This is how the accounts show the
position;
1928. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid .capital.. £869,820 £184,910 £123,273 £123,273
Debentures . . 33,400 -
Sundry creditors 37,882 26,689 17,143 13,811
RSTT :: }«=*-«' ».«« «.»«
Stock.. ... 84,726 34,020 20,076 26,567
Subsidiaries, and
investments. 47,107 71,000 5,899 4,270
Book debts . . 98,144 23,492 23,453 14,715
Cash, etc. . . 6,734 408 962 1,288
Stocks, book debts, sundry investments
and cash total £45,570 ; the outside debt
(down £3332) stands at £13,811. Shares
in Lift Inspection and Insurance, Ltd.,
appear at £20,000, less £18,730 advanced
from the pup.
For last term the accounts claim £2053
of profit; exactly where it came from —
from the parent’s activities or the pup—
isn’t disclosed. It is the best showing in
six years. The board reports:
In October last the Harris-street leasehold
expired. The cost has been written off
and the plant removed to Waterloo, where
our old premises have been added to by the
purchase of an adjoining workshop at a
cost of £4030. .. .When the necessary plant
has beep moved we shall be economically
housed, and hope thus to effect an im-
provement in costs. The capital outlay
.... is justified by prospects.
And, as regards the Clyde works,
it is proposed, from time to time, to ask
the Court’s permission to make returns
of capital, as and when these fixed and
non-liquid assets are disposed of.
There the matter stands for the present.
Possibilities of realising the Clyde free-
holds, etc., should be improving, if any-
thing.
Swan Brewery Cos., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends and
Dividend Tax
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. (3 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar. ’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c.= 26,754 20,617 42u,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 . . 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 '2O p.c.= 42,531 17,375 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 ~ „ 42,545 19,466 542,962
Mar.,’29.. 63,891 1500 20 ~ ~42,545 19,846 562,808
Sept ’29.. 48,761 1500 20 ~ „ 42,545 4,716 567,521
Mar ,’30.. 67,910 1500 20 ~ ~42,545 23,865 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 14,741 006,136
Mar.,’3l.. 40,580 1500 16 ~ ~ 34,036 5,044 011,174
Sept.,’3l.. 29,349 1500 12 „ ~ 25,527 2,322 613,490
Mar..’32.. 45,892 1500 16 „ ~ 34,030 10,356 623,852
Sept.,’32.. 37,557 1500 12 „ ~ 25,527 10,530 034,382
Mar.,’33.. 50,301 1500 16 ~ „ 34,030 14,765 649,147
Sept.,’33.. 39,344 1500 12 „ ~ 25,527 12,317 661,404
Mar.,’34.. 62,023 1500 20 „ ~42,545 17,978 679,442
S'ept.,’34.. 43,192 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 7,650 687,098
Mar.,’35.. 52,224 1500 20 „ ~42,545 8,179 695,277
Sept.,’3s.. 41,749 1500 20 „,, 42,545 692,981
.Mar.,’36.. 69,795 1500 20 ~ ~ 42,545 25,750 718,731
The last half-year was probably the
most profitable in the co.’s history.
Revival of the goldmining industry has
been a wonderful help—in Westralia
there were 14,692 men directly employed
in extracting the yellow metal at the end
of 1935, and that is less than half the
story of the increase in spending power
that can be traced to the enhanced price
for gold.
Despite cheaper methods of mining
and treatment, the present low-grade type
of ore now prominent in the West calls
for a large quota of men per ounce of
gold won; industrial activity resulting
from the present gold boom is little short
of the hectic days at the beginning of this
century. And that is all to the good of
Swan Brewery and other concerns sup-
plying the necessities of life to a gold-
fields population.
Swan's headquarters are in Melbourne,
where most of the shares are held, but
the profits are earned in Westralia, where
the co. has almost a monopoly of the
trade. Consumption of beer in the State
was 20 gallons a head in 1911 ; it was
11 gallons in 1931-32 (the driest year on
record), but had stepped up to 12} gal-
lons in 1933-34, when 5,449,000 gallons
of beer and stout was turned out. In
1934-35, 5,975,000 gallons was made.
For 1935-36 the figure will probably be
the biggest to date —increased population
making up for the stouter individual
efforts of the pre-war drinker.
For the 12 months to the close of
latest accounts gross earnings (£313,209)
sprang £48,612. Exes. (£203,060) took
£34,620 of the increase. After allowing
for reserve adjustments, including £4636
received from W.A. Glass Manufac-
turers and credited to leasehold liability
account, the net result (£111,544) was up
£16,128. That was enough to pay the
pref. div. (£3OOO p.a.) and show 25.5 p.c.
on ord. capital, as against 21.7 p.c. in the
preceding year. Shareholders received
20 p.c. for the twelvemonth, as against
18 p.c., 16 p.c. and 14 p.c. in the three
preceding years.
The £718,731 of visible reserves, like
the £475,454 of share capital, belongs to
shareholders. There hasn’t been a bonus
issue since 1911. The visible and inner
strength largely explains the present juicy
returns to shareholders. Last year’s earn-
ings were 9.6 p.c. on average reserves
and ord. capital combined—which sug-
gests that the book value of. assets is
conservative.
The accounts show the following
figures:
March, March, March, March,
1926. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £358,190 £475,454 £475,454 £475,454
Mortgages . . 51,672 17,123 —•—
Other liabilities! 90,151 122,796 150,308 184,584
Freehold and
plant .. 654,179 955,838 952,191 937,353
Mortgages . . 58,588 39,121 50,573 50,515
Stock.. .. 54,759 40,663 44,982 53,513
Shares in other
cos. .. 6,897 111,722 111,722 111,722
Book debts... 81,973 81,206 95,722 128,785
Cash, etc. . . 3,353 71,504 109,893 140,925
+ Includes goodwills accruing.
Fixed assets appear at 57.5 p.c. of their
original cost. Hotel freeholds, in at
{“Wild Cat ” continued on page 18.)


Australian Capital is profitably employed in
SUGAR! STEEL! BANKING! INSURANCE!
Here is your opportunity to invest in
PETROL
AND ALLIED PRODUCTS
Australia has its leaders in industry, banking and insurance; and
now comes the opportunity to share in the profits of the first real
Australian Petrol-Distributing Company the
AUSTRALIAN MOTORISTS
PETROL CO., LTD.
CAPITAL \
£300,000 /
Well Directed - Soundly Planned - Prudently Financed
The Board of Directors confidently invite every motor vehicle owner to become a
shareholder.
OBJECTS OF COMPANY
The objects for which the Company is formed are as set forth in the Memorandum of
Association and are particularly to carry on in Australia the trade of importing and
marketing petrol, oils, and allied products.
The certified published accounts of a similar Company in New Zealand
disclose the following results:—
YEAR ENDED
31st MARCH, 1935
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£131.268
TURNOVER
£638.698
PROFIT
£34.445
Six of the Directors of the New Zealand Company have subscribed for a substantial
number of Shares in Australian Motorists Petrol Co. Ltd.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS
The Hon. J. C. WATSON.
Company Director, Sydney.
The Hon. J. M. DUNNINGHAM.
M.L.A.
Company Director, Sydney.
EDMUND S. PAUL. Esq.,
Managing Director for Australia and
New Zealand of Schweppes Limited,
and Chairman of Directors of the
Australian Provincial Assurance Asso-
ciation Ltd., Sydney
W. J. SMITH. Esq..
Managing Director of Australian
Glass Manufacturers Co. Ltd., Sydney
C. D. SAXTON. Esq..
Director of A. C. Saxton & Sons Ltd.,
Sydney
GEO. HARPER, Esq.,
Merchant, Sydney
A. R. TEWKSBURY. Esq.,
Vice-Chairman of Yellow Cabs of
Australia Ltd., and Managing Direc-
tor for N.S.W. of Yellow Express
Carriers Ltd., Sydney
W. A. O'CALLAGHAN, Esq.,
Director of Associated Motorists Petrol
Co. Ltd. of New Zealand, Hawera,
New Zealand
GEO. W. HUTCHISON, Esq.,
C.M.G.
Public Accountant and Secretary of
Automobile Association of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand
SOLICITORS:
MESSRS. ABBOT, TOUT, CREER
and WILKINSON.
N.R.M.A. House,
3 Spring Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office, Sydney
AUDITORS:
MESSRS. HOLT and THOMPSON.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
23 Macquarie Place. Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERIM SECRETARY:
L. J. THOMPSON, F.C.A. (Aust.)
F.A.I.S.
23 Macquarie Place, Sydney
Advertisement
More than 100,000 Shares have already been applied for!
WOOL GROWERS
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
AdverAdvertisementtisement
Advertisement
di
38 —Tongue
Fork, 31/6.
39 —Castlo,
d
40—Block
Step, 31/6.
615—Sheep
Double IT,
23/6.
A
—Swallow,
18/G.
804—Centre
Round Hole,
22/e.
Made in accordance with the Stock Department regulations.
s \
■ A
;2ftl—Double Fork, 48/-.
303—Double Swallow and
Shamrock, 53/6.
We Specialise in Compound Pliers
(Two Marks on the One Plier).
W. Jno. BARER, Ltd.
3 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY


HODSONS INVESTMENTS, TLD.
—SEE PAGE 39.
Advertisement
SECURITY
for the proper administration of
your Estate is obtained by appointing
EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL
Paid-up Capital . , . . £140,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . 660,000
£928,000
Trust Assets, £28,328,553.
Sir Claude (Chair-
man), W. D. Stewart, B. T. Milder.
General Manager: Manager:
W. Sydney Jones. K. M. Hughes.
1-5 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY,
and 413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write or call for free booklet.
mcMtrm
AND AGENCY CO. LTD.
Reserves
128,000
£67l,736 (cost, less £162,704 deprecia-
tion) , account for nearly half the total
book value of all assets. The liquid posi-
tion is extremely snug.
At £6 the 255. ords. yield 4.2 p.c,
N.Z.P.F. First-issue Bonds
Certain first-issue bonds put out by
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd., contained
a guarantee of repurchase, plus 5 p.c.
compound interest. A few years back,
when a good many bondholders were
availing themselves of the repurchase
clause, a “conversion” scheme was ar-
ranged whereby the land and forests
under first- and second-issue bonds were
to be transferred to trustees —and there-
by, apparently, to relieve the co. of the
onerous repurchase clause.
Those who failed to record their vote
were to have been deemed to have voted
for the plan. It is doubtful if such an
assumption on the part of the co. or the
trustees would have been countenanced
by a court of law.
In any case, those who want the cash,
plus interest, still have a chance of get-
ting it. But they will have to make it
snappy.
.Shareholders who, as bondholders, may
be . entitled to rights under the repurchase
clause contained in certain first-issue bonds
may be reinstated as bondholders and
exercise the right of repurchase. It has,
however, been found necessary to require
that early election shall be made as to
their intention, and notice must be received
by the commission not later than June 21,
1936.
The above is from a circular issued by
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd. The office
of the Bondholders’ Incorporation Com-
mission, to whom immediate application
must be made, is Room 5, Government
Buildings, Wellington, M.L.
White and Aluminous Cement Cos.
The White and Aluminous Cement
Cos. of Australasia, Ltd., has been regis-
tered in S.A. with a nominal capital of
£250,000 in £1 shares. It is to make
white, colored, aluminous and ordinary
cements, the last merely as a standby
line. The raw materials of chief import-
ance used will be imported Dalmatian
bauxite and Angaston (S.A.) marble (in
the case of the aluminous product), and
carbonate and kaolin clay, both obtain-
able in the State (for white cement).
White cement can be dyed any color,
and may be used for indoor and deco-
rative work on a much more extensive
scale than Portland cement. Aluminous
cement is claimed to be stronger, quicker-
setting, and to take up less space in bear-
ing a given strain than Portland. It is
resistant to sea water and other cor-
rosives of ordinary cement.
The vendor. Bauxite Syndicate, Ltd.,
takes 15,000 ord. shares, cash to cover
incidental exes, estimated at £2120, and
a royalty of 2s. a ton on all bauxite im-
ported by the co. The services of E. J.
Lucich, a shareholder in the Bauxite Syn-
dicate, who has had practical experience
in European cement works, have been
retained for nine years. Mr. Lucich was
in 1933 appointed by an overseas bauxite
co. to sell its product in Australia and
Maoriland for a period of 10 years.
The public is offered 200,000 ords. The
co. may go to allotment when 100,000
have been applied for. Cost of plant,
buildings and equipment is estimated at
£77,650. A factory site has been acquired
at Osborne, near that recently taken by
Imperial Chemical Industries.
The co. does not seek tariff protection.
Aluminous and white cements respec-
tively, which cost about £l3 a ton im-
ported, can be made in S.A., the pros-
pectus says, at £3 17s. Id. and £2 15s. a
ton.
On a turnover of 37,500 tons of cement
a year, at “reasonable selling prices,” the
prospectus estimates profits at 14 p.c. on
a paid-up capital of £155,000. In the
event of war cutting off supplies of
bauxite, it is considered that the manu-
facture of white and ordinary cements
would return a profit.
On the board are Lavington Bonython,
W. P. A. Lapthorne, J. W. Wainwright,
K. C. Wilson and F. S. Mann.
New Cobar, formed in May, 1934, to
acquire 37 acres at Cobar (N.S.W.), is
selling out to New Occidental for
200.000 f.-ps. As the Cobar co. has
400.000 shares out (80,000 10s. f.-ps. and
320.000 contribs. paid to 45.) shareholders
will receive one New Occidental for
every two. Occidental’s development and
ore-treatment programme for New Cobar
hasn’t been disclosed, but it is unlikely
to incur the expense of transporting
Cobar ore to the Occidental mill. On
the other hand, new plant installation
on the Cobar site would involve heavy
capital expenditure. Possibly an effort
will be made to obtain a Government
loan similar to the £SOOO granted New
Cobar some weeks ago. Known ore
reserves at New Cobar total 340,000
tons, assaying 6.sdwt. gold and 1.9 p.c.
copper; at New Occidental, 261,500
tons, excluding a “most probable” and
“probable” tonnage of 100,000. Occi-
dental scrip went up and down after the
announcement, settling at Bs. 6d. on
Saturday. Cobars got the most kick,
rising 2s. 6d. (to 3s. lid.) in about a
week. Meagre information to share-
holders continues to be a feature of New
Occidental’s operations.
* * $ *
Lancefield (Beria, W.A.), well regarded
by the “Wild Cat” since flotation towards
the end of 1933, has taken a big turn in
the market. In B. 20/5/’36 it was said
that mill work had improved, the ratio
of concentration by floation being now
12 to 1, and that the mine was opening
up nicely in the bottom levels. Last
week the co. announced that a drill had
passed through an lift, lode at 1250 ft.
assaying 58s. 7d. with gold at 85s.
T. R. Victor, mining engineer and a
director, suggests that, should the lode
continue on its present size and length,
900.000 tons of ore should be available,
giving the mine a life of at’ least 10 years
on present rate of extraction. The 4s.
shares, down to around Bs. a few weeks
ago, sold to 14s. 6d. last week. Plant
efficiency and extraction are improving.
;j: :1c * *
Lake View and Star broadcasts that
during the three months ended March 31
last 143,862 tons of ore was crushed and
168,630 tons of residues was re-treated
on its Kalgoorlie Golden Mile group for
gold worth £327,155 in Aust. currency.
Mine profit was £145,485. From this
has to be deducted £15,090 spent on
special development, plant and machin-
ery, London expenses, directors’ percen-
tage of profit and something substantial
for depreciation. An idea of the large
amount of development proceeding can
be gathered from the fact that 6407 ft.
of driving, crosscutting, winzing, rising
and shaft-sinking was done in the
quarter, together with 3848 ft, of
diamond-drilling. Generally mining
results are well up to expectations,
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance, Ltd., intends to
pay off the 10 p.c. 10-year profit-sharing
notes on October 1. Of the £36,045
worth of notes, £18,950 was taken up
by shareholders on July 31, 1932, at par,
and £17,095 by shareholders in Dec.,
1932, at a premium of 75 p.c. Note-
holders also receive 50 p.c. of the profits
each year; for the year to Dec. 31 last
this amounted to 16s. lOd. (stg.) per £1
of notes held, less English income tax at
4s. 9d. in the £l. The div. to share-
holders dropped from 25 p.c. to \l\ p.c.
The shares fell from over ss. (Adelaide)
to 4s. 6d. last week.
* * * *
Australian Mines Management and
Secretariate, Ltd., founded by Claude de
Bernales two years ago to manage mines
in Australia, took control of Great
Boulder the other day. It now has charge
of 35 properties, including those of Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance, Anglo-
Australian, Yellowdine Gold Develop-
ment, Southern Cross, North Kalgurli
United. Murchison, Great Boulder Min-
ing and Finance, Langi Logan, Vic-
torian Alluvials, Beaufort Cathcart and
Hercules Eureka. The first seven are in
the West, the next three in Victoria and
the last in Northern Territory. Head-
quarters of Mines Management and vSec-
retariale, Ltd., is London House, Perth,
styled as the Corner House of the West.
* * * *
Exact figures of South Kalgurli’s latest
half-yearly estimate of reserves are
198,700 tons of blocked-out ore assaying
sjdwt., and 69,600 tons of probable ore
of the same value. Compared with the
previous estimate the tonnage is a little
higher, and the grade a quarter of a
pennyweight down. Cos. is hopeful that
results from development on the Lake
View lode in the South Kalgurli and on
another ore-body in the Hainault during
the current six months will improve
things.
* * sj* *
Edna May (W.A.) claims, after much
trouble, delay and possible expense, to
have overcome the water difficulty and
to be making good progress in reopen-
ing the old and previously submerged
workings. Payable ore is expected to
be reached shortly at 300 ff., but it will
be some time before the co. can hope to
dig out sufficient to warrant its new and
idle mill being brought into operation.
$ A' 9j5 *
Golden Horse Shoe Cos. has started re-
treating Great Boulder tailings on a
profit-sharing basis. Those comprising
the residues from ore treated from 1908
to 1921 are estimated to total 1,900,000
tons averaging 1.65dwt., and those accu-
mulated since 1921 1,200,000 tons averag-
ing 1.035dwt. Retreatment will occupy
several years. Profits, half of which go
to Golden Horse Shoe and half to Great
Boulder, are expected to amount to
between £BOOO and £9OOO a month in
Australian currency.
* * * *
Crushing has been started on Cox’s
Find, Erlistoun (W.A.), worked jointly
by Western Mining Corp.. and Central
Yellowdine. Treatment at the rate of
1500 tons a month is aimed at. Cox’s
first came into prominence a year or so
ago, and it now ranks as one of the best
of the new ventures in the West. Western
Mining Corp. holds a 75 p.c. and
Central Yellowdine a 25 p.c. interest.
* * *
Yellowdine Gold Options (W.A.) is
pleased with its prospects. Its first ven-
ture at Yellowdine was a failure, but its
second—the Three Boys at Southern
Cross —is expected to prove a howling
success. The production stage is nigh.
* # t- *
Purple patches on the Victorian fields
last week were the 140-ton crushing of
Deborah (Bendigo) for 1540 z. gold and
Daylesford Deeps’ clean-up of seven
fathoms of wash for 440 z. Deborah’s
stone came from the 9,15 ft. level, where
the reef is one of the many parallel anti-
Advertisement


mi ■
m
A '/ V'-t t- • -
/ -
s m
■ ■■
mmm
mm
< -' : v% ■ .
mmmmmmim
'■*' • ■'•"'
.
m
•■ •.■•' V
m
m
B888&8SSS W^m
mm
**
WM
m
mmm
mm
ite Horse
§f
0
44
How do I know?
• o •
Why, you can’t mistake
it!”. . . There’s no mis-
taking this whisky, it
has such rare bouquet.
Breathe that rich frag-
rance, just faintly peated.
Feel that soft smooth-
ness, velvet and dew...
Then wait for the glow
that suffuses your being,
that wonderful warmth
without fire . . . Who
could be wrong when a
whisky is as fine as a
fine liqueur ! It must be
White Horse of course !
WH 48-36
SCOTCH WH IS K Y
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
Advertisement


ABORIGINALITIES
“F.Y.7”: To one born and reared on
an upper Barcoo station, there is a real
laugh in the story of the devastating
smell which persuaded many residents of
Narrabri and Wee Waa in N.S.W. that
the bottomless pit was
yawning for them. The
entire population turned
out to find the cause of
the odor, but the corpse
could not be located.
What happened was that
a favoring wind had
wafted the scent of the
gidya scrubs round Wal-
gett, 100 miles away,
after a shower of rain
had brought out the full bouquet
of the humble scrub tree. The head
station of the writer’s youth was
enclosed in a belt of gidya, and the ap-
pearance of the scent on the breezes was
welcomed by the sophisticated as herald-
ing the always-wanted rain. When the
rain fell the odor deepened until new-
chums and jackeroos from other parts
became as travellers at sea. Truly one-
half of Australia doesn’t know how the
other half smells.
* * * *
“Ben Nevis”: Rain prophets? On the
southern hills of N.S.W. at Bundanoon
we regard the swifts as a never-failing
sign of rain, which always falls within
two or three days of the appearance of
these birds. They swish through the air
in an ever-restless sweeping of the skies,
and where they go in the fine, dry
weather is a mystery to me. As a rule,
they arrive in October and depart in
April; this year they left earlier than
usual.
sfc # *
“Jesmond”: Fishermen overestimate
the damage done by seals. Individual
seals sometimes play havoc with nets
and undoubtedly eat ’couta, but only
occasionally do they bother the more
highly-prized fish. The long line is the
reason for the shortage, especially in
land-locked waters. Off Seal Rocks (Vic.)
any mug can pull in flathead as fast as
he likes, though thousands of seals are
feeding on the spot.
* * * *
“C’est Vrai”: Binghi doesn’t collect
many pats on the back for his ability as
a toiler ; still, there are a few jobs he does
very well —station work and lugger work
are examples. But I think it is as a
scrub-feller that you’ll see him at his best.
On the Atherton Tableland (N.Q.), where
scrub is scrub, you’ll find him up five
and six “lifts” on his narrow springboard
swinging his Kelly or Plum as fear-
lessly as the best of his white brothers.
And he doesn’t skedaddle at the
first protesting crack of the giant, which
he rarely beats to terra firma by more
than a few seconds.
•i* *l* $
“Kali”: Most of the redback spiders
inhabiting my garden have the distinctive
warning splash of red, but frequently I
strike one without the slightest suspicion
of coloring on his jet-black hide. No
doubt of his being the same species ; two
spiders I interrupted in a little love-mak-
ing proved that, the female being all-
black. I didn’t wait to see if she ran true
to type and made a meal of her spouse
following mating; my blowlamp was
dying out. Let me pass on the blowlamp
idea to those whose gardens are infested
with redbacks —it not only kills off the
adult spiders, but also the minute ones
and egg sacs. A good substitute is a pad
of wool soaked in kerosene and tied to
the end of a brass-rod.
“Centre”; Redback spiders generally
look pretty plump, yet what do they eat?
They always hole up more or less in the
dark, where no fly will ever run foul of
their web, and I’ve never yet seen one of
them out hunting for tucker. In fact,
they move about less than any other
spider I’ve watched.
* v A- *
“Johnhop”: An old bush fable which
never lacks true believers is that kan-
garoos are born on the teat. Years ago
Wood Jones entered into a newspaper
controversy with a bushman on the sub-
ject, and prepared a splendid series of
dissections showing the youngster actu-
ally in the womb and in later stages of
development on the teat. These were
exhibited at a public debate arranged to
settle the matter —but his adversary didn't
turn up! The dissections are still in the
Adelaide Museum to convince the doubt-
ful.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The ship's company
of the Westralia must have felt very like
Noah and his family on a recent run
from Fremantle to Port Adelaide with
50 assorted apes, 42 horses, 14' cages of
“She drinks an awful lot o' Water, Jacky.”
“You tellum ME. Ol' cow only do tree mile to gallon .”
lions, tigers, leopards, bears and hyenas,
some elephants and a job lot of zoologi-
cal sundries. They cost £6OO in freight
and shipping charges. Four hundred-
weight of meat, several bales of fodder
and corresponding amounts of bread,
biscuit, grain, vegetables and fruit were
required for the daily menu. The mon-
keys mutinied and attempted to take
charge of the ship, but the hatches were
got on in time. Every animal of them
expressed its distaste for a sea life at the
top of its voice. Luckily it was a fine-
weather run—a seasick menagerie would
be worse than a cargo of Red Sea pil-
grims.
* * *
“Haggin”: The white Sudan camels
mentioned by “Friar Tuck” (B. 20/5/’36)
are the famous mehari, the thorough-
breds of the camel race, and capable of
high speeds for long distances. Bred by
the Bisharin and Hadendowa tribes, only
the females are used for riding. Five
hours for the 62 miles between Cairo
and Ismailia, quoted by “F.T.,” is sheer
loafing for these fliers, who are capable
of a hundred miles in a short day for
a week on end.
$ * * *
“Raorut”: I was bringin’ a goods
down,” said George the guard, “when I
hear the whistle blowin’ like mad. I look
out, an’ there’s a baby emu givin’ us a
race. We decide to run the chicken
down. Me an’ Peter was to keep be’ind
it, an’ young Jim the fireman, bein’ a bit
of a runner, was to foot it on the wing
like Clancy, an’ turn it. The emu legs
it for the open country, with me an’
Peter just managin’ to hold our own in
the rear, while Jim worked wide to swing
it. We nearly had the bird a dozen times,
but it just beat us as we went to grab
it. After we’ve been chasin’ it for over
an hour it steps on it and vanishes —
must've been playin’ with us. Then
Peter looks round. ‘Where th’ ’ell’s
th' train?’ he asks. We look, an’
there's no sign of it. That’s crook
enough, but none of us knew which way
to git back to it. All that mallee coun-
try looks much the same. After arguin
it out, we tosses up to see which way we
go and then we sets off. It took us
hours to reach the line, an’ when we did
we couldn’t find the train. We stagger
along the line for another two hours,
before we come to a station. Wot
station? Blowed if I can remember;
but we was on the wrong line.”
* * * *
“Jacko”: I should like to know if
“Fisher” (B. 29/4/’36) has ever tried
holding goanna oil in a bottle. I have,
and it does seep through the glass. Maybe
“F.” could enlighten me as to how the
oil gets on the outside of a bottle which
has previously been wiped clean. A
big Australian firm sells it in tins- -and
that firm ought to know.
jJ: i\i ❖ : 1-
“Grand Slam”: What bushman has
not suspected a secret collaboration be-
tween his “well-belled” neddy and that
base deceiver the bellbird? Our scrubby
mile-square horse-paddock in W.Q. is a
paradise for truant hacks; belts of low,
thick-growing hopbush, whitewood,
wilga and quandong made it so. As if
this natural cover wasn’t enough to exas-
perate the cleverest horsetailer, Mr. Bell-
bird frequently aids the prad that doesn’t
want to do his daily dozen. At the
first sound of the horseboy’s whip I have
known one particularly sagacious pony
to detach himself deliberately from the
company of the other horses, and,
although his sly methods earned him the
privilege to carry a bell on his neck, he
would stand alone and perfectly still in
the thickest patch of scrub. As if by
some prearranged plan, the clear, reson-
ant note of the bellbird would sound
from quite another direction, but it would
need a swarm of bees to induce Neddy
to allow his bell to give one telltale tinkle.
>s # * *
“Holly”: Looking over the “National
Geographic Magazine,” X struck the fol-
lowing gem in an article in which the
making of an Australian film is men-
tioned :
The terrain is near Melbourne. Rain
interrupted the shooting of some scenes
where we used big, leafless gum-trees.
Two weeks later, when we went back to
complete that scene, the trees had leafed
out. In order to match the old setting we
had to pick those trees like chickens—
a two days’ job for 20 men.
It really would have been a pity if the
big leafless gum-trees had not been in
the picture, but the scene where the 20
men were picking them “like chickens,”
so that they would look natural, ought
surely to have been “shot,” with a few
Australian ringtailed buffaloes playfully
leaping from tree to tree and coo-eeing
to one another in their pretty way.
* * # *
“2nd Greaser”: It is not only a tidal
wave or a waterspout that is liable to
wreck a vessel in a calm sea. Over a
glassy sea we were coming down the
African coast when an enormous meteor-
ite fell with awe-inspiring noise. It ap-
peared to break in two as it fell and
plunged into the sea beyond our range of
vision. Tremendous concussions shook
the air and jarred the ship. Our skippei,
suspecting what might happen, swung
the ship in its direction. Half an hour
or so later a tremendous wall of water
bore down on us at incredible speed,
accompanied by a sudden blow of hurri-
cane force. We weathered it, but only
just ' *
“Bill O'C.”: I submit a few more
weird beliefs for the axe:
1. The existence of the cat-rabbit cross.
2. That spider’s web is a first-rate dressing
for bleeding wounds. (I have infected a good
many sores of my own testing it.)*
3. That if any female be bred to two sues
in succession the progeny of the second will
“throw back.” to the first. . ,
4. That the red-belhed black snake is the
most deadly of the lot.
5. That an emu’s kick can knock down a
h °6 SC that the myriads of frogs croaking after
a rain came down in it.
7. That “streams” of water run underground,
thus generating electricity which travels upward
and manifests itself violently in a non-con-
ductor, such as a forked stick, above the sur-
-1 8. That from the movements of the stick one
can logically deduce underground; A, water;
B, gold: C, coal or oil; D, any other com-
modity particularly wanted, and of any quan-
tity or quality the operator cares to mention.
“Snowy”: Some marine beliefs are
also due for decapitation:
Flathead stings will last until the turn
of the tide.
Oysters off wood are poisonous.
Southerly “busters” come only when the
tide is out. ,
Fish will not bite when “jelly-blubbers
are plentiful.
A shark has to turn on its back to bite.
A catfish sting will send a man mad until
sundown.
Sharks are afraid of porpoises.
Jewfish will not bite with the moon in
a certain position.
And who has not met the man who was
chased by a shark when in a rowing-
boat? Or the old windjammer sailor
who has been washed overboard in a
gale and washed inboard again by a
following sea?
sk ! l* *s*
“Marlinespike”: What is the record
Australian eel? One of just under 13ft.,
caught in the Maroochy River (Q.), is the
world’s museum record. I have seen a
dead 15-footer in the Daintree River
(N.Q.); the head and several feet
of neck had been bitten off, apparently
by a crocodile. The largest of which I
have heard is said to have been taken
in Eudlo Creek, a tributary of the
Maroochy River, some 45 years ago, by
three Kanakas. It was over 25 feet long,
as thick as a big man’s thigh, and it filled
a dray. It was bought by a storekeeper,
salted and sold at 3d. a pound to the
cockies for weeks afterwards. I have
heard the story from several contem-
porary witnesses, and it always tallied
except for a few feet in the length.
Although a sceptic on the subject of
bush wonders, I believe it.
“Duggai”: The decision of the Queens-
land Government to declare an open
season for possums is proving unpopu-
lar in the Pelican district, owing to the
wide spread of mistletoe, due to the
wholesale slaughter of possums in past
years. Useful timber is of more value
to the State than the revenue from
licenses for the destruction of harmless
possums.
“Awani”: At Yagobie (N.S.W.) I
came across a cypress pine that was
literally covered with mistletoe, which
seems to scotch the widely-held belief
that this pine is immune to it.
* * * *
“Go West”: Who said that neither
kookaburras nor bees were to be found
west of the Darling? If the bird that
laughed at me near Wilcannia the other
day wasn’t a Jack, Australian ornithology
is all wrong. As for bees, they are buzz-
ing about my garden not two miles from
Broken Hill right now, as they are every
spring and summer. Why some people
should imagine that the beautiful coun-
try “west of the Darling” is somehow
unfitted for birds, beasts or fishes is
beyond me.
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Even when swamps and
creeks dry up Binghi still has his fish.
The barramundi of our northern fresh
waters seem gifted with the power to
sense the approach of an exceptionally
dry season. When this happens the big
fish buries itself sft. to Bft. in the mud
before the last of the water evaporates.
Here it hibernates comfortably until the
breaking of the dry. Jacky, aware of this
dodge, prospects the dried-up bed of the
stream with a long, stout spear. When
the tip of the weapon comes up damp
he instructs Mary to get busy with her
digging sticks, encouraging her efforts
from the shade of a near-by pandanus.
I saw a member of the Worgaits land
three fish within 10 yards of each other.
They went 81b., 111 b. and 141 b. respec-
tively.
THE BLACK COCKATOO.
The grass on the flat is like tinder:
A fire would just race up the hill;
The watcrhole’s dry, not a cloud in the sky,
And the creek’s lying stagnant and still.
We stare up aloft night and morning
To see what the weather will do,
But the rain seems a dream till we catch the
faint scream,
The scream of a far cockatoo.
A speck on the timbered horizon,
Slow and ungainly his flight,
And raucous his cry, as he flaps down the sky,
Each moment more plainly in sight.
And we hopefully peer at him coming;
He may prove a mockery, true,
If his plumage is white, but we know it’s all
right
When the bird is a black cockatoo.
Deep in the green of the ranges,
Where mosses are wet from the springs.
And the tiny creeks grow toward the rivers
below,
He waits for y thc sign to take wings.
Ah! sweet are the warblings of magpies
And the dove’s immemorial coo,
But sweetest of all is the harsh, rasping call
(For us) of the black cockatoo.
The grass on the hill is like tinder;
A fire would just race down the flat;
The watcrhole’s dry, not a cloud in the sky,
But we don’t care a button for that.
For, wheeling and screaming his warning,
The rains send their harbinger, who,
As he circles about, hails the end of the
drought.
God bless him, the black cockatoo!
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“Runa”: Visitors to Taronga Park
aquarium are usually astounded at the
sharks’ apparent lack of interest in the
small fish that swim around them. One
wonderful apparently has
taken on the job of official pacer to
Skipper 111., and none of the midgets
appears at all perturbed when the shark’s
jaws skim by them. I was looking idly
into the pool when a stout lady prodded
me in the ribs with her umbrella. “Isn’t
it wonderful how they’ve trained them
to leave the little fish alone till feeding-
time?” she said, “1 see they’re timed not
to begin eating them until a quarter to
four.”
* * *
“Nagheer”: Jibsheet on the Dionne
quins; “Man he talk Mary b’long Weipa
catchem two-pfeller piccaninny one time.
Bad fashion that two-pfeller piccaninny
one time, plenty too much tucker that
one more pfeller piccaninny he kaikai
along mother b’long him. Soon he kaikai
mother b’long him altogether too much,
mother b’long him she finish. Old-time
fashion b’long boy, kaikai that more
pfeller piccaninny before he kaikai
mother, kaikai father b'long him. Bad
pfeller that more pfeller. Now man he
talk white Mary catchem fi-i-ve pfeller
piccaninny one time! Altogether too
much that five pfeller, get big, kaikai
all people that five-pfeller piccaninny
catchem all one time. Tinkit more better
killem that five pfeller.”
“Western”: Carrying a waterbag on
long, dry stages, such as beyond Mt.
Margaret (W.A.), is an expensive luxury,
for not only does
the fluid evaporate
but it also becomes
so deliciously cold
that absolute will-
power is required to
drag the spout away
from one’s mouth.
The guzzling, too, of
ice - cold water is
weakening, while
the more one drinks
the more one wants
to drink. More than
one old Coolgardie
battler perished be-
cause of the too-
seductive waterbag.
Setting out after a
week’s booze-up the
tramper would find
the cold bag so irre-
sistible that before
midday it would be
empty: the blister-
ing afternoon sun
would then start the
stage which invari-
ably ended in a naked gallop across the
landscape towards the miraged swamp on
the horizon. Cold tea without sugar and
carried in a billy is the best stuff to tramp
on. A sip moistens the mouth, while the
excess of tannin gives the stomach some-
thing to grip on to.
“Walkabout”; Where did “Bisi” en-
counter a Dusnman who greased his
waterbag to prevent evaporation (B.
13/5/’36)? On a dry stage the
quantity of water that evaporates is
a mere bagatelle, and those who have
travelled long, dry stages in hot weather
know that the cooler the fluid the longer
the intervals between drinks. Greasing
“You ought to support the meatworks. It's only ten miles of as the
crow flies."
"Y airs, but who'd trust a crow with a carcass o' beef?"
a canvas bag militates against the con-
tents cooling. As for the military water-
bottle, only Pitt-street bushmen would
use one. Light Horsemen who went
through the Sinai and Palestine cam-
paigns know just how warm the water
in it can get. Give me the ungreased
waterbag against all other containers for
a dry stage.
* * H= *
“Vario”: “Beesknees’ ” Cagle (B.
20/5/’36) is by no means a record. A
large golden eagle shot near Win ton (Q.)
last year measured lift. 2in. from wing-
tip to wingtip. Another shot at about
the same time measured 10ft. sin.
* * * *
“Trebor”: Animal traction? My
n.-w. Q. neighbor’s horses had strayed.
Going down to the river with a bottle of
chloroform, rope, an assistant and a big
game rifle, just in case, he placed a pad
soaked with the chloroform on a long
pole and held it under the noses of a
brace of crocs. Neatly lassoed, with jaws
lashed and a stout pole along their tails
"Were one short for the choir. Any sopranos here ?”
to eliminate side-play, those saurians
were tigers on the plough, maximum
croc, power being ensured by a lump of
raw meat dangling on a pole just in
front of their teeth. A rise in the market
price of skins broke up the best team
he ever had.
“Herbert Dawson”: So long as you
make yourself clearly understood you
will find that any reasonable request is
complied with in the bush. Near Laurel
Hill, southern N.S.W. tablelands, I was
occupying a miner’s right. To keep my
horse from straying on to the road I
erected a dog-leg fence with a rough gate
across a practically unused lane. Despite
a cardboard notice, “Please shut this
gate,” I frequently found it open. I
then put up the following:
When once the horse has got away, repentance
comes too late;
So kindly play the game, old sport, and shut
this blanky gate.
I wrote the great Australian adjective in
full, as I considered it would lose most
of its subtle appeal otherwise. Next
morning I found pencilled beneath my
notice, “Too blanky right, Dig,,” also in
unexpurgated Australian. The gate was
shut, and was never left open afterwards.
* * *
“L.W.”: He was an experienced bush-
man, but new to North Queensland’s
coastal scrub. Wading chest-deep across
a creek he looked upstream and saw a
sinister dark object projecting half an
inch above the water’s surface and mov-
ing silently and grimly towards him. In
a panic of terror he made for the bank,
gained it and looked fearfully round to
see if the croc, was still in pursuit. Then
a platypus floated past him. Perhaps
if the timid, harmless little creatures
could excite such terror more frequently
they would have a chance of survival.
“Granova”; A rabbiter who cleaned
up a mob of marauding emus skinned
one that his dogs pulled down, and
allowed them to feed on it. For a week
afterwards, whenever the tykes were
warmed up by exercise they developed
symptoms similar to strychnine poison-
ing. Their limbs would go stiff and they
could just stagger along. There is no
doubt that the emu meat caused the
trouble. Perhaps some Aboliar knows
the explanation, or, better still, has tried
emu meat himself.
* =:• * *
“Sandy Mac”: When a trap which I’d
set at the mouth of a rabbit burrow in
the side of an old lime kiln was missing.
I concluded that bunny had pulled it into
the burrow with him. A few days later
I saw a full-grown possum, the trap
caught fast to his tail, stuck in the fork
of a sugar-gum. Evidently he didn’t be-
lieve in retracing his journey when the
trap caught in the fork.
* * * *
“Dominic”: There’s a spot in Cock-
burn Sound, Fremantle (W.A.) where
about midwinter it is possible to dip up
drinkable water miles from
the shore: it wells up like a
tremendous spring from the
bed of the sea. The possible
explanation is a break in the
impervious strata which spread
out from the hills some 20
miles inland. From a bore
situated in the local gaol yard
and tapping this subterranean
stream, Fremantle until re-
cently obtained much of its
water. In winter time this
bore, then almost' a gusher,
used to send up pebbles and
shells as if from an old estuary
or beach, now sunk a thousand
feet below sea level.
“Murgiemurgie”: I don’t agree with
the belief that Binghi will eat only snakes
he has killed himself, and I’ll back that
with over 24 years’ experience in the
Far North among various tribes. I’ve
slain many wrigglers when shooting buf-
faloes, and handed them over to old Ned,
my head “boy.” He made no bones about
eating roast “tzsnake.”
* * * #
“Saddle-flap”: The station manager
showed no surprise when Jock, the raw
Scotch smithy, gave notice. Jock ex-
plained that he' was accompanying the
station carpenter and saddler in their
new buck board buggy on their trip north
to work the stations. The boss said
simply: “Seeing the country? Yes; a
good idea. Come back if ever you’re
stuck.” The trio reached the pub.
There they had several drinks, and,
together with a surprising number of
friends. Nails and Leather drank all
that day, all the next and on till
the buckboard and horses were passed
over the bar. Then, in disgust, Jock
humped it back to the station, to learn
from the manager that his mates had
set out in the same way for 18 years.
“But why didn’t you tell a man?” gasped
Jock. “Well,” replied the boss, “you
wouldn’t have believed me. You’ve got
to find out these things—that’s colonial
experience.”
* * v *
“Costeen”: Our kangaroo dog will
account for the biggest emu in quick
time. After a short run Bob jumps for
a grip, with the bird moving at about 30
m.p.h. When the dust settles down you
see a tug of war, with the emu’s neck as
rope. The dog gets a good grip just
behind the head, and lays back for all
he’s worth. The emu's kicks always find
Bob out of range. His technique is to
drag the bird on its side while off its
balance. The scrap finishes with the
emu’s neck chewed half through and Bob
unscratched.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Some people deem it hard
to poison crows; I’ve found it easy in
mallee country at seeding-time, when
flocks follow the plough. First gather a
tin of grubs when picking up stumps.
Each grub is treated by having a few
grains of strychnine pushed into the hard
part of the head with the end of a match,
and the tin of poisoned grubs is taken
out on the plough and dropped one at
a time at intervals of about ten feet.
Kelly gobbles them up. For about
half an hour nothing happens. Then one
crow begins to turn handsprings, and his
mates gather around to see what is the
matter. Presently another starts to throw
a fit, and then another. Alarmed, the
mob takes wing and streaks for the
horizon; every hundred yards or so a
bird comes tumbling down. After that
you may see crows passing overhead, but
for months devil a one will come to earth
to feed within a mile of the scene of the
poisoning.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT.
The wanderlust is with me;
And, though it’s getting late,
I’ll take the road that’s leading
Far North of Twenty-eight:
Where sun shines through the winter,
And nights are mild and dry.
While clouds of fleecy whiteness
Drift slow across the sky.
I yearn for open spaces,
And feel that I must go
And camp beside the rivers
By tracks I used to know.
I might meet an old-timer
Who used to be a mate
When we were young together
Far North of Twenty-eight.
I’ll pass old fallen homesteads,
Their gardens overgrown,
Where weather-beaten chimneys
Will stand on guard alone.
And crumbling wayside shanties,
Forlorn and desolate,
Their heyday glory vanished,
Far North of Twenty-eight.
But there’ll be sheep and cattle,
Big flocks and herds to drove
To distant greener pastures
For those who care to rove;
And there are gold and silver
And treasures that await
The coming of the seeker,
Far North of Twenty-eight.
The stock routes may be narrowed,
But plains are spreading wide
With Mitchell grass and clover
For horses that we ride.
Long stages we may travel
Without a rail or gate,
For few and far are fences
Far North of Twenty-eight.
When I am saddle-weary
I’ll hie me south again;
Should I be rich —or poorer—•
I’ve journeyed not in vain.
And as the shadows lengthen
Fine tales I will relate
Of tranquil days of dreaming
Far North of Twenty-eight.
n.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


HITS
LYS
&
PROOF
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
THE MAN ON
THE LAND THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEEO MEAL.
Buying Rams.
“Murrawong”: Before deciding to buy
a ram at auction, a breeder should
thoroughly satisfy himself that he is not
merely purchasing what looks like a
cheap sire.
If he is seriously trying to build up
a flock to suit his own ideas, he must
observe certain theories to attain and
maintain type.
The first essential is breeding. It may
be assumed that the ewes and the rams
he has been using are of a certain strain.
If he is satisfied with the results on
existing lines, he should stick rigidly to
the same blood and to the same stud, if
possible. Stud breeders appreciate
regular customers —their best advertise-
ment —and provided they realise that the
buyer' knows what he wants and will
take nothing else he will get a good spin.
However, should he think he can do
better elsewhere, he should see that the
new stud is of the blood he is work-
ing on.
If he is dissatisfied with his breeding
he should proceed warily before buying
new rams. It is easy to wreck a care-
fully bred flock, but a long uphill job
to wipe out the mistakes. So the breeder
should not only consider carefully the
selection of the new stock, but should
discuss the problem with an authority
he can trust and who knows his flock.
There are graziers who attend every
ram sale and who follow the auctioneers
through every stud in the catalogues,
snapping up animals below a certain price,
whether they come from S. Australia
or Tasmania. I have seen some of their
flocks and listened to the despairing com-
ments of their classers faced with uneven
fleeces that required sorting rather than
classing and called for twice as many
lines as the average clip.
Buying at auction gives the advantage
of better comparison. The average
person is influenced by what he sees
immediately before his eyes, so that, by
visiting a stud, the standard is that of
the stud, whereas at a show or sale he
has a much wider range before him and
in most years he can buy cheaper.
There is some luck in buying a ram,
but that percentage diminishes according
to the purity of blood, age and reputa-
tion of the stud concerned. That is
the reason why show awards often differ
from sale prices and why a fine-looking
ram from a new stud sells for half as
much as an ordinary-looking specimen
with a well-known brand.
The early history of the Australian
merino has some dark pages. Even some
of our oldest merino families had more
than a nodding acquaintance with the
Lincoln and the Leicester. But out
of doubtful beginnings came knowledge,
and the modern breeder can safely profit
by the other fellow’s experiments and
get his experience at their expense.
Lamb-marking Wounds.
“Kelpie”: I have used iodoform and
boracic (one to nine) as suggested by
“L.M.” (B. 20/5/’36) for application to
lamb-marking wounds with satisfactory
results. I found the best method of
application was to shake it on by means
of a tin with a dozen nail holes in the
lid.
Rapid healing is achieved, the lambs
are not made dirty and bleeding is re-
duced. It is easier, quicker and not so
messy to handle as such things as kero-
sene and tar applied with a swab.
About loz. of the mixture is required
for every 12 lambs, the cost being about
twopence or threepence per ounce of
mixture. Kerosene and tar costs about
the same per lamb.
Drought Feeding.
“Granova”: Riverina graziers have
again to face the winter with bare pad-
docks and sheep losing condition.
Early-autumn lambing was generally
good, but ewes lambing in lune will be
sure to strike trouble.
It is advisable to avoid feeding if at all
possible, as they become sluggish and
lambing diseases develop. If they have
“Don't you think We ought to get married, Dave?"
“MARRIED? Who'd have us?”
fair dry feed, a ration of |lb. of grain
will keep them going.
When lambing is over, every effort
must be made to keep up the ewes’
supply of milk. Silage is good, but it
must be supplemented by at least 2oz.
of grain a head per day. Ewes on
drought rations should be given a lick,
salt two parts, bonemeal one part.
Unless the paddocks are bare, sheep
have to be educated to eat silage.
Molasses thinned down with water and
sprinkled on silage helps to make it
attractive.
Dry sheep will hang out for a long
time on dry feed, but they must be fed
for some weeks after rain.
Many graziers are using self-feeders
with success —some to feed oats, but the
favorite is a mixture of chaff and oats.
A handy-man can build a 10ft. self-
feeder which will do for 250 sheep at
a cost of about £3.
On some properties self-feeders are
made for the weaners all the year round,
regardless of the condition of the pas-
tures. It has been found that they grow
bigger, are free from worms, and cut
21b. to 31b. more wool as a result.
Dog Days,
“Ghanam”: Can nobody suggest a way
of effectively dealing with dogs, of
which there is an epidemic through
eastern Australia? In the Territory, last
year’s expenditure on dingo destruction
was £1900; this year £2400, equal to
11 p.c. of Territorial revenue and three-
fifths of land- and income-tax collections,
has been earmarked.
In Queensland the Government was
urged by the Longreach Shire Council
the other day to agree to a uniform 10s.
bonus for scalps, half to be provided out
of shire funds.
S. L. Armstrong, manager of Corona
(C.Q.), says that on his property £26,000
has been spent in 18 years and- on
Bladensburg £14,000 in 12 years in dog
fencing. The Longreach Council main-
tains a barrier fence, but a dingo doesn’t
worry much about that in certain types
of country.
In C.Q. dogs have been known to
excavate a tunnel 2ft. deep to get under
a barrier, and this is not the limit. A
big Gulf dingo I owned dug himself a
cave nearly 4ft. deep.
The entry of the Alsatian has compli-
cated matters. In Queensland, his fate
is to be seriously considered in the next
few weeks.
N. S. Wales North Coast districts are
no better off than other areas—worse,
if anything, because of subdivision and
lack of netting barriers. Twenty dogs
in one pack were seen just off the
Grafton-Glen Innes road a few days
ago, and in Busby’s Flat distict 25
calves and weaners out of a lot of 40
were recently killed. On the New Eng-
land, conditions are just as bad along
the edge of the coastal jump-down. A
number of farmers have reported 50 p.c.
losses of small stock.
Maternity Care.
“Granova”: “Rom Ney” is right about
the care of lambing ewes (B. 20/ 5/ ’36),
but he does not mention womb eversion.
Too much force when helping a ewe
to lamb will cause it, and at times it
occurs when the ewe is giving birth.
Most men cut the ewe’s throat, but the
womb can be put back by holding it
up at the rear and gradually working it
back into place.
If the ewe struggles before the part
is warm and circulation restored, the
womb will turn out again. A dose of
two teaspoonfuls laudanum in 4oz. of
linseed oil will keep her quiet.
I don’t know how “Rom Ney”
manages without a dog, as it is often
necessary to catch a ewe which is run-
ning about with portion of the lamb
protruding. The ewes will soon get used
to a quiet old dog.
A good many ewes are lost because
they receive no attention on Sundays. A
ride around the paddocks early in the
morning will save most Sabbath cases.
C.S.I.R. Mastitis Research.
“Silky Bag”: The method of research
at the new Berwick (Vic.) farm is novel
to Australia.
Fifty heifers are isolated by double
fencing and creeks, and from these the
aim is to build a mastitis-free herd.
As these young cattle have not calved
previously, and they are tested to be free
of contagious abortion and tuberculosis,
the history of each is known.
No outside contact of the herd with
any other, especially through the milk-
ing hands, is permitted.
These precautions should determine
whether mastitis is a contagious herd
disease or just simply occurs on any
farm because of unpreventable local in-
fection.
The point is vitally important, as no
one knows the real strength of the disease
as an epidemic. Causative bacteria have
been identified as two common tribes
which are always present with filth.
Facts to be decided are the portals of
entry of these germs and which are most
harmful out of the many strains. Later,
the study of the disease on outside farms
will be commenced, and also the produc-
tion of vaccines, which up to now have
given inconsistent results —possibly be-
cause of our lack of knowledge of harm-
ful causative organisms.
It seems fairly definite that the bac-
teria get in solely through the teat nipples,
and that when these are diseased or
injured the cow may contract the disease.
Whether she does or not, on the work
of M.L. men and that at Berwick depends
on her native white corpuscle resistance.
Drought in Queensland 1 .
“Ghanam”: While far north coastal
Queensland is “enjoying” record rainfalls
and the central district is in good fettle
{Continued on page 24.)


SUNSHINE
FALLOWING EQUIPMENT
Does Good Work
in All Soils and
Conditions!
v
Advertisement
B Fallowing pays. Here is another instance:—
Mr. J. H. Harvey, of “Kindalin,” Dubbo, N.S.W., averaged 34.8 bushels per acre on
fallow for ten years, compared with 15.6 bushels on stubble for eight years in which it was sown.
Fallowing increases yields, helps weed control, maintains fertility, ensures moisture for seeding,
and increases carrying capacity for sheep. Sunshine fallowing equipment comprises a full
range of disc, tyne and mouldboard implements—set or stump-jump—renowned for quality,
dependability and service. Horse-drawn or tractor-pulled—strong, durable, efficient —they
make good fallows in diverse conditions, as many discriminating buyers have proved to their
satisfaction and profit.
H| This new Model 25 Tractor —the latest and most powerful tractor built by Massey Harris
for use with petrol, kerosene or distillate —is a notable advance in tractors —durable,
sturdy and compact, simple to operate, speedy and powerful in performance, with low running
and maintenance expense. HORSE POWER (Nebraska Test—Distillate Fuel) —Rated
Drawbar, 26.44; Rated Belt, 41.01; Maximum Drawbar, 35.25; Maximum Belt, 48.25.
SPEEDS —Standard, 2| 3£, 4 m.p.h.; Reverse, 2\ m.p.h. OVERALL DIMEN-
SIONS —Length, 135 inches; Width, 65| inches; Height over Hood, 57 inches.
Its great success, measured by sales made in
all States —a sure guide, indicative of
appreciation of its many fine features —points to a
good tractor worthy of investigation by prospective
buyers. Full particulars and numerous new features
—all of genuine worth, and valuable ones protected
by patents against use on other tractors —are illus-
trated and described, with other specifications, in
the MASSEY HARRIS TRACTOR BOOK-
LET—free on request. Obtain a copy, or, if you
prefer, we will sent a representative to discuss your
requirements, explain the tractor and make a pro-
position—free to you of obligation to buy. Ask the
local agent, or write to the nearest branch.
Prices quoted here are net cash for delivery f.o.r. Sunshine.
Prices for delivery at any Australian capital or Tasmanian
port are a little higher. Extended terms can be quoted at
small extra cost.
Ask the local agent,
or write to the near-
est branch -for de-
scriptive catalogue —
free on request.
SUNSHINE LINE
INCLUDES
•
Ploughs
Sundercuts Cultivators
Harrows
Scarifiers Horse Hoes
Pasture Renovators
Pasture Harrows
Fertilizer Distributors
Seeding Machines
Planters
Field Rollers and Packers
Mowers Rakes
Reapers and Binders
Stripper Harvesters
Header Harvesters
Auto Headers
Tractors
Chaffcutters
Grain Grinders
Milking Machines
Cream Separators
Engines
Spraying Outfits
Saw Benches
Maize Shelters
Sack Trucks
Bag Loaders
Metal Farm Gates
&
THEY WORK WELL
AND LAST LONG.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, SUNSHINE, VIC.
Branches at 654-664 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 2 7-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King
Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


v
)/ 7
R. t D I N c: :
WORKING,
SOUGH COUNTRY >
WEAR AND !
I
HIKING
PRICES.
Black Calf 37/6
Brown Calf . . . . 457-
Brown Grained Calf . . . . 45/-
Advertisement
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS.” SYDNEY.
W.A. 34.
Advertisement
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
MW
r.
if
SCHUTE
BEHHtCSi,
Biii:
5L
£
M
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
Advertisement
’Phone (three lines): 87361
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition,)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches • • . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driven
What to do and when to do it.
FROM “THE BULLETIN," O/Q POST
252 George St., Sydney, *•/ FREE
AND AT ALL NEWSAGENTS.
QUALITY BOOKS AT
CONCESSION PRICES.
Special Offer to Reading Enthusiasts.
For details see this week’s issue of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
The National Illustrated Weekly. Price 6d.
On Sale All Newsagents, or 4th Floor, 66 Pitt St.
’Phone: BWI2IB
Advertisement
LICK
IS THE BEST
for ALL STOCK. It is manu-
factured on the formula of the
New South Wales Stock Depart-
ment, contains 50 p.c. Sterilized
Bonemeal, and is recommended
by all Veterinary Officers.
P.B.
STERILIZED
BONEMEAL
100% Pure.
Write for Free Pamphlets to —
PATON, BURNS & CO.,
52 King Street, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Com —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS. LTD., MELBOURNE
Position Wanted.
Woolclasser —Foreman of prominent
city wool-repack, wants sheds this season.
13 Gibson Street, Waverley.
(B. 3/6/’36), the south-west part of the
State and the Darling Downs are cer-
tainly having their bad turn. The Downs
has little feed. Certainly, the old prickly-
pear areas along the s.-w. railway can
still feed their stock, but surface water is
almighty short, and will be shorter un-
less there are winter rains. And if there
are rains a cold snap will keep down
growth and account for a good many
thousand sheep unless graziers are more
than usually careful about shearing.
Agistment can be bought only at gold-
mine prices.
Whichever way it goes, the fly is in
for a bumper season later on. He seems
to increase both in variety and virulence.
New species have been reported over
thousands of square miles. Glycerine
dressings, traps, Mules methods and
other expedients fail to stem the tide.
It is about time that the fly was tackled
as seriously as pear was handled a few
years ago. Authorities who talk of
spending a few tens of thousands over-
seas to popularise wool might be aston-
ished at what a census would reveal of
how much less wool there is to popu-
larise because of the spread of the
blowfly.
Horse v. Tractor.
“Bushy”: Will someone settle the
horse v. tractor argument? I was a horse
farmer for many years, but have turned
to the tractor for at least 75 p.c. of farm
work.
Horses are limited to about nine hours’
work per day and cost a lot in both grass
| and manger feed. Eight horses will
plough with a 10-disc sundercut about
45 acres in, six days, and in that time
will consume at least £5 in chaff and
oats or corn.
If there should be any noxious-weed
seed or wild oats in their feed they will
distribute it all over the land cultivated.
A tractor will plough in six days and
nights 120 acres, and the fuel will cost
| very little more than the fodder to do
the 45 acres by horse team.
Time is the essence of the contract
both in getting the crop in and getting it
off. If heavy summer rains come at
harvest time and the crop goes down
; and the green rubbish grows up, a power
| take-off on the header operated by trac-
tor will save enough to pay for kero-
sene on the whole year’s operation.
When the tractor is idle it eats no-
thing. Horses eat all the year round,
and every horse kept means at least eight
fewer sheep; also, horses make the
country more “sick” than any other breed
of stock.
Horses must always be kept to do
some of the work, but I maintain the
tractor gives cheaper power over a given
area.
Sub. Clover.
“Agrarian”: In the south-east of S.
Aus. it has been the custom before sow-
ing sub. clover to root out everything
else growing.
Experience has shown the folly of this,
because of the great value of roughage,
which is so essential to stock on soft,
mushy feed.
In the Naracoorte district graziers now
overcome the weakness of the system
by allowing sheep free access to stacks
of stored, dry clover-hay, or by throw-
ing out hay where there are no stacks.
This is done even when clover and
Wimmera rye grass are 6in. high.
Where yacca and other. edible plants
of low nutritive value are in paddocks
into which clovers and rye grasses are
to be introduced, it will be wise for
farmers to leave a fair number.
The south-east has endured about the
driest summer on record ; certainly the
driest since the introduction of sub.
clover. The man who had stacks of this
hay was he who best endured the ordeal.
One young man at Penola, an ex-
student of Roseworthy, had the pre-
science to lay down 200 acres of phalaris,
which produced £3OOO worth of seed.
Many growers of fat lambs last season
also raked in fair cheques. From wool
and lambs their land produced from £3
to £3 7s. per acre gross, and their ex-
penses were not abnormal.
They have to thank sub. clover and
super-phosphate plus experience for these
results.
Baking Strength in Wheat.
“Steve”: The principal of the Rose-
worthy College (Dr. A. R. Callaghan)
clearly reveals Australia’s position on the
world market.
Greater strength is demanded by
mechanical mixing of dough, and farmers
have concentrated too much on yield.
Also, the European tendency is to cease
blending with strong quality Canadian
wheats, and universal bleaching is against
us. So we must improve baking quality
or lose our prestige.
The farmer has disregarded baking
strength simply because yield and good
appearance were the only items which
affected his returns. Investigations in
progress at the college, by the Pel-
shenke test, reveal that the quality of the
gluten is more important than the quan-
tity, the latter averaging approximately
10 p.c.
This constituent influences the size,
shape and water content of the loaf. The
maltose, or sugar, is responsible for the
generation of carbon-dioxide gas, and
the elasticity of the flour and its power
to retain the gas are influenced by the
gluten strength. The greater the amount
of water which a flour will absorb and re-
tain during baking, the less flour
required to make a standard-weight loaf.
Hence, preference is given by bakers to
flour possessing those characteristics.
It is disclosed that, of the 20 leading
varieties in Australia, only two —Ford
and Bena —have any claim to quality,
while 16 of the others are classed as very
weak. Of the more recent introductions
which show promise, Baringa and
Dundee are noteworthy, and N.S.W.
millers are paying a slightly higher price
for the former.
In S.A. fewer crops, of the very weak
varieties are being sown, and in this way
some improvement can be expected in
the f.a.q. export standard. It remains
to be seen whether the buyers are respon-
sive, for it depends on them whether
farmers are to concentrate on yield
alone or take the longer view and con-
sider strength.
Hints for the Farm.
“Zedo”; A small saw well greased is
the best implement for cutting up rubber
tyres.
“Ghanam”; A good harness polish;
2oz. mutton suet, 6oz. beeswax, 6oz.
powdered sugar, 2oz. soft soap, loz.
lamp-black. Dissolve the soap in pint
water, add the rest and melt. Then add
loz. turps. Sponge on to the leather
and polish with a brush.
“Silky Bag’’: A new and sound method
of leg-roping cows in the bail is to apply
a linked pole-strap to both legs above
the hocks, exactly as it is used in har-
ness — i.e., enclosing a leg in each loop
and tightening the strap. It is quite com-
fortable, but prevents excessive move-
ment.
“X.T.”: A simple implement to break
up clods of manure can be made of three
pieces of 4in. by 4in. hardwood 6ft. long,
spaced at 6in. so that an edge of each
touches the soil. Tie them with three long
bolts. Put a swinglebar ring on each of
the outer baulks. Pieces of pipe threaded
on to the bolts will keep the timbers
apart.
“Reynard”: Peg that foxskin on a
flat, shady wall to dry. Peg the brisket
peaks in a horizontal line without
stretching. Nail sides down with nails
apart, putting nail for nail alter-
nately on each side, so that the skin
makes a perfect oblong. Keep the hind-
legs, which will fall slack, perpendicular,
and they will pull tight when the bottom
is squared. Square the forelegs and
shoulders the same way.
“X.T.”: The flavor of hay damaged
in harvesting can be saved and mould
prevented by scattering a few handfuls
of salt through each load when stacking.
“Lim”: When moving farm machinery
along a hard road, damage through
bumping will be saved by covering the
wheels with old motor tyres. Take the
bead off the tyres and fasten them with
fine wire ties.
“Bimbo”; Try this way of handling
lambing ewes on a small holding with
plenty of paddocks. Every few days
move the ewes to another paddock, leav-
ing behind those with lambs, and gradu-
ally work them into one flock. Con-
tinue this for three weeks, when a good
proportion of the ewes should have
lambed. Mark the lambs when ready,
and keep on the best feed. This should
result in a good, even draft of lambs that
can be got away some weeks before the
remainder are ready.


SMOKE-OH!
The difference between a single man
and a married man is that when the
former has holes in his socks he has to go
out and buy new ones. A married man
can’t afford to!
4* *2* 4* 4*
An expert motorist is one who can
fold his road map back into its original
folds.
•2* -2- -2- *2*
Some men have only to take a quiet
spot and their wives will turn it into a
whole scene.
•2* *2* 4* *2*
“The effect of saxophone music is now being
tried on snakes.” — “Courier-Mail.”
Getting square for the Garden of
Eden episode?
“ ‘ln a hundred years’ time all girls will be
beautiful,’ says a professor.”
It’s quite a good prophecy for a pro-
fessor, but couldn’t he shorten the time
period?
*2* *2* *s* 2*
“ ‘The common cold costs this country many
thousands of pounds a year,’ says a medical
writer.”
But should anything so expensive be
referred to as “common”?
•J#
“ ‘Plant a few ornamental trees around your
vegetable patch,’ says a horticultural note.”
We would if we could tell where the
weeds end and our vegetable patch
begins.
“Two doctors. Are y' goin' t' use a crosscut saw ?”
“Mr. Salmon, very red, went in.”
—Short story.
And then they soldered down the lid
of the tin, we presume.
q. q. 4*
Construction.
“This work of yours is driving me
mad,” he complained. “You are always
at it. Couldn’t you give it up for one
day?”
“No,” she said, resolutely but proudly,
“It’s my work, and I must go on with it.
Have you never felt the thrill of con-
structing something, of knowing that you
have achieved your task, and being able
to see the results well done? Not until
I have finished this can I attempt any-
thing else.”
“But while you’re doing that,” he pro-
tested, “I have to suffer.”
“Not another word, Albert. You can
darn your own socks.”
And even as she spoke she added three
more stitches to the latest style sports
jumper she was knitting.
D.S.
•j* 4* *J- *l*
“Austrian Girl Marries Hangman who
Executed her Father.” — Cable.
What a subtle revenge!
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Before leaving the Straits Settlements Mrs.
Tasker saw her ayah married to one of the
laborers on the plantation.” —“Sun.”
That’s one laborer who is worthy of
his ayah!
»J- -2- -2- -2-
“The Dead Sea contains nearly 25 p.c. of
salt.” — Item.
That, no doubt, keeps mortification
from setting in.
*2* -2* 4* *2*
“A schoolmaster says he believes in judicious
floggings at school.”
No doubt because they make boys
smart.
*2* '2* 4- *2*
“Arabian Princess Elopes with Porter.”
She should find the arrangement con-
venient when she takes him shopping.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Teaching the Wife to Drive.
IV. — Getting Into Traffic.
The impact of the car against the wall
will have precipitated your various off-
spring against the front seat. The resultant
howling from Alfie and the yells from
the others should succeed in diverting
the wife’s tirade. While examination is
in progress to ascertain cause of howl
get out and have a pipe at the car.
Say, £2 for straightening and renickel-
ling rear bumper-bar, ten bob for realign-
ment of wheels and ten bob for new tail-
light. Now get your hammer and belt
bumper-bar off wheels. Then put the
hammer in the car for future need.
The wife having made up your minds
that the children will be better out of
the car (it would be impolitic here to
agree, or they may be let stay), resume
your tuition. But give a practical de-
monstration. Take the wheel. The car
will be slewed right across the drive,
giving you about six inches to work in.
Get the wife to look out from her side
and let you know how far the mudguard
is from the side fence. When she says
“It’s right now —go forward,” and you
do so, crunching the mudguard against
the post she hadn’t allowed for, don’t
blame her faulty
judgment—that was
your poor steering.
You will also be
advised not to de-
liberately run over
the Pekinese that
is snooping around
the wheels you
never liked the dog,
and this is your
way of getting rid
of it, etc.
Having got the
car straight on to
the drive again
after about 20
minutes’ manoeuvr-
ing, take it out the
front gate and park
it alongside the
kerb.
Now change
places.
As she gets into
first gear and the
car jerks forward
she will catch sight
of Mrs. Gumdrop
standing at her
front gate. As she
tries to steer with
one hand and wave
with the other, the
car will shoot across the road, going
straight towards a milkcart.
g e pre pared to grab the wheel,
and, as the car misses the horse by a
f ew inches, and an enraged voice yells
“That’s right, you blasted goat—can’t
you look where y’re goin’?” make certain
you suppress the smile as your wife says,
“Well, I never! Did you hear what that
awful man called me?” Before she has
time to buy you into a fight tell her to
give a bit more acceleration and get back
on your own side of the street and past
the danger spot,
S. W. K.
Mos't Desirable.
..... e i i a ,
“Makes you feel 10 years younger.
—Tonic advt.
Ten years, eh? Sounds good! Now
let me see—what was I like 10 years
* J
a ®°‘
I didn’t have a red nose then. And
it was definitely before I saw my first
dingbat. And I didn’t suffer much on
the mornings after—used to laugh at
people who did. Ah, yes! 1 could take
it in those days!
The house wasn’t mort-
gaged then, and I wasn’t
going bald. Women used
to admire me. I didn’t have
to wear patched pants then !
By Jove! It would be great
to feel 10 years younger!
“Marry you, sire? But what of her Majesty?”
“Have you not heard, ladye faire? I had her strangled—she had become
a trifle plump
And, hold on-! How long have I been
married? Let me see —nine years! I’ll
give that tonic a trial immediately!
T. W. N.
*2* •!- 4*
If!
“tf the liner Queen Mary could jump as
well as a flea, in proportion to her size, she
could clear Mont Blanc without unseating her
jockey.” — “Argus.”
A striking truth! Also:
If skyscrapers of 70 storeys could be
moved as easily as tin huts, Alice Springs
might rival New York.
If the South Pole were the North Pole,
there would be enough Eskimos in the
Antarctic region to yield a considerable
addition to the income-tax revenue of
nations claiming territorial rights.
If coalmines could be turned upside
down, the miners would be saved many
minutes each day in reaching work.
If a cat and a half could eat a rat and
a half in a day and a half, consideration
would be given to the question of award-
ing a Government bounty to the half-cat
and half-rat industries.
D.D.
-2* •t* *l* -2-
Touring Without Tears.
A GUIDE TO AUSTRALIA.
XIX. — Melbourne’s Danger Season.
With most cities there are certain times
of the year when it is unwise to visit
them. Bombay should be avoided in the
cholera season, Madrid during the annual
revolution and Naples during Garlic
Week.
Melbourne, too, has its danger period,
and the wise tourist will arrange his
schedule so as not to arrive there during
sale-time. While the sales are raging
all rules of polite conduct, morality and
decency are waived, and the law of looth
and claw prevails; the suburbs are de-
serted save for dogs, cats, the lame, the
halt and the blind, while city streets,
footpaths, lanes and shops are one seeth-
ing mass of struggling humanity all bent
on buying something somebody else
wants.
Statisticians have calculated that for
every bargain secured during sale-time
there are six lifetime friendships broken,
75 sets of corns trampled on, a score of
dresses torn and ripped, two dozen cry-
ing babies spanked by disappointed
mothers, 30 children mislaid and 42 hus-
bands abused for not noticing the bar-
gain sooner —in addition to which one
husband has to go without tobacco for
a week, or, in some cases, a month, de-
pending on the price of the bargain.
It was my fault the Whipsnoodles
reached Melbourne at sale-time, but it
was entirely on their own responsibility
that they joined the rush.
“A sale!” said Mrs. Loofah with an
unearthly glint in her eye. “We’ll have
»
to S°*
. dear ” agreed Mr. Loofah re-
Sl §nedly.
1 11 come too,” chirruped Miss Bird-
seed. I tried to dissuade them, but in
V ain. In the end I went with them to
stand by poor old Loofah.
*l’d rather not dwell on the details of
that horrible experience. We lost Miss
Birdseed early in the battle. I remember
seeing her disappear, but couldn’t *be
certain whether she had gone down an
escalator, fallen down a lift well or just
slipped, unconscious, to the floor.
Anyhow, we had no time to investi-
gate, as Mrs. Loofah was in the thick
of the fray. And I will say she fought
like a veteran. But that wasn’t enough—
the rest of the crowd were veterans, and
the number of times she had a prize
snatched from her hands with the cry
“That’s mine!” would have daunted
most people.
But not Mrs. Loofah. At last she got
her reward. A beautiful green and yellow
frock of taffeta and sackcloth (I think
that was it —I know there were some
purple blobs like grapes in the design)
at 295. lid.
She was overjoyed. Just her style!
And she was sure it must be worth at
least ten guineas. A Perfect Bargain.
She wore the frock at dinner that
night. Sir Percy and Claude Counter-
pane wore sun-glasses.
We were rather worried about Miss
Birdseed. No one had seen anything of
her. Claude said he’d call round at the
morgue if she didn’t turn up. He sounded
quite hopeful.
Half-way through the meal she en-
tered, and Mrs. Loofah nearly choked
with rage and hot potato. Miss Birdseed
was also wearing a new frock. It was
of green and yellow taffeta and sack-
cloth, with purple blobs like grapes on it.
But what annoyed Mrs. Loofah most
was the price ticket, which Miss Bird-
seed had forgotten to remove —28s. 6d.
She turned to her husband.
“You idiot,” she said. “I’ll never take
your advice again.”
For once he protested. “But,” he stam-
mered, “you said it was worth ten
guineas.”
“What’s that got to do with it?” she
stormed. “They charged me 295. lid.,
the swindlers. I’ve been robbed! ”
She never wore the dress again.
Jasby.
A Gentleman Reflects.
There comes a day {alas! too soon )
When pipers seek their pay.
For, after all, we call the tune
Those merry pipers play.
And now, as I consult my soul
My debits to assess
And to compute my folly’s toll,
I savor bitterness.
For Youth’s stupidity who pays
But prudent Middle-age ?
And, since perforce I can’t erase
My errors from the page
Of life, henceforth I pledge my word
To speculate in bonds
Or stake my all in stock {preferred)
In preference to blondes!
P. O. M. C.
The Magic Touch.
Faint ripples down my spine your touch
inspires ,
And to my soul a strange quiescence
brings;
Your magic hands revive inert desires.
And spur me on to strive for better
things.
Without you not one goal could /
achieve —
My very name would suffer, I’m
afraid;
Your worth to me is more than you’d
believe,
Far more, indeed, than most masseurs
are paid!
A. S. A.


A Serial Novel of Strange, Dramatic Adventure:—
The Papuan
BY
MONTE
HOLCROFT
luu^rcwreo
6y
?ucvf
Chapter IV. —( Continued .)
PAUL had a bachelor flat in Ebury-street, near Vic-
toria station. It occupied the first floor of a house
with a frank and well-groomed look, and had been
furnished comfortably, without showing signs of an
obtrusive taste. The rooms looked pleasant, and quite
a number of beautiful things were scattered around;
some etchings of value, a little pewter that contrived
to look as if it were there for use rather than orna-
ment, and some small pieces of statuary in bronze
that had been picked up on a couple of Italian trips.
These last had been found rather in workshops than
in shops of dealers; they were not hackneyed in
subject, and showed the rough sweep of workmanship
—things emergent instead of a smooth finality—which
comes, as in the case of Michelangelo, into all periods
of intellectual excitement and quick advance. No-
thing rose immediately upon the eyes, however;
bronze and etching grew naturally, as it were, in a
suitable background.
Paul’s favorite room was at the back of the house,
and overlooked one of those surprising gardens that
oppose plane-trees and old stone seats to grey walls
and windows. He called it his workroom, although
it also had the atmosphere of a library. Books were
there in plenty, loading the shelves of one long wall.
There was also a desk in the centre, littered with
writing gear, and a second table —not quite a desk •
over against the windows. Further gear lay here,
but not for writing. A microscope stood in a corner, and
there was a row of bottles, all neatly labelled. Some
delicate instruments could be seen: knives and scalpels
and probes, although they had a somewhat worn and
surprised look, as if they were used for ends other
than those intended by their designers.
On a morning at the end of April Paul was sit-
ting at the table by the window, poring over a large
drawing-board, upon which were pinned out a
number of butterflies. Sunlight streamed through the
window, but clouds were gathering across the house-
tops, and the plane-trees were rustling in the small
garden as if even in that hollow place the spring wind
could leave signs of its passing. Paul had picked up
a magnifying-glass to aid his examination when there
was a knock at the door. He took no notice, but
continued to peer through the glass. The door opened
and a man came in.
“Hullo, Paul!”
“Hullo, Luke! ”
“Busy?”
“Not really. You can come in.”
“Thanks. I knew you were here and didn’t wait
tor an answer to my knock. Your little ways are
known to me.” .
“I suppose so. Can you find a chair?
“I don’t think so. You’re sitting on one and
the other has a pile of books on it. They look as
if they’ve been there for some time. I won’t disturb
them. I can’t bear dust.”
“Please yourself.”
“I’ll just wander round the room until you’re
ready to give me a little attention.”
Paul had not taken his eyes from the drawing-
board ; and the newcomer, watching him with a
faintly amused smile, shrugged slightly, and turned
away. Luke Redfern was slenderly built and about
average height, but only his face was important. The
eyes were mischievous and obviously in league with
a thin-lipped mouth with ironical corners. Between
eyes and mouth intervened a solidly-moulded nose
that had a look of neutral country hemmed in by
belligerents. One could see at once that this nose
would save its v owner from much irresponsibility
shared by the rest of his face.
He paused presently before a strange object near
the door.
“I see you’ve managed to bring back some spoils
from your Papuan trip.- Is this some horrible sorcery
outfit?”
“It’s the headdress of a sorcerer in the Lake
Murray districts. Rather good, don’t you think?”
“Hideous! Is that all you brought back with
you?”
“No. I’ve a few odds and ends in the lumber-
room. The usual gear: spears and shields, bowls and
necklets and so on.”
“Spoils from Papua,” mused Redfern. “And
most valuable of all—a woman’s heart.”
“Shut up, Luke!” said Paul, still without looking
round. “Don’t drag that into your foolery.’”
“Not for worlds, my dear fellow. 1 merely like
to mention it occasionally, to remind myself that such
things are possible. I’m trying to get used to the
idea.”
“It’s simple enough. I’ve decided to marry. Is
there anything very strange in that?”
“There wouldn’t be if you were anyone but your-
• self. But you’re Paul Burnley!”
“Well? Isn’t Paul Burnley a normal man, built
upon the usual framework of bones, endowed with
interesting organs and a bloodstream and controlled
from a skull set up as the crowning vertebral unit?
All such men have a habit of mating sooner or later.
Why should I stand aloof?”
“For no reason, except that marriage seems so
final and definite. 1 don’t want to argue about mar-
riage. God forbid! But,some men stand it better
than others.” > -
“Are you suggesting that I’m not fit to make a
good husband?” - ■ ..
“Not entirely.” ■"
“Well?”
“You’re so settled in your habits, my good Paul.
You’ve had your own way —apart from a little advice
now and then from a certain friend whose name need
not be mentioned at the moment —for a good many
years. I’ve noticed that you resent interference. I
hope you realise that there’s a lot of interference in
marriage.”
“Only in unsuccessful marriages. In the real
thing you’re too close to your partner.”
He heard Redfern chuckling.
“I wish you wouldn’t be such a full-blown sceptic,
Luke. There’s something quite devilish in the way
you pick decent things to pieces. You’re married
yourself, aren’t you?”
“Truly. But perhaps we had better not talk about
that.”
Paul moved restlessly.
“Don’t talk about marriage at all, then. You
make me think of it as something shabby—and I
know differently.”
“Hope on, my friend. Nevertheless, I wish you
had a photograph of this young Papuan woman.”
“She isn’t a Papuan. She’s as English as you are.”
“Sorry. Can’t you describe her?”
“Not to you. 1 know your little tricks of dissec-
tion, You must wait until you see her in person.”
“And that will be soon?”
“Within the next few weeks, I hope. I’m expect-
ing a letter any day now to let me know she’s on the
way.”
“Splendid! That explains your air of suppressed
excitement,”
“Do shut up! I’m calm enough.”
“Too calm, as a matter of fact. I’m waiting to
see your face. To be quite normal at this time you
should be restless and eager, like one of those butter-
flies in its days of life —unable to settle anywhere but
fluttering at the mercy of every faint breeze.”
He began to walk about the room once more,
poking into corners but avoiding anything with dust
on it, and settling finally in front of an oil painting
newly framed and resting against the lower shelves
near the door.
“Rather good,” he pronounced. “I like the way
he’s massed those treetops, and he’s caught the gleam
of sunlight along the green. Where did you get it?”
“In the King’s-road, Somebody quite unknown,
but I like his work.”
“As usual, you’ve been poking about among the
unknowns. And a good thing, too. Many an artist
would starve if every connoisseur with a little money
insisted always on going back to the day before
yesterday.”
“I buy what I fancy. I don’t care who paints
a thing as long as it’s good.”
Redfern shook his head slowly.
“You’re a strange fellow, Paul. You dig around
into the habits of filthy and primitive peoples and
write learned treatises thereon. Then you turn about
and look for something beautiful,”
“What could be more natural? One must have
balance somewhere. I try to keep my life as steady
as possible. Too much anthropology leaves me bored
if I can’t turn to pictures and old editions and butter-
flies.”
“And attractive women?”
Paul waited a moment before answering.
“Sometimes,” he admitted at last. “Too often,
perhaps, in the past. But women are beautiful. I
like to be near them: to watch them and talk to them
—and play a little, perhaps.”
“Play with them by all means,” said Redfern.
“But don’t watch them too closely. And don’t use
a magnifying-glass.”
“Why?”
“Beauty dissolves into something else if you look
at it too closely.”
At this moment the sunlight vanished from the
walls of the room —as suddenly as if a switch had been
clicked in the skies. Drops of rain began to splash
the window-panes. A sudden shower was sweeping
the roofs.
Paul flung down his glass and turned in his
chair.
“I believe you’re right.”
“Of course I’m right. It occurs to me, Paul, that
your interest in beautiful things has one rather danger-
ous quality.”
“Now you’re becoming absurd.”
“I think not. I’ve watched you for a number of
years now —through a sort of wavering intimacy that
for some reason has never quite become friendship.”
He paused a moment as if to allow Paul a chance
to contradict. But nothing was said, and he smiled
with a tinge of irony directed mainly at himself.
“During this connection of ours I’ve noticed more
than once that you’re inclined to see everything a little
too much from the outside. Your work is a constant
search for the forms of things: the forms of a culture,
of a language, of a tribal ceremony. Always the
forms. And when you turn away from your work
the same tendency persists. You love etchings before
oils, Del 'Sarto before Da Vinci, Brahms before
Beethoven, Am I right?”
“Near-enough. And what then?”
Redfern leaned back against his stick, and the
corners of his mouth became more ironical than ever.
‘The lover of the beautiful decides to marry.
• Knowing him as;-1 do, I’m sure that the lady is beauti-
ful. An excellent addition to his collection.”
“Luke,” said Paul, turning away rather abruptly
and beginning to take off his overalls, “if you’re going
to talk like that I’ll have to kick you out.”
“Not at all. my dear fellow. You’re not the one
to shirk the truth.”
“The truth according to Luke Redfern! A pretty
version! You’re a sceptic, Luke; and as a rule I
can listen to you with amusement. But when you
turn those beady eyes on my private life and begin
to probe into my prospects of happiness, I must cut
you short. I won’t have it, old chap!”
“Nonsense, Paul! Now is your chance to hear
things for your own good. It’s high time someone
spoke to you. I’ve been wanting to do it for weeks,
and I know that others of your friends have been
feeling the same way. We don’t want to interfere
with your affairs ; but we do think you should be
given a word of warning. And, of course, there’s also
a selfish motive among others. We don’t like to lose
you, Paul. We mourn at the thought of pleasant occa-
sions to be abruptly discontinued; long evenings of
talk and smoke and good wine in these rooms ; your
generous and delightful suppers and occasional country
trips for philosophy and roast chicken under a bough.
For a studious soul you are more than usually sociable.
I like your sensible attitude towards things, your know-
ledge that work must be balanced by play, and your
joyous trick of throwing aside your books and looking
for someone to play with.”
Paul was sitting against the edge of his work-
table, with arms folded and eyes attentive.
“That’s all well enough,” he admitted. “Blit why
should it end? Do you think I intend to shut myself
away when I’ve married? Can a man change his
habits in five minutes? And why should he?”
“Why, indeed! It heartens me to see that quick
flash in your eyes. The old Paul stirs and lifts his
head ; the philosopher changes into a faun, and I see
his glowing limbs among the brambles! But do not
forget there will be someone else to consider. Will
your wife enjoy the company of your friends? Of
Lola, for instance?”
Paul immediately knew why Redfern was here.
This was the central motive of his bantering talk: to
drop a word of warning and advice concerning a deli-
cate situation. Everything that had been said hitherto
was a mere prelude, meaning nothing.
“Have you seen her lately?” he asked.
“Quite recently. This morning, in fact.”
Paul nodded', unwilling to question further. A
thought of Joyce broke in upon his confused imagin-
ings, and he realised how little she knew of him: how
little he had told her of his own life and what a false
conception of him had been taken into her mind.
In Papua he had been detached from his background.
Redfern could see the coloring of his thoughts,
and now he walked over and rested a hand lightly on
Paul’s arm.
“My dear fellow! Forgive me for interfering like
this. You should have kicked me out long ago, and
I daresay you won’t care to see much of me in the
future. But I’m a little afraid for you. Marriage
is not a mere business of bodies. It’s also a business
of souls —two souls coming together, sometimes gently,
THE STORY UP TO NOW.
Joyce Manson has herself appointed
medical officer in a small outpost in the
Fly River district, Papua, in order that
she may make a study of tropical
diseases. There she meets Paul Burnley,
a visiting English anthropologist, whom
she promises to follow to London to
marry; and Murdoch, Resident Com-
missioner of the district , who also falls
in love with her.


sometimes in violent collision. I’ve heard of people
merging into one another’s personalities, but I’ve never
met any really successful cases. Too often I’ve met
the other thing: the collision and the rebound, and
later a picking up of fragments. And I want you to
remember that you don’t go to your wife clean and
new and shining. You take your life with you: the
years that have been lived, and all that they contain
of love turned in other directions, of passion and reck-
less experience. You’re a man of the world, Paul.”
“You’re thinking about Lola,” said Paul, staring
at the floor. “Why don’t you bring her into the open
and say what’s in your mind instead of ranting away
like this? 1 can stand it.”
Redfern retreated a little way across the room.
“You mustn’t be surprised if your problem
is being canvassed pretty thoroughly among your
friends. Naturally, they know your relationship with
Lola ; and most of them are wondering what you are
going to do about it.”
“I’ve no doubt they’re delighted to have a subject
for small talk.”
“Of course they are! Be reasonable, Paul!
Haven’t you enjoyed the same sort of thing many a
time yourself? But underneath their very human
interest in your problem I think there’s a tinge of
sympathy for you. You see, we all know Lola rather
well; and we’re wondering”
“I’ll give her up.”
Redfern smiled.
“Exactly,” he murmured.
The smile and the voice irritated Paul almost
beyond endurance. He felt that he hated Redfern.
He was one of a crowd he must put overboard before
Joyce came.
“1 suppose you think I won’t be able to get rid
of her?”
“Anything is possible,” said Redfern smoothly.
“But it’s going to be difficult. Lola is neither young
nor foolish. I wouldn’t describe her as the clinging
type ; but she knows how to hang on. Possessive
is the word.”
Paul’s forehead was damp.
“I’ll have to talk to her,” he muttered.
“I think it’s time,” nodded Redfern. “She’s heard
enough to make her curious and angry. And she’s
expecting you. 1 ran into her
this morning. She was com-
ing out of the Army and Navy
Stores, and she grabbed me by
a coat button. I’ve always had
an idea that woman was short-
sighted.”
“She hasn’t mentioned it
if she is.”
“She wouldn’t. Anyway,
she seemed to have you on her
mind. I was asked to tell you
to ring her this evening.”
Paul nodded.
“Did she say anything
else?”
“Not for your ears. And
now I must be getting along.
I’m going to look over a col-
lection in a Piccadilly gallery ;
1 thought you might care to
come with me. That’s really
why I called.”
“Nice of you, I’m sure. But I’m afraid I've got
a full morning.”
“Some other time then. I’ll see you again.”
He turned rather hurriedly towards the door.
An awkwardness had come between them ; each was
anxious to be rid of the other. Nevertheless, he turned
back for a last word.
“I can’t help feeling sorry for you, Paul. Explana-
tions are the devil. However, I wish you well.”
And the door closed upon him.
11.
Paul spoke to Lola over the ’phone in the even-
ing, and was received somewhat sharply.
“Are you coming to see me?” she asked, “or must
I go round and fetch you?”
It was not often that Lola departed from soft-
ness of voice and manner, and Paul was stung into
prompt attention.
“Heaven forbid!” he exclaimed, glad that she
could not see his face., “I’ll come.”
He put down the receiver and turned towards his
bedroom, frowning and muttering. The trouble with
Lola was that her threats were not as idle as most
women’s, perhaps because she did not use them very
often. She had a dangerous capacity for action, and
could keep a man in a state of mind poised between
admiration and terror.
He would go and see her at once, he thought,
changing his clothes. But he would make it quite
clear that everything was finished between them.
It was then about half-past eight, and he was
twenty minutes’ walk from Lola’s flat. He set out
almost at once, swinging his stick and keeping his
shoulders square and arrogant.
There had been a steady movement of winds
all day, and the sky over London had become a gather-
ing-place for clouds. Here and there were gaps
through which could be seen patches of dark blue lit
by stars. The river had a new and confident sound
when the traffic noises lulled, as though heartened by
the nearness of kindred elements in the clouds oi by
a knowledge of rising waters in tributary streams that
came from country where rain was falling.
Paul sniffed the brisk air and caught a tang of
salt curiously mixed with a perfume of reeds, and ot
leaves strewn before their time along backwater pools.
He walked towards Lola’s flat at a pace that soon
became slow and unwilling, and with every step there
grew a wish that he could turn aside from this visit
and all its implications and possibilities. But there
were things to be said to Lola, and he must use e
remaining minutes of grace in deciding about his
general attitude towards her.
He would be as casual and as gently humorous
as possible, and when she attempted to pin him down
to statements and promises he would wriggle away
with light remarks, and perhaps a little delicate flat-
tery. It was hard to deceive Lola, but she was easily
flattered. She liked to be told that the back of her
neck had a youthful smoothness, that she held herself
like something young and green growing in a forest and
that subtle reflections of the East lurked in her brown
eyes—meaning, of course, the refined and gently-
perfumed East that had its expression in romantic
fiction and on the screen. He tried to remember these
things, and for a long time now had made a point of
using them as a ritual of politeness.
His chief weapon would be flattery, then ; and
perhaps he would be allowed to escape without saying
too much or having to face reproaches and bitterness.
He quickened his steps unwittingly. The fact that he
had to make a choice of weapons did not promise
well; and yet there was little freed for bitterness, and
he could not see that he deserved reproaches. Their
relationship had been a trifle unusual, perhaps; but
it had been sane and practical, with her maturity
balanced comfortably by his experience. Surely she
would be able to see-that now! It had been her habit
to say nice things about his sensible attitude. More
than once they had sat together and congratulated
themselves on their
broad outlook and the
success of their friend-
ship, searching back
through retrospect to-
wards the beginnings of
intimacy, Lola was not
likely to change over-
night, and there was
really no need for him
“I don’t want excuses to-day, Paul. I want the
truth.”
to approach this meeting in nervousness. But there
was with him an unsummoned memory of a certain
hardness he had surprised sometimes in her eyes and
about her mouth. He wondered how far he really
knew her.
111.
He found Lola in a room notable for the gleam
of Chinese brassware and for the number and size
of its cushions.
“I know all that you’re going to say,” he called
from the doorway, “and I’m full of excuses.”
He was advancing towards a divan set in a soft
glow of shaded light and occupied by a small and
rather plump woman with a dark head.
“I don’t want excuses to-day, Paul,” she said
in a voice that was quiet but not soft. “I want the
truth.”
“My dear Lola! Surely you’re not suggesting
that I give you anything but the truth! You know
quite welj how powerless I am when you look at me
with those candid eyes.”
He thought secretly that her eyes were not
candid. Their brown was not sufficiently lucent; they
had the look of an over-polished surface without an
inner brightness.
“Don’t sit there,” she said as he put his hand
on the back of a chair standing on the edge of the
shadow which lay like a pool around the centre of
the room. “1 want your face in the light. You had
better sit on that big black cushion.”
“You’re a terrible woman for cushions,” he com-
plained, seating himself gingerly. “I often wonder
where they all come from. You’re looking well,
Lola.”
“I wonder! I’m worried about you, Paul, and,
to tell the truth, a little annoyed.”
“My dear!”
“I don’t think you need look so innocent. You
know what’s on my mind.”
He stared at the floor, and then raised his eyes
until he could see a tiny foot dangling from the divan.
He was suddenly tired of indirect methods.
“I suppose you’ve been churning yourself up over
rumors of my forthcoming marriage?”
“I don’t churn myself up over anything; but I’ve
been puzzled and a little hurt. You must admit, my
dear, you’ve behaved strangely. Isn’t it time we had
a good long talk?”
He kept his head lowered, afraid that his inward
groan would escape through his eyes. These “good
long talks” were to be dreaded and detested.
He knew the process: an endless circling around
a decision already made or an attitude already
formed. When Lola set out for “a good long talk”
she really meant to convert someone to her own
viewpoint.
“Do you think it will do any good?” he asked,
vaguely surprised at himself. “I mean,” he added, as
the divan became disturbed with Lola’s disapproval,
“it’s all so difficult. I don’t know what to say to you
or how to explain my position.”
“Simply tell me the truth, Paul. You know I
can’stand it.”
He wasn’t so sure. He had come to suspect that
when Lola demanded the truth she was asking for a
version of it cut to the measure of her own wishes.
“Well, my dear,” he began, “I’m afraid I’ve
changed a little since I’ve been away.”
“You don’t have to tell me that. I’ve been able
, to. notice, it for myself. I should think you have
changed! When you went away we were very dear
friends —perhaps a little more. We.
were so sure of each other, so free
from illusions”
Paul began to fidget with his collar.
All this was familiar to him. In a
moment she would go on to say that
she had loved their friendship for its
splendid freedom, its sanity and beauty.
She would remind him gently of a time
when he had come to her and shown
her something of his inner nature, and
the great central needs she had tried
so hard to satisfy. Her actual words
faded, and he came through an inatten-
tive gap to hear her reach a point he
had already passed in advance.
“You had to be protected,” she
was saying; “and it did seem at the
time as if I had been provided just for
that purpose. It was all so fitting, Paul,
so beautifully arranged, so obviously
right,”
“Lola,” he interrupted gently,
“you’ve been splendid, and you’re right
in everything you say. But it was all
a calm experience. I mean, it moved
along quietly and naturally; land I
used to think it would go on that way
indefinitely. But something has hap-
pened. I’ve had a sort of awakening ;
I can’t turn back from it. There’ll have
to be a change.”
“Then you’re really in earnest?”
He did not like the new tone in her voice, and
he looked at her uncertainly, irritated because he could
not see hei clearly. She lay among her cushions, and
he could see her black hair gleaming under vagrant
rays from the lamp, but her eyes were beyond him.
The light touched her here and there; he could see
a soft glow on her skin below the throat and on her
plump arms; but those corners of her mouth which
sometimes betrayed her thoughts were in shadow, and
he could not see the slight kink that spoilt her nose.
Once again he was troubled with a fear of something
unknown in her, and beneath his fear began a rapid
pulse of anger. It was damnable that a fellow could
slide so easily into a relationship of this kind, imagin-
ing that through an intimacy of a couple of years he
had reached all that was to be known of a woman.
And then, if there came the need for change, he found
that all this time he had known only the shallows
of her being, and was not armed against her inner
forces.
“1 should be afraid to admit that I’m in earnest,”
he said, “if I were not sure of the strength and honesty
of our friendship.”
She laughed shortly.
“You’ve given me time to find things out for
myself. I’ve had two or three grudging visits from
you since you came back, and to get hold of you
to-night I had to threaten you over the ’phone. I
had to drag you here! And now that I’ve got you”
—she hurried on, ignoring his effort to speak—“l’m
going to tell you just what I think about the whole
shady business. I’ve been reasonable, heaven knows!
I’ve waited, and I’ve tried to be patient. ‘He’ll come
in his own time,’ I’ve thought to myself. I knew
that for a week or two you would be restless and
discontented. These trips always affect you that way
—God knows why! But in the end, I thought, you
would begin to think of me. You knew that I was
here, safe and dependable and ready to hear some
of the things you can’t talk about to anyone else.
And I believed that when you came and saw me you
would be glad, and all in a flash we would be restored
to our beautiful intimacy.
“That’s what I thought, Paul. But it looks as
if I were wrong. You came to me, of course. Oh,
yes ; you condescended that far. But when you stood
in front of me you were not your old self. You said
nice things to me, as before. You kissed me gently,
but you drew back a moment too soon. You sat and
talked with me, sharing this divan ; but at the back
of everything I could see that you were worried.
You were not all here ; the nicest part of you was
missing. It was gone from your eyes and from your
mouth when you smiled, and from your voice when
you spoke. And that was only the beginning. You
hurried away from me, and it was more than a week
before I saw you or heard from you again.”
“I was busy. My new book”
She ignored this.
o Continued on page 50.)


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
— Established 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Attraction of a Criminal to His Crime:-
THE ORTON MURDER
BY HAROLD MERCER.
THE ease of his escape gave Eric
Sorley a queer feeling of terror. It
suggested another trap which would
send him back to his prison.
Through the dark night he looked back
across the silver sheet of the river at the
dark huddle of the prison-camp buildings
on the other side. One light twinkled ;
that was in front of the guard-house. The
whole place was silent, undisturbed. His
absence had not yet been detected ; the
way he had piled the blankets would
satisfy the warder if he looked in to see
whether a man who had been a model
prisoner was still in his place. Acting the
model prisoner had been part of his plan
of escape.
It was good to be free, so good that
the fear of losing his freedom before its
object was achieved added to the terror
within him. There was a lot to do before
he could feel himself safe. Imperative to
place miles between himself and the
prison-camp, get clothes in exchange for
the prison garments, and put more miles
between himself and the place of ex-
change, for the clothes would have to be
stolen, and their loss would be reported.
All that would have to be done before
morning.
He set off at a steady jog-trot. It
helped to dry his trousers, uncomfortably
wet. He had stood knee-deep in the
water to push the boat into the stream,
so that when it was discovered, miles
down the river, it might give a wrong
clue.
As he hurried he thought. He had
sacrificed the easy, healthful conditions
of the prison-camp. If recaptured, it
would be a pent-up weariness within
stone walls for him. But if he made
Mary know the full truth it would be
worth while.
H E must give her a faith upon which to
base her loyalty. Heyland was the
thief ; the plausible, hypocritical Heyland.
Sorley had long suspected that there
had been systematic embezzlement; his
own fault had been in regarding it as no
business of his if the trusted Heyland be-
trayed the confidence of the firm. Sorley
had quieted his misgivings by bragging
to his conscience that he was no in-
former ; and then, with the discovery of
the defalcations, he had found the
responsibility saddled upon his own
shoulders with devilish ingenuity.
It had seemed unbelievable that he
could be found guilty. When his case
was desperate, even his own counsel had
advised that any attempt to accuse the
trusted, crafty Heyland would probably
do him more harm than good. The jury
would regard it as a cowardly attempt to
blame another man for his fault. Be-
sides, as a side issue, young Ted, Mary’s
brother, might be involved more than the
man who so cunningly hid himself behind
others.
Perhaps his counsel had not believed
him.
HE came to another road, glanced up and
down before starting his dash across,
xie did not hear the car that came speed-
ing around the bend. His first realisa-
tion of danger was the blinding flash of
the headlights ; then, with a scream of
brakes, the car struck him.
But the brakes had acted ; the blow
merely knocked him aside, winded him,
and left him unable to obey his impulse
of flight, standing beside the car, whilst
the driver leaned out and inquired
whether he was hurt.
“Hullo! ” the driver exclaimed. “Why,
you’re You don’t want to be
wandering about in those clothes, old
chap! They’ll get you damned soon if
you do. You want to get a change.
When did you get away?”
“I escaped a couple of hours ago,”
Sorley returned, relieved.
The man in the car. was not by any
means pleasant-looking, but evidently
handing over an escaped convict was far
from him.
“Of course, I’ll have to get some
clothes—when I can.”
“I think I can help you. About two
hundred yards back round the bend
there’s a house. An old man lives
there by himself. Once he goes to
sleep, he sleeps like a log. I went in
just now and called, but he didn’t wake.
He’s asleep in the room on the left as
you go through the living-room. In the
room further on he has several suits
hanging behind the door.
“You could take one without it being
missed —for days possibly. And, look,
here’s a couple of quid that may be
useful.”
Sorley was too staggered by this unex-
spected friendliness to say anything.
With a “Good luck!” the motorist sped
on.
WHEN Sorley cautiously made his
way into the cottage he still had the
feeling that all that was happening was
unbelievable. Yet he had the two crisp
notes in his pocket; and here was the
door.
A minute later he was feeling his way
through the dark of the house, steadying
and guiding himself with hands that
touched the wall, fell on the table, on the
back of a chair. They seemed dusty.
The room with the clothes was there,
too, as the man in the car had described
it.
Sorley was not finicky. Directly he
had secured the clothes he stole out of
the cottage as cautiously as he had
entered it. He did not wait, but made
the change.
The suit was a surprisingly good fit.
He carried his convict clothes with him
for some time until he came to a creek
which opened out into a waterhole;
there, in deep water, he sank them with
heavy stones.
Still, it was not until he had travelled
another mile that sufficient confidence
came to him to take boldly to the road.
Even so, he avoided contact with the
lorries: that began to appear with the
approach of dawn. He might have
secured a lift quite easily, but he was
taking no risk.
He was staggering with fatigue when he
came to a little township where the hotel
was just opening. A train which ran into
the little station and left again as ne
neared the hotel gave him confidence.
It could be an explanation for his arrival.
It would be best to sleep during the day
and travel again at night.
Some misgivings came to him, and he
hesitated. Then he walked into the hotel.
“I want a room for the day,” he told
the girl from whom he ordered a drink
in the bar. “You’d better take for it out
of that.”
CEELING a good deal better, he set
* off again in the afternoon, walking.
He might have taken the train, but
decided that, on a quiet, country plat-
form, a strange passenger was too likely
to be closely observed and remembered.
He walked on to Parramatta and
boarded a train there. So far everything
had gone smoothly.
A man entered the compartment with
a newspaper crumpled in his hand, and
fell into a seat beside him.
“Queer thing, this murder of that old
man at Orton,” he remarked. He
thumped the paper with the back of his
fingers.
“Orton? Where’s that?” asked Sorley.
“Little place between Parramatta and
Penrith,” said the stranger. “This old
chap went to the bank yesterday and
drew out a big lump of money. He
lived alone on his farm. This morning
the cottage was found open and the
man dead on his bed. He was strangled
and the money was gone.”
At first Sorley listened with indiffer-
ence. Then chill horror began to steal
through him.
As casually as he could, Sorley asked
for the paper. The print danced before
his eyes. In the dazzle, one headline
seemed to dance over all the rest:
“Fingerprints Found.”
Fingerprints! He remembered how
his hands had groped, encountering the
dust in that cottage. Undoubtedly his
fingerprints would be everywhere.
The horror of it dawned fully on
him. He had been right in his intuition
that Fate, making his escape easy, had
only baited a trap for him. Murder!
And again he would have to answer for
the guilt of another!
What a tale for Sneering disbelief
would be the only one he Could tell—
about meeting a man in a motor-car, he
would be unable to describe, who had
directed him to a cottage where he could
get some clothes.
He tried to remember details about
the car. The whole incident seemed a
blur of big lights and a shadowy big
man talking to him.
Sorley got out of the train. Later he
took a tram.
It was hopeless to think now of
escape if he was taken. His escape
had placed him in the position of having
to hide for ever. With luck, he might
be able to smuggle out of the country.
But, first of all, he must see Mary.
WHEN he rang up the flats where
his wife was living she came her-
self to the telephone. The tone of her
voice when she heard him speak made
his heart leap. It told him that, what-
ever she might think, she still cared for
him.
He knew she would take all the pre-
cautions he had urged before coming
to their trysting-place ; and he waited in
a shadowed corner of an out-of-the-way
cafe with patience.
“Eric, you did not do it! I will not
believe that you did it!” she cried pas-
sionately as she greeted him.
“S-sh!” he warned her. “I
do either that or the embezzlement.”
He told her then all that he had
wanted to tell her, adding the story of
his escape. She pressed his hand in
sympathy.
She assured him. “I could not under-
stand. Ted ought to be able to expose
Heyland. I will make him speak”
“What is the use?” he questioned
despairingly. “It can do me no good
—now.”
“But it’s because people regard you
as a criminal that this —other —looks
against you.”
“It will make no difference. An inno-
cent man, desperate to escape, might as
reasonably have committed this murder.”
Sorley was despondent; but they made
plans for his escape from Sydney, for
her to follow him.
As they left the cafe together two men
stopped them.
“Eric Harper Sorley, we want you!
Sorry, Mrs. Sorley, but”
So Mary had been followed . , .
Fingerprints ! They mocked
Sorley’s dreams, tortured his thoughts
as he lay in prison or sat in the court
hearing witnesses state the plain facts
that, pieced together, made such a damn-
ing case against him. The evidence of
the fingerprints held all the scattered
points of evidence together.
Sorley himself realised how ridicu-
lous the story of a meeting with a man
in a car must seem against this compact
circumstantial evidence. His motive for
murder was so evident; a desperate
escapee seeking clothes and money might
be capable of anything.
It was only another mockery that
Heyland, having overdone it at last, had
been arrested and committed for trial;
that this would exculpate Sorley com-
pletely from the old charge.
His lawyer and the barrister were
making heroic efforts with a hopeless
case. He woke for a moment from his
listlessness as young Forsyth cross-
examined a police witness.
“The fingerprints found were not all
those of the accused?”
“There were some others,” admitted
the witness.
“Some others? Were those others in-
vestigated? Were the police merely
satisfied with having secured the finger-
prints of the man they suspected?”
“All the fingerprints were investigated.
No facsimiles were found of the others
in the police records.”
“I put it to you that, of the finger-
prints taken, not one traced to the
accused was in the room where the de-
ceased was found dead?”
Sorley caught his breath ; it seemed
an illuminating point in his favor. The
quick hope died.
“One fingerprint was on the door.”
“The outside of the door?”
“Yes ; the outside. It might have been
left in the course of the cautious opening
of the door.”
“Some of the other fingerprints were
found in the room. Not the accused’s?”


SU
stR RIG«I
on a
WINTER CRUISE
PAPUA
Via Barrier Reef
*0 R A M A
EARLY JULY
t FIJI—ORFORD,
Late August.
* F i r s t Saloon
only.
■f First Saloon and
Tourist Class.
We here cannot turn on sunshine with a
tap, as we turn on water. It was a bright
idea to give people opportunities of slipping
quickly off on holiday to places where there
is every prospect of basking in genial
sunshine instead of enduring the dis-
comforts of winter. Whether or not to-
day is sunny, the cold and dreary days will
be with us in July and August. No winter
holiday could be easier to arrange or
easier to enjoy than an Orient Line cruise.
ORIENT LINE CRUISES
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
June Issue Now on Sale.
Special
FORESTRY COMPANY REVIEWS
Developments and Prospects
INDUSTRIAL SHARES
Their Earnings and the Sharemarket
MINES—MONEY—MARKETS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,' Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUEK & CO., Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG
uammmmmmm
PENS
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
“That is so. No trace of similar prints
have been found in the police records.”
No hope. The glimmer that had
sprung into Sorley’s mind died out. All
this was only prolonging the agony.
He looked over again to Mary to
refresh his courage with the picture of
pathetic loyalty she presented to his mind.
A blow seemed to smite his brain. A
face stared out of the crowd behind her.
He did not believe his eyes. He turned
away, and then looked again. He
whispered to his lawyer.
“Don’t look round. The man who
was in that motor-car is in the court.”
“What’s that?” The lawyer was in-
stantly excited.
“Almost in a line with my wife’s head
from here, among the crowd. Look!
He has got his hand to his face —that
huge hand! I could tell it anywhere.”
Neville Carter moved away swiftly.
He paused to say a word to Forsyth, and
then went on towards the back of the
court. A hope blazed fiercely in Sorley’s
heart.
As if some knowledge of their discus-
sion had reached him, the big man rose
and moved quickly towards the door. He
had gone by the time Carter reached the
place where he had been.
Sorley, watching, felt his hope die.
Carter came back shortly, carrying a
crumpled newspaper, and approached
the dock.
“Did you get him?” asked Sorley
eagerly. But he knew already that Carter
had failed.
“He got away, I think you’re right
about him. It’s psychologically right for
him to watch the trial. Sort of thing’s
happened before. And that fellow was
alarmed.”
“If he got away, it’s pretty hopeless,”
said Sorley,
“Don’t give up hope. If I could get
the police interested I might. , I’m
going to try.”
Carter left the court after another
word to the barrister. Sorley listened
hopelessly as Forsyth began his address.
Forsyth was long-winded; the case was
adjourned with the speech unconcluded.
Sorley left the court dazed. It was
all so hopeless.
IT was a surprise that Neville Carter
should be at the gaol to see him in
the morning.
“Within an hour or so you will be
free,” he said.
Sorley gasped a question.
“Fingerprints! ” Carter said. “I in-
duced the police to investigate that news-
paper for fingerprints. They were not
very willing, but they found some prints
smudged into the type that coincided with
those found inside, the room where Jen-
kins was murdered. That interested
them! They got busy ; and last night
they arrested your gentleman. Webster’s
his name. He’s married to a niece of
the dead man and benefits by his death.
He was financially in the soup. Just
fancy! A man is forced by some im-
pulse to watch another man being tried
for the crime he committed. Then,
leaving in alarm, he leaves a newspaper
behind him. And I”
Carter was excited by his own clever-
ness ; but he stopped as the overwrought
Sorley swayed.
“Here, bear up, old man!” he cried,
catching him. “Your wife is here!”
Frost .
The world is steeped in silence; listening,
I dream I hear the music of the stars,
A muted fluting, silver-thin as air.
At dusk, across the sunset’s saffron bars
I watched the wild swans pass, an arrow-head
Of ebony against the lambent skies,
While on the last breath of the dying wind
There came the poignant clamor of their
cries.
But now the sun is set, the wild swans gone;
The dead wind sleeps ’neath drifts of twig
and leaf
That Autumn’s ghostly hands have shaken down
Until the trees stand stark, too cold for
grief;
Nor sings the creek, for ice has stilled its song.
And all along its shore the pebbles glow
Like frozen tears the little people spilled
In elfin sorrows long and long ago.
The white gums gleam austere and beautiful,
Like sculptured saints set in a house of God,
While at their feet kneel pilgrims, fenland ferns,
And moonbeams winged with light and
wonder-shod.
The grass blades rimed with silver prick the
night
Like splinters of bright glass, and chill and
pale
The moon rides high above the hills, and
spreads
The virgin canvas of her single sail.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.
Of the Quality of Beer:-
EARTHQUAKE NIGHTS
BY WILL LAWSON.
IT spoke volumes for the way the gang
of platelayers worked under Horry
Hogan and for the quality of the beer
they had consumed afterwards at Bran-
nigan’s pub that none of them but
Horry himself felt the earthquake. Horry
felt it so indifferently that he fell asleep
before it was ended.
The gang was employed on the main
railway line near Parakiki, where there
was only Brannigan’s and a shop or two,
and the post office. The line there ran
along a hillside which dropped to the
blue sea, and the green and the blue and
the sunlight gave a restfulness to the
scene which only the passing of trains
disturbed.
The gang lived in three old vans which
stood in a siding. Two of them were
fitted with bunks, and the third was a
storeroom and kitchen. It was their
habit to move on from time to time, so
that their home on wheels was a handy
arrangement.
During the afternoon Pat Mulrooney
had picked up a pound-note by the side
of the track. Evidently it had been
blown out of the window of a train or
scattered by a philanthropist or madman
who liked throwing his money to the
winds. At any rate Pat got it and took
the gang down to Brannigan’s till it was
spent. They ate carelessly on their
return, turned in early and slept till
morning. All but Horry, who felt the
earthquake.
It must have been about two o’clock
in the morning that it came, just after
the Wild Cat had howled past with her
train of perishables, to be followed by
The Snail, which stopped everywhere,
picking up lost trucks from lonely sidings.
.• r .
F.rst there came a jolting motion, fol-
SctbrSteSrraS
seismic trouble. Inen the tremor pa
and Horry went to sleep again, albeit
his dreams were of earthquakes and he
awoke in the morning still tired, which
might have been due to- the beer or,
again, to the earthquake disturbing his
s }g C p
He turned out and woke his men.
Everything was as usual, save for Danny,
who was grumbling about some thief
who had stolen his kindling from its
place under the kitchen.
“Sure, 1 cut it meself yestiddy after-
noon. An’ now ivery peck is gone as
clane as a whistle.”
“I’ll inquire around, I will,” Horry
said. “These thieves has got to learn
that it’s a serious matter to stale Guv’-
mint propitty.”
During breakfast he asked if anyone
had felt the earthquake. Not a man
had, not even a quiver.
“It felt like bein’ a big wan, too,” said
Horry,
After breakfast the meaning of Horry’s
words struck Mick Dundene. He went
to get his pick and shovel and had lifted
them out of the big toolchest in the end
of the last van, when he looked round
in a surprised way and exclaimed;
“Begorra, look at that hill. It wasn’t
that shape yestiddy.”
“Neither it was,” Pat Mulrooney
agreed, rubbing his stubbly chin with
a hand that shook slightly, “an’ the beach
ain’t the same neither. An’, look, there’s
a new bend in the track. If I wasn’t
standin’ here in me own shoes, I’d say
it wasn’t the same place at all.”
“Quit talkin’ nonsense,” Horry ordered
them. “Get your tools an’ come along.
We’ll be takin’ a new stretch of track
fo-day to pack up the sleepers and
tighten the bolts an’ fishplates an’ all.
There’s your job starin’ ye in the face,
earthquake or no earthquake,”
For hours they worked steadily, dis-
cussing everything under the sun from
racing to evolution, as gangs do. Occa-
sionally one would remark on some
change in the landscape which had not
been noticed already.
“It’s bin a hell of an earthquake,”
Mike said. “Whin the express comes by
I’ll yell for a noospaper. Maybe some
cities has been wrecked, maybe in Chili
or Peru.”
“An’ maybe ye’ll work like the peons
does in Peru,” Horry shouted. “The
pay car’s due in three days, bhoys, an’
we want a good showin’ for the boss.”
Though Mike yelled for a newspaper,
none fell from any train.
About lunchtime Pat was dreaming of
the pound he had found the day before.
Automatically his thoughts turned to
Brannigan’s, and he gazed over his
shoulder to where its red roof would be
showing. He went rigid and shouted:
“Look, the pub's gone, too. That
earthquake’s shifted it.”
“What?” A dozen men spoke with
horror in their voices. Even Horry
looked. But he was a practical man and
he wanted the work done.
“Ye can’t see it from here,” he said.
“We’ve come a quarter of a mile away
from where we was yestiddy. Get on,
boys.”
Very puzzled, they went back to their
vans that evening. Pat wanted to go
and look for the hotel, but nobody
seemed keen to go with him, knowing he
had no money if he did find it. And
Horry discouraged any such search.
“Get to bed,” he said. “We’ve a big
day to-morrer. An’ in a few more days
we’ll be shiftin’ on, nearer to the city.”
( Continued on next page.)


%■
V*v
« !V
V*
INGOT Riding Breeches and
Jodphurs stand up to the gruel-
ling tests of constant riding,
retaining their shape and smartness
after hard wear.
These high - quality, moderately
priced Breeches and Jodphurs will
wash without fading or shrinking
throughout the long life of the
garment.
INGOT
f RIDING BREECHES
AND JODPHURS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
-
«
ijw?
nn
itapw n
i«frv.
I®
STg
J iiilliilwwHnlf'i
'*y-J9Ji
'• wMWfci hi
S\
&
Kzmmw''
lUUUIlibJim
mm\t
TL OU
. a i Wi Jso
CT, MATTHEW’S, WINDSOR,
the foundation stone of
which was laid by Governor Mac-
quarie in 1817, is one of the most
historic churches in Australia.
At the foundation ceremony, a
Spanish dollar was placed under the
foundation stone. Almost immedi-
ately afterwards, some sharp indivi-
dual overturned the stone and re-
moved the dollar. Informed of this
outrage, Macquarie insisted on the
whole ceremony being repeated a
few days later. But the second!
dollar followed the first.
Spanish dollars at that time were
the main coins circulating in the
colony. So general was their use
that the £3,625, paid up capital of
the Bank of New South Wales —the
pioneer bank was expressed in
Spanish dollars in the Bank’s first
ledger.
It is over 100 years since English
Sterling displaced the Spanish dollar
and 119 years since the Bank com-
menced operations. To-day, ~ the
Bank’s paid up capital is £8,780,000,
and its branches number 765
throughout Australia, New Zealand,
the Pacific Islands and London.
(tTAIIIINKP III)
'209-A, 1936
They slept like men ; even Horry did,
and all he felt of the second earthquake
was a very light shaking which rather
lulled him to sleep.
BILL GRUNER, driver of the big
Double-G engine which hauled the
Midnight Crawler, and Tommy Hill, his
fireman, did not feel any earthquake.
They were too intent on doing some-
thing very stealthily, and in it they had
the earnest assistance of Tim Splicer,
the guard.
Very quietly they backed the Double-
G down to the three vans and hooked
the engine on.
“Go easy,” Bill whispered. “I’ll bet
they haven’t noticed that they woke in
another place this morning. They gel
their heads down to it and pick away
and talk about wimmin and winners
and wot-not. If they’d noticed, Horry
Hogan would have been the first to raise
Cain.”
“How did it happen?” Tommy asked.
He was a relieving fireman and had not
been on the train the night before.
“We made a mistake,” Tim said. “We
backed down and took these from Para-
kiki instead of some L wagons. Now
we’ve got to get these back where they
come from and no complaints.”
As tenderly as a nursemaid, the big
Double-G wheeled the three vans away
and hooked them on to the end of her
train. An hour later, after a slow arid
careful run, she pushed the vans into
their old place in the Parakiki loop. In
a spirit of mischief, as she left the vans,
Bill made the engine give a kick, which
was what Horry felt and turned over to
sleep again.
It was Danny who gave the first news
of a return to normal ways. He found
his heap of kindling outside his kitchen.
“Sure there’s bin another earthquake
or something and iverything’s back as it
was. Look, the hills is the same an’ the
beach, and the bend’s gone out of the
track. An’, look, by the saints, there’s
the pub agin. Yet I niver felt an earth-
quake, did yez?”
“Yiss, I did,” Horry said ; “it was slight-
like and gintle, but it was a distinct
trimor. We can be thankful it came to
rimidy the dirty work of its predicissor.
Come, boys, to work!”
They settled to their work, taking an-
other length of track again. Being poor
men , they could not go to the pub that
night, for it was a fair walk in the hot
weather with no drink promised at the
end. However, the next day the paycar
arrived and they went to the pub after
work.
Ji m B ra nnigan listened politely to
Horry ’ s tale of the tricks of the earth-
quake> as he would to a man who had
been drinking. Then he said:
T • -f u u, i »
~^ e . n ' var l elt the earthquake.”
. 1 l sll V ar pub, Horry de-
dared. We looked for it an we couldn t
nd
Was beer J gave yous on Tues-
day as bad as that?”
“Beer! It wasn’t the beer. I tell ye
the earthquake changed the whole of
the country. The hills an’ the beach an’
even the track was changed—an’ your
pub was gone.”
“You’re telling me,” Brannigan said
solemnly.
“Yes, we’re tellin’ you,” Pat Mul-
rooney shouted.
“I begin to think,” Brannigan said,
“that the little man has been playing a
joke wid yez. For this hotel has been
here ivery day this week an’,” he added
solemnly, “every night, too. But I did
notice the day before yestiddy that
none of yez was working on the tracks
—not a man of yez.”
“Sure ye’re mad,” Horry declared, “all
day long we worked, beginnin’ that new
job at the sixty-mile peg.”
As he spoke his voice faltered as a
thought entered his brain.
His face fell as Brannigan said, “Sixty-
mile. But this here’s the forty-mile.”
Suddenly light dawned oh Horry.
“That was no earthquake,” he said.
“Some drunken driver must have hauled
us to the sixty-mile and brought us back
again. I’ll soon get to the bottom of this,
I will. Whin I find out his name, he'd
better not drive past our camp, I tell
yez.”
Then he began to laugh. “On second
thoughts I’ll wait and get him at his -
tricks. The next time he tries it, look
out.”
“That’s the way,” Brannigan said.
“An’ now, seeing that you’ve come back
to life again, like Rip Van Winkle did,
have a drink with me. The next time
they try that trick you can make goats
of them all.”
THE gang had to wait months for its
* revenge. At last, early one morning,
Horry was wakened by a shaking and
rumbling. His eyes lit with fight as he
sprang from bed, whispering hoarsely:
“Wake up, boys. They’re at it again.”
A heavy jolt shook the van. Every
man woke and bounded out in all
manner of undress. They grabbed sticks
and pick-handles, anything that they
could use in a free fight, and Horry
banged open the door. Out they
streamed after him, and round the corner
where the engine and its crew would be
busy at their stealthy work. Not a soul
was there. Only the night wind whistled
keenly from the naked hills and the cold
stars looked down.
Then a great shake came. The whole
world seemed to reel. Under their feet
the solid ground flowed in waves, rock-
ing them from their feet. The three
vans almost swayed off their wheels.
From the hills came a groaning sound
of rocks grinding on rocks, and from the
sea a hollow roaring told of shocks
beneath the waves.
For a time the men stood silent to-
gether, staring in each other’s faces in
the pale dawnlight. Then Horry spoke.
While the earth shuddered and twisted
and rocked, while for miles and miles
people woke in terror, while homes were
shattered and cities shaken to their foun-
dations, Horry said: “It may be an
earthquake and it may not. But until I
see whether Brannigan’s pub is there or
not, I won’t belaive it.”
“Long, raw-boned, with clawlike lingers—the
hands of a killer":-
THE KILLER.
BY E.DITHMAEK.
'■pHE first thing Rod Kennedy noticed
about the boy was his hands. Long,
raw-boned, with clawlike fingers and
red scaly skin covered with fair wiry hair.
It wasn’t that Rod usually looked for
such things, only, as the boy stood before
him, hat twirling in restless fingers, his
eyes had been caught and held by the
ugliness.
In some things he was a fastidious
man, in spite of years of hard work on
the farm, so that he was glad to raise
his eyes from the repulsive hands to the
wistfulness of the lad’s face. There he
saw something that made him assure
quickly: “Very well, I’ll give you the
job, but”—he added at once as though
ashamed of his sentiment—“there’s one
thing 1 always insist on, and that is kind-
ness to animals. I’ll have no beast
knocked about on my place. You under-
stand?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Very well. Come along and I’ll show
you your quarters.”
He proved himself a good lad. Quiet,
industrious, a very devil for work. He
was clean and respectable, his long, plain-
featured face always pleasant. Yet there
was something about the strong, gold-
filled teeth, the straight, bony nose and
loose-knit figure that filled Kennedy with
unquiet. When the lad bailed up the
cows or stood beside the wash pail
wiping his hands, Rod would vision them
in a stranglehold on some soft creature's
neck.
Ben always took a long time over the
washing of his hands. Dried just so,
with meticulous care taken to remove all
dirt from around the nails, he would fill
the older man with hot impatience. After
each cow was milked, Ben would empty
his bucket into the vat and, standing in
the shaft of sunlight coming through
the door, plunge his hands into the dis-
infected water,
“Like Pilate washing away his guilt,”
Rod always thought.
But, apart from that one repugnance,
he got on very well with the boy. Out
on the hills they worked together, ring-
barking or repairing fences. In swift
snatches of confidence Ben told him
of his home, of his mother who
had died, and of a father shifting his
cares on to anyone who would take
them. At such times there would be
an ache of loneliness in the young voice,
so that Rod’s quick sympathies were
aroused, and when things went wrong
and hot reproof was needed it was always
withheld. Thus an unfamiliar kindness
became part of the boy’s life.
ONE morning, through the sheeting
rain, Ben saw a dog running up and
down the road. A poor, yellow-and-
white brute of no
particular breed.
Where she had
come from was a
mystery —she be-
longed to no one
in the immediate
district. All day
long she followed
the road between
the two cross-
ings until the fading scent was lost in
the welling creek.
Rod went out to her, but she ran on,
heedless of his coaxings, her short, sharp
barks and futile whines an unceasing
question.
Next day she was still there, an alert
pleading in her eyes.
“He’s dropped you somehow, old girl,”
Rod told her. “You’d better make a
home here until he comes this way
again.”
He opened the gate to coax her in,
but away she went once more, up and
down the road, her whines unacknow-
ledged, her pointed nose losing all scent
in the sodden ground.
Ben urged her into the warmth of
the dairy fire that night.
“You’re the ugliest dog I’ve ever seen,”
the boy told her as he squatted on his
heels before the fire to feed her from a
battered tin dish. “Ain’t you, eh? Poor
old doggie!”
She wolfed up the food and stood
before him with expectant eyes and wag-
ging tail, waiting for more.
“That’s the lot.” He threw away the
dish, and the dog, satisfying herself that
nothing was left, curled down in the grey
ashes with appreciative whines.
“Make yourself at home,” Ben ad-
vised. “There’s no sense in being cold.”
She lifted reddish-brown eyes above
the folded paws and regarded him
quietly.
“Two lonely souls, you and me,” Ben
confided, “We ain’t neither of us got
a home, and them as should’ve looked
after us, won’t. Why did he lose you
like that, I wonder. Wasn’t you worth
your keep?”
She whimpered and squirmed round in
the warmth.
“Did yer belong to one of them
niggers ringing up the creek? Y’look
like a blackfellow’s dog.”
She whined again, dragging her flat-
tened body to his feet.
“Poor old girl!” He patted her bony
head. “You’d better make the best of
things, same as I’m doing. I’ll take care
of you. Get off to bed now.”
They called her Nell to take the place
of an old cattle bitch who had picked
up a bait, and in time she forgot to
watch the road with alert, eager eyes
and ears cocked for a familiar sound.
She matched Ben in her zest for work.
In all the district no other dog could
heel a beast so neatly or turn a mob
with such exactitude. Though she had
no looks to recommend her, Rod came
to boast that he wouldn’t part with her
for a five-pound note.
When Ben set out for the cows in the
murky dawn, Nell would be waiting for
him at the gate. She would bring the
beasts down from the hills and track
them to the rails, waiting with an expec-
tant look in her eyes and ears pricked
for any further bidding. When the boy
took his tucker-bag and went off to work


A REAL MAN’S BELT AT LAST
Saddlcr-made of the finest selected Oak Bark Tanned Solid Hide., with Monogram
Buckle Clasp of ANY TWO or THREE letters.
lEJ
Ml Sl
w
PRICE.
3/6
Per Registered
Post. Free
Anywhere.
This illustration reproduces the actual size of MONOGRAM BUCKhE. The ANCHOR
MONOGRAM BVCELE is made of strongest gunmetal, and the letters are pure
SIhVEBPLATE on SOLiID NICKEIj, and will last for ever. Simply state the initials
you desire, any two or three letters.
JOHN AFRIAT, Radio House, 3rd Floor, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1903.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O'CONNItLL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
H
A
1
A
m
>^"J
dm
mi
mm
m
IP
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fortnighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Melbourne.
' :
Imoduwdiiilu/latmMmii/m
If any illustration in ‘
to the MANAGER,
THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
who will quote you price for the original.
she would follow at his heels, jumping
up to lick his raised hand, her short,
joyous bark answering his calls. Tired
of that she would break away to dart
through the sea of lucerne or sniff up
the hollow logs for sport that might lie
hidden.
They lived their lonely lives together,
these two. At dinner-time when Ben put
aside his axe or unyoked the horses from
the plough, it was Nell who would dart
about, breaking the bush silence with her
yappy barks. When the billy boiled and
the boy ate his solitary lunch, she would
sit patiently before him, eyes never leav-
ing his face, waiting for the thrown
scraps of bread.
Twice a year she delivered her litter
of pups, taking two days off her duties
to devote to motherhood. Then she
would be ready to follow Ben again, her
mind intent only on her work. Each
time the pups were destroyed, and it was
Ben who took the little blind morsels in
his long hands to deal them instant death.
The same with the kittens and the calves
—all the prodigal output of life, born
for no purpose but destruction.
Ben did it all stolidly.
“I believe he enjoys it,” Kennedy told
his wife disgustedly. “He kills them like
you’d pluck a flower. It makes me feel
sick.”
“Someone has to do it,” she excused.
“Yes—but he’s so callous. Have you
ever noticed his hands?”
“Yes—they’re ugly, aren’t they?”
“They’re cruel. The hands of a killer.
They fascinate me when I see him wash-
ing them down at the yard.”
A HARD, dry winter came, with frosts
that nipped all greenery. When the
pale moon swam in the star-studded sky
and the rime glittered on the grass, the
long-drawn howl of the dingoes echoed
across the hills. Lying before the rem-
nants of a fire outside Ben’s hut, Nell
bristled and growled a reply.
“Lie down there!” Ben ordered. “Y’
don’t think you can fight them alone, do
you?”
But she rushed out, disturbing the night
with her challenge. There came the
stampede of hoofs down the side of the
hill, the bleating of frightened calves,
and Ben ran out to see the huddled mass
shivering at the rails. Nell bounded the
creek, her angry barks echoing back from
the hills, the answering howls of the
marauders growing distant.
When silence again enwrapped the
shivering world, Nell crawled back to
the ashes, her distressed whines every
now and again breaking through her
dreams.
“We’d better get baits out,” the boss
told Ben next morning. “You go up the
creek and shoot that lumpy beast in the
far paddock. Get the strychnine in and
we’ll kill a few like that. Be sure and
chain Nell up before you go.”
The boy was in a bad humor when he
came back. All the dirty jobs, he re-
flected, were handed out to him. He felt
tired, and the morning-tea cups on the
kitchen table enhanced his grudge against
life. No one ever thought of asking a
fellow if he had a stomach. The boss
could have his smoke-oh and then be
waiting, tucker-bag on arm, to go out
with him ringing. No rest in between
for him. Nothing but work, work, work.
He kicked Nell out of the way as he
went down to the hut for an axe. He
was hungry, and there’d be no tucker
until twelve o’clock.
“Blarst you!” he shouted as she
jumped up and pawed the front of his
shirt. “Get out of it, can’t you! ”
They worked together until dinner-
time, the boy’s resentment mounting. In
a fit of perversity Rod sent him to light
the fire and boil the billy while he went
on working. Ben lifted the tucker-bag
from the tree to get the matches, setting
out bread, beef and butter. When the
water began to boil he returned to the
bag for the tea. It was then that he saw
Nell, with the last of the bread in her
paws, wolfing it down with a hunger
that exceeded his own. The meat had
already gone.
All the accumulated anger of the morn-
ing found vent in a gust of rage. He
caught up a stick and ran at the animal.
“You brute,” he shouted. “I’ll kill
you for that. You wait till I get you!”
He got in two swift blows before Nell
managed to run off, her yelps shattering
the midday silence, followed by Ben’s
threatening shouts.
“Here, here! What’s the matter?”
Rod stood, a mediator between boy
and dog. Ben faced him, white and
wrathful.
“She’s eaten our dinner. If I get hold
of her I’ll thrash the life out of her.’
“You’ll do no such thing.” Rod s
cold voice cut across his turbulence.
“Catch your horse and slip over home
for some meat and bread. Now look
sharp and don’t stand gaping.”
“If you was as hungry as me,” the
boy flamed, “you wouldn’t want to be
told to hurry.”
“And leave that dog here, Rod
ordered curtly. “I don't want her
knocked about.”
But when Ben had disappeared over
the rise, she was after him in swift
bounds, taking no notice of Rod’s call-
ing.
At the rails Ben tried to drive her
back. “Go on,” he shouted ; “get back
or he’ll think I coaxed you to come.”
From the verandah Mrs. Kennedy
saw him. “What are you doing to the
dog?” she called out. “Let her alone
and come on in. Do you want some-
thing?”
“She ate our tucker,” Ben said sul-
lenly. “The boss sent me home for
more.”
u How did she come to eat the food?”
“I left the bag on the ground.”
“A silly thing to do.” She turned to
go inside. “Chain Nell up while I get
some more ready.”
Ben went down to the yard and called
the dog. She sat out at the rails, alert,
defensive, knowing what the chain meant.
After a while Ben gave it up and went
back to the house.
“She won’t come,” he said sullenly,
“and I’m too tired to chase her.”
“You’ve been knocking her about, I
suppose,” Mrs. Kennedy accused, her
eyes falling to his hands.
“She wants a bullet,” he retorted, his
resentment finding vent in unmeant
words. “The useless brute.”
At the rails he picked up a stone and
threw it at her. Nell’s howls of pain sent
a dull hurt through the boy’s heart. Far
across the hill he could still hear her
whimpers as she slunk off into the
bushes.
THAT night there was no sign of Nell.
After tea Ben tramped the road be-
tween the crossings, whistling his sum-
mons and calling softly so that those at
the house should not hear, but there was
no yellow-and-white mongrel to come
bounding in answer, no warm tongue
licking at his hand. For a long time he
stood at the rails, misery eating into his
heart. Nell’s howls still seemed to echo
from the scrub with a ghostly quality.
He didn’t know why he’d thrown that
stone —didn’t know why he should have
taken a stick to her. Just something.
Lights streamed out from the house
across the intervening paddock to make
pale reflections on the trees. Ben walked
down to the creek, kicking at the stones
in the road. Where the trees made
branching shadows he sat and threw
pebbles into the shallow water in an
effort to assuage his wretchedness. Far
away he heard the call of a dingo—a
remote, distant cry. He retraced his steps
to the hut, pausing every now and again
to listen. There’d be frost before morn-
ing—everything was so quiet and still.
He made up the fire at the dairy in case
Nell should come h'ome, then undressed |
and got into bed, hoping against I
hope that she would be there by the
morning.
But when he dropped the rails there
was no cock-eared mass of ugliness wait-
ing for him, no eager bundle of energy
scampering up the slopes to herd the
milkers. All day long Ben watched for
her, but Nell had disappeared with the
same mystery and suddenness as she had
arrived.
The boss waited until evening before
tackling the boy.
“That dog,” he questioned after Ben
had finished tea and was stacking up
his dishes. “What did you do to her
yesterday?”
“I didn’t do anything. She wouldn’t
let me chain her up.”
“She followed you back across the
hill?”
“She started to.”
“What did you do to her then?” Rod’s
eyes were hard points of light.
“I didn’t do anything, sir.”
“You lie!” Rod’s anger was quiet and
terrible. “You killed that dog. You’re
nothing but a killer,”
“I” Ben licked hot lips, fumbling
with his dishes. “No, sir.”
“Pack your things and get out of here.
Get away in the morning. I’ll have no
killer about my place.”
“But I didn’t,” Ben protested. “Really,
sir.”
You don’t need to tell me. You were
in a bad mood all day yesterday. My
wife saw you get off the horse after you
started back. You can go.”
Ben took the lantern and went off to
his hut. He sat on the side of his bunk,
face cupped in hands. He didn’t mind
the boss telling him to go so much if
only he hadn’t hit Nell! He thought of
her the way she’d followed him across
the hill, suing for pardon, and then he’d
beaten her! All those months they’d had
together—out on the hills, sitting in front
of the fire at night while he fondled her
ears, his only companion. And all the
time he’d never hit her once.
The night was still, voiceless ; the cold
so intense that every little sound crackled.
Twice Ben got up to renew the fire in
case the dog should come home. The
stars twinkled with a brilliance that only
winter can give. A full moon had passed
the zenith, but the night was bright with
light. The world seemed remote, wrapped
in a frosty mantle. Across the creek a
moss-faced rock stood out boldly from
the surrounding cliffs, and it was then
that Ben saw the sentinel figure outlined
against the sky. He felt his blood
thicken. A dingo!
For a moment he stood irresolute, then
he slunk into the shadows of the inter-
vening trees. Light filtered through the
arching heads and underfoot the frost
crackled. Ben paused and gave his prac-
tised call —long-drawn, hungry. The
animal raised its head and answered,
the lonely howl echoing through the
night.
Rod sprang out of bed and came run-
ning down with his rifle. The animal
made a perfect target standing motion-
less on the rock. Again it howled, and
Rod took careful aim. The report shat-
tered the silence for miles around, the
echoes reverberating, sending frightened
creatures scurrying for cover.
Ben was first across the creek to where
the body had dropped among the
bracken. When Rod came up with him
the boy was kneeling among the ferns,
the moon’s light showing a dog's limp
head held tightly in his arms.
“My dog!” he sobbed, “my little dog!
You’ve killed her.”
Rod looked down to where Ben’s long
hands stroked the dead dog’s head. Sud-
denly, to him, there was a beauty about
them he’d never noticed before.


< y
CD-
CHECK THE POINTS YOU
WANT IN A CAR 80DY...
/
Ash Trays
/
Adjustable Front Seat
/
Armchair-Seating, front and rear
"I
I
Assist Cords
/
/
"Armourplate”
Safety Class Windscreen
/
Concealed Spare Tyre
Arm Rests
4^o
✓
All-Enclosed Coupes
✓
/
Cowl Ventilator
Clove Box Dash Compartment
Dash Insulation
against engine heat
<P ?
Door Draught-Sealing
/
m
/
Door Pockets*
large and plentiful
Dual Electric
Windshield Wipers
/
Dome Light
:
v
Dust-Sealing
Precautions
✓
/
✓
/
Floors level and unobstructed
Foot Rests
Genuine Leather Upholstery
Heavier Gauge Body Steel
inbuilt Locked
Luggage Trunk
/
/
/
More and Stronger Braces
No-Draught Ventilation
Provision for Radio
/
/
/
/
Rattle-Proof Doors
Sag-Proof Doors
Seif-Oiling Door Locks
Tenite Hardware
T
Two-way Sun Visors
V
/
Vibration Damping
and Sound Absorption
V-Windshield
Wide Front and Rear Seats
You get them in a
adu bu
BEAUTIFUL • SAFE • STRONG


Our Service Department
This page is set apart foi the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
nust be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Advertisement
debarred from relief work any right of appeal
to a higher authority? (3) Where can one
obtain copy of regulations governing emer-
gency relief work, and cost ? (4) A relief
worker owes time to the local council, which
held such time over to suit its own conveni-
ence, but paid relief money due for such
time. Being now debarred from relief work,
and struggling to make a living, the relief
worker has requested that such time he left
in abeyance until he is in a position to
work it off. Can the council legally enforce
the immediate working of such time or take
other action ? —1599.
(1) In N. S. Wales the police have discretion-
ary powers granted by the Minister in the
issue of work dockets under the scheme. (2)
Any person who has been refused work dockets
has a right to appeal to the Minister for
Labor and Industry, who is in control of the
scheme, but any complaint as to the conduct
of a police issuing officer is a matter for
the Chief Secretary. (3) Copies of regulations
governing the emergency-relief work scheme
have been supplied for use at all police issuing
offices throughout the State. No copies are
available for other distribution or for sale.
(4) On special occasions approval has been
given by the department to arrangements being
made by councils to defer the employment of
relief workers until a more convenient time,
but this does not affect the payment of wages
to men who are required to make up time in
respect of advance wages paid.
Brief resume of the early postal history of
N.S.W. ?— IB2B.
For 23 years after the first settlement there
were no regular post offices. Government and
official letters were carried by constables, who
were sometimes allowed to carry settlers’
letters. In 1803 the Sydney “Gazette” author-
ised a charge of 2d. for the carriage of private
letters by river between Sydney and Parra-
matta. In 1809 an office was opened in
George-street, near Circular Quay, under the
direction of Isaac Nichols, for the de-
posit of mails from overseas addressed to the
inhabitants of the colony. This eventually
became the first post office in the colony. Pre-
payment by postage stamps became obligatory
from May 1, 1852, 28 months after their intro-
duction, and in. 1885 carriage of mails by rail-
way was initiated.
* * * *
(1) Difference between brass and bronze ?
(2) When was bronze first used? —1848.
(1) Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc;
bronze an alloy of copper with some other
metal, usually tin. Brass may vary consider-
ably ; for the best quality, the amount of
copper should exceed 60 per cent., at which
point the tensile strength has a sharp maximum.
The rest of the alloy should consist of zinc,
but as a rule it will contain tin, iron and other
impurities. Bronze usually contains 88-92 p.c.
copper, the rest being tin, with occasional
traces of lead and zinc. (2) In prehistoric times
to which the name “Bronze Age” was given.
The earliest extant bronze implement is esti-
mated as 3500 years old. From 2000 b.c. it
came into wide use in the Mediterranean
countries, and, starting with plain blades,
arrow heads and pots, developed into produc-
tion showing a high degree of skill.
*i : 'l' * : i :
What rights does a worker’s permit give in
N.S.W. ? Who can apply, and where ? Any
fees ? —1691.
You don’t state the nature of the permit.
Permits granted by the Industrial Registrar,
Department of Labor and Industry (under Sec-
tion 27 of the Industrial Arbitration Act, 1912),
enable the holder to work for an employer at
a wage lower than that prescribed by an
award. Such permits are necessary only where
the employee is working in an industry regu-
lated by an award made under the N.S.W.
Industrial Arbitration Act. There is no charge.
* ♦ * *
Names and addresses of woolbuyers where
I could obtain a position in order to qualify
as a buyer? —l7o3.
Watch daily papers for vacancies towards be-
ginning of woolselling season. In N.S.W. none
exist at present. In every case, applicant must
be prepared to work for years in a junior capa-
city at a low wage. Another way is to
familiarise yourself with types and market con-
ditions by working in repacking stores until
confident to start on your own account, but
this entails years of work and a certain
amount of capital. A list of woolbuyers will
be found at the back of any metropolitan
telephone book if you wish to make a per-
sonal application.
*. ♦ %
What apprenticeship would have to be
served by a boy wishing to become a mechani-
cal optician in N.S.W. ? Wages paid to appren-
tices and adult operatives ? Qualifications ?
—1799.
Apprenticeship lasts five years. Service on
probation for three months is permissible be-
fore apprenticeship, but after that period in-
dentures are compulsory. Apprentices receive
15s. 6d. per week in their first year, advancing
to £3 Is. 3d. in the fifth year. The wages
for mechanical opticians range from £4 14s.
to £5 9s. per week, the latter wage being paid
for work of great precision. The work is not
physically strenuous. It demands a high degree
of skill and dexterity, arid in its finer branches
there is considerable mental strain in achieving
the required degree of accuracy. Patience and
the ability to concentrate are the chief re-
quirements.
* * * *
Is there a book dealing with the life of
Ottmar Merganthaler ? —1837.
There does not appear to be any bio-
graphical or other publication dealing with
Ottmar Merganthaler, the inventor of the
linotype, but the details of his life are briefly
as follows: He was born at Wiirtemberg (Ger-
many) on May 10, 1854, and at the age of 18
arrived in the United States. He entered the
employ of the U.S. Government at Washing-
ton, and in the course of his duties effected
many improvements in electrical apparatus
under his control. In 1876 he resigned and
concentrated on the development of a type-
setting machine, finally evolving the linotype.
In 1885 he took out patents fpr a slug-casting
machine. He died at Baltimore (U.S.A.),
October 28, 1899.
What is the density of population in England,
Java, Italy, Germany, the Japanese Islands,
Formosa and the Japanese Empire ?— 1720.
According to the latest figures available,
England and Wales 668 persons per square
mile, Java 817, Italy 344, Germany (including
the Saar Basin) 363, the Japanese Islands 437,
Formosa 331 and the Japanese Empire 347.
(1) What was the annual rainfall for Yenda,
Whitton, Narrandera and Billinbar for the five
years previous to and the 10 years succeeding
the bringing into operation of the Murrum-
bidgee irrigation scheme ? (2) Is there any in-
formation regarding the influence of the scheme
on climatic conditions in the vicinity ? —l4lß.
(1) Yenda records unavailable prior to 1915.
Average rainfall 1908-12, Whitton 15.06 in.,
Narrandera 15.64 in., Billinbar 16in.; average
1913-22, Whitton 14.62 in., Narrandera 17.22 in.,
Billinbar 15.29 in. (2) In two papers published
in the “Proceedings of the Royal Society of
Victoria,” viz., “Possibilities of Modifying
Climate by Human Agency, with Special Appli-
cation to South-Eastern Australia,” in Vol.
XXXIII (New Series), issued May 9, 1921, and
“Local Rain-producing Influences under Human
Control in South Australia,” in Vol. XXXIV
(New Series), Part 11, issued May 31, 1922,
E. T. Quayle discussed the improvement in
rainfall to the lee side of the areas, when con-
sidering prevailing rain-bearing winds, follow-
ing on the development of irrigation or culti-
vation. In one example he demonstrated the
improved rainfall in the older Mallee districts
of Victoria subsequent to the extension of
cultivation north-westwards into the New
Mallee. (In particular there seemed to be an
increase of 3 p.c. in the spring rainfall of
north-west Victoria as a result of the replace-
ment of xerophilous forest and scrub by grow-
ing crops.) A study of rainfall conditions
around the Murrumbidgee irrigation areas
since 1913-14 confirms the results of Quayle’s
work in that the improvement is shown to the
lee side of the prevailing rain-bearing winds,
the increased rainfall being most marked to
the east and south of the irrigation areas.
It seems that this method of assisting rainfall
is only likely when the more widespread dy-
namical operations have already brought the
air close to saturation. Normally, the addi-
tional moisture put into the air from an ex-
tensive sheet of water would amount to only
about one-twentieth of the moisture required
to saturate the air. In other words, if the
moisture from a 20-square-mile evaporating area
could, by prevailing wind motion or other
means, be concentrated over one square mile,
then rain may fall over that smaller area.
How to clean furs ? —1564.
The usual method is to heat a dish of new
bran in the oven until it is very hot, and to
rub it well into the furs, which are then rolled
up in a cloth for a few hours. Well-shaken
and brushed they become very clean. All good
furs will stand washing in hot water contain-
ing a little ammonia or soap-flakes. Brush the
furs clean, lay them on a folded cloth, and
sponge with the hot water. Sponge off again
with clean hot water, and wipe dry with a
clean towel, wiping in the direction of the
fur’s natural “pile.” Dry in an airy place and
brush with a silk cloth.
* * * *
Particulars regarding loss of the Elian Vannin
in the Mersey ? —1550.
The Elian Vannin, an Isle of Man steamer,
was lost near the bar of the Mersey on the
night of December 3, 1909. At the inquiry
it was decided that the most probable explana-
tion was that she had been swamped by the
extraordinarily heavy seas; there was no evi-
dence to substantiate the popular theory that
she had come into collision with another
vessel. The Court found that the steamer had
been in entirely seaworthy condition when she
left Ramsey. The crew of 21 and 15 passen-
gers were all lost.
❖ $ ❖ ❖
What is Filaria, and how is it contracted ?
—1723.
Filaria is the class name of a group of embryo
worms, some of which are present in various
tropical diseases. Of the latter, that known as
filariasis (Filaria Bancroft!) results in obstruc-
tion of the lymphatic vessels, the chief symp-
toms intestinal chyluria and elephantiasis.
These conditions may be associated with re-
current fever, pain and swelling of limbs, etc.,
according to nature of the infection. The mos-
quito is the intermediate host; protection from
these pests is essential in infected areas. There
is no specific remedy—moderation of symptoms
has resulted from injections of arsenical pre-
parations and of antimony tartrate. A blood
test is necessary for exact diagnosis.
* * * *
What is Parkinson’s disease? Symptoms ?
Any cure ? —1612.
Parkinson’s disease (Paralysis agitans ) is a
chronic organic affection of the nervous system.
It occurs mostly in the second half of life, and
more often in men than in women. The onset
is not always apparent. When well established
the face assumes a lack of expression, with ele-
vated eyebrows and general immobility, known
as Parkinson’s mask. There is a tremor of the
hands, and thumb and forefinger make a move-
ment as in rolling a pill. The head may be
affected with a vertical shake. Though relief
sometimes follows early treatment, complete re-
covery is rare —the development suggests senile
changes affecting nerves and muscular control.
What varieties of roses would you recom-
mend to one who wishes to supply Sydney
florists ? —1684.
Little attempt has been made to grow any
roses in quantity beyond Radiance (pink) and
Red Radiance. Malar Ross (red), Gaiety
(copper), Mrs. Herbert Stevens (white), Golden
Ophelia, Rev. F. Page Roberts and Golden
Dawn (all yellow), President Marcia and Editor
MacFarland (pink) should all find an easy
market.
How to raise waratahs from seed ? —1796.
Gather the pods when they have dried and
are ready to burst. The large seeds will be
found attached to a paper-like substance lying
along the sides of the pods. Make a compost
of sand, leaf-mould and soil taken from bush
land after a fire or burn bushes and get it
by that method. Sprinkle seed with an inch of
light sieved soil and cover with glass or
place in a elass frame. The seed is very
slow germinating.
Brief Answers.
A.H.T.: Write P. Neville Barnett, hon. sec.,
Australian Ex Libris Society, Box 2076 L,
G.P.0., Sydney R.R.R.: Write Director of
Labor, Department of Labor, Edward and Mar-
garet streets, Sydney F.A.: Write Craffia,
11 Her Majesty’s Arcade, Sydney, and state re-
quirements. Good white woods are English
pear, beech and cherry; but Tasmanian Huon
pine and selected Australian pines should suit
you very well H.R.1.: The wheels are
obtainable from H. P. Gregory and Cos., Ltd.,
74 Clarence-street, Sydney R.M.1.: Grant’s
Party Games (Is. 6d.), Ings’s Popular Indoor
Games (Is. 3d.), Cole’s Novelty Evenings (25.)
and Bullivant’s The Drawing Room Entertainer
(35.)... .0.W.W.: The work is of no commer-
cial value R.E.8.: A copy was sold in
London in 1928 for £2 10s., but at the present
time there is no demand for the book, which,
therefore, is not valuable from a collector’s
point of view... .D.C.: Intermediate Agricul-
ture, by Breakwell W.J.8.: (1) W. G.
Watson and Cos., Ltd., 279 Clarence-street,
Sydney. (2) Buzacott and Cos., Ltd., 7 Market-
street, Sydney, and Dangar, Gedye and Cos.,
Ltd., 10 Young-street, Sydney A.D.: (1)
The Technical College course in woolclassing
at Sydney or nearest country centre is recom-
mended. This must be backed by practical ex-
perience as a shed-hand in as many different
districts as possible. Collect references for all
such work. Then approach woolbrokers,
shearing contractors or graziers who know
you for a shed to class. (2) Only classers in
very large sheds employ an assistant, usually a
boy to carry fleeces to bins. Assistants are paid
at shed-hand award rates according to age
N.H.: The trouble may be vaginitis. The cow
should be syringed with 0.2 p.c. zinc sulphate
solution (loz. to 25 pints) at frequent inter-
vals. Three months after calving the cow
should be put to the bull G.E.E.: Interest
from Commonwealth bonds is subject to
Federal income tax, although exempt from
State »and special income taxes. A wife’s
income from employment is not added to her
husband’s income for taxation purposes
H.G.: (1) 35. (2) Yes. (3) Red. (4) N 0....
M.C.: Macquarie-street, Sydney, is 80ft. wide.
....F.E.J.: Write United Metal Industries,
Ltd., Brisbane... .8.C.: A. Lander, 209 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .W. 8.: Write Boat Sup-
plies, 7 Barrack-street, Sydney M.A.S.:
Can’t make any recommendation... .C.J.S.:
Subject to N.S.W. special income tax.
. ...W.C.R.: Nominally 20 years, but this
period may be reduced to approximately
16 years by remissions, on account of good
conduct, strict observance of prison regu-
lations, etc K.D.S.: Society of Artists,
Kyle House, Macquarie-place; Royal Art
Society of N.S.W., Bryant’s Buildings, 545
George-street—both Sydney... .A.D.L.: Burra-
wong is a N.S.W. abo. word for the Zamia
palm... .T.M.: Edward Atkinson Hornel was
born at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) in 1864. He
was one of the original group of painters who
formed the Glasgow School. He died in 1921.
. ...F.W.W.: The Adelaide Literary Theatre—
the first Australian repertory theatre —was
established in 1908 by Bryceson Treharne. The
name was changed to Adelaide Repertory
Theatre in 1913 T.D.H.; Population figures
as at 1933 census: Broome 754, Wyndham
390, Derby 165, Darwin 1566, Tennant Creek
31 and Alice Springs 467....8.G.: The one-act
opera “Cavalleria Rusticana” was composed by
Pietro Mascagni... .H.T.: Hartwick Thorpe
wrote “Curfew Must Not Ring To-night”....
G.N.: The percentage of sugar in prickly-pear
is very low, ranging on an average from 0.5
to 0.6 per cent. Carbohydrates also exist in
small amounts. Thus, on an average, fibre is
present to the extent of 1 per cent, and pen-
tosans are present anywhere from 1 to 1.5 per
cent W.E.: (1) It is known that iron ore
does exist in the New Britain district, New
Guinea, but there is no information as to the
quantity and value. There has been no dis-
covery of the ore in Papua. (2) Mining in New
Guinea and Papua is conducted by private
individuals and companies. Application for
employment might be made to New Guinea
Goldfields, Limited, 67 York-street, and Bulolo
Gold Dredging, Limited, Wingello House, Angel
place—both Sydney X.Y.Z.: (1) Neither
State nor Commonwealth Government offers
a reward for a preventive of blowfly strike.
(2) Communicate with the secretary, Sheep
Blowfly Committee, Box 36a, G.P.0., Sydney.
. ...J.0.C.: “Journal of the Australian Veteri-
nary Medical Association” (12s. 6d. p.a.). Uni-
versity of Sydney, Newtown R.J.8.: Correct
designation is “Kennel, Aviary, Cats and Aqua-
rium” ; the address is 160 Castlereagh-street. It
is published weekly (price 3d.) E.S.N.:
Mavourneen, allanah, macushla, machree,
aroon, deelish and agra are all Irish terms
of endearment, varying slightly in degree, but
all approximating to “my dear” or “darling.”
. ...C.8.N.: In 1918 Forrest was raised to the
peerage; in a sense, therefore, he may be
called the only Australian peer. He
died without issue... .W.W.: N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department will forward a leaflet on
“Candied Peel” free upon request... .A.Q.;
Write N.S.W. Government Printer, Sydney, for
booklet “Careers for Boys and Girls” (3d.)
8.G.: There is a customs tariff operating in
New Guinea, the rate varying for different
types of goods. A copy can be obtained from
the Secretary, Prime Minister’s Department,
Canberra. There are no means whereby duty
can be paid in Australia... .H.L.8.: The
Bulletin was first issued on Saturday, January
31, 1880. The founders were J. F. Archibald
and John Haynes... .G.N.: Australian imports
during the year to June 30, 1935, were choco-
late £1290 stg., other confectionery £20,613 stg.
... .G.A.M.: Cannot publish names; write
the secretary, Brisbane General Hospital. Your
doctor will give note for admission. Nominal
charge made according to means D.H.R.:
You omit particulars of foot papilloma. If
a simple callus or wart, apply a piece of sali-
cyclic plaster for three days; then bathe and
remove the hard skin. Repeat if necessary.
To prevent recurrence, massage with castor oil
at night. Caustics, nitrate of silver, etc., are
best avoided... .W.G.: There are no “spade”
half-sovereigns. The coin is a “spade” half-
guinea of the second coinage of George 111.
Its collector value would, if in Mint con-
dition, be 14s. At the present price of gold its
metallic value is very much greater. The best
way to sell it would be to offer it to a gold-
buyer at the market price of gold A.S.:
The Commonwealth Institute of Accountants
will grant exemption from its preliminary ex-
amination to associates of the Chartered Insti-
tute of Secretaries, but there are no exemptions
from its intermediate or final examination.
....(Many others mailed.)


/
r fnojc tt pdi{S„ P ssdjß mjnOdJ d uo
«
Ad CIO \\dCn IddJ SfiVCtip // ( tlOJ^
w
s
:w
'X
'
g
i
3
&
<//ih
i
w
5
%
V-W
7^
w
PI
*<
.. ■> >
IN BOTTLES* HALF BOTTLES AND BABY
BOTTLES


FOR CAULFIELD.
Toolambool Hurdle: Sixteen
Annas ; next, Akanree.
Richmond Handicap: In the Air ;
next, Frill Prince.
Wanda Steeplechase: El Dama-
royal; next, Character.
. Rosny Plate: Studio ; next, Dark
Sky.
Cambria Welter : Britebeard;
next', Radiant Star.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Welter: Pavarti; next,
Poponaise.
Canterbury Handicap: Turbulent
or Greenback ; next, Irving.
Ashbury Handicap: Alan Verde
or Greenback ; next, El Senorita.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The fact that Fullarton was up was
sufficient to make Bayntun favorite for
(he Windarra Hurdle at Moonee Valley ;
this jockey commands the best mounts
in Melbourne jumping events. Perhaps
he accepted the engagement for the
Blankney 11. gelding with the object df
testing his G.N. Hurdle claims. Fullar-
ton took the measure of Akanree last
winter, and recently had two rides on
Full Charge for a fall and a win. He
could not have been pleased with Bayn-
tun, for that National aspirant was beaten
when he got in too close to the second-
last obstacle and crashed.
Akanree, who won by half a head
from Cape Race, improved vastly on his
display at Flemington. He appeared to
go much better for Tom Dynon than for
Douglas. Douglas weighed out for Tel-
ford’s representative, Menelik, at the
Valley, and obtained an unobstructed view
of the race throughout. P. K. Padfield
is adept at “nicking” jumpers for big
events,_and no doubt Akanree is advanc-
ing in condition according to prearranged
schedule. This scribe still believes that
Akanree will be piloted by Fullarton in
the National. After scoring on Full
Charge at headquarters Alick was very
anxious to ascertain how Padfield’s neddy
had acquitted himself.
African, a Sydneysider that has been
domiciled in Melbourne for some
months, essayed to win all the way, and
might have done so if he had not almost
sold out through a bad blunder at the
back of the course. Both Akanree and
Cape Race were desperately ridden to
overtake African, who battled on gamely
and was only a length behind Cape Race
when they reached the judge. The outing
ought to benefit African, but whether he
can see out three miles in the National
is doubtful. Cape Race was not entered
for the Flemington race. He belongs to
W. R. Kemball, who probably thought
it unwise to run a three-year-old over
such a long journey. Yet The Yeoman
scored at that age in 1887 for S. G. Cook.
Fullarton was fated to lead back to
scale the two jumpers he rode at the
Valley. Bayntun came a harmless
cropper ; Woodlace had to be pulled up
in the Travancore Steeple because of the
saddle-girths slipping back to his flanks.
As Woodlace receded from 5 to 1 to
twelves, his failure to finish did not
matter so much. Jack Holt cannot be
enamored of this fellow striking the form
that enabled him to land the National
Steeple two years ago.
El Damaroyal, trained and owned by
Brian Stockdale, who served his appren-
ticeship as a jockey with W. S. Hicken-
botham, of Carbine fame, landed the
Travancore Steeple rather nicely. He
started favorite, and was ridden in brainy
fashion by young Maher, who may prove
as great a success over obstacles as was
C. J. Boyd in years gone by. Maher does
not use such short leathers as some of
his contemporaries, and the firmness of
his seat helped El Damaroyal to recover
from severe contact with the last fence.
Otherwise El Damaroyal jumped per-
fectly, and he is a National possibility
with his 9st. However, Flemington
fences are so much more solid than those
at the Valley that there is no certainty
of any ’chaser now in training completing
the course.
The Valley track was so heavy
that it took Imin. 17Jsec. for
juveniles to cover six furlongs
in the Burnewang Handicap. Yet
El Damaroyal shaved l|sec. off the
course record for two miles ,3£ furlongs
in the Travancore Steeple. Which says
a lot for the speed of this gelding, whose
sire, El Dorado, originally raced in the
colors of E. J. Watt. When Watt went
overseas his galloping string came under
the hammer, and El Dorado passed into
the possession of T, M. Burke. El
Dorado was heavily backed for the A.J.C.
Metrop. of 1924, but missed a place,
Dan Lewis winning with Polycletan. By
All Black—Auraria’s Daughter, El
Dorado has not had many opportunities
at the stud, but he ought to be a suc-
cessful sire, being closely related to
Desert Gold.
Santa Casa and Wanconner, second
and third in the Travancore Steeple, do
not possess much hope of turning the
tables on El Damaroyal in the National.
Others to discredit their prospects were
Character, Richmond Tiger, Underwood,
Wakerife, Montargis and Manlius. The
last-named fell. Ras Kassa refused to
leave the post, a rather common happen-
ing with this son of Eastern Monarch.
Somerset proved himself a sprinter of.
no mean ability by taking the Chandos
Handicap at his first appearance after a
spell. This Devonshire gelding began
his turf career in the neighborhood of
Mildura, and has rapidly worked his
way to a measure of metropolitan fame.
Jack Horner followed up his Fleming-
ton victory by annexing the Deep Creek
Handicap, in which he put in a bulldog
finish to vanquish the pacemaker, Galli-
brook.
Outsiders to win at the Valley were
Plymouth (20 to 1) in the juvenile race
and Peace Patrol (25 to 1) in the Green-
vale Welter. Plymouth belongs to
Elwood Fisher, who gave 130gns. for
him as a yearling. At the same sale
Brian, a brother to Maid of Orleans,
brought 1200gns. Brian was backed for
a pot of money on Saturday, but was
beaten into third place after leading.
Peace Patrol is a brother to the Queens-
land performer Poy Patrol.
* $ * *
Bendigo and Geelong are each to have
a clear Saturday for racing next season,
the favor having been granted by the
V.R.C. after long agitation. Whether
metropolitan sportsmen will journey so
far afield for their sport is problemati-
cal. Geelong is not so very far from
Melbourne, but it means a long trek to
Quartzopolis. There is talk of Gilbert
Dyett stepping in and staging a trotting
programme at Ascot on the vacant dates.
In the era of “Honest John” Tait the
Bendigo Cup was a coveted trophy. After
capturing the Melbourne Cup of 1871
The Pearl went to Bendigo and suffered
defeat.
❖ s*c He
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt, who
has the outstanding two-year-old in Gold
Rod, saw his wife’s colors carried to
victory in the Dundas Handicap at Rose-
hill after the most exciting finish for
many a year. Osculum (7 to 1) got the
verdict by half a head over Golden
Chance, with Bombus a similar distance
away. The crowd could scarcely have
complained if the man in the box had
made it a triple dead-heat. Whitting-
ham was a close fourth and Pavarti an
equally close fifth ; in fact, the five fin-
ished in a bunch.
Osculum looks like developing into a
useful miler, but he was not nominated
for the Epsom. Golden Chance finished
strongly on the outside, and may have
been unlucky not to win. Turbine had a
good position all the way, but failed to
run on. The weight doubtless bothered
him.
“Don’t back Braeburn; he’s sore.”
So said the shrewd heads, and they were
right. McCarten kept Braeburn moving
at the barrier before the Rosehill Handi-
cap, but his mount was last most of
the way. He made a. dash at the turn,
but was in trouble when several horses
veered away from the rails at the Leger.
Volwood (8 to 1) won comfortably from
the favorite, Irving, and Collstar, with
Stonebrook fourth.' Stonebrook looks so
well that a race should soon come his
way.
Disalto is an in-and-out customer, but
when in the mood can gallop. At tens
for the Three-year-old Handicap, he
streaked away five furlongs from home, •
and won with his head on his chest. Pan-
rose was second, and the favorite Shackle-
ton —a big son of Heroic raced by
Thompson and Basche —was half a head
behind him. Speardale was always in
the picture, and this Menangle-trained
neddy should score at one of the provin-
cial meetings. Dungala, owned by New-
castle businessman Harry Lucerne, went
well while his condition lasted.
Three divisions of the Juvenile proved
soft snaps for Bull Ant (4 to 1), Omarere
(5 to 2) and Cool Joy (7 to 1). Bull Ant
is owned by a Parramatta sportsman, S.
Cash, and cost 120 guineas. Omarere is
raced by a Wellington (M.L.) business-
man, R. J. Murphy, who has Cuddle
and should have won a Melbourne Cup
with Concentrate; the colt is by Ilium’s
sire Iliad, and is a stable-mate of Gold
Rod. Cool Joy, a son of Grand Joy,
was an early tip for the Breeders’ Plate.
He is fractious at the barrier.
Pastoralist “C. Abbott Lee” is in luck’s
way. He has scored lately with Idle
Words, Digland and Gothlin—with the
last-named in the Parramatta Mile, for
which he was favorite at fives. Gothlin
is now trained by D. M. McDonald, of
Casino. He cleared out in the straight,
and had no difficulty in accounting for
Verberry and Golden Gate, who made
a fine effort under her big weight. Lan-
caster King, Kagal and Maestro all
shaped well enough to keep them in the
limelight, Kagal in particular.
-I* 'i* -I-
“Coper”; I’m surprised to find “S.G.”
(B. 27/5/’36) advocating the dangerous
introduction of racehorses from India
without long quarantine. The “old re-
striction” on these importations is main-
tained for much the same reason as the
even older restriction on the unfettered
importation of dogs—a precaution which
has made Australia the only rabies-free
country on earth. The assertion that the
restriction does not prevent horses which
have been in India being imported from
England is a half-truth. Such horses have
to put in a full six months in England
before pointing this way, and must bring
with them iron-clad certificates of im-
munity from disease from the British
Board of Health. As it is, only two
horses have come to Australia under
these conditions in a generation. The
reference to the Indian camels knocked
back in Westralia because they showed
signs of surra also calls for comment.
This easily identifiable disease, like glan-
ders, the other horse plague of India, is
incurable and mortally dangerous to all
stock, and, in the case of glanders, to
humanity. The further statement that
the importer of the camels stated that the
ban was mere scaremongering and that
State politicians were of the same opinion
is too funny. As well expect an opium-
smuggler to acquiesce in the seizure of
his goods, while the advancing of a poli-
tician’s opinion as worth taking on any-
thing is the limit.
* * * *
The Ascot (Sydney) doubles tote paid
another good one on Wednesday—
£l4o 13s. for ss. And the two legs were
at short prices in the ring: Cloudy 9 to
4 and Affluence 7 to 1 ; oddly enough,
only one ticket was bought. If other
clubs won’t go in for, tote doubles the
Government should insist on their doing
it as a condition of their retaining their
licenses. Punters, who are taxed up to
the eyes in Sydney, deserve at least this
measure of consideration.
* , * * *
Fidelity suffered a pelvis fracture while
running in a paddock last week. Des-
perately bad luck for A.J.C. chairman
Colin Stephen, for it will be a miracle if
the filly races again. The indications are
that she was a star among an inferior
lot; still, she was decidedly the second-
best, and would have earned a lot more
money for a good sportsman if she had
kept right. She is by Constant Son-
Wolverine, and will doubtless be valuable
stud property.
H? :Jj sji
“Umgeni”: The Jockey Club of South
Africa has refused to recommend the
appointment of stipendiary stewards, a
course strongly urged by the Durban T.C.
This club imported N. D’Arcy, a Bris-
bane stipendiary, for 12 months, and
results have been so striking that even
the Durban bookies are satisfied. But
the Jockey Club is adamant.
Footbrawl
Collingwood had a close call against
Melbourne. For three-quarters the Red-
legs held the lead, playing sound foot-
ball. Only phenomenally straight kicking
(eight goals without a behind) kept the
’Woodsmen within striking distance;
and they began the last quarter 16 points
in arrears. Then came the traditional
Collingwood rush. Outplaying their
opponents in every department they piled
on 6 goals 5 behinds to 3 points and won
by 14-5 to 9-13.
At Carlton also the home team was
hard pressed in the early part of the
game. At one stage St, Kilda led by five
goals ; but the Saints faded away: Carl-
ton 19-14 to 11-9. The game was notable
for roughness, bad sportsmanship and in-
different umpiring. South (13-15) con-
tinued its victorious march by beating
Fitzroy (7-11), and Geelong (7-6) suf-
fered its fourth consecutive defeat—this
time at the hands and feet of Hawthorn
(12-19). North scored it's first win for
the season, beating Footscray by 12-19
to 13-7 after a last-minute recovery ; and
Richmond, after leading easily for most
of the game, was just able to stave off
defeat by Essendon: 10-18 to 10-11.
* * * :1c
Without exerting themselves, except in
“spotting"’ Hey and Gilbert, the English
Rugby Leaguers downed Queensland
more easily than the 19-4 scores indicate.
The Bananalads’ only scores were two
goals booted by Gilbert in the first half,
in which a try by Brogden, who played
another spanking game, and Hodgson’s
powerful goaling put on 11 points for
England. For the rest of the match Eng-
land took things comfortably, holding
Queensland out without trouble and
adding a couple of tries, by Edwards and
Smith, to their total.
Smith, with a strained leg muscle,
joined the list of the visitors’ casualties,
which, on report, seem to include most
of the star members. What on earth’s
happening to all these tough men?
McKinnon, a Test certainty, did in a
knee in a simple tackle in one of the
Sydney games, and may not appear again
for months. Thicknesse could not
play in those games because he
had a shoulder damaged a bit earlier.
Hurley, the wing find of the year, was
carried off in Sydney on Saturday with
a hurt knee and took no further part in
the match, in which his club, Newtown,
competition leader so far, was beaten.
Mork, scrum-half substitute for Thick-
nesse in the Sydney games, had some
bones in a hand broken. The trip to the
N.S.W. country cost England Harris: a
cracked collarbone probably outing him
for the tour. There are others ; yet none
of the clashes so far has been excep-
tionally rough.
% % % ijc
The risk a player in any game takes
by transferring from N.S.W. to Queens-
land is further illustrated by the case of
Hey. One of the best five-eighths the
League has known. Hey has had the job
this year of trying to hold a moderate
Queensland team together, and his Test
chances seem to be judged on that. Had
he been playing in Sydney he would have
been first pick after Brown. He is tough,
has weight, strength, cleverness and
speed—everything that’s needed against
the English play. The Englishmen are
probably praying hard that he’ll be kept
out If only because he’ll take a ton of
damaging he should go in, and on the
same grounds Gilbert would not be a
bad pick, either.
Randwick and West, down to meet
next Saturday, still share the lead in
Sydney’s Rugby Union competition.
West, cutting even in the forwards, and
with the backs running hard and straight,
accounted for University 23-9, five tries
to three. Fullback Storey was often able
to run his men in, and he scored one of
West’s tries. Towers, the N.S.W. captain
for years, came back to play centre for
Randwick. He was short of a run, but
should still be able to make the State
team. ’Wick had an easy win over East,
scoring five tries to none: 23-6. Drum-
moyne and Manly were closer: 20-16, six
tries to four. The Gordon baby surprised
with an 11-8 win (its second) over North,
from whose loins it sprang. The new-
comers put on three tries to two ; all
the scorers" had been North men pre-
viously. St. George, too, had its second
win:. 14-3 over Parramatta. Another
solid forward game.
(Continued on next page.)


MODEL 67
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action,
Barrel, Elevating-Rear Sight. Price .. .
27in.
45/-
MODEL 68
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action,
Barrel, Adjustable Peep Sight. Price
Carriage Paid.
27in.
55/-
SSaSt
MODEL 69
.22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in.
Round Tapered Barrel; Two Magazines,
one for Short, other for Long and Long-rifle, with
Sporting Rear Sight. Price .. . . '• •
With Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 90/-
Carriage Paid.
Equip Yourself for Night Shooting
WINCHESTER
RIFLES
WHICH HAVE SPECIAL PROOF STEEL
BARRELS FOR THE USE OF SUPER-
SPEED CARTRIDGES.
Model 69, fitted with Lyman No. 422
Expert Telescopic Sight. Price . . £B/10/-
Carriage Paid.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OF
WINCHESTER
COMPLETE RANGE OF ARMS.
COWLES & DUMP
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone; M 3388.
MODEL 62
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-
repeating Rifle, 23in. Round Barrel, for Short, Long
and Long-rifle. Price .... £5/5/-. Carriage paid.
MODEL 63
The “Speed King” .22-cal. Auto-
matic, 23in. Round Barrel: r° !
Long-rifle Super-speed Cartridges only.
Price ...... £9/10/- Carriage paid.
tVINCHCSTER
No. 69121. Five-cell' Standard Focussing
Searchlight. Full Chrome Finish, Range, 1 50Utt.
Complete with Batteries. Price .
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A son and namesake of Hughie
Mehegan, who fought his last fight in
France 20 years since, has been boxing
“prelims.” about Sydney for 12 months
or so ; and the thick-eared fraternity has
a high opinion of him. Many a mug in
the three-bob and two-bob seats has been
tempted by and fallen for hoarse offers to
lay “six bob to two on Mehegan,” pres-
ently raised to “Ten bob to two on, and
you can ’aye as much more as you like. ’
The youngster had his first considerable
contest at Leichhardt on Wednesday, and
stopped the experienced Kid Rooney in
seven rounds. Already he seems cleverer
than his father was ; whether he can give
and take it as his dad could remains to
be proved. Another lad, Hobbs, who
figured on the same programme, may be
the stiffest obstacle in Mehegan’s path
to the lightweight championship. Hobbs
has been knocking out his opponents in
short order, having a stiff punch which
he places very accurately.
* * *
If, as reported, the Sydney Stadium
syndicate guaranteed R9senbloom £3OOO
for a series of contests and paid him
£lOOO for the first, it is very unlikely to
get the guarantee and expenses back.
There was only £720 in the house when
Rosenbloom whipped Simpson, also
from America, in three rounds; and
Simpson was not fighting for love of the
game and the stadium. He had hurt
an ankle a couple of days before, and
it was a shame that he should have been
shoved into the ring, but there is precious
little sport about commercialised boxing
nowadays. Rosenbloom is a good man,
and would probably have beaten Palmer
had that wise youth decided to remain
in the game. But he is fortu-
nate in that he came to Aus-
tralia in an age which has no
Jacksons, Slavins, Goddards or
Jim Halls.
t- * *
At Cardiff the other night
George Cook was
stopped in seven
rounds by a South
African heavy-
weight named
Foord, whose re-
cord is far from
brilliant. When his
wounds were raw
Cook announced
his retirement, but
he now says he
will go on. He
has been boxing
since 1917, and in
the 19 years has
been whipped by almost every heavy-
weight of class, and by some without
any. Accounts of his scrap with Foord
mentioned that because of rain the “gate”
was the worst in recent history—Foord
got £34 and Cook £3l. But George
fought for less than that on his last visit
to his native country.
“Egan”: One of the favorite British
sports at fairs is the throwing of wooden
balls a't a head, the attached body of
which is protected by a screen. A direct
hit wins two coconuts and a k.o. half
a dozen. There would seem to be good
money in this pursuit for George Cook.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The latest attempt to
solve the wholesale pirating of foot-
ballers is the suggested division of Vic-
toria into 12 districts, each to be fathered
by a Melbourne League club, which will
have sole right to recruit from it. There
are already some hundreds of objections,
not the least of which is that the club
which gets leading football districts like
Ballarat and Bendigo will have the laugh
on the one that draws some back-o’-
beyond area. Country districts are in-
clined to favor the idea. When the foot-
ball season approaches the great open
spaces are overrun with club touts dis-
guised as politicians, commercial travel-
lers and tractor agents. Promising
players are tracked down at dawn and
torn from the milking stools or from
the handles of the plough to sign on the
dotted line, to the great detriment of
Strawberry, Dobbin and Cockychaff.
* jj.
"Umpire’s Mate”: The matter of
transfer is one which causes a lot of bad
feeling in Melbourne clubs. A club may
approach a promising young player in
another district, and by finding him a
good position persuade him to go to live
in its district. Then the trouble starts.
Second club may refuse to grant trans-
fer, and whether it ultimately yields or
not the effect of creating bad blood re-
sults. Geelong and Richmond have had
some arguments this year over a young
player, and feeling ran so high that when
the latter team visited Geelong for a
match its officials refused the home
team’s customary invitation to join them
in refreshments at half-time. This
shows the result of the virtual buying
and selling of players.
* ❖ * *
“Hotham”: The V.F.L. tribunal which
considers cases of stoush on the playing-
field got a headache over one reported
in a minor match. A Diamond Creek
player was struck by one on the Whittle-
sea side whom the umpire reported as
No. 3. No. 3 proved that his positiofi
in the game was at the other end of
the field, where he could not possibly
“ 'E's been selected to play agin the English Rugby team, so 'e's 'avin'
a bit o' tacklin' practice."
have hit the Creeker. Then it turned
out that No. 13 was a twin brother of
No. 3. By this time umpires, com-
mittee and witnesses had got in such
a tangle that the flustered tribunal, after
starting to reprimand the wrong twin,
threw the \vhole case out.
Sj! . * ' * *
The English Rugby Leaguers downed
N.S.W. Western Districts 33-16 at Parkes.
The methods of some of the forwards
moved the crowd on occasion to hooting
and other demonstrations. This is re-
markable, since country League patrons
are well used to the rough stuff in the
inter-group and inter-town games.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”; The faithful are re-
minded that the All-England champion-
ships begin at Wimbledon on Monday,
when Crawford and co. will make their
appearance after their American success.
The meeting will necessitate the post-
ponement of the Davis Cup European
zone final to July 13 and the inter-zone
final to decide on England’s challenger
to July 18. On this year’s form Craw-
ford and Quist should retain their
doubles title, and Quist at least looks a
good bet for the singles, even supposing
Perry is at his top.
* * * *
“Stade”: The quarter-finals of the
Davis Cup tourney provided a horrible
shock for France, the Yugoslavians de-
feating the French by three matches to
two. It was no fluke either, for all the
games were hotly contested. By beating
Boussus and Destremeau, Pallada put up
a great performance —one that estab-
lishes him as a front-ranker on hard-
courts, anyway. Another surprise, if a
milder one, was the appearance of Ire-
land in the semi-finals.
“Centre Court”; Yugoslavia, which
upset France’s applecart, only came into
the series in 1927. It won to the second
round in 1930, only to be buzzed out by
Spain. Puncec and Pallada, who won
the French match with their three singles
victories, rank first and second in their
country, Puncec being champion in 1934-
35. He easily defeated Pallada.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Deeside”: Jim Perrier’s victory in the
“Golf Illustrated” Gold Vase tourney at
Ashbridge showed the Australian at his
best. His 68 and 71 for the two rounds
of stroke broke the record of 143, held
by Bobby Jones and Hartley. The field
was a strong one, and the win, added to
his performances in Scotland, has
brought the Australian into high favor
for the British Open at Hoylake. Par
for the 6550 Ashbridge course is 72.
This famous course, overlooking the Eng-
lish Dee, is the H.Q. of the Royal Liver-
pool club.
“Carnoustie”: Photographs of Perrier
holding the Silver Tassie show that the
once-familiar Scottish drinking cup has,
in this case, grown to the dimensions of
a punchbowl. Also it is modelled on the
lines of a quaigh—that is, with straight
handles, projecting from two sides of the
circumference. In the old days all Scot-
tish drinking vessels were made like this
to prevent them slipping through the
drinker’s hand and spilling their precious
freight on the floor, the two handles pre-
venting this. Anyone who has drunk out
of a handleless bowl will understand what
I mean —the joyance of the drink is over-
come by the haunting fear that the slip-
pery vessel may slide through one s
fingers.
“Hoylake”: Terrier will meet a power-
ful international field in the British open,
which begins on June 24. The American
entry includes Horton and Macdonald
Smith, Armour and Sarazen. Mac Smith
and Armour are Yankeefied Scots, and
Horton was the biggest cash winner in
the U.S.A. last season. Armour won the
title in 1931, but, though Mac Smith has
been twice second, three times third and
twice fourth, he has yet to win a national
title. He is 46, and will have to shake
it up.
* * * *
“Lakeside”; The American open golf
championship was won by Tony Manero,
who put up a record on the Baltusrol
course —282 for 72 holes. His last round
of 67—5 under par —brought him from
well down the straight into winning place.
Manero hails from North Carolina, and,
though he has been a consistent per-
former, this is his first big win. Sarazen
and Hagen finished well back with 296
and 297.
Miscellaneous
Cricketers learned with regret of the
sudden death in Adelaide, at 49, of Dr.
Dolling, the Australian and S.A. selector.
Like Clem Hill, Dolling first came into
prominence as a schoolboy batsman, and
his 311 for Prince Alfred College against
St. Peter’s in the
annual match was
a record for years.
Before the war he
was one of the
mainstays of South
Australia’s batting
side, scoring well
in Sheffield matches
and against visiting
teams. He gained
selection in the
Australian team
that was to have
gone to South
Africa in 1914, but
when that trip was
postponed switched
off to another more
serious job in
Europe, like so
many others of his
profession.
❖ *
“Ibn el Issar”.
Before the Indian
cricketers left home
there was marked
antagonism between the Hindu and Mos-
lem components of the team, as was the
case on the previous tour of England.
The non-success of the side has roused
dissatisfaction among the Moslem players
and their friends in India, who are blam-
ing the Hindu captain, the Maharajah
of Vizianagram, and asking for his
supersession by a Moslem, Nayudu or
Wazir Ali. The Indian Board of Control
has cabled ordering the team to pull up
its collective socks. Failing that, it
threatens to cancel the tour. The Maha-
rajah is known to many Australian and
English players as a fine cricketer and a
good fellow. He is an Indian of the
south, and as such may lack the power of
command essential to a stiff job like his.
* * * *
“Two Break”: Lindmm has earned
the gratitude of the teeming millions of
mug billiard-players by advocating en-
larged pockets for ordinary amateurs—
4in. instead of 3|in., as at present. Per-
sonally I am in favor of 6in. pockets,
with grooves in the slate bed leading into
them from a foot or so out. I suppose,
though, the brilliant idea will go the way
of my attempt some years ago to have
the hole at golf enlarged from 4|in. to
12in. in diameter.


*
f 4
■ k- .
\
a
'*o
%
;.& 1
.* APPOI*TMffcr
%
re)
%
■a
$
;■ S
ASEXCLOS
•Stea^&S*y
.
- “v *■% * 1
a
••
• vi&r •
■
fc. * 9, . < "
Ik'
m >
THIS is my Winter
Medicine Chest ”


ill
Enjoy Yourself —Drive a V-8 . . .
OTORING for pleasure or business is
more enjoyable when you drive a
Ford V-8. There is an exclusive quality
about the performance of this beautiful car
which makes it delightful to handle and
which satisfies your sense of mechanical
efficiency. That is because it has the finest
type of 8-cylinder engine—the V-8, And
Ford V-8 gives you also maximum comfort
and convenience, consistent with safety and
dependability. Safety glass is fitted all
round—in all windows as well as wind-
screen. The handsome closed bodies are
of genuine all-steel construction. Super
safety brakes of the long-tested, sure-
acting mechanical design pi'ovlde positive
stopping-power under all conditions. Ford
Centre-poise riding ensures maximum com-
fort with safety, for all passengers.
Upholstery is deep and restful and interiors
are splendidly appointed. Ford V-8 is out-
standing motor car value—it offers fine cat-
motoring at surprisingly low cost. Ask
your nearest Ford dealer to demonstrate —
he will gladly place a car at your disposal.
Easy purchase terms may be arranged.
FOR 1936
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F57.24.V
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
The Americans are learning what the
Australians learned long ago, that under
a written Federal Constitution there are
things, however necessary, which can’t
be done by any constituted authority,
multitudinous as constituted authorities
are. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled
that the New York State legislature
can’t pass a valid Act regulating women’s
wages ; and it had already been ruled that
the Federal legislature can’t do it either,
wage regulation within a State being a
matter for the State. Now every Ameri-
can is asking whether Roosevelt, who is
certain to be nominated again by the
Democrats, will go to the country on
a programme of constitutional reform.
* * * *
“Idee” interviews J.H.T.:
“II Vecchio” (B. 20/5/’36) found Jimmy
Thomas at Westminster dressed in an old suit.
1 found him in the Dominion Secretary’s office,
Downing-street, looking the genteel Cabinet
Minister, with black coat, striped pants and
all. 1 probed him on contentious 'lmperial
subjects, got him talking affably and expan-
sively and felt I had struck a winner. Half
an hour later in Whitehall 1 turned things over
and found that he had given nothing away.
A first impression was that the aitch-dropping
reports were unfounded, for Jimmy talked with
a second-rate public-school accent. However,
he soon played his normal part. This on
the British farmers, for example: “The poor
s ’ave been bankrupt for years: we’re
going to give them a chance now.” Then,
on meat consumption, he declared that ’iking
had changed the ’abits of the people. They did
not stay home for the Sunday joint as of old.
It took me three weeks to get an appointment
with him, but when we parted he slapped me
on the back, saying: “Pop in and see me again
before you go ’ome.”
* * * *
“Ras Ogemawska”: The first that was
known of the Kebra Negast, the Abys-
sinian Bible, in Europe was when James
Bruce, the Scotch explorer, got a copv of
it from Ras Mikael, of Gondar. This
copy is still in the Bodleian Library.
Napier’s soldiery carried off the original
when Magdala was sacked ; also a golden
tiara and a massive gold cross. It was
the Negus John 11. who asked for the
restoration of the book to Abyssinia ;
it went back in 1872. The tiara was
handed back to Haile Silassie at Wind-
sor, by King George, in 1924, but the
gold cross was not restored to Abyssinia
until two years later. All these relics
were kept by Haile Silassie in St.
George's Cathedral, Addis Ababa, and
may have perished in the recent dust-up.
But it is more likely that the fugitive
Negus took them with him.
“Kwakprak”; Valuable work is being
done in London against epidemic
measles. Up to recently it was an un-
manageable disease. Epidemics killed
thousands with broncho-pneumonia, and
damaged thousands more with middle-ear
disease. As the germ has not been
located, serums or vaccines were not
possible in the ordinary way. Human
serum from volunteers —mostly nurses —
with a measles history in childhood or
later was tried as a preventive after ex-
posure to infection. Administered within
five days it prevents four out of five
attacks ; within nine days it modifies the
disease greatly. It is now being pro-
duced in quantity from paid donors —
the rate is ss. for about a half-pint bleed-
ing. Later work shows that placenta!
extracts contain substantial amounts
of anti-diphtheritic and anti-scarlatinal
toxins; presumably anti-measles also,
though it cannot be tried in the labora-
tory. They also are being used on a
large scale for prevention, and there is
a hopeful prospect that they may bring
measles under control at last.
* * * *
“Centurion”: One Dr. Osborn has
been telling England no more than the
truth when he says that dum-dum and
other expanding bullets are little, if any-
thing, more horrible in effect than the
ordinary variety. He quotes many in-
stances of the big entrance and exit
wounds made by the ordinary small-bore
nickel projectile at close quarters. He
might have added that the lead-cored
nickel bullet has a tendency to strip its
overcoat when fired from a hot and foul
rifle, and that the resulting wound is
something to talk about. Also the long
bullet has a tendency to turn over after
striking its target, and here again effects
are unpleasant. Further, the old soft-
lead bullet, still permissible in war, is
worse than any dum-dum at close quar-
ters. It mushrooms with the impact on
the target and makes a ghastly exit
wound.
* * * *
“Sakit Prut ’; Judging from a talk with
a friend who has done the England-Aus-
tralia air-express voyage, a chief draw-
back is the change of currency at halt-
ing places. Francs, lire, piastres, rupees,
Straits dollars, guilders and Australian
exchange succeed each other with such
dazzling rapidity that the passenger feels
like a calculating machine. Scotch
travellers are too preoccupied to notice
the scenery, and run a constant risk of
apoplexy. Can’t some of our advertis-
ing economists who are always prattling
about unpegging the dollar or loading the
lira or pursuing the flying franc or un-
freezing the jimmy o’goblin invent some
simple form of international money unit
for use on air-travel routes only? The
Bank of International Settlements should
be able to guarantee its value.
* * « *
“Yagona”: The Fijis shook to their
foundations when Rata Savenaca, cap-
tain of the Fijian golf club, of which all the
officials are natives of chiefly rank, holed
out in one —the first time in the golfing
history of his island. A hundred years
ago the event would have been celebrated
by the slaying and cooking of a hundred
slaves or so, but nowadays the only sacri-
fice was the customary libation at the
nineteenth.
* # * &
“Aigburth”: More tinkering with the
laws of cricket. The English Advisory
Cricket Board is to ask the Marylebone
club to approve of the issue of a new
ball every three hours or every 200 runs,
whichever happens first. At present the
new ball may be asked for every 200
runs —or sooner if, in the opinion of the
umpires, the condition of that in use
justifies an earlier change. Wyatt is re-
sponsible for the new notion. Supporters
argue that it would induce batsmen to
score as quickly as possible once the
allegedly dangerous “shine” is off the
ball, to which the obvious answer is
“Rats!”
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) wu
be taken of communications insufficient \
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted: and no M .
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
T.E.McC.; “If this isn’t good enough for
you, neither is your paper good enough toi
me.” All right, we capitulate: come in:
Did you ever hear a tomcat caterwaling
Did you ever hear a Banshee when she’s calling
Or a cow who’s lost her calf
Or t!ie braying of an ass
Or a lovesick nig'ger when he’s crooning
For that’s the sort of thing
That now they play and sing
For Music.
N.E.L.: Afraid “Come, Inspiration, come,
thou whimsey soul!” must have scared her oil.
. ...C.5.8.: Nothing alluring in the “Harbor
Antics”... .Keb: Lilting stuff, but it says little.
J.B.: Too “dight with pastoral verse” for
this address... .W.W.8.: One of the ‘Ws
turned into a “P”....J.M.; Slight...-A.F.H.:
Fairly close; should pass in another market.
A.M.McL.: You nearly managed to get a
real feeling expressed, but your craft wasn t
equal to it... J.G.H.: Your “Adieu” goes
back to you... .C.M.: Verse moves too stiff in
the joints... .1.M.G.: Reads as if you didn t
mean a word of it... .Biffin: Too good an idea
to waste, but would need doing in prose....
C.A.H.: Bill’s triumph over demon Booze
has set W.C.T.U. rejoicing... .J.McL.: Plot
slightly ragged, but dialogue is g00d... .F.K.:
Harrowing necklace tale doesn’t ring true....
Sent your yarn along for Dr. Voron-
off to operate 0n... .R.G.M.: A par. strung
out to short-story length... .C.W.; Not badly
done, but doesn’t quite make it....J.P.: Fair
descriptive effort... .M.W. (Fiji); You’ve
got the atmosphere and an easy style, but
the plot isn’t up to publication standard.
Have another shot with something stronger.
R.C.A.: Kernel of yarn lies in
alleged bulkiness of £6O0 —a sum which can
be carried in inside vest pocket without in-
convenience.... B. I. Dorset: No apologies
needed, but the story is depressing and unreal.
Avoid the maudlin... .S.R.; A bit too Nat
Gouldish; stick to humor... .E.M.: You can
use words, but your style’s all out; paragraphs
every three or four lines are barred, and the
plot is penny-dreadfulish... .H.R.: Germ of
an idea in it, but yarn doesn’t make the
grade Gyp: Not sufficient in the sketch....
K. Shows promise, but not sufficiently
meaty... .K.T.: Can’t use just a description ol
a sandstorm... .N.S.D.M.: Nice style; ally it
to a slightly stronger plot and you’ll see print
—keep at it....Wiero: Malun doesn’t impress.
N.McL.: It might do as fodder for a chip
bath-heater Y.: Uncle buried with his
thoughts of the past J. 8.: Now use that
sense of humor on something a bit longer
and a bit better... .R.R.: A sketch of that
nature has to be packed with satire —yours
missed the point by having none. .. .J.Y.: That
sketch ends in the air C. 8.: Agree with the
graceful sentiments expressed; regret cannot
use... .N.M.C.: Prairies and Red Indian
braves are off our beat... .H.F.H.; Can’t use
analysis of bookseller’s list....F.K. (Manchu-
kuo): Tush! we’ve heard of those naughty
ladies before H.K.: A thousand words in
three paragraphs—you get this week’s bun
Nothung: Canary whistling dejectedly inside
w.p.b K.C.: Too melodramatic.... J.N.H.:
Still not up to publication standard—plot isn't
strong enough... .R.S.C.: It would make a fair
plot for one of those bellowdramas our grand-
fathers unaccountably failed to laugh at
L. : Carries heroics a bit too far....A.G.:
You can’t rhyme “past” with “shafts” —not here,
anyhow... .T.E.M.: “There’s Music Every-
where” received. But we failed to find any in
it.... W.H.S.: “Saltbush Joe” is heading back
for the open spaces J.A.W.: Hopeless
A.L.T.: It opened promisingly enough, and
then became as stodgy as if you were trying to
put a proposition of Euclid into rhyme
T.H.Y.: They missed, but not by much. There
should be the makings of a balladist in you.
. ...8.A.K.; True enough, we don’t doubt, but
it lacks punch.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPON DENTS.
W.C.R.: Apart from other reasons for rejec-
tion, the humor is stale... .A.J.G.: No use for
drawings the size of a visiting-card L.J.:
What part of Australia is frequented by those
hunchbacked abos.? N.G.: One of the
oldest lady-in-the-bath-and-plumber gags
F.R.: Your threat to cease drawing left us
cold 5.8.: All the signs of an untrained
hand R.C.C.: We liked the decorative back-
ground much more than the show-girls in the
foreground... .D.D.: No responsive thrill at
252 George-street... .W. 8.: Man who told
you caricature resembled subject must be cock-
eyed E.K.W.: It is a poor month that
doesn’t bring us three or four versions of that
ancient gag J.T.: Would have liked mission-
ary who ate cannibal had be been better drawn.
T.F.S.: Saw the same jest in a recent
“Punch” A.8.L.: More polish required:
also crisper gags S.T.G.: Topicality counts
in political cartoon; yours is months behind the
times F. 8.: Always spray charcoal drawings
with a fixative to prevent them smudging...-
P.H.: At least you are within sight of publica-
tion level; keep on M.M.V.: A pair of
lopsided freaks exchanging humorless abuse.
... .G.H.; The size of the copper’s feet is the
only correct item S.R.R.: Cannot hold out
any hope... .L.K.; Gags must be crisp and
original and drawings much better C.L.:
The sportive undertaker is homeward-bound.
... .N.H.: The flappers need repairing, and the
wheeze is cobwebbed... .A.Q.: Hopeless.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking- out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report fee “Bulletin,” 1 3/6/’34.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIAt 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; 0. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. 0. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J, Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
fr’ '
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
m
l HOTEL
SYDNEY
BUSINESS,ROVVERY, ETC.
Hodsons Investments, Ltd.
Hodsons Investments, Ltd., has been
endeavoring to sell Pacific Forests, Ltd.,
shares to original shareholders at 50,?.,
guaranteeing 80v. within ninety days. Do
you recommend buying at this price and
what is Hodsons guarantee worth ?
The inquiry comes from Cairns, and
others of the sort have been received.
The apparent prospect of being able to
make 30s. a share within three months
has obviously been agitating the minds
of people who already hold some shares
in Pacific Forests.
The Bulletin is not aware that Hod-
sons Investments guarantees any price for
the shares within any period. Hodsons
may. This paper, however, has yet to
receive documentary proof of if. There-
fore,, the advice to this inquirer is that he
should consult his solicitor and ascertain
whether he is to obtain a binding under-
taking to repurchase by Hodsons, or by
a London “pool.” The onus is on the
buyer to see that he gets this in writing.
Mere salesmen’s assurances are
often of little avail in the case
of a dispute.
As to what a guarantee by
Hodsons would be worth, con-
crete information on this point
has not resulted from several
inquiries made by The Bulle-
tin. On May 15 an interview
with a Mr. Perriman, said to be
the co.’s legal adviser, brought
forth no precise information,
though Mr. Perriman said he
thought that Hodsons could not
buy the whole capital (about
300,000 shares issued) of Pacific
at £4 a share out of its own
funds. He did not think Hod-
sons’ balance sheet was avail-
able. It was a London “trust,”
“in the process of being
formed,” that was really buying
the shares,
A shareholder who took 200
shares from Hodsons at 50s.
received the following letter
from Spora and Price, solicitors, Sydney,
under signature of J. D. Spora:
We are acting for a London syndicate
which has entered into certain arrange-
ments with Hodsons Investments, Ltd.,
Sydney, with regard to the acquisition of
shares in Pacific Forests, Ltd.
We are informed that you have agreed
with Hodsons Investments, Ltd., to sell
200 shares in the co. at £4 per share, the
transaction to be completed within a period
of 90 days.
Please forward us your acceptance of
the above terms so that we may communi-
cate with our principals and make arrange-
ments for completion and settlement.
In this letter there is no guarantee of
repurchase on behalf of anyone. The
shareholder, at date of going to press,
was seeking a guarantee.
Mr. Price called on The Bulletin by
an appointment arranged through Mr.
Perriman. Asked who his London prin-
cipals were, Mr. Price said he was un-
able to disclose their names. He thought
they were wealthy, however.
Hodsons Investments circularised share-
holders in Pacific Forests on April 14
and April 17. The first letter finished
up with a paragraph:
DO NOT CONSIDER ANY OFFER
FOR YOUR SHARES until you again
hear from us, as we are specialising in
shares in your company.
The second—“Private —Not for Publica-
tion” —told shareholders:
YOUR SHARES HAVE A PRESENT-
DAY ASSET VALUE IN EXCESS OF
£6 15s. PER SHARE, and we are there-
fore not surprised that suddenly there are
buyers of shares at greatly advanced prices.
We have a pool proposition from a
London group regarding the shares of
your co. to put before you for approval,
by which you, as an existing shareholder,
will greatly benefit, and we are convinced
that you will be pleased to get particulars
of same. As this proposal may affect your
holding we enclose herewith a form
together with a reply-paid envelope, which
please fill in and return to us so that we
may be enabled to forward the informa-
tion direct to you.
According to a letter received by The
Bulletin from Pacific Forests, Ltd., on
May 19, that co.
is not connected with Hodsons Invest-
ments, Ltd., other than that the directors
of this co. have granted a six months’
“Calling all cars —calling all cars —couple of
suspicious looking characters at this station."
option to Hodsons Investments, Ltd., fo
purchase 149,000 shares in the capital of
Pacific Forests at 20s. each.
If existing Pacific Forests shareholders
require any further information on the
proposal to buy additional shares from
Hodsons at 50s. each, they are entitled
to insist upon getting it from Hodsons
or whoever it is they are dealing with.
The finances of Pacific Forests, Ltd.,
how it had ceased campaign selling of
shares itself on April 1, and Hodsons’
option over the 149,000 shares were dis-
cussed in The Bulletin of May 27.
The Gullett Flirtation
Next wool clip will be a bumper one
—it is expected that there will be
3,036,000 bales, against 2,930,000 bales
last season. The ball is to open with
a sale on August 31, and it is intended
to offer up to 1,400,000 bales before
Christmas.
Bradford woolmen delighted our Mr.
B. S. B. Stevens by promising him that
Australian wool would not suffer as re-
gards prices through the transfer of favors
at Japan’s expense. The delighted gentle-
man is very easily reassured. Unless
Bradford is prepared to increase its buy-
ing by two-thirds, and maintain the
strongly-competitive prices which vigor-
ous Japanese buying has generated, Brit-
ish buyers cannot guarantee the market.
And, as this gesture would cost them a
cool £11,000,000 next year, Yorkshire is
scarcely likely even to attempt to do it.
At the Adelaide sales, at which 24,000
bales were offered, including a lot of new
wool (which there was not at the pre-
viously boycotted Melbourne and Gee-
long sales), there was a fine indication of
what the absence of Japanese buyers will
mean next season. Even best merino
fleeces were 5 p.c. down, average wools
10 p.c. down, stapled lines 15 p.c. and
bellies and pieces 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. lower.
Only 19,986 out of 23,929 bales were
sold.
The result is enough to make Aus-
tralian graziers stand aghast, especially
when it is combined with the knowledge
that European (Antwerp) tops prices,
which are one of the best indications of
futures at this time of year, are on an
average from |d. to Id. per pound easier
for the week.
An average price fall of 5 p.c. for the
season 1936-37, assuming that the same
quantities were sold as last season, would
cost Australia about £3,000,000. But if
there is the same margin of carry-over
at September sales and onward, and the
same sort of competition as there was at
Adelaide, 5 p.c. will be .a mere bagatelle
beside what is likely to happen.
Judging by the slowness of the present
£9,000,000 Commonwealth loan to move
off (at £3 17s. 6d. p.c.), the Australian
investment market has had enough
of this type of security at current in-
terest rates. And increasing interest prac-
tically amounts to a dog chasing its tail.
The Canberra tariff “policy,” coupled
with the repeated assurances that the
Government is satisfied with the London
credit position, gives rise to the impres-
sion that some politicians favor the re-
sumption of London borrowing, especi-
ally as Mr. Bruce has obtained such
favorable terms for renewals. Weak-
kneed expediency is one of the greatest
dangers in this country to-day. Large-
scale overseas borrowing would be a
crime against existing industries and
against posterity.
* ❖ * *
A wave of buoyancy has swept through
the sharemarkets this last week or so,
affecting more particularly certain stocks.
Some indexes of trade at the moment
are very good, especially as regards
manufacturing ; it is towards such indus-
tries for investment purposes that this
page has drawn particular attention over
a lengthy period. The building trade at
the moment is also very active ; that is
nearly always a sign of spreading spend-
ing power.
Other aspects of our affairs, however,
don’t inspire so much confidence. The
statistical position of wool is good, but
recent tariff restrictions, of little benefit to
Commonwealth manufacturers, may
upset our Japanese market, at present of
great importance to the price of the
staple. Again, it would be interesting to
know to what extent Continental war
preparation has been a factor in the
recent strong demand for our raw
materials. Actual war might have a less
depressing effect on the demand than a
sudden easing in the international situa-
tion. There is little doubt that the possi-
bility of large-scale military operations
had a big speculative effect on the price
of base metals six months ago. Except
in copper, there has been a general easing
since.
# * * *
In 1935 the Sugar Board bought
647,000 tons of raws from Australian
growers, 337,000 tons being utilised for
Commonwealth consumption and 310,000
(48 p.c.) tons exported. The home price
of £24 a ton and £7 18s. 9d. for exported
sugar meant an average price of £l6 17s.
to Queensland growers, exclusive of ex-
cess sugar. The latter is paid for at
world parity, less exes. ; it represents pro-
duction in excess of the peak year (1929)
quota. N. S. Wales (Tweed) sugar,
36,453 tons of which was produced last
term, averaged £lB 2s. lid. —this district
has a higher quota for Australian con-
sumption. The board paid £10,539,000
(Aust.) to millers and growers for last
year's production.
Last year’s good harvest, which was
particularly noticeable in the Burdekin,
Bundaberg (where Fairymead, Gibson
and Howes and Millaquin operate) and
Mackay districts, may be exceeded in
1936. Which means that, unless better
world prices are realised, there will be
lower average prices to the grower next
term, though his gross return should be
higher. At present the London (duty
unpaid) price is around £4 15s. (stg.) a
ton, equal to £5 19s. (Aust.). British
preferences increase the return to Aus-
tralian growers.
♦ . ■ , • * . . * *
In Melbourne last week:
Prestige Hosiery lifted its div. from 10 p.c.
to p.c. It is showing a snug financial
position following a year of obviously im-
proved trading.
Austraiian Knitting Mills 7s. 6d. shares
rose to 10s., the highest quote since the dis-
tribution of Yarra Falls shares. Co. is one
of the foremost makers of men’s woollen
underwear in the Commonwealth, and the scrip
has prospects.
Australian Glass supporters continued to
look for something better than the 1 p.c.
improvement in last term’s announced div.
The shares fell below 90s. for a few days,
but were strong again last Thursday at 945.
Beau Monde Hosiery ss. ords. — there are
256,080 out, together, with 50,000 prefs. of the
same . denomination—mounted to over 19s.
Divs. of 25 p.c. were paid on all shares in the
, term to June 30, 1935, and there will be no
trouble in repeating them this year. Present
market for the ords. is equal to 765. per £1 of
capital, showing 6.6 p.c. to the investor.
Wattle Gully shares sold to 255., the
highest price to date. Central Nell GWynne,
Morning Star (which has a promising outlook),
Gordon, New Chum Syncline and other
State shows were well supported. Lancefield
rose strongly, steadying around 13s. 9d.
Triton strengthened. Placer and Upper
Watut were a trifle firmer.
Victoria Palace announced a bonus issue
of one in four, to be provided out of share
premiums reserve. Shareholders will probably
be paid an all-round 8 p.c. after the issue; in
divs. they will be no more in pocket (for the
present at any rate) than when they were get-
ting 10 p.c. on the old capital.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Lady Consents”
With the slenderest of plot's to work
on the director, aided by splendid acting,
has turned out a first-rate film.
Dr. Michael Talbot (Herbert Marshall)
and his wife Ann (Ann Harding) are hap-
pily married, though they take each other
rather casually. Both are devoted to the
medico’s father (Edward Ellis). Michael
becomes enamored of Geraldine Man-
nerly (Marguerite Lindsay) and frankly
admits it to his wife ; she lets him go
and gets a divorce. Michael and
Geraldine marry, but she soon shows
up in her true colors, finally confessing
that she married him because he was the
best thing offering on a poor matri-
monial market.
Meanwhile Ann has been besieged by
Stanley Ashion (Walter Abel), a friend
Leslie Howard in “Petrified Forest,” to
he shown at Sydney State.
of her father-in-law. She refuses to
marry him. The old man expresses his
disappointment at her having given
Michael up without a fight, and she and
her ex-husband become friendly again.
Hearing that Michael is alone in his
shack in the Adirondacks, she has word
conveyed to Geraldine that she proposes
to join her divorced husband there.
Geraldine comes upon them as Ann
planned, but refuses a divorce —Michael’s
her meal-ticket and she proposes to Leep
him so. But the ex-wife’s announcement
that she will demand all arrears of ali-
mony which she hadn’t claimed, thus
ruining him financially, and that she pro-
poses to move-in, the house being
in her name still, sends the gold-digger
packing for Reno, leaving Ann and
Michael to remarry.
Only superlative acting could have got
away with the story, and Herbert Mar-
shall, Ann Harding and Marguerite Lind-
say in the triangular roles do excellent
work. But Edward Ellis steals the his-
trionic thunder from the headliners with
as fine a piece of characterisation as has
been seen On the screen for years. Walter
Abel is also sound. At Sydney Plaza.
“Wife Versus Secretary”
Jealousy is the motif in this film, and
it is played upon skilfully.
Van Sanford (Clark Gable), a success-
ful publisher, and Linda (Myrna Loy), his
wife, have a perfect understanding ; and,
though aware of the attractiveness of
Van’s secretary, Whitey Wilson (Jean
Harlow)), Linda nobly scorns the un-
worthy pangs. But incidents crop up
which make her ponder. Whitey is
engaged to Dave (James Stewart), but
breaks with him on his questioning what
appears her unsecretarial devotion to
her employer. Van goes to a convention
at Havana, vetoing his wife’s attendance
on business grounds. Conditions arise
necessitating his secretary’s presence.
Whitey flies down and, after working ai
full pressure, they celebrate a successful
deal, getting back to the hotel at 2 a.m.
The bedroom ’phone rings, and Whitey,
who is there gathering up her papers,
answers. It’s Linda.
Linda books solo for Yurrup. Van is
savage at this unjust treatment, and on
the rebound tells Whitey to pack and
come with him to Bermuda. Whitey goes
to Linda’s cabin just before sailing time,
tells her a few home truths, and advises
her to get back to her rightful lord at
the double while her luck is in. She
wisely accepts, and Whitey and Dave
make it up again.
Story is anaemic, and the film is inter-
esting only because of the technique of
the principal players. Jean Harlow is a
revelation : there is none of the ranting
which marked her previous appearances ;
she is the perfect secretary, quiet and
refined. She doesn’t even kiss Gable.
But her abstinence is more than made
up for by Myrna Loy. She and the
willing Mr. Gable indulge in a series
of osculatory marathons which are a
terrific strain on their respiratory organs
and the audience’s patience. When he
isn’t mushing around C.G. gives a sound
performance. May Robson, as Van’s
mother, and James Stewart capably fill
small roles.
The film will hold an enormous appeal
for flappers. Endless close-ups of Clark’s
proficiency in prolonged labial clinches
will have them enraptured. Mush aside,
it is likeable enough. At Sydney St.
James.
M.-G.-M. Shorts
A varied and attractive selection of
featurettes makes up the supporting pro-
gramme at Sydney St. James.
“La Fiesta,” in technicolor, is a musi-
cal extravaganza, with Mexico as its set-
ting and bunches of beautiful Hollywood
girls in gay and inconsequential non-
sense. Minor celebrities abound, with
Leo Carrillo as chief luminary.
Technicolor also brings out Japan in
all its beauty. This travel-talk is one of
the most charming of the Fitzpatrick
series.
“Bottles,” also in color, is a cleverly-
done cartoon, With a laboratory as set-
Charlie Grapewin in “Petrified Forest.”
ting. The highly-diverting antics of the
bottles are guaranteed to keep anyone,
infantile or senile, amused.
“Air Hoppers” is an instructive titbit
dealing with gliders, and Charlie Chase
fools around with a grand piano in a
neat little domestic skit.
“I Married a Doctor”
Main Street, Sinclair Lewis’s analy-
tical study of small-town life, transferred
to the screen. Fine acting and sound
directing have moulded a notable story
into a really good film.
Feminine Williamsburg is incensed
when Dr. Kennicott (Pat O’Brien), the
small Mid-West town’s most eligible
bachelor, acquires his bride, Carol
(Josephine Hutchinson), from “outside”
and aggravation follows the establish-
ment of her popularity among the men.
Jean Harlow in “Wife v. Secretary," at
Sydney St. James.
She meets Erik Valborg (Ross Alex-
ander), a young farmer with artistic ten-
dencies, and together they form a plan
to beautify the town. This is resented,
and vetoed by the business community.
As two who are fighting a lost cause,
Carol and Erik are thrown together a lot,
Erik eventually falling in love with the
doctor’s missus. He assumes that his love
is reciprocated, and there follows a frank
avowal to her husband ; but when she
tosses the chilly water of scorn on his
amorous presumptuousness he gets drunk
and in the resultant car smash is killed.
Unable to stand the taunts of the
townsfolk, particularly the women, Carol
runs away. She later returns to her
husband, chastened and realising at last
that Main-street pettinesses are inherent
in human nature and are inescapable,
wherever she may be. More tolerant
herself, she finds that the townspeople
look upon her with kindlier eyes.
Pat O’Brien as the doctor has one of
the best roles of his career. Josephine
Hutchinson gives a good study of out-
raged idealism, and Ross Alexander is
convincing until he starts ladling out
emotionalism too heavily. Guy Kibbee.
Louise Fazenda, Olin Howland and
Robert Barrat supply capable character
studies. At Sydney Capitol.
“O’Malley of the Mounted”
This film, adapted from a story by
Bill Hart, that bleak-faced, two-gun fury
of the silents, is a good vehicle for
George O’Brien.
O’Malley (George O’Brien), a trooper
in the Canadian R.N.W.M.P., has been
assigned to clean up a bandit gang oper-
ating on the American border. Using
an old dodge, he has himself gaoled with
Bud Hyland (James Bush), a youth
arrested on suspicion of having murdered
a Mountie. He arranges an escape, and
with Bud’s sister Edith (Irene Ware), a
reluctant participant who assisted at the
gaol-break, the two join the gang at their
hiding place. O’Malley allays the sus-
picion of Red Jaggers (Stanley Fields),
the leader, by single-handedly staging a
spectacular hold-up, and then gains
Red’s confidence by giving him an idea
for a bank robbery. Of course, when
it comes off the Mounties are waiting,
and that’s the end of the gang. Bud is
cleared of the killing charge, and his
sister nestles against the broad chest of
Sergeant O’Malley.
George O’Brien shoots straighter, rides
faster and punches harder than anyone
else on the set. Stanley Fields, the most
villainous-looking bad man on the
screen, carries the part to perfection.
Irene Ware has little to do, but she
looks nice, and James Bush, as a weak
brother, is satisfactory.
The film makes an hour of furious
red-blooded gun-and-horse action, with
some realistic two-fisted scrapping
thrown in for good measure. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Honors Easy”
One of the new crop of well-acted Eng-
lish films, faultlessly presented by a com-
pany of folk most of whom have hitherto
been better known on the stage than on
the screen. It is domestic drama of the
old definite-plot type, with a triangle and
a revenge-plot as mainsprings. Greta
Nissen in a part of the “Laughing Lady”
sort scores principal acting honors, but
an English heavy father with a strong
resemblance to John Galsworthy de-
serves a word of praise, and so do a
very human villain and a sporting publi-
can who radiates Cockney chirpiness. At
Sydney Mayfair.
“When Knights Were Bold”
This 30-year-old stage favorite has
been brought up to date with motor-
cars and radio, garnished with croonery,
and embellished with comic interludes
that have little to do with the story. Jack
Buchanan is Sir Guy de Vere. The
humor is of the slapstick-and-bladder
type, and Mr. Buchanan’s outbursts of
song or croon, though mercifully few,
don’t help matters. The technique
throughout is that of the stage, not of
the screen, and the conversion of a
comedy into a musical farce has
been clumsily effected. However, Mr.
Buchanan’s admirers should be satisfied:
he is always on the screen. At Sydney
Mayfair.
Some First Nights
Eileen Joyce’s final Sydney solo recital
(she has an engagement to play with the
A.B.C. orchestra to-night) was mainly
notable for her Bach-playing, her offer-
ings by this composer being a transcrip-
tion of the Organ Prelude in D, her well-
beloved Myra Hess version of the chorale
“Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desire,” and Rum-
mel’s arrangement of the chorale “Mor-
Walter Abel in “The Lady Consents," at
Sydney Plaza.
tify Us by Thy Grace” —the last the first
concert-platform recognition of the in-
dustrious Rummel’s talent as a translator
which has come this commentator’s way.
The E Flat Rhapsody of Brahms and the
same composer’s Capriccio were splen-
didly presented. Less satisfactory were
Chopin’s B Minor Sonata, the
“Romance” of Sibelius and Schumann’s
“Arabesque”—the first too matter-of-
fact, the second a little stiff and the
third a trifle dull.
•I* v
Eve Alwyn’s exposition of modern
expressionist dancing at the Sydney
Savoy attracted an enthusiastic audience.
The diversified programme, to which the
singing of Gladys Verona lent further
variety, featured the dancer’s effective
creation “Storm,” which vied in popu-
larity with the preceding number,
“Clouds,” in which some enchanting


Missing Friends.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of Victoria made in the action 1936 No. 199
in which ALEXANDER McINNES is Plain-
tiff and ANNETTE ELLEN BASTOW is De-
fendant the persons claiming to be the next-of-
kin of WILLIAM HENRY DALZELL (son of
William James Dalzell and Henrietta Louisa
Dalzell nee McCullagh) born at Brighton Vic-
toria in 1860 who died at East Melbourne on
the 14th day of September 1934 are by their
Solicitors on or before the Bth day of October
1936 to come in and prove their claims at the
office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts Melbourne
Victoria and in default thereof they will be
peremptoriily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order and the said estate will be dis-
tributed having regard only to the claims which
shall have been so proved. The 22nd day of
October 1936 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon is
appointed for adjudicating upon the said claims.
DATED this sth day of June, 1936.
M. M. PHILLIPS, Chief Clerk.
HENDERSON & BALL, of 430 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
RYAN, MICHAEL, son of Michael Ryan and
Margaret Russell, last heard of in New Zealand
30 years ago, will hear something to his advan-
tage if he communicates with the NATIONAL
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
of H 3 Queen Street, Melbourne.
>
(/)
Itl
o
Qf
s
cb
wi
w'!
»*
r
A RADIO with NO B or C Batteries
Revolutionary . . .
Ahead of Its Time!
The introduction of the ASTOR 77 marks a new epoch in
Batteryless Receivers. Definitely here is the most advanced
Country Radio yet produced. Trouble-free reception .. . saving
in expense and anxiety ... all operating costs cut to an absolute
minimum. Tone equal to All-Electric Receiver.
ASTOR 77
Operating on an Ordinary 6-volt Accumulator
Only!
Total current drawn from the Accumulator only 1.1 amps. An
entirely new system builds up current to high voltage (200 volts)
to provide a B power supply equal to that of an All-Electric
Receiver. The constant replacement of B Batteries, costing
about 50/- each time, is therefore avoided.
ALL-ELECTRIC TONE, VOLUME, SELECTIVITY
AND DISTANCE.
Delayed Automatic Volume Control . , . Magnificent Cabinet
of latest design with Inclined Tuning Panel.
I
i
w.
MODEL. 77, D.-W. (Overseas Reception),
35 Guineas. With O-volt accumulator.
MODEL, 77 (Australian Reception),
30 Guineas. With 6-volt accumulator.
Easy Terms Arranged.
TWO NEW ASTOR 1936 ALL-ELECTRIC MODELS:
Mickey Grand, £l4/19/6. Model 190, 7-valve Dual-wave, 33 Guineas.
Sole New South Wales Distributors:
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
712-22 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
SMITH, SONS & REES LTD.
30-42 WENTWORTH AVENUE,
SYDNEY.
effects were obtained. Another striking
study in the first half of the programme
was the “Dead Tree,” which expresses
in an original manner a mood of the
bush. Excellent lighting helped, particu-
larly in “Night by Day” and the intrigu-
ing “Red Renaissance.” “Jeunesse” dis-
played an amazing fluidity of movement,
more especially of the hands and arms,
while the spirited “Motif Arabe” might
have portrayed a wood nymph who had
inadvertently strayed into an Oriental
harem. Justin Harve capably addressed
himself to the piano, and singer Charles
Nicis contributed a vocal accompaniment
to Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Song of India.”
Miss Alwyn returns shortly to Europe,
and the performance was by way of
farewell.
►T, .J. ,1.
Some of the most consistently lovely
music ever heard in the Melbourne Town
Hall was presented for nothing by the
City Council one night last week. The
audience was enormous, and the people
who throng the hall on State and fashion-
able occasions were conspicuous by their
absence. Organist McKie had an ally in
his fight to raise the standard of pro-
grammes in the shape of John Amadio.
Close on 20 items were equally divided
between the organ and Amadio’s battery
of flutes, and there was not one that was
not of exquisite quality. Amadio seems
to be able to do anything he likes with
the flute, whether it be an elaborate
sonata by Handel or Bach or a simple,
leisurely andante by Mozart, and he can
perform technical miracles on the mili-
tary flute. McKie made the organ dance
like a violin and sing like a harp, and it
was difficult to believe that the instru-
ment he operated so daintily was the
same that he has made thunder through
oratorio, Amadio was the draw, but the
publicity that the organist got for his
professional excellence ought to attract
larger crowds to the free afternoon re-
citals he gives twice a week and the
Friday midday treats which the citizens
are invited to attend while they are
digesting their lunch. The success of
the present concert ought to encourage
the city fathers to bring other soloists
along to supplement McKie.
•J* *l-
- some 30 years’ sentry-go, “The
Chocolate Soldier” (which derives from
“Arms and the Man”) put on the gaiety
of youth in the hands of the Hordernian
Musical. Society on Saturday, and its en-
thusiastic reception was as much a
tribute to the direction of Arnold Mote
and Gordon Ramsay as to the evergreen
popularity of Shaw’s cynicism and Oscar
Straus’s musical talent. The Hordernians
are well served vocally, and a company
of 50 revelled in the Shavian fantasy.
Eiley Martin dimpled becomingly and
warbled sweetly as coquettish Nadina,
with amusing fussing relatives —Nance
Marley as Aurelia and Edna Cansdell
as Mascha. Stan Buddie as the chin-
chucking Popoff. Alexius Sleath Lowrey
and Bumerli Os Wenban were funmakers-
in-chief.
-I* *l* *l*
“A Cold June,” presented by the
Gregan McMahon Players at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday, was Pinero’s last
play. He wrote it as a sophisticated
comedy in an attempt to meet the
younger generation of playwrights on
their own ground.
June is the daughter of a dead beauty,
noted for her affairs. Two of this
lady’s former lovers independently re-
ceive convincing evidence that each is
the father of June. They adopt her on
a share basis. “Cold June” takes all they
have to offer, but shows no gratitude for
their kindness or efforts to “bring her
up.” Finally, after the arrival of a third
“father,” she leaves all her deputy-
parents and runs away with a wealthy
young profligate, reserving the right to
return when she is tired of him.
The play promises well at first, but as
it develops it produces a sense of dis-
“These Yellow Sands,” by Noel Ruble, at the Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney.
appointment and ends flatly. One feels
that much more could have been made
of the situation, and that the dialogue
lacks crispness and sparkle,
Gregan McMahon as the retired Indian
colonel father created an amusing charac-
ter and maintained it throughout, and
Gordon Rice as his co-partner in father-
ing June played up to him well.
Lynette Dickenson was the June the
author intended —bright and pretty, yet
cold, self-possessed and calculating.
Current Artbursts
The Australian Art Society’s annual
show —tenth of its line —at the Education
Department’s gallery, Sydney, is a level
sort of collection, with nothing very out-
standing or original. Among things that
struck the eye in 60 minutes or so which
this critic devoted to the consideration of
180 offerings was the dominance of the
exhibition by the work of the half-dozen
artists who are
directors of the
society. William
Oates has seven
canvases, all vigor-
ous in treatment
and “The Valley”
and “Old Cottage”
most pleasing. Gar-
rett Kingsley shows
several portraits,
among which one
of a male abo.
commends itself as
a piece of sound
painting. Some of
H. C. Hadley’s
landscapes are
notable for their
skies. Among Jer-
rold Nathan’s por-
traits there is some
clever painting, par-
ticularly in “Rosa-
lind,” where the
hands and the velvet of the lady’s frock
are admirably rendered. Rhys Williams’s
work includes four very worthy can-
vases —“Middle Harbor,” “A Grose Vale
Farm,” “Down the Gully” and “The Red
Chimney.” “Autumn, Grose Vale,” his
most ambitious offering, doesn’t seem to
hang together ; autumn foliage looks out
of place in that type of Australian land-
scape. W. M. Whitney’s 11 pictures, all
landscapes, are faithfully wrought.
Others whose work is worth more than
a passing glance are Lance V. Solomon,
who shows a snappy against-the-light
glimpse of Lavender Bay and a very effec-
tive decorative flower piece (poinsettia);
Rupert Woodman, whose nude study and
“Girl in Grey” have grace, and Wallace
Cocks, whose still-life painting in
“Zinnias” and “Study in Blue and Gold”
is notable. Among water-colorists C.
Parker scores with “Landscape near
Botany,” and F. S. Davis with “Morning
in Sydney.” A well-modelled head of
Edmund Harvey is exhibited by Maurice
Helsen. Four decorative designs by Rosa-
leen Norton are the most striking things
in the show ; Norman Lindsay’s devils
are outdevilled in “The Bells” and “The
Worms of Madness.”
•b
Noel Rubie’s pictures at the Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney, are catalogued with
brief criticisms of each by various dis-
tinguished painters and connoisseurs, but
the wine is good enough to dispense with
such bush. At present there are at least
three Noel Rubies—a portraitist who ex-
cels in the representation of vigorous
youth, delighting in smooth modelling
and the most meticulous rendition of de-
tail ; quite another sort of portraitist who
exercises a dramatic, character-reveal-
ing Sargentesque touch; a decorationist
who seeks to find a significant pattern in
landscape and other natural forms. In
everything he paints there is lucidity of
purpose and a degree of achievement
that makes the purpose clear. One of
the most effective of his canvases, “These
Yellow Sands,” owes something to Van
Gogh in its treatment of a luminous,
vibrant background. “Symbolical of
Something” puts romance and beauty
into a study of a wheat silo. “Loud
Pedal Decoration” is a very sound, dis-
tinctive piece of work, and “Heather” is
as successful a portrait as has been ex-
hibited in Sydney these last five years.


. . . then the only
hotel that can offer
you this is
"THE WENTWORTH"
&
£
*
&
O
O
*
fr
%
CHAMPAGNE
S
¥
REIMS
OhY
sßimrm
«**©iAN©
ViNW&KS
53
:• ■ / 'f: •
2 2WSS&SSS2
N.S.W. Agents:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Turn back the family album for your
spring millinery styles. The Empresses
Eugenie and Elizabeth of Austria might
have worn the absurd brimless modes
that will flower like demure win-
dow boxes above every eyebrow under
40. The crowns of these are deep
at the back, shallow in the front, and
are proudly described by the word
“streamlined.” If there is a brim
at all it doesn’t shade the face ; it is
rolled back, and then spoken of as
“tyre” or “blown up.” Veils are on
every headpiece. Some of them are two-
toned. On top of a scrap of navy baku
blows a jaunty tuft of navy-and-red
veiling.
Another discreet black toque with
bevelled edge has its coxcomb of fine
black mesh crusted with pink and white
specks, just like hundreds and thousands.
Veils do everything but shade the face.
In coarse mesh they descend crisply from
the crown and clothe the forehead just
above the eyebrows. There are tiny
poke bonnets that surely call for the
pelisse of the valentine era, and, of course,
there is the Breton sailor. Popular
straws are Toya panama, real panama,
baku, the old French pedal and cello-
phane. Taffeta, shantung and faille
(corded ribbon) are the most fashionable
for fabric hats.
The finest of wool marocain and silk
repp appear in the new spring suits
which many women were choosing last
week, for fashion says spring is around
the corner, though Sydney has not yet
had its shortest day. Daytime suits are
from llin. to 12in. from the ground;
pleats are in every skirt, even when the
straight top is of loose panels from the
knee. Tucks and fine beading and plaited
belts are all part of the new ensembles.
One afternoon frock of black crepe
featuring the loose panels from the knee
wears its cherry-red lapels beaded in
gold. A lacquered black satin coat
painted with anemones goes with a
sweeping black crepe evening frock that
has its high waist clustered with mauve
anemones. An ashes of roses creation
has fan-shaped shirring at its Empire
waist, and its ground-length cape is made
with a monk’s hood. Marquisette, which
looks like stiffened chiffon, is worn over
faille, and will be a first favorite.
Camden Cup polo was not just a
prelude to Dudley Cup play at Kyee-
magh. It proved a whole “Nutcracker
Suite” in itself, when the Nutcrackers de-
feated Vychans six goals to four. There
were crowds out to see this and the
hard-fought victory of Scone over Town
and Country. Grey skies and drifts of
rain failed to take all the charm out of
Cobbitty and any of the stiffening out
of the enthusiasts who had motored out
or ridden over to the fields. They came
from Camden, from Campbelltown,
from Gundagai, Scone and Forbes.
There was one visitor at least from
India ; and two came from Enzed. At
Kyeemagh next week the fences will be
lined with city polo fans, but Cobbitty’s
gallery was mostly bright-eyed country
girls.
Among the onlookers were numerous
Skenes. Phyllis Skene acted as line um-
pire ; keen critics were Ailsa Robinson,
from Gundagai, and Betty Wheatley. Mrs.
Curtis Skene wrapped her navy suit in
fox furs. Nancy Godden, of Calcutta, was
with this group. A full chorus of Brays
arrived from Forbes to cheer on the
Vychan team; Campbelltown decanted
Dr. and Mrs. R. M. Crookston, Suzanne
and Jacqueline into the field. Toreador-
red scarves were the fashion in the
group around Mrs. Tony Hordern. Mar-
garet Allen had with her Mrs. L. Mor-
gan and Prudence Morgan, pausing on
their way between Maoriland and Eng-
land. Mrs. Frank Crane, whose husband
captained the Scone team, was checked
in beige and buff. Mrs. Frank Bragg’s
coat and beret were cinnamon in tone ;
her scarf was green. A sherry party at
the Edgar Downes home rounded off
the day.
For the next ten days polo, particu-
larly Dudley Cup polo, will be the
chief subject of discussion among the
socially-minded. One of the big after-
noon parties that will add to the gaieties
is the tea at Elizabeth Bay House next
Tuesday. Margaret Allen, the subject
of this Raymond Sawyer photograph, has
snatched time off from the modelling of
miniature horses, which she does very
cleverly, to act as a secretary for the
function.
On Saturday Cobbitty polo ended with
the Assamanders plucking the Camden
Gold Cup from Scone before a great
crowd whose enthusiasm, helped by rugs,
tweeds and furs, was chillproof. At the
close of play Mrs. Pat Rothe, Miss
Bertha Morgan, Mrs. Anderson and
daughter Clarice worked up some cir-
culation by handing out relays of glit-
tering cups, while Dr. R. M, Crookston
opened the champagne. Diana Downes,
whose birthday-party at Aston, the
home of aunt Mrs. Rupert Downes, was
the evening’s fireworks, watched the
matches in woodland-green tweeds and
a green velour hat. Studley Park, home
of the A. A. Gregorys, was one of the
scenes of the week’s festivities. Mac-
quarie Grove, too, at the instigation of
Mrs. Edward Macarthur Onslow, oozed
hospitality.
Singer Dorothy Helmrich wore the
latest thing in caped ensembles at the
sherry party given in her honor by the
Harold Botts, of Killara. In color it was
midnight-blue ; so was the quaint visor-
brimmed hat she wore above her fine
eyes. Her flowers were orchids, sent by
an admirer. Mrs. Bott (as a singer she is
known as Marie Brown), who studied
lieder in London last year with Dorothy,
combined wine-colored lace and taffeta
in her very long frock, which tied at the
back with a diamente bow. All the
flower decorations were in tones of red,
and big log fires blazed in every room.
Half musical Sydney seemed to be at
the party, from the Conservatorium’s
director, Dr. Bainton, and Mrs. Bainton.
The guest renewed old friendships with
the Keith Barrys, Ramsay Pennycuick,
Cecily Adkins, Walter Thorman and
dozens more.
The Canadian-Pacific Brodies came to
Eileen Joyce’s concert in the Town Hall
on Saturday with the Charles Lloyd
Jones couple. The night was almost as
Arctic as Mrs. Jones’s lush-white fox.
Anne Gordon, sitting in the front row,
used brother Alexander’s tweed coat as a
buffer between the draught and her knee
joints. Otherwise she was cigarette-slim
in a ground-long white moire coat that
had its straight, upstanding collar but-
toned in crystal. The Kelso King lady
was snug in furs. Organist Alice Bryant
had come across the darkling waves
from Manly wrapped in sapphire velvet.
The little pianist herself, in her flowing
white frock, with its tiers of ruch-
ings warmed only by a turquoise-velvet
sash, must have felt the chill, but she
played in an inspired manner.
The Mayor, the aldermen and leading
citizens of Manly chose that city by the
sea’s art gallery as the right spot to
welcome Charlie Bryant. Charlie and
J. Trenerry were the first citizens of
Manly to feel that an art gallery was an
essential. Between them and a sympa-
thetic council the present home of art
on the esplanade next the swimming-
pool was erected. It was launched with
a competition which was won by Jimmy
Jackson with a harbor scene. This prize-
winner, also a portrait of Charles by
Lawson Balfour, and another by the
same artist of Sir Dudley de Chair, who
was the first patron, cheers the walls ;
so do lovely examples of Lambert’s work
and prints and sketches of Manly in its
village days.
The party at the end of last week
was a great success. The guest arrived
with his sister, Alice Bryant, who is
herself a genius of the organ. A touch
of color was given to her black chiffon
frock by turquoise ornaments. The pro-
gramme was arranged by Mrs. Harry
Twigden, whose small protege, Lasca
Hall, is the 13-year-old pianist who
made the judge’s hair curl with delight at
the recent eisteddfod. Lute Drummond
wrapped her ivory-satin frock in a
sweeping friar’s cloak of black velvet
and linked up scenes in opera. Ruth
Pierce-Jones, Constance Pickworth,
Eunice Hirst and baritone C. McLaughlin
illustrated them with voice and instru-
ment.
Noel Rubie is really an artist mas-
querading as a chemist at Bondi, so there
was nothing synthetic about the art he
hung all around the Grosvenor Galleries
last week. Neither was there anything
synthetic about the cocktails with which
Noel christened his show. These were
served in the slice of room at the top of
the gallery under the hostessing of Mrs.
J. S. Watkins, who wore violets in her
saunter black astrakhan coat. Clara
Butter, tall and fair, made a striking pic-
ture in black velvet and silver fox ; Mrs.
Harold Bott’s suit held the blue-green of
grass ; Margaret Allen’s suit was of ruby-
red angora. John Lane Mullins, who
arrived with two impeccably tailored
daughters, spoke to the glory of Noel. So
did Judge Backhouse, an intrepid fre-
quenter of art shows ; he had already
taken in the Australian Art Society’s
exhibition. At four o’clock the painter
was still blushing from the eulogies.
These are not the expressions of laymen
only; artists from Elioth Gruner to
Daphne Mayo are among his lauders.
Last week the Junior Red Crossers
showed their mettle in exhibition and
pageant. This week the Red Cross head-
quarters Younger Set took a turn and
organised the “Wilderness Orphan” ball
in aid of Red Cross funds. Kathleen
(Kay) Bird was one of a hard-working
committee. A Raymond Sawyer photo-
graph- , . .
Little Jeannette Rooney s concert at
the Savoy was quite a social affair. From
the vestibule where Mrs. Greg McOirr
waited, her Parma violet lace frock
cloaked in squirrel, her diamond-and-
opal earrings gleaming, to greet the offi-
cial guests to the front rows, which Mrs.
Bertie Kelly decorated with a magnifi-
cent Tyrian red cape collared in Arctic
fox, the Savoy was gilt-edged. The
younger University set was represented
by Beatrice McGirr, in water-green
moire, and a group of her friends. The
Queen Victoria Music Club sat about .0
strong, Thelma Houston among them.
There were programme-sellers and sweet-
sellers to taste. Jeanette’s contralto, rich
and well-trained, was sheathed in moires
the shade of an orange Iceland poppy.
She wore red roses, and her black hair
was a mass of curls. Miss K. Egan, an
eager worker for the ambitious singer,
was in the audience.
Wandering about among the Persian
carpets at Anthony Horderns’ is like
living a bit of James Elroy Flecker’s
Hassan. The silken luxury of the Sara-
band rug calls to eye and hand. The
ground of ivory can scarcely be seen for
the closely-woven design, the leaflike
headdress worn by the muezzin when he
calls the faithful to prayer from the
minaret of the mosque. There’s a prayer
rug showing the domes and columns of
Sancta Sophia ; deep ruby and sapphire
tones predominate. When the Persian
sets out on his journey for the happy
hunting-ground, no soulless coffin en-
closes him ; a burial rug enfolds the body,
on it a hunting scene closely packed with
real and symbolic animals.
The Education Department’s gallery
was just comfortably filled for the open-
ing of the Australian Art Society’s show.
The word was spoken by Sir Hugh
Poynter, very trig in grey tailorings but
inclined to bewail the modem ten-
dency to shrinkage of wall space in the
home and the consequent crop of smaller
pictures. Still, artists cannot hope for a
return of the ceilings that gave Leonardo
da Vinci his chance. The overseas artists
of Victoria’s reign, too, seem to have
appropriated all the acre allotments in
the Dominions’ galleries. However, it
was a comfort to hear a man opening an
art show who knows as much about the
subject as one of that famous name.
Portrait-painter Jerrold Nathan was
at the opening of the Australian Art
Society’s exhibition with Mrs. Nathan,
who was hostess at the informal tea
party which followed. W. G. Layton
arrived as erect and alert as Jerrold
Nathan’s portrait of him. White nar-
cissi gleamed on the fox furs worn
by the John McKelvey lady, and a
great catch of violets was on the lapel
of Mrs. Ivy Moore’s black suit. Kate
Beard, whose dog sitters range from
Tess, the police Alsatian, to tiny bits
of fluff, was one of an animated group
which included the wife of secretary W.
M. Whitney. Judges, K.Cs. and doctors
prowled around the walls, among them
the Justice Street couple. A mass of
greeny shoots from Kurrajong adorned
the long gallery.
Lieutenant-Governor Street’s lady is
thinking out schemes to whip up audi-
ences for the lectures next month in the
National Art Gallery. For three months,
beginning on July 1, an exhibition of
international pictures and applied art
will be held in the Gallery. The lectures
will be delivered on the exhibits and the
art of the country from which they come.


Stay in the Centre
of MELBOURNE
Rooms from 4/- to 16/-
Advertisement
( ~K£Yle/lv-
Located beside Melbourne Town
Hall, the Victoria is Aus-
tralia’s largest, most modern
hotel. Every comfort. Un-
rivalled catering. Moderate
“Room Only” tariff —Singles,
4/- to 7/6; Doubles, 8/- to
16/- per day. Write Dept. B 8
for free illustrated booklet.
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 LIT.COLLINS ST. MELB.C.I.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST NON-LICENSED HOTEL
Compounded
from
high grade
medicinal
products
HUDSON'S
"EUMENTHOr
JUJUBES
For Cougfis,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 fin
V kort Story
Writing
tyree Lance
I Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent oh application to
I.C. S. School b£ Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
m
is
IT
NEVER FAILS
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Melbourne
Chatter
Once more Loreto Old Girls gathered
at No. 9 for their annual reunion. Presi-
dent Mrs. Tom King emphasised her
Spanish type, rolling her dark hair low
over the neck and tucking a red rose
behind her ear. Three debs, were intro-
duced by Mrs. J. J. Daly, and tallies on
the tickets were kept by Miss J. Wimpole
and Margery Hayden, both of whom
wore varicolored sashes loosely twisted
round the waists of their dance frocks.
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Niall were there,
Mrs. Niall in oyster satin and a couple
of orchids. Audrie Lightfoot was in
lame striped with silver and rose. Edith
Hore chose crushed strawberry lame with
puff sleeves, and Blanche Fitzgerald
crowned her windswept metal tissue with
a half-moon of stocks round the back
of her head.
Yvonne Swift’s diaphanous white net,
scattered with snowflake spots and cut
with high ruffled neck, basque and
voluminous sleeves, was the bridesmaid’s
frock she wore a< few months ago at the
wedding of Mary McKenna and Pat
Barry. Miss Swift received congratu-
lations from friends who had not seen
her lately, for she has finished all her law
exams., and is now serving her articles.
Another successful newly-fledged gradu-
ate (her degree is in science) was Sheila
Thornton, who danced joyfully in lilac
frills.
Visitors from Yarram were Peggy
Moore, in white, with a halo plait around
her head, and her sister Narie, in shim-
mering lame. Leah Gordon wore a white
wrap with a satin gown. Mr. and Mrs.
A. M. Lazarus were there, Mrs. Larazus
wearing white camellias in tune with
her black-and-white ensemble. A sash,
of red and green twisted strands encircled
the waist of Molly Winter’s black frock,
and a touch of green in her hair and as
accompaniment to her scarf draperies
was the contrasting note of Barbara Van
Cooth’s browny color scheme.
For the present the ramshackle
“club’us,” cold in winter, hot in summer,
must serve our seat of learning as the
only location- for the social activities of
staff and students. But a new Union
building lies in the future. Preparing
for that day the C.M.U.W., with women’s
superior foresight and imagination, has
made itself responsible for furniture and
so forth. C.M.U.W. delegates sought
the assistance of the wives of professors
and lecturers ; Mrs. W. E. Agar carried
the idea further by sowing propaganda
among her friends; a big committee
headed by Lord and Lady Huntingfield
was formed, and there’s to be an
enormous three-day Christmas fete
during the first week of December. It
sounds a long time off, but students,
with exams, always around the corner,
know how time flies.
For a preliminary meeting Mrs. Essing-
ton Lewis lent her home in Toorak, a.
house which is full of associations for
women of two generations, for it was the
residence of the Misses Hamilton in the
days before Toorak College, now trans-
ferred to Franks ton, extended over one
whole block back from Hamilton-street.
Mrs. Lewis made a short but enthusiastic
speech ; she is interested in all educa-
tional and youth movements.
Mrs. L. Due, wearing black and a tiny
skullcap complete with stiff veil, took
the chair as hon. organiser, and explained
the skeleton of the campaign, which is
already well under way. Among the
multitude of stalls at the Christmas fete
will be a glory-box stall under the care of
Robert Knox’s lady, who is hoping to
receive donations from this year’s brides
—something new for the brides, who
expect to get and not give. As a con-
trast, there will be a Gretna Green stall
for runaways, improvidents and newly-
weds who have to make every pound do
the work of two.
As soon as she entered the meeting
Mrs. W. A. Leitch found herself being
given the needlework stall. Mrs. Cleve
Kidd and the gay bunch of roses on the
summit of the small hat can already see
themselves among the cakes. Mrs. Mar-
shall Allen’s interests are to be botanical
and earthy ; she has promised to run a
gardening stall and stock everything from
spades to snail-killer. President of the
C.M.U.W. Mary Lindsay-Smith was an
excellent advertisement for the young
student of to-day. Her attractive appear-
ance —all-black ensemble with a fur-edged
swinging cape and clever jockey-cap—
and her beautifully-spoken summary of
information and thanks were all a testi-
mony to the progress which intelligent
youth is making.
The International Club, not yet three
years old, is to have its first ball on June
25. This club’s activities have a habit
of starting as small things and grbwing to
lusty proportions, as, for instance, the
centenary pageant, which packed the
Town Hall for two seasons. Invitations
for the ball are obtainable only from
club members or those who took part
in the pageant, for even the Palais has
its Plimsoll mark. Representatives of
foreign countries will wear their national
costumes and take part in a procession.
In the Athol Shmith photo, is Vanda
Stenborg, who, with her sister Lorraine,
belongs to the Swedish group, and will
take part in Swedish folk-dances. Lor-
raine and Vanda were born in Australia,
but they speak their parents’ language
fluently. Next year they hope to make
their first trip to Sweden.
It is now the hardest thing in the
world to get seats for Gregan McMahon
first-nights, for the McMahon Players, a
body of people interested ip the
fine art of drama, don’t mind getting
up early to be on the spot when the
season’s booking opens. At “A Cold
June,” whose first night happened on a
very cold June evening, the King’s was
so crowded that even the boxes were
shared between unknown factions.
As June, Lynette Dickenson had oppor-
tunities to exercise her tasteful dress-
sense. Her white matt crepe evening
gown was cut with a very low back, but
its formal destiny was tempered by a
waist-length fringe swinging across the
shoulders. With it went twinkly sandals,
high heels and three silver straps.
Similar emerald-green sandals accom-
panied the. super pyjamas of green
trousers and royal-blue coat made with
an accentuated waistline, a long stiffened
basque and a monster J embroidered
upon the closely-buttoned shoulder.
In the stalls were “June’s” real-life
parents, Mr. and Mrs. George Dicken-
son, and “Richard of Bordeaux’s” father
and mother, Dr. and Mrs. Tuckfield.
Mr. and Mrs. Shenton Gordon were
together, Mrs. Gordon in sapphire-blue
velvet and pearls. Mrs. Harry Rosenthal
made hpr first public appearance since
her accident nearly three months ago,
when she was injured as a result of a fall
on the grandstand steps at the races. Dr.
Mary Ham was there, and another well-
known identity was Madame Dannevig,
who wore orchid velvet embroidered with
seed pearls.
Sita Devi, who played the part of Mrs.
Silcox in “A Cold June,” was born an
Australian, Elsie Forrest. When still in
her teens she went to India with a tour-
ing theatrical co., where she met and
married the Maharajah of Tikari. Dur-
ing the first years of her marriage she
used to come to Australia with a large
wardrobe of Indian costumes, which she
wore instead of European clothes, and
a Hindoo maid. For several years the
Maharanee has spent most of her time
here. She no longer uses her title, but
prefers to be called Sita Devi, the name
she took for the purposes of Hindoo
ecclesiasticism.
Margaret Mac Lean’s gallery has been
transformed into an Arizona sierra—
sunshine pouring through the windows of
the rooms filled with cacti helps the illu-
sion considerably. The exhibits belong
to Ron Burbury, who combines the dis-
similar interests of musicianship (he
teaches the piano) and cultivating cacti.
Specimens range from babies less than
an inch in height to grandfathers who
saw the sun rise and set 50 years ago
in their native deserts across the Pacific.
There are hoary old men, elongated
creatures covered with white whiskers,
“fish-hook” cacti (bad luck for the cow-
boy who had a spill into one of them),
“pineapples,” night-flowering cereus, rep-
resentatives of the prickly-pear family and
scores of other specimens. Mr. Burbury
advises cacti-owners to forget all about
watering them from autumn to spring,
but to keep the soil just moist during
warm weather. The annual flowering
season being over (it is usually in the
summer), he gets colors from pots—
cement, sand, metal road screenings and
his own paints being the tools of his
ingenuity.
Norda Mata was a surprise to Mel-
bourne. A Continental dancer sounds a
glamorous female with a tempestuous
nature whose interest in clothes, make-
up and her “press” is just one lap behind
her art. But Fraulein Else Rutkewitz
is charming through her natural sim-
plicity. One afternoon she was dancing
to the birds and the swans in the Botanic
Gardens. Her thin slippers and the hem
of white chiffon gown were soon soaked
with moisture from the lawns as she
whirled through “Peer Gynt” music from
two violins and a ’cello. Fred Rae gave
a courtesy permit to Fraulein and her
musicians to drive through the Gardens
to the lake’s edge, and he and Mrs. Rae
walked down across the lawns to watch
the dance. The rest of the audience was
composed for the most part of small
children and nursemaids, with a sprinkling
of the general public—for on no day of
the week does the beauty of our gardens
go unappreciated.
Fraulein Rutkewitz accepted the Inter-
national Club’s invitation to what she
vaguely thought would be a formal call
and signing her name in the visitors’
book. That a room full of guests had
been invited to meet her was a pleasant
surprise which obviously delighted her.
All smiles and clutching a bouquet of
cornflowers, she made a speech in Eng-
lish. Among the guests was Mrs. W.
Klaphake (wife of the German scientist),
who pinned a bunch of red-and-gold
berries to the lapel of her suit. Mrs.
Frank Faulkner was numbered among
those who exchanged pleasantries in Ger-
man —she is always sporting over lan-
guages and never lets self-consciousness
rob her of a spot of practice. Among
others present were Mrs. D. D. Paine, in
brown, with a mustard blouse and a
diamente pin in her beret; Mrs. Govett;
Mrs. J. S. Thonemann, in black ; Mrs.
A. B. Wood, in a black suit and a
sulphur-colored stock, who helped pass
round tea, and a new member, Wilma
Marshall, who wore a tall tufted hat with
a pink lame blouse and a navy suit.
From Rio de Janeiro comes word
from Mrs. Doris Campbell. The lan-
guage difficulty in Brazil is inconvenient,
but provides loopholes for adventure.
On the traveller’s first morning in Rio
she got dressed early and went to the
hotel restaurant in search of breakfast,
but such a meal was apparently un-
known ; coffee and rolls are served in
rooms only. At the time of writing the
city was under martial law. There was
a revolution somewhere, but Mrs. Camp-
bell, being unable to read the newspapers,
couldn’t discover where or why. The
exchange was favorable, the casinos very
gay and the traffic never stopped day or
night.
Nearly all the better-class women in Rio
dress in black with reliefs of white. They
love lots of jewellery, and often wear
watches set in rings. Shops wrap up
parcels in colored paper, and it is quaint
to see that the men have no objection
to carrying pink and blue bundles
through the streets. Mrs. Campbell
noticed that Portuguese and Brazilians
mix together amicably, and gathered the
impression that they all seem to be on
the same social footing. She is fond of
races, and tried her luck at Rio’s Sunday
meetings, where the tote is similar to our
own, but smaller bets can be made, the
minimum being the equivalent of six-
pence. One may buy tickets for a win,
a place or a duplo (two placed horses
in one race), for which the odds are, of
course, temptingly high.
Fred Nield, an Australian who for
12 years on and off has been a resident
of Manila, is home on leave. His pro-
fession is shipping, and, as he has worked
in his firm’s Sydney office, knows Mel-
bourne well and claims Adelaide as his
home-town, he has interests in three
States. Mr. Nield’s trip south was per
medium of a variety of conveyances: by
ship to Cairns, ’plane to Brisbane, the
Taiping once more to Sydney, train to
Melbourne and driving his own car to
Adelaide (incidentally no car from the
Philippines has been landed in Mel-
bourne for five years). The returned
traveller is a son of the Rev. C. H. Nield
and the late Mrs. Nield, of Adelaide,
and is one of a family of a dozen
brothers and sisters, all of whom he in-
tends to call upon, though they are scat-
tered thousands of miles apart, before
he returns north at the end of the year.
Last week’s results of Cupid’s archery
include Indian army officer lan Chauvel
and Jean Paterson, whose romantic-
sounding address is The Golden Farm,
Cirenchester, England; this a hunting
pair who ride to hounds at least once a
week. Also Doris Foster and Bill Stocks
announce their engagement; and Joan
a’Beckett, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
liam a’Beckett, of Berwick, has cabled
her parents the news of her promise
to marry Wilfrid Dunlop Minson,
of Pembridge-square, London. Miss
a’Beckett has more than her fair share of
brains and organising ability. At Toorak
College and after leaving school she
passed exams, with scarcely an effort,
and also made good progress at music.
Then she took up teaching, which she
liked, for she had so much youthful en-
thusiasm and vitality that she never
found it hard graft. Last year she sailed
off to England and secured a job as
secretary in a London office.
Not only friends but passport and taxa-
tion officials have been informed that
Tim Collins has gone abroad “to learn
all about making gin.” For to Tim the
secrets of the distillers’ art are neither
hobby nor joke ; he works for a Mel-
bourne spirit merchant. He will be missed
by his own generation, for he won row-
ing prowess at Grammar, is now credited
with good golf scores and spends a large
part of the warm season swimming round
and about Frankston, where his mother
lives. His sisters, Norme and Mrs.
Robert Taylor, are well-known horse-
women.


BALI AND SINGAPORE
A Winter Trip at Rates
SO INEXPENSIVE.
JULY SAILING
Nieuw Zeeland
Calls at Boeleleng (Bali)
(disembarking passengers only).
AUGUST SAILING
Nieuw Holland
Calls at Banda
(at no extra fare).
Winter first-class return
fares from Sydney and
Brisbane, £67/10/- to Java
and £75 to Singapore—no
Exchange. Slightly higher
from. Adelaide and Mel-
bourne. Special low rate
quoted July Sailing for 3
days through Bali.
John Sanderson & Co, Me bourne;
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Advertisement
K.P.M. LINE.
Royal Packet Navigation Co.
I’uketvaart House, 255 George St., Sydney
Divorce Notices.
TO RICHARD NORMAN SMITH formerly
of 140 Amess Street Carlton in the State
i of Victoria farmer but now of parts un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife JEAN
KATHLEEN SMITH has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground of
three years’ desertion Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
Btll day of July 1936 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
cdsts.
EDGAR ROBERT DAVEY,
I • 271 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
lO ALFRED BO YES formerly of Marine
Parade St. Kilda in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown. '
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has instituted
proceedings for divorce against you on the
ground of desertion during three years and up-
wards Unless you enter an appearance in the
office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
of the State of Victoria at Melbourne on or
before the Eighth day of July 1936 and file
an answer in the said office on or before the
Eighteenth day of July 1936 the suit may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
P. J. RIDGEWAY,
379 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 776 of 1936.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN RUTH FRANZWAY
Petitioner
And LESLIE JOHN FRANZWAY Re-
spondent.
TO LESLIE JOHN FRANZWAY.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
RUTH FRANZWAY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court on the
ground of desertion without any just cause or
excuse for a period of three years and upwards
AND TARE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Nineteenth day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-six and in the
event of your not doing so in the limited
time or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of May, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1483 of 1935.
BETWEEN RITA SYLVIA RYAN Petitioner
And JAMES RYAN Respondent.
TO JAMES RYAN formerly of Parkes in the
State of New South Wales but now ol
parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RITA
SYLVIA RYAN has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is praying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
your desertion of her for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the third day of September One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-six and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of June One thou-
sand nine: hundred and thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES
(LIQUIDATION) ORDINANCE 1935-36
And IN THE MATTER OF McINNES
AND COMPANY LIMITED (IN LIQUI-
DATION). . „
THE creditors of the abovenamed Company
are required on or before the Fifteenth day ol
August 1936 to prove their debts or claims by
filing affidavits verifying the same at the office
of the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the
Australian Capital Territory at Canberra and
lodging a copy of such affidavit at the office ot
the undersigned IN DEFAULT they will be
excluded from the benefit ol; any distribution
made before such debts and claims are proved.
Forms of proof may be obtained • from the
undersigned.
DATED this Fifth day of June, 1936.
(Sgd.) W. B. GEDDES,
Public Trustee,
Sole Liquidator, Public Trust Office, St. James
Building, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
New South Wales.
Re Daniel Francis Cleary, Deceased.
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated the 21st day of
February 1936 and made in a suit (No. 1652
of 1935) intituled In the Matter of the Estate
of DANIEL FRANCIS CLEARY late of Peter-
sham in the State of New South Wales Retired
Police Officer deceased BETWEEN THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE Plaintiff and HONORAH
TYLER Defendant whereby the following in-
quiries were directed; (n) Whether Bridget
Abrahams Michael Cleary and Elizabeth Cleary
(sisters and a brother of the said Daniel Francis
Cleary) are respectively living or dead and who
are the legal representatives of such of them as
have died ( b ) Whether the said Bridget Abra-
hams Michael Cleary and Elizabeth Cleary re-
spectively have had any and if any what chil-
dren or issue and whether such children or
issue are living or dead and who are the legal
personal representatives of any such children
or issue as have died. NOTICE is hereby
given that all persons claiming to be entitled
under or interested in the said inquiries are to
send by post prepaid to the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE 107-109 Elizabeth Street Sydney so as
to reach him on or before the 12th day ot
August 1936 their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims or in default thereof they will
be excluded from the benefit of the said Decre-
tal Order unless the Court or a Judge thereof
or the Master in Equity orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitors before the Master in Equity at the
Supreme Court Elizabeth Street Sydney on
Wednesday the 19th day of August 1936 at
11 o’clock in the forenoon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
A claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of his or her claim
the name and address of a person in New
South Wales to whom notices to the claimant
can be sent.
DATED this llh day of June, 1936.
(Signed) ROBERT LLOYD,
Solicitor for the Public Trustee,
Mendes Chambers,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
,No. 830 of 1936.
BETWEEN ANNIE ISABELLA HAMMOND
(nee Annie Isabella Weekes) Petitioner
And REGINALD LESLIE HAMMOND
Respondent.
TO REGINALD LESLIE HAMMOND late of
Staranore.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE ISA-
BELLA HAMMOND has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Third day of
September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had' on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and Thirty-six.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
McDONELL & MOFFETT, 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney; City Agents for R. >•
HAWKINS, Solicitor for the Petitioner, Vic-
toria Street, Taree.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 479 of 1936.
BETWEEN ANNE STOUT MOON Petitioner
And JAMES MORGAN MOON Respon-
TO JAMES MORGAN MOON formerly of
. 179 Bourke Street Sydney in the State ot
New South Wales. .
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNE
STOUT MOON has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
desertion for three years; and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Eighth day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining farm
time the Petitioner will proceed and the sun
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition; n
herein may be had on application to the un
signed free of charge.
DATED the Eighth day of June, 1936.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
LUMSDEN, DOYLE & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Guests at the Dental Students’ Ball,
held at the Embassy, were met by presi-
dent Brazil Smith, who had his lady’s
leaf-green velvets at elbow. Mrs. Wynn
Needham’s black-and-gold-striped mate-
lasse was in the official circle ; Mrs. Karl
Knapp flung a white ostrich-feather cape
over her lavender taffetas ; Joyce Grano’s
white-spotted taffetas were agog with net
frills ; silver sequins glittered on Eunice
Scurlock’s off-white corded crepe, and
more sequins, gold this time, lit up Mrs.
Roy Hull’s blue French cloque.
Descendants of two old pioneering
families were united at Perth College
chapel when Phyllis Rutherford was
married to Penn Boucaut. Phyllis is a
granddaughter of the late Edward
Roberts, of Yatheroo station, whose
mother was a member of the Nairn
family, some of the earliest settlers on
the Vasse. On the ’groom’s maternal
side are the Pattersons, of Pinjarra, and
Boucaut is a name honored in S.A.
Bride was girt with sere chiffon velvet
topped with a wide earth-brown velour
hat. Maid Lindsay Thomson matched
the brown with her velvet ensemble,
which was wrought with gold braid. Both
girls carried burnished autumn leaves.
After the inter-university boatrace
crews made the most of the dinner at
the Adelphi, with its' aftermath of danc-
ing. The ballroom was packed, Thelsa
Gloe, who headed the band of feminine
helpers, swished a length of floral blue
satin, Mrs. L. J. Grieg attached long
sleeves of gold-striped chenille to her
black chiffon velvets, Merle Levinson scat-
tered sprigs of blossom on her soft
pink mousseline, and a wealth of killings
fell from Pat Roe’s china-blue phantom
crepe.
Marguerita Zealanda slipped away
from Perth National Studio to take the
box sept at the University Women’s
gathering at the Karrakatta Club. Her
brown chiffon velvets reappeared in the
tied bonnet, which was bordered with
gold; Marjorie Kingston presided in
slick tailored grey pinstripe suiting.
Three tiers of pleated parchment tulle
fell from Dorothy Grieg’s circlet of
flowers when she kept her matrimonial
date with Edward Zeisler at St. Mary’s,
West Perth. Her parchment satins, cut
on simple lines, drifted off into a fan-
shaped train and pink gladioli gave a
color note. Nancy Rann followed, all
pastel in blush-pink charmeuse, with
halo and sheaf of flowers shaded from
pink to cyclamen. Toasts at the Adelplji,
with Mrs. Grieg in graceful black velvet.
After a welter of receptions by the
National Council of Women, Women’s
Service Guild and suchlike bodies, Mrs.
I. H. Moss, C.8.E., boarded the Dun-
troon to return to Melbourne. Prior to
her departure she entertained at the
Karrakatta Club.
Stirling Institute was the venue for the
Hunt Club’s hop for members. A cup
race and a leap-year dance were vivid
spots on the bright programme. Mrs.
J. P. Durack’s black lace and georgettes
were in the presidential chair; Mrs.
A. E. Joyner popped a velvet cape over
her electric-blue laces, and Molly Man-
ning carried out secretarial duties in
flame satin.
Parties for June brides are rampant;
invitations to miscellaneous, necessity,
kitchen, bathroom and good-wishes
shj»/oos are being sent out on all sides.
A trio who are well in the pre-nuptial
limelight are Pat Roe, Molly Pell and
Dorothy Baker.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The “Miss Centenary” contest closed
with a huge ball at the Palais Royal.
“Miss Racing” (Jean Butler) topped the
poll, with “Miss Wool Industry” (Joyce
Tietzel) second, and “Miss Motorist”
(Claire Schulze) third. All three are
entitled to enjoy trips to the Eastern
States in consequence.
When results were declared lights were
lowered and the competitors appeared in
turn in a huge gold frame with a black
velvet background, brilliantly illumi-
nated. Then, escorted by Elizabethan
pages, they walked to the dais, where
the Herald of the Centenary (Jack
Norris) presented them to the Premier
and Mrs. Butler and the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress. The Lord Mayor’s
Fund gels £5758 from the enterprise.
Miss Butler declined to avail herself of
the holiday jaunt, as she only recently
returned from overseas, so the three to
benefit will be Joyce Tietzel, Claire
Schulze and Yvonne Richardson (“Miss
Radio”).
The Reginald Bickfords, of Alvington,
Somerton, gave a dance for the debut of
their second daughter Rosamond, held
in the picturesque old home of the
family, Caithness, Somerton, which is
only opened up when any of the family
wants to entertain. Margaret Bickford’s
debutante dance was held there two years
ago. In the drawing-room, where the
host and hostess, with their daughter, re-
ceived more than 300 guests, Lorraine
Lee roses and green and blue hydrangea
decorated. Dancing was in the ballroom
on the ground floor and in the billiard-
room upstairs, where large bunches of
blue and white balloons were hung.
Supper was served in the huge dining-
room, where the floral scheme was all
white.
Mrs. Reg Bickford was gowned in
rust-red, diagonally-striped satin and
chiffon on long lines. Rosamond’s white
chiffon was pintucked to the knees and
flared to the feet. The backless bodice
was shirred, and she carried a sheaf of
lilies-of-the-valley. Many recent debs,
wore their white frocks. Margaret Bick-
ford, frocked in pale-pink ripple chiffon,
spray of white flowers, and Alison Bick-
ford, frocked in pale-pink ripple chiffon,
prettily shirred, and Joan Edge, in mist-
blue with floral design, distributed pro-
grammes.
The Journalists’ Ball at the Palais Royal
was a large gathering. A special paper,
“Fudge,” was brought out for the occa-
sion. Trixie Wilson’s Wedding March
ballet was novel, the girls wearing half-
bride, half-bridegroom costumes. There
was a “Mystery Stunt” which involved
the ejection and subsequent appearance
on the platform of a pair of “undesir-
ables,” who proved to be disguised jour-
nalists capable of putting on an amus-
ing dance turn. Lord Mayor Cain and
the Lady Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan)
arrived just before supper, and were re-
ceived by the A.J.A. State president, E. L.
Patten, and Mrs. Patten. Mrs. Dunstan
wore a squirrel-fur coat over a black
crepe toilette. Mrs. Patten chose
bottle-green chiffon velvet, with a
corsage spray of Lorraine Lee roses.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson, who was there
with her professor husband and daughter
Yvonne, sported orchid mauve satin, with
a chiffon scarf in a deeper shade. Yvonne
was frocked in pale-green satin fittirjg to
the figure.
TASMANIA.
For the racing at Elwick tailor-mades
and big coats were the only wear. We
have few visitors at this time of year,
but Mrs. Arthur Miles (Melb.) was there,
and the R. C, Fields came down from
the north.
The Institute of Engineers gave a
dance at the Imperial. The younger
guests danced in the lounge, which was
decorated in yellow ; others played bridge
upstairs, and all met at supper, where
gilt baskets with red flowers and green
leaves and crystal candlesticks with red
candies in them were set alternately down
the long tables. Chairman R. H. Berri-
man and Mrs. Berriman received the
guests, Mrs. Berriman wearing a cycla-
men crepe frock with a high ruche across
the front of the neck.
The Lyceum Club got up a party to
welcome Lady Clark, its patroness, after
her visit to Canberra. A programme of
national songs was given, warblers being
Mrs. Deas Thomson, Mrs. R. Taylor,
Mrs. Maisie Blaine, Mrs. Pickering, Mrs.
Kathleen Hay and Mrs. Charlie Chep-
mell.
Lindisfarne Rowing Club ran a dance
in its hall, and made a great success of it.
Numerous young folk came from across
the water. Chrysanthemums and African
marigolds were used in decoration.
The Governor opened the show of art
reproductions sponsored by the Carnegie
Corporation. Some Chinese, Japanese
and Egyptian work is included. The
exhibition is to be followed by one in
which the subjects will be chiefly sculp-
tural and a third dealing with archi-
tecture.
The F. X. de Bavays are off to Europe,
going from Melbourne to the U.S.A. in
the Mariposa, and across to England in
the Queen Mary. They expect to be
away several months. Mrs. Claud Boag
and her sister, Mrs. H. S. Barnett, were
joint hostesses at a farewell party for
Mrs. de Bavay at Hadley’s, and Wanda
Piesse kept the ball rolling with a cock-
tail party for the same guest of honor.
Many other friends entertained the lady
during the weeks before her departure.
Dr. Ethel Davis, on retiring from the
staff of Hobart General Hospital, was
presented by the medical and nursing
staff with a blackwood table and two
armchairs. She has been with the hos-
pital for many years, and was very
popular.


uS v 3 2<OX-2UIQ>
5 ’2-
u
u-»
% MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
mmm
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY LTD.. Melbourne
Adelaide. Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
m
o
*
CS* * LAc £s ~
r i lt *E THIS
1 FIT A MAZDA
A LL that business of twisting
'' and peering and frowning
when shaving is ridiculous and un-
necessary. Pit a Mazda beside
your mirror for a perfect shave.
GOOD LIGHT—GOOD SIGHT
MLU
Ike,
Coil
MADE in AUSTRALIA
NEW!
ROIL BUILT INTO THE SEAT
v
Tur
BOLGA
POLEY
SADDLE
£9/7/6
(BARE)
£lO/10/-
(MOUNTED)
This is a new
Tumba” design with
a roll built into the
seat. The tree is well
plated and has a solid gullet plate;
also free stirrup bars.
Freight Paid for Cash with
Order. Write for Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
The G.P.O. has become eager to have
all mails transported between capitals by
air, and it is explained that profits on
postal services during the past four years
exceed £6,000,000. Senator McLachlan
has (according to the “S.M.H.”) re-
peatedly stated that this surplus is to De
used to give increased facilities to G.P.O.
users. Yet western Queensland graziers
who badly need telephone lines to out-
lying settlements are being asked to put
their hands in their pockets to pay for
construction work, and a mission is de-
veloping the inland inter-station radio
telephone and radio-school services by
public subscription.
* * * *
“North Quay”: A proposal to move
Brisbane G.P.O. from its present posi-
tion in Queen-street to Albert-square has
generated only a cold stare at head-
quarters, and the business world is re-
lieved. In its present position the G.P.O.
is almost opposite the new building of
the leading newspaper, and a hop, step
and jump from the chief banks, insurance
cos., wool houses, shipping firms and the
railway station. It is also equally placed
between the two shopping centres of
Queen-street and
the Valley. In
Albert - square it
would be opposite
the million-pound
Town Hall (“For-
gan’s Folly”), and
near a Methodist
church, a couple
of pubs, a police
station and the pro-
duce markets.
“X.T.”: A Com-
monwealth Gov-
ernment order for
eight 119-ton loco-
motives and ten-
ders for the east-
west railway has
been placed with Walkers, of Mary-
borough (Q.). The job is to be done in-
side a year. It means bringing to Mary-
borough about £6O worth of industry per
family, and there won’t be much rush
of population to the cities from that part
of the State for some time. A policy of
giving preference to country-town indus-
tries would do a good deal to stop big-
city bloat.
$ $ # $
“Gryllus”: The Queensland Govern-
ment has declared an open season for the
taking of possums—in other words, their
unrestricted slaughter—for the alleged
purpose of assisting the unemployed.
Not one of a thousand of the unemployed
has the requisite knowledge or experi-
ence to make a success of possuming, or
the means to provide the requisite outfit.
The only legal method of taking them is
by “trapping”; but shooting, with a
headlight, is the method commonly used,
and it is deadly. Market returns are no
check on possum-slaughter. Most shot
skins are collected by travelling buyers.
* % * *
“El V.”: So Brisbane’s George-street
will never see W. D. Armstrong again.
He is dead at 75. In the days before
the war when he was Speaker of the
Queensland Assembly, he was one of
the sights of Brisbane with his puggareed
Lamington, his military tie, his colonel’s
moustache and his jaunty walking-stick.
An uncle of the Victorian Governor, Lord
Huntingfield, he was M.L.A. for the rich
Lockyer, his native district, for 27 years,
being finally defeated, after several
narrow escapes, by George Logan in
1920. A fierce, uncompromising Tory,
but a good Australian, he rarely
moved very far away from his orchard
in his later days. He was Speaker for
five years during the stormy latter-end
period of the Kidston-Denham Govern-
ments, but he will be best remembered
as the father of native bird protection
legislation in Queensland. In 1903, he
represented Queensland at the Osaka
Exhibition.
: i Z H‘ $ Hi
“Kaloa”: They’re a gallant lot, these
tropicals. Rabaul has its racecourse at
Lukanai, and ever since the war races
have persistently been held there. Lat-
terly, there has been complaint of falling
attendances because the public cannot be
expected to pay admission to see two-
horse events. In the old days another
island town had only two racehorses.
They used to be sedulously re-handi-
capped after each race, and when one of
them fell sick the settlement still held
Run an help y father bring the cattle in!"
the race. The sole competitor was
matched against “time,” and betting was
on his performance.
“II Vecchio”: I love the official mind.
It is so luxurious in its devices, so
thorough in its detail. When I want to
sell a • second-hand truck I write an ad-
vertisement :
For sale, Austin truck, 16 h.p., best offer.
Apply counter, Billjim and Co., Darwin.
But when the Commonwealth does it, it
begins with a big heading: “Tenders for
Second-hand Austin (six cylinder, 16 h.p.)
Utility Truck.” It recites that tender
must be accompanied by cheque and en-
dorsed “Tender for Austin Truck.” It
tells how to address the letter and when
tenders close:
Tenderers are advised to inspect the
truck before submitting tenders.
It relates that permission to inspect may
be had at the aerodrome, and prospective
buyers are warned that their price is to
be quoted for the truck “complete as
and where it is now located,” that de-
livery must be taken within seven days
after sale, and that “no tender is neces-
sarily accepted.” And the notice is
signed—at the end of 202 words —by
“Archdale Parkhill, Minister for De-
fence,” who, I’ll bet two tins of chop
suey, doesn’t know he owns an Austin
truck in Darwin.
* * * *
“East Point”: Darwin’s golf season
has opened. It is always an event pre-
luded by a long series of working bees
which clear away the debris and growth
of the monsoon season and drain off sur-
plus water. A month ago our rag an-
nounced that all the holes were dry ex-
cept the second, which was still under
water. There are nine holes, and the
greens follow the Chinese tradition and
are oiled and sanded. Still, even at its
best and wettest, and despite the narrow-
ness of the fairways between coconut
groves, Darwin’s links are not as sporty
as those of Thursday Island used to be.
A potentate who swung a hefty stick
(singular) there once instructed me:
“Drive toward the goats—they’re always
on the greens.” And as for bunkers,
T.I. didn’t need them, what with blady-
grass fairways and other impedimenta.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget.
The melee round the box-office every
night of the Gilbert and Sullivan season
must have softened the hearts of the
powers- that be, for several more flesh-
an’-blood shows are promised for the
near future. Oldsters, inclined to be a
bit snuffy with Ivan Menzies for intro-
ducing new business into time-mellowed
G. and S. parts, softened utterly after
they had seen his Jack Point.
The Red Cross Link has not been
established a year yet, but the mem-
bers already have raised £2l of the £25
they pledged themselves to gather up
for the aerial ambulance. Nobody over
35 is allowed to join, and besides bridge
and literary circles there is an earnest-
minded physical-culture class, coached by
an expert who is a member of the link.
Nancy Rennick, not so long back from
overseas, has an altar date with airman
Roy Furlong, stationed at Gib. Nancy
is still in the midst of welcome-home
parties, and the congratulatory shivoos
yet have to begin.
It’s lucky for Mrs. F. E. Williams that
she takes a keen interest in anthropology,
for her husband is Government Anthro-
pologist in New Guinea, with head-
quarters at Port Moresby, and she helps
him to collect his material, and does his
typing for him. Their son is in England
at school; and Mr. Williams now is on
his way to a conference at Honolulu,
while his wife will spend a holiday with
her people in Adelaide.
From north, south, east and west cars
piled into Southport for the wedding of
Marjorie, eldest lass of the V. P. Shan-
nons, of Pembroke, Roma, and Eric, son
of Mrs. J. Stewart, of Yarraman. The
knot was tied in St. Alban’s, the South-
port C. of E. school chapel. The bride’s
frock was very old-world—off-the-
shoulder corsage, with a Limerick lace
berthe and clusters of lily-of-the-valley.
Brisbane Housewives’ Association is
making a stir about the masses of fish
dumped week after week in the river,
while hundreds of families whose natural
wage-earners are either jobless or on re-
lief work can’t afford to place fish on the
menu even once a week. Mrs. Kellett
Cameron presided at a meeting of the
executive at which this grievance was
aired.
The small girl had picked up several
very large swears, and on two or three
occasions had been reproved and sent
home from parties. When another invita-
tion arrived her mother decreed that she
was to stay at home, but vows and pleas
from the child at length softened her
heart. On the fateful day, the child,
immaculate in white, set out; but 20
minutes later was home again. The
mother listened to no explanation, but
peremptorily swept her into the bath-
room, At dinner time a small and
mutinous person was allowed out. “And
1 hope,” said mother severely, “that you
are ashamed of yourself, and will never,
never use bad words again.” “Well, I’m
not then,” said daughter stormily ; “the
damn’ party’s next Saturday.”
Alice Thomson, daughter of Dr, J. M.
and Mrs. Thomson, was bridesmaid for
Mrs. Colin Dight (Peggy Menzies) just
a year ago ; so, Peggy being in town and
Alice’s wedding due to take place at St.
John’s Cathedral on the morning of
June 11, Mrs. Dight and her mother,
Mrs. Andrew Menzies, gave a cocktail
party in honor of Alice and bridegroom-
to-be Hugh Moore. Lots of guests
motored down from the country for the
wedding, including Mr. and Mrs. D’Arcy
Winten, who stayed with the bride-
groom’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Isaac
Moore, at Hamilton.
There were five debs, at the Loreto
Ball at Lennon’s Hotel —Lala Cassera,
Joan Garrick, Peggy Leseberg, Mary de
Silva and Madeline Hoey, all in white
and very charming. Mrs. H. A. C.
Douglas took the girls under her wing
and presented them to Dr, English.
Thanks to the Adelaide Steamship Co.,
which lent the Manoora for an afternoon
bridge party, the funds of the Limbless
Soldiers’ Association got a welcome lift.
Mrs. F. K, Brodribb is patroness of the
association, and took Ruth Gordon and
Miss Clayton to the party with her. The
Lady Mayoress, president of the com-
mittee, was among the bridge players,
and every available bit of deck space was
well filled with people who wanted to
see the Mhnoora and help the Diggers.
Decorations were delightful, and the
musical programme most inspiriting.
When the Musical Association of
Queensland decided to hold a bridge
party by way of plumping out the
society’s purse, neither president Percy
Brier nor vice-president Les Edye ex-
pected such a hearty response. There
were 61 tables, and the musical frater-
nity seemed delighted to have a chance
to play something besides musical in-
struments for once in a way. Mrs. Brier
and Mrs. Edye helped with the enter-
taining.


ALIA
APPLAUDS
W&HL PROVED IT*
TO BE JIW-wJI
n
M|||
m
isti
I m
%tjo-mttery
users all over
Australia
IBs '
■■n
mi '
y V -'
m
u
PATO N
DIAMOND®
RADIO BATTERIES W
still keep working when
others have stopped
DIAMOND TORCH REFILLS
have the same P 5 qualities
of Dependability, Consistency
and Increased Service.
WIODIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS **TY. LTD-
-119 Hawke St.. West Melb., C. 3. FI 175
LD 4
mnp
KITSET
1936 Dual-wave
PENTAGBID FOUR.
£B/5/-.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
V!
.
mm&fssssgssm
mmm
mm 3
&wmmm
SO MANY RADIOS
all described as good!
But here is “ULTIMATE,” a set that will
not only hold its own against all-comers
but will definitely out-perform any other
make in its price-class.
“ULTIMATE” is the set which, in New
Zealand, established a world record by
obtaining 603 verified reports from stations
heard on the broadcast band alone, and this
in competition not only with sets of Aus-
tralian manufacture but also against those
of American and English factories.
Add to this the fact that “ULTIMATE” is
a true all-wave set with its novel and useful
Multi-purpose Mechanical Micrometer Dial
and you have a set which out-performs any
opposition.
Electric and Battery Models from 5 to 11
valves.
Send for the 1936 catalogue to the sole
Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN
and company, limited,
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service:
ROLA REPRODUCERS, VAN RUYTEN
CAR AND LAUNCH RADIO,
MULLARD RADIO VALVES.
RADIO NEWS
AMATEUR INFLUENCE ON THE PROFESSIONAL.
BY
DON B. KNOCK.
The man in the street looks over radio
catalogues, marvels at the amazing box
of tricks which by the turn of a knob
can bring the world’s entertainment into
his home, and perhaps eventually lays out
his cash on a beauteous creation in a
mirror-like cabinet. He gets what he
wants, especially in these days, when
radios, like cars, are not only highly effi-
cient, but well-nigh foolproof. He
knows nothing, and probably cares little,
about the years of research which have
passed in the development of valves, con-
densers, insulation material and the
lengthy process of experimental investi-
gation leading up to his modern receiver.
Until he starts to look over the short
waves and becomes aware of the fact that
in certain narrowly-placed portions of
his dials there are countless private indi-
viduals dubbed “amateurs” engaged in
testing this and that, and using bewilder-
ing jargon, he probably doesn’t even
know that amateur radio refers to any-
thing else than people with enough know-
ledge to work with soldering-iron and
pliers, making up, futilely or otherwise,
some gadget described in a publication.
Gradually he begins to listen to these
amateurs, finds that some of the con-
versations are interesting, and that many
of the individuals are not exactly ama-
teurish, but appear to know something
about their subject. Intricate details of
transmitters, receivers, aerials and a thou-
sand and one things appertaining to radio
generally are literally washed, turned in-
side out and hung up to dry.
Although a minority are not, most
amateurs are genuine experimenters, and
their tests have, particularly in recent
years, had a decided bearing on radio
development generally. To-day more
than ever is the influence of amateur
development reflected in radio design.
One reads of the epic achievements of
Marconi and others in the discovery that
short waves are useful, but for the real
history of short waves one must turn
to the records of the amateurs, for it
was by them that the real pioneering was
done. Those who have lived through
the useful years of radio know that the
seed of amateur radio, as a rapidly grow-
ing tree, was sown by pioneers of the
American Radio Relay League in U.S.A.,
and that it is from that country the lead
has always been given. U.S.A. from the
commencement realised the importance of
the work of the amateur, and fostered
and encouraged him until to-day there
are over 50,000 licensed American experi-
menters, surrounded by a large number
of big manufacturers who take amateur
suggestions and ideas from published
technical articles, put them into commer-
cial form and waste no time about sup-
plying such material as may be needed.
Many of the valve applications in the
broadcast receiver of to-day are the direct
outcome of amateur research. Such R.F.
insulation material as Isolantite would
not be so well known if many years ago
the amateur had not clamored for some-
thing better than hard rubber and bake-
lite to stand up to the heavy demands of
transmitter application. What is good
for a transmitter is obviously good for
a receiver.
It was the amateur who first played
around with noise-reducing aerial sys-
Where Radiotrons are manufactured —the valve works of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co., Ltd., at
Ash field, Sydney.
terns, and to-day manufacturers sell such
systems for general use. A development
now attracting great attention in U.S.A.
is the new noise-silencing device de-
veloped by Lamb, of the A.R.R.L., and
this is likely to become of great import-
ance generally in the near future.
In the ultra-short-wave field alone the
amateur excels in his findings, and the
once allegedly useless wave-lengths of 10
metres and below are of increasing im-
portance commercially.
So valuable is amateur experience that
one finds, in U.S.A. at least, that the
technical staffs of internationally-known
radio organisations include names well
known in the amateur world. It is to the
amateur that professional radio turns for
new and revolutionary ideas, and in many
instances the “amateur” is more “profes-
sional” than the chap who makes a living
at the game. It is unfortunate that the
title “amateur” means nothing more to
the man in the street than an inferior
sort of hobbyist, but there has always
been something homely about the term
“amateur radio,” and it will probably
never be changed or superseded. The
fact remains that amateur radio, as
known and understood by the world’s
leading radio laboratories overseas, plays
a very important part in the scheme of
things, and the radio business would not
be so progressive as it now is without the
amateur.
The position is tending that way in
Australia, where a leading valve manu-
facturer is paying increasing attention to
amateur ideas, but, compared with other
countries, Australian amateurs are yet
only a handful. Yet it is to the interests
of the manufacturer to co-operate, and
an indication that this is realised will be
found in the Amateur Exhibition now
open in Sydney.
D. B.K.
All Round the Dial.
Diana du Cane, under contract to
J.C.W., has been booked for four
national station appearances. This clever
young artist is experienced in broadcast-
ing, having taken part in a number of
8.8. C. programmes. Among the musical
plays in which she appeared in London
were “Kiss in Spring,” “The Belle of
New York,” “The Country Girl,” “The
Geisha,” “Florodora” and “Jolly Roger.”
Prior to leaving for Australia, she was
principal girl in “Aladdin,” in which Sir
Henry Lytton was the Emperor, with
Davy Burnaby and Stanley Holloway in
the cast.
* * * *
Jack Win, of “Winisms” fame, is now
with the A.B.C. For many years a favor-
ite on the air, he and his sister Nora are
to tour Australian States as Win and
Windle. Some of the offerings for this
tour are “Macbeth in One Breath,” “Now
We Can Laugh Together,” “The Spider
and the Fly” and “Dolly, the District
N" rc; e.” All Jack Win’s material is
original.
Items of world-wide are
dramatised and presented in J’ me
Marches On” over 2UW, relayed from
3DB, on Sunday nights at 7.30 p.m. The
acts presented are complete and a repre-
sentation of vital happenings or issues
throughout the world, giving the news
behind the news. Experienced actors and
radio writers are responsible for the pro-
ductions.
* *■ * *
“After You”: An original idea has
been adopted by a Parisian and a Hun-
garian broadcasting station in the in-
terests of swainless women —a ‘ Lover s
Hour.” An artificial “amoureux” gets
alongside a microphone and whispers
sweet nothings for “the benefit of anony-
mous and invisible lady listeners.” One
images that, if the microphone gigolo
has a soothing and attractive voice,
ladies won’t long stay anonymous or
invisible.
City Short-wave Diallings.
At this time of the year the listener
who wishes to spend an enjoyable even-
ing should build up a good fire, draw to
it a comfortable chair, light his pipe and
forget all about the short waves in the
pages of an interesting book. But il he
should "be cursed by an ungovernable
urge to twiddle the knobs, let him derive
such solace as he can from the Japanese
and the Javanese stations
—there will be little else
to listen to. Sometimes
the local stations VK3LR
and VK3ME provide en-
tertainment for a good
part of the evening, but
usually they fade out by
7.30. Amateurs are
always with us, but they
have almost given up
calling CQDX. Stray
contacts with KAs and a
few Ws are still being
made. Generally speak-
ing, however, local lads
spend their time com-
miserating with one an-
other on the “cracking
up” of the conditions
that have favored them for the last few
months.
Regarding the Japanese and the Java-
nese stations, two changes have been


NOW OPEN!
Amateur Radio and Short-
Wave Exhibition.
Presbyterian Assembly Hall (Lower
Hall), Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Come along—and bring the
youngsters.
Adults 6d. Children 3d.
RADIOTRO NS
ALL METAL" OR “GLASS”-A VALVE FOR EVERY REQUIREMENT
Radiotrons IC4 and !D4 give greater efficiency and
economy in battery consumption.
Insist on your receiver being equipped with Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
,47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street. Melbourne
AdvertisementAdvertisement
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless ValveCompan^jmitSd)
noticed —since May 27 JVN has taken
the place of JVM, and since May 24 no-
thing has been heard of the exceedingly
fine Bandoeng station that had been
operating on about 44.7 m.
One evening a station on 35m., believed
to be lAC, was heard giving an excerpt
from “Traviata.” It was not very strong
and the noise level was high. Another
evening a new Russian, with very poor
modulation, was heard testing on about
34.3 m.
Towards 10 p.m. I generally look for
RVIS Khabarovsk, on 70m. This is
quite a strong station, but much affected
by noise and not yet at its best. Occa-
sionally, however, it comes through very
well. One evening it gave a demonstra-
tion of various kinds of Russian musical
instruments. Some of the effects were
weird in the extreme. The overture to
“Carmen” sounded like a chorus of
kookaburras. The next item was a sort of
bacchanal, produced (apparently) by the
banging of saucepan lids. This was fol-
lowed by most refreshing music ex-
quisitely rendered on balalaikas.
Durihg the daylight hours there is a
number of excellent stations to listen to.
Starting before breakfast, there are
the Daventry stations GSF and GSB (the
third station, GSG, is only just audible).
Until recently GSF was predominant, but
GSB has now come to the fore. An
interesting feature one morning was a
programme marking the four-hundredth
anniversary of the death of Ann Boleyn,
the memorial being in the form of the
delicate songs composed by the royal
lovers.
There are also three good stations
on the 25m. band —the Russian RNE (the
best), the French TPA3 and the German
DJD.
Of the “regulars” on the 31m.
band there are, in addition to GSB, the
station 2RO (not heard so well now)
and the American W2XAF. The last-
mentioned station is somewhat indistinct,
but improves towards 8 a.m. It was
eagerly sought on the morning of May
31 for first news of the Davis Cup. Por-
tion of the match between Crawford and
Budge was heard, but at a critical stage
of the contest the station switched over
to dance music.
Just above GSB on the same morning
one could hear PRFS, Rio de Janeiro.
Another group of stations is heard in
the early morning on the 49m. band.
The German DJC is the strongest, but
all are much affected by the noise. An
interesting member of the group is ZTJ
Johannesburg on 49.2 m., which has fair
strength, announces in Dutch and closes
at 7.45 a.m. with “God Save the King.”
It is heterodyned slightly by another
station, probably the American W3XAL.
Towards 8.30 a.m. on May 24 a station
was heard on about 20.53 m. giving phy-
sical exercise calls, prolonged like
coo-ees, to a pianoforte accompaniment
—very much after the style of what we
have been hearing after 11 p.m. from
XEXA Mexico. Possibly it was the
Mexican, operating at a different time and
on a different wave-length, or possibly
it was the Japanese JVH, staging an imi-
tation. The noise level was high, and
after 8.45 a.m. only the carrier was
audible.
The writer has not had many oppor-
tunities of listening-in during ordinary
working hours, but it has been noted
that GSP at 11 a.m., the Germans DJN
and DJA about lunch-time, and GSB,
GSD' and the French TPA4 and TPA2
in the afternoons have provided excel-
lent entertainment.
The only material alteration in the
time schedule of the German South Asia
programme for June is that DJA now
comes on (with DJB and DJN) at 6.55
p.m. (Sydney time). Every Monday and
Thursday night at 10.15 there is an item
“Greetings to our listeners in Australia,”
while every Tuesday and Friday night
at the same time similar greetings are
sent out to Maorilanders.
P. R. W.
“Bulletin” Test Review*
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy
of attention are tested and given an un-
biased report in this section.)
Astor Model 77 Dual-wave Five-valve
Superheterodyne.
In recent years a great amount of
attention has been given to the question
of battery power for receivers and to
methods of reducing the requisite amount
of power taken by the receiver. The
modern battery receiver emerges from
the laboratory in distinct contrast to its
earlier prototype. No longer are valves
so greedy in filament and plate require-
ments that the user continually has a
hand in his pocket for battery replace-
ments. The modern battery valve is
modest enough to permit multi-valve re-
ceiver design in which a well-charged
accumulator will provide the full fila-
ment potential for several weeks, and the
B batteries, if treated with respect, will
stand up to the work for the best part of
a year. Everything has been improved
out of sight. Even so, it is impossible to
retard the steady march of progress, and
it was inevitable that sooner or later
engineers would concentrate on a reliable
substitute for the plate-supply battery.
This problem has been tackled in
various ways and has passed through
several stages. First there was the high
tension accumulator, but, like the filament
accumulator, this requires careful atten-
tion and constant charging. With a large
number of small cells, it became a messy
process, and in addition was a second
weighty accessory. For the man situated
in the country it was not the easiest item
to transport to the charging station for
attention. Primary cells of the sal
ammoniac type were and are used with
success, and, with maintenance of the
electrolyte as evaporation takes place,
give almost a year’s service before zincs
need renewal. In recent years the com-
pact little rotary generator, powered from
the filament accumulator, has appeared,
and this has become justifiably popular.
Now comes a remarkable development,
pioneered successfully in Australia by the
engineers of Radio Corporation Pty.,
Ltd. (Victoria), and culminating in the
production of two special models of
Astor receivers. For many years, the
principle of the vibratory rectifier for
conversion of low voltage D.C. to high
voltage D.C. has been applied with vary-
ing degrees of success. The earlier
vibrators were simply vibrators. To-day,
the development appears in an excellent
piece of engineering work as a mechani-
cally perfect synchronised vibratory con-
verter, noiseless, smooth in action and
surprisingly easily filtered. It is so well
engineered that not only is it applicable
to a receiver covering the normal broad-
cast range, but to short waves as well.
A short span of time ago this was con-
sidered next to impossible. To-day its
possibility is demonstrated in the Astor
model 77 D.W. superhet submitted to
this Page for test by the N.S.W. joint
distributors, Smith, Sons and Rees,
Wentworth-avenue, and Mick Simmons,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The only battery necessary for the
Astor 77 D.W. is a six-volt 120 A.H.
accumulator. This does everything,
except tune the receiver. The receiver
uses a combination of two-volt valves,
these being IC6, IC4, IC4, 185 and
PM22A. It is well-known, although not
realised by most users, that dial lamps
in battery receivers constitute an appre-
ciable drain. The Astor engineers have
taken care of this in a simple and effec-
tive manner. The main tuning knob
under the dial (which, incidentally, is
particularly attractive) may be pressed in
whilst tuning. This switches on the dial
illumination, which is extinguished on
release of the knob. A small point, but
one which contributes to the remarkably
low drain from the accumulator.
This receiver, in full action, takes just
over one ampere total, and, in so doing,
nothing is lacking. With a reasonably
good external aerial, plenty of power
and volume with good quality is avail-
able from stations near and far on the
broadcast band. On the short-wave side,
the performance is just the same as that
of any other well-designed dual-waver,
but bear in mind that a vibrator is pro-
viding the wherewithal. The faintest hiss
can be heard when searching the short
waves, but when tuned to a station such
as Daventry even under medium recep-
tion conditions this slight hiss sinks
under the station and reproduction is as
clear as if B batteries were used.
As the valves are directly heated, there
is no waiting for the set to “warm up.”
A touch of the control switch, and it is
at once in action. A wide-range tone
control is provided, and the control
Astor 77 D.W. five-valve superhet. Broad-
cast and short waves. Sole power supply,
six-volt accumulator. Price £36 15s.
switch is also combined with the
volume control. The dial is of un-
usual design, and the vernier motion is
neither too slow for broadcast tuning nor
too fast for short waves. On the broad-
, cast range calibration is in frequency,
and on the short waves in metres, with
the important international channels
underlined.
Several hours were spent in testing the
Astor 77 D.W., and the tested drain
from the six-volt accumulator in this par-
ticular case was exactly one ampere.
With a 120 A.H. type, this means, under
average use, around three weeks to each
charge, and if the user has another accu-
mulator ready at the charging station,
there is no delay. The writer considers
this receiver to be a great achievement in
the interests of the country user with
access to accumulator charging, for it
opens a new era. Moreover, it is not a
mere experiment, for the heart of the
receiver is the vibrator, which is made
like a watch. An Astor 77 D.W. is under
a non-stop test, and after several months
there is no sign of noise or trouble. This
model sells at £36 15s. complete with
accumulator, and another, the 77, for
broadcast only, at £3l 10s. They are
available in attractive cabinets, and are
well worth the consideration of people
who must use power other than the
mains for their radio entertainment.
Latest in the Trude.
The hobby of radio construction and
experimentation is akin to other hobbies,
and many radio enthusiasts are also
model engineers and home-handicrafters.
Recently there appeared in Australia a
monthly magazine of a type long needed.
This is the “Model Engineer in Aus-
tralia and N.Z.,” edited by A. M.
Chalmers. Sixpence a copy, it includes a
great deal of hard-to-get information.
The June, 1936, issue contains details for
starting off in “OO” or “HO” gauge in
model railroading, how to build “O”
gauge points, an account of Australia’s
first streamlined locomotive, news from
the model engineering societies, instruc-
tions for building a model vertical engine,
a model aeroplane section and many
other articles of interest.
In “Radio” for May, 1936.
“New High Efficiency Linear Ampli-
fier” ; “Building Big Rheostats”; “The
333 Transmitter”; “Sectional ’Phone-
CW Transmitter”; “Multivibrator Ad-
justment” ; “Low Loss Tank Circuits” ;
and “Efficiency Modulation in Simple
Terms.” In addition to these main
articles there are the usual “Call Heard,”
“DX Department” and “Hams Across
the Sea” sections. The annual subscrip-
tion to this outstanding monthly is now
16s. 6d., and it can be had through The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) Specifications of the broadcast coil in
series with the 79 cathode in the Ideal Amateur
Superhet (B. 15/4/’36) ? (2) What type trans-
former is used in the aerial-coupling unit of
this receiver ? —431.
(1) A T.R.F. coil of the usual number of
turns of almost any gauge wire on a 11 in. or
lin. former will do. The thing is to start
with the coil in circuit, and remove turns
until the 79 oscillates smoothly. No definite
number of turns can be given; it is a matter
for simple experiment. (2) The Faraday screen,
which permits inductive but not capacitative
coupling between the coils. Such a screen
can be made up from one of the old-time
broadcast coils, wound with spaced wire on
celluloid. Cut a piece from the coil to the
required dimensions, bare the wires at one
end only, and connect to earth.
* * * *
I have a five-valve broadcast receiver with a
fixed tickler coil, and wish to convert it for
short waves. (1) Using a .000 35mfd. tuning and
.00015m/d. reaction condenser, would coverage
from 10 to 40 and 40 to 80 metres be possible
with two six-pin plug-in coils ? (2) If so,
what size former, gauge of wire and turns are
necessary ? (3) Would an R.F. choke have to
be in series with the plate of the last valve
and the speaker jack 2—436.
(1) and (2) Three coils would be necessary to
take in the 10-metre band. For this, three
turns of 22 copper spaced over lin. for the
grid, and 21 turns of the same wire lin. distant
from the grid coil, would give coverage from
around 10 metres to 18 metres. For 15 to 50
metres, seven turns of'22 copper for the grid,
spaced the diameter of the wire, with four turns
for the plate coil, would be suitable. For 40
to 80 metres, 20 turns of 28 enamelled, close-
wound, for the grid, and eight turns of the
same gauge for the plate coil. Coils all on
IJin. formers. (3) No, but its inclusion is a
safeguard against wandering signals at high
frequencies, due to stray R.F. in the output
leads.


The Worlds Best
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
USEFUL DATA ON DODGE D 2.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12 4-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.K. in top in 8 1-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 25ft. Gin.
Maximum speed, 76.59 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 21.4 m.p.g.
“SILVER
EDGE »*
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-8 FLACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.t JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC. _
The Steering Column.
OVER THE TEST COURSE WITH
THE DODGE D2.
EASY TO DRIVE, SILENT IN OPERATION AND
SOUNDLY CONSTRUCTED.
BY FRED BERRY.
DODGE, for 1936, has produced a splendid range of cars;
roomier and better in appearance than models that have
written an uninterrupted story of success and dependability
for 22 years.
The chassis is heavier and more strongly braced than in
earlier models, while the Safe-T-Steel body is integral with
the frame, the result being an assembly that, as shown by tests
conducted by the “Hell Drivers” recently, offers passengers
and driver maximum protection in case of accident and at the
same time ensures a long life of trouble-free service without
developing annoying squeaks or rattles.
Body profile is smooth and pleasing,
the designer having succeeded in apply-
ing modern aerodynamic principles to the
shaping of such fittings as headlights,
horns, fenders and guards without dis-
turbing balance or appearance.
Fuel economy, silence of operation,
and durability of motor and transmis-
sion mechanism are enhanced by the in-
Dodge D2 four-door touring sedan, with new type sloping windscreen,
streamlined built-in luggage compartment and generally neat body profile.
elusion of an overdrive device, built
into the gearbox, which automatically
reduces engine speed by approximately
one third after the car has attained
cruising speed.
Particular attention has been given to
both seating accommodation and pas-
senger comfort, the new design provid-
ing ample room for three abreast in
both front and back seats, while a re-
distribution of weight and adjustable
shock-absorbers ensure a comfortable
and safe ride regardless of load.
The L-head engine is suspended in
the chassis on floating power, live
rubber mountings. The six cylinders,
having a bore of 3fin. by stroke of
4fin., provide a piston displacement of
217.8 cubic inches, and, while the R.A.C.
rating is 25.35 h.p., maximum b.h.p. is
82 at 3600 r.p.m., using a compression
ratio of 5.6 to 1.
Cylinders are cast en bloc of grey
iron, water jackets extending full length
of cylinder bore. The upper half of the
crankcase is integral with the block, with
heavy cross webbing to preserve the
alignment of crankshaft bearings. Special
provision is made for cooling the
exhaust-valve seats by fitting a distri-
buting tube in the water passage run-
ning the full length of the block. With
this method, cool water directly from
the pump is sprayed against the exhaust-
valve seats, which are the hottest points
of the engine.
Pistons are aluminium-alloy steel-
strut type, with two compression and
two oil retaining rings positioned above
the gudgeon pin. The gudgeon pin
floats in the piston boss, and is held in
position by two spring-steel circlips.
Side-by-side valves are used, the
exhaust-valve sealings being hardened
steel inserts, shrunk into the cylinder
block. Connecting rods are of I-beam
section, matched in weight and fitted
with steel-backed re-
movable bearings. The
crankshaft is excep-
tionally strong and
runs on four main
bearings. Seven coun-
terweights are cast in-
tegral with the shaft,
which is also balanced
statically and dynami-
cally and fitted with a
friction-type impulse
neutraliser on the
front end.
The camshaft runs
in four babbitt-lined
bearings, and is driven
from the crankshaft by a short, silent
chain.
Lubrication is by full pressure system,
oil being drawn from the sump by a
spur-gear pump and delivered to main,
connecting-rod and camshaft bearings
through oilways drilled in the crank-
case and cylinder block. An efficient
purifying unit is placed in the oil line,
while an effective crankcase ventilating
system prevents contamination
of sump oil by partly burned
fuel or dust particles sus-
\ pended in the air.
The electrical equipment
is six-volt of separate unit
type, the heavy duty
generator being air-
cooled and capable of
charging continuously at
from 15 to 18 amperes
without risk of over-
heating or damage to in-
i' sulation. A voltage con-
trol regulates the charge
under all conditions. The
starter motor is of the
positive-shift type, in
which pinion and ring gear
are brought into mesh before
current is applied. The starter
button is located on the instrument
panel. Ignition is by coil and batterv.
the distributor head being fitted with
automatic spark advance controlled by
vacuum.
Distributor drive is by skew gears
from the camshaft. Plugs are 14mm.
diameter, and firing order is 1,5, 3,6, 2
and 4. A Stromberg down-draught
Ride stabiliser and double-acting shock-absorbers
fitted to front-end suspension to resist rolling on
corners.
carburettor is fitted to a specially-
designed exhaust manifold in which
provision is made for pre-heating gas
before entering cylinders, the degree of
heating being controlled by a thermostat.
Fuel is drawn from a 12gal. tank at
the rear by means of a mechanical pump
driven by an eccentric from the cam-
shaft. An efficient filter and settling
bowl is incorporated in the fuel line.
An oil-bath air cleaner and intake
silencer is attached to the carburettor,
while to promote easy starting in cold
weather and avoid flooding of cylmdeis
the choke control is automatically icgu-
lated by a thermostat, and a similar
unit is positioned in the water-inlet pipe
above the cylinder block. Fan,-water
impellor and generator are driven by a
flexible rubber belt from the crankshaft
The Dodge front-end is artistically
designed, the radiator pattern being re-
peated in miniature in the horn grilles.
pulley. The clutch is of single-plate dry-
disc type, the housing being slotted on
both sides to promote air currents and
so cool the assembly when operating
under heavy loads.
Transmission gives three speeds for-
ward and one reverse, all gears being
synchro-shift silent helical cut.
The car tested was fitted
with an overdrive unit, in-
corporated in the rear of
the gearbox, which auto-
matically comes into opera-
tion at 38 to 40 m.p.h. In
the overdrive the engine
revs, are reduced one third
for any given road speed.
From 0 to 40 in normal
driving the car freewheels
when the foot is lifted from
the accelerator. Both free-
wheel and overdrive can be
locked out at will by mov-
ing a push-pull control
mounted on the steering
column. Final drive is of Hotchkiss
type, the open propeller shaft being fitted
with needle roller bearings front and
rear.
Rear axle is semi-floatmg, with taper
roller bearings. Crown wheel and pinion
are spiral bevel-geared, the reduction


■
ar—
■
cm
“Makes
Finish
LAST LANCER”
SOM) BY ALL GOOD MOTOR STORES.
SMALL, 2/6; LARGE, 5/-.
VEEDOI
MOTOR OIL
coxt pint
Ct woM itilt be cheap
Yet —It costs no more than
other oils.
Veedol, the world’s best
Motor Oil. 100 per cent. '
Pure Pennsylvania.
Obtainable everywhere. j
&
"S
/
ye®oi
m
V
V 27
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LIMITED All Stales
fit-
Olympic
Australia's Champion Tyre
Obtainable Leading Garages, Tyre Dealers
and Service Stations throughout Australia.
s
MADE
IN AUSTRALIA...
BY AUSTRALIANS
ratio being 4.3 to 1 (in overdrive, 3.03
to 1). The rear axle housing is of banjo
type, made of pressed steel.
The frame is of double drop, girder
and box type construction, with X-braced
centre, side members being outswept to
conform to body profile. Wheelbase is
116 in., and minimum ground clearance
Bjin.
Front springs are semi-elliptic, with
full-length double-main leaves, shackled
Shell of the all-steel body. Panels are welded to the steel
frame. Steel doors, cross braced, and pressed-steel floor
form a solid unit with chassis.
at front end. Rear are semi-elliptic, with
silent U threaded shackles, and at the
front end compressed rubber bushings.
Front and rear springs are encased in
metal covers. Shock-absorbers are
hydraulic, with thumbscrew adjustment
for tension. Front-end sway is pre-
vented by using a hydraulically-con-
trolled stabilising bar attached to the
front shock-absorber arms.
Steering gear is of worm and sector
type, the reduction ratio being 18.2 to 1.
Road shock is almost wholly eliminated
by fitting a kick shackle on the rear of
the left front spring. Turning circle is
40ft.
Four-wheel hydraulic brakes are fitted,
the dual cylinders in each wheel assembly
being stepped up to equalise pressure
over the entire braking surface. Brake
drums are steel with cast-iron liners.
The handbrake operates on the transmis-
sion immediately behind the gearbox.
The bodywork is Safe-T-Steel by-
Richards, and in the fitting of all-steel
bodies it may be noted that Dodge
pioneered the type in Australia by using
an all-steel body on the tourer model in
1914, and introduced an all-steel closed
type in ’23.
The new design is extremely rigid and
free from vibration or drumming. The
body is rigidly bolted to the frame
members at side and bottom, the steel
floor giving additional stiffening to the
chassis. Windscreen and side windows
are non-shatterable glass, and particular
attention has been given to the method
of opening windows to promote best
ventilation. Dual electric wipers are
located in the scuttle, the blades being
hinged at the bottom. The driver’s seat
is adjustable. A spacious luggage trunk,
streamlined and inbuilt with the reai
panel, is fitted to touring sedans. Rear
seats in such cases are provided with
rigid pressed steel cross bracing to pre-
vent distortion of body. All closed
bodies are sound-
proofed and insu-
lated against heat
and cold.
The car tested
was a type D 2
Dodge four-door
touring sedan,
fitted with free-
wheel and over-
drive. Speedo-
meter reading was
3200 miles, and
the car was driver
by J. Allport, of
Harden and John-
ston, Ltd., N.S.W.
distributors. The
car, with driver,
observer and full
fuel tank, weighed
32|cwt.
In traffic the
comparatively low
ratio given in con-
ventional gear pro-
vid e d excellent
acceleration, while
brakes, steering
and general manoeuvrability were in
keeping with Dodge reputation. On
open roads beyond the metropolitan
area the overdrive was brought into use
at between 35 and 40 m.p.h., the result-
ant lower engine revs, rendering the
running smoother and quieter than is
usual in conventional drive.
Method of cooling clutch. Air enters at
intake, and after circulating through the
assembly is expelled through slots in the
housing.
A test of rolling was made from a
steady speed of 15 m.p.h., the car cover-
ing 684 yards before stopping.
Maximum speed, . clocked over a
measured mile with flying start, showed
an average of 76.59 miles per hour, time
taken being 47sec. Overdrive was used
throughout.
Journeying towards Kurrajong on the
country section road through Grose
Vale suspension and roadholding
qualities were severely tested, much of
the road being in course of repair. The
car behaved satisfactorily throughout.
Taking 3min. 22sec. to climb the final
difficult section (2 1-5 miles) of Kurra-
jong Mountain, the Dodge again showed
to advantage in negotiating the difficult
bends without undue skidding or sway.
On the return journey slow running
and acceleration were tested, each over
350 yards. Slow-running section was
timed in 3min. 55sec., averaging 3.1
m.p.h., followed immediately by accelera-
tion, clocked in 15 3-ssec., crossing the
finishing line at 60 m.p.h., and averaging
46.1 m.p.h.
From 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top and
second gear occupied 8 l-ssec. and
5 4-ssec. respectively, while from 0 to
50 m.p.h. through gears took 12 4-ssec.
From 25 m.p.h. the hydraulic brakes
stopped the car in 25ft. 6in.
The total distance of the test was
120.5 miles, and fuel consumed was
sgal. 5 pints, averaging 21.4 m.p.g.
(34.8 ton miles), a result which at an
average road speed of 36.7 m.p.h. must
be considered satisfactory.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
E. (Largs Bay, S.A.).— Are the Gwynne
Eight cars still sold in Australia, and can in-
struction-books be obtained ?
Know of no distributor handling these cars.
Some reader of this page may have an old
handbook.
F. (Coorparoo, Q.).—/ have a ’34 model
car in which the shock-absorbers have proved
unsatisfactory, resulting in broken springs.
Would you advise buying a different type of
shock-absorber ?
Any two-way hydraulic shock-absorber would
give better results than the existing equipment,
but cost of installation would be rather heavy.
Suggest first approaching local dealer for cost
of reconditioning present fittings.
* * '!'
C.B. (Ardlethan, N.S.W.). —/ am thinking
of buying an eight-cylinder car (27,000 miles)
which, although not showing sufficient cylinder
wear to warrant a rebore, uses a great deal of
oil. Would you advise piston expanders or are
these gadgets merely a temporary expedient
and one of the ways of patching up a job for
quick sale ?
Some piston expander? bring about a de-
cided improvement in performance and in oil
consumption. Owing, however, to greater pres-
sures on cylinder walls wear is far more rapid
than in normal practice, and a rebore is soon
necessary. Suggest reboring or relining immedi-
ately and saving cost of a somewhat doubtful
experiment.


THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise, you ,do not consider
the money involved as? a speculation.
You treat this expenditure as an invest-
ment, and expect a reasonable, return
on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in
the affairs and development of Victoria.
Its present powerful, position has been
.gained by its literary worth, which
appeals to an intelligent public, and by
its accurate and complete news service.
These factors, having a direct bearing
on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser
looking for the best INVESTMENT
for his advertising expenditure.
Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National Advertisers
If you wish to cover
all Tasmania you
must use
Che mercury
This National Daily reaches all
portions of the State on the day of
publication, and the greater propor-
tion before breakfast.
"The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
Newspaper which gives an A.B.C.
Certificate of circulation. Its circu-
lation exceeds that of the combined
totals of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Per inch per thousand of circulation
its advertising rates are the lowest
in the State.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office; iLisgar l House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON, LTD., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
If we could
only tell YOU
What WE know
about our,
customers’ results
THEN . . .
Everyone with
Goods to Sell
would “be in”
“The News”
ADELAIDE’S ONLY
EVENING NEWSPAPER
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd.. North terrace.
MELBOURNE—A. G. Pike. First Floor
Newspaper House. Collins street.
SYDNEY— P. A. Messenger. Warwick
Building. Hamilton- street.
LONDON—P. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludeatt
Hill E.C.4.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
V /
v/®
Tasmania’s Oldest and most
Modern Newspaper
The Examiner
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering Northern Tasmania the same day of publication.
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North,
Full information, copies, and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l-
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney. __
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6A>I has its aerial
on lop of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
Advertisement
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
“I’ve had nothing from you but excuses and
broken appointments. Suspicion grew —naturally. I'm
a woman who can make allowances for the weaknesses
,of.a man, I hope;.but I.have feelings, Paul. I didn’t
want to judge you hastily. I asked questions—tact-
fully. Then you told me a confused story about this
woman doctor in Papua. A pretty story! She was
this, she was that, she was something else. All the
virtues rolled out with your enthusiasm, and none
of the vices. You had grown fond of her, and hinted
that you were not sure how it was going to end. I
could see. What had happened. You ran into this
woman in a place filled with naked savages. Almost
any woman would seem attractive under those con-
ditions.”
He wanted to interrupt again, to tell her quickly
that Joyce needed no help from her background. But
Lola sensed his unspoken protest, and would not
treat it seriously. - ,
“I can understand how it happened, Silly boy!
Haven’t 1 been in some of those foreign places where
the air gets into your blood and you discover some
of the things that don’t matter? It’s so easy—and
so old, so everlasting! I told you that. I told you
it would fade away from you if you gave it time. A
few weeks, a month or two .at the outside, and your
pretty doctor woman would be a nice little memory
to pop into your mind while you smoked an after-
dinner cigarette or lay in bed longer than was good
for you. You agreed with me, too. - You admitted
that things went that way, and that perhaps you had
made too much fuss about it. This was weeks ago.
And now, quite by chance, I hear from Luke Redfern
that you’re planning to be married. Do you think
this is pleasant for me?” -
At first her words flowed all, around him in con-
fusion, and he thought of. nothing except that Lola
was upset and annoyed, and that he must do his best
to smooth her down. But presently he found himself
balanced precariously between two necessities that
conflicted. He had to soothe Lola, and he had to
protect his attitude towards Joyce.
The divan was becoming restless at his continued
silence.
“Lola,” he said, making an effort, “we’ve talked
so often about our friendship, and it has been equal
to a great deal. Don’t you think it could stand this?”
His words died weakly into silence.
‘ “I mean,” he went on, plunging at last, “I’m truly
in love, I want to marry her.”
He was breathing heavily after this effort, and
he was alarmed at the new quality of her silence.
The divan was very still. He stood up and began to
walk along the edge of shadow.
“I mean that,” he said as firmly as he could. “1
never meant anything quite so much. I’m in love
with Joyce. I’ve got to have her. I’m going to marry
her as soon as she reaches England.”
He had not behaved quite as he had planned.
His feelings had been too strong for him, and now
he was out in the open, committed to his decision. A
belated fear that he had been too abrupt drove him
to appeal to her.
“Lola, I hate talking to you like this. It’s going
to break down so much that’s been good between us.
But I want you to see clearly what this means to me.
I want you to understand. You can understand, if
you want to. You’re a woman of the world, and you
know how these things happen. I used to think I
had escaped ; I liked to think my affair with you
was complete and satisfying. But out in Papua there
came a change, and since then I’ve had to look at
everything from a new standpoint. I’m quietly put-
ting things aside and behind me and moving towards
a new life. And I feel that I’m entitled to it. Isn’t
it true, Lola, that we move along in stages, that there
are experiences proper to each stage, and that when
these experiences come to an end we should be honest
and brave in our farewells?” •
He had tried to speak sincerely, but there was
something in the room that held him in check and
made his words sound weak and commonplace in
his own ears. And he understood the nature of this
obstruction when Lola ended another silence by break-
ing into *laughter. It was low and quiet at first, but
as the cushions became agitated it grew into a louder
and throbbing note, rising almost to shrillness. Paul
listened at first without moving, and then shrugged
his shoulders and turned away.
“I wish you wouldn’t start me off like this,” gasped
Lola. “My,poor Paul! If only you could have heard
yourself—so solemn and stupid! My dear, this sort
of thing doesn’t suit you at all. You’re not really in
earnest about it; you simply can’t make it ring true.
1 know you! You’re full of impulses and postures
that aren't really your own. You go along borrowing
something from other people and wearing it on your
sleeve ; and when you try to pretend that it comes
from your heart your voice betrays you.”
She began to laugh again.
“You’re in love! You want to marry; in fact,
you’re going to marry—so there! Come here, Paul,
and listen to me. I’ve something to tell you.”
Unwillingly he went to her.
“Down here! That’s better. There’s room for
two on this divan if we throw a few cushions over-
board.”
The cushions began to disappear until he was
able to seat himself beside her and look down into
a face now clearly to be seen. She had wriggled
upright, and was watching his face. He felt her plump
shoulders move against him. Her warmth and soft-
ness began to surround him.
“Look at me, Paul.”
He obeyed involuntarily and found that his face
was being slowly drawn to hers. Perfume spread
about him ; her mouth touched his, and he felt her
arms around him. There were warmth and sweetness
and the clinging of lips.
She pushed him away, but kept her hands on his
arms.
“I’ve only one thing to say, Paul, and it’s this.
If you feel an overpowering need for marriage you
must have it. Personally, I think you’re foolish ; but
it might be, as you say, that you’ve come to the end
of a stage. You want a change, and you shall have
one. I’ll not stand in your way. But if you must
marry you’ll marry.me!”
Her grip tightened on his arms as he made an
attempt to move away.
“Don’t wriggle! I mean this. You re mine,
Paul! You’ve been mine for two —almost three
years. Haven’t I been good to you? Haven’t 1 fitted
in with your moods and strange ideas? Haven t 1
waited around for you, content with the background?
Paul! Paul! Why are you making both of us
unhappy in this way? Can’t you see that you need
me, just as you’ve always needed me? What use
could a young girl be to you? It wouldn’t last. Believe
me, my dear, 1 can look a long way ahead, and 1 can
see how it would end. There would be misunder-
standing and an adjustment. You would want to come
back to me ; but perhaps it would be too late then.
Is it worth while breaking up our lives like this? ’
“You don’t know Joyce,” he muttered. “She s
not just a young girl. She’s an intelligent and beauti-
ful woman.”
Lola started.
“Beautiful, did you say? i see! You think you ve
grown tired of me and would like to turn to a new
face.”
She made an effort, choking back jealousy.
“It won’t do, Paul. You must let me help you.
We’ll put an end to this foolishness. And now
tell me more. When will Joyce Manson be in
England?”
“Why do you want to know?”
“Because 1 feel I can help you. How often I’ve
done it in the past! Haven’t you been glad of me,
Paul? * Time after time I’ve come along and lifted a
worry from your shoulders. And why shouldn’t I
help you now, even though you feel, in your stubborn
way, that you don’t want to be helped?”
He was beginning to feel submerged. There was
a strength, in Lola which lay embedded in softness
and yet could reach out and break down his opposi-
tions. He hated his weakness and feared her strength.
Even now she was tugging at him, not with her arms
—which lay passive;—but with a conscious and directed
force.
“It’s no use, Lola,” he exclaimed. “We’ve come to
an end, I wanted to be decent about it, but if we
can’t have a quiet ending I’ll have to take what’s offer-
ing. It’s your own fault if there has to be bitterness.”
He stood up and looked around for hat and
stick.
“Where are you going?”
“I don’t know. Out of here into fresh air, away
from your perfume and your stuffy room. I’m
finished, Lola, and I’m sorry. But you can’t keep me.
Good-bye! ”
“Good-bye, Paul!”
Her voice stayed him. It was quiet, almost
pensive.
“Where’s my hat?” he muttered irritably.
“Over here by the divan. You’ll have to come
quite close to me to get it. Be careful, my dear!”
(To be continued next week.)


masterpiece is ['Perfection
J {he spirit he always serves.
I i
U
Kr
m
m
m
'S
aisPßr*
H
r
la
7
r
«intwiinwaitmmfrwttimwmxitMMi ■•■ ir-rv- i iuuimMtn^»f»ffl T^wfni>inm»i “‘ i "irrr!i trt f*‘ l ** tl
(D c Callum’s
35?0 (C/A/sAy js
OTCaUums
Scots CUbisky
A. 9,UT**~~
( W«#«f l|9|j
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO. Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle, MACFARLANE BROS. & CO,, Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
nil
i k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and Mew
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
<oi
&
V
W
O o*v
O vo v e
w
A' 6
w'° e
„ S 6 ' ,
VI' 6 '
o'
-jo'**
C"


■ '
ALSO IN
r
■<
■
BY
APPOINTMENT
HID
T-A O
TO
H.M.THE KING
Mv
V Accordance y 9 OrV
ltl req« esU ’ 1,0
o«f rio'W / b c oZ . fl^ S>
Gto lS b . uv
7 a «t>ecw 1 /
itv 1 , v.«ve S V, Wit
gr
sa
mm
s®*e
'iarv;*
flfci
v
pfe./ v
aa§ss§Ss'
>833
iyfcj
%»o ?■ -
' 3ts^Gfe
■.
’Vf 9-<
ft«i
vr
;
I
iffl
aSs?
MtwliV
• u„n f
l "« H.,i
"' l*.
n* J
i m
m?
m
“ H, kw
Nn m
ii. -
its
te;
■w.-
•f.:X:-.
IfV<-
0.4„,
nl >..
K'l- *«-,
'6 uzs
V.
p
r
KS
: s':;
Don’t sai| Gin, saq GI LB E Y 5
