

NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
AUSTRALIA
■Sf shovel’
mkmuQ so ton
OUAR&Y WACOQNS
CGAI
iSTACKIHG |
O
O
Q
04
CP
*jm&
List of Manufactures.
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
.FISHPLATE'S f
BRIDGE AND-g) .
SLEEPER PLATES,
PLATES \
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
SHEET PILING
ANGLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
“Quality Products’’
All Made in Australia.
n,’he BROKEN HILL
PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
Mine Owners, Ship Owners, Iron and Steel
Manufacturers and Colliery Proprietors
Offices;
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH and LONDON
Works: Newcastle (N.S.W.). Iron Knob (S.A.), Devonport (Tag.), Broken Hill (N.S.B .)
The Bulletin
Ex-King and Archbishop
Vol. 58.—N0. 2969.
Wednesday, January 6, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
will be sent Free and Post Free to any
address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
m
cnvce
u •
imi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 337
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution, to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
I'he trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year's Prize.
The Red Page
Lines Written in a Dictionary.
I his book, all other books above,
is not lor reading, but for love,
Companion through the poet’s life
And inexhaustible as a wife.
Complete, it holds within its ken
Mind-prints of every wandering pen;
Howe’er remote his travels are
Others, he finds, have been as far;
If he, by chance, sees something more
’Tis so by what was seen before.
When young, to read is but to look
Adventurously from book to book;
In turn discovering left from right
Unconsciously by gift of sight;
Smooth, rough, straight, crooKed, all are found
Merely by moving over ground,
No need to have a map or plan
When all is new where’er you scan;
So then a dictionary may be small
From life and authors one learns all.
But when by writing forty years
The dawn of consciousness appears
As to Galileo’s eyes
A glass had multiplied the skies
Language’s completest book
Is needed for the poet’s look.
Now he reads with patient stare
Every minutia has his care,
Within his head a boundless chart
(The astronomer’s starry counterpart)
Plotted by daily labor grows
Filled with the wealth of all he knows.
Symbols of every size and shape,
Colors of every shade and hue
Meaning o’er dot-like myriads drape
Like sounds to the musician’s view;
Each day obscurity unrolls
Its dragon wonder-guarding scrolls,
The constellations of the mind
Are left like glittering prints behind
And trackless dart the poet’s eyes
Like meteors through lightless skies
Skeining intricacy of thought
Circling profundities of naught
Hanging the dark of Plato’s cave
With the dead jewellery of the grave.
Imagination's living light
Hovers around, on blackest night
Illumination’s studs shine bright.
Dark as a cloud the poet sits
Bright through the world his scattered wits!
W. J. Turner, in “Songs and Incantations” (Dent).
Some looks on Japan.
One of
Smile in Real Jjipan, hy E. ?K. Venables (Harrap ;
10s. 6d. net), is jo the-effect that Nippon, individually
and nationally, is a HollyWbbdcn whale for publicity.
There should be little complaint on this score in the
Land of the Rising Sun just at present. Samson
would stagger under the bulk of books lately written
on the country by outsiders who have been inside for
various periods.
Most of these authors are of the quaint order
of literary heavyweights who look on everything on
God s green earth as a Problem ; and anyone who
wants to see what can really be done in this line is
commended to Freda Utley’s Japan's Feet of Clay
(Faber and Faber; 15s. net). This lady dislikes Japan.
She speaks of its much romanticised people with
voluble contempt. Her thesis, very roughly, is that
I V, a^? ne Japs will one day be a most formid-
able nation, but at present they could be walloped
with ease—an opportunity, presumably, for a Haile
Silassie. She even has evidence to prove the Japanese
can’t fight; the moujik, it seems, could eat him up,
ricenelds and all. The moral seems to be that some-
body should go in while the going is good and down
with the Menace. There are enough figures to satisfy
an auditor-general, and along with them goes enough
derogatory stump oratory to knock the smile off half
Nippon—or double it. The lady merits full marks
for getting together such a weighty mass of various
statistics, whatever one may think of such stuff as a
means of understanding a people.
For the diametrically opposite view the searcher
after contrasts can be commended to Captain Malcolm
D Kennedy s The Problem of Japan (Nisbet; 15s.
net). On this writer’s reckoning both America and
Britain could tackle Nippon and enjoy a bloody bat-
tering before they won to a victory about as econo-
mically profitable as that had over Germany. He sees
Japan s position as very like that of England ; Korea,
Manchukuo .and thereabout taking the place of Belgium
fnt c defence scheme, and also providing a colonising
job that will keep Nippon occupied for many years
to come—unless, that is, any nation is. foolhardy
enough to take such a lead as seems to be implicit in
the work of Miss Utley.
Captain Kennedy is as light reading as Miss Utley
ll , mo^ e P urel y Pleasurable than either is
the Venables work. This author has been a professor
m Japanese colleges, and has probably had too much
to do with setting problems for students to worrv
about whether Nippon is another. He writes, as
tew on the subject seem able to do, as one who has
seen the place whole and understood as much of it
as was understandable to a foreigner. He runs no
risk through his book of ever being made a Japanese
count, though it is possible that an exceptionally well-
educated Japanese might read it, if not with pleasure,
with no overpowering urge to homicide.
In manner it has the qualities of first-rate travel
literature: it gives a clear impression of the place
as seen by an active and acute observer; seems to
bring all the population alive, individually, in shops
at galas and in whole streetfuls ; roams up and down
the land; has something to say about every conceiv-
able aspect of the country and the life of its people.
The author has not come to worship: he is there to
see, and he leaves the conviction that he is seeing
clearly, a victim neither to preconceived notions, wish
idealism nor malice. He will doubtless disturb those
whose version of Nippon is romantic with cherry-
blossoms and equally those whose version is that
Japan is abreast, or a stride or two ahead, of
‘'Western” progress. He thinks Nippon, like the
Soviet, is in industrialism making a great to do of
XYZ without having yet reached ABC. His
The name “Children’s Paradise,” so often used by
those who have seen little or nothing of Japan, is
surely one of the most ironical titles ever bestowed oil
this little-known land.
is characteristic of criticism pointed at many aspects
ot the land and its life. He describes Nippon’s famous
smile as “a desperate facial contortion” and Nippon’s
laugh as “surely the sorriest travesty of a laugh ever
made by human race.” “Some devoted foreign women,”
he says, have founded an S.P.C.A. in Japan—just about
as upbill a task as could be imagined,” which state-
ment is perhaps enough without going into his sup-
porting evidence. He finds on all sides that the core
of the people’s life, the explanation of the real medie-
valism underlying the veneer of horn-rimmed moder-
nity, is the national expression “Shikata ga nai!” (“It
can’t be helped!”). Such public services as railways
and fire brigades he sees as mostly a fussy joke, like
the education system in which cribbing is a tradi-
tional custom and diplomas a mark of the effluxion
of time: here, as elsewhere, however, he is as quick
to praise, and the serious students he rates the equal
of anything he has met in a pretty wide range of
nationalities. He commits the probable heresy Of
fixing this people’s origin in the South Seas; makes
the remarkable assertion that they are physiologically
incapable of being good airmen (“some peculiarity
m their brain and nervous system militates against
the stability of the Japanese as aviators”), and gives
details of a spy mania at once so prevalent and so
childlike that pulling Nippon’s leg in retaliation has
become a popular pastime of foreigners.
But all this and considerably more criticism not-
withstanding, his manner is genuinely friendly, he is
full of good humor and warm human feeling, and his
book is so well done, so sunny and pleasant that it
is found exceptionally interesting and entertaining to
read though it shatters illusions On evsry page.
Stephen Spender.
Tt has often been said in defence of the shallow-
ness and discordance of modern poetry that the
clamorous haste of the machine age makes serenity
in art impossible The necessity to be deeper than
his age has always been the poet’s problem. Stephen
Spender, whose blend of lyrical intensity with socio-
logical passion has caused him to be compared with
Shelley, is two poets- —one the deep eye, and one the
impotent mirror. It was Spender the mirror who
wrote:
Who live under the shadow of a war
What can I do that matters?
And it was Spender the mirror who in “Vienna” was:
A stranger, a witness .free from danger, observing
The lying snakes, the favorites of the sun,
Those twisting ministers, infest a land
Where all'the twigs seem snakes, and where all pops,
The backfire of a car, a tactless cough
From traitor Fey, seem bombs.
These poems, with their harsh, jerky, movietone
rhythm, resembling T. S. Eliot’s “Triumphal March,”
show Spender obsessed with images of contemporary
politics. He confesses it himself with
This century chokes me under roots of night.
Yet the very poem from which the last quotation
is taken reveais a poet aware of other ages than this,
aware, beneath the immediate chaos, of the deep
pathos, of the changing of the old order:- —
Real were iron lines, and smashing the grass
The cars in which we ride, and real our compelled time:
Painted on enamel beneath the moving glass
Unreal were cows, the wave-winged storks, the lime:
These burned in a clear world from which we pass
Like rose and love in a forgotten rhyme.
“Vienna” is a mirror reflecting chaos, and hence is
valueless except as a historical document, but the last
quotation is an unreality imposed on the country-
side by a mind seeing the present time in relation
to all time. In this mood, when he sees beyond to-day
... .Oh, but Time
Monstrous with stillness like the Himalayan range
Spender is worth reading. And when he forgets time
altogether he is a very fine poet. He can make poetry
out of a train:
The song of her whistle screaming at curves,
Of deafening tunnels, brakes, innumerable bolts
And always light, aerial, underneath
Goes the elate metre of her wheels.
And of love:
Your body is stars, whose million glitter here:
1 am lost among the branches of this sky
Here near my breast, here in my nostrils, here
Where our vast arms like streams of fire lie.
Spender can slip into bathos, write the astounding line
My patents kept me from children who were rough,
and when he is hypnotised by the post-war political
Situation he is little more than a bad newsreel, but
he frequently has something worth while to say, and
most of the time he says it very well indeed.
Douglas Stewart.
Fat Book, Thin Story.
A boy went into a lending library and asked
for two large books. “Which books?” inquired the
librarian. “Any books,” said the boy. “But what
sort of books?” the librarian persisted. “I don’t
mind so. long as they are fat,” answered the boy.
“But you must have a preference,” the librarian
declared. I haven’t,” said the boy. “I only
Want them to sit on.”
There are many books suitable for sitting on
produced to-day. They invite the reader’s mind to
sit down and take a holiday, Competently planned
and written, they yet mean in the mass exactly nothing.
A urtit in this aggregate, a drop in this literary
Dead Sea, is The Lovely Girl, by Alec Brown (Boris*
Wood ; Bs. 6d.). It is a fat book with a thin story.
It is innocuity perfected. Sylvia Lang wins, Very
casually indeed, a beauty competition in connection
with a film company, but soon discovers the Srtag
and throws away her two-edged, opportunities; but
not before her young man has been alienated. Her
next venture is marriage with a rich, aristocratic, duil-
eyed gentleman called Selwyn Pightie. .She discovers
more cheapness in life and leaves him quite casually.
Then she meets her first young man again and they
marry—after a casual divorce—and" settle down to
suburban peace until the Depression mops them up.
They find themselves in tribulation, but the end is
comfortable if nol happy.
Though it is a long book each incident has the
air of being passed over hastily without being allowed
to grow to its full stature. All is smooth and shallow..
Sylvia is a nice girl. (“Her thoughts were extra-
ordinarily clean.”) The prose is respectable. But
there is no reality in it all. It is featureless.
A New Australian Writer.
Notwithstanding much inferential criticism that
can be lumped generically under the title “Instruc-
tions to Australian Authors,” books of literary interest
are appearing with reasonable frequency, a condition
much happier than the stagnation of'a few years ago.
The latest arrival is The Tramp and Other Stories, by
Dal Stivens (Macmillan ; 65.).
< Though the work in it is not all of the best quality,
it seems entitled, as a whole, to the balance of favor-
able opinion. It has two faults. One is a tendency
to over-estimate the story value of material. That,
of course, raises a question as to what is a short story.
Anton Tchekov and Katherine Mansfield, admittedly,
got along quite well without plots, but it is difficult
to see how anecdotes like “The Snare” ‘To Love That
Well” and “Night Flight,” even in the most skilful
hands, could have more than paragraph value.
The other fault is what appears to be a tendency,
varying in its intensity, toward artistic eclecticism ; as
if the writer—like many others before him at a certain
point of their development—had yielded to sugges-
tion as to what he should look for in life as material
for art. It is most noticeable in such stories as “Some
Day” and “The Teacher pf Literature,” which have
no definite setting. The first is in the stream-of-
eonsciousness method of narration and registers the
thoughts of a temporarily-discouraged social reformer
contemplating humanity. The second, without say-
ing so until the end, describes a school-teacher’s ner-
vous breakdown. This eclecticism—if such it is—
does not cause Stivens to distort his subject matter
to fit an artistic theory, nor does it prevent him tell-
ing an effective tale. “Prison” is a convincing descrip-
tion of a woman’s recapture of a man to whom she
has been unfaithful, and “The Widow'” very skilfully
(Continued on page 9.)


“Truth in Advertising"—and in every ict. the Senioi Stoie.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
MM
mS.
7k
/.
The Bulletin
/
HALF
YEARLY
GENUINE
The Bulletin
*7 &a£e, eft rtfve, S-aJ&b sea&evb
O KSUXSSKBSII \ U
GOLF SHIRTS
Buy several of these smart Shirts while they
are reduced. Made from sturdy British Poplin
with two matching collars. Neat Blue or Grey
stripes. Sizes Min. to 18|in. neck.
Price, each . . 7/6. Sale Price, each . . 5/11
Better quality—
Price, each . . 8/6. Sale Price, each . . 6/11
105/- to 147'- SUITS
TO MEASURE at
Exceptional . value! Choose a
length from our legular range of
high-grade Wool Worsteds and
your suit will be expertly
tailored for 79/6. The newest
79e
patterns and tonings are included. Englid
shrunk linings and interlinings are used.
Prices, each'.. 105/-, 126/-,
Sale Price
. Apply, for special patterns.
pre-
147/-
79/6
6/6 “BUSHMAN” SHIRT
One of the sturdiest and
most comfortable shirts you
could buy. “Bushman’.’
Workshirts made of British
Oxford in smart ;Blue or
5'n
Heather shades. Price, each 6/6
Sale Price f 5/11
Also Tiger Twist Workshirts.
Price, each . . 6/11. Sale Price each . . 6/6
12/6 CEPEA SERGE
PYJAMAS, PAIR
For comfortable fit, smartness
aud durability these are the
Pyjamas to buy. They are
made of stout British Twill
Cotton Cepea Serge in small,
medium and outsize fittings.
Price, suit . . 12/6. Sale Price, suit. .11/6
1116
I
1 1
■V ’
■
1
W
•:>
The Bulletin
L
The Bulletin
■m
m
ft
8
P
*
r
&|^f'
6/6 ALL WOOL SURF
COSTUMES
250 only! If you
need a new Surf
Costume, here’s
your opportunity to
save! Made of All
5<6
Wool in regulation style that fits
comfortably. Royal, Marone, Saxe
or Black. Sizes 36in. to 40in. chest.
Price, each 6/6
Sale Price, each 5/6
9 Men's- Clothing and Footwear-
Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N..S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
Q
O
mu
C
29fc
“TREE” BRAND
HANDCRAFT SHOES
Famous for wear and smart appearance! These
Shoes are specially made for us from imported French
and Scotch Calf in Tan or Black. Available in
Brogue style with extra stout soles. Whole Golosh
Bespoke models with wide welts. Also lightweight
circular vamp models. Price, pair 427-
Sale Price 29/6
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS Ltd., SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401.
Day and Night.
FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Artists Are Dangerous
PERFIDY
AND A PAINTER
By J.B. BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
POETS have written of the perfidy of men and
women, of fine-weather friends, of rats leaving
sinking ships and straws showing which way
the wind blows, and so on, and all they’ve
written is true.
I can vouch for it, or at any rate for all except
the part about straws ; and if only I could find some
way of raising the wind I’d be prepared to give an
opinion on that, too.
After I got back from my enforced holiday,
caused by the double-crossing of that champion
forgetter George Bentwhistle, I soon found that the
poets, wrong as they may be over such subjects as
love, daisies and sunsets, certainly know what they’re
talking about when it comes to looking for a rhyme
to perfidy. And for perfidiousness in its utmost
degree, its ultimate ultimate, so to speak, allow me
to nominate Mrs. Whipple, my landlady.
I’d been with her for only three weeks, and had
paid my first week’s rent on the nail, when all of a
sudden she sprang a surprise on me.
I came in early one afternoon and found her
in the act of making up another bed in my room.
Hiding my blushes and endeavoring to appear non
chalant, I ventured the remark that it looked like
rain.
“Hope Mr. Groper don’t get wet,” she replied,
pummelling the bed vigorously ; “he went out without
an overcoat.”
“Mr. Groper?” I asked. “Who’s he?”
“He’s your new room-mate. That’s his luggage
in the corner.”
“But,” I protested, “I don’t want a room-mate.
I engaged this as a single room.”
“Single rooms is for those as pays for single
rooms,” she said, moving towards the door.
I tried to object. “But”
“It’s no good talking,” she cut me short; “and
what’s more, after Friday double rooms is for those
as pays for double rooms.”
“I won’t have this Groper person,” I protested
“Well, you can always leave and find other lodg-
ings,” she replied, “though there’s not many’ll take
a man without he’s got luggage.”
“What d’you mean?”
“I mean, your luggage is safe locked up till I
get me rent.”
Perfidy!
“And don’t you touch anything belonging to the
artist.”
“What artist?”
“Mr. Groper.”
“Good Lord! Is he an artist?”
“He is.” And she walked out triumphantly.
I DON’T like artists. They’re dangerous—especially
to share a room with. They’re always asking you
to stand with one arm upraised above your head and
a leg stretched out behind you, just when you’re in
the middle of shaving. Or else they’re asking for a
candid opinion of their work and going off the deep
end when they get it. A most unreasonable tribe!
It’s no wonder most people play safe and refuse to
recognise them until they’ve been dead a couple of
centuries.
Still for a start Groper wasn’t too bad. In fact,
he seemed quite a decent sort. I hadn’t learned then
to spell perfidy with a capital P.
The first evening he showed
me some of his work, and it
wasn’t too bad —pencil work,
black-and-white sketches and so
on —nothing in color. I saw pos-
sibilities in him, and asked him
if he needed a manager.
The idea was new to him,
and he turned it down. I told
him he was making a mistake.
Other professional men like
singers and boxers have man-
agers to look after the business
arrangements for them, why
should an artist have to do it
for himself? He said that when
business came he’d start to
think about someone to man-
age it for him ; in the meantime he was content to
dedicate himself to his Art and wait for the world
to recognise him.
“It’ll come,” he said with quiet confidence;
“they’ll recognise me in time.”
“Sure they will,” I agreed. “Taking an average
of the Great Masters, they’ll recognise you in about
the year 2365, probably in the late summer, but that
won’t buy you any steak and oysters.”
He said that perhaps with the speeding up of
modern inventions it wouldn’t take quite as long
as that. I conceded the point, and amended the
date to early spring.
“Anyhow,” I said, “you’re on the wrong track
with that stuff. Why don’t you
try color —oils and water-colors?
That’s what people want. Some-
thing with a bit of brightness
in it.”
He looked at me doubtfully
for a moment, then he said
quietly. “Color is what I’ll be
remembered for. I’ll show you
something.”
He opened a huge port-
folio and handed me a
painting. “Take a look at this.
Still-life. I’m calling it just
‘Red Roses.’ ”
I studied it.
“H’m,” I said, “the tech-
nique’s pretty good, but
wouldn’t it have been better to
wait till you go a tube of red
paint?”
All the roses were a vivid
green.
He snatched the canvas
savagely from my hand.
“You blind fool,” he said.
“You’re as bad as the rest of
them.”
Then he apologised. “Sorry
to be so rude. You can’t help
it. But ninety-five out of every
hundred people are hopelessly
color-blind —even the artists.
When I first used to show
people my work they’d laugh at
it, and I used to put it
down to jealousy, but after .»#«■«•
a while I found they
couldn’t help it. You’re the
same; it’s not your fault you
feel that way. It’s just that you
lack color-sense.”
I listened in amazement.
The poor chump really be-
lieved what he was saying.
Unasked, I began to look through his other
masterpieces. They were all in the same style ; l never
saw such a mess of color in my life. His blues weren’t
too bad, as long as he was content with blue, but if
he attempted any purples as likely as not he’d get a
hideous greyish-green mixture, while his reds and
greens just changed places or even pushed each other
out altogether.
His sunsets were like terrible nightmares from
another world, his landscapes looked like real paint-
ings would appear if gazed at through multicolored
glass, and his still-lifes —fruits and flowers—defied all
laws of botany and horticulture.
His voice droned on: “What’s the use of my
painting in color when the bulk of mankind can’t
recognise color, let alone appreciate it?”
I didn’t answer. A Great Inspiration had just
come to me. The old brain was seething and turn-
ing over at top speed. Once again I could see the
Road to Riches stretched out before me, a long lane
with no turning, lined on both sides with green roses
and red hedges, but paved with good rich yellow gold,
with here and there a hd&p of discolored but per-
fectly useful banknotes.
“What’s your trouble?” I asked, awakening from
my reverie of wealth.
“I said what’s the good of painting in color
when ninety-five per cent, of the people don’t appre-
ciate it.”
“Paint for the five per cent, who do’’ I told him.
“It’s not worth it,” he came back.
“ ’Course it’s worth it! Not one per cent, of the
world’s population use Rolls-Royces, yet the makers
have built up a fortune! How many women can
afford mink or Chinchilla fur coats? Yet somebody
makes them and reaps the profit. That color-con-
scious five per cent, has been neglected. It represents
a great unfilled want. It’s up to us to supply it.”
“Us?”
“I'm calling it just ‘Red Roses.'”


“Yes. I’m your manager from now on, whether
you like it or not.”
He didn’t like it at all, but now that I had a
definite purpose to spur me on he hadn’t a chance
against my flow of eloquence.
“It’s as easy as winking,” I told him. “You paint
the pictures and I’ll do the rest. Just keep painting.
No business worries or anything.”
P ORTUNAIELY Groper had a little money in the
* bank —not much, but sufficient to finance the
venture through the first few difficult weeks. After
that, I thought, it would be plain sailing.
So once more the office at 26 Polly-street secured
a tenant. We took a small room above it for Groper’s
studio, and I hired another room just across the pas-
sage and painted “Gallery” on the door.
Then I put some ads. in the papers. Before that,
though, I trotted round to the Public Library and
checked up Groper’s figures on color-blindness. Sure
enough, according to all the authorities, I found that
at least five people in every hundred are so color-
blind that they can’t tell port wine from creme-de-
menthe without tasting it.
“A few color-blind victims go through life with-
out ever discovering that their sight is not normal,”
said one expert, “but the majority find out sooner or
later, but being sensitive conceal the fact from their
friends until a chance mishap reveals it.”
That was the line I was going to play on —sensi-
tiveness and vanity.
My ads. read like this:
HOPE FOR THE COLOR-BLIND.
See Others As They See You!
No more need you suffer in secret!
Write or call Tru-Color Syndicate,
26 Polly Street.
Subtle, you see. No promise of a cure. Just
an enticement to get in touch with us.
By this time my sensitive heart was bleeding for
these poor color-blindies. The idea of their having
to live;, or rather drag out their lives, in houses the
walls of which were plastered with pictures whose
color schemes must have made them shudder every
time they saw them affected me profoundly, and made
me feel that in placing Groper in my room Providence
had given me a mission to bring light to these poor
creatures. And, of course, there was going to be
money in it, too.
Groper knew nothing about the ads. Fortu-
nately he never reads the papers.
\\jf ELL, presently the clients began to roll along.
“ * They were a shy lot on the whole. Most of them
wouldn’t admit at first that they had come on their
own account, but told me sad stories of friends and
relatives who were color-blind, and on whose behalf
they were making the inquiries. I had purposely
made the advertisement pretty open. Most of them
seemed to expect some kind of ointment to rub on
their eyes. Others thought the miracle would be
worked by a new type of spectacle lens.
Mr. Elswick Puffin, the big biscuit man, was one
of our first clients. It was on his brother’s behalf that
he had called, he told me.
“I’d like to do something for him,” he said.
“What is Tru-Color?. Something to rub on the eyes?
Or will he need an operation?”
“Neither,” I told him.
I passed over one of Groper’s masterpieces.
“Good heavens!” he cried. “It’s a miracle. I’m
cured. What a marvellous painting. Such depth!
Such color!”
“But your brother?” I put in.
“Brother nothing! 1 haven’t got a brother. I’m
the one that wanted to see you. And I’m cured!”
“Only so long,” I cautioned him, “as you remain
here.”
He was bewildered.
“What d’you mean?” he asked.
“Come this way,” 1 said, and l took him into
“The Gallery.”
It did my heart good to see that poor chap's
face. It held something like the look one might
expect from a lonely traveller who, lost for forty
days and nights in the Sahara Desert, starving and
famished for water, drops, all hope abandoned, into
a sleep of exhaustion, and awakes to find himself
seated at the Lord Mayor’s banquet with his spoon
in a plate of turtle soup.
He sped from picture to picture, enthusing loudly
the while “That sunset —marvellous! Those roses!
And this bushfire—terrific!” Terrific certainly was
right, though the painting was meant to convey
Groper’s impression of a storm at sea.
When he had inspected them all, he turned to
me again.
“Now, what did you mean? I’m cured, aren’t I?”
As tactfully as possible I explained that the cure,
such as it was, lay in the paintings, not in himself.
“Well, 1 can take ’em away, can’t I?” he said
impatiently. “I’ll buy them—or some of them.”
I shook my head.
“They’re not for sale,” I said.
“Then why bring me here? It’s false pretences.”
“Mr. Puffin,” I protested, thrusting him into a
chair. “Tru-Color is not intended for the pleasure
of one or a few men. Its mission is to bring light and
joy to all victims of color-blindness. Would you,
for the sake of personal gratification, rob your fellow-
sufferers of their chance to benefit by it?
“And besides,” I added, “suppose you bought
these paintings and hung them in your house, what
would be the effect on your friends, who, I take it,
do not know you are color-blind? What would your
wife say?”
“I suppose you’re right,” he replied regretfully.
“What’s your proposition—there is one, I suppose?”
“The proposition is that you join the Tru-Color
Art Club. You’ll be required to pay an entrance
fee of ten guineas and a purely nominal annual sub-
scription, say five guineas. That will entitle you to
visit the Gallery as often as you please and to stay
as long as you like.”
“It seems rather dear.”
“And, of course, we’ll be adding new paintings
all the time. I’m planning to have all the best-known
works in the National Art Gallery copied in Tru-
Color before long.”
That clinched it. Mr. Puffin joined up.
\\ 7ITH most of our clients it was the same story.
' l * We hardly had a miss. For some of them the
terms were too expensive, but we let them in on a
time-payment basis at so much per visit.
It may seem incredible that in these decadent
days men should be so eager for art, but it should
be remembered
that these people
had never really
seen a painting
before. The Tru-
Color Gallery
offered them
something th e
outside world
could not give.
And did they
respond? They
certainly did.
There was
scarcely a
moment of the
day the Gallery
was not in use. I
kept Groper out
of it as much as
possible. I felt
the perpetual flat-
tery might go to
his head. And of
course he didn’t
know anything
about the color-
blind propaganda.
“I seem to
be getting some-
where,” he said
to me one night.
“Y o u cer-
tainly are,” I
said. “Look at
your bankbook.”
1 was shoving all
the takings into
hi s account I
didn’t fancy open-
ing an account myself so soon after my sojourn in
Long Bay.
“That chap Anstruther says I'm a genius,” he
remarked.
“Who’s Anstruther?' 5
“A fellow who came in and watched me working
to-day. There were three of them. You were a.t
lunch, I think. They all reckoned 1 was marvellous,
and Anstruther said 1 was a genius—‘an unsung
genius,’ I think he said.”
1 scented trouble.
“Now, look here,” I said. “You’re a genius all
right, but I’m your manager, and if anyone’s going
to sing about it it’s me. Is that clear?”
“You needn’t get cross,” said Groper. “I’m only
telling you what he said —‘an unsung genius.’ ” There
was a far-away look in his eyes.
I let it go at that.
Next morning I got a ring from Elswick Puffin.
Would I have lunch with him? A business proposi-
tion to put up to me. I told him I’d be there.
1 ) UFFIN brought three other club members along
* to lunch, all influential businessmen witjh plenty of
backing. After we’d eaten they produced their plans.
“We’ve been discussing Tru-Color,” said old
Puffin, “and we’ve decided that it is selfish of us to
keep it to ourselves. What about our fellow-victims
in other parts of Australia? Why shouldn’t they
share in it? What about the millions of sufferers
throughout the world? Aren’t they entitled to enjoy
it, too?”
“Well,” I replied, “if you are prepared to finance
me on a trip abroad I’ll be only too pleased to”
“No, not that,” said Puffin. “We’ve got a better
scheme. Let’s float a company and produce engrav-
ings in Tru-Color. We’ll sell colored plates done in
Tru-Color all over the world. There’s millions in it.
And, of course, we’ll be helping our fellow-victims at
the same time. Will you agree?” he finished eagerly.
Would I what!
“What terms do you propose?” I asked.
“We’ll put up the capital and give you a block
of shires for the rights.”
“And,” said I, “ten per cent, royalty on all sales.”
They demurred, but 1 stuck out and they had
to agree.
“I need that,” I said, “in order that I can con-
tinue the good work here.”
We fixed up a few details.
“We’ll have to get hold of a color-blind photo-
engraver,” said Puffin. “Can you manage that?”
I said I thought it could be done. It was my
private opinion that all the photo-engravers in the city
were more or’ less color-blind, but I thought it best
not to mention it.
| T was well on into the afternoon when we parted,
1 and as I walked back to the office a rosy picture
of the future was dancing before my eyes. I reached
26 Polly-street. Three or four members were wait-
ing for me.
“Here he is,” they greeted me. “Where have
all the paintings gone?”
I looked at them blankly.
“Where’ve they gone?” they repeated.
In a daze I made for the Gallery. The walls
were stripped ; not a picture left.
I rushed across to Groper’s studio. That, too,
was deserted.
“I’m sorry, you fellows,” I said, “but I can’t
explain it. I don’t know any more than you dp. In
a couple of days’ time I hope to be able to clear it
up. Until then you must be patient.”
\\ / HEN I got back to my diggings Mrs. Whipple
** greeted me.
“I’d like Mr. Groper’s board,” she said.
“Where is he?” I asked eagerly.
' “Gorn!”
“Where?”
“How should I know? You’re. his manager,
aren’t you? Now, what about his thirty bob?”
“He can darn well pay it himself.”
“Oh, no, you don’t. You’re his manager. You’ve
been paying his board for the last month, and you’ll
pay the week he owes. I’ve got your luggage locked
away,” she added. “So you needn’t think of clearin’
out.”
With a very bad grace I paid up.
“That’s better,” she said. “Mr. Groper said
you’d fix it. Said it’d pay you out for tellin’ people
he was color-blind.”
So that was it? Even so, I couldn’t see why he
should clear out. He knew we were making money
and nearly all of it was going (through force of cir-
cumstances, I admit) into his bank account.
Next morning I saw the light. A paragraph in
the “Sydney Morning Herald” explained everything.
It read:
New Genius Hailed.
Messrs. Gregory Anstruther, Wilberforce Greene and
Browning Lester, members of the English Neo-lmpres-
sionist-Post Surrealist School of Painting, who have been
on a brief visit to Sydney, left for England on the
Strathnaver yesterday afternoon. Mr. Anstruther said
that during their stay they experienced an unexpected'
stroke of good fortune in that they had “discovered”
a young painter who had never even heard of Neo-
Impressionist-Post Surrealism, and was yet producing
work which surpassed anything the greatest exponents
of the school had achieved. Mr. Martin Groper, the
newly-discovered genius, was persuaded by Mr.
Anstruther to transfer the venue of his work to London,
and he sailed by the Strathnaver yesterday.
The distinguishing feature of Mr. Groper’s work,
according to a local member of the group who was
privileged to view the new genius's paintings, is a unique
sense of color values. He considered that Groper
should go far.
Go far! He’d better!


Of a Lottery Winner
FIRST PRIZE
By MARJORIE BARNARD
ILLUSTRATED BY EDWARD SHELLEY.
THE first Ted Bilborough knew of his wife’s good
fortune was when one of his friends, an elderly
wag, shook his hand with mock gravity and
murmured a few words of manly but inappro-
priate sympathy. Ted didn’t know what to make of
it. He had just stepped from the stairway on to the
upper deck of the 6.15 p.m. ferry from town. Fred
Lewis seemed to have been waiting for him, and as
he looked about he got the impression of newspapers
and grins and a little flutter of half-derisive excite-
ment all focused on himself. Everything seemed to
bulge towards him. It must be some sort of leg-
pull. He felt his assurance threatened, and the corner
of his mouth twitched uncomfortably in his fat cheek
as he tried to assume a hard-boiled manner.
“Keep the change, laddie,” he said.
“He doesn’t know, actually he doesn’t know.”
“Your wife’s won the lottery.”
“He won’t believe you. Show him the paper.
There it is as plain as my nose. ‘Mrs. Grace Bil-
borough, 52 Cuthbert-street.’ ” A thick, stained fore-
finger pointed to the words: “First prize, £5OOO, Last
Hope Syndicate.”
“He’s taking it very hard,” said Fred Lewis
shaking his head.
They began thumping him on the back. He had
travelled on that ferry every week day for the last
ten years, barring a fortnight’s holidays in January,
and he knew nearly everyone. Even those he didn’t
know entered into the spirit of it.
Ted filled his pipe nonchalantly but with unsteady
fingers. It was a wonder the fellows in the office
hadn’t got hold of this, but they had been busy to-day
checking up on credit accounts.
Grace might have let him know. She could have
rung up from Thompson’s. Bill was always borrow-
ing the lawn-mower and the step-ladder, so it would
hardly be asking a favor in the circumstances. But
that was Grace all over.
< i I F I can’t have it myself you’re the man I like to
I see get it.”
They meant it, too. Everyone liked Ted. He
was a good fellow in both senses of the word. Not
namby-pamby, but he wasn’t the sort that refused to
wheel the perambulator. His wife could hold up her
head, they paid their bills weekly, and he even put
something away—not much, but something—and that
was a triumph the way things were. And always
cheerful with a joke for everyone. Most of this was
vaguely present in Ted’s mind. He’d always expected
in a trusting sort of way to be rewarded, but not
through Grace.
“What are you going to do with it, Ted?”
“You won’t see him for a week ; he’s going on
a jag.” Ted never did, not even on Anzac Day.
A voice with a grievance said, not for the first
time: “I’ve had shares in a ticket every week since
it started, and I’ve never won a cent.”
t “You’ll be
going off for a
trip somewhere.”
“They’ll
make you presi-
dent of the tennis
club and you’ll
have to donate a
silver cup.”
“I expect
Mrs. Bilborough
will want to put
some of it away
• for the children’s
future,” said Ted.
It was almost as
if he were giving
an interview to
the press, and he
was pleased with
himself for saying
the right thing. He
always referred to
Grace in public as
Mrs. Bilborough ; he
had too nice a social
sense to say the
Missus.
He let them talk
and looked out of
the window. The
little boat vibrated
fussily, and left a
long wake like
moulded glass in the
quiet river. The
evening was draw-
ing in. The sun was sinking into a bank of
grey cloud, soft and formless as mist. It threw
a single column of orange light on the river, the
ripples from the ferry fanned out into it and their
tiny shadows truncated it. The bank, rising steeply
from the river and closing .it in till it looked like a
lake, was already bloomed with shadows. The shapes
of two churches and a broken frieze of pine-trees
stood out against the sky, not sharply, but with a
soft, arrested grace; the slopes, wooded and scat-
tered with houses, were dim and sunk in idyllic peace.
Ted could see that the smooth water was really a
pale, tawny gold with patches, roughened by the turn-
ing tide, of pale frosty blue. It was only when you
stared at it and concentrated your attention that you
realised the colors. Turning to look down-stream
away from the sunset, the water gleamed silver-grey
with dark, clear scrabblings upon it. There were two
worlds, one looking towards the sunset with the dark
land against it dreaming and still, and the other look-
ing down-stream over the silvery river to the other
bank, on which all the light concentrated, houses with
windows of orange fire, black trees, a great silver
gasometer, white oiltanks with the look of clumsy
mushrooms, buildings serrating the sky, even a sug-
gestion seen or imagined of red roofs showing up
miraculously in that airy light.
“Five thousand pounds,” he thought; “five thou-
sand pounds.” Five thousand pounds at five per cent.,
five thousand pounds making old age safe. He could
do almost anything he could think of with five thou-
sand pounds. It gave his mind a stretched sort of
feeling just thinking of it.
It was hard to connect five thousand pounds with
Grace. She might have let him know. And where
had the five and threepence to buy the ticket come
from? He couldn’t help wondering about that. When
you budgeted as carefully as they did there wasn’t five
and threepence over. If there had been, well it
wouldn’t have been over at all; he would have put
it in the bank. He hadn’t noticed any difference in
the housekeeping, and he prided himself he noticed
everything. Surely she hadn’t been running up bills
to buy lottery tickets.
His mind darted here and there suspiciously.
There was something secretive in Grace, and he’d
thought she told him everything. He’d taken it for
granted, of course; in the ordinary run there was
nothing to tell.
Consciously he relaxed the knot in his mind.
After all Grace had won the five thousand pounds.
He remembered charitably that she had always been a
good wife. As he thought that he had a vision of the
patch on his shirt, his newly-washed cream trousers
laid out for tennis, the children’s neatness, the tidy
house. That was being a good wife.
And he had been a good husband, always brought
his money home and never looked at another woman.
Theirs was a model home, everyone acknowledged
it; but —well, somehow he found it easier to be cheer-
ful in other people’s homes than in his own.
It was Grace’s fault. She wasn’t cheery and easy-
going. Something moody about her now. Moody.
He’d worn better than Grace ; anyone could see that,
and yet it was he who had had the hard time. AH
she had to do was to stay at home and look after
the house and the children. Nothing much in that.
She always seemed to be working, but he couldn’t
see what there was to do that could take her so long.
Just a touch of woman’s perversity.
It wasn’t that Grace had aged. Ten years married
and with two children, there was still something
girlish about her —a raw, hard girlishness that had
never mellowed. Grace was Grace —for better or for
worse. Maybe she’d be. a bit brighter now. He
couldn’t help wondering how she had managed the
five and three. If she could shower five and threes
about like that he’d been giving her too much for
the housekeeping. And why did she want to give it
that dam’fool name “Last Hope”? That meant there
had been others, didn’t it?
A girl on the seat opposite was sewing lace on
silkies for her trousseau, working intently in the bad
light. “Another one starting out,” Ted thought.
«\W HAT about it?” said the man beside him.
“ * Ted hadn’t been listening.
The ferry tied up at his landing-stage and Ted
got off. He tried not to show in his walk that his
wife had won £5OOO. He felt jaunty and tired at once.
He walked up the hill with a bunch of other men, his
neighbors. They were still teasing him about the
money; they didn’t know how to stop. It was very
still and warm. As the sun descended into the misty
bank on the horizon it picked out the delicate shapes
of clouds invisibly sunk in the mass, outlining them
with a fine thread of gold.
One by one the men dropped out, turning into
side streets or opening garden gates, till Ted was alone
with a single companion, a man who lived in a semi-
detached cottage at the end of his street. They were
suddenly very quiet and sober. Ted felt the ache
round his mouth where he’d been smiling and smiling.
“I’m awfully glad you’ve had this bit of luck.”
“I’m sure you are, Eric.”
“There’s nobody I’d sooner see have it.”
“That’s very decent of you.”
“I mean it.”
“Well, I wasn’t looking for it.”
“We could do with a bit of luck like that in our
house.”
“I bet you could.”
“There’s an instalment on the house due next
month, and Nellie’s got to come home again. Bob
can’t get anything to do. Seems as if we’d hardly
done paying for the wedding.”
“That’s bad.”
“She’s expecting, so I suppose mum and dad
will be let in for all that, too.”
“It seems only the other day Nellie was a kid
getting round on a scooter.”
“They grow up,” Eric agreed. “It’s the instalment
that’s the rub. First of next month. They expect
it on the nail, too. If we hadn’t that hanging over us
it wouldn’t matter about Nellie coming home. She’s
our girl, and it’ll be nice to have her about the place
again.”
“You’ll be as proud as a cow with two tails when
you’re a grandpa.”
“I suppose so.”
They stood mutely by Eric’s gate. An idea
began to flicker in Ted’s mind, and with it came a
feeling of sweetness and happiness and power such as
he had never expected to feel.
“I won’t see you stuck, old man,” he said.
“That’s awfully decent of you.”
“I mean it.”
They shook hands as they parted. Ted had only
a few steps more and he took them slowly. Very
warm and dry, he thought. The garden will need
watering. Now he was at his gate. There was no one
in sight. He stood for a moment looking about him.
It was as if he saw the house he had lived in for ten
years for the first time. He saw that it had a mean,
narrow-chested appearance, the roof tiles were dis-
colored, the woodwork needed painting, the crazy-
pavement that he had laid with such zeal had an
unpleasant, flirtatious look. The revolutionary thought
formed in his mind, “We might leave here.” Measured
against the possibilities that lay before him, the house
looked small and mean. Even the name, Emoh Ruo,
seemed wrong, poky.
HrED was reluctant to go in. It was so long since
I anything of the least importance had happened
between him and Grace that it made him shy. He


FOR SHORT STORIES
OFFERS
£3O - - - FIRST PRIZE
£l5 - - - SECOND PRIZE
£5 - - - THIRD PRIZE
and
£5 for a Brief Short Story
(1000 words or less).
Stories not to exceed 5000 words.
Closing Date for the Competition;
January 31 , 1937.
Conditions may be had from
the office on application.
didn’t know how she’d take it. Would she be all in
a dither and no dinner ready? He hoped so, but
feared not.
He went into the hall, hung up his hat and shouted
in a big bluff voice, “Well, well, well, and where’s my
rich wife?”
Grace was in the kitchen dishing dinner.
“You’re late,” she said ; “the dinner’s spoiling.”
The children were quiet but restless, anxious to
leave the table and go out to play.
“I got rid of the reporters,” Grace said in a flat
voice.
Grace had character ; trust her to handle a couple
of cub reporters. She didn’t seem to want to talk about
it to her husband either. He felt himself, his voice,
his stature dwindling. He looked at her with hard
eyes. “Where did she get the money?” he wondered
again, but more sharply.
Presently they were alone. There was a pause.
Grace began to clear the table. Ted felt that he must
do something. He took her awkwardly into his arms.
“Grade, aren’t you pleased?”
She stared at him a second, then her face seemed
to fall together, a sort of spasm, something worse than
tears. But she hitched away from him.
“Yes,” she said, picking up a pile of crockery
and making for the kitchen.
He followed her.
“You’re a dark horse, never telling me a word
about it.”
“She’s like a Red Indian,” he thought. She
moved about the kitchen with quick, nervous move-
ments.
After a moment she answered what was in his
mind. “I sold mother’s ring and chain. A man
came to the door buying old gold. I bought a ticket
every week till the money was gone.”
“Oh,” he said.
“It was my money.”
“I didn’t say it wasn’t.”
“No, you didn’t.”
The plates chattered in her hands. She was
evidently feeling something, and feeling it strongly.
Ted didn’t know what. He couldn’t make her out.
She came and stood in front of him, her back to
the littered table, her whole body taut. “I suppose
you’re wondering what I’m going to do? I’ll tell you.
I’m going away. By myself. Before it is too late. I’m
going to-morrow.
He didn’t seem to be taking it in.
“Beattie will come and look after you and the
children. She’ll be glad to. It won’t cost you a penny
more than it does now,” she added.
He stood staring at her, his flaccid hands hanging
down, his face sagging.
“Then you meant what it said in the paper, ‘Last
Hope’?” he said.
“Yes,” she answered.
A Neat Little Bird Yarn
JOHN AND JOHANNA
By R. D. Barry.
THE laugh of a jackass or kookaburra, always
reminds me of the day I played a mashie shot
on the sloping bank of a creek just after heavy
rain. Still, when Aunt Bertha, who is eccentric
enough to have money and therefore a woman to be
propitiated, presented us with a pair we accepted and
called them John and Johanna, sex being determined
by character rather than knowledge.
The housing presented some difficulty, but was
happily solved. I had essayed the construction of
a tennis court some months before, but a slight mis-
calculation of the levels yielded a miniature quarry
instead—impossible for tennis, but desirable for jack-
asses when enclosed by netting intended for the court.
I must say that of the two birds I preferred
Johanna. She was a docile and gentle creature,
whereas John was a swaggering braggart who stole
her food and sneered openly at me in low asides to
Johanna, which obviously made her as uncomfortable
as they did me. I was glad to see him taken down
a peg. '
We caught a rat that was no ordinary rat, being
as large as a pup. Now had John done the decent thing
he could have saved himself much suffering by split-
ting the rat with Johanna, but, the glutton pounced
upon it and attempted to swallow it out of hand. A
just retribution overtook him.
The head and forequarters of the rat disappeared,
and then stuck. A convulsive shudder of terrific
effort moved it an eighth of an inch, but it would
go no further. John lowered his beak until the hind-
quarters of the rat rested on the ground and appeared
to consider the position. Apparently reaching a deci-
sion, he shoved hard down upon the rat and swal-
lowed. The position remained unchanged. Now
thoroughly alarmed, John stood upright, pointed the
visible portion of the rat at the sky and gained half
an inch by a series of frantic gulps lasting half a
minute.
Johanna, gentle creature, here took a hand in
helping her lord by getting a firm grip of the rat’s tail
in her beak and tugging. John, however, refused
succor from this quarter, and after a contest of tug
and swallow Johanna took the bold course of swal-
lowing what remained of the rat, until she and John
met beak to beak over the carcass.
AT this stage Ted Wilson joined us. I must be as
good as two dozen golf balls a year to Ted and
have little hope of ever making a complete recovery.
However, the final custody of the rat was a problem
that would appeal to any man with sporting blood in
"Even those he didn’t know entered into the spirit of it.”
him, and while the point was still moot I fancied
John’s tenacity would prevail.
Ted received a brief resume of the action, and
ventured to wager half a dozen of beer on Johanna.
The stakes were telephoned for.
Having been joined together by the rat, John
and Johanna looked very earnestly at one another
for the space of several heartbeats and then each swal-
lowed simultaneously. The strain on the carcass was
plain to see, but no advantage was gained by either.
John now initiated what can only be described
as a coup d'etat. Running backwards and drawing
Johanna after him, he stopped, suddenly squatted on
his tail and, throwing everything he had into his beak,
drew Johanna over him in a flying back slam. This
manoeuvre certainly deserved to win for John, but
as the contenders rose Johanna still had the rat in
play.
It will be remembered that Johanna had posses-
sion of the blunt, or stern, end, and attached to that
was a tail as long as a bootlace. What that tail did
in Johanna’s tummy is a secret she has not divulged,
but certain it is that on rising she coughed, and, seiz-
ing his opportunity, John tugged and won me half
a dozen of bitter.
He consolidated the position by waddling to the
wire-netting and thrusting his prize through until his
beak rested on the wire. As to the swallowing of
the rat, he was now in no better case than before —
in fact, he had, if anything, lost ground in the tussle
—but he compelled admiration by his indomitable
will.
The rat stretched fat and long before him ; but
he prepared to wear it down with methodical swal-
lowing. Steadily, imperceptibly almost, it was
engulfed, until all that remained was one hind leg
and its adjacent territory. At this point, with victory
in sight, it became necessary to elevate the beak at
an angle more acute than the wire-netting allowed.
John withdrew it, therefore, and the disgruntled
Johanna once more obtained possession of the tail.
It was sad to see so
fine a performance
brought to nought, so we
grabbed the garden shears
and cut the tail on which
Johanna had just obtained
a firm purchase. Both
birds back-somersaulted,
and when they rose no
vestige of the rat re-
mained.
Having satisfied him-
self that the tubes were
clear, John then started to
laugh a low chuckle that
had in it the spirit of
Alexander, Caesar and
Napoleon. It leaped exul-
tant and died, for John
had gone to sleep. He
slept for three days, after
which he pecked daintily
at a morsel of meat and
resumed normal habits.
'T'ED is an optimist if
1 nothing else. He ar-
rived to-day with a newspaper parcel
and invited me to accompany him to
the backyard. Arrived there, he un-
wrapped the parcel and revealed a
very large and very dead rat. Cast-
ing it within the enclosure, he offered
double or quits, and name my own
bird.
John and Johanna looked at the
rat, and then at each other, and both
laughed.


OF, BY and FOR VICTORIA
;r1 Iml
s»*r
t / r
f TaßfiiL-
l*J*
IP il
■
G 5
U
mum
&
zr
!f l
•>»ac
v-.« .
»,! |!i
«4y.%
■vm
■■■ ■ j-.
■
J+rk't.-i.
o v~
HEAD OFFICE: STATE SAVINGS BANK OF VICTORIA.
OF VICTORIA
The whole of the £64, 000,000 of
deposits in the State Savings Bank of
Victoria is Victorian money —the savings
of our customers in 213 Branches and
371 Agencies of this Bank throughout the
State.
Every man who thinks knows how necessary
it is to spend less than he earns if he
would make himself economically secure.
And every man should know that thrift not
only prospers those who practise it, but it
stimulates production and assists the general
progress and prosperity of the community.
Thrift means thriving!
Build up your Savings Account, therefore,
with the “People’s Bank” and help yourself
and your State.
FOR VICTORIA
INDIVIDUAL, Joint, Trust, Estate, Club,
Friendly Society, Definite Purpose and
Children’s Accounts may be opened.
Interest allowed on Current Account up tc
£lOOO. Fixed Deposits at higher rate.
Money may be withdrawn at any Branch
or Agency in Victoria upon presentation of
the Passbook and satisfactory identification.
Sums transferred from one Branch to another
without exchange or loss of interest.
Safe Custody of Commonwealth and State
Bonds and Debentures without charge. Safe
Deposit facilities at nominal cost.
Loans on Freehold. Particulars obtainable
at any Branch.
RESERVE FUND £3,000,000
COMMISSIONERS:
W. Warren Kerr, C.M.G., C.B.E. (Chairman), J. C. Gates, Esq. (Deputy Chairman).
John Kean, Esq. Sir Walter Leitch, C.B.E. A. E. Hocking, Esq.
General Manager: Alex. Cooch, J.P.
% Assistant General Manager: J. Thornton Jones, J.P.
HEAD OFFICE: 139-153 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK OF VICTORIA
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT.


suggests the reawakened hopes that spring in the
breast of a woman after the death of a husband
whom she had not loved since the early days of their
marriage.
The author’s best work is done in those stories—
about half the total number —in which he accepts the
discipline and inspiration of a Recognisable local
setting. There is the feeling in these that he is being
more definitely himself; that the work is better rooted
in things personally observed. “Pearl Before Swine”
describes a couple of bushmen driving to town in
a truck and talking together of what they will do
when they get among the girls at their chosen pub ;
and further relates what happens when they encounter
a new girl who, they quickly realise, is different from
the rest. “Christmas Eve” is a very convincing account
of a farm laborer’s visit to the local township in
frustrated search of adventure among women. “End-
less Story” shows a rabbit-trapper’s wife successful in
keeping her spouse’s thoughts turned toward home.
“Strangers” describes the tenderness that develops
between a small boy and his grandmother when, in
their thinking of a hoped-for reunion with the dead
woman who was his mother and her daughter, it
occurs to them that the passing years may make them
unrecognisable to her. In these and kindred stories
there is a sappiness that seems to come from contact
with the earth. Best of them all, and among the best
short short-stories written in Australia, is “Grass.”
It is so slight that to indicate its nature here would
be to spoil it, but it is a statement of the simple truth
and as wide as the continent in its application.
F.D.D.
Don Quixote In Ireland.
Such is the magic of Lord Dunsany’s prose that
it can carry his romance on its crest. Rory and Bran
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.), the latest of a long line of
fantasies, is steeped in its glamor.
And with evening a serenity came over the sky, as
though Heaven were opening. The grave hills stood,
preserving their ancient silence; Rory looked higher, and
at first saw nothing; and then he saw a long line, thin
and wavering, dark in the pale bright blue of the deep
sky, and restless against its calm. It was the geese
coming back to some home of theirs in the bog.
Before them on their way was a white cloud-mountain,
huger than anything terrestrial; the sun, that earth
was now beginning to lose, was gleaming on its
immeasurable precipices. It was as though by some
pass of this unearthly mountain that those hundreds
of geese were wayfaring; for line after line of them
steered straight for its airy snowfields and went up its
colossal slopes like mountaineers. When they came to
a pass between two peaks of cloud and lost their
background of light, they faded from Rory’s eyes, but
at that his imagination awoke and followed them and
saw them dipping their wings and slanting downwards,
not by any rushes that grow in fields of ours, or on
moors familiar to men, but to airy valleys all of white
and silver, with shining streaks in them of a heavenly
ore, brighter than earthly gold though weighing nothing;
and in these glorious valleys he saw them meet unafraid
the men that walked there lightly, so lightly that their
armored feet sank not an inch into the cloudy surface,
for they had cast off weight, with material things and
all that is able to die, to be immortal shapes travelling
the wastes of time and adding a light to its centuries
with their splendor.
The story moves against an idealised Irish back-
ground ; that and the prose is the whole charm of
the book. The tale is slender to thin. Rory is an
“innocent” 19-year-old who has learned to read, a
" ge a day, and has steeped his mind in old romances.
With much misgiving his father sends him on a two-
day journey to the fair with cattle to sell. Bran goes
with him, and Bran is the brains of the party. He
has brown eyes and auburn hair, with patches of
white that do not come from age. The number of
Bran’s feet is not revealed —unless the remark that
“Bran has fleas” can be taken as evidence. He is the
Sancho Panza to Rory’s Don Quixote. The book is
the story of this journey, the adventures —humorous,
romantic, faintly picaresque of the road —and the love
of Rory for Oriana, whose mind is as lost in fancies
as is his own. The gold of its golden age is largely
tinsel, and Lord Dunsany, a long-experienced writer,
has evaded true creation by adopting a formula ; but
as long as his prose retains its dreamy and high-flown
beauty he will doubtless have contented readers.
A Different Arctic Adventurer.
Most men who go to the Arctic have a practical
object in view. They want to go further than anyone
else, camp at the Pole, study the weather or do some-
thing or other in the name of Science. One such as
Dudley Vaill Talcott, whose attraction thither is the
attainment of a state of mind —the complete detach-
ment to be had among the silent icefields—is suffi-
ciently different to ensure the book of his adventures,
North of North Cape (Bodley Head ; 15s. net), having
at least the merit of novelty. It has sound qualities
as well. It is a fresh, vigorous piece of writing, full
of character. «
The author, an American, is a young artist, but
the antithesis of the romantic conception of his kind.
He’s tough ; of the Hemingway and Roy Campbell
breed —a realist alike in manner of writing and
manner of living. There is a strongly physical tang
about even the state of mind he seeks to attain
up amongst the ice, and in writing over-restraint is
not one of his defects. On these curious voyages he
has taken parties of American “sportsmen” and scien-
tists up by Greenland and thereabout; he draws a
savage picture of them and their behavior. In port
there are women and other recreations, as clearly
described. But the bulk of the book expresses very
strikingly the impact of the Arctic seas, lands, ice
and creatures on a lively and vigorous mind.
A windfall started these adventurers, the author
expressing his idea of the right thing to do with
money, as well as the right sort of life for him, by
investing in a tidy Norwegian craft, the Norkap II. —
95ft. long, 18ft. beam, 10ft. draft, ketch-rigged,
powered with an old-style Diesel engine and skip-
pered by a survival of the Viking breed, with long
experience among the icepacks. Run as the ship of
an adventure company, the Norkap 11. has not so
far made any fortune: the nearest it’s come to bring-
ing in big money was on a trip after herring, of which
an enormous number was gathered in one catch.
Altogether they took 9000 barrels, worth more than
10,000 dollars—the crew standing up to their arm-
pits in the fish shovelling them, a sensation like work-
ing in moving mercury. From that one haul they
sold 12,000,000 individual fish!
That is one of the last voyages described and
the one most enjoyed by the author. The “sporting”
cruises are fairly epitomised in about the first inci-
dent of the first of them:
....It was an immense storkobbe (largest type of
seal), basking in the delicious sunlight.
If there had ever been any rules laid down about
shooting and the wholesome respect for firearms, they
were now completely forgotten even by those who had
most ardently preached them. Ten men crowded the
bows of the Norkap so intensely serious that you
wanted to howl with laughter but somehow couldn’t
let out a peep. The muzzle of one man’s rifle wasn’t
six inches from the ear of the man ahead of him.
There was a salvo that would have done justice to a
battle cruiser. Not a move out of the seal.
A bit later the “sportsmen” went ashore: how they
got their game isn’t set down, but they brought in
10 bull musk-ox, about 20 white hares, some duck
and one goose, rock ptarmigan, salmon, a seal and
a colossal polar bear. Two of the party stayed aboard,
figuring out, with glasses in hand, “how many high-
balls could be made from the ice in a single berg.”
Evidently they treated good champagne as ruthlessly
as anything else:
A string of champagne bottles had been hanging
over the side all day. And now they were hauled up
out of the icy water and a great feast was held.
But on a later trip the author was to recall virtues
in his “sportsmen” and wish he had them back, includ-
ing the bibulous Hig, to whom “the beauty of the
sun was that it was always exactly over the yardarm
and thus always the right time to say ‘Skaal! ’ ” On
the later trip he had the scientists, the prize trophy 1 of
whose summer cruise was a jar of very long worms
taken from a seal!
The book is illustrated with drawings by the
artist, like his writing full of movement and life, and
with a fine lot of photographs and charts.
Some Good New Ploys.
Eight One-act Plays (Harrap ; Angus and Robert-
son ; 7s. 6d.), beside offering much that is good in
itself, makes implicit comment on the results of
dramatic competitions. All of the plays were prize-
winners at one or other of large English provincial
theatre festivals.
“Cupid Rampant” is a bit of effective tilting at
a future state of society when marriage by arrange-
ment has been replaced by the drafting of eligible
persons to the Matrimonial Corps seven years’
service with the colors and five on reserve. A marriage
under this system takes place. The atmosphere is of
the orderly room, and there is some good byplay over
the telephone in which the petty rivalries of highly
placed officials are revealed. At the end, the couple
after numbering “One! Two!” exit to a militarised
version of Mendelssohn’s “Wedding March.”
There are two excellent working-class dramas.
In one, two work-worn old people disclose, through
their conversations with their doctor, that they
have each been trying to keep from the other the
knowledge that their son, who won a captaincy in
the war and whom unemployment has driven abroad,
has been killed in a gangster fight in Chicago. In the
second a man who has a wife and child and who has
been three years on the dole gets a job, loses it and
gets another in the space of twenty-four hours. It
is a fairly tense bit of drama, with the spectators’
sympathy played upon by the figure of the wife,
whose hopes are set on a pram for her baby. The
dialect is Tyneside, but the author, evidently knowing
that the tale would ring true in, say, Redfern or
Footscray, has added a note stating that he wouldn’t
mind it being played in any other dialect.
“Men Are Missing” and “Husbands Supplied”
are comedies perpetuating the convention that a
middle-aged unmarried woman is necessarily a figure
of fun, “Husbands Supplied” leaning also for its
humor on mispronunciation.
“The Flaw” sustains the tradition of noblesse
oblige. A public-school youth, motoring with his
sweetheart, accidentally kills a pedestrian and steps
on the accelerator. Later he gives himself in charge.
It would be a sympathetic piece of work were it
not for its air of moral snobbery. “The Unknown
Dimension” is a fantasy glorifying love, but making
the mistake common among romantics of identifying
sex love with all the other kinds. Engaged couples
would endorse it; others might find the end a bit
piffling.
The most provocative play in the book is “A
Twentieth Century Lullaby,” a neat piece of dramatic
carpentering. It opens with a young mother singing
her baby to sleep. She goes on, very naturally, to
talk to the child about her hopes for him as a man.
Under a small spotlight, against an indefinite back-
ground, a number of figures appear one by one, each,
though the mother remains unaware till near the end,
giving the retort of harsh reality to her dreams. They
are: schoolmaster, clergyman, employer, bride, poli-
tician, wireless announcer of the future, and the
Madonna. Between them they sketch the boy’s life ;
faulty education at the hands of a weary cynic,
ambition, high ideals, disillusionment, dishonor in
business, divorce, unemployment and death in the
next war. Very effective use is made of the wireless
announcer. The Madonna comes in at the last when
the mother cries “They’ve killed my son! ” and replies
“They killed mine.” The weak point of the story
is that it absolves the woman from any responsibility
for the world in which her son will grow up ; but it
is a gripping bit of work nevertheless, and should play
very effectively.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Crocus: Neil Bell (Collins; 7s. 6d.). A picaresque
tale of gipsy showmen. The romance centres round
Reni Lovel, a girl who turns against the traditional
ways of her people. English rural setting. Good
light entertainment.
The Machine Stops: Wayland Smith (Robert
Hale, Ltd.; 7s. 6d.). A far-fetched yarn based on
the breakdown of the world’s machinery owing to
an inexplicable molecular disintegration of ferrous
metals. Well enough done ; but a tale built on a
wild improbability seems to lack interest in a world
full of imminent and equally far-reaching possibilities.
The Story of the Hundred Days: Joseph Roth
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). A bald retelling of Napoleonic
history with a fictitious love affair thrown in for good
measure. Entirely lacking in the intimate touches that
reveal imaginative grasp.
GENERAL . . .
England Calling: William S. Plowman (Angus
and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.). An Australian’s sentimental
journey through unspoiled Britain. He strikes his
own keynote: “There is an indescribable joy, an
indefinite something I cannot .explain which thrills
my soul and fills my heart with pride when 1 visit
England—dear old England.”
Lancer at Large: F. Yeats-Brown (Gollancz;
Dymock’s ; 10s. 6d.). Travel in India mixed with a
personal account of a search for spiritual peace
through the study of the Yoga cult, by the author of
Bengal Lancer. Except for the intimate parts, strongly
reminiscent of Kipling’s Letters of Marque and From
Sea to Sea. The juxtaposition of shrewd worldly
observation and confidences as to the soul’s unrest has
the effect of two persons failing in an attempt to
collaborate.
Back to the Stone Age: Charles Chewings (Angus
and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.). A fine lot of first-hand
observations of Centralian aborigines written from a
lifetime of experience among them. About 55 years
ago the author went land-hunting in the upper-Finke
country and then and since came into close contact
with the abos. in their unspoiled natural state, sur-
vivals of the Stone Age. A simply stated, direct and
honest addition to abo. lore.
CRIME AND DETECTION . . .
Death Off the Fairway: Herbert Adams (Collins,
Crime Club ; 7s. 6d.). When the stranger staying at
the clubhouse was found drowned in a stream on the
links it would have been written down as suicide if
an amateur sleuth hadn’t noticed a discrepancy in the
spaces between two lots of footprints supposed to
have been made by the stranger. Investigation traces
stranger’s origin to the Orient and reveals he was
there known to several who are now settled local
inhabitants. One of these did him in ; the unravelling
of which and why makes a good breezy entertainer.
VariousVerse
Tui.
Where kowhai’s golden foam of bells,
Rushing and ringing from the blue,
Comes tumbling down to spring’s green swells
My harsh, black mockery waits for you.
In that deep gold a core of dark
That yet can break to fire of dew
More sweet than light, more sweet than lark,
I care not, I, for you or you;
But for myself or my wild mate
Let crystal fire come rippling through,
Then in that foam of gold elate
Send mockery black and harsh for you.
MAORILAND.
Douglas Stewart.
Tide’s Will.
When shapes-in-light so twist,
Strangely, that they are kissed
All down a smooth side, lying straight as fearless,
The phantom brought about
(Which with this moon goes out)
Is stronger than search, greater than sight, most peerless;
As lovers aforetime too learnt well,
Who, waking together with the spell
About them, found the beloved grown more,
Being tryst, renewal, of tides felt before
Dragging upon those depths which are our world’s true core.
If now, a little afraid
At such discovery made,
Trembling lips meet and arms clasp the nearer,
It is the tide’s will
So works upon them still
That the hour seems charged with purpose, older and clearer;
Wherefore in the night is wrought
The night’s long struggle towards thought,
To bring out of the dark some worth,
Even as through abysmal ages earth
Has grappled under the stars with surge of death and birth.
Should ever the dark reclaim
Mouldings of moonflame,
Daring and dream over, all-ended wonder,
Then shall the ingathered coil,
Which swung the clockwork toil
Of deep below deep, rust in still deeps thereunder.
It is but vision that can teach
Clay to be hands and hands to reach
Past sense and aught that sense may hold,
Striving and seeking. So these arms enfold
Not just the moondrest girl but the whole moonlight gold.
N.S.W.
Robert D. FITZGERALD.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
f _:■} , wWv v **7 y< ' - : :
k "
1
ft
: -
l£
Air
%N
NH
m
H
■*
H
m
I
:
H
! 1 S
1 ' ;:
Excellent View of Interior of One of the Many Large Storage Cellars,


The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2969.
January 6, 1937.
HIGHER EDUCATION.
A. defence WILL be one of the principal topics of discussion at the Imperial Conference, another obvious choice for the Commonwealth deletion is Archdale Parkhill."
Yes, sir, its a gun, sir. Same as we had in France, sir.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
j outh Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
"trai.ia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
' Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4 ,
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
MR. LYONS REJOICES.
The best that can be said for the “settlement” with
Tokio is that an 18-months’ truce has been patched
up on terms eminently favorable to the Japanese.
The Prime Minister has paid a tribute to the “skill
and patience” with which Mr. Gullett conducted the
negotiations. Mr. Lyons is easily pleased.
The negotiations began in February, 1935. Accord-
ing to the Japanese, they were “suspended on account
of the sudden departure of Mr. Gullett for England,”
and they remained suspended for nine months. They
were resumed in January, 1936, and “fair progress”
was made, but at the end of February “the chief
Australian representative” announced that high
specific duties would be put on cotton and artificial-
silk piece goods “because of the too-low prices of
Japanese goods and because the Customs revenues
from existing ad valorem duties were decreasing.”
Actually, Customs and excise revenue for 1935-36 was
£3,587,000 above the estimate; and, anyway, Japanese
purchases of Australian wool were expanding.
Thinking it would satisfy Mr. Gullett, the
Japanese clapped an export duty on shipments to
Australia so as to put the price up, and they ceased
taking orders for some time to prevent speculation.
But on April 27 the negotiations broke down, and
on May 22, when members were getting ready to
leave Canberra for the winter, the Government had
nerved itself to present what amounted to prohibition
of these Japanese imports.
This was sprung on Australia with the “explana-
tion” that it had to be done to preserve the Australian
market for Manchester. Something was also said
about protecting the Australian manufacturer—who,
in this instance, required no protection and received
none —and about keeping from the people for their
own good an Oriental Mystery which would stagger
them if it could be revealed.
There was nothing mysterious about the conse-
quences of the quarrel—a sudden and total loss of an
export trade worth in 1935-36 £14,094,700 sterling.
There was also a fall in wool prices at the
last of the 1935-36 sales and the first of the
new season’s sales. Later sales brought a recovery,
due chiefly to exhaustion of stocks in most
manufacturing countries, drought in the U.S.A.
and devaluation of the franc and the lira ; but, with
about half the clip sold, the average per pound
is only 14.6 d. Australian, which is a long way below
the average realised in pre-depression years. Maori-
land, which is mercifully free from Gulletts, has been
selling its wool at a 60 p.c. to 70 p.c. advance on
1935-36 prices.
It was July 17 before negotiations were resumed.
They dragged on, as before, but by November the
Japanese Domei newsagency was able to announce
that the parties had come to terms. Mr. Gullett
reserved his intelligence until Parliament had been
hurried into recess and until critical faculties had
been dulled by Christmas dinner. Meanwhile the
Japanese introduced new ordinances altering their
tariff law and giving their Minister of Commerce
immediate power to deal with any country not con-
ceding most-favored-nation conditions.
The Japanese were asked to restrict their annual
exports to 30,000,000 sq. yards of artificial silk and
25,000,000 sq. yards of cotton. They are to be allowed
to send in nearly twice as much —102,500,000 sq. yards
of the two commodities in equal quantities —plus as
much calico for bagging as they can sell. For our part,
instead of having a free wool market, we are to have
a quota. In the free wool market the Japanese bought
709,686 bales in 1934-35 and 785,469 bales in 1935-36 ;
under the quota system they agree to “permit the im-
portation” of 800,000 bales between January 1, 1937,
and June 30, 1938. They do not bind themselves to
buy at the rate of 533,000 bales p.a. or at any rate.
The Japanese victory has not ended with the
quotas. Into the Pacific has gone the U.A.P. plank
specifying that Customs duties are to be fixed after
public inquiry by the Tariff Board, and “not by arbi-
trary Ministerial action.” Without reference to the
Tariff Board —or, of course, to Parliament —Japanese
cotton and artificial-silk piece goods are to be
admitted at cut rates —4d. per square yard artificial
silk ; l|d. (unbleached) to 2d. (printed, dyed or colored)
cotton. All with exemption from primage.
But Mr. Lyons is pleased, and he thanks every-
body, from Mr. J. P. Abbott, president of the N. S.
Wales Graziers, who never thanked him, to the
Japanese. They also are pleased, and with abundant
reason, for they have lost nothing that they cannot
regain and have come out with the thick end of the
stick.
Australia and the U.K.
During the seven-months’ quarrel with the Japanese,
in which so much was risked and so much less than
nothing was gained, a disingenuous plea was advanced
and reiterated by U.A.P. politicians and newspapers.
It was asserted that if the Government at Canberra
did not drastically restrict imports of Japanese textiles,
Britain would curtail its purchases of Australian
“primary produce”—wheat, butter, dried fruits, eggs
and the rest.
The allegation was trotted out again after the
Government’s abject surrender. There was never a
vestige of truth in it. It imputed to the British
Government a policy and to British householders a
practice which they have never followed and are
never likely to follow.
In any case, the British Government is in no
position to go in for this form oi retaliation. Allow-
ing that British exports to Australia have fallen away
since London borrowing ceased in 1930, the periodical
London loan having reached Australia principally in
the form of goods, the U.K.’s trade with Australia
is carried on far more advantageously to it than its
trade with other Dominions and most foreign
countries.
Samuel Montague and Co., the London bankers,
publish a weekly review of British finance and trade.
The issue of November. 19 contains export and import
figures for nine months of 1935 and 1936, and they
are very revealing:
British Foreign Trade for Nine Months
In Millions Sterling.
Imports Exports
Country. From. To.
1936. 1935. 1936. 1935.
U.S.A 62.7 55.7 ' 19.2 15.7
Canada 51.4 37.3 16.9 15.3
Australia 42.8 39.1 23.3 21.4
Maoriland 35.9 31.4 12.3 9.9
India 35.5 27.7 25.4 27.5
Argentina 31.6 32.9 11.6 11.4
Denmark 24.7 24.0 11.2 10.4
Germany 24.0 21.6 13.8 14.7
Netherlands 18.8 17.4 8.9 8.6
Netherlands East Indies and
West Indies 13.0 12.5 2.2 2.1 .
France 19.0 15.4 12.8 12.2
Irish Free State 14.6 13.3 15.4 14.8
Sweden 14.5 12.3 7.5 7.0
Belgium 13.7 11.1 6.8 6.3
Finland 12.9 10.5 3.0 3.1
U.S.S.R 12.8 13.8 2.7 2.7
Japan 6.8 5.5 2.5 3.0
Even if these figures stood alone, Britain would
be trading with Australia on a better basis than with
any other country on the list, the Irish Free State
excepted. The apparent difference between the value
of its imports from and exports to Australia is wiped
out, leaving Britain with a. substantial sum to the
good, by the annual tribute of interest on Govern-
ment and local-authority loans, which amounted in
the year to June 30 to £22,000,000 sterling (Common-
wealth Bank Board’s reckoning). This actual surplus
is swelled by the cost of services, Australia’s exports
being mostly carried in British bottoms, and by the
spendings of tourists.
J. Bull draws interest from Argentina, and does
a lot of its overseas carrying trade, but he has never
had a favorable balance with that South American
country. As for the Danes he seems resigned ,to their
.offering too little and asking too much. In the case
of the U.S.S.R., whose 170,000,000 people bought
from him direct in the nine months to September 30
barely a ninth of what our 6,700,000 people bought,
he has been reduced to guaranteeing payment for
such increased orders as it has placed in the U.K.
The Montague publication includes a list of
re-exports from Britain for nine months of 1936. The
principal countries to which they were consigned and
the amounts were: U.S.S.R., £7.9; U.S.A., £6.4;
France, £6 ; Germany, £5.5 ; Belgium, £3.6 ; and the
Irish Free State, £3.6 —all millions sterling. The
country of origin is not given, but a large proportion
of the re-exports would assuredly consist of wool and
base metals from Australia.
Mr. Malcolm MacDonald and other responsible
British public men have, in effect, denied that their
Government was consulted when our tribulation
launched the trade war with Japan. If the question
were put to them, and they were in a position to give
a straight answer, they would assuredly deny that
there was ever any possibility of their Govern-
ment or people punishing Australia because certain
imports from a country with which the Common-
wealth had an immensely favorable trade balance
were increasing. Let us have no more of this clumsy
lying!
Ex-King and Archbishop.
Norman Lindsay’s “First Stone” cartoon (B.
23/12/’36) created a stir, and remarks on it, approv-
ing and disapproving, have been reaching this office
ever since it was published. Some of the unfriendly
critics wrote in the belief that it amounted to an
attack on the Church of England. This was not the
case, nor has any attack on the Church of England ,
appeared.
The Bulletin’s first reference to the proposed
royal marriage was published on December 2, and
from the position then outlined it did not recede:
European and American newspapers persist in
declaring that King Edward will marry Mrs. Simpson.
He cannot and remain King.
Underneath there was a paragraph closing with the
prediction that “the lady will go travelling again for
reasons of State” —as she did.
During the ensuing week it came out that King
Edward had suggested a morganatic marriage. It
was here noted on December 9 that such a marriage
could not be celebrated by a Church of England
clergyman, and would, if celebrated, “throw upon
the Government the formidable task of disestablishing
the Church,” a task which in the circumstances no
Government could undertake.
On December 16 mention was made of “the state
of mind in which the King contrived to forget that
he was Defender of the Faith, bound to maintain and
preserve inviolate the settlement of the Church of
England, the doctrine, worship, discipline and govern-
ment thereof, as by law established in England.”
Neither in that article nor in any other was the
natural and invincible opposition of the Church to
the proposed marriage carped at.
The King gave up the throne on December 11.
Two days later, in a 8.8. C. broadcast, the Archbishop
of Canterbury drew attention to the fact that the
man he had known for 40 years as prince and
sovereign had “left Windsor Castle for exile in the
darkness, after telling his motive with characteristic
frankness,” on the very day on which “James 11. fled
from Whitehall.” If his Grace had left it at that
the comparison would have been voted infelicitous
and unfeeling; but he went further.
It is sad that for such a motive he abandoned a
trust so great, and sought happiness in a manner incon-
sistent with Christian principles, by marriage within a
social circle whose standards and ways of life are
alien to all the best traditions of his people. The
members of that circle stand rebuked by the judgment
of the nation.
Coming from “the Primate of all England,” “the first
peer of the realm next to the royal family,” who never
uttered a word of criticism of the King or his set
when criticism might have been salutary, and would
certainly have been courageous, this was felt to be
an ecclesiastical equivalent of that most un-English
proceeding “kicking a man when he is down,” and
thousands of good people said so.
Members of Parliament and newspaper editors
were deluged with protests. Conservative peers and
Labor leaders were equally loud in their condem-
nation. Lieutenant-Commander Fletcher, M.P.,
blamed the 8.8. C. director for having “participated
in the commination ceremony,” saying, “America has
with relief seen the end of its radio priest; if radio
priest and director are to be combined in England
we are in for a remarkable future.” The “News-
letter,” which is published by Mr. Ramsay Mac-
Donald’s Labor group, saw “enduring credit” in the
conduct of the former King where the Archbishop
of Canterbury failed to see any credit at all.
He might easily have claimed the right or asserted
that it was his duty to wait until the law permitted him
to marry, and then confronted his Ministers with a
disastrous situation. Had he privately resolved to
renounce neither the throne nor the marriage, he might
have succeeded in getting his way at the price of
inflicting almost fatal losses on the monarchy and
immeasurable injury to national and Imperial interests.
Instead he allowed British feeling to retain the
monarchy unimpaired and to have in the monarch one
who upholds certain standards of conduct.
Mr. Lloyd George was in the West Indies while
the situation was developing. When he returned his
first act under the new reign was to send the Duke of
Windsor “Christmas greetings from an old Minister
of the Crown who holds you in as high esteem as
ever, deplores the shabby, stupid treatment accorded
you, resents the mean, unchivalrous attacks and
regrets the loss of a monarch who sympathised with
his lowliest subjects.”
The “Daily Mirror” reported that the Duke of
Windsor might broadcast a reply to the Archbishop.
He took a neater revenge. On Christmas Day he
motored 30 miles through a snowstorm to the English
church in Vienna. It was his first public appearance
since his abdication, and he read the lesson from the
second chapter of St. Luke —the one in which the
Angel of the Lord brought “good tidings of great
joy,” and “suddenly there was with the angel a multi-
tude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying,
‘Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace,
goodwill to men.’ ”
Three days later, in another speech broadcast by
8.8. C., the Archbishop said: “The year that is going
can never be forgotten, but its most recent and vivid
memories had better now be kept in silence.” Very
much better, but it is unfortunate that his Grace did
not elect to remain silent all along. It was reserved
for the aged Bishop of Lichfield, bidding farewell to
his sacred calling, to express what most men feel.
The nation as a whole cherishes no unkind thought
of the late King. As Prince of Wales he was faithful
to his motto; when King he still followed the pathway
of unselfish, effective service. We do not forget his cour-
age in war-time, nor his understanding of and sympathy
with the people, especially the least fortunate. As for
the closing incidents of his reign, it is not for us to
judge. At least we are thankful that he chose to resign
rather than cause grievous trouble and dissension.
These words will be remembered when the Arch-
bishop’s are forgotten.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
After Three Years.
The New Defence Policy was brought to birth by
Mr. Pearce on September 25, 1933, and legally
adopted by Mr. Parkhill in Parliament on November
30, 1934. “Development” was, of course, one of the
names given at the christening, “Potentialities” being
inappropriate —“development of an effective policy to
rehabilitate the national defences.”
It was a three-year plan, and during the three
years the army was to be “restored to a satisfactory
maintenance basis,” and the navy was to have another
cruiser—this has been added. And money was to
be spent on “anti-aircraft defence, mechanisation and
technical stores.” Fixed defences —9.2-inch guns—
were to be provided at three or four points to protect
ports.
After three years, Mr. Parkhill now tells us that
“the installation of modern 9.2-inch guns in Sydney
has reached an advanced stage”—they are actually
completing the installation of one or two at North
Head. And “a start has been made on the new
defences of Moreton Bay.” As for Newcastle, the
defensive heart of Australia,
New heavy armament has been ordered from the
United Kingdom and will be installed when further
developmental funds are available.
Fremantle’s defences are to be “moved to a
permanent site.” Work is being begun on the 9.2-inch
“installations” at Rottnest. Adelaide is to have addi-
tional equipment “at a later date,” and it is intended
to build a new drill hall there. Flobart’s ancient forts
are to be shifted. And an “army” of 33,000 men has
been recruited, very slowly and painfully.
Concerning the anti-aircraft programme promised
over three years ago:
Guns and ammunition for the first stage of the
defences of the main ports are now being manufactured
by the ‘Munitions Supply Board, and it is expected that
the first consignment of guns will be finished next year.
The programme for “improving the standard of
army training as a whole, as well as for increasing
the efficiency and strengthening the material of the
field army,” will go on. How it has been going on
is shown by an unobtrusive paragraph in a northern
paper, which records that “most” of the militia at
Bowen, one of the vital Queensland ports, have at last
“been served with khaki uniforms, forage caps, belts,
ammunition pouches and boots.”
A small number of light tanks has been ordered.
Preparations are being made to adapt commercial
lorries to carry crews and guns of the new machine-
gun regiments, which as yet have no machine guns
And the Signal Corps is to have two wireless lorries
and two light vans for radio telegraphy—one of each
for every 1,500,000 square miles of Australian conti-
nental territory. The rest of the work is on the same
scale and is going on at the same sort of speed.
And all this after three years! In the same three
years, as the secretary of the N. S. Wales Unemployed
Relief Council proudly reports, the following “works”
have been achieved in one State under “the emergency
relief scheme”:
Four thousand miles of roads and streets con-
structed or reconstructed; 700 miles of footpaths done,
including 100 miles in concrete; 60 bridges, 1000 cul-
verts, 40 miles of retaining walls, 300 miles of drainage
channels, 35 miles of water-supply and gas mains, 25
miles of electric-supply; 150 new parks and reserves
made, 50 extended, 350 improved; 70 sportsgrounds
established, 21 tennis-courts, five golf-courses and three
aerodromes; 21 swimming-pools and sea-baths provided,
and several more are under construction.
What a pity defence wasn’t made an “emergency
relief scheme”!
An Army of Motor-cyclists.
Australia has 76,000 registered owners of motor-
cycles. They are practically all free, white, male,
of military age, adventurous and fighting fit. En-
rolled for the defence of the land over which they
scamper, emitting hideous noises, and given a thor-
oughly modern training, they would provide a mobile
and serviceable army on their own account. And
why not?
France, Germany and Russia are increasingly
adding motor-cycle detachments to their armies.
Remilitarised Germany has more motor-cycles than
any other country, and is making full use of them
for military purposes. But the country whose sons
pioneered dirt-track motor-cycling and introduced it
into other countries —incidentally making a hit wher-
ever they went, being so patently skilful and hard-
bitten chaps who didn’t care a damn for anyone or
anything—this country, this continent neglects the
motor-cycle and the great body of motor-cyclists in
its scheme of defence, such as it is.
There might be motor-cycle brigades as there are
light-horse brigades, concessions being extended in
no illiberal spirit to young men who would provide
their own mounts. It would, of course, be necessary to
put in their proper place State bureaucratic interests
which, because modern vehicles compete or may com-
pete with Government railways, regard the aeroplane,
the motor-car, the motor-cycle and the motor-wagOn
as inventions of the Evil One.
The U.K. and the Free State.
The attitude of Mr. De Valera during the affair
of the two Saxon Kings was correct if not cordial,
and in the circumstances it was helpful. At Christ-
mas the President referred to his great neighbor in
quite a friendly strain, saying that he hoped 1937
would bring a settlement of all his country’s differ-
ences with it.
Contiguity and common interests are proving too
strong for Fianna Fail and for those English diehards
who would rejoice to see Ireland blown to the North
Pole. Each country is necessary to the other, and the
evidence accumulates: in spite of the quarrel over the
land annuities their trade with one another is increas-
ing. For nine months of 1936 the U.K. bought
£14,600,000 worth of Free State goods and the Free
State £15,400,000 worth of U.K. goods, plus £3,600,000
worth of re-exports.
In the early years of Home Rule all the parties at
Dublin cherished dreams of a great export trade with
the U.S.A. It has never materialised and is never
likely to materialise. There is a great deal of senti-
ment in Uncle Sam’s composition, but he keeps it out
of business.
The Red Roll of the Roods.
The Christmas-New Year period is always the
silly-season for news, and Melbourne dailies pounced
on a road death-and-injury total that was double the
figure for the 1935 Christmas week-end.
Pedestrians and cyclists were involved in 13 of
the 16 week-end fatalities. Seven pedestrians were
killed in Melbourne suburbs, another in Dandenong
and another on Pt. Nepean-road. The brickbats are
all for motorists, and newspaper campaigning is all for
his “traffic education” ; there are suggestions of speed-
ing and negligent driving. Judging from the figures,
this education could be extended beyond the motorist.
Exclusive of a record pre-Christmas rush, Vic-
torian motor registrations returned £133,000 more
than in the previous year. With Christmas falling
on a Friday, it was a long week-end holiday which,
with the sunny weather, meant that thousands more
motorists were on the roads. For hours after dusk
on the Sunday night Pt. Nepean-road carried one con-
tinuous line of motors returning from bay beaches.
There were impatient drivers who took needless cut-
ting-in risks, but the vast majority in the line showed
a proper regard for their responsibilities.
Nevertheless a former city coroner is right when
he stresses the need for more rigid tests for drivers’
licenses. Not so much for the first license, but for
renewals. At present the holder’s office-boy can
saunter up with the signed form and the fee and
obtain the renewal; but in the course of a year people
can suffer disabilities that might ruin their driving.
It would be better if renewal applications were made
a personal responsibility. Nor should the license be
issued if the car is not in good going order. No small
proportion of accidents is due to the presence on the
roads of ancient, wobbly vehicles which should not
be there. One has only to stand on the side of roads
like Pt. Nepean and Sydney’s Prince’s Highway at
holiday-time to have this borne in on one’s mind.
Government Butter-V-Eggs.
Maoriland ended a breathless 1936 with a Labor-
promise or threat that in February the Government
will be in the “ butter-and-eggs-and-a-pound-of-
cheese” business. Butter, eggs, cheese, pork, bacon
and honey are to be distributed from a Wellington
depot under the provisions of the Act that fixed the
price of exported dairy produce.
As in its appointment of a commercial radio
director, Labor chose its Director of Internal Mar-
keting,. F. R. Picot, without bothering to call for
applications. He owned the business the Government
is taking over. Naturally, fears of untaxed competition
are disturbing proprietary distributing organisations,
but so long as they “co-operate,” the Prime Minister
says, Government ownership will not be extended to
other districts. What Mr. Savage means by “co-
operate” has not been exactly defined.
Australians, with memories of Government fish-
shops and dead-meat-shops, will wish Maorilanders
luck with their “butter- and-eggs-and- a -pound -of -
cheese” business ; and they may need it.
"The Abhorred Individualist."
L.C.R. in reply:
A pity anxiety to get a crack at the N.S.W. Teachers’ Fed-
eration should lead The Bulletin (30/12/’36) to misrepresent
the code of ethics unanimously adopted by the annual con-
ference. The clause regarding competition with other schools
and teachers does not mean there will be no more exhibits
of school work at agricultural shows. Many districts, notably
Newcastle, have already adopted the practice that school
displays should be non-competitive, the prize-money being
shared between schools entering. Much heart-burning is thus
saved children through Farmer Bill Jones’s failure to judge
handwriting as efficiently as he could rank sheep.
In regard to garden competitions, the keenest advocates
of their elimination were teachers admitted to have some
of the best school gardens in the State. Garden competitions,
as any gardener could tell The Bulletin, simply mean all
energies are necessary to make a “show” for the time of
judging, with consequent ill-effects for the remainder of the
year. As for drill displays, there is no competition involved
in the magnificent drill displays teachers stage with tens of
thousands of children on national occasions at the Sydney
Show Ground. They are a triumph for co-operation, not
for individualism.
As for the value of singing competitions, many music-
teachers deplore the wastage due to pot-hunting. There is
nothing to prevent mothers or private teachers entering little
Willie or Mary in the race for a swelled head; but the great
mass of the State’s 11,000 teachers prefer to teach music,
as other subjects, for the love and enjoyment of the thing
itself.
And a word about the regulation teaching hours. One
would expect The Bulletin to be the first to protest against
the vicious exploitation of children resulting from the
promotion-seeking of a few teachers, an exploitation which
the Education Department, in co-operation with the Federa-
tion, intends to stop.
The Bulletin is not at all anxious to have “a
crack at the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation,” and it
would hate to “misrepresent the code of ethics unani-
mously adopted.” But when teachers employed by
the State are forbidden by a body which, however im-
portant, is not the State to “take part in any competi-
tion that brings a teacher or his pupils into competition
with other teachers and children,” surely a newspaper
has the right to question the interdict. Especially
when the T.F. president explains that “the code of
ethics” was framed because “children are being made
individualists instead of co-operationists.” There are
still people who believe that education should aim
at “the cultivation of an enlightened and self-reliant
people,” though the old Labor aspiration may have
gone out of fashion.
Being without knowledge of “the vicious exploita-
tion of children resulting from the promotion-seeking
of a few teachers,” The Bulletin could not be “the
first to protest.” Still, it is interested to learn that
“the Education Department, in co-operation with the
Federation, intends to stop” it. Presumably the
departmental decision was communicated by post,
since the Minister and the Director of Education were
excluded from the list of invitations to the T.F.
conference.
A sarcastic educationist from the U.S.A. has
written that “N.S.W. spends £4,000,000 a year on
education and £50,000 a year on free libraries.” This
is a more important matter than “the code of ethics,”
and so is the placing of education under national
control ; but no mention was made of either in
reports of the conference proceedings.
Up Go the Rotes!
Just before Christmas, Mr. Spooner, who is Minister
of Local Government in the smug Stevens Adminis-
tration, referred with vast pride to his Government’s
latest improvisation of boons for the N.S.W. unem-
ployed—“2oo schemes for subsidised works, to cost
£4,264,000.” The Government is finding £1,631,500,
partly borrowed, partly raised by special taxation (it
goes up to lOd. in the £ of gross income), and muni-
cipal councils are to borrow the rest.
These schemes are independent of the grandiose
programme drawn up by the Metropolitan Water
and Sewerage Board, which, when struggling with the
results of extravagance, was made “financial” by the
transfer of part of its vast debt from ratepayers to
general taxpayers and by the securing of Loan Council
sanction for huge borrowings.
Under the Stevens-Spooner regime persistent
attempts have been made to induce suburban and
country councils to borrow for “works.” Doubters—
and some sturdy resisters have not been wanting—have
been assured that there was not the slightest danger
of increased rates. Kogarah is one of the suburbs
which have grabbed at the borrowing Government’s
gifts with both hands. Exactly a week after Mr.
Spooner spoke his piece about the 200 “schemes for
subsidised works” the Kogarah Council decided to
increase its general rate from in the £ of unim-
proved capital value to 6|d. in the £. An alderman
explained that the in the £ would bring in another
£12,000 and the £12,000 would be necessary because
the council had “accepted a loan scheme under the
amended unemployed-relief proposals.”
Since unemployed-relief money began to rain on
Kogarah the suburb has acquired, among many other
things, a shark-proof bathing-place. That can be
justified, but there are in addition a concrete sea-
wall, ornate dressing-sheds and a lifesavers’ club-
house rather like a Government House lodge, though
to drown in the George’s River a person would need
to be held under water.
While encouraging municipalities to go into debt
for “works” which produce nothing, the Stevens-
Spooner Government, on the admission of Mr. Button-
hook, its Minister of Lands, did not make a single
small holding available in a twelvemonth. Yet, at
the instance of experienced men in the shires, a
Small Holdings Act was passed (and pigeonholed) in
1932, and thousands of unemployed are growing
things on the bits of land —invariably poor—on which
they have raised their humpies.
"Sissies," Are They?
From “Cooper’s Creek Old Boy”:
The Sydney evening press, scraping for news, has dis-
covered and interviewed a real Australian youngster whose
taste in hats runs to “a large-sized Stetson with corks to keep
the flies away.” He hails from Bourke, which the evening
paper thinks is the back of the far-beyond. His name is Mick.
He has driven cattle with his father on a trip “as far away
as Cunnamulla,” and, having surveyed Sydney youth, he
has decided that they are “all sissies.” They can’t ride or
shoot ; all they can do is swim a little. They are delicate
and pale, and Mick wants to tackle any of them his own
weight.
I was born not far from Mick’s domain and brought up
several hundred miles further north-west. In my day no
youth had ever seen a Stetson. Where there was kurrajong or
cabbage-tree we made our own hats. And 1 made two trips
with my fond parent, one to the Selwyns and one across the
Dawson country, which lasted a year each, and if anybody
had offered to interview me about it I would have laughed in
his face. Every youngster did the same sort of thing. In
those days even Cunnamulla was a rough town. There were
no motor roads, no trips to the seaside. And when a small
boy in our circle injured an eye his mother got on a horse
and carried him 200 miles, riding bareback, to a doctor. She,
of course, was of the “sissy” breed. Three years out from
London.
On his next trip, even if it is only as far as Cunnamulla,
young Mick should lift his fly-veil and take a good look round.
He will probably find that many of the stations are largely
populated by delicate city-bred youth.
Life is all a matter of comparisons. In my day we
would have looked on Mick as a “sissy,” and, having put
some ashes in the bucket —there was a lot of mud in the
water in those days, and supplies were often 50 miles apart—
we should probably have spat in his Stetson by way of
challenge. When he can make an affidavit that he goes alone
40 miles for the mail, that he can keep up with a blacks’ hunt,
that his mother removes his eye-teeth when they rot by
fastening them with string to a verandah-rafter and dropping
him off the verandah, when the best bed he knows is a laced
greenhide, and when his elders correct him with a two-inch
plaited surcingle, he can consider himself tough.
Meantime, I give him a thought or two to take back to
the red-sand country around Bringingabba. The best horsemen
in the West were, of old, little wiry blokes who came from
Redfern and Surry Hills. The best bush shot I ever knew
was a pale Sydney youth bred in luxury at Annandale. The
only white tracker of real note I have ever met was one of
the pallid ones who learnt his youthful bush-lore in Richmond
(Melbourne). Instead of punching Sydney boys on the boko,
Mick should take a few dozen of them back to the Darling
and the Warrego. The only thing that is wrong with them
is that too many of them stick to Sydney.
And if Mick doesn’t believe, let someone tell him that
Lawrence of Arabia was a pale, thin youngster, sft. sin. high,
who was never out of Oxford except on a holiday until he
had left his adolescence behind, and that the war proved in
salutary fashion that the “pale delicacy” of the city boy
belies his qualities.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WINBLE'S INKS"
have been considered. The musk plant
began to drop the once-prized scent a
decade ago ; why remains unsolved. A
large slice of perfumery trade is affected.
The seagrass decline, also unexplained,
hits a big basket-making industry, and
is expected to affect fisheries, seagrass
being a harborage and feeding-ground
for the small fry. Radio waves have
been blamed for the homing-pigeons’
lapses, and the spud’s decline has been
attributed to over-stimulation to produce
quantity.
* * * *
“Wave Hill”: Preserved in the Perth
Museum, and worthy of pilgrimage from
aviators present and future, is Keith
Anderson’s last message on a piece of
fabric cut from the tail of the Kooka-
burra. Written in lead pencil, it makes
pathetic reading, a record of quiet cour-
age in the face of certain death. It even
contains corrections, carefully indicated,
where the writer, determined to make
everything clear, went back here and
there to insert a word which in his ex-
hausted condition he had omitted. Eng-
land almost canonised Scott and his com-
panions when they perished in the Ant-
arctic: here are Australians who faced
death even more terrible with a forti-
tude equally great; yet it is doubtful if
A BALLADE OF BURDENS.
‘“H you were: to write a fable about little fishes,
Uoctor, said Goldsmith to Johnson, ‘you would make
your little fishes talk like whales.’ ”
I n? half the topics that are sure
Ol daily ventilation in the press;
I’ni growing sick of the affaire de cceur
Of poor old Ned the Last and Mrs. S.
I’m tired of hearing Stevens effervesce
Or Lyons with unctuous self-praise bombard
us;
But, if the naked truth I must confess,
1 m weariest of all of Neville Card us.
1 find it hard with patience to endure
Cricket—a game—decked in the gorgeous
dress
The purple-patched and glittering garniture
Employed habitually to express
1 he beauties of grand opera—nothing less
Maybe our tastes for straight-flung words retard
us
From being thrilled by fluent highbrow-ness
Fresh from the florid pen of Neville Cardus.
I’m tired of Spooner apeing Simon Pure
And Paterson as censor morum —yes;
And Douglas Credit proffered as a cure
For suffering humanity’s distress.
But, if you want the ultimate excess
Of all hyperbole that ever jarred us,
There’s not the slightest need to go, I guess
Beyond the high-flown flights of Neville Cardus!
I m tired of all the muddle and the mess
Fi om which, it seems, no written word may
guard us;
And where the knights of bat and ball progress
In hard-fought Tests to failure or success
Fm getting deadly tired of Neville Cardus!
N S W - T. THE R.
“Herbert Dawson”: Scrawled in pen-
cil on a torn bit of wrapping-paper, 18
inches square, is a “bill” sent to a mate
of mine and retained by me as a bush
memento. With only names of place anr
sender altered it reads;
. Dingo Flat.
Dear old Bill Sory to keep you Wait-
ing up till you went to the hospital was 6
weeks and you are Back to Pays now R
for six weeks 9 Loves and the Month you
avriged 2\ up till last Saturday makes you
10 Loves Bill I make it 19 Loves Bill if
not right Please let me Now I think you
will find it right hope to see you soon W E
Baker
19 Loves Comes to 7/11
Plus fedderal Tax.
Bill paid up for the bread.
* * * *
“G.S.L.”: When someone like the
author of All That Swagger writes the
saga of west Queensland pioneering I
hope justice is done to old Michael
Hackett, of Dalton. Fifty years have
passed since I saw him last, but I have
never forgotten him—hat on the back
of his head, bootlace for a chinstrap,
face as rugged as the map of Ireland,
voice like the bellow of a bobtailed bull
when the sandflies are bad, and speech
as rough as hessian underpants. But he
had the Irish gift of breeding good horses
and a crude but ready wit. At a pub
one day he sat at the head of the table ;
the waitress put the roast of beef before
him and asked him if he would carve.
“Calve.?” he retorted with a gap-toothed
grin around the table. “Ye want me to
calve, do ye? Well, me dear, I’d like to
oblige ye, but I ain’t a cow, ye
know.” On another occasion a boss sur-
veyor asked if oolicka-goolicka berries
were edible. “Can ye eat thim?” Hackett
retorted, picking a few and munching
them. “Av coorse ye can eat thim.”
The surveyor sampled them, found them
good, and ate a double-handful. “Not
bad. Mr. Hackett,” he commented. “Glad
to find they’re so nice. A man gets
hungry for a bit of fruit out here.”
Hackett grinned. “We never buys any
of thim Epsom salts when the ’goolickas
is ripe,” he said. “Ye’ve just shwallowed
the sort av dose I’d give a horse.” It
seems a pity that the lives of men like
Hackett, Conrick, Durack, Hutton and
the Pender brothers are not written up
while those who remember them are still
alive to pass on the stories. Only those
of Kidman, “Bluey” Buchanan and Ken-
nedy have been done to date.
* ❖ $
“Ike Hollar”; It is not only sweeping
changes in human society that are caus-
ing furrowed foreheads. In the past year
inquiring minds have been pondering
over three such things (among many) as
the loss of its smell by the musk plant,
the sudden dying out of seagrass in
waters edging the North Sea and a
failure of homing-pigeons in Europe to
find their way home. There have also
been solemn conclaves in various parts
of the world (including Australia), at
which the loss qf flavor in the potato
and a consequent decline from popularity
"Can't you arrest it, or somethin'? I never been so insulted in my life!”
they will get a mention in future Aus-
tralian school-books. That square -of
fabric should be in a national museum
at Canberra.
s{:
“Chilian”: Scotty McLean, an old-
timer with a beat from Warragul to
Bega, would have regarded Pain Killer
Mick (B. 9/12/’36) as a bar-room ex-
hibitionist. Every storekeeper on the
road knew Scotty and his “shillings-
worth of chillies, and mind they’re guid
uns.” If used to puzzle me as a lad in
Gippsland what an old bagman wanted
with chillies. A storekeeper who’d
known Scotty for 30 years explained. An
evangelist of sorts had convinced Scotty
that whisky and tobacco-chewing were
begot of the devil. Scotty suffered agony
for several days until by chance he
chewed a chilly and found satisfaction.
Till the day of his death he chewed
them steadily. Why his mouth was not
red-raw the “power that made the Scots”
alone knows.
* * * *
“Kaindi”: In the old days in the
Solomon Islands even reputed cannibals
were rather particular what they ate.
One could always trade tinned meat,
except one particular kind (without a
label) which was exceptionally vile; the
niggers would not have it even as a gift.
To get rid of the “sticking” line, one
bright individual hit upon the idea of
getting some labels printed depicting a
bunch of niggers chasing a white man
with spears. This tickled the fancy of
the colored gents., and stocks were soon
sold out.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: So far Maoriland Labor
hasn’t emulated the Soviet’s use of the
screen as a medium for self-glorification,
but the Government’s official organ,
'‘The Standard,” conducting a short-story
competition for its Christmas issue, stipu-
lated that all yarns “must have a Labor
theme.” Here is an extract from one
of the prize-winning efforts:
“It is Dad’s heart,” said Nancy. “It
was always weak. Conservatism caused
this. After what I have seen in the hos-
pitals! Oh, Ken, can—can Socialism stop
all this —for ever?”
“It can, and it shall,” he said as he
helped her into a car...
History has turned a happy page. It is
Christmas again... Mrs. Kenneth Bent
has arranged for the Hon. Peter Fraser to
present the prizes at Valley High School
break-up.
So Christmas-time is a happy time in
1936.
It is suchlike zeal for propounding “our
glorious cause” that makes the general
run of Labor journals so deadly dull.
* * * s|:
“Plantagenet”: It doesn’t happen only
at Wiluna, W.A. (B. 23/12/’36). Southern
tourists shopping in Cairns (N.Q.) are
often amused to see, men at the lingerie
counters buying art.-silk scanties without
the slightest (visible) embarrassment. A
cane-cocky told me the reason. Cane-
workers, after years of skin trouble on
their legs and' thighs, caused by the
minute hairs from the cane stalks, have
found that silk under their working
strides is an effectual preventive.
Runa . Poultiy-larmers have been
intrigued by that tale of the M.L. Black
Orpington that laid the black-shelled
eggs, but the same country offers a fowl
of the same breed that recently went one.
better. Her egg contained a shilling of
Queen Victoria mintage. The first in-
timation that the egg was a lucky dip
was an Auckland grocer’s narrow escape
from swallowing the shilling with his
breakfast.
* * * *
“Court Circular”: Much nonsense is
being printed about the intention of
George VI. to cleanse the Court of the
evil influences alleged to have held sway
there under his predecessor. That sort
of thing happens whenever a new broom
comes along. Old hands still recall how
summarily Edward VII. dealt with the
horde of hangers-on who battened on the
old Queen. It was not only human
beings who were thrown out of various
royal establishments; in many cases
early-Victorian furniture and super-
annuated objects of art went with them.
A similar scatter occurred when George
V. came into his own. Here servants
and furniture were not so much affected
as society generally, those whom Edward
delighted to honor fleeing to retreat in
country houses or the Continent before
the austere eye of Queen Mary. With
Edward VIII. it was the royal farms and
studs which were threatened with the axe,
and even famous Sandringham was in
danger.
he managed to avoid service for a few
days. He told me exultantly that he was
surrendering to the warrant' before noon
on Christmas Eve in the confident expec-
tation, founded upon previous experi-
ences, that he would be released at 6 p.m.
the same evening. He added that this
would be the fourth time that Santa
Claus had relieved him of police-court
liabilities.
* * * * • -
“El Cee”: I can assure “Harry N.”
tbat matelots do resent
P e, . n S called Jack. Between themselves
ls used as an expression of utter dis-
P ara g eme nt, and as such applicable to
. brand-new 0-D-, who, with half q
P under his belt and cap flat a’back;
rolls U P George-street using full helm:
The biggest handicap that a matelot can
J abor under is the reputation of being a
“P ro Per Jack,” and the man who brings
suc b a reputation with him to a new ship
starts off a long way behind scratch;
Even during his brief four years of sailor)
mg» “Harry N.” must often have heard
tbe contemptuous “Whoa there, Jack!”
directed towards the man who tries tq
draw more water than his tonnage en-
titles him to ; and should know that such
terms as “a real Jack Tar,” “Sailor Jack”
and the like are always expressive oi
contempt. Most matelots suffer in silence
when addressed as “Jack” by
knowing that they err in ignorance ; but
to be so hailed by a stranger in uniform
is regarded as a deliberate insult.
“Koax”: Recently there arrived in
Sydney a small consignment of stud
frogs with which some enthusiasts hope
to start a herd of edible batrachians to
supply the Sydney market. The first diffi-
culty will be to induce the public to take
to the alleged delicacy; after years of
propaganda it is still in the freak class,
except in France. America seems to be
the only other country affecting a taste
for this sort of thing, and even there it is
confined to habitues of expensive restau-
rants in the great cities who cultivate it
as a pose. The average Australian
cannot be made to try foods which are
stranee to him Nn Tr«hn R.ill hoc
° „ * Job ? B . ull has , a
contempt for foreign kick-
shaws,” as the fate of more than one
ambitious restaurateur who has set out
“ teach US how '° eat |? as shown. The
rrog-larmers would do better to cut the
loss and send their importations to the
Zoo.
* * + *
* *
, *6/12/ 36)
Very P !f U u lb +n° n § m f °u
Goods , pas . sed by tbe Fj ? ncb
Customs are allowed on to the wharf,
T
' ' * , tourists did the rest.
“o- „ . . xr .. "
_ ® * nate \ Nol t only 1S tbere m
N.S.W. a special early release of prisoners
due f° r freedom during the holidays, but
others who know the ropes manage to
profit thereby. A bush-lawyer friend of
mine, convicted of some minor offence,
was fined £2 and costs, with the alterna-
tive of a week’s imprisonment. He did
not pay and the warrant was issued, but


OF FREQUENT ECLIPSE.
Poor Haile in lone meditation!
His warrior hordes—where are they?
The League—a prawn-supper creation
That flit with the dawning of day?
One and all they have fallen away,
With their mag and their staggering “views,”
And their quaintly Gilbertian display,
From the singular kingdom of News.
Nine days—is. it not?—their duration ;
And then, as their tattered array
Packs up for the sudden migration,
Who’d bid for the lot half a “trey”?
Take that fling of a king and his fay—
Is the mob still a-sob, Mr. Hughes?
Not a drip; they have vanished to stay
From the singular kingdom of News.
Sensation eclipsing Sensation;
New puppets to puff or to flay—
So topple the Great from that station
Wherein they seemed settled for aye!
At a nod of this god they obey;
At his word, like a herd of old ewes,
They depart to their hasty decay
From the singular kingdom of News.
Envoi.
Even so; still we know from this clay
A new band to upstand in their shoes
Will be fashioned, as needed, to bray
From the singular kingdom of News.
n.s.w. Macann.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: The “Can 1 Help?” picture
(B. 23/12/’36) reminds, me of mixed
bathing at Manly in the decade of two-
piece. costumes. As she was swimming
out a rough wave took off a girl’s lower
garment, and when she was coming back
a dumper rolled her top piece over her
head, and left her in her birthday suit.
In a minute she was surrounded by a
protecting and “Oh-h-hing!” bevy of
women, while the male bathers scurried
to another part of the beach. I can’t quite
see that happening now.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “El V.,” in his “Kings of
the Pre-Hollywood Era” (B. 30/12/’36)
is hardly accurate when he tells us that,
after James 11. had bolted from his king-
dom, “James’s daughter and her Dutch
husband, offered the Crown, hurried over
to England.” William of Orange was
there already ; in fact, if he hadn’t been
there and England hadn’t made it clear
that any alternative to James would be
a change for the better, James would
never have bolted. Not until after Wil-
liam had reached London, and James,
at his second attempt, had managed to
get clear, did the question arise of who
should succeed him. And it took some
time to decide that.
* * * *
“Edenglassie”: For a Christmas, show
the Q. Museum Director put before the
public’s gaze a miniature dinosaur —
Diplodocus carnegie to scientists. The
original is in Pittsburgh Museum, and
would fill Brisbane’s million-dollar hall
“Gor', Tummas, Cap'n got un in the neck that time!”
\
easily. This immense beast haunted
swamps of Colorado in the Jurassic Age,
some 150,000,000 years ago. It had such
a huge body and such a small head that
it had to eat most of the time to keep
alive. Although 80ft. long and weighing
40 tons, its brain was only the size of
a hen’s egg. The model sits in company
with Queensland’s 30,000,000-year-old
dinosaurs.
“H.A.L.”: I’ve seen a better joke put
over a university lecturer than anything
to do with bricks. We were asked to
bring along a specimen of the most un-
usual rock we could find ; the humorist
of the class laid a round, slightly rough
pebble on the tray. The lecturer picked
“After all our trouble getting here that southerly busier HAD
to come up and spoil everything !”
up each specimen in turn, named it and
made a few remarks before passing it
around f or examination, but that pebble
tricked hjm First he hdd it t 0 the Ught ,
..,... , „ ,
he scrutinised it through a lens,
his brows knitted into a puzzled frown,
Failing to identify it, he cracked it in
halves, and his frown deepened when
he found that it was built up of con -
centric layers. “I asked for unusual
stones,” he said, “and this is the most
unusual one I’ve ever seen. Will the
student who brought it please inform
me where he obtained it?” The humor-
ist stuttered, “My sister got that for me,
sir. She’s a nurse, and that’s a g-gall-
stone the d-doctor cut out of a man last
week.” The lecturer joined heartily in
the roar that followed.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Weird tales used to be told of
pearls of glorious lustre sold by colored
lugger crews to the ever-ready “snide”
pearl-buyer in Broome. One of these
fabulous baubles figured in a grim case
in 1907, when a “commercial traveller,”
carrying with him £2OO, was lured on
to the old schooner Mist, lying a derelict
in Roebuck Creek. Next day his body
was found in the creek, and subsequently
a white man and a darkie were hanged at
Fremantle Gaol for the murder. At the
trial evidence showed that the supposed
pearl was a glass marble from the neck
of a soda-water bottle, which had been
covered with a silk handkerchief, but
several old-timers at Broome reckoned
there really was a pearl, and that it mys-
teriously disappeared before the case
came on.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: N.S.W. Supreme Court has
given an important judgment concerning
rights of claim upon the solicitors’
fidelity fund. One Pascoe held a mort-
gage over a property ; when it was dis-
charged, a solicitor got the money. He
died ; and his trust account was found to
be in such a defective state that there was
not enough to meet the liability of £5OO to
Pascoe. At an application on the latter’s
behalf for the certificate of the Supreme
Court, which is necessary for a payment
from the fund, the Incorporated Law In-
stitute appeared —not to oppose, but to
secure the clearing up of a legal point,
viz., whether a certificate might be issued
when there had been no conviction of
the offending attorney. Conviction was
obviously impossible ; but the Court ruled
that a misused client was entitled to a
certificate on a prima facie case concern-
ing his loss being presented, even if no
offence against the solicitor had been
made out.
* * * *
“Verri”: Coincidence? When work-
men were demolishing the old Bank of
N.Z. in Blenheim, one came upon a
cheque, dated 1879, caught under the
floorboards in the dust of over half a
century. The signature was that of the
very firm making the present alterations.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: Growing greens on
wet flannel at sea (B. 16/12/’36) was
a popular trick in windjammer days.
Garden mustard-and-cress was used. The
windjammer seaman sewed flannel
around a bottle, scattered mustard-and-
cress seed all over if and then sewed an-
other layer of flannel over, with a few
threads hanging down inside the bottle
to act as wicks. The bottle was then
filled with water, and a crop of salading
was ready in a week. Another trick was
a wicker basket filled with earth, hung
well up on the spanker-mast, and sown
with parsley seed. Twice daily the bo’sun
went up and watered the basket; fresh
green sprigs of parsley appeared on the
saloon table every few days, and occa-
sionally in the fo’c’s’le. Words cannot ex-
press how tasty that little sprig of green-
stuff used to be after weeks on salt beef,
cracker hash and pease pudding.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A detail of S.A.’s centenary
was the unveiling of a marble bust of
Edward Gibbon Wakefield, presented by
the Dominions Office in London to Adel-
aide Art Gallery (which has just decided
to call itself a National Gallery in
future). Wakefield was a great planner
in advance for both S.A. and M.L. He
was an odd mixture of the practical and
imaginative, and a humorous touch is
that he did much of his writing while in
gaol for the unusual crime of eloping
with a schoolgirl heiress.
* * * *
“Abdict”: The Bulletin says,
(16/12/’36) that Edward was the first
to give up the Empire throne for Luv.
I listened to his speech of farewell, and
later to several recordings of it. What
1 heard was: “The woman I lahve.”
# * * "■
“Bill O’C”: In a reference to William
Teeling’s book Gods of To-morrow (B.
16/12/’36) it is said: “Mr. Teeling is
very ‘Oxford’ and spells Rabaul
‘Raboul.’ ” Maybe, but it seems to de-
pend on how the author pronounces his
own spelling, whether as “Rabole,”
“Rabool” or “Rabawl.” The general
Australian pronunciation is “Rabawl,”
which looks to me too suggestive of our
bad habit of pronouncing foreign proper
names just as we. would common Eng-
lish words of the same appearance.
Hence the monstrosities “Durby,” “Men-
tone” (as two syllables only) “Ee-pray”
(as two also for a change) and so forth.
Anyway, who committed the ortho-
graphy to paper? The Germans? Then
if they got it down phonetically right ac-
cording to their own diction it should be
spoken “Rab-owl” (to rhyme with
“foul”). A Frenchman, on the same
spelling, would say “Rab-ole.” How does
the Papuan native say it?
* * * *
“Hamfat”: The shades of old actor-
managers must have stirred restlessly
when the Actors’ Equity obtained an
award from the Arbitration Court limit-
ing professional hours to 96 per fort-
night— roughly, a performance and a
rehearsal a day, with no rehearsal on
matinee days. Two-shows-a-day vaude-
ville companies will have to pay extra
for rehearsals. George Rignold, who in-
sisted on his actors being letter-perfect,
would be specially hurt. It was quite an
ordinary event, after what George re-
garded as an unsatisfactory first night,
for the call to be passed round “Rehearsal
after the performance”; and the only
consideration shown for the mummers
was the occasional provision of break-
fast on the stage —to enable them to last
a bit longer. Dan Barry had a rather
better system. “Ladies and gentlemen,”
he would announce, “our train leaves
at four a.m. It is hardly worth while
going to bed. Let us rehearse after the
performance.” The point with Barry,
who paid hotel expenses exclusive of
salary, was that he saved the cost of beds
for the entire company.


A
2©/„rF6
10/or 9<*
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
(jfonte4*t£eh.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
£• ‘ j
THE C
RK TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin has discovered that “differ-
ences within the Labor movement are a
source of strength, since they enable the
party to resolve its difficulties before
coming into power.” Let’s see, how
much “power” has Federal Labor had
since “differences” arose in 1916? A
trifle over two years; and then it was
powerless in the Senate.
Having wrested Darling Downs from
the U.A.P., the Cockies are demanding
increased representation in the Ministry.
Four of the 14 Ministers are Agrarians,
but only two —Page and Paterson —are in
the Cabinet. In Bruce-Page’s time there
were always three, often four and some-
times five C.P. “Ministers of State,”
although there were never more than 14
C.P. Ms.H.R. —there are 16 now.
In all 46,019 effective votes were polled
in Darling Downs. Annand, the nominee
of “the party that has represented Dar-
ling Downs since Federation,” as Lyons
put it, got 8725, and preferences in-
creased the number to 12,366. In the
distribution of Annand’s votes Fadden got
8141 and Buchanan (Labor) 4225. In
other words the 4225 rejected the instruc-
tion of Lyons, Menzies and Casey that
their preferences should go to the C.P.
man.
Revenue from the N.S.W. tote tax
dropped from £193,800 in ’2B-’29 to
£115,600 in ’35-’36, and revenue from
the racecourse-admission tax from
£129,700 to £87,700. The drop was
due not so much to the decline
in racing—in Victoria, where Gov-
ernment is not so greedy, there has been
none —but to the taxes being so exces-
sive that people who would rather go to
the racecourse now do their betting in
s.p. shops and listen to broadcasts. This,
in its turn, has created a social problem ;
but the Government seems too stupid to
observe the effects of its own silly legis-
lation.
N.S.W. racecourse-admission taxes at
Randwick are 2d. on the Is. charged at
the entrance gate, lOd. on 2s. in the
Leger reserve and 3s. 2d. on 10s. in the.
saddling paddock. And the Govern-
ment takes 9 p.c. from every tote pool
and charges a shilling for a sixpenny
tram-ride. And then it wonders at the
popularity of s.p. betting!
Resolution to be discussed at the Aus-
tralian Teachers’ Conference in Mel-
bourne—one of a number suggesting that
provincially-controlled education is in a
bad way:
That education be a charge upon the
Commonwealth as well as State budgets,
and that the Commonwealth subsidise it.
In short, the national authority should
raise the money and let provincial
authorities spend it, and no questions
asked. There is far too much of that
rotten business already. Why don’t the
teachers go straightout for Common-
wealth control of education, with full
responsibility? They have made some
tentative advances in that direction, but
always provincialists have prevailed.
The beginning of work on the super-
fluous Sutherland-Cronulla railway has
revived the demand for the construction
of the St. Leonards-Eastwood line. The
Sydney Government is going through the
form of resisting if, but is confidently
expected to yield, its spine being made
of putty. St. Leonards-Eastwood used to
figure in a melancholy Railway Depart-
ment list of projected lines and expected
losses. When last calculated, the cost was
£900,000.
Nothing more has been heard of the
extension of English-controlled chain-
store pharmacies to N.S.W. The attitude
of the Sydney Government is that the
projectors should on no account be dis-
couraged lest British capital be fright-
ened away ; but Queensland Labor passed
legislation to prevent the crushing out
of home-grown chemists, and Premier
Dunstan has stated that if the Victorian
law doesn’t sufficiently protect them it
will be made “watertight.”
Victoria won’t have anything pn the lines
of a penny-in-the-slot system for medicine
and drugs.
Savage in Maoriland has been equally
forthright. Indeed, on this subject
Stevens is in an ignoble minority of one.
H. C. Brown, the new Commonwealth
Auditor-General, is off on a world tour
to “conduct an examination of Com-
monwealth accounts in London and New
York.” There used to be accountants in
both cities who could be hired for a few
guineas to do that sort of job, but ap-
parently they are all dead.
One of the most amazing developments
of an amazing year was the change in
the relations of Britain and Italy. At
“The more we are together , the happier We'll be!"
the beginning they were boycotting one
another, and their trade, worth about
£20,000,000 sterling even in depression
years, had fallen away to nothing (for
nine months to the end of September,
even with “sanctions” abandoned in the
meantime, British exports to Italy were
valued at £300,000, British imports from
Italy at £800,000); while their news-
papers were indulging in war talk. At
the end of the year they were about to
sign a friendly agreement, which has
since been signed.
This much can be said for the Forgan
Smith Government’s management of
Queensland’s affairs —it doesn’t grind out
ill-considered laws at the Canberra rate
or the speed reached in S.A. and Tas-
mania. Its legislative output for 1936
amounted to 31 Acts —the Parliament at
Hobart whisked through 90. Some, of
Australia’s annoyances arise from over-
legislation. It is not one of Queens-
land Labor’s failings.
Among the useful measures passed at
Brisbane in 1936 were one extending to
local authorities in the country some, of
the powers given to the Greater Bris-
bane Council; a Racing Act, which has
already cut some of the s.p. canker
away; an Income Tax Act that goes
some distance towards uniformity with
Commonwealth and other State enact-
ments, and Statutes Reprint. That pro-
vides for an overdue consolidation.
Obit at midnight, December 31, the
Washington Naval Limitation Treaty.
The wails, if any, of the mourners at
the funeral were lost in the roar incident
to the building of new battleships.
An Assemblyman has died in South
Oss, and the widow is reported to be
after the party nomination. Nowadays
at least 50 p.c. of by-elections are marked
by efforts to keep the billet in the family.
They have their pathetic side, but the
hard, unromantic fact is that Australia
has far too many paid members.
Bridges, the Australian-born strike
leader, is distinctly “in the news” on the
other side of the Pacific. His latest ship-
ping strike has lasted for months and
is extending ; speeding to address a meet-
ing, he ran over a boy cyclist fa coro-
ner’s jury pronounced him blameless),
and 5000 Californian farmers have asked
the President to deport him. Technically
an unnaturalised alien, he could be de-
ported with the minimum of legal fuss.
But it would mean infuriating a large
section of the labor-union vote, and the
President is too shrewd a politician for
that.
The troubles of Westralia’s Willcock
Government are accumulating, and the
Premier is going to the Coronation, “as
guest of the Empire Parliamentary Asso-
ciation,” to get away from them. A
majority of one in the Assembly, no
majority at all in the Council, which has
turned nasty, curtailment of Common-
wealth loans and grants and the re-
appearance of the deficit —these are the
worst of Willcock’s worries. But one
quarter has brought relief—drenching
rains have fallen in the drought-stricken
northern pastoral districts that Gullett
forgot.
Preparations for Premier Dunstan’s
Coronation trip are not absorbing all his
energies. Rough drafts of next session's
bills are undergoing Cabinet scrutiny
before he leaves. He’ll be back, via
America, about the end of June, and
until then Old will carry the baby.
Maoriland has penny postage and
penny public telephones. In both cases
earnings are up, and there is no idea
of increasing the rates. But McLach-
lan, the Australian P.M.G., doesn’t see
how it is possible to reduce the tuppence
he charges in each case.
Another expedition, the umpteenth, is
setting out for Centralia—from Brisbane
this time —in search of “Lasseter’s lost
reef.” If the Department of the Interior
were not a bad joke it would long ago
have warned a confiding public that there
is not a shred of evidence that Lasseter
ever saw a reef, and that “records”
alleged to have been traced in Westralia
are non-existent. But the Department of
the Interior is so careless of its respon-
sibilities that it has been shovelling out
“advances” to companies bossed by
U.A.P. politicians for development of
holes in the ground in the N.T.
They are saying in Spring-street, Mel-
bourne, that the Dunstan Government
has on the stocks a measure that will
provide for a Ministry of Health. If
this means that Victoria will get a uni-
form set of well-policed health regula-
tions —Melbourne, in particular, needs
them —it will be worth while. Still,
health should be a national matter —
incidentally, there is a Commonwealth
Minister of Health —with a national plan
and decentralised control.
Thirteen Victorian pubs which had
become excessive served drinks for the
last time on December 31. In each case
landlord and licensee received fair com-
pensation out of a fund to which they
had contributed over many years. Why
does N.S.W. never read that superfluous
pubs have put the shutters up? It had
a compensation fund once.
A way they have in the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Transport:
To fill up the wastage in the tramway service,
160 men were engaged to start work before the
Christmas rush set in. At the last moment
they were told they would not be required
till January 4. All through the holiday season
the old employees were worked up to 10 hours
a day, the net result being frayed tempers, un-
due fatigue and time and a half for overtime.
The 160 men, who could have done with the
fortnight’s wages, remained on the dole.
From Wellington (M.L.):
This matter of Australian oranges is adding
wrinkles to the forehead of our Minister of
Industries and Commerce. The American
shipping strike interfered with the supply of
oranges for the Christmas trade. Some cases
arrived from Jamaica, and were sold dear at
auction and dearer in the shops. Minister
Sullivan, who doesn’t hesitate to issue regu-
lations controlling the price of everything from
whitebait to wheat, thereupon ordered the
fixing of orange prices “in the interests of the
consumer.” A shipment arriving from N.S.W.,
the retail price was fixed at five, seven or nine
for a bob, according to the varying counts in the
cases. But retailers, who have to discard rotten
oranges, could not see any profit in observing
the Ministerial prices. They said, in effect, “We
are accustomed to South Australian oranges,
which come uniformly graded as to size and
ripeness; these N.S.W. ones are unreliable as
to grading and condition.” One bright Dunedin
fruiterer publicly asked the Minister to gazette
a regulation insisting that for every bob’s worth
of seven oranges “the consumer must receive
one bad orange per bag”! The Minister has
not made the order.


BRINGING UP THE BABY.


r
m
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY <
PTy. LTD., Melbourne,'^.Adelaide,. Perth*
- E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
n
SYDNEY
£- Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
January Issue on Sale next Saturday.
WHAT WILL 1937 BRING?
SECURITY AND COMMODITY MARKETS
REVIEWED.
SURVEY OF BASE METALS.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
mm
£
ess's*
c: K£YIm/'
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 Little Collins St., Melb. Cl.
• Melbourne’s largest, most modern hotel.
Central—next to Town Hall. Quiet —off tram
lines. Comfortable—luxurious appointments
throughout. Inexpensive— popular “Room
Only” tariff: Singles, 4/- to 7/6 per day;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/- per day. Write Dept.
823 for catalogue.
[AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST NON-LICENSED HOTEL
PERSONAL ITEMS
Grafton Elliot Smith, passed on in
England, was one of the most versatile
graduates ever produced by Sydney Uni-
versity. Born at Grafton (N.S.W.), he
left his native land to do research work
at Cambridge and soon was a fellow of
its St. John’s College. His bent for
archaeology and anthropology took him
to Egypt, and he became a world
authority on man in the time of the
Pharaohs. His distinctions were legion ;
the learned societies of most front-rank
countries had honored him. He had
been Professor of Anatomy successively
at the Universities of Manchester and
London, and was one of the most volu-
minous of Australian-born scientific
writers.
Bulletin artist G. K. Townshend,
whose characteristic walk and mien are
well shown in Horner’s sketch, hailed
originally from Maoriland, and studied
under Norman Carter and Datillo Rubbo
G. K. TOWNSHEND.
at Sydney Royal Art Society, after pre-
liminary training with Louis Steele in
his native city, Auckland. The war
stabilised his technique. Attached to the
2nd Field Artillery Brigade, he sketched
everything in sight, including Fritz when
he could catch him, and the fine port-
folio he brought home was bought by
the Mitchell Library as a national
record. Townshend is a fellow of the
Sydney Royal Art Society and member
of most other Sydney painters’ and
etchers’ bodies, and gives some time to
teaching art at Sydney Tech. He is Aus-
tralia’s most blue-blooded artist: his
father is heir to the seventh Marquess
of Townshend. Townshend of Kut was
his near relation, and on the female side
he has the blood of an ancient English
barony that survived into the nineteenth
century—Ferrers de Chartley, dating back
to 1299.
Captain C. C. Worboys, who died in
Sydney on the day before New Year's
Eve, had the hardest of luck in the war.
He was with the engineers on Gallipoli
at 19, but was invalided home. Then
he became one of Richmond’s most bril-
liant flying cadets, qualifying with high
honors for a captaincy, but a fractured
spine in an accident on the night before
the Armistice spoilt his chances of a full
life. Always cheerful, at one stage he
became well enough to drive his own car
and work in a wheeled chair. He
latterly interested himself in politics, and
contested a U.A.P. ballot for Ashfield.
C. M. Briggs, passed on at 68, was
associated with the Brisbane Newspaper
Co. for the whole of his working life.
He was an inspector of agencies when
in 1900, as Briggs himself put it, “a fairy
tale happened.” That year W. B. Car-
michael, g.m., leaving for U.S.A., quietly
called the young man in and told him to
take charge. In 1912, when W. R. Topliss
resigned the job, Briggs became manager,
E. J. Stevens, managing director, and J. J.
Knight, who took a greater share of
the managerial burden than editors usu-
ally do, being still in their prime. Be-
coming g.m. in 1921, Briggs remained in
control till Melbourne “Herald” interests
took the company’s papers over. Though
the “Courier” was his life interest, dur-
ing the war he made time to work for
over 40 war funds. Back in the ’eighties
and early ’nineties he was a star foot-
baller, swimmer, cyclist and rower.
Latterly he took to bowls.
J. P. L. Thomas, M.P. for the ancient
city of Hereford, who is visiting Aus-
tralia, is not to be confused with the
“Jimmy” Thomas who fell over the
Budget. J.P.L. is a Carmarthenshire
man who crossed the Welsh border after
failing to win a seat in his native terri-
tory. At 26 he was not only in the
Commons but assistant secretary to Stan-
ley Baldwin, whose Bewdley seat is not
far from Thomas’s own. Since 1932 he
has been Parliamentary Secretary suc-
cessively to the Dominions and Colonial
Ministers. He is now 33.
All good Adelaideans will recognise
Coventry’s sardonic likeness of R. Burns
Cuming, one of the
centenary city’s out-
standing commer-
cial men. Cuming,
a leading executive
of a well-known arti-
ficial fertiliser co.
which his family
controls, is in his
spare time a vice-
president of the
Adelaide Chamber
of Commerce.
The inhabitants
of Melbourne Zoo
lose a good friend
through the retire-
ment of Andrew
Wilkie, who has
been the main figure
in the resort’s de-
velopment for almost
as many years as an
elephant can re-
member. Wilkie
loved the job and
brought to it a gift
of humor which did
much to popularise
his work. He knew
every creature in the
R. BURNS CUMING, of Adelaide.
place as an intimate friend and his stories
were legion. Some of them have already
made a very good book, though he was
not responsible for the writing of it.
Down on a trip from New Guinea,
Captain H. T. Hammond, one of Aus-
tralia’s oldest airmen. His experience
began during the war, and he has been
mostly in the air ever since. Fritz fail-
ing to get him, he began barnstorming
in N. S. Wales after the scrap. The
N.G. gold days gave him a chance to
try his luck between Salamaua and Edie
Creek.
The King’s Medal at Duntroon went
this year to Lieutenant G. D. Clark, son
of a Digger officer of the 43rd who died
at Messines. Clark, born and educated
in Adelaide, was first president of the
Adelaide Intermediate Legacy Club. A
good all-round athlete, playing half a
dozen games well, he has specialised at
the military college in engineering.
Succeeding that long and elegant S.
African veteran H. L. Harnett as sergeant-
at-arms of the N. S. Wales Assembly is
H. Robbins, of the Parliamentary staff,
who won the Military Cross at Clery with
the 38th and was badly wounded more
than once in the war. Robbins, who has
been second clerk to the House for 18
years, has not the same physical
attributes as Harnett, but in these days
chuckings-out are rare.
The Bank of N.S.W. loses a good ser-
vant in W. G. Hull, who, with 42 years’
banking service behind him, had been
chief inspector and g.m. of the A.B.C.
Bank when the ’Wales took it over dur-
ing the depression. The ’Wales made
him inspector and later chief inspector.
The surest place to find him henceforth
will be in his garden.
- Queenslanders scored heavily in recent
C.M.F. promotions. Inspector-General
J. D. Lavarack belonged to the old Bris-
bane Grammar School cadet corps,
which underwent spartan training and
twice provided a rifle team to win the
Earl of Meath’s Empire Cup against
schools of the Empire. E. C. P. Plant,
one of two brothers who shot in the suc-
cessful rifle teams, becomes Director of
Military Training. With the 9th Bat-
talion he won the D.S.O. and the C.
de Guerre and was mentioned five times
in dispatches, returning a lieutenant-
colonel in his twenties. O. F. Phillips,
Warwick-born, becomes a major-
general. One of the dashing handful of
R.A.A. lieutenants who trained Queens-
land’s meagre forces before the war, he
is an A.D.C. to the King and is Q.M.G.
and third member of the Military Board.
The accession of
George VI. has set
people recalling that
he stuttered badly
till treated by an
Australian, Lionel
Logue. Logue, a
South Australian by
birth, taught elocu-
tion in Perth and
gave an occasional
recital. He had a
good following, be-
ing an amiable,
handsome fellow,
with a shock of fair
hair; but he found
his vocation only
when he went to
London, studied the
causes of stammer-
ing and set up as a
healer. A newspaper
correspondent has
questioned whether
he had the then
Duke of York as a
patient, but the fact
is well authenti-
cated, and it
brought him heaps
of business.
J. G. Chidgey, g.m. of the Fresh Food
and Ice Co., who collapsed and died on
the gangway of the Awatea, was a well-
known figure in Sydney commerce.
Originally he was an accountant with
the old-established firm of Yarwood
Vane ; then he joined Nestles, and finally
rose from the accountant’s job to head-
ship of the F.F. and I.
Baron MARKS, of Melbourne.
Professor E. W. Skeats, off on a year’s
leave to U.S.A. and Europe, emigrated
to Australia to become professor of
geology at Melbourne University in 1904.
A decade or so ago he was for two years
president of the Professorial Board, and
before that Dean of the Faculty of
Science. He has written voluminously
on Australian formations.
“J.A.8.” farewells an old friend:
Three months ago I spent a day with
“Smiler” Hales in his house at Hearne Bay,
London, chatting over the old days. He was
then engaged on his 66th novel, and he had
turned 76 in May. “I expect to reach 80,” he
said, being always an optimist. “Smiler’s”
first journalistic experience was on the Barrier
“Miner” under S. H. Prior, afterwards of The
Bulletin, whom he always admired. He con-
tributed' racy boxing notes from Broken Hill
to the Sydney “Referee.” His stuff was so
good that the “Referee” made him boxing
editor. This post he retained until he left for
England, via America, to report the Jackson-
Slavin fight. Then he heard Coolgardie calling.
As writer, mining speculator and public man
after his fashion—he stood for Parliament once
—he cut a figure on the goldfields till the Boer
War broke out. He went to South Africa as
a freelance with a kind of commission from the
Kalgoorlie “Sun,” and became assistant to the
war correspondent of London “Daily News.”
“Smiler” witnessed the Modder River battle
while the correspondents of most of the English
papers were at a picnic at Green Island down
river. He got his “copy” away on a train
carrying wounded to Cape Town by paying
the fireman £lO to post it by the first mail to
London. His picturesque account created a
sensation, and Sir John Robinson, g.m. of the
“Daily News,” appointed “Smiler” as its chief
correspondent. Made prisoner at Sunnyside,
Hales got another scoop by interviewing
President Stein at Bloemfontein.
( In England after the war Robinson offered
“Smiler” a big retaining fee for life. Always
careless, he neglected to sign an agreement, and
Cadburys took over the the “News,” with
A. G. Gardiner as editor. They were against
war and war correspondents.
Afterwards “Smiler” reported wars in
Macedonia, Manchuria and Italy; he lectured,
wrote magazine articles and fictiop; he was
“Times” correspondent in Argentina and
Bottomley’s devil on “John Bull.” Many of
the “John Bull” articles that gave Bottomley an
immense war-time reputation as a journalist
were written by Hales.
“Smiler” was a native of Adelaide, the son
of a Baptist lay preacher who wanted his son
to become a minister. “Smiler” would have
none of it and ran away to the bush. He was
a rugged and vigorous writer and a rugged
and vigorous man, and a good Australian
always.


Policyholders Share all v
Profits - No Shareholders /
i
1
N
//1
J
V MjK
•••:•
MTIOMAI
wm
>V ) ’/
MUTUA
The whole of the funds and surpluses belong
to the policyholders. It is their company, theirs
is the benefit of the wise administration, continual
progress and solid securities.
Established 1869. FUNDS EXCEED £40,000,000
Ask for a representative to call and explain how the National Mutual can help you.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA, LTD.
Offices:
N.S.W.: 350 George Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements.


ABORIGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Talahua”: It was Sunday, and about
150 abos. had gathered at the Drysdale
River mission. An argument cropped
up, and soon it went from abuse to
spears. One of the fathers —a very little
father he was, too —ambled into the space
between the two ranks of grimacing,
prancing natives, went up to the captain
of the visiting team, snatched a spear
from him, broke it across his knee, and
then —he had to stand on tiptoe to do it
—shook his fist under that gentleman’s
dusky nose to such effect that the war-
rior and his followers slunk off into the
bush. The missioner then turned on the
opposition, who had been looking on
with considerable pleasure at their
enemies’ discomfiture, and —using his
tongue only this time —raked them fore
and aft so that they, too, scurried back
to their fires and the peace of a Sunday
forenoon. Then the small figure in its
long black robe quietly rejoined me and
we continued our discussion on the dis-
advantages of the nor’-west as a rice-
growing country.
* * * *
“Ekib”: Dad limped in from the
horse-yard, trembling with rage. “Where’s
the gun?” he yelled. “I’m going to
shoot that blasted Baldy. He. nearly
kicked me to death again.” To which
Mum replied: “Give him another
chance, Dad.”
* * * *
“H.S.”: Sydney “Sunday Sun,” in an
article on the comparative speeds of
horses and dogs, gave the neddies’ maxi-
mum at 36 m.p.h. and the tykes’ 50
m.p.h. Peter Pan ran the full mile in
lmin. 35ysec., approx. 37 m.p.h., and
Gloaming half a mile in 45sec., equalling
40 m.p.h. The Harold Park 800 yards
record is 45 l-ssec. At the end of half
a mile Gloaming would be leading the
dog by 80 yards. It was further stated
that a dog would be unlikely to travel
100 miles in 24 hours. A very ordinary
cattle bitch has tailed me home over the
distance in that time.
* * * *
“G.G.6”: Lately reported that after a
tremendous thunderstorm at Dirranbandi
(Q.) traffic in the district became im-
practicable. I can certify to the holding
qualities of the Dirranbandi black soil.
After heavy rain things happen there-
about which few would be disposed to
credit if they had not seen them. Many
a time I have seen a kindly crow after
landing to see if he could help a sheep
in trouble unable to rise again because
of the balled mud on his feet. Goannas
refuse to leave the trees at such times,
and even snakes hesitate to take a risk.
In the queerest case I can recall a curi-
ous and nerve-wracking noise disturbed
the nervous slumbers of revellers at the
Shearers’ Arms one Christmas week. It
was a curious clacking, now rising, now
falling. A large centipede had got its feet
balled, the mud had dried on them, and
when the creeper ran about at night the
mysterious sounds coming from nowhere
sounded like a cross between radio static
and distant m.-g. fire.
* * * *
“Jobber”: One of the relief-workers
had finished his fortnight, and the ganger
had the parting shot: “If they send you
out to me again, lad, bring your body
with you ; the spirit doesn’t go far on
a job like this.”
* * * *
“Tosspott”: Doesh shnakes dig own
holesh? Lishen! I jush been watchin’
three grea’ big pink-’n’-yeller ones do it.
Firsh, one of ’em standsh straight up
on hish fail, holdin’ himshelf very stiff—
shee? ’Nother one winds himshelf
round the firsh one very tight—shee?
Then third one grabsh hold of second
one’sh head and shuddenly pullsh ’im
orf firsh one. Thish starts firsh one
spinnin’ like a drill —shee? Well, in
coupla ticks ’e’s bored a hole whole
length of his body—shee? Then ’e
crawls out ’n’ helps other shnakes dig
own holesh. Which proves conclushiv —
conclu— con—-Imp !
“Any ideer where the Snowdrop laundry is?”
“Kali”: For tough hoofs I’d nomi-
nate against Binghi the Malays of Cocos.
On that atoll the islanders spend most
of their time spearing on the barrier.
They work barefooted, about a dozen
stalking a school of fish until, sur-
rounded, the fish are driven into a small
lagoon, where they are speared. During
the shepherding the fish frequently at-
tempt to break away, and to cut off their
escape Ahmat must run through all kinds
of growing and dead coral as fast as
the foot of water will allow him. He
cannot pick his path—that is decided
by the fish. Yet I’ve never seen a Malay
with coral-gashed feet.
* * * , *
“Nordbo”: Sven, the baby-eyed
Swede, clearing scrub on the outskirts
of Cairns (N.Q.), felled a tree. The
native bees occupying the. hollow trunk
swarmed out, but the deadly, seven-foot-
six brown snake, sleeping off a heavy
gorge in the same “pipe,” was too drowsy
to stir. Sven was fond of honey and
knew that native bees have no sting. The
“pipe” was narrow and dark. He in-
serted an exploring hand and, feeling for
the honeycomb, encountered something
smooth and cold. He fingered the thing
speculatively, scratched it with a finger-
nail, arrived at the conclusion that he
had come, across nothing like it in
Sweden, grasped it firmly and pulled.
When the head and neck of the “brown”
came to light Sven gasped and fell back-
wards. In his fright he retained his grip
on the head, and the snake was jerked
out. The scare had no repressive effect
on Sven’s vocal chords, and in a few
moments scrub-workers from all around
streamed to the rescue and dispatched
the reptile, by then wide-awake and
wriggling for dear life. Sven let go his
dead opponent and vowed to give up
beer to save more speedily the return
fare to Sweden.
* * * *
“J. Rankine”: “H.S.G.’s” statement
(B. 16/12/’36) that stockmen who don’t
wear leggings are usually found in the
, • ...... .
cow-cockying distncts sent my memory
chasing up the Diamantina Georgina
and around the Barkly (N.T.). All the
leggings I could muster out there could
have been cut from one cowhide, and
were chiefly worn by horsetailers for
protection from wet grass on early-morn-
ing tramps. Despite “H.5.G.,” a real
overlander riding through a dairying
town would most likely pass unnoticed.
The only outstanding difference between
him and the bloke who gets the milkers
in would lie in footgear—“Laughing-
sides” wouldn’t last long in a boggy
cowyard. And real cattlemen don’t wear
long-necked spurs. They are heavy, cer-
tainly, of broad, flattened steel, but with
very short necks, and usually are worn
without a strap under the instep so that
they hang low, are less severe, and can
be turned in front out of the way.
Memory brings back one vivid picture
of leggings and long spurs in the Terri-
tory. They had 6in. necks and pointed
skyward, threatening the horse’s stifle at
every step. The leggings reached to the
knees; the wearer also sported a red
handkerchief round his neck, a pointed
moustache and a stockwhip twice the
length of any on the Tableland. But he
was a sheep-drover.
“Old Shed”: In my day inlanders pre-
ferred the plain trousers, and were cer-
tainly never seen in “huge steel spurs,”
which suggests a Hollywood complex.
But it’s good to note that the jodhpur
is taking on. It has all the advantages
of trousers, and does not drag over the
boots, as these often do. Also leggings
can be worn as easily over jodhpurs as
over specially-cut breeches. That they
are popular can be seen by the adver-
tisements of clothing for outback in the
papers ; all the big mail-order firms now
make a special feature of them.
* * * *
“N.8.W.”: Snow is a very nice dog.
He may be only a long-coated, cream-
and-tan mixture, but his eyes are beauti-
ful and his manners beyond reproach.
Quite by surprise he came upon a wal-
laby and set off blithely in pursuit. It
was a wonderful chase till, coming to
a fence with Snow close on his heels,
the wallaby stumbled and fell. But the
end did not come. The perfect gentle-
man sat down and waited for him to get
up and go on.
“Acher : My nomination for the main
cause of bad teeth is iron taken into solu-
tion from the reticulation pipes of civili-
sation. Few things will chop teeth to
pieces quicker than a course of quinine
and j ron> jhe natives of Tristan da
Cunha, recently quoted, have no iron
water-pipes; neither have the Fairbridge
Farm (W.A.) school-children, whose
teeth are also of high standard. Like-
my long-haired mate, reared on
tank and dam water, has excellent teeth
&t 5Q Qn the £ast Cool die gold _
fields> K algoorlie and Boulder, where
wa^er j s pumped 350 miles through iron
pjp es and j s saturated with ferric salts,
children’s teeth are notably bad ; much
WO rse than in Perth, where the pipe
travel is comparatively short. Country
children, generally, have good teeth, due.
to drinking water free from iron,
*•„ * *
First Blue : A Melbourne paper has
resurrected the yarn about wild ducks
being so intelligent that when the season
i s about to open they seek safety in
sanctuaries. The writer instanced the
wa Y they were now flocking to the ponds
in Melbourne Exhibition Gardens. Hav-
ing been a duck-shooter for years, I d
sa Y that, with the exception of some of
the lads with pea-rifles who go after
them on opening day, I’ve never met
more idiotic creatures. Ducks move to
the sanctuaries before opening day for
the simple reason that poachers begin
having a lash at them from December
onwards, and give them no rest until
they are driven close to the city, where
shooting is almost impossible. An in-
stance of their “intelligence” is given by
Radek, the Bolshie propagandist, who
tells of ducks which, despite disappoint-
ment year after year, keep returning to
a swamp which was drained long ago
and now has a city built on it. Far
from learning by experience, the quack-
ing targets keep flying mournfully around
the place until a deputation of the com-
rades line up with blunderbusses and,
perhaps in the belief that they are rid-
ding their country of another menace,
blaze away at the offenders.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: “Kenyu’s” ringbarked gum
(B. 16/12/’36) reminds me of the “Octo-
pus Tree” on Mt. Wellington (Tas.). A
stringybark, it' is growing as if perched
on the top of a huge boulder 12ft. off the
ground ; the roots reach to the earth like
long legs. Apparently the top of the
rock was at one time at ground level.
* * * *
“West Country”: Another dinner-bell
ringing entry to add to the Japanese fish
and their Bath (Eng.) cobbers (B.
16/12/ ’36). This is the swim of swans
whose address is the moat at Wells
(Eng.) cathedral. A long bell-pull hangs
down to the water there, and if dinner
is a minute late the boss swan rings the
bell, wanting to know what the devil is
the reason for the delay.
BETSY, EMMA OR BLOOM.
Where the cockies wcirk their holdings and
battle the hard days through,
Where makeshifts are many and varied and
there’s always work to do,
Where the girls are milkers and drivers and
wise to a!l poultry ills,
And many a comely maiden ploughs and
harrows and drills.
There is always an equine wonder that nobody
bothers to groom,
A good old all-round standby named Betsy,
Emma or Bloom.
She goes in the plough when needed; she’s a
spring-cart mare in turn;
And any new sort of horse-work old Emma
will quickly learn.
She’s safe for Mum with the cream on; she
runs the kiddies to school;
Though she isn’t much to look at, she’s tough
as a mountain mule.
And all she asks for toilet is the chance for
an evening roll,
And apart from her all-round service she’s
good for a yearly foal!
Where it’s all hard work and makeshift and
anything fills the need,
You can always count on Betsy, whatever her
age or breed.
She’ll forage and fossick in drought-time, sur-
vive on what she can get,
And when she ails (’tisn’t often) then dad is
her only vet.
So if in the land of haloes for a farmer’s
friend there’s room,
Reserve a stall for an ancient —Betsy, Emma
or Bloom.
QUEENSLAND.
L. A. SIGSWORTH.


“Laetitia”: It was Saturday afternoon
at the Shearers’ Arms and the breaking
of the drought was being bibulously cele-
brated, loud cracks of thunder enlivening
the jubilation. Spinifex Sam strolled
out on the verandah and contemplated
the downpour, his back firmly propped
against a post. After some moments’
meditation he shifted to another post a
few yards away. Hardly had he done
so when the vacated post was struck
and splintered to smithereens. Sam
looked at it over his shoulder, spat at
Bung’s nondescript pup, quietly com-
mented “That’s the way to dodge it,
boys!” and re-entered Murphy’s. But
Sam's next rum was a double-header.
* * * *
“Zephyr”: Awful moments? Fishing
for garfish in bad weather (the best time
to catch them), we discovered shortly
after midnight that our anchor chain
had fouled the mooring of the three-mile
lightbuoy outside Fremantle. Unwilling
to sacrifice fathoms of new chain and a
good anchor, our skipper started to run
the 30ft. launch around the buoy with
the idea of unwinding the foul. With
nearly a full gale blowing by this time,
both launch and buoy were bouncing
up and down on 20ft. waves. Running
up into the wind, our stern swung sud-
denly—and missed the boiler-plate mon-
ster by inches! Just then somebody
chopped the Manilla spring—and we
were free. We might have managed to
scramble up on to the bucking buoy' —
but wouldn’t that have been a pleasant
night!
*' * * *
“Acquafood”: My experience of gold-
fish is that they never get hungry. Four
golden carp, kept in a glass bowl, re-
fused all dainties offered to them, so
the practice was abandoned as hopeless.
“I'll give y' ten bob a week and keep”
“Keep Wot ?”
Although their water was changed daily
they were not fed for nine months, suf-
fering no discernible loss of condition,
Yet in the first instance they were
caught on a worm-baited hook.
* * * *
“8.M.T.”: Mr. Wren has a grievance,
One morning when he brought the family
to my garden for its dip he found things
in great agitation. Diamonds flew in all
directions and a little rainbow spanned
the pool. The wren family danced ex-
citedly along the fence, all talking together.
Then the faint, sweet turmoil ceased, tails
went erect, heads tilted and bright eyes
popped. The pool lay like a sapphire,
but in its shallows sat old Mrs. Spagg,
looking fatter and commoner than ever.
“May I take my pick home, sir? I'd like to put in a little practice after tea."
with her coarse, wet feathers ruffed out
to catch the sunshine. She looked ready
to burst with the thrill of it. Then she
caught sight of the incredulous and scan-
dalised wrens. She flipped an impudent
wing and spread herself deeper in the
water. I believe she sniffed and called
“Snobs!” for I saw Mr. Wren’s beak go
proudly into the air. With the dignity of
a true aristocrat he chirruped sharply to
his family and, without a backward
glance, all flew swiftly away into the
distant damson-tree.
* * * *
“Kaindi”: Native superstition dies
hard, for all the modern influence
against it. When I was a “lic-lic” doctor
in New Guinea pneumonia was bowling
the natives over. On entering the ward in
the early morning 1 would find a patient
who had been on the road to recovery
striped from head to feet with lime, a
pretty sure sign that he was going to
succumb to his particular “debbil-debbil.”
Things were getting serious, so a bit of
“bunk” was called for. I told the
assembly I was going to burn up their
“debbils” for good and all by calling
on my own “debbil.” It was necessary,
of course, that they sacrificed some little
possession (I saw to it that the offering
was of an inflammable nature); then I
poured out some glycerine alongside the
heap, and added powdered pot. permang.
The fire thus “called forth” was really
too successful—l couldn’t get a legitimate
patient to come anywhere, near my hos-
pital for days. But thereafter never an-
other nigger “gave up the ghost.”
“W.P.T.”: For sheer noise I’ll back
gill-birds against any others in the bush.
When they descend on the bloodwood-
trees to feast on the blossoms their row
is deafening. They can outnoise bells
on bullocks.
* * * *
“Garda”: “Tam’s” Kanakas (B.
2/12/’36) are still alive because cyanide
in a stream merely asphyxiates fish, not
affecting the flesh in any way. I can
still raise goose-flesh over the memory
of a day when, in all ignorance, I threw
some corroded tins of cyanide into
the Pioneer River at Mackay (Q.). It
was not until a dozen people passed my
wharf loaded with fish that I discovered
most of the town’s population, in boats
and on shore, ladling “drunken”
fish out of the river. I reckoned that
at least half the folk would be dead
before the news got round, and was
imbibing enough courage to give myself
up to the police when an old hand, wise
in the ways of getting a good haul in a
quiet spot, told me the facts of the case.
He was surprised at the number of drinks
I shouted.
«= * * *
“Cooramin”: Have you ever watched
an abo. picking up sixpence, or any
small object, such as a pin? He slips
the thumbnail under it and presses it
against the forefinger, whereas the white
man does it the other way about. The
abo.’s thumb is brought into use in a
variety of ways not practised by other
people. It removes the last splinters of
wood when he is getting witchetty grubs
or bardees from trees, and is utilised for
cleaning and scraping, even for scratch-
ing his head, where fingers are usually
employed. Owing to its wide use, his
thumb is uncommonly strong, and the
same can be said of his big toe, which
is used as a vyce and lever, and which
bears his whole weight, in the small
notches cut in the trunk of a tree, when
climbing.
“Legs”: Rambling over the reef it’s
easy to find the nest of an octopus,
Among the coral will be a hole in the
ground ; round the hole, six inches or
more out from it, will be a collection of
empty shells in a perfect circle. The
empties are the left-overs after the con-
tents have been extracted. There will
be numbers of cowries, spider shells in
dozens, an odd clam and hundreds of
spirals of many species. The ’pus appar-
ently finds it prudent to eat in his
own dugout so that nothing else may
make a meal of him while he’s busy.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: I’m tired of reading the
abuse which is handed out to the bull-
ant on this page. What’s wrong with it?
Certainly it can give you a sting which
will get you nearer heaven at a bound,
but it only does it in self-defence, such
as when sat on or trodden on or when
you stand near its nest. Has anyone
ever found bull-ants raiding the meat-
safe, rendering the jam uneatable or
chewing up seeds which you have planted
in the garden? No! Then leave the
old bull-ant alone, and concentrate on the
stinking little meat-ant or that tiny brown
insect which ruins the jam, always re-
serving the heartiest curses for the
swarms of little black brutes which
attack the beehives.
* * * *
“Bimbo”: I don’t know about rabbits
walking off a place when drought is ap-
proaching, but the blighters once ruined
a good straw stack for me. Things were
mighty dry at the time, and the only
water left was in a big dam in the middle
of the property. The cottontails were
around this in droves, so I decided to
throw a spanner into their works by
fencing-in the dam with wire-netting.
But I made one big mistake. I ran the
fence too close to the water, and those
darn rabbits pulled the straw stack to
pieces and used the straws to drink
through the netting.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: For a hard timber I’ll
back minnerichie against Westralian wod-
gil. Growing in isolated places about
far south-western Queensland, it is out
on its own for stockyard rails, but the
axe has yet to be evolved that will stand
for long without gapping when it bites
into it. Binghi, knowing its toughness,
was too broad in the forehead to use it
for friction firelighters or any other tools
of trade.
* X * *
“Mulgo”: One of the most remarkable
of Queensland’s many curious springs is
that called Bog-o’-Moss on Palm Lea
estate near Taroom. The limy mud
forced up from below has formed here
and there thin, sundried caps a couple
of feet high, with a vent in the centre.
An unwary person or beast that steps on
one is liable to crash through and be
swallowed by the bog. After a few days
the spring will have one of its violent
fits and the body be ejected. The whole
spot is shaky; when one mound is
roughly disturbed, all the others shake
like moulded jellies. The place is sup-
posed to have got its name in the early
days from a superintendent of native
police named Moss. While examining
the mounds he broke through, but luckily
grabbed a bit of solid edge as he went
down, and managed after a struggle to
drag himself clear.
BUSH ROADS.
Long, winding ribbons of silver-grey
That twist and turn as they creep away
To the further side of the distant peak,
Long tracks that twist as they search and seek.
Past swamps and lakes and a blue lagoon
That winks and smiles at the friendly moon,
Through pleasant hills where the wattle gleams
Bush tracks go by in the white moonbeams.
To one who knows what the tracks can give.
These twisting ribbons are things that live;
They beckon me with a wistful sigh
To leave the towns and the smoke-dimmed sky.
They seem to sing, as they creep along,
Unspoken words to a haunting song.
One only heard by the men who know
The wish to be where the bush tracks go.
But though 1 travel a different way,
Where city skies are a smoke-stained grey,
1 see at times, in that same grey sky,
The land where the winding tracks go by.
VICTORIA.
A. V. N.


How long is it since
you read your WILL?
PC >
Too many people are prone to make a will,
place it in safe custody, and never look at
it again. And they consider their duty to
their dependents has been done. The lapse
of years between the making of the will and
the administration of the estate often plays
strange tricks with the maker’s intentions.
Changed economic conditions, fluctuations of values, and
innumerable other factors can cause considerable hardship
to beneficiaries if not adequately guarded against by
regular revision of the will.
See your legal adviser at once. Ask him to consider your
expressed intentions in the light of existing conditions.
If you care to arrange an appointment with us, we will
be glad to discuss with you and your solicitor, the
important aspects of practical administration of your
estate.
The Trustees Executors
& Agency Co. Ltd.
The oldest Trustee Company in Australia.
Capital (Paid and un-
called) and Reserves, and
Undivided Profits,
£951,874.
Trust Assets under Ad-
ministration, £28,800,000.
£20,000 lodged with the
Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W., and £lO,OOO with
the Treasurer of Victoria,
as guarantees for the
proper Administration of
Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John
Fordyce, Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G.,
Major-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne :: Tel.: Central 8480
And at Trustees Building, 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Ex- Writ- Added to
Sept., Income. Claims. penses.* ten Off. Funds.
£ £>£&
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1031.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932. . 4.477,015 3,030,862 393,708 )
Trans. Invest. Res., £429,451 ( J 94
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933. . 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,215 )
Trans. Invest. Res., £153,145 ) 1,061,746
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,007,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,161
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1936.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1,722,001
•Excluding income tax.
The National, founded by Colonel
Templeton in 1869, is now the second-
largest of Australia’s five big mutual
Life offices. It gathers nearly half its
annual premium income outside the
country—from Maoriland, S. Africa,
Great Britain, Ireland, India and the
Straits Settlements. During the post-war
decade it digested a couple of blocks of
ready-made business taken over from
the Equitable and New York Life, while
the popularity of the probate policy and
the attention given to group and to
family income assurance further hastened
development. Though slump and its
concomitants slowed down the rate of
progress, policy-holders continued to re-
ceive satisfactory bonuses, and, with the
upward surge of economic activity, both
earnings and additions to funds are
lengthening their stride again. Further-
more, policy-holders now enjoy a wider
margin of protection than they did seven
years ago. During that period, the
Assurance fund continued to grow faster
than actuarial liabilities under policies;
in addition £992,580 was added to the
investment-fluctuation reserve, raising it
to £1,123,607 at Sept. 30 last. Returns
from the investment of this reserve are
available to supplement the income from
the Assurance fund (now £40,883,126),
and therefore help to swell the margin
available for distribution among policy-
holders as bonuses.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the amount of new busi-
ness put on the books (£11,348,578, up
£1,211,253) was a record. The average
per policy (£362) was a trifle lighter, and
the average premium per cent. (£3 13s.
lid.) a shade heavier, which suggests that
a little mere shorter-term business was
written:
1929. 1935. 1936.
Policies.. .. 20,078 26,941 31,350
Amount . . . . £9,868,350 £10,137,325 £11,348,578
Av. per policy. . 479 376 362
First premiums 356,253 344,145 384,030
Renewals .. 2,660,690 3,008,986 3,166,036
Single premiums 338,637 33,835 33,788
Annuities . . 54,014 93,112 40,176
Interest, etc. .. 1,608,616 1,611.426 1,689,507
Assuming that consideration for annu-
ities (down £52,936) cost 3 p.c., and
single premiums 5 p.c., the balance of
the year’s exes, took 14.5 p.c. of the
premium income as against 14, 13.4, 12.7
and 12.5 p.c. back to 1932. The growth
in the expense rate, which is still mod-
erate, is due mainly to writing a larger
number of smaller policies. Again mak-
ing the allowances referred to, and
assuming that new business is 10 times
more expensive than old, the year’s first
premiums cost 73.8 p.c. as against 72.8
p.c. and 72.5 p.c.-for the two preceding
terms.
Of the growth of £70,872 in claims,
£39,819 was on account of surrenders
(£562,235). The £1,722,003 sent to the
Assurance fund was £102,745 more than
the previous year’s addition.
After deducting rates and taxes
'£131,822, down £10,496), the net return
from interest and rents (£1,689,507, up
£78,081) was £4 4s. sd. p.c. on mean
funds,. compared with £4 4s. p.c. and
£4 6s. sd. p.c. for the two preceding
terms, and £5 6s. lid. p.c. in 1930. The
office assumes that its funds will turn in
3 p.c.
At the last triennial valuation, Sept.
30, 1934, reversionary bonuses on whole-
of-life policies ranged from 40s. p.c. on
contracts one year in force to 68s. p.c.
on those. 35 years old or more. Though
2s. p.c. less than those declared three
years previously, they are still very satis-
factory rates.
The investment portfolio, which totals
£42,569,751, is made up in this way:
, 1935 , 1936 x
Freeholds .. ..£ 1,726,462 P f. 2 £1,745,535
Public securities . . 18,745,953 45.9 20,261,045 47.6
Mortgages .. .. 8,880,307 21.9 9,187,679 21.6
foreclosures .. 374,628 0.9 356,876 0.8
o?u nS on P° licl ’es.. 5,725,574 14.0 5,646,535 13.3
Other assets .. 5,327,529 13.1 5,372,081 12.6
Most of the money that became avail-
able during the year was invested in
public securities (up £1,515,092) and
mortgages (up £307,372).
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 139,796 13} p.c. = 125,168 14,628 306,011
Shares in subsidiaries written up,
£455,492 761,503
„ Reserves capitalised, £455,492 .. 306,011
192/.. 159,103 11$ p.c. = 132,642 26,461 332,472
1928.. 154,084 10 „ „ 139,578 14,506 346,978
Share premiums, £17,308 .. .. 364,286
1929.. 160,637 10 p.c. = 141,909 18,728 383,014
Share premiums, £5O .. .. 383,064
1930.. 118,347 71 p.c. = 107,263 11,084 394,148
1931.. 91,554 6i „ „ 89,386 2,168 396,316
1932.. 171,066 8$ ~ ~ 125,140 45,926 442,242
1933.. 111,414 6J „ ~ 89,385 22,029 464,271
1934.. 134,483 71 „ „ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8§ „ „ 120,140 24,482 515,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143,017 52,432 568,405
Formed 27 years ago by the late Henry
Jones and his able lieutenant, A. W.
Palfreyman, now at the helm, this hold-
ing co. has been a notable success. It
stepped in where there was waste in buy-
ing and selling, as well as overlapping
and inefficiency in organisation, and re-
duced the lot to a minimum. At the
end of Oct. it had £2,269,493 (un-
changed over the last three years) in-
vested in a string of subsidiaries scat-
tered throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, and extending to S. Africa
and England as well. The pups, over
whose figures the curtain is kept drawn,
are in the jam- and fruit-canning and -pre-
serving businesses. During the 20 years
to the close of accounts in 1929 the
parent’s divs. averaged a wink under 11
p.c., sweetened with £455,492 of bonus
scrip, in 1927, though share premiums
(£59,040) take a bit of the gilt off the
gingerbread. Slump and other things
brought the rate of div. down to 6\ p.c.
in 1931, since when overproduction of
canned fruits, etc., followed by price-
cutting by Government-financed fac-
tories, has produced fluctuating results.
During the last term increased sales,
both locally and in the export market,
are reflected in a spring of £45,827 in
the net return from the co.’s Australian
investments, which return also benefited
by the absence of provision for taxation
(£10,908 in the previous term), owing to
repeal of the special Federal tax on in-
come from property. The net return
from overseas interests—outside the Com-
monwealth the co. controls six factories
and four merchandising cos.—was un-
changed at £53,850:
1931. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Net income:—
Australian. . £55,674 £75,476 £95,772 £141,599
Other sources 35,880 35,937 53,850 53,850
Total .. £91,554 £111,413 £149,622 £195,449
The £195,449 of profit claimed was 13.7
p.c. on the £1,430,173 of capital, com-
pared with 10.4, 9.4, 7.7, 11.9, 6.4, 8.3,
11.3 and 11 p.c. back to 1928. The div.
was lifted from 8i p.c. to 10 p.c. ; in-
terim and final payments of 6d. and 9d.
per share respectively were made from
Australian earnings, and a final 9d. (un-
changed) was distributed from overseas
income.
Since the co.’s Australian markets are
nearing saturation point, it is to exports
and the overseas section of the business
that shareholders must look for any
further early and substantial increase in
the co.’s activities.
At 465. (38s. 6d. a year ago) the
fully-paid pound shares return 4.3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Each variation
of 1 p.c. in the dividend rate would
affect the return by Bs. Bd. p.c.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
( Dividends
Pref. Toward
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
43,545
1927.. 28,592 1462 7$ p.c. = 15,228 11,902 31,643
Preliminary exes., etc., £2991 .. 34,634
1928.. 24,927 5068 8 p.c. = 16,911 2,948 31,686
Removal exes., £2438 .. .. 34,124
1.929.. 22,895 5984 6 p.c. = 12,728 4,183 29,941
Removal exes., £36 .. .. 29,977
1930.. 20,426 5984 3Jp.c.= 7,955 6,487 23,490
Removal t .*es., £293 .. .. .. 23,783
Loss.
1931.. 23,902 5984 Nil 53,669
ss. per share ( £53,035) struck off
ord. capital .. .. .. .. 634
Profit. Reserves.
1932.. 7,669 5984 Nil 1,685 1,051
1933.. 10,235 5984 2.1 p.c. = 3,536 715 1,766
1934.. 24,019 5984 6.6 „,, 10,607 7,428 9,194
Added intangibles, £B9 .. . . 9,105
1935.. 27,328 5984 7.5 p.c.= 11,933 9,411 18,516
Net addition, intangibles, £7O . . 18,446
Share premiums, £3824 . . .. 22,270
1936.. 30,050 7927 8.5 p.c.= 15,397 6,726 28,996
This energetic manufacturer of motor
accessories, bicycles, radios, etc., with
headquarters at Melbourne and branches
at Sydney, Adelaide and elsewhere, has
lost no time in taking advantage of the
new opportunities which the tariff and
revival of trade activity have provided.
Slump gave the business a nasty jolt; a
loss of £23,902 showed up in 1931.
Promptly ss. per share (= £53,035) was
snipped off the ords., thus enabling the
p. and 1. debit, together with £27,000 of
goodwill (now £16,000, not treated as an
asset herein), to be wiped out. Also the
organisation was overhauled, outlets
were stopped up, and as conditions im-
proved so did the demand for the co.’s
manufactures, especially radio receivers
and push bikes —the line on which the
business was founded over 40 years ago.
In 1935 new branches were opened at
Hamilton, Horsham and Sale (Vic.), and
steel-tube furniture and other new lines
were added to the list of manufactures.
During the last term factory activity
further expanded. After providing for
contingencies, including taxation, net
earnings sprang £2722, reaching £30,050,
or enough to pay the pref. divs. and
show 12.1 p.c. on average ord. capital,
compared with 13.4, 11.3, 2.7 and 1 p.c.
for the four preceding years. A point
was added to the div., making it 8| p.c.
To finance the expanding business
50,200 £l6 p.c. prefs. and 47,860 15s.
ords. (the ords. carried a premium of 2s.
per share, which was added to reserves)
were issued half-way through the term,
making paid capital £320,000 in 74,800
8 p.c. and 50,200 6 p.c. cum. prefs., all
£1 each, and 260,000 ords. of 15s. each.
The pref. divs. and 8? p.c. to the ords.
will now call for £25,571, or £4479 less
than was netted during the last term.
The new capital and more besides
went mainly into stocks (up £47,911) and
debtors’ balances, etc. (up £50,421):
1929. x. 935. 1936.
Paid capital .. .. £286,949 £233,905 £320,600
Overdraft .. -. . 34,230 75,682 69,326
Mortgages and loans . . 90,957 97,487 98,416
Sundry creditors . . 68,850 66,018 81,414
Freeholds, etc 122,380 121,179 121,906
Plant, etc 23,964 27,434 36,016
Stocks 204,308 209,700 257,611
Book debts, cash, etc. 123,206 166,658 217,079
Debtors’ balances includes £20,780 ad-
vanced to a subsidiary which finances
hire-purchase sales. Trade creditors
were up £15,396. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£225,534) was £88,363, due to the intro-
duction of fresh capital. Expenditure on
the new a’Beckett-street (Melb.) factory,
completed since the close of accounts,
was practically offset by sale of a free-
hold in Elizabeth-street. On plant £8582
more was spent than was written off.
The immediate outlook favors a better
showing at next balance.
At 28s. and 21s. the 8 p.c. and 6 p.c.
prefs. each yield 5.7 p.c. The ords. at
21s. 6d. return 5.9 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £4 13s. 3d. 8 per cents., £5 9s. 2d.
6 per cents., and 17s. 2d. ords.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
Nominal
To Re- Re-
Maieh, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves
£££ £ ’
1926.. 43,699 17$ p.c. = 52,500 i goo
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 ~ ~ 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44,963 15 „ „ 45,000 16 921
1929.. 62,338 15 „ „ 45,000 17,338 34’,259
1930.. 55,003 10 „ ~ 30,000 25,003 59 262
1931.. 799 Nil 799 60,061
1932.. 718 Nil 718 60,779
Loss.
1933.. 38,617 Nil 22,162
June.
1934 f. 18,367 Nil 3,795
Profit.
1935.. 4,215 Nil 4,215 8,010
1936.. 17,336 3 p.c.= 12,552 4,784 12,794
*l3 months. fl 4 months.
Thanks to a much larger crushing from
its own plantations and to a further sub-
stantial reduction in costs, due partly to
a new agreement with outside growers,
the outlook for shareholders is brighter
than at any time since 1930. Floated in
Melbourne 15 years ago to grow and
mill sugarcane and refine the raws in
Kenya, East Africa, the co. won some
very juicy returns and paid some hand-
some dividends while it enjoyed prac-
tically a monopoly in its home market.
Then, as usually happens in such cir-
cumstances, there was a rush to get into
the business, and the market soon be-
came oversupplied. Price-cutting fol-
lowed, the collapse of world sugar
prices made export unprofitable, while a
plague of locusts, since out of the way,
added to the co.’s troubles. The aggre-
gate net result of operations for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1935
was a loss of £51,252, and shareholders,
who averaged 151 p.c. for the preceding
quinquennium, went without.
During the last term the co. put a
record crushing of cane through the
r011er5—123,154 tons, up 42,703 tons —
and manufactured an extra 5073 tons of
whites, as the following table shows:
1931. 1934. f 1935. 1930.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown . . 50,389 49,293 50,761 91,720
Cane purchased .. 49,042 21,700 29,690 31,428
Sugar (white) pro-
duced .. .. 7,457 5,057 6,111 11,184
t 14 months.
Owing to the failure of co-operative
marketing, selling prices dropped to
around export parity (down £2 12s. 6d. a
ton on the average); but there was a
saving of £3 9s. 9d. per ton in costs —
over the last two years savings here
have exceeded the drop in prices by £2
14s. 9d. per ton. After setting aside
£10,290 (down £697) for depreciation,
the board figured net earnings £13,121
better at 5.7 p.c. on capital, and, for the
first time since 1930, shareholders got
into the picture with a 3 p.c. div.
The sugar distributors’ association
was wound up, this Victoria co.’s pro-
portion of the surplus being £3726. How
this was treated in the accounts is not
plain from the published figures. The
new five-year contracts with about three-
fifths of the outside growers mean much
to the co. The agreements provide for
o Continued on page 24.)


10/6
Gallon
I
READY
aaxm
10/6
Gallon
NON-POISONOUS
Science applied to paint has brought about a wonderful reduction
in painting costs. Dan Dee Household Paint, manufactured by
scientific methods, ground in powerful mills to perfect smooth-
ness, lasts longer, looks better, and costs less than old-fashioned
paint. A pleasure to use, it works easily, covers thoroughly, and
dries with a solid, bright finish. Obtainable in a range of 1 5 most
attractive colors. Have your paint supplier obtain some for you.
METROPOLITAN PRICES:
10/6 Gallon, 5 9 Half Gallon,
3/6 Quart, 1/10 Pint,
1/- Half Pint.
Country Freight Extra.
COLORS:
Eau de Nil, Dark Stone, Light Stone,
Dark Green, Mid Green, Red Oxide,
Chocolate, Cream, French Grey,
Bungalow Brown, Mid Stone, Light Blue.
Also in Black, White and Flat White.
When You Use DAN DEE, You Save Money
FELSPAR PRODUCTS
Godfrey and O’Riordan Streets, Alexandria, Sydney
Telephones: Mascot 1025-1026.


£
**
Pi
m
- *■-. *
CHWEPP
• ?■ '
INCINERATOR
The quickest, cheapest and healthiest way to get rid of your
rubbish, factory waste, etc., is to burn it. We make
incinerators for all purposes, suitable for FLATS,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS, FACTORIES, etc.; also household
size. Made in fo.ur sizes and supplied to the Govern-
ment for use in its Public Schools. The construction
of this destructor makes it practically smokeless and
odorless. Booklet sent on request.
WATER FILTERS
Our water filters will give you clean water free from
rust and all suspended matter. THE ABBOT HOUSE-
HOLD FILTER will give germ-free water. Send for
particulars.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
INVENTORS.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * #
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing 'Poorest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. — Advt.
*** * *
FERRODOR (Anti—corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Has Your
AIR-CONDITIONING PLANT
Maintained Its Economic Efficiency?
Andrew Lewis, Air-conditioning Consultant,
is available for tests, inspections, technical
and economic supervision and planning
alterations.
Laboratory, ITS Oxford Street, Paddington.
’Phone: F 1306.
purchase of cane at figures based on the
world price of sugar; the immediate
effect is a drop of about 27 p.c. in the
price paid for cane.
The financial position improved:
1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. .. .£300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . . . 05,863 3,183 4,542
Mill 132,891 112,791 107,623
Land, buildings, etc. .. 63,758 59,401 ]
Rolling stock, tramways, ' r 116,069
plant, etc. . . . . 84,084 56,636 J
Plantation development. 47,388 52,200 50,200
Sugar stocks . . . . 62,760 505 1,858
Book debts . . . . 19,782 13,529 12,072
Cash, etc 8,259 18,085 46,032
The year’s surplus earnings, including
the allowance for depreciation, were all
held in cash, etc. (up £27,947), when the
books closed. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£55,420) was £26,484.
Further slight reduction of costs is
anticipated, but any ipajor movement in
earnings will depend mainly upon
seasonal conditions (the outlook at the
moment is favorable) and the world
price of sugar. At 15s. (9s. a year ago)
the pound shares return 4 p.c. on a 3 p.c.
div. basis.
Mineral Output of N- S. Wales
In most respects 1936 was a fatter
year than the one on whose heels it
trod ; and immediate indications are that
1937 will witness still further expansion
of incomes, especially for exports.
According to official estimates, the
mineral output of N- S. Wales was valued
at approximately £12,800,000, or nearly
£600,000 more than for 1935, and the
best since 1929. Here are the figures
for each of the last eight years:
1929.. £14,573,783 | 1933.. £8,880.953
1930.. 11,350,106 | 1934.. 10,267,717
1931.. 8,189,748 | 1935.. 12,200,528
1932.. 7,987,066 | 1936*. 12,800,000
* Approximate.
The figures follow the course of the.
depression, which reached its lowest
point in 1932.
The still rather sick coalmining indus-
try remains the largest contributor to
the realised mineral wealth of the State.
Last year’s output was 9,180,000 tons
(up 412,000 tons), valued at £5,210,000
(up £323,000). Yet it was difficult for
those in the industry to squeeze much,
if any, profit out of the bigger trading.
That was partly because there are still
too many in the business for the volume
of trade available, and selling prices
have been cut to tfie bone. It is diffi-
cult to say exactly vvhat the future holds
for the industry. Owing to the increas-
ing use of oil as fuel and the electrifica-
tion of railways, etc-, much business that
used to be available, is no longer there
to be had. Whether hydrogenation will
turn out to be a profitable proposition
in Australia yet remains to be proved.
Here the sale of briquettes threatens to
be the trouble.
Owing to increased activity in the iron,
steel and allied industries, the output of
coke was the best yet —880,000 tons (up
221,125 tons), valued at £830,000 (up
£27,113).
Gold production, 61,160 fine ounces
(up ll,058oz.), valued in Australian cur-
rency at £531,300 (up £91,355), was the
best since 1919. jSreetion of dredging
and treatment plants in the Wellington,
Gulgong, Drake and Mandurama dis-
tricts should further swell recoveries for
1937.
At the Barrier, tfie largest silver-lead-
zinc field in the. world, 1,350,300 tons
(up 42,700 tons) of crudes was raised.
The value of concentrates dispatched was
put at £3,690,000. The rise in the price
of metals (lead in particular), which
became pronounced toward the close of
the year, has added greatly to the wealth
of the field, and enabled the old
B.H. Prop, mine and the British section
of North’s property to be reopened.
Also, a new co., New B.H. Consolidated,
has been formed to take over and work
leases adjoining Zinc Corp.’s ground on
the south. Further, the diamond drill
ies suggested possible accretions to
Zinc Corp.’s ore reserves of nine mil-
lion tons or more.
Tin production, which was approxi-
mately the same as in 1935, when the
outturn of metal was 1075 tons, prom-
ises to increase during 1937, owing to
the rise in price.
Manufacture of cement, about 293,000
tons, approximately the same as for 1935,
is expected to reach 350,000 tons for
1937.
Based on drilling results and dredging
recoveries to date, it is estimated that
Bulolo’s properties, including the near-by
Bulolo Gold Deposits area, contain
approximately 204,000,000 c.y. of gravel,
worth on the average slightly over 33
cents per yard (gold at 35 dollars an
ounce). After allowing for all exes.,
including royalty on gold, the lot is ex-
pected to yield a profit of 50,000,000
dollars. Also, drilling has indicated that
a moderate additional yardage of gravels
of lower value can be profitably dredged,
and that there is some hydraulicking
ground worth developing. The first (No.
5) of the co.’s three new dredges, to dig
85ft. below water level, is expected to
set in during July next. The second (No.
6) is scheduled for completion about the
end of 1937. After No. 1 has been re-
erected further downstream construction
of No. 7, to dig 120 ft. below water level,
will be proceeded with. When all the new
machines are at work, an annual profit
of between four and a half and five mil-
lion dollars and a lift in the div. (56 p.c.
last term) are expected.
* * * *
On the old digger-worked alluvial
ground at Hill End (N.S.W.), which con-
tains detrital gold from a line of reef-
bearing country, Oriomo Explorations
has carried some 280 pits, faces and bores
to rock bottom and sampled. It is figured
that Poorman’s Gully contains 311,000
c.y., averaging 6s. 7d. with gold at £8
an ounce, Australian currency. The
average sluicing depth is Bft. Sampling
of Golden Gully, the most important
part of the co.’s holding, is not yet com-
plete. Results in Tambaroora Gully are
said to be favorable, but estimates have
not been made out. At Gympie (Q.) the
co. has called a halt pending the decision
of the Queensland Government to make
a fresh geological survey of the field.
* * * *
The Bendigo field continues to be the
chief gold-producing area in Vic. Last
year it yielded 38,7500 z., up 48430 z. Cen-
tral Nell Gwynne was the largest pro-
ducer with 46450 z. ; five other cos. won
more than IOOOoz. each. The Hercules,
which headed the list for several years,
yielded only 3070 z. The future of the
field largely depends upon the extensive
amount of development work now being
carried out by the operating offshoots of
Bendigo Mines, Ltd.
* H* jfc a|c
Westralia’s £7,000,000-odd gold yield
for 1936 was the best for many years,
and so was the number of men employed
in the industry. Of 15,600 engaged in
mining, 7984 worked underground. En-
couraged by the continued high price of
gold, large sums were spent by the De
Bernales group and. Western Mining
Corp. and its associates on equipment and
development. Yellowdine was turned into
a regular and highly-profitable producer,
and hopes are that Riverina, Emu and
Southern Cross will follow suit before
long. Western Mining Corp. installed
treatment plants on the Central Norse-
man, at Norseman, and Cox’s Find, be-
yond Lave.rton, and is taking a hand in
erection of a modern gold-extractor on
the resurrected Associated Northern
block, Kalgoorlie. English and other
capital was found in big lumps for
power plant and mills on the Youanmi,
Big Bell and Moonlight, and for a
smelter at Wiluna. Smaller ventures
which were equipped with treatment
plants include Hill 50, Yellowdine
Options, Marvel Loch and New Gol-
conda. All are sanguine of having a
more or less effortless climb to the top
of the golden stairs. Some are optimists.
* # * *
Lake View and Star’s new power plant,
which cost £120,000, is now effecting a
saving of over £BO,OOO a year. During
the 12 months to the end of July last,
working costs were reduced by Is. 1.4 d.
to 255. 9.49 d. per ton (Australian), or
20s. 7d. sterling. The saving, due to re-
ductions in mine development and treat-
ment costs, was effected in the face of
higher wages. Although 584,000 tons
was extracted from the mine during the
year, ore reserves at July 31 were put at
3,197,200 tons, a net increase of 161,300
tons. At the present rate of output
(50,000 tons a month) the mine is oyer
five years ahead of the mill. Mine
profit for the quarter ended Sept. 30
was £110,257, after allowing for develop-
ment and capital expenditure on plant
and machinery.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines, - Ltd., which
operates the Wiluna mine (W.A.) for
Wiluna Gold Corp., says that results
from smelting are encouraging, and that
all major difficulties are expected to be
overcome in a month or two. Two
bores put down from the main (southern)
workings at the 1600 ft. (bottom) level
to 1800 ft. and 2100 ft. respectively pene-
trated good widths of ore assaying from
18s. to 225. a ton. This looks slightly
better than ore at present being opened
up on the 1600 ft. level, which is a few
shillings below the average of ore
blocked in the levels above.
* * * *
Based on 40 p.c. recoveries and with
gold at £7 (stg.) a fine ounce, Golden
Horse Shoe reckons on a yield of £758,000
(Aust.) from the Boulder residues at
Kalgoorlie (W.A.). Retreatment, to
occupy five years, is expected to take
£489,000, leaving a surplus of £269,000,
half of which goes to Great Boulder.
Additions to plant, increasing capacity
to 660,000 tons p.a., will cost £25,000.
* * * *
For the seven months to the end of
November, Central Norseman Gold
Corp. (W.A.) treated 18,431 tons of
6.36dwt. ore and 1572 tons of 3.l3dwt.
slimes for 21,8800 z. bullion, estimated
to contain 53000 z. fine gold and 15,2300 z.
silver, together valued at £48,000 in Aus-
tralian currency. Residues assayed
o.sdwt. per ton. Costs to the end of
October worked out at 365. lOd. a ton,
of which 235. 7d. was on account of
mining and 13s. 3d. milling. Plant capa-
city is to be lifted to 6000 tons a month.
Phcenix Mines, N.L., holds a wad of the
scrip.
* * * • *
Nullagine Conglomerates (W.A.) has
often been spoken of as something
missed. K. J. Finucane, who recently
furnished a geological report to the
Commonwealth Government concerning
the area, said sampling showed that auri-
ferous horizons in the conglomerates
were so low-grade that profitable ex-
ploitation was not to be considered.
Moreover, the erratic distribution of the
gold and the absence of a continuous
shoot of payable ore on any one hori-
zon, coupled with the fact that no defi-
nite control of ore-shoots appears to
exist, suggest that exploration for new
shoots would be extremely hazardous
and costly, and the chances of success
slight.
* * * *
Walter Clark, managing director of
Hill 50 (W.A.), declares that “matters have
been righted as the result of plant altera-
tions and additions running into many
thousands,” and that shareholders can
look to 1937 with a “good deal of opti-
mism.” Underground the co. is pulling
ore from three lenses. It is estimated that
enough 7dwt. ore is in sight to keep the
present 2000 tons a month to the mill
going for at least three years. Share-
holders are promised a lift in plant treat-
ment capacity to 3000 tons a month
when finances, which are “improving
rapidly,” are in better condition.
* * * ’ *
By the purchase of B.H.P.’s holding
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) now has a
controlling interest in Kalgoorlie Enter-
prise, which operates leases on the
western side of the Boulder Perseverance
mine and on the fringe of the middle
section of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile.
Perseverance is increasing its capital from
£150,000 to £225,000 by the issue of new
shares, one for two, at 2s. 6d. (stg.) each.
The issue has been underwritten.
* * * *
Associated Mining and Finance, Ltd.,
has just paid lOd. on ords. and half-
year’s interest on the 8 p.c. prefs. The
co., which acquired the assets of Asso-
ciated Gold Mines of Aust. some years
ago, carries on business as a holder and
dealer in better-class goldmining stocks.
At present it is largely interested in Lake
View, Wiluna, Gold Fields Australian
Development and a couple of other ven-
tures —one on the Rand and the other
in Canada.
* * * *
Western Queen, a Westralian gold
float of July, 1934, has again put its
shoulder to what has hitherto proved to
be. a rather rickety wheel. Underground
workings have been unwatered, a new
engine installed, and crushings are ex-
pected to commence shortly. A new
manager proposes to make a comprehen-
sive report after he has “studied the
situation.”
* * * *
Memories of Londonderry, near Cool-
gardie (W.A.), and its golden outcrop and
nuggets have been recalled by the dis-
covery of a 14oz. slug. From an area
near by 20 tons was recently cleaned
up for an average of 2oz., while 5| tons
from another averaged over 2£oz.
* * * *
Among the flyweights in the West,
the performances of Yilgangie Queen
stand out. A number of small, rich
parcels have been treated, the last 75
tons averaging 3oz. 14dwt. over the
plates. Sands are expected to return over
12dwt. per ton. The show is in patchy
country,- north of Kalgoorlie, in the
vicinity of Yarri.
* * * *
After favorably discussing the pros-
pects of Lalla Rookh, operated by the
De Bernales group, on the Pilbara field
(W.A.), geologist K. J. Finucane says
that, given efficient management, there
appears to be no reason why the mine
should not develop into a profitable
producer. On the 140ft. level 28dwt.
ore has been exposed over a width of
30 inches for a distance of 60ft. It is
figured that there is 10,000 tons of ore
already developed. On the two reefs,
every 100ft. of lift is expected to open
up a further 18,500 tons of ore.
* * * *
London-controlled Mt. Magnet Gold
Mines (W.A.), whose shares are. mainly
held by a few titled persons, earned
£13,574 last year, and carried forward
£5165 after arrears of pref. divs. had
been paid and the ords. given something.
* * * *
Bellevue Consolidated, floated in Mel-
bourne last year to undertake what the.
“Wild Cat” described as the hopeless
task of turning the old Bellevue mine
(W.A.) to profitable account, has been
compulsorily wound up. Creditors are
likely to get very little.
* * * *
Diamond-drilling by Lomah (Rho-
desia), Ltd., at Hannan’s Hill Amalga-
mated, which includes Paddy Hannan’s
Reward claim, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is near-
ing completion. The fourth borehole is
down 800ft., and a commencement is to
be made early in 1937 to unwater the
mam shaft and, later, the Charlotte
shaft.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
II
m
m
mm
! m
EH
in
111
m
II Hilt
1
■
111
m
«1
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
“ METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Sheer Luck.
I’ve forgotten one girl for another
(I’ve been absent-minded of late),
And many a mix-up
1 never could fix up,
Through always forgetting a date.
I forget them as fast as I meet them ;
It seems that I’m just one of those
Whose mern’ry is rotten . . .
But I’ve not forgotten
Myself — yet —enough to propose.
Seis.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Romantic Story of Bread.” — “Age.”
That it’s always full weight?
.j« 4 1 4* 4*
“A keen rival to Solomon was a Prince of
Turkistan who had 2200 wives.”
—“ World’s News.”
Near enough to being the “hub” of
the universe.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Barcelona knuts seem to be all colonels
these days.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘When negotiating a delicate business deal
with a man, watch his hands,’ says a psycho-
logist.”
And your step.
4* 4* 4* 4*
So This Is Love.
Misses.
Kisses.
Blisses.
Mrs.
Hisses.
M. C.
“ She's on the rocks, Basil. Think We ought to give her a hand?”
“A gigantic boot made some years ago took
10 cowhides for the uppers and 4811 b. of leather
for the sole and heel.”
The unfortunate John Hop had lost
a leg.
•I- -I* ►£•
“Why Do We Eat?” —Morning paper in-
quirer.
(1) To provide light, pleasant occupa-
tion for dishwashers. (2) As a change
from drinking.
4* 4* 4*
“Pedigree With Your Furs.” —Melbourne
“Herald.”
By Silverfish out of Wardrobe?
A Little Early History.
Sydney’s first race meeting was held
in Hyde Park, being largely patronised
by the military. Our races are still rather
military, judging by the number of
punters who meet their Waterloo at
them.
One of Governor Phillip’s first com-
plaints was that they had not sent him
enough frying-pans from England. Our
complaint is that we are sending too
many old pots to England.
Our first bridge was built across the
Tank Stream on piles of wood. We
have a much bigger one now built on
piles of borrowed money.
During one period of early settlement
coin was scarce, only a limited number
ot Spanish dollars being in circulation.
A hole was punched in these and the
centre used to increase the currency.
Now taxation is used to punch holes in it.
Rosehill, near Parramatta, was the
scene of our first serious efforts to raise
crops. It is still the scene of some seri-
ous efforts to raise the wind.
Data concerning Sydney’s first brewery
is very hazy. It must have been a good
brewery.
Actually, Circular Quay is only a semi-
circle, but as it was named during the
regime of the Rum Corps that is under-
standable. Even the best people moved
in circles in those days. Those that
couldn’t were carried home.
Generally speaking, it is hard to in-
terest people in early settlement, especi-
ally if it takes the form of “An early
settlement will oblige!”
D.McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Stars decrease in weight as they grow
older,’ says an astronomer.”
Not those in the Hollywood firma-
ment, surely!
4* 4’ 4* 4
“ ‘lt is unhealthy to cover the head with
bedclothes,’ says a doctor.”
A waste of time, too, for her voice will
easily penetrate them !
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I think I’ve seen your face before,”
He hinted; but she was unkind.
“No doubt,” she answered coldly, “for
I never wear my face behind.”
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Exit Jasper.
I always thought there was something
queer about Jasper.
The first time I saw him was at the
pub, where he was drinking his beer
by the yard. He had previously been
seen tearing down the race-track, but
when the whisper went round that he
had been pulling up the river I knew the
end was not far off.
It came all right. An ardent motorist,
he drew up at the side of the road and
asked a small boy to go over to the
shop and get him a packet of cigarettes.
The kid refused, and in a fit of anger
he ran over himself.
Plenk.
•j. .$. .j. 4.
“Any man is at liberty to marry whom he
wishes.” — “S.M.H.”
Thereafter the word loses its signifi-
cance.
+ + 4* +
Maritime Affairs.
“To assist merchant shipowners in Great
Britain, a loan of £1,200,000 has been
approved.”— “Sun.”
Our Government should emulate this
fine gesture by helping people who, like
myself, have maritime interests to keep
their heads above water.
At the moment our creditors think
they’ve got us wet, but if we could float
a loan of this nature it would not only
give us a beam of hope but lift us right
off the rocks.
After paying our rent, and once again
installing ourselves as starboarders, it’s
ashore thing that we’d regard the loan
as a sinking fund, thus enabling us to
sink a number of schooners and finish-
ing up three sheets in the wind.
If we receive that loan everything’ll
be plain sailing. If not, we’ll be stranded.
T. W. N.
4* 4* •J* 4*
Gee!
“Assai had Black Laughter measured a fur-
long from home.” —Sydney “Sun.”
I’ve heard of horses dwelling at the
barrier (in fact, that’s the permanent
address of most
mokes I back),
but when a horse
apparently pulls
up in the straight
to stretch the tape
over an opponent
one might reason-
ably inquire what
the stewards were
doing. In this par-
ticular case the
measuring inter-
lude made no dif-
ference to the re-
sult, but imagine
the chagrin of
Assai’s punters had
Bla ck Laughter
won by the odd
sixty-fourth of an
inch that doubtless
Ass a i carelessly
didn’t bother
about.
Aquatic - minded
horses, of course,
always set sail
after the leaders,
while one fortu-
nate enough to
hold a pilot’s
license na t u rally
comes from the
clouds.
But a nag dis-
plays real horse-
sense when it
takes up a position
in the van and
grabs the box-seat.
Most of the ones I back would be a
darned sight better between the shafts!
P. C.
»!• »!- -!- -I*
Touching.
“Some of these Irish songs—‘That Old Irish
Mother of Mine’ for example—are popular even
in places like Egypt.”—“ Sunday Sun.”
Such things as these we understand —
They’re not surprising, being true;
The heart throbs touch that ancient land,
For Egypt has her mummies, too!
H. M. .
4* 4* + 4*
“Scientist says that everything in the world
seeks to average itself.”
For example, the husband who is a
long time coming home is greeted by his
wife with a short temper.
•5* 4* + 4*
“Common Clutch Malady.”— “S.M.H.”
Yes, this one-arm driving might be
regarded as a disease.
-I- *l* -I-
Jazz.
Banjo. —A banjo-shaped instrument
with a sheepskin head and catgut aerials.
When picked upon, retaliates.
Charleston. —Combination of the fox-
trot and the Grand National, with foot-
ball movements and a set expression.
Cornet. —When an untrue note is
blown, the cornetist is allowed to wink
at the drummer, thus conveying the idea
that it was done on purpose. A cornet
is occasionally muted —meaning that a
mute, or tin sock, is planted in the noisy
end, giving the instrument a tone like £
comb and tissue-paper.
Drum. —A two-headed instrument of
percussion played by a four-handed
player with sticks and malice. When a
drummer gets tired of chastising the
sheepskin he hits the twoodblock. The
woodblock is a block of wood and emits
a sound such as a block of wood would
if hit with a drumstick. A drummer has
numerous accessories to his kit, such as
a brass cymbal for gong effects, a steam-
boat whistle for train effects, sandpaper
blocks for sandpaper blocks effects,
tubular bells for wedding-march and
church-bell effects, and a Swanee
whistle for purposes of general torture.
Foxtrot. —A long walk in a confined
“ Finished?"
“Yes, friend, you're man and wife now."
“ Cripes, an I don't feel a bit different!"
space. Performed by two dancers occa-
sionally on their own feet.
Jazz. —A mutilation of a piece of
music.
Night Club. —A club where breakfasts
are served and sold by the carat.
Piccolo. —Makes a tootle like a girl
with hysterics giggling into a tin whistle.
Saxophone. —A calabash-shaped brass
instrument loaded with tin notes. With
this instrument a player can wander miles
from a melody and never be detected.
Sounds best when played out of tune,
time and earshot.
The Dansant. —A dance at which tea
is served, or a tea at which dancing is
aided and abetted. Some dancers are so
busy dancing that they cannot find time
for tea ; others are so surfeited with tea
that they cannot dance. Thus Nature
strikes a balance.
Trombone. —An instrument with a
bleat like a sea-lion. A variety of noises
can be obtained by sliding a slide, in and
out. This slide must be carefully mani-
pulated—otherwise it is liable to punc-
ture the player sitting in the line of fire.
Violin. —A fiddle played with a bow
by a fiddler. It has four strings run-
ning across a bridge like the tramlines.
It is said that Nero played this instru-
ment because his house was on fire. If
true, it is the best excuse ever put for-
ward.
N.B. —The writer does not vouch for
the accuracy of the above definitions.
The information was given him by an
old-fashioned euphonium player who
secreted himself in a jazz band. He was
discovered after the first piece and
handed a permanent discharge. Perhaps
he is slightly prejudiced.
Dos.


Patents.
STARTING MACHINE.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 25171/30 is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its rights in the above, or for the grant-
ing of a license to make, use and vend the
invention within the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia. Particulars obtainable from Griffith,
Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Sydney.
Patents.
A CELLULAR CLAY BODY AND
METHOD OF PRODUCING THE SAME.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 10770/33 is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its rights in the above, or for the grant-
ing of a license to make, use and vend the
invention within the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia. Particulars obtainable from Griffith,
Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Sydney.
' Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Sales
GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
CREDO— We believe in the Gerrard system and in the goods
we sell; the sound value of the continuous service that follows
every sale. We believe this business grows each year because of
the sound, honest basis on which it. builds; and because of the
recognition of true economy by users throughout Australia.
M
Marriage
and Insurance
B
New responsi-
bility begins
with the happy
union of two
people the
future stretches
before with
changes no
one can foretell. Secure your
wife and family a guaranteed
income—a small regular saving
buys complete protection. Enquire
also about the free hospital benefits
with cessation of premium pay-
ments on permanent disability.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? L T .°
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Plate, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, .Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager,
Business,Robbery,Etc.
London has backed up the opinion (B.
16/12/’36) that Wiluna shares looked a
good thing at 40s. (Australian quotes)
three weeks ago. Following a quiet
period there were sales at 375. sterling
(465. Aust.) on Dec. 23, and Adelaide
quotation before the Exchange vacation
was 455. buyers. Mill return for
November was 91780 z. from 47,990 tons,
an average recovery of 3.Bdwt., which
is an improvement on the Sept.-Oct.
results, but slightly below the mean
return for the first eight months of the
year now current. Difficulties in smelt-
ing are being overcome, and for the past
two months costs, including 3s. 9d. a
ton for development, have been below
21s. (Aust.). At present a working sur-
plus on the scale of £360,000 a year is
being shown by the undertaking. In their
last report the directors spoke of
£500,000 (Aust.) a year being shown
when the smelters came into full opera-
tion. Drop in the grade of ore has been
disturbing, but later on there should be
improvement in the outlook.
Investors got a wrong idea about the
Wiluna mine when the final div. was de-
ferred following a drop in the holding
co.’s profit from £228,242 sterling to
£159,512. Actually the mining co.'s
profits (to March 31) were up—£439,894
(Aust.), against
£411,857. Nothing
so good is likely to
be shown this term,
however. As men-
tioned here when
the shares slumped,
expenditure on the
new smelters and
on development
prompted the with-
holding of divs. by
the operating co. in
the last completed
year; this term re-
coveries are poorer.
Ore reserves are esti-
mated at 2,413,700
tons, an increase of
373,700 tons, but
average values at
235. 2d. (gold at
855.) are 3s. Id.
lower. In the term to March 31
last recoveries ran out at 4.64dwt.;
for the current term slightly under
4dwt. looks like being the figure,
and profits may be down £lOO,OOO
(Aust.). At that they would amount to
17 p.c. on capital, and over 9.4 p.c. on
the market price. Smelting, when in full
swing, should increase recoveries and
reduce costs.
* * * *
Atlanta Films, Ltd.
The prospectus of this Victorian-
formed proposed film-producer is dated
Sept. 10, 1936. Though 300,000 £1
shares were then offered for public sub-
scription, the directors were empowered
to go to allotment when 100,000 shares
had been subscribed. It is the stated
intention of the board to call up only
£150,000 if full allotment takes place ;
in the event of the bare minimum sub-
scription an alternative scheme of prop-
erty and plant purchase is proposed.
The Film Quota Acts of Victoria and
N.S.W., which require theatres in those
States to show 5 p.c. of Australian films
on their programmes in 1937 and an
additional 2y p.c. each succeeding year
until 15 p.c. is reached, would seem to
be the big inducement behind Atlanta
Films. On the board are Ben Fuller,
J. A. Boyd, T. K. Maltby, M.L.A., F. E.
Bellmaine and R. J. Hughes
Ernest C. Rolls, the promoter, well
known in Sydney as a theatrical pro-
ducer a short time ago, has contracts
with the co. One makes him chief pro-
duction director for three years at £2OBO
a year, plus bonuses out of profits if
divs. of 8 p.c. or over on capital are
earned. Another grants him 12,000 free
£1 shares in return for his options over
the Manor property at Werribee (pur-
chase price £35,000), certain props., ward-
robes, stage effects, etc. (price £12,500),
and 624 acres adjoining the Werribee
freehold (£25,000). The consideration
to Rolls also covers film rights of “any
and all plays, revues, dramas or theatri-
cal productions” at present owned by
him, subject to a 10 p.c. royalty. It also
includes his promoter’s consideration.
The Manor property is said to be par-
ticularly suitable for a film studio, it
should be at the price, however valuable
it may be as a residence. If the co. exer-
cises all its options it will be committed
The constable, I suppose, gave you the usual Warning?”
Yes, sir said he'd wring me neck if I didn't come quiet!”
to pay out £72,500, and that before any
talkie equipment is acquired. Disregard-
ing the options for the moment, outlay
on sound stages and equipment is put
down at £30,000, and outlay on “further
sound stages,” etc., is shown at £20,000
—it apparently depends on how much
capital comes in whether the extra
£20,000 is laid.out. Working capital for
first films is put at £50,000, preliminary
exes, at £lO,OOO, and there is what might
be termed an' “if’’-capital allocation—
£l77,soo is earmarked, if it comes in, for
balance payable on optioned properties,
ether properties, additional studios and
television and color-film, rights and plant.
It is a very large amount to ask for and
yet be so vague about its proposed
allocation.
Among other claims made in the pros-
pectus is one that operations should start
three months after allotment, and release
of first productions should be made six
months after. The document doesn’t
specify what scenarios, features or talent
the co. has to work on at such short
notice. It does say that “two musical
plays which Mr. Rolls has secured” are
to be filmed, for which “film rights are
now the subject of negotiation.” Con-
sidering that investors are asked to pay
for these rights, the names of the plays
at least might be given. While £40,000
has been allowed for production of films
if the issue is fully subscribed, the pros-
pectus puts £17,000 down as the cost of
one feature film if the co. has to work
on a smaller scale.
The prospectus says that £1,740,327
was paid by Australian theatre-owners in
film-hire in 1935. The same document
estimates for Atlanta “gross profits on
receipts” from eight features at £280,000,
shorts, etc., bringing total revenue up to
£292,000. This is based on Common-
wealth and Maoriland distribution. Net
profits are put at £47,500, from
which £20,000 is sliced to meet “unfore-
seen circumstances,” leaving £27,500,
equal to 17.6 p.c. on capital after allow-
ing for bonus to the producer.
The estimated gross profit to the co.
is 16.7 p.c. of what the prospectus says
was the total film-hire paid in Aus-
tralia in 1935. It seems a remarkably
ambitious estimate, especially for the
first year. Overseas revenue is also
spoken of; if the pictures have an
American appeal “earning possibilities
are almost unlimited.”
There are reasons for believing that
when good Australian films are pro-
duced on hard-headed financial lines they
may show substantial profits. “Eight
successful features” in twelve months,
this co.’s first-year aim, has never been
achieved by the whole Australian film
industry in the past. It is true that in
Britain the film quota there has resulted
in even low-grade British films being
profitable. The Australian State quotas
will create a compulsory “local-film”
demand, but there are already several
cos. in the field to help fill it. Atlanta’s
prospectus is in several respects difficult
to follow, particularly on the point of
capital outlay and expected revenue.
The Bulletin’s estimate that more
than 1,100,0000 z. of fine gold would be
won in the Commonwealth during 1936
looks like being fulfilled, with something
to spare. Present rate of output is over
100,000 oz. a month. In 1937, if labor
troubles are absent, production should be
considerably increased in nearly every
State, with the greatest proportionate
rise in Victoria, where a number of
medium-sized shows with Bdwt. to 12dwt
ore are now producing for the first time
or on a larger scale than hitherto. The
Bendigo field, where Central Nell
Gwynne is on something that looks to
have a life and which is the biggest
source of the metal at present, is grow-
ing in activity, and at Chewton, Wood's
Point, Buninyong and some other places
prospects are promising. In N. S. Wales
Sulphide Gold (Mandurama) may help
output, to which New Occidental (Cobar)
is principal contributor at present. Later
on Wellington Alluvials may assist. In
Westralia the tendency generally is
towards larger outputs, especially as re-
gards North Kalgurli and some of its
neighbors. The Big Bell show at Cue,
where Triton is turning out 24000 z. a
month from what used to be Reedy’s
Mararoa, is now putting in a 30,000-ton-
a-month plant supplied by Ruwolts
(Vic.). Lancefield (Beria) is in full swing,
and Wiluna is handling a larger quantity
of ore, though lower grade has had its
effect on recoveries.
•** * *
O Death (in battle), where is thy sting
so far as metal-producers are concerned?
London markets opened after the holi-
days with prices for lead, copper and tin
up and spelter steady. At £2B sterling a
ton (£35 Aust.) lead is definitely dear
compared with pre-slump levels, though
zinc and copper, risen in price as they
are, still have some distance to go before
they reach the average of the 1920’5.
That lead should be so high proportion-
ately suggests that rearmament is play-
ing a very big part in the present lift in
metals, particularly those of which
bullets are made. It certainly has yet
to be demonstrated that ordinary indus-
trial recovery warrants existing prices
for lead. A fillip of the present kind, of
course, may have some lasting effect
whether rearmament continues on the
present scale or not. It is helping to
remove the depression complex.
* * * *
After the holidays the wheat markets
opened with prices firmer than at the
close, though buying was cautious.
Around ss. 6d. was averaged at eastern
Australian ports, which compares with
a mean export price of 3s. 7|d.
in the year to June 30, 1936, and
3s. OJ-d. in the preceding twelve months.
If ss. is averaged for the present term
the wheatgrowers’ cheque should exceed
£32,500,000 (Aust.). Nothing like that
has been in sight for several years. Im-
provement up to the present has meant
a lot to all industries, trades and busi-
nesses having interests in the wheat-belts,
and that of course includes banks.
World exportable wheat stocks at July
31 last were 250,000,000 bushels, against
625,000,000 bushels three years earlier.
# * %
In Melbourne last week :—•
The Stock Exchange was closed for the
holidays, but the reopening on Monday was
awaited with optimism. The buoyant overseas
metals market has put money into the pockets
of those interested in Collins House shows
during 1936, and further rises in Broken Hill
and Tas. West Coast scrip is expected early this
year. A strong sharemarket in London during
the week supported the view.
Wheat sold at ss. 6d. on trucks, Williams-
town.
The only accounts of interest published were
those of Wiluna—a cabled resume arrived from
London.


Meetings.
The Producers’ Co-operative Distributing
Society, Limited.
NOTICE.
Sydney.
Notice is hereby given that the Eleventh
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the
Producers’ Co-operative Distributing Society,
Limited, will be held at the Society’s Head
Office, Quay and Valentine Streets, Sydney, on
Friday, 22nd January, 1937, at 2.15 p.m. sharp.
BUSINESS:
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet as at 30th September, 1936.
To elect Directors.
To elect Auditors.
To transact any other business that may be
brought forward in accordance with the Rules
of the Society.
Dated the Bth day of December, 1936.
By order of the Board,
R. BLACKET, F.C.1.5.,
Secretary.
The Producers’ Co-operative Distributing
Society, Limited.
NOTICE.
Sydney.
Notice is hereby given that a Special General
Meeting of Shareholders in this Society will be
held at the Registered Office of the Society,
Quay and Valentine Streets, Sydney, immedi-
ately at the conclusion of the Eleventh Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders to be held at
the same place on the Twenty-second day of
January, 1937, at 2.15 of the clock in the
afternoon, when the following Special Resolu-
tion will be submitted:
“That this Society may raise money on
loan from time to time to an aggregate _
amount not exceeding Five hundred thou-
sand pounds (£500,000), which sum as from
the registration of the Society under the
Co-operation Acts 1923-1935 shall be
deemed within the meaning of Sub-section
8 of Section 66 of that Act to be the higher
aggregate amount which has been approved
by special resolution of the Society.”
Dated the Eighth day of December, 1936.
By order of the Board,
R. BLACKET, F.C.1.5.,
Secretary.
Legal Notice.
ALFRED TWIBLE (or TWIBBLE) GORMAN
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated the sth day of
June 1936 and made in the matter Number
1105 of 1933 intituled “In the matter of the
Trusts of the Will of James Martin late of
Surry Hills in the State of New South Wales
Gentleman deceased Between the Permanent
Trustee Company of New South Wales Limited
Plaintiff and Cyril Percy Twible Gorman Ivy
May Quigley Olive Lavina Leale Reginald
Thomas Francis Gorman and Sara Lilias Smith
Defendants” whereby the following enquiry
was directed namely:
Who were the next of kin of ALFRED
GORMAN the son of Ellen Louisa Gor-
man on his Mother’s side at the date of
his death that is the 22nd day of April
1924 and if any of them have since died
and if so who if any are his her or their
legal personal representatives in the State
of New South Wales.
Notice is hereby given that all persons claim-
ing to be entitled under the said enquiry are
to send by post prepaid to the Permanent
Trustee Company of New South Wales Limited
of O’Connell Street Sydney so as to reach it
on or before the 31st day of March 1937 their
full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their claims
or in default thereof they will be excluded
from the benefit of the said Decretal Order
unless the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Equity on application otherwise
orders. Claimants are to attend personally or
by their Solicitors before the Master in Equity
at the Supreme Court Elizabeth Street Sydney
on Tuesday the 6th day of April 1937 at 11
o’clock in the forenoon being the time ap-
pointed for adjudicating upon the claims or so
soon thereafter as the course of business will
permit.
A claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in New South
Wales to whom notice to the claimant can be
sent.
DATED this 9th day of December 1936.
(Sgd.) DEANE & DEANE,
Rowe Street, Sydney,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff Company.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
fo BSECUR/ry
FOR AS LITTLE AS £25
YOU CAN NOW OBTAIN
# An investment spread over the shares
of 20 noted Australian Companies.
9 High Margin of Capital Safety, and
9 Reasonable Income.
The investment is always realisable.
Consult any Stockbroker, or write for a Free
Descriptive Booklet to
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 4028V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
Travel Through
CANADA or U.S.A.
TO
gi>
e
Corona tlon
Suitable Pacific Sailings.
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney January 21
R.M.M.S. "AORANGI" ....... From Sydney February 18
R.M.S. "NIAGARA" From Sydney March 18
See the Wonders of
THE CANADIAN ROCKIES
And Connect with Atlantic Vessel.
Passengers travelling to England via Suez or other route
may book here to return to Australia via Canada or U.S.A.
' " *
Fares, Itineraries, and all Particulars on Application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., Ltd.
via
NEW ZEALAND
FIJI and HONOLULU
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHONE B 7671
ill il ill
.(Hi WiV;
ifc*
LYSAGHTS
Galvanized Iron
That is just one of the pleasant
surprises that accompany the use of
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron. Besides
being the cheapest and most efficient
form of roofing and walling, in all
weather it is convenient and comfort-
able. It cools immediately the sun
leaves it, in contrast to other roofing
and walling materials which will
often retain the heat for hours after
sunset—in heavy rains nothing is as
satisfactory as Lysaght’s Galvanized
Iron, which ensures a perfectly water-
proof roof.
orb
You can trust all
brands of Lysaght's
Galvanized Iron
to the uttermost. They
are all manufactured
at the Newcastle
works of John
Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd
from only the finest
raw materials th 3
production is backed
by nearly 80 years'
experience. All
brands are of a
quality which cannot
be bettered in the
world to-day.
JOHN LYSAGHT CAust) ITB
Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane . . Adelaide Perth
Australia’s Ottawa agreement termi-
nates on August 20 this year, provided
six months’ notice of denunciation is
given before that date. If not denounced
on those terms the agreement continues,
subject to six months’ notice of inten-
tion to terminate by either party. It is
hard to say whether the pact or its inter-
pretation at Canberra has been respon-
sible most for our adverse balance of over-
seas payments; anyway, imports have
eaten into our London reserves and at the
same time abetted the movement towards
higher internal interest rates. It is pos-
sible that no trade policy could ever be
capably administered by the present Can-
berra Government, but it is also obvious
that the Ottawa document itself could
be amended so as to remove any sup-
posed or actual written obligation on
Australia’s part to ruin its overseas trade
or credit.
* $ * .4=
Consolidated Press, Ltd., the Theo-
dore-Packer co. which took over the
“Women’s Weekly” from Sydney News-
papers and the “Telegraph” from Asso-
ciated Newspapers, Sydney, paid its
second half-yearly pref. div. on Jan. 1.
The rate is 6| p.c. p.a., and during
December a sale of the £1 scrip was
recorded at 18s. 6d. Sydney “Herald’s”
auditors certify to a circulation for that
journal which indicates little reduction
since the rejuvenated “Tele.” came on the
streets. The sharemarket, which asks a
7 p.c. return on the co.’s prefs., as against
4.4 p.c. in the case of Melbourne
“Herald’s” prefs., is not impressed with
Consolidated Press as an investment,
“Women’s Weekly” and all.
* * * *
Sydney bank clearings for the 11
months ended November totalled
£758,400,000, as against £694,800,000
over the same period of 1935. The in-
crease amounts to 9.2 p.c., and average
clearings are getting back to the 1930
scale. Recovery seems even more pro-
nounced when it is considered that the
average price level (which makes cheques
for goods and services larger or smaller)
is still considerably below the 1930
standard.
* * * *
In the last four months of 1936
p.c. became the customary interest rate
on first mortgages in N. S. Wales ; a fair
business was done at 4£ p.c. or under,
but the quantity was much lower than
earlier in the year. Right up to March,
1936, the tendency was for lower rates
on mortgages, though the cost of Gov-
ernment borrowing at this stage was defi-
nitely getting out of hand. It was in
March that the banks lifted their in-
terest* rates, and there has been an all-
round hardening since. In the first 11
months of 1936 £30,606,000-worth of
N.S.W. real estate changed hands, as
against £24,015,000-worth in the same
part of 1935. First mortgages in the
same periods aggregated £18,683,000 and
£15,195,000 respectively.
* * * *
In the first 11 months of 1936 coal
exported from N. S. Wales totalled
2,848,000 tons, almost as much as for
the whole of 1935, when 2,850,870 tons
left the State. It is an industry very slow
of recovery, however. Hopes are strong
at the moment that early this year stabi-
lisation of prices will take the place of
the disastrous competition prevalent in
the industry since 1929.
* * * #
Demand for copra continues in over-
seas markets. The South Seas product
is firmer at £2l sterling a ton; the price
has lifted about 60 p.c. in the past nine
months. Rearmament has had some-
thing to do with the leap; the statistical
position has been sound for some time,
but influential buyers until recently kept
the market in check.
»!< :]< $ H<
Sydney wool-price index on Dec. 15
was 196, the same level as in February,
1934, which was just before the slide
from the sharp peak (208, Jan., 34) of
that after-slump boom started in earnest.
By December of 1934 107 was registered
on the index, then 101 in March, 1935 ;
after that there was an unbroken climb
until May, 1936, when the Japanese trade
dispute rattled supporters of the market.
There was a pick-up in prices last Octo-
ber ; now that Japanese competition is
back again a firm market should be
assured, though Japanese buying support
has been partly anticipated during the
past few weeks.
%
North Kalgurli ' shares kept around
20s. during the past few weeks. Crush-
ings continue to be satisfactory and the
grade of ore high. It is one of the most
promising shows in the West, though
absentee control may have been respon-
sible for comparatively slow develop-
ment.
* $ 'l* y *
Vendors’ shares in the Emperor (Fiji)
became “good delivery” on ’Change re-
cently. The 10s. scrip was at 18s. 9d.
last month. It will be some time yet
before large-scale operations start; but
whatever the grade and extent of the
ore, plant difficulties, a point on which
the co. has expert advisers, should be
cut down to a minimum.


BARGAIN BOOKS TO SUIT ALL PURSES
%>APi)&
Hi
4 for Si -
-1/6
SATURDEE, by Norman Lindsay.
BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin.
Author of ALL THAT SWAGGER.
STORIES BY KODAK.
All Old “Bulletin” readers remember “Kodak.*
IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer.
THE SOW'S EAR, by Bernard Cronin.
NIGHTS ASHORE, by Capt. J. Hamilton.
jl
: • .
f
KNIGHTS
ERANG
3 for 10/-
or
3/6 each
THE DOUGHMAN, by Robert Desmond Tote.
GIVING AMBER A CHANCE, by Jessie Urquhort.
FORTY-SIX, by Stewart Howard.
PEARLS OF PAPUA, by Comdr. Brewster (Retd.).
One of the finest boys’ books of adventure written in Australia.
KARANGI, by F. S. Hibble.
Joint winner Vic. Centenary Competition.
BLUE NORTH, by H. Drake-Brockman.
A tale of pearlers on the north-west coast.
each
16
21-
each
2/6
3/6 each
4/6
, BUSH BABS. verse by D. H. Souter.
WARDENS OF THE SEAS, by E. J. Brady.
oth Souter and Brady are already well known to “Bulletin’
readers.
PRACTICAL EMBROIDERY, by Rosalie Wilson.
A textbook on needlework with over 1 00 illustrations.
SKiPPETY SONGS, by Carna Birmingham.
For the kiddies. Illustrated by the author.
AUSTRALIAN BARKERS AND BITERS, by Robt. Kaleski.
An expert talks on the domestic and working dogs of Australia.
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT, by A. B. ("Banjo") Paterson.
ALL-ABOUT and CHUNUMA, by Mary and Elizabeth Durack.
Iwo delightful studies of the abos. in the Kimberleys (W.A.).
PSALMIST OF THE DAWN, by Mary Marlowe.
Romantic Lord Howe Island story.
AUSTRALIAN
barkers
AND BITERS
I
Robert Hithiki:
11
: 1
The Bulletin
’
*** **»*.*£.
ALL-ABOUT
f>i
) 'l', -
■
i :
H | HNB
IB
M
m
aSlMmm 8181111 l 11
—lai
M , tES
■
5/- e&ch
6'-
6/6
7/6
21/-
KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG, by Dr. H. Basedow.
No one knew the Australian abo. better than the author.
JUNGFRAU, by Dymphna Cusack.
A brilliant first novel by a Sydney girl.
ALL THAT SWAGGER, by Miles Franklin.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Winner for 1936.
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster.
Now in its Fifth Australian Edition.
LANDTAKERS, by Brian Penton.
S. M. Herald said: Those who want to keep in touch with the
best in current Australian literature should read LAND-
TAKERS.”
A CLUSTER OF BEES, by Tarlton Payment.
Reviewers in every country in the world welcome this delightfully-
written and -produced book on the many species of Australian
Bee—a classic.
On Sale at ‘The Bulletin” Office, 252 George Street, Sydney,
or, with the exception of the 4 Books for 5/-, at all Booksellers.


SPORTING
N OTIONS
Under the Whip
Frank Godby landed a double at Flem-
ington on New Year’s Day with horses
that had been left in his charge by Pat
Nailon when that trainer took Shakes-
peare back to Randwick in the spring.
Cereza (8 to 1) won the Standish Handi-
cap and Bonnie Rollux the:. January
Steeplechase.
Cereza outclassed her opponents in
the sprint, and Bonnie Rollux once more
outjumped My Talisman, with whom he
had such a memorable tussle at Caulfield
on Boxing Day.
Though asked to carry 71b. more than
weight-for-age in the Standish Handicap,
J. M. Niall’s Studio went out a 2-to-l
favorite. As the barrier ascended Desert
Dream jumped in front of Studio and
turned her sideways; and that ended
Studio’s chance. Frank Dempsey, the
jockey, was almost unseated. He ac-
cepted defeat a long way from home and
did not subject Studio to unnecessary
punishment.
The first and second horses in the.
Standish, Cereza and Britebeard, have
been “outlaws.” Cereza actually still is
under the ban in Sydney. Like Brite-
beard, she belongs to the Heroic tribe.
Britebeard, because of unruly barrier
behavior, was deprived of the right to
run on Melbourne courses ; but he im-
proved with experience, at country fix-
tures, and'was readmitted to the metro-
politan fold. Cereza belongs to E. J.
Watt, of the A.J.C. committee. Perhaps
before long she will be sporting silk
again at Randwick and elsewhere around
Sydney.
Art, who had been beaten out of a
place in the Hopetoun Handicap at
Caulfield on Boxing Day, staged a form
reversal by annexing the. V.R.C. Bagot
Handicap, in which he equalled the race
record by covering 1£ miles in the good
time of 2min. 30jsec. Odds of 20 to 1
went begging about Art, who was one
of numerous surprise winners for New
Year’s Day patrons at Flemington.
Amalia, the 6-to-4 favorite, was third in
the Bagot, but was two lengths behind
Lou Robertson’s candidate, Royal Mes-
senger, the latter failing by three-quarters
of a length to overhaul Art. Owned by
Hunter White, Art is raced by V. H.
Braham, who seems to have brought the
High Art stallion back to his best form.
Gay Sheik fell in the Bagot Handi-
cap at the entrance to the straight. He
was fifth at the time and going well.
Failure of Golden Promise in the
Welter Handicap at Flemington, for
which he started an even-money favor-
ite, can be safely ignored. Golden
Promise met with interference. Before
two furlongs had been traversed he ran
into trouble, and was skittled to near the
rear of the field. Ashley Reed tried for
an opening in the. straight, but fate was
against him once more.
Melbourne possesses two four-year-
olds that should shine in the autumn.
These are Golden Promise and Garrio.
Garrio, winner of the Williamstown
Cup of 1935 and third to his stable-
mate, Feldspar, and Allunga in the Vic-
toria Derby, resumed racing in the
Standish Handicap. He met with a
fair measure of stable support, but suf-
fered grievously through colliding with
Britebeard and Double Bard. In the cir-
cumstances Garrio did well to finish
seventh. He had not sported silk since
last Easter in Sydney.
While undergoing a spring prepara-
tion Garrio went stale, and because of
that was thrown out of training. He
now looks to be in fine physical shape.
The Chivalrous four-year-old slipped and
fell on his back when entering his stall
at Flemington. Lou Robertson was wor-
ried over the accident, but Garrio seemed
quite O.K. as the afternoon advanced
and the trainer had no hesitation in
sending him to the post for the Standish.
Jack Holt is out of luck at present.
His followers staked rather heavily on
Cry Havoc for the first division of the
Rosebud Trial at Mentone, and in a
good betting race the imported mare
shared favoritism with Mystic Kidder
and Standup. Unlike her stable com-
panion, Golden Promise, in his race at
Flemington, Cry Havoc had every
chance. She was out in front with
Standup for the greater part of the jour-
ney, but Standup had her beaten to a
cinder at the. home bend and went on to
score comfortably from Mystic Kidder
and Banquet. Tiring very palpably, Cry
Havoc finished seventh only.
Cry Havoc belongs to William Clark
and W. S. Robinson, the Anglo-Austra-
lian sportsmen. In view of her failure
in such moderate company they may
either dispose of the mare or retire her
to the stud. Holt formed a somewhat
high opinion of Cry Havoc when she
first came into his hands and saddled
her up for a Futurity Stakes. She
shaped creditably in that race for a few
furlongs, but the-promise then revealed
has not been maintained.
Nuit d’Or, a castoff from Holt’s stable,
registered a meritorious win in the prin-
cipal Mentone event—the Summer Han-
dicap. Emerging from the extreme rear
of the field towards the close of a
middle-distance journey, he overpowered
the leaders and reached the judge three-
quarters of a length in advance of Nissa,
who had tried to lead from post to
finish. Nuit d’Or (The Night Patrol-
Golden Beauty) is bred in the purple,
and in 1935 was thought to have more
than an outside chance in the Caulfield
Cup with Bst. However, Holt found the
chestnut rather difficult to train, and he
was disposed of by Philip Russell, of the
V.R.C. committee, who bred him. Nuit
d’Or looks sound enough now, and is
at the peak of his form.
Rostrim (Rossendale-Leitrim), the
Sydney three-year-old, was backed
almost off the card for the Sorrento Plate
at Mentone. Ridden by R. Maxwell,
who went over specially to ride him, the
gelding lost ground at the start and did
not make up much leeway until the
straight was entered. He staged a won-
derful finish into fourth place, and may
be accounted unlucky to lose. Stewards
held an inquiry and accepted the explana-
tion offered.
The race for which Rostrim started
favorite went to Buteman (4 to 1), a
Drake stallion that originally carried the
colors of “S. A. Rawdon,” his breeder.
Fred Hoysted has Buteman in cherry-
ripe condition. Finishing brilliantly,
Buteman scored by a length from Sir
Geraint, with Toltec third.
Mentone results were better for
punters than those at Flemington. There
were no long-priced winners. Last two
events on the card fell to hot favorites,
Don Miguel (Verbius-Los Gatos) appro-
priating the Talgarno Welter and
Demotic (Burrabadeen-Perpetual) the
Sorrento Purse. Only fifth at the home
bend, Demotic made an electric rush to
the head of affairs and scored by three
lengths. He is not likely to long remain
in Purse company.
* * * *
Successes of Queensland horses are
generally popular in Sydney. The public
made a pet of honest old Lough Neagh,
and an army of punters followed the
fortunes of Spear Prince —twice with
excellent results. Now Auto Buz has
been taken into their favor. This good
horse’s thirds in the A.J.C. Holiday Han-
dicap and Summer Cup at Randwick
were followed by victory in Tattersall’s
Club Cup, and it was thoroughly de-
served.
The chestnut son of The Buzzard-
Gold Frock had been off his feed, and
bookmakers were inclined to take liber-
ties with him when the betting opened.
But there was so much public support
for him that the price firmed to sixes,
Loud Applause being favorite at fours.
As in the Summer Cup, El Senorita made
the running, and on this occasion she
left no room for doubt as to her
superiority to Sir Ross at the weights.
But Auto Buz came into the straight
third to this pair, and with a furlong or
so he was out by himself. Tackled by
Mananui (12 to 1), Loud Applause and
Jovial Son (6 to 1), who came on the
scene a bit too late, he retained his lead,
winning by a length and a quarter in
time (2min. 30|sec.) that was a record
for the race ; Loud Applause beat Man-
anui by half a head for second place,
with Jovial Son almost level with them.
There was a great cheer for Auto Buz
and Shean when they came in.
If it hadn’t been for Auto Buz and
Birthday Boy, who justified the odds (5
to 4 on) in the Nursery Handicap,
punters would have fared badly. Silver
Rose (15 to l,,New Year’s Gift), Cane-
grass (10 to 1, Flying Welter),. Acinom
(8 to 1, Trial Stakes) and Bundar (7 to
1, Alfred Hill Handicap) were the other
winners. Rain came down before the
finish, and the return home was damp
and dismal.
* . * * *
The bookmakers also had much the
better of things at Warwick Farm on
Saturday. But Bailey Payten will retain
pleasurable memories of the meeting ;
he saddled up five horses and won with
three —all favorites.
Payten started off by capturing the
Maiden Handicap with Valpan (3 to 1),
a three-year-old son of Pantheon, who
scored easily from Treasure Trove and
Mr. Phelan. Then his own colt
Micawber (7 to 4) made a soft
thing of the Nursery Handicap
for colts and geldings. The Tippler
colt cleared out about half-way, and
though Late Night and Brazandt tried to
pace it with him he won by four lengths.
Next Byculla (5 to 4), bred by the
Payten brothers, but owned by A.J.C.
committeeman Hunter White, was never
otf the bit in the fillies’ division A
half-sister to Bimilla, she can go like the
wind.
The Ring had its turn when Wise Boy
(20 to 1) came with a conquering run in
the Sefton Handicap. Badly placed half
a mile from home, he had to go on the
outside, but with that disadvantage —if
disadvantage it was —he managed to beat
Bulldozer and Moonray. Misnomer,
after missing the jump from the rails,
went fast to join John o’ Groats at the
turn. She disposed of that colt but
finished weakly. Bonnie Legion was an
excellent fourth and Bim Boy fifth.
Verdun was doing well in the last fur-
long. He looks nice and bright, and his
opportunity will arrive presently.
On Randwick form there was no in-
centive to support Latharna in the War-
wick Handicap ; nevertheless, the brother
to Limyris outstayed his opponents. He
was backed from tens to sevens. The
fast pace must have suited him; any-
way, he got up in the last stride to beat
Fireman and Loud Applause. Loud
Applause, having his second run in two
days, tried to win all the. way. Irving
worried him early, and when Irving
dropped back beaten at the half-mile
Fireman kept Loud Applause at it. This
suited Latharna, who got the last run
on the leaders. Turbulent, looking well,
ran on well in fifth place.
Knight James Murdoch was pleased
with the result of the Berala Handicap.
Sally Instep, whom he bred, finished
gamely to beat New Tip and Fanfare.
She was quoted at 12 to 1 after 20 to 1
had been laid. Fanfare found the journey
too short; on a bigger track he will do
better. Bombus was never out of trouble.
He * * *
The Perth Cup went to a horse with a
real Cup pedigree—Manolive, by Man-
fred-Sister Olive. The sire was second
to Windbag in the Melbourne Cup of
1925, showing form good enough for
three Cup races out of four (l|sec. was
shaved off the record, making it 3min.
22|sec.), and the dam had won the Cup
in 1921.
Manolive began the W.A.T.C. meeting
by capturing the Visitors’ Handicap, with
Mariner second, each going out at fours.
For the Cup Manolive was strong at
sevens, Poesia being favorite at 7 to 2,
with Mariner almost friendless at 25 to
1. Manolive went to the front three fur-
longs from home, and thenceforward
gave nothing else a chance, though Panto
(6 to 1) put in a good run that took him
within a couple of lengths of the leader.
Mariner was third. The time, 3min.
25|sec., was a Westralian record for two
miles. Manolive is a stallion, rising five.
Among the sprinters Gay Gipsy (Gay
Lothario-Gipsy Love) stood out. Her
record is interesting: First in the
W.A.T.C. Plate (9st. 21b.), six furlongs,
lengths, lmin. 13Jsec. ; first in the
Railway Stakes (Bst. 31b.), a mile, half a
length, lmin. 39sec. ; first in the Epsom
Handicap (9st. 111 b.), seven furlongs,
two lengths, lmin. 26sec. And Gay
Balkan (Gay Lothario-Balkan Rose)
proved just as superior to the rest of the
two-year-olds.
{Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
Allen made only one change —Worth-
ington for Fagg—in his team for the Test
match in Melbourne. A medical report
on McCormick and O’Brien resulted in
Rigg and Sievers going into the Aus-
tralian XI, Badcock being left to carry
the drinks. The pitch was damp, but
“slow and easy,” and when Bradman
won the toss the crowd —a world’s
record for a cricket match, 78,630, who
contributed £7200 odd —yelled their
heads off.
Brown, evidently short of practice,
and Fingleton began. With the total
seven and his own score one Brown,
who’d been scratching, was caught by
the wicketkeeper off Voce. Bradman
pulled a couple in quite his old style ;
then, facing Verity, he hit an ordinary-
looking ball to Robins close in at square
leg—2-13-33. Rigg left after lunch,
3- and then Fingleton, who had
batted for two hours, 4-38-79. Darling
stayed with McCabe for a while,
5- and Sievers not so long,
6- Then Oldfield kept the bowlers
out till rain washed it out for the day
with the. score 181 (McCabe 63, Oldfield
18).
It kept on raining and play did not
begin on Saturday till 2.15. Then the
wicket was sticky and, with the sun now
showing, it threatened to become worse.
McCabe went to a catch off Voce with-
out having added to his score. At 9
for 200 Bradman closed (Oldfield 27
n. 0.). Voce, Verity, Robins and Ham-
mond each had two wickets.
England began badly, Worthington
failing to score. McCabe got that wicket,
and Sievers disposed of Barnett, 2-11-14 ;
but with Hammond and Leyland watch-
ing everything and with the bowling
lacking accuracy it looked as if the
tourists might get out of a tight corner.
They took the score to 56 before they
were parted ; then Darling," close in at
leg to O’Reilly, caught Leyland with a
spectacular dive, 3-17-56. The Victorian
made another magnificent catch at Ham-
mond’s expense, this time off Sievers,
4- Nine were out for 76 when
Allen declared. Sievers had five for 21,
O’Reilly three for 28.
Bradman opened with O’Reilly and
Fleetwo'od-Smith, and O’Reilly was back
in the pavilion after the first ball. Ward
came in, made a single and they picked
up a couple of sundries; then an appeal
against the light was upheld.
On Monday, with the sky still lower-
ing. though the wicket was improving
all the time, F.-Smith was dismissed in
Voce’s first over, 2-0-3. Ward and Rigg
carried on, the bowler standing up to it
gamely for over an hour. It was 38
when he left, having contributed a ser-
viceable 18, and 62 at lunch. Brown
left shortly after the adjournment, an-
other to Voce, 4-20-74, and Rigg, who’d
done his job well, did not long survive,
5- Bradman came in to bring up
the 100, with Fingleton, just settling
down, as his partner; and at tea on
Monday it was 5 for 149, Bradman 38
and going strong.
* * * *
Queensland, helped by bad fielding
Chipperfield had three catches dropped
off his bowling—made 365 v. N.S.W. in
Svdney (Cook 72, Andrews 70, Allen 54 ;
White four for 51, Hynes four for
88). N.S.W. was skittled for a wretched
119 (Chipperfield 32, Cheetham 28;
Cook four for 45, Dixon three for 32).
Queensland could total only 183 in its
second try (Chipperfield four for 72,
Lush three for 50).
{Continued on next page.)
FOR GEELONG.
Vincent Handicap: Double Bard ;
next, Press Gang.
Geelong Cup: Aitchengee ; next,
Nissa.
Herne Hill Welter: Rostrim.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Bonnie Legion ; next, Heroina
or John o’ Groats.
Corinthian Plate: Cognac ; next,
West Hock.
Gold Cup: Korimako; next,
High.
Moorefield Handicap: Celebrate ;
next, Measure.
Flying Welter: Bulldozer ; next,
Fernacre or John o’ Groats.


“SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE f/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic*
Under the Whip
This Page, which tipped Young Cru-
sader for the Metrop. and the Melbourne
Cup, advised punters not to back him
until he had shown that his tremendous
—and unnecessary—exertions in the Cup
race had done him no harm. In his two
races at Randwick during the Christmas
meetings the chestnut ran badly; and
evidently it has been decided to go easy
with him for a time. He was taken out
of Tatt.’s Club Cup.
* * * *
Cuddle comes to hand quickly, and
recovers speedily after an apparent
knockout. After pulling up groggy in
the Australian Cup she broke up the
Doncaster field —had the race won after
the third furlong. Again a cot case in
the Sydney Cup—or so it seemed —she
came out three days later and donkey-
licked the best Australian horses at
w.f.a. Her spring performances in
Sydney were so bad that she was
scratched for all her other engagements
and shipped back to Maoriland ; and
again it was said that the turf would see
her no more. Now she has won three
races in a fortnight or so, and cut the
Auckland Cup record to 3min. 23sec.
* * * *
“Petrie”: The 2s. tote for the flat at
Ascot (Brisbane) was an immediate suc-
cess ; turnover, £lOBB on a ss. basis at
the previous meeting, jumped to £2740.
Other totes showed big increases as a
result of the “back to the racecourse”
Racing Act. The total tote takings for
all enclosures were £15,130, compared
with £9394 for the corresponding meet-
ing of 1935. As State Government, racing
clubs and tote co. cut up 13| per cent,
of the pool (the Government takes
fractions as well) they are chortling
loudly. The. only moans come from the
Telephone Department, which has lost
heavily through the shutting down of
hundreds of s.p. shops-.
M.Q. and Rafferty
As a Perth Cup preliminary a Westra-
lian promoter staged an open-air
fight, the parties being welterweights—
Cyril Pluto, son of the old-timer who
had several meetings with Griffo, and the
mercurial “Red” Maloney from Mel-
bourne. In the past alfresco slugging
was very profitable in Perth, as Harry
Stone can testify—he figured in mills
(with Monty Murton, the R.A.N. cham-
pion, and Fritz Holland) that paid hand-
somely ; and Pluto and “Red” had no
reason for regret at the dimensions of
the offertory on New Year’s Day.
“A draw” was the decision.
* * * *
“T.”: Strange that the news of A. G.
(“Smiler”) Hales’s death should have
reached Australia on the very day on
which The Bulletin republished the
stirring description of the Jackson-Slavin
fight he wrote for the “Referee.” A
wonderful boxing reporter, “Smiler” had
plenty of pluck and could take care of
himself with his own fists when occasion
required. Old hands on the Barrier still
talk of his tussle with Reg Pell, the
auctioneer, afterwards a handicapper in
Westralia. “Smiler” had a great admira-
tion for Larry Foley, but once fell out
with him, and Larry called at the
“Referee” office to remonstrate. The
editor got out of his chair to illustrate
a point. “There’s your master!” he said,
thrusting out his pen. “And there’s
yours! ” retorted Larry, planting a dandy
left on the Hales chin. Some of “Smiler’s”
raciest Ring chronicles appeared in his
own paper, the Coolgardie “Mining
Review.” The “Review” is dead these
many years, but its boxing section is not
forgotten.
* * * *
Con Drew: Jack Johnson’s chief sin
in the eyes of his detractors (B.
30/12/’36) was that he administered a
drubbing to a white man. He certainly
did guy Burns unmercifully, but Tommy
had brought it on himself; in an inter-
view he announced that when he stepped
into the ring Johnson would jump out
the other side. Burns said many other
bitter things, and hysterical newspaper-
men helped to turn his head. Sam Fitz-
patrick had proclaimed Johnson as great
a fighter as Peter Jackson (Samuel
trained both); although this was public
knowledge, and although Johnson was
much the heavier and Burns was pal-
pably rattled, Tommy entered the ring
favorite at 2to 1 on. Afterwards, to ex-
cuse their lack of judgment, people who
had laid the odds said they had bet on
the chance of the fight being a
frame-up. Evidence of the negro’s
remarkable physical condition was
provided a week or so before the
fight. He sparred with several local men,
punched the ball for 20 minutes, put in
some time with the medicine ball and
rounded off the afternoon’s work by
skipping a thousand or so. A doctor
sounded him immediately afterwards and
found that his heart action had scarcely
been accelerated.
Ins and Outs
Rain cut the Newcastle match between
England and the N.S.W. Northern Dis-
tricts to a one-day show. N.D. ran up
188 for four wickets, Beattie, a heavy
scorer against visiting teams and in the
Country Week series, making 124 n.o.
England followed with four for 178,
Fagg topping with 67. Bowling on both
sides was not worth writing home about.
* * * *
“Coalie”: What a country player must
do to catch the eye of a N.S.W. selector
is seen in the case of Beattie, of New-
castle, for whom a place in the N.S.W.
side against Queensland had to be found
after his splendid showing against Eng-
land with the Northern Districts. For
some years he has been scoring heavily
in Newcastle, and he made 52 against
Jardine’s team in the match in which
Chipperfield won a trip to England with
a century. Heavy scores against visiting
inter-State teams are also to Beattie’s
credit, and his 124 n.o. against Allen’s lot
was so well done that it could not be
ignored. The State team had already
been selected, but a convenient last-
minute retirement made a gap for him.
How Beattie was not even considered
after his showing in Sydney during
Country Week this season is a puzzler.
His scores were 59, 70, 45 and 46, wind-
ing up with 101 n.o. against Metro-
politan.
“I appeal against the light !”
Victoria won the Sheffield match with
N.S.W. at Melbourne —by 66 runs on the
first innings. Batting for the second
time, the home team declared with three
down for 308, Rigg adding 167 n.o. to
his first innings of 100. Ma’s second
innings began badly, three going for 34.
A stand by M. Ward (68) and Jackson
(88) carried the score to 213 for 5 before
rain ended play. Fleetwood-Smith was
off his length with 2 for 70, and his
mates were little more effective.
Eighty-nine ahead on the first knock,
South Australia could only gather 267
the second time, good bowling by Dixon
(5 for 66) being chiefly responsible. Whit-
ington made a slow 125 for the home
side. With 356 to get to win Queens-
land could do no better than 244, though
the opening bat, Rogers, scored a fast
113.
The result of the matches sees the
Shield-holder, South Australia, bracketed
with Victoria in top place, each having
11 points. N.S.W. has six points and
Queensland nowt.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: One bright feature
of Queensland’s procession through
Sheffields is that the successes of the side
have been gained by the locally-grown
product as opposed to the imported stuff,
which, in the opinion of many, might
well be done without. Rogers, Allen
and Tallon have shown themselves bats-
men of the best class, and in Dixon the
State seems to have unearthed a fast
bowler of quality who has got plenty of
wickets if little press adulation. There
are plenty more fine young cricketers in
the State only asking for a chance to
show their quality.
* * * *
“Marija”: The Australian averages in
first-class matches before the week-end
games made interesting reading. Rigg,
who got into the Test team only when
O’Brien failed to pass the doctors, was
a long way in the lead with 98 for five
completed innings. Bradman’s figures—
he was third with 75 —looked well
enough, but those of the other Test-
match batsmen were nothing wonderful.
Badcock (10th; 45.3) headed a batch,
all above Fingleton, so trustworthy
against the Englishmen (17th; 33.7).
They went down as far as Oldfield (50th ;
14.9). The other ’keepers bagged the
15th (Barnett; 36.75) and 23rd places
(Tallon, 30.2). Fleetwood-Smith headed
the bowlers (22 wickets at 12.54), with
Ward (38—26.15) and O’Reilly (26 —
26.57) the nearest of the Test men.
McCormick wasn’t in the first dozen,
but Ebeling held fifth place with 17 at
24.94.
“Tenth Slip”: Comparison of the
averages at the end of the second Test
show the Englishmen well on top in bat-
ting and bowling. Beginning with Ham-
mond at 128 six of the tourists average
over 20 runs an innings compared with
four Australians, led by Fingleton with
46.25. Seven of our tail are below tens.
Only two Britons can claim that sorry
distinction. Voce’s 17 wickets have cost
but 7.82 each and Allen’s 12 15.58. Our
best bowling figures are 21 runs per
wicket by McCormick for six wickets
only. Ward’s 10 wickets have cost 37
runs apiece, while O’Reilly boasts six
at 41.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Reference to O’Reilly’s
persistent and unproductive leg theory
(B. 30/12/’36) reminds me of the
off theory that once threatened to
spoil the game in England. Arthur
Shrewsbury had founded a school of
batsmen that walked across the wicket to
a likely off-break and played it with the
pads. Bowlers gave up trying to hit the
stumps when this class of batsman was
on the job, and tried for slip catches,
bowling with as perfect a length as pos-
sible an inch or two outside the off
stump. Men like Attewell, of Notts,
were credited with being able to pitch
a ball all day on a spot as small as a
saucer, with the result that batsmen con-
tented themselves with counting the
seams on the ball as it passed. A few
stalwarts like Grace, Hornby, W. W.
Read and Steel among the amateurs
ignored the convention, as did profes-
sionals like Ulyett and Maurice Read,
and in time it passed, hastened by the
coming of the googly.
* * * *
Tenth Slip”: Allen was criticised by
Sydney’s flapper press because he sent
Australia in to bat a second time on a
rain-spoiled wicket, after his own side
had scored heavily on a good one. The
idea is that the Englishmen, hundreds
of runs in the lead, should have batted
again to take their share of the bad
wicket instead of exercising their option
of making the Australians follow on.
To make the other side follow on in
such circumstances is one of the com-
monplaces of cricket captaincy. Every
knowledgeable cricket follower would
have been stunned had the Englishman
decided otherwise.
'fc * *
“Bit o’ Common”: Let me add my
voice to the chorus of disapproval at
the persistence of the cricket heads in
asking their performers to play under
conditions which at any moment may
turn the show into a costly farce. The
time is overdue for artificial pitches
which no vagary of weather can affect.
Who would ask Lindrum to play a cham-
pionship on a table which had been play-
fully smeared with treacle, or sprinters
to put up records on a track made of
loose blue metal? Yet that is the equi-
valent of what cricketers are asked to
do whenever rain falls during a match.
* * * *
Jimmy Searle, who retired at Sydney
in Christmas week with his score at 75,
was one of the rearguard survivors of
the Old Brigade of Australian cricket.
He began his connection with the game
with the Surry United and Redfern
clubs, one of his team-mates in the latter
being Spofforth. A wicket-keeper of
high quality, he played for N.S.W.
against Victoria on many occasions in
pre-Sheffield Shield days—South Aus-
tralia and Queensland were not then in
the cricket picture. For years Jimmy
carried on a cricket-goods business in
Sydney and was coach to primary
schools and juniors, later becoming
official coach to the Cricket Association.
At no period of his life was he far away
from his beloved game, and the second
Test-match in Sydney was the first he
had missed for years.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Sydney golfers are in
a very livery condition. The latest
grouch was aired before the Suburban
District Association’s monthly meeting.
Briefly, club players object to playing
on courses they consider inferior to their
own. Those belonging to 18-hole courses
deem themselves insulted at being asked
to play on nine-holers, and sand-
coursers fume at risking precious clubs
on the flint-like fairways of the clay-
courses. A simple way out would seem
to be the division of the clubs into
sandgropers, like Royal Sydney, the
Australian and Moore Park, and cement-
breakers, like Killara and Pymble. The
winners of each grade in these divisions
could then play off, the course to be
determined by tossing.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The American ship-
ping strike caused some doubt as to
whether Hagen and Kirkwood would
carry out their intention of visiting us.
They have cabled that they positively
leave ’Frisco by the Mariposa this week.
The pair will get off at Auckland to
clean up M.L., coming on to Sydney a
fortnight later. The Australian tour will
last six weeks, about half of which will
be spent in or within shouting distance
of Sydney.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: A European Golf Federa-
tion, including Britain, France, Germany
and Holland, has been formed. The
interesting part of it is that the Federa-
tion is pledged to abide by the rules of
golf and the amateur status as laid down
and observed by St'. Andrew’s. The new
body does not propose to interfere with
the work of the various national golf
organisations, but it is an important ad-
vance towards uniformity in the game


A REAL OLYMPIAN!
V. ISO HOLLO the great Finnish
athlete established a new world's
record of 9 min., 3.8 secs, for the
3000 metres Steeplechase at the
Berlin Olympic Games.
This great performance indi-
cated unusual powers of physical
endurance coupled with speed.
In this branch of athletics
all-round physical soundness,
strength, and tireless perform-
ance are the essentials, and such
qualities also characterise the
champion—
Olympic Cyres
for Cars, Trucks and Cycles!
"/ am accustomed
to the Best
ma
mu
. •
9// JJ
that's why I pay
more For VALVOLINE
Technically I know little about cars.
My garageman recommends Valvo-
line as the best lubricating oil,
therefore I use it. Certainly an oil
that is packed in sealed tins must be
protected against adulteration, sub-
stitution, dirt and short measure.
Ask your garageman o "
o
SEALED MOTOR OILS
AND GREASES
ADV.OF J.CARRIGAN. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE AND THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
f
0
0
✓
<5?
Ns.
//
m
■
1
1
%
A.
nrr .a
« 4
FOR POWER.STAMINA&DEPENDABILITY
the world over. The U.S.A., which has
long been a law unto itself in the matter
of rules, will, presumably, carry on in
splendid isolation.
* * * *
“Walton Heath”: For the eighth lime
the incomparable Joyce Wethered has
been concerned in the winning of the
British mixed foursomes. She began in
1922 with brother Roger as partner; in
succeeding years her offsiders have been
Cyril Tolley (twice), J. S. Morrison,
Michael Scott, R. H. Oppenheim and
Bernard Darwin, who writes golf in the
intervals of trying to play it. Her part-
ner on this last occasion was one Coke.
As she is shortly to be wedded hubbv
Heathcote-Amory, also a golfer ol parts,
will probably partner her in future
championships.
* * * *
“Shackois”: St. Andra’s rules com-
mittee has decided on limiting the num-
ber of clubs to be used in a game to 14.
Even such a number seems ridiculously
high, but some of the American profes-
sionals have been burdening their caddies
with 20 clubs, and the silly craze is
spreading. Years ago a golfer was
considered finicky if he carried eight
clubs. Kirkwood used seven.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: The A.L.T.A. selectors
have asked eight players whether they
are prepared to take the Davis Cup trip
if selected —Crawford, Quist, McGrath,
Bromwich, Hopman, Turnbull, Kay
and Huxley. The invitation to Hopman
is long overdue. If he is able to accept
Quist will not have to worry about a
reliable doubles partner. The inclusion
of little Huxley is interesting. If he is
selected for experience he should be
about the smallest player in tennis of
importance since the days of Johnston.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The A.L.T.A. has denied
a rumor that A. A. Kay will manage the
next Davis Cup side. Kay is a “possible”
for the team itself, but it looks more than
likely that the managerial post will be
his pigeon, for he is well qualified and,
besides, would be a sound asset to the
side if called on to replace casualties.
* # * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia lost one
of its finest tennis players when R. V.
Thomas called it a day at 50. He was
in the State team from 1911 till 1923 and
was an unrivalled doubles player, help-
ing to hold the State title for four suc-
cessive years. With Pat Wood he took
the Wimbledon doubles in 1919 and the
Australian championships that year and
in 1920. He was a prominent figure in
the A.I.F. team, and, though chosen with
the Australian Davis Cup side of 1921,
was not given a gallop.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: An angered tennis
official has released a bagful of kittens.
Discussing the now-frequent refusal of
players to show at State championships,
he says this is due to people running the
championships deciding that a certain
make of ball must be used, and to em-
ployers of players declining to let their
men advertise the goods of a rival firm.
This may be good business, but it is a
horrible commentary on amateur tennis.
Miscellaneous
“Mak”: Maoriland Rugby Union
heads are already planning to meet the
Springbok invasion. Selection of the
1934-35 All-Blacks and their English
record are still headaches to officials, and
provincial unions are considering their
suggestion that 66 players from both
islands be assembled for a series of
trials; after three days and six trial
games it is proposed to announce the
team to contest the ’Bok Tests. When
the Springboks were, in Maorland in
1921, it was the selected Maoriland reps,
who were assembled in a training camp.
# * * *
“The Gaffer”: Mistuh Jesse Owens
has just competed in his first professional
pedestrian contest. It was a 100 yards'
run against a horse, and with a 40 yards’
start Jesse won by 20 yards in 9 9-10 sec.
The coon is elated and reckons that with
a bit of experience he can beat any horse
off scratch. I wonder. In the years the
Consorting Acts have eaten some of the
boys used to make a good living travel-
ling the. northern and western Queens-
land shows and race meetings with
specially-trained ponies. Sometimes the
sprinter won, but unless handicapped
right out of it the pony usually col-
lected. No runner, even Jesse, would
have, a hope with these nippy experts
off scratch.
* * * *
“Splash”: Yankee Olympic swimming
champion Medica and his manager
Cavey, coach to the Yankee, diving team
at Berlin, are at last on their way to
Australia aboard the Aorangi. The pair
will not reach Sydney until January 23,
and will miss the Ma State section of
the Australian championships and also
the State carnival. Special championship
meetings in the various States are sug-
gested, and with co-operation here the
tour may yet be a big success. Manager
Cavey is a world authority on the diving
game.
* * * *
“Blade”: Sydney clubs are preparing
for the State rowing championships on
the Nepean on February 6. The favor-
ite, so far, is North Shore, which won
the Henley-on-Yarra Grand Challenge in
such taking style at Melbourne. The
police have their ideas on the subject
and have recast their Berlin crew. Elias
will take Mackney’s place at stroke, and
only five members of the Olympic team
will be in the boat. This is Elias’s first
experience of stroking a champion eight,
but as he has twice led the formidable
St. Joseph’s crew to victory in the
G.P.S. championships the experience
should be no new one to him.
* * * *
“Shackois”: The N.S.W. 18-Footers
Sailing League is talking about throw-
ing in £l9O in prizes for the races
against Queensland in Sydney. If it
comes to anything it should give sailing
a good kick along.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Victorian cyclist Ossie
Nicholson has begun another attempt on
the. world’s record for 12 months’ con-
tinuous riding. In 1933 Nicholson
gained the rather empty honor with a
total of 43,996! miles, but in England
last year a one-armed pedaller, Greaves,
did 45,383! miles. Greaves lost two
weeks through sickness, but he stuck at
it and, using a specially-designed handle-
bar having both brakes controlled from
the one side, covered 260 miles in one
day, easily the best for a 12 months’
run. Nicholson reckons on averaging
130 miles a day. In 1933, though he had
three bad falls, he got over the 100 on
each of the 365 days.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: The dates of the pro-
posed visit of the English rifle team next
year will not suit the N.S.W. organisers
of the 150th anniversary spree. The
Britons propose to leave England early
in 1938 via Canada, shooting there on
their way. As the big anniversary shoot,
with its £7OOO prize money, is to start
early in February such an itinerary would
be out of the question. The cables are
now busy on the matter, and the visit
of our team to Bisley this season should
clear up any misunderstandings.


MORE FAMOUS FIGHTS
Unlike golf and lawn tennis, boxing
has literary traditions. Byron was a
pupil of “Gentleman” Jackson, the
champion of England, and praised his
master in table-talk and in his “Hints
from Horace.”
Men unpractised in exchanging knocks
Must go to Jackson ere they dare to box.
Hazlitt was acquainted with all the
renowned bruisers of his generation, and
his essay, “Going to the Fight,” is a
classic. Borrow, a six-footer and a
heavyweight, was the hero and chroni-
cler of a very famous mill.
Locker-Lampson knew Tom Sayers
and saw and described his fight with
Heenan, to which Thackeray devoted
one of his “Roundabout Papers.”
Dickens and Swinburne, if not them-
selves present at that historic contest
(many celebrities were there on the
quiet), must have read the accounts with
avidity, for both were interested in the
alluring Adah Isaacs Menken, who chose
the bold Benicia Boy from her multi-
tude of admirers.
Bernard Shaw (Cashel Byron’s Pro-
fession), Conan Doyle {Rodney Stone )
and Jack London {The Game) wrote
novels of the Ring. Not their best work,
perhaps, but all very readable.
In a letter to The Bulletin an old
reader says: “Thanks for republishing
those thrilling descriptions of the Jack-
son-Slavin and Burns-Johnson fights.
How refreshing to turn to after wading
through columns of Test-match tripe!
More, please!” Agreed; but let this in-
stalment be given over to the immortals.
Sayers v. Heenan.
(By Frederick Locker-Lampson.)
A lark is soaring and singing far above
our heads, rejoicing in his glorious
privacy of light; yokels and coster-
mongers are clambering over fences and
leaping dykes. And there, the observed
of all observers, is the veteran Tom
Oliver, superintending the erection of a
24ft. arena.
Sayers was the first to make his
appearance in the ring; but when his
opponent, Heenan, threw his hat within
the ropes, followed it, and stripped, there
was a murmur of admiration. He was
at once recognised as the most magnifi-
cent athlete that had ever been seen in
such a place. He was five inches taller
than Sayers—who, strictly speaking, was
only a middleweight—some two or three
stone heavier, and (no small matter) he
was eight years younger; while his
length of reach was remarkable for even
so tall a man.
Shall I ever forget the look of per-
fect self-possession and calm courage,
mingled with curiosity, with which Sayers
faced, gazed up and smiled at his ter-
rible antagonist? He had never set eyes
on him before. Having lost the toss, he
was obliged to accept the lower ground.
But there he stood, his enormous
shoulders shining in the sun, in his well-
known and faultless attitude-, tapping the
ground lightly with his left foot, his arms
well down, his head thrown back, ready
for a shoot or a jump, and a smile of
confidence on his open but not classical
countenance.
Still—and no wonder —there was a
pretty general opinion among outsiders,
expressed in the flowery but forcible ver-
nacular of the “fancy,” that the match
was “a horse to a hen” that “Heenan
would knock Sayers into a cocked hat in
10 minutes; for how was Sayers to get
at him?” I could not but feel the force
of this opinion, and that Bob Brettle’s
observation was an apposite one: “Well,
Tom may beat him, but may I, etc., if
he can eat him!”
However, as it turned out, Sayers had
no difficulty in getting over Heenan’s
guard, for he punished him frightfully,
I recollect my strange tremor as the
men stood up, advanced, shook hands,
and took up their positions. The fight
began about half-past seven, and finished
soon after ten.
I am not going to describe it. Has it
not been already described in the racy
columns of our revered old chronicler
“Bell’s Life”? We have had enough of
the “ribbenders” and “pile-drivers.” I
will say, however, that never in the
annals of the ring were courage, science,
temper, judgment and staying qualities
combined and displayed in such a mar-
vellous measure as by Tom Sayers on this
memorable day.
At the beginning of the encounter
Heenan was both out-generalled and out-
fought ; but as early as the fourth round
Sayers had his right arm completely dis-
abled, and from that time he defended
himself and attacked his gigantic ad-
versary with only his left.
He was more remarkable as a fighter
than as a sparrer. I have seen boxers
quicker than Sayers: Nat Langham and
Ned Donally were quicker, and so was
Charley Buller. But in force of hitting,
either with right or left, and in his extra-
ordinary skill of timing his man, he had
no equal. Like Entellus, he defended
himself by the movement of his body.
The battle ended in a disgraceful scene
of riot and blackguardism, especially
among the backers of Sayers, who, as
soon as they saw that their money was
in extreme peril, broke into the ring. It
ended by the umpire, wisely deciding that
it was a draw.
A boxing match is a voluntary exhibi-
tion of pluck and endurance ; there is no
malice ; and it proves to the uttermost
the stuff of which a man is made. There
was something in this great fight which
the whole nation recognised, for it
appealed to a very universal sympathy.
It affected all classes, in a way that boys
and men always will be affected when
they hear of the exploits of a Peter-
borough or a Grenville. It was mag-
netic—and why should it not continue
to move us?
Though, when I recall this battle, and
Heenan’s face, out of which all that was
human had been pommelled, I cry
“Heaven forbid that the prize-ring should
HEENAN.
The American was a fourteen-stoner.
He was never any good after his fight
with Sayers, who never fought again.
ever be revived in all its hideous and
loathsome degradation! ”
So long as manly sentiments and sheer
English pluck are valued, so long shall
the name of Thomas Sayers, the Poly-
deuces of our country, be. held in honor.
Thackeray’s Version.
On the eighteenth day of April, 1860, I
went to see a friend in a neighboring
crescent. On the steps of the next house
a newsboy was reading aloud the journal
which it was his duty to deliver ; a pretty
orange-girl leant over the railing and list-
ened ; opposite, a crossing-sweeper had
left his neighboring professional avo-
cation and chance of profit in order to
listen to the tale. That intelligent reader,
with his hand following the line as he
read it out to his audience, was saying:
“And—now—Tom —coming up smiling
—after his fall —dee-delivered a rattling
clinker upon the Benicia Boy’s—potato-
trap—but was met by a —punisher on the
nose.”
Betty, at 52, let me in while the boy
was reading his lecture ; and having been
some twenty minutes or so in the house
and paid my visit, I took leave.
The little lecturer was still at work on
the 51 doorstep, and his audience had
scarcely changed their positions. Having
read every word of the battle myself in
the morning, I did not stay to listen
further ; but if the gentleman who ex-
pected his paper at the usual hour that
day expressed delay and a little dis-
appointment, I shall not be surprised.
I have read in the correspondent’s
letter of a northern newspaper that in the
midst of a company assembled the
reader's humble servant was present,
and, in a very polite society, too, of
“poets, clergymen, men of letters, and
members of both Houses of Parliament.”
If so, I must have walked to the station
in my sleep, paid three guineas in a pro-
found fit of mental abstraction and re-
turned to bed unconscious, for I cer-
tainly woke there about the time when
history relates that the fight was over.
Ought Mr. Sayers to be honored for
being brave, or punished for being
naughty? By the shade of Brutus the
elder, I don’t know.
In George ll.’s time, there was a tur-
bulent navy lieutenant who was broke
on a complaint of the French Ambassa-
dor for obliging a French ship of war
to lower her topsails to his ship, the
Spithead. But, by the King’s orders,
Tom was next day made Captain Smith.
Well, if I were absolute king, I would
send Tom Sayers to the mill for a month
and make him Sir Thomas on coming
out of Clerkenwell.
You are a naughty boy, Tom! But,
then, you know, we ought to love our
brethren, though ever so naughty. We
are moralists and reprimand .you ; and
you are hereby reprimanded accordingly.
But in case England should ever have
need of a few score thousand cham-
pions \vho laugh at danger ; who cope
with giants ; who, stricken to the ground,
jump up and gaily rally and fall and
rise again and strike and die, rather than
yield—in case the world should need
such men and you should know them,
be pleased to send lists of the mis-
guided persons to the principal police
station, where means may some day be
found to utilise their wretched powers
and give their deplorable energies a right
direction.
Suppose, Tom, that you and your
friends are pitted against an immense
invader —suppose you are bent on hold-
ing the ground and dying there, if need
be —suppose it is life, freedom, honor,
home, you are fighting for, and there
is a death-dealing sword or rifle in your
hand with which you are going to resist
some tremendous enemy who challenges
your championship on your native shore?
Then, Sir Thomas, resist him to the
death and it is all right: kill him, and
heaven bless you. Drive him into the
sea and there destroy, smash and drown
him ; and let us sing Laudamus. In these
national cases, you see, we override the
indisputable first laws of morals.
Loving your neighbor is very well, but
suppose your neighbor comes over from
Calais and Boulogne to rob you of
your laws, your liberties, your news-
papers, your Parliament (all of which
some dear neighbor of ours has given
up in the most self-denying manner):
Suppose your neighbor were to cross the
water and propose this kind of thing
to us? Should we not be justified in
humbly trying to pitch him into the
water? If it were the King of Belgium
himself, we must do so.
I mean that fighting, of course, is
wrong; but that there are occasions
when, etc. —I suppose I mean that that
one-handed fight of Sayers is one of the
most spirit-stirring little stories ever
told: and with every love and respect
for Morality—my spirit says to her, “Do,
for goodness sake, my dear madam, keep
your true and pure and womanly and
gentle remarks for another day. Have
the great kindness to stand a leetle aside
and just let us see one or two more
rounds between the men. That little
man with the one hand powerless on his
breast, facing yonder giant for hours,
and felling him, too, every now and
then! it is the little Java and the Con-
stitution over again!”
I think it is a most fortunate event
for the brave Heenan, who has acted
and written since the battle with a true
warrior’s courtesy and with a great deal
of logic, too, that the battle was a drawn
one. The advantage was all on Mr.
Sayers’s side. Say a young lad of 16 in-
sults me in the street, and I try to
thrash him, and do it. Well, I have
thrashed a lad. You great big tyrant,
couldn’t you hit your own size? But
say the lad thrashes me? In either case,
I walk away discomfited: but in the
latter, I am positively put to shame.
Now, when the ropes were cut from
that death-grip, and Sir Thomas released
by the recognised, the Eu-rope-an laws—
the gentleman of Benicia was confusedly
blind of one eye, and, speedily after-
wards, was blind of both. Could Mr.
Sayers have held out for three minutes,
for five minutes, for ten minutes more?
He says he could. So we say we could
have held out and did, and had beaten
off the enemy at Waterloo, even if the
Prussians hadn’t come up. The opinions
differ pretty much according to the
nature of the opiants. I say the Duke
and Tom could have held out, that they
meant to hold out, that they did hold
out, and that there has been fistifying
enough.
That crowd which came in and stopped
the fight ought to be considered like one
of those divine clouds which the gods
sent in Homer:
Apollo shrouds
The godlike Trojan in a veil of clouds.
It is the best way of getting the godlike
Trojan out of the scrape, don’t you see.
The nodus is cut: Tom is out of chan-
cery ; the Benicia Boy not a bit the
worse, nay, the better, than if he had
beaten the little man. He has not the
humiliation of conquest. He is greater
and will be loved more hereafter by the
gentle sex.
Suppose he had overcome the godlike
Trojan? Suppose he had tied Toms
corpse to his cab-wheels and driven to
Farnham smoking the pipe of triumph?
Faugh! The great hulking conqueror!
Why did you not hold your hand from
yonder hero? Everybody, I say, was
relieved by that opportune appearance
of the British gods protectors of native
valor, who transferred and “withdrew”
their champion.
Now, suppose six-feet-two conqueror
and five-feet-eight beaten; would
Sayers have been a whit the less gallant
and meritorious? If Sancho had been
allowed really to reign in Barataria, I
make no doubt that, with his good sense
and kindness of heart, he would have
devised some means of rewarding the
brave vanquished, as well as the brave
victors in the Baratarian army, and that
a champion who had fought a good
fight would have been a knight of King
Don Sancho’s orders, whatever the
upshot of the combat had been.
The Bruisers of England.
(By George Borrow.)
Let no one sneer at the bruisers of
England. What were the gladiators of
Rome or the bullfighters of Spain, in
its palmiest days, compared to England’s
bruisers? Pity that ever corruption
should have crept in among them —but
of that I wish not talk; let us still hope
that a spark of the old religion, of which
they were the priests, still lingers in the
breasts of Englishmen. •
There they come, the bruisers, from
far London, or from wherever else they
might chance to be at that time, to the
great rendezvous in the old city. Some
came one way, some another; some of
tip-top reputation came with peers in
their chariots, for glory and fame are
such fair things that even peers are
proud to have those invested therewith
by their sides; others came in their own
gigs, driving their own bits of blood,
and I heard one say: “I have driven
through at a heat the whole 111 miles,
and only stopped to bait twice.” Oh,
the blood-horses of old England! But
they, too, have had their day—for every-
thing beneath the sun there is a season
and a time.
It was fierce old Cobbett, I think, who
first said that the Jews first introduced
bad faith among pugilists. He did not
always speak the truth, but at any rate
he spoke it when he made that observa-
tion. Strange people the Jews: endowed
with every gift but one, and that the
highest, genius divine. Genius, which
can alone make of men demigods, and
elevate them above earth and what is
earthy and what is grovelling ; without
which a clever nation —and who more
clever than the Jews? —may have Ram-
bams in plenty, but never a Fielding nor
a Shakspeare ; a Rothschild and a Men-
doza, yes—but never a Kean nor a
Belcher.
So the bruisers of England are come
to be present at the grand fight speedily
coming off ; there they are met in the
precincts of the old town, near the Field
of the Chapel, planted with tender sap-
lings at the restoration of sporting
Charles, which are now become vener-
able elms, as high as many a steeple.
There they are met at a fitting rendez-
vous, where a retired coachman, with


one leg, keeps a hotel and a bowling-
green. I think I now see them upon the
bowling-green, the men of renown,
amidst hundreds of people with no re-
nown at all, who gaze upon them with
timid wonder. Fame, after all, is a
glorious thing, though it lasts only for
a day.
There’s Cribb, the champion of Eng-
land, and perhaps the best man in Eng-
land ; there he is, with his huge, massive
figure and face wonderfully like that of
a lion. There is Belcher, the younger,
not the mighty one, who is gone to his
place, but the Teucer Belcher, the most
scientific pugilist that ever entered a ring,
only wanting strength to be—l won’t say
what. He appears to walk before me
now, as he did that evening, with his
white hat, white greatcoat, thin, genteel
figure, springy step and keen, determined
eye. Crosses him—what a contrast —
grim, savage Shelton, who has a civil
word for nobody ; and a hard blow for
anybody.
Yonder individual, who strolls about
with his hands behind him, supporting
his brown coat lappets, undersized, and
who looks anything but what he is, is the
king of the lightweights, so-called—
Randall, the terrible Randall, who has
Irish blood in his veins: not the better
for that, nor the worse. Not far from
him is his last antagonist, Ned Turner,
who, though beaten by him, still thinks
himself as good a man, in which he is,
perhaps, right, for it was a near thing ;
and “a better shentleman,” in which he
is quite right, for he is a Welshman.
But how shall I name them all? They
were there by dozens, and all tremen-
dous in their way. There was Bulldog
Hudson and fearless Scroggins, who beat
the conqueror of Sam the Jew. There
was Black Richmond —no, he was not
there, but I knew him well; he was the
most dangerous of blacks, even with a
broken thigh. There was Purcell, who
could never conquer till all seemed over
with him. There was —what! shall I
I name thee last? Ay, why not? 1
believe that thou art the last of all that
strong family still above the sod, where
mayst thou long continue —true piece
of English stuff, Tom of Bedford—sharp
as winter, kind as spring.
Hail to thee, Tom of Bedford, of by
whatever name it may please thee to be
called, spring or winter! Hail to thee,
six-foot Englishman, of the brown eye,
worthy to have carried a six-foot bow
at Flodden, where England’s yeomen
triumphed over Scotland’s king, his clans
and chivalry. Hail to thee, last of Eng-
land’s bruisers, after all the many vic-
tories which thou hast' achieved —true
English victories, unbought by yellow
gold ; need I recount them? Nay, nay!
They are already well known to fame—
sufficient to say that Bristol’s Bull and
Ireland’s Champion were vanquished by
thee, and one mightier still, gold itself,
thou didst overcome; for gold itself
strove in vain to deaden the power of
thy arm ; and thus thou didst proceed till
men left off challenging thee, the unvan-
quishable, the incorruptible. ’Tis a treat
to see thee, Tom of Bedford, in thy
“public” in Holborn, whither thou hast
retired with thy well-earned bays. •
’Tis Friday night, and nine by Holborn
clock. There sits the yeoman at the end
of his long room, surrounded by his
friends ; glasses are filled, and a song is
the cry, and a song is sung well suited
to the place ; it finds an echo in every
heart—fists are clenched, arms are
waved, and the portraits of the mighty
fighting men of yore, Broughton and
Slack and Ben, which adorn the walls,
appear to smile grim approbation, whilst
many a manly voice joins in the bold
chorus:
Here’s a health to old honest John Bull,
When he’s gone we shan’t find such another,
And with hearts and with glasses brim full,
We will drink to old England, his mother.
But the fight! With respect to the
fight, what shall I say? Little can be
said about it —it was soon over ; some
said that the brave from town, who was
reputed the best man of the two, and
whose form was a perfect model of
athletic beauty, allowed himself, for
lucre vile, to be vanquished by the mas-
sive champion with the flattened nose.
One thing is certain, that the former
was suddenly seen to sink to the earth
before a blow of by no means extra-
ordinary power. Time, time! was
called ; but there he lay upon the ground
apparently senseless, and from thence
he did not lift his head till several
seconds after the umpires had declared
his adversary victor.
There were shouts; indeed, there’s
never a lack of shouts to celebrate a
victory, however acquired ; but there was
also much grinding of teeth, especially
among the fighting men from town.
“Tom has sold us,” said they, “sold us
to the yokels ; who would have thought
it?” Then there was fresh grinding of
teeth, and scowling brows were turned
to the heaven ; but what is this? Does
the heaven scowl, too?
But another fight is at hand, and the
pugilists are clearing the outer ring.
How their huge whips come crashing
upon the. heads of the yokels! Blood
flows, more blood than in the fight;
those blows are given with right good-
will, those are not sham blows, whether
of whip or fist. It is with fist that grim
Shelton strikes down the big yokel ; he
is always dangerous, grim Shelton, but
now particularly so, for he has lost ten
pounds betted on the brave who sold
himself to the yokels. But the outer ring
is cleared ; and now the second fight
commences ; it is between two champions
of less renown than the others, but is
perhaps not the worse on that account.
A tall, thin boy is fighting in the ring
with a man somewhat under the middle
size with a frame of adamant. That’s
a gallant boy! He’s a yokel, but he
comes from Brummagem, and he does
credit to his extraction ; but his adver-
sary has a frame of adamant: in what
a strange light they fight, but who can
wonder, on looking at that frightful cloud
usurping now one-half of heaven, and
at the sun struggling with sulphurous
vapor?
The face of the boy, which is turned
towards me, looks horrible in that light,
but he is a brave boy ; he strikes his foe
on the forehead, and the report of the
blow is like the sound of a hammer
against a rock. But there is a rush and
a roar overhead, a wild commotion, the
tempest is beginning to break loose;
there’s wind and dust, a crash, rain and
hail. Is it possible to fight amidst such
a comrhotion? Yes, the fight goes on;
SAYERS, sketched in his corner.
He was only a 10st. 7lb. man —light enough for Jack Carroll
had they been contemporaries.
again the boy strikes the man full on the
brow, but it is of no use striking that
man, his frame is of adamant.
Boy, that strength is beginning to give
way and thou art becoming confused.
The man now goes to work amidst rain
and hail. Boy, thou wilt not hold out
ten minutes longer against rain, hail and
the blows of such an antagonist!
And now the storm was at its
height; the black thundercloud had
broken into many, which assumed the
wildest shapes and the strangest colors,
some of them unspeakably glorious. The
rain poured in a deluge, and more than
one waterspout was seen at no great
distance. An immense rabble is hurry-
ing in one direction: a multitude of men
of all ranks, peers and yokels, prize-
fighters and Jews. A town three miles
distant is soon reached and soon
filled. It will not contain one-third of
that mighty rabble ; but there’s another
town farther on—the good old city is
farther on, only twelve miles. What’s
that? Who’ll stay there? Onward to
the old town!
Hurry, skurry, a mixed multitude of
men and horses, carts and carriages, all
in the direction of the old town.
Borrow v. the Flaming Tinman.
I do not remember ever to have seen
a more ruffianly-looking fellow.
He was about six feet high, with an
immensely athletic frame ; his face was
black and bluff, and sported an immense
pair of whiskers, but with here and there
a grey hair, for his age could not be
much under 50. He wore a faded blue
frock-coat, corduroys and highlows ; on
his black head was a kind of red night-
cap ; round his bull neck a Barcelona
handkerchief—l did not like the look of
the man at all.
“Afraid,” growled the fellow, pro-
ceeding to unharness his horse; “that
was the word, I think.”
But other figures were now already
upon the scene. Dashing past the other
horse and cart, which by this time had
reached the bottom of the pass, appeared
an exceedingly tall woman, or rather girl,
for she could scarcely have been above
18. She was dressed in a tight bodice
and a blue stuff gown ; hat, bonnet or
cap she had none, and her hair, which
was flaxen, hung down on her shoulders
unconfined. Her complexion was fair,
and her features handsome, with a de-
termined but open expression.
She was followed by another female,
about 40, stout and vulgar-looking, at
whom I scarcely glanced, my whole
attention being absorbed by the tall girl.
“What’s the matter, Jack?” said the
latter, looking at the man.
“Only afraid, that’s all,” said the man,
still proceeding with his work.
“Afraid at whafi—at that lad? Why,
he looks like a ghost. I would engage
to thrash him with one hand.”
“You might beat me with no hands
at all,” said I, “fair damsel, only by
looking at me ; I never saw such a face
and figure, both regal. Why, you look
like Ingeborg, Queen of Norway; she
had 12 brothers, you know, and could
lick them all, though they were heroes.”
“None of your chaffing, young fellow,”
said the tall girl.
“Well, perhaps I was a peg too high,”
said I ; “I ask your pardon—here’s some-
thing a bit lower:
“As 1 was jawing to the gay yeck divvus
1 met on the drom miro Rommany chi.”
“None of your Rommany chies, young
fellow,” said the tall girl, looking more
menacingly than before and clenching
her fist. “You had better be civil ; I am
none of your chies ; and though I keep
company with gipsies,
or, to speak more
proper, half and halfs,
1 would have you
know that I come of
Christian blood and
parents, and was born
in the great house of
Long Melford.”
“I have no doubt,”
said 1, “that it was a
great house ; judging
from your size,, I
shouldn’t wonder if
you were born in
a church.”
“Stay, Belle,”
said the man,
putting himself
before the young
virago, who was
about to rush
upon me, “my
turn is first.”
Then, advancing
to me in a menac-
ing attitude, he
said, with a look
of deep malignity, “Afraid was the word,
wasn’t it?”
“It was,” said I, “but I think I wronged
you; I should have said aghast; you
exhibited every symptom of one labor-
ing under uncontrollable fear.”
The fellow stared at me with a look
of stupid ferocity, and appeared to be
hesitating whether to strike or not. The
tall girl started forward, crying, “He’s
chaffing, let me at him” ; and before I
could put myself on my guard she struck
me a blow on the face which had nearly
brought me to the ground.
“Enough,” said I, putting my hand to
my cheek; “you have now performed
your promise, and made me wipe my
face ; now be pacified, and tell me fairly
the grounds of this quarrel.”
“Grounds!” said the fellow; “didn't
you say 1 was afraid? And if you hadn’t,
who gave you leave to camp on my
ground?”
“Is it your ground?” said I.
“A pretty question,” said the fellow ;
“as if all the world didn’t know that. Do
you know who I am?”
“I guess I do,” said I; “unless I am
much mistaken, you are he whom folks
call the ‘Flaming Tinman.’ To tell you
the truth, I’m glad we have met, for I
wished to see you. These are your two
wives, I suppose ; I greet them. There's
no harm done —there’s room enough here
for all of us ; we shall soon be good
friends, I dare say ; and when we are a
little better acquainted I’ll tell you my
history.”
“Well, if that doesn’t beat all,” said
the fellow.
“I don’t think he’s chaffing now,” said
the girl, whose anger seemed to have
subsided on a sudden ; “the young man
speaks civil enough.”
“Civil,” said the fellow with an oath;
“but that’s just like you ; with you it is a
blow, and all over. Civil! 1 suppose
you would have him stay here, and get
into all my secrets, and hear all I may
have to say to my two morts.”
“Two morts!” said the girl, kindling
up, “where are they? Speak for one,
and no more. I am no mort of yours,
whatever someone else may be. I tell
you one thing, Black John, or Anselo,
for t'other an’t your name, the same thing
1 told the young man here ; be civil, or
you will rue it.”
“Mind your eyes, Jack. There, you’ve
got it. I thought so,” shouted the girl,
as the fellow staggered back from a
sharp blow in the eye. “I thought he
was chaffing at you all along.”
“Never mind, Anselo. .You know what
to do —go in,” said the vulgar woman,
who had hitherto not spoken a word, but
who now came forward with all the
look of a fury ; “go in apopli; you’ll
smash ten like he.”
The Flaming Tinman took her advice,
and came in, bent on smashing, but
stopped short on receiving a left-handed
blow on the nose.
“You’ll never beat the Flaming Tin-
man in that way,” said the girl, looking
at me doubtfully.
And so 1 began to think myself when,
in the twinkling of an eye, the Flaming
Tinman, disengaging himself of his frock-
coat, and dashing off his red nightcap,
came rushing in more desperately than
ever. To a flush hit which he received
in the mouth he paid as little attention
as a wild bull would have done ; in a
moment his arms were around me, and
in another he had hurled me down, fall-
ing heavily upon me... The fellow's
strength appeared to be tremendous.
“Pay him off now,” said the vulgar
woman. The Flaming Tinman made no
reply, but, planting his knee on my breast,
seized my throat with two huge horny
hands. I gave myself up for dead, and
probably should have been so in another
minute but for the tall girl, who caught
hold of the handkerchief which the
fellow wore round his neck with a grasp
nearly as powerful as that with which
he pressed my throat.
“Do you call that fair play?” said she.
“Hands off, Belle,” said the other
woman; “do you call it fair play to
interfere? Hands off or I’ll be down
upon you myself.”
But Belle paid no heed to the injunc-
tion, and tugged so hard at the handker-
chief that the Flaming Tinman was
nearly throttled ; suddenly relinquishing
his hold of me, he started on his feet and
aimed a blow at my fair preserver, who
avoided it, but said coolly:
“Finish t’other business first, and then
I’m your woman whenever you like;
but finish it fairly—no foul play when
I’m by. I’ll be the boy’s second, and
Moll can pick you up when he happens
to knock you down.”
The battle during the next ten minutes
raged with considerable fury ; but it
so happened that during this time I was
never able to knock the Flaming Tinman
down, but on the contrary received six
knockdown blows myself.
“I can never stand this,” said I as I
sat on the knee of Belle. “I’m afraid I
must give in ; the Flaming Tinman hits
very hard,” and I spat out a mouthful
of blood.
“Sure enough you’ll never beat the
Flaming Tinman in the way you fight—
it’s of no use flipping at the Flaming
Tinman with your left hand ; why don’t
you use your right?”
“Because I’m not handy with it,” said
I; and then, getting up, I once more
confronted the Flaming Tinman, and
struck him six blows for his one. But
they were all left-handed blows, and the
blow which the Flaming Tinman gave
me knocked me off my legs.
“Now, will you use Long Melford?”
said Belle, picking me up.
“I don’t know what you mean by Long
Melford,” said I, gasping for breath.
“Why, this long right of yours,” said
Belle, feeling my right arm —“if you do
I shouldn’t wonder if you yet stand a
chance.”
And now the Flaming Tinman was
once more ready, much more ready than
myself. I, however, rose from my
second’s knee as well as my weakness
would permit me ; on he came, striking
o Continued on page 42.)


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Dodsworth.”
AVERAGE PROSPEROUS MIDDLE-
AGED AMERICAN, Walter Huston
ROMANTIC WIFE ... Ruth Chatterton
SENSIBLE LADY Mary Astor
The essential ingredient of Sinclair
Lewis’s novel is a rather cruel analysis
of character —not of the development of
character, since, the characters are cap-
able of no further development. They
are all, for the purposes of the story, in
the fell clutch of circumstance. A middle-
Western automobile manufacturer takes
his wife to Europe, and there the silly
creature kicks over the traces and has
“affairs” with titled or allegedly-titled
gigolos. Her husband, long-suffering and
patient, at last rebels and leaves her to
her fate, commencing married life again
Eunuchinsky in the Russian Ballet.
with a more congenial and level-headed
partner.
What lifts this very commonplace
scenario out of the rut is the fidelity with
which the three principal characters ful-
fil the author’s intention. Huston’s pic-
ture of a fair-minded good-hearted man,
of first-class ability in his own line,
puzzled, baffled and finally disgusted and
resentful, is a masterpiece of natural-
ness. It isn’t Huston—it’s Dodsworth.
Miss Chatterton seems just a little too
rococo as the flighty Mrs. Dodsworth,
though she doesn’t go outside Lewis’s in-
tention. It is perhaps the very effective-
ness of the contrast between her hus-
band’s quiet self-control and her own
rudderless condition that gives the im-
pression. Miss Astor manages yet an-
other effective contrast. Of the three she
alone seems to have no consciousness
that she is being carried by an irresist-
ible tide.
One of the best bits of drama that ever
emanated from the screen. At Sydney
Embassy.
“Turn of the Tide.”
YORKSHIRE FISHER FOLK,
John Garrick, J. Fisher White
and Nail McGinnis
GIRL Geraldine Fitzgerald
Here is something Hollywood couldn’t
do in a thousand years—the feud of
Montague and Capulet translated into
terms of a Yorkshire fishing village. The
Fosdykes have been fishermen in
Bramblewick for 200 years. The Lunns
are newcomers, hated as “foreigners,”
though they come from only a few miles
away. The Lunns have a motor in their
boat. The Fosdykes laugh and sneer,
but soon find that they, too, will have to
move with the times if they are to con-
tinue to make a living. To complicate
matters one of the Lunn boys comes
courting young Ruth Fosdyke, to the
righteous horror of her old grandfather.
But the families join forces to man the
lifeboat, and despite the jealous machina-
tions of old granfer they salvage a
steamer and make good money. Sen-
sibly they pool their resources and buy
a big modern trawler, appeasing fierce
old Isaac Fosdyke by appointing him
captain.
Whether the Yorkshire dialect is
authentic throughout this critic doesn’t
remember enough of it to be able to
judee, but the manner of speech certainly
is Yorkshire (“champion” is the favor-
ite adjective) and the character of the
peppery, dogged, hard-headed folk of
that part of Britain is presented to the
life. There is a fine little bit of drama
when, Ruth, cast off by her grandfather,
just marches out of the house, bare-
headed, with young John Lunn. This
excellent Gaumont-British film was
viewed at Sydney Embassy.
“Here Comes Carter.”
HONEST PUBLICITY
AGENT Ross Alexander
Like that O’Shaughnessy who de-
clared that wherever he sat was the head
of the table, Ross Alexander recognises
no rivals. In every film in which he has
so far appeared Alexander has made the
rest of the cast look like pale wraiths.
He is the screen’s smoothest, swiftest,
most talented talker. His flow of oratory
is amazing. If an iron pot saw him
coming it would surrender a leg at once,
rather than have it argued off in two
seconds. In “Here Comes Carter” he is
a Hollywood publicity man with a pas-
sion for telling the truth —“A paradox,
a paradox, a most amusing paradox,” as
Gilbert would say. Alexander makes’it
credible and convincing. He makes
enemies right and left' with what his
sweetheart (Glenda Farrell) very justly
calls his “muckraking,” but carries on
undaunted, a figure of infinite vigor, re-
source and shrewdness. Of course he
comes out on top. At Sydney State.
“Parole.”
PAROLE GRANTEE .. Henry Hunter
FELLOW-CONVICT’S DAUGHTER,
Ann Preston
CROOK POLITICIAN .. Alan Dinehart
Light propaganda has been worked
into a feasible story, deftly directed and
The foundation of art.
capably acted.
Result: a sat-
isfactory film,
without being
a topnotcher.
The spot-
light iof pub-
licity falls on
the Parole
Board, a
purely Ameri-
can ins titu-
tion. A young
man convicted
of manslaugh-
ter for care-
less car-driv-
ing (he ad-
mits his mistake) is released on parole.
An influential gent, on the board, right-
hand man of a political crook specialis-
ing in blackmailing, picks out likely
parolees for use. The young fellow is
given a jahb, but when he discovers it’s
racketeering he tells the heavy cigar-
chewer off good and hard, thereby put-
ting Virtue one up. His girl, daughter
of his convicted lawyer friend whose
parole was refused, then wangles him a
jahb in a factory, but a hint by the spite-
ful politician to the unctuous owner and
he’s passed out.
Registering intense sub-collar heat, the
young man exposes the crook politician
to the papers, corroboration coming
from the exposed one’s lady secretary,
love being the motive power. Follows
a clean-up of the Parole Board and
happiness all round except for the boss
politician, who is allotted half a century
to meditate on the truism that there are
points about Honesty as a Policy.
Henry Hunter acts with bright intelli-
gence, and Ann Preston gives him stout
Valentin Froman shows a nice pair of
calves in the Russian Ballet.
support. Alan Dinehart does his villainy
with the aplomb of long practice. Grant
Mitchell and Berton Churchill register
neat character sketches. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Wild Brian Kent.”
THE WILD ONE ... Ralph Bellamy
HIS TAMER Mae Clarke
HER GENTLE AUNT ... Helen Lowell
DARK-DEEDING DASTARD,
Stanley Andrews
Mediocre melodrama, with Harold
Bell Wright primarily responsible.
A polo player, kicked out of his team
for debt-dodging, lands, flat broke, in a
western town and is befriended by the
usual heroine, stuggling along, with dear
old auntie, to save the farm from the
machinations of a realty cor-
sair, who pursues his turpi-
tude wearing the twisted smile
of the stock bad man. Of
course, the. corsair doesn’t
stand a ghost of a chance
against the reformed debt
welsher, and even when by
his scheming he makes it
appear that the r.d.w. is the
wimmin’s real enemy it’s plain his ne-
farious plans will be confounded. In
desperation the villain fires the poor
goil’s wheat paddock, into which the hero
has just trundled SI 10,000-dahlar har-
vesting machine, bought with 500 bucks
won in a horserace. Apparently the
wheatfield is one of those in which fire
hydrants connected with the city mains
are placed at strategical points through
the crop so that the work of the firebug
may be foiled. Anyway, an ancient fire-
engine has a win. The hero is at last
vindicated, and, by r the mushy finish,
due to be domesticated. The estate-
agent is headed for the Big House, with
few home comforts.
Ralph Bellamy doesn’t enhance his
reputation, and Mae Clarke is apparently
in the cast to make up the crowd. Helen
Lowell is typically auntie-ish and Stanley
Andrews is not a very convincing
schemer. At Sydney Capitol.
“Cain and Mabel.”
SOUBRETTE Marion Davies
HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMP.,
Clark Gable
PRESS AGEN.. Roscoe Karns
There’s a lot of footwork in this back-
stage opus, but it isn’t pushed down the
audience’s gullet as the highest flower
of the twentieth century’s art. Miss
Davies represents a very ordinary song-
andance performer who gets her chance
to star by a concatenation of unusual
circumstances. A bright idea of her
press-agent links her up with a pug, who
has everything a pug ought to have but
personality. He’s just a big garage
mechanic saving up to go back to his
job as owner of a service station. He
hates the sight of Marion. She hates
the sight of him. They spit at each other
like cats whenever they meet. But when
the pug discovers that the musicomedy
star is no high-hat, that she used to be
a waitress, and that she can cook a pork
chop ; and when she discovers that he
has no delusions about his place in the
scheme of creation, but is at heart still
a working man, they click. That’s a
complication unforeseen by their pub-
licity - genius, who develops into a
Machiavelli. His plots, happily con-
founded at the finale, carry a good-
humored comedy triumphantly over its
last half-hour to its predestined con-
clusion.
Possibly a bit too much
time is occupied by stage
spectacles in the Ziegfeld
manner, but there is at least
one of these, where the
chorines, with incredibly
long tubular skirts, turn into
a huge organ, that has a
spark of originality. Marion
Davies is as starry-eyed as when, way
back in the pre-depression days, she kept
handkerchiefs moist with her misfor-
tunes, and in the meantime she has
learned how to swap wisecracks with as
much hardboiled vim as Jean Harlow.
Gable, too, puts on a good show. Pre-
viewed at the Plaza Theatrette, Sydney.
“ ‘Flash’ Gordon.”
“FLASH” (OTHERWISE “SPEED”),
Larry Crabbe
DALE Jean Rogers
MING OF MONGO, Charles Middleton
These and other characters that people
Alex. Raymond’s well-drawn syndicated
strip (read avidly by juveniles and fur-
tively by their fathers) are all in the
film version running in weekly instal-
ments at Sydney Civic. The spirit of the
fantastic absurdity has been well cap-
tured, though some of the faked scenes
on the imaginary planet are crude. The
whole thing hinges on excitement and
Wolf and Red Riding Hood in the
Russian Ballet.
suspense, in copious quantities, and as
the doughty hero conquers horror after
horror nobody bothers about his acknow-
ledged indestructibility. It mightn’t be
art, but as a nightmare product for the
kids it’s a winner.
A remarkable likeness to the artist’s
conception of the sinister emperor Ming


Life begins at 16
—for your son
Will he be leaping ahead to SUCCESS —or,
Just Jogging along the Highways?
To give him an early start, to enable him to leap
ahead through life, you must give him a specialised
training. To enter the Business profession, the
education you have given him only fits him to just
go jogging along—when he DOES get a position.
No matter how good his school education has been,
it has not taught him Accountancy, Secretaryship,
Cost Accountancy, Advertising, Marketing, Selling.
Yet a Business Career is a fascinating adventure, that
with this knowledge will place the world at his feet.
Success, travel, variety, scope —a place in the sun !
All can be his if he gets the business training of
H. & R.
Under H. & R. you make no Experiment.
There are many—from University graduates to
primary school educated —walking the streets or out
of work at home, who did not, would not, and still
refuse to see that to enter or stay in business you
must be trained—you must be qualified. Employers
throughout Australia give preference to the youth
(or girl) who is training with 11. & R. —even assist
him —and this training is not the financial burden
on you that school education has been. Call and
discuss your son’s future —you are committed to
nothing, but the results can be beneficial to his
future. It is up to you—and to your son —to make
the most of the opportunities, and examine the possi-
bilities of our thorough training and the Staff
Appointment Service which last year placed 327
H. & R. trained students in positions.
Your son (or daughter) has much more chance not
only of securing a job, but of leaping ahead all
through life, if the gates to success are opened with
a thorough business training. The business training
at H. & R. opens the gates—How will he be
travelling? *
For your son, life’s chance begins when you post the
coupon.
OUR .',oth YEAR.
Personal—lndividual Tuition.
Open till 8 p.m. Fridays.
Service Consultants Main Country Centres.
Department of Business Training,
Hemingway and Robertson
Sydney: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
Newcastle: 38 A.31.P. Chambers, Hunter Street.
Offices all Capital Cities and Newcastle.
Dear Sirs,
I am interested in Business. Please send me
free copy of the 1937 Edition of “The Guide to
Business Careers.”
Name Age
Address
Subject . - 38/257
•JAVA -
.•, r .
your holiday
39
/M* / . ''H
UI
4^
L
wiien
juroiHK’
Sv
i
r<
i 1
This land of countless attractions awaits you —
ancient temples beautiful scenery —native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYD N E Y —TELE P H O N E B 79 0I
Established
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated ,
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES' ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OMEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E. ; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bivchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.a3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank Limited; Bai clays Bank, Ltd.,
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland South Australia
and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the woild.
tv ai?T7 A t .T. rimiprnl Mu ii nirer.
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier-Mail
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and here
are the circulation figures for the various areas:
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane:
43.353
Within a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
(Average net daily circulation for six months'
period ended September, 1936, 69,837 .)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street
Melbourne Representative: R. D. F . ISH , ER r :Ji e ”“ pa P" St ""-
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 fleet btreet.
is achieved by Charles Middleton. Larry
(“Buster”) Crabbe scarcely reaches the
portrayed physique of the original, but
Jean Rogers is beautiful enough to lure
any earthman to another planet. Dr.
Zharkov, Prince Barin and the rest, in
contrast to their pen-and-ink namesakes,
are a lolly-legged bunch.
Australia's Music in 1936.
Australia, which has given to the world
one great soprano and a dozen other
folk who are sure of niches in the musi-
cal history of the twentieth century, did
not contribute much to that same his-
tory in 1936. The U.S.A. musical
monthly “Etude,” which has correspon-
dents throughout the musical world,
found in Maoriland more occasions for
ephemeral chronicles than in the six
States of Australia, but that may be
only because Maoriland carries herself
with an unjustifiably higher head.
But it wasn’t a bad year. Malcolm
Sargent came and had a look at our
metropolitan orchestras, found them
good, and after delighting Australian
ears with their performances under his
baton carried off some of our choicest
instrumentalists. Eileen Joyce, a pianist
of Australian birth who, because she
realises her limitations and never strays
outside them, has won a place in the
magic circle of pianoforte virtuosi, was
brought here under A.B.C. auspices and
taught us that people who sneer at
Hummel and Rummel and Haydn and
the Schumann of the “Arabeske” mood
don’t know as much as they profess to
about pianism.
Richard Strauss’s “Rosenkavalier”
was given a clinking performance by the
A.B.C. early in the year. Others in the
group of composers whose lives im-
pinge upon the twentieth century who
had an innings were Stravinsky, whose
“Fire Bird” ballet music was performed
by the N.S.W. Con. Orchestra (it may be
heard again soon with choreographic
trimmings); Mossolov, whose “Iron
Foundry” was performed in Melbourne
and Sydney by good orchestras which
might have been better employed ; Arnold
Bax, whose Third Symphony puzzled a
Melbourne Town Hall audience when
delivered under Bernard Heinze’s baton ;
Sibelius, whose E Flat Major symphony
was conducted by Sydney Con.’s Dr.
Bainton on a visit to Melbourne, and
Edward Elgar, whose “Dream of
Gerontius” was sung by the Sydney
Con. choir.
Among symphony performances were
the Brahms C Minor and the Beethoven
Fifth under Maurice de Abravanel’s
baton, and the Mozart G Minor, con-
ducted by William Mallinson in Mel-
bourne.
The activities of the Sydney Folk Song
Choir, trained by Clement Hoskings,
which gave three concerts, deserve a para-
graph to themselves. Percy Grainger’s
enthusiasm for this great treasury of
tunes has not been wasted so far as
Australia is concerned.
Australian composers have had a
chance to show their paces. Howard
Carr’s “Chiffon Frock,” for orchestra,
was well done by the Phil, band early in
the year, and the Sydney Con. paid
tribute to a teacher who has left it by
performing Alfred Hill’s orchestral
suite “Voice of Nature.” Miriam Hyde’s
concerto was played under Bernard
Heinze’s baton in Melbourne. The only
other completely Australian musical
events of the year of any importance
were the publication of Roy Agnew’s
Pianoforte Sonata and a performance by
the A.B.C.’s very fine orchestra of Frank
Hutchens’s concerto, with the composer
at the piano.
Singers who visited Australia during
the year were Richard Crooks, whose
genial personality and high artistry
earned him a warm welcome ; Dorothy
Helmrich, a “singer’s singer,” who gave
all the aspiring contraltos and sopranos
of Australia a liberal education with her
broadcast recitals. A pair of Continental
singers, Fraulein Elisabeth Rethberg and
Signor Enzio Pinza, revived interest in
the operatic duet.
SOME FIRST NIGHTS.
Chief offering of Col. De Basil’s Rus-
sian Ballet at Sydney Royal on Saturday
night was the controversial “Les Pres-
ages,” with Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Sym-
phony as the musical background to the
choreography of Massine, who, deter-
mined to break from a too obvious
romanticism, took symbolism to a de-
gree which shocked his contemporaries.
Action, Passion, Frivolity, Temptation—
all are startlingly portrayed, with the
sinister figure of Fate dominating. There
is in this work no such flowing movement
of hands and legs as characterise most
other ballets —the movements are abrupt
and clean-cut. The whole thing moves
with a fine fervor to a spectacular climax.
Valentin Froman, as the Hero, displays
an amazing virility, and Tamara Tchina-
rova moves with spirit through her
allotted contortions. Sonia Woizikowska
pirouettes splendidly, and Valentina
Blinova rises—literally and figuratively—
to great heights. Leon Woizikowsky is a
sinister and agile Fate.
Schumann’s “Carnaval,” to Fokine’s
choreography, though gay enough, is in-
clined to drag, and the orchestra isn’t as
happy as in the other ballets ; this is re-
flected in the dancing, which at times
lacks cohesion. Against a severely plain
background Roland Guerard leaps with
abandon, and Helene Kirsova is suitably
frivolous as Columbine. The vivacity of
Sonia Woizikowska saves the piece from
mediocrity. Thadee Slavinsky’s Panta-
loon is also a good study.
“La Boutique Fantasque,” to Rossini’s
music, has given Massine scope for satire.
It is a warm little work, with some full-
blooded humor. Practically the whole
company interprets it. Outstanding are
Kirsova and Woizikowsky as the can-
can dancers sold to separate buyers, but
reunited through the efforts of their
fellow-toys. Serge Unger gives a good
characterisation as the shop assistant.
Jascha Horenstein conducts this as well
as “Les Presages.” Ivan Clayton pilots
the orchestra through “Carnaval” and the
lively “Merry Wives of Windsor” over-
ture (Nicolai), which precedes the ballets.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Moderns in the fine British Masters
collection now showing at Adelaide Art
Gallery are no less interesting, in their
way, than the eighteenth-century back-
bone of it. Augustus John has a portrait
of Admiral Fisher ; an equestrian group-
ing hardly needs the signature of Furse ;
Orpen’s girl angler is in his earlier and
more conventional manner. Just what one
would expect from each are the Arnesby
Brown and Adrian Stokes (cattle in
landscape), the Waterhouse (girls con-
sulting an oracle), and D. Y. Cameron’s
mountain under snow. Pissarro has a green
chessboard landscape, seen from above.
The Holmes is landscape, too, though
dramatically titled “Red Ruin.” William
Rothenstein has a striking study of a
modern synagogue, mourning: but the
most essentially twentieth century is an
ugly girl by Henry Lamb, Australian-
born. The solitary water-color is a
characteristic long-necked Rossetti.
Among the pieces of sculpture, bronze
and small, are Leighton’s “Sluggard” ;
Alfred Gilbert’s “St. George and Per-
seus” ; two Epsteins and a Dobson (mild
specimens, for them); also a nude by
John Tweed, who did the “Captain
Cook,” now in Melbourne.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
II
If
m
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold hy Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Kesorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann. 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
SINCE
1834
PETTYS Hotel
"More than a Famous Hotel . . . It h a Delightful Home"
For 102 years, Petty's Hotel has given service to guests. Even to-day
this fine old hotel is still renowned for its service; its comfort; and its
conveniently central position.
See the new private dining room and lounge.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(I) E. yOUNGS, Manager.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney had one of the maddest, mer-
riest New Years of its existence. From
King’s Cross to Palm Beach was just
one great rocket of rejoicing, New
Year’s Eve dances filled every inch of
ballroom in the city, and private parties
raged the harbor round. The Ernest
Watts were among the home enter-
tainers. Over 800 chose the Australia as
the spot in which to turn the first leaf
of the calendar. Many of the farewell
1936 dos ended with breakfast in the
early hours of 1937. If you were at a
dance on the waterfront and managed
to slip out of doors at midnight when
the whistles were blowing and the ferries
crowing you’d have seen dignified beauty
in the farewell of the passing year.
Up and down the foreshores, beneath
a sky soft with wispy clouds, the electrics
wove a tapestry of light, the bridge was
an enchanted way beset with gems. Up
above Luna Park fireworks exploded,
spilling out in showers of stars and burn-
ing petals. And in that moment on the
birth of a city’s new resolutions the stars
shone down as they will at the close of
1937, when the resolutions may have
flowered in beauty or, like the brilliant
and exploded fireworks, are just a few
burnt-up sticks and a shabby litter in the
heart.
Apart from the costumes in “Les Pre-
sages” (this Letter couldn’t digest the
amethystine raiment), Saturday’s ballet
added just the right gilding to the portals
of the New Year. The sprightly gaiety,
the eye-ravishing color of “Carnaval,” the
appealing femininity of the cabaret dancer
doll in “La Boutique Fantasque,” put all
the inhabitants of the Theatre Royal into
a bright humor on Saturday night. So
much so that going out unto the hot and
breezeless night women allowed taxis to
be filched from them, and still smiled
on. The soft stillness of the night had
brought out mothlike white in georgette,
in organdie and in lace. Fans fluttered,
curls softened the gaze of the young
and the facial facade of the not-so-
young. If everybody in that audience
was as blithe as she or he looked Sydney
must be stepping towards Utopia.
Joyce Bowden did her parents, the
Harald Bowdens, proud in her flowing
white chiffons that were sprinkled with
roses. -Fringed Were the white cloque
frocks worn by Mrs. Alan Macgregor,
Mrs. B. Crossing and dancer Frances
Scully, whose whiteness had a sugges-
tion of classic Greece. Ruby Adams was
a graceful line in Paris black lit by pearl
earrings. Mrs. Victor White’s pearly
chiffons had long shoulder scarves of
petunia. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s white georg-
ette frock had a dewdrop or two of
diamente on it; Mrs. John MacPhil-
lamy’s russet head shone above palmy
green.
All white organdie and puff sleeves
was Olga Philipoff. Daphne Dean, the
impresario with the golden hair, was at-
tractive in white blistered cloque. The
Ernest Lashmars talked to Florence Ben-
nett. Mrs. Watt came with husband
Ernest and sister Phyl Massey. Philippa
Stephen’s taffetas shone mauve and gold.
Tasmania’s Premier, A. G. Ogilvie, was
there with Mrs. Ogilvie and daughter
Pat; so was Tasmania’s Minister for
Health.
The Bertie Kellys set the champagne
corks popping in welcome to the captain
and officers of the French sloop Rigault
de Genouilly. The home at Sutherland-
crescent is becoming famed for its
champagne cocktails. Those served to
the French navee were, if anything,
better than those sipped at the Archi-
bald Fountain Sicards’ party. Both
frivols were on the sheltered terrace
overlooking the harbor. The commander
of the sloop is not very tall, but his
volume of French has simply staggered
many Sydneyites. Pearls, orchids, a
caped frock of mauve chiffon and a black
hat of great circumference clothed the
hostess. Girls with nothing between the
heavens and their heads but a single
flower brought a dash of Mayfair to this
Darling Point garden. They at least
were not going to be like the poor little
London deb. who spoiled her first season
by wearing a hat to a cocktail party.
Westralian Elsie Mackay (Mrs. Max
Montesole), with her husband now tour-
ing this continent in a drama series with
the A.8.C., is one of the few Australians
to have played with Beerbohm Tree.
From his management she passed on to
that of Cyril Maude, and became his
leading lady in “Grumpy.” Later fol-
lowed another American tour with Tree,
this time in Shakspeare and in “Trilby.”
She has been starred by Otto Kruger,
and has played leading lady to George
Arliss. Under the Belasco banner she
had successes in Sasha Guitry plays.
The French Alliance and the French
Chamber of Commerce joined in their
politenesses to the visiting French sea-
fighters, and the result was a lunch at
Romano’s, served with all the appro-
priate gestures. There was a great crush
at this party, and the commander—who
must be older than he looks, or else must
have gone to sea in rompers —sat beam-
ing, surrounded by Suzors and Bruxners,
Baders, Poynters and Fombertauxes.
The red, blue and white were
in the flower arrangements, but even
more tricolor were the speeches. The
Consul-General’s was laudatory, Sir
Hugh Poynter’s (also in French) was
tinged with Gallic wit from its opening
that everyone loved a sailor and a sailor
loves everyone, but it was William
Morris Hughes’s that brought down the
house.
Billy said he made no apology for
speaking in English, but that if he spoke
in French he might have to make many.
Being Welsh he is not afraid of a touch
of sentiment, and with the swift and
right word he conjured up the picture of
Poilu, Tommy, Anzac, as inseparables of
1914-18. There were compliments, too,
on the greatness of France, and W.M.H.
sat down to a salvo of applause. His
proud Dame whispered later to a neigh-
bor that the speech was quite im-
promptu. Doucets and Wunderlichs,
Mrs. Pierre Remond, the Bertie Kellys
and Mrs. Ivy Moore were among those
who ate in the cause of the Entente.
The shipping T. S. Gordons were there,
so were France’s Vice-Consular Meyers,
and Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert
and his wife.
Lord Beauchamp, after his holiday in
Italy, Greece and Syria, is now settled for
the moment in what he terms “a rather
curious house in a quiet part of Paris.”
The house which is very large is in the
Rue de Lota, and one of its features is
a theatre complete in every respect. This
will be ideal for cocktail parties, and its
present tenant intends to engage some
of the city’s best artists to entertain his
guests. He reports a Paris gayer since
the franc has been devalued. The letter
ends on a note of desire for Sydney:
“As I look at the leafless trees of Paris
and shiver in an overcoat over a jumper
I sigh for the warmth of Sydney and the
care-free atmosphere of Bondi t”
Old Bulletin contributors all over
Australia will be grieved to hear of the
bereavement that has befallen Tom
McMahon, for many years the genial
secretary of the company. Last week
death broke a lifelong partnership, and
Tom is left mourning the passing of his
wife-
Champagne again at the Consular
Suzors' party for the commander (Cap-
tain Moron) and officers of the Rigault
de Genouilly. This was another open-
air gaiety, with the older ones populat-
ing the lawns, while the younger danced
on the verandahs. The air sparkled and
the hydrangeas, after Monday’s rain,
lifted their cool and smiling beauty to
the day. Gallantry was in the air and
some of Sydney’s public-spirited men
essayed the kissing of a lady’s hand.
Mrs. Suzor’s long frock of beige lace had
its little coat of brown taffeta. Her hat
was large, brown and droopy. Daughter
Jeanne’s flowered linens were butterfly
gay.
The 200 or more guests included Billy
Hughes and the Papal Delegate, Dr.
Panico, talking his native tongue blithely
with Mrs. Bertie Kelly and her daughter,
Mrs. John McPhillamy, of Bathurst, both
of whom lived for a long time in Flor-
ence. Sir Hugh Poynter, whose French
is as fluent as his English, brought his
lady. This was her first appearance since
her illness. Her frock was brown, so
were her furs and toque. Professor
Francis Anderson and his lady were
others taking the opportunity to exercise
the French tongue. Her frock of jade-
green chiffon kept company with art
amber hat. A gold quill stabbed the hat
worn by Alexander Gordon’s lady, and
Sam Walder’s lady sashed her black
model with green and garnished it with
embroidered lawn collar and cuffs.
A black tulle scarf and lily-of-the-
valley were pictorial effects in Ginette
Scamps’s outfit. All the Consuls and
their wives were there, Mrs. Murai bring-
ing Japan in her national dress. Mrs.
Ivy Moore managed to work in the tri-
color. Her navy-and-red patterned frock
had a snowy ruffle.. Gladys Marks had
her red chiffons pleated in the new
manner. Mrs. Segaert walked pink-clad.
Helen Hughes, Pamela Laidley Dowling
and Marie Coen were among the attrac-
tive young.
Dr. Iza Harris is one of Sydney's
clever new doctors. She graduated with
first-class honors, and collected the Dag-
mar Berne prize. She also shared the
Windeyer prize for obstetrics. Dr. Iza is
now a, resident medico at Prince Alfred’s.
Freeman photograph.
Those friends of the platypus, the
Harry Burrells, have forsaken their
station home and settled in Darley-road,
Randwick. Here they are seeing what
they can do in the way of orchid cul-
ture. Among the very beautiful speci-
mens in their glasshouses pride of place
goes to a golden-yellow spider, by name
drysoloxden.
Sailors the seas over are good dancers,
so the girls who tangoed on the decks
of the Rigault de Genouilly will remem-
ber, at least for a little while, New Year’s
Eve, 1936. Captain Moron and his officers
were at home from four onwards, and
rather spread themselves over the affair
that was their acknowledgment of Sydney
hospitality. It was a perfect afternoon
for a water party. The sky and the
water sparkled, the sloop shone spick-and-
span in the westering sun. Over 200
guests moved about the flag-decorated
ship, early arrivals being the Consul-
General Suzor couple and daughter
Jeanne. Vice-Consul Edmond Meyer
came with his wife and niece Irma.
Captain J. U. P. Fitz Gerald, of
H.M.A.S. Sydney, and his wife brought
a whiff of the British Navy. She was
all delicately pink and white. Jeanne
Suzor’s small straw hat was blue, and
went with a blue-and-white-spotted sheer
frock. Joyce Beazley was in black from
her velvet turban. Lady Poynter also
wore black; so did daughter Jocelyn.
Ginette Scamps was a nice French girl
in black and white, and Anne Marie
Fombertaux was another attractive
dancer. Marguerite Wunderlich enjoyed
the fun ; so did the Brigadier Hardies
and the Colonel Lorenzo couple. Francis
Anderson and his lady were among the
deck explorers, and the Vigevenos (her
navy tunic frock was one of the smartest
present) represented the Netherlands.
Daphne Deane, who before she went to
Europe had done good work with the
production of ballets at the Conserva-
torium and had been one of the prin-
cipals of the Repertory Society when
Gregan McMahon was its producer, has
had some interesting experiences since
leaving Australia. In Paris she started
a little English theatre off the Champs
Elysee and made a success of it. Then,
always interested in the ballet, she linked
up with Colonel de Basil’s Ballets Russes,
decided it was time London saw this
company, flew over to England, inter-
viewed Oswald Stoll at the Alhambra,
and arranged a contract with him. The
season of three weeks stretched into four
months. She has arranged ballet seasons
in Barcelona and the London season of
the ballet of Lithuania, this again with
Stoll, at the Alhambra.
Sydney is now seeing the Diaghileff
ballets with the original costume and
decor of the Alhambra production. Miss
Deane says that her happiest Sunday
nights in London are spent at the Ballet
Club. This was founded by Marie Ram-
bert (Mrs. Ashley Dukes). Here are met
the great names in dance and in music.
Besides De Basil, Daphne has handled
business for Folcine and for Blum, a
brother of the French Premier.
Sydney’s Christmas to New Year was
a horse-marines week. It was all races
and gallant French sailors. When the
bright girls of the village weren’t at
Randwick and the Farm they were either
entertaining or being entertained by the
French sloop. Tattersall’s New Year
Day meeting at Randwick was light and
cheerful as to dressing, gay as to flower-
bed, the colors in both guaranteed not
to run. It was just as well for most of
the women punters that they had on tub-
bable frocks, for the storm in the after-
noon must have sprinkled them quite a
bit between the course and home. Mrs.
Ellis Feilding Jones, scrolled in brown
and almond-green and sashed with
brown taffeta, was coolly attractive.
Mrs. Reg Moses, with her, wore a grey
frock and a flat white hat wreathed in
berries.
Mrs. David Maughan proved herself
one of the great minority who can wear
a small white hat with distinction. Help-
ing the effect was a blue-and-white-
spotted silk frock. The McKelvey lady
and Joyce Beazley were very correct in
black. Joyce’s black velvet toque had
a peaked crown and wore one short
green quill and one black. Ginette
Scamps’s deep pleated collar of white
muslin was an admirable finish to her
black frock. Mrs. Hal Capper, of Mait-
land, wore a caped suit of sky-after-rain
blue. The Russian Ballet was represented
there by Helene Kirsova. The John
Enrights, of West Maitland, the C. V.
Walkers and Mrs. Leslie Utz, Mrs. Peter
Poole, Noni Hay and Kathleen Cobcroft
were others.


CORONATION.
Very comfortable house to let for
period. Two reception, three bed-
rooms. Services of maid. Quiet
suburb near bus and tube.
61 Derwent Road, London, N. 13.
Quick
Relief
M
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
“THE AGE ’
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price l}d. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Melbourne
Chatter
“Happy-New-Year-and-what - time-did-
you-get-to-bed! ” was the usual all-in-
one-breath greeting at the New Year’s
Day races at Flemington. Many people
claimed to have arrived home in broad
daylight with the birds only faintly
twittering as they search for break-
fast, having finished the first merry
song of dawn some hours before. Others
talked of four or five parties on the one
night, a quick shower and breakfast of
black coffee and aspirin and getting out
to the races just in time to back all the
winners through being unable to read the
jockeys’ names on the board. Several
owners of healthy appetites who are usu-
ally noticed going right, through the
menu in the luncheon rooms quietly
sought out the oyster bar and sustenance
for delicate digestions.
The temperature was perfect for light-
weight frocks, but many women, un-
trustful of the weather, brought coats and
a few wore furs. Cara Holmes Hunt,
who hopes to leave again for England
a few weeks hence, had a long coat of
dark-blue velvet over a white corded-silk
frock spotted with blue. Anne Willis
also wore a navy coat over a floral dress.
Mrs. Laing Hay’s two blues went with
peaked hat made taller by feathers.
Scarlet gloves and big honey straw hat
were accessories of Dorothy Horne’s
beige-and-brown frock. Mrs. Edric
Henty chose to go with her auburn hair
an ensemble of bright tomato crepe, its
contrasting note being a ribbon round the.
large hat of exactly the same shade as
the sapphire rings which glinted through
the mesh of lace gloves. Mrs. Ken Niall
was in navy blue. Mrs. D. H. Ross’s
unusual gown was of intricately woven
silk mesh in a soft shade of ash-rose ;
with it hand-crocheted gloves were par-
ticularly compatible. Mrs. H. R. Troe-
del’s color scheme was brown and
London-tan, and Mrs. J. E. Crapp’s black
chiffon dress looked even cooler for its
pastel-green spots.
Being able to arrive at any hour or
stage of the game, those (including many
M.C.C. members) who reserved seats at
30s. for the whole Test had the easiest
time, but they missed some of the fun.
The thousands who had pitched camp
before 10 o’clock shared in the comrade-
ship of early picnickers hopeful of a
good day’s sport. For the first in the
field there was the satisfaction of getting
seats and using cunning in choosing
them. Innumerable posts to be dodged ;
from some parts of the Grey Smith
stand the one score-board in its new
locality can’t be seen, and seats in the
open which looked inviting in the early-
morning sunshine were nearly washed
away by the end of the afternoon.
There were booby-traps, too, about the
awning seats on the asphalt. Everybody
knows that the awnings leak, but it’s
a gamble which rents turn into steady
showers and which can be securely
stuffed up with lunch-papers.
On Friday a few optimists from the
“outer” climbed into the unfinished sec-
tion of the new concrete stand and played
hide-and-seek with policemen who had
orders to keep the tumble of concrete and
plaster free from human feet. On Satur-
day the police anticipated a similar
manoeuvre and planted themselves early
on the spot with eyes focused for tres-
passers.
It was a patient crowd which, armed
with sandwiches, thermos flasks, cushions,
rugs, books and knitting, provided gate-
money worth over £5OOO and showed
good sportsmanship over postponements.
Some pent-up feelings were let loose
during the captains’ inspections, when
there were hoots, yells and countings-out.
One spot of comedy in the morning was
the man with the bugle who played an
out-of-tune “It Ain’t Gonna Rain No
More.” Lord Somers got a tremendous
ovation when he was escorted to the
committee box straight from the Adel-
aide express.
The Government’s trams and Mr.
Clapp’s trains went on the spree on New
Year’s Eve. Never before have they been
abroad so late. At 1.15 a.m., when the
City Fathers think all good citizens should
be in bed and asleep, last trams were fill-
ing up for suburban destinations ; at 3.25
a.m. an extra train gathered up the
stragglers at St. Kilda station. Thou-
sands of people gathered round the Eliza-
beth-street P.O. to wait for the midnight
chimes, and more thousands swarmed
over the foreshore of St. Kilda on foot,
for vehicles had to be abandoned at bar-
riers well away from the beach.
This year many parties took the form
of dinner, then pictures or the Tivoli, and,
finally, supper. Peninsula Country Club
staged its famous dinner-dance, for which
many members arranged parties. Emer-
ald Country Club also cleared its floor
for dancing ; there were dances at Men-
zies and the Oriental, and Scotsmen
imagined themselves back north of the
Tweed when the haggis was piped in to
the gathering at Barwon Heads Golf
Club.
In the Broothorn photograph is June
Phillipson, who has studied piano and
singing at the Con. since winning the
Ormond scholarship in 1935. As musical
comedy rather than grand opera has
been her ambition, she has also studied
ballet and passed the elementary exami-
nation for the Royal Academy of Danc-
ing during Felix Demery’s visit. She
had some stage experience in “Bridle and
Bits” and “A Symphony in Two Flats,”
and now she is fully occupied with her
first professional job in “Wild Violets”
as one of the schoolgirls and as under-
study to Phyllis Dickinson, who has the
principal vocal role. June is the only
daughter of the T. M. Phillipson couple.
In spite of that curious phenomenon
the beach-inspector (who probably hates
his job, and would prefer to earn his liv-
ing in some other way) most men are
wearing no tops to their bathers on Vic-
torian beaches. Down at Lome on a
recent holiday week-end lan Campbell
and Hector Maclntyre were exceptions
and paragons of respectability with their
extra bits of chest covering and cross-
strapped backs. Pareo suits and culottes
for walks to and from the beach or to
wear all day in the house or on the
sands are popular. Bathing suits are
gayer than ever ; they have come out in
spots, flowers and cubist blockings.
At Lome Gwen Hutchings was seen
looking very neat in her tailored grey
slacks, grey sweater and nautically-
knotted navy scarf. For evening her
favorite garb was navy-blue taffeta with
gold coin spots, and hair piled high in
ringlets. Like everybody else she took
no stockings, and wore sandals and
scarlet toenails, which are universally
correct. Michael O’Connell’s hand-
blocked linens are no longer solely used
as curtains or chair covers ; several of
them, in a variety of designs, have been
put to use as bathing suits. Shirley Wat-
son swims in one of white hibiscus on a
scarlet ground. Peggy Tronson is a lucky
young thing with a suitcase full of bath-
ing costumes; three days running she
shot the breakers at Lome in white,
pale blue or navy. Her portable gramo-
phone and 20 newly-released records are
very popular on the beach. A nut-brown
maid in brown-and-white shorts and
shirt was Dora Roberts. Jean Ralph, who
was also at Lome, had a scarlet cap and
sandals to accompany her electric-blue
swimming suit.
At Frankston and Ranelagh Mrs. Tom
Ramsay wears a rubber suit, and Mrs.
Roy Grounds, sunburned a deep brown,
is swimming in an American costume a
year or two in advance of any fashions
here. It’s of floral chintz, with diminutive
top and shorts and a giddy little frill
round the waist.
The Louis McCubbin couple drove
over from Adelaide in their trustworthy
little car which Mrs. McCubbin bought
on a Saturday morning the last time she
was in Melbourne and in which she left
for home the next morning at daybreak.
This present trip to Melbourne is Louis’s
first long drive. The travellers were
accompanied by Mrs. McCubbin’s
daughter, Pat Spiers-Jackson. They ate
their Christmas dinner at a country hotel
en route.
A party given for them by the Moppie
McCubbins had present well-known
painters, sculptors and architects. The
Harold Herberts were there, just re-
turned after a holiday at Ranelagh as
the guests of the D. N. Trenerys, who
have a lovely home and a marvellous
garden where flowers and plants seem
to spring up by magic overnight. Every
morning Harold was up at 4 a.m. to
“bring out his paper.” He wrote it all in
script, painted colored supplements and
gathered up social notes or personal
summaries of the doings of interesting
people in the district. The “paper” was
an enprmous success during its brief
existence.
Unusual Christmas and New Year
cards were introduced by Amalgamated
Wireless. The sender’s Christmas
thought originated at sea, travelled
through the ether and in local shipping
offices took on the very attractive form
of folded cards of translucent parchment
paper, decorated with a full-rigged ship
on one page, a steamer on another and
a verse and Christmas bell elsewhere.
All passengers at sea had to do was to
give the names and addresses of their
friends to the radio officer, who dis-
patched the information to the ship’s
agents, their job being to see the cards
into the post.
Among Britons and Americans living
in Oriental countries there is a fashion
for attaching photographs of their homes
to Christmas and New Year cards. The
Warren Lutz couple, Americans who
used to live in Melbourne and are now
stationed in Japan, sent cards this year
shaped like a screen, the outer cover
decorated with a Japanese fir-tree and
the inner showing a picture of their two-
storeyed home at Shukugawa, half-way
between Osaka and Kobe.
Perhaps Moira Madden will one day
become an Australian film star ; she has
signed a contract with Expeditionary
Films, Ltd., and expects to start work
on a picture midway through 1937. She
is the elder daughter of Mrs. Guy
Madden, and since her schooldays at St.
Catherine’s, not so long ago, has been
very interested in dramatic work and in
the possibilities of a film career. Her
portrait is by Eve Ray.
St Arnaud is havi an extra New
Year drink on the Telford brothers in
honor of their « perfect » lamb the car _
cass of which has been viewed with
reverent admira tion in London. The
an i ma i 5 b y a Southdown ram from a
p 0 lgarth-cross ewe, was much admired
wben alive at the last Royal Show,
slaughtered, it was even more remark-
able, “weighing 391 b. and perfect in
conformation of quantity of meat and
bone.” The original owners don’t know
when or by whom it will be eaten, for
it’s to be on show for some time to
people who can appreciate it. The Tel-
fords, Tom, Harley and Dod, live at Mt.
Pleasant. Dod is the only married
brother, so there is room for all mem-
bers of the family in the station home-
stead.
News comes from Dr. Irene Stahle, on
leave from the Medical Inspection
branch of the Education Department.
She left Melbourne last August, travelling
with the Agent-General and Mrs.
Bourchier (who, according to their last
letters, were still searching for a flat in
London). Dr. Stahle had bad luck early
in her travels, becoming ill in England
and having to go into a nursing home
for an operation. She is now visiting
Copenhagen and Moscow, not as a
tourist, but as a medico with eyes and
ears open for the progress of science.
She means to stay some time in Moscow,
and hopes that the Russian she has been
learning in preparation will be of use to
her. She’s a good linguist, and on one
occasion was runner-up for the Mollison
Scholarship in Italian. A visit to Pales-
tine for the Jewish Conference is part
of her programe before turning her steps
homeward.
Three generations of the Hughes
family play golf at Yarra Yarra. Warm
weather, dead grass and a fly or two
more than is compatible with comfort
make no difference to the week-end
three-balls or often four-balls with a
friend. “Old Jim,” who before he re-
tired held a responsible job in the Post-
master-General’s Department, is hale and
hearty in the seventies. Banking is the
profession of Jim’s son Vic., who with
his wife can hold his own against con-
tract bridge experts. Their son Ron, also
in a bank, has done what so many sport-
ing sons accomplish with graceless ease
—got his golf handicap lower than his
father’s.
“Christmas Greetings from James and
Louise Dyer,” printed in Mrs. Dyer’s
square script, is the frontispiece of the
couple’s 14-by-12in. Christmas cards
posted in Paris. Inside is a copy of one
page of the Montpellier MS., and, oppo-
site, its translation in modern music
manuscript and Latin words. Every year
Mrs. Dyer chooses for her season’s
greetings very large cards illustrated
from music published by the Lyrebird
Press.
Instead of candles there were 90
cherries on Thomas BrentnaU’s cake at
the party given by the British Music
Society in honor of his 90th birthday.
Vice-president William McKie made a
goodwill speech, seconded by Brentnall’s
pal of a few decades, Dr. Felix Meyer,
who mentioned the good health of the
guest of honor. He never has need of
a physician ; his only two illnesses within
memory have been caused through a car
accident and a fall. Among other friends
who said many happy returns were the
Keith Roberts couple, she in a black
gown with cleverly rucked sleeves. Mrs.
Wilbur Ham wore navy blue and a short
white jacket. Prof, and Mrs. Ernest Scott
were there, also Mrs. Victor Wischer,
Dora Campbell and E. H. Prockter and
his daughter Marjorie, who chose an
all-powder-blue color scheme.
The Gordon Shain couple and their
three children returned home in the Mon-
golia after a little over a year in Eng-
land. Coincidences happen even in the
biggest cities. In London Mrs. Shain
advertised for a maid, and the applicant
she gladly accepted was a young woman
who had previously been in her employ-
ment for several years in Melbourne.


Extra Wear from the
Strong and Serviceable
“STRONGHOLD”
Work Shirt
Made from particularly strong Man-
chester shirting, with collar attached and
two pleated breast pockets, with button
flaps. Available, ready to wear, in plain
Blue and plain Fawn, also in Blue with
White or Black stripes. All guaranteed
fast colours.
Please state Collar size when ordering.
Write to-day for full range of patterns.
Price 10/6 each or 3 for 30/-
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
When in Sydney Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
<tc the Qallery”
252 Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts earries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Many things have happened
to N.T. Administrators, and now Colonel
Weddell, who is retiring, has inspired the
local paper’s poet. The valedictory,
called “Farewell, Colonel,” begins:
Long have you administered to us,
And borne the brunt and bite;
Shot at as a target on the butts,
No bull’s-eye marked by snipe.
Like many gone before
Have stood the sands of time,
The rolling of the waves upon the shore
Has left you still sublime.
And this is in a Labor paper, too.
* * * *
“Ah Koon”: The Bismarcks are
mostly narrow islands with many
lagoons and with harbors at every town
and trading post of any size, so naturally
the Administration is developing a land
aeroplane policy. Its latest effort is
worthy of its Australian controllers: it
has given Rabaul an aerodrome on a,
plateau in the highlands, 12 miles from
the town.
* * * :Je
“Gain”: It has been a cheerful Christ-
mas for copra producers. In 1934 prices
fell as low as £7 7s. per ton c.i.f. for
South Sea sun dried, £8 for hot-air dried
at Rabaul. December, 1936, saw these
figures raised respectively to £2O ss. and
£2l ss. Prices have a long way to go
to reach the record. In 1920 copra
brought from £34 15s. to £44 in Sydney ;
the year before the top price was £36
15s.
* * * *
“Roly”: Two years ago a blind girl,
Mercy Griffin, of Rockhampton (C.Q.),
surprised the State with a splendid
junior public exam, pass in which
she won the Brunton Stephens Essay
Prize. Now she has passed her
senior with four As —English, French,
modem history, ancient history—and
a B in Latin, thus matriculating. If
she goes on to Queensland University,
as it is hoped she will, she will be its
first blind student. All her questions, of
course, were in Braille, and she answered
on a Braille typewriter, except for one
paper—for which she touch-typed on an
ordinary machine.
* * * *
“East Point”: The subscription list to
buy a ’plane for Dr. Fenton, the N.T.
flying doctor, set new records for Aus-
tralia. The white population of the
country he serves is about 2400. At a
meeting in Darwin on Nov. 13 dona-
tions of £340 were promised ; by the first
week in December £lOl6 —equal to Bs.
4d. per white resident, including infants
in arms, unemployed and invalids—had
been raised. Boorooloola, with half a
dozen or so permanents, weighed in with
£l2, and 19 Matarankans searched their
moleskins (and the feminine equivalent)
to the tune of £26 12s. 6d., only to be
beaten by the handful of Newcastle
Waters-ites with £27 17s. 6d. After the
N.T. had done the job, Canberra decided
it would be a fair thing to give the doctor
a ’plane at public expense. It has also
been decided that, since the Government
pays the doctor a whole £lOO p.a. sub-
sidy, he must always use the Govern-
ment ’plane on public medical business,
irrespective of his own convenience.
“Headhunter”: Here is a mystery
from darkest Papua. Rev. B. T. Butcher,
of the London Missionary Society, lead-
ing a party some months ago hundreds
of miles up the Fly River, discovered a
mission station in full working order
under the control of Indian native mis-
sionaries. Informed that they had been
carrying on their good work for over
20 years, Rev. Butcher later made in-
quiries from Dutch, English and Austra-
lian authorities, who all informed him
that nothing was known of the station ;
apparently no one had ever heard of
its existence. A belated reply from
Holland gives the casual information
that, while it was known that a station
had been established “somewhere in
Dutch New Guinea,” it was thought
that the missionaries had either been
killed or had returned to India.
* * * *
“0.M.”: The death of Charles Briggs,
formerly g.m. of Brisbane “Courier” and
allied papers, brin*gs back a memory of
the Brisbane tramway strike of 1912.
Even the comps, were out, and fearsome
"Is this one of your fool jokes, Gran' pa?"
precautions were taken to guard our
small staff and the building from the
allegedly dangerous strikers. Rolls of
paper were upended in the vestibule to
stop deadly rushes. The one wheezy
hydraulic lift travelled up and down
under guard of an ancient liftman who
had an army Colt and an iron bar. Black
Friday was our really lively day. Police
were stoned, strikers were battered. Ar-
riving at the office after having been in
the midst of it, the first person I saw
was sitting in the approach on an up-
ended paper roll. He was in a singlet
and trousers without socks, as grimy as
if he’d been doing a bit of stoking, and
was eating a large cornbeef sandwich.
“Look out!” I said. “The crowd’s com-
ing!” “I’ll throw a crust at them if
they do,” was the entire excitement of
the apparition, who in a few weeks was
to become our general manager.
“Mak”: Talk about travelling. Every
week a Ballarat (Vic.) woman posts The
Bulletin to a brother on a Westralian
goldmine up beyond Leonora. An ex-
tract from his last letter:
After my mate and I have had a go at
it, we hand it on to some prospectors.
From them it goes to Wonganoo station,
about 25 miles further north, and from
there northward again to the Zelma station
started by a couple of chaps some years
ago. It then takes a 150-mile north-east
jaunt to Wongawal station which later dis-
tributes its old reading matter among out-
back camps in that part of the country.
So many of your Bulletins end their days
back across the S. Australian border.
These Westralians must be more gentle
with their literature than the citizen who
was ahead of me with my present library
book.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
The usual Christmas crop of engage-
ments is drifting into the news. Kitty
Hillcoat, who has been secretary of the
Creche and Kindergarten Association for
some time, is wearing diamonds provided
by Martin Snelling. Kath Meadows,
daughter of the W. S. Meadowses, of
Auchenflower, announced her engage-
ment on Christmas night. The lucky lad
is Michael Moloney, son of the M.
Moloneys, New Farm. Gerv Joyce,
youngest son of the late Jack Joyce
and Mrs. Joyce, of Bardon, went
south for his bride. She is Edith
Burden, daughter of the George
Burdens, of North Bondi, Sydney.
Doreen Hooper, daughter of the Tom
Hoopers and granddaughter of T. C.
Beirne, is engaged to Eric Foxton,
of Thursday Island. Ivy Pearce, our
youngest airwoman, is engaged to Jason
Hassard, of N. S. Wales, who was her.
navigator in the Brisbane-Adelaide air-
race. Ivy is a pretty lass, and as nice as
she is pretty.
For her wedding on Boxing Day to
Bill Turnock, of Coogee (N.S.W.), Lai
Hickey chose the Church of Our Lady of
Loreto, adjoining the Loreto Convent,
where she. was a pupil. Kathleen Evans,
the bride’s school chum, was bridesmaid,
and Harry Campbell best man. Both
bride and bridesmaid were in white, but
wreath and veil were scorned by the
bride, who sat a white Baku hat on her
dark wavy locks.
St. John’s Cathedral was massed with
flowers on Boxing Day for the wedding
of Joyce Allen, only daughter of the
B. W. Allens, of Gayndah, and Carl
Petersen, Brisbane. The bride, who is
only a few weeks over 21, has written a
novel, Our Paths Grow Wider, just ac-
cepted by a London publishing house.
A small black hat with eye-veil and a
frock of camellia-pink crepe were Ihe
bridal garments. Dean Barrett tied the
knot, and there was a reception at the
Belle Vue.
Leona Slater went to Sydney to act
as bridesmaid for Dorothy Lee, daugh-
ter of the J. H. Lees, who used to dwell
at New Farm before going to Hurstville
(N.S.W.). Dr. Ronald Green was the
bridegroom.
Everybody who had the fare went off
to the seaside or the mountains for
New Year, and the city took on the
appearance of Goldsmith’s deserted vil-
lage, only more so, with discarded papers
piled around shops, and a sort of “morn-
ing-after-the-night-before” expression.
Caloundra has gone ahead remarkably
since the Bruce Highway was finished,
and a lot of new houses have been
built. At their place there Mrs. Hugh
Bergin and her son and daughter have
had Mrs. Percy Walker, of Glenlyon, as
guest. The Harry Clarkes and their
four sons have had Mrs. Archie Long-
land’s cottage, and Colonel and Mrs.
Dan Evans have had a house-party of
young things staying with them and
their daughters.
Southport is packed, the broadwater
crowded with yachts whose owners are
spending the season afloat. The Fred
Eagers’ Tangalooma has been the:, favor-
ite gathering place for five-to-seven par-
ties.
John Collins and his pretty wife, back
from Adelaide and the air-race, are.
among the Southport surfers, and have
introduced a new diversion: a fleet
of cars, a quick run to Coolangatta,
and so society “goes to the dogs.” Mrs.
Willie Collins and daughter Beryl also
are at Southport, and the Bruce Pies
had 50 guests for the housewarming of
their new place, there, with a buffet lun-
cheon and cricket in the entertainments.
Prof. Goddard’s wife was hostess at
the big Christmas Eve dance at the
Pacific. She looked very modish in black
lace, with touches of silver to match her
dancing slippers.
Mrs. Penleigh Boyd and her two sons
are up from Melbourne camping up at
Caloundra with Mrs. Boyd’s brother,
Dr. A. G. Anderson, and his wife and
daughters. Mrs. Penleigh Boyd, who was
Edith Anderson, one of Queensland's
most promising portrait painters, may be
seen in the Phillips Fox picture in Syd-
ney National Gallery.
Mrs. E. H. Ruddle and her daughters
Vivienne, Cleo and Irene, who are off to
England early in February, and another
Ruddle daughter, Mrs. R. Johnston, who
will go as far as M.L. with them, were
guests at a party at Rowe’s, given by
Mrs. D. O’Connor and her daughter.
There is a long list of teas, bridge par-
ties and other friendly gestures for them
to get through before they wave their
adieus from the decks of the. Oronsay.
The Governor and Lady Wilson and
Archbishop and Mrs. Wand were among
the guests at the Anglican Carnival Ball
at Southport. Rev. K. A. Watts and
Mrs. Watts received. Lady Wilson was
in blue, and Mrs. Wand in black georg-
ette and lace.
Quite a number of Brisbane folk are
off to M.L. for the Science Congress.
Professor and Mrs. H. C. Richards have
gone, but Mrs. Richards will pay a
round of visits in Melbourne while the
Prof, revels in lectures in the Shivery
Isles. Freda Bage may go over; she will
sail from Melbourne if she decides to
make the trip.
James Blair and his lady, who always
spend Christmas in town, have booked
rooms at the Pacific Hotel, Southport,
and will be there for the next few weeks.
The E. D. Whites, of Bluff Downs
(N.Q.), and the J. H. S. Barnes, of Can-
ning Downs, also postponed their holi-
day at the shore until after most of the
merrymaking was over.


GIVE A
Conklin
&
I
i
••
i
NOZAC
THE PRECISIbN
WRITING INSTRUMENT.
Judged by any standard,
the Conklin Nozac Pen is
foremost in quality. Among
its many Giftworthy fea-
tures are: Revolutionary
Cushion Point —Self-filling
Device that “Winds Like a
Watch” —New Controlled
Feed—Visible Ink Supply
with Word Gauge—Distinc-
tively Modern Penline
Styling...
For Christmas give a
Conklin Nozac —a Gift to
be lastingly valued.
Available in Three Colours,
Black, Green Pearl and
Red Pearl.
Priced at 30/- and 40/-
each.
Pencils to Match, 25/-
each.
Complete Sets in Pre-
sentation Cases, 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain
Pen Ink.
The right Ink for every
Pen—All Colours—l / -
per Bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from, the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd,, Adelaide.
SHOULD THE
WOMHN PROPOSE?
Those who did so tell of the
success and the failure of such a
test of man’s vanity.
In the “Woman’s Mirror” of November 3 a New
Zealand contributor told a poignant story of a woman’s
proposal and of the man’s reactions to it for 30 years
after. Does such experimenting with Man’s age-old
privilege pay the woman? the contributor asked.
READ THE ANSWERS
In January 12 Issue of
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
On Sale Friday. Price 3d.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The mercury kept to tradition by doing
an' ambitious climb on Derby Day.
Flowers at the course were in keeping
with the temperature, for the prolific
bougainvillaea screening the back of the
grandstands, the stalwart cannas in the
beds, the trellises of colorful tecoma and
the oleander in full bloom thrive only in
the heat. Frocking was simpler than of
yore, accepted race gowns being few and
far between. One slit-to-the-waist-at-the-
back creation of frilly chiffons with a
headgear of fly-away aerophane took the
eye, and glances fell on a trailing black
net with bouffant-sleeved coat and bows
of violet ribbon. Helen Vincent, set
about with floral navy taffetas, received
the Derby ribbon from James Mitchell’s
lady. The net sleeves of Mrs. L. Hart-
rick’s navy silks were furbished with
ruched taffeta whorls, and Mrs. Jack
Durack pleated and frilled her check
beige ninons into cascade effects. Mrs.
Athol Hobbs’s short chutney crepes were
pleated into a full bodice. Bubby For-
rest topped a navy skirt with a vertical
lace frilled blouse, and Mrs. Lucius
Manning’s navy georgettes were flanked
by wide open sleeves.
There was less sun but more humidity
on Railway Stakes Day, with a resultant
predominance of washing frocks. Lesley
Everett, Dorothy Broadfoot and Judy
Clarkson were in pastel floral linens,
Molly Manning’s trim forget-me-not
blue-and-white suit was in self-check
pongee silk, and Mrs. Stanley Burridge
had short sleeves on her white linen cos-
tume. Sleeveless rigouts had their fol-
lowing ; Joan Goyder’s parchment georg-
ettes introduced one scallop over her
shoulder, Margaret Battye’s blue, red
and mustard striped silks ended at the
armpits, and there were many berthe
collars which served as arm coverings.
Members of the Zionist Athletic Club
put on a dance at the Embassy in honor
of visitors to the inter-State Jewish carni-
val. Patron Rabbi Freedman was there
with his lady’s black georgette and lace
in tow. Mrs. Epstein, in clinging beige
lace over satin, chaperoned her troupe
of girls, a colorful group with but one
black frock in the baker’s dozen. Mrs.
Hedley Freedman scattered green and
gold leaves on her black French crepes,
Mrs. D. Finklestein’s mauve taffetas
were edged with violet velvet, Mrs. M.
Michaels pinned red carnations on her
black-and-silver cloque, and Jean Men-
delson danced in old-world blue moire
taffetas.
Mary Anderson and Charles Cornish
were made one at Wesley Church. A
lotus design was woven into the bride’s
peau d’ange laces, which undulated to
the tip of her long train, where it met
the folds of her cloudy tulle veil. Mrs.
J. Ross and Corrie Cornish followed,
their floral georgettes vanguarded by
matching bouquets, the matron’s all
shades of pink and the ’maid’s in varied
blues.
The Trotting Cup drew thousands to
Gloucester Park, where welcome zephyrs
wafted from the moonlit river on the
surging masses. Open-neck shirts were
the rule rather than the exception in
male attire, and most of the womenfolk
were bareheaded. Owner-driver W.
Clarke, whose winning gee-gee led from
first to last, received the gold cup and
mounted whip from the Lieut.-Governor,
and Lady Mitchell, holding the skirt of
her ankle-length beige crepes, gamely
threw the ribbon over the neck of the
prancing and snorting horse.
An edict has gone forth that for 12
months no pots or nets are to be used
around Rottnest Island or the Swan
River for crayfish catching. Fortunately
no restrictions have been placed on the
pursuit of the Cray’s kinsmen, the crabs
and prawns, or city and suburban
dwellers would be deprived of one of
the main summer evening entertain-
ments. Authority states that a good year
for crabs means a bad year for prawns
and vice versa. This season’s prophecy is
for a bumper crop of prawns, so crab-
bing apparatus is being put away and
prawning nets are being mended, length-
ened and widened ; hurricane lamps (in-
valuable asset to a prawning expedition)
have been cleaned and trimmed, and
kerosene-tins are coming into their own
as receptacles for the catch.
A quaint topknot of orange-blossom
held the bride’s tulle veil in place when
Hazel Campbell became Mrs. Robert
Sykes at St. Andrew’s kirk. Her ivory
satins, cut simply as to skirt, fell from
an Edwardian bodice combining bolero
effect and leg-of-mutton sleeves. Her
one ’maid, Enid Hills, draped stiffened
silk net about the shoulders of her old-
world primrose taffetas, worn with a
matching picture hat and sheaf of
orange tiger lilies.
An occasion for wassail was the com-
ing-of-age of Vera Mooney, celebrated
by a dinner dance, given by her parents
at the A.N.A. Hall. The guest of honor
was girt with kilted blue-flowered
georgette and the hostess slipped into soft
black Chantilly lace.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
It is not always that an open-air enter-
tainment in Adelaide enjoys fine weather,
so when the Governor and Lady
Dugan jnvited 2500 guests to a
garden party they were taking a
risk; but luck stood with them.
Not since the days of the Weigalls has
such hospitality been extended. From
a huge marquee refreshment of every
sort exuded, and hundreds of small
tables and chairs stood about the lawns,
under gay beach umbrellas. When the
guests had arrived, the band played the
Anthem, and the Governor and Lady
Dugan, with their guests, Lord and Lady
Hartington, came out of Government
House and made a tour, chatting with
all. Lady Dugan chose a becoming
shade of hyacinth-blue chiffon, with a
self-toned lace design, and a wide-
brimmed straw hat in the same shade.
Lady Hartington wore a fawn lace,
toilette, with a deep hip-length cape of
the same from the shoulders at the back,
a large fawn straw hat and a silver fox
fur.
Many smart frocks were worn.
Angas Parsons’s wife was in a black
flowered chiffon toilette and wide-
brimmed black straw. The Sowden lady
wore a smart black-and-white patterned
tunic with a black skirt and small black
hat. Mrs. Geoffrey de Crespigny chose
a white chiffon frock patterned with field
flowers and large Leghorn hat wreathed
with the same blossoms. Mrs. Lance
Lewis was in leaf-brown chiffon with hat
in the same tone, Mrs. Frank Bony-
thon’s black-and-beige figured chiffon
frock had cape sleeves bordered with
beige fur, and her hat was a black straw.
Mrs. J. O. Haseldene, sister of the Gov-
ernor, chose a white and dove-grey pat-
terned chiffon made with coatee effect
and hat of black cire straw. With her
was Sybil Roberts (Lady Dugan’s secre-
tary), whose grey and white chiffon
frock was worn with carmine-toned
straw. The Navy turned up in full force,
and its white yniforms added to the gay
scene.
An afternoon at-home on H.M.A.S.
Canberra in the Outer Harbor was well
attended. A bunch of mistletoe hung
over the dance floor, the deck was en-
closed with bunting, and electric lights
gleamed inside old-fashioned lanterns.
Mrs. A. G. B. Wilson, wife of the. Can-
berra’s captain, wore blue and white
floral chiffon, with cape effect, and wide-
brimmed navy straw with a posy of red
flowers in front. Rear-Admiral R. H. O.
Lane-Poole and Captain Wilson received
the guests, and refreshments were served
in buffet style to starboard. Xhe Mayor-
ess of Port Adelaide (Mrs. H. Bray)
wore black flowered chiffon with a black
ensemble coat and black hat. Com-
mander S. R. Symonds and his wife and
daughter were among the first arrivals.
South Australia’s first Grand Prix
motor race at Victor Harbor was a huge
success. Thousands poured into the sea-
side town on Christmas Day in a steady
stream of cars and buses. The crowd
was distributed over the. whole route,
with especially large gatherings at hair-
pin corners where thrills were thickest.
There was one death—that of a spec-
tator whose heart was overstrained by
the excitement. Lord and Lady Waleran
had a house at Victor, and John Snow,
whose racing car Lord Waleran used in
the race, was their guest.
Glenelg has never seen such an atten-
dance as crowded down at the seashore
on the historical 28th. From the break
of dawn cars and every sort of convey-
ance arrived there to secure the best
points of vantage along the sea front.
The staging of the landing of the pioneers
in 1836 costume was a great attraction,
especially the sailors carrying women
ashore from a rowing boat.
Lady Dugan, as guest at the luncheon
of women pioneers in the banqueting
room at the Glenelg Town Hall, wore
a mist-blue georgette frock with pleated
cape sleeves and wide-brimmed straw
hat in navy, banded with mist blue. One
of the pioneers, Mrs. Cawley, presented
her with a small. bouquet. Lady Dugan
cut a cake, the top of it ornamented with
a scene depicting the landing of the
pioneers from the Buffalo, and she dis-
tributed quaint crinolined figures among
the old ladies. Among other official
guests at the luncheon were Lady Hart-
ington, the Ritchie lady, Adelaide’s
Mayoress Dunstan and the Lady Mayor-
ess of Hobart (Mrs. Wignell).
TASMANIA.
Hobart Turf Club’s meeting at Elwick
held a nasty surprise up its sleeve in the
way of weather. Lured by a fine morn-
ing, many women went out in wide-
brimmed summer hats and frocks of
more or less airy textures, and were
smitten by a bitterly cold afternoon.
There was a good turn-up, including the
Russell Ibbotts, the Gordon Blews, Dr.
and Mrs. Rogers, the D. M. Shoobridges,
the Fred Grants, the Norman Fergusons,
the A. C. Ikins, Mrs. W. B. Propsting
and with her Mrs. W. Wolfhagen, Dr.
and Mrs. C. N. Atkins, the E. J. Ogilvies,
Mrs. D. C. McLaren, Mrs. J. Ingles,
Mrs. D. Jones, the Thos. Lyons pair,
Mrs. Colin Bisdee, Wanda Piesse, Joi
Chapman, Gwen Andrew, Joan Butler
and R. Maxwell.
Col. and Mrs. W. J. Locke, being due
for transfer to Melbourne, Mrs. G. R. L.
Adams and Mrs. E. E. Grant were joint
hostesses at an afternoon party in Mrs.
Locke’s honor. The guest looked smart
in a black-and-biscuit turnout, with a
little cap bearing a bunch of coque
feathers on the side.
The three young Gatehouses, Sheila,
Dinah and Raymond (Buckland), came to
town to give a Christmas party at the
Continental. The two girls were in pretty
floral frocks, Mrs. Gatehouse in black
georgette. About 80 guests, mostly of
the younger set, enjoyed the party.
Mrs. Martelli and daughter Marjorie
are back in Hobart on a visit from the
mainland, and many old friends are
looking them up. Mrs. Quentin Mc-
Dougall and Kathleen Loney combined
their welcome in a party at Hadley’s for
Marjorie, very attractive in a cerise-and-
white floral frock and big shady hat.
The R. O. Shoobridges gave a very
bright late-afternoon party at Hadley’s
for daughter Frances’s twenty-first birth-
day. About 130 guests rolled up, both
town and country well represented.
Mrs. Zoe Viney, returning from a
trip abroad, was met in Melbourne by
Charles Smith, and they were quietly
married before returning to Tasmania.
Mrs. E. W. Gibson, The Point, Perth,
gave a party at her home in honor of
Elvina Mackinnon, whose marriage to
Terence Brown, Ellenthorpe, is in the
offing. Mrs. Ken Douglas helped her
mother receive. The day was fine, the
garden a picture of summer magni-
ficence, and the guest of honor very
smart in navy with navy-and-white jacket
and small matching hat.
The Wilfrid Hudspeths bade a big
contingent of friends a merry Christmas,
saying it with sherry and savories at
their home in Sandy Bay. The rooms
were brilliant with lovely flowers, not-
ably different colored irises.
The Jack Nicolsons’ elder girl Jessie.
(Truelands, Campbell Town) and S. A.
Wigan (N.S.W.) are among the recently
engaged.


mrnrnm
mm
m
mm
n
wsm
■
m
m
THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve “ BABY GRAND ” AIE-wave.
(The set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Rola Reproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
Cnr. Wharf & Queen Sts., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
# xo
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator —easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/-.
Write to Radioices, Ltd., Sydney, jor free illustrated
literature NOW.
THE BEST AT
ANY PRICE
IMPEX
n
OXYGENATED
DRY BATTERIES
Oxygen
Reserve gives
these Batteries
extra life. Yet
they are no
dearer than
ordinary bat-
teries.
IMPEX, LTD.,
Abbotsford, X'ic.;
and 181 Clarence
Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
Last week a mostly centenary celebra-
tions night from SCL Adelaide ranged
from aboriginal songs to a message from
the King broadcast by the. Duke of Kent,
the proceedings as a whole quite inter-
esting and sound, but with nothing to
make a listener feel as if his shirt was
on fire. The King’s message was very
well delivered and came through per-
fectly, bolstered with a neat little speech,
quite intimate and appropriate, which
should have completely satisfied the fes-
tive Croweaters. These days, however,
royalty is becoming almost common over
the air, and after having heard the direct
speech of an abdicating Sovereign it
must take something pretty hot from
that quarter to stir .up the pulse. Radio
has just about trebled the talking side
of the royal job, though neither Edward
nor his father seemed to mind it.
The aboriginal songs were recorded,
quaint trifles put on by somebody whose
name was missed and who delivered a
sermon on the natives generally, mention-
ing, among other curiosa, that in Cen-
tralia he found them singularly imper-
vious to jazz, but nicely moved by pretty
Elizabethan music. Whether this is really
creditable to friend abo. might be a
pleasant topic for a debating society.
The little abo. songs recorded were sung
by abo. soloists. One song, the speaker
said, was about a white bird, another
about a rat, and the other about a wild
dog. At the time it seemed to this
listener’s untutored ear that their great-
est merit was their brevity, but thought
back on they retain a faintly haunting
quality, like a reading of the old ballads
and other such primitive noises. On this
hearing friend abo. seemed a rather lugu-
brious and monotonous composer ; but,
at any rate, there was the interest of
novelty.
Such interest, of course, doesn’t cling
any longer to radio plays. The one
on this Adelaide programme was so
much like many others that it might,
without undue compliment, be called
fair average quality. It is not consid-
ered here from any other standpoint than
what it was like at the listening end. It
seemed to be what is called by broad-
casters a “dramatisation” of a historical
episode, something about the foundation
of Adelaide, full of hurrahs, banzais or
other rude noises. Evidently broad-
casters have yet much to learn about the
values of sounds. It’s quite possible that
on a stage this play, or playlet, might be
most effective in stirring up emotional
l'esponses ; visible people hurrahing and
so forth are often good theatre, if it’s
only for taking the mind off the paucity
of real business going forward. On the
air frequent outbursts of cheering and
the like come through merely as con-
fused noise, about as helpful as static
and less intelligible. A broadcast play
apparently needs to be exceptionally
clean-cut, with a straight narrative and
effects gauged to do their job at the
listening end. It calls for directing more
than anything else. - The stage producer
—when there was a stage —was a mar-
tinet, about as popular among ac-tors
as a dun. Broadcasting could do with
some of the breed, and a good recruit-
ing ground would be among members of
some Anti-Superfluous-Noise Society.
Given the right direction there are
dozens of actor laddies and ladies about
thoroughly competent to do the rest.
The really good stage actor must find
his style desperately cramped by a
medium which sets gesture at a dis-
count, but anyone with a voice and half
an ounce of intelligence should be train-
able for broadcast “acting,” and, gesture
being the most difficult thing in proper
acting, a great many incapable of mas-
tering it, together with all of indifferent
appearance, must bless the impenetrable
mask broadcasting provides.
As a contrast to the play full of row
came one on the short wave from Mel-
bourne. Based on a Sherlock Holmes
story, it was straight ahead narrative,
with brisk action, plenty of emotional
excitement, a minimum of “effects” and
excellent direction. Such lively and ex-
citing plays, calling for tense voices,
seem to go much better on the air
than the quieter, thoughtful sorts;
for instance,
“Macbeth,” re-
cently done by
2BL, was a first-
rate broadcast
item. The air is
a great field for
getting off heroics
—provided there
is only ,one per-
son getting them
off at a time. In
the Sherlock
effort one of the
names caught
was Frank Brad-
ley. When there
was a stage he
was always a
guarantee that a
play would have
at least one good
actor in it. His
gesture was bril-
liant ; he could
act. He is good
on the air, too —
but he must miss
the people in
front.
By way of re-
ciprocation or
it might have
been retaliation
—for the items in
the Adelaide cen-
tenary pro-
gramme that
were relayed
overseas, Daven-
try put on for
the same day a
prog ramme in
which every solo-
ist’s name on the
bill was Austra-
2BL’s EARLY BIRD.
Depicted by Frith very much as he
sounds over the air between 7 a.m. and
9 a.m. from 2BL Sydney, this is the
gentleman loudly cheered in last week's
“Sundry Broadcasts.” He is H. M. H.
Watts, born Kent, England, 38 years ago,
educated King’s College, London, and
served with British cavalry in France,
Egypt, Palestine, Mesopotamia, Persia and
Russia from 1914 to 1921. Then he took
to rubber-planting in Malaya till 1923,
when he came to Australia. Here he
tried horseraising, fruitgrowing sheep-
farming and golddigging until radio
gathered him in a few years ago.
lian. They included Angela Parselles, who
has appeared in grand opera at Govern
Garden (she used to be in songandance
at what’s now called the Sydney Tivoli)
and has been chosen by Richard
Tauber out of 50 applicants to sing in his
latest film ; Jean Melville, Sydney pianist,
who had the. extended run of nine years
with the 8.8. C. Variety Department;
one Navarre, unknown to this listener,
but described in 8.8. C. publicity as hav-
ng come from “South Australia, his
birthplace being Smeaton, near Ballarat”
(said also to have been one of the. last
proteges of Melba and renowned for
his imitation of famous artists as diverse
as Chaliapine and Chevalier); and, also
unknown to this listener, one Imito, “who
began at an early age the imitations for
which he is famous by copying the cries
of the animals on the Australian back-
woods farm where he was brought up.”
To the broadcasts of exceptional in-
terest that fell so thickly in the year’s
last month, making broadcasting not
merely an incidental but an integral part
of the national life, was added one which
bordered most nearly on the tragic—the
talk given by the Pope from his sick-
bed and sent forth by the Vatican City
radio station. It was but faintly heard,
which might have been a result of con-
ditions in the air. Still, the speaker who
immediately after gave a translation
came through clearly enough, and, so it
seemed to this listener, with an Ameri-
can accent. He may not have been an
American—radio at that distance can
play odder tricks than that —but so he
sounded, especially so, and rather
quaintly, in winding up to the effect that
Vatican City radio station was now clos-
ing down. The message delivered was
deeply impressive.
Another broadcast of the weightiest re-
ligious tonnage was an excellent ser-
mon by the Archbishop of Canterbury
gathered in from Daventry on the Mon-
day night—the Pope’s broadcast was a
night or two earlier —and spread round
Australia from the national centre in
Melbourne. The theme, was a “recall to
religion,” the Archbishop frankly admit-
ting a serious drift therefrom, and voic-
ing the curious-sounding thought that
“God is not so
much denied as
crowded o u t.”
The whole ser-
mon was heard
even more clearly
than the general
run of these
broadcasts from
overseas. Its
trend, from
sweeping co m-
ment on worldly
affa i r s to an
appeal to indi-
viduals, made it
seem that the
Archbishop was
well aware of
that paradox of
broadcasting, the
intimacy of con-
tact that can be
separately made
with innumerable
individuals in a
broadcast given
forth to the world
at large. There
was no direct
reference to the
affair of Edward,
but the implica-
tion was clear
that the speaker
now felt that
that was a matter
best forgotten.
He shook a sor-
rowful head to-
wards Russia —a
great many seem
suddenly to be
doing that.
When this page
went to press yet
another broadcast extraordinary was being
billed to come off —one in which 24
nations were, due to exchange greetings.
According to the newspapers, most of
these same 24 nations were just as ready
to hop into each other as they have been
for the last 15 years—according to the
newspapers.
All Round the Dial.
Overseas artists already booked by the
A.B.C. to do Australian tours this year
include, in order of appearance, Count
Patti and Sylvia Bernita, Essie Ackland,
Georg Schneevoight (conductor), Lotte
Lehmann, the Budapest String Quartet
and Vladimir Horowitz. Australian
artists are being put on tour in large
numbers ; among those billed for the
first quarter of the year are Clement Q.
Williams (baritone), Enid Conley (accom-
panist), John Robertson (cornettist),
Thea Philips (soprano), Lionello Cecil
(tenor), Alice Prowse (contralto), Phyllis
McDonald (violinist), Marjorie Hesse
(pianist), J. Alexander Browne (baritone),
Edouard Lambert (violinist), Dagmar
Roberts (pianist), Ernest Llewellyn
(violinist), Arthur Hemsley (comedian),
Lou Toppano (piano-accordion) and J.
Kaartinen (saxophone).
* * * *
Broadcast listener licenses in the Com-
monwealth totalled 877,847 at the end
of November. Experimental licenses
numbered 1655.
* # * *■ *
“Kea”: Remarkable ingenuity goes
into the producing of the sound effects
in radio plays, sketches and skits. To
cause the noise of a train a roller skate
on a tank, a whistle and sandpaper are
used. The effect of being on a ship is
made by a paddle-wheel in a tub of
water. Lead shot being rolled about in
a drum gives the illusion of a rough sea.
An aeroplane passing overhead is simu-
lated by holding a drum in front of a
revolving disc. Rice falling on paper
suggests rain, the effect of a falling build-
ing is produced by bricks sliding down
a board and on to a drum. In cricket
broadcasts tapping a pencil on the desk
is good enough for the impact of willow
on leather. To produce the sound of
a person speaking from another room
a felt-covered board is held in front of
the actor.
* # * *
How television is reaching out is indi-
cated by a report to the 8.8. C. from a
listener in Johannesburg, South Africa,
who says he picked up the Alexander
Palace signal. The distance is more than
4000 miles. As the listener had no vision
receiver, no picture was observed, but
the reception of the sound is significant
enough.
* 1 * * *
“Querex”: The report that Spanish
radio amateurs were immune from the
civil-war strife owing to their utility to
both sides is contradicted by a group
of American newspapermen operating a
station signing EA4AP on 20 metres in
the International Zone of Madrid.
According to them Spain’s leading ama-
teur, EA4AO, has been executed ; another
account, however, is that he escaped to
France. Anyway, Spanish amateurs are
now at each other’s throats with accusa-
tions of partisanship. To make sure of
strict neutrality, Portugal has banned
amateur radio entirely.
* * * *
They drift into broadcasting from
everywhere! The speaker set down to
begin a 8.8. C. series of talks of personal
adventure is Captain J. J. Cameron, who
has “spent all his professional life, with
the exception of his seven years in sail-
ing vessels, in the service of the New
Zealand Shipping Company.”
* * .•:= *
The 8.8. C. is looking for a survivor
of the volcanic eruption of Krakatoa in
1883 ; he is wanted to make a contribu-
tion to a series of broadcasts entitled “I
Was There.” Between August 26 and
28, 1883, there were terrific eruptions on
Krakatoa, an island in the straits be-
tween Sumatra and Java, and about two-
thirds of the islands was blown away.
Stones, dust and ashes shot up 17 miles
in the air, and dust particles were carried
over Europe, America and Asia—from
the north of Scandinavia to the south
of Australia—during the following six
weeks. Huge waves, 50ft. high, which
caused the deaths of 36,000 people in
boats and coastal towns, spread even as
far as the English Channel. The sound
of the explosion was heard in Ceylon
■ and South Australia. A number of
British ships was in the Straits of Sunda
at the time and 8.8. C. officials have
visited several towns for the purpose of
tracing the officers of these. Perhaps
Australia may hold an old hand —he
would. be an old one—who could supply
the story the 8.8. C. is after.


RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6 ; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. AH tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
Radio Constructors ,
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
RADIO-
at wholesale prices.
VALVES —Battery valves 2-volt 232
S.G. ..5/-.
8406, 8605, C 603 power. 5/- 201A..4/6.
All 100% tested on “Palec” tester.
AERO DIALS —Radiokes No. 7/14..3/6.
MICA condensers “Impex” .01 1/-.
CRYSTALS —Mighty Atom lOd.
LEARN MORSE —Complete key, buzzer,
battery and Morse chart 4/-.
KEYS only 15/-, 19/6, 25/- each.
HEADPHONES —1000 ohms light-
weight 7/6.
Price list of parts posted on request.
BATTERY SUPERHET. —Six stage
4-valve, complete in floor cabinet,
Amplion speaker, latest valves,
100 amp. battery, 3 H.D. Batteries.
Aerial and Earth £l3/2/6.
REG COOKE RADIO CO.
84 BROOK ST., COOGEE, SYDNEY
Mail Order Radio. ’Phone: FX5494.
DON B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
Bi-directional 56mc. Array.
In the early days of experimental
radio, the glittering lure was DX, to the
almost total exclusion of everything else.
Nowadays, DX is taken for granted, and
most experienced key-pounders know just
what can be done, and at what fre-
quency. The trend has naturally been
toward higher and still higher frequen-
cies, and in the fulness of time the much
maligned 10-metre band was proven to
be something more than deadwood.
Amateurs showed it to be just the oppo-
site, even though, according to sunspot
data, the time will come (and go) when
DX at this frequency will become only
a memory.
With frequencies around 28mc. behav-
ing in a gratifying way during the last
two years it has only been natural that
the possibilities of 56mc. should be con-
sidered and investigated. Success has
come to a few overseas. Americans have
worked across their continent, English-
men have crossed the channel, and
several Europeans report hearing trans-
Atlantic signals. Whatever has been done
has been spasmodic, but the fact remains
that ultra-short-wave signals are possible
over long distances, though under iso-
lated and unexpected conditions.
In this business of keeping watch upon
the five-metre band for distant signals,
with the equal co-operative necessity of
batting out stable signals for possible
distant experimenters to look for, the
most important factor, after the trans-
mitter itself, is the radiating system.
There are many types and varieties of
aerials that can be tried, and the writer
has tried most of them. The value of
directive arrays is now well established
at 28mc. upward, and on 10 metres a
correctly-aimed beam system can work
wonders with DX when signals will be
totally inaudible under ordinary aerial
conditions.
Something of the kind appears to be
necessary for 56mc. also, and the array
outlined here is suggested to five-metre
men for trial. The writer is at present
using two of these at right angles for
wide coverage, and although no DX can
yet -be claimed there can be no question
that the system has great possibilities.
Some time ago, the writer was impressed
by the consistently strong signal reach-
ing Australia on 20 metres from WBJK
in Michigan (U.S.A.). Inquiries revealed
that the sender was using the Bruce
directive array. Subsequently, in
“Radio’s” Antenna Handbook, published
last year, WBJK gave his findings on this
and similar arrays. It seemed that these
systems should be equally effective at
higher frequencies, so tests were under-
taken. The results have been particu-
larly gratifying, and there is no question
about the “beaming” effect. Stations in
normally hard-to-work places surround-
ing Sydney are at once workable.
Examination of the diagram shows
that the array is of the folded type, com-
prising four half-waves in phase. A
length of wire corresponding to the total
of four half-waves for the particular
frequency is folded as shown, in quarter-
wave sections, with two one-eighth waves
at the ends. The whole business is fed
at the centre by the “J” method. The
quarter-wave stub-line is closed at the
bottom, and one side attaches to the
aerial at its centre position. Experiment
showed that, when feeding with a 70-ohm
twisted pair line, the feeder junction was
at the point of connection of the stub
to the aerial. It will be somewhat dif-
ferent for a 600-ohm open line, but ad-
justment is simple in either case. The.
transmitter is loaded to the array (on
low power) and the “trombone” and
feeder position adjusted until a current-
indicating device at the centre, of one of
the vertical quarter-wave sections shows
a maximum. An absorption wavemeter
with 2j~volt pea-lamp suffices. Other-
wise an R.F. meter can be clipped across
the. section. Although this array is slung
horizontally it gives vertical polarisation
of the wave, which is particularly useful.
The whole business takes up a space of
only 17ft. x 4ft., and is easily arranged
between two masts with ropes and insu-
lators.
It would not be difficult to make up a
light wooden frame holding the whole
affair rigid, and to
arrange it for rota-
tion on top of a
mast. The direc-
tivity is broadside in
two directions, and
the angle of the
beam is around 10
degrees at 56mc.
For general work
and initial tests the
quarter-wave sections
can be 4ft. and the
eighth waves 2ft., but it is worthwhile
to obtain true resonance at the desired
frequency. This can easily be done with
the aid of an oscillator such as that de-
scribed in B. 30/12/'36. A 5 p.c. in-
crease in wire length is necessary with
a folded aerial of this nature. Thus,
quarter-wave sections should be 4ft. 3in.
for work around 57mc. If directivity is
wanted in only one direction a gain of
quite a few D.B. can be obtained by
hanging a reflector curtain behind this
array. Such a reflector should take the
same form as the aerial, minus stub line
and feeders.
VK2NO.
What's What In Radio.
It j s reported that American 160-metre
police stations, using power as low as
20 watts, can be heard in England under
favorable conditions with quite simple
receivers.
* * * *
A sugges fion has been made that, in-
stead o( waiting unti , the upper atmo .
sphere feels inclined to permit the passage
Q f ultra-short-wave radiations, a trans-
rnitter should be sent to these regions to
A fine example of a modern radio-
gramophone combination is this model
“Genalex” by the British General Elec-
tric Co., Ltd. The G.E.C. automatic
record-changer enables the playing of
eight 10in. or 12in. records in succession.
observe the effect. The idea is to equip
a rocket with a short-wave transmitter
and fire the lot into the stratosphere. If
the transmitter is designed to emit a
constant note it is possible that its signal
could be followed from the time the
rocket leaves the ground, and by this
means peculiarities of radiation could
be studied.
* % % *
Many readers must be using receivers
fitted with the “Magic Eye,” or minia-
ture cathode-ray tuning indicator. In
effect this shows the magnitude of the
incoming signal. At times it may appear
to tell lies, for a station which may show
only a small indication on the device may
sound louder than a station which shows
the full deflection. This is simply ex-
plained. The apparently weak station
may sound stronger because it may be
more heavily modulated. The indicator
shows the signal impression of the car-
rier wave, and, unless the device is of a
particularly sensitive nature, the modu-
lation fluctuations will be hardly dis-
cernible.
* * * *
The average radio user has little idea
of the indignities to which valve parts
are subjected before they take their
place as part of the complete structure.
Almost all the electrodes in a valve,
even the most delicate grids, are put into
a hydrogen oven and raised to the really
cheerful temperature of 1600 degrees
Fahrenheit (rather more than cherry
red) and are held at this temperature for
anything between 15 and 30 minutes.
The idea of the hydrogen is to keep the
surface of the metal parts free from air,
the oxygen in which would bring about
a dull surface, whereas by being heated
and cooled in hydrogen, they retain their
original bright polish. This baking is
done to drive off any gas which might
otherwise be liberated after the valve had
been in use, and so shorten the useful
life of a valve by rendering it soft.
* S|= * *
The cathode-ray tube owes its de-
velopment primarily to radio, and over-
seas to-day it is usually associated with
television. But it has many other uses.
It is in everyday employment for photo-
graphing heart beats, plays a part in the
designing of motor-car engines, measures
the impact of waves on breakwaters, is
used in direction-finding, aviation radio
and in the investigation of the Northern
Lights—in fact', it has been found of use
in almost every industry and science. It
is possible that it might even be used
for detecting the position and depth of
fish shoals as an aid to trawling.
A Well-equipped Station—
VK2QK.
The amateur station here illustrated,
owned and operated by C. Preston Smith,
of Manly (N.S.W.), is well-known on the
20- and 40-metre bands. The trans-
mitter is primarily designed for tele-
graphy, but can be used for telephony
on 20 metres. The valve line-up is 47,
crystal oscillator, 46 buffer-doubler, 46
buffer, and two 830Bs in push-pull in
the final amplifier. When telephony is
used the buffer-doubler is grid-bias
modulated by a 2A5, driven by a 27
from a single-button carbon microphone.
As with all modern transmitters, link
coupling is employed throughout, and all
stages are shielded by copper sheet. The
final stage has split stator variable con-
densers in both grid and plate circuits.
Grid bias is taken from a 500-volt power
pack with low-resistance bleeder and an
80 rectifier. The power supply for the
low-power stages is from an 82, rectify-
ing 500 volts, with choke input and
paper filter condensers. The only elec-
trolytic condensers in the transmitter are
those in the bias supply.
An important feature of the design of
the transmitter of VK2QK is that over-
and under-load relays are fitted as a pro-
tection to the power supplies, The final
stage is powered from a supply deliver-
ing 1000 or 750 volts as required, the
change being made by a D.P.D.T.
switch from a 1100-volt C.T. transformer
and two Osram GUI mercury vapor rec-
tifiers. Choke input is used here, and in
the filter are two chokes, 10 and 30Hy
respectively. 3000-volt working paper
condensers complete the filtering.
As can be seen, rack and panel con-
struction is favored, and each shelf slides
out to the front with the associated
chassis for inspection. All connections
are to plugs and sockets at the rear of
the chassis. The shelves, starting from
the top, contain the aerial tuning and
R.F. meter panel, the final R.F. stage,
the crystal oscillator and first and
second buffers, the metering panel, the
low-power supply and final bias pack,
and the final stage power supply and
control terminations.
Like the transmitter, the receiver is
the result of careful planning, and takes
the form of a highly-efficient superhet,
using 2.5-volt type valves. They com-
prise a 58 as regenerative R.F., 57 mixer
All home-made, and a first-class amateur
station :VK2QK, of Manly, N.S.W.
and 58 oscillator; I.F. stages are two
58s; second detector a 56 with asso-
ciated beat frequency oscillator using a
58 ; and 2A5 pentode audio. An 80
rectifier completes the. valve list. The
lay-out of the receiver is sensible, with
symmetrically arranged controls, and that
this superhet is meant to make the most
of crowded conditions is evidenced by
the fact that a crystal filter is included.
There is nothing commercial about
this first-class station, although it has
professional finish ; everything is home-
made by the owner-operator. Which is
all the more creditable, as he is not con-
cerned in any way with the radio busi-
ness —he is an officer of the Bank of
N.S.W.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
Criticism by this writer of “mike tech-
nique” is based on 25 years of active
amateur radio practice. Suggestions that
this criticism is calculated to damage the
amateur movement are well off the track.
It was with the object of disciplining
amateur bands and making them pre-
sentable to all, including general list-
eners, that the W.LA. wholeheartedly
supported the P.M.G.’s vigilance scheme.
Nonsense about VK2NO being disloyal
to amateur radio is merely amusing. So
long as amateur radio is abused, especi-
ally in a manner where anybody who
understands the spoken word can hear,
offenders will be criticised.
Next to the U.S.A. Germany seems
to take amateur radio most seriously,
Ample evidence of this was shown in
the 1936 D.A.S.D. contest. Australian
20m. ’phone men can testify that the
D.E. SWLs are enthusiastic ; their cards
come in thousands. A most interesting
amateur session was heard broadcast
from Berlin around 19m. at 1845 S.M.T.
on 19/12/’36 (how many VKs heard
it?). The talk was in English, and dealt
with current 10m. news, and reference
was made to sm. schedules now in force
ar certain English stations. The efforts
of ZL3DG were referred to, and a
listener in Saxony had reported hearing
the U.S.A. police station WIXAO on
u.-s.-w. The session concluded with the
hope that “amateur radio would con-
tinue to grow and spread” ; quite a con-
trast to Italy, where amateur radio is
illegal, or next to it. The next Berlin
amateur session is on February 20 at
2.15 p.m. Central European time.
A report is to hand that a VK3, promi-
nent on 10m., has been harmonically
{Continued on page 50.)


left and right, appearing almost as fresh
as to wind and spirit as when he first
commenced the combat, though his eyes
were considerably swelled and his nether
lip was cut in two. On he came, striking
left and right. I did not like his
blows at all, or even the wind of them,
which was anything but agreeable, and
I gave way before him.
At last he aimed a blow which, had it
taken full effect, would doubtless have
ended the battle, but, owing to his slip-
ping, the fist only grazed my left
shoulder, and came with terrific force
against a tree, close to which I had been
driven. Before the Tinman could re-
cover himself, 1 collected all my strength,
struck him beneath the ear, and then
fell to the ground completely exhausted ;
and it so happened that the blow which
I struck the tinker beneath the ear was
a right-handed blow.
“Hurrah for Long Melford!” I heard
Belle exclaim ; “there is nothing like
Long Melford for shortness all the world
over.”
At these words I turned round my
head as I lay, and perceived the Flaming
Tinman stretched upon the ground,
apparently senseless.
“He is dead,” said the vulgar woman
as she vainly endeavored to raise him
up ; “he is dead ; the best man in all
the north country, killed in this fashion,
by a boy.”
Alarmed at these words, I made shift
to get on my feet; and, with the assist-
ance of the woman, placed my fallen
adversary in a sitting posture. . I put my
hand to his heart and felt a slight pul-
sation.
“He’s not dead,” said I, “only
stunned ; if he were let blood he would
recover presently.”
1 produced a penknife which I had in
my pocket, and, baring the arm of the
Tinman, was about to make the neces-
sary incision when the woman gave me
a violent blow and, pushing me aside,
exclaimed: “I’ll tear the eyes out of your
head if you offer to touch him. Do you
want to complete your work, and murder
him outright, now he’s asleep? You
have had enough of his blood already.”
“You are mad,” said I; “I only seek
to do him service. Well, if you won’t
let him be blooded, fetch some water and
fling it in his face —you know where the
pit is.”
I lost no time in dashing the greater
part of the water into the Tinman's face,
whereupon he sneezed, moved his hands
and presently looked round him. At
first his looks were dull and heavy, and
without any intelligence at all; he soon,
however, began to recollect himself, and
to be conscious of his situation; he cast
a scowling glance at me, then one of
the deepest malignity at the tall girl,
who was still walking about without
taking much notice of what was going
forward. At last he looked at his right
hand, which had evidently suffered from
the blow against the tree, and a half-
stifled curse escaped his lips.
The Long White Cloud
“Mak”: A King Country firm has
bought 4000 acres of Tokaanu timber-
lands. The price was £170,000, and the
distribution thereof will probably be one
long headache for Native Land Court
experts, for the vendor was the
Tuwharetoa tribe located round Ton-
gariro National Park. Just how far
tribal ownership will be extended is
doubtful, but there are certain to be
claims from descendants of Tuwharetoas
who, through the years, drifted to other
parts of Maoriland. In the same area
the tribe still owns about 36,000 acres
of totara, rimu and matai timber, and,
before the recent sale, stumpage value
of the whole block was assessed at
£3,750,000. Quite a decent tribal asset,
but one with distinct disadvantages to a
native community educated to accept the
ideals of individual ownership.
❖ * %
“Motu”: Contrary to general Austra-
lian opinion, parts of Maoriland lack
sufficiently regular rainfall for agricul-
tural areas to be safe without forms of
irrigation. In South Canterbury a
£69,000 scheme capable of serving 19,000
acres of farmlands has just been com-
pleted, and most of Canterbury would
benefit by similar ventures. North Island
sheepmen in Hawke’s Bay and Poverty
Bay suffer occasional droughts. Yet
within comparatively short distances of
each other Maoriland has numerous
rivers that seldom lose much depth in
dry months. The Canterbury land dis-
trict, cut by snow-fed rivers from the
Southern Alps, has water enough for
complete irrigation cover ; the same dis-
trict contains more than half Maoriland’s
potato-growing area and an even larger
proportion of the total acreage under
grain and root crops.
* * * *
“D.N.”: An Australian advertising
man has advised Maoriland to protect
native flowers and foliage by , penalising
vandals from tourist ships. The same
sort of tourist is no stranger to Aus-
tralia, but local residents on both
sides of the Tasman are more destruc-
tive than any tripper. In Maoriland the
stalactites in Waitomo Caves are wire-
netted, surf-club life-lines have to be
guarded, art gallery and museum exhibits
are frequently desecrated and trifles from
visiting warships and aeroplanes are in-
variably “souvenired.” In Australian
cities there are people with the same in-
stincts. Every week-end Australian wild-
flowers and shrubs return to town by
hundreds of picnic vans. And Australia
has penalties its Courts can impose. In-
struction in public ownership, as sug-
gested by a Wellington (M.L.) school-
teacher, might make penalties more
effective.
“Xo”: The long, blade-shaped leaves
of Maoriland’s flax still relieve campers
of the necessity for returning for for-
gotten ropes, but export of the tough
fibres has been discouraged for some
years by low overseas prices. In 1913
28,000 tons was exported, and in 1918
the industry, netted its peak return of
£1,387,763. This rural industry began
with a Government offer in 1864 of a
£4OOO bonus for the production of mer-
chandise from flax. Now Prime Min-
ister Savage says he will revive the thing
by helping to provide the modern
machinery that will enable Maoriland
mills to chase a better share of the world
market. At present fewer than 20 operat-
ing mills employ about 300 men—just
a fraction of the vast army which earned
good money in the palmy days of flax-
cutting. And Maoriland has plenty of
standing flax —there were nearly 100,000
acres of it last year.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Valuable volumes bob up
in most unexpected places. A while back
a number of books were presented to a
committee in Auckland for the use of
members of relief-workers’ camps. On
the dispersal of these camps the books
were being prepared for the destructor
when, browsing over them, somebody
found a copy of Lichtenstein’s Travels in
South Africa, published in 1812. It was
sent to the editor of the Johannesburg
“Star” for presentation to the library
there, and the “Star” published an article
on the value of the volume. A letter of
thanks has come to M.L. for the gift.
* * * *
“M.”: Legislation affecting industry
has made Maoriland manufacturers
chary of employing youths whose ages
qualify them for higher rates of pay than
were previously paid to untrained be-
ginners. At the same time revival in
trade has opened the way for more em-
ployment, with the result that boys and
girls have been leaving school for fac-
“Eight bells , an' things look bloomin' awful!"
tory jobs. Minister of Education Fraser
says schools are not intended to supply
“cheap labor,” a statement that lends
significance to the Hamilton head-
master’s reported belief that the school-
leaving age will soon be raised to 15.
Although employers might frown on the
suggestion, it would automatically solve
the problem of the jobless depression
boys.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: It is a pity that Maoriland
politician didn’t make at least one North
Shore milk delivery (B. 30/12/’36), as
Auckland conversation needs another
milk-o. One of its most spectacular milk-
men was poet Geoffrey de Montalk, who
was also a schoolteacher, a law clerk and
a divinity student. Through his father,
who was a professor at Wellington’s Vic-
toria University College, De Montalk
claimed a Polish title. He deserted his
milk float for London, where his signa-
ture is Potocki of Montalk, and where
he uses Latin to describe Maoriland as
a “wretched lower abode.” He stalks
London city in sandals and a red cloak,
and some of his verse has been repro-
duced in different literary review periodi-
cals. Auckland still remembers him.
* * * *
“Hutiwai”: There is much in favor of
the “revitalised” textbooks Maoriland’s
Educational Institute suggests should
take the place of the present “mummi-
fied relics.” Children soon begin to
yawn over heavily-written school-books,
and it often takes years for them to
overcome their class-room distaste for
the subjects covered. At the same time
textbooks should not be changed too fre-
quently or parents will have good cause
for complaint. And any “revitalising”
should not be left solely to the disci e-
tion of the depaitment.
* * *
“Fergus”: The German flier Bertram,
lost up Cape Bernier way after having
reached Australia in 1932, remarks in
his book on the generosity of the abo-
rigines. Generosity seems to be a char-
acteristic of most native races. Maoris
have it in good measure. Te Ari Pitama,
one of their leaders in Canterbury, said
the other day that his people had given
away thousands of pounds worth of
mats and greenstone ornaments, mostly
to visiting athletes and tourists. Notable
overseas visitors are invariably showered
with Maori gifts, and to-day the natives
have few tribal curios left. Some
museums have good collections —the
gifts of local Maoris—but even well-
known Maori schools lack historical
mementoes. The natives possessing most
relics of their past seem to be the dead
ones; it was a Maori custom, still prac-
tised in isolated communities, to bury
cherished personal possessions with their
departed owners.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Maoriland dairy companies,
whose produce is Government property
once in the holds of overseas ships, are
surveying their first months of guaran-
teed prices. They are not quarrelling
much with the prices, but Morrinsville
finds that the higher costs resulting from
Labor’s 1936 legislation have increased
its butter-factory costs by £3 a ton. Mor-
rinsville is in the heart of the Waikato,
one of Maoriland’s largest dairying dis-
tricts.
* * * *
“R.H.M.”: Among the new traffic
regulations in Maoriland is one requiring
motorists to give way at marked pedes-
trian crossings. In some places—Queen-
street, Auckland, for instance—they are
marked plainly enough ; but any pedes-
trian who forges ahead relying on his
right of way is likely to find it leading to
Kingdom Come. A general issue of shot-
guns to footsloggers, with full permission
to use them, seems the only way to make
some motorists recognise that the pedes-
trian has any rights.
* * * *
“M.H.R.”: To Auckland have coni':
two ladies, daughters of Captain Joseph
Nias, who was busy in Maoriland in 1840
helping to obtain signatures to the Treaty
of Waitangi. The captain, who was born
in 1793, married at 62, and had five chil-
dren ; hence the survival nearly 100 years
after Treaty days of two descendants of
the first generation. When Governor
Gipps sent Hobson to plant the flag in
Maoriland, Nias commanded the 20-gun
frigate Herald which carried the party.
With two captains, R.N., aboard, both
Irish and both touchy, she wasn’t a
happy ship. Questions of precedence
arose and the sparks flew. On arrival at
the Bay of Islands Nias refused Hobson
the salute of a Lieut.-Gov., and Hobson
sulked. Finally Hobson transferred to a
cutter in which he could be boss and go
where he liked. Hobson was a sick man
all this time, and from subsequent cor-
respondence it appears that Nias did not
realise the seriousness of his condition.
Otherwise he might have made more
allowances for Maoriland’s first Gover-
nor.


INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and mixed with
a small' quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets. We
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OF TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
BELVEDERE MJ BELVEDERE BELVEDERE L-S> BELVEDERE «-■
JHi
■J;
MADE. BY / ,
MARTIN, 1 SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
££
ii
I
II
II
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY ,
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
The Bulletin
so Belvedere' «a Belvedere giivtoiiit *>?« Belvedere mm • Belvedere
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 18'65.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE : 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capita] Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. ’.. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
The Australian Merino.
“Bungaree”: The Evolution of the
Australian Merino, by E. W. Cox (Angus
and Robertson ; 215.), merits the atten-
tion of every sheepbreeder. The
author belongs to one of the oldest
pastoral families in Australia —one that
has been prominently identified with
sheepbreeding for over a century.
Here, he brings to life the dry bones
of history. He selects the highlights of
the Merino Stud Flock Register, and de-
picts the rise of the merino from the first
scraggy importations—the Gordons of
1797. A further service is done by
sketching the story of the merino
flocks of Spain, France, England,
Saxony, Silesia and America, some of
which have more important bearings on
our merino history than is generally
realised.
The early chapters deal with founda-
tions in Australia and the pioneers
—Macarthur, Cox, Riley, Walker and
Bettington. Then the beginnings of the
N.S.W. and Tasmanian flocks, with a
short history of each ; the gradual ascen-
dancy of the Tasmanian over the main-
land breeds, the influx to Victoria,
chiefly from Tasmania, and the continued
improvement dating from the fusing of
Saxon with Spanish blood.
Most interesting are the pages dealing
with the opening up of the Riverina
and experiments leading up to the
Peppin strain—a new type of merino
that was to revolutionise sheepbreed-
ing and dominate the future of the
merino more than any other upward step
in its history.
There are brief accounts, in chrono-
logical order, of the leading studs of
every State, and important information
is given on breeding lines, methods and
experiments. Particularly important are
the try-outs that went . wrong; types
that refused to nick, recurring faults that
had to be bred out without introducing
others; above all the introduction of
the wrinkly Vermont that proved disas-
trous to so many famous flocks and
helped make the blowfly trouble so
serious.
Later chapters review the evolution of
the merino from a leggy, plain-bodied,
short- and open-woolled animal to the
symmetrical, strong-constitutioned, even-
woolled sheep cutting as many pounds
of wool as its ancestor cut ounces. In-
fluence of pasture and climate is
examined, and there are pages of infor-
mation on founding a flock, on breeding
and classing, which alone are worth the
price of the book.
The work throughout is couched in
simple language. It has been well pro-
duced, and the 80 illustrations provide a
pictorial record not only of the evolu-
tion of the merino but of the changing
fashions in type through the years, as
shown by photographs of the champion
rams of Australia from 1895 to 1936.
Corriedales as Fat Lambs.
“C.D.”: “Yeoman’s” figures (B.
23/12/’36) don’t do the Corriedale full
justice. The competition was for half-
bred lambs, yet the Corriedale, itself a
basic half-bred, was mated back to the
merino. The progeny would be three-
quarter-breds or comebacks, and these
could not be expected to compare with
merino-cross-Border Leicester, -Romney
or -Dorset Horn offspring. Straight-
bred Corriedale lambs alone would have
provided a true comparison.
Many fall into the error of thinking
the Corriedale, now a pure breed, has
to be crossed to get results. Actually the
aim in starting the breed was to elimi-
nate the disadvantages of crossing and
allow the fat-lamb producer to sail
straight ahead with dual-purpose sheep
to use as dams.
As a fat lamb a good Corriedale loses
nothing in market returns and profits
compared with any other English-bred-
cross-merino lamb.
Adjusting Bale Weights.
“Murrawong”: Except in an even,
well-culled flock, with the minimum
fleece lines to be made, it is difficult to
regulate things so that at the cut-out of
flock or shed each bin yields a bale —no
more, no less. As a rule, the last four
“ 'E's gettin' into shape for the under and championship at the Show!”
or five sheep in the catching pens are
“cobblers” and the fleeces will find their
way into the lower lines ;but the reverse
sometimes occurs, and the classer finds
himself landed with more wool in a bin
than can be accommodated in a bale,
while other bins have barely enough to
make the weight.
It may be possible to make two light
bales of the crowded bin, but in light,
high-yielding wools this may not be prac-
ticable. If the surplus is only a few
fleeces, they may be worked into a lower
line of the same type —AAA into a line
carrying more condition or fault, pro-
vided the length of staple is similar—
but surplus from a low line should never
be worked into a better line or short
wools into a longer-stapled line.
At the cut-out of a flock, pressers are
too busy to do anything but clear the
bins, and any adjustment must wait. If
surplus fleeces can’t be worked into those
of a succeeding flock they should be put
into a butt and set aside. They can be
economically disposed of by forwarding
them, with any other oddments, to some
reliable firm operating a wool-pooling
scheme, where their full market value
will be realised.
When a bale is underweight it is usual
to leave it to the broker to have the
weight adjusted, but there is no reason
why this should not be done in the shed,
provided the job doesn’t clash with the
final cut-out rush.
If a doubt exists as to the wool in
the bin weighing 2001 b., drag it aside,
and wlien things ease off have it put into
the press. Experienced pressers will
know by the feel how much they will
need to make up the bale. Look through
the wool book, pick the heaviest bale of
the same quality and stand it on its end
beside the press. Take one of the long
iron pins used to hold the wool in the
top box and drive it horizontally through
the bale within a foot of the top as
far as it can be driven. This will steady
the expansion of the bale contents and
hold secure for refastening,
Bale-fasteners are easily and quickly
extracted by inserting : the point of a
bale-hook between the pack and the long
end of the fastener, turning the hbok
back till it pivots on the short end' of
the fastener and giving it a sharp twist,
Enough wool might be extracted by
opening the two top flaps only, but even
if the inner flaps have to be opened the
long iron pin will hold the contents. The
required wool should be pulled out and
thrown into the press and the bale fast-
ened again as quickly as possible; then
the bale must be re-weighed and the
revised weight entered in the wool book.
If a bale is not discovered to be under-
weight until after it has been pressed,
51b. to 101 b. will bring it up to 2001 b.,
and only the top flaps need be opened
and the wool, weighed beforehand, thrusi
inside. The bale may look unshapely,
but in the stack it will be knocked into
form. Should the shortage be greater
than can be thus inserted, the bale
should be re-pressed ; this will cost much
less than having the work done by the
broker, and will obviate insertion of ad-
justment notice in the sale catalogue. '
Pulse, Breathing, Temperature.
“Mookau”: Pulse, respiration and
temperature are indications of sickness
or health in animals, as they are in
humans.
The rule is that the bigger the beast
the smaller the pulse-rate. Against man’s
usual 68 to 76 —a woman’s is slightly
higher—an elephant’s heart thumps only
25 to 28 times p.m., a horse’s, bullock’s
or cow’s from 36 to 50, sheep’s from 60
to 80, dog’s 100 to 120. The farm canary,
by the way, has a pulse of 1000, which
needs a bit of taking.
The pulse in all farm animals is taken
at the small artery under the lower jaw.
A fast pulse spells fever; a slow one
poor heart action or general weakness.
A normal horse breathes 16 to 20 times
p.m.; a cow from 20 to 25 times.
Temperatures of animals should be
taken in the lower bowel. An instru-
ment with a pear-shaped bulb should be
used, preferably one with a ring for clip-
ping to the hair to prevent it from slip-
ping. A healthy horse rates about
lOOdeg. Fahr., and a cow about 101 or
102 degrees. Temperature is an impor-
tant indicator with animals ; it will often
show the advance of acute symptoms
long before there is any other worth-
while evidence.
Growing Oranges in U.S.A.
“Git”: F. H. Metters, a S. Australian,
recently visited U.S.A. to report to his
State’s Government on the citrus methods
of Uncle Sam. Nearly all his experi-
ence. was in the Los Angeles (Cal.) dis-
trict, where he found the climate and
orchard practice roughly in line with
South Aus.
But the economy of the place was cer-
tainly different. Moderate orchards are
worth £2OO per acre ; good ones £4OO.
Virgin acres covered with small bushes
and huge boulders were to be had at
£lOO. Before the depression orchards
sold as high as £lOOO an acre.
Most citrus men are in co-operative
organisations. They concentrate on
growing oranges.. The t rest, normally, is
done by the co-ops. and contractors, who
sometimes even do the fumigating and
pruning.
Average growers have 12-acre-orchards,
but a few companies operate, as much
as 1000 acres. Average yield of Wash-
ington navels is 3y bushels per tree.
Output of good trees was mostly four to
five bushels, with “many groves,” says
Metters, “including large acreages, aver-
aging 10 to 12 bushels per tree.”
On a basis of 70 trees to an acre and
a four-bushel yield, Australia’s 48,000 to
50,000 acres under commercial oranges
should be turning off roughly 13,500,000
bushels. Actually production usually
ranges round about 4,000,000 to 5,000,000
bushels. U.S.A. export is 2,500,000 boxes
p.a.
The investigator found fruit of “very
fine even type, with thin, glove-like skin
(Continued on page 44.)


Brogues are never
out of fashion
gUMMER, Winter, any time of
the year, brogues are worn
by men who like that rugged,
sporty, well-dressed appearance
which can be obtained in no
other type of Shoe.
A pair of brogues are an asset
to any man’s wardrobe, especi-
ally Abbey Brogues, in which
the quality and style are un-
questionable.
This style is made in Black or
Brown Calf in full and half sizes.
Price:
Black or Brown .... 32/6
Write for a catalogue.
The Bulletin
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET,
224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
! Hi m
mg?
v\M6
$ (CHUTE
BIEILIUCSi
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
PUMPS
FOR ALL
PURPOSES
g
I
*l3
111
Mi
m
"Macson"
Double-
Acting
Piston
Pump
Send now for your
copy of our illustrated
Pump Catalogue. This
useful book will be
sent to you free, and
post free.
"Ajax"
Double-
Acting
Hand
Pump
4 I
ersons
PropneUnj limited
51 Bathurst Street Sydney
546 Collins Street .... Melbourne
And at Adelaide and Perth.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
5
E
m
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St„ Sydney
TTuTfe'ctHeiz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
appearance, full flavored, juicy and com-
paratively free of rag the absence of
blemishes on the rind being most notice-
able.” This last fact is attributed to
“the use of windbreaks, treatment against
thrip and other pests and the absence
of dead wood.” The turn-off of the
high Sunkist grades with a 3 p.c. skin
blemish maximum is 74 p.c. of produc-
tion:—
If a grower produces under 70 p.c. of
this grade, he is not considered a successful
grower. The better types of orchards pro-
duce as high as 90 p.c. I estimate our
average of this grade in S. Australia to
approximate 20 p.c.
Trees come out of highly-specialised
nurseries. The tendency is toward sweet-
orange stock, but about 50 p.c. of “sour”
stocks are. still in use. Trees as a rule
are not allowed to branch within 30in.
to 36in. of the ground. General tree
ages range from 20 to 50 years.
Soil is mainly greyish-brown, much
heavier than that of the Murray mallee.
It has good depth and plenty of body,
but the investigator is of opinion that our
soil is capable, of equal production
given similar cultural practices.
Packing is done in plants handling up
to 200,000 boxes p.a., the gross weight of
Wash, navels being 891 b. in domestic
boxes, 781 b. in export. A flat rate is
fixed for harvesting, transport to the
packing house, railing, exchange and
overhead charges. The largest market-
ing concern has 13,000 growers enrolled.
It has a building in Los Angeles as large
as a big Sydney departmental store, and
in 1935 spent £400,000 on advertising,
about Id. per box, taking lemons and
grapefruit into account. Last year 50,000
tons of fruit was used to produce canned
orange drinks.
There is plenty for the Australian
orchardist to learn from California, par-
ticularly in regard to the need for hav-
ing only trees budded from selected
parents, using breakwinds, heavier fer-
tiliser dressings, lighter and more fre-
quent irrigations, the use of gloves in
packing and the need for speedier rail-
way transport.
Paterson’s Curse.
“Bogaduck”: Paterson’s Curse (B.
16/12/’36) is a curious example of a
plant which may be a nuisance in some
areas, doubtful in others and good
fodder elsewhere. It is growing freely
through the Adelaide, hills and lower-
north of S.A., and nobody bothers about
it. The Waite Institute has found that
when top-dressed it will carry three
sheep to the acre. As soon as the plant
dries sheep and cows will lick up every
scrap of it.
In S.A. it causes no trouble on land
which is properly cultivated (as a crop-
smotherer the capeweed is infinitely
worse), and sub. clover and rye grass,
top-dressed, will almost oust it on pas-
ture land. When it gets a hold on rich
damp flats it becomes very rank, and, the
rhubarb-like lower leaves smother the
ground, preventing other grasses from
growing ; but this is a broad hint that
the patch should be put under lucerne or
other graze crop. The Paterson can be
ousted by making the flat a well-worked
bare fallow for a season before putting
in the lucerne.
Making “Neufchatel.”
“Kase”: Spare, milk can easily be
turned into soft cheese—“Neufchatel.”
Here’s the recipe:
Heat clean, sweet milk to 72 degrees
and add joz. of starter to every 1-i-gal.
Fresh sour buttermilk will serve as a
starter, or rennet can be bought
from the local chemist (it needs dilu-
tion about 30 times before use, and
six drops of this solution will do
a gallon). After the starter has been
poured in, the surface of the milk should
be stirred every 20 minutes to stop the
cream rising, and the whole should be
kept at an even temperature. When it
“sets,” cover and leave standing for 18
hours.
Flour-sacks or clean dish-towels with
looped corners make good draining bags.
After the whey has stopped running, the
cloth is wrapped tightly round the. curd
and the closing ends wrung hard down
to clear out the last drops of superflu-
ous moisture. A little beating with a
flat pat helps.
When the cheese is quite dry, salt to
taste and put away in a crock or a
paper-lined box in a dry place.
Sand Erosion Plants.
“Arinjabi”: Quite a number of plants
has now been successfully experimented
with for sand binding in S.A. Blue lupin
is one of the best for districts with a
rainfall above 14in., though it will grow
fa drier areas. It is leguminous, but
not of much fodder value, though sheep
will eat the seeds, which is a drawback
only to be countered by keeping lupined
land unstocked. Blue lupins will pro-
duce up to 651 b. of seed per acre.
Pyp grass is worth a trial. A favorite
in S’African erosion districts, it is best
planted by cuttings put in Bft. to 10ft.
apart. Its runners, several feet in length,
sprout into new plants at every node.
The top growth is thick and coarse.
There is not much feed value in first
growth, but stock will eat it, and, after
a burn, a second sprouting is highly
palatable to most animals. In the Mallee
along the Murray this immigrant is well
established.
Marram is a good grass on moving
dunes —perhaps the most useful binder
of the lot. But it doesn’t like stable
ground ; when the dunes cease to move
marram stops growing. Also, it does
not do overwell at any great distance
from the sea or salt lakes.
Buffalo and Kikuyu do well in higher
rainfall districts (over 20in.) and evening
primrose (CEnothera odorata) is another
useful plant.
Many trees are farmers’ friends in sand
country. In mallee areas acacias are
remarkably useful as windbreaks and
drift-stoppers.
Limes and Whitewashes.
“Andy”: To make a good lime that
will stand all weathers on wood and iron
quarter-fill a tin or bucket with tallow,
add an equal quantity of quicklime and
enough water to slake. The resultant
heat will melt the tallow, which can then
be mixed by stirring. A little washing
blue will help make it whiter.
What is known as “government” white-
wash in U.S.A. is mixed as follows: To
half a bushel of unslaked lime add
enough water to slake, and cover with
old bags or iron to keep the steam in.
Strain the liquid, add one-quarter kero-
sene-tin of salt dissolved in water, and
31b. of ground rice boiled to a paste,
stirring well all the time. Then add |lb.
of Spanish whiting and lib. of glue which
has been dissolved slowly over a fire.
Add a little more than a kerosene-tin of
hot water, stir well, cover and leave for
a few days. One pint, properly applied,
will cover about a square yard. It
should be put on warm. Coloring can
be added.
Hints for the Farm.
“Wundi”: A warning has been issued
by the Queensland Agricultural Dept,
against feeding English potato-tops to
cattle ; deaths have, occurred. The tops
contain solanine and solanidine, highly
poisonous alkaloids, present, too, in
potato-skins, though not to the same
extent. Uncooked sprouted potatoes also
can be dangerous.
“S.”: The only eradicator for wild
tobacco (B. 9/12/’36) is poison. Mix a
solution of water and arsenious pentoxide
in the ratio of 10 to 1. When cutting the
bush, work from both sides to leave a
V-shape cut in the stump, and pour
one-fifth of a cup of the poison into it.
Do not allow stock in the paddock for
three weeks. This method can be used
at any time of the year. Wild tobacco
must not be grubbed ; a new bush grows
from every broken root.
“A.Y.”: A good summer preservative
for skins: Boil lib. of arsenate of soda
with four gallons water; apply to the
pelts a few hours after skinning. Do not
fold the skins for a few days or they
will mildew.
“Sandy”: At this time of the year
sweet potatoes grow vines prolifically,
frequently to the detriment of the pota-
toes. If vines are cut back to 18in. from
the stool there will be good growth
below. If there is stock to be fed, cut
the inside of two drills of plants and roll
up and feed to the cows, care being
taken to avoid cutting main stems of
the plants.
“Lam”: Where a young pig stands
round listlessly and no cause is apparent,
have a look at his mouth, where there
may be sores. These are usually easy,
though irksome, to cure. Mix 3 P-C-
-creoline with 97 p.c. water, and use a
large rubber spray syringe for applying-
Treat thus twice a day.


i 8
m n * *
I , i?t§S •
| b v • SqJtXI
/■ *i»R w ** f *, M
$$£*1 “ ■ ■ '
i mpl? jgjl ;
Bw 1 v-S&.S'
'M'\
, :
H ,.• :
fill §&*
L v - '
i
mm
vmm
||gg|||
V •
-MS
#b:
0
siaMSlff
Sp®!??
Nifv
nW
|:•
jrfF
HP
■ :.
■■ ; :
? n ' -’ - ;:: silbiilpfl
"-,
m
m
W
:mSS
ITE
. .■ ■
m
i
r - vM < t - - s
' .,. .Ifj* 5..;, Ik | ,m. . , * j
■:;
ill
y**
'-'x * **'
■v S
yvO»
m
wm
tWi
;• j
Hi
*■ m 1 ’
x -V P / :
ill
9
i
lllllllf
1111
w
■
% u
:*■ : ; :;
: ■ i
%
v
I
o
Cl
c
p
o
vj>
<?
o
A Present with a Future
mm mm
The World’s Best Safety
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros., Aust. (Pty.), Ltd., Monarch House, Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornells, Coltons and Hoffnungs.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK f LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dihectors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
OurServiceDepartment
readers' S 1S set a P art for the service of Bulletin
tn Jta\ Se l vice is entirel y fr ee. All you have to do is
Bulletin to^and* 5011 fr ° m the inside back cover of last
mi.c7°k a aV °’ C *c CO jfusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
“WqTIIh n°f selection and rejection is reserved,
anted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Capable, refined young woman wants posi-
tion as lady help to invalid lady, Victoria. —
4126.
To buy “Men Only” for December, 1935,
and January, 1936.—4185.
To buy first and second edition of The
Australian Butcher’s Manual, compiled by W.
J. Trevena, and similar b00k5.—4166.
Names and addresses of breeders of wire-
haired fox terriers.—4l36.
Information Sought.
What six batsmen obtained the highest aver-
ages in English cricket last year?— 4lsB.
Highest Not
Inns. Runs. Score. Out. Aver.
Hammond .. 42 2107 317 5 56.94
Edrich .... 9 440 114 1 55.00
Fishlock .. 53 2129 133 13 53.22
Hendren .. 58 2654 202 2 47.39
Melville .... 21 982 152 0 46.76
Ley land .. .. 44 1790 263 5 45.89
* * * *
(1) Have any matches between England and
Australia, played in Australia, been drawn?
If so, where were they played, and what were
the scores? (2) How have the Test matches
resulted on the various grounds up to the second
Test at Sydney? —4lB9.
(1) When Shaw’s first team came to Aus-
tralia in 1881-82 four games out of the seven
played on equal terms were regarded as Test
matches. Both of the fixtures played at Mel-
bourne (v. Australia and v. Murdoch’s second
team) were drawn. In the first match, on Dec.
31, 1881, and January 2, 3 and 4, 1882, Shaw’s
team scored 294 and 308; Australia, 320 and
3 for 127. In the second match, on March
10, 11, 13 and 14, 1882, Shaw’s team totalled
309 and 2 for 234; Murdoch’s second team,
300. (2) Australia 7, England 5, at Adelaide;
Australia 15, England 12, drawn 2, at Mel-
bourne; Australia 16, England 14, at Sydney;
Australia 0, England 3, at Brisbane. Australia
5, England 5, drawn 5, at Lords; Australia 3,
England 9, drawn 5, at The Oval; Australia
2, England 3, drawn 9, at Manchester; Aus-
tralia 2, England 2, drawn 2, at Nottingham;
Australia 2, England 0, drawn 5, at Leeds;
Australia 0, England 1, drawn 1, at Edgbaston;
Australia 1, at Sheffield,
H* * * *
Results of the race for the America’s Cup
since 1895? —4200.
October 16, 1899: Columbia (U.S.A.) beat
Shamrock (Britain) by lOmin. Bsec. October
17, 1899: Columbia (U.S.A.) had walkover,
Shamrock (Britain) being disabled. October
20, 1899: Columbia (U.S.A.) beat Shamrock
(Britain) by 6min. 34sec. Sept. 28, 1901:
Columbia (U.S.A.) beat Shamrock 11. (Britain)
by lmin. 20sec. October 3, 1901: Columbia
(U.S.A.) beat Shamrock 11. (Britain) by 3min.
35sec. October 4, 1901: Columbia (U.S.A.)
beat Shamrock 11. (Britain) by 41sec. August
22, 1903: Reliance (U.S.A.) beat Shamrock 111.
(Britain) by 7min. 3sec. August 27, 1903:
Reliance (U.S.A.) beat Shamrock 111. (Britain)
by lmin. 19sec. September 3, 1903: Sharhrock
111. lost in fog. With regard to the last three
races, Reliance allowed Shamrock 111. lmin.
57sec. as Reliance was about 4ft. longer. July
27, 1920, Resolute (U.S.A.) beat Shamrock IV.
by 19min. 45sec. In 1930 Enterprise (U.S.A.)
beat Shamrock V. easily. September, 1934:
Rainbow (U.S.A.) beat Endeavour by four races
to two.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning Grace Moore,
American opera singer and film actress? —4197.
Born Del Rio, Tennessee, U.S.A., daughter
of a banker. She studied music in a school
near Washington, sang Mimi’s part in “La
Boheme” in 1928 at the Metropolitan Opera
House, New York, and appeared there in
other operas. Screen play “One Night of
Love” gained her world-wide fame. She made
her London debut in “La Boheme,” June,
1935, with great success.
* * * *
(1) How did polo get its name? (2) When
and by whom way the game first played? (3)
Date of the first international polo match ?
—4196.
(1) From the Tibetan word “pulu” meaning
“a ball.” (2) Probably originated in Persia
before 500 b.c. ; was played in China by the
seventh century a.d. ; in Turkey, eleventh cen-
tury ; India, sixteenth century. Here natives of
Manipur continued to play it and from them
it was adopted by the British army in 1863. It
was first played in England in 1869 by the
10th Hussars. (3) The first recorded inter-
national match, between Persian and Turkish
teams, is described in the Shah-nama by the
eleventh century Persian poet Firdausi. Eng-
land played U.S.A. in 1886 for the Westchester
Cup and won.
* * * *
Winners of the following events at the 1936
Olympic Games, and their times: (1) 100
metres, (2) 200 metres, (3) 400 metres, (4) 800
metres, (5) 1500 metres, (6) 5000 metres and
(7) 10,000 metres?—Mil.
(1) J. Owens (U.S.A.), 10.3 sec. (equals
world’s record), (2) J. Owens (U.S.A.), 20.7 sec.
(Olympic record). (3) A. F. Williams (U.S.A.),
46.5 sec. (4) J. Woodruff (U.S.A.), 1 min. 52.9
sec. (5) J. E. Lovelock (New Zealand), 3 min.
4 7 .8 se c (world record). (6) G. Hockert (Fin-
land), 14 min. 22.2 sec. (Olympic record). (7)
1. Salminen (Finland), 30 min. 15.4 sec.
* * * *
What outcome was there to the case of the
I m Alone, the rum-running schooner of Cana-
dian registry sunk by the U.S. Coast Guard in
the Gulf of Mexico about six years ago? —4l7l.
Case decided in favor of Canada on Jan.
5, 1935, by a Board of Arbitration—Justice
Van Devanter, of the U.S. Supreme Court, and
Sir Lyman Poore Duff, Chief Justice of
Canada. They found the “admittedly inten-
tional sinking” of the suspected vessel could
not be justified by any principle of international
law. In view of the fact that the vessel
(though registered at a Canadian port) and the
cargo were owned by American bootleggers, no
compensation ought to be paid for their loss,
but compensation aggregating $25,666 was
due for the benefit of the captain and members
of the crew, “none of whom was a party to the
illegal conspiracy to smuggle liquor into the
United States.” The Commissioners held that
the United States ought formally to acknowledge
its illegality (in the sinking), apologise to the
Canadian Government and pay compensation.
Payment was authorised by Congress and
apology was tendered by Secretary of State
Cordell Hull on January 21, 1935.
* * * *
Particulars of the Charles Mackay Lecture
since its establishment, and what were the
subjects? —42ll.
Endowed in 1933 in association with the
Australian Institute of Anatomy, Canberra, by
Miss Catherine MacKenzie, of Melbourne, in
memory of her grandfather, who was a leading
Victorian educationalist. An annual lecture on
some aspect of medical history, the first was
given on September 11, 1934, by Dr. J. H. L.
Cumpston on “The Development of the Aus-
tralian People”; on Sept. 7, 1935, Prof. R. D.
Rudolph, of Toronto University, traced the
history of therapeutics and medical treatment
of disease, and on Oct. 6, 1936, D. L. Cowli-
shaw, of Sydney, took the life and work of
Sir Charles Bell as his subject.
* * * *
(1) How do antiions catch their prey? (2)
What do they look like? —4198.
(1) They bury themselves in sand usually
under the shelter of a log or rock, by turning
round and round backwards, and throwing out
the sand with a large flat head used as a
shovel. They rest at the bottom of this funnel
with only the tips of their mandibles showing,
waiting for an ant to tumble in. When the
ant tries to climb out, the antiion throws sand
at it, then seizes it in the long jaws and sucks
its life away. (2) A queer square-headed insect
with large eyes, long curved jaws in front, body
like a tick and the whole surface clothed with
short, stiff hairs.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning sawfly wasps ?
—4205.
This is a family of medium-sized wasps, the
females of which have a saw on the underside
of the body with which to slit a leaf so that
the eggs can be poked into the scar. They are
thickset insects, metallic tinted and marked with
yellow on the shoulders and back. The larvae
have legs, and feed upon the foliage of young
gum-trees. They pupate in the ground or in
dead wood, and remain as pupae through the
winter. The steel-blue sawfly wasp emits a
yellow sticky fluid to frighten parasitic insects
away.
* * * *
(1) Technical name of Q’land sandworm?
(2) Locality ? (3) Length ? (4) Method of
catching ? —4120.
(1) It is a marine bristleworm, Onuphis teres.
There are several allied species. (2) Found in
the sand about low-water mark in many
localities on the eastern coast of Australia. (3)
Large specimens may exceed 3ft. in length. (4)
The worm may be lured to poke its head out
of the sand with the bait of a piece of meat,
fish or pippi and can then be caught with
thumb and fingers. There’s a knack in this;
watch someone at it.
* * * *
(1) At what age are lads accepted in N.S.W.
as apprentices to stonemasonry and must they
serve a probationary period? (2) Must they
pass a medical exam, before being apprenticed?
(3) Are apprentices required to study outside
working hours, and for what period? (4) To
how many journeymen is one apprentice
allowed ? (5) Is piecework allowed in the
trade? (6) Must stonemasons provide their
own tools? (7) Wages for apprentices? —42oB.
(1) Usually between 15 and 17; term of
apprenticeship five years. In some cases appren-
tices over 17 years are taken, the term then
being four years. A probationary period of
three months is permitted, this counting as part
of the apprenticeship. (2) Yes. (3) By direc-
tion of the Stonemasons’ Conciliation Com-
mittee, an apprentice, from 17, must receive
instruction at a State continuation or trade
school—not less than four hours weekly over a
period of at least two years. (4) Not more
than one apprentice for every three journeymen.
(5) No. (6) Certain tools must be provided
and kept in order by the employees. (7) Fifteen
to seventeen years: Ist year, £1 3s. 6d.; 2nd,
£1 Bs. 9d.; 3rd, £1 17s. 6d.; 4th, £2 6s. 3d.;
sth, Ist six months, £2 16s. 9d., 2nd six months,
£3 Is. 3d. Over 17 years: Ist year, £1 65.;
2nd, £ 1 15s. 3d.; 3rd, £2 6s. 9d.; 4th, Ist
six months, £2 16s. 3d., 2nd six months, £3
Is. 3d.
(1) What postage stamps bearing the head
of King Edward VIII. have been issued ? (2)
Would they be likely to have a future value?
-4199.
(1) Three stamps were issued in Great Britain
on September 1, 1936, the values being id.
green, brown and ultramarine. Later
the Id. carmine was issued. Each bears a
profile portrait of King Edward reproduced
from a photograph taken by Hugh Cecil Port-
raits, Ltd. No stamps were issued in the
Dominions; theirs were to have appeared about
the time of the Coronation. (2) They will not
attain any great value, owing to the large
numbers issued, but should always be popular.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of Collits’ Inn, situated near
the foot of Mt. York? (2) Approximate age
of the building? (3) Did Governor Macquarie
ever sleep there? —4l72.
(1) Originally built as a military barracks and
guard-house to help keep open communication
with Bathurst and be a protection for travellers.
In April, 1824, Pierce Collit opened the house
under the sign of The Golden Fleece Inn,
which name was changed later to King’s Garter
Inn. It is now a residential and week-end
house for visitors. Many stories have been
woven around it, that of the play “Collits’
Inn” based on an event said to have taken
place there. (2) Built probably between 1817 and
1820. (3) No definite evidence on the point is
available.
* * * *
What was the cause of the Indian Mutiny
of 1857-58?—4186.
Good authorities, including Sir John Law-
rence, hold that greased cartridges were at least
the ostensible cause. With the introduction
of the new rifle with its grooved barrel, cart-
ridge lubrication was required. Rumor quickly
spread among the Sepoys that the cartridges
were greased with a compound of cow’s and
swine’s fat, contact with which would destroy
at once the caste of the Hindu and the cere-
monial purity of the Mohammedan.
* * * *
What is biochemistry? —4o6s.
It is concerned with all the chemical processes
occurring in living organisms, with their con-
stitution and their reaction to chemical elements
and compounds. Its scope includes considera-
tion of the nature of the protoplasm, the
physico-chemical basis of all plant and animal
cells; foods, their digestion, elaboration and
decomposition; production of energy by chemi-
cal changes within the organism; effect of hor-
mones on cells; chemotoxis, chemotherapy and
even the nature of life itself.
* * * *
(1) Meaning of expression “having passed
the Rubicon’’ ? (2) Explain “incog." and “in-
cognito” ; is the latter used only in reference to
royalty ? —4OBl.
(1) Thef Rubicon, a river in Tuscany, in ancient
times formed one of the natural Italian boun-
daries. It divided Caesar’s Gallic province from
Italy, and by crossing it under arms he com-
mitted himself to war with the party of
Pompey, then in control of the Roman Govern-
ment, which act led to his elevation to supreme
power. Hence “to cross the Rubicon” means
to take action committing oneself irrevocably
to some course. (2) “Incognito,” meaning un-
known, signifies passing under an assumed name
or title not calling for special recognition or
ceremony; also, less frequently, in disguise.
Therefore practically its only application is in
relation to royalty or to persons of high official
or other standing. “Incog.” is merely an
abbreviation.
* * * *
Some details concerning the N.S.W. “pyjama-
girl” case of about two years ag0? —4144.
On September 1, 1934, the body of a woman
clad in a pyjama suit was found near Albury
(N.S.W.) at a culvert on a main road. The
body was transferred to Sydney Uni. and placed
in a formalin bath; it is still there. Photo-
graphs of the deceased and a description, and
all particulars which may assist to establish
identity, have been circulated through the
British Empire and in foreign countries, but
without result so far.
* * * *
What work was carried out at Sydney Obser-
vatory last year? —4o7o.
Preparation of times of rising and setting of
sun, moon and planets; also daily tides and
heights of high and low water at Fort Denison,
Sydney Harbor. Information for legal and
business purposes was also prepared. Routine
work included determination and distribution
of exact time. Records of 131 earthquakes
taken with the seismograph were forwarded to
principal seismological stations throughout the
world. Work for the Astrographic Catalogue
was continued, and practical demonstrations
on the transit and equatorial telescopes were
given for advanced mathematical students, as
well as other demonstrations and lectures.
* * * *
Some particulars about the annual varieties
of candytuft, and how to grow them? —4osl.
Hardy, easily-grown and particularly useful
for bordering, with blooms that last well as
table decoration. There are dwarf, medium and
tall-growing varieties, ranging in height from
9in. to 18in. Seed may be sown in autumn or
spring, in an outdoor seedbed, and the young
seedlings transplanted, or seed may be sown
where the plants are to be grown, transplanting
surplus. They require a good, rich soil, with
plenty of lime in it, and need a fair amount of
moisture. Set dwarfs 4in. and tall varieties 6in.
apart. The best garden effect is obtained by
planting in clumps of six or eight. Colors are
crimson, rose, pink, mauve and white.
* * * *
(1) Time to sow seeeds of Asclepia rubra?
(2) Method of planting ? (3) Period of germina-
tion ? (4) Age or height at which to transplant
from seed-boxes or pots to garden ? (5) Space
between plants ? (6) Most suitable soil ?
4061.
(1) Can be sown in both spring and autumn.
(2) Use well-drained boxes containing rich loam.
(3) From 10 to 14 days. (4) When seedlings
show the second leaves (about three weeks)
shift them to pots and two months later to the
open garden. Shade for a while with grass or
bushes from the sun. (5) At least 18in (6)
Light rich soil containing a little sand.
Brief Answers.
J.H. (1) See reply 4110 (B. 30/12/’36). (2)
Aftei using pot. perm, hypo eliminator immerse
prints in a bath of pot. meta-bisulphate to
clarify. For the eliminating baths the same
strength of pot. perm, should be used through-
out, but the baths should be frequently re-
newed, as they become charged with hypo. (3)
How to Make Good Pictures (2s. 9d>- Photo-
graphy Handbook: 1936 (ss. 6d.); Color Photo-
graphy, by R. N. Fanstone (215.); Composition
for Photographers, by R. U. Haile (165.) -
Making a Photograph, by Ansell Adams
(12s. 6d.); and The Kingdom of the Camera,
by Baker (11s. 6d.) may be recommended
Obtainable from Kodak Co., 379 George-street
Sydney. Harringtons or any big bookseller will’
supply a supplementary list H.L.M.: Ss
Fortunatus (3426 tons), bound from Calcutta
to Melbourne, took fire when four days from
Colombo and was abandoned in July, 1907.
All aboard took to the boats and were’picked
up by s.s. Forth and landed at Mauritius.
P R.: Apply to the town clerks of the various
municipalities J.E.H.: Get in touch with
Meggitt’s, Ltd., York and Barrack streets
Sydney; or Lycett Bros., Montague-road, South
Brisbane W.R.8.: Obtainable from any
leading bookseller; 225. 6d., postage extra
W.M.S.: All are reliable. Cannot recommend
any particular school G.A.G.: Suggest that
you link up with the Correspondence Scolaire
Internationale, the liaison secretary of which is
Mrs. W. Thorwalson. The League of Nations
Union, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, will
supply application form K.C.: Fin de
siecle, signifying the end of the cycle, com-
monly applied to the end of the nineteenth cen-
tury, is French. Al fresco is Italian for out
of doors R.J.M.K.: The lines “They shall
not grow old as we that are left grow old,” are
from Laurence Binyon’s poem “For the Fallen,”
the first lines of which run, “With proud
thanksgiving, a mother for her children, Eng-
land mourns for her dead across the sea”
8.A.8.: Full particulars of Australasian Insti-
tute of Secretaries examinations can be obtained
from Hemingway and Robertson, Barrack
House, Barrack-street, or from the secretary,
Australasian Institute of Secretaries, Sirius
House, Macquarie-placc—both Sydney
W.C.: If you have not obtained a certificate
of discharge any money coming into your
estate, notwithstanding the lapse of time, can
be claimed by the Official Assignee to satisfy
unpaid creditors P. 8.: The Maroochy Shire
Council has legal authority to spread the tram-
way liability over the whole area and has power
to enforce payment J.CJ.: (1) “Liquid
smoke” consists of pyroligneous acid (which
itself is a mixture consisting mainly of acetic
acid). The fish to be preserved is dipped in
the material. (2) The methods you mention are
the usual ones, but as an alternative it might
be worth your while to try immersing in a solu-
tion of soft soap and water (one part of soap
to 5000 water) and then immersing in a mix-
ture of 1 p.c. of equal parts of alum and copper
sulphate... .W.H.L.: “Bazaar, Exchange and
Mart,” Link House, 4-8 Greville-street, London,
E.C.I (2d., weekly)... .J.W.S.: Eugene O’Neill’s
“Desire Under the Elms” was first produced
in London at the Gate Theatre, February 24,
1931... .S.J.: The cyclone of 1887 destroyed
nearly the whole of the pearling fleet off the
Ninety Mile Beach (W.A.), and caused the loss
of about 200 lives.... G.E.T.: The feats you
mention are not recognised by the N.S.W.
Amateur Swimming Association, which recog-
nises only performances under its auspices.
The association’s handbook, obtainable from
D. Hellmrich, 10 Hunter-street, .Sydney, gives
particulars of all recognised performances
M.M.: Cannot recommend any particular firm.
Such positions are usually given only to persons
trained in the firm’s methods F. 8.: “Hard-
pan” is a stratum of gravel or sand. To
“gopher” is to mine unsystematically, after
the manner of the gopher, a North American
burrowing, rat-like animal C.C.: Dry-point
is a method of engraving on metal with a
pointed steel tool. The burr, or raised edge of
metal formed by the tool, gives the soft effect
characteristic of dry-point engravings
J.W.K.: In 1937 there will be two eclipses of
the sun and one of the moon. The total eclipse
of the sun (June 9) will not be visible in Aus-
tralia. The annular eclipse of the sun (Decem-
ber 3) will be visible in New Guinea and the
extreme northern parts of Queensland only.
The ending of the partial eclipse of the moon
on November 18 will be visible in the eastern
portion of Australia 0n1y... .S.J.D.: When it is
12 o’clock noon at Greenwich it is 11.30 p.m.
at both Auckland and Wellington (M.L.)..,..
R.J.: See Law of Auctioneers and Commission
Agents, by B. J. Jeffriess H.F.: Correct
wording is “Minus in parvis fortuna furit,
leviusque ferit leviora Deus”; translated it
reads: “Fortune is less severe against those of
lesser degree, and God strikes what is weak with
less power”... .J.C.W.: Budgerigars in Bush
and Aviary, Neville Cayley (7st. 6d.); The
Budgerigar in Captivity, D. Weston (35.);
Parrots, Parrakeets and Budgerigars, Rosslyn
Mannering (2s. 3d.); The Genetics of the
Budgerigar, F. A. E. Crew and Rowena Lamy
(95.); The Cult of the Budgerigar, W. Wat-
mough (95.) H.J.C.: The facts set out do
not establish that a contract of service exists
between the person described as employer and
the persons carrying out the work of cutting
and boiling eucalyptus leaves, who, therefore,
are not “workers” within the meaning of the
Act. It is open to the men to effect a policy
of insurance covering accident or illness which
may befall them.... A. 8.: There are 1510
publicans’ licenses in N. S. Wales outside the
metropolitan licensing district, and 534 in that
district G.C.J.: A letter addressed care of
The Bulletin will find him C.E.: The
information is to be found in the Australian
Pharmaceutical Formulary, the British Phar-
maceutical Codex and in the two volumes of
Pharmaceutical Formulas, all obtainable at
Angus and Robertson’s, Sydney (Many
others mailed.)


Story Writing
The Bulletin says of Bernard Cronin:
“The author of nine successful novels and cf
one of The Bulletin’s most notable serials
should be peculiarly fitted to impart the
secrets of his craft to pupils.”
The many successes of Bernard Cronin’s
pupils have proved the fitness to which
The Bulletin refers.
Write for free copy of his prospectus,
“Story Writing,” to
Bernard Cronin
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOIt LUXURY, SPEED, COMPORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Brunches.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa,
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
V/ csfi
l
vs*
&
A
%
PLUM MOR'GMA
m
.
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/*
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongiv-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for Jin., Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 86/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
k«Dt in order for two
rears free of charge.
The Examiner Annual, 1936
Tasmania’s Outstanding Pictorial Annual.
A Galaxy of Scenic Beauty.
1/6
ORDER A COPY NOW
from your Newsagent.
Australian Representatives:
Gordon & Gotch (AusL), Limited.
1/6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.A.H.: Can’t find any muscle in it....E.E.:
Nowhere near... .J.J.M.: They don't “merit
our approval”... .J.R.: “Enclosed please find
poem dealing with the Simpson case.” Not
for us—try it on some of those bishops....
R. 8.8.: No, it’s not up to the standard
required. After all, rhyme or metre is
among the first things one looks for in verse.
. ...D.M.’R.: We don’t republish verses that
have already seen print. The other piece has
no appeal... .M.J.McN.: “Home” finds no
shelter here... .F.F.: You are wrong; Webster
gives four or five ways of pronouncing “sough”
and other dictionaries admit three or four
W.S.S.: Thanks for good wishes, but Table
Bay is a long way off our beat... .8.W.: Even
if “A Song of Spring” were acceptable in mid-
summer, yours wouldn’t make the grade....
E. Falls short of what we want... .J.R.:
The metho.-drinking abo. failed to get past.
... .J.S.P.: No great distance off, but the “out-
back” termination is too near an echo of
Lawson... .C.A.: Paragraphs unsuitable. We
cannot return copy unless stamps are sent
J.H.: Story of the newchum who was never on
a horse and didn’t know how cows arc milked
firmly rejected G.G.: “Nuthin’ Makes Me
Sick” left us more than a bit squeamish....
F. : You rhyme with facility, but write
extravagantly... .F.McC.: Not enough in it.
. ...G.L.W.: “I enclose a poem entitled ‘Mr.
Windsor,’ for which I wish to offer your paper
the Australasian rights.” No bid... .J.M.8.:
“The Beachcomber’s Rest” proved to be the
basket S.R.: If only the plot had been as good
as the dialogue!... .J.S.P.: The “Yahoo” isn't
a convincing Nemesis.... D.W.: Characterisa-
tion good, story too conventional... .M.L.S.:
The characters don’t ring true Scales:
Weight, ni1. ... R.McM.T.: About as interest-
ing as a mother-in-law’s kiss... .R.P.: At least
you dispelled our festive hangover by putting a
liveried butler in Emoh-Ruo!... .H.8.M.:
“The health of the bride” was drunk in
prussic acid cocktails... .Omega: Neatly
done, but story not strong enough.... Bever-
ley : Keep up that style—you have plenty of
time to get a better p10t... .M.M.: Good de-
scriptive effort, but story too slight....
D.F.McC.: Try it on magazine section of a
daily R.G.P.: You use modern idioms in
the speech of a lost civilisation —that kills it
for a start... .R.P.: Away with the Chicago
outlaw —what’s wrong with a good Aussie
crook who turns out to be as innocent as a
babe?... .T.S.N.: Thin and colorless as board-
ing-house soup... .E.T.: Close... .P.0.H.: No.
J.H.: Your tramp nearly found a bed....
L. Obvious.... 8.C.: Wordy... .G.R.H.:
“Hoping they get there.” Hope dashed....
M. : Melodrammer... .Patmac: Bumpy.
D.W.: You don’t make it convincing....
H.J.L.: “ ‘Um-m-,’ he drawled.” Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J. 8.: Drawings becoming neater, jokes duller.
. ...E.W.S.: Worn-out jests attached to
sketches of kindergarten standard... .N.C.: We
have seen him twice; he is totally unlike your
caricature F.W.: Chestnut might raise a
laugh in the nursery A.L.: Why are those
deformed adults sitting on doll’s-house furni-
ture? A.M.: Try a five-year plan of hard
study S.C.: Cannot see that freakish style
carrying you far C.C.: Insipid head studies
and a tame He-She gag J.D.R.: First guess
was that the characters had been run over by
a steam-roller T.A.: The arrival of that un-
tidy lot caused groans V.J.: Slick linework,
but the figures are out of proportion 5.8.:
What the angular charwoman said to the obese
nightwatchman failed to amuse us... .R.M.F.:
The flappers are shapely enough, but their
quips are tedious E.C.: You make all the
mistakes of the unlearned... .D.J.: Charcoal
drawing arrived in such a smudged state that it
resembled nothing but a fog K.A.: You
know nothing about perspective and the jokes
are dodderers... .J.L.C.: You might have told
us what the poster-size sketch of a frog labelled
“Tubby” was meant to convey... .5.E.8.: Do
another drawing that fits in better with the gag
and re-submit... .J.H.D.: By their dialogue
those abos. were apparently born in Kentucky.
W.P.: The ghost will* not walk for that
blotched and grimy effort... .N.H.: Almost
passable; get more life into your gags....
N. : That lobster has been travelling so long
that the Government ought to shout him a pass.
G.H.: Sending the swagman home on a
stretcher P.S.M.: Nine square feet of wasted
board... .8.W.: Still scratching our head over
Binghi and the Yellow Peril cartoon H.T.:
Bradman-Bridge wheeze is at least eight years
old, and quite unsuitable for illustration
K.M.: Hurried the rapacious grave-digger out
of the office... .F.N.: Still footling around at
the bottom of the ladder.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Nordbo”: Shown my China-made
torch, Ted remarked: “One of them
opium torches.” He explained that it
was one of the kind attached to parcels
of opium heaved overboard from China-
boats outside N.Q. ports. Homeward-
bound from a fishing trip to the Great
Barrier Reef his launch bumped into
treasure trove. The opium, in the usual
containers, was wrapped in waterproof
material at one end of a long rope. To
the other end was fastened a cork float
holding the lighted torch, and also the
remainder of what had once been a lump
of salt heavy enough to sink it. As the
salt dissolves the light-buoy rises to the
surface and guides the shore gang to the
spot.
* * # #
Dead in Westralia, at 68, Charlie
Moran, a Queenslander who had a
meteoric career in W.A. politics in the
late ’nineties and early nineteen-hun-
dreds. The Perth Parliament has never
had a handsomer member or a finer
fellow, and he was an orator of parts ;
but a dead set was made against Moran
on stupid grounds, and he was a defeated
Minister at 32. He took his gruel gamely,
went sheep-farming, and was afterwards
on the Agricultural Bank board. John
Forrest wanted him to enter Common-
wealth politics, but affairs in which
Moran had become immersed would not
permit.
*. * * *
“D.A.”: The English Government did
more than merely allow the recruiting of
the British Legion that took part in the
first Carlist War (B. 16/12/’36). British
warships stationed on the north coast
of Spain rendered material aid to the
Government forces. When the Carlists
won a decisive victory Rear San Sebas-
tian their opponents were only saved
from annihilation by the landing of
British marines to cover their re-
treat. The Spanish Government’s troops
were of very poor quality, with the ex-
ception of a few rifle regiments, and
without foreign help they would have
had a bad time, for the Carlists were
first-rate guerrilla fighters. A good many
Englishmen were with the Carlists,
among them a peer, Lord Ranleagh.
English Radicals seriously demanded that
he be tried for high treason.
* * #
“Spare Wren”: Sydney architects
have been included in an invitation from
the Egyptian Government to inaugurate
a new style of Egyptian architecture
There is not much wrong with the style
and design of the Saracenic architecture
already characteristic of the country.
The trouble is with the material used,
mostly sun-dried brick covered with
mud stucco. Even in a dry climate
where there is no rain this will not
last, and when a building is allowed to
fall into neglect the result is ghastly.
There is plenty of good stone available
in Egypt, too, if the moderns only cared
to use it as their forerunners did. There
is danger in this new idea of the intro-
duction to the land of the Pharaohs of
the ferro-concrete building material with
the soapbox design apparently insepar-
able from it.
* * * *
“M.”: Among the members of the
500 workers’ unions serving Maoriland’s
million and a half people (B; 25 /11 / ’36)
are still a few old Labor stalwarts with
enough fight left to argue over the early
history of “the movement.” A few
beards at Melbourne Trades Hall might
wag at mention of John Rigg, who, after
the first inter-colonial trade union con-
ference near the end of the ’eighties, re-
mained in Victoria for two years. From
Christchurch he has just scotched a
seniority claim by the Bakers’ Union,
which struggled into Maoriland existence
in 1880 ; the Wellington Typographical
Society, of which he was a member, was
then two years old and healthy. , The
only older Maoriland unions were
branches of English engineers and car-
penters’ societies. Now 77, John Rigg
is a recognised authority on the legal
aspect of conducting meetings ; he. pub-
lished several textbooks on the subject
after his political career ended in 1914.
* * * *
“Studio”: With a review of J. Lewis
May’s biography of John Lane, the
London publisher, Melbourne “Herald”
presented as his portrait a photo, of his
young kinsman and namesake who,
about 1933, made a business tour of
Australia. Paying a tribute to Shaw
Neilson and “Furnley Maurice” (Frank
Wilmot), who are not at all alike
in appearance, the “Age,” under the
blocks, described Neilson as Maurice and
Maurice as Neilson. But Melbourne
“Sun” still stands alone in this sort of
mistaken identity ; it confused the poli-
tical H. S. W. Lawson and Henry
Lawson.
* * * *
“Wah”: My belief that there were
advantages in holding investments in
different States has been shattered. A
Victorian estate I looked after was valued
at £800; it was represented by two
holdings in prominent cos. operating
throughout the Commonwealth, but with
no N.S.W. register. Victorian probate
charges were £3B. The transler ol
the shares was a simple matter, done
every day by sharebrokers without
charge; the will, however, had to be
resealed in Victoria, and the legal
charges were £26 10s. 4d.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Fred Perry seems
to be fairly wallowing in the brass nowa-
days. He has just contracted with a film
company to do five two-reel tennis
“shorts” for £lO,OOO. This is quite
apart from the huge, bonus paid to Perry
for turning professional and from his
cut of the “gates.”
* * * *
“Barnacle”: The phrase “by and large ’
(B. 23/12/’36) originated when seamen
first discovered it was possible to sail
otherwise than before a wind. In use
before America, to which “Toto” credits
it, was dreamed of, it is employed to ex-
press a sailing ship waiting for a tug or
for daylight to make a landfall, facking
aimlessly to keep a position without
making progress. “Full and by” is an-
other old nautical phrase having the same
meaning.


START THE NEW YEAR RIGHT
HipCUS
j* aMJ Autosere
FENCING WIR*
FENCE STANDARD!
WIRE STRAINERS
Autoscrew Droppers
J
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIED LIMITED^
A record year just passed has proved
our Organisation is appreciated by the
Producers of Queensland —it has no
doubt saved Buyers thousands of
pounds. Compare the following—
Money saved is Money Gained.
GALV. CORK. IRON— British Crown
First Grade. Full stocks now available,
of this high-class iron'. Immediate delivery
guaranteed of every size—26g. £23/10/- ton,
sft. to Bft.; 10/- extra for 9ft., 20/- extra
for 10ft., or by the sheet: sft. 2/1, 6ft. 2/6,
7ft. 3/-, Bft. 3/4, 9ft. 3/10, 10ft. 4/5. Also
Grade B, 6ft. 2/-, Bft. 2/6 sheet.
FENCING WIRE —We are the largest distributors in Queensland. Sole Agents for
Genuine Hibiscus —no other firm can supply, so send direct to us. Hibiscus
Bg. Galv. Wire 16/- cwt., lOg. 17/-. Hibiscus Tested High-tension Wire 25/- coil,
£24 ton. Standard H.T. Wire, 12ig., 11401 b. B.S. 20/- coil; 1500yds. 12±g. Tyeasy
22/6 cwt. Write for reduced price list
GALV. PIPING — New shipment just landed, comprising 50,000 ft. in assorted sizes,
screwed and socketed. Special cash prices, £in. 2jd., fin. 3d., lin. 4£d., Hin. 6d.,
Bd., 2in. lOd. —net cash prices per foot. For quantities less than 500 ft., add
10 p.c. to these prices.
4,B| SCUs
JOlNERY —Standard Doors, 6ft Bin. x 2ft. Bin. x
M. and T. and Moulded, 17/6 each. Sashes from 10/-
pair. Casements from £1 pair. We give you direct
factory prices. Write for full list.
COOL COMFORT WITHOUT ICE.—Hibiscus ventilated
Cold Safes. Buy now and have the benefit right through
the summer. Small 14 x 14 x 20in. £2/2/6, medium
18 xlB x 28in. £3/5/-, large 28 x 24 x 32in. £4/15/-.
Write for pamphlet.
CEMENT —IOOO tons just landed. Ton lots 95/- ton
or 4/- bag. Special prices on application for quantity.
LOWEST ALSO FOR —All Garden Tools —Scythe Blades, 7/6 each; Handles, 6/-
each. Lawnmowers, from 40/-. Dover Stoves, No. 7, 60/-; No. 8, 70/-, piping free.
Fibro Cement Sheets, 2/3 sq. yd., less 2\ p.c. Corn Planters, 22/6. Vacola Bottling
Outfits. Linseed Oil, Raw, 5/-; boiled, 5/2 gallon. Arsenic, 99 p.c., 425. Caustic
Soda, 99 p.c., 37/6. x 16g. Galv. Hoop Iron, 27/6 cwt. Electric Lighting Plants,
from £5 complete. Windmills, Groceries, Furniture, Farm Gates, K and Chain
Wire, etc.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—IT WILL
SAVE YOU POUNDS.
OUnNSUND nSTOKU njmiH
PIY. LTD.
BOWEN ST (NEAR FIRE BRIGADE) BRISBANE
utier-Fruozer
NflM— PIPr. TRIP BCCQinCQftTno
ML
IN THE
The Bulletin
—i
m
With a Super-Freezer (kerosene-oper-
ated refrigerator) your food-wastage
and food storage troubles are over.
This modern, non-electric refrigerator
holds a whole sheep cut up, and keeps
it fresh, succulent, nourishing! With
the Super-Freezer you can serve dainty
ice-cold drinks and fruit salads, frozen
puddings, iced and jellied desserts!
Trifles, blanc-manges, and crisp salads
are no trouble.
Continuous cold from cold re*
serve tank in all 1936 Models.
Continuous refriger
simply by lighting the
kerosene burner once «
No mechanism!
ation
small
i day.
\
m
mm
.A
**
m
m.
Super - Freezer
Chest Model
available in three
sizes from
£34 7 10
N.S.W. Distributors: —
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS LTD.
188 George Street, Sydney.
Write for full particulars, or call at the above address for demonstration.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“The First Stone”
Your front-page cartoon (B. 23/12/’36)
is in questionable taste. Usually you are
i f w i rNSW!
J ‘ / ' ' '’, ,
The cartoon seems to me, as to others
here, unworthy of a reputable journal.
As to your leading article on this pam-
ful subject I have no mclmation what-
ever to rake over the rubbish which is
to be found in long-neglected political
and ecclesiastical middens.-A Loyal
R z VJ a
_ _ ' ' T , . .
For 36 years I have taken youi papei,
but I draw the line at your rotten car-
toon of the Archbishop of Canterbury.
There is not the slightest doubt that the
Archbishop s allusion to the King s
“motive” was right. He had his solution
of his difficulty. What did he want to
come to the throne for at all? You
shall do without my sixpence in future.-
L. J. (a clergyman).
Your picture is the most dominating
which has appeared since. “Punch” put
out “Dropping the Pilot.” If the artist
were to send the drawing to England
?SS\ d k ecome historical. J. A. I. P.
(N.S.W.).
A Darwin Base
f
navaiubase StSSA twh?
ask the British taxpayer to carry the
load? That job is definitely one for
Australia to shoulder.
On completion of the Singapore base
probably there will be a readjustment of
naval units in the China seas. The Brit-
ish taxpayer has done more than his
share for the eastern part of the Em-
pire by constructing the Singapore base,
It’s time Australians woke up to their
obligations in the matter of defence of
their own northern coastline.
And while they are about it the Com-
monwealth politicians might see about
the completion of the north-south rail-
™y7wi'h no b [f ak t °‘ 0 8 a “S e - Also the
? h °" n ° r . hof2B ° f a dozen aero-
dromes that will carry the latest heavy
bombing ’planes any time during the
nor .. west onsoon \j nder presen t Con-
ditions al| aeria| , raffic is Uk f be sus .
pended £or a fortnight fo || 0 y inB a pre .
cipitation be|ween D s ecember and Ap / U .
Af , v
. Aft " years ol agitation our somno-
le"‘ Governments idea of a defence
scheme for the northern coast con-
sists of transferring a few guns and
their crews from Thursday Island to
£) arw j n and pl ac ing an unarmed launch
doub tf u [ seagoing ability at the same
p ort —James Jaberwock (N.Q.).
Author to Critic
T ,., . , e
1 have >“ st rccelved a cO P y of The
Bulletin dated Oct. 7, containing a
criticism of my short story The Long
Patrol,” which appeared in the “Satur-
day Evening Post” for Aug. 29, 1936. It
j s an unwritten rule among writers that
j n gp, nera [ one never answers a critic,
and certainly avoids any newspaper con-
troversy with him. The remarks, how-
ever, made by “M.H.E.” in the course
of his article are so manifestly unfair
a " d , ‘ ba ‘ > *° a
Protest-
' I freely admit that it is quite prob-
able much of my “color” dealing with
the township of Marree and the sui-
rounding bush country of South Aus-
tralia is faulty. “M.H.E.” appears to be
an authority, which I am not. But
neither am I, in “The Long Patrol,”
writing a fact article or a travel sketch.
The story is frankly fiction, pretends to
nothing else and has a legitimate claim
to be treated as fiction with all the story-
telling license that implies. “M.H.E.” is
the first critic in my 15 years of writing
who has attacked a story from an angle
that has no pretence of existence.
“M.H.E.” objects to the illustrations
and appears to consider it my fault they
are not true to life as regards the South
Australian Mounted Police (uniform,
etc.) and the native blacks. If “M.H.E.”
knew anything about magazine work,
which apparently he does not, he would
know that a writer never has anything
to do with the illustrations that appear
with a story. That angle is taken care
of by an art editor who consults an
artist and no one else.
As a matter of cold fact, when it
came to illustrating “The Long Patrol”
so little about the interior of Australia
was known in America, and so little in
the way of photographs kept on file
here, that it was impossible for the “Sat-
urday Evening Post” with all its facili-
ties to unearth any authentic pictures
either of the South Australian blacks or
the “bush” police. They appealed to
me, but I had personally had no luck
either, though 1 had contacted every one
I knew in Australia. Mr. O’Connor, the
Australian representative at Los Angeles,
was also in the dark, and so finally I
sent the. “Saturday Evening Post” some
photographs I had obtained through the
courtesy of Mr. Carrodus, your Secre-
tary for the Interior. These were of the
Federal police, but the “Post” artist had
to make something from them.
It seems to me in all fairness that I am
the last person “M.H.E.” should accuse
of lack of adequate knowledge as re-
gards South Australia and its Mounties.
Australians themselves know practi-
cally nothing about either. With the
material at my disposal, such as it>was
and with a keen appreciation for the
drama inherent in the work of the
mounted men, I endeavored to give Aus-
tralians and the world some idea of the
Australian character and of the prob-
lems faced and overcome by those who
hold the frontiers. If I have done that,
even to a limited extent, I think my
story is justified.
The necessities of dramatics and of
magazine fiction made it more, or less
imperative that characters and back-
ground be romanticised, and this should
be understood by any critic worthy of
the name. It would be permissible to
comment upon inaccuracies of locale,
etc., but to make such the whole basis
of critical comment is wholly unfair.
If M.H.E. had criticised the story as
a story, finding faults with its motives, its
characters’ actions, its conclusions, then
there could be no argument, for he
would be entirely within his reasonable
rights, even if I failed to agree with him.
As it stands I am left with the somewhat
uncomfortable feeling that he has an
intense personal dislike for me, though
who he is I do not know.
“M.H.E.” and such as read his criti-
cism will probably be interested in a
letter I have received from Mr. P. A.
Giles, inspector in charge of all the South
Australian Mounted Police. It is dated
Oct. 8 and is from Police Headquarters,
Adelaide. Mr. Giles has just read “The
Long Patrol” and among matters com-
ments as follows:
Well, I am surprised that you made such
good local color. Nine thousand nine
hundred and ninety-nine out of ten thou-
sand Australians “could not find'’ a fault
in it. [Mr. Giles had placed “could not
find” in quotation marks himself.]
Perusing it with a keen critical eye and
mind I can only find a few trifles—for
instance no Australian says "Who's going
to win the Melbourne Cup?” They don't
care a darn who owns the horse Well,
that's a trifle, isn’t it? None of our
Australian writers could have written a
story (except, perhaps, Idriess) with less
errors or trifling inaccuracies I should say.
1 have several other letters from Mr.
Giles concerning his mounted police-
men and the countryside and townships
of South Australia, and from the in-
formation contained therein I should
judge that practically all of “M.H.E.’s”
objections can be made a matter of high
debate to say the least. But perhaps
“M.H.E” will prefer to argue with Mr.
Giles direct. It might also aid “M.H.E.’s”
high potential for apoplexy to know that
other stories of Sergeant Rainse and the
South Australia Mounted are due to
appear in the “Post,” but I trust he will
regard them in a much more kindly light
than he regarded “The Long Patrol.”
Since “M.H.E.” by something more
than inference seems to blame the Aus-
tralian National Travel Association for
giving me the opportunity to see Aus-
tralia and write about it with some de-
gree of authority (however small) I am
sending the association a copy of this
letter. — Albert Richard Wetjen (Cal.,
LIS.A.).


THE YOUTH
COMPETITIONS
piE BULLETIN” has received abundance of evidence that its competitions for
* youths who want to get on hut see no present prospect of realising their ambitions
are appreciated.
In one case the prize will amount to the sum of Fifty Pounds (£5O), which will
be paid by The Bulletin Newspaper Company at its discretion, to further the winner’s
advancement in the study, business or calling of his choice,
In the other case the prize will be a literary cadetship; in other words, a job on
“The Bulletin.”
" ‘The Bulletin’ is to be congratulated,” said Mr. A. A.
Dunstan, the Premier of Victoria.
“In addition to providing one meritorious boy with a posi-
tion and another with a cash prize, the competitions will have
the important result of helping to focus public opinion on the
parlous plight of many lads who, through no fault of their own,
have been unable to secure employment.
“At a time like the present,” Mr. Dunstan added, “move-
ments such as those initiated by “The Bulletin” deserve the
fullest appreciation of the community.”
“Cadetships on metropolitan papers are difficult to obtain,”
said Mr. S. E. Pratt, general secretary of the Australian
Journalists Association. “Youths seeking openings in the
profession have realised this after their names have been added
to successive waiting lists.
‘ ‘The Bulletin’s’ offer provides an excellent opportunity
for the boy showing the most aptitude. He will enter the
profession through an Australian paper held in high regard by
experienced journalists.”
Competitors for the £5O prize may be any age from 1 7 to
22. They will be required to give in writing plain accounts of
themselves, their circumstances and aspirations, and the £5O
will go to the youth who, considered as a citizen in the making,
will, in the editor s judgment, put it to the best use.
He may be a student stumped for books or fees; a budding
scientist who cannot at present buy needed apparatus; a lad
with a mechanical bent who is short of money for tools or for
a premium; an embryo flying or wireless man who cannot
finance a course; a young fellow starting in some carrying or
other business to whom £5O would be a godsend; a country lad
who with £5O could do something in the sharefarming line or
buy some implement or even pay a deposit on a bit of land,
perhaps having some friendly neighbor who may be willing to
give a lad a chance.
“The Bulletin” wants the stories of such lads, and of
hundreds of others. Not necessarily for publication in every
case—no doubt in some cases there will be written things which
should not be made public—but so that it may arrive at a
fair judgment, and also that it may collect evidence that will
second the efforts of those good people who have taken up
the cause of unemployed lads and of others whose opportunities
have been tragically restricted by the depression.
It will not be expected of any entrant for Youth Com-
petition No. 1 that he must be a practised writer. If he makes
out what is adjudged the best claim to the £5O it won’t matter
a bit if his grammar is rocky and he can t spell.
Character, courage and a clear and logical purpose—these
are the things that will tell.
In the other competition, however, literary merit or aptitude
will necessarily be a deciding factor.
“The Bulletin” wants a lad who may be trained to become
a responsible member of its staff, and naturally preference will
go to tke boy who, on the evidence of the writing submitted,
will seem most likely to supply the requirements.
Youth Competition No. 1 is open to youths in the 1 7-22
age group living anywhere in the Australian Commonwealth or
Territories or in New Zealand.
Youth Competition No. 2 is also for lads living anywhere
in Australia or its Territories or New Zealand, but they must
be aged 17, 18 or 19.
In each case youths living remote from Sydney will start
equal with residents of Sydney as regards chances of landing
the prize.
If the winner of Youth Competition No. 2 happens to be a
Victorian, a Queenslander, a South Australian, a Westralian,
a Tasmanian, a New Zealander or a resident of any of the
Australian Territories, or of N. S. Wales beyond Sydney, The
Bulletin Newspaper Co. will pay his fare to Sydney and see
that he is installed in a decent home.
If, after a fair trial, he does not like the job or the job does
not like him, he will be sent back to the place he came frdm at
the expense of The Bulletin Newspaper Company.
Throughout “The Bulletin’s” history many members of its
staff have been brought from parts of Australia other than
N.S.W., and from Maoriland
James Edmond came to “The Bulletin” from Queensland,
S. H. Prior from Broken Hill (then virtually part of S.A.)
and the present editor from Westralia.
A.J.A. (Australian Journalists’ Association) rates for cadets
are £2 a week the first year, £2 15s. the second year, and £3
15s. the third year; then the cadet qualifies as a junior at
£6 1 2s. 6d.
If the editor’s choice falls on a stranger to Sydney, the first
year’s salary will be made up to £2 1 Os., and the lad will have
opportunities of earning more. This will apply also to the
second and third years of his cadetship.
Entries for both competitions will be received to the end
of February.
YOUTH COMPETITION NO. 1.
WHAT I WOULD DO WITH FIFTY POUNDS.
Set out in plain language what you would do with the money.
Lead up to it by giving a short account of yourself and your
experiences, stating your age, condition, whether living at home
or out in the world; if no longer at' school, how old you were
when you left it, and so forth.
There is no word-limit for your essay, but try not to make
it too long. Facts are the essential things. And write on one
side of the paper only.
Set down your name and address on this cutting in the places
specified and get one of the responsible parties mentioned below
to certify to your bona fides. Then pin the cutting to your
essay and address both to Editor, “The Bulletin,” 252 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or minister of
religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
of
has written the accompanying essay without assistance and that
the facts are as he has stated them.
NAME .
ADDRESS
YOUTH COMPETITION NO. 2.
WHY I WANT TO BECOME A WRITER.
Give reasons in an essay of, say, 600 to 1200 words though
there will be no hard-and-fast rule as to length.
In writing it, state your age, the course your reading has
taken, your favorite poet (and why), the prose-writer you prefer
(and why), what sort of memory you possess, and whether you
have had anything printed in your school paper or in some other
publication.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Sign this cutting, get it certified by one of the responsible
persons mentioned below, pin it to your essay and post to Editor,
"The Bulletin," 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME "...
ADDRESS
(To be signed by parent, guardian, teacher or minister of
religion.)
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief.
of
has written the accompanying essay without assistance and that
the facts are as he has stated them.
NAME
ADDRESS


The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use ‘‘The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
‘The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:— AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr
A. G. Pike. Ist Floor. Newspaper House
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building. Hamilton street
London —F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Rill, E.C.4.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney 'Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSF.T, Representative.
logged on sm. in Germany at a time
when the Victorian was working Ameri-
cans. Time corresponded to between
7 a.m. and 8 a.m. Eastern Australian
time. This is encouraging, and doubtless
sm. DX seekers will pay attention to the
possibility, particularly on Sunday morn-
ings. Although it may be “flukish,”
somebody may turn the trick sooner or
later.
On the evening of 20/12/’36 the sm.
band was well occupied in Sydney ; no
The transmitter section of W8QAN.
Pittsburgh, P.A., U.S.A., well known on
20-metre telephony in Australia. The
thoroughly commercial design is aug-
mented by the cathode-ray oscillograph
for checking modulation.
doubt the thunderstorms drove many
from the static-laden lower frequencies.
Several stations were Using modern trans-
mitters, and the effect of these on the
writer’s superhet was noteworthy.
VK2AZ arrived on the band with a fine
signal from his crystal outfit, doubling
from 10m. and feeding a Bruce aerial.
Despite the fact that this aerial was only
erected temporarily along a verandah and
only two. feet above ground, his signal
was R 8 plus in Waverley. VK2HL, of
Chatswood, has his new sm. M.O.P.A.
active and is TOO p.c. copy. VK2MQ
was heard working VK2JE, and VK2LZ
has a maximum signal from his big
multi-stage rig. Gradually the transition
to better apparatus is taking place and
many supersets are under construction.
VK2AZ uses a superhet converter with
a T.R.F. broadcast receiver with excel-
lent results, and VK2HZ searches for
possible C.W. DX with a small autodyne
receiver.
VK2NO.
Hints on Gramophone
Motors.
\No matter what form of radio-
gramophone .combination. may be used,
sooner or later the turntable motor is
likely to require attention, and a few
hints may save trouble. The parts to
look to are:
(1) Spindle bearings: As a rule there
is a single ball bearing at the base of the
spindle and a sleeve bearing a*t the top
where it passes through the motor frame.
Three or four drops of light oil a month
here will keep things right.
(2) Armature bearings: One or two
drops of light oil.
(3) Governor spindle bearings: One
or two drops of light oil.
(4) Governor worm: No liquid lubri-
cant should be used here, but non-gritty
motor-grease. If the worm-wheel is of
fibre, liquid oil may penetrate and dis-
tort the wheel.
(5) Governor brake-pad: This is very
important. ' Both pad and disc on which
it rubs should be kept free from grit.
The pad may be lubricated with light
oil. If pad and disc become too dry and
harsh the governor will operate in noisy
jerks.
E.H.W.
Radio Comment.
“Ob Vious”: While abroad N.S.W.
Police Commissioner Mackay looked
into police radio-communication systems.
He is reported to be strongly in favor
of telephony in lieu of, or additional to,
telegraphy on all police cars. At present
a large-sized fleet of P.D. cars is dumb.
The officers in these cars cannot nor-
mally, in addition to their ordinary
duties, be expected to train as telegraph-
ists. It was pointed out on this page a
The control position at WBQAN. Left to right: Cathode-ray
oscillograph, Hellicrafters Super Skyrider superhet receiver,
vibroplex key, frequency meter and monitor.
year or so ago that to equip these cars
with effective receivers capable of taking
verbal coded instructions from head-
quarters should not cost more than
£lOOO.
•S i jji
“Sach”: The recent accident in Vic-
toria to R.A;A.F. Pilot Read —fortunale
to be alive —emphasises the necessity for
radio equipment of all ,’planes. A beam
signal can keep an airman on his bear-
ings, and is used overseas in fogs every
day of the year. It would not be of use
after a crash. Fragile valves would, be
smashed, but before a crash warning
could be sent as to location.
*** „ . *
“Perpetu Al.”: A radio trader who
recently visited the U.S.A. reports Ihat
the vibrator set is so popular-there that
it holds nine-tenths of the business : also
that a new problem has arisen, in battery-
charging troubles. It boils down to the
one thing—that you can’t have some-
thing for nothing in electricity or radio,
and until some genius discovers a way
of pinching juice gratis from the air with
some unassuming little gadget,the farmer
can hitch to his set the old reliable B
battery will still have its place. As a
couhtryman, my idea of a receiver is a
set of extra-heavy-duty B batteries, 2-volt
valves and one of those “one-year-a-
charge” primary cells that I understand
are to become available at long last in
Australia. There are strong cases for
both types of receivers ; it depends on
the facilities for constant and reliable
charging of a heavy-duty six-volt accu-
mulator. If this can be done con-
veniently, well and good. Some excel-
lent vibrator sets have been tested by
this page and found technically faultless.
If, however, the user has to transport
his accumulator a long way for re-charg-
ing, he is likely at some time or other
to run into trouble; charging stations
cannot always be relied on. Where iso-
lation is the main trouble, the straight-
out battery set compels consideration,
especially with the new air cell for fila-
ment supply over a long period. The
annual cost of the two types is prob-
ably somewhat in favor of the A and
B battery powered receiver. Choice
should be governed by individual condi-
tions.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
A.W.A., Ltd., has for some time issued
a series of useful short-wave-station
charts with details of wave-length and
the most suitable times for Australian
listeners. The iatest is the Radiotron
Azimuthal map, with which the distance
and direction from Australia of any place
on the earth's
surface can be
ascertained. The
map. is centred
on Sydney and is
particularly valu-
able to amateurs
concerned with
tests of directive
aerials for long-
distance work.
The map also in-
cludes an up-to-
date list of the
world's short-
wave stations,
with w a v e-
lengths.~ On the
reverse side is a
complete list of
Australian and
M.L. broadcast-
ing stations and a time-comparison chart.
Altogether a very useful sheet to have
in a short-wave listening or transmitting
station. It can be obtained free on appli-
cation : to Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia),
Ltd/, 47 York-street, Sydney.
*• * *
Eagerly welcomed by engineers and
experimenters are the “Technical Com-
munications'-’ , issued regularly by the
Philips Co. No. 53, just out, deals with
the matching of power valves, output
transformer design, and cathode-ray
tubes with their symbols and nomen-
clature. Contents include a chart for
ascertaining the impedance of a capacity
for a given low frequency (and vice
versa), and a stroboscopic gramophone
speed indicator. There is also a compre-
hensive chart dealing with the types of
Philips cathode-ray tubes, giving a list of
12, jwith-two rectifiers and two gas tri-
odes. Socket connections are also shown.
The Question Box.
(1) An all-wave superhet was described in
“Australian Radio News” for 15/12/’33, in-
cluding a tuned R.F. stage. As the detector
stage was tuned with a separate condenser, no
padding condenser was needed on the short-
wave bands. I ant desirous of building the
receiver minus the R.F. stage, using a two-gang
condenser. Padding will thus be necessary for
short-waves and broadcast. What will be the
value of the padding condenser for each band
(20, 40 and 80 metres ) where each section of
the condenser gang will have a capacity of
.00038 mfd.? (2) Will the value of the padding
condensers be different if the maximum capacity
of each gang is .00043 mfd.? Coil will be used
as specified. —477.
(1) A padding condenser with a maximum
capacity of .001 mfd. will do for the broad-
cast range, but some experimenting may be
necessary on the short-waves. Padding con-
densers of the midget 35 mrnfd. type should be
suitable. If too small they can be bridged with
additional small fixed capacities. (2) No.
* * * *
(I) My nearest stations are 4 QN, 4 TO and
4.4 Y. Is it possible to get Brisbane and any
N.S.W. stations with the Bush Companion (de-
scribed B. 7/10/ ’36) ? (2) Title of a good intro-
ductory book on wireless. (3) Is electrical
power necesssary, as I have none available? —
474.
(1) With a reasonably good aerial, yes. (2)
The Book of Practical Radio, by J. Scott-
Taggart (Angus and Robertson, Sydney). (3)
Not for the set in question. It is entirely bat-
tery-operated for headphone working.
* * * *
My six-valve Universal superhet is three years
old. During daylight reception, when more
current is required, there is a crackling kind of
static that only comes with the voice. It is
similar to Morse. I cannot locate any loose
wires. Can you help? —47s.
Possibly the power supply has something to
do with it. One simple way of testing this is to
fully advance the volume or sensitivity control,
remove the aerial from the aerial terminal and
note if the noise ceases or persists. If it con-
tinues it is arising from the power supply or
in the set itself. If it ceases the aerial is pick-
ing it up. Your description points to “motor-
boating,” or a slight audio instability. Pos-
sibly a valve may have lost its efficiency, or a
by-pass condenser (tubular paper type) may be
leaky. A serviceman would be able to locate
the trouble.
* * * *
Listening to amateurs on telephony on my
diial-waver, I have heard several references to
the “amateur spirit," and in one instance a
statement that “some amateurs who are old
eniough to know better, are not exhibiting this
spirit.” What does this mean ? —476.
It is doubtful' whether there has ever been
a common interest more responsible for the
bonding together of people with widely different
ideas and creeds than amateur radio. Over the
air radio amateurs are usually great friends,
although they may agree to differ in many
things when in personal contact. In the earlier
days,.the mere sighting of an aerial over a
house was ample invitation for a wandering
fellow-amateur to stroll up the front path and
push the bell. There will always be those
who will abuse privileges, and it is in those
who do this that the true “amateur spirit” is
lacking.
* * * *
Please publish a circuit diagram, with values
of a push-pull transformer coupled circuit,
using a 56 driver and two 2A5 valves. —473.
Diagram herewith. A suitable transformer
would be the Ferranti AFSC. A 500,000-ohm
potentiometer can be used as volume control
in the grid circuit of the 56 in place of the
,smeg. and .lmeg. fixed resistors indicated.


Character, principles firmly
held and sturdily maintained.
Courage, firmness of spirit and
swell of soul in the face of
danger and difficulty.
Purpose, the inspiration to
effort, developing character and
increasing courage by enlarge-
ment of confidence.
Each of the following state-
ments by Australian and New
Zealand Pelmanists refers to
some aspect of character
development. The full text of
each letter is quoted in ‘‘The
Efficient Mind”:
“I have become much stronger
in Will-Power, and lam now
not afraid to say 'No* when it is
necessary to do so.”
“My fears are things of the
past. They cannot remain when
faith and philosophy are sup-
ported by experience. 1 have
gained in mental energy, interest,
alertness and concentration.”
“One of the greatest helps it
gives is in the practice and
attainment of self-discipline,
which produces that quality of
character so much admired, but
seldom attained-—n ame 1 y,
serenity.”
“I refer particularly to those
chapters on self-confidence, pur-
pose or aim, effort and the
systematising of one’s activities.”
“Fear is practically eliminated.
The Course has given me faith in
my abilities and the power of
more persistent effort.”
“Childish fear of ridicule has
destroyed or marred much of
my work in the past. Now Pel-
manism has shown me how to
conquer that failing.”
“The Course has shown me
how to attain that power that
action demands, viz., Will-
Power.”
“I have accepted a position of
responsibility which, less than a
year ago, 1 would have thought 1
impossible. I am taking over a
busy private hospital.”
“Things which I hesitated to
do before, I do now with perfect
confidence.”
“It gives one more self-
confidence and courage in ex-
pressing his opinion.”
"I have learnt the value of
planning ahead, of having a
settled purpose, of consecutive
thinking."
“I now have a definite aim,
my powers of concentration,
memory and will have been
greatly improved.”
“Occasions often arise when
a sudden crisis, small or other-
wise, is apt to throw one off one’s
balance. I have found that the
Pelman Course is of the greatest
benefit in helping me to retain
my equilibrium in such cases.”
“My aim is clear and more
defined. My powers of observa-
tion are very much keener all
round. I gained very much from
the study of the Lesson on Will-
Power.”
“The Pelman System is also a
wonderful charafcter builder."
Pelmarvism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
“Character, courage and a clear and
logical purpose these are the things
that will tell” "“■""“The Bulletin” Youth Competition No. 1: What I
Would Do with £SO .
HTHE qualities required by competitors are as old as mankind; they have a name in every language
spoken under the sun. The rank and file demand them in their captains, the captains are always
on the lookout for them in the rank and file. It is so now, and it always has been so.
'“THERE is a technique for the development and the full exercise of these qualities. It is partly
ancient and partly modern. The accidents of birth, class, position, employment, opportunity,
stature, physique, of education and even of health, are simply material on which this technique works.
Those who have real substance within themselves master the technique by experiment, by a system of
trial and error, sometimes painful and nearly always spread over a long period
IT is true that as long as life lasts we learn and it may be said that once we cease to experiment we
cease to enjoy, and life loses its savour. But there is a method by which we can train our inherent
abilities quickly and make full use of our natural aptitudes early so that we learn easily and experiment
profitably. That method is the Pelman Method.
DELMANISM applies what is commonly know as “knowledge of men and affairs to the practice
of living successfully and happily. It combines all that has been acquired on this engrossing
subject by first-hand experience through the ages with the latest knowledge of modern psychology into
a specialised training for the individual man or woman. It develops agreeably, smoothly and without
apparent effort the qualities implied in the word “character” of which the following are outstanding:
Self-confidence,
Concentration,
Decisiveness,
Self-control,
Judgment,
Will-Power
Tact,
Initiative,
Social Ease,
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and useful data of every kind.
iELMANISM is so universally successful largely
because it sets out to train rather than to teach.
It knows that, according to the nature and the
strength of the individual’s habits of mind and will,
so are his personal efficiency and his standing with
his fellows. If these habits are bad he will be
ineffective personally; if they are good he will be
strong, happy and successful.
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and
Personality. It is the most successful instrument of
adult education and training, not only in the British
Empire, but throughout the world; its record of
achievement is astounding.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS:
Liege, 1930.
Nancy, 1932.
Geneva, 1933.
Paris, 1933.
Full particulars of The Pelman Course are given in
"The Efficient Mind,” copies of which are posted free.
Write or call for one. Your inquiry will be regarded as
confidential. We have no outdoor representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation.
Its headquarters are in London. The Institute in
Melbourne has been established for 29 years.
More than half a million men and women have
enrolled for the Pelman Course of Mind, Memory
and Personality Training. Of these 35,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
CUT OUT OR COPY THIS AND POST TO-DAY.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1.
Please send your free book, "The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
456
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
The Bulletin
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
* *&•<&>s#’-
a»V'’> v
\o
I CO'* 9
s 6
..."
* fc V
0 < ■■ ..*• ..**
.••■ ..-•■■ $
.•••' c *>
®, ' v
\° 'V‘ V \'^'V‘ v4 '


o -days
HEALTH and FITNESS
NEW _
‘Pep* In a Few Minutes
•€
■Oav.-.
• * •' ''S i
1%
/V'’
-■ Y;
:®fS*
: V
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments l
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
It has
done me
a lot of
m
goo o’
■
1
M
i
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
:‘y ■
■
%
'••••
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root . The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
est tonic pick-
me-up known."
—Ava-o±
<d3d, M3M
MIVD
Amazing Vitality To-morrow! J
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results. ~™
It is folly to be thin, nervous and lacking in “pep”
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained Slbs. to 15lbs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
neiv strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES:-
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in If minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 3 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and' Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Gleam up Influenza Golds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep" in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Gat a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
Famous
Athletes
train on
Cream of Yeast.
User says:
1
“I find great
relief in Cream
of Yeast; it has
lone me good
n several
ways. Had
Hospital’ and
. een in ‘ Hospital' ana ’ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
as in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
iegan to improve. I have spent no end
money on other medicines, but none
ave accomplished the good that Cream
Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
ovement in so short a time.”
-A.E., Young, N.S.W.
©
All Chemists arid Stores,
1/11. S/6 and 5/9.
